Previous studies have demonstrated increased renal expression of EGF receptor (EGFR) and EGFR ligands in response to acute toxic or ischemic renal tubular injury and have indicated that exogenous administration of EGF accelerates recovery from such injury. However, no studies to date have proved definitively an essential role for EGFR-mediated responses in regeneration after tubule injury. To this end, waved-2 (wa-2) mice, which contain a point mutation in EGFR that reduces receptor tyrosine kinase activity by >90%, were studied. These mice have a mild phenotype (wavy coat, curly whiskers, and runted stature) and normally developed kidneys. Acute nephrotoxic injury was induced in wa-2 and wild-type mice with HgCl(2). One day after HgCl(2) injection, functional renal compromise was comparable in wild-type and wa-2 mice. However, the rates of recovery of serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels were markedly slower in wa-2 mice. Histologic evidence of tubular injury also was more severe and persisted longer in wa-2 mice. Furthermore, their kidneys demonstrated reduced levels of DNA synthesis and increased TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling staining. These studies indicate that functional EGFR activity is an essential component of the kidney's ability to recover from acute injury and that EGFR may regulate genes involved in growth, repair, and cell survival in the kidney.
Multiple myeloma is still an incurable disease. In recent years the introduction of 3 novel drugs oriented on basic mechanisms of multiple myeloma cells proliferation and survival has improved patients' outcome. These drugs are: thalidomide, its new analog, lenalidomide, and proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib. All three are highly effective both in newly diagnosed and relapsed/resistant patients.
Thirty men with metastatic germ cell cancer were treated with cisplatin (20 mg/m2 administered intravenously, days 1-5), vinblastine, and bleomycin at 3- to 4-week intervals for four to six courses. There was a sequential fall in serum magnesium (P less than 0.001) with each course of therapy: 26 of the 30 patients (87%) became hypomagnesemic, and the median magnesium nadir was 1.1 meq/l. No acute clinical effects of the hypomagnesemia were observed. The mean creatinine clearance declined from 115 ml/minute before therapy to 65 ml/minute, and the mean serum creatinine rose from 0.9 mg/dl to 1.6 mg/dl after six courses of therapy. With a minimum follow-up of 36 months, 13 of the patients (43%) have clinical evidence of Raynaud's phenomenon. Severity of prior hypomagnesemia predicted an increased risk of Raynaud's phenomenon. Renal dysfunction, hypomagnesemia, and Raynaud's phenomenon are common chronic toxicities of vinblastine, bleomycin, and cisplatin therapy.
One-third of the 149 people recruited 15 to 18 years ago in the Sydney Multicenter Study of Parkinson's disease have survived. The original study compared low-dose levodopa with low-dose bromocriptine. We now report the problems experienced by people who survive 15 years from diagnosis. The standardized mortality ratio is significantly elevated at 1.86 and is not significantly different between treatment arms. Falls occur in 81% of patients, and 23% sustained fractures. Cognitive decline is present in 84%, and 48% fulfill the criteria for dementia. Hallucinations and depression are experienced by 50%. Choking has occurred in 50%, symptomatic postural hypotension in 35%, and urinary incontinence in 41%. No patient is still employed, and 40% of patients live in aged care facilities. Although approximately 95% have experienced L-dopa-induced dyskinesia/dystonia and end of dose failure of medication, in the majority, these symptoms are not disabling. Dyskinesia and dystonia were delayed by early use of bromocriptine, but end-of-dose failure appeared at a similar time once L-dopa was added. The rate of disease progression is similar in both arms of the study. We conclude that the most disabling long-term problems of Parkinson's disease relate to the emergence of symptoms that are not improved by L-dopa. Neuroprotective interventions in Parkinson's disease should be judged by their ability to improve non-L-dopa-responsive aspects of the disease, rather than just by their capacity to delay the introduction of L-dopa or reduce its associated side effects.
Biphenyl dimethyl dicarboxylate (DDB) is a hepatoprotectant, which is used as an adjuvant agent in a treatment for chronic hepatitis. Amantadine is an antiviral agent, which is utilized primarily in the treatment of influenza, but also, occasionally in the treatment of hepatitis C. In a previous study, we reported that DDB, coupled with amantadine, would exert an anti-HBV effect, via the induction of interferon-inducible gene expression in the HepG2 2.2.15 cell line. The primary objective of the present study was to determine whether or not DDB and/or amantadine exhibit anti-HBV properties, and what mechanisms of action might be involved in such properties. In our study, we were able to determine that DDB stimulates Jak/Stat signaling, and induces the expression of interferon alpha (IFN-alpha) stimulated genes, most notably 6-16 and ISG12. In addition, the antiviral effectors induced by IFN-alpha, PKR, OAS, and MxA, were regulated in the presence of DDB at its optimal concentration (250 microg/mL), to a degree commensurate with the degree of induction associated with the IFN-alpha treated group. Finally, we determined that the replication of pregenomic RNA and HBeAg was inhibited by DDB treatment, and this inhibition was maximized when coupled with the administration of amantadine (25 microg/mL). In conclusion, the results of this study demonstrated clearly that DDB, as well as the combination of DDB/amantadine, directly inhibited IFN-alpha signaling-mediated replication of HBV in infected hepatocytes, and thus may represent a novel treatment for chronic hepatitis B, which would be characterized principally by its improved safety over other treatment strategies.
In this double-blind, four-week study, 28 chronic schizophrenic patients receiving neuroleptic medication plus the antiparkinsonian drug, benztropine mesylate, were either switched to placebo or maintained on benztropine. Patients withdrawn from benztropine reliably increased their overall scores on the Wechsler Memory Scale in comparison with the drug group. Sub-test scores suggest that deficits in attention and concentration were induced by treatment with benztropine. Psychotic decompensation appeared to develop simultaneously with extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in some patients, but only 14.2 per cent of the placebo group experienced extrapyramidal symptoms severe enough to require resumption of benztropine therapy. It is suggested that antiparkinsonian agents should be prescribed only if and when EPS occur.
It has been proposed that PPAR-dependent, accelerated catabolism of proinflammatory mediators may contribute to the fast resolution of inflammation. Because retinoid X receptors are obligate heterodimer partners of PPARs, we investigated the impact of deleting hepatocyte-specific RXRalpha on the antiedema effect of PPAR agonists. In wild-type mice (WT), pretreatment with the PPARalpha agonist perfluorooctanoic acid diminished carrageenan-induced paw edema by 66 +/- 10%. This effect was essentially absent (13 +/- 8%) in hepatocyte-specific RXRalpha-deficient mice. Similarly, pretreatment of WT mice with the PPARdelta agonist L-783483 or the PPARgamma agonist L-805645 caused 54 +/- 1% and 38 +/- 8% reduction in carrageenan-induced paw edema, respectively. These effects were also significantly diminished or absent in hepatocyte-specific RXRalpha-deficient mice. In contrast, aspirin reduced carrageenan-induced paw edema equally in WT and hepatocyte-specific RXRalpha-deficient mice. The identification of RXRalpha as an important factor involved in the antiedema effect produced by agonists of the three PPAR subtypes is a significant achievement towards the goal of designing novel, effective anti-inflammatory drugs.
Acute reversible renal failure with hyperkalemia developed in a 42-year-old woman during treatment of heart failure and hypertension with high doses of enalapril and diuretics. Creatinine clearance fell as low as 9 ml/min. Renal-artery stenosis and prerenal renal failure were excluded. Reduction in blood pressure in conjunction with reduced renal perfusion in heart failure can make glomerular filtration angiotensin dependent. Interruption of angiotensin II formation in this situation triggers off functional renal insufficiency.
Human bladder cancer has been associated with chronic exposure to arsenic. Chronic exposure of an immortalized non-tumorigenic urothelial cell line (UROtsa cells) to arsenicals has transformed these cells to a malignant phenotype, but the involved mechanisms are not fully understood. Chronic inflammation has been linked with cancer development mainly because many pro-inflammatory cytokines, growth factors as well as angiogenic chemokines have been found in tumors. In this study the chronology of inflammatory cytokines production was profiled in UROtsa cells chronically exposed to the toxic arsenic metabolite, monomethylarsonous acid [50 nM MMA(III)] to know the role of inflammation in cell transformation. Acute 50 nM MMA(III) exposure induced over-production of many pro-inflammatory cytokines as soon as 12 h after acute exposure. The same cytokines remain over-regulated after chronic exposure to 50 nM MMA(III), especially after 3 mo exposure. At 3 mo exposure the sustained production of cytokines like IL-1, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF is coincident with the appearance of characteristics associated with cell transformation seen in other arsenic-UROtsa studies. The sustained and increased activation of NFkappaB and c-Jun is also present along the transformation process and the phosphorylated proteins p38 MAPK and ERK 1/2 are increased also through the time line. Taken together these results support the notion that chronic inflammation is associated within MMA(III)-induced cell transformation and may act as a promoting factor in UROtsa cell transformation.
To assess the efficacy, safety and acceptability of the subdermal levonorgestrel implant (SLI), a new, long-acting, low-dose, progestin-only contraceptive method for women.
A prospective, observational study conducted in the family planning clinic, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ain Shams University Hospital, Cairo, Egypt, as an advanced phase III clinical trial.
This paper describes three years' experience with the SLI in 350 women. The net three-year cumulative pregnancy rate was 0.98%. Menstrual disturbances, ranging from amenorrhea to menorrhagia, were the major side effects and were present in 25% of women during the third year. These disturbances resulted in 28 removals, 19 of which were because of amenorrhea. Medical complications, including headache, hypertension and non-insulin dependent diabetes; desire for pregnancy; and complications at the insertion site (such as infection, spontaneous expulsion of the capsules and arm pain) were the principal reasons for another 57 implant removals. So far, no gynecologic or breast lesions have developed, and weight changes were not noted. The continuation rate after three years was 65.5%.
The efficacy, safety and acceptability of the implant suggest that it will provide an important addition to the contraceptive armamentarium.
The tobacco-specific carcinogens, N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN) and 4-(N-methyl-N-nitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), were tested for carcinogenicity in F344 rats. Each nitrosamine in trioctanoin was administered by s.c. injection to 12 male and 12 female rats over a period of 20 weeks. The total dose of each nitrosamine was 3.4 mmol. The experiment was terminated after 12 months. NNK induced nasal cavity tumors in 83% of the males and in 83% of the females, liver tumors in 83% of the males and in 100% of the females, and lung tumors in 67% of the males and in 67% of the females. NNN induced nasal cavity tumors in 92% of the males and in 75% of the females. Only one liver tumor and no lung tumors were observed in the NNN-treated rats. These results indicate that, in the F344 rat, NNK is a more powerful carcinogen than is NNN.
The preferential alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine (4 mg/kg s.c.) caused a time-related increase in serum renin activity and heart rate in conscious Sprague-Dawley rats. Although mean arterial pressure was not decreased significantly over the 2-h period, heart rate was elevated significantly at 15 and 30 min post-injection. In contrast, serum renin activity remained elevated for up to 2 h with a 9-fold and 9.7-fold increase occurring at 30 and 60 min post-injection, respectively. Yohimbine (0.3, 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg s.c.) elicited a dose-related increase in serum renin activity and heart rate (30 min post-injection). The 1 mg/kg dose of yohimbine did not alter blood pressure whereas the 3 mg/kg dose caused a variable decrease in mean arterial pressure. The highest dose of yohimbine (10 mg/kg) significantly lowered blood pressure. The beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol (1.5 mg/kg s.c.), blocked the renin release and tachycardia caused by yohimbine (1 and 3 mg/kg s.c.), and the ganglionic blocking agent chlorisondamine partially inhibited the renin release elicited by 3 mg/kg (s.c.) of yohimbine. The prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors indomethacin (5 mg/kg s.c.) and meclofenamate (5 mg/kg s.c.) impaired the ability of yohimbine (3 mg/kg) to elevate SRA but did not alter the hemodynamic effects of yohimbine. Thus, the increase in renin release caused by yohimbine appears to be mediated by the sympathetic nervous system. Because the smaller doses of yohimbine increase renin release in the absence of a decrease in mean arterial pressure, it is unlikely that yohimbine stimulates renin release by baroreflex-mediated activation of the renal sympathetic nerves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bisphenol S (BPS) has increasingly been used as a substitute for bisphenol A (BPA) in some "BPA-free" consumer goods and in thermal papers. Wide human exposure to BPS has been reported; however, the biological and potential toxic effects of BPS are poorly understood.
In this study, we sought to elucidate the sex-specific rapid effect of BPS in rat hearts and its underlying mechanism.
We examined the rapid effects of BPS in rat hearts using electrophysiology, confocal and conventional fluorescence imaging, and immunoblotting. Treatment was administered via acute perfusion of excised hearts or isolated cardiac myocytes.
In female rat hearts acutely exposed to 10-9 M BPS, the heart rate was increased; in the presence of catecholamine-induced stress, the frequency of ventricular arrhythmia events was markedly increased. BPS-exposed hearts showed increased incidence of arrhythmogenic-triggered activities in female ventricular myocytes and altered myocyte Ca2+ handling, particularly spontaneous Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. The dose responses of BPS actions were inverted U-shaped. The impact of BPS on myocyte Ca2+ handling was mediated by estrogen receptor β signaling and by rapid increases in the phosphorylation of key Ca2+ handling proteins, including ryanodine receptor and phospholamban. The proarrhythmic effects of BPS were female specific; male rat hearts were not affected by BPS at the organ, myocyte, or protein levels.
Rapid exposure to low-dose BPS showed proarrhythmic impact on female rat hearts; these effects at the organ, cellular, and molecular levels are remarkably similar to those reported for BPA. Evaluation of the bioactivity and safety of BPS and other BPA analogs is necessary before they are used as BPA alternatives in consumer products.
Gao X, Ma J, Chen Y, Wang HS. 2015. Rapid responses and mechanism of action for low-dose bisphenol S on ex vivo rat hearts and isolated myocytes: evidence of female-specific proarrhythmic effects. Environ Health Perspect 123:571-578; http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1408679.
Changes in the toxicity in chlorinated water after chlorine addition were examined. For toxicity evaluation, the chromosomal aberration test and the transformation test were conducted as indexes of initiation activity and promotion activity, respectively, in the carcinogenesis process. Activity inducing chromosomal aberrations in chlorinated Lake Biwa water gradually decreased over time after chlorination. In contrast, activity inducing transformations determined by the two-stage assay gradually increased. Thus, toxicity that decreases or increases is present in chlorinated water. Furthermore, activity inducing transformations determined by the non-two-stage assay gradually decreased over time. This direction of change is opposite to that of activity inducing transformations determined by the two-stage assay and is consistent with that of activity inducing chromosomal aberrations. The drastic decrease in initiation activity detected as activity inducing chromosomal aberrations could be the main cause for the decrease in activity inducing transformations determined by the non-two-stage assay (an index of the sum of initiation and promotion activity). MX change was quantitatively consistent with those of activity inducing chromosomal aberrations and transformations determined by the non-two-stage assay. On the other hand, directions of changes in concentrations of typical by-products such as chloroform were consistent only with that of activity inducing transformations determined by the two-stage assay. Findings of this study suggest that MX is appropriate as an index for comparing the carcinogenicity of tap water near and far from a water purification plant.
There is no standard treatment of HIV-infected patients who fail protease inhibitor (PI)-containing antiretroviral therapy. This open-label, noncomparative 24-week study with a 24-week extension evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of twice-daily indinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg plus 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) in this population. Presented here are the results of the 24-week study. Patients were HIV-infected adults who had prior viral RNA (vRNA) suppression (<400 copies/mL), subsequent failure (> or =400 and < or =100,000 copies/mL) on antiretroviral therapy, and at least one new NRTI available for treatment. The proportions of patients achieving plasma vRNA <400 and <50 copies/mL were analyzed with data as observed (DAO) and intention-to-treat (ITT) models using generalized estimating equations (GEE) or counting noncompleters as failures (NC = F). Mean changes from baseline in vRNA and CD4 cell count were evaluated using DAO and an ITT mixed-model approach. Sixty-three patients (87% male) with a mean age of 42 years and mean baseline vRNA and CD4 cell counts of 3.8 log(10) copies/mL and 360 cells/mm(3), respectively, were enrolled. The proportion (95% confidence interval) of patients achieving vRNA <400 and <50 copies/mL at week 24 were 76% (61%, 87%) and 50% (35%, 65%) for DAO, 64% (50%, 75%) and 43% (30%, 56%) for GEE, and 56% (43%, 68%) and 37% (25%, 50%) for NC = F, respectively. At Week 24, baseline vRNA decreased by >1.0 log(10) copies/mL and CD4 cell counts increased by approximately 90 cells/mm(3). Three patients (5%) experienced serious drug-related adverse events. Seven patients (11%) discontinued treatment due to clinical or laboratory adverse events. In this study, the enhanced, twice-daily regimen of indinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg plus 2 NRTIs provided suppression of HIV in many patients who had failed a PI-containing regimen and was generally well tolerated.
Our previous study showed that propofol suppressed Gram-negative bacterial LPS-induced NO biosynthesis. Lipoteichoic acid (LTA), an outer membrane component of Gram-positive bacteria, can induce septic shock. This study was further aimed to evaluate the effects of propofol on LTA-induced iNOS gene expression in macrophages and its possible molecular mechanisms. Exposure of macrophages to LTA increased production of nitrite and intracellular reactive oxygen species, but propofol reduced such enhancements in concentration- and time-dependent manners. Treatment of macrophages with LTA-induced iNOS mRNA and protein productions. Meanwhile, propofol at a clinically relevant concentration of 50 microM significantly inhibited LTA-caused augmentations of iNOS mRNA and protein syntheses. In parallel, exposure to LTA increased translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NFkappaB) from the cytoplasm to nuclei. Propofol at 50 microM decreased such translocation. Analyses by an electrophoretic mobility shift and reporter gene further showed that propofol could alleviate LTA-induced transactivation of NFkappaB. Sequentially, propofol decreased phosphorylation of IKK, ERK1/2, MEK1/2, and Raf in LTA-stimulated macrophages. Application of toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) small interference (si)RNA decreased the translation of this receptor and Raf phosphorylation in LTA-stimulated macrophages. Co-treatment with propofol and TLR2 siRNA synergistically ameliorated LTA-induced iNOS mRNA expression and nitrite production. Thus, this study shows that propofol can downregulate NO biosynthesis via inhibiting iNOS gene expression. The suppressive mechanism occurs possibly through reduction of TLR2-mediated sequential activation of Raf-MEK1/2-ERK1/2-IKK-NFkappaB.
We examined the role of dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP4) in the development of diabetes, dyslipidaemia and renal dysfunction induced by streptozotocin (STZ). F344/DuCrlCrlj rats, which lack DPP4 activity, and wild-type rats were treated with STZ. Plasma DPP4 activity and biochemical parameters were measured until 42 days after STZ treatment. At the end of the experiment, renal function and DPP4 expressions of the kidney, liver, pancreas and adipose tissues were determined. Increases in blood glucose, cholesterol and triglycerides were evoked by STZ in both rat strains; however, the onset of hyperglycaemia was delayed in DPP4-deficient rats as compared with wild-type rats. By contrast, more severe dyslipidaemia was observed in DPP4-deficient rats than in wild-type rats after STZ treatment. Plasma DPP4 activity increased progressively with time after STZ treatment in wild-type rats. The kidney of wild-type rats showed decreased DPP4 activity with increased Dpp4 mRNA after STZ treatment. In addition, kidney weight, serum creatinine and excreted amounts of urinary protein, glucose and DPP4 enzyme were enhanced by STZ. DPP4-deficient rats showed increased serum creatinine in accordance with decreased creatinine clearance as compared with wild-type rats after STZ treatment. In conclusion, plasma DPP4 activity increased after STZ treatment, positively correlating to blood glucose. DPP4-deficient rats were resistant to developing diabetes, while susceptible to dyslipidaemia and reduction of glomerular filtration rate by STZ. DPP4 activation may be responsible for hyperglycaemia, lipid metabolism and preservation of renal function.
Four women aged between 27 and 58 years sought otolaryngological examination due to significant alterations to their voices, the primary concerns being hoarseness in vocal quality, lowering of habitual pitch, difficulty projecting their speaking voices, and loss of control over their singing voices. Otolaryngological examination with a mirror or flexible laryngoscope revealed no apparent abnormality of vocal fold structure or function, and the women were referred for speech pathology with diagnoses of functional dysphonia. Objective acoustic measures using the Kay Visipitch indicated significant lowering of the mean fundamental frequency for each woman, and perceptual analysis of the patients' voices during quiet speaking, projected voice use, and comprehensive singing activities revealed a constellation of features typically noted in the pubescent male. The original diagnoses of a functional dysphonia were queried, prompting further exploration of each woman's medical history, revealing in each case onset of vocal symptoms shortly after commencing treatment for conditions with medications containing virilizing agents (eg, Danocrine (danazol), Deca-Durabolin (nandrolene decanoate), and testosterone). Although some of the vocal symptoms decreased in severity with the influences from 6 months voice therapy and after withdrawal from the drugs, a number of symptoms remained permanent, suggesting each subject had suffered significant alterations in vocal physiology, including muscle tissue changes, muscle coordination dysfunction, and propioceptive dysfunction. This retrospective study is presented in order to illustrate that it was both the projected speaking voice and the singing voice that proved so highly sensitive to the virilization effects. The implications for future prospective research studies and responsible clinical practice are discussed.
Ts65Dn mice have segmental trisomy for orthologs of about half of the genes on human chromosome 21, including Ets2. These mice develop anomalies of the cranial skeleton and thymus that parallel those in Down syndrome. Overexpression of the Ets2 transcription factor gene was posited to be sufficient to produce these craniofacial and thymus deficits in transgenic mice that constitutively overexpress a processed Ets2 transcript under a promiscuous promoter [Sumarsono et al. (1996); Nature 379:534-537; Wolvetang et al. (2003); Hum Mol Genet 12:247-255]. Evaluation of trisomic mice with varying copy numbers of a properly regulated Ets2 gene indicated increased dosage of Ets2 was not sufficient to produce effects on thymus and most of the cranial anomalies seen in Ts65Dn mice. However, mesoderm-derived cranial skeletal elements are significantly more affected in Ts65Dn, Ets2(+/-) mice compared to Ts65Dn littermates suggesting a differential interaction of Ets2-related processes with mesoderm-derived and neural crest-derived formative tissues. Our results support the growing evidence for interactions among multiple genes contributing to developmental perturbations resulting in variation in complex Down syndrome phenotypes.
Alveolar type II epithelial cells can regulate immune responses to sepsis-induced acute lung injury. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), an outer membrane component of Gram-negative bacteria, can cause septic shock. This study was designed to evaluate the cytotoxic effects of LPS on human alveolar epithelial A549 cells and its possible molecular mechanisms. Exposure of A549 cells to LPS decreased cell viability in concentration- and time-dependent manners. In parallel, LPS concentration- and time-dependently induced apoptosis of A549 cells. Meanwhile, LPS only at a high concentration of 10 μg/ml caused mildly necrotic insults to A549 cells. In terms of the mechanism, exposure of A549 cells to LPS increased the levels of cellular nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species (ROS). Pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine (NAC), an antioxidant, significantly lowered LPS-caused enhancement of intracellular ROS in A549 cells and simultaneously attenuated the apoptotic insults. Sequentially, treatment of A549 cells with LPS caused significant decreases in the mitochondrial membrane potential and biosynthesis of adenosine triphosphate. In succession, LPS triggered the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytoplasm. Activities of caspase-9 and caspase-6 were subsequently augmented following LPS administration. Consequently, exposure of A549 cells induced DNA fragmentation in a time-dependent manner. Pretreatment of A549 cells with NAC significantly ameliorated LPS-caused alterations in caspase-9 activation and DNA damage. Therefore, this study shows that LPS specifically induces apoptotic insults to human alveolar epithelial cells through ROS-mediated activation of the intrinsic mitochondrion-cytochrome c-caspase protease mechanism.
Moderately immunogenic HPV16-associated tumours TC-1 (MHC class I+, HPV16 E6/E7+, G12V Ha-ras+) and MK16/1/IIIABC (MK16, MHC class I-, HPV16 E6/E7+, G12V Ha-ras+), both of the H-2b haplotype and transplanted in syngeneic mice, were used to examine the effects of local IL-2 and GM-CSF cytokine or gene therapy in the treatment of minimal residual tumour disease. The mice carrying MHC class I+ TC-1 tumour residua after surgery were injected into the site of the surgery either with irradiated, IL-2 gene-modified MK16 tumour cells, or with recombinant IL-2. It has been found that both, the recombinant IL-2 and the IL-2 gene-modified tumour vaccine substantially reduced the percentage of tumour recurrences in the operated mice. Similarly, when the mice carrying TC-1 tumour residua after surgery were injected with recombinant GM-CSF, the recombinant GM-CSF inhibited growth of the tumour residua in the operated mice. Gene therapy with irradiated, GM-CSF secreting MK16 cells did not produce any tumour-inhibitory effect. In further experiments, mice bearing s.c. TC-1 tumours were injected i.p. with ifosfamide derivative CBM-4A and 8 days later, peritumourally, either with IL-2 gene-modified and IL-2-producing MK16 cells, or with recombinant IL-2. It has been found that both, the recombinant IL-2 and the IL-2 gene therapy substantially reduced the percentage of tumour-bearing mice. When the mice bearing s.c. TC-1 tumours were injected i.p. with ifosfamide derivative CBM-4A and then, peritumourally, either with irradiated, GM-CSF gene-modified and GM-CSF-producing MK16 cells, or with recombinant GM-CSF, it was found that both, the recombinant GM-CSF and GM-CSF gene therapy inhibited growth of tumour residua. Comparative experiments were performed with the MHC class I-, metastasizing tumour MK16. It has been found that both, recombinant IL-2 and GM-CSF, can inhibit growth of the tumour residua after surgery or chemotherapy. The lung metastases in mice with surgical minimal residual tumour disease or in mice with tumour residua after chemotherapy were inhibited by IL-2 but not by GM-CSF. The MK16 tumour vaccine producing IL-2 inhibited growth of tumour residua after chemotherapy, but not the tumour residua after surgery. The GM-CSF-producing vaccine was without significant effect in both, surgically- and chemotherapeutically-induced minimal residual MK16 tumour disease. In conclusion, the MHC class I+ and MHC class I-, HPV16-associated tumours were found to be sensitive to IL-2 and GM-CSF therapy after surgery or after cytoreductive chemotherapy. It is yet to be addressed if this is more general case with HPV16-associated experimental tumours. If so, it would be of interest to further investigate whether such adjuvant therapy can also help to eradicate the residua after surgery and chemotherapy in patients carrying HPV16-associated neoplasms.
Oral helminthic mebendazole (MBZ) has been reported to cause liver injury with inflammatory responses. However, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. To examine the inflammatory reactions, we investigated whether MBZ and other helminthic drugs increase the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines using human monocytic cells. The release of interleukin (IL)-8 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α from human monocytic THP-1 cells was significantly increased by treatment with MBZ, albendazole (ABZ), fenbendazole (FBZ), or oxibendazole (OBZ), but not by albendazole sulfoxide or praziquantel, suggesting that MBZ and structurally similar drugs can stimulate monocytes and increase the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. MBZ also significantly increased the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) 1/2 in THP-1 cells. Pretreatment with the MAP kinase/ERK kinase 1/2 inhibitor U0126 significantly suppressed the increase of IL-8 and TNFα levels by MBZ, ABZ, FBZ, or OBZ treatment in THP-1 cells, but the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB203580 or JNK1/2 inhibitor SP600125 did not. These results suggested that an ERK1/2 pathway plays an important role in the release of IL-8 and TNFα in THP-1 cells treated with MBZ and structurally similar drugs. In conclusion, the release of inflammatory mediators by MBZ might be one of the mechanisms underlying immune-mediated liver injury. This in vitro method may be useful to predict adverse inflammatory reactions that lead to hepatotoxicity.
The t(12;21) (p13;q22) translocation resulting in ETV6/RUNX1 (previously named TEL/AML1) gene fusion is present in about 25% of children with precursor B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). We successfully tested 275 precursor B-ALL samples from children aged 1 to 17 years to determine the relation between t(12;21) and in vitro cellular drug resistance, measured by the fluorometric microculture cytotoxicity assay (FMCA). Samples from 83 patients (30%) were positive for t(12;21). The ETV6/RUNX1(+) samples were significantly more sensitive than ETV6/RUNX1(-) samples to doxorubicin, etoposide, amsacrine, and dexamethasone, whereas the opposite was true for cytarabine. After matching for unevenly distributed patient characteristics, that is, excluding patients with high hyperdiploidy (> 51 chromosomes), t(9; 22), t(1;19), or 11q23 rearrangement, the ETV6/RUNX1(+) samples remained significantly more sensitive to doxorubicin (P = .001) and etoposide (P = .001). For the other drugs tested (amsacrine, cytarabine, dexamethasone, prednisolone, vincristine, 6-thioguanine, and 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide), no significant difference in cellular drug sensitivity was found. In conclusion, we found that the presence of the t(12;21) translocation in childhood precursor B-ALL is associated with a high tumor cell sensitivity to doxorubicin and etoposide. High throughput techniques should now be used to elucidate the cellular mechanisms by which ETV6/RUNX1 gene fusion is linked to increased sensitivity to these drugs.
A case of mania subsequent to the addition of lithium in unsuccessful treatment by antidepressants is presented. It is suggested that lithium might potentiate some properties of antidepressants which affect their capacity to induce mania.
Conventional chemotherapy of pancreatic carcinoma is only marginally effective. This is in part due to the severity of side effects following systemic administration of the cytostatic drug. The aim was to create a therapeutic tool allowing the targeting of the conversion site of a cytotoxic prodrug to the site of the tumor. This was realized by transfection of the CYP2B1 gene, the major ifosfamide-converting P450 enzyme, in cells with subsequent microencapsulation and administration of these microcapsules to or into the tumor. The enzyme activity (resorufin assay) remained stable for weeks in vitro and in vivo within the microencapsulated CYP2B1-expressing cells. We demonstrated a significant antitumor effect of the intratumorally injected capsules against xenotransplanted human pancreatic carcinomas in the nude mouse. Angiographic experiments in the pig confirmed the feasibility of an intraarterial placement of the capsules into the pancreas. A clinical protocol was established and approved.
L293 cells were transfected with the CYP2B1 gene, microencapsulated (diameter 0.7 mm) under GCP conditions and packed sterile. Patients with confirmed inoperable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas underwent angiography, and capsules were injected into a vessel leading into the tumor. The patients were monitored for 48 h to exclude allergic reactions or pancreatitis. A day later, ifosfamide was administered for three consecutive days to be repeated on days 21-23. The patients were followed up for 5 months.
A total of 17 patients were enrolled. The patients tolerated the procedure without any complications. No allergic reactions or pancreatitis were encountered. Chemotherapy was uneventful. All patients had stable disease, and two patients a partial remission. The median survival was 44 weeks which compared favorably with that of a historical control group (22 weeks).
The intraarterial administration of microcapsules for targeted chemotherapy was well tolerated. Control of local tumor growth was achieved.
Low-dose ritonavir can boost plasma levels of indinavir, thereby enhancing its antiretroviral activity despite less frequent dosing. In this open-label, noncomparative, 24-week trial with a 24-week extension phase, HIV-infected protease inhibitor (PI)- and lamivudine-naive adults received indinavir/ritonavir 800 mg/100 mg plus stavudine and lamivudine every 12 hours. The proportions of patients achieving plasma HIV RNA (vRNA) <400 and <50 copies/mL were analyzed with data as observed (DAO) and intention-to-treat models using generalized estimating equations (GEE) or counting noncompleters as failures (NC = F). Eighty-nine patients (80% men) with a median age of 36 years and mean baseline vRNA levels and CD4 counts of 5.01 log(10) copies/mL and 269 cells/mm(3) were enrolled. The proportions (95% confidence interval [CI]) of patients achieving vRNA <400 copies/mL were 93% (84%, 98%), 78% (67%, 86%), and 68% (57%, 78%) at week 24 for DAO, GEE, and NC = F analyses, respectively; the corresponding results at week 48 were 95% (84%, 99%), 65% (53%, 76%), and 45% (35%, 57%). Most patients with vRNA <400 had <50 copies/mL. At week 48, baseline vRNA decreased by >2 log(10) copies/mL and CD4 counts increased by approximately 200 cells/mm(3). Five patients (6%) experienced serious drug-related adverse experiences. Twenty patients (23%) discontinued therapy due to adverse experiences. In this study, twice-daily indinavir 800 mg/ritonavir 100 mg with two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors provided potent viral suppression and immunologic reconstitution in many PI-naive patients.
