Papillary necrosis results from ischemia of the renal medulla and papillae, induced by a variety of mechanisms. Papillary necrosis is a rare adverse effect of continuous protease-inhibitor therapy with indinavir.
We describe the case of a patient who developed bilateral papillary necrosis. It was reversible after treatment interruption and increased hydration.
This case shows the need to monitor kidney markers in patients under continuous treatment with indinavir.
Congenital hypothyroidism (CH) occurs in approximately 1 in 3000 births and can be caused by mutations in 9 known genes, including that encoding the TSH receptor (TSHR). We report on two Welsh siblings, detected by neonatal screening, who had normal sized and placed glands but negative isotope uptake. Genomic DNA was obtained from both siblings and parents, the TSHR amplified using pairs of intronic and/or overlapping exonic primers and the PCR products sequenced automatically. Both siblings were homozygous for a previously described G to A transition producing a missense mutation, W546X, in the fourth membrane spanning region of the TSHR, rendering it unresponsive to TSH. Both parents were heterozygous and unrelated; furthermore, the W546X has been described in three further families (one of which is Welsh), suggesting that it may be a relatively common mutation. We genotyped 368 euthyroid Welsh individuals using single nucleotide primer extension, and found 366 homozygous wild-type (G:G) and 2 heterozygous (G:A) for the mutation. In conclusion, CH in the siblings is due to the missense mutation, W546X, in their TSHR gene. The W546X allele was detected in approximately 1 in 180 individuals and may be a major contributor to hypothyroidism in the Welsh population.
The PROACT II trial showed that intra-arterial thrombolysis (IAT) is effective for treatment of acute ischaemic stroke attributable to M1 and M2 segment occlusions. Incidence of symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage (sICH) was 10%.
To evaluate the risk and predictors of sICH after IAT by using urokinase in a large number of patients presenting with the whole spectrum of cerebral vessel occlusions.
294 patients with stroke treated with intra-arterial urokinase were retrospectively analysed. The risk of sICH as well as bleeding characteristics were assessed. Demographic and radiological data, time to treatment, urokinase dose, recanalisation rates, stroke aetiology and severity were analysed for predictors.
sICH occurred in 14 of 294 (4.8%) patients. The median National Institute of Health Stroke Scale score of all patients was 15. All but one sICH were located in the infarcted brain tissue, and no sICH occurred in patients with peripheral vessel occlusions (M3 or M4 segments of the middle cerebral artery). Poor collaterals (p = 0.001), early signs of ischaemia on computed tomography (p = 0.003), higher urokinase dose (p = 0.019), lower recanalisation rate (p = 0.02) and higher diastolic blood pressure on admission (p = 0.04) were found to be correlated with sICH on univariate analysis. On multivariate analysis, poor collaterals (p = 0.004), urokinase dose (p = 0.021) and early signs on computed tomography (p = 0.026) remained predictors of sICH.
With regard to the whole spectrum of cerebral vessel occlusions, an incidence of <5% sICH after IAT is distinctly low. This result underlines the important role of IAT in the treatment of acute stroke.
The toxic effect of chloroquine (CQ) has been attributed to oxidative stress with the consequences of lipid peroxidation. This study investigates the effects of alpha-lipoic acid (LA) on CQ-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. A single oral administration of CQ (970 mg/kg)-induced nephrotoxicity, manifested biochemically by a significant increase in serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen concentrations. In addition, renal tissue from CQ-treated rats showed a significant increase in lipid peroxides measured as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and hydroperoxides, along with significant decrease in nonenzymic antioxidants (vitamin C, vitamin E, and reduced glutathione) and enzymic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione-S-transferase) levels. Oral administration of LA (10, 30, or 100 mg/kg) in different doses for 10 days produced a significant protection against nephrotoxicity induced by CQ. Treatment with LA markedly reduced the elevated lipid peroxidation, restored the depleted renal antioxidant defense system. LA at 100 mg/kg was effective when compared with other doses (10 and 30 mg/kg). This was accompanied by the histopathological observations in kidney tissue. The results suggest that LA ameliorate the lipid peroxidation and the loss of cellular antioxidants, thereby protecting the CQ-induced oxidative damage in kidney.
Antiepileptic drugs (AED) have long been known to have a series of side effects and descriptions of drug hypersensitivity syndrome (DHS) have often linked it with these agents. This is more especially so in the case of those with an aromatic ring, but also in those that lack such a structure.
We describe a case of DHS related to the administration of oxcarbazepine (OXC), a ketoanalogue of carbamazepine (CBZ) that has recently appeared on the market in our country, which coursed with interstitial nephritis as the most important clinical manifestation. Our patient developed fever, vomiting, itchy exanthema, kidney failure and biochemical anomalies in the liver after two weeks treatment with this drug. After stopping administration of this anticonvulsant and giving the patient corticoids, the clinical manifestations disappeared and the analytical anomalies began to improve.
OXC can give rise to DHS in the same way as other AED with an aromatic ring structure (phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, CBZ and probably also lamotrigine) or without an aromatic ring structure (valproic). Interstitial nephritis may be the most significant and serious clinical manifestation of DHS produced by OXC. According to the review of the literature we carried out, to date no descriptions of this association of nephritis caused by OXC in the context of DHS have been reported.
Eleven patients with severe, treatment-resistant essential or renovascular hypertension were treated with captopril after withdrawal of various multiple drug regimes. If supine diastolic blood pressure remained greater than 90 mm Hg on a maximum daily dose of 450 mg captopril, a diuretic and then a beta-adrenoceptor blocker were added. Patient-volunteered complaints were carefully noted. Mean (+/- SE) systolic and diastolic blood pressures fell from 225 +/- 6.8/131 +/- 4.4 mm Hg on various multiple drug regimes to 182 +/- 9.0/105 +/- 5.0 mm Hg on a regime including captopril. The reported and observed incidence of adverse effects were as follows: maculopapular rash (one patient); urticaria and pruritus (three patients); loss of taste (one patient); tachycardia (four patients); increased frequency of trivial infections (three patients); severe myalgia (one patient); and deterioration in renal function (one patient). However, these patients were able to continue captopril after either temporary withdrawal or dose reduction. Captopril was discontinued permanently in five patients, in two because of poor blood pressure control, in one who developed persistent severe urticaria, and in one because of marked proteinuria. In the fifth patient intractable diarrhoea occurred. Captopril lowers blood pressure very effectively in patients with severe hypertension refractory to other agents. Adverse effects are common but acceptable in this situation where prognosis is poor if blood pressure is not adequately controlled.
We report on a 22-year-old woman with a continent urinary diversion in whom acute renal failure developed on ciprofloxacin therapy for pelvic osteomyelitis. Renal failure resolved rapidly once the drug was withheld. Because ciprofloxacin is used extensively by the urological community, we believe that it is important to be aware of this potential complication of therapy. We review the literature on the association of ciprofloxacin and renal failure.
Nearly 1% of children in the United States exhibit autism spectrum disorders, but causes and treatments remain to be identified. Mice with deletion of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (Fmr1) gene are used to model autism because loss of Fmr1 gene function causes Fragile X Syndrome (FXS) and many people with FXS exhibit autistic-like behaviors. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) is hyperactive in brains of Fmr1 knockout mice, and inhibition of GSK3 by lithium administration ameliorates some behavioral impairment in these mice. We extended our studies of this association by testing whether GSK3 contributes to socialization behaviors. This used two mouse models with disrupted regulation of GSK3, Fmr1 knockout mice and GSK3 knockin mice, in which inhibitory serines of the two isoforms of GSK3, GSK3alpha and GSK3beta, are mutated to alanines, leaving GSK3 fully active.
To assess sociability, test mice were introduced to a restrained stimulus mouse (S1) for 10 min, followed by introduction of a second restrained stimulus mouse (S2) for 10 min, which assesses social preference. Fmr1 knockout and GSK3 knockin mice displayed no deficit in sociability with the S1 mouse, but unlike wild-type mice neither demonstrated social preference for the novel S2 mouse. Fmr1 knockout mice displayed more anxiety-related behaviors during social interaction (grooming, rearing, and digging) than wild-type mice, which was ameliorated by inhibition of GSK3 with chronic lithium treatment.
These results indicate that impaired inhibitory regulation of GSK3 in Fmr1 knockout mice may contribute to some socialization deficits and that lithium treatment can ameliorate certain socialization impairments. As discussed in the present work, these results suggest a role for GSK3 in social behaviors and implicate inhibition of GSK3 as a potential therapeutic.
Myotoxicity is the most common adverse reaction of statins, being its frequency less than 0.5%. Mild myopathy reversible after statin withdrawal is the most common event. We present a case of severe polymyositis which was likely to be induced by simvastatin.
75 years old man with hypercholesterolemia treated with simvastatin 20 mg/day for 6 months started previous 2 months with proximal limb weakness, dysphagia and myalgias during exercise that did not release after simvastatin withdrawal. Laboratory findings showed increased creatinin kinase (6,010 UI/L), raised aldolase (51 UI/L) and lactic acid dehydrogenase (1,406 UI/L). Muscular biopsy showed abundant inflammatory cell infiltration in perivascular areas, muscle fibre necrosis with miofagocitosis and considerable variation in fibre size, some of them reaching 210 mm. Treatment with cortico esteroids was started and 4 months later clinical remission and nomalization of creatinin kinase was observed.
Mechanisms of statins induced myotoxicity are not well known. Studies in rats suggest a muscle membrane defect (increased membrane fluidity) and abundant signs of damage (fiber necrosis, hipercontraction) but no cellular infiltrates were seen, pointing to a non inflammatory myopathy which was dose dependent. In our case, and Giordano s et al, the remission of the disease with cortico esteroid therapy and the finding of abundant inflammatory cell infiltration suggest the implication of immunological mechanism and not only a muscle membrane defect.
A putative role for endogenous excitatory amino acid systems in the mediation of the cardiovascular and toxic responses to acute administration of cocaine, was examined in spontaneously hypertensive and normal Wistar-Kyoto rats. Conscious, restrained, male hypertensive and normal rats (12 weeks of age) received either the non-competitive excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.01-10 mg/kg, i.v.) or vehicle, 30 min prior to initiation of infusion of cocaine hydrochloride (1.25 mg/kg min, i.v.). Administration of MK-801 produced increases in mean blood pressure and heart rate in both hypertensive and normal rats. Resting rectal temperature was reduced by MK-801 only at the largest dose tested (10 mg/kg). Infusion of cocaine caused convulsions and death at doses of 27.8 +/- 2.3 and 48.2 +/- 5.7 mg/kg, respectively in the normals, and 21.2 +/- 2.5 (P < 0.05) and 31.1 +/- 3.4 (P < 0.05) in the hypertensive rats. Pretreatment with MK-801 abolished the enhanced sensitivity of the hypertensive rats to the toxicity of cocaine. The doses of cocaine required to cause death were significantly increased, in the hypertensive rats at doses > or = 0.05 mg/kg, an effect which was not evident, at any dose, in the normals. The maximally effective dose of MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg) increased the dose of cocaine required to cause lethality by 272% (P < 0.05) in the hypertensive rats; the increase produced by MK-801 in the normals (163%) was not significant. Cocaine-induced convulsions were abolished in both hypertensive and control rats with doses of MK-801 > 0.1 mg/kg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Wilson's disease (WD) is an inherited disorder of copper metabolism yielding marked motor deficits, including a severely disabling tremor. As a structural correlate of the disease, a variety of cerebral abnormalities has been revealed. However, the relationship between motor deficits and cerebral lesions has remained largely unknown. Here, we investigated correlation between WD tremor and cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. Cerebral MRI abnormalities in 6 symptomatic WD patients were compared to findings in 6 asymptomatic WD patients and 10 healthy controls. All patients were treated with long-term copper chelating therapy. Motor symptoms including tremor were determined by Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Part III (UPDRS-III). MRI findings in symptomatic WD patients revealed significant symmetric T2*-weighted hypointense signal alterations of globus pallidus, head of the caudate nucleus, and substantia nigra. In contrast, MRI of asymptomatic WD patients did not differ from healthy controls. Correlation analysis revealed a significant positive correlation between MRI basal ganglia lesions and UPDRS action tremor score. Our results demonstrate for the first time that Wilson's disease tremor is associated with lesions of the globus pallidus, the head of the caudate nucleus, and the substantia nigra.
In this case report, we describe a 70-year-old male patient who sustained Kounis syndrome induced by cisatracurium administration immediately following induction of general anesthesia. Acute coronary syndrome combined with anaphylactic shock, termed Kounis syndrome, should be investigated in percutaneous coronary intervention to solve this complex and life-threatening condition. A team effort by cardiologist and anesthesiologist is essential for successful resuscitation. In general, the incidence of an anaphylactic reaction to cisatracurium is low, but a high serum IgE level in combination with a positive skin prick test in our patient was strongly suggestive of cisatracurium-induced Kounis syndrome. In addition, a cross-reaction between cisatracurium and rocuronium is reported.
High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with flow suppression not only provides useful information on luminal and wall areas of the carotid artery but also can identify the principal tissue components of the carotid atherosclerotic plaque. The effects of intensive lipid-lowering therapy on these MRI tissue characteristics were examined in patients with coronary disease (CAD). Eight CAD patients who have been receiving intensive lipid-lowering treatment (niacin 2.5 g/d, lovastatin 40 mg/d, and colestipol 20 g/d) for 10 years in the Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (FATS) follow-up were randomly selected from among 60 such treated patients. Eight CAD patients who were matched to the treated patients for age (+/-3 years), baseline low density lipoprotein (+/-5 mg/dL), and triglycerides (+/-50 mg/dL) but who had never been treated with lipid-lowering drugs were selected as controls. For each of these 32 carotid arteries, luminal and plaque areas were measured by planimetry, in a blinded protocol, from the magnetic resonance image that showed most plaque. Fibrous tissue, calcium, and lipid deposits were identified on the basis of established criteria. Plaque composition was estimated as a fraction of total planimetered area. Patients treated with 10-year intensive lipid-lowering therapy, compared with control subjects, had significantly lower low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (84 versus 158 mg/dL, respectively; P<0.001) and higher high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (51 versus 37 mg/dL, respectively; P<0.001). As a group, treated patients, compared with untreated control subjects, had a smaller core lipid area (0.7 versus 10.2 mm(2), respectively; P=0.01) and lipid composition (1% versus 17%, respectively). Group differences in luminal area (55 [treated] versus 44 [control] mm(2), P=NS) and plaque area (58 [treated] versus 64 [control] mm(2), P=NS) tended to favor treatment. MRI appears useful for estimating carotid plaque size and composition. Hyperlipidemic CAD patients frequently (97%) have at least moderate (>/=40% area stenosis) carotid plaque. In this case-control study, prolonged intensive lipid-lowering therapy is associated with a markedly decreased lipid content, a characteristic of clinically stable plaques.
Haematological adverse events related to pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN) and ribavirin (RBV) therapy could affect the patients' quality of life; however, the risk factors for severe haematological toxicity associated with this therapy in patients coinfected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and HIV are unclear. The objective of this study was to identify predictors of severe haematological toxicity among HIV-HCV-coinfected patients treated with PEG-IFN plus RBV.
This retrospective multicentric study included 237 HIV-HCV-coinfected patients on PEG-IFN plus RBV. Predictors of severe anaemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and overall haematological toxicity were analyzed.
Eighty (34%) individuals showed an episode of severe haematological toxicity. Severe anaemia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in 32 (13%), 42 (18%) and 26 (11%) patients, respectively. In the multivariate analysis, zidovudine use (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 3.3; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.6-10; P = 0.001), baseline body weight < 65 kg (AOR 2.5; 95% CI 1.1-5; P = 0.024), cirrhosis (AOR 5; 95% CI 1.6-16.6; P = 0.006), PEG-IFN-alpha2a (AOR 2.7; 95% CI 1.1-6.6; P = 0.029) and pretreatment haemoglobin level < 14 g/dl (AOR 2.7; 95% CI 1.3-5.5; P = 0.005) were associated with any kind of severe haematological toxicity. Likewise, haemoglobin level < 13 g/dl, neutrophil counts < 2,500 cells/mm3 and platelet counts < 175,000 cells/mm3 were independent predictors of severe anaemia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, respectively.
Zidovudine treatment, cirrhosis, baseline low body weight, use of PEG-IFN-alpha2a, and baseline haemoglobin level < 14 g/dl are predictors of overall severe haematological toxicity secondary to PEG-IFN plus RBV in HIV-infected individuals. Low pretreatment levels of each haematological series predict a significant decrease of their values during therapy.
Piperacillin is one of the new generation of semisynthetic penicillins which can be administered intravenously or intramuscularly. It has a broad spectrum of activity against Gram-positive and Gram-negative aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Although piperacillin has shown greater activity against beta-lactamase-producing organisms than the other penicillins, it is hydrolysed by the plasmid-mediated beta-lactamases (TEM-1). Activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa is better than that of ticarcillin, carbenicillin and mezlocillin. Although only limited controlled studies have been reported, in those which have been conducted and in a larger number of open studies piperacillin was effective in the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections and lower respiratory tract infections, particularly pneumonia, caused by Gram-negative bacilli. Favourable clinical results have been obtained in patients with infections caused by mixed aerobic/anaerobic organisms (such as intra-abdominal infections) but the relatively average in vitro activity of piperacillin against Bacteroides fragilis may not indicate its usage in situations where this organism is the suspected or proven pathogen. Piperacillin in combination with an aminoglycoside or a 'third generation' cephalosporin gave encouraging results in the treatment of infections in immunocompromised patients, whilst its penetration into the diseased central nervous system and lack of toxicity indicate a potential value in the treatment of neonatal Gram-negative bacillary meningitis, particularly where the causative organism is Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Whether piperacillin alone is appropriate therapy for conditions usually treated with aminoglycosides (other than pseudomonal infections) needs additional clarification, but if established as equally effective in such conditions it has the advantages of its apparent lack of serious adverse effects and freedom from the need to undertake plasma concentration monitoring. These advantages would not, however, apply when considering one of the new (third generation) cephalosporins as alternative therapy in non-pseudomonal infections. Generally, however, it is still considered necessary to treat serious and complicated infections with combination therapy, either a cephalosporin, or in cases of resistance to P. aeruginosa an aminoglycoside.
Despite evidence emerging from the experimental model of nitroglycerin-induced headache, the endogenous increase in nitric oxide (NO) production during migraine attacks is only speculative. It has been hypothesized that there is a close relationship between activation of the L-arginine/NO pathway and production of certain vasoactive and algogenic prostaglandins during spontaneous migraine attacks, but this suggestion also needs to be confirmed. In the present study the levels of nitrites, the stable metabolites of NO, were determined with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in the internal jugular venous blood of five patients affected by migraine without aura examined ictally. These samples were taken within 30 min, 1, 2, and 4 h from the onset of the attack and at the end of the ictal period. At the same time, the plasma levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neurokinin A (NKA), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and 6 keto PGF1alpha, the stable product of PGI2, were assessed with radioimmunoassay (RIA) kits in the same samples. The levels of the intracellular messengers, cGMP and cAMP, were also measured with the RIA method. Nitrite, cGMP, CGRP and NKA levels reached their highest values at the first hour, then they tended to decrease progressively and returned, after the end of attacks, to values similar or below those detected at the time of catheter insertion (ANOVA, statistical significance: P<0.001; P<0.002; P<0.002; P<0.003, respectively). PGE2 and 6 keto PGF1alpha, as well as cAMP levels also significantly increased at the first hour but reached a peak at the 2nd hour and remained in the same range until the 4th and 6th hours. Then their values tended to decrease after the end of attacks, becoming lower than those measured immediately after catheter positioning for internal jugular venous blood drawing (ANOVA: P<0.002, P<0.004, P<0.001, respectively). Our results support early activation of the L-arginine/NO pathway which accompanies the release of vasoactive peptides from trigeminal endings and a late rise in the synthesis of prostanoids with algogenic and vasoactive properties which may intervene in maintaining the headache phase.
The relationship between the history of aspirin usage and diabetic retinopathy is examined in this report. The study population consists of a sample of people (n = 1370) who developed diabetes mellitus after 30 yr of age, who lived in south-central Wisconsin, and who participated in the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study of Diabetic Retinopathy. These participants were questioned about recent and past use of aspirin. There was no association between the number of aspirin used in the month before the exam and the severity of diabetic retinopathy. Three hundred thirty-eight of these individuals reported taking aspirin daily for at least 3 mo since they were diagnosed as having diabetes. There was no association between the severity of retinopathy and having used aspirin in this way. These analyses suggest that aspirin usage, as herein described, is unrelated to the severity of diabetic retinopathy in older-onset diabetic patients.
Valproic acid is a reliable and comparatively safe drug in the treatment of special forms of absence seizures. Severe but very rare complications include acute liver necrosis and acute pancreatitis which may end lethally. A case of a previously unreported association of pancreatic pseudocyst and development of cholestatic icterus in conjunction with valproic acid therapy is presented. The clinical signs of icterus and chronic pancreatic failure disappeared when we terminated the therapy.
The purpose of this study was to clarify the protective role of mangiferin on postinfarction myocardial remodeling and potential mechanisms. The myocardial infarction (MI) model was established by ligating the left anterior descending coronary artery. Cardiac function, myocardial apoptosis and fibrosis, serum tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and phosphorylated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) were examined by echocardiography, histological staining, ELISA and Western blot, respectively. Mangiferin attenuated MI and prevented the development of intercellular fibrosis. Western blotting underscores that the p38 MAPK cascade plays an important role in the cardioprotective effect of mangiferin during MI. Inhibition of p38 MAPK significantly decreased serum TNF-α levels. Transferase-mediated uridine nick end labeling and Masson staining also showed that mangiferin reduced apoptosis and fibrosis in myocardium remodeling. Based on these results, we conclude that mangiferin has a therapeutic effect on post-MI left ventricular remodeling and improves cardiac function.
The distribution of 3H-digoxin has been measured in a large number of tissues from the central, autonomic, and peripheral nervous system after the induction of ventricular tachycardia by infusing digoxin into anesthetized dogs. In most parts of the nervous system the tissue digoxin concentration was close to that in the cerebrospinal fluid. Digoxin accumulation in the choroid plexus probably represented a labeling of adenosine triphosphatase. There was a markedly higher concentration of digoxin in the neurohypophysis than in the adenohypophysis, and the very high levels in the neurohypophysis are hard to explain. There may be a relationship between the pituitary and the hypothalamic digoxin levels, although the concentration in the latter was unimpressive. The fornix showed a modest increase in 3H-digoxin concentration and may play a role, as its efferent discharge goes to the hypothalamus. The high concentration of digoxin in the area postrema suggests that this central nervous system structure is responsible, at least in part, for producing digoxin-induced cardiac arrhythmias. It may act as a sensing organ sensitive to blood digoxin concentration. Either it is the only central nervous structure implicated, or it is involved together with the fornix-hypothalamus-hypophysis pathways. Further proof is given for the importance of the autonomic nervous system in cardiac arrhythmias by the high digoxin levels in the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion and adrenal medulla.
Our purpose was to evaluate the overall efficacy and tolerability of novel antipsychotic medications for patients with bipolar disorder type I.
A retrospective study of the Massachusetts General Hospital Bipolar Clinic database was carried out to identify 50 consecutive treatment trials in patients with DSM-IV bipolar disorder type I who had received adjunctive treatment with risperidone, olanzapine, or clozapine, along with standard mood stabilizers. The treatment charts of those patients (N = 42) were reviewed for details of adverse effects, tolerability, and efficacy of medication.
Overall results indicated equivalent efficacy in novel antipsychotic treatments according to change in Clinical Global Impressions scale score. Levels of extrapyramidal symptoms were similar in all groups and occurred in 12/42 patients (28.6%). Prolactin-related side effects were not observed in any patients. There were no cases of affective switch or worsening of mania. Substantial weight gain of more than 10 lb (4.5 kg) was significantly greater in patients treated with olanzapine.
These results suggest that the efficacy and tolerability of risperidone, olanzapine, and clozapine are similar in patients with bipolar disorder. One major differentiation factor of these drugs appears to be weight gain, particularly between olanzapine and risperidone. This may, in part, also be related to the need to use mood-stabilizing agents, like lithium or divalproex sodium, which may potentiate the weight-gain effect of novel antipsychotics.
A 7-center cooperative clinical study with a new formulation of epirubicin hydrochloride injectable solution (Epirubicin-RTU) was conducted in patients with superficial bladder carcinoma. Epirubicin-RTU at the dose of 60 mg/30 ml was administered by intravesical instillation once daily for three (3) consecutive days and a 4-day drug-free interval followed; then the above intravesical instillation of Epirubicin-RTU was repeated for three consecutive days. All 20 registered cases were eligible, and 18 cases completed the whole course of the study. In 18 completers, CR was observed in 12 cases and PR was observed in one (1) case, for an efficacy rate of 72.2%. The primary adverse reaction was bladder irritation including pollakiuria 85.0% (17/20), miction pain 85.0% (17/20), and hematuria 80.0% (16/20), which were all reversible and tolerable. In urinalysis, urinary sediment showed leukocytes and erythrocytes, and proteinuria was observed. All were reversible. From the above results, this new formulation of Epirubicin-RTU was considered useful for the treatment of superficial bladder carcinoma.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential reversibility of kidney lesions in an experimental model of acute renal failure using ultra-small particles of iron oxide (USPIO)-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. This study was conducted in 21 uninephrectomized rats using a model of iodinated contrast media-induced renal failure. Thirteen rats received selective intraarterial renal administration of diatrizoate (370 mg/ml) and were compared with two control groups, including six animals injected with saline and two noninjected animals. MR imaging was performed 28 hours, 8 days, and 22 days after the procedure. Each MR session included axial and coronal T1- and coronal T2-weighted images before and after intravenous administration of 60 micromol Fe/kg of USPIO. The rats were sacrificed immediately after the last MR session for pathologic evaluation. MR images were qualitatively and quantitatively interpreted with respect to pathologic data, and differences were statistically studied. At day 22, histology showed 4 severely diseased kidneys with focal areas of necrosis, 5 mildly diseased kidneys with tubular vacuolization, and 12 normal kidneys. On quantitative data, a high correlation between the percentage of negative enhancement and histologic data was observed (P < 0.05). Qualitative interpretation showed a sensitivity and specificity of USPIO-enhanced T2-weighted MR images of 88% and 91%, respectively. Follow-up enhancement curves showed a constant increase of intrarenal USPIO negative enhancement in normal kidneys between day 1 and day 22, whereas all severely involved kidneys displayed higher USPIO negative enhancement at day 1 without significant changes over time until day 22. USPIO may be useful for in vivo follow-up of the reversibility of experimentally induced iodinated contrast media renal impairment in animals.
Lung cancer is associated with a significant rate of locoregional recurrence after surgical resection, particularly when nonanatomic wedge resections are performed. The primary aim of this study was to assess the feasibility of a microsphere drug delivery system to locally deliver chemotherapy and prevent the establishment and growth of lung cancer cells and establish proof of concept for a potential future approach to target occult microscopic disease remaining at the surgical resection margin.
Poly-(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microspheres loaded with the antineoplastic agent paclitaxel were prepared and tested for antitumor efficacy in an in vitro cell proliferation assay for tumor inhibition and induction of apoptosis. The in vivo prevention of Lewis lung carcinoma cell establishment and growth in subcutaneous tissues of mice was also assessed by comparing 4 treatment groups: Lewis lung carcinoma cells alone, Lewis lung carcinoma cells combined with 100 x 10(6) unloaded (carrier alone) PLGA microspheres, and Lewis lung carcinoma cells combined with 50 x 10(6) or 100 x 10(6) paclitaxel-loaded PLGA microspheres. After the coinjection of Lewis lung carcinoma cells with or without microspheres, in vivo tumor growth was monitored, and tumor weight was recorded on death.
Paclitaxel-loaded PLGA microspheres were found to effectively prevent growth of tumor cells in culture through the induction of apoptosis. Similarly, paclitaxel-loaded PLGA microspheres significantly inhibited tumor growth in vivo at both the 50 x 10(6) and 100 x 10(6) microsphere dose (0.497 +/- 0.183 and 0.187 +/- 0.083 g total tumor weight, respectively) compared with 2.91 +/- 0.411 g for Lewis lung carcinoma cells with unloaded microspheres and 3.37 +/- 0.433 g for untreated tumor (P < .001). Toxicity was not clinically apparent in any animal treated with paclitaxel-loaded PLGA microspheres.
Paclitaxel-loaded PLGA microspheres induce tumor apoptosis and inhibit the establishment and growth of lung cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo without obvious systemic toxicity. By using models consistent with localized microscopic tumor burdens, these results suggest that local delivery of paclitaxel through a microsphere system might lead to an effective future method of decreasing local tumor recurrence in non-small cell lung cancer when applied to the surgical margins at risk for microscopic tumor foci. Such an approach might be particularly efficacious after wedge resection in the setting of poor pulmonary reserve or significant comorbidity, where local recurrence rates are increased and acceptable alternative treatment options are limited.
A subtype of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) is well recognized which has a clinical course consistent with juvenile NCL (JNCL) but the ultrastructural characteristics of infantile NCL (INCL): granular osmiophilic deposits (GROD). Evidence supporting linkage of this phenotype, designated vJNCL/GROD, to the INCL region of chromosome 1p32 was demonstrated (pairwise lod score with D1S211 , Z max = 2.63, straight theta = 0.00). The INCL gene, palmitoyl-protein thioesterase (PPT ; CLN1), was therefore screened for mutations in 11 vJNCL/GROD families. Five mutations in the PPT gene were identified: three missense mutations, Thr75Pro, Asp79Gly, Leu219Gln, and two nonsense mutations, Leu10STOP and Arg151STOP. The missense mutation Thr75Pro accounted for nine of the 22 disease chromosomes analysed and the nonsense mutation Arg151STOP for seven. Nine out of 11 patients were shown to combine a missense mutation on one disease chromosome with a nonsense mutation on the other. Mutations previously identified in INCL were not observed in vJNCL/GROD families. Thioesterase activity in peripheral blood lymphoblast cells was found to be markedly reduced in vJNCL/GROD patients compared with controls. These results demonstrate that this subtype of JNCL is allelic to INCL and further emphasize the correlation which exists between genetic basis and ultrastructural changes in the NCLs.
Zidovudine is commonly administered during pregnancy to prevent mother-to-child HIV-1 transmission. We investigated mitochondrial toxic effects in children exposed to zidovudine in utero and after birth.
We analysed observations of a trial of tolerance of combined zidovudine and lamivudine and preliminary results of a continuing retrospective analysis of clinical and biological symptoms of mitochondrial dysfunction in children born to HIV-1-infected women in France. Mitochondrial dysfunction was studied by spectrophotometry and polarography of respiratory-chain complexes in various tissues.
Eight children had mitochondrial dysfunction. Five, of whom two died, presented with delayed neurological symptoms and three were symptom-free but had severe biological or neurological abnormalities. Four of these children had been exposed to combined zidovudine and lamivudine, and four to zidovudine alone. No child was infected with HIV-1. All children had abnormally low absolute or relative activities of respiratory-chain complexes I, IV, or both months or years after the end of antiretroviral treatment. No mutation currently associated with constitutional disease was detected in any patient.
Our findings support the hypothesis of a link between mitochondrial dysfunction and the perinatal administration of prophylactic nucleoside analogues. Current recommendations for zidovudine monotherapy should however be maintained. Further assessment of the toxic effects of these drugs is required.
To investigate the effects and possible mechanisms of Wy14643 on hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in rats.
Thirty male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 220-280 g were randomly divided into five experimental groups: sham group (G1, n=6): a sham operation was performed (except for liver I/R); I/R-untreated group (G2, n=6): rats underwent liver ischemia for 90 min followed by reperfusion for 4 h; and I/R+Wy14643 groups (G3, G4, G5; n=6): after the same surgical procedure as in group 2, animals were pretreated with Wy14643 at the dose of 1, 5 and 10 mg/kg 1 h before ischemia, respectively. Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) was induced by clamping blood supply to the left lateral and median lobes of the liver for 90 min, and atraumatic clamp was removed for 4 h reperfusion. Blood samples and liver tissues were obtained at the end of reperfusion to assess serum and hepatic tissue homogenate aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), myeloperoxidase (MPO), serum interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), as well as activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and content of malondialdehyde (MDA) in the hepatic tissue homogenate.
Hepatic I/R induced a significant increase in the serum levels of ALT, AST, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and MPO, as well as the levels of ALT, AST and MDA in the liver tissue homogenate, which were reduced by pretreatment with Wy14643 at the dose of 1, 5 and 10 mg/kg, respectively. The activity of SOD in the liver tissue homogenate was decreased after hepatic I/R, which was enhanced by Wy14643 pretreatment. In addition, serum and liver tissue homogenate ALT and AST in the Wy14643 10 mg/kg group were lower than in the Wy14643 1 mg/kg and 5 mg/kg groups, respectively.
Wy14643 pretreatment exerts significant protection against hepatic I/R injury in rats. The protective effects are possibly associated with enhancement of anti-oxidant and inhibition inflammation response.
There is evidence for a role of oxidant stress and inflammation in atrial fibrillation (AF). Statins have both antioxidant and antiinflammatory properties. We compared the effects of simvastatin with those of antioxidant vitamins on AF promotion by atrial tachycardia in dogs.
We studied dogs subjected to atrial tachypacing (ATP) at 400 bpm in the absence and presence of treatment with simvastatin, vitamin C, and combined vitamins C and E. Serial closed-chest electrophysiological studies were performed in each dog at baseline and 2, 4, and 7 days after tachypacing onset. Atrioventricular block was performed to control ventricular rate. Mean duration of induced AF was increased from 42+/-18 to 1079+/-341 seconds at terminal open-chest study after tachypacing alone (P<0.01), and atrial effective refractory period (ERP) at a cycle length of 300 ms was decreased from 117+/-5 to 76+/-6 ms (P<0.01). Tachypacing-induced ERP shortening and AF promotion were unaffected by vitamin C or vitamins C and E; however, simvastatin suppressed tachypacing-induced remodeling effects significantly, with AF duration and ERP averaging 41+/-15 seconds and 103+/-4 ms, respectively, after tachypacing with simvastatin therapy. Tachypacing downregulated L-type Ca2+-channel alpha-subunit expression (Western blot), an effect that was unaltered by antioxidant vitamins but greatly attenuated by simvastatin.
Simvastatin attenuates AF promotion by atrial tachycardia in dogs, an effect not shared by antioxidant vitamins, and constitutes a potentially interesting new pharmacological approach to preventing the consequences of atrial tachycardia remodeling.
