An 87-year-old African-American man came to the internal medicine clinic for a routine anticoagulation management visit. He had no complaints. His medical history was significant for stage IV-A follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, atrial fibrillation, and hypertension. His long-term drug therapy consisted of warfarin, felodopine, lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide, controlled-release diltiazem, potassium chloride, and oxycodone. He reported adherence with his prescribed drugs and denied taking any over-the-counter or herbal products. Overall, the patient's drug therapy had been consistent during the preceding 3 months, no significant changes had occurred in his clinical status, and no significant changes had been noted in his diet; his international normalized ratio (INR) had ranged from 1.9-2.4 (therapeutic range 2-3). He denied tobacco use, alcohol consumption, and recent travel. Four weeks later, the patient came to the emergency department with hematuria. He denied dysuria, taking more than the prescribed amount of warfarin, any changes in his diet, taking any over-the-counter or herbal products, and any other bleeding. On admission to the hospital, his INR was 6.88, which increased to 7.29 during his hospital stay. On further investigation, the patient admitted that he had started taking an herbal supplement, royal jelly, 1 week earlier. When asked specifically about the ingredients in the supplement, he stated that royal jelly was the only component. Relative to the patient's denial of any other changes in his condition or drug regimen, the most probable explanation for his elevated INR and subsequent bleeding is a possible interaction between royal jelly and warfarin. To our knowledge, no case reports concerning royal jelly and warfarin taken concomitantly have been reported. Clinicians should be proactive and repeatedly provide education regarding the potential dangers of dietary supplements taken with conventional drugs.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an inherited disorder resulting from mutations in one of two genes, TSC1 (Hamartin) and TSC2 (Tuberin). These two proteins form a cytosolic complex that inhibits the mTOR pathway that controls cell growth and proliferation. Pathologically, abnormalities of neuronal migration, cellular differentiation and excessive cellular proliferation all contribute to the formation of the different brain lesions of TSC. Seizure is the most common presenting symptom. Seizures can be present in the first year of life and up to one third of children develop infantile spasms. Seizures usually have a focal or multifocal origin, are often resistant to antiepileptic drugs and have a negative impact on the neurocognitive development. Vigabatrin has proved to be effective against infantile spasms due to TSC. New evidence suggests that it is possible to noninvasively identify using multimodality techniques, TSC children who are likely to become seizure-free following surgical treatment. Understanding the mechanisms of epileptogenesis and the possible role of the mTOR pathway in this process might increase the availability of novel and targeted therapies.
Curcumin, the major polyphenolic compound in turmeric, has been shown to attenuate hepatic damage in several animal models of liver injury. The aim of the present study was to examine the efficacy of curcumin in preventing thioacetamide-induced cirrhosis and to unravel the mechanism of curcumin's effect on hepatic fibrosis in rats.
Liver cirrhosis was induced by thioacetamide (TAA; 200 mg/kg, i.p.) twice weekly for 12 weeks. One group of rats concomitantly received curcumin (300 mg/kg/day, by gavage for 12 weeks); the control group received the solvent at identical amounts and duration.
TAA administration induced liver cirrhosis, which was inhibited by curcumin. Liver histopathology, hydroxyproline levels and spleen weights were significantly lower in the rats treated with TAA+curcumin compared with TAA only (P<0.001). Immunohistochemical studies and in situ hybridization demonstrated inhibition of hepatic stellate cell (alpha smooth muscle actin-positive) activation and collagen alpha1 (I) gene expression in the livers of the TAA+curcumin-treated rats. Curcumin reduced oxidative stress as shown by the decreased hepatic nitrotyrosine staining in the curcumin+TAA-treated rats. Curcumin treatment had no effect on pre existing liver cirrhosis. As determined by in vitro studies using the rat HSC-T6 cell line, curcumin had no direct inhibitory effect on collagen alpha1 (I) messenger RNA expression. Further studies in these cells using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction demonstrated that curcumin had no effect on the expression of PDGF-induced TIMP-1 and TIMP-2, TGFbeta1, TGFbeta2 and MCP-1 but significantly inhibited tumor necrosis factor alpha expression. Curcumin had no effect on hepatic stellate cells proliferation. Zymography showed that curcumin had no effect on matrix metalloproteinase-2 activity.
Curcumin inhibited the development of TAA-induced liver cirrhosis mainly due to its anti-inflammatory activities and not by a direct anti-fibrotic effect. As curcumin ingestion is safe in humans, it may be reasonable to assess in clinical studies the beneficial effect of curcumin in slowing the development of liver cirrhosis.
Protein fractions of the initial serum and acid-soluble proteins of the blood serum were examined in patients with acute myocardial infarction with marked pain syndrome before and after removal of the pain syndrome with fentanl and droperidol. It was noted that the total amount of protein in the initial serum and that of acid-soluble proteins were reduced as compared to the group of normal subjects. Disc electrophoresis demonstrated statistically significant differences in all the electrophoretic protein fractions of the initial blood serum. According to disc electrophoresis of acid-soluble proteins the greatest metabolic changes were experienced by proteins of the prealbumin zone. Three hours after the removal of the pain syndrome, protein metabolism did not return to normal. The intensity of quantitative changes in the disc electrophoretic zones remained at the same level as before the removal.
This study was aimed to compare the effect of insulin plus rosiglitazone with that of insulin plus metformin on the level of serum N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-BNP) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, and to find out whether serum NT-BNP can be used as an index for predicting heart failure induced by rosiglitazone in the cases of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Sixty type 2 diabetic patients were recruited and were randomly divided into two groups: group A (n = 30) received insulin plus rosiglitazone (4 mg/d) and group B (n = 30) received insulin plus metformin. The observations covered an 8-weeks' course of treatment. Serum NT-BNP was measured at the beginning and at the end of 8 weeks. The Before-After study revealed that the level of serum NT-BNP did not change apparently in the two groups (P >0.05). There was no remarkable difference in the level of serum NT-BNP between the two groups (P>0.05). There were 3 cases with edema in the group of insulin plus rosiglitazone, but none with heart failure; in these three cases, the mean serum NT-BNP level at the end of the treatment exhibited an increase of 108.99 fmol/ml when compared with that at the beginning. Neither insulin plus rosiglitazone nor insulin plus metformin had apparent effect on the level of serum NT-BNP in the patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The question of whether serum NT-BNP is a predictive index of heart failure awaits answers given by more observation on type 2 diabetes mellitus patients using rosiglitazone.
Zearalenone (ZEN) is commonly found in many food commodities and is known to cause reproductive disorders and genotoxic effects. However, the mode of ZEN-induced cell death of macrophages and the mechanisms by which ZEN causes cytotoxicity remain unclear. The present study shows that ZEN treatment reduces viability of RAW264.7 cells in a dose-dependent manner. ZEN causes predominantly necrotic and late apoptotic cell death. ZEN treatment also results in the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), mitochondrial changes in Bcl-2 and Bax proteins, and cytoplasmic release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). Pre-treatment of the cells with either z-VAD-fmk or z-IETD-fmk does not attenuate ZEN-mediated cell death, whereas catalase suppresses the ZEN-induced decrease in viability in RAW264.7 cells. Treating the cells with c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), or p53 inhibitor prevented ZEN-mediated changes, such as MMP loss, cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) increase, and cell death. JNK or p38 MAPK inhibitor inhibited mitochondrial alterations of Bcl-2 and Bax proteins with attendant decreases in cellular ROS levels. Knockdown of AIF via siRNA transfection also diminished ZEN-induced cell death. Further, adenosine triphosphate was markedly depleted in the ZEN-exposed cells. Collectively, these results suggest that ZEN induces cytotoxicity in RAW264.7 cells via AIF- and ROS-mediated signaling, in which the activations of p53 and JNK/p38 play a key role.
Previous findings that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in neuropathic pain, mainly through spinal mechanisms, suggest that ROS may be involved in central sensitization. To investigate the possible role of ROS in central sensitization, we examined in rats the effects of ROS scavengers on capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia, which is known to be mediated by central sensitization. We used two different ROS scavengers: phenyl N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN) and 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine 1-oxyl (TEMPOL). Intradermal capsaicin injection (20 microg in 20 microl olive oil) into the hind paw produced primary and secondary hyperalgesia. A systemic administration of PBN (100mg/kg, i.p.) or TEMPOL (200mg/kg, i.p.) alleviated capsaicin-induced secondary, but not primary, hyperalgesia. Intrathecal injection of PBN (1mg inof veterinary Surgery/anesthesiology, College of veterinary Medic 50 microl saline) greatly reduced hyperalgesia, whereas intracerebroventricular or intradermal injection of PBN produced only a minor analgesic effect, suggesting that PBN takes effect mainly through the spinal cord. Electrophysiological recordings from wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the dorsal horn showed that intradermal capsaicin enhanced the evoked responses to peripheral stimuli; systemic PBN or TEMPOL restored the responses to normal levels. Removal of ROS thus restored the responsiveness of spinal WDR neurons to normal levels, suggesting that ROS is involved in central sensitization, at least in part by sensitizing WDR neurons.
The impact of organophosphorus compound (OP) intoxication on the activity of central respiratory circuitry, causing acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition and accumulation of acetylcholine in the respiratory brainstem circuits, is not understood. We investigated the central effect of the OP Crotylsarin (CRS) on respiratory network activity using the working heart brainstem preparation, which specifically allows for the analysis of central drug effects without changes in brainstem oxygenation possibly caused by drug effects on peripheral cardio-respiratory activity. Respiratory network activity was determined from phrenic and hypoglossal or vagal nerve activities (PNA, HNA, VNA). To investigate combined central and peripheral CRS effects hypo-perfusion was used mimicking additional peripheral cardiovascular collapse. Systemic CRS application induced a brief central apnea and complete AChE-inhibition in the brainstem. Subsequently, respiration was characterised by highly significant reduced PNA minute activity, while HNA showed expiratory related extra bursting indicative for activation of un-specified oro-pharyngeal behaviour. During hypo-perfusion CRS induced significantly prolonged apnoea. In all experiments respiratory activity fully recovered after 1h. We conclude that CRS mediated AChE inhibition causes only transient central breathing disturbance. Apparently intrinsic brainstem mechanisms can compensate for cholinergic over activation. Nevertheless, combination of hypo-perfusion and CRS exposure evoke the characteristic breathing arrests associated with OP poisoning.
The aim of this work was to analyze the effect of carbamazepine (CBZ) on sleep patterns and on "head and body shakes" and to determine the role of serotonin (5-HT) in a model of kainic-induced seizures. Thirty male Wistar rats (280-300 g) were used for polygraphic sleep recording. After a basal recording, the rats were allocated into three groups: kainic acid-treated animals (KA; 10 mg/kg; n=10), carbamazepine-treated animals (CBZ; 30 mg/kg; n=10) and animals injected with KA 30 min after pretreatment with CBZ (CBZ+KA; n=10). Polygraphic recordings were performed for 10 h for 3 days, with the exception of the CBZ group, which were observed for 1 day. In order to measure the head and body shakes that occurred over that time, a behavioral assessment was performed in two additional groups of KA (n=10) and CBZ+KA (n=10) animals. After 10 h of behavioral assessment, the rats were sacrificed, and the levels of 5-HT and 5-hydroxy-indol-acetic acid (5-HIAA) were analyzed. We compared these findings with the results from a group of rats without pharmacological intervention (n=10). All of the recordings were performed from 08:00 to 18:00 h.
the electrographic parameters, head and body shake counting and monoamine concentrations were analyzed by an ANOVA test. Differences of *p < or = 0.01 and **p < or = 0.001 were considered statistically significant. Our results showed that CBZ exerted a protective effect on sleep pattern alterations induced by KA, which when administered alone caused a complete inhibition of sleep for the first 10 h after administration. Although there was a reduction in the amount of sleep after the administration of KA in CBZ-pretreated animals, sleep inhibition was incomplete. In addition, CBZ decreased the frequency of head and body shakes by 60% as compared to KA. The 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels in the pons were increased in the KA and KA+CBZ groups. Our conclusion is that in addition to decreasing seizure intensity, CBZ facilitates the partial recovery of sleep. These results suggest that CBZ provides neuro-protective effects on sleep and against seizures.
We previously identified a positive transcriptional element identical to human Ha-ras response element (HRE) within the promoter of the rat Ha-ras gene. We further identified CArG binding factor A (CBF-A), a member of heterogeneous nuclear ribonuclear protein (hnRNP) gene family, as a trans-acting factor that binds the HRE sequence with high affinity in rat mammary carcinoma cells. To determine if activation of CBF-A plays a role in tumor development in vivo , we investigated CBF-A expression and binding activity in rat mammary tumors induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. We found that approximately 82% of tumors expressed CBF-A at levels that were 3-20 fold higher than detected in normal mammary gland. Moreover, elevated CBF-A protein levels were invariably associated with increased binding activity to the HRE. CBF-A mRNA levels in tumors were on average elevated only two fold as compared to normal mammary gland, indicating that increased CBF-A protein levels in tumors resulted from both translational and/or post-translational regulation. The level of CBF-A expression in mammary tumors was independent of Ha-ras mutational status. Together, these findings indicated that deregulation of CBF-A contributes to mammary carcinogenesis via a mechanism that is distinct from its hnRNP functions in binding and post-transcriptional regulation of RNA.
Drug-induced prolongation of the QT interval is often associated with the onset of Torsades de Pointes (TdP) resulting in a life-threatening ventricular arrhythmia. The potential of the proarrhythmic effects of the new fluoroquinolone antibacterial agents, levofloxacin and sparfloxacin, was examined in the chronic complete atrioventricular block dogs with stable idioventricular automaticity using Holter ECG monitoring in conscious state (Experiment 1). Next, to better analyze the mechanisms of the proarrhythmic property, the cardiovascular effects of these two drugs were compared in the halothane-anesthetized dogs under the monitoring of ECG, His bundle electrogram, systemic and left ventricular pressure, monophasic action potential, cardiac output, and effective refractory period (Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, oral administration of 6 mg/kg (n = 4) as well as 60 mg/kg (n = 4) of levofloxacin did not induce any ventricular premature depolarization. On the other hand, oral administration of 60 mg/kg of sparfloxacin (n = 4) induced TdP leading to ventricular fibrillation in all animals within 24 h, while 6 mg/kg of sparfloxacin (n = 4) did not induce any ventricular premature depolarization. In Experiment 2, intravenous administration of 0.3 mg/kg as well as 3.0 mg/kg of levofloxacin slightly increased cardiac output, but no significant changes were detected in the other parameters (n = 6). On the other hand, intravenous administration of 0.3 mg/kg of sparfloxacin prolonged the effective refractory period. Additional administration of 3.0 mg/kg of sparfloxacin decreased the heart rate and prolonged the effective refractory period and ventricular repolarization phase in a similar extent, but no significant changes were detected in the other parameters (n = 6). These results suggest that backward shift of the relative repolarization period in a cardiac cycle may be the mechanism responsible for the torsadegenic effect of sparfloxacin.
The in vitro and in vivo activities of amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) alone and in combination were studied to determine possible drug interactions against two strains of Cryptococcus neoformans, one sensitive to 5-FC and one resistant to 5-FC. In vitro tube dilution studies demonstrated only additive effects with the 5-FC-sensitive organism but antagonism with eth 5-FC-resistant organism. A mouse model of cryptococcal meningitis allowed comparative drug trails in a new model for the detection of drug interactions. Drug combinations were no more effective against meningitis caused by the 5-FC-sensitive organism than the additive effects of the individual drugs. However, meningitis caused by the 5-FC-resistant Cryptococcus responded less to drug combinations than to either drug alone. Serum levels of amphotericin B and 5-FC were comparable in all groups. No evidence of toxicity from the drug combinations was found. No inhibition of development of resistance to 5-FC by the combination with amphotericin B was detected.
Short-term studies have demonstrated that rapamycin or everolimus treatment decreases cyst formation and improves renal function in animal models of polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) patients would likely require life-long treatment with rapamycin.
Male Han:SPRD rats with PKD (Cy/+) were treated with rapamycin (0.2 mg/kg/day IP) or vehicle from 1 to 12 months of age. Mean trough levels of rapamycin (ng/mL) were 6.6 +/- 0.1 at 8 weeks of age. Twelve-month-old littermates (+/+) were used as normal controls.
Twelve-month-old male Cy/+ rats treated with the vehicle had a more than doubling of kidney volume, severe chronic renal failure, severe hypertension and increased heart weight compared to normal littermate controls (+/+). After rapamycin treatment, 12-month-old Cy/+ rats had markedly improved kidney volume, renal function, blood pressure and heart weight not statistically different from controls. Rapamycin reduced the cyst volume density (CVD) by 72%. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activation in the heart, as evidenced by a marked increase in the phospho-S6 protein that was inhibited by rapamycin, was demonstrated in 12-month-old Cy/+ rats.
In conclusion, long-term rapamycin treatment in Cy/+ rats results in a normalization of kidney volume, renal function, blood pressure and heart weight. The novel finding that rapamycin decreases hypertension, heart enlargement and mTOR signalling in the heart in PKD rats is reported. The only side effect of rapamycin treatment was an 11% decrease in body weight.
The glutamatergic pathway arising in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) and projecting to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) core is a critical component of the reward circuitry that underlies reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is expressed by and modulates PFC-NAc neurons. BDNF infusion into the dmPFC attenuates reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior, as well as some cocaine-induced molecular adaptations within the NAc. In the present study, it is demonstrated that a single intra-dmPFC infusion of BDNF prevents cocaine self-administration-induced reduction in basal extracellular glutamate, as well as cocaine prime-induced increases in extracellular glutamate levels within the NAc. These data suggest that intra-PFC BDNF attenuates reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior by normalizing cocaine-induced neuroadaptations that alter glutamate neurotransmission within the NAc.
Mangiferin has been shown to have the effect of improving dyslipidemia. Plasma free fatty acids (FFA) are closely associated with blood lipid metabolism as well as many diseases including metabolic syndrome. This study is to investigate whether mangiferin has effects on FFA metabolism in hyperlipidemic rats. Wistar rats were fed a high-fat diet and administered mangiferin simultaneously for 6 weeks. Mangiferin (50, 100, 150 mg/kg BW) decreased dose-dependently FFA and triglycerides (TG) levels in plasma, and their accumulations in liver, but increased the β-hydroxybutyrate levels in both plasma and liver of hyperlipidemic rats. HepG2 cells were treated with oleic acid (OA, 0.2 mmol/L) to simulate the condition of high level of plasma FFA in vitro, and were treated with different concentrations of mangiferin simultaneously for 24 h. We found that mangiferin significantly increased FFA uptake, significantly decreased intracellular FFA and TG accumulations in HepG2 cells. Mangiferin significantly increased AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and its downstream proteins involved in fatty acid translocase (CD36) and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (CPT1), but significantly decreased acyl-CoA: diacylgycerol acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2) expression and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) activity by increasing its phosphorylation level in both in vivo and in vitro studies. Furthermore, these effects were reversed by Compound C, an AMPK inhibitor in HepG2 cells. For upstream of AMPK, mangiferin increased AMP/ATP ratio, but had no effect on LKB1 phosphorylation. In conclusion, mangiferin decreased plasma FFA levels through promoting FFA uptake and oxidation, inhibiting FFA and TG accumulations by regulating the key enzymes expression in liver through AMPK pathway. Therefore, mangiferin is a possible beneficial natural compound for metabolic syndrome by improving FFA metabolism.
A double-blind randomised study was designed to assess the value of oral midazolam in patients undergoing minor oral surgery. 30 young healthy Hong Kong Chinese with bilateral symmetrical impaction of lower third molars to be surgically removed in 2 visits, were included in the study. Randomly selected, a powdered midazolam tablet or placebo was given on the 1st visit and the alternative on the 2nd visit. 45 min were given for the drug to act. Surgical removal of the teeth was carried out by a single operator, randomly, one side being done at one visit. The majority who had midazolam were relaxed during the operation. Nearly 75% had partial to complete amnesia. Midazolam sedation lasted about 45 min, produced good operating conditions and stable vital signs with adequate verbal response. The main adverse effects were drowsiness and dizziness on the same day. The majority had never heard of oral sedation being available to supplement local anaesthesia. The majority preferred midazolam to placebo and preferred to have local anaesthesia supplemented with oral sedation for minor oral surgery in the future.
A 43-year-old healthy man developed transmural myocardial infarction shortly after ingesting sumatriptan succinate 100 mg for migraine. Coronary arteriography revealed only minor irregularities in the left anterior descending artery. Oral sumatriptan should be used with caution in any patient with vascular risk factors and avoided in those with coronary artery disease or vasospasm.
In this study, effects of Lacidipine (LAC), Ramipril (RAM) and Valsartan (VAL) on DNA damage and oxidative stress occurred in acute and chronic periods after isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarct (MI) were investigated in rats. LAC, RAM and VAL had been administered by oral gavage at 3, 3 and 30 mg/kg doses, respectively, in acute and chronic periods following MI. In acute MI model, LAC, RAM and VAL had been administered once per day to rat groups during 30 days. On days 29 and 30, the rats of the acute MI control and drug treatment groups were administered 180 mg/kg ISO, subcutaneously at an interval of 24 h. In chronic MI model, LAC, RAM and VAL had been administered to rat groups during 30 days, and on the 1st and 2nd days, the rats of the chronic MI control and drug treatment groups were administered ISO, by the same way. After this period, routine biochemistry indicators of MI, alanin aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK), creatine kinase-isoenzymes (CK-MB), troponin I (TnI) and nitric oxide (NO), oxidative stress indicator, has been measured in the serums obtained from rat's blood. Also, 7,8-Dihydro-8-oxo-guanine (8-OHGua), which is an indicator of DNA damage level, has been determined in whole blood. After MI diagnosis, the relationships among the 8-OHGua, NO and clinic MI indicators have been determined. Results have been evaluated by comparing with that of control group. In control groups, the clinic MI indicators have been found to be statistically higher than the drug groups. In parallel to this increase in MI indicators, there have been determined a significant decrease in NO levels and an increase in 8-OHGua level. There was no significant difference in the rat groups which received drugs without MI induction. We have observed that the level of 8-OHGua which increased after MI in both acute and chronic periods decreased by LAC, RAM and VAL when compared to acute and chronic MI control groups. In conclusion, it has been determined that oxidative stress has been increased after ISO induced MI model and this stress reduces NO and even damages DNA. LAC, RAM and VAL may decrease the severity of MI and prevent DNA damage by reducing oxidative stress.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term pharmacokinetics, safety, and efficacy of sertraline in children and adolescents with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) or major depressive disorder (MDD).
After 42-day initial treatment and 9-day withdrawal phases, children (6-12 years, n = 16) and adolescents (13-18 years, n = 27) entered a 24-week open-label phase, with sertraline titrated to 200 mg/day. Blood samples for plasma sertraline and N-desmethylsertraline levels were taken at the beginning of the 24-week phase and at weeks 1, 4, 8, 12, and 24. Efficacy and safety data were also collected.
Mean maximum daily dose at endpoint was 157 +/- 49 mg. For female and male children, mean sertraline/N-desmethylsertraline concentrations normalized to a 200-mg dose were 85.0/160 ng/mL (n = 8) and 79.3/134 ng/mL (n = 8), respectively, and for female and male adolescents, 70.5/109 ng/mL (n = 16) and 76.3/120 ng/mL (n = 8). No significant age or gender effects or age-by-gender interactions were observed in sertraline values. Mean sertraline plasma concentrations normalized for dose and body weight did not differ significantly by age or gender. Three (3) patients (7%) discontinued owing to adverse events. In patients with OCD (n = 10), improvements were observed in Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS) (p = 0.029) and National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Global Obsessive Compulsive Scale (OCS) (p = 0.01). In MDD patients (n = 32), Clinical Global Impression (CGI) Severity (p = 0.002) and Improvement (p = 0.011) improved.
Long-term treatment of MDD and OCD with sertraline up to 200 mg/day in children and adolescents results in dose-normalized plasma concentrations comparable to those seen in adults. Sertraline was generally well tolerated, and patients demonstrated clinical improvement over 24 weeks of treatment.
Bisphosphonates are potent inhibitors of osteoclastic activity and reduce the disease-related skeletal complications when they are used in combination with chemotherapy in patients with multiple myeloma (MM). Pamidronate also inhibits apoptosis of primary osteoblastic cells and probably induces apoptosis on human MM cells and osteoclasts. It has been reported that interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) decreases bone resorption and that low doses of IFN-alpha result in a significant increase in serum osteocalcin (OSC). The aim of this study was to determine the effects of pamidronate treatment on biochemical markers of bone resorption [cross-linked N-telopeptides of type I collagen (NTx)], bone formation [bone alkaline phosphatase (BAP) and OSC], disease activity [beta2-microglobulin, CRP, paraprotein], and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in patients with MM in plateau phase under IFN-alpha maintenance. The above parameters were evaluated in 28 patients (13 M, 15 F, median age 70 years) during maintenance treatment, before the addition of pamidronate and after 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 14 months of the combined therapy. The addition of pamidronate to maintenance treatment resulted in a significant reduction of NTx, IL-6, beta2-microglobulin, CRP from the 3rd month and paraprotein from the 6th month of treatment, whereas BAP and OSC were significantly increased from the 6th month. These changes continued during the 14-month follow-up of the combined treatment. Multivariate analysis showed a significant negative correlation between changes of BAP and OSC and the patients' age. The greater increase of the bone formation markers was observed in younger patients. These results suggest that, in addition to the inhibition of osteoclastic activity, pamidronate in combination with IFN-alpha was shown to induce bone formation in patients with MM in the plateau phase.
Osteoporosis-pseudoglioma (OPPG) is a rare syndrome characterized by severe osteoporosis and ocular defects caused by homozygotic inactivation mutations in the LRP5 gene. Bisphosphonate has been demonstrated to improve bone mineral density (BMD) in children with OPPG. We present here a 3 years follow-up of two brothers with OPPG carrying a novel mutation in the LRP5 gene, who were treated with intravenous pamidronate.
We looked for a mutation in the LRP5 gene in two brothers (12 and 4 years old) with clinical features of OPPG (blindness, low BMD and fragility fractures) and in their consanguineous parents to confirm the diagnosis of OPPG. The patients were treated with bisphosphonate for 3 years. They received 1 mg/kg/day of pamidronate for 2 consecutive days, every 3 months during the first year, and every 4 months in subsequent years. Calcium, phosphorus, total alkaline phosphatase, parathyroid hormone, hepatic transaminases, creatinine and hemogram tests were performed before each infusion. Bone densitometry was performed at baseline and at the end of the follow-up.
The affected brothers carry a missense mutation in the third codon of exon 8 (AAT-->ATT) that led to the exchange of an asparagine for an isoleucine (N531I). Both parents were found to be heterozygous for this mutation. The intravenous pamidronate therapy was safe for up to 3 years of use. Moreover, increased BMD and decreased fracture rate were observed in our patients with OPPG.
Approximately 50% of all cancer patients develop cachexia, a paraneoplastic syndrome that is characterized by wasting of adipose tissue and skeletal muscle mass. Cytokines, including TNF-alpha, interleukins-1, -6, and interferon-A are known mediators of the cachectic process. The latter however represent only one of many imbalanced systems in cancer cachexia. The aim of this study was to further delineate the pathogenesis of cachexia by molecular profiling. Human renal cancer xenografts that do and do not induce cachexia in mice were used as disease models. Cachexia-associated gene expression was studied on Human Genome U95 Affymetrix arrays and revealed several new genes such as TNF-alpha ligand superfamily protein, interferon-A treatment inducible protein, and DKFZ5641I1922. The expression of the IL-8 gene was also elevated in cachexia inducing xenografts (CIX). At the protein level, TNF-alpha was found expressed only in CIX, whereas IL-1 and IL-6 were not cachexia specific. Levels of parathyroid hormone-related protein were elevated in CIX and accompanied by hypercalcemia. COX-2 and prostaglandin E2 were also found to be over expressed. By using the COX-2 inhibitors rofecoxib and nimesulide, we were able to delay tumor-mediated wasting in vivo. Overall, our results suggest that cachexia is a multigenetic disease that will require complex combinations of drugs for an effective therapeutic intervention.
To compare the relationships of treatment-induced reductions of left ventricular hypertrophy to the changes in clinic and ambulatory blood pressure (BP).
Double-blind and randomized treatment with irbesartan or atenolol for 48 weeks.
Patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy (n = 66) with a seated diastolic BP 90-115 mmHg (average of three measurements one minute apart by nurses).
Registrations of echocardiographic left ventricular (LV) mass. Clinic and ambulatory BP.
In the total material, nurse-measured BP was reduced by 23 +/- 15/16 +/- 7.7 mmHg and 24-h ambulatory BP fell 20 +/- 15/14 +/- 8.5 mmHg by treatment. The correlation between the change in nurse-measured BP and LV mass index (LVMI) induced by treatment was r = 0.35, P = 0.004 for systolic BP and r = 0.26, P = 0.03 for diastolic BP. Corresponding values for 24-h ambulatory BP were r = 0.29, P = 0.02 and r = 0.35, P = 0.004, respectively, with similar correlations for day- and night-time ambulatory BP. The nurse-recorded BP was slightly higher than ambulatory BP (systolic clinic - systolic 24-h ambulatory BP = 5 mmHg). Using 130/80 mmHg as a cut-off value for normal 24-h ambulatory BP, eight subjects had normal diastolic or systolic ambulatory BP, or both. Interestingly, these patients also experienced LVMI regression following treatment (low/normal ABP, -13 +/- 21 g/m2; remaining patients, -18 +/- 22 g/m2, P > 0.5).
In patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy, ambulatory BP is not superior to carefully standardized nurse-recorded seated BP in terms of associations with treatment-induced changes in LV mass.
A patient with polycythemia vera who was treated with heparin for superficial septic thrombophlebitis developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and cerebral venous thrombosis with superior sagittal sinus occlusion 11 days after the institution of heparin therapy. We suggest that the severe thrombotic response to the heparin-induced platelet disorder in this patient occurred because the polycythemia vera and the purulent infection enhanced the thrombophilia caused by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. This condition can be avoided in most instances if heparin is used for no longer than 5 days.
This report presents six cases of transient auditory disturbance caused by carbamazepine, with a particular focus on pitch-perception deficit. Basic disorders in the six cases included epilepsy (cryptogenic localization-related epilepsy and benign childhood epilepsy) and glossopharyngeal neuralgia. Since 1993, in which we reported the first description of transient pitch-perception deficit associated with carbamazepine, a further 26 cases have been reported. However, this carbamazepine-induced transient pitch-perception deficit may be more frequent than previously suspected. Moreover, because auditory disturbance occurs at therapeutic serum levels of carbamazepine, patient awareness of reversible hearing impairment on initiating carbamazepine therapy is important.
Mancozeb, an organocarbamate fungicide, was administered to examine the effect on implantation at doses of 18, 24, 30 and 36 mg/kg body weight/d to normal virgin swiss albino mice for 8 days to pregnant mice. The vaginal smear and body weight of the mice were recorded daily and mice were sacrificed on 9th day of pregnancy. There was a complete inhibition of implantation in 36 mg mancozeb treated mice with 100% pre-implantation loss. There was a partial inhibition of implantation in 24 and 30 mg mancozeb treated mice with 53.44 and 90.16% pre-implantation loss respectively. However, implantation was not affected in 18 mg mancozeb treated mice with 4.92% pre-implantation loss when compared to oil treated controls. To study the temporal effect, the effective dose of 36 mg/kg body weight/d mancozeb was administered orally for 3 and 5 days and on day 3 only. There was a complete inhibition of implantation in 5 days treated mice with 100% pre-implantation loss and partial inhibition of implantation of 3 days treated mice with 75% pre-implantation loss. However, implantation was not affected in mice treated on day 3 only with 1.63% pre-implantation loss when compared to control mice. There was a significant decrease in the diestrus phase with the result there was a concomitant increase in the estrus phase and there was a significant decrease in the uterus weight with 24, 30 and 36 mg and for 3 and 5 days with 36 mg mancozeb treatment. Inhibition of implantation by mancozeb may be due to hormonal imbalance or its toxic effects.
The anticarcinogenic potential of anethole was studied in Ehrlich ascites tumour (EAT) in the paw of Swiss albino mice. The antitumour activity was evaluated from the cytotoxicity of EAT-cells in the paw and their biochemical changes were determined from nucleic acids, protein, malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (NP-SH) concentrations. Furthermore, the observations on survival rate, tumour weight, its volume and body weight of EAT-bearing mice were made. The EAT-bearing paws were also evaluated for histopathological changes. Additional studies were undertaken on the cytological effects of anethole in order to establish its clastogenic and mitodepressive activity in normal mice. The results obtained in the present study revealed anethole to increase the survival time, reduce the tumour weight and volume and body weight of the EAT-bearing mice. It caused a significant cytotoxic effect in EAT cells in the paw, reduced the levels of nucleic acids and MDA, and increased NP-SH concentrations. The histopathological changes observed after treatment with anethole were comparable to the standard cytotoxic drug cyclophosphamide. The results on the frequency of micronuclei and the ratio of polychromatic erythrocytes to normochromatic erythrocytes showed anethole to be mitodepressive and non-clastogenic in the femoral cells of mice. Our results indicate the anticarcinogenic, cytotoxic and non=clastogenic nature of anethole. Further studies are warranted to explore the mode of action and safety of anethole for its possible use in cancer therapy.
