This study examined the cognitive functioning in 236 infants at 8 and 18 months of age. Thirty-seven infants were heavily exposed to cocaine in-utero, 30 were lightly exposed, and 169 were not exposed to cocaine. Cognitive functioning was evaluated with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development (2nd ed.; N. Bayley, 1993) at both ages. Infant information processing was also assessed with an infant-controlled habituation procedure. Results indicated that (a) infants of cocaine-abusing women had higher neonatal medical and environmental risk scores; (b) at 8 months, exposure groups did not differ in Psychomotor Development Index, Mental Development Index (MDI) scores, or recovery to a novel stimulus; and (c) infants heavily exposed to cocaine or high environmental risk had a decrease in MDI scores from 8 to 18 months. These results were obtained when neonatal medical and environmental risk, as well as polydrug exposure, were controlled.
We performed an audiometric study in 20 patients who underwent surgery of the shoulder region under an interscalene brachial plexus block (IBPB). Bupivacaine 0.75% with adrenaline was given followed by a 24-hr continuous infusion of 0.25% bupivacaine. Three audiometric threshold measurements (0.25-18 kHz) were made: the first before IBPB, the second 2-6 h after surgery and the third on the first day after operation. In four patients hearing impairment on the side of the block was demonstrated after operation, in three measurements on the day of surgery and in one on the following day. The frequencies at which the impairment occurred varied between patients; in one only low frequencies (0.25-0.5 kHz) were involved. The maximum change in threshold was 35 dB at 6 kHz measured at the end of the continuous infusion of bupivacaine. This patient had hearing threshold changes (15-20 dB) at 6-10 kHz on the opposite side also. IBPB may cause transient auditory dysfunction in the ipsilateral ear, possibly via an effect on sympathetic innervation.
A 60-year-old male had tested in 1986, at age 46, positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In mid-1996 he was started on a protease inhibitor regimen, which included indinavir, lamivudine and stavudine, and remained on this therapy until his death. In April 1999 he was hospitalized after a fainting episode. Although examination focusing on cardiac disease did not disclose any remarkable findings, he died suddenly one week after being discharged from hospital. At autopsy the kidneys were enlarged, with a total weight of 500 g, patchy pale gray and pinkish. Microscopy showed leukocytic cell casts in many of the tubules and collecting ducts. In many of these casts there were clefts left by crystals. In the interstitium, both in the cortex and the medulla, there was focal inflammation and fibrosis. Death was attributed to sudden cardiac dysfunction, probably ventricular fibrillation as a consequence of severe nephropathy with electrolyte disturbances. It is likely that kidney damage developed secondary to the indinavir treatment as indinavir can cause not only nephrolithiasis but also crystal-induced acute renal failure.
Diabetes, one of the major risk factors of metabolic syndrome culminates in the development of Ischemic Heart Disease (IHD). Refined diets that lack micronutrients, mainly trivalent chromium (Cr(3+)) have been identified as the contributor in the rising incidence of diabetes. We investigated the effect of niacin-bound chromium (NBC) during ischemia/reperfusion (IR) injury in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. Rats were randomized into: Control (Con); Diabetic (Dia) and Diabetic rats fed with NBC (Dia+NBC). After 30 days of treatment, the isolated hearts were subjected to 30 min of global ischemia followed by 2 h of reperfusion. NBC treatment demonstrated significant increase in left ventricular functions and significant reduction in infarct size and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in Dia+NBC compared with Dia. Increased Glut-4 translocation to the lipid raft fractions was also observed in Dia+NBC compared to Dia. Reduced Cav-1 and increased Cav-3 expression along with phosphorylation of Akt, eNOS and AMPK might have resulted in increased Glut-4 translocation in Dia+NBC. Our results indicate that the cardioprotective effect of NBC is mediated by increased activation of AMPK, Akt and eNOS resulting in increased translocation of Glut-4 to the caveolar raft fractions thereby alleviating the effects of IR injury in the diabetic myocardium.
[corrected] Colchicine is widely used for treating gout and familial Mediterranean fever. However, studies in animal models have reported ill effects of colchicine on the central nervous system, including cognitive function.
To evaluate the cognitive status of elderly FMF patients on long-term colchicine treatment.
The study group consisted of 55 FMF patients aged 74 +/- 5, attending an FMF outpatient clinic and receiving colchicine treatment for 25.1 +/- 8.9 years. The Mini-Mental State Examination was used for cognitive evaluation. Patients' scores were compared with accepted age- and education-adjusted cutoff scores, population-based norms, and scores of a matched control group of 56 subjects.
Individually, all colchicine-treated FMF patients scored well above the age- and education-corrected cutoff scores. Overall, there was a large difference, 5.0 +/- 1.6, from the expected cutoff points, in favor of the study group scores (P < 0.001). The individual scores of the control group were also above the cutoff points, however with a lower but still statistically significant difference (3.71 +/- 1.15 points, P < 0.001). Compared to population-based norms adjusted by age and education, the study group had significantly higher mean MMSE scores (27.2 +/- 2.2 vs. 25.5 +/- 2.4, P < 0.001). The control group's scores were also somewhat higher than expected, but not significantly so.
Our results do not support the view that prolonged colchicine treatment may be associated with cognitive impairment. On the contrary, it is possible that long-term colchicine treatment may even confer protection against cognitive decline in patients with FMF.
In several previous reports, it has been suggested that the androgen system is related to bladder carcinogenesis. In this study, to understand the mechanism underlying this relationship, we administered a LH-RH agonist depot (Leuprolide depot), a pure-antiandrogen (flutamide) or a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor (finasteride) to the mice in the promotion state of bladder carcinogenesis by N-butul-N-(4-hydroxybutyl) nitrosamine (BBN).
177 C3H/He male mice were divided into 7 groups. All mice were treated with 0.05% BBN for 10 weeks and were maintained over the subsequent 12 weeks with the following treatments. Group 1 was a control group; in group 2, castration was performed at the 11th week; in group 3, finasteride was administered starting the 11th week; in group 4, a LH-RH agonist depot was administered starting the 11th week; in group 5, flutamide was administered starting the 11th week; in group 6, both finasteride and a LH-RH agonist depot were administered simultaneously starting the 11th week; and in group 7, both flutamide and a LH-RH agonist depot were administered simultaneously starting the 11th week.
(1) We confirmed that castration significantly suppressed bladder carcinogenesis. (2) Finasteride or flutamide administration as monotherapy had no effect on the results; however, the dosages of these drugs may have been too low, so we are planning a study with higher doses. (3) Conversely, the LH-RH agonist depot significantly promoted bladder carcinogenesis, we believe that the high levels of testosterone immediately after the administration were responsible for this promotion. (4) Simultaneous administration of flutamide suppressed this LH-RH induced promotion of carcinogenesis.
Side effects of benzodiazepines used during pregnancy are described in a neonate. Recurrent apnea was reversed after administration of flumazenil, a specific antagonist of benzodiazepines.
The influence of factors which inhibit 5-hydoxytryptamine (5-HT) synthesis, i.e. p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) and p-chloroamphetamine (PCA), on cataleptic action of the neuroleptics: spiroperiodol, pimozide, reserpine and fluphenazine was studied. PCPA showed weak anticataleptic activity in reserpine-induced catalepsy but had no effect on catalepsy induced by spiroperidol or fluphenazine. PCPA also tended to depress the cataleptic effect of pimozide, but the results were not statistically significant. PCA had no influence on catalepsy induced by neuroleptics from the group of butyrophenones, potentiated the cataleptic action of reserpine in the dose of 5 mg/kg, and suppressed catalepsy induced by reserpine in the dose of 10 mg/kg. The results suggest that under conditions of the inhibition of the inhibition of 5-HT synthesis the cataleptic action of some neuroleptics may be slightly modified.
Atropine (At) and scopolamine (Sc) in low doses intensify basic activity, increase amphetamine stereotypy, and suppress catalepsy induced by injection of haloperidol. High doses lower body temperature, antagonize amphetamine stereotypy, and intensify the hypnotic action of chloral hydrate. Doses of about 1/2 LD50 induce narcotic sleep. Both At and Sc in a wide range of dosage protect against the tonic phase of convulsions produced by electroshock. Sc depresses content of acetylcholine in the brain proportionally to its dosage; At had a similar effect only at the lower of the two doses that were used. Both compounds had no effect on levels of noradrenaline and dopamine in the brain. The results indicate that low doses of blockers of the cholinergic muscarinic receptor, injected intraventricularly, produce strong central stimulation, whereas high doses produce depression of the central nervous system.
Although the regenerative stem cell is expected to exist in many adult tissues, the cell contributing to the regeneration of the kidney remains unknown in its type and origin.
In this study, we isolated cells that show low stain with a DNA-binding dye Hoechst 33342 (Hoechst(low) cells) from adult rat kidney, and investigated their differentiation potentials.
Hoechst(low) cells, generally termed side population cells, existed at a frequency of 0.03% to 0.1% in the cell suspension of the digested kidney. Analysis of the kidney-derived Hoechst(low) cells after bone marrow transplantation indicated that some of the cells were derived from bone marrow. When enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-labeled kidney-derived Hoechst(low) cells were intravenously transplanted into wild-type adult rats, EGFP(+) cells were not detected in the kidney, but EGFP(+) skeletal muscle, EGFP(+) hepatocytes and EGFP(+) bone marrow cells were observed. Even after the induction of the experimental glomerulonephritis and gentamicin-induced nephropathy that promote the differentiation of bone marrow-derived cells into repopulating mesangial cells and tubular component cells, respectively, EGFP(+) mesangial or tubular cells were not observed. Neither with an in vitro system, which we established to produce mesangial-like cells from crude bone marrow culture, did Hoechst(low) cells yield mesangial-like cells.
These findings implicate that Hoechst(low) cells in the kidney may have potentials for hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic lineages, but are not stem cells for renal cells, especially mesangial and tubular cells.
The disease state of the nephrotic syndrome is characterized by abnormal renal sodium retention that cannot be completely explained by a secondary hyperaldosteronism for the following reasons. Firstly, in rats an enhanced sodium retention is observed before proteinuria with intravascular volume depletion occurs. Secondly, in patients with the nephrotic syndrome, volume expansion with hypertension has been reported despite suppression of the renin-aldosterone system. Therefore, another mechanism for sodium retention must be postulated for this disease state. We hypothesize that this mechanism is a reduced 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 (11beta-HSD2) activity, a phenomenon known to cause enhanced access of cortisol or corticosterone to the mineralocorticoid receptor.
We assessed the 11beta-HSD activity by measuring the urinary ratio of tetrahydrocorticosterone (THB) plus 5alpha-tetrahydrocorticosterone (5alpha-THB) to 11-dehydro-tetrahydrocorticosterone (THA) by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced proteinuria and with adriamycin nephrosis. Furthermore, the plasma ratios of corticosterone to 11-dehydrocorticosterone were measured.
The urinary ratio of (THB+5alpha-THB)/THA increased in all animals following injection of PAN or adriamycin, indicating a reduced activity of 11beta-HSD. The reduced activity of 11beta-HSD was confirmed by an increased plasma ratio of corticosterone to 11-dehydrocorticosterone. The changes in the glucocorticoid metabolite ratios were already present before significant proteinuria appeared.
PAN- or adriamycin-treated rats develop proteinuria with a reduced activity of 11beta-HSD, a mechanism contributing to the abnormal sodium retention in nephrotic syndrome.
Hepatomegaly is commonly observed in hepatic iron overload due to human hemochromatosis and in animal models of iron loading, but the mechanisms underlying liver enlargement in these conditions have received scant attention. In this study, male rats were treated with iron dextran or dextran alone for 6 months. Chronic iron loading resulted in a > 50-fold increase in hepatic iron concentration. Both liver weights and liver/body weight ratios were increased approximately 2-fold in the iron-loaded rats (P < 0.001 for both). Hepatocyte nuclei expressing proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a marker of S phase, were significantly increased in the iron-loaded livers, suggesting enhanced proliferation. To assess the mechanisms by which iron promotes proliferation, the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) were assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Of these growth-associated factors, only TNF-alpha messenger RNA (mRNA) was significantly increased by iron loading (about 3-fold; P = 0.005). Because cyclin D1 is required for entry of hepatocytes into the cell cycle after partial hepatectomy or treatment with direct mitogens, levels of immunoreactive cyclin D1 were examined and found to be significantly increased in the iron-loaded livers. The increase in cyclin D1 protein in the iron-loaded livers was paralleled by an increase in the abundance of its transcript as measured by real-time PCR. Taken together, these results suggest that iron is a direct mitogen in the liver and raise the possibility that chronic stimulation of hepatocyte proliferation may play a role in the pathophysiology of iron overload states.
The muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine produces a transient memory deficit in healthy humans. This deficit has been offered as a model of the cholinergic deficit of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, we have previously shown that scopolamine produces a deficit of cortical perfusion maximal in the frontal lobe, dissimilar to the parietal cortex deficit characteristic of AD. The current experiment was aimed at replicating and extending this observation by critically testing the central cholinergic origin of both cognitive and perfusion deficits. Nine healthy subjects participated in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements at baseline, after scopolamine (7.2 micrograms/kg i.v.), and after both physostigmine (22 micrograms/kg i.v.) and neostigmine (7 or 11 micrograms/kg i.v.). rCBF was quantified by the xenon 133 inhalation method. As expected, scopolamine reduced cortical perfusion, mainly in the frontal cortex, and produced a memory deficit. Physostigmine, but not neostigmine, reversed all three variables partially or completely. These results support the hypothesis that all three consequences of scopolamine, namely, reduction of mean flow, frontal deficit, and memory impairment, are cholinergically mediated. Furthermore, because neostigmine poorly crosses the blood-brain barrier, these findings confirm that the effect is centrally mediated and cannot be explained by peripheral effects. However, they also confirm the frontal cortex locus of action for both scopolamine and its reversal by physostigmine and therefore suggest a major dissimilarity to the characteristic rCBF appearance of AD. This study extends our previous preliminary findings with tacrine and strengthens the suggestion that only nicotinic receptors are associated with the characteristic parietal deficit of AD.
We report two fatal cases of methotrexate (MTX)-induced disseminated necrotising leukoencephalopathy (DNL) in which MRI was repeated from the onset. Initial T2-weighted images showed multiple areas of high signal, mainly in deep cerebral white matter, which on follow-up, spread and coalesced to involve the entire white matter. Small irregular low-signal foci on T2-weighted images were seen within the high-signal lesions. Multiple areas of contrast enhancement corresponded to these low-signal foci. The condition of both patients deteriorated and they died. We compared their MRI findings with those of seven patients with mild MTX-related leukoencephalopathy, six of whom were asymptomatic; one had transient neurological symptoms. They showed no contrast enhancement, but rather mild-to-moderate diffuse high signal in deep white matter, which later disappeared. These findings suggest that multiple low-signal foci on T2-weighted images with contrast enhancement may be characteristic of DNL, and that contrast-enhanced imaging is useful to differentiate this condition from mild leukoencephalopathy.
Risperidone has demonstrated therapeutic advantages over conventional neuroleptics and offers a valuable emerging option for the treatment of social behavior associated with autistic disorder. Considering the putative involvement of astroglial cells in neuropsychiatric disorders, we investigated the effect of risperidone on parameters of astrocyte activity - glutamate uptake, glutamine synthetase (GS) activity and glutathione (GSH) levels. Risperidone was able to induce a significantly increase on glutamate uptake (32%); GS activity (15%); GSH levels (58%). These findings imply the perspectives for further investigations directed on astrocytes from different brain areas. Our present results suggest that risperidone might exert its neuroprotective effects against brain illness at least partially via modulation of astrocyte functions.
Critical illness outcome may be causally related to inflammatory response severity. Given that tissue angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) regulates such responses and that the deletion (D) [rather than insertion (I)] variant of the ACE gene is associated with higher tissue ACE levels, DD genotype might be associated with a poorer outcome in a uniform infectious disease state. Illness severity (Pediatric RIsk of Mortality score, the Glasgow Meningococcal Septicaemia Prognostic Score [GMSPS], and clinical course) was recorded for consecutive white patients with meningococcal disease (n = 110, 34 DD genotype, 61 male, aged 49.4 +/- 5.4 months) referred to the Royal Liverpool Children's Hospital, UK. Compared with children with > or = I allele, DD genotype was associated with 14% higher predicted risk of mortality (p = 0.038), higher GMSPS (DD 9.4 +/- 0.5, ID/II 7.7+/- 0.4 [mean +/- SEM], p = 0.013), greater prevalence of inotropic support (76% versus 55%, p = 0.03) and ventilation (82% versus 63%, p = 0.04), and longer Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) stay (5.8 versus 3.9, p = 0.02). DD genotype frequency was 6% (1 case) for the 18 children who did not require PICU care, 33% for the 84 PICU survivors, and 45% for those who died (p = 0.01). ACE DD is associated with increased illness severity in meningococcal disease.
Persistent pulmonary hypertension secondary to meconium aspiration syndrome is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in the neonatal population. We investigated the use of the phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor sildenafil, in its intravenous form, as a pulmonary vasodilator in a model of meconium aspiration syndrome. Pulmonary hypertension was induced in 18 piglets, by endotracheal instillation of human meconium, 6 piglets subsequently received an infusion of intravenous sildenafil for 2 hours, 6 received inhaled nitric oxide for 2 hours, and 6 control animals received no additional intervention. Meconium aspiration increased pulmonary vascular resistance by 70%, and increased oxygenation index by over 100%. Pulmonary vascular resistance remained elevated for the remainder of the study period in control animals. Inhaled nitric oxide reduced the pulmonary vascular resistance by 40% after 2 hours of treatment; intravenous sildenafil completely reversed the increase in pulmonary vascular resistance within 1 hour of commencing the infusion. Neither agent had an effect on systemic hemodynamics. Sildenafil also increased cardiac output by 30%, but while doing so did not adversely influence oxygenation. Intravenous sildenafil is a selective and highly effective pulmonary vasodilator, which is at least as effective as inhaled nitric oxide, in this model of neonatal persistent pulmonary hypertension.
Mefloquine, a commonly used oral antimalarial is occasionally associated with severe, neuropsychiatric adverse effects, especially in adults. Such events are extremely rare in children. The authors report on an 11-year-old, otherwise healthy girl from Eastern India, a malaria-endemic region, who developed mania and psychosis following intake of a therapeutic dose of mefloquine for Plasmodium falciparum malaria. She recovered satisfactorily with risperidone therapy. To our knowledge, there is only one documented instance of mefloquine-induced psychosis in the pediatric literature to date. Those caring for children need to realize that severe neuropsychiatric manifestations may be seen in the pediatric age group. A positive history of intake of the offending drug with careful exclusion of other etiologies usually clinches the diagnosis.
Atrazine (ATR) is a commonly used pre-emergence/early postemergence herbicide. Previous work has shown that exposure to high doses of ATR in rats results in blunting of the hormone-induced luteinizing hormone (LH) surge and inhibition of pulsatile LH release without significantly reducing pituitary sensitivity to a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist. Accompanying the reduction in the LH surge was an attenuation of GnRH neuronal activation. These findings suggest that ATR exposure may be acting to inhibit GnRH release. In this study, we examined GnRH directly to determine the effect of high doses of ATR on GnRH pulsatile release, gene expression, and peptide levels in the female rat. Ovariectomized adult female Wistar rats were treated with ATR (200 mg/kg) or vehicle for 4 days via gavage. Following the final treatment, GnRH release was measured from ex vivo hypothalamic explants for 3 h. In another experiment, animals were administered either vehicle or ATR (50, 100, or 200 mg/kg) daily for 4 days. Following treatment, in situ hybridization was performed to examine total GnRH mRNA and the primary GnRH heterogeneous nuclear RNA transcript. Finally, GnRH immunoreactivity and total peptide levels were measured in hypothalamic tissue of treated animals. ATR treatment resulted in no changes to GnRH gene expression, peptide levels, or immunoreactivity but a reduction in GnRH pulse frequency and an increased pulse amplitude. These findings suggest that ATR acts to inhibit the secretory dynamics of GnRH pulses without interfering with GnRH mRNA and protein synthesis.
To report the occurrence of bradycardia associated with the use of methadone administered to prevent withdrawal in an infant with physical tolerance following long-term opioid therapy in the pediatric intensive care unit setting.
Retrospective case report.
Methadone (0.1 mg/kg) was administered to a 6-month-old infant following prolonged use of intravenous fentanyl for sedation during respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. Approximately 30-60 mins after the first dosing of methadone, the infant's heart rate decreased from his baseline of 130-140 beats/min to 80-90 beats/min for 30 seconds. After the third dose of methadone, the heart rate decreased to a sinus bradycardia of 60-70 beats/min for 4 mins. The episodes resolved with tactile stimulation. Over the next 18 hrs, there were repeated episodes of bradycardia. None of these episodes were associated with hypotension, apnea, change in oxygen saturation, decreased peripheral perfusion, or other signs of hemodynamic instability. The methadone was withdrawn and the intravenous fentanyl infusion was restarted. Eight to 10 hrs after administration of the last dose of methadone, the episodes of bradycardia resolved and the patient remained in a normal sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 120-140 beats/min.
Methadone's three-dimensional structure shares similarities with calcium channel antagonists. Although it has been reported in the adult literature, there are no previous reports of bradycardia occurring with methadone therapy in infants. Although there were no deleterious physiologic effects related to the bradycardia in our patient, methadone should be used cautiously in patients who may not tolerate alterations in heart rate.
Preservatives are a major component of the ophthalmic preparations in multi-dose bottles. The purpose of this study was to investigate the acute effect of benzalkonium chloride (BAC), a common preservative used in ophthalmic preparations, on the localization and expression of zonula occludens (ZO)-1 in the rabbit corneal epithelium in vivo. BAC at 0.005%, 0.01%, or 0.02% was topically applied to one eye each of albino rabbits at 5 min intervals for a total of 3 times. The contralateral untreated eyes served as controls. The following clinical indications were evaluated: Schirmer test, tear break-up time (BUT), fluorescein and rose Bengal staining. The structure of central cornea was examined by in vivo confocal microscopy, and the corneal barrier function was evaluated by measurement of corneal transepithelial electrical resistance and permeability to carboxy fluorescein. Whole mount corneas were analyzed by using fluorescence confocal microscopy for the presence of ZO-1, 2, occludin, claudin-1, Ki67 and cell apoptosis in the epithelium. The expression of ZO-1 in the corneal epithelium was also examined by western blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses. Exposure to BAC resulted in higher rose Bengal staining scores while no significant changes in BUT, Schirmer and corneal florescein scores. It also induced corneal epithelial cell damage, dispersion of ZO-1 and ZO-2 from their normal locus at the superficial layer and disruption of epithelial barrier function. However, the amounts of ZO-1 mRNA and protein in the corneal epithelium were not affected by BAC treatment. Exposure to BAC can quickly impair the corneal epithelium without tear deficiency. BAC disrupts the tight junctions of corneal epithelium between superficial cells in the rabbit corneal epithelium in vivo.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a restrictive lung disease that may occur idiopathically or as a complication of many diseases. The outcome of the current treatment by glucocorticoids remains very unsatisfactory. This study has tested a new Chinese medicine formula DSQRL for the treatment of experimental PF in comparison with prednisone. Seventy-two rats with PF induced by CCl(4) were randomly divided into four groups to undertake the treatment of either (a) high dose of prednisone; (b) Chinese medicine formula DSQRL; (c) combined treatment of the above two; or (d) tap water of the same volume. At the end of 30 days treatment, the DSQRL treatment achieved a better outcome (p<0.05) than prednisone in terms of histological examination, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid analysis, hydroxyproline assay and complications. The observations support further investigation and clinical trials of this Chinese medicinal formula for the treatment of PF.
We have obtained biochemical evidence that misonidazole when administered in large doses to rats produces a sparse dying-back peripheral neuropathy and degenerative changes in the trigeminal ganglia and cerebellum. In our experience these neurotoxic effects of misonidazole cannot be detected reliably by the use of simple behavioural and functional tests, e.g., inclined plane and narrowing bridge tests (Rose and Dewar, unpublished results). Therefore, these methods would be of limited use in the neurotoxicity screening of misonidazole analogues. On the other hand, the biochemical approach provides a convenient quantitative method which could be used as the basis for comparing the neurotoxicity of other candidate radiosensitizing drugs.
Retrorsine (RTS) is a hepatotoxic pyrrolizidine alkaloid present in plants of the Senecio genus. The present study is aimed at clarifying the role of organic cation transporters (OCTs) in the liver disposition of RTS, and the coupling of OCT1 and cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 in the hepatotoxicity of RTS. MDCK or LLC-PK1 cells stably expressing liver uptake or efflux transporters were used to investigate the interaction of RTS with these transporters. Primary cultured rat hepatocytes (PCRH) and double-transfected MDCK-hOCT1-CYP3A4 cells were used to determine the contribution of OCT1 and CYP3A4 to the toxicity of RTS. The results showed that RTS inhibited the OCT1-mediated 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) uptake in MDCK-hOCT1 cells with the IC50 of 2.25±0.30μM. The uptake of RTS in MDCK-hOCT1 cells and PCRH was significantly inhibited by OCT1 inhibitors, while hOCT3, human multidrug and toxin extrusion (hMATE) transporter 1, multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1), and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) showed weak or no obvious interaction with RTS. The toxic effect of RTS on the PCRH was attenuated by OCT1 inhibitors, quinidine and (+)-tetrahydropalmatine ((+)-THP). Compared to mock cells, MDCK-CYP3A4 cells showed a decrease in viability after being treated with RTS. Furthermore, RTS showed a more severe toxicity in the OCT1/CYP3A4 double-transfected cells compared to all other cells. Our data suggests that OCT1 mediates the liver-specific uptake of RTS, and plays an important role in RTS-induced hepatotoxicity together with CYP3A4. Consequently, the OCT1 inhibitors could be applied to protect the liver from the toxicity of RTS.
1. Glucocorticoid-induced hypertension (GC-HT) in the rat is associated with nitric oxide-redox imbalance. 2. We studied the role of xanthine oxidase (XO), which is implicated in the production of reactive oxygen species, in dexamethasone-induced hypertension (dex-HT). 3. Thirty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided randomly into four treatment groups: saline, dexamethasone (dex), allopurinol plus saline, and allopurinol plus dex. 4. Systolic blood pressures (SBP) and bodyweights were recorded each alternate day. Thymus weight was used as a marker of glucocorticoid activity, and serum urate to assess XO inhibition. 5. Dex increased SBP (110 +/- 2-126 +/- 3 mmHg; P < 0.001) and decreased thymus (P < 0.001) and bodyweights (P" < 0.01). Allopurinol decreased serum urate from 76 +/- 5 to 30 +/- 3 micromol/L (P < 0.001) in saline and from 84 +/- 13 to 28 +/- 2 micromol/L in dex-treated (P < 0.01) groups. 6. Allopurinol did not prevent dex-HT. This, together with our previous findings that allopurinol failed to prevent adrenocorticotrophic hormone induced hypertension, suggests that XO activity is not a major determinant of GC-HT in the rat.
