It has been proposed that cannabinoids are involved in the control of cell fate. Thus, these compounds can modulate proliferation, differentiation, and survival in different manners depending on the cell type and its physiopathologic context. However, little is known about the effect of cannabinoids on the cell cycle, the main process controlling cell fate. Here, we show that Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), through activation of CB(2) cannabinoid receptors, reduces human breast cancer cell proliferation by blocking the progression of the cell cycle and by inducing apoptosis. In particular, THC arrests cells in G(2)-M via down-regulation of Cdc2, as suggested by the decreased sensitivity to THC acquired by Cdc2-overexpressing cells. Of interest, the proliferation pattern of normal human mammary epithelial cells was much less affected by THC. We also analyzed by real-time quantitative PCR the expression of CB(1) and CB(2) cannabinoid receptors in a series of human breast tumor and nontumor samples. We found a correlation between CB(2) expression and histologic grade of the tumors. There was also an association between CB(2) expression and other markers of prognostic and predictive value, such as estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and ERBB2/HER-2 oncogene. Importantly, no significant CB(2) expression was detected in nontumor breast tissue. Taken together, these data might set the bases for a cannabinoid therapy for the management of breast cancer.
We studied five individuals from three Jewish Bukharian families affected by an apparently autosomal-recessive form of hereditary spastic paraparesis accompanied by severe intellectual disability, fluctuating central hypoventilation, gastresophageal reflux disease, wake apnea, areflexia, and unique dysmorphic features. Exome sequencing identified one homozygous variant shared among all affected individuals and absent in controls: a 1 bp frameshift TECPR2 deletion leading to a premature stop codon and predicting significant degradation of the protein. TECPR2 has been reported as a positive regulator of autophagy. We thus examined the autophagy-related fate of two key autophagic proteins, SQSTM1 (p62) and MAP1LC3B (LC3), in skin fibroblasts of an affected individual, as compared to a healthy control, and found that both protein levels were decreased and that there was a more pronounced decrease in the lipidated form of LC3 (LC3II). siRNA knockdown of TECPR2 showed similar changes, consistent with aberrant autophagy. Our results are strengthened by the fact that autophagy dysfunction has been implicated in a number of other neurodegenerative diseases. The discovered TECPR2 mutation implicates autophagy, a central intracellular mechanism, in spastic paraparesis.
A 41-year-old white woman with cystic fibrosis underwent lung transplantion that was complicated by cyclosporine-induced nephrotoxicity, which required kidney transplantation. Three years after the renal transplant, sirolimus was substituted for mycophenolate mofetil in a maintenance immunosuppressive regimen that consisted of cyclosporine and prednisone, with the hope of lowering cyclosporine concentrations and avoiding the nephrotoxic effects. Three weeks after the initiation of sirolimus, the patient developed palpable purpura on the bilateral lower extremities that resolved after discontinuation of sirolimus and reappeared with rechallenge. Punch biopsy of the initial eruption revealed leukocytoclastic vasculitis with focal fibrinoid necrosis. Sirolimus should be considered as a causative agent of cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis.
Cardiovascular effects of chronic AZT treatment on SD male rats (185 g) fed either a normal Mg diet (0.1% MgO) or a high Mg diet (0.6% MgO) were examined. AZT treatment (1 mg/ml drinking water) for 3 weeks led to a 5.5-fold (0.88 +/- 0.11 nmol/min/10(6) cells, P < 0.05) elevation in neutrophil basal activity of O2(-) production versus controls (0.16 +/- 0.03 nmol/min, assayed ex vivo as SOD-inhibitable cytochrome c reduction). Concomitantly, plasma 8-isoprostane and PGE(2) levels rose 2.1-fold and 3-fold (both P < 0.05), respectively, compared to control; however, RBC GSH decreased 28% (P < 0.02) with GSSG content increased 3-fold, indicative of systemic oxidative stress. High Mg diet substantially attenuated the AZT-induced neutrophil activation by 70% (0.26 +/- 0.05 nmol/min, P < 0.05); reduced plasma 8-isoprostane and PGE(2) to levels comparable to normal; and RBC GSH was restored back to 92% of control. AZT alone caused moderate, but significant vascular inflammatory lesions in the heart (assessed by H&E staining). Immunohistochemical staining revealed significantly higher (about 4-fold) infiltration of CD11b positive cells (WBC surface marker) in the atria and ventricles of AZT-treated rats. However, these inflammatory pathological markers were minimal in samples of rats treated with AZT plus high Mg diet. Moreover, AZT alone significantly (P < 0.02) decreased rat weight gain by 21% at 3 weeks; Mg-supplementation completely prevented (P < 0.05) the weight gain loss due to AZT intake. It is concluded that high dietary Mg may provide beneficial effects against AZT toxicity due to its systemic antioxidative/anti-inflammatory properties.
Nicardipine and nifedipine are structurally similar dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers with demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of stable angina pectoris. The present study was a prospective randomized trial designed to evaluate the relative incidence of dizziness, flushing, headache, pedal edema, and palpitations during use of these drugs in patients with angina pectoris. Of 250 patients who entered into the comparative treatment part of the study, 140 patients were susceptible to developing symptoms to nifedipine as identified during a 1-month open-label treatment with nifedipine. These patients were compared with a parallel cohort of 110 patients, who were identified during the same open-label period, but remained mostly asymptomatic. After a 1-week washout of nifedipine, equal numbers of patients in each cohort began an 8-week period of randomized, double-blind treatment with nifedipine (20 mg three times daily) or nicardipine (30 mg three times daily). Patients who experienced these symptoms during the open-label nifedipine treatment had a higher incidence of the same symptoms during the blinded treatment regimen. Nicardipine-treated patients had a lower incidence of each of the symptoms than did the nifedipine-treated patients. Statistically significant differences were reported for dizziness, the most common of the side effects. Patients who were free of these symptoms in the open-label period usually remained free of them in the blinded comparison. However, even among those free of dizziness during the open-label nifedipine treatment, more patients reported experiencing dizziness in the blinded phase from nifedipine than from nicardipine (18% vs 6%; p = 0.02).
Previous studies showed that mitoxantrone can reduce disability progression in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). There is, however, concern that it may cause irreversible cardiomyopathy with reduced left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) and congestive heart failure. The aim of this prospective study was to investigate cardiac side effects of mitoxantrone by repetitive cardiac monitoring in MS patients. The treatment protocol called for ten courses of a combined mitoxantrone (10 mg/m(2) body surface) and methylprednisolone therapy. Before each course, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed to determine the LV end-diastolic diameter, the end-systolic diameter and the fractional shortening; the LV-EF was calculated. Seventy-three patients participated (32 males; age 48 +/- 12 years, range 20-75 years; 25 with primary progressive, 47 with secondary progressive and 1 with relapsing-remitting MS) who received at least four courses of mitoxantrone. Three of the 73 patients were excluded during the study (2 patients discontinued therapy; 1 patient with a previous history of ischemic heart disease developed atrial fibrillation after the second course of mitoxantrone). The mean cumulative dose of mitoxantrone was 114.0 +/- 33.8 mg. The mean follow-up time was 23.4 months (range 10-57 months). So far, there has been no significant change in any of the determined parameters (end-diastolic diameter, end-systolic diameter, fractional shortening, EF) over time during all follow-up investigations. Mitoxantrone did not cause signs of congestive heart failure in any of the patients. Further cardiac monitoring is, however, needed to determine the safety of mitoxantrone after longer follow-up times and at higher cumulative doses.
A variety of drugs has been reported to cause acquired long QT syndrome through inhibition of the IKr channel. Screening compounds in early discovery and development stages against their ability to inhibit IKr or the hERG channel has therefore become an indispensable procedure in the pharmaceutical industry. In contrast to numerous hERG channel blockers discovered during screening, only (3R,4R)-4-[3-(6-methoxyquinolin-4-yl)-3-oxo-propyl]-1-[3-(2,3,5-trifluoro-phenyl)-prop-2-ynyl]-piperidine-3-carboxylic acid (RPR260243) has been reported so far to enhance the hERG current. In this article, we describe several potent mechanistically distinct hERG channel enhancers. One example is PD-118057 (2-{4-[2-(3,4-dichloro-phenyl)-ethyl]-phenylamino}-benzoic acid) which produced average increases of 5.5 +/- 1.1, 44.8 +/- 3.1, and 111.1 +/- 21.7% in the peak tail hERG current at 1, 3, and 10 muM, respectively, in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. PD-118057 did not affect the voltage dependence and kinetics of gating parameters, nor did it require open conformation of the channel. In isolated guinea pig cardiomyocytes, PD-118057 showed no major effect on I(Na), I(Ca,L), I(K1), and I(Ks). PD-118057 shortened the action potential duration and QT interval in arterially perfused rabbit ventricular wedge preparation in a concentration-dependent manner. The presence of 3 muM PD-118057 prevented action potential duration and QT prolongation caused by dofetilide. "Early after-depolarizations" induced by dofetilide were also completely eliminated by 3 microM PD-118057. Although further investigation is warranted to evaluate the therapeutic value and safety profile of these compounds, our data support the notion that hERG activation by pharmaceuticals may offer a new approach in the treatment of delayed repolarization conditions, which may occur in patients with inherited or acquired long QT syndrome, congestive heart failure, and diabetes.
Recent studies have shown the prognostic significance of IDH1 mutations in glioma. It is yet unclear if IDH1 mutations are predictive for outcome to chemotherapy. We determined the effect of IDH1 mutations on progression-free survival and overall survival (OS), and its correlation with other clinical and molecular features in the prospective randomized European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer study 26951 on adjuvant procarbazine, 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-l-nitrosourea, and vincristine (PCV) in anaplastic oligodendroglioma.
IDH1 and IDH2 alterations of the mutational hotspot codons R132 and R172 were assessed by the bidirectional cycle sequencing of PCR-amplified fragments. MGMT promoter methylation was assessed using methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependant probe amplification based on methylation-sensitive restriction analysis. Loss of chromosomes 1p, 19q, 10, and 10q and the gain of 7 and the EGFR gene were assessed with fluorescence in situ hybridization.
From 159 patients, sufficient material was available for IDH1 analysis. In 151 and 118 of these patients, respectively, the 1p/19q status and the MGMT promoter methylation status were known. In 73 cases (46%), an IDH1 mutation was found and only one IDH2 mutation was identified. The presence of IDH1 mutations correlated with 1p/19q codeletion and MGMT promoter methylation, and inversely correlated with loss of chromosome 10, EGFR amplification, polysomy of chromosome 7, and the presence of necrosis. IDH1 mutations were found to be prognostic in the radiotherapy- and the radiotherapy/PCV-treated patients, for both progression-free survival and OS. With Cox proportional hazard modeling for OS with stepwise selection, IDH1 mutations and 1p/19q codeletion but not MGMT promoter methylation were independent prognostic factors.
In this homogeneously treated group of anaplastic oligodendroglioma patients, the presence of IDH1 mutations was found to carry a very strong prognostic significance for OS but without evidence of a predictive significance for outcome to PCV chemotherapy. IDH1 mutations were strongly associated with 1p/19q codeletion and MGMT promoter methylation.
The cardiac effect of granisetron, a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonist, on 12 patients with bone and soft-tissue sarcomas treated by cytotoxic chemotherapy consisting of multiple courses was examined. Of the 12 patients, 4 showed significant electrocardiographical changes, including sinus bradycardia, integral change of P-waves, junctional escape beat, and atrioventricular (AV) block with Wenckebach phenomenon, indicating stimulatory regulation of the vagus nerve. These changes were observed in each patient after several courses of chemotherapy but not in the first course. There was no correlation between the electrocardiographical changes and the chemotherapeutic agents used or the type of tumor present. A patient with osteosarcoma showed persistent bradycardia in three courses, all protocols of which contained high-dose methotrexate. From these findings we conclude that the cardiac responses may be due to stimulated activity of the vagal efferent nerve, which is regulated reflexly by afferent nerve activity suppressed by granisetron. On the other hand, the antiemetic efficacy of granisetron was satisfactory. These results suggest that careful observation of the heart is necessary when granisetron is used, especially for chemotherapy consisting of repeated multiple courses.
A patient with essential hypertension treated with clonidine developed accelerated acute clonidine withdrawal syndrome during coronary artery bypass surgery. There were recurring hypotensive and hypertensive episodes. The hypotension was associated with myocardial ischaemia, cardiac arrhythmia and ventricular fibrillation, and was treated successfully with i.v. calcium chloride given at the onset of hypotension.
Rats were pretreated with phenobarbitol [PB (75 mg/kg, IP)] for 3 days and subsequently injected with parathion, an organophosphorous insecticide, which requires microsomal activation for its anticholinesterase effect or with dichlorovos, a cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitor as such. The difference in the mortality and spontaneous regeneration of inhibited plasma ChE by IP administration of the two insecticides was compared. A single dose of 10 mg/kg parathion caused 100% mortality in PB-untreated rats, but effected no mortality in PB-pretreated rats. A lower dose (7.5 mg/kg) of parathion resulted in plasma ChE levels which were 5, 5, 17, and 93% of initial values in PB-untreated rats and 85, 97, and 92% of initial values in PB-pretreated rats at 2-hr, 1-3-, and 5-day periods, respectively. Mortality resulting from single dose of 30 mg/kg dichlorovos was 30% in PB-pretreated, as well as untreated rats. A lower dose of dichlorovs (20 mg/kg) resulted in plasma ChE activity which was 48, 82, 90, and 97% of initial levels in PB-untreated rats, and 60, 100, 100, and 130% in PB-pretreated rats at 2 hr, 1, 3, and 5 day's, respectively. Administration of 2 mg/kg parathion for 3 days did not affect cytochrome P-450 levels in liver microsomes, but administration of 6 mg/kg dichlorovos for 3 days caused greatly lowered levels of liver microsomal cytochrome P-450, resulting from its inactivation to cytochrome P-420. Phenobarbital caused accelerated in vitro ChE regeneration in the case of dichlorovos-inhibited enzyme in the plasma, but not in the case of parathion-inhibited enzyme.
Systemic exposure to neurokinin-1 receptor antagonists CP099994 or LY306740 prior to cocaine administration (10 mg/kg i.p.) blocks acute, cocaine-induced horizontal locomotion. CP099994 (30 mg/kg) was delivered i.p. 30 minutes before cocaine exposure, and LY306740 (5 mg/kg) was delivered continuously by osmotic minipump for 12-14 hours before cocaine administration. These results suggest that endogenous substance P acting via neurokinin-1 receptors is necessary for the expression of acute cocaine-induced hyperactivity.
It is known that tamoxifen therapy favorably affects blood cholesterol levels and other cardiovascular disease risk factors; however, to our knowledge, few studies to date have reported a lower risk of heart disease for breast carcinoma patients who are treated with tamoxifen.
A nested, matched, case-control study design was used with data from the General Practice Research Database to examine whether patients with breast carcinoma who had been treated with tamoxifen were at reduced risk of having a first acute myocardial infarction (MI) or of developing angina compared with unexposed women. All women between age 30 years and age 85 years who had been diagnosed with breast carcinoma and treated with tamoxifen, or who had been diagnosed with carcinoma of the bladder or colorectum, or nonmelanoma skin cancer between January 1991 and December 1999 were identified. From this population, all women were identified who had newly diagnosed acute MI or angina that occurred at least 1 year after their cancer diagnosis. Four female control participants were matched to each case based on age (+/- 1 year), date of MI or angina diagnosis (corresponding date for matched controls), and date of cancer diagnosis (+/- 6 months). Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were generated using conditional logistic regression, controlling for the matching factors, and adjusting for important risk factors, including body mass index, use of hormone replacement therapy, smoking status, and treated hypertension.
Current users of tamoxifen had a reduced rate ratio of acute MI or angina (adjusted OR, 0.4; 95% CI, 0.2-0.7) compared with nonusers. The effect persisted with increasing cumulative dose and length of use.
The treatment of breast carcinoma with tamoxifen was found to reduce a woman's risk of acute MI or angina during the 5 years of recommended therapy.
Insulin resistance is associated with progression of atherosclerosis. We assessed the effect of 12 months of treatment with rosiglitazone (RSG) on the progression of carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) or the insulin resistance syndrome (IRS).
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Malmö University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
555 subjects (200 with T2DM and 355 nondiabetics with IRS according to EGIR criteria), aged 35-80 years. 447 subjects (165 T2DM and 282 IRS) completed the study.
Participants were allocated to placebo or RSG 4 mg for 2 months and then 8 mg daily.
Change in composite IMT [mean IMT in the common carotid artery (CCA) and maximal IMT in the bulb] was the primary and various other IMT measures were secondary outcome variables.
There was no effect of RSG treatment in the mixed population. In T2DM patients there was a reduced progression of the composite IMT (mean change: 0.041 vs. 0.070 mm, P = 0.07), and of the mean IMT CCA (mean change: -0.005 mm vs. 0.021 mm, P = 0.007). RSG treatment led to significant reductions of HOMA-IR, fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, PAI-1 activity, fibrinogen, C-reactive protein and matrix metalloproteinase-9.
In a mixed study population of patients with T2DM and IRS RSG treatment was not associated with a statistically significant reduction of carotid IMT progression rate. Separate analyses of these two patient groups indicated, however, a significant beneficial effect on CCA IMT in T2DM patients but no similar effect in subjects with IRS.
The incidence of subclinical cardiotoxicity following anthracycline treatment for childhood cancer varies according to the method used for its detection. The aim of the study was to document the prevalence of left ventricular myocardial mass (LVM) reduction and its possible association with plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels in asymptomatic children treated with anthracyclines.
Nineteen asymptomatic children who had received anthracyclines during their treatment for cancer were evaluated. They had received an equivalent of doxorubicin dose 240 mg/m2 (22-1200 mg/m2) on average 3.9 years (0.6-8.3) before (median age at diagnosis 3.8 years). The LVM was determined by M-Mode echocardiography and compared to the expected value, obtained from the regression equation of LVM on height of a group of 160 healthy children. Additionally the patients' plasma NT-pro BNP levels were determined.
A high prevalence of reduced LVM associated with increased NT-proBNP levels was found. The average LVM value was -14.4% (+/-4.9) lower than expected whereas fourteen patients (73%) had a lower LVM than predicted. The NT-pro BNP levels in patients with reduced LVM were significantly higher than those measured in patients without LVM reduction (0.316+/-0.02 versus 0.17+/-0.01 pmol/ml respectively, p=0.009). A cut off NT-pro BNP level of 0.2 pmol/ml could differentiate patients with LVM reduction from those with normal or greater than expected LVM.
The association of higher NT-proBNP levels with reduced LVM in asymptomatic children after anthracycline administration could be an early indication of subclinical cardiotoxicity.
The antihypertensive effects and tolerance of once-daily barnidipine, a novel dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, were evaluated. A total of 190 patients with a sitting diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 95-114 mmHg were investigated in this multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study. After a 4-week single-blind placebo run-in period, patients were randomized to placebo or barnidipine (10 mg, 20 mg, or 30 mg modified release capsules) once daily for 6 weeks. Nonresponders (sitting DBP > or =90 mmHg and a decrease of < 10 mmHg) were treated for an additional 6 weeks with a dose increase of 10 mg. At each clinic visit, sitting and standing blood pressure and heart rate were measured approximately 24 hours after the last dose of study drug was taken. Compared with placebo, barnidipine lowered blood pressure, with a trend toward a dose-response relationship over the dose range 10-30 mg. A dose increment of 10 mg in nonresponders resulted in additional reductions in blood pressure. At the end of the active treatment period, the responder rates were 41% and 57% for 10 mg and 20 mg barnidipine, respectively. Heart rate in both sitting and standing positions was not affected by barnidipine. Treatment with barnidipine was well tolerated, and the incidence of adverse events was dose related and consistent with vasodilatation. In conclusion, barnidipine (10-30 mg) administered once daily is well tolerated and reduces blood pressure in patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
Class III antiarrhythmic drugs, like almokalant, dofetilide and ibutilide, cause a spectrum of malformations in experimental teratology studies. The pattern of developmental toxic effects is very similar to those reported for phenytoin, which is an established human and animal teratogen. The toxic effects are characterised by embryonic death, decreased fetal weights, and stage specific malformations, such as distal digital reductions, orofacial clefts and cardiovascular defects. Class III antiarrhythmics decrease the excitability of cardiac cells by selectively blocking the rapid component of the delayed rectified potassium channel (IKr), resulting in prolongation of the repolarisation phase of the action potential. Phenytoin, which decrease the excitability of neurones, has recently also been shown to block IKr, in addition to its known blockade of sodium channels. Animal studies indicate that IKr is expressed in the embryo and that the embryonic heart is extremely susceptible to IKr-blockers during a restricted period in early development. At concentrations not affecting the maternal heart, the embryonic heart reacts with bradycardia, arrhythmia and cardiac arrest when exposed to such drugs. Available studies strongly support the idea that birth defects after in utero exposure to both selective and non-selective IKr-blockers (like phenytoin) are initiated by concentration dependent embryonic bradycardia/arrhythmia resulting in 1) hypoxia; explaining embryonic death and growth retardation, 2) episodes of severe hypoxia, followed by generation of reactive oxygen species within the embryo during reoxygenation, causing orofacial clefts and distal digital reductions, and 3) alterations in embryonic blood flow and blood pressure, inducing cardiovascular defects.
Atopic dermatitis is commonly colonized with Staphylococcus aureus in high densities.
Our purpose was to study the effect of topical corticosteroids on the colonization of S. aureus in atopic dermatitis.
Sixty-six patients were treated with moderately potent, or very potent corticosteroids. Quantification of S. aureus and evaluation of the severity of the eczema was performed before, after 1 week, and after 2 weeks of treatment.
Fifty-three patients carried S. aureus in the most pronounced lesion before treatment. The colonization was significantly correlated with the severity of the eczema. The density of S. aureus was reduced by topical corticosteroids. The reduction increased with the potency of the corticosteroid and was most pronounced during the first week. S. aureus was eliminated after a successful 2-week treatment with a very potent corticosteroid. Propylene glycol 25% added to a moderately potent corticosteroid did not significantly increase the reduction of S. aureus.
Topical corticosteroids of sufficient potency reduce the density of S. aureus in atopic dermatitis.
To compare long-term lithium patients who developed renal insufficiency (RI) with those who did not, and to examine what characterized these groups.
One hundred fourteen subjects with DSM-IV bipolar, major depressive, or schizoaffective disorder who had been taking lithium for 4 to 30 years from 1968 to 2000 were studied retrospectively. Subjects with blood creatinine levels > or = 1.5 mg/dL were defined as RI patients, and creatinine levels < 1.5 mg/dL indicated no renal insufficiency (NRI). Ninety-four unmedicated subjects, matched for sex and age, served as a comparison group and had 2 measures of creatinine with a mean interval of 11.88 years.
Twenty-four (21%) of the lithium-treated patients were defined as RI patients. These subjects exhibited the "creeping creatinine" phenomenon as their creatinine levels increased progressively. The NRI subjects showed no increase of creatinine levels in up to 30 years and remained comparable to the comparison group. RI was associated with episodes of lithium intoxication and diseases or medicines that could affect glomerular function, but not with sex, psychiatric diagnosis, age at onset of diagnosed disorder, duration of lithium therapy, serum lithium concentration, and cumulative lithium dose.
Long-term lithium therapy did not influence glomerular function in an overwhelming majority of patients. However, about 20% of long-term lithium patients exhibited "creeping creatinine" and developed renal insufficiency.
Triadimefon is an antifungal derived from triazole. In in vitro whole-rodent embryo cultures, triazole-derivatives showed specific teratogenic effects at the branchial apparatus. The aim of the present work was to test in vivo triadimefon (FON), in order to verify a relationship between triazole exposure, embryonic abnormalities, and/or fetal malformations.
Pregnant CD-1 mice were treated with 0-300 mg/kg FON by gavage on day 8 post coitum (p.c.) at 10:00 AM, and sacrificed on day 8 p.c. at 1:00 PM, on day 9 p.c. at 10:00 AM, on day 10 p.c. at 10:00 AM, and at term of gestation (day 18 p.c.). At midgestation, the embryos were processed for specific immunostainings to visualize the hindbrain segmentation (day 8 p.c.) and the neural crest cell migration (days 8 and 9 p.c.). Fetuses explanted at term were all processed for skeletal examination after double-staining of osseous and cartilaginous tissues.
At midgestation, the immunostaining of rhombomeres 3 and 5 showed a light scattering of the immunostained areas; the neural crest cell migration was unaffected, but their localization at the branchial arch level was abnormal. At term, several severe malformations were observed at the craniofacial and at the axial skeletal level. Ectopic cartilage was observed at the upper jaw.
Triadimefon is teratogenic. The observed craniofacial malformations could be explained by an alteration of the rhombomeric organization and neural crest migration to the branchial arches; the axial abnormalities could be explained by the abnormal segmental identity specification.
Acetaminophen-induced liver necrosis has been studied extensively, but the extrahepatic manifestations of acetaminophen toxicity are currently not described well in the literature. Renal insufficiency occurs in approximately 1-2% of patients with acetaminophen overdose. The pathophysiology of renal toxicity in acetaminophen poisoning has been attributed to cytochrome P-450 mixed function oxidase isoenzymes present in the kidney, although other mechanisms have been elucidated, including the role of prostaglandin synthetase and N-deacetylase enzymes. Paradoxically, glutathione is considered an important element in the detoxification of acetaminophen and its metabolites; however, its conjugates have been implicated in the formation of nephrotoxic compounds. Acetaminophen-induced renal failure becomes evident after hepatotoxicity in most cases, but can be differentiated from the hepatorenal syndrome, which may complicate fulminant hepatic failure. The role of N-acetylcysteine therapy in the setting of acetaminophen-induced renal failure is unclear. This review will focus on the pathophysiology, clinical features, and management of renal insufficiency in the setting of acute acetaminophen toxicity.
A 47-year-old female was found lethargic at home and brought by ambulance to an emergency department. History from family members suggested an inadvertent acetaminophen overdose, and she had last been seen a few hours earlier. She reportedly ingested 18 tablets of 500 mg acetaminophen (APAP) over the previous two days because she had run out of her prescription pain medication. Her past medical history was significant for fibromyalgia, arthritis, and a prior gastric bypass procedure. She had no history of alcohol abuse or renal insufficiency. She was lethargic. Vital signs: BP 128/96 mmHg, pulse 112/min, respirations 32/min; pulse oximetry 98% on 2L nasal cannula oxygen. Laboratory studies: BUN 9 mg/dL, creatinine 0.9 mg/dl, acetaminophen 12 mcg/mL, AST 5409 u/L and ALT 1085 u/L. A urinalysis was negative for blood with trace protein and ketones. A urine drug screen was positive for marijuana and opioid metabolites. At the initial hospital, she was treated with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) orally. Subsequently, she developed fulminant hepatic failure with elevated transaminases, hypoglycemia, and coagulopathy (Tables 1A and 1B). She was transferred to our facility two days after initial presentation for liver transplant evaluation. At that time, her APAP level was 2.0 mg/L. Oral NAC therapy was continued after transfer. The patient's liver function subsequently improved and she ultimately did not require transplantation. She did develop acute renal failure during the course of her hospitalization, with a creatinine of 2.3 mg/dL on transfer, which increased to 8.1 mg/dL nine days later (approximately 11-13 days post-ingestion). Medical toxicology was consulted by the intensive care unit team to address whether this was acetaminophen-induced renal failure and if there was a role for NAC in this setting.
Growing evidence indicates that the alteration of microRNA (miRNA) expression in tumors that is induced by chemical carcinogens plays an important role in tumor development and progression. However, the mechanism underlying miRNA involvement in lung carcinogenesis induced by anti-benzo[a]pyrene-trans-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (anti-BPDE) remains unclear. In our study, we used the malignant transformation of human bronchial epithelial cells (16HBE-T) induced by anti-BPDE to explore the mechanisms of human lung carcinogenesis. We found that expression of miR-506 was reduced in 16HBE-T transformed malignant human bronchial epithelial cells compared with 16HBE normal human bronchial epithelial cells. Restoration of miR-506 in 16HBE-T cells led to a decrease in cell proliferation, G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest, as well as significantly suppressed anchorage-dependent growth in vitro and tumor growth inhibition in a nude mouse xenograft model. In addition, we provided novel evidence regarding the role miR-506 potentially plays in negatively regulating the protein and mRNA expression level of N-Ras in cancer cells. Together, these findings revealed that miR-506 acts as an anti-oncogenic miRNA (anti-oncomir) in malignantly transformed cells. The identification of tumor suppressive miRNAs could provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms of chemical carcinogenesis.
In patients with pain of malignant origin morphine may be administered in high and often increasing doses during extended periods of time. In patients with chronic pain of non-malignant origin morphine may be an important remedy, and in these cases the goal is to keep the morphine dose stable. The pharmacokinetic as well as the pharmacodynamic consequences of long-term morphine treatment with special reference to the two most important metabolites of morphine morphine-6-glucuronide (M-6-G) and morphine-3-glucuronide (M-3-G) remain to be settled.
Assessments for pain, sedation and other morphine induced side effects were made several times for 19 cancer patients treated with changing doses of oral sustained release (SR) morphine and twice for 17 non-cancer patients treated with stable doses of SR morphine. Blood samples were obtained simultaneously and analysed for contents of morphine, M-3-G and M-6-G by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
Significant correlations were found between the daily dose of SR morphine and plasma morphine (r = 0.469, p < 0.01), plasma M-6-G (r = 0.677, p < 0.01), and plasma M-3-G ((r = 0.827, p < 0.01), in the cancer patient group, but only between the daily dose of SR morphine and plasma M-3-G (0.662, p < 0.01) and plasma M-6-G (0.571, p < 0.01) in the non-cancer patient group. Normalised M-3-G/M and M-6-G/M ratios for the cancer patient group were independent of duration of treatment and daily dose of SR morphine. Likewise in the non-cancer patient group duration of treatment did not influence the metabolite ratios. Correlations between pain score and plasma morphine, M-6-G and M-6-G/M were weak in the cancer patient as well as in the non-cancer patient group making it impossible to draw any conclusion regarding the potential contributory analgesic effect of M-6-G. Dryness of the mouth was the most frequent adverse effect reported in the non-cancer as well as the cancer patient group. In the latter group patients complaining of dryness of the mouth had significantly higher plasma morphine and M-6-G concentrations than patients who did not suffer from this side effect. This difference persisted (or was close to significance) when excluding patients receiving antidepressants.
In the cancer patient group neither dose nor treatment period seems to influence morphine glucuronidation. Likewise in the non-cancer patient group receiving stable doses of morphine duration of treatment does not seem to influence morphine glucuronidation. Dryness of the mouth was positively correlated to high plasma concentrations of morphine and M-6-G.
Acute myopathy occurred in a 49-year-old woman hospitalized in the intensive care unit for status asthmaticus. She was given high-dose intravenous steroid therapy and intubated. Pancuronium bromide was used for prolonged curarization. Flaccid quadriplegia developed with preservation of the deep tendon reflexes. Muscle biopsy showed a myogenic process with disorganized myofibrils and selective loss of thick myosin filaments. This mainly myogenic process would result from the toxic effect of corticosteroids favored by prolonged curarization although the effect of other factors still remains unknown.
