Transformation to acute leukemia (AL) is known to occur in polycythemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythemia (ET). Myelosuppressive therapy with agents such as 32P and alkylating agents increase this risk in both disorders. The alkylating agent, uracil mustard (UM), which is an effective agent for controlling thrombocytosis, has not been reported to be leukemogenic. We have treated 29 patients with UM (9 treated continuously and 20 treated intermittently): II with PV, 16 with ET, and 2 with myelofibrosis (MF). Three patients developed AL, two after continuous therapy. These two patients with PV had received the fourth highest and highest total dose of UM, and their duration of treatment was the third and fourth longest among the nine patients treated continuously, respectively. One out of 20 patients treated intermittently with UM developed AL. This patient (3) with ET had received the highest total dose of UM, and her duration of treatment was the longest among the 20 patients treated intermittently.
Taxol (1) is a highly potent antitumor agent, exerting its mechanism of action by promoting the assembly of stable microtubules in cells. We are reporting on the first synthesis and biological evaluation of taxol derivatives with substituted phenyl rings at the C-13 N-benzoyl-(2'R,3'S)-3'-phenylisoserine side chain of taxol (1). Two taxol derivatives were synthesized, one possessing a N-(p-chlorobenzoyl)-(2'R,3'S)-3'-phenylisoserine side chain (2) and the other one a N-benzoyl-(2'R,3'S)-3'-(p-chlorophenyl)isoserine side chain (3). The synthesis of the novel phenylisoserine side chains was achieved through the asymmetric synthesis of 3-hydroxy-4-aryl-2-azetidinone derivatives via the ester enolate-imine cyclocondensation reaction. The 2-azetidinones 14 and 15 were acylated with p-chlorobenzoyl chloride and benzoyl chloride, respectively, to form the N-acyl beta-lactams 16 and 17. Subsequent coupling of 16 and 17 to 7-(triethylsilyl)baccatin III (6) in the presence of pyridine and DMAP afforded, after removal of the protecting groups, the desired taxol analogues 2 and 3 in excellent yields. The newly synthesized derivatives 2 and 3 were tested in the tubulin assembly assay and also evaluated for their cytotoxicity against B16 melanoma cells. It was found that the taxol derivatives 2 and 3 had activity comparable to taxol (1).
Three cases, involving lethal circulatory collapse in patients who received bromocriptine mesylate (Parlodel) for the suppression of lactation, are reported. These accidents expand the scope of severe side-effects that appear to be attributable to a widely used pharmacological approach to ablactation during puerperium. The circumstances that surrounded the maternal deaths in these instances are consistent with previous clinical observations and epidemiological research, suggesting that pregnancy induced hypertension increases the risks for severe untoward effects from bromocriptine. The common denominator in these side-effects appears to be vasospasm; a paradoxical reaction to a drug, the primary pharmacological effect of which is vasodilation. The reported cases came to the attention of the author through medicolegal inquiries. This underlines the potential value of malpractice reviews, as a research tool, for the critical analysis of rare adverse occurrences and unsuspected complications in the clinical practice of medicine.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the prevalence of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and tardive dyskinesia (TD) in affective disordered patients treated with lithium and to study the association of these symptoms with medication and other factors.
This cross-sectional study was carried out in all consenting outpatients attending an affective disorders clinic in a psychiatric hospital. The study sample consisted of 130 stable outpatients: 110 with bipolar disorder, 18 with unipolar (major) depression, and 2 with atypical affective disorder. At the time of evaluation, 110 patients were receiving lithium, 37 in combination with antidepressants and 19 with neuroleptics, and 40 had a history of neuroleptic treatment during the previous 6 months. The patients were assessed with the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS) for parkinsonism, akathisia, dystonia, and TD. The prevalence of these symptoms was calculated for all patients and by current lithium and neuroleptic intake. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to investigate the relationship between the ESRS subscale scores and gender, age, diagnosis, and medication type.
The prevalence of tremor was 20.8%; hypokinetic parkinsonism, 7.7%; akathisia, 4.6%; dystonia, 3.8%; and TD, 9.2%. Tremor was associated with lithium and neuroleptic intake; hypokinesia was associated with neuroleptic treatment and age; and TD was associated with neuroleptic, lithium, and tricyclic intake and age. Seven of 51 patients taking lithium but without a history of neuroleptic treatment during the previous 6 months presented symptoms of TD.
The combination of lithium and neuroleptics was associated with a high prevalence of EPS. The presence of TD in lithium-treated patients not treated with neuroleptics for at least 6 months is consistent with the hypothesis that lithium may exacerbate the vulnerability of affective disordered patients to dyskinesias.
Desmoids are rare tumors of the connective tissue. It develops about 1:1000 times more in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP, Gardner syndrome) compared to normal population. It has been shown in molecular genetic examinations, that different mutations of the APC gene are responsible for desmoid tumors in FAP. It means, that this disease is one of the extraintestinal manifestations of Gardner syndrome. This tumor has high recurrence rate and is growing rapidly, and as a result it is the second most common cause of death in FAP patients. That is why genetic examination for FAP patients is advised to decide if the patient has higher risk for desmoid formation. If the result of the genetic test is positive, it is advisable to try to slow the progression of polyposis with medical treatment, and so to delay the date of the colectomy because the surgical intervention--and connective tissue damage--can induce desmoid formation in these patients. At the same time it is reasonable to examine and regularly control patients with sporadic desmoid tumors searching for other manifestations of Gardner syndrome (colon, stomach and duodenum polyposis, tumor of papilla Vateri, retinopathy, etc.). Palliative surgery is not indicated in patients with inoperable intraabdominal desmoid tumors, because partial resections (R1, R2, debulking) result in further tumor progression. In these patients medical treatment (sulindac, tamoxifen), chemotherapy (doxorubicin, dacarbazin) and radiotherapy or combination of them can result tumor remission. We describe our three patients (an abdominal wall desmoid four years following Cesarean section; a desmoid tumor in the retroperitoneum and in the pelvis diagnosed three years after total colectomy; and a retroperitoneal and abdominal wall desmoid one year after total colectomy) and etiology, diagnosis and therapy of desmoid tumors are discussed.
The new fluoroquinolones allow effective oral therapy of infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Studies on efficacy and safety of these promising agents are not recommended in childhood because of cartilage toxicity which has been observed in growing animals. However, the first quinolone antimicrobial, nalidixic acid, showed identical arthropathic effects in young animals and is licensed for paediatric use. A review of the hospital charts revealed 11 patients who had received nalidixic acid over nine to 600 days and were available for control examination three to 12 years later. For each nalidixic acid case a carefully selected matched pair, who had never received nalidixic acid, was identically analyzed. Three patients from the nalidixic acid and three from the control group reported arthralgia, which was judged to have no relation to drug therapy. Growth curve and both functional and radiological joint findings were completely normal in all cases. These results suggest that quinolone-associated arthropathy does not occur in children, even after long-term therapy.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and IGF binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) are members of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) family that play important roles in carcinogenesis. We hypothesized that the functional polymorphisms in IGF-I and IGFBP-3 may be associated with the risk of prostate cancer (PCa) in the Chinese population. This hospital-based case-control study included 664 PCa patients and 702 cancer-free controls. Nine SNPs in IGF-I and IGFBP-3 were genotyped using the TaqMan assay. The genetic associations between the pathogenesis and progression of PCa were assessed by logistic regression. We found that the genotype and allele frequency distribution of rs6218, rs35767 and rs5742612 were significantly different when comparing PCa cases to controls (P  = 0.005, 0.005 and 0.020, respectively). In the combined analysis, individuals with 2-6 risk alleles had an elevated risk of PCa compared to those with 0-1 risk alleles. We also found that the association between the combined risk alleles and the risk of PCa appeared stronger in the following subgroups: individuals older than 71 years of age (OR  = 1.41, 95%CI  = 1.05-1.91, P  = 0.020), nonsmokers (OR  = 1.68, 95%CI  = 1.21-2.32, P  = 0.002), nondrinkers (OR  = 1.32, 95%CI  = 1.02-1.61, P  = 0.002), and those with a negative family history of PCa (OR  = 1.28, 95%CI  = 1.02-1.71, P  = 0.022). Our results indicate that the three SNPs (rs6218, rs35767 and rs5742612) and the joint genotypes with 2-6 risk alleles, may contribute to the susceptibility to PCa, but not the progression, in the Chinese population.
The aim of this study was to assess the importance of immunohistochemical thymidylate synthase (TS) expression level as a prognostic marker in tongue cancer patients. In 140 patients with primary squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the tongue, intratumoural TS expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. The level of TS expression was determined by a semiquantitative scoring system, ranging from 1+ to 3+ according to the ratio of TS-positive cells. Of 140 patients, 64 (45.7%), 49 (35.0%) and 27 (19.3%) were assessed as 1+, 2+ and 3+, respectively. Univariate analyses demonstrated that both disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) were significantly lower in patients with a TS 3+ tumour than in those with a TS 1+/2+ tumour (DFS: P = 0.0082, OS: P = 0.0100). In a multivariate analysis using the Cox regression model, cervical lymph-node status and TS expression level were selected as independent factors for DFS and OS. Maintenance adjuvant chemotherapy by oral 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) significantly improved DFS and OS in patients with a TS 1+/2+ tumour (DFS: P = 0.0027, OS: P = 0.0398). These data suggest that the level of immunohistochemical TS expression is an independent prognosticator in patients with tongue SCC, and may be useful in the selection of patients who would benefit from oral 5-FU adjuvant chemotherapy.
A 50 year old man developed tonic-clonic seizures while receiving cyclosporin A after orthotopic cardiac transplant. The seizures resolved after cessation of cyclosporin A. Thirteen months later, he developed diplopia from bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia while receiving intravenous FK506. A temporal association was found between his symptoms and the serum FK506 concentrations. Withdrawal of the intravenous FK506 led to prompt resolution of the bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia.
A 70-year-old man receiving vancomycin for a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) abscess developed a drug-induced hypersensitivity reaction with rash, eosinophilia, and acute renal failure requiring dialysis. Renal biopsy revealed diffuse and marked interstitial and tubular infiltration by mononuclear cells and eosinophils; acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) was diagnosed. The rash progressed to erythema multiforme major after rechallenge with vancomycin in the setting of MRSA peritoneal catheter-related peritonitis and then to fatal toxic epidermal necrolysis in the setting of steroid taper and persistent serum vancomycin levels. This case further implicates vancomycin as a drug that infrequently can cause severe acute TIN and exfoliative dermatitis. When a renally excreted drug such as vancomycin is administered, serum drug levels should be serially monitored and high-dosage steroids be maintained or tapered slowly until serum drug levels become undetectable.
P-glycoprotein mediates resistance to natural-product anti-neoplastic agents like vinblastine through an active transport process resulting in reduced intracellular concentration of these agents. The triphenylethylene antiestrogen tamoxifen and its major metabolite N-desmethyltamoxifen at concentrations of 4-6 microM enhance the intracellular concentration of natural-product antineoplastics and augment the cytotoxicity of such drugs three-fold to 10-fold in a variety of human and murine cell lines.
On the basis of these preclinical findings, we conducted a phase I clinical trial of high-dose, oral tamoxifen administered in conjunction with a 5-day continuous infusion of vinblastine.
We studied 53 patients with advanced epithelial tumors. Tamoxifen was given orally as a loading dose on day 1, followed by two doses a day on days 2-13. Vinblastine was given as a 120-hour continuous infusion (1.5 mg/m2 per day) on days 9-13 of each tamoxifen course. The starting dose of tamoxifen was 40 mg/m2 administered twice a day following a loading dose of 150 mg/m2. The maximum dose was 260 mg/m2 twice a day following a loading dose of 680 mg/m2. Treatment cycles were repeated every 28 days.
The dose-limiting toxic effects of tamoxifen were neurologic and began within 3-5 days after the start of treatment. They consisted of tremor, hyperreflexia, dysmetria, unsteady gait, and dizziness. One patient experienced a grand mal seizure 24 hours after the last tamoxifen dose. Toxic effects were rapidly reversible. Asymptomatic prolongation of the QT interval on electrocardiogram occurred at doses of tamoxifen of 80 mg/m2 or higher given twice a day. No coagulation or ophthalmologic abnormalities occurred. Tamoxifen did not enhance the toxicity of vinblastine. Mean plasma concentrations of tamoxifen or N-desmethyltamoxifen at 260 mg/m2 tamoxifen given twice a day for 13 days were 6.04 and 6.56 microM, respectively. There was no relationship between plasma antiestrogen content and the development of neurotoxic effects.
Tamoxifen at 150 mg/m2 given twice a day following a loading dose of 400 mg/m2 results in plasma levels of tamoxifen and N-desmethyltamoxifen of 4 and 6 microM, respectively, without dose-limiting toxicity. We recommend this dose for phase II trials of tamoxifen to modulate P-glycoprotein-mediated drug resistance.
Our study demonstrates that high-dose tamoxifen can be safely administered and that plasma concentrations that may inhibit P-glycoprotein function can be achieved.
We investigated the effects of a combined treatment with chromium (Cr) and niacin on the spleen, tongue, and lens tissues in terms of lipid peroxidation (LPO), glutathione (GSH), serum catalase (CAT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), serum cholesterol, and total lipid levels in normal and hyperlipemic rats. In this study, female 1-year-old Swiss albino rats were used. The rats were randomly divided into four groups. Group I rats (control) were fed with standard pellet chow. Group II rats were fed a lipogenic diet in which 2% cholesterol, 0.5% cholic acid, and 20% sunflower oil were added and were given 3% alcoholic water for 60 days. Group III rats were fed with the same lipogenic diet and were treated with a dose of 250 microg/kg body weight CrCI3 x 6H2O and 100 mg/kg body weight niacin, for 45 days, by gavage. The rats in group IV were fed with pellet chow and treated with 250 microg/kg body weight CrCI3 x 6H2O and 100 mg/kg body weight niacin, by gavage, for 45 days. After 2 weeks, the animals showed symptoms of hyperlipemia. On the 60th day, tissue and blood samples were taken. We have observed decreased CAT activity and GSH levels, increased LDH activity, cholesterol, total lipid, and LPO levels in hyperlipemic rats. Niacin and Cr administration to hyperlipemic rats increased tissue GSH levels and CAT activity and decreased tissue LPO levels and LDH activity, cholesterol, and total lipid levels compared with hyperlipemic rats. We conclude that the administration of a combination of niacin and chromium has a protective effect against oxidative damage to tongue, lens, and spleen tissues as a result of hyperlipemia.
The induction of central-peripheral distal axonopathy in hens singly dosed with some organophosphorus (OP) compounds, such as di-n-butyl-2,2-dichlorovinyl phosphate (DBDCVP), requires greater than 80% organophosphorylation and subsequent intramolecular rearrangement ("aging") of a protein [neuropathy target esterase (NTE)] in the axon. Suprathreshold biochemical reaction, 24 h after dosing with DBDCVP (0.75-1.00 mg/kg s.c.), is shown to be associated with progressive decrement of retrograde axonal transport in sensory and motor fibers. The maximum transport deficit (about 70% reduction) is reached 7 days after DBDCVP, prior to the appearance of axonal degeneration and the onset of clinical signs of neuropathy (day 10-11). By contrast, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (30 mg/kg s.c.), an agent that prevents the development of OP neuropathy by inhibiting NTE without the "aging" reaction, had no effect on axon transport, nerve fiber integrity, or clinical status and, when administered prior to a neurotoxic dose of DBDCVP (1.00 mg/kg s.c.), prevented DBDCVP effects. Paraoxon (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) neither inhibited NTE nor caused deficits in retrograde transport or neuropathy. Taken in concert, these studies demonstrate that induced deficits in retrograde transport are associated with the pathogenesis of OP-induced nerve-fiber degeneration and the threshold-initiating mechanism thereof.
We have recently shown that macrophage-stimulating protein (MSP) promotes the invasion of recepteur d'origine nantais (RON), a tyrosine kinase receptor-positive MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cells, and also identified the regulatory elements required for RON gene expression. In this report, we have analyzed the efficacy of a chemopreventive agent, curcumin, in blocking RON tyrosine kinase-mediated invasion of breast cancer cells. Reverse transcription-PCR and Western analysis indicated the down-regulation of the RON message and protein, respectively, in MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-468 cells. Significantly, curcumin-mediated inhibition of RON expression resulted in the blockade of RON ligand, MSP-induced invasion of breast cancer cells. We have identified two putative nuclear factor-kappaB p65 subunit binding sites on the RON promoter. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis and site-directed mutagenesis of the RON promoter, we have confirmed the binding of p65 to the RON promoter. Our data show that curcumin reduces RON expression by affecting p65 protein expression and transcriptional activity. Treatment of MDA-MB-231 cells with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, an inhibitor of p65, or small interfering RNA knockdown of p65, blocked RON gene expression and MSP-mediated invasion of MDA-MB-231 cells. This is the first report showing the regulation of human RON gene expression by nuclear factor-kappaB and suggests a potential therapeutic role for curcumin in blocking RON tyrosine kinase-mediated invasion of carcinoma cells.
There is an increasing amount of literature data showing the positive effects on preclinical antiparkinsonian rodent models with selective positive allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 (mGlu(4)). However, most of the data generated utilize compounds that have not been optimized for druglike properties, and as a consequence, they exhibit poor pharmacokinetic properties and thus do not cross the blood-brain barrier. Herein, we report on a series of N-4-(2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-1-yl)phenylpicolinamides with improved PK properties with excellent potency and selectivity as well as improved brain exposure in rodents. Finally, ML182 was shown to be orally active in the haloperidol induced catalepsy model, a well-established antiparkinsonian model.
To clarify the contribution of vasoconstrictor prostaglandins to the hypoperfusion state typically following total global cerebral ischemia, 14 mongrel dogs were subjected to 11 minutes of global cerebral ischemia. They were then randomly assigned to receive either no treatment or an intravenous bolus of the calcium channel blocker nimodipine, 10 micrograms/kg, 15 minutes after ischemia followed by a continuous infusion of nimodipine, 1.0 micrograms/kg/min. Thromboxane (Tx) A2 production, as measured by cerebral venous levels of TxB2 (the stable metabolite of TxA2) increased similarly in the two groups. In contrast to previous studies, mean postischemic cerebral blood flow did not increase sufficiently in the nimodipine-treated group to achieve statistical significance. These data suggest that the improved neurological outcome associated with nimodipine treatment following global cerebral ischemia does not relate to reduced levels of the prostaglandin precursor arachidonate.
