Recent studies indicate that administration of dopamine D2-like receptor agonists reinstates drug-seeking behavior in rodents, whereas dopamine D1-like receptor agonists do not. These effects have been related to the ability of these agonists to facilitate the expression of sensitized locomotor activity. Presently, we describe experiments in which locomotor activity was assessed concomitantly with operant performance during acquisition, extinction and reinstatement. We report that locomotor activity was inversely related to drug-seeking behavior during acquisition of cocaine self-administration under a Fixed Ratio (FR) 1 schedule of reinforcement. During a single trial extinction session, animals that had acquired cocaine self-administration exhibited a conditioned increase in drug-seeking behavior, but there was no evidence of a conditioned locomotor response. During reinstatement, cocaine (20 mg/kg) significantly increased both locomotor activity and drug-seeking behavior. The dopamine D2-like receptor agonist quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) increased drug-seeking behavior, but did not significantly increase locomotor activity. In contrast, the dopamine D1-like receptor agonist SKF 81297 (0.5 mg/kg) failed to reinstate drug-seeking behavior, but produced significant locomotor activation. To determine whether the inability of SKF 81297 to promote reinstatement is related to the strength of operant conditioning, additional rats were trained to self-administer cocaine using an FR-3 schedule of reinforcement. Despite achieving response rates during training almost four times higher compared to the FR-1 condition, administration of SKF 81297 again failed to significantly increase drug-seeking behavior during reinstatement testing. These results extend previous findings, confirming the important role of D2-like, but not D1-like receptor activation in the reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. An understanding of the mechanisms by which D1- and D2-like agonists differentially influence locomotor activation and drug-seeking behavior in cocaine-experienced rodents may prove critical to the development of increasingly effective pharmacotherapies for substance abuse.
ATP7B mutations result in Cu storage in the liver and brain in Wilson disease (WD). Atox1 and COMMD1 were found to interact with ATP7B and involved in copper transport in the hepatocyte. To understand the molecular etiology of WD, we analyzed ATP7B, Atox1 and COMMD1 genes. Direct sequencing of (i) ATP7B gene was performed in 112 WD patients to identify the spectrum of disease-causing mutations in the French population, (ii) Atox1 gene was performed to study the known polymorphism 5'UTR-99T>C in 78 WD patients with two ATP7B mutations and (iii) COMMD1 gene was performed to detect the nucleotide change c.492GAT>GAC. MLPA (Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification) analysis was performed in WD patients presenting only one ATP7B mutation. Among our 112 WD unrelated patients, 83 different ATP7B gene mutations were identified, 27 of which were novel. Two ATP7B mutations were identified in 98 WD cases, and one mutation was identified in 14 cases. In two of these 14 WD patients, we identified the deletion of exon 4 of the ATP7B gene by MLPA technique. In 78 selected patients of the cohort with two mutations in ATP7B, we have examined genotype-phenotype correlation between the detected changes in Atox1 and COMMD1 genes, and the presentation of the WD patients. Based on the data of this study, no major role can be attributed to Atox1 and COMMD in the pathophysiology or clinical variation of WD.
The anti-dementia effects of s-limonene and s-perillyl alcohol were observed using the passive avoidance test (PA) and the open field habituation test (OFH). These lemon essential oils showed strong ability to improve memory impaired by scopolamine; however, s-perillyl alcohol relieved the deficit of associative memory in PA only, and did not improve non-associative memory significantly in OFH. Analysis of neurotransmitter concentration in some brain regions on the test day showed that dopamine concentration of the vehicle/scopolamine group was significantly lower than that of the vehicle/vehicle group, but this phenomenon was reversed when s-limonene or s-perillyl alcohol were administered before the injection of scopolamine. Simultaneously, we found that these two lemon essential oil components could inhibit acetylcholinesterase activity in vitro using the Ellman method.
Various laboratory studies have been recently prompted by reports indicating abuse by heroin addicts of the narcotic agonist-antagonist pentazocine combined with the antihistaminic tripelennamine. For what concerns the effects on locomotor activity, it was demonstrated that three histamine H1 receptor antagonists, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine and tripelennamine enhance morphine-, but not amphetamine and scopolamine-induced hyperactivity in mice. These results suggested that antihistaminics may specifically interfere with locomotor effects of opioids. Such hypothesis was strengthened by further findings indicating enhancement by tripelennamine of the locomotor stimulation induced by buprenorphine, a drug possessing morphine-like properties.
A 16-year-old patient underwent partial gastrectomy for leiomyosarcoma of the stomach. Following resection, he received combination chemotherapy that included Adriamycin and dimethyltriazenoimidazole carboxamide (DTIC), with the cumulative Adriamycin dose being 405 mg/m2. The patient was subsequently treated with vincristine, actinomycin D, and cyclophosphamide. Six hours after receiving his fourth dose of cyclophosphamide, the patient developed signs and symptoms of acute anterior wall myocardial infarction. Although he recovered from this initial cardiac event, he subsequently experienced several additional episodes of vascular occlusion involving the cerebral, femoral, coronary, and pulmonary arteries. Cardiac catheterization demonstrated all coronary arteries to be normal. Both ventricles were hypokinetic, and bilateral mural thrombi were demonstrated; these were the presumed source of the embolic phenomena. To our knowledge, this is the first description of repeated coronary artery embolization following cancer chemotherapy in a patient without evidence of preexisting cardiac abnormalities.
2,3,7,8 Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has been associated with many disease states in humans. A rising concern is that exposure early in life can lead to adult toxicity and toxicity in subsequent generations. Juvenile zebrafish exposed to TCDD (50 pg/ml in water; 1 h exposure) at 3 and 7 weeks post fertilization showed toxicity only later in adulthood. We have maintained the offspring of these exposed F₀ fish to determine whether we could find adverse affects in the next two generations of F₁ and F₂ offspring. TCDD exposure produced a significantly higher female:male ratio in all three generations. Scoliosis-like axial skeleton abnormalities, not normally observed in controls, were present in the F₁ and F₂ generations descended from the treated F₀ founders. Egg release and fertilization success were reduced in the TCDD lineage F₁ and F₂ generations. This reduction in fertility in the TCDD lineage F₂ generation could be attributed to alterations in the F₂ males. Using zebrafish as a model allowed the simultaneous maintenance of different generations with relatively small space and costs. The zebrafish showed clear signs of transgenerational responses persisting into generations never directly exposed to TCDD.
Despite its frequency and impact on clinical outcomes, anaemia in cancer patients remains poorly understood and suboptimally treated. The definition of optimum treatment schedules with erythropoietic agents requires a suitable model of chemotherapy-induced progressive anaemia. This study investigated novel strategies such as once-per-chemotherapy-cycle dosing, synchronization between erythroid supportive care and chemotherapy, and definition of the optimum timing of erythroid support. A murine model of carboplatin chemotherapy/radiotherapy (CRT)-induced anaemia was used, which caused progressive anaemia across multiple cycles. Weekly administration of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) was effective, but the longer-acting darbepoetin alpha resulted in superior responses. In all animals, anaemia became progressive and more refractory across cycles because of accumulated bone marrow damage. Exploiting a specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, which could distinguish between darbepoetin alpha and endogenous erythropoietin, the effect of CRT upon the pharmacokinetics of darbepoetin alpha showed that clearance of darbepoetin alpha, and presumably erythropoietin, was at least partially dependent on a chemotherapy-sensitive pathway. Scheduling data suggested that administration of erythropoietic agents prior to chemotherapy was more effective than administration after chemotherapy. There was no evidence that erythropoietic agents exacerbated anaemia, even when administered immediately prior to CRT in an attempt to "prime" erythroid cells for the effects of CRT.
Taking a genome-wide association study approach, we identified inherited genetic variations in ACYP2 associated with cisplatin-related ototoxicity (rs1872328: P = 3.9 × 10(-8), hazard ratio = 4.5) in 238 children with newly diagnosed brain tumors, with independent replication in 68 similarly treated children. The ACYP2 risk variant strongly predisposed these patients to precipitous hearing loss and was related to ototoxicity severity. These results point to new biology underlying the ototoxic effects of platinum agents.
Sixty patients with advanced multiple myeloma received 2-6 monthly treatment courses combining hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide (300 mg/m2 i.v. over 3 h q 12 h x 6, d 1-3) with pulsed dexamethasone (20 mg/m2/d p.o., d 1-4, 9-12, 17-20) and once daily thalidomide at individually escalating doses (100-400 mg/d) depending on tolerability (HyperCDT). Responding patients were maintained on daily thalidomide and monthly dexamethasone pulses. Complete, partial and minor response rates were 4%, 68% and 12% respectively; overall response rate was 84% (efficacy analysis). Median event-free and overall survival was 11 and 19 months respectively. During at least one treatment cycle, 67% of patients experienced grade 4 neutropenia resulting in 17% grade 3 and 9% grade 4 infections. Side-effects, presumably related to thalidomide, included neuropathy (40% grade 2, 16% grade 3), constipation (17%), oedema (5%), bradycardia (5%), skin reactions (3%), cerebrovascular events (5%) and deep vein thromboses (8%). Thromboses were not related to known thrombophilic risk factors. Four patients with prior myeloma therapy > 50 months developed myelodysplastic syndrome or secondary acute myeloid leukaemia 2-4 months after study entry. HyperCDT is a highly active and reasonably well-tolerated salvage regimen in advanced or refractory multiple myeloma.
Acetaminophen (APAP) is metabolized in the liver to N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI), an electrophilic metabolite known to bind liver proteins resulting in hepatotoxicity. Mammalian thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) is a cellular antioxidant containing selenocysteine (Sec) in its C-terminal redox center, a highly accessible target for electrophilic modification. In the present study, we determined if NAPQI targets TrxR. Hepatotoxicity induced by APAP treatment of mice (300 mg/kg, i.p.) was associated with a marked inhibition of both cytosolic TrxR1 and mitochondrial TrxR2 activity. Maximal inhibition was detected at 1 and 6 h post-APAP for TrxR1 and TrxR2, respectively. In purified rat liver TrxR1, enzyme inactivation was correlated with the metabolic activation of APAP by cytochrome P450, indicating that enzyme inhibition was due to APAP-reactive metabolites. NAPQI was also found to inhibit TrxR1. NADPH-reduced TrxR1 was significantly more sensitive to NAPQI (IC50 = 0.023 μM) than the oxidized enzyme (IC50 = 1.0 μM) or a human TrxR1 Sec498Cys mutant enzyme (IC50 = 17 μM), indicating that cysteine and selenocysteine residues in the redox motifs of TrxR are critical for enzyme inactivation. This is supported by our findings that alkylation of reduced TrxR with biotin-conjugated iodoacetamide, which selectively reacts with selenol or thiol groups on proteins, was inhibited by NAPQI. LC-MS/MS analysis confirmed that NAPQI modified cysteine 59, cysteine 497, and selenocysteine 498 residues in the redox centers of TrxR, resulting in enzyme inhibition. In addition to disulfide reduction, TrxR is also known to mediate chemical redox cycling. We found that menadione redox cycling by TrxR was markedly less sensitive to NAPQI than disulfide reduction, suggesting that TrxR mediates these reactions via distinct mechanisms. These data demonstrate that APAP-reactive metabolites target TrxR, suggesting an additional mechanism by which APAP induces oxidative stress and hepatotoxicity.
The pathomechanism of nicotine-induced nystagmus (NIN) is unknown. The aim of this study was to delineate brain structures that are involved in NIN generation. Eight healthy volunteers inhaled nicotine in darkness during a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment; eye movements were registered using video-oculography. NIN correlated with blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) activity levels in a midpontine site in the posterior basis pontis. NIN-induced midpontine activation may correspond to activation of the dorsomedial pontine nuclei and the nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis, structures known to participate in the generation of multidirectional saccades and smooth pursuit eye movements.
Levosimendan (Simdax) is a new inodilator developed specifically for the treatment of decompensated heart failure. Its inotropic mechanism is based on calcium sensitisation of myofilaments and its vasodilator actions are related to the opening of ATP-dependent K-channels in the vasculature. Since the inotropic action of levosimendan does not require an increase in cytosolic free calcium, it is less arrhythmogenic than the conventional parenteral beta-agonist inotropes or PDE III inhibiting drugs. Due to the calcium-dependent binding of the drug to troponin C, levosimendan, unlike some other calcium-sensitising drugs, does not prolong diastolic relaxation of the myocytes but acts in synergy with the intramyocellular calcium levels. Furthermore, due to the anti-ischaemic effects of the K-channel opening in myocytes, levosimendan can be used during myocardial ischaemia. In clinical trials, levosimendan has dose-dependently increased cardiac output and decreased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in patients with heart failure. On the other hand, it also increases heart rate and decreases blood pressure in these patients. In major clinical trials, where patients with decompensated heart failure have been treated with levosimendan, a reduction of overall mortality in comparison to placebo or dobutamine has been seen. This interesting finding should be verified in prospective outcome trials. In any case, the safety of levosimendan during myocardial ischaemia makes this drug valuable in the short-term treatment of decompensated heart failure.
To test the effect of selegiline, a specific monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor, on the cerebral metabolic and euphorigenic effects of cocaine in experienced users, eight cocaine-dependent (CD) subjects were evaluated using a within-subjects design. Each subject participated in two pairs of [F-18]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) scans (baseline scan followed 24 h later by a second scan obtained in conjunction with a 40-mg cocaine infusion) performed before and after a 1-week period of daily treatment with 10 mg selegiline administered orally. The hippocampus and amygdala were evaluated because of their hypothesized involvement in the addiction process, and the thalamus was evaluated as a comparison region. Following 7 days of selegiline treatment, the magnitude of the subjective euphoria ("high") produced by cocaine infusion was reduced by 40% (cocaine by selegiline interaction F = 7.15, df = 1.21, p = .014). Selegiline treatment also altered glucose utilization (normalized against whole brain counts) in the two limbic regions, but not the thalamus. In the amygdala, the effects of cocaine differed, depending upon whether or not patients were being treated with selegiline (cocaine by selegiline interaction F = 4.67, df = 1,19.8, p = .043). A different effect was observed in the hippocampus, where selegiline treatment decreased metabolic activity irrespective of whether cocaine was given (main effect F = 7.70, df = 1.20, p = .012). The concomitant changes in both the subjective experience of the "high" and normalized amygdala glucose utilization after selegiline treatment, suggest that a relationship exists between cocaine-induced euphoria and limbic metabolism. The data suggest that selegiline may be a useful adjunct in the treatment of cocaine dependence.
To investigate the beneficial effects of oral oxymetholone on IR in hemodialysis (HD) patients by increasing skeletal muscle function and stimulating myocyte glucose uptake and metabolism.
In a randomized, controlled double-blind study, 44 patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups: a treatment group that received oxymetholone 50 mg orally twice daily and a control group that received placebo twice daily for 24 weeks. IR was calculated by using HOMA, and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry was used to determine body composition. All patients were encouraged to walk at least one kilometer daily and were monitored by the Barthel index activity score.
25 men (57%) and 19 women (43%) were studied. 23 subjects were in the control group, and 21 subjects were in the treatment group. The mean age of patients and the duration of dialysis were 43.5 +/- 9.9 years and 92.8 +/- 37.8 months, respectively. After treatment, the HOMA index and body fat mass (FM) were significantly decreased in the treatment group compared to those in the control group (10.8 +/- 16.4 vs. 3.1 +/- 4.5; p < 0.05 and 1.73 +/- 2.77 vs. 0.40 +/- 1.12 kg; p < 0.05, respectively). Concurrently, the mean change of fat free mass (FFM) in the treatment group was higher than that in the control group (3.24 +/- 1.74 vs. 0.65 +/- 1.21 kg, p < 0.05). Two patients in the treatment group experienced an elevation in serum liver enzymes (9.52%).
HD patients treated with short-term oral oxymetholone showed an increase in insulin sensitivity when compared to the placebo group, and this effect depended on changes in FFM and FM.
Nevirapine (NVP) treatment is associated with a significant incidence of liver injury. We developed an anti-NVP antiserum to determine the presence and pattern of covalent binding of NVP to mouse, rat, and human hepatic tissues. Covalent binding to hepatic microsomes from male C57BL/6 mice and male Brown Norway rats was detected on Western blots; the major protein had a mass of ~55 kDa. Incubation of NVP with rat CYP3A1 and 2C11 or human CYP3A4 also led to covalent binding. Treatment of female Brown Norway rats or C57BL/6 mice with NVP led to extensive covalent binding to a wide range of proteins. Co-treatment with 1-aminobenzotriazole dramatically changed the pattern of binding. The covalent binding of 12-hydroxy-NVP, the pathway that leads to a skin rash, was much less than that of NVP, both in vitro and in vivo. An analogue of NVP in which the methyl hydrogens were replaced by deuterium also produced less covalent binding than NVP. These data provide strong evidence that covalent binding of NVP in the liver is due to a quinone methide formed by oxidation of the methyl group. Attempts were made to develop an animal model of NVP-induced liver injury in mice. There was a small increase in ALT in some NVP-treated male C57BL/6 mice at 3 weeks that resolved despite continued treatment. Male Cbl-b(-/-) mice dosed with NVP had an increase in ALT of >200 U/L, which also resolved despite continued treatment. Liver histology in these animals showed focal areas of complete necrosis, while most of the liver appeared normal. This is a different pattern from the histology of NVP-induced liver injury in humans. This is the first study to report hepatic covalent binding of NVP and also liver injury in mice. It is likely that the quinone methide metabolite is responsible for NVP-induced liver injury.
We report an unusual complication of orlistat, a gastrointestinal and pancreatic lipase inhibitor used in the treatment of obesity. A 66-year-old man with history of Type 2 diabetes and obesity presented to our hospital with recurrent episodes of hypoglycemia over 2 weeks. His medications included twice daily biphasic insulin and 3 months previously he was prescribed orlistat as treatment for his obesity. On admission he was in acute renal failure with a creatinine concentration of 405 micromol/l. His renal function 4 months previously was normal. Urinalysis revealed neither blood nor protein, but microscopy of his urine revealed moderate amounts of crystals. A renal biopsy revealed normal glomeruli, but there were features of acute tubular necrosis associated with oxalate crystal deposition. Over the next few days his renal function declined and needed hemodialysis. 3 weeks after his admission he continued to require hemodialysis and he unexpectedly had a cardiac arrest and died. Our patient had acute tubular necrosis secondary to orlistat-induced acute oxalate nephropathy. The identification of high risk patients treated with orlistat and regular monitoring of their renal function might reduce the risk of renal failure due to acute oxalate nephropathy.
In a series of trials, doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) and mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone, doxorubicin, bleomycin, and vinblastine (MOPP/ABV) have been identified as effective treatments for Hodgkin's disease. We compared these regimens as initial chemotherapy for Hodgkin's disease.
Adult patients (N = 856) with advanced Hodgkin's disease were randomly assigned to treatment with ABVD or MOPP/ABV. The major end points were failure-free and overall survival, life-threatening acute toxicities, and serious long-term toxicities, including cardiomyopathy, pulmonary toxicity, myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), and secondary malignancies.
The rates of complete remission (76% v 80%, P =.16), failure-free survival at 5 years (63% v 66%, P =.42), and overall survival at 5 years (82% v 81%, P =.82) were similar for ABVD and MOPP/ABV, respectively. Clinically significant acute pulmonary and hematologic toxicity were more common with MOPP/ABV (P =.060 and.001, respectively). There was no difference in cardiac toxicity. There were 24 deaths attributed to initial treatment: nine with ABVD and 15 with MOPP/ABV (P =.057). There have been 18 second malignancies associated with ABVD and 28 associated with MOPP/ABV (P =.13). Thirteen patients have developed MDS or acute leukemia: 11 were initially treated with MOPP/ABV, and two were initially treated with ABVD but subsequently received MOPP-containing regimens and radiotherapy before developing leukemia (P =.011).
ABVD and the MOPP/ABV hybrid are effective therapies for Hodgkin's disease. MOPP/ABV is associated with a greater incidence of acute toxicity, MDS, and leukemia. ABVD should be considered the standard regimen for treatment of advanced Hodgkin's disease.
Agents of the thiazolidinedione drug family can terminally differentiate human liposarcoma cells in vitro by activating genes responsible for lipocyte differentiation. One study has shown clinical activity of troglitazone treatment in liposarcoma patients. We sought to find further evidence for this result. In all, 12 patients with a liposarcoma received rosiglitazone 4 mg b.d. They were followed clinically and with repeated biopsies for histological and biological studies. At the molecular level the mRNA translation of three genes that are induced by this treatment (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), adipsin and fatty acid binding protein) was determined. Nine patients were eligible for evaluation. One patient had to stop treatment due to hepatotoxicity. The mean time to progression was 6 months (2 - 16 months), with one patient still on treatment. We did not see any significant change in histologic appearance of the liposarcomas by the treatment. The level of gene expression changed significantly in two patients, but this did not result in a clinical response. Based on this study, rosiglitazone is not effective as an antitumoral drug in the treatment of liposarcomas. Increased PPARgamma activity does not correlate with the clinical evolution.
Serum aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP) was studied in 73 psoriatics receiving methotrexate and in 11 selected for trial with methotrexate or etretinate. 72 of the patients on methotrexate were also investigated with liver biopsies. The highest PIIINP value was found in a patient with ascites and her PIIINP decreased after medication was discontinued. Psoriatics with fibrosis or cirrhosis in their liver biopsies had a significantly higher mean PIIINP than patients without fibrosis, who had the same mean value as psoriatics prior to treatment. Based upon the individual data together with data from serial PIIINP investigations of 11 patients studied during treatment, it is concluded that PIIINP can be utilized as a valuable non-invasive test for liver fibrogenesis in methotrexate-treated psoriatics. PIIINP is not specific for the liver, but the study indicates that the number of liver biopsies can be reduced in psoriatics on methotrexate who have normal levels of PIIINP.
The effect of diethylstilboestrol diphosphate (DES) and polyestradiol phosphate (PES) on the serum lipid levels of 40 prostatic cancer patients was investigated during a long-term follow-up. In patients treated with DES serum triglyceride levels elevated significantly whereas changes in serum cholesterol and total lipid contents were not significant. In patients treated with PES no significant changes in serum triglyceride, cholesterol and total lipid levels were found. Nineteen out of 40 (48%) of patients developed cardiovasculat complications during the trial; 11 had cerebrovascular attacks, 5 coronary occlusion and 3 thromboembolism in the leg. There was a significant increase in serum triglyceride levels in all patients who developed vascular disorders, whereas the changes in serum cholesterol and total lipids were not significant. The results suggest a possible association between the increase of serum triglycerides and the development of thromboembolic complications.
We report our experience with the use of enoximone in 5 patients with severely depressed preoperative myocardial function who underwent cardiac surgery. In patients 1 and 2, enoximone was administered as the inotropic of choice before cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and a substantial improvement of cardiac index was achieved; in these patients, enoximone administration after CPB permitted to overcome low cardiac output which persisted after high dose dobutamine in patient 1, and in patient 2 right ventricular contractility improved. In patient 3 the use of enoximone permitted the discontinuation of CPB, which had not been previously possible with the association of dopamine and dobutamine. In this patient, adrenaline perfusion improved the low cardiac output syndrome but resulted in poorly tolerated side effects. However, in patient 4 the administration of enoximone during pre-CPB did not improve in a reduction in filling pressures without an increase in the cardiac index because the patient was hypovolemic. In patient 5, the administration of enoximone permitted to interrupt the infusion of dobutamine and to reduce the dose of sodium nitroprusside, which had resulted in significant tachycardia, with increased myocardial contractility and a reduction of vascular peripheral and pulmonary resistances. We conclude that enoximone, single or in association with other inotropics, should be considered a drug of choice in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who develop a low cardiac output syndrome.
The authors report 2 cases of premature neonates who had enterocutaneous fistula complicating necrotizing enterocolitis. Pulmonary hypertension developed after administration of a somatostatin analogue, octreotide, to enhance resolution of the fistula. The authors discuss the mechanism of the occurrence of this complication and recommend caution of its use in high-risk premature neonates.
The purpose of this prospective study was to determine the effects of high-dose propofol on the incidence of fasciculations and myalgia, and to evaluate changes in creatine kinase levels following the administration of succinylcholine in 90 women who underwent laparoscopy.
Patients were randomly assigned to one of three groups. Induction of anesthesia was performed with thiopentone 5 mg kg(-1) in Group I (n = 30), propofol 2 mg kg(-1) in Group II (n = 30), and propofol 3.5 mg kg(-1) in Group III (n = 30). Then succinylcholine 1 mg kg(-1) was administered to the patients for intubation.
Fasciculation was absent in 20% of Group III patients, and no vigorous fasciculation occurred in this group. Furthermore, the severity of fasciculation in Group III was significantly lower than in the other two groups (P = 0.01). Seventy per cent of patients had no myalgia in Group III, 39.2% in Group II and 37% in Group I (P = 0.007). Severity of myalgia was also significantly lower in Group III compared with the other two groups (P = 0.011). Post-operative creatine kinase levels were significantly higher than their baseline values in Groups I and II (P < 0.0001).
Administration of propofol 3.5 mg kg-1 is effective in reducing fasciculations and myalgia after succinylcholine.
The efficacy and safety of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in combination with CsA and prednisolone for the treatment of acute and chronic GVHD (aGVHD and cGVHD, respectively) after BMT and PBSCT from HLA-mismatched and -matched donors was evaluated in an open single center trial. Twenty-four patients, 17-48 years of age, with acute (n = 17) and chronic GVHD (n = 7) were treated with 2 g MMF daily in addition to CsA and prednisolone. Overall grade improvement of aGVHD was found in 11 of 17 (65%) patients treated with MMF. MMF therapy in the treatment of cGVHD led to moderate improvement in three of six patients with limited cGVHD. The most common adverse hematologic events of MMF were leukopenia (n = 6), anemia (n = 4) and thrombocytopenia (n = 3). Hematological adverse events were not severe and did not require the discontinuation of MMF. In this preliminary study, we have shown that MMF can be used safely for the treatment of aGVHD. In addition, the MMF therapy resulted in significant dose reduction of prednisolone for the treatment of GVHD.
We have currently studied the changes induced by administration of a fructose-rich diet (FRD) to normal rats in the mass and the endocrine function of abdominal (omental) adipose tissue (AAT). Rats were fed ad libitum a standard commercial chow and tap water, either alone (control diet, CD) or containing fructose (10%, w/vol) (FRD). Three weeks after treatment, circulating metabolic markers and leptin release from adipocytes of AAT were measured. Plasma free fatty acids (FFAs), leptin, adiponectin, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) levels were significantly higher in FRD than in CD rats. AAT mass was greater in FRD than in CD rats and their adipocytes were larger, they secreted more leptin and showed impaired insulin sensitivity. While leptin mRNA expression increased in AAT from FRD rats, gene expression of insulin receptor substrate, IRS1 and IRS2 was significantly reduced. Our study demonstrates that administration of a FRD significantly affects insulin sensitivity and several AAT endocrine/metabolic functions. These alterations could be part of a network of interacting abnormalities triggered by FRD-induced oxidative stress at the AAT level. In view of the impaired glucose tolerance observed in FRD rats, these alterations could play a key role in both the development of metabolic syndrome (MS) and beta-cell failure.
