Methotrexate (MTX) inhibits the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase, which in turn limits the body's ability to perform transmethylation reactions. This study examined the hypothesis that the consequent deficiency of an important methylated compound, choline, may have contributed to the MTX-induced fatty change in the liver of W rats. Groups of rats were given MTX alone or MTX plus choline in varying dose combinations. All groups but one receiving the combined treatment showed a significantly lower triglyceride concentration in their livers and much less visible hepatocytic fat on histologic examination than did those given MTX alone. The protective effect of choline on the liver was dose related, the unaffected group having received a very small amount. Growth rate, survival, and hematopoietic depression due to MTX were unaltered by choline administration.
To study the effects of unilateral stereotactic pallidotomy performed without microelectrode recording for advanced Parkinson's disease.
Stereotactic coordinates were calculated by comparing preoperative inversion recovery MRI sequences with intraoperative CT scans. Conventional stereotactic stimulation techniques were employed to confirm correct probe placement. Patients were assessed using a modified CAPIT protocol with the off-state UPDRS motor score as the primary efficacy measure.
A statistically significant decline in off-state UPDRS motor scores occurred at 2months (21% improvement in 32 patients) and also at 1year postoperatively (30% improvement in 12 patients). Levodopa-induced dyskinesias on the side contralateral to surgery were reduced 97% in the cohort with 1year of follow-up. No deleterious effects of surgery on global neuropsychological functioning were seen. A major surgical complication (mild but persistent hemiparesis) occurred in one patient.
We believe that stereotactic pallidotomy can be performed safely and effectively without microelectrode recording when coordinates are calculated using CT with comparison to preoperative MRI sequences.
Seventy-five patients with stage D-2 prostate cancer refractory to orchiectomy have been entered in a controlled trial to test whether androgen priming enhances the efficacy of chemotherapy. All patients are treated with aminoglutethimide and hydrocortisone as a means of achieving medical adrenalectomy and are given cyclic i.v. chemotherapy with cytoxan, adriamycin and 5-fluorouracil. Patients in the stimulation arm (N = 39) receive, in addition, fluoxymesterone (5 mg p.o. b.i.d.) for 3 days before and on the day of chemotherapy. A similar response rate was observed in the stimulation and control arm (83% vs 74% respectively) when the analysis was restricted to evaluable patients. When all patients were included, a significantly higher response rate was observed in the control arm (64% vs 49%, P less than 0.05) as a result of the larger fraction of unevaluable patients in the stimulation arm (41% vs 14%). Median duration of response is 9 months in the stimulation and 10 months in the control arm. Median overall survival in the stimulation and control group is 12 months and 16 months respectively. Significant toxicity consisting of exacerbation of bone pain and, in two patients, development of reversible spinal cord compression was observed following androgen priming. Our results suggest that combined medical adrenalectomy and chemotherapy are highly effective in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer. Thus far, no additional benefit has been observed with androgen priming.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene that cause loss of function of the CFTR channel on the apical surface of epithelial cells. The major CF-causing mutation, F508del-CFTR, is misfolded, retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, and degraded. Small molecule corrector compounds have been identified using high throughput screens, which partially rescue the trafficking defect of F508del-CFTR, allowing a fraction of the mutant protein to escape endoplasmic reticulum retention and traffic to the plasma membrane, where it exhibits partial function as a cAMP-regulated chloride channel. A subset of such corrector compounds binds directly to the mutant protein, prompting the hypothesis that they rescue the biosynthetic defect by inducing improved protein conformation. We tested this hypothesis directly by evaluating the consequences of a corrector compound on the conformation of each nucleotide binding domain (NBD) in the context of the full-length mutant protein in limited proteolytic digest studies. Interestingly, we found that VRT-325 was capable of partially restoring compactness in NBD1. However, VRT-325 had no detectable effect on the conformation of the second half of the molecule. In comparison, ablation of the di-arginine sequence, R(553)XR(555) (F508del-KXK-CFTR), modified protease susceptibility of NBD1, NBD2, and the full-length protein. Singly, each intervention led to a partial correction of the processing defect. Together, these interventions restored processing of F508del-CFTR to near wild type. Importantly, however, a defect in NBD1 conformation persisted, as did a defect in channel activation after the combined interventions. Importantly, this defect in channel activation can be fully corrected by the addition of the potentiator, VX-770.
A 36 year old male weight training enthusiast suffered several syncopal episodes. An electrocardiogram confirmed atrial fibrillation with normal ventricular response. The patient admitted to taking anabolic steroids and bromocriptine. The atrial fibrillation was considered to be due to bromocriptine misuse.
Cardiac hypertrophy by activation of the beta-adrenergic receptor (beta AR) is mediated more efficiently by the beta1-AR than by the beta2-AR. We investigated the signalling mechanism by which the beta1-AR mediates cardiac hypertrophy.
Experiments were performed in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. Hypertrophy was determined by the protein/DNA content and atrial natriuretic factor transcription. Phosphorylation of Akt and Src was assessed by immunoblotting. Isoproterenol (ISO, 10 microM), a non-selective beta-AR agonist, caused selective downregulation of the beta1-AR (control beta1 vs. beta2: 35 vs. 65%, Bmax 78 +/- 4 fmol/mg; 4 h, 10 vs. 90%, 61 +/- 5 fmol/mg). Concanavalin A (Con A, 0.5 microg/mL), an inhibitor of endocytosis, prevented downregulation of beta1-ARs by ISO treatment (4 h, 35 vs. 65%, 73 +/- 8 fmol/mg), suggesting that beta1-ARs selectively undergo endocytosis. Interference with beta1-AR endocytosis by Con A, carboxyl terminal peptide of beta-AR kinase-1, dominant negative (DN) beta-arrestin-1, or DN dynamin inhibited beta-adrenergic hypertrophy, suggesting that the endocytosis machinery plays a key role in mediating beta-adrenergic hypertrophy. Activation of Akt by the beta1-AR was blocked by inhibition of the endocytosis machinery, suggesting that endocytosis mediates activation of Akt. Akt plays a critical role in beta-adrenergic hypertrophy, since DN Akt blocked ISO-induced hypertrophy. beta-Adrenergic activation of Akt is mediated by Src, which associates with the endocytosis machinery and is necessary and sufficient to mediate beta-adrenergic hypertrophy.
Activation of the endocytosis machinery is required for activation of Akt, which, in turn, critically mediates beta1-AR-induced cardiac hypertrophy.
The thyroid transcription factor (TTF)-1 has an essential role in lung morphogenesis and development. It is involved in the transcription of surfactant proteins (SP), which are critical in respiratory function. Neonates with congenital diaphragmatic hernia die of respiratory failure caused by pulmonary hypoplasia with associated biochemical immaturity. To gain new insights into the causes of this disorder and the effect of prenatal hormonal treatment on reducing mortality in these infants, we evaluated the expression of TTF-1 as marker of lung morphogenesis and SP-B as marker of lung maturity. Using a rat model of lung immaturity, we show that TTF-1 and SP-B messenger RNA (mRNA) levels are drastically reduced in congenital lung hypoplasia. Interestingly, prenatal dexamethasone (Dex) treatment increased both TTF-1 and SP-B mRNAs over control levels when administered to rats with lung hypoplasia, but it had no effect on TTF-1 or a moderate effect on SP-B mRNA when administered to control rats. TRH alone also increases TTF-1 and SP-B mRNA levels but to a lesser extent than Dex. When administered together with Dex, TRH counteracts the induction observed with the glucocorticoid. The decrease in TTF-1 mRNA levels in lung hypoplasia is paralleled by a down-regulation of TTF-1 protein levels, as well as by a decrease in the TTF-1/DNA complex when the TTF-1-binding site of the SP-B promoter was used as a probe. Both parameters were reestablished after glucocorticoid treatment. Moreover, the regulation of TTF-1 gene expression described in this report is accompanied by the same regulation in its promoter activity, as demonstrated in transfection experiments performed in H-441 human lung-derived adenocarcinoma cells. In conclusion, our data demonstrate, for the first time, that lung hypoplasia and the associated respiratory dysfunction caused by SP-B deficiency are caused, in part, by down-regulation of TTF-1 gene expression. The observations that prenatal glucocorticoid treatment induces the expression of TTF-1 supports routine in utero glucocorticoid treatment of patients expected to have lung hypoplasia.
Neglected tropical disease drug discovery requires application of pragmatic and efficient methods for development of new therapeutic agents. In this report, we describe our target repurposing efforts for the essential phosphodiesterase (PDE) enzymes TbrPDEB1 and TbrPDEB2 of Trypanosoma brucei , the causative agent for human African trypanosomiasis (HAT). We describe protein expression and purification, assay development, and benchmark screening of a collection of 20 established human PDE inhibitors. We disclose that the human PDE4 inhibitor piclamilast, and some of its analogues, show modest inhibition of TbrPDEB1 and B2 and quickly kill the bloodstream form of the subspecies T. brucei brucei . We also report the development of a homology model of TbrPDEB1 that is useful for understanding the compound-enzyme interactions and for comparing the parasitic and human enzymes. Our profiling and early medicinal chemistry results strongly suggest that human PDE4 chemotypes represent a better starting point for optimization of TbrPDEB inhibitors than those that target any other human PDEs.
Paget's disease of bone (PDB) is a common disorder with a strong genetic component characterized by focal increases in bone turnover, which in some cases is caused by mutations in SQSTM1. To identify additional susceptibility genes, we performed a genome-wide association study in 750 individuals with PDB (cases) without SQSTM1 mutations and 1,002 controls and identified three candidate disease loci, which were then replicated in an independent set of 500 cases and 535 controls. The strongest signal was with rs484959 on 1p13 near the CSF1 gene (P = 5.38 x 10(-24)). Significant associations were also observed with rs1561570 on 10p13 within the OPTN gene (P = 6.09 x 10(-13)) and with rs3018362 on 18q21 near the TNFRSF11A gene (P = 5.27 x 10(-13)). These studies provide new insights into the pathogenesis of PDB and identify OPTN, CSF1 and TNFRSF11A as candidate genes for disease susceptibility.
We tested the hypothesis that long-term administration of the specific angiotensin II subtype 1 (AT1)-receptor blocker BMS-186295 will regress hypertrophy and modify left ventricular angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) expression in rats with ascending aortic stenosis.
Six weeks after surgery, rats with ascending aortic stenosis were randomized to receive either the AT1-receptor blocker BMS-186295 50 mg.kg-1.d-1 (n = 49), amlodipine 2.5 mg.kg-1.d-1 (n = 48) as a positive control for systemic vasodilation, or no drug (n = 48) and compared with sham-operated rats (n = 39). Drug treatment was continued for 15 weeks. Left ventricular ACE mRNA levels were measured by ribonuclease protection assay. The left ventricular/body weight ratio was increased 43% in hearts from rats with untreated left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) versus control hearts (P < .05). However, there was no difference in either the left ventricular/body weight ratio (2.78 +/- 0.08 versus 2.81 +/- 0.20 mg/g; P = NS) or myocyte cross-sectional area in the AT1-blocker-treated versus untreated LVH hearts. Amlodipine also showed no effect on regression of hypertrophy. In vivo left ventricular systolic pressure was significantly higher in untreated LVH versus sham-operated rats (193 +/- 8 versus 118 +/- 4 mm Hg; P < .05), and there was a similar severe elevation of left ventricular systolic pressure in the AT1-blocker- and amlodipine-treated LVH groups (189 +/- 9 and 188 +/- 16 mm Hg; P = NS versus untreated LVH). In vivo left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was higher in the untreated LVH than in the sham-operated rats (14.8 +/- 2.3 versus 7.0 +/- 0.5 mm Hg; P < .05). Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was lower in the AT1-blocker-treated (11.0 +/- 1.7 mm Hg) and amlodipine-treated rats (11.5 +/- 1.8 mm Hg) and was similar to left ventricular end-diastolic pressure in the sham-operated rats (P = NS). Left ventricular ACE mRNA levels were elevated in untreated LVH rats but were normalized in both the AT1-blocker-treated rats and amlodipine-treated rats.
Long-term AT1-receptor blockade did not regress LVH in rats with persistent systolic pressure overload due to ascending aortic stenosis. However, both AT1-receptor blockade and amlodipine improved in vivo left ventricular end-diastolic pressure in association with the normalization of left ventricular ACE mRNA levels.
Ergotamine is used to abort or prevent migraine. The most common adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, myalgia, diarrhea or mouth dryness, and the contraindications are peripheral vascular disease because of its vasospastic effect, and liver disease because the drug is metabolized in this organ. Its effects on the heart are less frequent and less well known. We report two patients on long-term ergotamine treatment who developed valvular disorders.
Diethylene glycol (DEG), a solvent and chemical intermediate, can produce an acute toxic syndrome, the hallmark of which is acute renal failure due to cortical tubular degeneration and proximal tubular necrosis. DEG is metabolized to two primary metabolites, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (2-HEAA) and diglycolic acid (DGA), which are believed to be the proximate toxicants. The precise mechanism of toxicity has yet to be elucidated, so these studies were designed to determine which metabolite was responsible for the proximal tubule cell death. Human proximal tubule (HPT) cells in culture, obtained from normal cortical tissue and passaged 3-6 times, were incubated with increasing concentrations of DEG, 2-HEAA, or DGA separately and in combination for 48 h at pH 6 or 7.4, and various parameters of necrotic and apoptotic cell death were measured. DEG and 2-HEAA did not produce any cell death. DGA produced dose-dependent necrosis at concentrations above 25 mmol/l. DGA did not affect caspase-3 activity and increased annexin V staining only in propidium iodide-stained cells. Hence, DGA induced necrosis, not apoptosis, as corroborated by severe depletion of cellular adenosine triphosphate levels. DGA is structurally similar to citric acid cycle intermediates that are taken up by specific transporters in kidney cells. HPT cells, incubated with N-(p-amylcinnamoyl)anthranilic acid, a sodium dicarboxylate-1 transporter inhibitor showed significantly decreased cell death compared with DGA alone. These studies demonstrate that DGA is the toxic metabolite responsible for DEG-induced proximal tubular necrosis and suggest a possible transporter-mediated uptake of DGA leading to toxic accumulation and cellular dysfunction.
The psychiatric side effects of interferon, often responsible for dose reduction or treatment discontinuation, represent a major limitation in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC).
To prospectively assess the impact on adherence and sustained virological response (SVR) of the occurrence of psychiatric side effects during peginterferon and ribavirin therapy for CHC.
Ninety-eight consecutive treatment-naïve CHC patients receiving a standard course of peginterferon plus ribavirin were systematically screened for psychiatric side effects, using DSM-IV, at baseline and both during and after treatment.
Psychiatric side effects occurred in 38 patients (39%), mostly within the first 12 weeks (87%), and always consisted of mood disorders. Overall, 68% of patients achieved an SVR (71% of patients with mood disorders and 68% of those without; P = N.S.). Peginterferon and ribavirin dose reductions did not differ between patients with mood disorders and those without (46% vs. 37%, respectively; P = N.S. and 13% vs. 22%, respectively; P = N.S.). Anti-viral therapy had to be discontinued in four patients (nonresponse: two, hyperthyroidism: one, psychiatric event: one).
Early detection and appropriate management of psychiatric side effects during peginterferon and ribavirin therapy for CHC allow optimizing adherence and virological efficacy.
Over-expression of cleaved cyclin E in breast tumors is closely associated with tumor progression and resistance to antiestrogens. 17β-Estradiol (E2) has been recently shown to induce cyclin E processing in breast cancer cells. Tamoxifen has been used in patients with estrogen-sensitive breast cancer, yet resistance to antiestrogens and recurrence will appear in some of the patients after its continued use. We therefore addressed possible effects of tamoxifen on the generation of cleaved cyclin E and its signal mechanism(s) in estrogen-responsive MCF-7 breast cancer cells that express both G protein-coupled protein (GPR) 30 and estrogen receptor α (ERα). 4-Hydroxytamoxifen (OHT, tamoxifen's active form) failed to prevent E2-induced proteolysis of cyclin E and migration, but rather triggered cyclin E cleavage coincident with augmented migration. OHT-induced cyclin E truncation also occurred in SK-BR-3 cells that express GPR30 and lack ERα, but not in MDA-MB-231 cells that express neither GPR30 nor ERα. G1, a specific GPR 30 agonist, caused dramatic proteolysis of cyclin E and enhanced migration. Furthermore, OHT-stimulated cleavage of cyclin E and migration were tremendously attenuated by G15, a GPR30 antagonist, or siRNA against GPR30. In addition, inhibitors for EGFR or ERK1/2 remarkably suppressed OHT-induced truncation of cyclin E, suggesting involvement of EGFR signaling. Collectively, our data indicate that OHT contributes to the production of proteolyzed cyclin E via GPR30 with augmented migration in MCF-7 cells.
Riddelliine is a naturally occurring pyrrolizidine alkaloid that induces liver hemangiosarcomas in rats and mice. We previously reported higher levels of DNA adducts in liver endothelial cells than in liver parenchymal cells of riddelliine-treated mice and rats [Cancer Lett. 193 (2003) 119], suggesting that the tumor specificity is due to higher levels of DNA damage in the cells that form hemangosarcomas. In the present study, we evaluated the cell-specificity of riddelliine mutagenicity in rat liver. Female transgenic Big Blue rats were treated by gavage with 0.3 mg riddelliine per kg body weight, 5 days a week for 12 weeks. One day after the last treatment, the rats were sacrificed and liver parenchymal and endothelial cell fractions were isolated and purified. DNA was extracted from the cell fractions and used to assay for mutant frequency (MF) in the cII transgene. While there was no difference in the cII MFs of liver parenchymal cells in control and riddelliine-treated rats, the cII MF of liver endothelial cells from treated rats was significantly greater than the cII MF of endothelial cells from control rats. Molecular analysis of the mutants in liver endothelial cells indicated that G:C-->T:A transversion, a mutation that is characteristically induced by riddelliine, accounted for only 9% of all mutations in control rats, but made up 17% of mutations in treated rats. In contrast, G:C-->A:T transition, the major mutation in control rats where it made up 54% of all mutations, was reduced to 40% of mutations in riddelliine-treated rats. These results suggest that the relatively high mutagenicity of riddelliine in rat liver endothelial cells may be partially responsible for the tumorigenic specificity of this agent.
Nitrofurazone, a veterinary antimicrobial drug, causes mammary and ovarian tumors in animals. We investigated the mechanisms of carcinogenesis by nitrofurazone. Nitrofurazone significantly stimulated the proliferation of estrogen-dependent MCF-7 cells. Nitrofurazone caused Cu(II)-mediated damage to 32P-5'-end-labeled DNA fragments obtained from human genes only when cytochrome P450 reductase was added. DNA damage was inhibited by catalase and bathocuproine. DNA damage was preferably induced at the 5'-ACG-3' sequence, a hotspot of the p53 gene. These findings suggest that nitrofurazone metabolites are involved in tumor initiation through oxidative DNA damage and nitrofurazone itself enhances cell proliferation, leading to promotion and/or progression in carcinogenesis.
Aldose reductase (AKR1B1), which catalyzes the reduction of glucose to sorbitol and lipid aldehydes to lipid alcohols, has been shown to be involved in secondary diabetic complications including cataractogenesis. Rats have high levels of AKR1B1 in lenses and readily develop diabetic cataracts, whereas mice have very low levels of AKR1B1 in their lenses and are not susceptible to hyperglycemic cataracts. Studies with transgenic mice that over-express AKR1B1 indicate that it is the key protein for the development of diabetic complications including diabetic cataract. However, no such studies were performed in genetically altered AKR1B1 rats. Hence, we developed siRNA-based AKR1B1 knockdown rats (ARKO) using the AKR1B1-siRNA-pSuper vector construct. Genotyping analysis suggested that more than 90% of AKR1B1 was knocked down in the littermates. Interestingly, all the male animals were born dead and only 3 female rats survived. Furthermore, all 3 female animals were not able to give birth to F1 generation. Hence, we could not establish an AKR1B1 rat knockdown colony. However, we examined the effect of AKR1B1 knockdown on sugar-induced lens opacification in ex vivo. Our results indicate that rat lenses obtained from AKR1B1 knockdown rats were resistant to high glucose-induced lens opacification as compared to wild-type (WT) rat lenses. Biochemical analysis of lens homogenates showed that the AKR1B1 activity and sorbitol levels were significantly lower in sugar-treated AKR1B1 knockdown rat lenses as compared to WT rat lenses treated with 50mM glucose. Our results thus confirmed the significance of AKR1B1 in the mediation of sugar-induced lens opacification and indicate the use of AKR1B1 inhibitors in the prevention of cataractogenesis.
The management of chronic cardiac failure, a salt-sensitive state, frequently includes administration of a loop diuretic to enhance urinary Na excretion. We hypothesized that a period of timed semirecumbency (vis-à-vis upright posture) would enhance the natriuresis that accompanies oral furosemide dosing in patients with compensated cardiac failure.
Four ambulatory patients with compensated chronic cardiac failure (NYHA Class III) of ischemic and nonischemic origin and systolic dysfunction (ejection fraction <35%), who were receiving a stable regimen of oral furosemide and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, were enrolled into the study. In the institution's Clinical Research Center, we monitored and compared urine flow rate (mL/min) and Na excretion rate (mEq/hr) in each patient in response to two different protocols. Protocol 1 consisted of an initial 90-minute period of bedrest followed by the patient's oral furosemide dose and 180 minutes of upright activity and a subsequent 90-minute period of bedrest. Protocol 2 was similar, with the exception that furosemide dosing was given after upright activity and immediately prior to the second period of bedrest.
With each patient serving as his or her own control, both urine flow rate and urinary Na excretion rate were markedly increased when furosemide was given prior to bedrest as compared to its dosing prior to upright activity.
In patients with compensated chronic cardiac failure, the natriuresis that accompanies oral furosemide dosing is enhanced when given just prior to a period of timed semirecumbency. This approach represents a more optimal use of this loop diuretic in patients with compensated heart failure.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are a widely prescribed class of drugs, and their usage worldwide is increasing. Although well-tolerated, there have been case reports and a recent case series implicating these drugs in acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) and progression to acute renal failure (ARF). The aim of this study was to investigate how widespread this complication is in Australia, to identify which PPIs are implicated, and to establish whether PPI-induced AIN is a class effect.
We undertook a retrospective case review of potential cases at 2 teaching hospitals and a review of registry data from the Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia (TGA). Parameters sought included the drug implicated, concurrent medications, symptoms, signs, serum creatinine, and time of onset after prescription.
We identified 18 cases of biopsy-proven PPI-induced AIN causing ARF in the retrospective case review, which is the largest hospital-based case series to date. The TGA registry data identified an additional 31 cases of "biopsy proven interstitial nephritis." An additional 10 cases of "suspected interstitial nephritis," 20 cases of "unclassified acute renal failure," and 26 cases of "renal impairment" were also identified. All 5 commercially available PPIs were implicated in these cases.
With the ever more widespread use of this class of medications, PPI-induced AIN is likely to become more frequent. There is now evidence to incriminate all the commercially available PPIs, suggesting there is a class effect. Failure to recognize this entity might have catastrophic long-term consequences including chronic kidney disease. Increased awareness might facilitate more rapid diagnosis and management of this potentially reversible condition.
Linezolid is the first drug in a new class of synthetic antimicrobials, the oxazolidinones, to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Linezolid is active against methicillin- and vancomycin-resistant gram-positive microorganisms. We describe 2 patients who developed peripheral neuropathy after prolonged treatment with linezolid. Linezolid-associated peripheral neuropathy has not been well documented. Most reported cases of linezolid-associated peripheral neuropathy have occurred in patients who took linezolid for a period longer than the recommended 28 or fewer days. Health care providers must be alert to the potential for serious adverse effects associated with linezolid use, including peripheral neuropathy.
The Framingham Heart Study records of participants with atrial fibrillation (AF) during 1980 and 1994 were retrospectively reviewed to determine the prevalence of warfarin and aspirin use in AF. Anticoagulant use increased significantly in the 393 men and women (mean ages 72.5 and 79.0 years, respectively) who developed AF over the observation period: aspirin use increased from 14% to 39% in men and from 19% to 33% in women, and warfarin use increased from 10% to 39% in men and from 17% to 38% in women. There were no significant gender differences in anticoagulant use (p = 0.61), but participants using warfarin were younger. A total of 65 participants (17%) had major bleeding complications <or=5 years after initial AF. Age was not a significant predictor of bleeding.
Deficiency of glycogen phosphorylase in the liver gives rise to glycogen-storage disease type VI (Hers disease; MIM 232700). We report the identification of the first mutations in PYGL, the gene encoding the liver isoform of glycogen phosphorylase, in three patients with Hers disease. These are two splice-site mutations and two missense mutations. A mutation of the 5' splice-site consensus of intron 14 causes the retention of intron 14 and the utilization of two illegitimate 5' splice sites, whereas a mutation of the 3' splice-site consensus of intron 4 causes the skipping of exon 5. Two missense mutations, N338S and N376K, both cause nonconservative replacements of amino acids that are absolutely conserved even in yeast and bacterial phosphorylases. We also report corrections of the PYGL coding sequence, sequence polymorphisms, and a partial PYGL gene structure with introns in the same positions as in PYGM, the gene of the muscle isoform of phosphorylase. Our findings demonstrate that PYGL mutations cause Hers disease, and they may improve laboratory diagnosis of deficiencies of the liver phosphorylase system.
Marshall syndrome is a rare, autosomal dominant skeletal dysplasia that is phenotypically similar to the more common disorder Stickler syndrome. For a large kindred with Marshall syndrome, we demonstrate a splice-donor-site mutation in the COL11A1 gene that cosegregates with the phenotype. The G+1-->A transition causes in-frame skipping of a 54-bp exon and deletes amino acids 726-743 from the major triple-helical domain of the alpha1(XI) collagen polypeptide. The data support the hypothesis that the alpha1(XI) collagen polypeptide has an important role in skeletal morphogenesis that extends beyond its contribution to structural integrity of the cartilage extracellular matrix. Our results also demonstrate allelism of Marshall syndrome with the subset of Stickler syndrome families associated with COL11A1 mutations.
Eighty-seven patients with intractable hypertension received minoxidil for a mean duration of 27 months (range three months to five years). A significant reduction in mean outpatient blood pressure from 206/129 to 158/98 mmHg (p less than 0.001 for both systolic and diastolic values) was recorded after one month's treatment. In 26 patients who received minoxidil for four or more years a further reduction in mean blood pressure to 147/89 mmHg was achieved. The mean daily dose of minoxidil was 23 mg (range 2.5 to 60 mg). In all patients a beta adrenergic neurone blocker and a diuretic were prescribed with minoxidil to counteract tachycardia and fluid retention. Thirteen patients required the addition of a fourth hypotensive agent. The use of minoxidil led to simpler drug regimens with the majority of patients well controlled on twice daily or once daily schedules. Most patients commented spontaneously on a feeling of improved wellbeing while taking minoxidil which also appeared to be relatively free from side effects commonly encountered with other hypotensive drugs, particularly drowsiness, dizziness and impotence. Fluid retention of 7 kg or more occurred in 18 patients, more commonly in those with renal impairment, but could be controlled by increasing the dose or potency of diuretics. Four patients with end stage renal failure and one patient with normal renal function developed pericardial effusions. Hirsutism was universal and limited the usefulness of the drug in women. We currently recommend minoxidil for hypertensive men who diastolic blood pressure remains greater than or equal to 110 mmHg despite an adequate trial of a beta adrenergic neurone blocker, diuretic and an additional drug, or for patients who find the side effects of such therapy intolerable.
Sprague-Dawley rats received dietary admixtures containing 0.0, 0.25, 1.0 or 4.0% FD & C Red No. 3 (25 rats/sex/group) in a three-generation reproduction study. Each generation was bred twice and breeders for subsequent generations were selected after weaning of the second mating from each generation. There were no compound-related adverse effects on reproductive indices and no gross anomalies were observed. The body weights of parents and pups were significantly reduced (P less than 0.05) in all generations at the 4.0% dietary concentration. Maternal body-weight gain during gestation was frequently reduced in the 1.0 and 4.0% groups. The conservative no-observed-adverse-effect level established in this study was 0.25% (approximately 149 and 255 mg/kg body weight/day for males and females, respectively).
These experiments investigated the effects of the new ACTH4-9 analog ebiratide (Hoe 427) [H-Met(O2)-Glu-His-Phe-D-Lys-Phe-NH-(CH2)8-NH2 X 3 CH3COOH] on memory processes in mice and rats in five training tasks. With all five training and testing procedures (inhibitory avoidance test with ECS- or scopolamine-induced amnesia, up-hill avoidance, one-way shuttle box avoidance and eight-arm radial maze) ebiratide was most effective in a dose range of 1-10 micrograms/kg SC.
