We investigated the development of early neoplastic lesions preceding the appearance of kidney epithelial tumors in rats treated with a single iv injection of 35 mg/kg of streptozotocin (STZ). Most of these lesions were associated with segments of atrophied and regenerative nephrons surrounded by a thick basal membrane that appear precociously in chronic progressive nephropathy. Cytochemical periodic acid-Schiff, Alcian blue, and colloidal iron reactions did not indicate an excessive storage of glycogen or acid mucopolysaccharides in early neoplastic lesions and tumors. Quantitative cytochemistry of mitochondrial succinate, alpha-glycerophosphate, and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dehydrogenases revealed a shift in metabolism toward glycolysis in atrophied and regenerative nephrons as well as in early neoplastic lesions and tumors. These correlative cytomorphological and cytochemical findings raise the possibility that changes associated with the initial stages of chronic progressive nephrosis may provide favorable conditions for the selective growth of STZ-initiated cells that generate focal collections of proliferating cells and then progress to tumor growth. Tumor prevalence was remarkably constant in animals sacrificed 33, 48, and 54 wk after treatment, suggesting that the prominent inflammatory and scarring reaction later developing in the course of progressive nephrosis might contribute to control the growth of STZ-induced cancer.
Psychostimulants (methylphenidate and amphetamine salt) are the pharmacologic treatment of choice for children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. However, psychostimulants have been linked to a variety of vascular problems, including peripheral vasculopathy. This article describes four boys with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder who developed vasculopathy during treatment with psychostimulants.
The all-trans-retinoic acid (atRA) isomer, 9-cis-retinoic acid (9cRA), activates retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors (RXRs) in vitro. RARs control multiple genes, whereas RXRs serve as partners for RARs and other nuclear receptors that regulate metabolism. Physiological function has not been determined for 9cRA, because it has not been detected in serum or multiple tissues with analytically validated assays. Here, we identify 9cRA in mouse pancreas by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS), and show that 9cRA decreases with feeding and after glucose dosing and varies inversely with serum insulin. 9cRA reduces glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in mouse islets and in the rat β-cell line 832/13 within 15 min by reducing glucose transporter type 2 (Glut2) and glucokinase (GK) activities. 9cRA also reduces Pdx-1 and HNF4α mRNA expression, ∼8- and 80-fold, respectively: defects in Pdx-1 or HNF4α cause maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY4 and 1, respectively), as does a defective GK gene (MODY2). Pancreas β-cells generate 9cRA, and mouse models of reduced β-cell number, heterozygous Akita mice, and streptozotocin-treated mice have reduced 9cRA. 9cRA is abnormally high in glucose-intolerant mice, which have β-cell hypertropy, including mice with diet-induced obesity (DIO) and ob/ob and db/db mice. These data establish 9cRA as a pancreas-specific autacoid with multiple mechanisms of action and provide unique insight into GSIS.
Two patients had generalised convulsions which occurred several hours after anaesthesia supplemented with enflurane. One patient had to be treated for life threatening status epilepticus 7 hours after anaesthesia and the other had a myoclonic convulsion 17 hours after recovery from anaesthesia. Neither had any relevant pre-operative history of epilepsy or convulsions. Possible synergistic roles of the metabolite of atracurium, laudanosine, as well as of cephazolin and photic stimulation, are discussed.
The hemodynamic effects of a single oral dose of 20 mg of nifedipine were studied in 21 stable patients after an acute myocardial infarction before withdrawal of Swan-Ganz and intra-arterial catheters. The drug appears safe, and no significant untoward effects were noted. Significant hemodynamic changes were present between 15 and 120 minutes after ingestion with a peak at 60 minutes. Mean arterial pressure decreased from 81+/-2.7 (SEM) to 71+/-2.3 mm Hg (P<0.001), and systemic vascular resistances decreased from 1438+/-88 to 1144+/-63 dynes/sec/cm5 (P<0.001). Cardiac index increased from 2.7+/-0.1 to 3.1+/-0.1 L/min/sq m (P<0.01) and heart rate from 79 +/- 3 to 82 +/- 4 (P<0.01). The pressure-rate product decreased from 10.3 X 10(3) to 9.5 X 10(3) (P<0.05), and pulmonary wedge pressure was unchanged from 12 mm Hg. The hemodynamic changes were similar whether patients were receiving propranolol or not. The afterload reducing effect was potentially most beneficial in the subgroup of patients with depressed left ventricular function where cardiac index increased by 20 percent.
Focal degradation of cardiomyocyte ultrastructures and cytoplasm, their sequestration, and autophagy were found in Wistar rats with daunomycin-induced regenerative and plastic myocardial insufficiency starting from day 1 after cytostatic treatment. These changes were morphologically manifested in the formation of myelin-like structures, autophagosomes, and secondary lysosomes. Sequestration and partial autophagy of the cytoplasm in cardiomyocytes with diminished or blocked protein synthesis reflect cell regression or involution directed to the adjustment of the cytoplasm volume to functional state of the nucleus.
Of 650 patients who underwent various surgical procedures on the anterior segment in which 2% lidocaine hydrochloride plus 1:100,000 epinephrine was used as a local anesthetic, 5 experienced postoperative complications attributed to the anesthetic: ptosis (in 2 cases), horizontal rectus muscle palsy (in 2) and lagophthalmos (in 1). The cause of the complications may have been inadvertent direct infiltration of the anesthetic into the levator palpebrae superioris, the horizontal rectus muscles and the orbicularis oculi respectively. All the patients recovered spontaneously in 8 to 12 weeks. The clinical course was compatible with myotoxic effects of local anesthetics.
Doxorubicin (DX)-treated mice represent an animal model for studying new drugs for heart disease. Coincidentally, in the collection of damaged myocardial tissue, thrombosis was detected in the atrium. The incidence reached 75% in mice given 4 mg/kg DX iv 10 times. They were white thrombi consisting of the fibrin, platelets, and neutrophils. Cardiac muscle damage was more prominent in the atria than in the ventricles. Light microscopically, vacuolization and degeneration of atrial myocytes and interstitial inflammatory cell infiltration were observed. Electron microscopy revealed dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and an increase in number of normal and/or degenerate mitochondria. Inflammation extended from the cardiac muscle to the endocardium. The cause of atrial thrombosis in DX-treated mice is unknown but may relate to endocardial damage and changes of blood flow in the atrium secondary to cardiac muscle damage. DX-treated mice could serve as an experimental animal model for the evaluation of efficacy and toxicity of antithrombotic or antiplatelet drugs.
Okadaic acid is one of the toxins responsible for the human intoxication known as diarrhetic shellfish poisoning, which appears after the consumption of contaminated shellfish. The main diarrhetic shellfish poisoning toxins are okadaic acid, dinophysistoxin-1, -2, and -3. In vivo, after intraperitoneal injection, dinophysistoxin-2 is approximately 40% less toxic than okadaic acid in mice. The cytotoxic and genotoxic effect of okadaic acid varies very significantly in different cell lines, so similar responses could be expected for dinophysistoxin-2. In order to determine whether this was the case, we studied the effect of okadaic acid and dinophysistoxin-2 in two hepatic cell lines (HepG2 and Clone 9). The cytotoxicity of these toxins, as well as their effects on the cell cycle and its regulation on both cell lines, were determined. Okadaic acid and dinophysistoxin-2 resulted to be equipotent in clone 9 cultures, while okadaic acid was more potent than dinophysistoxin-2 in HepG2 cell cultures. Both toxins had opposite effects on the cell cycle; they arrested the cell cycle of clone 9 cells in G2/M inducing aberrant mitosis while arresting the cell cycle of HepG2 in G0/G1. When the effect of the toxins on p53 subcellular distribution was studied, p53 was detected in the nuclei of both cell types. The effect of the toxins on the gene expression of cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases was different for both cell lines. The toxins induced an increase in gene expression of cyclins A, B, and D in clone 9 cells while they induced a decrease in cyclins A and B in HepG2 cells. They also induced a decrease in cyclin-dependent kinase 1 in HepG2 cells.
In the present study, we addressed the molecular mechanism of the downregulation of reversion-inducing-cysteine-rich protein with Kazal motifs (RECK), a critical tumor suppressor that can potently inhibit angiogenesis and metastasis, in non-small cell lung cancer and its clinical significance. The methylation status of the RECK gene promoter was studied by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. RECK mRNA and protein levels were investigated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis. Downregulation of RECK was observed in 60% of the 55 tumors analyzed. Using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction analysis methylation of the RECK promoter was detected in 63.6% (35/55) of the tumor tissues. A strong correlation between downregulation and promoter methylation was found in these tumors (P = 0.000005). More importantly, downregulation of RECK significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis (P = 0.038). Mutation of codon 12 of the K-ras gene was detected in 25.5% (14/55) of lung tumor tissues. Statistical analysis indicated that K-ras mutation was linked with RECK promoter methylation (P = 0.047) and downregulation (P = 0.023). Promoter methylation was also detected in human lung cancer cell lines, and the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5'-azacytidine reversed the expression of RECK and reduced the invasive ability of these cell lines. Collectively, our results suggest that downregulation of the metastasis suppressor RECK is caused by promoter methylation in non-small cell lung cancer and is associated with K-ras mutation and lymph node metastasis.
In 8 patients receiving intravenous isophosphamide 2 g/m2 at 2-week intervals for advanced bronchogenic carcinoma the protective effect of 2-mercaptoethane sulphonate sodium (mesnum) against isophosphamide-induced urothelial toxicity was tested in a single-blind crossover trial. With isophosphamide alone, 7 of the 8 patients developed either haematuria or symptoms of bladder irritation; when mesnum was given in addition, only 1 patient had microhaematuria and frequency, and this was in association with a urinary-tract infection. 5 patients then received fifteen courses of isophosphamide in increasing doses of 4 to 8 g/m2 i.v. with mesnum. In contrast to previous experience with isophosphamide at this high dosage, frank haematuria was never seen, microhaematuria was seen after only three courses, and mild dysuria after only one course. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that mesnum did not interfere with the metabolism of isophosphoramide or its active anti-tumour metabolite, isophosphoramide mustard. Mesnum therefore enhances the therapeutic ratio of isophosphamide and may thereby increase its clinical efficacy.
Cellular transcription factors are often utilized by infecting viruses to promote viral growth and influence cell fate. We have previously shown that nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) is activated after reovirus infection and that this activation is required for virus-induced apoptosis. In this report we identify a second phase of reovirus-induced NF-kappaB regulation. We show that at later times post-infection NF-kappaB activation is blocked in reovirus-infected cells. This results in the termination of virus-induced NF-kappaB activity and the inhibition of tumor necrosis factor alpha and etoposide-induced NF-kappaB activation in infected cells. Reovirus-induced inhibition of NF-kappaB activation occurs by a mechanism that prevents IkappaBalpha degradation and that is blocked in the presence of the viral RNA synthesis inhibitor, ribavirin. Reovirus-induced apoptosis is mediated by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) in a variety of epithelial cell lines. Herein we show that ribavirin inhibits reovirus-induced apoptosis in TRAIL-resistant HEK293 cells and prevents the ability of reovirus infection to sensitize TRAIL-resistant cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, TRAIL-induced apoptosis is enhanced in HEK293 cells expressing IkappaBDeltaN2, which blocks NF-kappaB activation. These results indicate that the ability of reovirus to inhibit NF-kappaB activation sensitizes HEK293 cells to TRAIL and facilitates virus-induced apoptosis in TRAIL-resistant cells. Our findings demonstrate that two distinct phases of virus-induced NF-kappaB regulation are required to efficiently activate host cell apoptotic responses to reovirus infection.
Fifty-four patients, aged 27-90 years, who were given lignocaine 5% in 6.8% glucose solution for spinal anaesthesia were studied. Thirteen of these patients experienced pain in the legs and/or back after recovery from anaesthesia. The patients affected were younger (p < 0.05) and the site of the dural puncture was higher (p < 0.01) than those individuals without pain. Five of the 13 patients (38%) with pain and seven of the 41 patients (17%) without pain admitted to a high alcohol intake, which might be a contributing factor. Leg and/or back pain is associated with the intrathecal use of hyperbaric 5% lignocaine.
Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) are primary systemic small vessel vasculitides, associated with a positive C/PR3-ANCA in WG and P/MPO-ANCA in MPA. The most prominently involved organs are the upper (only in WG) and lower respiratory tract and the kidneys. The diagnostic work-up is an interdisciplinary approach assessing disease stage and extent. Treatment is adapted to disease stage and extent and relies on a combination of a cytotoxic plus a tapering regimen of corticosteroids. Induction of remission in "early systemic" disease can be achieved with low-dose methotrexate. In severe generalized vasculitis cyclophosphamide (CYC) is the mainstay of therapy, in rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis in combination with plasmapheresis. After 3-6 months of induction CYC is switched to a maintenance treatment with azathioprine. Alternatives are leflunomide, mycophenolate or methotrexate (creatinine < 150 micromol/l). Age > or = 50 at diagnosis, renal dysfunction and pulmonary involvement are associated with higher mortality rates. The relapse rate is approximately 50% within 5 years, being higher in WG than MPA.
Clinical data support a correlation between smoking and the incidence and severity of some chronic pain conditions. However, the impact of nicotine on neuropathic pain has been largely ignored in the laboratory setting.
The purpose of these studies was to determine if chronic nicotine would alter mechanical hypersensitivity after spinal nerve ligation.
Rats were implanted with osmotic mini pumps to administer either saline or nicotine (4, 10, or 24 mg/kg/day) for 7 or 21 days. On day 7 of saline/nicotine administration, rats receiving 24 mg/kg/day nicotine underwent spinal nerve ligation. Mechanical thresholds to pressure were measured across nicotine exposure and spinal cords were collected on days 7 or 21. Spinal cord slices were immunostained for phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (pCREB), to determine general neuronal activity, and for cleaved caspase-3, as a marker for apoptosis.
Chronic nicotine produced a dose-dependent and stable mechanical hypersensitivity, which could be blocked with the alpha4beta2-selective antagonist, dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE). Spinal nerve ligation also produced a stable mechanical hypersensitivity, which was exacerbated in the presence of chronic nicotine. Differences in mechanical sensitivity were reflected in spinal pCREB, which was highly correlated with the degree of mechanical hypersensitivity. Chronic nicotine also altered the number of pro-apoptotic cells in the spinal cord as measured by cleaved caspase-3.
These findings demonstrate that chronic nicotine produces a stable, long-lasting, mechanical hypersensitivity that exacerbates mechanical sensitivity resulting from peripheral nerve injury. The mechanism of this may involve an increase in spinal neuronal activity and apoptosis.
This study was aimed to evaluate the combined effects of quercetin and alpha-tocopherol on lipid metabolism and glycoprotein components in isoproterenol induced myocardial infarction in Wistar rats. Myocardial infarction in rats was induced by isoproterenol (100mg/kg) at an interval of 24h for 2 days. Quercetin (10 mg/kg) and alpha-tocopherol (10 mg/kg) were given to rats as pretreatment for 14 days orally using an intragastric tube. Quercetin and alpha-tocopherol significantly reduced the levels of cholesterol, triglycerides and free fatty acids in the serum and heart and serum phospholipids and significantly increased the levels of heart phospholipids in isoproterenol induced rats. They also significantly decreased the activity of plasma and liver 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme-A reductase and increased the activity of plasma and liver lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase in isoproterenol treated rats. In addition to this, they also significantly reduced the levels of hexose, hexosamine, fucose and sialic acid in the serum and heart of isoproterenol treated rats. Quercetin and alpha-tocopherol also showed significant decrease in plasma lipid peroxidation products (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and lipid hydroperoxides). Pretreatment with quercetin alone and alpha-tocopherol alone showed significant effect in all the biochemical parameters in myocardial infarcted rats. But, combined pretreatment with quercetin and alpha-tocopherol normalized all the above mentioned biochemical parameters in isoproterenol treated myocardial infarction in rats. Thus, the experiment clearly showed that quercetin and alpha-tocopherol prevented the accumulation of lipids and glycoprotein components in myocardial infarcted rats by their anti-lipid peroxidative effect. This study also showed that combined pretreatment was better than single pretreatment.
Safe and effective strategies to curb rising obesity prevalence rates are urgently needed and medications may play a more prominent role in future therapeutic regimens.
To review systematically the long-term efficacy and safety of approved antiobesity medications.
MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, Current Science Meta-register of Controlled Trials, and reference lists of original studies and reviews were searched. Drug manufacturers and two obesity experts were contacted. No language restrictions were imposed.
Double-blind, randomized controlled studies of approved antiobesity medications with follow-up periods of 1 y or greater were eligible for inclusion.
Two reviewers independently assessed all potentially relevant studies for inclusion and methodological quality using standardized abstraction forms.
A total of 11orlistat (n=6021) and three sibutramine (n=929) studies met inclusion criteria. Attrition rates averaged 33% in orlistat studies and 48% in sibutramine studies. A random effects model was used for meta-analysis. Compared to placebo, orlistat-treated patients displayed a 2.7 kg (95% CI: 2.3-3.1 kg) or 2.9% (95% CI: 2.3-3.4%) greater reduction in weight and patients on sibutramine displayed a 4.3 kg (95% CI: 3.6-4.9 kg) or 4.6% (95% CI: 3.8-5.4%) greater weight reduction after 1 y of follow-up. The number of patients achieving 10% or greater weight loss was 12% (95% CI: 8-16%) higher with orlistat and 15% (95% CI: 4-27%) higher with sibutramine compared to placebo. Orlistat caused gastrointestinal side effects and sibutramine increased blood pressure and pulse rate.
There is a relative paucity of long-term studies of antiobesity agents. In weight loss trials of 1-y duration, orlistat and sibutramine appear modestly effective in promoting weight loss. Longer, more methodologically rigorous studies that are powered to examine end points such as mortality and cardiovascular morbidity are required.
Long-term exposure to organic nitrates influences different sections of the vascular bed heterogeneously. Continuous dosage of nitrates leads to the development of tolerance both to the vascular effects and to the unwanted adverse effect, headache. Human data on the development of tolerance in different cranial arteries over more than 24 h are lacking. We compared the vascular changes of the middle cerebral, superficial temporal and radial arteries during oral administration of isosorbide-5-mononitrate (5-ISMN) 30 mg three times daily for 7 days in 11 healthy subjects in a double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled cross-over design. Blood velocity in the middle cerebral artery was measured with transcranial Doppler and the diameters of the temporal and radial arteries were measured with high frequency ultrasound. Headache recordings were compared to the observed vascular changes over time. Tolerance was complete within 24 h in the middle cerebral artery whilst in the superficial temporal and the radial arteries, tolerance was only partial and developed much more slowly, i.e. after 7 days correlating with the disappearance of NO-induced headache. The present study thus demonstrated the important differences in the time profiles of appearance of nitrate tolerance in arteries of different vascular beds in man. If vasodilatation is the cause of NO-induced headache the results point to extracerebral arteries as the locus of nociception. Due to a variety of other possible pain-inducing effects of nitric oxide our results do not exclude cerebral arteries.
L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) is a common debilitating complication of dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease. Recent evidence suggests that LID may be linked causally to a hyperactivation of the Ras-ERK signaling cascade in the basal ganglia. We set out to determine whether specific targeting of Ras-guanine nucleotide-releasing factor 1 (Ras-GRF1), a brain-specific activator of the Ras-ERK pathway, may provide a therapy for LID. On the rodent abnormal involuntary movements scale, Ras-GRF1-deficient mice were significantly resistant to the development of dyskinesia during chronic L-dopa treatment. Furthermore, in a nonhuman primate model of LID, lentiviral vectors expressing dominant negative forms of Ras-GRF1 caused a dramatic reversion of dyskinesia severity leaving intact the therapeutic effect of L-dopa. These data reveal the central role of Ras-GRF1 in governing striatal adaptations to dopamine replacement therapy and validate a viable treatment for LID based on intracellular signaling modulation.
The authors propose that pH buffering of bupivicaine with sodium bicarbonate reduces the pain associated with its local subcutaneous infiltration. In a double-blind, prospective study, 62 healthy adult volunteers received a 0.5 mL subcutaneous infiltration of 0.5% buffered bupivicaine into the dorsum of a randomly chosen hand. The pH was adjusted to 7.0 by adding 0.05 mL of sodium bicarbonate (1 mEq/L [corrected]) to 10 mL vials of commercially available bupivicaine (1:200 dilution). The control hand was injected with the same amount of unbuffered agent. Pain was scored after each infiltration using a nonsegmented visual analogue scale. Student's t-test for paired measurements was used to analyze intergroup pain score differences. Forty-three subjects (69%) reported less pain with buffered bupivicaine and only 17 (27%) noted a modest increase: two subjects (3%) reported no difference. The mean pain score for the buffered agent was 22 mm compared with 30 mm for the control. The mean difference (control-experimental) was 8 mm (t = 4.64, df = 61, P less than .001). The authors conclude that the addition of sodium bicarbonate to bupivicaine reduces the pain associated with its local infiltration.
The association of amphotericin B with nephrotoxicity is well known, but risk factors for this complication are not well characterized. One hundred and seventy-eight patients who received > 3 days of intravenous amphotericin B and a minimal total cumulative dose > 100 mg were reviewed retrospectively. The mean age, average cumulative dose of amphotericin B and duration of therapy were 46 +/- 22 years, 536 +/- 547 mg and 16.6 +/- 8.2 days, respectively. Eighty-six percent of patients received amphotericin B for empirical therapy of febrile neutropenia. Various definitions of nephrotoxicity were used; these were as follows (the incidence of nephrotoxicity as determined by the given definition is given in parentheses): definition 1, a change in creatinine of > 46 mumol/L over baseline (50%); definition 2, a doubling of creatinine over baseline (49%); definition 3, a change in creatinine of > 92 mumol/L (29%); definition 4, a doubling and/or a change in creatinine of > 92 mumol/L (49%); definition 5, an increase in creatinine to > 230 mumol/L (8%). Multivariate analysis showed that nephrotoxicity was associated with a greater cumulative dose of amphotericin B and receipt of concomitant nephrotoxic drugs for all definitions (P < 0.05). In those patients who experienced severe nephrotoxicity (creatinine increased to > 230 mumol/L), cyclosporin therapy was the most significant risk factor (odds ratio 18.8, P = 0.022). Haemodialysis was necessary in one patient, but multiple concomitant risk factors for renal dysfunction were present. No patient experienced irreversible nephrotoxicity. These findings allow for stratification of patients at risk for amphotericin B-induced nephrotoxicity and rational use of alternative agents.
We studied ultrastructure of nuclear compartment in cardiomyocytes during regenerative and plastic insufficiency of the myocardium induced by anthracycline antibiotic daunomycin. A peculiarity of ultrastructural organization of cardiomyocyte nuclei under these conditions is almost complete disappearance of the heterochromatin lumps. The earliest changes in nucleoli under conditions of disturbed DNA-dependent RNA synthesis are segregation of the granular and fibrillar nucleolonema components. Deep alterations in the nucleoli manifested by fragmentation and annulation correlate with pronounced changes in cardiomyocytes ultrastructure, intensive lysis of the myofilaments, reduction of the organelles, and enhanced autophagocytosis.
The intralysosomal proteinases, cathepsins B and L, were measured in microdissected segments of rat nephrons following a single injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN). Z-Phenylalanyl-arginine-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin served as substrate. Enzyme activities, proteinuria, creatinine clearance and renal morphology were determined at specific time intervals following induction of PAN nephrosis. During the first three days following PAN injection, enzyme activities in S2 and S3 segments, protein excretion, creatinine clearance and appearance of the renal parenchyma resembled control animals. The enzyme activity in S1 segments was slightly decreased, but returned to control levels at day six after injection. Days four through eight post-PAN injection were characterized by a dramatic increase in protein excretion and an increase in cathepsin B and L activity in S2 and S3 segments of the proximal tubule. During days 9 through 15 enzyme activity decreased significantly in S2 segments despite continued proteinuria. Overt necrosis and cell injury were seen in the proximal tubule and probably account for the decrease in proteolytic activity. After day 15 following PAN injection, the level of proteinuria decreased, restoration of cathepsin activities occurred and a histopathologic picture of healing was present. The data suggest a positive relationship exists between stimulation of cathepsin B and L activity in S2 and S3 segments of the proximal tubule and increased protein filtration in PAN nephrosis. The increased enzyme activity reflects enhancement of the proteolytic capacity of the lysosomal system that is necessary for increased protein catabolism.
In order to examine the carcinogenicity of 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole acetate (Trp-P-2), 30 male and 30 female F344 rats were maintained on diet containing 0, 30, or 100 ppm Trp-P-2 for 112 weeks. The overall mean chemical intakes in the 100 ppm and 30 ppm groups were 3.84 and 1.14 mg/kg/day in males, and 4.57 and 1.34 mg/kg/day in females, respectively. Females of the 100 ppm group showed increased mortality in the late period of the study. In the 100 ppm group, significant increases in the incidences of neoplastic lesions were found in the liver, urinary bladder and mammary gland in males, and in the mammary gland, hematopoietic system and clitoral gland in females. Histologically, tumors induced by Trp-P-2 were hepatocellular adenomas, transitional cell tumors (papillomas and carcinomas) of the urinary bladder, fibroadenomas/fibromas of the mammary gland, malignant lymphomas and clitoral gland tumors (adenomas and adenocarcinomas). These results indicate multi-target carcinogenicity of Trp-P-2 in F344 rats and provide evidence that the urinary bladder is also a target for heterocyclic amine action.
There have been several reports of acyclovir-induced renal failure, when the drug has been administered intravenously and/or associated with water restriction.
Case n. 1: A 14 year-old boy, was treated with intravenous acyclovir because of an acute encephalitis, possibly due to Herpes viral infection. The acyclovir dose was given erroneously high, 24 mg/kg, 3 times/day, with water restriction, 30 ml/kg/day. Creatininemia increased from 70 to 200 mumol/liter after 48 hours of treatment and was 426 mumol/liter after 5 days. It decreased within a few days after the acyclovir dose was reduced to 6 mg/kg/day and the water intake was increased to 80 ml/kg/day. Case n. 2: A 17 year-old girl was suffering from chronic renal failure due to bilateral kidney hypoplasia associated with hypertension (creatinine clearance: 40 ml/min/1.73 m2). She was given intravenous acyclovir, 20 mg/kg/day, with water restriction, 30 ml/kg/day, to treat acute meningoencephalitis, possibly due to Herpes infection. Creatininemia increased from 200 to 450 mumol/l within 8 days of treatment; it returned to initial values 5 days after cessation of acyclovir and rehydration.
These 2 cases confirm the risk of renal impairment when acyclovir is administered intravenously. The risk is greater after bolus injections and when high doses are used. Water restriction is an additional risk, as was the chronic renal insufficiency in our second patient. A scheme of acyclovir therapy based on initial values of creatininemia is mandatory.
A lower concentration of intracellular myo-inositol has been implicated in the development of diabetic nephropathy. This was based on short-term studies showing that early administration of aldose reductase inhibitors or myo-inositol supplementation reduces increased glomerular filtration rate and partly reduces increased urinary albumin excretion in streptozotocin diabetic rats. We studied the effect of long-term (4 months) administration of 1% myo-inositol supplement to the Cohen diabetic (type 2) rat on the development of nephropathy and renal Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase. This treatment reduced the increased renal Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity but had no effect on blood glucose levels, body weight, increased kidney weight, or creatinine clearance and did not prevent or reduce the development of renal glomerular pathology. There was no correlation between the level of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity and the degree of nephropathy. It is possible that the renal pathological changes are due to metabolic and humoral factors resulting from hyperglycaemia, other than myo-inositol depletion. The fact that myo-inositol treatment had no effect on the development of renal pathological changes but was shown to have a beneficial effect on restoring impaired conduction velocity and on the disruption of structural elements in the nerve indicates that the effect of the biological changes ensuing from hyperglycaemia vary in different tissues depending on local conditions.
Hypotheses about relationships between changes in membrane lipids and mental illness have focused primarily on three long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids: arachidonic acid (AA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Membrane deficiencies of these fatty acids have been reported in schizophrenia (AA, EPA, and DHA) and in depression (EPA and DHA). Long-chain fatty acid-CoA ligase type 4 (FACL4; MIM 300157) is a key enzyme involved in the metabolism of AA, EPA, and DHA. FACL4 selectively esterifies these fatty acids with co-enzyme A, forming acyl-co-A, which can then be incorporated into membrane phospholipid. We used niacin-induced dermal erythema as one index of AA metabolism to identify a common C to T single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the first intron of the FACL4 gene (Xq22.3), which is associated with enhanced dermal erythema in both schizophrenia and control subjects. Male subjects with the T0 genotype showed greater dermal erythema following topical application of methylnicotinate, suggesting that this polymorphism may be in linkage disequilibrium with a functional polymorphism of the FACL4 gene that modulates re-sequestration of agonist-released free AA. We also examined the allele frequency of this polymorphism in 555 European-Americans (EA), including 229 control subjects, 198 subjects with major depression, 58 with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, and 70 with alcohol dependence without co-morbid psychiatric illness. We observed a significant excess of the T allele in subjects with major depression, as compared with controls (49% vs. 38%; P = 0.003) and a non-significant excess of the T allele in schizophrenia (44%; P = 0.29). The allele frequency for subjects with alcohol dependence did not differ from controls.
Chlordiazepoxide and two serotonin receptor antagonists showed opposite effects when tested for their influence on morphine-induced locomotor stimulation in mice. Chlordiazepoxide enhanced morphine-induced hyperactivity, which was antagonized by cyproheptadine and mianserin. The results indicate that the enhancement of morphine-induced locomotor stimulation is not attributable to an antiserotonergic action of the benzodiazepine compound.
