The effect of oral chronic administration of ursodeoxycholic acid has been examined in rats with cholestasis induced by ethinyl estradiol. Ursodeoxycholic acid at the dose of 25 mg kg-1 per day during 4 days, did not improve the decrease in basal bile flow and bile acid secretion induced by ethinyl estradiol alone. In contrast, when ursodeoxycholic acid was given at the same dose during 10 days, basal bile flow was significantly improved and basal bile acid secretion was restored to control values. When ursodeoxycholic acid was given at the dose of 500 mg kg-1 per day, basal bile flow and bile acid output were not further improved. However, bile flow and bile acid output under taurocholate infusion were restored to control values. Bile of rats treated with ursodeoxycholic acid was enriched with this bile acid. These results show a significant improvement of ethinyl estradiol-induced cholestasis in rats after chronic administration of ursodeoxycholic acid and support the use of this bile acid in intrahepatic cholestasis in man.
Nine normal volunteers, screened for the absence of a personal or family history of affective disorders and free of concurrent marijuana usage, received intravenous infusions of high dose physostigmine or saline in a randomized, double-blind, counterbalanced paradigm. Self-rating and observer ratings both demonstrated a statistically significant, physostigmine associated increase in depressive-type symptoms in the group as a whole, particularly pronounced in certain individuals. These results are the first report of physostigmine associated depressive symptomatology in normal subjects. While our findings are discrepant with two previous studies, our use of multiple self-ratings, and some differences in physostigmine dosage and infusion times might have contributed to this difference. These findings suggest that high dose physostigmine may represent a pharmacological model of depression in normal subjects, or alternatively may be diagnostic of vulnerability to affective disorder in certain subjects free of a previous history of affective disturbances.
A case of recurrent pulmonary embolism with infarction is described. The patient, a 28-year-old woman, had been treated over a four-month period with a preparation of cyproterone acetate plus ethinyloestradiol for acne vulgaris. It is suggested that the use of oral contraceptive preparations for the treatment of innocent disorders should be avoided when factors that may potentiate a thrombogenic effect are present.
Reports of intraarterial papaverine infusion as treatment for cerebral vasospasm are few and documented complications are uncommon. The authors report the case of a patient with paradoxical aggravation of cerebral arterial narrowing during selective intraarterial papaverine infusion intended to treat vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). A 48-year-old man presented to the authors' service with symptomatic vasospasm 10 days after experiencing an SAH. The ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm was surgically obliterated the following day, and thereafter maximum hypervolemic and hypertensive therapies were used. However, the patient remained lethargic, and a stable xenon-computerized tomography (CT) cerebral blood flow (CBF) study revealed CBF to be 15 cc/100 g/minute in the left anterior cerebral artery (ACA) and 25 cc/100 g/minute in the right ACA territories. Cerebral arteriography demonstrated diffuse severe left ACA and mild left middle cerebral artery (MCA) vasospasm. In response intraarterial papaverine was infused into the internal carotid artery just proximal to the ophthalmic artery. During the infusion the patient became aphasic and exhibited right hemiplegia. Arteriography performed immediately after the intraarterial papaverine infusion revealed diffuse exacerbation of vasospasm in the distal ACA and MCA territories. A repeat xenon-CT CBF study showed that CBF in the left ACA and the MCA had drastically decreased (2 cc/100 g/minute and 10 cc/100 g/minute, respectively). Despite aggressive management, infarction ultimately developed. This is the first clinical case to illustrate a paradoxical effect of intraarterial papaverine treatment for vasospasm following aneurysmal SAH. The possible mechanisms of this paradoxical response and potential therapeutic reactions are reviewed.
THE SCIENCE OF fluid replacement in athletic training, particularly with regard to American football players, has advanced during the past 3 decades. This advance has resulted in substantial decreases in heatstroke-related deaths during summer training sessions. Recent trends in football heatstroke fatalities toward significant increases may, in part, be attributable to or aggravated by the use of dietary supplements. Credible scientific evidence has been found that amphetamine derivatives and the ergonomic aid creatine may contribute to subclinical dehydration and heatstroke in selected individuals. Caution is urged in the education and evaluation of football players who train during the hot summer months.
A 20 year old woman with complex partial seizures from childhood developed a stuporous state when her anticonvulsant therapy was substituted by VPA. She recovered when treated orally with clonazepam. This case was compared with others in the literature for which the origin of the stuporous state have been hypothesized.
Treatment of chronic daily headache/transformed migraine is challenging, especially when it is complicated by overuse of analgesics, triptans, or both. One common approach involves the use of repetitive intravenous dihydroergotamine. We investigated the use of intravenous valproate sodium in the treatment of chronic daily headache/transformed migraine in patients who had contraindications to the use of or had failed treatment with dihydroergotamine.
We administered intravenous valproate sodium (Depacon) to patients with chronic daily headache/transformed migraine (loading dose 15 mg/kg, followed by 5 mg/kg every 8 hours). All analgesics and triptans were discontinued prior to treatment with divalproex sodium, and preventative medications for migraine were begun or continued. All patients received instruction in behavioral modification and the proper use of analgesics and triptans.
Improvement in headache was reported by 80% of the patients treated, and valproate sodium was tolerated well by most.
Intravenous valproate sodium may be of assistance in the initial management of patients with chronic daily headache/transformed migraine and analgesic/triptan overuse, especially when dihydroergotamine is ineffective or contraindicated.
Poor penetration and uneven distribution of doxorubicin in tumors limits the efficacy of this drug in patients with prostate cancer (PC). Aim of the study was to investigate whether pre-treatment with NGR-TNF, a tumor necrosis factor-alpha derivative able to target tumor vessels and alter vessel permeability, increases the penetration and the efficacy of doxorubicin in pre-clinical models of PC.
Wild type C57BL/6 mice bearing androgen-independent TRAMP-C1 PC and transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice, which spontaneously develop PC and metastasis, were treated with repeated cycles of doxorubicin, administered either alone or following NGR-TNF. Tumor growth and drug uptake by cancer cells was evaluated.
Doxorubicin as a single agent blocked the growth of TRAMP-C1 cells in vitro but not in vivo. Pre-treatment of mice bearing subcutaneous TRAMP-C1 tumors with NGR-TNF favored doxorubicin penetration into the tumor mass, and in both TRAMP-C1 and TRAMP models significantly delayed tumor growth without increasing drug-related toxicity.
Pre-treatment with NGR-TNF significantly expanded the therapeutic index of doxorubicin in mouse models of hormone-dependent and -independent PC.
The effect of inhibitors of NAD+ ADP ribosyl transferase (ADPRT) on the early stage of liver carcinogenesis of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) was studied by estimating the number and size of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gamma-GTP) positive foci assayed as markers of cell populations initiated by DEN in the rat liver. ADPRT inhibitors investigated were 3-aminobenzamide (ABA), 5-methylnicotinamide (MNAM), and thymidine. A single i.p. injection of ABA at greater than 150 mg/kg body weight (B.W.) enhanced dose-dependently the induction of gamma-GTP positive foci in rat liver initiated by 20 mg/kg B.W. of DEN. The magnitude of the effect was similar to that observed when partial hepatectomy (PH) was performed instead of ABA administration. Single i.p. injections of MNAM or thymidine at a dose of 600 mg/kg B.W. also enhanced the induction of foci in rat liver initiated by the 20 mg/kg dose of DEN. Based on the above results, ABA was used as a representative ADPRT inhibitor for clarifying the mechanisms underlying the effects. Administration of ABA at a dose of 600 mg/kg B.W. was effective in enhancing the induction of foci if given 1 day before DEN, simultaneously to DEN, and 1 day after DEN initiation but it was ineffective if it was given 3 days after DEN or thereafter. Liver cell necrosis was not detectable either by analysis of serum enzymes or histologically 1, 3, 5, 7 and 14 days after 20 mg/kg B.W. of DEN with or without administration of 600 mg/kg B.W. of ABA. No initiating activity was observed for ABA administered at doses of 600 and 1200 mg/kg B.W. as assayed by development of gamma-GTP positive foci. Long term ABA administration in the diet at concentrations of 0.05, 0.1 and 0.2% did not show any promoting activity for liver carcinogenesis initiated by DEN. Furthermore, chronic administration of 0.2% ABA in the diet did not result in detectable toxicity and/or carcinogenic effects. These results suggest that ADPRT and associated DNA repair plays an important role in the early initiating stage of liver carcinogenesis and provide the basis for a new experimental approach to the analysis of the mechanisms of chemical carcinogenesis and in establishing a more sensitive assay system for liver carcinogenesis in rats.
In 62 dogs, hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of either 40 or 50 torr (equivalent to a cerebral perfusion pressure of 30 or 40 torr, respectively) for one hour was induced by hemorrhage (oligemia), trimethaphan, halothane, or sodium nitroprusside. Before and during the period of hypotension, the following were measured: mean arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, whole-body O2 consumption, cerebral blood flow, cerebral O2 consumption, arterial blood gases, blood O2 content, and lactate, pyruvate, glucose, epinephrine, and norepinephrine concentrations. At the end of the period of hypotension, brain biopsies were taken for determination of adenosine triphosphate, phosphocreatine, lactate, and pyruvate concentrations. In an additional eight dogs following one hour of hypotension (at 40 torr) induced by one of the four techniques, the brains were perfused with carbon black, removed, and examined. In another ten dogs following hypotension (at 40 torr) induced with either halothane or trimethaphan, the animals were observed for three days and then killed for examination of the brain. Dogs maintained at a mean arterial pressure of 40 torr, despite differences in cerebral blood flow, demonstrated metabolic disturbances compatible with systemic and cerebral hypoxia. These were greatest in those dogs given nitroprusside in excess of 1.0 mg/kg, presumably due to cyanide toxicity. In dogs maintained at 50 torr, metabolic disturbances were minimal or absent in the halothane- and nitroprusside-treated dogs but were still apparent in the oligemic and trimethaphan-treated dogs. Carbon black infusions revealed no evidence of non-homogeneous flow. Three of the ten dogs observed for three days had persistent post-hypotension neurologic dysfunction. Two of these were given trimethaphan. The results suggest that the systemic and cerebral effects of halothane and nitroprusside (at doses less than 1.0 mg/kg) are similar and at a mean arterial pressure of 50 torr are of little consequence. By contrast, hypotension induced by trimethaphan or oligemia results in detectable metabolic alterations even at a pressure of 50 torr.
Treatment of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) with resveratrol, an activator of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), reduces disease severity. This suggested that activators of SIRT1, a highly conserved NAD-dependent protein deacetylase, might have immune-modulating or neuroprotective therapeutic effects in EAE. Previously, we showed that SIRT1 expression increases in EAE, suggesting that it is an adaptive response. In this study, we investigated the potential function of SIRT1 in regulating EAE using SIRT1-overexpressing mice. The current studies examine potential neuroprotective and immunomodulatory effects of SIRT1 overexpression in chronic EAE induced by immunization of C57BL/6 mice with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide 35-55. SIRT1 suppressed EAE clinical symptoms compared with wild-type EAE mice and prevented or altered the phenotype of inflammation in spinal cords; as a result, demyelination and axonal injury were reduced. Significant neuroprotective effects were observed, with fewer apoptotic cells found in the spinal cords of SIRT1-overexpressing EAE mice associated with increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor and NAD levels. Earlier, we showed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and NAD play crucial neuroprotective roles in EAE. These results suggest that SIRT1 reduces neuronal loss in this chronic demyelinating disease model and that this is associated with a reduction in inflammation.
Tumor hypoxia is a common feature of several cancers, including prostate cancer, and is associated with tumor progression, acquisition of anti-apoptotic potential and therapeutic resistance. We explored hypoxia-inducible genes and examined the effect of knockdown of a target molecule with small interference RNA (siRNA) on the proliferation of human prostate cancer cells. Human prostate cancer cell lines (LNCaP and PC-3) were cultured in normoxia (21% O2) or hypoxia (0.5% O2). Hypoxia-inducible genes were identified by cDNA microarray analysis. Metallothionein (MT) expression was assessed by real-time RT-PCR, Western blot analysis and immunohistochemical staining. siRNA was transfected to knock down MT expression, and the cell cycle and apoptosis were evaluated by flow cytometry analysis. In cDNA microarray analysis, 22 genes (including MT) were up-regulated under hypoxia. MT-1X and MT-2A were up-regulated in real-time RT-PCR. In particular, MT-2A was increased 3-fold in LNCaP and 8-fold in PC-3. The siRNA-MT-2A treatment resulted in a 20% inhibition of cell growth and induced apoptosis in both LNCaP and PC-3. In human prostate tissue, intense staining of MT was observed in cancer cells and residual cancer cells after androgen ablation therapy, while normal tissue was only stained in patches. In conclusion, MT was up-regulated under hypoxia in prostate cancer cells and overexpressed in prostate cancer tissue and residual cancer cells after androgen ablation therapy. As down-regulation of MT by siRNA inhibited cell growth and induced cell death, MT may be a new molecular target for the treatment of human prostate cancer.
The biology of breast carcinoma shows a great variation, reflected by the recent classification of phenotypes based on DNA microarrays or immunohistochemistry. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF1R) in breast carcinoma subtypes and the impact on the outcome. We studied 197 consecutive breast carcinoma patients in stage I-II treated conservatively. Phenotypes were assessed on the basis of the expressions of ER/PR, HER2, Ki67, p53, Bcl2, CK5/6 and EGFR. Moreover, IGF1R expression (α-subunit and β-phosphorylated/active form) was evaluated by immunohistochemistry, IGF1R mRNA levels by quantitative RT-PCR and IGF1R mutations by direct DNA sequencing. Overall, 40% (78/197) of tumors were luminal A, 24% (48/197) luminal B, 19% (37/197) HER2-positive and 17% (34/197) basal/triple-negative. Luminal A tumors were predominantly of low grade, without necrosis, presenting in older patients as a ≤2-cm unilateral mass (all P ≤ 0.046). α-IGF1R overexpression was observed more frequently in luminal A (49%) cases, followed by luminal B (20%), HER2-positive area under the curve (22%) and basal/triple-negative cases (9%) (P = 0.01) with similar results for mRNA levels (53, 24, 13 and 10%, respectively) (P = 0.038), but without differences for mutations (P = NS). High IGF1R mRNA correlated with poor patient survival among subtypes (P = 0.004) (Kaplan-Meier; log-rank test). For overall survival, only histological grade and IGF1R mRNA emerged as significant predictors (P ≤ 0.034; Cox regression). Increased IGF1R mRNA implies poorer patient prognosis among the different subtypes, and that may be associated with the lack of responsiveness to tamoxifen in cases with a positive hormone receptor status. Our results highlight the biological and clinical relevance of IGF1R in early breast carcinoma subtypes, and provide knowledge to assist in treatment decision.
The immediate-early gene Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein) is provocative in the context of neuroplasticity because of its experience-dependent regulation and mRNA transport to and translation at activated synapses. Normal rats have more preproenkephalin-negative (ppe-neg; presumed striatonigral) neurons with cytoplasmic Arc mRNA than ppe-positive (ppe-pos; striatopallidal) neurons, despite equivalent numbers of these neurons showing novelty-induced transcriptional activation of Arc. Furthermore, rats with partial monoamine loss induced by methamphetamine (METH) show impaired Arc mRNA expression in both ppe-neg and ppe-pos neurons relative to normal animals following response-reversal learning. In this study, Arc expression induced by exposure to a novel environment was used to assess transcriptional activation and cytoplasmic localization of Arc mRNA in striatal efferent neuron subpopulations subsequent to METH-induced neurotoxicity. Partial monoamine depletion significantly altered Arc expression. Specifically, basal Arc expression was elevated, but novelty-induced transcriptional activation was abolished. Without novelty-induced Arc transcription, METH-pre-treated rats also had fewer neurons with cytoplasmic Arc mRNA expression, with the effect being greater for ppe-neg neurons. Thus, METH-induced neurotoxicity substantially alters striatal efferent neuron function at the level of Arc transcription, suggesting a long-term shift in basal ganglia neuroplasticity processes subsequent to METH-induced neurotoxicity. Such changes potentially underlie striatally based learning deficits associated with METH-induced neurotoxicity.
Deliberate hypotension was induced by using nitroglycerin (NG) during anesthesia in 13 patients with intracranial aneurysm, who underwent clipping surgery. The following results were obtained: Changes in blood pressure were rapid and smooth, before, during and after administration of NG. No patients showed resistance to the drug in this study. Heart rate increased significantly during induced hypotension while a significant reduction was observed in the rate-pressure product (RPP), which correlates with the myocardial oxygen demand. No significant changes were found in pH, PaO2, PaCO2 and base excess (B. E.) while the respiratory index (PaO2/FIO2) as an indicator of pulmonary oxygenation appeared to be significantly reduced.
This study was undertaken to determine the significance of positive patch test reactions to 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (DDM). Data of 202 DDM-positive patients concerning age, sex and profession, type, localisation and duration of eczema and combined allergens were evaluated. The results obtained were compared by chi-square-test with those of 3397 consecutive, unselected contact dermatitis patients with negative reactions to DDM. The most conspicuous results were: 1. The positive patch test reaction to DDM is usually a marker for allergy to p-amino-compounds. 2. 39/202 patients showed isolated positive test reactions to DDM. The source of the allergen remained unclear. 3. Workers in chemical laboratories seem to have an increased risk for acquiring DDM-allergy. 4. The clinical relevance of DDM-allergy could only be proven in a few patients.
Evidence suggests that the effectiveness of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition diminishes with time, resulting in increasing angiotensin II levels, the action of which can be inhibited by the addition of an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB). In the present study, the renal protective effects of ACE inhibitors and ARBs were compared over a five-year period in a prospective, randomized, open-blind study in 68 nondiabetic Japanese patients with elevated serum creatinine levels.
Japanese patients with renal insufficiency were randomly assigned to receive either an ACE inhibitor (benazepril 1.25 to 5 mg daily or trandolapril 0.5 to 4 mg daily) or ARB (candesartan 2 to 8 mg daily or losartan 25 to 100 mg daily) at the Kidney Disease Center at Saitama Medical School Hospital. The primary study endpoint was a change in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) between the baseline value and the last available value obtained during the five-year treatment period, as estimated by the Cockcraft-Gault equation. Secondary endpoints included the annual changes in GFR, serum creatinine level, urinary protein excretion, and blood pressure, as well as the rate of development of endstage renal disease.
There were no significant differences in the primary endpoint between the two groups. However, after 4 years, the decline in GFR in patients treated with ARBs was significantly greater than that seen in patients treated with an ACE inhibitor (p<0.05). Furthermore, the rate of introduction of dialysis therapy was also significantly greater in the ARB-treated patients (52.7% in ACE inhibitor and 81.2% in ARB group at year 5. p<0.01).
While our data suggested that ARB, like ACE, treatment might slow the progression of renal dysfunction, it also pointed to the necessity to be alerted to the progression to endstage renal disease with longterm medication.
Block lipid transport-1 (BLT-1) is a small chemical widely used to inhibit the transfer of lipids between high-density lipoproteins (HDL) and cells mediated by scavenger receptor B, type 1 (SR-BI). This study demonstrated that BLT-1 induced in zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos a copper-dependent phenotype with a twisted notochord, brain ventricle enlargement, and absence of melanisation, phenocopying neocuproine-treated, or calamity mutants. This finding supports an unexpected link between copper availability and SR-BI activity. The copper-chelating activity of BLT-1, revealed by its dramatic effect during embryo development, should be considered in any evaluation of the pharmacological effect of this thiosemicarbazone derivative on SR-BI activity and the potential therapeutic value of this molecule.
To investigate the role of P-type Na+ -K+ -ATPase in the mechanism of migraine.
nitroglycerin induced migraine Twenty Sprague-Dawley rats, 10 male and 10 female, were randomly divided into 2 groups: model group, undergoing subcutaneous injection of nitroglycerin 10 mg/kg once a week for 4 weeks so as to establish migraine model, and control group, undergoing subcutaneous injection of normal saline. Then the rats were killed with their trigeminal ganglia, trigeminocervical complex, and cortex of frontal lobe taken out. RT-PCR and Western-blotting were used to detect the mRNA and protein expression of P-type Na+ -K+ -ATPase. Immuno-precipitation assay was conducted to observe the Na+ -K+ -ATPase activity. The concentration of intracellular Ca2+ was investigated by Fluo-3/AM fluorometric method.
The mRNA and protein expression levels and activity of P-type Na+ -K+ -ATPase in the trigeminal ganglion and trigeminocervical complex of the model group were 0.72 +/- 0.05, 0.59 +/- 0.05, and 5.21 +/- 0.51 respectively, and the mRNA and protein expression levels and activity of P-type Na+ -K+ -ATPase in the cortex of frontal lobe of the model group were 0.70 +/- 0.05, 0.60 +/- 0.05, and 3.61 +/- 0.49 respectively, all significantly lower than those of the control group (0.83 +/- 0.10, 0.67 +/- 0.06, 6.53 +/- 0.73, 0.81 +/- 0.08, 0.71 +/- 0.09, and 6.61 +/- 0.73 respectively, all P < 0.05). The concentration of intracellular Ca2 in trigeminal ganglion and trigeminocervical complex and the concentration of Ca2+ in the cortex of frontal lobe of the model group were 211,182 +/- 12,973 and 186,511 +/- 18,297 respectively, both significantly higher than those of the control group (135,243 +/- 18,105 and 143,289 25,175 respectively, both P < 0.01).
P-type Na+ -K+ -ATPase may infect the pathogenesis of migraine by its expression and activity.
Class 3 semaphorins (SEMA), SEMA3B and SEMA3F, are secreted proteins that regulate angiogenesis, tumor growth, and metastasis by binding to their transmembrane receptor complex consisting of plexins and neuropilins (NP). Expression of SEMAs and their receptors was assessed in tissue microarrays by immunohistochemistry. SEMA3B, SEMA3F, and plexin A3 were expressed strongly in normal endometrial tissues, whereas grade-dependent decreases were found in endometrial carcinomas. No change was observed in the expression of plexin A1, NP1, and NP2 in normal versus endometrial cancer tissues. Endometrial cancer cells showed decreased expression of SEMA3B, SEMA3F, and plexin A3 compared with their normal counterparts. Treatment of cancer cells with progesterone (P4) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)(2)D(3)] for a period of 72 hours induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B and SEMA3F as well as inhibited growth of cancer cells by increasing caspase-3 activity. Cotreatment of cell lines with P4 or 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and their respective antagonists confirmed the specificity of their actions. Transfection of siRNA-targeting SEMA3B and SEMA3F in endometrial cancer cells attenuated P4 or 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-induced growth inhibition. Restoration of SEMA3B or SEMA3F expression in cancer cells caused growth inhibition, reduced soft agar colony formation, and cell invasiveness by inhibiting expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), MMP-9, integrin αvβ3, and proangiogenic genes and by upregulating antiangiogenic genes. Thus, we have identified two new P4 and 1,25(OH)(2)D(3)-regulated antitumor genes for endometrial cancer. These results suggest that the loss of SEMAs contribute to the malignant phenotype of endometrial cancer cells and that reexpression of SEMAs by ectopic expression or with anticancer agents P4 or 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) can be a promising therapeutic treatment against endometrial cancer.
Increasing numbers of studies indicate that free radicals and their derivatives play a role in some neuropsychiatric disorders, such as depression. The aim of this study was to investigate the activities of antioxidant enzymes, lipid peroxidation and total antioxidant status (TAS) in patients suffering from major depressive disorder (MDD) as compared to healthy controls. Specifically, we wanted to estimate how fluoxetine influences antioxidant defense and lipid peroxidation. Fifty MDD patients and thirty healthy controls participated in the study. Antioxidant enzyme activities and lipid peroxidation levels were measured in erythrocytes, while TAS was measured in plasma. All measurements were taken during an acute depressive episode and then again during depression remission after a three-month fluoxetine treatment. During acute depressive episodes, patients had significantly higher activity levels of antioxidant enzymes, such as copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) and catalase (CAT), as compared to healthy controls. Concentrations of malondialdehyde (MDA) were also significantly higher during depressive episodes. Activity levels of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) did not differ significantly between depressed patients and healthy control subjects. Moreover, the plasma total antioxidant status of the depressed patients was decreased in comparison to control subjects. After three months of fluoxetine treatment, the above parameters did not change significantly. Major depressive disorder is accompanied by disturbances in the balance between pro- and anti-oxidative processes; however, these disturbances do not improve in patients in remission after three months of fluoxetine therapy.
Chronic hepatitis B progresses to cirrhosis in the majority of immunosuppressed patients. The outcome of long-term antiviral therapy in HBV-infected organ transplant recipients is unknown. In 1996, we included 20 heart transplant (HT) recipients in a pilot trial to treat chronic hepatitis B with famciclovir. At that time, bridging fibrosis or cirrhosis was evident in 15 individuals (75%). From 1998 onwards, patients were switched to lamivudine in case of primary or secondary virological nonresponse to famciclovir. Adefovir or tenofovir became available at our centre for HT recipients in 2002. After 103 months, one patient was still on famciclovir showing a complete virological response. Sixteen patients were switched to lamivudine after 0.5-4 years of famciclovir therapy. Six of those showed a long-term response to lamivudine therapy lasting for up to 7 years. Lamivudine resistance developed in the remaining 10 patients (63%), in 4 of them successful rescue therapy (adefovir n = 3, tenofovir n = 1) could be initiated. Only one hepatocellular carcinoma developed, which was successfully treated by locoregional ablative therapy. Nine patients died (45%), with lamivudine-resistance-related liver failure as the cause of death in five cases. Significant improvement of Ishak fibrosis scores could be demonstrated in six of the seven patients with more than two sequential liver biopsies available. Long-term antiviral therapy of chronic hepatitis B can lead to regression of liver cirrhosis in patients after organ transplantation, unless viral resistance occurs. This study demonstrates the urgent need for further antivirals to overcome antiviral resistance.
Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) is a relatively common and impairing disorder. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) appear selectively efficacious for BDD, but pharmacotherapy research is limited, and escitalopram has not been studied. Fifteen subjects with BDD were treated with escitalopram and assessed with reliable and valid measures. BDD symptoms significantly improved (P<0.001), and 73.3% (n=11) of subjects were responders. Of the subjects, 46.7% were very much improved, and 33.3% were much improved. Depressive symptoms, delusionality, functioning and quality of life also significantly improved. Escitalopram was well tolerated. These preliminary data suggest that escitalopram is safe and efficacious for BDD.
The piriform cortex (PC) is the largest region of the mammalian olfactory cortex with strong connections to other limbic structures, including the amygdala, hippocampus, and entorhinal cortex. In addition to its functional importance in the classification of olfactory stimuli, the PC has been implicated in the study of memory processing, spread of excitatory information, and the facilitation and propagation of seizures within the limbic system. Previous data from the kindling model of epilepsy indicated that alterations in GABAergic inhibition in the transition zone between the anterior and posterior PC, termed here central PC, are particularly involved in the processes underlying seizure propagation. In the present study we studied alterations in GABAergic neurons in different parts of the PC following seizures induced by kainate or pilocarpine in rats. GABA neurons were labeled either immunohistochemically for GABA or its synthesizing enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) or by in situ hybridization using antisense probes for GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs. For comparison with the PC, labeled neurons were examined in the basolateral amygdala, substantia nigra pars reticulata, and the hippocampal formation. In the PC of controls, immunohistochemical labeling for GABA and GAD yielded consistently higher neuronal densities in most cell layers than labeling for GAD65 or GAD67 mRNAs, indicating a low basal activity of these neurons. Eight hours following kainate- or pilocarpine-induced seizures, severe neuronal damage was observed in the PC. Counting of GABA neurons in the PC demonstrated significant decreases in densities of neurons labeled for GABA or GAD proteins. However, a significantly increased density of neurons labeled for GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs was determined in layer II of the central PC, indicating that a subpopulation of remaining neurons up-regulated the mRNAs for the GAD isoenzymes. One likely explanation for this finding is that remaining GABA neurons in layer II of the central PC maintain high levels of activity to control the increased excitability of the region. In line with previous studies, an up-regulation of GAD67 mRNA, but not GAD65 mRNA, was observed in dentate granule cells following seizures, whereas no indication of such up-regulation was determined for the other brain regions examined. The data substantiate the particular susceptibility of the central PC to seizure-induced plasticity and indicate that this brain region provides an interesting tool to study the regulation of GAD isoenzymes.
Although proton pump inhibitors (PPI) and H2-receptor antagonists (H2-RA) are routinely used in the treatment of reflux esophagitis (RE), no consensus has been reached yet as to whether the first-choice drug should be PPI or H2-RA. In this study, the effects of omeprazole (OMP) and famotidine (FAM) on RE have been examined in a randomized comparative study.
Protocols of OMP 20 mg once daily or FAM 20 mg twice daily for 8 weeks were allocated to 56 cases with RE at random, using an envelope randomization method. Their efficacy in achieving healing was examined endoscopically and a relief from subjective symptoms was compared.
Patient's background such as sex, age, recurrence, hiatal hernia, smoking and drinking habits, and complications, and the severity of esophagitis at the time of enrolment were not significantly different between the two groups. Healing in the OMP group and the FAM group was observed in 72 and 32% (P = 0.025) of patients at week 4 and 95 and 53% (P = 0.003) of patients at week 8, respectively. Subjective symptoms were relieved more frequently in the OMP group (at week 2, 67% compared with 29%, P = 0.005; at week 4, 95% compared with 55%, P = 0.009), but this superiority was not significant at week 8 (94% compared with 65%, P = 0.085). No serious adverse events occurred.
Omeprazole provided quicker healing and a greater relief from subjective symptoms than did FAM in the treatment of RE, and was considered more suitable as a first-choice drug.
