Morphologic and hemodynamic changes that occur following coronary occlusion are examined. The effectiveness of hyperosmotic mannitol in lessening the extent of myocardial damage is assessed and mechanisms for its action discussed. Forty and 60 min of coronary vascular occlusion followed by 15 and 45 min of reflow were associated with a persistence of ischemia following reflow of blood, as established by infusions of silastic into the aortic root. Electron microscopic studies demonstrated myocardial and endothelial cell swelling at the end of the reflow period. The process of cell swelling appeared to be initiated during the period of arterial occlusion. This cell swelling was reduced by elevation of serum osmolality by 30-40 mOsm above control with the administration of mannitol during and following occlusion. There was an associated 40-50% reduction of vascular resistance following occlusion if mannitol was administered. In addition, the extent of necrosis, which was widespread in untreated hearts 12 hours after occlusion, was strikingly less in the hearts of dogs which received mannitol. Thus, in ischemic myocardium, elevation of osmolality by mannitol reduces myocardial necrosis, probably through its restoration of normal cell volume.
Split hand foot malformation (SHFM) also known as central ray deficiency, ectrodactyly and cleft hand/foot, is one of the most complex of limb malformations. SHFM can occur as an isolated malformation or in association with other malformations, as in the ectrodactyly-ectodermal dysplasia-clefting (EEC) syndrome and other autosomal dominant conditions with long bone involvement, all showing variable expressivity and reduced penetrance. The deficiency in SHFM patients can also be accompanied by other distal limb anomalies including polydactyly and/or syndactyly. This variability causes the phenotypic classification of SHFM to be far from straightforward and genetic heterogeneity, with at least five loci identified to date, further complicates management of affected patients and their families. Although genotypic-phenotypic correlations have been proposed at the molecular level for SHFM4 patients who have mutations in the P63 gene, phenotypic correlations at the chromosomal level have not been thoroughly documented. Using descriptive epidemiology, Chi square and discriminant function analyses, our laboratory has identified phenotypic patterns associated with the mapped genetic SHFM loci. These findings can assist in classification, provide insight into responsible developmental genes and assist in directing mapping efforts and targeted genetic testing, resulting in more accurate information for family members in the clinical setting. Comparison with relevant animal models is discussed.
1. Administration to rats of methamphetamine (15 mg kg-1, i.p.) every 2 h to a total of 4 doses resulted in a neurotoxic loss of striatal dopamine of 36% and of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the cortex (43%) and hippocampus (47%) 3 days later. 2. Administration of chlormethiazole (50 mg kg-1, i.p.) 15 min before each dose of methamphetamine provided complete protection against the neurotoxic loss of monoamines while administration of dizocilpine (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) using the same dose schedule provided substantial protection. 3. Measurement of dopamine release in the striatum by in vivo microdialysis revealed that methamphetamine produced an approximate 7000% increase in dopamine release after the first injection. The enhanced release response was somewhat diminished after the third injection but still around 4000% above baseline. Dizocilpine (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) did not alter this response but chlormethiazole (50 mg kg-1, i.p.) attenuated the methamphetamine-induced release by approximately 40%. 4. Dizocilpine pretreatment did not influence the decrease in the dialysate concentration of the dopamine metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) produced by administration of methamphetamine while chlormethiazole pretreatment decreased the dialysate concentration of these metabolites still further. 5. The concentration of dopamine in the dialysate during basal conditions increased modestly during the course of the experiment. This increase did not occur in chlormethiazole-treated rats. HVA concentrations were unaltered by chlormethiazole administration. 6. Chlormethiazole (100-1000 microM) did not alter methamphetamine (100 microM) or K+ (35 mM)-evoked release of endogenous dopamine from striatal prisms in vitro. 7. Several NMDA antagonists prevent methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity; however chlormethiazole is not an NMDA antagonist. Inhibition of striatal dopamine function prevents methamphetamine-induced toxicity of both dopamine and 5-HT pathways. Therefore the attenuation of the enhanced dopamine release which occurs in animals given chlormethiazole may be associated with the protective action of this drug against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.
Activation of the K-ras protooncogene and inactivation of the p53 tumor suppressor gene are events common to many types of human cancers. Molecular epidemiology studies have associated mutational profiles in these genes with specific exposures. The purpose of this paper is to review investigations that have examined the role of the K-ras and p53 genes in lung tumors induced in the F344 rat by mutagenic and nonmutagenic exposures. Mutation profiles within the K-ras and p53 genes, if present in rat lung tumors, would help to define some of the molecular mechanisms underlying cancer induction by various environmental agents. Pulmonary adenocarcinomas or squamous cell carcinomas were induced by tetranitromethane (TNM), 4-methylnitrosamino-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), beryllium metal, plutonium-239, X-ray, diesel exhaust, or carbon black. These agents were chosen because the tumors they produced could arise via different types of DNA damage. Mutation of the K-ras gene was determined by approaches that included DNA transfection, direct sequencing, mismatch hybridization, and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. The frequency for mutation of the K-ras gene was exposure dependent. Only two agents, TNM and plutonium, led to mutation frequencies of > 10%. In both cases, the transition mutations formed could have been derived from deamination of cytosine. The identification of non-ras transforming genes in rat lung tumors induced by mutagenic and nonmutagenic exposures such as NNK and beryllium would help define some of the mechanisms underlying cancer induction by different types of DNA damage. Alteration in the p53 gene was assessed by immunohistochemical analysis for p53 protein and single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis of exons 4 to 9. None of the 93 adenocarcinomas examined was immunoreactive toward the anti-p53 antibody CM1. In contrast, 14 to 71 squamous cell carcinomas exhibited nuclear p53 immunoreactivity with no correlation to type of exposure. However, SSCP analysis only detected mutations in 2 of 14 squamous cell tumors that were immunoreactive, suggesting that protein stabilization did not stem from mutations within the p53 gene. Thus, the p53 gene does not appear to be involved in the genesis of most rat lung tumors.
Enuresis is an adverse event of clozapine treatment. The occurrence of nocturnal functional enuresis in two schizophrenic patients during the initial phase of clozapine therapy is reported. Beneficial effect of trihexyphenidyl administration (5 mg at 21.00 h) on clozapine-induced enuresis is clearly demonstrated in one patient. Trihexyphenidyl discontinuation and subsequent readministration in this patient led to corresponding recurrence and then disappearance of enuresis. Involvement of the cholinergic system has been proposed as one of the possible pathophysiological mechanisms of clozapine-induced enuresis.
The aim of this study was to determine whether selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibition with rofecoxib can modulate endothelial dysfunction and levels of circulating inflammatory markers in patients with established coronary artery disease (CAD).
Expression of COX-2 is upregulated in atherosclerosis. Thus, it has been hypothesized that COX-2 may contribute to atherogenesis by producing eicosanoids, which mediate vascular inflammation and endothelial dysfunction.
In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-design trial, we studied the vascular effects of rofecoxib on brachial artery vasoreactivity and inflammatory markers in 60 patients with angiographically proven CAD who were taking concomitant low-dose aspirin. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either rofecoxib (25 mg/day; n = 30) or placebo (n = 30) for eight weeks. Brachial artery endothelium-dependent flow-mediated dilation (FMD), endothelium-independent nitroglycerin-mediated dilation (NMD), and inflammatory markers (i.e., high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [CRP], soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 [sICAM-1], and soluble interleukin-6 receptor [sIL-6r]) were measured at baseline and after eight-week follow-up.
Baseline clinical characteristics were similar in the two groups. After eight weeks of treatment, FMD did not significantly change in either the rofecoxib or placebo group (4.0 +/- 3.0% to 4.0 +/- 3.8% vs. 2.7 +/- 2.7% to 3.1 +/- 2.7%, respectively; p = 0.6 by two-way analysis of variance). Similarly, NMD remained unchanged in both groups. Levels of CRP, sICAM-1, and sIL-6r were not significantly altered in either the rofecoxib or placebo group.
The addition of selective COX-2 inhibition with rofecoxib did not appear to have any favorable or adverse effects on endothelial dysfunction or vascular inflammation in patients with CAD using concomitant low-dose aspirin.
Transthyretin (TTR) is normally a stable plasma protein. However, in cases of familial TTR-related amyloidosis and senile systemic amyloidosis (SSA), TTR is deposited as amyloid fibrils, leading to organ dysfunction and possibly death. The mechanism by which TTR undergoes the transition from stable, soluble precursor to insoluble amyloid fibril and the factors that promote this process are largely undetermined. Most models involve the dissociation of the native TTR tetramer as the initial step. It is largely accepted that the TTR gene mutations associated with TTR-related amyloidosis lead to the expression of variant proteins that are intrinsically unstable and prone to aggregation. It has been suggested that amyloidogenicity may be conferred to wild-type TTR (the form deposited in SSA) by chemical modification of the lone cysteine residue (Cys(10)) through mixed disulfide bonds. S-Sulfonation and S-cysteinylation are prevalent TTR modifications physiologically, and studies have suggested their ability to modulate the structure of TTR under denaturing conditions. In the present study, we have used fluorescence-detected sedimentation velocity to determine the effect of S-sulfonate and S-cysteine on the quaternary structural stability of fluorophore-conjugated recombinant TTR under nondenaturing conditions. We determined that S-sulfonation stabilized TTR tetramer stability by a factor of 7, whereas S-cysteinylation enhanced dissociation by 2-fold with respect to the unmodified form. In addition, we report the direct observation of tetramer stabilization by the potential therapeutic compound diflunisal. Finally, as proof of concept, we report the sedimentation of TTR in serum and the qualitative assessment of the resulting data.
The potential chronic toxicity and oncogenicity of hydrochlorofluorocarbon 123 (HCFC-123) was evaluated by exposing male and female rats to 0, 300, 1000, or 5000 ppm HCFC-123 for 6 hr/day, 5 days/week, for 2 years. Clinical pathology was evaluated at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. An interim termination and measurements of hepatic cell proliferation and beta-oxidation activity were conducted at 12 months. The terminal euthanization occurred at 24 months. Males and females exposed to 5000 ppm and females exposed to 300 or 1000 ppm had lower body weights and body weight gains. Serum triglyceride and glucose concentrations were significantly decreased at all exposure concentrations in both sexes. Serum cholesterol was also lower in 300, 1000, and 5000 ppm females and in 5000 ppm males. Alterations in serum protein concentrations occurred at 300, 1000, and 5000 ppm. Survival was higher in 1000 and 5000 ppm males and females. At 24 months, increased relative liver weight occurred in 5000 ppm males, and decreased absolute kidney weight occurred in 5000 ppm males and in 1000 and 5000 ppm females. Benign hepatocellular adenomas were increased in 5000 ppm males and in all test groups of females. Hepatic cholangiofibromas were also increased in 5000 ppm females. Pancreatic acinar cell adenomas were increased in all test groups of males, and acinar cell hyperplasia was increased in the 1000 and 5000 ppm males and females. Benign testicular interstitial adenomas and focal interstitial cell hyperplasia were also increased in all male test groups compared to controls. Diffuse retinal atrophy was increased in all male and female test groups, but it was considered to be an indirect compound-related effect. Hepatic beta-oxidation activity (peroxisome proliferation) was higher in 300, 1000 and 5000 ppm males and 1000 and 5000 ppm females. Compound-related differences in the rate of hepatic cell proliferation were not observed at any exposure concentration. Decreased incidences of a variety of age-related lesions occurred at 1000 and 5000 ppm.
Previous phase II studies have reported that combinations of oxaliplatin, folinic acid and 5-fluorouracil or irinotecan, folinic acid and 5-fluorouracil are associated with good efficacy and an acceptable safety profile in metastatic gastric cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate chemotherapy with oxaliplatin, folinic acid, 5-fluorouracil and irinotecan (COFFI regimen) in metastatic gastric cancer.
Patients received oxaliplatin (85 mg/m2 d 1), irinotecan (140 mg/m2 d 1), and L-folinic acid (200 mg/m2 d 1) followed by 5-fluorouracil bolus (400 mg/m2 d 1) and then 5-fluorouracil (2,400 mg/m2 48-h continuous infusion), every 14 days.
Seventeen patients with metastatic gastric cancer were enrolled. Eight patients were pretreated for advanced disease. Of the 9 chemo-naïve patients, 8 were evaluated for response (1 patient was lost to follow-up): one complete response, 5 partial responses and 2 progressions of disease occurred, giving an overall response rate, at intention-to-treat analysis, of 67%. Of the 8 pretreated patients, 6 were evaluated for response (2 patients had nonmeasurable disease): one partial response, 2 disease stabilizations and 3 progressions of disease occurred, giving an overall response rate, at intention-to-treat analysis, of 12%. Median progression-free and overall survival in chemo-naïve patients were 8.2 and 10.2 months, respectively, and in pretreated patients 2.7 and 3 months. Grade 3-4 neutropenia occurred in 55% of chemo-naïve patients. Thrombocytopenia, and anemia were observed in 18% and 29%, respectively. Grade 3 nausea/vomiting occurred in 12% and grade 3 diarrhea in 6%.
The COFFI regimen is active and well tolerated, therefore phase III studies are warranted.
In HCC, inactivation of tumor suppressor genes plays a significant role in carcinogenesis. Apart from deletions and mutations, growing evidence has indicated that epigenetic alterations including aberrant promoter methylation and histone deacetylation are also implicated in inactivation of tumor suppressor genes. The goal of this study was to identify epigenetically silenced candidate tumor suppressor genes in human HCC by comparing the changes in oligonucleotide microarray gene expression profiles in HCC cell lines upon pharmacological treatment with the demethylating agent 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-dC). By analyzing the gene expression profiles, we selected tissue factor pathway inhibitor-2 (TFPI-2), a Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitor, for validation and further characterization. Our results showed that TFPI-2 was frequently silenced in human HCC and HCC cell lines. TFPI-2 was significantly underexpressed in approximately 90% of primary HCCs when compared with their corresponding nontumorous livers. TFPI-2 promoter methylation was detected in 80% of HCC cell lines and 47% of human HCCs and was accompanied by reduced TFPI-2 messenger RNA expression. In addition, TFPI-2 expression in HCC cell lines can be robustly restored by combined treatment with 5-Aza-dC and histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. These findings indicate that TFPI-2 is frequently silenced in human HCC via epigenetic alterations, including promoter methylation and histone deacetylation. Moreover, ectopic overexpression of TFPI-2 significantly suppressed the proliferation and invasiveness of HCC cells.
Our findings suggest that TFPI-2 is a candidate tumor suppressor gene in human HCC.
Movement disorders have been reported with use of different antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). We report a 32-year-old woman, affected by a symptomatic focal drug-resistant epilepsy and a mild hemiparesis, with acute athetoid movements, transiently linked to increasing tiagabine (TGB) therapy. To our knowledge, no other cases of acute athetosis related to TGB have been reported to date. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that involuntary movements were induced by an interaction between TGB and concomitant AEDs, in particular phenobarbital (PB), possibly by increasing GABAergic transmission. We hypothesize that the presence of a static encephalopathy may have influenced the kind of extrapyramidal side effect induced by TGB in our patient, leading to athetosis.
Two patients are presented who during malaria prophylaxis with amodiaquine developed a hepatitis associated with granulocytopenia of short duration. The suspicion that this could be an adverse reaction to amodiaquine was confirmed by a reexposure to the drug.
We previously reported that brief (1 h), but not extended (6 h), daily access to cocaine results in a sensitized locomotor response to cocaine and in elevated c-Fos immunoreactivity and DAT binding in the nucleus accumbens (N.Acc) core. In order to better our understanding of the neural adaptations mediating the transition from controlled drug use to addiction, the current experiments were set to further explore the neural adaptations resulting from these two access conditions. Rats received either brief daily access to saline or cocaine, or brief daily access followed by extended daily access to cocaine. Subjects were then sacrificed either 20 min, or 14 or 60 days, after the last self-administration session. Samples of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), N.Acc core and shell, dorsal striatum, and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were taken for analysis of D1 ([3H]SCH-23390), D2 ([3H]Spiperone), and NMDA ([3H]MK-801) receptor binding (using the method of receptor autoradiography). At 20 min into withdrawal, D2 receptors were elevated and NMDA receptors were reduced in the mPFC of the brief access animals while D1 receptors were elevated in the N.Acc shell of the extended access animals, compared to saline controls. D2 receptors were reduced in the N.Acc shell of the brief access animals compared to saline controls after 14 days, and compared to extended access animals after 60 days of withdrawal. In summary, extended access to cocaine resulted in only transient changes in D1 receptors binding. These results suggest that the development of compulsive drug use is largely unrelated to changes in total binding of D2 or NMDA receptors.
Tetrahydrocurcumin (THC), one of the major metabolites of curcumin, was investigated for its possible hepatoprotective effect in Wistar rats against erythromycin estolate-induced toxicity. Oral administration of THC significantly prevented the occurrence of erythromycin estolate-induced liver damage. The increased level of serum enzymes (aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP)), bilirubin, cholesterol, triglycerides, phospholipids, free fatty acids and plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and hydroperoxides observed in rats treated with erythromycin estolate were very much reduced in rats treated with THC and erythromycin estolate. This biochemical observation were supplemented by histopathological examination of liver section. Results of this study revealed that THC could afford a significant protection against erthromycin estolate-induced hepatocellular damage. Tetrahydrocurcumin had a better protective effect when compared with Silymarin, a reference drug.
To report on the safety and tolerability of methylphenidate (MPH) 3- to 5-year-old children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) during 1 year of treatment.
Exactly 183 children (3-5 years old) entered a treatment study of MPH, consisting of a 1-week open-label lead-in (n=183); a 5-week placebo-controlled, double-blind phase (n=165); a 5-week double-blind, parallel phase (n=114); and 10 months of open-label maintenance (n=140 entered, 95 completed). Mean total daily MPH doses rose from the titration trial best dose, 14.1 (+/-8.1) mg/day, to 20.5 (+/-9.7) mg/day mean total daily dose at the end of maintenance. Pulse, blood pressure, and the presence of treatment emergent adverse events (AEs), parent and teacher AE ratings, and vital signs were recorded in each phase.
Thirty percent of parents spontaneously reported moderate to severe AEs in all study phases after baseline. These included emotional outbursts, difficulty falling asleep, repetitive behaviors/thoughts, appetite decrease, and irritability. During titration, decreased appetite (chi=5.4, p<.03), trouble sleeping (chi=5.4, p<.03), and weight loss (chi=4.0, p<.05) occurred statistically more often on MPH than on placebo. During maintenance, trouble sleeping and appetite loss persisted and other MPH-related AEs decreased. There were transient, one-time pulse and blood pressure elevations in five children. Twenty-one children (11%) discontinued because of drug-attributed AEs.
Eleven percent of preschoolers discontinued treatment because of intolerable MPH AEs. Of the serious AEs reported, one occurred in baseline, two in lead-in, three in titration, one in parallel, and one in maintenance. Only one was possibly related to MPH.
Standard antipsychotics are ineffective in some geriatric patients. In addition, they are not helpful for apathy and withdrawal. Studies have demonstrated that 5HT2 antagonists improve affective symptoms and anxiety; therefore, the efficacy of risperidone on agitation and withdrawal was considered. The literature on risperidone was reviewed, and the efficacy and limitations of risperidone observed in two geriatric patients, one with agitation and another with apathy and withdrawal. Risperidone proved to be effective in controlling disruptive behavior in geriatric patients. Combined antagonism of D2 and 5HT2 receptors might be effective in improving agitation and withdrawal. Risperidone, with both D2 and 5HT2 antagonistic properties, seems to have potential as an alternative agent in controlling agitation and withdrawal in geriatric patients. Caution and need for further observation is recommended.
To investigate the effects of nicardipine-, nitroglycerin-, and prostaglandine E1-induced hypotension on cerebrovascular carbon dioxide (CO2) reactivity over a wide range of arterial CO2 tension (PaCO2) (PaCO2; range 25 to 50 mmHg).
Prospective, randomized study.
Operating room of a university-affiliated hospital.
36 ASA physical status I and II patients without cerebrovascular disease, hypertension, or diabetes mellitus, undergoing an elective abdominal surgery.
Patients were randomly allocated to one of three groups (nicardipine-, nitroglycerin-, or prostaglandin E1-induced hypotension group; 12 in each group). Anesthesia was induced and maintained with a bolus dose, followed by a continuous infusion of propofol (6.7 +/- 1.5 mg/kg/hr) and fentanyl (1.68 +/- 0.4 micrograms/kg/hr). Deliberate hypotension of mean arterial pressure 55 to 60 mmHg was induced and maintained with a bolus dose, followed by a continuous infusion of nicardipine (6.80 +/- 0.75 micrograms/kg/min), nitroglycerin (3.20 +/- 1.10 micrograms/kg/min), or prostaglandin E1 (0.103 +/- 0.052 microgram/kg/min).
Time-averaged mean red blood cell velocity in the right middle cerebral artery (Vmca) at PaCO2 ranging from 25 to 50 mmHg was measured with transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. A minimum of six simultaneous measurements of Vmca and PaCO2 were obtained during baseline and deliberate hypotension in each patient. Absolute slope between Vmca and PaCO2 during baseline and deliberate hypotension was determined individually by linear regression analysis. Absolute slope was treated as the variable, because it yielded a significant close correlation coefficient (r > 0.95; p < 0.05). Comparisons between baseline and deliberate hypotension were made by analysis of variance for repeated measures. Mean absolute slope was significantly reduced from 1.88 +/- 0.57 cm/sec/mmHg (mean +/- SD) to 1.21 +/- 0.46 in the nicardipine group (p < 0.05), from 1.75 +/- 0.69 to 1.35 +/- 0.47 in the nitroglycerin group (p < 0.05), and from 1.95 +/- 0.89 to 1.33 +/- 0.70 (p < 0.05) in the prostaglandin E1 group, respectively.
Nicardipine-, nitroglycerin-, and prostaglandin E1-induced hypotension attenuate the human cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity during propofol-fentanyl anesthesia.
Arginases (encoded by ARG1 and ARG2 genes) might play an important role in asthma pathogenesis through effects on nitrosative stress. Arginase expression is upregulated in asthma and varies with T(H)2 cytokine levels and oxidative stress.
We aimed to examine whether variants in these genes are associated with asthma and whether atopy and exposures to smoking and air pollution influence the associations.
Among non-Hispanic and Hispanic white participants of the Children's Health Study (n = 2946), we characterized variation in each locus (including promoter region) with 6 tag single nucleotide polymorphisms for ARG1 and 10 for ARG2. Asthma was defined by parental report of physician-diagnosed asthma at study entry.
Both ARG1 and ARG2 genetic loci were significantly associated with asthma (global locus level P = .02 and .04, respectively). Compared with the most common haplotype within each locus, 1 ARG1 haplotype was associated with reduced risk (odds ratio [OR] per haplotype copy, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.36-0.84), and 1 ARG2 haplotype was associated with increased risk (OR per haplotype copy, 1.35; 95% CI, 1.04-1.76) of asthma. The effect of the ARG1 haplotype that was significantly associated with asthma varied by the child's history of atopy and ambient ozone (P(interaction) = .04 and .02, respectively). Among atopic children living in high-ozone communities, those carrying the ARG1 haplotype had reduced asthma risk (OR per haplotype copy, 0.12; 95% CI, 0.04-0.43; P(heterogeneity) across atopy/ozone categories = .008).
ARG1 and ARG2 loci are associated with childhood asthma. The association between ARG1 variation and asthma might depend on atopy and ambient ozone levels.
Fetal valproate syndrome (FVS) is characterized by minor craniofacial anomalies, major organ malformations, and developmental delay. We report on a patient who has a clinical phenotype compatible with both FVS and autism. The presence of an autistic disorder in a previously reported case of FVS and similar findings in our patient suggest that a relation between this known teratogen and autism may exist.
The major objective of this project was to characterize the systemic disposition of the pyrethroid, deltamethrin (DLT), in immature rats, with emphasis on the age dependence of target organ (brain) dosimetry. Postnatal day (PND) 10, 21, and 40 male Sprague-Dawley rats received 0.4, 2, or 10 mg DLT/kg by gavage in glycerol formal. Serial plasma, brain, fat, liver, and skeletal muscle samples were collected for up to 510 h and analyzed for DLT and/or 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (PBA) content by high-performance liquid chromatography. Toxicokinetic data from previous experiments of the same design with young adult (PND 90) rats (Kim, K.-B., Anand, S. S., Kim, H. J., White, C. A., and Bruckner, J. V. [2008]. Toxicokinetics and tissue distribution of deltamethrin in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Toxicol. Sci. 101, 197-205) were used to compare to immature rat data. Plasma and tissue DLT levels were inversely related to age. Preweanlings and weanlings showed markedly elevated brain concentrations and pronounced salivation, tremors, choreoathetosis, and eventual fatalities. Plasma DLT levels did not reliably reflect brain levels over time. Plasma:brain ratios were time and dose dependent, but apparently not age dependent. Brain levels were better correlated with the magnitude of salivation and tremors than plasma levels. Hepatic intrinsic clearance of DLT progressively increased during maturation, as did the hepatic extraction ratio. Thus, limited capacity to metabolically inactivate DLT appeared primarily responsible for the inordinately high target organ doses and acute neurotoxicity in pups and weanling rats. Hepatic blood flow was not rate limiting in any age group. Limited DLT hydrolysis was manifest in vivo in the pups by relatively low plasma PBA levels. Elevated exposure of the immature brain to a pyrethroid may prove to be of consequence for long-term, as well as short-term neurotoxicity.
The effects of beta-alanine, phenibut and muscimol on the activity of the "mirror" (MEF) and primary (PEF) epileptogenic foci were studied in rats on the model of penicillin-induced epilepsy using the direct administration of the drugs into the foci (muscimol only into MEF). All the drugs suppressed the development of electrographic correlates of seizures both in PEF and MEF. The varied characters of the drugs' effects on interseizure epileptiform bursts depending on administration into PEF (provocation) or MEF (no effect) were revealed. Possible dose-dependent mechanisms of the drugs' actions on GABA-A and GABA-B receptors involved in inhibitory control of the activity of epileptogenic foci in the rat hippocamp are discussed.
To investigate the therapeutic effect, long term survival and side effect on NSCLC patients treated with nadaplatin combined with paclitaxol and cisplatin combined with paclitaxol.
NSCLC patients with stage IIIB or IV were randomized into two groups in this prospective clinical study. TN group: nadaplatin 30 mg/m2 dl-3, paclitaxol 175 mg/m2 dl, repeated every 4 weeks. TP group: DDP 30 mg/m2 dl-3, paclitaxol 175 mg/m2 dl, repeated every 4 weeks.
Sixty patients were enrolled and 57 were evaluable with 30 in TN group and 27 in TP group. The overall response rate were 43.3% vs. 48.1% (P = 0.716), and the disease control rate were 86.7% vs. 88.8% in TN and TP group (P = 0.799), respectively. The median survival time was 14.3 vs. 13.0 months, and the 1- and 2-year survival rate was 62.5% vs. 59.1%, 0% vs. 5.8% in TN and TP group (P = 0.839), respectively. The rates of neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were similar in TN and TP groups whereas more patients in TP group than in TN group suffered from anemia (38.5% vs. 17.5%, P = 0.001), nausea and vomiting (82.6% vs. 35.6%, P = 0.000), fatigue (35.9% vs. 14.1%, P = 0.000) and peripheral neurotoxicity (50.0% vs. 21.9%, calculated by case, P = 0.023).
Nadaplatin combined with paclitaxol is an effective treatment regimen for NSCLC patients. When compared with similar regimen with cisplatin, the response rate and survival were similar; however, nadaplatin regimen shows some superiority as regards some treatment side effect.
Previous studies of families with multiple cases of breast cancer have indicated that a frameshift alteration in the CHEK2 gene, 1100delC, is associated with an elevated frequency of breast cancer in such families, but the risk associated with the variant in other situations is uncertain. To evaluate the breast cancer risk associated with this variant, 10,860 breast cancer cases and 9,065 controls from 10 case-control studies in five countries were genotyped. CHEK2*1100delC was found in 201 cases (1.9%) and 64 controls (0.7%) (estimated odds ratio 2.34; 95% CI 1.72-3.20; P=.0000001). There was some evidence of a higher prevalence of CHEK2*1100delC among cases with a first-degree relative affected with breast cancer (odds ratio 1.44; 95% CI 0.93-2.23; P=.10) and of a trend for a higher breast cancer odds ratio at younger ages at diagnosis (P=.002). These results confirm that CHEK2*1100delC confers an increased risk of breast cancer and that this risk is apparent in women unselected for family history. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that CHEK2*1100delC multiplies the risks associated with susceptibility alleles in other genes to increase the risk of breast cancer.
Acute hepatic failure secondary to paracetamol poisoning is associated with high mortality. C-jun (NH2) terminal kinase (JNK) is a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family and is a key intracellular signalling molecule involved in controlling the fate of cells.
To examine the role of JNK in paracetamol-induced acute liver failure (ALF).
A previously developed mouse model of paracetamol poisoning was used to examine the role of JNK in paracetamol-induced ALF.
Paracetamol-induced hepatic JNK activation both in human and murine paracetamol hepatotoxicity and in our murine model preceded the onset of hepatocyte death. JNK inhibition in vivo (using two JNK inhibitors with different mechanisms of action) markedly reduced mortality in murine paracetamol hepatotoxicity, with a significant reduction in hepatic necrosis and apoptosis. In addition, delayed administration of the JNK inhibitor was more effective than N-acetylcysteine after paracetamol poisoning in mice. JNK inhibition was not protective in acute carbon tetrachloride-mediated or anti-Fas antibody-mediated hepatic injury, suggesting specificity for the role of JNK in paracetamol hepatotoxicity. Furthermore, disruption of the JNK1 or JNK2 genes did not protect against paracetamol-induced hepatic damage. Pharmacological JNK inhibition had no effect on paracetamol metabolism, but markedly inhibited hepatic tumour necrosis foctor alpha (TNF alpha) production after paracetamol poisoning.
These data demonstrated a central role for JNK in the pathogenesis of paracetamol-induced liver failure, thereby identifying JNK as an important therapeutic target in the treatment of paracetamol hepatotoxicity.
Human plasma chitotriosidase (Chito) is a useful diagnostic and therapeutic biomarker for Type 1 Gaucher disease (GD). However, approximately 40% of Caucasians are heterozygous or homozygous for a common null mutation, c.1049_1072dup24 (dup24) in the chitotriosidase gene (chitinase 1, CHIT1), that complicates interpretation for heterozygotes and precludes use for null homozygotes. 320 Type 1 GD patients were screened for CHIT1 genotype and plasma Chito enzyme levels; 37% were heterozygous and 4% were homozygous for the CHIT1 dup24 allele. Four patients who had no or very low plasma Chito activities had wild-type (wt)/dup24 or wt/wt CHIT1 genotypes, suggesting the presence of other mutations. Sequencing their CHIT1 genes revealed three novel mutations: p.E74K (E74K), p.G102S (G102S), and a complex exon 10 lesion (c.[1060G>A; 1155G>A; 1156+5_1156+8delGTAA], p.[G354R; L385L; missplicing], designated "complex E/I-10"). The G102S mutation was common in Type 1 GD patients and controls ( approximately 30% of alleles). In contrast, the E74K mutation was rare, present only in three Type 1 GD patients ( approximately 1% of alleles), all of Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) descent, but it was not found in normal controls. The complex E/I-10 mutation occurred in two Caribbean Hispanic/African Type 1 GD patients and was present in 0 to 6% of alleles among normal controls from different populations. In vitro expression demonstrated that the E74K and G102S alleles had approximately 51% and approximately 23% of wild-type Chito catalytic efficiency, respectively. Expression of the G354R allele alone or with the L385L silent substitution did not produce detectable Chito activity or protein. RNA studies indicated that the complex E/I-10 allele also caused missplicing. Recognition of these mutations, particularly G102S, will facilitate the use and interpretation of plasma Chito activities for disease diagnosis, estimating disease severity, and monitoring therapeutic efficacy in GD.
Acute renal failure developed in three patients within a few days of starting ciprofloxacin hydrochloride therapy. An allergic interstitial nephritis was suggested by fever and eosinophiluria in one patient and by erythema multiforme in another. A kidney biopsy specimen confirmed this diagnosis in one patient. Renal function improved shortly after withdrawal of the drug in all three patients. Literature survey revealed an additional three patients with a similar complication. Allergic manifestations, such as fever or rash, were a feature in most reported cases. In view of this potential complication, renal function should be closely monitored in patients receiving ciprofloxacin therapy, especially if other potentially nephrotoxic drugs are prescribed concomitantly.
We report a 53-year-old-man who developed rippling muscle disease (RMD) 2 months after starting simvastatin therapy for hypercholesterolemia. He experienced stiffness, myalgias, and classic rippling, which was confirmed on clinical examination. Discontinuation of the statin improved his symptoms. Simvastatin therapy was resumed and resulted in a prompt and severe return of his symptoms. Approximately 1 year after symptom onset he developed mild seropositive oculobulbar myasthenia gravis, which spontaneously remitted after 5 months. We postulate that an immune-mediated disruption of caveolar function was exacerbated by statin exposure. We are unaware of any previous cases of statin-mediated unmasking of RMD.
