Entecavir is a novel and selective nucleoside analogue with potent activity against hepatitis B virus (HBV).
In a 24-week, double-blind, randomized, multicenter, phase II clinical trial, the safety and efficacy of entecavir (0.01 mg/day, 0.1 mg/day, or 0.5 mg/day orally) were compared with lamivudine (100 mg/day orally). Patients (n = 169) chronically infected with HBV (hepatitis B e antigen [HBeAg]-positive and -negative) were evaluated for efficacy.
Compared with lamivudine, entecavir reduced HBV DNA by an additional 0.97 log(10) at the 0.1-mg/day dose and an additional 1.28 log(10) at the 0.5-mg/day dose (P < 0.0001). A clear dose-response relationship was observed for entecavir with the higher doses showing significantly greater viral suppression. In patients treated with entecavir 0.5 mg/day, 83.7% had an HBV-DNA level below the lower limit of detection of the Quantiplex branched DNA (bDNA) assay (Bayer-Versant Diagnostics, formerly Chiron Diagnostics, Emeryville, CA), compared with 57.5% treated with 100 mg/day lamivudine (P = 0.008). In both treatment arms, very few patients achieved HBeAg loss and/or seroconversion by week 22. More patients treated with the 0.1-mg/day and 0.5-mg/day doses of entecavir had normalization of alanine transaminase (ALT) levels at week 22 compared with lamivudine (P = not significant). Entecavir was well tolerated; most adverse events were mild to moderate, transient, and comparable in all study arms.
This study showed that entecavir has potent antiviral activity against HBV at 0.1-mg/day and 0.5-mg/day doses, both of which were superior to lamivudine in chronically infected HBV patients.
To investigate the effect of folic acid on the increased pressure in rats treated with either adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) or dexamethasone (Dex), and to further investigate the role of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) in any effect of folic acid by comparing the effect of BH(4) with that of folic acid in Dex hypertension.
Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were treated with saline, subcutaneous ACTH (0.2 mg/kg/d) or Dex (10 microg/rat/d). Folic acid (0.04 g/L drinking) or BH(4) (10 mg/kg/d intraperitoneally) was started before (prevention) and during (reversal) glucocorticoid treatment.
Saline, BH(4), vehicle for BH(4), or folic acid alone did not change systolic blood pressure (BP). Systolic BP was increased by ACTH and Dex. Folic acid, but not BH(4), prevented the development of hypertension caused by ACTH and Dex treatment. The ACTH and Dex hypertension were partially reversed by folic acid. The BH(4) increased plasma total biopterin concentrations. The Dex decreased plasma NOx concentrations but had no effect on plasma biopterin concentrations. The ACTH and Dex increased plasma F(2)-isoprostane concentrations and decreased serum homocysteine concentrations compared with control but had no effect on serum folate concentrations. Folic acid increased serum folate concentrations compared with control but had no effect on homocysteine concentrations.
Folic acid prevented and partially reversed both ACTH and Dex hypertension in rats without modifying the increase in plasma F(2)-isoprostane concentrations. Given that BH(4) failed to prevent ACTH or Dex hypertension, folic acid is unlikely to be acting through increased BH(4) production. The precise mechanism for the BP-lowering effect of folic acid in this model of hypertension remains to be determined.
Mutations of the Ki-ras protooncogene in 190 lung tumors initiated in male A/J and SWR mice by 3-methylcholanthrene(MCA) or urethan and promoted by butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), were evaluated by utilizing polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing analysis. The most common mutation pattern was a GC to CG transversion at the first base of codon 12/13. The predominant mutation pattern at codon 61 was an AT to TA transversion and the next frequent one an AT to GC transition. Mutations of Ki-ras codon 12/13 were found in 44% (A/J) and 13% (SWR) of MCA-induced and in 94% (A/J) and 43% (SWR) of MCA plus BHT-induced lung tumors. Mutations of the Ki-ras codon 61 were found in 31% (A/J) and 13% (SWR) of urethan-induced and 69% (A/J) and 44% (SWR) of urethan plus BHT-induced lung tumors. These data suggest that in strain A/J mice the 2 carcinogens produce Ki-ras mutations and that BHT promotes the activations of Ki-ras protooncogenes in lung tumors.
Vigabatrin (VGB) is an irreversible inhibitor of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transaminase. Its use as an antiepileptic drug (AED) has been limited because it causes retinal dysfunction, leading to visual field defects (VFDs). We performed this study to identify factors contributing to acute VGB retinotoxicity.
In ex vivo experiments, Sprague-Dawley rat retinas were isolated and incubated with VGB or GABA in the presence or absence of light. In in vivo experiments, Sprague-Dawley rats were given intraperitoneal injections of VGB and then exposed to light or kept in the dark. The retinas were analyzed histologically by using both light and electron microscopy.
Incubating retinas with 50-500 microM VGB under 20,000 Lux white light for < or = 20 h caused a characteristic time- and dose-dependent degeneration limited to the outer retina. Incubating retinas with 500 microM VGB in darkness for 20 h caused no damage. Five hundred micromolar GABA and 50 microM tiagabine were not toxic in the presence or absence of light. Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to an intense white light for 20 h after a 1,000-mg/kg intraperitoneal injection of VGB showed damage in the outer retina, whereas those kept in the dark did not.
Direct exposure of the retina to VGB causes acute retinotoxicity that depends on light exposure rather than GABA accumulation.
Vigabatrin (VGB) has been shown to cause visual field constriction and other forms of mild visual dysfunction. We determined the safety of continuing VGB therapy in patients who had received prolonged treatment (>2 years) with the drug by serially monitoring changes in visual function over a 1-year period of continued therapy. We also followed up patients who discontinued VGB to see whether alternative therapies are effective.
Fifteen of 17 patients who continued VGB therapy had visual-function testing (visual acuity, color vision, kinetic and static perimetry) every 3 months for 1 year. Eighteen patients who discontinued VGB were given alternative antiepileptic drugs (AEDs); their seizure responses were measured after > or =3 months of treatment.
Patients continuing VGB showed no worsening of visual acuity, color vision, or visual-field constriction beyond that measured in the initial test. Many patients who discontinued VGB had good seizure control with either newer or previously unsuccessful AEDs.
For patients who have an excellent response to VGB and only mild visual changes, continued therapy may be safe with close visual monitoring. Patients who do not have a significant reduction in seizures or who experience considerable visual dysfunction with VGB may respond well to alternative therapies.
Malignant gliomas of the central nervous system remain associated with dismal prognoses because of their diffuse invasion of the brain parenchyma. Very few experimental models that mimic clinical reality are available today to test potentially new therapies. The authors set up experimental in vivo glioma models of anaplastic astrocytomas of human and rat origins and anaplastic oligodendroglioma of human origin. Standard hospital chemotherapies were employed to test the validity of these models.
Three glioma cells lines obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (i.e., human Hs683 and U373 cells and rat C6 cells) were implanted into nude mouse brains (Hs683 and U373 cells) and rat brains (C6 cells). The astrocytic nature, as opposed to the oligodendrocytic nature, of the Hs683 and U373 models was investigated by using quantitative (computer-assisted microscopy) immunohistochemical characterizations of nestin, vimentin, glutathione-S-transferase alpha (GSTalpha), GSTmu, GSTpi, and p53 expression. Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) was employed to investigate 1p19q losses. Chronic administrations of carmustine (BCNU), fotemustin, or temozolomide were assayed in the xenografted U373 and Hs683 models. Both BCNU-related chemotherapy and surgery were assayed in the C6 model.
The quantitative phenotypic analyses pointed to the oligodendroglial nature of the Hs683 cell line and the astrocytic nature of the U373 cell line. The Hs683 cells exhibited 1p19q losses, whereas the U373 cells did not. BCNU, fotemustin, and temozolomide dramatically increased the time of survival of the Hs683 oligodendroglioma-bearing mice, whereas temozolomide only induced a weak but nevertheless statistically significant increase in the U373 glioma-bearing mice. In the C6 rat glioma model, surgery and BCNU chemotherapy were more efficient than either treatment alone.
The in vivo models of gliomas of the central nervous system developed in the current work best mimicked clinical reality. They can be used either to identify new therapies against human gliomas or to optimize existing therapies.
Correlation between circulating sex steroid levels and breast cancer has been controversial, with measurement of free, or bioavailable hormone rarely available. Salivary hormone levels represent the bioavailable fraction. To further elucidate the role of endogenous hormones in breast cancer, we aimed to assess correlation between salivary sex steroid levels and breast cancer prevalence.
Salivary hormone levels of testosterone (T), Estradiol (E2), Progesterone (P), Estriol (E3), Estrone (E1), DHEAS and Cortisol (C) were measured by Enzyme Immunoassay (EIA) in 357 women with histologically verified breast cancer and 184 age-matched control women.
Salivary T and DHEAS levels were significantly lower in breast cancer cases vs. controls (27.2+13.9 vs. 32.2+17.5 pg/ml, p < 0.001 for T and 5.3+4.3 vs. 6.4+4.5 ng/ml, p = 0.007 for DHEAS). E2 and E1 levels were elevated and E3 levels were lowered in cases vs. controls.
Salivary T levels, representing the bioavailable hormone, are significantly lower in women with breast cancer compared to age-matched control women. These findings support the protective role of bioavailable testosterone in counteracting the proliferative effects of estrogens on mammary tissue.
Aldehydes are generated by oxidized lipids and carbohydrates at increased levels under conditions of metabolic imbalance and oxidative stress during atherosclerosis, myocardial and cerebral ischemia, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases and trauma. In most tissues, aldehydes are detoxified by oxidoreductases that catalyze the oxidation or the reduction of aldehydes or enzymatic and nonenzymatic conjugation with low molecular weight thiols and amines, such as glutathione and histidine dipeptides. Histidine dipeptides are present in micromolar to millimolar range in the tissues of vertebrates, where they are involved in a variety of physiological functions such as pH buffering, metal chelation, oxidant and aldehyde scavenging. Histidine dipeptides such as carnosine form Michael adducts with lipid-derived unsaturated aldehydes, and react with carbohydrate-derived oxo- and hydroxy-aldehydes forming products of unknown structure. Although these peptides react with electrophilic molecules at lower rate than glutathione, they can protect glutathione from modification by oxidant and they may be important for aldehyde quenching in glutathione-depleted cells or extracellular space where glutathione is scarce. Consistent with in vitro findings, treatment with carnosine has been shown to diminish ischemic injury, improve glucose control, ameliorate the development of complications in animal models of diabetes and obesity, promote wound healing and decrease atherosclerosis. The protective effects of carnosine have been linked to its anti-oxidant properties, its ability to promote glycolysis, detoxify reactive aldehydes and enhance histamine levels. Thus, treatment with carnosine and related histidine dipeptides may be a promising strategy for the prevention and treatment of diseases associated with high carbonyl load.
To observe that antiretroviral efficacy, immune reconstitution of two-year HAART, and evaluate its side effect in Chinese HIV-1-infected patients.
Three drug regimen composed of didanosine (ddI), stavudine (d4T), and nevirapine (NVP) was used on 27 HIV-1 infected patients, Within 2 weeks before treatment, and 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after the beginning of treatment peripheral blood samples were collected to measure the HIV-RNA viral load (VL) by fluorescent quantitative polymerase chain reactions (FQ-PCR), and the counts of CD3+CD4+ cells, CD3+CD8+ cells, CD4+CD45RA+CD62L+ cells, CD4+CD45RO+ cells, CD8+CD38+ cells, and CD8+CD38+/CD3+CD8+ percentage. The side effects, blood routine, main biochemical parameters, and other disadvantageous accidents were monitored during the 24-mouth treatment period. 17 males and 10 females, aged 33 +/- 11. Thirty-one sex- and age-matched healthy persons were used as controls.
FQ-PCR showed that the plasma HIV-1 RNA levels 2 weeks before treatment, and 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after the beginning of treatment were 5.15 logs (copies/ml), 3.37 logs, 2.24 logs, 2.02 logs, 1.97 logs, and 2.15 logs respectively. 24 months after the treatment. In 56.6% (13/24) of the patients the HIV-1 VL was < 50 copies/ml 24 months after treatment, and the counts of CD3+CD4+ cells, CD4+CD45RA+62L+ cells (nave cells), and CD4+CD45RO+ cells (memory cells) 24 months after treatment were (317 +/- 175) cells/microl, (133 +/- 65) cells/microl, and (207 +/- 85) cells/microl respectively, all significantly hoi/higher than the baseline levels [(185 +/- 73) cells/microl, (51 +/- 21) cells/microl, and (115 +/- 57) cells/microl respectively]. And the CD3+CD8+ cell count, CD8+CD38+ cell count, and CD8+CD38+/CD3+CD8+ percentage decreased from (907 +/- 435) cells/microl, (614 +/- 299) cells/microl, and 67.7% to (775 +/- 303) cells/microl, (385 +/- 131) cells/microl, and 49.7% respectively, with the lowest values in the months 3 and 6. But by the month 24, all of the parameters failed to reach the normal level. 19 of the 27 patients had side effects, such as peripheral polyneuropathy, various rashes, central nervous system disorders, abdominal pain, fullness or bloating, fever, and baldness, 21 showed abnormalities in blood routine, liver function, renal function, or lipid tests and increased gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) and amylase. The regimen had to be changed for 3 of these patients because of paresthesia and suspected lactic acidosis.
The regimen with ddI, d4T and NVP foe 24 months showed a good antiretroviral effect and immune reconstitution on the HIV-1 infected persons. However, there are side effects, especially in the respect of gastrointestinal disorder and peripheral neuritis, decrease of WBC and increase of GGT and amylase.
Medical records of 124 women and their infants were analyzed for: (1) documentation of maternal alcohol and other substance abuse and (2) evaluation of exposed infants. These results were compared with the study interview and infant examination. More obstetric nurses documented the presence or absence of alcohol and substance abuse than did pediatricians. More women reported using alcohol in the study interview than documented in the medical records. There was slightly better documentation for cocaine use than for alcohol use in the medical records. One of the 19 infants with documentation of maternal alcohol use was noted to have possible alcohol-related features by the pediatrician, in contrast to 7 infants identified by the study examiner. In addition, 2 of these 19 infants were determined by the study examiner to have fetal alcohol syndrome; neither case was diagnosed by the pediatricians. Continued efforts at education regarding the importance of asking about prenatal alcohol exposure and the spectrum of fetal alcohol effects are needed for early diagnosis.
Favism is an acute hemolytic anemia known to occur in susceptible individuals who ingest fava beans. Susceptibility to favism is conferred by a genetic deficiency in erythrocytic glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) activity. Although the fava bean pyrimidine aglycones, divicine and isouramil, have been implicated in the onset of favism in humans, the lack of a well-defined experimental animal model for favism has hampered progress in elucidating the mechanism underlying hemotoxicity. We have examined whether a favic-like response could be provoked in G6PD-normal rats treated with synthetic divicine. Intraperitoneal administration of divicine to rats preloaded with 51Cr-tagged erythrocytes resulted in a severe, dose-dependent decrease in blood radioactivity (TD50 approximately 0.5 mmol/kg) within 24 h. The increased rate of removal of blood radioactivity was accompanied by a rapid decline in reduced glutathione levels in the blood, decreased hematocrits, marked hemoglobinuria, splenic enlargement, and reticulocytosis. In vitro exposure of 51Cr-tagged red cells to divicine before their re-administration to isologous rats also resulted in a sharp, concentration-dependent decrease in erythrocyte survival in vivo (TC50 approximately 1.5 mM), and these divicine-damaged red cells were removed from the circulation by the spleen. These data demonstrate that a favic response can be induced in G6PD-normal rats treated with divicine, and that hemolytic activity can be reproduced in isolated red cells under conditions that will allow a direct examination of the mechanism underlying this hemotoxicity.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic cholestatic liver disease of young adults that is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. No effective medical therapy is available. Minocycline has been found to exert biological effects independent of its antimicrobial properties, including anti-inflammatory activities such as inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthase, upregulation of interleukin 10, and direct suppressive effect on B- and T-cell function. Minocycline may also inhibit cell death pathways by reducing both proapoptotic and proinflammatory enzyme activation. We sought to investigate the safety and efficacy of minocycline among patients with PSC.
We evaluated the efficacy of minocycline in patients with PSC in a pilot study. Sixteen patients with PSC were enrolled. Minocycline, 100 mg orally twice daily, was given for 1 year.
A statistically significant improvement in serum alkaline phosphatase activity (330 U/l vs. 265 U/l, P=0.04) and Mayo risk score (0.55 vs. 0.02, P=0.05) occurred with treatment. Serum bilirubin and albumin remained essentially unchanged while on treatment.
The results of this pilot study indicate that minocycline is reasonably well tolerated and potentially effective in patients with PSC. These findings might be explained by the anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic properties of minocycline. Though the data presented are too preliminary to support the clinical use of minocycline in the treatment of PSC at this time, its use should be further investigated.
With their widespread application in industry, agriculture, medicine, and daily life, rare earth elements (REEs) are widely used in various fields and eventually accumulated in human body. Therefore, understanding the effects of REEs on health has become more and more important. In this work, the neurotoxicity of lanthanum (La) was evaluated. Wistar rats were exposed to lanthanum chloride through oral administration at 0, 0.1, 2, and 40 mg/kg doses from gestation day 0 through 6 months of age. Experiments were carried out to reveal the effects of La exposure on brain functions from four aspects including behavioral performance, [Ca2+](i) level and the activity of Ca2+-ATPase (adenosine triphosphatase) in hippocampal cells, oxidative stress, and Nissl staining. Adverse effects were observed in 2 and 40 mg/kg dose groups and increased with dose. Morris water maze test showed that La exposure at 2 and 40 mg/kg could significantly impair the behavioral performance. (The preference for the target quadrant decreased by 16.6% and 19.4% versus control, respectively.) The neurotoxicological consequences demonstrated that the alteration in homeostasis of [Ca2+](i)/Ca2+-ATPase (the ratio of [Ca2+](i) vs. Ca2+-ATPase activity increased by 44% in rats of 40 mg/kg group), the inhibition to activities of antioxidant enzymes, and the subsequent cell damage (18% and 23% cell loss in CA3 subregion of rats in 2 and 40 mg/kg group, respectively) might be involved in the neurological adverse effects of REEs exposure.
As part of a study of the interactions between myocardial cells and extracellular matrix during healing of necrotic lesions, we have examined the fate of myocyte basal lamina (BL) after injury with ischemia, freeze-thawing, or isoproterenol. Using light and electron microscopy, and antibodies to three BL-associated antigens, we found that the BL of necrotic myocytes remained largely intact and continued to delineate the myocyte compartment from connective tissue space. Inflammatory cells entered the myocyte compartment through holes in the acellular BL and removed cell debris. The holes may have been produced by inflammatory cells and/or by the stretching force of the beating heart. After removal of debris, some BL sheaths of necrotic myocytes collapsed, resulting in spatial approximation of vessels. Interstitial cells deposited collagen and elastic fibers in the connective tissue space and within portions of the myocyte compartment. The acellular myocyte BL, collapsed or not, retained normal antigen staining for type IV collagen, laminin, and heparan sulfate for about 10 days, then showed diminished staining in patchy areas. These areas may correspond to BL disruption and degradation in conjunction with fibrosis, although a substantial amount of acellular BL remained in situ and became embedded in scar tissue. At least two types of granulo-vesicular bodies, measuring 25 to 60 and 60 to 160 nm respectively, were associated with the acellular BL; these were of unknown origin and function. The study shows that the fate of acellular BL in injured myocardium is similar to the fate of BL in other injured tissues; however, the appearance of holes in acellular BL, within hours after injury, is unusual and may enhance scar tissue formation. Whether the acellular BL contributes to regeneration of myocardium, as do acellular BLs in other injured tissues, remains to be determined.
A 52-year-old man with a history of chronic hypertension presented with worsening dyspnea and leg edema. He had been on minoxidil for 10 years. The cardiac silhouette was markedly enlarged. Echocardiography and computed tomography showed a large pericardial effusion. His cardiac status was stable and he was in no cardiorespiratory distress. No attempt was made to drain the fluid. Minoxidil was discontinued, and a month later, the effusion had virtually disappeared. Cessation of minoxidil administration and conservative management may suffice, even though the pericardial effusion is large.
Five patients who had injected intravenous (i.v.) phenmetrazine or methamphetamine developed marked prostration resembling septic shock, disseminated intravascular coagulation, rhabdomyolysis with myoglobinuria, and azotemia. Soon after injection, four noted chills, fever, sweats, nausea, and abdominal cramps. Within hours, they developed vomiting, myalgias, paresthesias, headache, and orthostasis. Cardiorespiratory arrest, accelerated bleeding, and noncardiac pulmonary edema were observed in one patient. From 4 to 11 litres of saline were required in the first 24 h to maintain blood pressure and urine output, suggesting that shock resulted from massive loss of intravascular volume into necrotic muscle. Recognition of this syndrome and treatment by aggressive volume replacement led to the recovery of all five patients.
It has been reported that tamoxifen may affect hepatoma cell growth in vitro by suppressing transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta1) expression, suggesting that tamoxifen might also retard fibrogenesis. Thus, we examined whether tamoxifen might suppress TGF-beta1 expression and consequently inhibit the process of hepatic fibrosis in vivo.
To induce periportal hepatic fibrosis, 50 male adult Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with 0.62 mmol/kg of allyl alcohol, intraperitoneally, twice a week for 8 weeks. Hepatic fibrosis scores, intrahepatic collagen levels and plasma TGF-beta1 expression levels were evaluated in three groups of 10 rats orally administered tamoxifen at 1, 5 and 10 mg/kg, respectively, and in 20 controls. Messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta receptors in liver tissue were semiquantified using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction.
Hepatic fibrosis scores decreased progressively as the dose of tamoxifen increased, resulting in a significant change in rats treated with tamoxifen at 10 mg/kg compared with controls (P=0.018). Intrahepatic collagen content was significantly less in the group treated with tamoxifen at 10 mg/kg compared with the control (P=0.045). Plasma TGF-beta1 levels were also significantly lower in rats treated with tamoxifen at 10 mg/kg compared with controls (P=0.007). All three concentrations of tamoxifen tested decreased the expression levels of hepatic TGF-beta1 mRNA and type I TGF-beta receptor (TGF-beta RI) mRNA to similar extents.
Tamoxifen seems to inhibit the process of hepatic fibrosis dose-dependently by suppressing the transcription of TGF-beta1 and TGF-beta RI in an experimental model of periportal hepatic fibrosis.
It is not yet clear how oxidative stress, free radicals, inflammatory cytokines and chemoattractants produced in the heart induce chronic heart failure. The myocardial damage caused by chronic diabetes results either from the persistence of inflammatory signaling directly in the heart or from the dysregulation of anti-inflammatory signaling systems. In the rat model of streptozotocin-induced diabetes (STZD) we investigated 1/ the concentration of free radicals (FR), 2/ reduced glutathione (GSH), 3/ lysozomal enzymes, 4/ inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-? (TNF-?) and interleukin-6 (IL-6)), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1) in the myocardium.
Diabetes was induced in 12 male Wistar rats by injection of streptozotocin (STZ). The free radical scavenger and cardiac protectant SMe1EC2 (10 mg/kg/d.) was given orally for 5 days and 5 weeks and these animals were compared with the diabetic and non-diabetic controls.
We found reduced heart rate and rate dependent functions of the rat heart, early release of free radicals triggering the release of cytotoxic inflammatory cytokines (like TNF-? and IL-6) and chemoattractants (mcp-1) as an example of this type of pathogens, resulting in the initiation and progression of cardiac pathology. The reduced myocardial contractility after STZD was accompanied with the increased reactive responsiveness of isolated aorta and mesenteric artery to phenylephrine, with increased production of chemoattractive proteins directly in the myocardium, with increased activity of peripheral beta-N-acetyl-glucosaminidase (NAGA), as representative of lysosomal activation processes. The pretreatment of SME1EC2 reduced increase in vascular reactivity, reduced myocardial depression and protected against myocardial toxicity.
The newly identified and specific cardiac protectant SMe1EC2 could serve as a prospective target in the treatment of increased myocardial cytokine and chemoattractive proteins in diabetic cardiomyopathy.
California sea lions have a large body burden of organochlorine pesticides, and over the last decade they have also been subject to domoic acid poisoning. Domoic acid poisoning, previously recognized in adult animals, is now viewed as a major cause of prenatal mortality. The appearance of a chronic juvenile domoic acid disease in the sea lions, characterized by behavioral abnormalities and epilepsy, is consistent with early life poisoning and may be potentiated by organochlorine burden.
We investigated the interactive effect of DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane) on neurodevelopment using a zebrafish (Danio rerio) model for seizure behavior to examine the susceptibility to domoic acid-induced seizures after completion of neurodevelopment.
Embryos were exposed (6-30 hr postfertilization) to either o,p'-DDT or p,p'-DDE (dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene) during neurodevelopment via a 0.1% dimethyl sulfoxide solution. These larval (7 days postfertilization) fish were then exposed to either the seizure-inducing drug pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) or domoic acid; resulting seizure behavior was monitored and analyzed for changes using cameras and behavioral tracking software.
Embryonic exposure to DDTs enhanced PTZ seizures and caused distinct and increased seizure behaviors to domoic acid, most notably a type of head-shaking behavior.
These studies demonstrate that embryonic exposure to DDTs leads to asymptomatic animals at completion of neurodevelopment with greater sensitivity to domoic acid-induced seizures. The body burden levels of p,p'-DDE are close to the range recently found in fetal California sea lions and suggest a potential interactive effect of p,p'-DDE embryonic poisoning and domoic acid toxicity.
Microinjection of high doses of morphine into the spinal lumbar intrathecal (i.t.) space of mice produces dose-dependent clonic seizure-like excitatory effects. Naloxone, an opioid antagonist (10 mg/kg, i.p.), injected 5 min prior to i.t. morphine, did not reverse the seizure-like motor effects, suggesting that these effects of morphine are not mediated through opioid receptors. Systemic administration of MK-801, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist (0.01-0.10 mg/kg, i.p.), or ACEA-1011, a novel NMDA receptor/glycine site antagonist (0.5-20.0 mg/kg, i.p.), attenuated the clonic seizure-like excitatory effects induced by i.t. morphine in a dose-dependent manner. Sensorimotor performance of the mice was evaluated using the rotarod test. Although both compounds (MK-801 and ACEA-1011) impaired the sensorimotor performance of mice in a dose-dependent fashion, there was no impairment of motor performance at doses employed to block the excitatory effects induced by i.t. morphine. These data suggest that NMDA receptors play a pivotal role in the clonic seizure-like behaviors induced by i.t. morphine.
In the present study we evaluated the effects of methimazole, an antithyroid drug, on blood pressure and other variables in the early and established phases of hypertension induced by the inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis with the oral administration of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), 75 mg/100 ml in the drinking water. Moreover, we also evaluated the acute pressor effect of L-NAME on systemic blood pressure in control and rats treated chronically with methimazole, administered via drinking water (30 mg/100 ml). Oral administration of methimazole maintained the blood pressure of L-NAME-treated rats at normal levels 25 days after induction of hypertension. However, after 25 days of methimazole treatment in rats made hypertensive with L-NAME (for 25 days), high blood pressure was similar in methimazole-treated and non-treated L-NAME rats, despite the fact that a hypothyroid state had been achieved in the methimazole-treated rats. Acute intravenous injection of L-NAME caused a similar increase in mean arterial pressure in control and methimazole-treated rats at the lowest dose; however, smaller pressor responses were observed with increasing doses in hypothyroid rats. These results clearly demonstrate that hypothyroidism induced by methimazole prevents, but does not reverse, L-NAME hypertension and reduces the acute pressor responsiveness to L-NAME administration.
Inhibition of in vivo isoproterenol-induced tachycardia by i.v. amiodarone was studied in anesthetized dogs. Significant dose-response curves to isoproterenol could not be obtained in single animals because of the time-dependent lowering of the inhibitory effect of the drug. Single isoproterenol injections after amiodarone in 105 dogs allowed dose-response curves to be obtained. The slope of these curves decreased with increasing doses of amiodarone, and the maximal rate stimulation diminished also in a dose-dependent manner. These features are consistent with a non-competitive inhibition pattern. A mechanism of the beta-adrenergic antagonism developed by amiodarone is suggested.
The inhalation of combustion-derived nanoparticles (CDNPs) is believed to cause an oxidative stress response, which in turn may lead to pulmonary or even systemic inflammation.
In this study we assessed whether the in vivo inflammatory response--which is generally referred to as particle toxicity-of mice to CDNPs can be predicted in vitro by a cell-free ascorbate test for the surface reactivity or, more precisely, oxidative potency (OxPot) of particles.
For six types of CDNPs with widely varying particle diameter (10-50 nm), organic content (OC; 1-20%), and specific Brunauer, Emmett, and Teller (BET) surface area (43-800 m2/g), OxPot correlated strongly with the in vivo inflammatory response (pulmonary polymorphonuclear neutrophil influx 24 hr after intratracheal particle instillation). However, for CDNPs with high organic content, OxPot could not explain the observed inflammatory response, possibly due to shielding of the OxPot of the carbon core of CDNPs by an organic coating. On the other hand, a pathway-specific gene expression screen indicated that, for particles rich in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAHs), cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) enzyme-mediated biotransformation of bio-available organics may generate oxidative stress and thus enhance the in vivo inflammatory response.
The compensatory nature of both effects (shielding of carbon core and biotransformation of PAHs) results in a good correlation between inflammatory response and BET surface area for all CDNPs. Hence, the in vivo inflammatory response can either be predicted by BET surface area or by a simple quantitative model, based on in vitro OxPot and Cyp1a1 induction.
Because patients treated with 60-90 mg/m2 every three to four weeks reach cardiotoxic doses of 550 mg/m2 within 36 weeks, prolonged treatment with Adriamycin is limited. The purpose of this study was to determine whether lower doses could be given over longer periods without loss of efficacy. Good risk patients treated with 75, 60, or 45 mg/m2 had remission rates of 25, 27, and 19%; poor risk patients treated with 50 and 25 mg/m2 had remission rates of 16 and 12% respectively. Although a dose response was identified, there were no statistically significant differences in remission rates, durations of remission, or toxicities in the dose schedules studied. Irreversible congestive heart failure occurred in five patients with cumulative doses of 240-390 mg/m2. Unless rapid remission induction is urgent, we recommend 60 mg/m2 X four doses and measurement of myocardial function if treatment is to continue.
