5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) inhibits the synthesis and release of dopamine (DA) from rat nigrostriatal DAergic neurons. Dexfenfluramine releases 5-HT from brain 5-HTergic neurons. The present study was undertaken to determine whether dexfenfluramine, through the released 5-HT, modulates the intensity of the behaviours dependent on the functional status of the nigrostriatal DAergic system. The effect of pretreatment with dexfenfluramine on dexamphetamine and apomorphine stereotypies of the oral movement variety and on catalepsy induced by haloperidol and small doses (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg ip) of apomorphine was studied in rats. We also investigated whether dexfenfluramine induces catalepsy in rats. Dexfenfluramine at 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg ip did not induce catalepsy and did not antagonise apomorphine stereotypy. However, 1 h pretreatment with 5-HT releasing doses of dexfenfluramine ie 5 and 10 mg/kg ip, antagonized dexamphetamine stereotypy and potentiated catalepsy induced by haloperidol and small doses of apomorphine. Our results, that dexfenfluramine at 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg ip neither induced catalepsy nor antagonised apomorphine stereotypy, indicate that dexfenfluramine at these doses does not block the postsynaptic striatal D2 and D1 DA receptors. They also indicate that the 5-HT released by 5 and 10 mg/kg dexfenfluramine does not exert an inhibitory effect at or beyond the postsynaptic striatal D2 and D1 DA receptor sites. However, 5 and 10 mg/kg doses of dexfenfluramine, through the released 5-HT, inhibit the synthesis and release of DA from the nigrostriatal DAergic neurons and thus antagonise dexamphetamine stereotypy and potentiate catalepsy induced by haloperidol and small doses of apomorphine.
Priapism is the prolonged erection of the penis in the absence of sexual arousal. A 45-year-old man, an admitted frequent cocaine user, presented to the Emergency Department (ED) on two separate occasions with a history of priapism after cocaine use. The management options in the ED, as exemplified by four individual case reports, in particular the use of a minimally invasive method of intracorporal epinephrine instillation, are discussed.
Nuclear receptor coactivator expression and activity may partly explain the complex agonist/antagonist effects of tamoxifen at clinical level. In a preoperative trial, dose reduction from 20 to 1 mg tamoxifen was associated with retained antiproliferative effect on breast cancer. Here, we assessed the gene expression of the steroid receptor coactivators SRC-1, SRC-2/transcription intermediary factor 2, and SRC-3/amplified in breast cancer 1 (AIB1) and the growth factor receptor HER-2/neu under three tamoxifen dose regimens.
Surgical specimens from estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer and adjacent normal breast tissue from 64 patients treated 4 weeks preoperatively with 20, 5, or 1 mg/d tamoxifen and 28 nontreated breast cancer controls were analyzed for coactivator and HER-2/neu mRNA expression using real-time reverse transcription-PCR. The gene expression levels were related to immunohistochemical expression of Ki67, serum levels of insulin-like growth factor I and sex hormone binding globulin, other prognostic factors, and clinical outcome.
The coactivators and HER-2/neu mRNA levels were higher in malignant compared with normal tissue (P < 0.001). Tamoxifen significantly increased the expression of coactivators in normal and malignant tissue irrespective of dose, especially for SRC-3/AIB1 (P < 0.001 tamoxifen-treated versus nontreated subjects). SRC-3/AIB1 and HER-2/neu mRNA levels were positively correlated (P = 0.016), but the coactivators could not explain the variability of Ki67, insulin-like growth factor I, and sex hormone binding. Although not significant, SRC-3/AIB1 tended to be higher in subjects with poor clinical outcome and unfavorable prognostic factors.
Increased coactivator mRNA levels seem to be an early response to tamoxifen without dose-response relationship in the 1- to 20-mg range. Clinical and molecular effects of low-dose tamoxifen should be further explored.
Clinical trials indicate that Isis Pharmaceuticals' Fomivirsen (ISIS 2922) is a promising treatment for cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis. CMV, a progressive and chronic condition, affects up to 40 percent of people with AIDS, and can lead to blindness. Phase I and Phase II trials showed that the drug halted CMV progression and prolonged remission in patients with both early and advanced disease. The first reports from a Phase III trial were reported at the 5th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections. The drug appears safe in trials, and no patient left the trials due to side effects. Side effects included minor vision defects, increased pressure within the eye, and eye inflammation that responded readily to topical corticosteroid drops. Fomivirsen is based on antisense technology, a type of gene therapy. Its antiviral actions and other current CMV treatments are described.
Exposure to ozone causes airway inflammation, hyperreactivity, lung hyper-permeability, and epithelial cell injury. An early inflammatory response induced by inhaled O(3) is characterized primarily by release of inflammatory mediators such as cytokines, chemokines, and airway neutrophil accumulation. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of oxidative lung disorders including acute lung injury, asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
We hypothesized that MMPs have an important role in the pathogenesis of O(3)-induced airway inflammation.
We compared the lung injury responses in either Mmp7- (Mmp7(-/-)) or Mmp9-deficient (Mmp9(-/-)) mice and their wild-type controls (Mmp7(+/+), Mmp9(+/+)) after exposure to 0.3 ppm O(3) or filtered air.
Relative to air-exposed controls, MMP-9 activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was significantly increased by O(3) exposure in Mmp9(+/+) mice. O(3)-induced increases in the concentration of total protein (a marker of lung permeability) and the numbers of neutrophils and epithelial cells in BALF were significantly greater in Mmp9(-/-) mice compared with Mmp9(+/+) mice. Keratinocyte-derived chemokine (KC) and macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-2 levels in BALF were also significantly higher in Mmp9(-/-) mice than in Mmp9(+/+) mice after O(3) exposure, although no differences in mRNA expression for these chemokines were found between genotypes. Mean BALF protein concentration and numbers of inflammatory cells were not significantly different between Mmp7(+/+) and Mmp7(-/-) mice after O(3) exposure.
Results demonstrated a protective role of MMP-9 but not of MMP-7, in O(3)-induced lung neutrophilic inflammation and hyperpermeability. The mechanism through which Mmp9 limits O(3)-induced airway injury is not known but may be via posttranscriptional effects on proinflammatory CXC chemokines including KC and MIP-2.
For prevention of joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis, optimal management of therapy with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs is essential. Pharmacogenomic evidence, if reliable, may be incorporated in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis to achieve a more efficient activity control with minimized adverse events.
We conducted retrospective studies to validate our previous three different results about the association between adverse events or efficacy of two different disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs and genomic variations. Association between single nucleotide polymorphisms in N-acetyltransferase 2 gene (NAT2) and adverse events by sulfasalazine and association between C677T or A1298C in 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR) and responses to methotrexate were examined.
Patients without the wild-type haplotype at NAT2 were more likely to suffer from overall adverse events [n=186, P=0.001, relative risk (RR) 3.31, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.76-6.22] and severe adverse events (P=0.015, RR 24.6, 95% CI 2.37-254.53) by sulfasalazine. Patients with the T allele at C677T in MTHFR were more susceptible to overall adverse events (n=156, P=0.003; RR 2.4, 95% CI 1.29-4.55) while patients with the C allele at A1298C were less likely to be treated with a higher dose (>6 mg/week) of methotrexate in one year of treatment (n=159, P=0.008, RR 1.84, 95% CI 1.12-3.01). In all three association studies, the results were essentially the same as previously reported.
As three studies on the associations between genomic variations and adverse events or efficacy of two different disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs were replicated, the usefulness of the tests is worth being tested in clinical practice.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) is used extensively as an industrial solvent and has been recognized as one of the major environmental pollutants. To date, > 200 cases of TCE-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis among exposed workers have been reported worldwide, and TCE exposure has become one of the critical occupational health issues in Asia.
The study aimed to identify genetic susceptible biomarkers associated with the TCE-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis in genes located in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region.
From 1998 to 2006, 121 cases with TCE-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis and 142 tolerant controls were recruited into the population-based case-control study. We determined HLA alleles B, DRB1, DQA1, and DQB1, by sequence-based typing. p-Values were corrected for comparisons of multiple HLA alleles. In addition, we compared and analyzed the structure character of amino acid residues of HLA molecules found in participants.
We obtained complete genotyping data of 113 cases and 142 controls. The allele HLA-B*1301 was present in 83 (73.5%) of 113 patients compared with 13 (9.2%) of 142 tolerant workers (odds ratio = 27.5; 95% confidence interval, 13.5-55.7; corrected p = 1.48 x 10(-21)). In addition, the HLA-B*44 alleles were present in 6.2% (7/113) of patients, but were absent in TCE-tolerant workers. Residue 95 shared by HLA-B*1301 and HLA-B*44 molecules formed a different pocket F than other residues.
The allele HLA-B*1301 is strongly associated with TCE-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis among exposed workers and might be used as a biomarker to predict high risk individuals to TCE.
Benzodiazepines are known to produce amnesia by involvement of GABAergic system and by interference of long term potentiation (LTP). In this study, we examined effect of Bacopa monniera on downstream molecules of LTP after diazepam-induced amnesia in mice. We used a Morris water maze scale for evaluating the effect of Bacopa monniera after screening for muscle coordination by rota rod. The index of acquisition and retrieval was recorded as escape latency time (ELT). Behavioral results showed that Bacopa monniera (120 mg kg(-1) oral) significantly reversed diazepam- (1.75 mg kg(-1) i.p.) induced amnesia in Morris water maze task. The molecular studies revealed that diazepam upregulated mitogen activated protein kinase (MAP kinase), phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), while it downregulated nitrite, nitrate, total nitrite, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) expression, phosphodiesterase, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) without affecting calmodulin levels. Bacopa monniera suppressed the diazepam induced upregulation of MAP kinase, pCREB and iNOS and attenuated the downregulation of nitrite. It did not affect the cAMP, PDE, nitrate, total nitrite, total CREB level. These behavioral findings displayed the reversal of diazepam-induced amnesia by Bacopa monniera without qualifying the molecular details although some downstream molecules of LTP may be involved.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent angiogenic and prognostic factor for endometrial cancer. Estrogen and tamoxifen are considered to be associated with increasing risk of endometrial adenocarcinoma. To investigate the effects and mechanisms of estrogen and antiestrogens (tamoxifen and raloxifene) on the growth of endometrial carcinoma cells in vitro, we performed growth studies of estradiol and antiestrogens on estrogen receptor positive Ishikawa cells. The effects of estradiol and antiestrogens on the induction of VEGF and estrogen-responsive finger protein (Efp) were measured by QRT-PCR and ELISA or Western blotting. The siRNA method was used to investigate the action of Efp on Ishikawa cell growth and the induction of VEGF by estradiol and antiestrogens. Estradiol and tamoxifen induced Ishikawa cell proliferation and expression of Efp and VEGF on mRNA and protein levels, while raloxifene did not. The effects of estradiol were partly or almost completely inhibited by tamoxifen and raloxifene. When the Efp expression was suppressed by siRNA, the cell growth was decreased with estradiol treatment, and other actions of estradiol and tamoxifen such as induction of VEGF were decreased. These results demonstrate that estradiol and tamoxifen may regulate the growth of endometrial carcinoma cells by stimulating VEGF production through Efp, and the effects of estradiol could be amplified by Efp. This study suggest that tamoxifen acts as an agonist-antagonist, and raloxifene acts as an antagonist of estrogen in Ishikawa cells in vitro.
Essential tremor (ET) is one of the most common neurologic disorders. Aside from underlying susceptibility genes, recent studies have also begun to focus on environmental toxic factors. Yet there remains a paucity of information on such factors, making studies of environmental factors important. A recent study in New York City found blood lead concentrations to be elevated in ET cases compared with matched controls. Chronic exposure to lead produces cerebellar damage, and this could predispose individuals to develop ET.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the elevation in blood lead concentrations observed in a single study in New York was similarly present in ET cases sampled from a completely different geographic region.
Blood lead concentrations were measured in 105 ET cases and 105 controls at Mersin University, Mersin, Turkey.
The median blood lead concentration was 2.7 microg/dL in ET cases compared with 1.5 microg/dL in controls (p < 0.001). In an unadjusted logistic regression model, blood lead concentration was associated with diagnosis: odds ratio (OR) = 4.01; 95% confidence interval (CI), 2.53-6.37; p < 0.001 (i.e., each 1-microg/dL increase in blood lead concentration was associated with a 4-fold increased odds of ET). This association was more robust when cases were compared with a subsample of controls who did not share the same home environment (OR = 8.13; 95% CI, 3.05-21.65; p < 0.001). In adjusted models, results were similar.
These data replicate those of a previous study in New York and demonstrate an association between the environmental toxicant lead and a common neurologic disorder.
The safety and efficacy of the first long-acting injectable atypical antipsychotic, risperidone, were assessed in stable patients with schizophrenia switched from oral antipsychotic medications.
Data were collected between July 1, 2001, and October 25, 2002. The study population included patients from clinics, hospitals, and physicians' offices. After a 4-week run-in period, symptomatically stable patients with schizophrenia (DSM-IV) who had been taking haloperidol (N = 46), quetiapine (N = 45), or olanzapine (N = 50) received 25 mg of long-acting risperidone. The oral antipsychotics were continued for 3 weeks after the first injection of long-acting risperidone. Injections were administered every 2 weeks at 25 mg up to a maximum dose of 50 mg for 12 weeks in this multicenter, open-label study.
Long-acting risperidone was well tolerated. Of the 141 patients who participated in the study, the most frequently reported adverse events were insomnia (16%), headache (15%), psychosis (11%), and agitation (11%). The mean increase in body weight was 0.4 kg. No other clinically relevant laboratory abnormalities or significant electrocardiogram changes were observed during the 12-week treatment. Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale total scores were reduced during treatment with long-acting risperidone. Improvements in symptoms of schizophrenia were observed with long-acting risperidone at week 4 and continued through the 12-week treatment with significant reductions in total Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores at week 8 (-2.5, p <.01) and week 12 (-3.9, p <.001). At endpoint, 37% (50/135) of these stable patients were rated as clinically improved (> or = 20% decrease in PANSS total scores).
Switching treatment from oral antipsychotics to long-acting risperidone without an intervening period of oral risperidone was safe and well tolerated. Long-acting risperidone also significantly reduced the severity of symptoms in these stable patients with schizophrenia.
Erythrokeratodermia variabilis (EKV) is a rare autosomal dominant genodermatosis with disturbed epidermal differentiation. Its clinical picture varies from transient, fast moving erythema to persistent brown hyperkeratoses. The gene defect in EKV was recently located on the short arm of chromosome 1 encoding the gap junction protein connexin 31. We report on a 48-year-old patient with sharply circumscribed, scaling erythema on the extremities, buttocks and trunk starting since 30 years of age. Histological investigation showed orthokeratotic hyperkeratosis with focal parakeratosis overlying an acanthotic epidermis. Immunohistochemistry revealed a decreased expression of the gap junction protein connexin 31 as well as increased expression of connexin 43. At the ultrastructural level, widened intercellular spaces in the upper epidermis were present with regular desmosomes, adherens junctions and gap junctions. Epidermal cell proliferation and differentiation are regulated by gap junctions. The mutation in connexin 31 is regarded therefore as causal for the clinical picture of the EKV. The unique upregulation of connexin 43 may occur as a consequence of the Cx31 mutation and temporarily compensate for this defect.
Mannose-binding lectin (MBL-2) allele variants are associated with deficiencies in innate immunity and have been found to be correlated with HIV infection in adults and children.
We tested whether MBL-2 variants among infants born to HIV-positive mothers have an increased susceptibility to HIV.
MBL-2 allele variants were measured among 225 infants born to HIV-positive mothers enrolled in a trial in Durban, South Africa. Mothers of 108 infants were randomly assigned to receive vitamin A and beta-carotene supplementation and 117 to receive placebo. Infants were followed with regular HIV tests to determine rates of mother-to-child HIV transmission.
A high proportion of infants were either homozygous (10.7%) or heterozygous (32.4%) for MBL-2 variants. MBL-2 variants within the placebo arm were associated with an increased risk of HIV transmission (odds ratio: 3.09; 95% CI: 1.21, 7.86); however, MBL-2 variants within the supplementation arm were not associated with an increased risk of transmission (P = 0.04; test of interaction). Among infants with MBL-2 variants, supplementation was associated with a decreased risk of HIV transmission (odds ratio: 0.37; 95% CI: 0.15, 0.91).
We observed what appears to be a gene-environment interaction between MBL-2 variants and an intervention with vitamin A plus beta-carotene that is relevant to mother-to-child HIV transmission.
Ischemic preconditioning (IP) enhances vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), Bcl-2 and survivin expression after myocardial infarction (MI). Mechanisms of angiogenic and anti-apoptotic effects due to IP still remain unclear. The present study attempts to address whether GSK-3beta-beta-catenin signaling in turn interacts with T-cell transcription factor/lymphoid-enhancer binding factor (TCF/LEF) and regulates these genes in the ischemic preconditioned myocardium. In a rat MI model with permanent occlusion of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), IP (four cycles of 4-min of ischemia and 4-min of reperfusion) significantly phosphorylated and inhibited GSK-3beta and accumulated beta-catenin in the cytosol and nucleus. Wortmannin, a PI-3 kinase inhibitor, repressed this effect in our model. We examined whether pretreatment with GSK-3beta inhibitor lithium or SB216763, mimicked IP-mediated angiogenesis and cardioprotection. Lithium- or SB216763- treated rats revealed accumulation of cytosolic and nuclear beta-catenin. This was followed by increased TCF/LEF transcriptional activity and the upregulation of VEGF, Bcl-2 and survivin mRNA expression accompanied by reduction of apoptotic cardiomyocytes and endothelial cells and increased capillary density after MI. The results of this study demonstrate, first time that inhibition of GSK-3beta followed by accumulation of beta-catenin in the cytosol and nucleus has potent anti-apoptotic and angiogenic effects after MI and that the PI3-kinase/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin signaling pathway plays an important role in IP.
The effects of a single interaperitoneal dose of cisplatin (6.5 mg kg day(-1)), oral doses of spironolactone (20.0 mg kg day(-1)) for 5 days or the combined treatment (spironolactone+cisplatin) on the kidney function and liver function parameters, as well as the serum, liver and kidney cortical lipid contents were studied. The serum urea and creatinine concentrations (measured as kidney function parameters) were not altered by spironolactone treatment, but were significantly (P<0.001) elevated by cisplatin administration. However, animals exposed to both spironolactone+cisplatin revealed drastic increases in the serum creatinine and urea concentrations amounting to about four- and twofold those of cisplatin-alone treated animals, respectively. The histological examination of slides of kidneys from animals exposed to the combined drugs exhibited more extensive necrosis in the tubules compared to those from animals treated with cisplatin alone. Non of the drug treatments had any effects on the serum alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase (AST) levels (measured as liver function parameters) or liver protein content or hepatic alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity. The histological examination also revealed apparently normal livers in all experimental groups. The cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity was accompanied by hypercholesterolaemia and hyperphospholipidaemia, whereas spironolactone showed a hypocholesterolaemic effect. The concomitant treatment with both cisplatin and spironolactone significantly (P<0.05) raised the serum triacylglycerol (TAG) concentration compared to the cisplatin-alone-treated group. Both spironolactone and cisplatin administered separately or jointly caused accumulation of cholesterol and TAG in the kidney cortex with significant depletion of the liver cholesterol content. The present results indicated that spironolactone aggravates the cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in the rabbit.
We measured nasal resistance (Rn) while awake, during midazolam-induced sedation and after antagonism with flumazenil (n = 9). Nasal and oral airflow were measured. Rn was calculated by dividing the difference between maximal nasal mask and oropharyngeal pressures by inspiratory airflow at minimum pharyngeal pressure. During sedation, two subjects developed obstructive apnoeic events and four subjects had snoring events. Each apnoea was ended by mechanisms other than a change in breathing route. After antagonism with flumazenil, apnoeic and snoring events were abolished. Rn during midazolam sedation (median 1.46 (25th percentile 1.00, 75th 2.61) kPa litre-1 s) was significantly greater than before midazolam (0.29 (0.25, 0.48) kPa litre-1 s) and after flumazenil (0.41 (0.25, 0.58) kPa litre-1 s) (P < 0.01 in each subject). We conclude that midazolam increased Rn, sometimes leading to obstruction, and flumazenil abolished this increase in Rn.
The gene FOXL2 encodes a forkhead transcription factor whose mutations are responsible for the blepharophimosis ptosis epicanthus-inversus syndrome. This genetic disorder is characterized by eyelid and mild craniofacial abnormalities often in association with premature ovarian failure. FOXL2 orthologs are found throughout the animal phylum and its sequence is highly conserved in vertebrates. FOXL2 is one of the earliest ovarian markers and it offers, alongwith its targets, a model to study ovarian development and function. In this chapter, we review recent data concemingits mutations, targets, regulation and functions. Studies of the cellular consequences of FOXL2 mutations seem to indicate that aggregation is a common pathogenic mechanism. However, no reliable genotype/phenotype correlation has been established to predict the exact impact of point mutations in the coding region of FOXL2. FOXL2 has been suggested to be involved in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis, steroid metabolism, apoptosis, reactive oxygen species detoxification and inflammation processes. Interestingly, all these processes are not equally affected by FOXL2 mutations. The elucidation of the impact of the FOXL2 function in the ovary will allow a better understanding of normal ovarian development and function as well as the pathogenic mechanisms underlying BPES.
Many sessions at the 5th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections dealt specifically with HIV infection and treatment in women. Highlights are presented from several sessions, including indinavir blood levels at various points in the menstrual cycle, abnormal kidney function associated with women taking indinavir, abnormal pap smears in women with high viral load, the relationship between viral load and the increased risk of death in women, and the impact of ddI crossing the placenta in pregnant women. Information is given on each presentation, including clinical trial results, side effects, and impacts on disease progression.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) has been established to be an effective agent for treating acute promyleocytic leukemia. Laboratory data suggest that As(2)O(3) induces apoptosis of several solid tumor cells including lung cancer cells. Regions of tissue hypoxia often arise in aggressive solid tumors, and hypoxic tumors exhibit augmented invasiveness and metastatic ability in several malignancies. Furthermore, hypoxia may impair the treatment efficiency; therefore, we studied the cytotoxic effect of As(2)O(3) on human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines A549 and A549/R (resistant to vincristine, adriamycin and mitomycin etc.) grown under normoxic and hypoxic (1% oxygen) conditions. At both normoxia and hypoxia, 5, 10 and 15 microM As(2)O(3) induced evident growth inhibition and apoptosis in A549 cells as well as A549/R cells after 48 hours of exposure. In contrast, the conventional chemotherapeutic drug vincristine showed lowered efficiency in hypoxic A549 cells. As(2)O(3) induced G(2)/M cell cycle arrest in both normoxic and hypoxic A549 cells. As(2)O(3) significantly decreased the messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of Cyclin B(1) and survivin and the protein levels of Cyclin B(1), phospho-CDC(2) (Thr 161) and survivin in both normoxic and hypoxic A549 cells. Together, our findings indicated that As(2)O(3) significantly inhibited the proliferation of lung cancer cells via G(2)/M cell cycle arrest and induction of apoptosis at both normoxia and hypoxia, and the induction of apoptosis was associated with down regulation of survivin.
Vitamin A deficiency impairs iron metabolism; vitamin A supplementation of vitamin A-deficient populations may reduce anemia. The mechanism of these effects is unclear. In vitro and in animal models, vitamin A treatment increases the production of erythropoietin (EPO), a stimulant of erythropoiesis.
We measured the effect of vitamin A supplementation on hemoglobin, iron status, and circulating EPO concentrations in children with poor iron and vitamin A status.
In a double-blind, randomized trial, Moroccan schoolchildren (n = 81) were given either vitamin A (200,000 IU) or placebo at baseline and at 5 mo. At baseline, 5 mo, and 10 mo, hemoglobin, indicators of iron and vitamin A status, and EPO were measured.
At baseline, 54% of children were anemic; 77% had low vitamin A status. In the vitamin A group at 10 mo, serum retinol improved significantly compared with the control group (P < 0.02). Vitamin A treatment increased mean hemoglobin by 7 g/L (P < 0.02) and reduced the prevalence of anemia from 54% to 38% (P < 0.01). Vitamin A treatment increased mean corpuscular volume (P < 0.001) and decreased serum transferrin receptor (P < 0.001), indicating improved iron-deficient erythropoiesis. Vitamin A decreased serum ferritin (P < 0.02), suggesting mobilization of hepatic iron stores. Calculated from the ratio of transferrin receptor to serum ferritin, overall body iron stores remained unchanged. In the vitamin A group at 10 mo, we observed an increase in EPO (P < 0.05) and a decrease in the slope of the regression line of log10(EPO) on hemoglobin (P < 0.01).
In children deficient in vitamin A and iron, vitamin A supplementation mobilizes iron from existing stores to support increased erythropoiesis, an effect likely mediated by increases in circulating EPO.
This study compared the neurotoxic effects of triphenyl phosphite (TPP) in the rat with those seen after exposure to diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP), a compound known to produce organophosphorus-induced delayed neurotoxicity (OPIDN). Animals received either three subcutaneous injections of TPP (1184 mg/kg body wt each dose) administered at 3-day intervals or a single subcutaneous injection of DFP (4 mg/kg body wt). TPP-induced clinical signs were initially observed 2 to 18 days after the last injection and included ataxia, flaccid paresis, stereotyped alternating side-to-side movements, and circling behavior. Axonal and terminal degeneration were present in the cerebellum, vestibular nuclear complex, cochlear nuclei, and superior and inferior colliculi. The subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra, septal region, hypothalamus, thalamus, hippocampus, and cerebral cortex also contained degenerating axons and terminals. Degeneration was particularly evident in the sensorimotor cerebral cortex, mediodorsal, ventromedial, and medial geniculate thalamic nuclei and in the magnocellular preoptic and medial mammillary nuclei of the hypothalamus. Very light degeneration was present in the gracile fasciculus and nucleus. In contrast, rats injected with DFP showed moderate degeneration in the gracile fasciculus and nucleus but did not display degeneration in any other brain region. Injections of DFP did not produce delayed onset clinical signs. The results indicate that in the rat, different central nervous system cell groups are affected by these two organophosphorus compounds and that TPP affects nuclei and tracts at all levels of the neuraxis, including those associated with higher-order processing and cognitive functions. In addition, the distinct degeneration patterns produced by these two compounds support the view that TPP-induced neurotoxicity should not be considered as a type of OPIDN, but rather as a separate category of organophosphorus-induced neurotoxicity.
Many patients fear being awake in the operating room, and the acceptance of regional anesthesia is often made dependent on the promise of adequate sedation. With the introduction of the short-acting benzodiazepine (bzdp) midazolam, it seemed possible to achieve induction and maintainance of sleep throughout an operative procedure. This substance may, however, occasionally result in a "paradoxical reaction" (PR) characterized by agitated excitement, mental confusion, and uncooperativeness. We have treated this condition successfully with physostigmine, as documented here in two case reports where a possible interaction between promethazine and midazolam may have been responsible for the PR. The symptoms resemble some of those seen in the central anticholinergic syndrome, as further implied by the therapeutic effect of physostigmine, but an etiological difference may exist. A direct anticholinergic effect of bzdp's is described only following excessive doses. An indirect effect may result from the impact on GABA-receptors, which have been identified as structurally related to the bzdp receptors. Physostigmine itself is not bound at the bzdp receptor, but has been shown to block the binding of bzdp's to their receptors and to reverse sedation from midazolam, perhaps through an indirect stimulatory effect. Previous case reports have indicated the effect of physostigmine in reversing PR following various bzdp's. Without treatment, a PR during regional anesthesia frequently makes general anesthesia necessary in order to immobilize the patient sufficiently to make surgery possible.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Local infiltration of epinephrine-containing local anesthetics is widely used in clinics particularly in the procedure of surgeries on vascularity field to provide good analgesia and hemostasis. A prospective randomized double blind control study was designed to observe hemodynamic changes caused by local infiltration of epinephrine- containing lidocaine solution on nasal field under general anesthesia.
90 adult patients undergoing elective functional endoscopic sinus surgery under general anesthesia were randomly allocated into three groups and received 1% lidocaine 4 mL with different dose of epinephrine (group I 20 microg; group II 40 microg; and group III 0 microg) respectively. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), cardiac index (CI), systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI), and acceleration index (ACI) were recorded through impedance-cardiography at every 45 seconds in 6 minutes after the beginning of local infiltration.
Compared with the intra-group baseline, statistically significant hemodynamic changes particularly decrease in MAP with increase in HR at 1.5 minutes time point (P < 0.01), and decrease in SVRI and increase in CI, ACI at and from 1.5 minutes time point (P > 0.05) were observed in group I and group II, but not in group III.
Local infiltration of epinephrine-containing lidocaine solution on nasal field causes significant decrease in MAP and SVRI, and increase in HR, CI and ACI.
It is well known that there exists a significant correlation between cardiovascular mortality and pathology and estrogen therapy. Arterial hypertension and cerebral thrombosis can be added complications. It is estimated that of over a million OC (oral contraception) users, 100 are susceptible of vascular accidents, and 5 of death. If the absolute value of such risk can be considered small, it augments signfiicantly in connection with such factors as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and especially, smoking. The physiopathology of alterations caused by OCs is still under discussion, but it is possible that synthetic estrogen and ethinyl estradiol are mainly responsible for side effects, while estradiol-17 beta seems to limit the development of vascular risk. Reducing the dosage of ethinyl estradiol, as in the minipill, does not solve the metabolic problem.
Dichlorvos is the active molecule of the pro-drug metrifonate used to revert the cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease. A few years ago it was reported that dichlorvos inhibits the enzyme acylpeptide hydrolase at lower doses than those necessary to inhibit acetylcholinesterase to the same extent. Therefore, the aim of our investigation was to test the hypothesis that dichlorvos can enhance synaptic efficacy through a mechanism that involves acylpeptide hydrolase instead of acetylcholinesterase inhibition. We used long-term potentiation induced in rat hippocampal slices as a model of synaptic plasticity. Our results indicate that short-term exposures (20 min) to 50 microM dichlorvos enhance long-term potentiation in about 200% compared to the control condition. This effect is correlated with approximately 60% inhibition of acylpeptide hydrolase activity, whereas acetylcholinesterase activity remains unaffected. Paired-pulse facilitation and inhibition experiments indicate that dichlorvos does not have any presynaptic effect in the CA3-->CA1 pathway nor affect gabaergic interneurons. Interestingly, the application of 100 nM methyllicaconitine, an alpha(7) nicotinic receptor antagonist, blocked the enhancing effect of dichlorvos on long-term potentiation. These results indicate that under the exposure conditions described above, dichlorvos enhances long-term potentiation through a postsynaptic mechanism that involves (a) the inhibition of the enzyme acylpeptide hydrolase and (b) the modulation of alpha(7) nicotinic receptors.
Iron (Fe) is an essential trace metal involved in numerous cellular processes. Iron deficiency (ID) is reported as the most prevalent nutritional problem worldwide. Increasing evidence suggests that ID is associated with altered neurotransmitter metabolism and a risk factor for manganese (Mn) neurotoxicity. Though recent studies have established differences in which the female brain responds to ID-related neurochemical alterations versus the male brain, little is known about the interactions of dietary ID, Mn exposure, and sex on gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA). Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four dietary treatment groups: control (CN), control/Mn supplemented, ID, and ID/Mn supplemented. After 6 weeks of treatment, both ID diets caused a highly significant decrease in Fe concentrations across all brain regions compared to CN in both sexes. Both ID and Mn supplementation led to significant accumulation of Mn across all brain regions in both sexes. There was no main effect of sex on Fe or Mn accumulation. Striatal synaptosomes were utilized to examine the effect of dietary intervention on (3)H-GABA uptake. At 4 weeks, there was a significant correlation between Fe concentration and (3)H-GABA uptake in male rats (p < 0.05). At 6 weeks, there was a significant inverse correlation between Mn concentration and (3)H-GABA uptake in male and female rats and a postitive correlation between Fe concentration and (3)H-GABA uptake in female rats (p < 0.05). In conclusion, ID-associated Mn accumulation is similar in both sexes, with Mn levels affecting GABA uptake in both sexes in a comparable fashion.
Several lines of evidence suggest that descending serotoninergic facilitatory pathways are involved in neuropathic pain. These pathways may involve 5-HT2A receptors known to play a role in spinal and peripheral sensitization. The implication of this receptor in neuropathy was investigated in a model of peripheral neuropathy induced by 2',3'-dideoxycytidine, a nucleoside analogue with reverse transcriptase inhibitory properties used in HIV/AIDS therapy. Four days after a single 100mg/kg i.v. administration in the tail vein, mitochondrial alterations in nociceptive and non-nociceptive dorsal root ganglion cells were observed at the lumbar level. These alterations were not associated with TUNEL labelling or with modification of the total number of dorsal root ganglion cells. At the same time point, 5-HT2A receptor immunolabelling was increased throughout the dorsal horn (by 49.5% in layer II and 57.8% in layer III). The number of 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactive neurons in the dorsal root ganglion was also increased by 30.7%. Four days after 2',3'-dideoxycytidine administration, rats had developed thermal allodynia as well as mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia, which dose-dependently decreased after epidural injection of MDL 11,939, a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist. Moreover, 5-HT2A receptor knock-out mice did not develop 2',3'-dideoxycytidine-induced neuropathy whereas their control littermates displayed a neuropathy comparable to that observed in rats. Our data show that 2',3'-dideoxycytidine-induced neuropathy is associated with alterations of nociceptive and non-nociceptive peripheral cells and that the 5-HT2A receptor is involved in the peripheral sensitization of nociceptors as well as in a wide central sensitization of dorsal horn neurons.
