Previous studies revealed that administration of 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [24,25-(OH)2D3] to calcium (Ca)-deficient rats causes a dose-dependent reduction in markedly elevated serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 level. Although the results suggested that the metabolism of 1,25-(OH)2D3 was accelerated by 24,25-(OH)2D3, those experiments could not define whether the enhanced metabolism of 1,25-(OH)2D3 played a role in the reduction in the serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 level. In the present study, in order to address this issue more specifically, serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 was maintained solely by exogenous administration through miniosmotic pumps of 1,25-(OH)2D3 into vitamin D-deficient rats. Thus, by measuring the serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 concentration, the effect of 24,25-(OH)2D3 on the MCR of 1,25-(OH)2D3 could be examined. Administration of 24,25-(OH)2D3 caused a dose-dependent enhancement in the MCR of 1,25-(OH)2D3, and 1 microgram/100 g rat.day 24,25-(OH)2D3, which elevated serum 24,25-(OH)2D3 to 8.6 +/- 1.3 ng/ml, significantly increased MCR and suppressed serum levels of 1,25-(OH)2D3. The effect of 24,25-(OH)2D3 on 1,25-(OH)2D3 metabolism developed with a rapid time course, and the recovery of iv injected [1 beta-3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 in blood was significantly reduced within 1 h. In addition, there was an increase in radioactivity in the water-soluble fraction of serum as well as in urine, suggesting that 1,25-(OH)2D3 is rapidly degraded to a water-soluble metabolite(s). Furthermore, the reduction in serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 was associated with a reduction in both serum and urinary Ca levels. Because the conversion of [3H]24,25-(OH)2D3 to [3H]1,24,25-(OH)2D3 or other metabolites was minimal in these rats, 24,25-(OH)2D3 appears to act without being converted into other metabolites. These results demonstrate that 24,25-(OH)2D3 rapidly stimulates the metabolism of 1,25-(OH)2D3 and reduces its serum level. It is suggested that 24,25-(OH)2D3 plays a role in modifying serum 1,25-(OH)2D3 concentrations by affecting the metabolism of 1,25-(OH)2D3 and may have a therapeutic values in the treatment of hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria caused by 1,25-(OH)2D3 excess.
We examined the effects of chronic treatment with antidepressants (imipramine or desipramine) or benzodiazepines (diazepam, alprazolam, or adinazolam) on modulation of corticotropin-releasing-factor (CRF) receptors in discrete areas of rat brain and in anterior pituitary. As previously reported, we found that chronic antidepressant treatment downregulated 5-HT2 serotonin and beta-adrenergic receptors in cerebral cortex. Although there was a trend toward increased CRF binding in brain stem, striatum, cerebellum, hypothalamus, and frontal cerebral cortex following antidepressant treatment, the changes were only statistically significant in brain stem in imipramine-treated rats. In addition, no significant changes were seen in CRF binding in other brain regions including parietal/temporal cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb, hippocampus, and anterior pituitary. Following chronic benzodiazepine treatment CRF receptor binding was significantly decreased in the frontal cerebral cortex and hippocampus; although there was a trend for CRF receptors to be decreased in other brain areas and increased in anterior pituitary, the changes were not statistically significant.
Accidental subarachnoid injection of gallamine and its management is reported. Methods of identification of the drug in the c.s.f. are described. Early treatment should be initiated, since the drug was still identifiable in the c.s.f. after 90 min. Removal of the c.s.f. and sedation may have prevented a fatal outcome in our patient.
About 30 hours after prophylactic subcutaneous administration of heparin-dihydroergotamine to a 77-year-old man with generalized arteriosclerosis, extensive skin necroses developed at the injection sites and, after progressively increasing signs of mental disorientation, three days later there developed acute pulmonary oedema and a large ischaemic infarct of the median cerebral artery with hemiparesis and coma, which ended fatally. Skin necroses and ergotism are rare but serious complications of anticoagulant treatment.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a fatal muscle wasting disease that is characterized by a deficiency in the protein dystrophin. Previously, we reported that the expression of hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase (HPGDS) appeared in necrotic muscle fibers from patients with either Duchenne muscular dystrophy or polymyositis. HPGDS is responsible for the production of the inflammatory mediator, prostaglandin D(2). In this paper, we validated the hypothesis that HPGDS has a role in the etiology of muscular necrosis. We investigated the expression of HPGDS/ prostaglandin D(2) signaling using two different mouse models of muscle necrosis, that is, bupivacaine-induced muscle necrosis and the mdx mouse, which has a genetic muscular dystrophy. We treated each mouse model with the HPGDS-specific inhibitor, HQL-79, and measured both necrotic muscle volume and selected cytokine mRNA levels. We confirmed that HPGDS expression was induced in necrotic muscle fibers in both bupivacaine-injected muscle and mdx mice. After administration of HQL-79, necrotic muscle volume was significantly decreased in both mouse models. Additionally, mRNA levels of both CD11b and transforming growth factor beta1 were significantly lower in HQL-79-treated mdx mice than in vehicle-treated animals. We also demonstrated that HQL-79 suppressed prostaglandin D(2) production and improved muscle strength in the mdx mouse. Our results show that HPGDS augments inflammation, which is followed by muscle injury. Furthermore, the inhibition of HPGDS ameliorates muscle necrosis even in cases of genetic muscular dystrophy.
F344 rats of both sexes were fed one of three concentrations (0.02, 0.04, 0.05%) of 4,4'-oxydianiline (CAS: 101-80-4), an intermediate in the manufacture of polyimide resins, mixed in the diet for 2 years. The incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms was increased in all the 3 groups of male rats and in female rats of the middle- and high-dose groups. The incidence of hyperplastic and neoplastic changes in the follicular cells of the thyroid gland was increased in male and female rats of the middle- and high-dose groups. The population of thyrotrophs (thyrotropin-producing cells) was increased in the pituitary glands of rats with neoplasms of the thyroid gland. These cells were distinct from prolactin cells. The increase in the number of thyrotrophs suggested insufficient hormone production by the induced thyroid tumors.
A patient is described with metabolic encephalopathy which developed as a result of hyponatraemia induced by oxcarbazepine (OXC). The literature reveals that up to 80% of the patients in OXC therapy develop hyponatraemia. Elderly patients and patients receiving high doses of OXC are at particular risk in this respect. The majority of patients are asymptomatic and the hyponatraemic condition does not demand changes in treatment. Control of serum natrium levels prior to and during treatment with OXC is recommended, particularly when side-effects occur.
The pathophysiologic basis of tardive dyskinesia remains unclear, but several lines of evidence suggest that persistent neuronal changes in the basal ganglia produced by oxidative stress or glutamate toxicity may play a role, especially in the elderly. In the present study we examined whether histopathological alterations in substantia nigra are related to oral dyskinesia in a rodent model of tardive dyskinesia. Haloperidol decanoate (38 mg/kg/4 weeks) was administered to young (8 weeks) and old (38 weeks) rats for a total period of 28 weeks, and the development of vacuous chewing movements (VCM) was observed. Rats with high and low levels of VCM and saline-treated controls were analyzed for histopathological alterations. Reduced nerve cell number and atrophic neurons were prominent features in the substantia nigra of old rats with high levels of VCM. Some alterations were also present in the substantia nigra of the old rats with low levels of VCM and young rats with high VCM levels, but these were significantly less affected than the high VCM rats. These results show that the development of haloperidol-induced oral dyskinesias in old rats is associated with histopathological alterations in the substantia nigra. This suggests that nigral degeneration induced by neuroleptics may contribute to the development of persistent VCM in rats and possibly irreversible tardive dyskinesia in humans.
Several lines of evidence have established that performance during the initial steps of acquisition on a shuttle-box avoidance task is an anxiety-mediated behavior (i.e., the differences between strains selectivity bred for emotionality; the effects of postnatal handling; the course of the corticosterone response and behavioral measures of fear during acquisition). The present study was carried out to add pharmacological evidence to that view by testing the action of anxiogenic and anxiolytic drugs. Single 40-trial sessions with mild shocks (0.4 mA-0.6 mA) were used. In the first experiments the action of sodium pentobarbital (1.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg) and three benzodiazepines (diazepam, 2 and 4 mg/kg; alprazolam, 1, 1.25 and 1.5 mg/kg and adinazolam, 1, 2, 4 and 6 mg/kg) were tested. The last two experiments tested a possible proanxiety action of Ro 15-4513 (2, 5 and 10 mg/kg) and FG 7142 (5, 10 and 15 mg/kg), two partial inverse agonists of benzodiazepine receptors, which previous data had suggested to be anxiogenic. The results showed that the measure of acquisition of a two-way active avoidance is a sensitive mean for detecting either anxiolytic or anxiogenic effects of drugs, independently of their effects on locomotor activity, thus suggesting that such test could be a valid model of anxiety in animals.
Labetalol is an effective antihypertensive medication frequently used to treat systemic hypertension in acute care settings, including the management of hypertension associated with a subarachnoid hemorrhage. We present a case of profound hypotension, refractory to inotropic and vasopressor therapy following an iv infusion of labetalol.
Initiation of an iv labetalol infusion resulted in good blood pressure control in a patient suffering from a Fisher grade 3 subarachnoid hemorrhage with an initial Glascow coma scale of 14/15 and mild hydrocephalus. Progressive deterioration of neurological symptoms and evidence of worsening hydrocephalus preceded the sudden development of profound hypotension (60/35 mmHg) and bradycardia with a minimum heart rate of 40 beats.min(-1). Initial resuscitative efforts included administration of intravascular fluid, hypertonic saline, atropine, adrenalin (more than 10 mg in divided doses) and noradrenalin. These measures restored the blood pressure to 80/45 with a HR of 98 beats.min(-1). Intraoperative placement of an intraventricular drain released cerebrospinal fluid under pressure with an initial intracranial pressure of 15 cm H(2)O. A combination of adrenalin, noradrenalin, dopamine and vasopressin infusions were required to restore the blood pressure to 130/65 mmHg after an additional two hours. All inotropic and vasopressor support was weaned off after the 14th hr (about two drug half-lives). The patient was awake and responsive the following day, with no obvious neurological consequences. No evidence of neurological injury, drug administration error or myocardial dysfunction was documented.
The episode of profound hypotension which occurred after initiating a labetolol infusion required maximal combined vasopressor therapy to restore the blood pressure suggesting that this patient demonstrated an extreme sensitivity to labetalol. Combination therapy with adrenergic and nonadrenergic agonists may be required for optimal treatment of profound hypotension associated with labetalol-induced vasoplegia.
The administration of furosemide to pre-term neonates has been associated with urolithiasis. We report 1 of 2 such cases that we have managed. The etiology of these stones appears to be related to furosemide-induced hypercalciuria. Nonsurgical management with thiazide diuretics can be successful in this high risk group of patients.
B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common leukemia in older adults, remains largely incurable and novel treatments are urgently required. We previously reported powerful pro-apoptotic actions of bezafibrate (BEZ) and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) against Burkitts lymphoma cells. Here, we demonstrate that BEZ and MPA individually, and more potently when combined (BEZ+MPA), induce apoptosis of unsorted and CD19(+ve)-selected CLL cells and abrogate the pro-proliferative activity of CD40(L). This action was tumor cell specific, as the drugs had little impact on normal donor cells. The antiproliferative actions of BEZ+MPA were associated with the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and the proapoptotic actions were associated with the generation of both ROS and mitochondrial superoxide (MSO). BEZ increased prostaglandin D(2) (PGD(2)) synthesis by CLL cells, and treatment with PGD(2) and its antineoplastic derivative 15dDelta(12,14,)PGJ(2) recapitulated BEZ-induced antiproliferative and proapoptotic actions. The PGD(2) receptor antagonist, BW868C, did not block BEZ or PGD(2) activity against CLL cells. The potency of BEZ+MPA against CLL cells mirrored that of chlorambucil, and BEZ+MPA combined with chlorambucil was more potent than either treatment alone. Given the known safety profiles of BEZ and MPA, our data warrant further investigation of their potential as novel therapy for CLL.
A manic-depressive diabetic man receiving lithium carbonate therapy had massive proteinuria, which dramatically improved after the withdrawal of lithium. The authors discuss previous cases of lithium-induced nephrotic syndrome in nondiabetics and draw attention to the possibility that lithium therapy aggravates protein excretion in diabetic patients.
The development of premature infants may be altered due to exposure to high cumulative doses of the perinatal corticosteroid dexamethasone during critical growth periods. To compare child behavioral development of prematurely born infants who were exposed to higher perinatal steroids (PNS; >0.2 mg/kg) with that of infants exposed to lower PNS (<or=0.2 mg/kg), we used the Vineland Adaptive Behavioral Scales to assess school-age behavioral outcomes of a historical cohort of 45 prematurely born infants. Children who had received higher PNS treatment were more likely to have lower overall behavioral developmental scores, especially lower social skills (p < .05). Higher PNS plus higher severity of illness during the first day of life based on the Clinical Risk Index for Babies (p = .016) and lower birth head size (p = .015) were linked with poorer behavioral outcomes among participants. Nursing practice includes promotion of quality care and should include closer evaluation of cumulative steroid therapy, severity of illness, and promotion of long-term follow-up support for premature infants.
We hypothesized that the expression of surfactant protein A (SP-A) would be altered in developing lungs from rat fetuses with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) induced by maternal ingestion of 2,4-dichlorophenyl-p-nitrophenyl ether (Nitrofen) on Day 9 of gestation. We compared our findings in fetuses exposed to Nitrofen with a CDH with those in Nitrofen-exposed fetuses without a CDH, and control fetuses whose mothers received olive oil only, the vehicle for Nitrofen. In late gestation, immunocytochemistry using a polyclonal rabbit antihuman SP-A antibody revealed decreased amounts of this protein in lungs from fetuses with CDH. Using immunoblotting, the relative amount of SP-A on Day 21 of gestation was also decreased in lung tissue from fetuses with CDH compared with the other groups. Abnormalities of mRNA for SP-A were observed in both groups of Nitrofen-exposed fetuses compared with control rats. These findings suggest that there is decreased expression of SP-A in rat fetuses with CDH secondary to Nitrofen exposure.
The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety profile of the doxorubicin followed by cisplatin/docetaxel as primary chemotherapy for patients with locally advanced breast cancer (LABC). For this evaluation, 59 patients with LABC (T2-T4, N0-N2, M0) received three cycles of doxorubicin, followed by three cycles of cisplatin/docetaxel and followed by definitive surgery and locoregional radiotherapy with or without tamoxifen. The primary end point was pathologic complete response (pCR) in breast and axilla. Fifty-nine patients were evaluable for analysis: median age: 41 years, premenopausal: 68%, median tumor size: 6.0 cm (4-10), Stage IIB: 32% and IIIA/IIIB: 68%, both ER/PR positive: 53%, Her2/neu (3+) by IHC staining: 29%. Clinical complete response was seen in 44%, and clinical partial response was seen in 56%. Breast conserving surgery was performed in 44%, and MRM in 56%. pCR in the breast was 30.5%, in axilla was 37%, and pCR in both breast and axilla was 24%. Overall at follow-up of 60 months, the disease-free (DFS) and overall survival (OS) were 70 and 82%, respectively. The DFS and OS of patients who achieved complete pathologic response in breast and axilla were 78 and 100%, respectively, while 14 patients relapsed of which 46% were Her2 positive. Sequential combination of doxorubicin followed by docetaxel/cisplatin is a safe, feasible, and active combination, which offers the possibility of conservative surgery and is associated with high clinical and pathologic response rates, with promising and encouraging survival outcomes.
Bisphosphonates (BPs) are effective in the prevention and treatment of skeletal-related events (SREs) in patients with symptomatic myeloma who are receiving chemotherapy. Recent data also suggest a possible antineoplastic activity of BPs. Few studies published to date have explored the role of BPs in patients with untreated, asymptomatic myeloma (AM). No data are available on the efficacy of zoledronic acid in these patients.
The authors conducted a prospective, multicenter, open-label, phase 3, randomized trial comparing the administration of zoledronic acid versus simple observation in patients with AM. One-hundred sixty-three patients were enrolled and randomized (1:1) to receive zoledronic acid (n = 81 patients) or not to receive zoledronic acid (n = 82 patients) for 1 year at a dose of 4 mg monthly as a single, 15-minute, intravenous infusion.
After a median follow-up of 64.7 person-months, 44.4% of patients in the zoledronic acid group and 45.1% of the control group progressed to 'symptomatic' myeloma requiring chemotherapy (P = .9307). The median time to progression was 67 months and 59 months for the treatment and control groups, respectively (P = .8312). At progression, SREs were significantly lower in the zoledronic acid-treated group (55.5%) than in the control group (78.3%; P = .041), whereas anemia, renal failure, and extramedullary disease were not statistically different. More frequent adverse events observed in the zoledronic acid-treated group were asymptomatic hypocalcemia and fever. One patient developed reversible osteonecrosis of the jaw. No renal failure caused by zoledronic acid was reported.
The monthly use of zoledronic acid for 1 year in patients with AM reduced the development of SREs at progression but did not influence the natural history of the disease.
Intracorporeal injection of vasoactive agents is the treatment of choice for many patients with organic impotence. However, some patients with vasculogenic impotence respond poorly to injections of papaverine or papaverine/phentolamine. This study was conducted to determine if patients with vasculogenic impotence who failed to respond to papaverine might respond to prostaglandin E1 and thus be salvaged from possible prosthetic surgery. A total of 54 patients with vasculogenic impotence were administered intracorporeal prostaglandin E1 (20 micrograms) and intracorporeal papaverine (60 mg) randomized in a double-blind fashion and crossed over one week later. Forty-six percent of patients receiving prostaglandin E1 produced a satisfactory erection compared with 14 percent of patients with a similar response to papaverine. The difference between these results was highly significantly by the McNemar test. The number of side effects were similar for both drugs. Prostaglandin E1 might be considered the intracorporeal agent of choice for patients with significant vasculogenic impotence.
The abuse of stimulant drugs is increasing in the western United States. Although numerous case reports and animal studies suggest a link with stroke, epidemiologic studies have yielded conflicting results.
To test the hypothesis that young adults who abuse amphetamines or cocaine are at a higher risk of stroke.
Using a cross-sectional design and from a quality indicators' database of 3 148 165 discharges from Texas hospitals, we estimated the secular trends from January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2003, in the abuse of various drugs and of strokes. We developed separate logistic regression models of risk factors for hemorrhagic (n = 937) and ischemic (n = 998) stroke discharges of persons aged 18 to 44 years in 2003, and for mortality risk in patients with stroke. Main Outcome Measure Incidence of stroke using definitions from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality's stroke mortality Inpatient Quality Indicator.
From 2000 to 2003, the rate of increase was greatest for abuse of amphetamines, followed by cannabis and cocaine. The rate of strokes also increased, particularly among amphetamine abusers. In 812 247 discharges in 2003, amphetamine abuse was associated with hemorrhagic stroke (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 4.95; 95% confidence interval [CI], 3.24-7.55), but not with ischemic stroke; cocaine abuse was associated with hemorrhagic (OR, 2.33; 95% CI, 1.74-3.11) and ischemic (OR, 2.03; 95% CI, 1.48-2.79) stroke. Amphetamine, but not cocaine, abuse was associated with a higher risk of death after hemorrhagic stroke (OR, 2.63; 95% CI, 1.07-6.50).
Increases in stimulant drug abuse may increase the rate of hospital admissions for strokes and stroke-related mortality.
To identify crucial factors that precipitate cerebral palsy by controlling confounding factors in logistic regression analyses.
We retrospectively investigated a cohort of all 922 infants with gestational ages of less than 34 weeks (22-33 weeks), who were admitted to our neonatal intensive care unit between 1990 and 1998. Thirty (3.7%) were diagnosed to have cerebral palsy. We analyzed the prenatal and postnatal clinical variables of the cerebral palsy cases and compared them with 150 randomly selected controls.
Risk factors for cerebral palsy identified in univariate analysis were: twin pregnancy, long-term ritodrine tocolysis, respiratory distress syndrome, air leak, surfactant administration, intermittent mandatory ventilation, high frequency oscillation, lowest PaCO2 levels, prolonged hypocarbia during the first 72 h of life, and postnatal steroid therapy. In a conditional multiple logistic model, long-term ritodrine tocolysis, prolonged hypocarbia and postnatal steroid therapy remained associated with an increased risk of cerebral palsy after adjustment for other antenatal and postnatal variables (OR [Odds Ratio] = 8.62, 95% CI [Confidence Interval], 2.18-33.97; OR = 7.81, 95% CI, 1.42-42.92; OR = 21.37, 95% CI, 2.01-227.29, respectively).
Our results suggest that long-term ritodrine tocolysis underlines the development of cerebral palsy. Further assessments of the effect of ritodrine on fetal circulation and nervous system are required. Moreover, possible alternatives to systemic postnatal steroids are needed, and carbon dioxide levels should be more strictly controlled.
Type I and II pyrethroid insecticides display different neurotoxicity. To investigate the long-term (60 days exposure) metabolic effect of the two types of pyrethroid insecticides deltamethrin and permethrin, (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy-based metabonomics was used to analyze the biochemical composition of urine and serum samples from rats administrated daily with deltamethrin or permethrin for 60 consecutive days, and principal component analysis used to visualize similarities and differences in the resultant biochemical profiles. Rats treated with either deltamethrin or permethrin displayed increased levels of urinary acetate, dimethylamine, dimethylglycine, trimethylamine and serum free amino acids, and decreased urinary 2-oxoglutarate, all of which are indicative of kidney lesions and nephrotoxicity. The reduced excretion of tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates, together with increased 3-D-hydroxybutyrate, acetate, and lactate in treated rats could suggest disturbance of the energy metabolism, including an increased rate of anaerobic glycolysis, enhanced fatty acid β-oxidation and ketogenesis. These results show that these two types of insecticides have similarities in the urine and serum spectra, indicating that similar metabolic pathways are perturbed by the insecticides, which induced hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. This approach may lead to the discovery of novel biomarkers of pyrethroids toxicity and thereby provide new insights into the toxicological mechanisms of pesticides pyrethroids.
Nitroxyl (HNO/NO(-)) is a molecule which results from one-electron reduction of nitric oxide (NO). It is considered to be a pharmacologically important particle because of its cardiovascular effects and potential anticancer activity. Due to molecule instability studies on nitroxyl biological activity require the use of donor compounds. In the present study Angeli's salt (Na2N2O3) was used as the nitroxyl donor and cytotoxicity of HNO/NO(-) against human lymphocytes and A549 and HT29 cancer cells was examined. The studies were performed under different pH conditions (pH 6.2 and 7.4) because it was suggested that formation of HNO and its toxicological effects may be stronger in tissues subjected to acidosis such as cancerous ones. It was shown that nitroxyl exerted cytotoxic effect against all three types of cells. Nitroxyl induced both apoptotic and necrotic cell death. The cytotoxic effect analyzed directly after cell treatment was stronger than that observed 24h later. Differences in cell sensitivity to nitroxyl were observed--proliferating lymphocytes were the most sensitive cells. It was also shown that pro-oxidant activity of nitroxyl was stronger under slightly acidic conditions as compared to physiological pH but this difference was not always reflected in the observed cytotoxic effect, especially when the effect was measured 24h after cell treatment. Thus, relatively high toxicity of nitroxyl against normal cells and its ability to induce not only apoptotic but also necrotic cell death make use of this molecule in cancer therapy questionable.
Based on ethnopharmacological indications that Mentha species may be used in the treatment of gastrointestinal diseases, this study aimed to characterize the gastroprotective mechanisms of menthol (ME), the major compound of the essential oil from species of the genus Mentha. The gastroprotective action of ME was analyzed in gastric ulcers that were induced by ethanol or indomethacin in Wistar male rats. The mechanisms responsible for the gastroprotective effect were assessed by analyzing the amount of mucus secreted, involvement of non-protein sulfhydryl (NP-SH) compounds, involvement of calcium ion channels and NO/cGMP/K(+)ATP pathway, gastric antisecretory activity and the prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production. The anti-diarrheal activity and acute toxicity of ME were also evaluated. Oral treatment with ME (50mg/kg) offered 88.62% and 72.62% of gastroprotection against ethanol and indomethacin, respectively. There was an increased amount of mucus and PGE2 production. The gastroprotective activity of ME involved NP-SH compounds and the stimulation of K(+)ATP channels, but not the activation of calcium ion channels or the production of NO. The oral administration of ME induced an antisecretory effect as it decreased the H(+) concentration in gastric juice. ME displayed anti-diarrheal and antiperistaltic activity. There were no signs of toxicity in the biochemical analyses performed in the rats' serum. These results demonstrated that ME provides gastroprotective and anti-diarrheal activities with no toxicity in rats.
A 61-year-old woman was referred because of painless jaundice, laboratory tests having indicated hepatitis with impaired liver functions. For the past two years she had been taking phenprocoumon because she had atrial fibrillation.
Serological tests largely excluded infectious, autoimmune or metabolic etiology, so that the diagnosis of drug-induced hepatic disease was made. Liver biopsy showed necrotic liver cells and mild inflammatory reaction.
A perforating duodenal ulcer required urgent surgical intervention, after which liver functions further deteriorated. The patient having refused liver transplantation she was treated symptomatically (oral vitamin K. lactulose, diuretics), phenprocoumon was discontinued and her condition slowly improved. She was discharged after two months. At subsequent examination she was symptom-free, the INR was 1.41, transaminases were normal and ultrasound merely showed a slightly inhomogeneous internal structure.
Phenprocoumon can cause liver damage even when the drug has been taken for prolonged periods without any problems. A careful history about previously administered drugs should be taken in any case of hepatitis of uncertain etiology.
