To elucidate pharmacological properties of sultopride and sulpiride, their effects on spontaneous locomotor activity, apomorphine-induced hyper- and hypoactivity, and clonidine-induced hypoactivity in mice were examined by use of a photocell activity meter in comparison with the effects of other antipsychotic drugs. Sultopride did not affect spontaneous locomotor activity, whereas it potentiated apomorphine-induced hyperactivity at low doses and inhibited it at high doses. Sultopride also dose-dependently antagonized apomorphine-induced hypoactivity at limited doses. By contrast, sulpiride, in a wide range of doses, exhibited enhancement of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity and antagonization of apomorphine-induced hypoactivity. Furthermore, the activities of sulpiride were more potent than those of sultopride. Haloperidol and chlorpromazine inhibited spontaneous locomotor activity and apomorphine-induced hyperactivity and slightly antagonized apomorphine-induced hypoactivity. Pimozide increased spontaneous locomotor activity but inhibited it at high doses, while also potentiating apomorphine-induced hyperactivity at small doses and inhibiting it at large doses. Pimozide did not markedly affect apomorphine-induced hypoactivity. None of the drugs studied except for imipramine and yohimbine affected clonidine-induced hypoactivity. These results indicate that sultopride has somewhat different pharmacological properties from those of sulpiride and other antipsychotic drugs. These results also suggest that sultopride would have good therapeutic efficacy in schizophrenic disorders.
The course of the excretion of dipeptidyl-peptidase IV (DP IV)-alanine aminopeptidase, beta-glucuronidase and total protein with the urine was investigated during the treatment of 11 patients with pyelonephritis with gentamicin, after application of a renal radiographic contrast medium in 7 patients with arterial hypertension and after regional perfusion of an extremity in 10 patients with malignant melanoma. In the reference group in male test persons with 147.0 nmol/s X l a higher DP IV activity in the urine was recognized than in the female test persons (100.0 nmol/s X l). After application of the drugs a rhythmically intermitting increased excretion of all enzymes mentioned develops. The study confirms the usuability of the DP IV-activity for enzymological investigations of the urine.
Wilson's disease (WD) is an inherited disorder of copper metabolism characterized by liver disease and/or neurologic and psychiatric pathology. The disease is a result of mutation in ATP7B, which encodes the ATP7B copper transporting ATPase. Loss of copper transport function by ATP7B results in copper accumulation primarily in the liver, but also in other organs including the brain. Studies in the Atp7b(-/-) mouse model of WD revealed specific transcript and metabolic changes that precede development of liver pathology, most notably downregulation of transcripts in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway. In order to gain insight into the molecular mechanisms of transcriptomic and metabolic changes, we used a systems approach analysing the pre-symptomatic hepatic nuclear proteome and liver metabolites. We found that ligand-activated nuclear receptors FXR/NR1H4 and GR/NR3C1 and nuclear receptor interacting partners are less abundant in Atp7b(-/-) hepatocyte nuclei, while DNA repair machinery and the nucleus-localized glutathione peroxidase, SelH, are more abundant. Analysis of metabolites revealed an increase in polyol sugar alcohols, indicating a change in osmotic potential that precedes hepatocyte swelling observed later in disease. This work is the first application of quantitative Multidimensional Protein Identification Technology (MuDPIT) to a model of WD to investigate protein-level mechanisms of WD pathology. The systems approach using "shotgun" proteomics and metabolomics in the context of previous transcriptomic data reveals molecular-level mechanisms of WD development and facilitates targeted analysis of hepatocellular copper toxicity.
A 72-year-old male treated with flutamide for metastatic prostate cancer developed lethargy and confusion. He was noted to be icteric and his liver enzymes were elevated. Within a week of discontinuing the medication, the patient's mental status and liver function returned to normal. Although flutamide-induced near fatal liver dysfunction has been described, progression to encephalopathy is a rare occurrence. Based on a review of the literature, management guidelines for the use of flutamide are suggested.
Chronic experiments on rats were performed to study the effects of daily administration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin (2 microg) into the rostral neostriatum in rats. Picrotoxin was injected in 1 microl of sterile apyrogenic physiological saline or in 1 microl of 1.0 M or 1.5 M MgCl(2); control animals received physiological saline or 1.0 M MgCl(2). Picrotoxin given in physiological saline induced impairments in conditioned reflex (avoidance) and free motor behavior and produced clear stereotypical imperative movements in the form of choreomyoclonic hyperkinesia of the paws, head, and trunk. These motor impairments resembled the manifestaitons of basal ganglia dysfunction typical of Huntingdon's chorea in humans. Magnesium ions prevented both the development of hyperkinesia and impairments of learned behavior. Given that magnesium is a nonspecific calcium channel antagonist, it can be suggested that one of the leading mechanisms of development of hyperkinesias is impairment of calcium homeostasis in striatal neurons.
Liver transplantation in patients infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) commonly results in reinfection that, if untreated, often compromises the viability of the allograft and negatively influences survival. Posttransplant treatment with hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) is now the standard of care, but patients appear to require lifelong treatment to prevent reinfection. In the past several years, new management strategies in patients with HBV have been developed, with an aim to decrease HBV-DNA replication before transplantation. Such an approach should increase the success of transplantation by decreasing the risk of reinfection and thus preventing recurrent disease posttransplantation. Nucleoside analogues, either alone or in conjunction with HBIG, are currently in use and are being studied in clinical trials as a means of preventing viral recurrence. Ganciclovir, famciclovir, and lamivudine all have demonstrated efficacy, although they vary in terms of effectiveness. Resistance may develop with the use of these agents and leads to reinfection by the mutant virus. Combination therapy may minimize the risk of viral mutation. Research continues to search for more effective ways to prevent and, if necessary, treat viral recurrence in patients undergoing liver transplantation for HBV.
Ondansetron, a new 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, has been compared with high-dose metoclopramide in the control of acute emesis (24 h) induced by cisplatin (greater than or equal to 100 mg/m2). Ondansetron, given as three intravenous doses (0.15 mg/kg) 4-hourly, was superior to six intravenous doses of metoclopramide (2.0 mg/kg) in the control of acute emesis. Complete control of emesis was achieved in 40% of patients receiving ondansetron compared to 30% of patients receiving metoclopramide (P = 0.07); complete or major control (0-2 emetic episodes) was achieved in 65% and 51% of the patients receiving the two treatments respectively (P = 0.016). Patients entered in the acute emesis study who experienced no emesis or up to two episodes were randomised between placebo and ondansetron on day 2 to evaluate the control of delayed emesis up to day 5. Complete control of persistent or delayed emesis over days 2-5 was achieved in 59-78% of patients with oral ondansetron (16 mg t.d.s.) compared to 39-50% of patients receiving oral placebo. These differences failed to reach statistical significance except on day 4. Some patients with complete or major control of emesis on their first course of chemotherapy subsequently received further courses of ondansetron (median 3 courses; range 2-10) on a non-comparative basis. Similar control was achieved in 85% of courses. There may be some reduction in the degree of control with subsequent courses. Of 44 patients with complete control at cycle 1, 19 (44%) were emesis free and 3 (7%) experienced 1-2 episodes with cycle 3, though patients were sometimes withdrawn before cycle 3 for reasons other than inadequate anti-emetic control. Efficacy with successive courses can only be established in a prospective comparative trial. Both treatments were well tolerated but ondansetron caused significantly greater transient asymptomatic elevations in ALT/AST (P = 0.003/0.005). Acute dystonic reactions (2 patients) and akathisia (10 patients) occurred with metoclopramide only (P = 0.002). The role of ondansetron in the control of delayed emesis requires further study.
Androgenic anabolic steroids (AAS) used for improving physical performance have been considered responsible for acute myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death.
To establish the relationship between AAS and cardiac death.
Case report.
Two young, healthy, male bodybuilders using AAS.
Pathologic cardiac findings associated with AAS ingestion.
The autopsy revealed normal coronary arteries. In one case, we documented a typical infarct with a histologic age of 2 weeks. A segmentation of myocardial cells at the intercalated disc level was observed in the noninfarcted region. This segmentation was the only anomaly detected in the second case. No other pathologic findings in the heart or other organs were found. Urine in both subjects contained the metabolites of nortestosterone and stanozolol.
A myocardial infarct without vascular lesions is rare. To our knowledge, its association with AAS use, bodybuilding, or both lacks any evidence of a cause-effect relationship. The histologic findings in our 2 cases and in the few others reported in medical literature are nonspecific and do not prove the cardiac toxicity of AAS. A better understanding of AAS action on the neurogenic control of the cardiac function in relation to regional myocardial contraction and vascular regulation is required.
The participation of reactive oxygen species in aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity has been deduced from observations that aminoglycoside-iron complexes catalyze the formation of superoxide radicals in vitro and that antioxidants attenuate ototoxicity in vivo. We therefore hypothesized that overexpression of Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (h-SOD1) should protect transgenic mice from ototoxicity. Immunocytochemistry confirmed expression of h-SOD1 in inner ear tissues of transgenic C57BL/6-TgN[SOD1]3Cje mice. Transgenic and nontransgenic littermates received kanamycin (400 mg/kg body weight/day) for 10 days beginning on day 10 after birth. Auditory thresholds were tested by evoked auditory brain stem responses at 1 month after birth. In nontransgenic animals, the threshold in the kanamycin-treated group was 45-50 dB higher than in saline-injected controls. In the transgenic group, kanamycin increased the threshold by only 15 dB over the respective controls. The effects were similar at 12 and 24 kHz. The protection by overexpression of superoxide dismutase supports the hypothesis that oxidant stress plays a significant role in aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity. The results also suggest transgenic animals as suitable models to investigate the underlying mechanisms and possible strategies for prevention.
In the present study, we have investigated the influence of telomerase inhibition in chemosensitivity of melanoma cells to temozolomide (TMZ), a methylating agent with promising antitumor activity against metastatic melanoma. In fact, telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein enzyme expressed in the majority of tumors, is presently considered an attractive target for anticancer therapy, with the double aim of reducing tumor growth and increasing chemosensitivity of cancer cells. Susceptibility to TMZ and to other antitumor agents used for treatment of metastatic melanoma was initially assessed in melanoma lines with different basal levels of telomerase activity. Thereafter, chemosensitivity was investigated after inhibition of telomerase by means of stable transfection of a catalytically inactive, dominant-negative mutant of hTERT (DN-hTERT). This study shows for the first time that: a) susceptibility to TMZ of melanoma lines derived from the same patient did not depend on basal telomerase activity; b) inhibition of telomerase by DN-hTERT resulted in reduced growth rate and increased resistance to TMZ and to the chloroethylating agent carmustine, increased sensitivity to cisplatin, and no change in response to tamoxifen or to a selective N3-adenine methylating agent; c) inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), an enzyme involved in the repair of N-methylpurines, restored sensitivity of DN-hTERT clones to TMZ. These results indicate that a careful selection of the antitumor agent has to be made when antitelomerase therapy is combined with chemotherapy. Moreover, the data presented here suggest that TMZ + PARP inhibitor combination is active against telomerase-suppressed and slowly growing tumors.
Areca nut is the most widely used psychoactive substance and an important environmental risk factor for development of oral premalignant lesions and cancer. Arecoline, the major alkaloid of areca nut, has been known to cause cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in mammalian cells in vivo and in vitro and even contributes to carcinogenicity. However, the susceptible genes accounting for arecoline-induced damage in normal human oral cells are still lacking, which possibly involves in initial molecular damage via alternation of gene expression level on biological pathways. The present study was undertaken to characterize the toxic effects of arecoline in gene expression profiling on normal human gingival fibroblasts (HGF) using cDNA microarray and quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR. The cytotoxicity of arecoline on HGF-1 cell line was elevated in a dose-dependent manner (p < 0.05) accompanied with distinct morphological change and formation of intracellular vacuoles were observed. At optimum concentration of arecoline determined from dose-response curve of the cytotoxicity, a large number of genes were significantly repressed than induced by arecoline in global gene expression profiling. Five induced- and seven repressed genes including glutathione synthetase were further validated, and their gene expression changes were increased in a dose-dependent manner in a concentration range of 50-150 microg/ml. In conclusion, we proposed a tentative model to explain arecoline-induced effects on contribution of oral pathogenesis. The findings identified that 12 susceptible genes can potentially serve as biomarkers of arecoline-induced damage in betel chewers.
Antiretroviral therapy is associated with serious adverse events. We report the case of a pregnant human immunodeficiency virus type 1-infected woman who developed drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms syndrome and renal failure shortly after initiation of a nevirapine-containing antiretroviral regimen at 27 weeks' gestation.
A 26-year-old primigravida presented with a fever of 40.2C, urticarial rash, and icteric sclera 6 weeks after starting a nevirapine-containing antiretroviral regimen. Eosinophils, serum creatinine, bilirubin, and liver enzymes were markedly elevated, and abnormal coagulation studies were noted on admission. Serology testing was negative for viral hepatitis and microbiologic cultures were negative for growth. Abnormal laboratory findings at discharge resolved within 4 months after discontinuation of antiretroviral agents and systemic corticosteroid therapy.
Our case suggests the need for close monitoring of liver and renal function after initiation of nevirapine-containing antiretroviral regimens.
This study focused on the hepatoprotective activity of C-phycocyanin (C-PC) against carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatocyte damage in vitro and in vivo. In in vitro study, human hepatocyte cell line L02 was used. C-PC showed its capability to reverse CCl(4)-induced L02 cells viability loss, alanine transaminase (ALT) leakage and morphological changes. C-PC also showed the following positive effects: prevent the CCl(4)-induced overproduction of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA); prevent changes in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity; and reduce glutathione (GSH) level. In vivo, C-PC showed its capability to decrease serum ALT and aspartate transaminase (AST) levels in CCl(4)-induced liver damage in mice. The histological observations supported the results obtained from serum enzymes assays. C-PC also showed the following effects in mice liver: prevent the CCl(4)-induced MDA formation and GSH depletion; prevent SOD and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity; and prevent the elevation of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) mRNAs. Both the in vitro and in vivo results suggested that C-PC was useful in protecting against CCl(4)-induced hepatocyte damage. One of the mechanisms is believed to be through C-PCs scavenging ability to protect the hepatocytes from free radicals damage induced by CCl(4). In addition, C-PC may be able to block inflammatory infiltration through its anti-inflammatory activities by inhibiting TGF-beta1 and HGF expression.
This study was undertaken to investigate the possibility that mechanisms other than cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition account for the acute toxicity of organophosphorus insecticide. Both the P = O type insecticide (direct ChE inhibitors: chlorfenvinphos and dichlorvos) and the P = S type insecticide (indirect ChE inhibitors: diazinon and fenthion) were employed. Rats treated with lethal doses of intravenous and oral P = O type insecticides and oral P = S type insecticides exhibited typical signs of anti-ChE poisoning along with marked inhibition of brain and erythrocyte ChE activity. In contrast, rats given lethal doses of intravenous P = S type insecticides exhibited tonic convulsions and opisthotonos, with only slight inhibition of ChE activities. When P = O type insecticides were intravenously administered to anesthetized and conscious rats, animals exhibited typical anti-ChE poisoning signs in cardiorespiration: hypertension and apnea which were antagonized by atropine. After administration of lethal doses of P = O type insecticides, breathing disappeared before the cessation of heart beats. Rats receiving lethal doses of intravenous P = S type insecticides did not show hypertension, but exhibited transient cessation of breathing and heart beats. Breathing was observed after the disappearance of heart beats. The electroencephalogram (EEG) was characterized by spike and wave complexes. The EEG and cardiorespiratory changes were not antagonized by atropine. It was concluded that lethality following intravenous P = S type insecticides may be independent of ChE inhibition.
In the present study the developmental neurotoxic effects of the PCB metabolite 4-OH-2,3,3',4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (4-OH-CB107) were compared with effects caused by a mixture of parent polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners (Aroclor 1254). Pregnant female Wistar rats were exposed to 0.5 or 5 mg 4-OH-CB107, or 25 mg Aroclor 1254 per kg body weight from gestation days 10 to 16. Plasma thyroid hormone levels were significantly decreased in the offspring of all treatment groups at postnatal day 4 (PND 4). Behavioral experiments using an open field paradigm revealed an impaired habituation in male offspring of all treatment groups at PND 130. Passive avoidance experiments indicated significant influences on the time course of step-down latencies across trials in exposed male rats. Catalepsy induced by haloperidol showed increases in latencies to movement onset in female offspring exposed to 0.5 mg 4-OH-CB107 compared to Aroclor 1254 treated offspring at PND 168-175. Male offspring exposed to 4-OH-CB107 or Aroclor 1254 showed decreases in latencies compared to control animals. Brain stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) measured at PND 300-310 showed significant increases in auditory thresholds in the low frequency range between Aroclor 1254 and 4-OH-CB107 (5 mg/kg bw) treated animals. Measurements of neurotransmitter levels revealed effects of Aroclor 154 exposure on both the dopaminergic and the serotonergic systems, whereas 4-OH-CB107 exposure affected dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems, with slight but not significant effects on the serotonergic system. These results indicate that 4-OH-CB107 is able to induce long-term effects on behavior and neurodevelopment. The observed effects for 4-OH-CB107 are similar to, but in some aspects different from, the effects observed after Aroclor 1254 exposure.
Selective COX-2 inhibitors have been shown to produce fewer gastrointestinal adverse reactions than classical NSAIDs. Nevertheless, these new agents may worsen and delay the healing of experimentally induced gastric ulcers in animals. In this study, we compared the effects of a selective COX-2 inhibitor (celecoxib), a preferential COX-1 inhibitor (piroxicam), and a nonnarcotic analgesic (metamizol) on normal gastric mucosa of rats and, on the other hand, in a setting of preexisting acute gastric lesions induced by 0.6 N hydrochloric acid. Under normal conditions, only piroxicam produced appreciable gastric lesions. However, after acid challenge the three assayed drugs induced significant macroscopic and microscopic damage. Myeloperoxidase activity as an index of neutrophil infiltration was elevated with celecoxib and piroxicam on normal gastric mucosa. On inflamed mucosa, celecoxib augmented enzymatic activity at the lower dose, which was parallelled by an increase in the interleukin 1beta level. Acid instillaton produced a significant rise in PGE2 content at 7 hr. Drug treatment after acid challenge decreased prostaglandin values in all cases, although to a lesser extent than after single drug dose administration. COX-2 mRNA expression was visible 1 hr after acid application, whereas COX-2 protein could only be detected at 7 hr. Piroxicam increased both expression levels. All NSAIDs enhanced transforming growth factor alpha and epidermal growth factor receptor immunoreactivity around the acid-induced lesions. It is concluded that selective COX-2 inhibitors, like conventional NSAIDs, impair the healing of gastric damage, and therefore special attention should be paid in patients with gastric pathologies.
Administration of sc morphine has been recommended two hours after the end of iv morphine titration in the postanesthesia care unit (PACU), but in some cases patients complain of pain earlier than this. We assessed pain after the end of iv morphine titration and studied the characteristics of patients who needed rescue sc morphine.
Postoperative pain was assessed using the visual analogue scale (VAS; 0 to 100) and the threshold required to administer morphine in the PACU was a score of 30. VAS was measured every 15 min up to two hours after the end of iv morphine titration. Patients were divided into two groups, those who required sc morphine before two hours and those who did not. Data are expressed as mean +/- SD or odds ratio (OR; 95% confidence interval).
Four hundred and two patients were analyzed. Mean age was 51 +/- 19 yr, initial VAS 69 +/- 19, and the dose of iv morphine 11.7 +/- 6.6 mg. The number of patients requiring sc morphine within two hours was 84 (21%). These patients had more severe initial postoperative pain (73 +/- 20 vs 68 +/- 19, P < 0.05), and experienced sedation more frequently during morphine titration (45 vs 25%, P < 0.001). Using a multivariate analysis, occurrence of sedation during titration [OR 2.3 (1.4-3.8), P < 0.001] and an initial pain score > or = 60 [OR 1.9 (1.0-3.4), P < 0.05] were significantly associated with the need for rescue sc morphine.
Sedation during titration and an initial VAS > or = 60 are characteristics of the patients who require rescue (less than two hours) sc morphine after iv morphine titration.
A double-blind randomized study was performed in 86 depressed out-patients, in order to compare the efficacy and tolerance of mianserin (30 to 60 mg daily) with that of nortriptyline (75 to 150 mg daily). Both drugs were administered for 6 weeks after a wash-out period of 1 week. The Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression was used weekly and the Clinical Global Impression Scale at the end of treatment. Both preparations proved to be effective, with no significant differences in response. However, tolerance in the mianserin group was much better than in the nortriptyline group. Significant differences were found mainly in the incidence and severity of tachycardia, dry mouth, constipation, sweating, insomnia, agitation and oedema.
NTBC (2-(2-nitro-4-fluoromethylbenzoyl)-1,3-cyclohexanedione) and mesotrione (2-(4-methylsulphonyl-2-nitrobenzoyl)-1,3-cyclohexanedione) are inhibitors of 4-hydroxyphenyl pyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD). NTBC has been successfully used as a treatment for hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1), while mesotrione has been developed as an herbicide. The pharmacokinetics of the two compounds were investigated in healthy male volunteers following single oral administration. The aim of the NTBC study was to assess the bioequivalence of two different formulations and to determine the extent of the induced tyrosinaemia. The mesotrione study was performed to determine the magnitude and duration of the effect on tyrosine catabolism. Additionally, the urinary excretion of unchanged mesotrione was measured to assess the importance of this route of clearance and to help develop a strategy for monitoring occupational exposure.
A total of 28 volunteers participated in two separate studies with the compounds. In the first study, the relative bioavailability of NTBC from liquid and capsule formulations was compared and the effect on plasma tyrosine concentrations measured. In the second study the pharmacokinetics of mesotrione were determined at three doses. Plasma tyrosine concentrations were monitored and the urinary excretion of mesotrione and tyrosine metabolites was measured.
Both compounds were well tolerated at the dose levels studied. Peak plasma concentrations of NTBC were rapidly attained following a single oral dose of 1 mg x kg(-1) body weight of either formulation and the half-life in plasma was approximately 54 h. There were no statistical differences in mean (+/- s.d.) AUC(0,infinity) (capsule 602 +/- 154 vs solution 602 +/- 146 microg x ml(-1) h) or t1/2 (capsule 55 +/- 13 vs solution 54 +/- 8 h) and these parameters supported the bioequivalence of the two formulations. Mesotrione was also rapidly absorbed, with a significant proportion of the dose eliminated unchanged in urine. The plasma half-life was approximately 1 h and was independent of dose and AUC(0,infinity) and Cmax increased linearly with dose. Following administration of 1 mg NTBC x kg(-1) in either formulation, the concentrations of tyrosine in plasma increased to approximately 1100 nmol x ml(-1). Concentrations were still approximately 8 times those of background at 14 days after dosing, but had returned to background levels within 2 months of the second dose. Administration of mesotrione resulted in an increase in tyrosine concentrations which reached a maximum of approximately 300 nmol x ml(-1) following a dose of 4 mg x kg(-1) body weight. Concentrations returned to those of background within 2 days of dosing. Urinary excretion of tyrosine metabolites was increased during the 24 h immediately following a dose of 4 mg mesotrione x kg(-1), but returned to background levels during the following 24 h period.
NTBC and mesotrione are both inhibitors of HPPD, although the magnitude and duration of their effect on tyrosine concentrations are very different. When normalized for dose, the extent of the induced tyrosinaemia after administration of NTBC and over the duration of these studies, was approximately 400 fold greater than that following administration of mesotrione. The persistent and significant effect on HPPD following administration of NTBC make it suitable for the treatment of patients with hereditary tyrosinaemia type 1 (HT-1), whilst the minimal and transient effects of mesotrione minimize the likelihood of a clinical effect in the event of systemic exposure occurring during occupational use.
Glycated serum albumin (GSA) promotes vascular complications in diabetes. The aim of this study was to determine if GSA induces chemokine, particularly CXCL8 (IL-8), and to determine intracellular signaling pathways activated by GSA in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). GSA increased IL-8 transcription via promoter activation and enhanced CXCL8 release from VSMCs. GSA-induced promoter activation of the IL-8 gene was suppressed by dominant-negative mutants of TLR-4, MyD88, and TRIF, but not by a dominant-negative form of TLR-2. In addition, IL-8 up-regulation in response to GSA was inhibited by resveratrol, curcumin, diphenyleneiodium, U0126, and SB202190. Mutation at the NF-kappaB- or C/EBP-binding site, but not at the AP-1-binding site, in the IL-8 promoter region suppressed GSA-induced promoter activation. Moreover, gene delivery of IkappaB suppressed CXCL8 release. This study suggests that GSA induces expression of IL-8 in VSMCs and that TLR-4, mitogen-activated protein kinases, NF-kappaB, and NADPH oxidase are involved in that process.
To evaluate the prophylactic efficacy of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) for post-transplant recurrence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) with lamivudine-resistant YMDD mutation in liver recipients.
From March 2004 to May 2006, 20 patients with chronic hepatitis B associated with YMDD mutant HBV prior to liver transplantation received treatment with ADV and additional intramuscular hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) for prevention of post-transplant graft reinfection. The liver function, serum HBsAg, anti-HBs (HBIG), HBeAg, anti-HBc, anti-HBe, HBV DNA and creatinine were examined in all the patients before and after the transplantation.
The median follow-up duration of these patients after the transplantation was 33.5 months. Nineteen patients survived and one patient died of recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma. There was significant difference in YMDD mutation rate between the patients with HBV-DNA over 10(6) copies/ml and those with HBV-DNA less than 10(6) copies/ml (12.4% vs 2.5%, P < 0.05). HBV-DNA was undetectable at 4 weeks after the transplantation in 95.0% of the patients (19/20) and at 6 months in one case. No recurrence of hepatitis B was detected by long-term regular testing of HBsAg, HBeAg and HBV-DNA. Serum creatinine increased in 1 case 1 year after the use of ADV.
ADV offers protection against recurrence of HBV with YMDD mutation after liver transplantation with only mild nephrotoxicity, but renal function monitoring during the use of ADV is still necessary.
The administration of cytidine-5'-diphosphate choline (CDP-choline, citicoline) to animals increases the rate of membrane phospholipid synthesis and elevates brain dopamine levels. Because cocaine dependence has been associated with increases in brain phospholipid precursors, as well as depletion of dopamine within the central nervous system, the present outpatient study was conducted to assess the safety of citicoline (500 mg bid) and to determine if short-term treatment alters mood states and cocaine craving in subjects with a history of cocaine dependence. In addition, measures of drug craving and mood states after presentation of cocaine-related cues were collected on two occasions: before and after 14 days of double-blind treatment with either citicoline or placebo. Subjects did not experience any side effects and citicoline treatment was associated with decreases in self-reported mood states associated with cocaine craving. These preliminary data are encouraging and suggest that citicoline warrants further study as a promising potential treatment for cocaine abuse and dependence that is devoid of side effects.
The limited antifibrotic effect of therapeutic angiotensin blockade, the fact that angiotensin blockade dramatically elevates renin levels, and recent evidence that renin has an angiotensin-independent, receptor-mediated profibrotic action led us to hypothesize that combining renin receptor inhibition and ANG II blockade would increase the antifibrotic effect of angiotensin blockade alone. Using cultured nephritic glomeruli from rats with anti-Thy-1-induced glomerulonephritis, the maximally effective dose of enalaprilate was determined to be 10(-4) M, which reduced mRNAs for transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, fibronectin (FN), and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) by 49, 65, and 56% and production of TGF-β1 and FN proteins by 60 and 49%, respectively. Disease alone caused 6.8-fold increases in ANG II levels that were reduced 64% with enalaprilate. In contrast, two- and threefold disease-induced increases in renin mRNA and activity were further increased 2- and 3.7-fold with 10(-4) M enalaprilate treatment. Depressing the renin receptor by 80% with small interfering (si) RNA alone reduced fibrotic markers in a manner remarkably similar to enalaprilate alone but had no effect on glomerular renin expression. Enalaprilate and siRNA combination therapy further reduced disease markers. Notably, elevated TGF-β1 and FN production was reduced by 73 and 81%, respectively. These results support the notion of a receptor-mediated profibrotic action of renin, suggest that the limited effectiveness of ANG II blockade may be due, at least in part, to the elevated renin they induce, and support our hypothesis that adding renin receptor inhibitor to ANG II blockade in patients may have therapeutic potential.
In five patients who had been on chronic maintenance haemodialysis for more than eight months a syndrome involving altered consciousness, asterixis, and abnormal electroencephalogram developed after they had been given flurazepam and diazepam. All five patients were adequately treated by haemodialysis. Hepatic, pulmonary, and cardiac decompensation were not present. The encephalopathy and other abnormalities cleared when the drugs were withdrawn. Symptoms were also produced by accidental rechallenge.
Ergotamine abuse and subsequent ergotamine-induced headache is a common problem in the pharmacological treatment of migraine and other headache types; often, withdrawal therapy is necessary. This study investigated whether ergotamine abuse affects information processing and whether withdrawal therapy can lead to an improvement of information processing. We designed a standardized neurophysiological retrospective (ergotamine abuse) and prospective (ergotamine withdrawal) study in a supraregional headache outpatient clinic. Seventy-one patients abusing ergotamine derivatives with subsequent daily headache were enrolled and compared to 36 migraine patients without ergotamine intake and 36 healthy subjects. Information processing was evaluated by latencies and amplitudes of visually evoked event-related potentials (ERP) before and after ergotamine withdrawal therapy. P3 latency of the ERP was significantly increased in ergotamine abuse (442 +/- 45 ms) versus migraine (415 +/- 40 ms) and healthy subjects (410 +/- 33 ms), there was no difference between ergotamine tartrate and dihydroergotamine abuse. The migraine specific loss of habituation in information processing as measured by P3 latency could not be observed in migraine patients with ergotamine abuse. After successful withdrawal therapy in 36 patients, the abnormally prolonged P3 latency was significantly shortened (452 +/- 47 ms versus 433 +/- 30 ms; P < 0.004). Our findings imply that information processing is impaired by ergotamine abuse and can be improved but not normalized after withdrawal therapy. Furthermore, our data provide strong evidence that ergotamine, besides its peripheral effects, has a central mode of action.
Several lines of evidence in both human and animal studies suggest that variation in neuropeptide Y (NPY) or its receptor genes (NPY1R, NPY2R and NPY5R) is associated with alcohol dependence as well as alcohol withdrawal symptoms. Additional studies suggest that cocaine may affect NPY expression.
A total of 39 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped across NPY and its 3 receptor genes in a sample of 1,923 subjects from 219 multiplex alcoholic families of European American descent recruited as part of the Collaborative Studies on the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA) study. Family-based association analysis was performed to test the primary hypothesis that variation in these genes is associated with alcohol dependence. Secondary analyses evaluated whether there was an association of these SNPs with symptoms of alcohol withdrawal, cocaine dependence, or comorbid alcohol and cocaine dependence.
Although variations in NPY itself were not associated with these phenotypes, variations in 2 NPY-receptor genes were. SNPs in NPY2R provided significant evidence of association with alcohol dependence, alcohol withdrawal symptoms, comorbid alcohol and cocaine dependence, and cocaine dependence (all p < 0.03). Haplotype analyses strengthened the evidence for these phenotypes (global 0.0004 < p < 0.005). SNPs in NPY5R demonstrated significant association with alcohol withdrawal characterized by seizures (p < 0.05).
These results indicate that sequence variations in NPY receptor genes are associated with alcohol dependence, particularly a severe subtype of alcohol dependence characterized by withdrawal symptoms, comorbid alcohol and cocaine dependence, and cocaine dependence.
The design, synthesis, and testing of a novel class of antidiarrheal drugs based on a tetraamine pharmacophore are reported. While N1,N14-diethylhomospermine (DEHSPM) (5 mg/kg) completely prevents diarrhea in rodents, tissue distribution studies demonstrated that the principal metabolite of DEHSPM, homospermine (HSPM), accumulates and persists in tissues for a protracted period of time. This accumulation accounts for a large part of the chronic toxicity of DEHSPM. Thus a major objective was to develop a metabolically labile analogue of DEHSPM which retained the desirable biological properties of the parent drug. Hydroxyl groups, sites vulnerable to further metabolic transformation, were introduced into the external aminobutyl segments providing N1,N14-diethyl-(3R),(12R)-dihydroxyhomospermine [(HO)2-DEHSPM]. The design concept was assisted by molecular modeling, which predicted that (HO)2DEHSPM would have a Ki for polyamine transport essentially identical with that of DEHSPM. The experimentally measured Ki and also the observed values of other biological properties of (HO)2DEHSPM were in fact identical with those of DEHSPM, including IC50 against L1210 cells, impact on the NMDA receptor, and impact on L1210 native polyamine pools. Most significantly, however, there was no accumulation of the dideethylated metabolite in tissues from mice treated chronically with (HO)2DEHSPM, and (HO)2DEHSPM was 3-fold less toxic than DEHSPM. Finally, (HO)2DEHSPM completely prevented diarrhea in the castor oil-treated rat model at a dose of 5 mg/kg, just as did DEHSPM.
Genome-wide association (GWA) studies have identified multiple loci at which common variants modestly influence the risk of developing colorectal cancer (CRC). To enhance power to identify additional loci with similar effect sizes, we conducted a meta-analysis of two GWA studies, comprising 13,315 individuals genotyped for 38,710 common tagging SNPs. We undertook replication testing in up to eight independent case-control series comprising 27,418 subjects. We identified four previously unreported CRC risk loci at 14q22.2 (rs4444235, BMP4; P = 8.1 x 10(-10)), 16q22.1 (rs9929218, CDH1; P = 1.2 x 10(-8)), 19q13.1 (rs10411210, RHPN2; P = 4.6 x 10(-9)) and 20p12.3 (rs961253; P = 2.0 x 10(-10)). These findings underscore the value of large sample series for discovery and follow-up of genetic variants contributing to the etiology of CRC.
