Severe autoimmune myasthenia gravis is difficult to manage and may require immunosuppression with cyclosporine. However, cyclosporine dependency is associated with the risk of nephrotoxicity. Mycophenolate mofetil is a non-nephrotoxic alternative which should be considered to rescue cyclosporine-dependent, severe myasthenia gravis sufferers with renal impairment from progression to end-stage renal failure. However, the evidence is limited and studies have not assessed the outcome of a direct substitution in these cyclosporine-dependent patients. We study three such patients who successfully converted to mycophenolate mofetil, and briefly examine the evidence behind this option. We believe that total cyclosporine withdrawal is feasible, but strongly recommend overlapping mycophenolate mofetil treatment with cyclosporine.
Nicotinic acid (niacin) is a drug used to reduce the progression of atherosclerosis. Its antiatherosclerotic activity is believed to result from lipid-modifying effects, including its ability to decrease LDL cholesterol and increase HDL cholesterol levels in plasma. Here, we report that in a mouse model of atherosclerosis, we found that nicotinic acid inhibited disease progression under conditions that left total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol plasma levels unaffected. The antiatherosclerotic effect was not seen in mice lacking the receptor for nicotinic acid GPR109A. Surprisingly, transplantation of bone marrow from GPR109A-deficient mice into atherosclerosis-prone animals also abrogated the beneficial effect of nicotinic acid. We detected expression of GPR109A in macrophages in atherosclerotic plaques. In macrophages from WT mice, but not from GPR109A-deficient animals, nicotinic acid induced expression of the cholesterol transporter ABCG1 and promoted cholesterol efflux. Furthermore, activation of GPR109A by nicotinic acid inhibited MCP-1-induced recruitment of macrophages into the peritoneal cavity and impaired macrophage recruitment to atherosclerotic plaques. In contrast with current models, our data show that nicotinic acid can reduce the progression of atherosclerosis independently of its lipid-modifying effects through the activation of GPR109A on immune cells. We conclude therefore that GPR109A mediates antiinflammatory effects, which may be useful for treating atherosclerosis and other diseases.
Two cases of optic neuropathy associated with cimetidine therapy are reported. Recovery occurred in both after drug withdrawal. Rechallenge with the same agent totally reproduced the condition in the first case. Cimetidine exerts an unequivocal toxicity on the central and peripheral nervous systems. Since its introduction in 1976, it has been used in over 100 million patients, but only 3 cases of optic neuropathy have been reported as far as we know. Although the mechanism of toxicity is still unclear, cimetidine is a well-recognized zinc chelator, and zinc deficiency has been implicated in causing optic neuropathy. Hence, it can be concluded that cimetidine produced this toxicity through its mechanism of zinc chelation. However, close ophthalmic follow-up of such patients is unnecessary, but an unexplained visual deterioration should prompt immediate drug withdrawal.
A double-blind cross-over study in 35 patients with ankylosing spondylitis was carried out comparing flurbiprofen (150 mg daily)-a new non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent-with phenylbutazone (300 mg daily) over a four-week period. Flurbiprofen was well tolerated and shown to have therapeutic efficacy approaching that of phenylbutazone. The results suggest that flurbiprofen may prove a valuable alternative in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis, and longterm efficacy and tolerance studies are clearly indicated.
To compare the treatment effectiveness of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) and phenol blocks in managing lower limb spasticity and gait dysfunction in children with cerebral palsy.
This is a case-controlled study that took place in a tertiary center's gait laboratory. A total of 27 ambulatory children with cerebral palsy spastic diplegia, aged from 3 to 7 yrs, and 20 normal children were recruited into this study. Sixteen children with cerebral palsy received BTX-A injections, and 11 received phenol motor point blocks. Gait analyses were assessed by a portable computer-assisted system (Computer DynoGraphy, Infotronic, The Netherlands). Both the BTX-A and phenol groups received gait analysis at 1 wk before and 2 mos after injection treatments.
Significant improvements in gait variables of velocity and cadence were noted in children with cerebral palsy after BTX-A injections as compared with the phenol block group. Gaitline and cyclogram patterns also improved significantly in the BTX-A group. The adverse clinical effects of BTX-A injections were less severe as compared with phenol injections.
BTX-A injections demonstrated superior treatment effects in improving gait variables and patterns in children with spastic diplegia as compared with phenol blocks. BTX-A injections also revealed fewer clinical side effects and were well tolerated by children with cerebral palsies.
5 patients with acute renal failure (3 with thrombopenia and hemolysis) induced by the reintroduction of rifampicin are described. No correlation was found between the severity of clinical manifestations and the total dose taken by the patients. In all but 1 patient, antirifampicin antibodies were detected. Antibodies suggested to be of the IgM class were detected in all 3 patients with hematological disorders. The pattern of non-specific acute tubular necrosis found in the 2 biopsied patients, indistinguishable from that of ischemic origin, raised the possibility of a vascular-mediated damage. In 3 patients, the possibility of a triggering immunoallergic mechanism is discussed.
In this paper we report 19 patients (14 males, 5 females; mean age 28.16 years +/- 7.68 SD) out of a series of 23 (17 males, 5 females) who developed a mood disturbance (moderate to severe depression) during treatment with finasteride, 1 mg/day orally, for androgenetic alopecia (Hamilton subtypes III-V; Ludwig subtypes I-II). Depression, which significatively impaired sociofamilial relations, sleep and eating behaviour, was associated to marked anxiety in some cases, developed after 9-19 weeks of treatment with finasteride, and promptly resolved after suspension of the drug. Two patients accepted reintroduction of the drug, and depression relapsed within 2 weeks. Depression as an adverse effect of finasteride has been reported only once. Further studies are needed to confirm our circumstantial observations, which are based on a retrospective series of patients.
A case of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) associated with minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) is described. A 41-year-old woman with SLE presented with symptoms of nephrotic syndrome. Renal biopsy revealed minor glomerular abnormalities without the deposition of immune complexes. The initial heavy proteinuria promptly decreased after the prednisolone dosage was increased and disappeared 4 weeks later. The patient had a relapse of nephrotic syndrome without exacerbation of immunoserological reactions when the prednisolone dose was subsequently decreased. Remission was achieved 5 days after methylprednisolone pulse therapy. T cell dysfunction, which is present both in SLE and MCNS, might have triggered MCNS during the course of SLE.
Twenty-three cocaine-dependent participants were randomly assigned to receive either dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA; n = 11; 100 mg/day) or placebo (n = 12) in the context of 12 weeks of thrice weekly cognitive-behavioral group counseling. Outcomes were retention, urine drug screening, cocaine craving, adverse experiences, and medication compliance. DHEA-treated participants averaged 45.8 (SD = 28.8) days in treatment, compared with 70.7 (SD = 20.6) days for placebo, r(21) = -2.4, p =.03, and provided 26.8% (SD = 29.3) of urine samples free of cocaine metabolite compared with 70.6% (SD = 39.9) for the placebo condition, r(21) = -3.0, p =.01. No differences were detected between conditions for cocaine craving or adverse experiences. High levels of medication compliance were documented. Results argue against using high doses of DHEA as a pharmacotherapy for cocaine dependence.
The medial globus pallidus plays a crucial role in generation of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease. The 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat exhibiting behavioral sensitization to L-DOPA is one useful animal model for examining L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. To determine neuropathological abnormality responsible for behavioral sensitization, the medial globus pallidus and the substantia nigra reticulata in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats treated with L-DOPA were examined. Intermittent L-DOPA treatment induced hypertrophy of the lesioned-side of medial globus pallidus and substantia nigra reticulata of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats with behavioral sensitization to L-DOPA. Additionally, coadministration of a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin with L-DOPA, alleviated the hypertrophy with improvement of the behavioral sensitization. These results suggest that hypertrophy of the medial globus pallidus and substantia nigra reticulata is associated with induction of behavioral sensitization to L-DOPA in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Therefore, neuropathological changes corresponding to hypertrophy might underlie L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease.
A recent study has suggested that the methylation silencing of the suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS3), a negative regulator of interleukin-6-related cytokines, could be involved in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the roles of SOCS3 in hepatocellular carcinogenesis and hepatitis have not been established. We investigated the effect of deleting the SOCS3 gene on the development of hepatitis and HCC in hepatitis C virus-infected patients and mouse models.
The expression of SOCS genes in HCC and non-HCC regions of patient samples was determined by real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunoblotting. The conditional knockout approach in mice was used to determine the hepatocyte-specific roles of SOCS3. To generate a liver-specific deletion, floxed SOCS3 (SOCS3(fl/fl)) mice were crossed with albumin-Cre transgenic mice. Hepatitis and HCC were induced by administering concanavalin A and diethylnitrosamine, respectively.
SOCS3 expression was reduced in the HCC regions compared with the non-HCC regions. Carcinogen-induced hepatic tumor development was enhanced by deletion of the SOCS3 gene, which was associated with higher levels of the targets of signal transducers and activators of transcription (ie, B-cell lymphoma-XL, B-cell lymphoma-2, C-myelocytomatosis, cyclin D1, and vascular endothelial growth factor). In the concanavalin A-mediated hepatitis model, deletion of the SOCS3 gene in the hepatocytes protected against liver injury through suppression of interferon-gamma signaling and induction of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-XL.
Deletion of the SOCS3 gene in hepatocytes promotes the activation of STAT3, resistance to apoptosis, and an acceleration of proliferation, resulting in enhanced hepatitis-induced hepatocarcinogenesis.
We recently reported that Riccardin D (RD) was able to induce apoptosis by targeting Topo II. Here, we found that RD induced cell cycle arrest in G2/M phase in PC-3 cells, and caused remarkable DNA damage as evidenced by induction of γH2AX foci, micronuclei, and DNA fragmentation in Comet assay. Time kinetic and dose-dependent studies showed that ATM/Chk2 and ATR/Chk1 signaling pathways were sequentially activated in response to RD. Blockage of ATM/ATR signaling led to the attenuation of RD-induced γH2AX, and to the partial recovery of cell proliferation. Furthermore, RD exposure resulted in the inactivation of BRCA1, suppression of HR and NHEJ repair activity, and downregulation of the expressions and DNA-end binding activities of Ku70/86. Consistent with the observations, microarray data displayed that RD triggered the changes in genes responsible for cell proliferation, cell cycle, DNA damage and repair, and apoptosis. Administration of RD to xenograft mice reduced tumor growth, and coordinately caused alterations in the expression of genes involved in DNA damage and repair, along with cell apoptosis. Thus, this finding identified a novel mechanism by which RD affects DNA repair and acts as a DNA damage agent in prostate cancer.
Alpha 1-Antitrypsin is the principal serum protease inhibitor. In addition to the well-recognized association with early-onset emphysema and cirrhosis, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency may be associated with panniculitis. In this article we describe three patients in whom the recognition of certain clinical and histologic features of panniculitis eventually led to the diagnosis of alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. Two of our patients were young adults and one was a child. All three had draining, panniculitis, or cellulitis-like lesions at sites of prior trauma. The histopathologic findings were characterized by liquefactive dermal necrosis and collagenolysis of the fibrous septa of the subcutis. The combination of these clinical and microscopic findings should suggest the diagnosis of alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency panniculitis. The suspicion can be verified by obtaining quantitative serum levels and enzyme phenotyping. The identification of the alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency state as the cause of a distinct type of panniculitis adds additional evidence for the elimination of the term Weber-Christian disease.
In mice depleted of GSH by treatment with buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), thiabendazole (TBZ) causes renal injury characterized by an increase in serum urea nitrogen (SUN) concentration and by tubular necrosis. Previous studies have shown that TBZ requires metabolic activation before it produces nephrotoxicity and that the structure contributing to the toxicity of TBZ is the thiazole moiety of the molecule. TBZ and its thiazole analogues were examined for the ability to increase SUN concentration and serum alanine aminotransferase activity in GSH-depleted mice. Unsubstituted thiazole and thiazoles with 4- and/or 5-, and no 2-, substituents caused marked increases in SUN concentration, suggesting nephrotoxicity. Furthermore, the nephrotoxic potency of these thiazoles decreased with the increasing number and bulk of the 4- and/or 5-substituents. On the other hand, the target organ (the kidney or liver) and the toxic potency of 4-methylthiazoles were markedly altered with the type of substituents at the 2-position. These observations and the known toxicity of thiono-sulfur compounds led us to the hypothesis that the nephrotoxic thiazoles, which lack 2-substituents, would undergo microsomal epoxidation of the C-4,5 double bond and, after being hydrolyzed, the resulting epoxide would then be decomposed to form thioformamide, a possibly toxic metabolite. Evidence for this hypothesis was provided by the results that thioformamide and tert-butylglyoxal as the accompanying fragment were identified as urinary metabolites in mice dosed with 4-tert-butylthiazole and that thioformamide caused a marked increase in SUN concentration when administered to mice in combination with BSO.
Probucol was administered for 4 months in 20 adult males with Type IIb HLP in a total daily dose of 1.0 g per day. All patients had achieved a stable weight and diet response prior to entering the study. Plasma lipid and lipoprotein determinations were done at monthly intervals. Probucol produced mean reductions to TPC of -38.8 mg/dl (P < 0.0001), in LDL of -26.7 mg/dl (P < 0.001) and HDL of -8.1 mg/dl (P < 0.0001) for the entire treatment period. The mean LDL/HDL ratio increased from 5.43 to 6.08 (P < 0.02). There was no significant change in TG levels. During the study a progressive decrease in mean HDL levels from 38.9 to 29.2 mg/dl was noted. A progressive increase in the LDL/HDL ratio from 5.43 to 6.35 was also observed. These findings suggest that probucol should be used cautiously in patients with Type IIb HLP, because an inverse relationship between HDL levels and IHD incidence has been demonstrated in epidemiologic studies.
Despite advances in systemic and supportive therapies, multiple myeloma (MM) has remained an incurable disease, which underlines the need for novel approaches to therapy. Recent data indicate that the proteasome-inhibitor bortezomib has marked activity with manageable toxicity in relapsed and refractory MM. We here report on a patient suffering from heavily pretreated and refractory MM with a paravertebral tumor manifestation. After three cycles of bortezomib, the patient achieved near-complete remission, as well as a nearly complete regression of the paravertebral tumor. This case further documents that bortezomib is an effective novel therapy for MM.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled study was conducted to assess the efficacy of intra-articular bupivacaine and diamorphine. Ninety-six day-case patients were allocated randomly to receive intra-articular injections of either 20 mL 0.9% saline (control, n = 35), 20 mL 0.5% plain bupivacaine (n = 31), or 20 mL 0.9% saline with 5 mg diamorphine (n = 30) prior to tourniquet release. Visual analogue scales (VAS) were completed at 1 h, 3 h (discharge) and 24 h, and supplementary analgesia noted. Intra-articular analgesics conferred a noticeable improvement in patient comfort. First, the quantity of supplementary analgesia required prior to discharge was significantly reduced (P = 0.016); second, patients reported a less disturbed night's sleep (P = 0.034).
Wy-14,643 (WY) is a hypolipidemic drug that induces hepatic peroxisome proliferation and tumors in rodents. We previously showed that peroxisome proliferators increase NF-kappaB DNA binding activity in rats, mice, and hepatoma cell lines, and that mice deficient in the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB had much lower cell proliferation in response to the peroxisome proliferator ciprofibrate. In this study we examined the promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis by WY in the p50 knockout (-/-) mice. The p50 -/- and wild type mice were first administered diethylnitrosamine (DEN) as an initiating agent. Mice were then fed a control diet or a diet containing 0.05% WY for 38 weeks. Wild-type mice receiving DEN only developed a low incidence of tumors, and the majority of wild-type mice receiving both DEN and WY developed tumors. However, no tumors were seen in any of the p50 -/- mice. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were measured in hepatocytes by BrdU labeling and the TUNEL assay, respectively. Treatment with DEN + WY increased both cell proliferation and apoptosis in both the wild-type and p50 -/- mice; DEN treatment alone has no effect. In the DEN/WY-treated mice, cell proliferation and apoptosis were slightly lower in the p50 -/- mice than in the wild-type mice. These data demonstrate that NF-kappaB is involved in the promotion of hepatic tumors by the peroxisome proliferator WY; however, the difference in tumor incidence could not be attributed to alterations in either cell proliferation or apoptosis.
A double-blind, randomized, placebo- and drug-controlled study in which the analgesic efficacy and safety of intravenous (i.v.) tramadol in patients with post-operative pain is reported. One hundred and eighty patients recovering from gynaecological or abdominal surgery were assigned to one of three treatment groups. After titration of an individual loading dose, patients could self-administer tramadol 20 mg, morphine 2 mg or placebo using a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) device throughout a 48-h period. Criteria of efficacy were a decrease in pain intensity within the first 30 min of at least 20 on a visual analogue scale (VAS) (0 denotes no pain, 100 worst pain imaginable) and satisfactory analgesia in the patient's opinion during the study period. Patients treated with tramadol, morphine and placebo were assessed as responders at 66.7%, 75.0% and 18.3% (P < 0.0001). VAS after the initial bolus were 39.2 +/- 22.1, 35.9 +/- 21.6 and 50.0 +/- 24.2 (P = 0.002), the initial loading dose amounted to tramadol 144.9 +/- 51.2 mg, morphine 12.3 +/- 5.1 mg and placebo 17.2 +/- 4.9 mL. No serious opioid-related adverse events occurred in the patients given tramadol while two patients given morphine developed an impaired respiratory rate and a decreased oxygen saturation to 80% or less. Tramadol proved to be efficacious for PCA treatment of post-operative pain following gynaecological and abdominal surgery.
There is a reduction of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibition of the CA1 pyramidal region of the hippocampus during status epilepticus (SE). The cellular basis of this loss of GABA-mediated inhibition is not known. This study tested the possibility that GABA type A (GABAA) receptor function in CA1 pyramidal neurons was reduced or blocked during SE, at least in part by postsynaptic cellular mechanisms. GABAA receptor currents (IGABA) were studied by whole-cell patch-clamp techniques in CA1 pyramidal neurons acutely dissociated from rats undergoing lithium/pilocarpine-induced limbic status epilepticus (SE neurons) and from naive rats (naive neurons). SE neurons had more depolarized resting membrane potential (-17.3 mV) compared with naive neurons (-56 mV). IGABA was absent in 47% of SE neurons and reduced in 55% of the remainder, compared with naive neurons. The reduction in IGABA in SE neurons resulted from a combination of factors, including reduced potency and reduced efficacy of GABA in activating chloride channels, and diminished driving force for the GABA-induced chloride currents once activated. These postsynaptic cellular mechanisms resulted in a net reduction or loss in GABA-mediated inhibition and may explain previous in vivo findings reporting a loss of inhibition in hippocampus during limbic SE.
Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (CMC) is characterized by susceptibility to candida infection of skin, nails, and mucous membranes. Patients with recessive CMC and autoimmunity have mutations in the autoimmune regulator AIRE. The cause of autosomal dominant CMC is unknown.
We evaluated 14 patients from five families with autosomal dominant CMC. We incubated their peripheral-blood mononuclear cells with different combinations of stimuli to test the integrity of pathways that mediate immunity, which led to the selection of 100 genes that were most likely to contain the genetic defect. We used an array-based sequence-capture assay, followed by next-generation sequencing, to identify mutations.
The mononuclear cells from the affected patients were characterized by poor production of interferon-γ, interleukin-17, and interleukin-22, suggesting that the defect lay within the interleukin-12 receptor and interleukin-23 receptor signaling pathways. We identified heterozygous missense mutations in the DNA sequence encoding the coiled-coil (CC) domain of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) in the patients. These mutations lead to defective responses in type 1 and type 17 helper T cells (Th1 and Th17). The interferon-γ receptor pathway was intact in these patients.
Mutations in the CC domain of STAT1 underlie autosomal dominant CMC and lead to defective Th1 and Th17 responses, which may explain the increased susceptibility to fungal infection. (Funded by the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research and others.).
Ninety-one patients with advanced breast cancer failing adriamycin (ADR)-containing combination chemotherapy were treated with a combination of mitomycin C (MMC) and megestrol acetate. Congestive heart failure (CHF) occurred in 14 (15.3%) of 91 MMC-treated patients compared to three (3.4%) of 89 patients treated with similar ADR-containing combination chemotherapy without MMC (P = 0.01). The median time from the last dose of ADR to evidence of CHF was 8.5 months for the MMC group compared to 1.5 months for the other group. A significantly higher incidence of late onset of CHF implicates MMC as a possible cardiotoxic agent.
Exposure to particulate matter is a risk factor for respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects are not well understood. Here, we compared the impact of diesel exhaust particles (DEP) on airway resistance, inflammation and oxidative stress in normal mice, or mice made hypertensive by implanting osmotic minipump infusing angiotensin II. On day 13 after the onset of infusion, angiotensin II induced significant increase in heart rate (P<0.05) and systolic blood pressure (P<0.0001). On the same day, mice were intratracheally instilled with either DEP (15 μg/mouse) or saline. Twenty-four hour later, the measurement of airway reactivity to methacholine (0-10mg/ml) in vivo by a forced oscillation technique showed a significant and dose dependent increase in airway resistance in normotensive mice exposed to DEP compared to those exposed to saline. In hypertensive mice, there was no difference in airway resistance in DEP versus saline exposed mice. However, following exposure to DEP, airway resistance significantly increased in normotensive versus hypertensive mice. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid analysis showed a significant increase in macrophage numbers in normotensive mice exposed to DEP compared to those exposed to saline, and to hypertensive mice exposed to DEP. Neutrophil numbers were significantly increased in both normotensive and hypertensive mice exposed to DEP compared with their respective control groups. Superoxide dismutase activity was significantly decreased following DEP exposure in both normotensive and hypertensive mice compared to their respective controls. However, total proteins, a marker for increase of epithelial permeability, and malondialdehyde, a reflection of lipid peroxidation, were only increased in normotensive mice exposed to DEP. Therefore, our data suggest that DEP do not aggravate airway resistance and inflammation in angiotensin II-induced hypertensive mice. On the contrary, at the dose of DEP and time point investigated, airway resistance, inflammation and oxidative stress are increased in normotensive compared to hypertensive mice.
The aim of this study was to determine the protective effect of carvedilol in anthracycline (ANT)-induced cardiomyopathy (CMP).
Despite its broad effectiveness, ANT therapy is associated with ANT-induced CMP. Recent animal studies and experimental observations showed that carvedilol prevented development of CMP due to chemotherapeutics. However, there is no placebo-controlled clinical trial concerning prophylactic carvedilol use in preventing ANT-induced CMP.
Patients in whom ANT therapy was planned were randomized to administration of carvedilol or placebo. We enrolled 25 patients in carvedilol and control groups. In the carvedilol group, 12.5 mg once-daily oral carvedilol was given during 6 months. The patients were evaluated with echocardiography before and after chemotherapy. Left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) and systolic and diastolic diameters were calculated.
At the end of 6 months of follow-up, 1 patient in the carvedilol group and 4 in the control group had died. Control EF was below 50% in 1 patient in the carvedilol group and in 5 in the control group. The mean EF of the carvedilol group was similar at baseline and control echocardiography (70.5 vs. 69.7, respectively; p = 0.3), but in the control group the mean EF at control echocardiography was significantly lower (68.9 vs. 52.3; p < 0.001). Both systolic and diastolic diameters were significantly increased compared with basal measures in the control group. In Doppler study, whereas E velocities in the carvedilol group decreased, E velocities and E/A ratios were significantly reduced in the control group.
Prophylactic use of carvedilol in patients receiving ANT may protect both systolic and diastolic functions of the left ventricle.
Sexual dysfunction frequently occurs in treated and untreated patients with schizophrenia. Sildenafil is used for treatment of erectile dysfunction caused by diverse factors. The aim of our study was to evaluate its potential value, safety, and effect on compliance with anti-psychotic medications in risperidone-treated male schizophrenia patients suffering from erectile dysfunction.
In a 6-week open-label trial, sildenafil was administered to 12 male schizophrenia (DSM-IV) patients, treated with risperidone and reporting erectile dysfunction. The starting dose was 25 mg with the possibility to increase the dose to 75 mg. Three patients who did not respond stopped sildenafil treatment after 3 weeks. The effect on sexual function was assessed by the International Index of Erectile Function and the Valevski-Weizman Male Sexual Function scale.
Nine (75%) of the 12 patients completed the 6-week trial, and 3 patients (25%) stopped taking sildenafil after 3 weeks due to lack of response. We observed statistically significant improvements in all sexual function domains (desire, erectile function, orgasmic function, intercourse satisfaction, and overall satisfaction) in the 9 patients who completed the trial and in most of the domains for all 12 study participants. More than half (8/12; 67%) of the patients exhibited partial or much improvement.
Sildenafil is a useful agent for the treatment of erectile dysfunction in risperidone-treated male schizophrenia patients.
