Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonists are clinically used to counteract hyperglycemia. However, so far experienced unwanted side effects, such as weight gain, promote the search for new PPARγ activators.
We used a combination of in silico, in vitro, cell-based and in vivo models to identify and validate natural products as promising leads for partial novel PPARγ agonists.
The natural product honokiol from the traditional Chinese herbal drug Magnolia bark was in silico predicted to bind into the PPARγ ligand binding pocket as dimer. Honokiol indeed directly bound to purified PPARγ ligand-binding domain (LBD) and acted as partial agonist in a PPARγ-mediated luciferase reporter assay. Honokiol was then directly compared to the clinically used full agonist pioglitazone with regard to stimulation of glucose uptake in adipocytes as well as adipogenic differentiation in 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes and mouse embryonic fibroblasts. While honokiol stimulated basal glucose uptake to a similar extent as pioglitazone, it did not induce adipogenesis in contrast to pioglitazone. In diabetic KKAy mice oral application of honokiol prevented hyperglycemia and suppressed weight gain.
We identified honokiol as a partial non-adipogenic PPARγ agonist in vitro which prevented hyperglycemia and weight gain in vivo.
This observed activity profile suggests honokiol as promising new pharmaceutical lead or dietary supplement to combat metabolic disease, and provides a molecular explanation for the use of Magnolia in traditional medicine.
We describe a detailed study of the effects of ursodeoxycholic acid administration on bile acid composition of the serum and bile of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to analyze bile acids from 10 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis before and during ursodeoxycholic acid administration (500 mg/day, corresponding to approximately 8 mg/kg body wt), after group separation of the unconjugated and conjugated fractions by lipophilic anion exchange chromatography. These studies were directed at assessing whether the beneficial role of ursodeoxycholic acid in primary biliary cirrhosis was the consequence of a shift in the hydrophobic/hydrophilic balance of the bile acid pool and whether the hypercholeresis might result from the cholehepatic circulation of unconjugated ursodeoxycholic acid in bile. In basal conditions, the unconjugated bile acids accounted for only 5.5% and 2.5%, respectively, of the total bile acids of serum and bile; cholic acid was the major component of the conjugated fraction of serum and bile (56.0% +/- 4.0%, mean +/- S.E.M.), and ursodeoxycholic acid was present in only trace amounts. The conjugated fraction contained many unusual bile acids (representing 16.5% +/- 1.3% of total) including C25 bile acids, iso-chenodeoxycholic acid and several oxo-bile acids. After ursodeoxycholic acid administration biochemical indices of liver function all improved, but the proportions of the unconjugated bile acids in serum and bile did not significantly change.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ifenprodil is a novel NMDA receptor antagonist that selectively inhibits receptors containing the NR2B subunit. Lindane, a widely used pesticide and scabicide, evokes seizures mainly through the blockade of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor complex. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of ifenprodil on the behavioral and electroencephalographic (EEG) manifestations of seizures in lindane-treated rats. Adult male Wistar rats with three electrodes implanted into the skull were treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with lindane 8 mg/kg and observed for seizure behavior and EEG during the next 30 min. Seizure behavior was assessed by incidence, severity (determined by a descriptive rating scale ranging from 0 to 4) and duration of latency. Increasing doses of ifenprodil (5, 10, 20 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle were injected 30 min prior to lindane administration. Ifenprodil decreased the incidence and severity of lindane seizures and prolonged the latency to seizures in a dose-dependent manner. 20 mg/kg of ifenprodil significantly decreased the incidence (p < 0.05) and severity (p < 0.05) of seizures when compared to the vehicle treatment. Latency to seizures was significantly prolonged by 10 and 20 mg/kg of ifenprodil. The estimated ED(50) value of ifenprodil was 15.53 (5.48-15.20) mg/kg. The lindane-induced bursts of spiking activity in EEG were not completely suppressed by the applied doses of ifenprodil. These results indicate that ifenprodil alleviates behavioral seizures and modifies EEG characteristics of lindane seizures in rats, thus showing the involvement of NMDA receptors containing the NR2B subunit in the mechanisms of lindane convulsions.
Ninety-eight patients with metastatic breast cancer, heavily pretreated with other agents, were entered in a phase II trial of hexamethylmelamine (HEX). Patients were randomized to receive HEX alone or combined with prophylactic pyridoxine. There was a 2% response rate in 89 partially or fully evaluable patients. Seven percent of these patients developed neurologic toxicity which occurred in the HEX-alone group only.
Inhalation of sulfur mustard (SM), a bifunctional alkylating agent that causes severe lung damage, is a significant threat to both military and civilian populations. The mechanisms mediating its cytotoxic effects are unknown and were investigated in the present studies. Male rats Crl:CD(SD) were anesthetized, and then intratracheally intubated and exposed to 0.7-1.4mg/kg SM by vapor inhalation. Animals were euthanized 6, 24, 48h or 7days post-exposure and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) and lung tissue collected. Exposure of rats to SM resulted in rapid pulmonary toxicity, including focal ulceration and detachment of the trachea and bronchial epithelia from underlying mucosa, thickening of alveolar septal walls and increased numbers of inflammatory cells in the tissue. There was also evidence of autophagy and apoptosis in the tissue. This was correlated with increased BAL protein content, a marker of injury to the alveolar epithelial lining. SM exposure also resulted in increased expression of markers of inflammation including cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), each of which has been implicated in pulmonary toxicity. Whereas COX-2, TNFα and iNOS were mainly localized in alveolar regions, MMP-9 was prominent in bronchial epithelium. In contrast, expression of the anti-oxidant hemeoxygenase, and the anti-inflammatory collectin, surfactant protein-D, decreased in the lung after SM exposure. These data demonstrate that SM-induced oxidative stress and injury are associated with the generation of cytotoxic inflammatory proteins which may contribute to the pathogenic response to this vesicant.
Striatal dopamine D2 receptors have been implicated in the neurobiology of cocaine addiction. Previous imaging studies showed reduced striatal D2 receptor availability in chronic cocaine abusers, and animal studies suggested that low D2 receptor availability promotes cocaine self-administration. Here, D2 receptor availability was assessed with positron emission tomography (PET) and [11C]raclopride in the limbic, associative, and sensori-motor subdivisions of the striatum in 17 recently detoxified chronic cocaine-dependent (CCD) subjects and 17 matched healthy control (HC) subjects. In addition, the relationship between regional D2 receptor availability and behavioral measures obtained in cocaine self-administration sessions was investigated in CCD subjects. [11C]Raclopride binding potential was significantly reduced by 15.2% in the limbic striatum, 15.0% in the associative striatum, and 17.1% in the sensori-motor striatum in CCD subjects compared to HC subjects. In CCD subjects, no relationship was detected between D2 availability in striatal regions and either the positive effects of smoked cocaine or the choice of cocaine over an alternative reinforcer (money) following a priming dose of cocaine (a laboratory model of relapse). Thus, this study confirms previous reports of a modest decrease in D2 receptor availability in CCD subjects, and establishes that this decrease is generalized throughout the striatum. However, this study failed to demonstrate a relationship between D2 receptor availability and cocaine-induced cocaine-taking behavior. Additional research is warranted to unravel potential neurobiological traits that might confer vulnerability to relapse in detoxified CCD subjects.
The triglyceride-lowering effect of bezafibrate in humans has been attributed to peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha activation based on results from rodent studies. However, the bezafibrate dosages used in conventional rodent experiments are typically higher than those in clinical use (> or =50 versus < or =10 mg/kg/day), and thus it remains unclear whether such data can be translated to humans. Furthermore, because bezafibrate is a pan-PPAR activator, the actual contribution of PPARalpha to its triglyceride-lowering properties remains undetermined. To address these issues, bezafibrate at clinically relevant doses (10 mg/kg/day; low) was administered to wild-type and Ppara-null mice, and its effects were compared with those from conventionally used doses (100 mg/kg/day; high). Pharmacokinetic analyses showed that maximum plasma concentration and area under the concentration-time curve in bezafibrate-treated mice were similar to those in humans at low doses, but not at high doses. Low-dose bezafibrate decreased serum/liver triglycerides in a PPARalpha-independent manner by attenuation of hepatic lipogenesis and triglyceride secretion. It is noteworthy that instead of PPAR activation, down-regulation of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-1c was observed in mice undergoing low-dose treatment. High-dose bezafibrate decreased serum/liver triglycerides by enhancement of hepatic fatty acid uptake and beta-oxidation via PPARalpha activation, as expected. In conclusion, clinically relevant doses of bezafibrate exert a triglyceride-lowering effect by suppression of the SREBP-1c-regulated pathway in mice and not by PPARalpha activation. Our results may provide novel information about the pharmacological mechanism of bezafibrate action and new insights into the treatment of disorders involving SREBP-1c.
Government figures suggest that there has been an increase in the number of young people using cocaine. Emergency and minor injury unit nurses are therefore increasingly likely to care for these people. This article describes the presenting symptoms and management of a patient who had an adverse reaction to cocaine, briefly examines the issues of 'adolescent consent' and discusses cocaine use among young people.
This study examines the potential efficacy of acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC) to prevent and treat paclitaxel-induced pain. Rats received four intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of 2 mg/kg paclitaxel on alternate days which, following a short delay induced marked mechanical hypersensitivity. Daily administration of ALC (50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg; p.o.; concurrently with paclitaxel and for 14 days afterwards) prevented the development of paclitaxel-induced pain. This effect was long lasting, for at least 3 weeks after the last dose of ALC. In a separate experiment, daily administration of ALC (100 mg/kg; p.o.; for 10 days) to rats with established paclitaxel-induced pain produced an analgesic effect. This effect dissipated shortly after ALC treatment was withdrawn. We conclude that ALC may be useful in the prevention and treatment of chemotherapy-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.
Eight cases of D-penicillamine (DP) induced myasthenia gravis (MG) are presented. Seven patients were being treated for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and one for scleroderma. The mean duration of DP treatment until the myasthenic symptoms developed ranged from 2-8 months. The DP dose reached 500 mg daily. It was found that the clinical and immunological findings were almost similar to those of idiopathic MG, but were less severe. All patients had increased titers of acetylcholine receptor antibodies in their sera. Discontinuation of D-penicillamine resulted in the complete resolution of myasthenic symptoms after 2-6 months. One patient required ventilation, immunosuppressive therapy and plasma exchange. No association was found between DP related MG and the various autoantibodies tested. Immunogenetic analysis showed that three patients had HLA-DR1, two HLA-DR3, one HLA-DR4 and one HLA-DR5. In conclusion, the clinical presentation of DP-induced MG seems similar to idiopathic MG. DP-related MG is relatively benign, although it sometimes can cause life-threatening muscle weakness requiring aggressive therapy. The relatively small number of patients included in this study, however, does not permit any firm conclusions regarding the HLA associations of DP-related MG.
Aromatic amines and structurally related heterocyclic aromatic amines (HAAs) are produced during the combustion of tobacco or during the high-temperature cooking of meat. Exposure to some of these chemicals may contribute to the etiology of several common types of human cancers. 2-Amino-9H-pyrido[2,3-b]indole (AαC) is the most abundant HAA formed in mainstream tobacco smoke: it arises in amounts that are 25-100 times greater than the levels of the arylamine, 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP), a human carcinogen. 2-Amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) is a prevalent HAA formed in cooked meats. AαC and MeIQx are rodent carcinogens; however, their carcinogenic potency in humans is unknown. A preliminary assessment of the carcinogenic potential of these HAAs in humans was conducted by examining the capacity of primary human hepatocytes to form DNA adducts of AαC and MeIQx, in comparison to 4-ABP, followed by the kinetics of DNA adduct removal by cellular enzyme repair systems. The principal DNA adducts formed were N-(deoxyguanosin-8-yl) (dG-C8) adducts. Comparable levels of DNA adducts were formed with AαC and 4-ABP, whereas adduct formation was ∼5-fold lower for MeIQx. dG-C8-AαC and dG-C8-4-ABP were formed at comparable levels in a concentration-dependent manner in human hepatocytes treated with procarcinogens over a 10,000-fold concentration range (1 nM-10 μM). Pretreatment of hepatocytes with furafylline, a selective inhibitor of cytochrome P450 1A2, resulted in a strong diminution of DNA adducts signifying that P450 1A2 is a major P450 isoform involved in bioactivation of these procarcinogens. The kinetics of adduct removal varied for each hepatocyte donor. Approximately half of the DNA adducts were removed within 24 h of treatment; however, the remaining lesions persisted over 5 days. The high levels of AαC present in tobacco smoke and its propensity to form persistent DNA adducts in human hepatocytes suggest that AαC can contribute to DNA damage and the risk of hepatocellular cancer in smokers.
The 8p22 through p23 region has been identified as a potential site for genes associated with prostate cancer. The gene LZTS1 has been mapped to the 8p22 through p23 region and identified as a potential tumor suppressor based on loss of heterozygosity studies using primary esophageal tumors. Sequence analysis of mRNA from various tumors has revealed multiple mutations and aberrant mRNA transcripts. The most recent report associates LZTS1 function with stabilization of p34(cdc2) during the late S-G2/M stage of mitosis, affecting normal cell growth. In this study, a detailed DNA sequence analysis of LZTS1 was performed in a screening panel consisting of sporadic and hereditary prostate cancer (HPC) cases and unaffected controls. Twenty-four SNP, 15 of which were novel, were identified in germline DNA. Four coding SNP were identified. Eleven informative SNP were genotyped in 159 HPC probands, 245 sporadic prostate cancer cases, and 222 unaffected controls. Four of these SNP were statistically significant for association with prostate cancer (P < or = 0.04). These results add evidence supporting a role of LZTS1 in prostate cancer risk.
Cannabinoids inhibit cancer cell invasion via increasing tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1). This study investigates the role of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) within this action. In the lung cancer cell lines A549, H358, and H460, cannabidiol (CBD; 0.001-3 μM) elicited concentration-dependent ICAM-1 up-regulation compared to vehicle via cannabinoid receptors, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1, and p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Up-regulation of ICAM-1 mRNA by CBD in A549 was 4-fold at 3 μM, with significant effects already evident at 0.01 μM. ICAM-1 induction became significant after 2 h, whereas significant TIMP-1 mRNA increases were observed only after 48 h. Inhibition of ICAM-1 by antibody or siRNA approaches reversed the anti-invasive and TIMP-1-upregulating action of CBD and the likewise ICAM-1-inducing cannabinoids Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol and R(+)-methanandamide when compared to isotype or nonsilencing siRNA controls. ICAM-1-dependent anti-invasive cannabinoid effects were confirmed in primary tumor cells from a lung cancer patient. In athymic nude mice, CBD elicited a 2.6- and 3.0-fold increase of ICAM-1 and TIMP-1 protein in A549 xenografts, as compared to vehicle-treated animals, and an antimetastatic effect that was fully reversed by a neutralizing antibody against ICAM-1 [% metastatic lung nodules vs. isotype control (100%): 47.7% for CBD + isotype antibody and 106.6% for CBD + ICAM-1 antibody]. Overall, our data indicate that cannabinoids induce ICAM-1, thereby conferring TIMP-1 induction and subsequent decreased cancer cell invasiveness.
Costimulation between T cells and APC is required for productive immune responses. A number of receptor/ligand pairs have been shown to mediate costimulation, including CD28/B7 molecules (CD80 and CD86), CD40/CD40 ligand (CD40L, CD154), and LFA-1 (CD18)/ICAM-1 (CD54). T-B cell costimulation also plays a significant role in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus. Murine HgCl2-induced autoimmunity (mHgIA) is a T cell-dependent systemic autoimmune disease that shares a number of common pathogenic mechanisms with idiopathic lupus. In this report, the significance of costimulation in mHgIA is examined by attempting to induce disease in mice deficient in either CD40L, CD28, or ICAM-1. Unlike absence of ICAM-1, homozygous deficiencies in either CD40L or CD28 significantly reduced the development of mHgIA. CD40L displayed a gene dosage effect as heterozygous mice also showed reduction of autoantibody responses and immunopathology. Markers of T cell activation such as CD44 and CTLA-4 were associated with disease expression in wild-type and ICAM-1-deficient mice but not in CD40L- or CD28-deficient mice. Absence of CTLA-4 expression in CD40L-/- mice suggests that signaling via both CD28 and CD40L is important for T cell activation and subsequent autoimmunity in mHgIA. Attempts to circumvent the absence of CD40L by increasing CD28 signaling via agonistic Ab failed to elicit CTLA-4 expression. These findings indicate that breaking of self-tolerance in mHgIA requires signaling via both the CD28/B7 and CD40/CD40L pathways.
We have observed 4 cases of hypoglycemia associated with clonidine stimulation of growth hormone secretion; only one patient had growth hormone deficiency. Significant drowsiness after administration of clonidine may prolong the period of fasting in these children and mask early signs and symptoms, leading to severe hypoglycemia.
We report on a case of 5-fluorouracil induced neurotoxicity during 5-fluorouracil cisplatin combination chemotherapy for advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The initial manifestations included an acute cerebellar syndrome and peripheral neuropathy. Computed tomography of the brain was normal. The results of nerve-conduction studies were compatible with the diagnosis of distal sensory neuropathy. The patient experienced improvement, without treatment, four weeks after cessation of chemotherapy. The role of cisplatin and alcohol abuse in this neurotoxic episode, can not yet completely be excluded.
3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) is given to pregnant women positive for the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) to reduce maternal-fetal viral transmission. To explore fetal mitochondrial consequences of this exposure, pregnant Erythrocebus patas monkeys were given daily doses of 1.5 mg (21% of the human daily dose) and 6.0 mg (86% of the human daily dose) of AZT/kg body weight (bw), for the second half of gestation. At term, electron microscopy of fetal cardiac and skeletal muscle showed abnormal and disrupted sarcomeres with myofibrillar loss. Some abnormally shaped mitochondria with disrupted cristae were observed in skeletal muscle myocytes. Oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) enzyme assays showed dose-dependent alterations. At the human-equivalent dose of AZT (6 mg of AZT/kg bw), there was an approximately 85% decrease in the specific activity of NADH dehydrogenase (complex I) and three- to sixfold increases in specific activities of succinate dehydrogenase (complex II) and cytochrome-c oxidase (complex IV). Furthermore, a dose-dependent depletion of mitochondrial DNA levels was observed in both tissues. The data demonstrate that transplacental AZT exposure causes cardiac and skeletal muscle mitochondrial myopathy in the patas monkey fetus.
Nortriptyline, an antidepressant, was identified as a strong inhibitor of mitochondrial permeability transition by our screening of a library of 1040 drugs. Because mitochondrial permeability transition and consequent mitochondrial dysfunction have been implicated in acute neuronal death, we proposed to investigate the possible neuroprotective effects of nortriptyline in cerebral ischemia.
The effects of nortriptyline were first studied in oxygen/glucose deprivation-induced death of primary cerebrocortical neurons, a cellular model of cerebral ischemia. Mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial factor release, and caspase 3 activation were evaluated after its treatment. Nortriptyline was also studied in a mouse model, which was established by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. The infarct volume, neurological function, and biochemical events were examined in the absence or the presence of nortriptyline.
Nortriptyline inhibits oxygen/glucose deprivation-induced cell death, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, downstream release of mitochondrial factors, and activation of caspase 3 in primary cerebrocortical neurons. Furthermore, it decreases infarct size and improves neurological scores after middle cerebral artery occlusion in mice.
The ability of nortriptyline to inhibit mitochondrial factor release and caspase activation and further protect the animals correlates to its inhibitory effect on mitochondrial permeability transition in isolated mitochondria. This study indicated that nortriptyline is neuroprotective against cerebral ischemia. It also suggested mitochondrial permeability transition might be a valuable therapeutic target for acute neurodegeneration.
The neurotransmitter dopamine causes DNA damage, oxidative stress and is involved in the pathology of neurological diseases. To elucidate this potential link we investigated the mechanism of dopamine-induced DNA damage. We studied the role of the dopamine transporter (DAT) in MDCK and MDCK-DAT cells, containing the human DAT gene. After treatment with dopamine, only MDCK-DAT cells showed elevated chromosomal damage and dopamine uptake. Although stimulation of dopamine type 2 receptor (D(2)R) with quinpirole in the absence of dopamine did not induce genotoxicity in rat neuronal PC12 cells, interference with D(2)R signaling by inhibition of G-proteins, phosphoinositide 3 kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinases reduced dopamine-induced genotoxicity and affected the ability of DAT to take up dopamine. Furthermore, the D(2)R antagonist sulpiride inhibited the dopamine-induced migration of DAT from cytosol to cell membrane. To determine whether oxidation of dopamine by monoamine oxidase (MAO) is relevant in its genotoxicity, we inhibited MAO, which reduced the formation of micronuclei and of the oxidative DNA adduct 8-oxodG. Overall, dopamine exerted its genotoxicity in vitro upon transport into the cells and oxidation by MAO. D(2)R signaling was involved in the genotoxicity of dopamine by affecting activation and cell surface expression of DAT and hence modulating dopamine uptake.
Four patients with prolactin-secreting pituitary adenomas were examined with positron emission tomography using L-[11C]methionine to monitor the effect of dopamine agonist treatment on the amino acid metabolism in the tumors. Within the first few hours after intramuscular injection of bromocriptine retard (50 mg) the amino acid metabolism decreased by 40%. Two of the patients were reexamined 7 and 9 days later and showed a 70% reduction in the metabolism of the adenomas. This metabolic effect was later accompanied by significant tumor shrinkage in all adenomas. It is suggested that bromocriptine has a general and rapid effect on the protein synthesis of the prolactin-secreting pituitary adenoma cells.
The incidences of intra-operative critical arrhythmia related to epinephrine under halogenated inhalational anesthesia were analysed according to questionnaire to 1108 JSA (Japanese Society of Anesthesiologists) Certified Training Hospital. The survey details included prospective (from July 16th, 2008 to Aug 15th, 2008) and retrospective (from Jan 1st, 2007 to Dec 31th, 2007) incidences of critical arrhythmia due to epinephrine under halogenated inhalational anesthesia. Among the 1108 institutions, effective responses were obtained from 583 institutions. A total of 1.2 case per 100,000 cases of critical arrhythmia were recorded in the retrospective study, and no case was recorded in the prospective study. The use of epinephrine under halogenated inhalational anesthesia was safe, but careful use is recommended.
A case of a 58-year-old woman with Churg-Strauss syndrome is reported. After therapy with steroids clinical improvements were obtained. The discussion concerning the pathogenesis of disease was performed.
Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) is an autosomal recessive multisystem disorder characterized by complex eye and brain abnormalities with congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) and aberrant a-dystroglycan glycosylation. Here we report mutations in the ISPD gene (encoding isoprenoid synthase domain containing) as the second most common cause of WWS. Bacterial IspD is a nucleotidyl transferase belonging to a large glycosyltransferase family, but the role of the orthologous protein in chordates is obscure to date, as this phylum does not have the corresponding non-mevalonate isoprenoid biosynthesis pathway. Knockdown of ispd in zebrafish recapitulates the human WWS phenotype with hydrocephalus, reduced eye size, muscle degeneration and hypoglycosylated a-dystroglycan. These results implicate ISPD in a-dystroglycan glycosylation in maintaining sarcolemma integrity in vertebrates.
Walker-Warburg syndrome (WWS) is clinically defined as congenital muscular dystrophy that is accompanied by a variety of brain and eye malformations. It represents the most severe clinical phenotype in a spectrum of diseases associated with abnormal post-translational processing of a-dystroglycan that share a defect in laminin-binding glycan synthesis1. Although mutations in six genes have been identified as causes of WWS, only half of all individuals with the disease can currently be diagnosed on this basis2. A cell fusion complementation assay in fibroblasts from undiagnosed individuals with WWS was used to identify five new complementation groups. Further evaluation of one group by linkage analysis and targeted sequencing identified recessive mutations in the ISPD gene (encoding isoprenoid synthase domain containing). The pathogenicity of the identified ISPD mutations was shown by complementation of fibroblasts with wild-type ISPD. Finally, we show that recessive mutations in ISPD abolish the initial step in laminin-binding glycan synthesis by disrupting dystroglycan O-mannosylation. This establishes a new mechanism for WWS pathophysiology.
The development of cardiac hypertrophy was studied in adult female Wistar rats following daily subcutaneous injections of isoproterenol (ISO) (0.3 mg/kg body weight). A time course was established for the change in tissue mass, RNA and DNA content, as well as hydroxyproline content. Heart weight increased 44% after 8 days of treatment with a half time of 3.4 days. Ventricular RNA content was elevated 26% after 24 h of a single injection and reached a maximal level following 8 days of therapy. The half time for RNA accumulation was 2.0 days. The total content of hydroxyproline remained stable during the first 2 days of treatment but increased 46% after 4 days of therapy. Ventricular DNA content was unchanged during the early stage (1-4 days) of hypertrophic growth but increased to a new steady-state level 19% above the controls after 8 days of treatment. Intraventricular pressures and coronary flow measures were similar for control and experimental animals following 4 days of developed hypertrophy. However, dP/dt in the ISO-treated hearts was slightly but significantly (P less than 0.05) elevated. These data indicate that the adaptive response to ISO shows an early hypertrophic phase (1-4 days) characterized by a substantial increase in RNA content and cardiac mass in the absence of changes in DNA. However, prolonged stimulation (8-12 days) appears to represent a complex integration of both cellular hypertrophy and hyperplasia within the heart.
To evaluate quality of life (QL) and sleep quality impairment of cocaine chronic dependents in use of cocaine.
40 patients, chronic cocaine dependents were evaluated (37 M; 3 F), with mean age of 28.92 years, along with 40 controls paired for gender and age. The following instruments were used: a) the semi-structured clinical interview; b) the Brazil Economic Classification; c) the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index; d) World Heath Organization Quality of Life-BREF (WHOQOL-BREF).
The cocaine dependents showed QL impairment, with deficits in the physical, psychological and social relations domains. Impaired sleep quality was also observed in the cocaine dependents. However, the QL impairment was not directly due to sleep deficit.
Chronic cocaine dependents showed impairment in QL and sleep impairment. However, for the cocaine dependent group, sleep impairment was not regarded as compromising QL probably because cocaine, rather than sleep, was the main factor negatively influencing QL.
