We examined clinical outcomes associated with non-randomised digoxin therapy in a postmyocardial infarction population with clinical heart failure (AIRE study). Our results raise concern about the safety of digoxin in this population.
The effects of a 15 day treatment with zolpidem (10 mg) and with flunitrazepam (1 mg) on Insomnia Disorders Related to Depressive Disorders (DSM-III-R) have been evaluated on 30 depressive in-patients (mean age 42.3 +/- 9.8). The trial has been carried out on double blind condition after 5 days of single blind placebo administration. Withdrawal effects have been evaluated in single blind condition on a 10 day period after drugs discontinuation. Patient's diagnosis was Major Depression or Dysthymia according to DSM-III-R; inclusion criteria were insomnia (total sleep time < or = 6 h, sleep latency > or = 30 min, wake after sleep onset > or = 30 min, No of awakenings > or = 3) refractory to clomipramine administration at constant dose (75-150 mg/day among patients). Both drugs have been followed by a rapid, significant diminution of insomnia as demonstrated by significant changes at Stanford Sleepiness Scale and Saint Mary Hospital Sleep Questionnaire and by a significant reduction of HDRS total scores. No clinical phenomena of rebound insomnia were detected after zolpidem and flunitrazepam withdrawal. Drug discontinuation however was followed by the slow increase of the score on insomnia items, approximating basal values at the end of the 10 day period after zolpidem and flunitrazepam withdrawal. A parallel increase of HDRS total score was also detected; HDRS changes were mainly due to the increase of the items anxiety somatic, general somatic symptoms, gastrointestinal somatic symptoms, hypochondriasis. The study confirms the therapeutic efficacy of zolpidem and of flunitrazepam in the treatment of insomnia resistant to antidepressant drugs in depressed patients. They also suggest that early drug discontinuation is frequently associated with clinical relapse of insomnia and of several other symptoms correlated with the affective pathology.
Gefitinib is a low-molecular-weight epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. To date, gefitinib has been administered to over 65,000 people worldwide. The most commonly reported adverse events were diarrhea, acne-like skin rash, nausea, vomiting and asthenia. Most of them were transient and mild in severity. Interstitial lung disease in patients who have been treated with gefitinib is uncommon and has recently been described with an estimated incidence rate of around 1%. We present here a case of fatal drug-induced pulmonary toxicity after therapy with gefitinib for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. The patient had been treated with gemcitabine and cisplatin, and developed drug-induced hemolytic-uremic syndrome 6 months before gefitinib use.
Fifteen of 5800 neuropathologically examined brains showed oxalosis with an intense inflammatory reaction comparable to ethylene glycol intoxication. All patients had received intensive care therapy with infusions of high amounts of xylitol, sorbitol, mannitol, or fructose, mostly together with glucose. The encephalitic reaction induced by calcium oxalate crystals was manifested by clinical symptoms of cerebral damage. A genetically fixed polyol intolerance is hypothesized to explain polyol-induced oxaloses in brain, kidney, and partly also in myocardium.
Isoniazid chemoprophylaxis effectively prevents the development of active infectious tuberculosis. Current guidelines recommend withholding this prophylaxis for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 years of age because of the risk for fatal isoniazid-induced hepatitis. However, recent studies have shown that monitoring for hepatotoxicity can significantly reduce the risk for isoniazid-related death.
To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of monitored isoniazid prophylaxis for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 years of age.
A Markov model was used to compare the health and economic outcomes of prescribing or withholding a course of prophylaxis for low-risk reactors 35, 50, or 70 years of age. Subsequent analyses evaluated costs and benefits when the effect of transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to contacts was included.
Probability of survival at 1 year, number needed to treat, life expectancy, and cost per year of life gained for individual persons and total population.
Isoniazid prophylaxis increased the probability of survival at 1 year and for all subsequent years. For 35-year old, 50-year-old, and 70-year-old tuberculin reactors, life expectancy increased by 4.9 days, 4.7 days, and 3.1 days, respectively, and costs per person decreased by $101, $69, and $11, respectively. When the effect of secondary transmission to contacts was included, the gains in life expectancy per person receiving prophylaxis were 10.0 days for 35-year-old reactors, 9.0 days for 50-year-old reactors, and 6.0 days for 70-year-old reactors. Costs per person for these cohorts decreased by $259, $203, and $100, respectively. The magnitude of the benefit of isoniazid prophylaxis is moderately sensitive to the effect of isoniazid on quality of life. The hypothetical provision of isoniazid prophylaxis for all low-risk reactors older than 35 years of age in the U.S. population could prevent 35,176 deaths and save $2.11 billion.
Monitored isoniazid prophylaxis reduces mortality rates and health care costs for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 years of age, although reductions for individual patients are small. For the U.S. population, however, the potential health benefits and economic savings resulting from wider use of monitored isoniazid prophylaxis are substantial. We should consider expanding current recommendations to include prophylaxis for tuberculin reactors of all ages with no contraindications.
To assess potential cardiac effects of nifedipine and beta-blocker interactions, 10 men receiving chronic beta-blocker therapy for angina underwent hemodynamic, electrophysiologic and left ventricular (LV) functional analyses at the time of cardiac catheterization before and after buccal administration of 10 mg of nifedipine. Although this combination is usually well tolerated, there have been occasional reports suggesting that the combination of nifedipine and beta-blocking agents may increase the likelihood of congestive heart failure, severe hypotension or exacerbation of angina. All patients had class II or III stable angina pectoris and were receiving at least 160 to 240 mg/day of propranolol or equivalent doses of beta-blocker therapy. Nifedipine produced no acute electrophysiologic changes, including heart rate, PR interval, AH interval, HV interval, sinus node recovery time or heart rate at which atrioventricular nodal block occurred. Hemodynamic effects included no significant change in mean right atrial pressure (7 +/- 1 vs 5 +/- 1 mm Hg), while mean pulmonary artery pressure decreased significantly (20 +/- 2 vs 17 +/- 1 mm Hg, p less than or equal to 0.05). In addition, LV end-diastolic pressure decreased significantly from 16 +/- 2 to 10 +/- 1 mm Hg (p less than or equal to 0.05), with a nonsignificant decrease in mean aortic pressure from 93 +/- 5 to 86 +/- 4 mm Hg. Likewise, no significant change occurred in cardiac index (3.2 +/- 0.4 vs 3.0 +/- 0.4 liters/min/m2) or systemic vascular resistance (1,157 +/- 247 vs 1,170 +/- 236 dynes/s/cm-5). Left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) was the same before and after nifedipine (73 +/- 2% vs 74 +/- 2%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lorazepam is being used with increasing frequency as a sedative in the newborn and the young infant. Concern has been raised with regard to the safety of lorazepam in this age group, especially in very-low-birth-weight (VLBW; < 1,500 g) infants. Three young infants, all of birth weight < 1,500 g, experienced myoclonus following the intravenous administration of lorazepam. The potential neurotoxic effects of the drug (and its vehicle) in this population are discussed. Injectable lorazepam should be used with caution in VLBW infants.
To establish the feasibility of conducting a placebo-controlled clinical trial of dexamphetamine replacement therapy for cocaine dependence and to obtain preliminary data.
Double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial.
Thirty cocaine-dependent injecting drug users.
Subjects were assigned randomly to receive 60 mg/day dexamphetamine (n = 16) or placebo (n = 14) for 14 weeks.
Immunoassay and mass spectrometric techniques were used to identify cocaine metabolites in urine. Subjects were screened using the Composite International Diagnostic Interview and DSM-IV. The Opiate Treatment Index, Brief Symptom Inventory, Severity of Dependence Scale and visual analogue craving scales were used to collect pre- and post-self-report data.
Treatment retention was equivalent between groups; however, outcomes favoured the treatment group with no improvements observed in the placebo control group. The proportion of cocaine-positive urine samples detected in the treatment group declined from 94% to 56% compared to no change in the placebo group (79% positive). While the improvements were not significant between groups, within-group analysis revealed that the treatment group reduced self-reported cocaine use (P = 0.02), reduced criminal activity (P = 0.04), reduced cravings (P < 0.01) and reduced severity of cocaine dependence (P < 0.01) with no within-group improvements found in the placebo group.
A definitive evaluation of the utility of dexamphetamine in the management of cocaine dependence is feasible and warranted.
To investigate the ability of antisense RNA eukaryotic expression plasmid pcDNA3.0/survivin targeting survivin gene to inhibit survivin expression and enhance the sensitivity to taxotere in multidrug resistant colon carcinoma cell line LOVO/Adr.
The antisense RNA eukaryotic plasmid pcDNA3.0/survivin was transfected into LOVO/Adr cells by lipofectamine. The expression of survivin mRNA was measured using RT-PCR. After treated with taxotere, MTT assay and flow cytometry were used to evaluate the proliferation inhibition and apoptosis of LOVO/Adr cells.
The expression of survivin mRNA in LOVO/Adr cells transfected with pcDNA3.0/survivin was down-regulated in a time- dependent manner. The inhibitory rate of taxotere (0.5 micromol/L) was (37.3 +/- 2.9)% in pcDNA3.0/survivin transfected cells, significantly higher than (21.9 +/- 2.3)% and (21.1 +/- 1.9)% in pcDNA3.0 transfected and untransfected control cells respectively (P< 0.01). The apoptosis rate of taxotere was (28.7 +/- 1.7)% in pcDNA3.0/survivin transfected cells,significantly higher than (13.4 +/- 1.6)% and (14.3 +/- 1.8)% in pcDNA3.0 transfected and untransfected cells respectively.
The antisense RNA eukaryotic expression plasmid pcDNA3.0/survivin could down-regulate the expression of survivin gene and enhance the chemosensitivity of LOVO/Adr cells to taxotere, which may provide a novel therapy for colon carcinoma.
We investigated the combined effects of a moderate intensity static magnetic field (SMF) and an L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channel blocker, nicardipine in stroke-resistant spontaneously hypertensive rats during the development of hypertension. Five-week-old male rats were exposed to SMF intensity up to 180 mT (B(max)) with a peak spatial gradient of 133 mT/mm for 14 weeks. Four experimental groups of 14 animals each were examined: (1) sham exposure with intraperitoneal (ip) saline injection (control); (2) SMF exposure with ip saline injection (SMF); (3) sham exposure with ip nicardipine injection (NIC); (4) SMF exposure with ip nicardipine injection (SMF + NIC). A disc-shaped permanent magnet or a dummy magnet was implanted in the vicinity adjacent to the left carotid sinus baroreceptor region in the neck of each rat. Nicardipine (2 mg/kg ip) was administered three times a week for 14 weeks, and then 15 min after each injection, arterial blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), baroreflex sensitivity (BRS), skin blood flow (SBF), skin blood velocity (SBV), plasma nitric oxide (NO) metabolites (NO(x) = NO(2) (-) + NO(3) (-)), plasma catecholamine levels and behavioral parameters of a functional observational battery were monitored. The action of nicardipine significantly decreased BP, and increased HR, SBF, SBV, plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine in the NIC group compared with the control respective age-matched group without changing plasma NO(x) levels. Neck exposure to SMF alone for 5-8 weeks significantly suppressed or retarded the development of hypertension together with increased BRS in SMF group. Furthermore, the exposure to SMF for 1-8 weeks significantly promoted the nicardipine-induced BP decrease in the SMF + NIC group compared with the respective NIC group. Moreover, the SMF induced a significant increase in plasma NO(x) in the nicardipine-induced hypotension. There were no significant differences in any of the physiological or behavioral parameters measured between the SMF + NIC and the NIC groups, nor between the SMF and the control groups. These results suggest that the SMF may enhance nicardipine-induced hypotension by more effectively antagonizing the Ca(2+) influx through the Ca(2+) channels compared with the NIC treatment alone. Furthermore, the enhanced antihypertensive effects of the SMF on the nicardipine-treated group appear to be partially related to the increased NO(x). Theoretical considerations suggest that the applied SMF (B(max) 40 mT, 0 Hz) can be converted into a changing magnetic field (B(max) 30-40 mT, 5.7-6.5 Hz or 7.5-8.3 Hz) in the baroreceptor region by means of the carotid artery pulsation. Therefore, we propose that the moderate intensity changing magnetic field, i.e., the magnetic field modulated by the pulse rate, may influence the activity of baroreceptor and baroreflex function.
To assess the efficacy of intramuscular ephedrine for prevention of hypotension following subarachnoid block (SB) in the elderly.
Prospective, randomized double blind study vs placebo.
Twenty patients, aged 60 years or more, of physical class ASA 2 or 3, scheduled for surgical fixation of fractured neck of femur under SB, allocated into two groups of ten each.
After oral premedication with hydroxyzine 50 mg, 90 min before surgery, and preloading with cristalloid solution 10 mL.kg-1, the subarachnoid space was punctured with the patient in lateral position using a 22 Gauge spinal needle at the L3-L4 or L4-L5 interspace. Patients were given 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine intrathecally, according to body weight. Patients in ephedrine group received intramuscular ephedrine 30 mg immediately after SB. Patients in placebo group received 1 mL of intramuscular saline immediately after SB. When blood pressure decreased below 100 mmHg repeated bolus of ephedrine 6 mg were given intravenously.
Patients in both groups experienced a significant decrease in systolic pressure after SB, the decrease being significantly greater in the placebo group.
Prophylactic intramuscular ephedrine is effective to prevent hypotension associated with SB in the elderly.
This prospective, randomized study was conducted to compare unilateral spinal block using small doses of hyperbaric bupivacaine and single-agent anaesthesia with sevoflurane in elderly patients undergoing hip surgery.
Thirty patients (> 65 yr) undergoing hip fracture repair were randomly allocated to receive unilateral spinal anaesthesia with hyperbaric bupivacaine 7.5 mg 0.5% (Group Spinal, n = 15) or volatile induction and maintenance anaesthesia with sevoflurane (Group SEVO, n = 15). General anaesthesia was induced by increasing the inspired concentration to 5%. A laryngeal mask airway was placed without muscle relaxants, and the end-tidal concentrations of sevoflurane were adjusted to maintain cardiovascular stability. Hypotension (decrease in systolic arterial pressure > 20% from baseline), hypertension or bradycardia (heart rate < 50 beats min(-1)) requiring treatment, and the length of stay in the postanaesthesia care unit was recorded. Cognitive functions were evaluated the previous day, and 1 and 7 days after surgery with the Mini Mental State Examination test.
Hypotension occurred in seven patients of Group Spinal (46%) and in 12 patients of Group SEVO (80%) (P = 0.05). Phenylephrine was required to control hypotension in three spinal patients (21%) and four SEVO patients (26%) (n.s.). SEVO patients had lower heart rates than spinal patients from 15 to 60 min after anaesthesia induction (P = 0.01). Bradycardia was observed in three SEVO patients (22%). Discharge from the postanaesthesia care unit required 15 (range 5-30) min in Group Spinal and 55 (15-80) min in Group SEVO (P = 0.0005). Eight patients in Group Spinal (53%) and nine patients in Group SEVO (60%) showed cognitive decline (Mini Mental State Examination test decreased > or = 2 points from baseline) 24 h after surgery (n.s.). Seven days after surgery, confusion was still present in one patient of Group Spinal (6%) and in three patients of Group SEVO (20%) (n.s.).
In elderly patients undergoing hemiarthroplasty of the hip, induction and maintenance with sevoflurane provide a rapid emergence from anaesthesia without more depression of postoperative cognitive function compared with unilateral spinal anaesthesia. This technique represents an attractive option when patient refusal, lack of adequate co-operation or concomitant anticoagulant therapy contraindicate the use of spinal anaesthesia.
In a double-blind, randomized, crossover study, the effects of intravenous pinacidil, 0.2 mg/kg, were compared with those of hydralazine, 0.3 mg/kg, before and after beta-adrenoceptor blockade in six subjects with hypertension. Both drugs equally reduced total peripheral resistance by about 40%. Pinacidil reduced mean blood pressure by an average of 30 mm Hg, while the reduction after hydralazine was 10 mm Hg. The difference in antihypertensive effect resulted from greater increases in heart rate, cardiac contractility (systolic time intervals), and cardiac index (thermodilution) after hydralazine. These effects after hydralazine could not be fully abolished by beta-blockade, as could the effects after pinacidil. Pinacidil decreased pulmonary blood pressure, whereas there was a slight rise in pulmonary blood pressure after hydralazine. Forearm blood flow (venous occlusion strain gauge plethysmography) increased equally after both drugs; thus pinacidil decreased forearm vascular resistance more than hydralazine did. Serum concentrations of both drugs were within the therapeutic range and correlated with the fall in mean blood pressure. Five subjects complained of side effects after hydralazine, but none were reported after pinacidil. Hydralazine increased myocardial oxygen consumption (as estimated from the rate-pressure product) by 35%; there was no change after pinacidil. It is suggested that hydralazine has direct cardiostimulatory effects that limit its antihypertensive effectiveness. These effects increase myocardial oxygen consumption and may be responsible for the common and sometimes severe cardiovascular side effects of hydralazine.
We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of IgA nephropathy (IgAN), the most common form of glomerulonephritis, with discovery and follow-up in 20,612 individuals of European and East Asian ancestry. We identified six new genome-wide significant associations, four in ITGAM-ITGAX, VAV3 and CARD9 and two new independent signals at HLA-DQB1 and DEFA. We replicated the nine previously reported signals, including known SNPs in the HLA-DQB1 and DEFA loci. The cumulative burden of risk alleles is strongly associated with age at disease onset. Most loci are either directly associated with risk of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) or maintenance of the intestinal epithelial barrier and response to mucosal pathogens. The geospatial distribution of risk alleles is highly suggestive of multi-locus adaptation, and genetic risk correlates strongly with variation in local pathogens, particularly helminth diversity, suggesting a possible role for host-intestinal pathogen interactions in shaping the genetic landscape of IgAN.
The benefits and harms of bupropion as an aid for smoking cessation in schizophrenia remain uncertain.
To summarise the current evidence for efficacy and safety of bupropion as treatment for nicotine dependence in schizophrenia.
Systematic review and random-effects meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing bupropion with placebo or alternative therapeutic control in adult smokers with schizophrenia.
Twenty-one reports from seven RCTs were included. Biochemically verified self-reported smoking cessation rates after bupropion were significantly higher than placebo at the end of treatment (risk ratio (RR) = 2.57, P = 0.004) and at 6 months (RR = 2.78, P = 0.05). Expired carbon monoxide level was significantly lower with bupropion at the end of therapy (P = 0.002) but not at 6 months (P = 0.37). There was no significant difference in positive (P = 0.28) or negative symptoms (P = 0.49) between the bupropion and the placebo group.
Bupropion increases the rates of smoking abstinence in smokers with schizophrenia, without jeopardising their mental state.
Neurofibromatosis 1 is a hereditary syndrome characterized by the development of numerous benign neurofibromas, a small subset of which progress to malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs). To better understand the genetic basis for MPNSTs, we performed genome-wide or targeted sequencing on 50 cases. Sixteen MPNSTs but none of the neurofibromas tested were found to have somatic mutations in SUZ12, implicating it as having a central role in malignant transformation.
Chronic exposure to high fluoride (F(-)) may lead to local tissue disturbances, known as fluorosis. F(-) is an oxidising agent and a well-known reversible enzymatic inhibitor that interferes with the enzyme activity of at least 80 proteins. The goals of the current study were to evaluate whether F(-) exposure affected the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in C57BL6 mice; and to determine the mechanisms at work in glucose homeostasis at the cellular level, in mouse pancreatic beta-cells (betaTC-6) exposed to F(-). Mice received 45 mgl(-1) F(-), as NaF, via drinking water, and cells were exposed for 12h to NaF (equivalent to 0, 0.007, 0.045, 0.180, 1.35 or 2.26 mM F(-)) at a basal or stimulatory glucose concentration (2.8 or 16.6mM, respectively). Mice showed marginal hyperglycemia an impaired glucose tolerance after 4 weeks of F(-) exposure, while beta-cells exposed to 1.35 and 2.26 mM F(-) had significantly lower insulin mRNA expression and subsequent secretion in the presence of the stimulatory glucose concentration. Western blot analyses did not show any alteration in the levels of glucose transporter-2 protein beta-cells on exposure to F(-)in vitro. However, oxidative stress evaluated by the functional activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and generation of the superoxide anion (O(2)(-)), showed significantly decreased SOD activity, in a dose-dependent manner. This was accompanied by an increase in the generation of O(2)(-), and decreased mitochondrial membrane potential in F(-) exposed cells. Insulin secretion was lower in beta-cells exposed to F(-), even in the presence of glibenclamide, the ATP-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP)) channel blocker, suggesting down-regulation of the K(ATP) channel in the cell. Exposure to high levels of F(-) in drinking water may decrease insulin mRNA and its secretion from beta-cells, and might therefore affect the OGTT.
Having found previously that high-dose, short-term dietary exposure of mice to perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS) or perfluorooctanoate (PFOA) suppresses adaptive immunity, in the present study we characterize the effects of these fluorochemicals on the innate immune system. Male C57BL/6 mice receiving 0.02% (w/w) PFOS or PFOA in their diet for 10 days exhibited a significant reduction in the numbers of total white blood cells (WBC), involving lymphopenia in both cases, but neutropenia only in response to treatment with PFOA. Moreover, both compounds also markedly reduced the number of macrophages (CD11b(+) cells) in the bone marrow, but not in the spleen or peritoneal cavity. The ex vivo production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) by peritoneal macrophages isolated from animals treated with PFOA or PFOS was increased modestly. Moreover, both fluorochemicals markedly enhanced the ex vivo production of these same cytokines by peritoneal and bone marrow macrophages stimulated either in vitro or in vivo with lipopolysaccharide (LPS); whereas there was no such effect on splenic macrophages. The serum levels of these inflammatory cytokines observed in response to in vivo stimulation with LPS were elevated substantially by prior exposure to PFOA, but not by PFOS. None of these parameters of innate immunity were altered in animals receiving a dietary dose of these compounds that was 20-fold lower (0.001%, w/w). These findings reveal that in addition to suppressing adaptive immunity, high-dose, short-term exposure of mice to either PFOS or PFOA augments inflammatory responses to LPS, a potent activator of innate immunity.
Dilevalol, the R-R optical isomer of labetalol, is a nonselective beta adrenergic blocking drug with selective beta-2 agonist properties. In a double-blind, crossover study the renal function effects of dilevalol were compared to placebo in 12 normotensive elderly volunteers before and after single dose administration. In addition, chronic treatment (greater than 4 weeks) effects of dilevalol were determined in eight elderly patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Renal function was determined by plasma disappearance curves from single injections of 99mTc-DTPA and 131I-orthohippurate. In both study populations renal function tests commenced two hours after dosing at expected peak plasma levels of dilevalol. Normotensive volunteers had an acute decrease in glomerular filtration rate of 10.3 ml/min, which was significant (P less than 0.05), while hypertensive patients had no change in glomerular filtration rate. There were no significant changes in other parameters of renal function measured. In the hypertensive elderly dilevalol treatment resulted in significant reductions, 18 and 19 mmHg respectively, of systolic (P less than 0.01) and diastolic (P less than 0.001) blood pressure. Heart rate was reduced by 5 beats per minute, and the change was not statistically significant. Dilevalol appears to be an excellent agent for treatment of hypertension in the elderly hypertensive patient, and does not change renal function when administered chronically to the hypertensive patient. Small but significant decrements in glomerular filtration rate occur with acute administration to normotensive volunteers.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a widely used drug in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Thymidylate synthase (TS), which is the target enzyme of 5-FU, has been demonstrated to be a key regulatory enzyme. In this study, we examined whether TS expression is correlated with chemosensitivity to 5-FU, cell proliferation and clinical outcome in HNSCC.
An antisense TS cDNA was constitutively expressed in the HNSCC cell line. The effects of TS expression on in vitro cell growth and 5-FU cytotoxicity were examined. We also evaluated the association between TS expression and cell proliferation in surgical specimens, and prognosis in HNSCC patients.
Antisense TS transfection increases the cytotoxicity of 5-FU and inhibits cell proliferation in HNSCC cells in vitro. Immunohistochemical expression of TS may have prognostic value in patients with HNSCC.
These results indicate that TS expression plays an important role in the sensitivity of HNSCC to 5-FU chemotherapy.
A case of vasospastic angina pectoris with loss of consciousness, bradycardia and seizures induced by medical abortion following administration of mifepristone and gemeprost is reported. The patient had a history of smoking and migraine, and former treatment with ergot alkaloids or serotonin agonists had also resulted in chest pain and lipothymia. The case underlines the importance of obtaining a detailed history of vasospastic disorders in women referred for medical abortion.
Several anatomical vascular pathways have been proposed to explain oculomotor disturbances observed after injection of local dental anesthetics. The author suggests another possible pathway to account for the unusual clinical observations described in this report.
The co-carcinogenic activity of sodium saccharin and N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) was evaluated in male Fischer rats by co-administering them as 5% and 0.005% of the diet, respectively, for 2 years. The effect of simultaneous administration of two urinary bladder promoting substances, sodium saccharin and L-tryptophan as 5% and 2% of the diet, respectively, was also evaluated. Five of 16 rats administered sodium saccharin plus FANFT developed bladder tumors whereas none of the rats administered FANFT, sodium saccharin, or L-tryptophan alone, sodium saccharin plus L-tryptophan, or the control diet developed bladder tumors. Possible mechanisms for the co-carcinogenic activity of sodium saccharin and FANFT are discussed.
Reported is a 19-year-old manic-depressive patient who developed persistent dysarthria with coexisting apraxia while on a combination of high dose haloperidol and lithium carbonate. The speech disability occurred as a solitary symptom in a patient with normal serum lithium levels and no other signs or symptoms of lithium toxicity and persisted after lithium was discontinued and the neuroleptic changed. There were several factors which favored an association between the speech disability and the drug therapy. These included improvement during a drug-free trial: the absence of a prior history of a speech problem; the patient's marked psychotic state and anxiety: and the high dosage of haloperidol.
Clozapine is an atypical neuroleptic with superior efficacy in severely ill, treatment-resistant inpatients with schizophrenia. To determine if clozapine's differential efficacy generalizes to less ill, outpatients populations, the authors examined the effects of clozapine on positive and negative symptoms in outpatients with schizophrenia.
Outpatients with schizophrenia who had histories of partial response to conventional neuroleptics and who had not responded to a prospective 6-week trial of fluphenazine participated in a 10-week, double-blind, parallel-groups comparison of clozapine and haloperidol. Thirteen men and six women were given clozapine, and 15 men and five women were given haloperidol. Clinical response rates were determined and effects on primary versus secondary negative symptoms were addressed. Doses of clozapine and haloperidol at the end of the 10-week trial were 410.5 mg/day (SD = 45.8) and 24.8 mg/day (SD = 5.5), respectively.
Clozapine was superior to haloperidol for treating positive symptoms. In addition, eight of the patients given clozapine and only one of the patients given haloperidol fulfilled clinical responder criteria. Clozapine was also superior to haloperidol for treating negative symptoms, although these effects were relatively minor. Negative symptoms were significantly affected in the subgroup of patients with nondeficit schizophrenia but not in the subgroup with deficit schizophrenia. Overall, clozapine was well tolerated.
Clozapine has superior efficacy for treating positive symptoms in partially responsive outpatients with chronic schizophrenia, suggesting that it has utility for a broad spectrum of patients with schizophrenia beyond the most severely ill.
