Morphine addiction has been shown to result from neural adaptations produced by repeated drug exposure, but the mechanism is still unclear. In the present study, we found that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) uptake was increased in mouse brain 120 min after, but not 20 min after, morphine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) injection. We generated GABA transporter I (GAT1)-overexpressing mice to investigate whether the GABAergic system and GABA transporter are involved in morphine-induced reward effects and withdrawal symptoms. Our results revealed that the rewarding effects induced by morphine were significantly decreased in GAT1-overexpressing mice as measured by the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. Moreover, both somatic and vegetative signs of naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal symptoms were substantially reduced in GAT1-overexpressing mice. In addition, the decreased morphine rewarding in transgenic mice could be recovered when mice were coinjected with NO-711 (a GAT1 selective inhibitor) in the CPP paradigm. These findings suggest that the GABAergic system plays an important role in morphine addiction and point to the possibility of developing drugs that target GAT1 and extend the clinical application of opiates.
Two new series of EP(4) antagonists based on naphthalene/quinoline scaffolds have been identified as part of our on-going efforts to develop treatments for inflammatory pain. One series contains an acidic sulfonylurea pharmacophore, whereas the other is a neutral amide. Both series show subnanomolar intrinsic binding potency towards the EP(4) receptor, and excellent selectivity towards other prostanoid receptors. While the amide series generally displays poor pharmacokinetic parameters, the sulfonylureas exhibit greatly improved profile. MF-592, the optimal compound from the sulfonylurea series, has a desirable overall preclinical profile that suggests it is suitable for further development.
JP-8 induces apoptosis in rat lung epithelial cells, primary mouse T lymphocytes, Jurkat T lymphoma cells, and U937 monocytic cells (Stoica et al., 2001). Here, we have observed a different mechanism of cytotoxicity in human keratinocytes grown in culture as well as when grafted onto nude mice. At lower levels of JP-8 (80 microg/ml; 1 x 10(-4) dilution), sufficient to induce apoptosis in other cell types, including lung epithelial cells (Stoica et al., 2001), no apoptosis was observed. At higher levels (>200 microg/ml; 2.5 x 10(-4) dilution), JP-8 is cytotoxic to both primary and immortalized human keratinocytes, as evidenced by the metabolism of calcein, as well as by morphological changes such as cell rounding and cell detachment. There was no evidence of activation of caspases-3, -7, or -8 either by enzyme activity or immunoblot analysis, and the stable expression of a dominant-negative inhibitor of apoptosis (FADD-DN) did not increase the survival of keratinocytes to JP-8. The pattern of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage was also characteristic of necrosis. PARP has been also been implicated in necrosis via its ability to lower levels of ATP in damaged cells. However, fibroblasts derived from PARP-/- mice underwent necrotic cell death similar to those derived from PARP+/+ mice, indicating that the effects of JP-8 are independent of PARP. Immunoblot analysis further revealed that exposure of keratinocytes to the toxic higher levels of JP-8 markedly downregulates the expression of the prosurvival members of the Bcl-2 family, Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L), and upregulates the expression of antisurvival members of this family, including Bad and Bak. Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) have been shown to preserve mitochondrial integrity and suppress cell death. In contrast, Bak and Bad both promote cell death by alteration of the mitochondrial membrane potential, in part by heterodimerization with and inactivation of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L), and either inducing necrosis or activating a downstream caspase program. High intrinsic levels of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) may prevent apoptotic death of keratinocytes at lower levels of JP-8, while perturbation of the balance between pro- and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members at higher levels may ultimately play a role in necrotic cell death in human keratinocytes. Finally, when human keratinocytes were grafted to form a human epidermis on nude mice, treatment of these grafts with JP-8 revealed cytotoxicity and altered histology in vivo.
Hydroquinone (HQ) is a metabolite of benzene, and in combination with phenol (PHE), reproduces benzene myelotoxicity. HQ readily oxidizes to 1,4-benzoquinone (1,4-BQ) followed by the reductive addition of glutathione (GSH). Subsequent cycles of oxidation and GSH addition give rise to a variety of mono-, and multi-GSH substituted conjugates. Following administration of PHE/HQ (1.1 mmol/kg/0.9 mmol/kg, ip) to male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, 2-(glutathion-S-yl)HQ [GS-HQ], 2,5-bis-(glutathion-S-yl)HQ [2,5-GS-HQ], 2,6-bis-(glutathion-S-yl)HQ [2,6-GS-HQ], and 2,3,5-tris-(glutathion-S-yl)HQ [2,3,5-GS-HQ] were all identified in bone marrow. 2-(Cystein-S-ylglycine)HQ [2-(CysGly)HQ], 2-(cystein-S-yl)HQ [2-(Cys)HQ], and 2-(N-acetylcystein-S-yl)HQ [2-(NACys)HQ] were also found in the bone marrow of PHE/HQ and benzene treated rats and mice, indicating the presence of an active mercapturic acid pathway within bone marrow. Moreover, 2,6-GS-HQ and 2,3,5-GS-HQ were hematotoxic when administered to rats. All of the HQ-GSH conjugates retain the ability to redox cycle and generate reactive oxygen species (ROS), and to arylate target proteins. Recent in vitro and in vivo studies in our laboratory revealed lysine and arginine residues as primary targets of 1,4-BQ, GS-HQ and 2-(NACys)HQ adduction. In contrast 1,4-BQ-adduction of cysteine residues may be a transient interaction, where physiological conditions dictate adduct stability. The generation of ROS and alkylation of proteins may both contribute to benzene-mediated myelotoxicity, and the two processes may be inter-dependent. However, the precise molecular mechanism by which benzene and HQ-GSH conjugates induce hematotoxicity remains to be determined. Within 18h of administration of PHE/HQ to SD rats a significant decrease in blood lymphocyte count was observed. At this early time point, erythrocyte counts and hemoglobin concentrations remained within the normal range. Concomitant with the decrease in lymphocyte count, western blot analysis of bone marrow lysate, using HQ-GSH and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4HNE) specific antibodies, revealed the presence of HQ-GSH- and 4HNE-derived protein adducts. Identification of these adducts is required before the functional significance of such protein modifications can be determined.
Ginsenoside Re (Re), a compound derived from Panax ginseng, shows an antidiabetic effect. However, the molecular basis of its action remains unknown. We investigated insulin signaling and the antiinflammatory effect by Re in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and in high-fat diet (HFD) rats to dissect its anti-hyperglycemic mechanism. Glucose uptake was measured in 3T3-L1 cells and glucose infusion rate determined by clamp in HFD rats. The insulin signaling cascade, including insulin receptor (IR) beta-subunit, IR substrate-1, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, Akt and Akt substrate of 160 kDa, and glucose transporter-4 translocation are examined. Furthermore, c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK), MAPK, and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB signaling cascades were also assessed. The results show Re increases glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 cells and glucose infusion rate in HFD rats. The activation of insulin signaling by Re is initiated at IR substrate-1 and further passes on through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and downstream signaling cascades. Moreover, Re demonstrates an impressive suppression of JNK and NF-kappaB activation and inhibitor of NF-kappaBalpha degradation. In conclusion, Re reduces insulin resistance in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and HFD rats through inhibition of JNK and NF-kappaB activation.
DNA methylation provides a plausible link between the environment and alterations in gene expression that may lead to disease phenotypes. Lead exposure can change DNA methylation status. Here, we hypothesized that the methylation of the ALAD gene promoter may play an important role in lead toxicity. To determine whether the methylation level of the ALAD promoter is associated with the risk of lead poisoning, we conducted a case-control study of 103 workers from a battery plant and 103 healthy volunteers with matching age and gender distribution. We employed real-time PCR and methylation-specific PCR (MSP) in cell models to determine the relationship between ALAD methylation level and transcription level. We found lead exposure to increase the ALAD gene methylation level and down-regulate ALAD transcription. The difference in methylation frequencies between exposures and controls was statistically significant (p=0.002), and individuals with methylated ALAD gene showed an increased risk of lead poisoning (adjusted OR=3.57, 95% CI, 1.55-8.18). This study suggests that the lead-exposure-induced increases in ALAD methylation may be involved in the mechanism of lead toxicity.
Weight gain, leading to further morbidity and poor treatment compliance, is a common adverse effect of treatment with clozapine. The C825T polymorphism in the human G protein beta3 subunit gene has been noted to be associated with obesity, hypertension and coronary artery disease. Clozapine increases the level of G protein beta3 subunit in the rat striatum. The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between G protein beta3 polymorphisms and clozapine-induced body weight change in a Chinese population during long-term treatment. One hundred and thirty-four schizophrenic patients, who were treated with clozapine continuously (13.4+/-0.5 months), were genotyped for G protein beta3 subunit C825T polymorphism. None of these patients received second-generation antipsychotics before clozapine treatment. Body weight was monitored at baseline before clozapine treatment and at the endpoint after clozapine treatment. Patients with the TT type experienced significantly more weight gain (16.2+/-2.5%) compared to those with CT (9.3+/-1.2%) or CC types (5.5+/-2.4%) after long-term clozapine treatment (P = 0.003). Further stratification by gender demonstrated that the effect of C825T polymorphism on weight gain remained significant both in males and females. These findings confirm the importance of genetic factors in body weight change induced by long-term clozapine treatment in patients with schizophrenia, and indicate a role for the G protein beta3 subunit in body weight regulation during long-term clozapine treatment.
To examine whether risperidone is superior to placebo in the treatment of youths with conduct disorder.
This was a 10-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with 2 parallel arms. Ten youths were randomly assigned to receive placebo and 10 youths were randomly assigned to receive risperidone. Patients were seen weekly throughout the trial. Medications could be increased at weekly intervals during the first 6 weeks of the study from an initial dose of 0.25 mg or 0.50 mg each morning, depending on patient weight. Patients weighing less than 50 kg had a maximum total daily dose of risperidone of 1.5 mg. Patients weighing 50 kg or greater had a maximum total daily dose of risperidone of 3.0 mg. The primary outcome measure was the Rating of Aggression Against People and/or Property Scale.
Risperidone was superior to placebo in ameliorating aggression on most measures. Risperidone was reasonably well tolerated, with none of the risperidone-treated patients developing extrapyramidal side effects.
These data provide preliminary evidence that risperidone may have efficacy in the treatment of youths with conduct disorder. Because of the small sample size and the brief length of this study, further research is necessary to confirm these findings.
Recent researches have shown that antioxidant compounds may have certain neuroprotective effect against the neurotoxicity of seizures at cellular level. Ubiquinone (UQ), an antioxidant compound, exhibits a wide range of therapeutic effects that are attributed to its potent antioxidant capacity. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of UQ in rats, against the observed oxidative stress during seizures induced by pilocarpine. Wistar rats were treated with either 0.9% saline (i.p., control group), UQ (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg, i.p., UQ5, UQ10 and UQ20 groups), pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p., P400 group), or co-administration of pilocarpine with UQ group rats 30 min prior to UQ administration. After the treatments all groups were observed for 24 h. The antioxidant enzymatic activities as well as the hydroperoxide concentrations were measured using spectrophotometric methods and the results were analyzed. In pilocarpine group there was a significant increase in hydroperoxides concentration and glutathione peroxidase activity. However, no alteration was observed in superoxide dismutase and catalase activities. Antioxidant treatment significantly reduced the hydroperoxide content and increased the superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities in rat hippocampus during seizures induced by pilocarpine. Our findings strongly support the hypothesis that oxidative stress in hippocampus occurs during seizures induced by pilocarpine, which indicates that brain damage induced by the oxidative process plays a crucial role in seizures pathogenic consequences. Our result also suggests that ubiquinone can exert significant neuroprotective effects that might be useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
Neuromuscular blocking agents are routinely used as an adjunct therapy for critically ill patients. Unlike many neuromuscular blocking agents, vecuronium does not cause significant histamine release, which may lead to bronchoconstriction. Due to a short duration of action and limited accumulation, vecuronium has been widely used. Prolonged ventilatory dependence due to persistent neuromuscular blockade has been reported in patients treated with vecuronium. We report a case of an 8-year-old girl who had a primarily motor axonopathy presenting with weakness after extended vecuronium administration with prolonged course of recovery. This primarily motor neuropathy with axonal features may be a variant of critical illness polyneuropathy, a rarely reported condition in pediatric patients.
Aripiprazole (Abilify) is an atypical antipsychotic drug characterized by partial agonist activity at dopamine (DA) D(2)/D(3) receptors and a low side-effect profile. While we previously demonstrated that acute aripiprazole blocked the reinstatement of cocaine seeking in an animal model of relapse, clinical treatment of relapse prevention necessitates testing the effects of aripiprazole following prolonged abstinence, as well as after repeated administration during withdrawal from cocaine.
We assessed the effects of repeated aripiprazole treatment on cocaine seeking after abstinence and during conditioned cue-induced and cocaine-primed reinstatement in rats.
Rats self-administered intravenous cocaine paired with a light + tone stimulus for 10-14 days, followed by 2 weeks of abstinence. Following post-abstinence relapse testing, lever responding was allowed to extinguish, with subsequent reinstatement testing occurring either in the presence of the conditioned stimulus, or after a cocaine-priming injection (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneal (IP)). Following 3 or 7 days of pretreatment, rats received an injection of aripiprazole (0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg, IP) or vehicle prior to post-abstinence relapse and reinstatement testing.
Vehicle-pretreated animals showed robust cocaine seeking during relapse and reinstatement testing, an effect that was significantly attenuated by aripiprazole pretreatment, although no lasting effects were found in the absence of acute injection.
These findings support the possibility that repeated aripiprazole may be an effective therapeutic agent for the prevention of relapse in abstinent cocaine users. Based on its antipsychotic profile, aripiprazole may be particularly useful for individuals diagnosed with comorbid psychoses, such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder.
The objective of this study was to compare the postoperative morbidities for 24 hours following dental care under day-stay general anesthesia using sevoflurane or halothane in intellectually disabled children.
Eighty-six premedicated patients with intellectual disabilities underwent general anesthesia for their dental treatment. They were randomly given anesthesia maintained with sevoflurane (2% to 3%) or halothane (1% to 1.5%) after receiving inhalation induction either with sevoflurane (8%) or halothane (5%) and nitrous oxide in oxygen (50:50). The patients' age, gender, weight, ASA Class, type of dental treatment, and duration of anesthesia and operation were recorded as well as the time required for recovery (Aldrete Scale) and the length of time taken before they were discharged (postanesthetic discharge scoring system) from the hospital. Pain and agitation were recorded using a visual analog scale (0 to 10). Other postoperative morbidities, which include crying, nausea and vomiting, bleeding, and drowsiness, were also noted for 24 hours after the operation.
The most common morbidities during the postoperative 24 hours were agitation and pain, and their occurrence was significantly more common in the sevoflurane group than in the halothane group (P < .05). The recovery time was shorter in the sevoflurane group, but it was not statistically significant. There was no difference between the groups in the discharge time.
Apart from more postoperative agitation and pain after awakening from sevoflurane, the quality of recovery was similar for both sevoflurane and halothane.
What is the role of single-agent temozolomide in the treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma? In comparison with single-agent temozolomide, does the addition of interferon-alpha to temozolomide improve disease-free survival, overall survival, or response rates? In comparison with single-agent temozolomide, does the addition of thalidomide to temozolomide improve disease-free survival, overall survival, or response rates?
Because of its oral route of administration and its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, temozolomide is a potentially attractive chemotherapy agent for adult patients with unresectable metastatic malignant melanoma. To provide treatment recommendations for this new agent, the Melanoma Disease Site Group (dsg) of Cancer Care Ontario's Program in Evidence-Based Care (pebc) decided to review the available literature on single-agent temozolomide and on temozolomide in combination with interferon-alpha or thalidomide.
Outcomes of interest included response rates, disease-free survival, overall survival, quality of life, and adverse effects.
Evidence was selected and reviewed by two members of the Melanoma dsg and by methodologists. The present practice guideline report was reviewed and approved by the Melanoma dsg, which comprises medical and radiation oncologists, surgeons, and dermatologists. External review was obtained through a mailed survey of Ontario practitioners, the results of which were reflected in revisions to the practice guideline. Final approval of the guideline report was obtained from the Report Approval Panel of the pbec.
These recommendations apply to adult patients with unresectable metastatic malignant melanoma. It is reasonable to use temozolomide at a dose of 200 mg/m(2) orally for 5 days every 4 weeks as initial systemic treatment for patients with unresectable metastatic malignant melanoma. The addition of moderate-dose interferon-alpha 2b has produced a significantly higher response rate than has single-agent temozolomide in a large randomized phase iii study. However, overall survival was not altered, and grades 3 and 4 hematologic toxicities were higher with the combined treatment. At the present time, the addition of interferon-alpha to temozolomide is not recommended. One randomized phase ii study and six other phase ii studies showed encouraging response rates when thalidomide was combined with temozolomide. However, the doses and schedules of temozolomide in those studies differed from the conventionally prescribed doses and schedules. It is not clear whether the improved response rates were attributable to the small number of patients in the studies, the different temozolomide doses and schedules, or the addition of thalidomide. Further phase iii studies are required to confirm whether a benefit is associated with the combination of temozolomide and thalidomide. Therefore, at this time, it is not recommended that thalidomide be combined with temozolomide.
Dacarbazine is the only chemotherapy drug currently approved for the treatment of metastatic malignant melanoma. In large randomized trials, response rates with dacarbazine ranged from 6% to 15%. Almost all responses were partial, with a median response duration of only 7-8 months. Given these disappointing overall results, the consensus among most physicians who are treating patients with metastatic malignant melanoma is that recommending more convenient treatment or experimental treatment to these patients is appropriate. Because of oral dosing, temozolomide is a reasonable choice, particularly for patients who would have difficulty traveling to cancer centres for intravenous chemotherapy. Temozolomide has demonstrated efficacy equal to that of dacarbazine in a randomized phase iii trial. However, unlike dacarbazine, temozolomide is a convenient oral treatment that penetrates the blood-brain barrier and that has shown activity against brain metastases. Although surgery is the preferred treatment modality for patients with solitary brain metastases from melanoma, temozolomide is the preferred chemotherapy for patients with brain metastases who require systemic treatment.
What is the role of single-agent interleukin-2 (il-2) in the treatment of adults with metastatic melanoma? If there is a role for single-agent il-2, what patient population can appropriately be considered for treatment? If there is a role for single-agent il-2, what dose and schedule are appropriate? What are the toxicities associated with il-2?
Many agents have been investigated for antitumour activity in melanoma, but few have shown promising response rates. Early detection, appropriate surgery, and adjuvant therapy have all improved outcomes, but approximately one third of patients with early-stage disease will nevertheless develop metastases. Single-agent il-2 has attracted much attention over the past several years. A number of randomized trials and many phase ii trials investigating single-agent il-2 suggest that this systemic treatment produces durable responses in melanoma patients. Given the dismal survival of patients with meta-static melanoma and the limited availability of effective treatments, the Melanoma Disease Site Group (dsg) of Cancer Care Ontario's Program in Evidence-Based Care (pebc) felt that the durable responses seen with il-2 treatment warranted closer examination.
Primary outcomes of interest included objective response rate, complete response rate, duration of response, toxicity, and quality of life. Secondary outcomes of interest included progression-free survival and overall survival.
A systematic review was developed, and clinical recommendations relevant to patients in Ontario were drafted. The practice guideline report was reviewed and approved by the Melanoma dsg, which comprises medical oncologists, surgeons, and dermatologists. External review by Ontario practitioners was obtained through a mailed survey, the results of which were incorporated into the practice guideline. Final review and approval of the practice guideline was obtained from the pebc's Report Approval Panel.
The present practice guideline reflects the integration of the draft recommendations based on a systematic review of the available evidence with the feedback obtained from external review by practitioners and the Report Approval Panel.
No studies have compared il-2 to the current standard of care-dacarbazine (dtic)-or to placebo in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. After reviewing and weighing the evidence that does exist, the opinion of the Melanoma dsg is that high-dose il-2 is a reasonable treatment option for a select group of patients with metastatic melanoma: Patients should have a good performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 0-1) and a normal lactate dehydrogenase level.Patients should have fewer than three organs involved or have cutaneous and/or subcutaneous metastases only, and no evidence of central nervous system metastases should be present.In this select group of patients, il-2 treatment can produce durable complete remissions. High-dose il-2 is recommended to be given at 600,000 IU/kg per dose, delivered intravenously over 15 minutes, every 8 hours, for a maximum of 14 doses. High-dose il-2 delivery is recommended to be done in a tertiary-care facility by staff trained in the provision of this treatment and with appropriate monitoring. To facilitate treatment and to develop expertise in this therapeutic modality, the dsg recommends that high-dose il-2 programs be established in one or two centres in Ontario.
High-dose il-2 has response rates that are similar to those seen with standard chemotherapy. However, unlike chemotherapy, il-2 demonstrates low but durable complete response rates that may lead to years of benefit for patients with metastatic melanoma. Based on the available data assessing prognostic factors and patient selection, patients with non-visceral metastases and fewer metastatic sites have a much higher response rate. In these select patients, high dose il-2 may be considered for first-line therapy. The lack of large randomized trials comparing il-2 to dtic or other chemotherapy means that recommendations for this guideline are based largely on phase ii data and limited phase iii data. Further randomized data will not soon become available, because no randomized trials are currently ongoing or planned. Interleukin-2 is currently widely used in the United States, and it is an approved therapy in both Canada and the United States.
The long term administration of chenodeoxycholic acid in man has to be regarded with caution because chenodeoxycholic acid has caused liver damage in various species of animals, including primates. To study the effect of three doses of chenodeoxycholic acid (10, 40, and 100 mg per kg per day) on hepatic function and morphology, biliary bile acid composition and the reversibility of changes were investigated in 22 rhesus monkeys. After 6 months of treatment with 40 and 100 mg per kg per day, bile duct proliferation, portal tract inflammation and fibrosis, bile canalicular bleb formation, and hypertrophy of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum were associated with elevated serum levels of oxaloacetic transaminase, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, and leucine aminopeptidase. In the bile, the proportion of chenodeoxycholic acid and its bacterial metabolite, lithocholic acid, rose to approximately 85 and 10% of the total bile acids. After chenodeoxycholic acid was withdrawn for 3 months, the hepatic morphological lesions persisted in some animals although biliary bile acid composition returned to normal. No hepatic abnormalities were seen in the animals treated with 10 mg per kg per day. The findings suggest that long term treatment of rhesus monkeys with high doses of chenodeoxycholic acid results in severe hepatic histological lesions that can persist after discontinuation of the bile acid.
Two patients with lymphoreticular malignant neoplasms and leptomeningeal tumor spread were treated with intraventricular administration of methotrexate via an Ommaya reservoir. The intraventricular instillation of methotrexate resulted in focal CNS damage in brain parenchyma inadvertently pierced by the shunt. Disorientation, aphasia, and right hemiparesis developed in both patients. Computed tomography disclosed a contrast-enhancing, low-density mass in the left cerebral cortex where the distal shunt tip was lodged. In one case the lesion was pathologically consistent with chronic inflammation. A lesion occurred in one patient despite repositioning of the shunt prior to methotrexate instillation. Shunt removal and administration of systemic corticosteroids resulted in resolution of symptoms in one patient.
To determine the usage patterns of the lipid-based amphotericin B formulations at our institution and to compare the observed nephrotoxicity and efficacy of these formulations.
Prospective and retrospective observational study
Urban 350-bed teaching hospital.
Sixty-seven nonhemodialysis patients who were prescribed greater than 3 days of amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC) or liposomal amphotericin B (L-AmB) from 1996-1999.
Forty-six patients received ABLC and 21 received L-AmB. Oncology patients accounted for most prescriptions of both formulations. Amphotericin B lipid complex most frequently was prescribed for treatment of documented fungal infections (50%), followed by treatment of neutropenic fever (33%). Liposomal amphotericin B most frequently was prescribed for treatment of neutropenic fever (62%), followed by treatment of documented fungal infections (29%). Seventy-eight percent of patients treated with ABLC and 90% of those who received L-AmB were started on the lipid-based formulation due to being refractory or intolerant to prior antifungal therapy. Two (4.4%) patients receiving ABLC and four (19%) patients receiving L-AmB experienced nephrotoxicity at the end of therapy (NS). Of the patients with a documented fungal infection, 20 out of 23 (87%) of those treated with ABLC and 4 out of 5 (80%) of those treated with L-AmB had a complete or partial response to therapy (NS). One patient with febrile neutropenia had a breakthrough fungal infection while receiving L-AmB.
No significant differences in nephrotoxicity or efficacy were found between ABLC and L-AmB. Until further studies indicate clinically significant differences in nephrotoxicity between the two liposomal amphotericin B formulations, it is recommended that economics continue to be the major determinant for product selection.
A 34-year-old woman with a history of renal insufficiency induced by long-term cocaine use was admitted with acute shortness of breath remarkable for submandibular and anterior throat swelling. She required intubation, mechanical ventilation, and sedation. Sedation was administered with daily infusions of intravenous lorazepam 65, 313, and 305 mg for 3 days, respectively. Forty-eight hours into the infusion the patient experienced anion gap metabolic acidosis with hyperlactatemia, hyperosmolality, and increased osmolal gap. Propylene glycol (PG), a component of lorazepam intravenous formulation, was considered the potential source of the metabolic abnormality. The patient received greater than 40 times the acceptable recommended amount of PG over 72 hours. Cessation of lorazepam produced major improvements in lactic acid, serum osmolality, and anion and osmolal gaps. The large PG exposure associated with long-term cocaine-induced renal insufficiency produced a toxic metabolic state. Agents containing PG should be avoided in patients with compromised renal function (creatinine clearance < or = 30 ml/min) induced by cocaine use.
The use of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is now standard therapy for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APML). There have been increasing reports of ATRA-induced myositis, with its frequent association with retinoic acid syndrome and Sweet's syndrome. We report a case of a young man with APML who developed ATRA-induced myositis characterized by unexplained fevers, bilateral leg swelling and a non-painful purpuric, petechial rash, with prompt resolution of symptoms and signs with high-dose steroids and cessation of ATRA. Rapid recognition of this adverse reaction and prompt institution of steroids is of prime importance given its potentially fatal course.
Diethanolamine (DEA) is a common ingredient of personal care products. Dermal administration of DEA diminishes hepatic stores of the essential nutrient choline and alters brain development. We previously reported that 80 mg/kg/day of DEA during pregnancy in mice reduced neurogenesis and increased apoptosis in the fetal hippocampus. This study was designed to establish the dose-response relationships for this effect of DEA. Timed-pregnant C57BL/6 mouse dams were dosed dermally from gestation day 7-17 with DEA at 0 (controls), 5, 40, 60, and 80 mg/kg body/day. Fetuses (embryonic day 17 [E17]) from dams treated dermally with 80 mg/kg body/day DEA had decreased neural progenitor cell mitosis at the ventricular surface of the ventricular zone (hippocampus, 54.1 +/- 5.5%; cortex, 58.9 +/- 6.8%; compared to controls; p < 0.01). Also, this dose of DEA to dams increased rates of apoptosis in E17 fetal hippocampus (to 177.2 +/- 21.5% of control; measured using activated caspase-3; p < 0.01). This dose of DEA resulted in accumulation of DEA and its metabolites in liver and in plasma. At doses of DEA less than 80 mg/kg body/day to dams, there were no differences between treated and control groups. In a small group of human subjects, dermal treatment for 1 month with a commercially available skin lotion containing 1.8 mg DEA per gram resulted in detectable plasma concentrations of DEA and dimethyldiethanolamine, but these were far below those concentrations associated with perturbed brain development in the mouse.
The effect of acute exposure to lead acetate (LA)/lead nitrate (LN) on onset and severity of convulsions induced by a low dose of picrotoxin was examined in rats. Both LA and LN reduced the time of onset and exacerbated the severity of convulsions, with a resultant high lethality. On comparison, it was noted that in the LA-pretreated group, convulsion scores and incidence of tonus and mortality were much higher; the appearance of tonus was more delayed than in the LN-pretreated group. In lead-pretreated animals, the potentiation of picrotoxin-induced convulsions was accompanied by higher lead levels in blood (p < 0.001). However, the whole-brain lead levels were not significantly different in these animals compared to the controls. The difference in the degree of potentiation by the two forms of lead could possibly be attributed either to the role of a combination of anions and cations or to the variable cerebral uptake and regional distribution of lead or due partly to the extent of competitive interaction involving d-aminolaevulinic acid--whose level is known to be elevated consequent to lead-induced disruption of haem biosynthesis--at GABA receptors.
Intracytoplasmic lumina were identified in neoplastic cells from four human and three canine "spontaneous" bladder carcinomas. They were also found in N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazoly] formamide induced bladder carcinomas in rats as well as in cultured tumor cell lines derived from these experimental tumors. Intracytoplasmic lumina were readily recognized in 5 micrometer. paraffin embedded and 1 micrometer. epoxy embedded sections. Histochemically, intracytoplasmic lumina were strongly positive with PAS and alcian blue-PAS; mucicarmine stain was positive as unevenly distributed droplets. Ultrastructurally lumina were defined by a symmetric unit membrane; they displayed abundant pleomorphic microvilli, which contained prominent cytoskeletal elements. Step section electron microscopic study revealed continuity between intracytoplasmic lumina and the extracellular space in only one case of experimental bladder carcinoma; otherwise they appeared to be entirely encompassed within the cytoplasm. No instance of exocytosis in relation to intracytoplasmic lumina was found. Our observations suggest that intracytoplasmic lumina may be rather frequent in several forms of urothelial carcinoma. They appear to be predominantly but not invariably intracytoplasmic. The mechanism that may determine the development of continuity between intracytoplasmic lumina and the extracellular space and the adduced relationship between intracytoplasmic lumina and the process of secretion remain undetermined.
We used 32P-postlabelling to compare DNA binding between the potent hepatocarcinogen 2,6-dinitrotoluene and its noncarcinogenic analog 2,6-diaminotoluene. The two compounds were compared to determine whether differences in DNA binding could partly explain the differences in their carcinogenicity. Fischer-344 rats were administered 1.2 mmol/kg of a compound by single i.p. injection and examined for DNA adduct formation in the liver. Four adducts were detected following administration of 2,6-dinitrotoluene, with a total adduct yield of 13.5 adducted nucleotides per 10(7) nucleotides. Qualitatively identical adducts were also detected after treatment with the derivative 2-amino-6-nitrotoluene. Adduct yields from 2,6-dinitrotoluene were 30 times greater than from 2-amino-6-nitrotoluene. No adducts were observed following treatment with 2,6-diaminotoluene. 2,6-Dinitrotoluene and 2,6-diaminotoluene were also compared for qualitative differences in hepatotoxicity. 2,6-Dinitrotoluene produced extensive hemorrhagic necrosis in the liver, whereas no evidence of hepatocellular necrosis was detected following administration of the latter. The differences between the two compounds in both DNA binding and cytotoxicity were consistent with the differences in their carcinogenicity.
