Inactivation of the nicotinic receptor via the process of desensitization has been well characterized for the nicotinic receptor in vitro, but potential behavioral manifestations of desensitization have received little study. To test whether behavioral desensitization occurs, C3H and DBA mice were pretreated with subseizure-producing doses of nicotine and nicotine-induced seizure sensitivity was determined at various time intervals after pretreatment. Fifteen minutes after nicotine pretreatment, DBA mice were significantly less sensitive to nicotine-induced seizures than were saline pretreated mice after both IP and IV administration. Seizure sensitivity returned to baseline levels at 60 minutes after pretreatment for the IP route of administration and at 30 minutes for the IV route of administration. Sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures was altered for C3H mice under only one experimental condition; 7.5 minutes after IP injection with 2.0 mg/kg nicotine. Thus, DBA mice display a marked behavioral desensitization as a result of nicotine pretreatment whereas C3H mice do not. These results, in conjunction with our previous studies, indicate that nicotine-induced seizure sensitivity may be influenced by a minimum of two factors: the concentration of nicotinic receptors in the brain and possibly the ability of these receptors to inactivate in the presence of nicotine.
The GSTP1 enzyme plays a key role in biotransformation and bioactivation of certain environmental pollutants such as benzo[a]pyrene-7, 8-diol-9,10-epoxide (BPDE) and other diol epoxides of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. It catalyses the detoxification of base propanols that arise from DNA oxidation thus offering cellular protection against oxidative stress. A single nucleotide polymorphism at codon 105 results in the substitution of isoleucine (Ile) to valine (Val) causing a metabolically less active variant of the enzyme. We here assessed the impact of the GSTP1 codon 105 polymorphism in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) development and therapy response. The Ile105Val polymorphism was analyzed using a PCR-RFLP technique. Two hundred and sixty patients with CML and 248 healthy, age and sex matched controls were included in the study of associations with patient characteristics and treatment outcome. The GSTP1 Ile105Val polymorphism was significantly associated with CML development (?2 = 9.57; df = 2; p = 0.0084). With respect to clinical phase, CML patients in advanced phase (accelerated and blast crisis) had higher frequency of heterozygous (Ile/Val) genotype (47.62%) compared to chronic phase (36.5%). Further 54.5% of patients in blast crisis carried valine allele as compared to those in chronic phase (36.5%). The frequency of combined genotypes (Ile/Val, Val/Val) was elevated in cytogenetic poor (41.6%) and minor (53.57%) responders as compared to major (38.51%) responders. Hence the present study suggests that GSTP1 Ile105Val polymorphism with reduced GSTP1 enzyme activity might influence CML development, progression and response rates.
Previous studies have shown that histamine H(3) blockers potentiate the psychomotor and rewarding effects of cocaine. The present study examined the influence of thioperamide, an inverse H(3) receptor agonist, on the development of psychomotor sensitization and stereotyped activity induced by acute or intermittent cocaine in C57BL/6J mice. In the first experiment, mice were injected i.p. with saline, 10 or 20 mg/kg thioperamide and saline or 8 mg/kg cocaine, 10 min apart, before being tested for their locomotor activity (providing data on the acute effects of thioperamide on cocaine-induced activity). Subsequently, mice were treated in the same manner every other day over six additional sessions. Sensitization was assessed by the responsiveness to a cocaine challenge (8 mg/kg, i.p.) given 2 and 14 days following the intermittent treatment. In experiments 2 and 3, we tested the effects of thioperamide (10 or 20 mg/kg, i.p.) on gnawing and sniffing induced or affected by relatively high doses of cocaine (24 or 32 mg/kg, s.c.), the drugs being given 10 min apart. In the first experiment, both doses of thioperamide amplified cocaine-induced psychomotor hyperactivity almost on all experimental sessions. However, the histamine inverse agonist did not affect the induction of a psychomotor sensitization. All cocaine-treated mice showed similar levels of sensitized activity 2 and 14 days after the intermittent treatments, whether they received thioperamide or not. The second and the third experiments showed that thioperamide did not affect gnawing and sniffing induced by cocaine. Taken together, these results indicate that H(3) receptors clearly contribute to the neurobiological mechanisms of the locomotor component of cocaine-induced psychomotor activation, but less likely to those underlying the development of cocaine behavioral sensitization or the expression of cocaine-induced oro-facial stereotypies.
It has been suggested that the effects of angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) blockers are in part because of angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT2R) signaling. Interactions between the AT2R and kinins modulate cardiovascular function. Because AT2R expression increases after vascular injury, we hypothesized that the effects on vascular remodeling of the AT1R blocker valsartan and the ACE inhibitor benazepril require AT2R signaling through the bradykinin 1 and 2 receptors (B1R and B2R). To test this hypothesis, Brown Norway rats were assigned to 8 treatments (n=16): valsartan, valsartan+PD123319 (AT2R inhibitor), valsartan+des-arg9-[Leu8]-bradykinin (B1R inhibitor), valsartan+HOE140 (B2R inhibitor), benazepril, benazepril+HOE140, amlodipine, and vehicle. After 1 week of treatment, carotid balloon injury was performed. Two weeks later, carotids were harvested for morphometry and analysis of receptor expression by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Valsartan and benazepril significantly reduced the intima:media ratio compared with vehicle. Blockade of AT2R, B1R, or B2R in the presence of valsartan prevented the reduction seen with valsartan alone. B2R blockade inhibited the effect of benazepril. Injury increased AT1R, AT2R, B1R, and B2R expression. Treatment with valsartan but not benazepril significantly increased intima AT2R expression 2-fold compared with vehicle, which was not reversed by inhibition of AT2R, B1R, and B2R. Functionally, valsartan increased intimal cGMP levels compared with vehicle, and this increase was inhibited by blocking the AT2R, B1R, and B2R. Results suggest that AT2R expression and increased cGMP represent a molecular mechanism that differentiates AT1R blockers, such as valsartan, from angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors like benazepril.
This work set out to test the hypothesis that thalamotomy in the area of the thalamus which receives the input from the medial segment of the globus pallidus would decrease or prevent levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Peak dose dyskinesia is a major problem in the treatment of parkinsonian patients with levodopa therapy but this remains the best pharmacological agent for treating the condition. The hypothesis was derived from previous work which has suggested that reduced pallidal inhibition of the thalamus results in dyskinesia [Crossman (1990) Movement Dis. 5, 100-108]. A neuroanatomical tracing study was carried out prior to the thalamotomy work, using the anterograde tracer wheatgerm-agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. This delineated the anterior part of the ventrolateral thalamus in the primate in terms of its afferent inputs. Wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase was injected into the medial segment of the globus pallidus bilaterally in three Macaca fascicularis and traced to terminals in the ventral thalamus and other brain areas. The appropriate thalamic area involved was plotted on atlas sections in preparation for stereotactic thalamotomy. Previous studies of neuronal input to the ventral thalamus are confusing due to the different nomenclatures used by different workers. Early workers used cytoarchitectonic boundaries which do not correspond with function. There are also differences in nomenclature between man, monkey and other animals. The current study maps the pallidal terminal territory within the thalamus in terms of stereotactic co-ordinates related to a published macaque atlas [Shantha et al. (1968) A Stereotaxic Atlas of the Java Monkey Brain. S. Karger, Basel] and can thus be used by other workers in the field. A well-established primate model of Parkinsonism was used for the thalamotomy study. Eight monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) were rendered parkinsonian with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Regular dosing with levodopa or apomorphine reliably resulted in peak-dose dyskinesia which was scored in terms of its choreic and dystonic components. A radiofrequency electrode was used to create the ablative lesions. Chorea was always reduced and frequently abolished by a thalamotomy located in the pallidal terminal territory. This result was obtained after 10 thalamotomies in a total of six animals. Four animals received bilateral lesions, with an interval between operations and two animals underwent unilateral surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In anaesthetised open chest dogs, 30 mg . kg-1 of quinidine sulphate was injected intravenously over 5 min to produce QT prolongation. The sinus node was crushed. Effective refractory period (ERP) was determined at eight test points of the right ventricle using extra-stimuli after every seven basic ventricular pacings. Stimuli were of 2 ms duration and 1.5 times diastolic threshold. Temporal dispersion was estimated as the difference between the maximum and the minimum ERP of eight test points. Cycle lengths of basic ventricular drive were 700, 600, 500, and 400 ms. Time course of changes in ERP and its temporal dispersion was tested in five dogs. The effect of a 2 mg . kg-1 bolus injection followed by 70 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1 drip infusion lignocaine, on quinidine-induced changes in ERP was studied in eight dogs, and that of a 0.06 microgram . kg-1 . min-1 infusion of isoprenaline, was tested in six dogs. ERP was significantly prolonged after quinidine injection (220 +/- 20 vs 258 +/- 25 ms n = 19, basic cycle length = 500 ms, p less than 0.001). Temporal dispersion was also increased after quinidine (18 +/- 9 vs 33 +/- 12 ms n = 19, basic cycle length = 500 ms, p less than 0.001). With shortening of basic cycle length (BCL), ERPs were shortened significantly. Temporal dispersion, however, did not change. Lignocaine prolonged ERP even further (250 +/- 25 vs 273 +/- 16 ms BCL = 500 ms, p less than 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We demonstrate that intestinal inflammation caused by high-fat diet is increased by the environmental contaminant benzo[a]pyrene. Our in vivo results indicate that a high-fat diet (HFD) induces a pre-diabetic state in mice compared with animals fed normal chow. HFD increased IL-1betamRNA concentration in the jejunum, colon, and liver, and TNFalpha was increased in the colon and strongly increased in the liver. HFD also increased the expression of other genes related to type 2 diabetes, such as the uncoupling protein UCP2, throughout the bowel and liver, but not in the colon. The treatment of HFD with BaP enhanced the expression of IL-1beta in the liver and TNFalpha throughout the bowel and in the liver. Adding BaP to the diet also caused a significant decrease in the expression of the incretin glucagon-like peptide 1, which plays an important role in insulin secretion. Our results suggest that intestinal inflammation may be involved in the onset of type 2 diabetes and that chronic exposure to environmental polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons can increase the risk of type 2 diabetes by inducing pro-inflammatory cytokine production.
The effects of radiation exposure on haloperidol-induced catalepsy were examined in order to determine whether elevated prostaglandins, through an action on dopaminergic autoreceptors, could be involved in the radiation-induced increase in the potency of this neuroleptic. Cataleptic behavior was examined in animals irradiated with various doses of gamma photons (1-150 Gy) and pretreated with a subthreshold dose of haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg). This approach was chosen to maximize any synergistic effects of radiation and haloperidol. After irradiation with doses less than or equal to 30 Gy, the combined treatment of haloperidol and radiation produced catalepsy, whereas neither treatment alone had an effect. This observed catalepsy could be blocked with prior administration of indomethacin, a prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor. Animals exposed to doses of radiation less than or equal to 50 Gy and no haloperidol, however, displayed apparent catalepsy. This effect was also antagonized by indomethacin. Prostaglandins can induce catalepsy and when administered in subthreshold doses along with subthreshold doses of haloperidol, catalepsy was observed. In order to assess a possible action of prostaglandins and radiation on dopaminergic activity, the functioning of striatal dopaminergic autoreceptors was examined by determining the effects of varying concentrations of haloperidol on the K+-evoked release of dopamine from striatal slices obtained from parallel groups of animals treated as above. Results indicated that sensitivity to haloperidol increased (higher K+-evoked dopamine release) in slices from irradiated or prostaglandin-treated animals and that this increase in sensitivity was blocked by indomethacin. Results from both experiments suggest that radiation-induced increases in endogenous neuronal mediators, such as prostaglandins, can induce catalepsy through an action on dopaminergic autoreceptors.
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disorder affecting about 6% of population worldwide with its complications and is rapidly reaching epidemic scale. Cinnamomum zeylanicum is widely used in alternative system of medicine for treatment of diabetes. In the present study, we have performed bioassay guided fractionation of chloroform extract of C. zeylaniucm and identified cinnamaldehyde (CND) as an active principle against diabetes. In continuation to it, a detailed study was undertaken to elucidate its mode of antidiabetic action in STZ induced diabetic rats. Oral administration of CND (20 mg/kg bw) to diabetic rats for 2 months showed significant improvement (p<0.001) in muscle and hepatic glycogen content. In vitro incubation of pancreatic islets with CND enhanced the insulin release compared to glibenclamide. The insulinotropic effect of CND was found to increase the glucose uptake through glucose transporter (GLUT4) translocation in peripheral tissues. The treatment also showed a significant improvement in altered enzyme activities of pyruvate kinase (PK) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and their mRNA expression levels. Furthermore, the median lethal dose (LD(50)) of CND could not be obtained even at 20 times (0.4 g/kg bw) of its effective dose. With the high margin of safety of CND, it can be developed as a potential therapeutic candidate for the treatment of diabetes.
Mouse strain differences suggest intermediate or multifactorial gentic control of chloroform-induced renal toxicity and death. The chloroform dose lethal to 50 percent of animals was four times higher in C57BL/6J males than in DBA/2J males. Twice as much chloroform accumulated in the kidneys of the sensitive as the resistant strain. First generation offspring were midway between parental strains for both parameters.
Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (RAS) is an increasingly important cause of end-stage kidney disease, and may cause hypertension, progressive renal failure, and recurrent pulmonary edema. Herein, we report two episodes of anuria and acute pulmonary edema associated with losartan treatment in a hypertensive patient with preexisting severe renal artery stenosis in a solitary kidney. After successful percutaneous renal balloon angioplasty procedure, urine flow was started immediately, despite 10 days of anuria. Blood pressure measurements were still at acceptable levels with a low dose Beta blocker, and serum creatinine levels were normal even after eight months. PTRA should be done in such patients, even with prolonged anuria. Physicians who recommend angiotensin receptor blockers in patients with RAS, especially in patients wih hypovolemia or a solitary kidney, should be careful about this complication.
There is an accumulating body of data to suggest that estrogen mediates its cardioprotective effects via cyclooxygenase activation and synthesis of prostaglandins (PG), specifically PGI2. We hypothesized that inhibition of COX-2 would prevent estrogen's cardioprotective effects after myocardial ischemia-reperfusion. Acute treatment with 17beta-estradiol (E2; 20 microg/rabbit) increased COX-2 protein expression and activity in the myocardium. To determine the effects of COX-2 inhibition on infarct size after E2 treatment, New Zealand white rabbits were anesthetized and administered the COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide (5 mg/kg) or vehicle intravenously 30 minutes before an intravenous injection of E2. Thirty minutes after estrogen treatment, the coronary artery was occluded for 30 minutes followed by 4 hours of reperfusion. E2 significantly decreased infarct size as a percent of area at risk when compared to vehicle (18.9 +/- 3.1 versus 47.0 +/- 4.1; P < 0.001). Pretreatment with nimesulide nullified the infarct size sparing effect of E2 (55.8 +/- 5.6). Treatment with the PGI2 receptor antagonist RO3244794 also abolished the protective effects of E2 (45.3 +/- 4.5). The results indicate that estrogen protects the myocardium from ischemia-reperfusion injury through increased production of COX-2-derived PGI2. The data indicate that selective COX-2 inhibitors might counteract the potential cytoprotective effects of estrogen in premenopausal or postmenopausal women.
Intranasal betamethasone sodium phosphate drops (Betnesol) are frequently used to relieve nasal congestion due to polyposis. We report a case of significant hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal suppression secondary to the long-term use of intranasal betamethasone drops. This case emphasizes that the topical application of potent corticosteroids may produce systemic effects.
Increased activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzyme has been implicated in the pathogenesis of acute and chronic myocardial dysfunction. We have demonstrated the protective effect of PARP inhibitors against postinfarction myocardial remodeling and heart failure. The primary aim of our recent work was to compare the effect and efficacy of a potent PARP-inhibitor (L-2286) to enalapril, a widely used angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. in experimental heart failure model. Both L-2286 and enalapril were tested in a rat model of chronic heart failure after isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction. After a 12-week treatment period, echocardiography was performed, cardiac hypertrophy and interstitial collagen deposition were assessed, and the phosphorylation state of Akt-1/GSK-3beta pathway as well as the PKC and MAPK kinases were determined. Both PARP and ACE inhibition reduced the progression of postinfarction heart failure by attenuating cardiac hypertrophy and interstitial fibrosis. More importantly, PARP inhibition increased the activity of the prosurvival signal transduction factors (Akt-1/GSK-3beta pathway, PKCepsilon). Due to these effects, L-2286 improved the systolic left ventricular function. Enalapril treatment exerted a similar, but weaker protective effect against postinfarction myocardial remodeling and heart failure. In conclusion, we demonstrated in an experimental heart failure model that L-2286 decreased the postinfarction myocardial remodeling more effectively than enalapril treatment.
Chronic exposure to lead results in sustained hypertension in humans and experimental animals. We investigated the possible role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and their impact on DNA damage in lead-induced hypertension. Further the effect of short-term supplementation of vitamin C is also demonstrated.
Male Wistar rats were treated with either lead acetate (100 ppm) alone or lead acetate plus vitamin C (20 mg/rat/day). The control rats were fed regular rat chow. Blood pressure, antioxidants, total antioxidant status as measured by ferric-reducing antioxidant power, nitric oxide (NO) metabolites, malondialdehyde (MDA) and 8-hydroxy 2-deoxyguanosine were determined after 0, 1, 2 and 3 months.
The lead-exposed group showed a significant rise in blood pressure, lipid peroxidation (MDA) and a substantial oxidative damage to the DNA. A significant fall in NO metabolites, total antioxidant levels and ferric-reducing antioxidant power was also observed in this group. Concomitant administration of vitamin C ameliorated hypertension, normalized NO levels and abrogated lipid peroxidation. Also, it completely prevented oxidative damage to the DNA.
These findings point to enhanced ROS-mediated inactivation and sequestration of NO which can potentially contribute to hypertension, lipid peroxidation, reduced antioxidant status and oxidative DNA damage. The beneficial effects of vitamin C on these parameters support the role of increased ROS activity in the pathogenesis of these abnormalities in this model.
In rodents, the development of dyskinesia produced by L-DOPA in the dopamine-depleted striatum occurs in response to increased dopamine D1 receptor-mediated activation of the cAMP - protein kinase A and of the Ras-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signalling pathways. However, very little is known, in non-human primates, about the regulation of these signalling cascades and their association with the induction, manifestation and/or maintenance of dyskinesia.
We here studied, in the gold-standard non-human primate model of Parkinson's disease, the changes in PKA-dependent phosphorylation of DARPP-32 and GluR1 AMPA receptor, as well as in ERK and ribosomal protein S6 (S6) phosphorylation, associated to acute and chronic administration of L-DOPA. Increased phosphorylation of DARPP-32 and GluR1 was observed in both L-DOPA first-ever exposed and chronically-treated dyskinetic parkinsonian monkeys. In contrast, phosphorylation of ERK and S6 was enhanced preferentially after acute L-DOPA administration and decreased during the course of chronic treatment.
Dysregulation of cAMP signalling is maintained during the course of chronic L-DOPA administration, while abnormal ERK signalling peaks during the initial phase of L-DOPA treatment and decreases following prolonged exposure. While cAMP signalling enhancement is associated with dyskinesia, abnormal ERK signalling is associated with priming.
For mostly arbitrary reasons, the term "juvenile parkinsonism" is restricted to patients aged 20 years or younger, and "young-onset PD" (YOPD) is onset between ages 21 and 40 years. Previous studies suggest that YOPD has a slower disease progression and a greater incidence and earlier appearance of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias and motor fluctuations. Therefore, our therapeutic strategies have to respect the fact that YOPD patients face many years of gradual progression of disease and disability, a greater probability for developing various adverse effects of treatment, and worsening of quality of life. As an individually tailored treatment should be our primary goal, we must bear in mind that the needs and expectations of YOPD patients are different from those of their older counterparts. The therapeutic strategy for YOPD patients should include a relatively low threshold for initiation of treatment, and initiating treatment with a dopamine receptor agonist while maintaining an individually adjusted, moderately high threshold for switching to or adding L-dopa in cases where treatment response is suboptimal or if problematic adverse effects develop. It has been shown that some dopamine receptor agonists may also have antidepressive efficacy, thus potentially managing an additional problem associated with PD.
A 71-year-old woman, who had been taking lansoprazole for 18 months for dyspepsia, presented with vomiting, thought to be due to gallstones, and was found to have severe hypomagnesaemia. She was treated with intravenous and then oral magnesium, and discharged, but was soon readmitted with symptoms due to hypomagnesaemia, and again treated with magnesium supplementation. No other recognised cause for hypomagnesaemia was found. Because of recent reports of hypomagnesaemia due to other proton pump inhibitors, lansoprazole was changed to ranitidine. Her symptoms resolved and the serum magnesium returned to normal. Oral magnesium supplementation was stopped with no return of symptoms or hypomagnesaemia. Such an association must be borne in mind with suggestive symptoms in patients on long term proton pump inhibitors; their cessation or change to H(2) receptor antagonists is likely to correct the situation rapidly.
A 68 year old man with rheumatoid arthritis developed marrow aplasia during D-penicillamine treatment. Recovery of granulopoiesis and erythropoiesis was ineffective with features of a secondary sideroblastic anaemia. Absence of megakaryopoiesis persisted. Therapeutic measures failed, and the patient finally died. These events illustrate a haematopoietic stem cell injury induced by D-penicillamine.
In order to evaluate the influence of changes in affective state on light-enhanced startle, the effects of positive affect, induced by acute cocaine administration, and the effect of negative affect, induced by spontaneous cocaine withdrawal-induced anxiety, were studied. Acute cocaine administration decreased LES, whereas withdrawal from chronic cocaine administration exacerbated LES 24h after withdrawal, an effect indicative of increased anxiety. This exacerbated LES was reduced, but not back to normal, 4 days after withdrawal. The finding that both cocaine-induced positive and negative affect can be detected in LES, suggests that this may be a valuable tool in studying affect regulation in rodents.
To evaluate the mechanisms and the impact of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor perindopril (P) in a model of doxorubicin (D)-induced cardiotoxicity, male Wistar rats received D (1 mg/kg/d, IP for 10 days), P (2 mg/kg/d by gavage from day 1 to day 18), D (for 10 days) + P (for 18 days) or saline. D decreased systolic blood pressure and body and heart weights. Left ventricular diastolic diameter was increased by D (P < 0.01), but it was not attenuated by P. D decreased plasma vitamin C (P < 0.05) and increased the ascorbyl radical/vitamin C ratio (P < 0.01). This ratio was attenuated by P. No difference was found among groups in cardiac troponin I, brain natriuretic peptide concentrations, and tissue oxidative stress (OS). Myocardial MCP-1 expression was higher in the D group. Cardiac kinin receptor (B1R and B2R) expression was not affected by D, yet binding sites for B2R and B1R were increased in D+P and P groups, respectively (P < 0.05). In conclusion, D induced cardiac functional alterations, inflammation and plasma OS whereas tissue OS, and cardiac kinin receptors expression were not modified. P did not improve cardiac performance, but it modulated kinin receptor expression and enhanced antioxidant defense.
Esculetin, an antioxidant, has been used in the treatment of a variety of diseases. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of esculetin in attenuating streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type I diabetic nephropathy and to understand the molecular mechanism involved in it. Sprague-Dawley rats were rendered diabetic using a single dose of STZ (55 mg/kg, i.p.). Protein expression of PPARγ and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) was detected by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry respectively. RNA expression levels of Mmp13 and Bmp6 were detected by RT-PCR analysis. In diabetic rats, esculetin treatment resulted in a significant decrease in blood glucose, blood urea nitrogen, and plasma creatinine and increase in plasma albumin levels. Esculetin treatment attenuates the downregulation of PPARγ in diabetic kidney, which in turn blocks the TGF-β1-mediated fibronectin expression. In addition, it attenuates the decrease in mono-methylation (K4) and acetylation of histone H3 in diabetic kidney. RT-PCR analysis revealed that esculetin treatment provides protection by decreasing antifibrotic Bmp6 and increasing fibrogenic Mmp13 mRNA expression in diabetic kidney. This is the first report to show that protection observed by esculetin treatment involves alteration in mRNA expression of Mmp13 and Bmp6 genes either directly via altered histone H3 modifications or indirectly by inhibiting the PPARγ/TGF-β1 pathway.
Phenylethylamine (PEA) has the same structure as amphetamine (AMP) except that PEA lacks a methyl group at the alpha carbon. Although these analogues produce many similar neurobehavioral actions, a previous study found that PEA did not support formation of conditioned taste aversion (CTA). Using somewhat different procedures, in the present study a transient taste aversion was seen in rats. Use of noradrenergic blocking agents to attempt to pharmacologically tailor PEA action to make it more like that of AMP did not improve efficacy to form CTA. A robust PEA-induced CTA was seen in mice even when PEA produced multiple seizures.
Cerebral vasospasm triggered by subarachnoid haemorrhage is one of the major causes of post-haemorrhage morbidity and mortality. Several treatment modalities have been proposed, and none of them are fully effective.
In this study we treated five patients with prostacyclin suffering vasospasm after a ruptured aneurysm not responding to high i.v. doses of nimodipine. All patients were severely ill, unconscious and in need of intensive care.
A low dose of prostacyclin i.v. infusion for 72 h reversed the vasospasm as measured by transcranial Doppler technique. The mean MCA blood flow velocity decreased from 199 +/- 31 cm/s to 92 +/- 6 cm/s within 72 h after the start of the prostacyclin infusion.
We suggest that low-dose prostacyclin treatment, an old treatment strategy, can be a treatment option in patients with vasospasm not responding to ordinary measures.
To compare the effects of carvedilol, metoprolol and propranolol on myocardial gap junction (GJ) structure in rat with myocardial ischemia and reperfusion injury.
Rats were divided randomly into five groups: sham operation group (SO), myocardial ischemia and reperfusion group (IR), IR + carvedilol group (CV), IR + metoprolol group (MT), and IR + propranolol group (PP). The left anterior descending branch was ligated for 30 minutes and reperfused for 4 hours (IR). After 4 h reperfusion, the distribution and composition of gap junctional connexin 43 (CX43) were observed by immunofluorescence and laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM), and the quantification of CX43 was measured by LSCM.
Compared with SO group, IR resulted in abnormal distribution and composition of CX43-GJ and the impairment of CX43-GJ was significantly attenuated by CV, MT and PP treatments with the best effect observed in CV group (P<0.05 vs. MT and PP).
These results suggest that beta-blockers, especially, carvedilol, could significantly attenuate IR induced CX43-GJ impairment.
We investigated the effects of 1-amino-5-bromouracil on the benzodiazepine-gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor complex to elucidate its central action. 1-Amino-5-bromouracil neither displaced nor enhanced [3H]muscimol, [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS), or [3H]dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate binding to the rat brain synaptosomal membranes. The anesthesia induced by 1-amino-5-bromouracil was potentiated by diazepam, pentobarbital, and muscimol, and was antagonized by picrotoxin but not by bicuculline. 1-Amino-5-bromouracil protected mice from picrotoxin-induced seizure and slightly ameliorated TBPS-induced seizure, but did not antagonize bicuculline-induced seizure. Diazepam antagonized both the bicuculline- and the picrotoxin-induced seizure, and pentobarbital antagonized the picrotoxin- and the TBPS-induced seizure. Our in vivo studies suggest that part of the central action of 1-amino-5-bromouracil is concerned with the benzodiazepine-GABAA receptor complex including the chloride channel.
To report a case of delayed-onset dystonic reactions, oculogyric crisis (OGC), and torticollis after treatment with intramuscular haloperidol lactate injection.
A 22-year-old Mexican American woman received intramuscular haloperidol lactate 7.5 mg followed 4 hours later by 10 mg. Twenty-six hours after the first injection, the patient reported that she was unable to lower her gaze and that her neck was stiff. She was immediately given intramuscular benztropine 2 mg; there was a nearly complete remission of symptoms within 15 minutes of treatment. An objective causality assessment revealed a probable relationship between the OGC/torticollis and haloperidol therapy.
Dystonic reactions have been reported in 10-60% of patients treated with neuroleptic medication, most commonly when patients just start or increase the dose of the drug. The highest frequency of dystonic reactions has occurred in patients receiving high-potency neuroleptics. It has also been suggested that haloperidol-induced dystonic reactions are a result of the toxic metabolites of that agent.
OGC and torticollis reactions may occur 12-24 hours after treatment with a high-potency neuroleptic, even in the absence of symptoms of extrapyramidal side effects (EPSEs). The delayed dystonic reaction may begin suddenly (no early EPSE symptomatology).
Latrophilins (LPHNs) are a small family of G protein-coupled receptors known to mediate the massive synaptic exocytosis caused by the black widow spider venom α-latrotoxin, but their endogenous ligands and function remain unclear. Mutations in LPHN3 are strongly associated with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, suggesting a role for latrophilins in human cognitive function. Using affinity chromatography and mass spectrometry, we identify the FLRT family of leucine-rich repeat transmembrane proteins as endogenous postsynaptic ligands for latrophilins. We demonstrate that the FLRT3 and LPHN3 ectodomains interact with high affinity in trans and that interference with this interaction using soluble recombinant LPHN3, LPHN3 shRNA, or FLRT3 shRNA reduces excitatory synapse density in cultured neurons. In addition, reducing FLRT3 levels with shRNA in vivo decreases afferent input strength and dendritic spine number in dentate granule cells. These observations indicate that LPHN3 and its ligand FLRT3 play an important role in glutamatergic synapse development.
An-Gong-Niu-Huang Wan (AGNH) is a patent traditional Chinese medicine for brain disorders. It contains 10% cinnabar (HgS). Hg is known to produce toxicity to the kidney, brain and liver. Is AGNH safe? Liver is a major organ for drug metabolism, whether the long-term use of AGNH would affect hepatic P450 enzymes is unknown. To address these concerns, mice were given orally cinnabar (300mg/kg), cinnabar-containing AGNH daily for 44days, and liver toxicity was examined and compared with that of methylmercury (MeHg, 2.6mg/kg) and mercuric chloride (HgCl(2), 32mg/kg). Serum aminotransferases were increased by MeHg and HgCl(2) only. Histopathology showed more severe liver damage in MeHg- and HgCl(2)-treated mice than in the cinnabar and AGNH groups. Accumulation of Hg in MeHg- and HgCl(2)-treated mice was 96- and 71-fold higher than controls, respectively, but was only 2-fold after cinnabar and AGNH administration. Expressions of metallothionein-1 and heme oxygenase-1, biomarkers for Hg toxicity, were increased by MeHg and HgCl(2,) but were not altered in cinnabar- and AGNH-treated mice. Expression of hepatic cytochrome P450 genes, such as Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1 and Cyp4a10 was increased only after MeHg and HgCl(2), and the expressions of Cyp3a11and Cyp3a25 were increased by all treatments, indicating the potential Hg-drug interactions after long-term use of cinnabar-containing traditional medicines. Taken together, the results demonstrate that AGNH is much less hepatotoxic than common mercurials, and that the use of total Hg content to evaluate the toxicity of cinnabar-containing traditional Chinese medicines appears to be inappropriate.
