Melatonin modulates many important functions within the eye by interacting with a family of G-protein-coupled receptors that are negatively coupled with adenylate cyclase. In the mouse, Melatonin Receptors type 1 (MT(1)) mRNAs have been localized to photoreceptors, inner retinal neurons, and ganglion cells, thus suggesting that MT(1) receptors may play an important role in retinal physiology. Indeed, we have recently reported that absence of the MT(1) receptors has a dramatic effect on the regulation of the daily rhythm in visual processing, and on retinal cell viability during aging. We have also shown that removal of MT(1) receptors leads to a small (3-4 mmHg) increase in the level of the intraocular pressure during the night and to a significant loss (25-30%) in the number of cells within the retinal ganglion cell layer during aging. In the present study we investigated the cellular distribution in the C3H/f(+/+) mouse retina of MT(1) receptors using a newly developed MT(1) receptor antibody, and then we determined the role that MT(1) signaling plays in the circadian regulation of the mouse electroretinogram, and in the retinal dopaminergic system. Our data indicate that MT(1) receptor immunoreactivity is present in many retinal cell types, and in particular, on rod and cone photoreceptors and on intrinsically photosensitive ganglion cells (ipRGCs). MT(1) signaling is necessary for the circadian rhythm in the photopic ERG, but not for the circadian rhythm in the retinal dopaminergic system. Finally our data suggest that the circadian regulation of dopamine turnover does not drive the photopic ERG rhythm.
Community concern about asthma prompted an epidemiological study of children living near a petrochemical refinery in Cape Town, South Africa. Because of resource constraints and the complexity of refinery emissions, neither direct environmental measurements nor modelling of airborne pollutants was possible. Instead a meteorologically derived exposure metric was calculated with the refinery as the putative point source. The study aimed to determine whether (1) asthma symptom prevalences were elevated compared to comparable areas in Cape Town and (2) whether there was an association between asthma symptom prevalences and the derived exposure metric.
A cross-sectional study was carried out of all consenting school children aged 11 to 14 years attending schools in a defined area, utilizing the International Study of Asthma and Allergy in Childhood (ISAAC) written and video questionnaires. Information was collected on potential confounders, e.g. parental history of atopic disease, active and passive smoking by the participant, birth order, number of children in the home and distance from a major road. The exposure metric combined residential distance of each child from the refinery with a wind vector in the form of wind speed, wind direction and proportion of the year blown.
A total of 2,361 children from 17 schools met the criteria for inclusion. In multivariate analysis, meteorologically estimated exposure (MEE), but not simple distance from the refinery, was positively associated with having to take an inhaler to school [odds ratio per interquartile range (OR) 1.22, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.06-1.40], and with a number of video elicited asthma symptoms, including recent waking with wheezing (OR 1.33, 95% CI 1.06-1.66) and frequent wheezing at rest (OR 1.27, 95% CI 1.05 - 1.54). Symptom prevalences were higher than in other areas of the city, with frequent waking with wheezing being in great excess (OR 8.92, 95% CI 4.79-16.63).
The results support the hypothesis of an increased prevalence of asthma symptoms among children in the area as a result of refinery emissions and provide a substantive basis for community concern. The methodology also provides a low cost means of testing hypotheses about point source pollutant effects on surrounding populations of children.
Convulsions associated with cocaine toxicity are a serious aspect of cocaine-related emergency room incidents. Seizures can result from a single high dose of cocaine, and evidence is accumulating that correlates repetitive administration of sub-convulsive doses of cocaine with a decreased seizure threshold, a phenomenon known as pharmacological kindling. A murine model of cocaine kindling has not been characterized.
To determine the necessary and sufficient conditions for generating increased sensitivity to the convulsive and lethal effects of cocaine and to characterize some of the basic pharmacological and behavioral consequences of this phenomenon in mice.
Male, Swiss-Webster mice were given repeated injections of cocaine.
Daily administration of 60 mg/kg cocaine produced robust kindling; significant leftward shifts in the dose-effect curves for seizures were observed in cocaine-kindled mice. Cocaine kindling was enduring as these left shifts persisted for at least 20 days, indicating possible permanent synaptic changes. Induction of convulsions per se, utilizing 75 mg/kg cocaine, was not sufficient to engender kindling with a non-optimal dose (40 mg/kg). However, administration of a non-kindling dose of cocaine (40 mg/kg) for as few as four occasions produced increased seizure sensitivity to a 60-mg/kg cocaine challenge. The lethal potencies of cocaine and methamphetamine were significantly increased in cocaine-kindled mice. The baseline locomotor activity of kindled mice was not different from that of non-kindled mice. However, challenge doses of cocaine revealed significant differences in the vertically directed activity of kindled versus non-kindled mice.
Overall, this study provides a description of important parameters for a model of cocaine kindling in mice that may be useful for the elucidation of mechanisms responsible for the long-term changes in sensitivity to cocaine and the discovery of novel pharmacological treatments.
The urinary bladder tumor-promoting potentials of the phenolic antioxidants, 2-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol (TBMP), propylparaben, catechol, resorcinol and hydroquinone, which are structurally related to butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), were investigated in 170 male F344 rats. The animals were initially given 0.05% N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) as an initiator in their drinking water for 4 weeks. Three days later, groups of 20 rats received diet containing 1.0% TBMP, 3% propylparaben, 0.8% catechol, 0.8% resorcinol, 0.8% hydroquinone or basal diet alone until the end of week 36. Significant increases in the incidences and average numbers of the putative preneoplastic lesions, papillary or nodular (PN) hyperplasia, and papillomas of the urinary bladder were only observed in the group given TBMP after BBN. Development of these lesions was not enhanced by diet containing the other test compounds and no induction was associated with any of the test chemicals alone. The results thus clearly showed that TBMP, which most closely resembles BHA, promoted urinary bladder carcinogenesis. The similar effects of TBMP and BHA on urinary bladder carcinogenesis suggest a direct link between chemical structure and biological potency.
Four major clinical trials have established that trastuzumab added to adjuvant systemic chemotherapy for women with HER2+ breast cancer significantly improves disease-free and overall survival compared with chemotherapy alone. We evaluated pathologic complete response (pCR) rate and cardiac safety of preoperative doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by a taxane with or without trastuzumab.
We reviewed pCR rate and change in left ventricular ejection fraction in women with operable HER2+ breast cancer (defined as immunohistochemical 3+ or fluorescence in situ hybridization ratio > or = 2.2) who were treated between 2002 and 2008 with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by a taxane with or without trastuzumab before definitive breast surgery.
We identified 33 patients, of whom 42.4% received preoperative chemotherapy without trastuzumab and 57.6% of whom received trastuzumab with chemotherapy. The pCR rates were 28.6% and 52.6% in the group that received chemotherapy alone or with trastuzumab, respectively (odds ratio, 2.78; 95% CI, 0.64-12.1; P = .173). Severe cardiac events or treatment delays as a result of cardiac toxicity were not observed. With a median follow-up time of 14 months, 21.4% of patients in the non-trastuzumab group and 10.5% in the trastuzumab group had disease recurrence.
Sequential administration of preoperative doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by a taxane and trastuzumab combination is safe in women with primary operable HER2+ breast cancer and is associated with a high pCR rate. Large randomized phase III clinical trials are evaluating the role of preoperative trastuzumab when added to anthracycline- and/or taxane-based regimens.
A cyclosporine (CsA)-based immunosuppression is associated with an increased incidence of cholelithiasis after heart transplantation. It is not known if tacrolimus (Tac) has comparable biliary side effects in humans. We evaluated the incidence of gallbladder sludge and cholelithiasis under Tac-based immunosuppression by ultrasound examinations in 31 cardiac transplants (25 male, 6 female, mean age: 59 ' 11 years). Data were compared to 57 patients (47 male, 10 female, mean age: 58 ' 11 years) who received CsA-based immunosuppression. 6 patients receiving Tac and 6 patients receiving CsA had already gallstones prior to transplantation so that finally 25 patients of the Tac group and 51 patients of the CsA group could be evaluated. In the Tac group the incidence of biliary sludge was 4% (1 of 25), of gallstones 28% (7 of 25). In comparison, patients receiving CsA developed biliary sludge in also 4% (2 of 51) and gallstones in 25% (13 of 51). Nine of 42 males in the CsA group (21%) and eight of 20 males in the Tac group (40%) developed either gallstones or sludge (n.s). Six of nine females in the CsA group (67%), but none of five females in the Tac group (0%) developed either gallstones or sludge (p = 0.01). In summary, the incidence of biliary disease in patients with Tac is comparable with CsA-based immunosuppression. We recommend regular sonographical examinations to detect biliary diseases as early as possible. In cases of clinically, laboratory and sonographical signs of cholecystitis cholecystectomy is indicated. It seems that towards lithogenicity female patients benefit more from a Tac-based treatment because the occurrence of gallstones is rare.
1. The centrally acting analgesic tramadol has recently been reported to cause seizures at re-commended dosages in patients, whereas animal experiments had indicated that seizures only occur in high, toxic doses. Tramadol has a dual mechanism of action that includes weak agonistic effects at the mu-opioid receptor as well as inhibition of monoamine (serotonin, norepinephrine) re-uptake. Its major (M1) metabolite mono-O:-desmethyltramadol, which is rapidly formed in vivo, has a markedly higher affinity for mu receptors and may thus contribute to the effects of the parent compound. Furthermore, the pharmacological effects of tramadol appear to be related to the different, but complementary and interactive pharmacologies of its enantiomers. In the present study, we evaluated (+/-)-tramadol, its enantiomers, and its M1 metabolite ((+)-enantiomer) in the amygdala kindling model of epilepsy in rats. Adverse effects determined in kindled rats were compared to those in nonkindled rats. 2. At doses within the analgesic range, (+/-)-tramadol and its enantiomers induced anticonvulsant effects in kindled rats. However, at only slightly higher doses seizures occurred. With (+/-)-tramadol, generalized seizures were observed at 30 mg kg(-1) in most kindled but not in nonkindled rats. The (-)-enantiomer induced myoclonic seizures at 30 mg kg(-1) in most kindled but not in nonkindled rats, although myoclonic seizure activity was observed in some nonkindled rats at 10 or 20 mg kg(-1). Seizures were also observed after the (+)-enantiomer and the (+)-enantiomer of the M1 metabolite, but experiments with higher doses of these compounds were limited by marked respiratory depression. 3. The data demonstrate that kindling enhances the susceptibility of rats to convulsant adverse effects of tramadol and its enantiomers, indicating that a preexisting lowered seizure threshold increases the risk of tramadol-induced seizures.
The effects of a typical I(Kr) channel blocker sematilide on the relationship between ventricular repolarization, refractoriness and onset of torsades de pointes (TdP) were studied using the canine isolated, blood-perfused ventricular septum preparation with monophasic action potential (MAP) recording. Intracoronary infusion of sematilide (10-100 microg/min) prolonged the repolarization phase and effective refractory period, the extent of which was greater in the former than in the latter, resulting in prolongation of terminal repolarization process. Prolonging the basic pacing cycle length from 400 to 600 ms and/or increasing the drug doses enhanced each of these actions. Reverse use-dependence was obvious in the drug-induced prolongation of MAP duration, but it was less clear in the effective refractory period. More importantly, during sematilide infusion, in preparations paced at longer basic cycle length of 600 - 2000 ms, TdP-like polymorphic ventricular tachycardia was repeatedly induced by an extra-stimulus applied on the terminal repolarization phase, which indicates the appearance of electrically vulnerable period. Prolonging the basic pacing cycle length and/or increasing the drug doses prolonged this electrically vulnerable period in parallel with the terminal repolarization phase. These results suggest that prolongation of the terminal repolarization process by sematilide would enhance the chance of conduction slowing at less complete repolarization levels, which may be associated with a high incidence of TdP induction.
The rodent grip strength test was developed decades ago and is a putative measure of muscular strength. This test has been included in the functional observational battery (FOB) to screen for neurobehavioral toxicity, and changes in grip strength have been interpreted as evidence of motor neurotoxicity. Despite its widespread use, questions remain about what the grip strength test actually measures. In this study, potential confounders of the grip strength test were identified and tested, including operational parameters, disruption of peripheral sensory function and changes in body weight. Operational parameters (sampling rate, system type and trial angle but not trial speed) had dramatic effects on grip strength data. Doxorubicin (DX, 10 mg/kg iv) was used to cause sensory impairment. It decreased forelimb and hindlimb grip strength (by 27% and 32%, respectively, compared with controls), an effect that was correlated with degeneration of peripheral and central sensory components (distal tibial and sural nerves, dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord and dorsal, but not ventral, spinal roots). Feed restriction-induced loss of body weight (26% compared with controls) and muscle mass (20% compared with controls) reversibly decreased both forelimb and hindlimb grip strength (18% and 17%, respectively, compared with controls). Ignoring these confounding factors could potentially lead to increased data variability and inconsistency within single studies, across studies and in historical control data sets. To assist in data interpretation and evaluation of grip strength results, it is suggested that exact conditions of application of the test be reported in greater detail. Furthermore, given that the grip strength test can be influenced by factors other than true muscular strength, use of the term grip performance is proposed to better reflect the apical nature of this test.
The association of 4 genetic polymorphisms, NAD(P)H oxidase, manganesesuperoxide dismutase (MnSOD), catalase, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (e-NOS), was assessed with arsenic-related hypertension risk among 79 hypertensive cases and 213 controls in an arseniasis-hyperendemic area of Taiwan. Overall, MnSOD polymorphism significantly increased the risk of hypertension regardless of arsenic exposure. NADPH oxidase and eNOS polymorphisms were significantly associated with hypertension risk in the high arsenic exposure group; however, catalase polymorphism was not associated with hypertension. Groups were further stratified by triglyceride levels to evaluate whether the cumulative arsenic exposure combined the three polymorphisms together. The adjusted adds ratios (ORs) of at least two risk factors of the cumulative arsenic exposure and MnSOD, NADPH oxidase, and eNOS three-polymorphism combination versus any one risk factor of them were 0.8 (95% CI 0.3-2.3) for individuals with low triglyceride levels (<110 mg/dl) and 2.5 (95% CI 1.0-6.01) for high-triglyceride groups (>110 mg/dl), respectively. These results suggested that the NADPH oxidase, MnSOD, and e-NOS polymorphisms, but not catalase, might play a role in the development of arsenic-related hypertension, especially in subjects with high triglyceride levels.
Calcium entry blockers are now widely employed in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and perioperative hypertension. In patients with coronary heart disease nifedipine therapy should be continued perioperatively to avoid coronary artery spasm. Animal experiments have demonstrated that calcium entry blockers potentiate the neuromuscular blockade induced by nondepolarizing blocking agents. In patients, an atracurium-induced neuromuscular depression is prolonged by intravenous nifedipine. In this prospective clinical study we evaluated the effect of chronic oral nifedipine therapy on the duration of neuromuscular block by atracurium. Sixty patients anaesthetized with isoflurane in nitrous oxide/oxygen were recruited for this study. Thirty of these were on chronic oral nifedipine therapy and received their normal morning dose before premedication. The control consisted of 30 patients of similar age and status but not taking any calcium entry blockers. Monitoring included noninvasive blood pressure, heart rate, pharyngeal temperature, physical breathing parameters and neuromuscular transmission with a Datex Relaxograph TM ("train of four"-principle). After inducing hypnosis 0.5 mg/kg atracurium were administered for muscular relaxation. The duration of block from administration of the relaxant to recovery of first twitch height (T1) to 25% of control twitch height was registered as duration of initial block. When T1 reached 25% a repetition dose of 0.2 mg/kg atracurium was injected. The time till recovery of T1 to 25% was recorded as the duration of the repetition dose. Results were compared using Student's t-test for unpaired data. There was a significant prolongation of the duration of initial block from 38 min +/- 10 min in the control group to 46 min +/- 8 min in the therapy group (P < 0.01). The duration of the repetition dose rose from 30 min +/- 8 min in the control group to 38 min +/- 7 min in the therapy group (P < 0.001). Daily nifedipine doses varied from 10 mg in the morning to 40 mg divided into single doses with no influence on the prolongation of neuromuscular block. Our results confirm previous assumptions of synergistic effects of nifedipine and neuromuscular blocking drugs in patients. Chronic oral nifedipine therapy potentiates neuromuscular blockade by atracurium as does nifedipine intravenously. This effect should be considered in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases with nifedipine in the perioperative period.
Neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBAs) are often used for patients requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation. Reports of persistent paralysis after the discontinuance of these drugs have most often involved aminosteroid-based NMBAs such as vecuronium bromide, especially when used in conjunction with corticosteroids. Atracurium besylate, a short-acting benzylisoquinolinium NMBA that is eliminated independently of renal or hepatic function, has also been associated with persistent paralysis, but only when used with corticosteroids. We report a case of atracurium-related paralysis persisting for approximately 50 hours in a patient who was not treated with corticosteroids.
The reinforcing effects of cocaine have been most compellingly related to its action as an indirect dopamine agonist. Although it is generally believed that both D(1-like )and D(2-like )receptor mechanisms may be involved, recent studies suggest that D(1-like )and D(2-like )agonists have differing profiles of cocaine-related actions.
To develop a procedure for rapid assessment of complete dose-effect functions for cocaine self-administration in rhesus monkeys and to compare the effects of D(1-like )and D(2-like )agonists on cocaine self-administration using this procedure.
Responding was maintained by various doses of cocaine or by food under a multiple-component schedule [fixed ratio (FR) 30; time out period (TO) 10 s] in 2-h sessions. After responding stabilized, the effects of pretreatment with D(1-like )and D(2-like )agonists (administered i.m., 10 min or 30 min prior to the session) were assessed.
Complete inverted U-shaped dose-effect functions for cocaine self-administration were obtained in all five rhesus monkeys trained with the rapid assessment procedure. Both the position and shape of the cocaine dose- effect function remained stable in repeated assessments, and levels of responding were controlled by the unit dose of cocaine rather than by other variables (e.g., infusion duration and volume) that were used to vary the cocaine dose. Pretreatment with the D(1-like) agonists SKF 82958 (0.32-1.8 mg/kg) and R-6-Br-APB (0.1-1. 0 mg/kg) produced downward shifts in the cocaine dose-effect function at doses that also markedly decreased food-maintained responding. In contrast, pretreatment with the D(2-like) agonists quinelorane (0.001-0.01 mg/kg) and 7-OH-DPAT (0.01-0.10 mg/kg) shifted the cocaine dose-effect function to the left. D(2-like) agonists also increased responding maintained by the cocaine-associated cue lights alone, and moderately decreased food-maintained responding.
The results suggest that D(1-like) and D(2-like) agonists produce qualitatively different effects on cocaine self-administration that may influence their usefulness for the treatment of cocaine abuse and dependence.
Formaldehyde exposures are common, and data linking these exposures to leukemia have been mixed and controversial. The objective of this analysis is to review the current epidemiologic literature on formaldehyde and leukemia.
We performed an updated meta-analysis focusing on high-exposure groups and myeloid leukemia and included two large recent studies: one involving >25,000 workers in US formaldehyde industries and the other involving a cohort of >13,000 funeral directors and embalmers.
Formaldehyde was associated with increased risks of leukemia (relative risk = 1.53; 95% confidence interval = 1.11 to 2.21; P = 0.005; 14 studies), specifically myeloid leukemia (relative risk = 2.47; 95% confidence interval = 1.42 to 4.27; P = 0.001; 4 studies).
These findings provide evidence of increased myeloid leukemia risk with exposure to formaldehyde.
Although mucosal leishmaniasis is a prominent disease, it has been studied only to a limited extent. It is classically treated with parenteral antimony or, as a last resort, amphotericin B.
We treated Bolivian mucosal leishmaniasis due to Leishmania braziliensis with the oral agent miltefosine, 2.5 mg/kg/day for 28 days, and followed-up for 12 months.
Seventy-two patients were evaluable. The cure rate for the 36 patients who had "mild" disease (i.e., affecting nasal skin and nasal mucosa) was 83%. The cure rate for the 36 patients who had more extensive disease (involving the palate, pharynx, and larynx) was 58%. Patients refused to be randomized to parenteral agents, but the cure rate for an almost contemporary group who was receiving amphotericin B (45 mg/kg over 90 days) was 7 (50%) of 14.
In this unrandomized trial, oral miltefosine was at least as effective as heroic doses of parenteral amphotericin B. The cure rate for miltefosine was approximately equivalent to historical cure rates using parenteral pentavalent antimony for mild and extensive disease in neighboring Peru. Although gastrointestinal side reactions do occur with miltefosine, its toxicity profile is superior to that of antimony and far superior to that of amphotericin B--in part because of the inherent attractiveness of oral versus parenteral agents. Our results suggest that miltefosine should be the treatment of choice for mucosal disease in North and South America.
Increased incidences of asbestosis have been reported in workers from Libby, MT, associated with exposures to amphibole-contaminated vermiculite. In this study pulmonary and histopathological changes were investigated following Libby amphibole (LA) exposure in a rat model. Rat respirable fractions of LA and amosite (aerodynamic diameter <2.5 μm) were prepared by water elutriation. Male F344 rats were exposed to single doses of either saline (SAL), amosite (0.65 mg/rat), or LA (0.65 or 6.5 mg/rat) by intratracheal instillation. At times from 1 d to 3 mo after exposure, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed and right and left lungs were removed for reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and histopathological analysis, respectively. Data indicated that 0.65 mg amosite resulted in a higher degree of pulmonary injury, inflammation, and fibrotic events than LA at the same mass dose. Exposure to either amosite or high dose LA resulted in higher levels of cellular permeability and injury, inflammatory enzymes, and iron binding proteins in both BAL fluid and lung tissue at most time points when compared to SAL controls. However, mRNA expression for some growth factors (e.g., platelet-derived growth factor [PDGF]-A and transforming growth factor [TGF]-1β), which contribute to fibrosis, were downregulated at several time points. Furthermore, histopathological examination showed notable thickening of interstitial areas surrounding the alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles. On a mass dose basis, amosite produced a greater acute and persistent lung injury for at least 3 mo after exposure. However, further testing and analysis of LA are needed with regard to the dose metric to fully evaluate its potential fibrogenicity and carcinogenicity.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a common systemic autoimmune disease with complex etiology but strong clustering in families (lambda(S) = approximately 30). We performed a genome-wide association scan using 317,501 SNPs in 720 women of European ancestry with SLE and in 2,337 controls, and we genotyped consistently associated SNPs in two additional independent sample sets totaling 1,846 affected women and 1,825 controls. Aside from the expected strong association between SLE and the HLA region on chromosome 6p21 and the previously confirmed non-HLA locus IRF5 on chromosome 7q32, we found evidence of association with replication (1.1 x 10(-7) < P(overall) < 1.6 x 10(-23); odds ratio = 0.82-1.62) in four regions: 16p11.2 (ITGAM), 11p15.5 (KIAA1542), 3p14.3 (PXK) and 1q25.1 (rs10798269). We also found evidence for association (P < 1 x 10(-5)) at FCGR2A, PTPN22 and STAT4, regions previously associated with SLE and other autoimmune diseases, as well as at > or =9 other loci (P < 2 x 10(-7)). Our results show that numerous genes, some with known immune-related functions, predispose to SLE.
The literature on resveratrol in severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) is limited though it has been widely studied in infections and trauma. The aim of this study was to investigate the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on inflammatory responses in a rat model of SAP.
Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: SAP group, resveratrol group and control group. 4.0% sodium taurocholate was injected into the pancreatic duct to induce SAP. In the resveratrol group, resveratrol (10 mg/kg) was injected through penal vein 5 min after SAP was induced. The peritoneal macrophages of the rats were collected 3, 6 and 12 h after stimulus and then incubated for 24 h. The expression of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in peritoneal macrophages was measured. The levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 (IL-1) and nitric oxide (NO) in culture medium of peritoneal macrophages and serum of rats were evaluated.
Histological examination of pancreas indicated that the damage in the SAP group was more severe than that in the resveratrol group. The expression of NF-kappaB and iNOS in peritoneal macrophages was significantly higher in the SAP group than in the resveratrol group. The concentrations of TNF-alpha, IL-1 and NO in culture medium and serum were significantly elevated in the SAP group when compared with the resveratrol group.
The inhibiting effect on the inflammatory response and the decreased expression of TNF-alpha, IL-1 and NO in peritoneal macrophages suggest resveratrol as a novel anti-inflammatory agent for reducing the severity of SAP.
This case report describes a Caucasian woman with an acute and reversible cardiomyopathy provoked by sudden emotional stress. Notable features of the case are the lack of neurohumoral activation, a 1-week delay between the identified emotional stressor and presentation, and the development of torsades de pointes with amiodarone therapy. Amiodarone should be viewed as contraindicated in this condition.
We report an incidence of thrombosis of 17.6% in 159 patients treated with a five-drug chemotherapy regimen (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil, vincristine, and prednisone) for Stage IV breast carcinoma. Chi-squared analysis of risk factors for thrombosis (ambulatory status, obesity, family history, smoking, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, liver dysfunction, thrombocytosis, and previous endocrine therapy) showed no difference between the patients who had a thromboembolic event and those who did not. Statistical analysis revealed that a significantly higher incidence of thrombosis occurred during the chemotherapy regimen than when off this regimen (P less than 0.05). Detailed coagulation studies done prospectively on 10 patients receiving the five-drug chemotherapy regimen compared with 10 control patients showed a significantly elevated Factor VIII antigen:activity ratio in the group receiving the chemotherapy regimen compared with the control group and normals. These results implicate the chemotherapeutic regimen in the pathogenesis of the increased incidence of thrombosis. The pathophysiology of thrombosis in settings such as this awaits better in vitro tests defining the "hypercoagulable state."
Morphine sulfate (MS) stimulates mesangial cell (MC) proliferation, a process central to development of glomerular disease. The purpose of this study was to examine whether specific opioid receptors (OR) and signal transducer and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling are associated with MS-induced MC proliferation. C57Bl/6J and OR-specific knockout (KO) mice were treated for up to 6 wk with PBS, MS (0.7-2.14 mg/kg), naloxone (equimolar to MS), or MS+naloxone (n = 6 per group). Glomerular volume and expression of PCNA, Thy1, and ED1/CD68 were analyzed in kidney sections. Cell proliferation and STAT3 phosphorylation were analyzed by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) ELISA and Western blot, respectively, in MCs in vitro. MS treatment led to enlarged kidneys and glomerulopathy and naloxone reversed these effects. MS treatment increased glomerular volume in both mu-OR (MOR) KO and delta-OR (DOR) KO mice, but not in kappa-OR (KOR) KO mice. To ascertain that MS-induced glomerulopathy in vivo was due to MC proliferation, we further examined the OR-specific effects of MS in MCs in vitro. MS-induced MC proliferation in vitro was inhibited by KOR-specific nor-BNI, but not by DOR or MOR-specific antagonists naltrindol or CTOP, respectively. KOR-specific agonist U50488H stimulated proliferation of MCs, but DOR-specific agonist DPDPE and MOR-specific agonist DAMGO did not. MS failed to stimulate proliferation of MCs from KOR KO mice. MS and KOR agonists induced STAT3 phosphorylation, and STAT3 inhibitor blocked KOR agonist-induced MC proliferation. We show that MS stimulates glomerulopathy and MC proliferation via KOR and STAT3 signaling.
An 89-year-old man with chronic glaucoma received hourly pilocarpine eye drops for seven hours, when he developed third-degree atrioventricular block with a slow idioventricular escape rate. After discontinuing the pilocarpine, the atrioventricular block gradually disappeared. The site of pilocarpine-related block was most likely within the His-Purkinje system.
A 56-year-old man developed allergic interstitial nephritis and deterioration of preexisting chronic renal failure after receiving diazepam. On discontinuation of diazepam, kidney function returned to the baseline level and itching, eosinophilia, and eosinophiluria subsided. A causative correlation between allergic interstitial nephritis and diazepam is suggested.
We identified and replicated an association between ITGAM (CD11b) at 16p11.2 and risk of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in 3,818 individuals of European descent. The strongest association was at a nonsynonymous SNP, rs1143679 (P = 1.7 x 10(-17), odds ratio = 1.78). We further replicated this association in two independent samples of individuals of African descent (P = 0.0002 and 0.003; overall meta-analysis P = 6.9 x 10(-22)). The genetic association between ITGAM and SLE implicates the alpha(M)beta2-integrin adhesion pathway in disease development.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a prototypical autoimmune disease characterized by production of autoantibodies and complex genetic inheritance. In a genome-wide scan using 85,042 SNPs, we identified an association between SLE and a nonsynonymous substitution (rs10516487, R61H) in the B-cell scaffold protein with ankyrin repeats gene, BANK1. We replicated the association in four independent case-control sets (combined P = 3.7 x 10(-10); OR = 1.38). We analyzed BANK1 cDNA and found two isoforms, one full-length and the other alternatively spliced and lacking exon 2 (Delta2), encoding a protein without a putative IP3R-binding domain. The transcripts were differentially expressed depending on a branch point-site SNP, rs17266594, in strong linkage disequilibrium (LD) with rs10516487. A third associated variant was found in the ankyrin domain (rs3733197, A383T). Our findings implicate BANK1 as a susceptibility gene for SLE, with variants affecting regulatory sites and key functional domains. The disease-associated variants could contribute to sustained B cell-receptor signaling and B-cell hyperactivity characteristic of this disease.
Serotonin 2C receptor (5-HT(2C)R) agonists administered systemically attenuate both cocaine-primed and cue-elicited reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. To further elucidate the function of these receptors in addiction-like processes, this study examined the effects of microinfusing the 5-HT(2C)R agonist MK212 (0, 10, 30, 100 ng/side/0.2 microl) into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) on cocaine self-administration and reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.75 mg/kg, i.v.) paired with light and tone cues. Once responding stabilized, rats received MK212 microinfusions before tests for maintenance of cocaine self-administration. Next, extinction training to reduce cocaine-seeking behavior, defined as responses performed without cocaine reinforcement available, occurred until low extinction baselines were achieved. Rats then received MK212 microinfusions before tests for reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior elicited by cocaine-priming injections (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or response-contingent presentations of the cocaine-associated cues; operant responses during cocaine-primed reinstatement tests produced no consequences. MK212 microinfusions into the prelimbic and infralimbic, but not anterior cingulate, regions of the mPFC dose-dependently attenuated both cocaine-primed and cue-elicited reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior, but did not reliably affect cocaine self-administration. A subsequent experiment showed that the effects of MK212 (100 ng/side/0.2 microl) on reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior were blocked by co-administration of the 5-HT(2C)R antagonist SB242084 (200 ng/side/0.2 microl). MK212 administered alone into the mPFC as a drug prime produced no discernable effects on cocaine-seeking behavior. These findings suggest that stimulation of 5-HT(2C)Rs in the mPFC attenuates the incentive motivational effects produced by sampling cocaine or exposure to drug-paired cues.
The optimal acute treatment for severe hypertension remains controversial. In the last few years, the use of sublingual and oral nifedipine has been supported by a growing literature and clinical experience. Most reviews have minimized the risk of hypotension caused by nifedipine therapy. This report describes three patients who developed profound hypotension after acute treatment of hypertension with the usual doses of nifedipine. A review of the literature reveals no previous reports of symptomatic hypotension from the use of nifedipine alone in this setting. Clinicians should be aware of this potentially life-threatening toxicity and titrate doses and monitor patients accordingly.
The most severe forms of motoneuron disease manifest in utero are characterized by marked atrophy of spinal cord motoneurons and fetal immobility. Here, we report that the defective gene underlying lethal motoneuron syndrome LCCS1 is the mRNA export mediator GLE1. Our finding of mutated GLE1 exposes a common pathway connecting the genes implicated in LCCS1, LCCS2 and LCCS3 and elucidates mRNA processing as a critical molecular mechanism in motoneuron development and maturation.
Adenosine deaminase (ADA) activity was studied in red blood cells of patients suffering from multiple sclerosis treated with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ADA activity in hemolysates was determined according to the method of Hopkinson and calculated as units per g of hemoglobin. Activity of adenosine deaminase in healthy subjects was 0.871 +/- 0.251 U/g Hb. In patients with multiple sclerosis, before treatment ADA activity was 0.765 +/- 0.131 U/g Hb and was about 15.2% lower than in the control group (p < 0.02). After treatment with ACTH, ADA activity increased to 1.005 +/- 0.211 U/g Hb (p < 0.001). We have suggested that increased activity of adenosine deaminase in red blood cells of patients suffering from multiple sclerosis after treatment with ACTH is caused by diminution of superoxide generation, and therefore its sparing effect on cell membrane and enzyme is connected with membranes.
