Because of methodological limitations, the results of the few prospective studies assessing long-term cognitive effects of prenatal cocaine exposure are inconsistent.
To assess effects of prenatal cocaine exposure and quality of caregiving environment on 4-year cognitive outcomes.
Longitudinal, prospective, masked comparison cohort study from birth (September 1994-June 1996) to 4 years.
Research laboratory of a US urban county teaching hospital.
A total of 415 consecutively enrolled infants identified from a high-risk population screened for drug use through clinical interview, urine, and meconium screens. Ninety-three percent retention for surviving participants at 4 years of age resulted in 376 children (190 cocaine-exposed and 186 nonexposed).
The Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scales of Intelligence-Revised.
After control for covariates, prenatal cocaine exposure was not related to lower full-scale IQ (cocaine exposed [80.7] vs nonexposed [82.9]; P =.09) scores or summary verbal (cocaine exposed [79.9] vs nonexposed [81.9]; P =.11) or performance (cocaine exposed [85.5] vs nonexposed [87.5]; P =.18) IQ scores at age 4 years. However, prenatal cocaine exposure was related to small but significant deficits on several subscales (mean [SE]): visual-spatial skills (cocaine exposed [7.3 (0.22)] vs nonexposed [8.2 (0.22)]; P =.01), general knowledge (cocaine exposed [6.1 (0.18)] vs nonexposed [6.7 (0.17)]; P =.04), and arithmetic skills (cocaine exposed [6.2 (0.20)] vs nonexposed [6.8 (0.20)]; P =.05). Prenatal cocaine exposure was also associated with a lower likelihood of achievement of IQ above normative means (odds ratio, 0.26 [95% confidence interval, 0.10-0.65]; P =.004). The quality of the caregiving environment was the strongest independent predictor of outcomes. Cocaine-exposed children placed in nonrelative foster or adoptive care lived in homes with more stimulating environments and had caregivers with better vocabulary scores, and they attained full-scale and performance IQ scores (83 and 87, respectively) similar to nonexposed children in biological maternal or relative care (full-scale IQ, 82; performance IQ, 88) and higher than cocaine-exposed children in biological maternal or relative care (full-scale IQ, 79; performance IQ, 84).
Prenatal cocaine exposure was not associated with lower full-scale, verbal, or performance IQ scores but was associated with an increased risk for specific cognitive impairments and lower likelihood of IQ above the normative mean at 4 years. A better home environment was associated with IQ scores for cocaine-exposed children that are similar to scores in nonexposed children.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a fatal primary brain tumor harboring myriad genetic and epigenetic alterations. The recent multidimensional analysis of the GBM genome has provided a more complete view of the landscape of such alterations and their linked pathways. This effort has demonstrated that certain pathways are universally altered, but that the specific genetic events altered within each pathway can vary for each particular patient's tumor. With this atlas of genetic and epigenetic events, it now becomes feasible to assess how the patterns of mutations in a pathway influence response to drugs that are targeting such pathways. This issue is particularly important for GBM because, in contrast to other tumor types, molecularly targeted therapies have failed to alter overall survival substantially. Here, we combined functional genetic screens and comprehensive genomic analyses to identify CDK6 as a GBM oncogene that is required for proliferation and viability in a subset of GBM cell lines and tumors. Using an available small molecule targeting cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) 4 and 6, we sought to determine if the specific pattern of retinoblastoma pathway inactivation dictated the response to CDK4/6 inhibitor therapy. We showed that codeletion of CDKN2A and CDKN2C serves as a strong predictor of sensitivity to a selective inhibitor of CDK4/6. Thus, genome-informed drug sensitivity studies identify a subset of GBMs likely to respond to CDK4/6 inhibition. More generally, these observations demonstrate that the integration of genomic, functional and pharmacologic data can be exploited to inform the development of targeted therapy directed against specific cancer pathways.
Colonoscopy is one of the most frequently performed outpatient procedures in the United States. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that a remifentanil infusion would be superior to boluses of meperidine in older patients undergoing ambulatory colonoscopy. One hundred ASA physical status I-IV patients undergoing colonoscopy were randomized in this double-blinded study to receive either remifentanil infusions (n = 49) or titrated boluses of meperidine (n = 51). Patient tolerance was assessed using physiologic variables and side effects associated with opioid analgesia. Verbal pain/anxiety and patient/operator satisfaction were also assessed. As a group, the physiologic characteristics demonstrated no significant differences in the response to the colonoscopy procedure. Although the patient and operator satisfaction surveys were similar between groups, the incidences of tachycardia, hypotension, and nausea were less and the adjusted verbal pain and anxiety scores were more in the Remifentanil group compared with the Meperidine group. This study demonstrates that remifentanil and meperidine were equally well tolerated in older patients undergoing ambulatory colonoscopy when administered by an anesthesia provider. The differences in the pharmakinetics of remifentanil and meperidine most likely account for the differences noted between the two treatment groups.
Remifentanil infusions and meperidine boluses are equally well tolerated in older patients undergoing ambulatory colonoscopy when administered by an anesthesia provider.
1. The role of endogenous bradykinin in mean arterial blood pressure (BP) homeostasis was studied in spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and normotensive (WKY) rats by the use of a bradykinin B2-receptor antagonist (BKant; Hoe 140, 11.6 micrograms kg-1) and converting enzyme (kininase II) inhibitor (captopril, 10 mg). To obtain a response to captopril that was induced through inhibition of kinin-degradation only and not through inhibition of angiotensin II-formation, the studies were performed on binephrectomized male rats to eliminate the renin-angiotensin system. 2. The role of the nitric oxide (NO) and the adrenergic systems were evaluated by the use of NO-synthase inhibitor (L-NAME, 0.3 g kg-1) and phentolamine (2 mg kg-1), respectively. 3. The rats were anaesthetized and pretreated with two injections of vehicle (PBS) or drugs spaced 5 min apart: PBS + PBS; BKant + PBS; PBS + L-NAME; BKant + L-NAME; or phentolamine + L-NAME. All rats were given captopril 15 min later. Time-control groups were treated with L-NAME but not captopril. 4. In WKY rats, captopril did not significantly alter BP in any of the groups. In the SHR-PBS + PBS group, on the other hand, captopril induced an immediate fall in BP (delta BP = -23 +/- 4 mmHg, P < 0.0017) which was completely blocked by BKant (delta BP = 2 +/- 2 mmHg) (P < 0.0011). L-NAME did not significantly alter the immediate hypotensive response to captopril but disclosed a later hypertensive reaction. In L-NAME + BKant-treated rats, both the hypotensive response and the late hypertension was abolished. In rats treated with phentolamine + L-NAME, the immediate fall in BP was not different from the controls whereas the late hypertension was absent. 5. BKant itself had no effect on basal BP in either WKY or SHR even when a 10 times higher dose was tested in a separate set of experiments. This was true also for conscious, nonnephrectomized SHR rats. 6. It was concluded that endogenous production of bradykinin was demonstrable through kininase II-inhibition in hypertensive but not in normotensive rats. However, this endogenous bradykinin did not play a role in basal BP homeostasis. The captopril-induced hypotension depended on kinin but, under the present conditions, not on NO as a mediator. The fall in BP induced a compensatory adrenergic hypertensive response which was revealed when the continuous NO-synthesis was blocked by L-NAME.
The aim of the present work was to investigate changes of serum erythropoietin (Epo) during cisplatin (DDP)-or 5-Fluorouracil (5-Fu)-induced anemia in rats. Anemia was induced with single intravenous (IV) injection of DDP of 8 mg/kg body weight or 5-Fu of 150 mg/kg body weight. Serum Epo, hemoglobin (Hb), blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration, and reticulocyte (Ret) counts were measured 7, 21, 35, and 49 days after administration of the anticancer drugs. The changes of renal tissue were examined by light microscope. A single injection of 5-Fu decreased Ret counts and Hb concentration and increased serum Epo levels. No evident morphological abnormalities were found by light microscopy in 5-Fu-treated rats. A single injection of DDP decreased Ret counts and Hb concentration and increased BUN. Serum Epo was decreased 7 days but was increased 21 days after DDP treatment; however, serum Epo elevation was modest. Pathological examination revealed that DDP caused significant renal damage in rats. These results suggest that in 5-Fu-induced anemia, the elevated serum Epo level was due to the feedback response to anemia. In DDP-induced anemia, the elevated serum Epo level was low in relation to the level of anemia, and DDP-induced nephrotoxicity might be the main cause of changes of serum Epo.
We examined HLA-A,B,C and DR locus antigens in 38 Japanese patients who had recovered from halothane hepatitis. The patients were divided into two subgroups, i.e. jaundice and non-jaundice groups, because the clinical features were quite different in each. DR2 was positive in 14 (58.3%) of 24 patients with jaundice, compared with 281 (33.6%) of the 837 Japanese healthy controls (chi-square with Yates' correction = 5.30, relative risk = 2.77, P less than 0.025). Conversely, Bw44 was increased in non-jaundice patients (50.0%), compared with 157 (12.7%) of the 1234 Japanese healthy controls (chi-square with Yates' correction = 13.75, relative risk = 6.86, P less than 0.001). The haplotype frequency (Hf) of Aw24-Bw52-DR2 was high in the patients with jaundice (Hf = 0.2362), while it was zero in the patients without jaundice (P less than 0.0042). These data suggest that the two groups of halothane hepatitis have different genetic backgrounds.
A 30-year-old woman with Wilson's disease was treated with low-dose D-penicillamine. After 12 days, treatment was changed to zinc sulphate because of severe neurological deterioration. The patient subsequently improved within a few days. During a follow-up period of 20 months, the effectiveness of therapy was evaluated by measuring copper and zinc levels in plasma and urine, and by 64Cu-loading tests. We conclude that sulphate therapy may be a satisfactory alternative, even when rapid deterioration occurs in the early stages of D-penicillamine treatment.
Long-term zidovudine therapy in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection can cause a destructive mitochondrial myopathy with histological features of ragged-red fibres (RRF) and proliferation of abnormal mitochondria. In 9 zidovudine-treated patients with this myopathy we found severely reduced amounts (up to 78% reduction vs normal adult controls) of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in muscle biopsy specimens by means of Southern blotting. In 2 HIV-positive patients who had not received zidovudine, muscle mtDNA content did not differ from that in the 4 controls. Depletion of mtDNA seems to be reversible, since 1 patient showed a substantial reduction in RRF and a concomitant pronounced increase in muscle mtDNA content after zidovudine therapy was discontinued. Depletion of muscle mtDNA is probably due to zidovudine-induced inhibition of mtDNA replication by DNA polymerase gamma and is not a secondary effect of HIV infection.
We report a case of retroperitoneal hematoma presenting as femoral nerve pulsy on antiplatelet therapy. The patient, a 78-year-old man who had undergone antiplatelet treatment using ticlopidine, was admitted to our hospital with complaints of sudden-onset low abdominal and back pain. Computed tomography showed an iso-density mass in the right retroperitoneum within the psoas muscle. We made a diagnosis of retroperitoneal hematoma compressing the femoral nerve and performed an operation to remove the hematoma in order to decompress the femoral neuropathy. Postoperatively, the patient rapidly recovered from the femoral neuropathy. In the particular case in which no antagonist against the ticlopidine is available, surgical decompression could produce a good outcome.
Tamoxifen is a candidate chemopreventive agent in breast cancer, although the drug may be associated with the development of endometrial cancer. Therefore we did a trial in hysterectomised women of tamoxifen as a chemopreventive.
In October, 1992, we started a double-blind placebo-controlled, randomised trial of tamoxifen in women (mainly in Italy) who did not have breast cancer and who had had a hysterectomy. Women were randomised to receive tamoxifen 20 mg per day or placebo, both orally for 5 years. The original plan was to follow the intervention phase by 5 years' follow-up. In June, 1997, the trialists and the data-monitoring committee decided to end recruitment primarily because of the number of women dropping out of the study. Recruitment ended on July 11, 1997, and the study will continue as planned. The primary endpoints are the occurrence of and deaths from breast cancer. This preliminary interim analysis is based on intention-to-treat.
5408 women were randomised; participating women have a median follow-up of 46 months for major endpoints. 41 cases of breast cancer occurred so far; there have been no deaths from breast cancer. There is no difference in breast-cancer frequency between the placebo (22 cases) and tamoxifen (19) arms. There is a statistically significant reduction of breast cancer among women receiving tamoxifen who also used hormone-replacement therapy during the trial: among 390 women on such therapy and allocated to placebo, we found eight cases of breast cancer compared with one case among 362 women allocated to tamoxifen. Compared with the placebo group, there was a significantly increased risk of vascular events and hypertriglyceridaemia among women on tamoxifen.
Although this preliminary analysis has low power, in this cohort of women at low-to-normal risk of breast cancer, the postulated protective effects of tamoxifen are not yet apparent. Women using hormone-replacement therapy appear to have benefited from use of tamoxifen. There were no deaths from breast cancer recorded in women in the study. It is essential to continue follow-up to quantify the long-term risks and benefits of tamoxifen therapy.
CGS-8216, a benzodiazepine antagonist, was administered to rats acutely dosed with diazepam, and to rats chronically dosed with diazepam or pentobarbital. The effects of an acute dose of diazepam were antagonized by CGS-8216 but signs of precipitated abstinence were not observed. An apparent arousing effect was seen in non-dependent rats when CGS-8216 was administered after placebo, but no arousal was observed when Ro15-1788 was administered after placebo in non-dependent rats. A precipitated abstinence syndrome was elicited with CGS-8216 in rats chronically dosed with diazepam and was very similar to the abstinence syndrome precipitated by Ro15-1788 in diazepam-dependent rats. Like Ro15-1788, CGS-8216 elevated Precipitated Abstinence Scale (PAS) scores in a dose-related manner until a plateau was reached with 5 mg/kg. No signs of precipitated abstinence were observed when CGS-8216 was administered to rats dependent on phenobarbital.
We report on a 62 year old female patient treated with paroxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, because of an anxiety neurosis undergoing a vaginal hysterectomy in general anesthesia. Apart from a dietary treated diabetes mellitus there were no other diseases. There were no complications during the operation. At the end of the anesthesia an A-V nodal tachycardia appeared which spontaneously changed to a sinus rhythm ten hours after the end of the operation. No clinical or laboratory findings indicated a cardiac ischemia and an additional Holter ECG-Recording showed no further cardiac arrhythmias. No other complications occurred afterwards and the patient was discharged after two weeks. This case report demonstrates clearly that despite a reduced rate of cardiovascular complications compared to other types of antidepressants selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors can lead to perioperative cardiac arrhythmias.
The implications of increased calpain-mediated proteolysis during epileptic seizures are still unclear, and in this study we investigate the effect of the continuous perfusion of calpain inhibitor I on picrotoxin-induced seizures in chronic freely moving rats. Continuous intrahippocampal microperfusion of 500 microM calpain inhibitor I had no effect on basal EEG, but doubled (P < 0.05) average seizure duration, and increased more than five-fold (P < 0.01) the total seizure time and three-fold (P < 0.01) the seizure offset time compared to picrotoxin alone, in each individual rat. However, seizure type and onset time were not modified by calpain inhibitor I. These results indicate that a calpain-mediated mechanism may be responsible for seizure offset, probably through AMPA glutamate receptors internalization and further degradation.
In 22 anesthetized mongrel dogs, spectral methods were used to analyze the surface electrocardiogram (ECG) for the time course of the dominant frequency in ventricular fibrillation and its modifications under the influence of amiodarone, diltiazem, and flecainide. The ECG was recorded over 5 minutes after triggering ventricular fibrillation. Following A/D conversion and by applying the Fourier fast transform, the frequency spectrum of the signals was obtained. In group 1 (5 dogs), the ECGs were obtained without prior drug administration; group 2 (5 dogs) first received amiodarone, 5 mg/kg; group 3 (7 dogs) received diltiazem, 0.2 mg/kg; and group 4 (5 dogs) received flecainide, 2 mg/kg. All drugs were administered intravenously. An initial increase in the dominant frequency of ventricular fibrillation was found in the control group and also in the groups that received amiodarone, diltiazem, or flecainide. Diltiazem significantly increased the dominant frequency and diminished the arrhythmia-slowing process. Amiodarone and flecainide tended to diminish the dominant frequency.
Electrolyte disturbances are known to cause acquired Long QT syndrome (LQTS) and Brugada syndrome. While a reduction in INa due to SCN5A mutation is implicated as the underlying mechanism in Brugada syndrome, hyponatremia, which can give rise to a reduced INa, has never been reported in literature as a cause or precipitating factor in this syndrome. We detailed a case in which concomitant-acquired LQTS and Brugada syndrome were associated with severe hypokalemia and hyponatremia following indapamide use for treatment of hypertension and highlighted the potential role of hyponatremia in the pathogenesis of the acquired form of Brugada syndrome.
The Losartan Heart Failure ELITE Study recently found that in patients with symptomatic heart failure and a left ventricular ejection fraction of </=0.40, losartan compared to captopril improved survival with better tolerability. The objective of this study was to perform an economic evaluation of losartan versus captopril based on the results of the Losartan Heart Failure ELITE Study. The Losartan Heart Failure ELITE Study was a multinational, double-blind, randomized 48-week study comparing the safety and efficacy of losartan to captopril in angiotensin-converting enzyme-inhibitor-naive patients >/=65 years with symptomatic heart failure. Data on health care resource utilization were collected as part of the trial. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis to estimate the lifetime benefits of treatment and the associated costs. We observed no differences between treatments in the number of hospitalizations, hospital days, and emergency room visits per patient over the trial period. We estimated the total cost of losartan to be USD 54 (95% CI: USD -1,717, USD 1,755) less per patient than captopril over this time frame. We also estimated that over the projected remaining lifetime of the study population, losartan compared to captopril would increase survival by 0.20 years (undiscounted) at an average cost of USD 769 (discounted) more per patient. This cost increase translated into a cost-effectiveness ratio of USD 4,047 per year of life gained for losartan relative to captopril. In patients with symptomatic heart failure, losartan compared to captopril increased survival with better tolerability at a cost well within the range accepted as cost-effective.
A 53-year-old woman with recurrent ovarian cancer sustained an intracerebral hemorrhage after the 4th course of a chemotherapy regimen which included cis-platinum (DDP). She received high-dose methylprednisolone as an antiemetic along with the DDP. No metastases or abnormal vascularity were found on histological examination of the right frontal lobe which had been removed surgically. Causes of cerebrovascular accidents during and following chemotherapy are discussed.
Acid aspiration is a complication of general anesthesia. Most animal models developed to define its pathophysiology have focused on the acute (< or =24 h) phase of the injury. The authors describe a model of acid aspiration allowing the study of this type of lung injury over time.
The authors instilled hydrochloric acid (0.1 m, 1.5 ml/kg) or normal saline in the right bronchus of mice. Lung injury was evaluated at 6 h, 12 h, 24 h, and 2 weeks by assessing arterial blood gases, respiratory system compliance, lung wet weight normalized by body weight, lung myeloperoxidase activity, and histology. Twelve hours and 2 weeks after injury, a computed tomography scan was obtained.
In the hydrochloric acid group, arterial oxygen tension decreased (P < 0.05) at 12 and 24 h, whereas it recovered at 2 weeks; respiratory system compliance was lower both at 24 h and 2 weeks (P < 0.05). Lung weight increased at 12 and 24 h (P < 0.05). Myeloperoxidase activity peaked between 6 and 12 h. Computed tomography at 12 h showed that almost 30% of the injured lung was abnormally aerated. Although reduced, the abnormalities were still present at 2 weeks as confirmed by a fibrotic scar well evident at histologic examination.
The authors characterized a murine model of regional acid aspiration allowing long-term survival. Despite a partial recovery, at 2 weeks the injury persisted, with evidence of fibrosis and lung compliance reduction. This long-term, low-mortality model seems suitable for assessment of the effects of different therapies on lung injury and repair.
Severe megaloblastic anemia with a normal white blood cell and platelet count developed in a patient with psoriasis vulgaris who was receiving long-term, low-dose methotrexate. We believe she had methotrexate-induced folate deficiency anemia with isolated inhibition of the erythrocytic bone marrow line. We review hematologic toxicity from low-dose methotrexate. Physicians caring for patients who receive low-dose methotrexate should be aware that an increase in the erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume may be a useful indicator of folate deficiency and impending toxicity. In addition, folate supplementation may prevent this toxicity (even in patients who do not appear clinically to be folate deficient), although whether methotrexate efficacy diminishes is controversial.
It has been reported that hypothermia induced by intravenous administration of As2O3 3 mg/kg in rabbits is due to a decrease of noradrenaline (NA) in the hypothalamus. In this paper, the role of NA or dopamine (DA) on As2O3-induced hypothermia in rabbits were investigated. As2O3-induced hypothermia was not inhibited by pretreatment with FLA-63, a potent dopamine-beta-hydroxylase inhibitor, which produces an increase of DA and a decrease of NA in rabbit brain; and it was also inhibited by pretreatment with haloperidol or pimozide, potent DA-receptor blocking agents. On the contrary, pretreatment with phenoxybenzamine or dibenamine, alpha-receptor blocking agents, completely inhibited these hypothermia. These findings indicated that NA took an important part in thermoregulation in rabbits and certified that DA or DA-receptors were not involved As2O3-induced hypothermia.
L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major complication of the treatment of Parkinson's disease. The neural mechanisms underlying LID are thought to involve overactivity of striatal glutamatergic neurotransmission, with resultant underactivation of the output regions of the basal ganglia. Histamine H3 heteroreceptors can reduce glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transmission in the striatum and substantia nigra reticulata, respectively. Thus, we tested whether the histamine H3 receptor agonists immepip and imetit can alleviate LID in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Coadministration of immepip (1 mg/kg) with L-dopa (15 mg/kg) was associated with significantly less total dyskinesia than L-dopa alone. When dyskinesia was separately rated as chorea and dystonia, coadministration of L-dopa with either immepip or imetit (both 10 mg/kg) significantly reduced chorea but had no effect on dystonia. The antidyskinetic actions of the H3 agonists were not accompanied by alteration of the antiparkinsonian actions of L-dopa. However, immepip (10 mg/kg), when administered as monotherapy, significantly increased parkinsonian disability compared to vehicle. Overall, the results obtained in this study suggest that histamine H3 receptors may be involved in the neural mechanisms underlying L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
Accumulative evidence suggests that low folate intake is associated with increased risk of breast cancer. Polymorphisms in genes involved in folate metabolism may influence DNA methylation, nucleotide synthesis, and thus individual susceptibility to cancer. Thymidylate synthase (TYMS) is a key enzyme that participates in folate metabolism and catalyzes the conversion of dUMP to dTMP in the process of DNA synthesis. Two potentially functional polymorphisms [a 28-bp tandem repeat in the TYMS 5'-untranslated enhanced region (TSER) and a 6-bp deletion/insertion in the TYMS 3'-untranslated region (TS 3'-UTR)] were suggested to be correlated with alteration of thymidylate synthase expression and associated with cancer risk.
To test the hypothesis that polymorphisms of the TYMS gene are associated with risk of breast cancer, we genotyped these two polymorphisms in a case-control study of 432 incident cases with invasive breast cancer and 473 cancer-free controls in a Chinese population.
We found that the distribution of TS3'-UTR (1494del6) genotype frequencies were significantly different between the cases and controls (P = 0.026). Compared with the TS3'-UTR del6/del6 wild-type genotype, a significantly reduced risk was associated with the ins6/ins6 homozygous variant genotype (adjusted OR = 0.58, 95% CI = 0.35-0.97) but not the del6/ins6 genotype (OR = 1.09, 95% CI = 0.82-1.46). Furthermore, breast cancer risks associated with the TS3'-UTR del6/del6 genotype were more evident in older women, postmenopausal subjects, individuals with a younger age at first-live birth and individuals with an older age at menarche. However, there was no evidence for an association between the TSER polymorphism and breast cancer risks.
These findings suggest that the TS3'-UTR del6 polymorphism may play a role in the etiology of breast cancer. Further larger population-based studies as well as functional evaluation of the variants are warranted to confirm our findings.
Cisplatin is a well-known nephrotoxic antineoplastic drug. Chronic hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis with hypomagnesemia and hypocalciuria is one of the rare complications associated with its use.
A 42-year-old woman presented with a 20 year-history of hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis with hypomagnesemia and hypocalciuria after cisplatin-based chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. This patient has had chronic muscle aches and fatigue and has had episodic seizure-like activity and periodic paralysis. Only thirteen other patients with similar electrolyte abnormalities have been described in the literature. This case has the longest follow-up.
Cisplatin can cause permanent nephrotoxicity, including Gitelman-like syndrome. This drug should be considered among the possible causes of chronic unexplained electrolyte disorders.
Carbohydrate intolerance is a common feature of acromegaly. Frank diabetes mellitus is seen in about 10-20% of patients. There is no report of acromegaly presenting with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), associated with retinitis pigmentosa (RP), in the literature. We report the occurrence of DKA and RP in a patient with acromegaly. A 39-year-old Turkish man was admitted to the emergency ward with a 1-mo history of thirst, polyuria, weight loss of 10 kg, and loss of consciousness for 2 d. Physical examination revealed findings suggestive of acromegaly, including coarse facial features and enlargement of his hands and feet. At ophthalmological examination, funduscopy showed RP. Laboratory studies confirmed the diagnoses of DKA and acromegaly. Magnetic resonance imaging disclosed the presence of a pituitary adenoma. During the medical treatment with octreotide, symptomatic sinusoidal bradycardia was developed (pulse rate 45 bpm, and blood pressure 70/40 mmHg). Octreotide therapy was stopped. Pituitary adenoma was removed surgically. For treatment of DKA, insulin need was very high in the first days after the onset of ketoacidosis, but decreased after initiation of treatment with octreotide and after successful operation. Insulin was stopped 7 d after surgery. Follow-up showed normalization of growth hormone levels and plasma glucose levels. Only six other cases of DKA associated with acromegaly and only three other cases of RP associated with acromegaly were found in the medical literature. In conclusion, to our knowledge, the present case is a first report of DKA and RP in patient with acromegaly.
Co-existence of obesity and type 2 DM exacerbates metabolic and other remediable health consequences further. Various pharmacological therapies have been adopted when changing of lifestyle fail to achieve target glycaemic control. Our objective is to find out whether Orlistat can reduce both weight and need for oral hypoglycaemic agent (OHA) and improves glycaemic status,lipid disorders, blood pressure in Bangladesh type 2 DM with obesity. In this center, open-label, randomized, controlled pilot trial 36 type 2 patients with obesity were enrolled. All patients aged 40-65 years had BMI >25 kg/m2 taking sulfonylureas and hypocalorie diet. Twenty one randomly cases were treated with orlistat 120 mg three times daily for 6 months and 15 without orlistat as control. Body weight, waist circumferances, fasting blood sugar, HbAlc,serum lipids, blood pressure and dose of drugs were monitored at 0,12, 24 weeks. After 6 months, orlistat group showed non-significant weight loss than control group (3.95% vs 1.42% from base lines), but showed significant reduction of waist circumference (6 % vs 0.63 %, p<0.01 vs p>0.05 from base line). Orlistat group had significant improvement in glycaemic status (HbA1c changes: 22.37% vs 13.38%, p<0.001 vs p>0.05 and FBS changes: 21.76% vs 22.95%, p<0.01vs p<0.05). Lipid profile had reduced significantly from base lines (Chol: 19.31% vs 9.12%,p<0.001vs >0.05; LDL Chol: 24.99% vs 19.09%, p<0.001 vs p<0.01; Triglyceride: 34.48% vs 12.61%, p<0.001 vs p>0.05). Diastolic pressure had improved significantly in orlistat group (6.73% vs 3.70%, p<0.01 vs >0.05). Reduction of OHA doses were found in both groups. Thus orlistat can be used as an adjuvant therapy with other OHA in managing glycaemic control, lipid profiles and blood pressure.
