A previously apparently healthy male patient developed Coombs-positive haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytopenia during phenoxymethylpenicilline intake. A drug dependent IgG red cell antibody was demonstrated in patient's serum. In vitro tests with patient's serum suggested formation of complexes involving penicilline which by complement mediated mechanisms were able to agglutinate red cells in saline medium. Platelet agglutinins were demonstrated in patient's serum but their drug dependence has not been fully elucidated. The mechanism of drug mediated autoantibody synthesis might have been involved in the pathogenesis of thrombocytopenia.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is a leading cause of occupational asthma. Although considerable controversy remains regarding its pathogenesis, TDI-induced asthma is an inflammatory disease of the airways characterized by airway remodeling caused, at least in part, by an excess of extracellular matrix deposition in the airway wall. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are major proteolytic enzymes that are involved in extracellular matrix turnover because of their ability to cleave all proteins constituting extracellular matrix. Previous studies have reported that MMP-9 might play a role in chronic airway inflammation and remodeling in asthma.
An aim of the current study was to evaluate the effects of MMP-inhibiting antibiotic, doxycycline, and MMP inhibitors on hyperresponsiveness and inflammation of the airways in TDI-induced asthma.
We used a murine model for TDI-induced asthma to examine the effect of doxycycline or MMP inhibitors on bronchial inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness.
The following typical pathophysiologic features are observed in the lungs of the mice: airway inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness, and increased expression of MMP-9 mRNA and protein. Administration of doxycycline and MMP inhibitors reduced all of these pathophysiologic findings. In addition, the increased phosphorylated Akt but not Akt protein levels in lung tissues after TDI inhalation were significantly reduced by the administration of doxycycline and MMP inhibitors.
These findings suggest that doxycycline may reduce airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway in a murine model of TDI-induced asthma.
Sympathomimetic-related intracerebral hemorrhage is well-documented. Most cases are associated with phenylpropanolamine use.
We report a case of intracerebral hemorrhage occurring in a middle-aged man who suffered from chronic sinusitis and had been ingesting pseudoephedrine daily for one year. This patient was previously well with no known cardiovascular risk factors. Clinical examination revealed no evidence of vasculitis nor coagulopathy and initial neuroimaging (i.e., computed tomography, angiography, magnetic resonance imaging) demonstrated no features consistent with aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation (AVM), cavernoma, nor cerebral metastases. A follow-up cerebral angiogram demonstrated a small AVM arising off a branch of the pericallosal artery and a small arteriovenous fistula arising off the costal marginal branch. The AVM was embolized without incident, however, the AVF was not accessible.
Sympathomimetics have long been associated with intracerebral hemorrhage. Since 1979, over 30 published case reports have documented the relationship between phenylpropanolamine and stroke. Only one report links phenylpropanolamine consumption to an intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient with an AVM. There is a paucity of literature etiologically inculpating other ephedra alkaloids in the causation of intracerebral hemorrhage. This is a case of pseudoephedrine-induced intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient with an underlying vascular malformation.
The present study was designed to assess the effect of long-term isradipine treatment on the morphology of different-sized coronary artery branches in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Male SHR (12-week-old) received 1 mg/kg/day isradipine or vehicle (control group) orally for 12 weeks. Age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as a reference group and did not receive any treatment. The animals were perfused with a fixative solution through the left ventricle and left ventricle blocks were embedded in resin. Sections including different-sized coronary artery branches were examined under a light microscope connected with an image analyser. The area occupied by the medial layer and the wall-to-lumen ratio were assessed in coronary artery branches of small (diameter less than 100 microns), medium (diameter 100-250 microns) and large (diameter greater than 250 microns) size. In control SHR, the blood pressure values and morphometric parameters examined significantly increased (p less than 0.001) in comparison with normotensive WKY rats. Isradipine treatment normalized blood pressure values in SHR and significantly reduced the area occupied by the medial layer and the wall-to-lumen ratio in small and medium-sized, but not in large-sized, coronary artery branches. These results indicate that isradipine treatment is able not only to reduce blood pressure elevation in SHR, but also to counteract the hypertension-dependent changes in the morphology of arterial branches controlling coronary resistances.
We studied the neurobehavioral effects of prenatal exposure of MT-null and wild-type mice to elemental mercury vapor (Hg0). Pregnant mice of both strains were repeatedly exposed to Hg0 vapor at 0.50 and 0.56 mg/m3 for 6 h/day until the 18th day of gestation. The behavioral effects were evaluated with locomotor activity in the open field, learning ability in the passive avoidance response and spatial learning ability in the Morris water maze at 12 weeks of age. Hg0-exposed MT-null mice showed a significant decrease in total locomotor activity in males, and a learning disability in the passive avoidance response and a retarded acquisition in the Morris water maze in females as compared with the control. In contrast, Hg0-exposed wild-type mice did not differ from controls in the three behavioral measurements. The results indicate that MT-null mice would be more susceptible than wild-type mice to the behavioral neurotoxicity of prenatal Hg0 exposure. Mercury concentrations in the brain of both strains were slightly higher in the exposed group than in the control group, indicating the retention of residual mercury even 12 weeks after the cessation of the exposure. Brain concentrations of mercury were also significantly higher in the exposed-females than exposed-males in either strain. From these results, we suggest that the increased susceptibility of MT-null females to behavioral changes caused by prenatal Hg0 exposure is due to a greater retention of mercury and lack of MT-I,-II in the brain.
Modulation of smooth muscle cell (SMC) phenotype plays a central role in neointima formation. We recently demonstrated that Am80, a synthetic retinoic acid receptor alpha-specific agonist, inhibits the activity of the transcription factor KLF5, which is essential for neointima formation after vascular injury. In the present study, we aimed to further analyze the mechanism by which Am80 inhibits KLF5 and the effects of inhibiting KLF5 on SMCs and vascular lesion formation, as well as to evaluate potential of Am80 for use in the prevention of in-stent neointima formation. We found that Am80 inhibited both the expression and transcriptional function of KLF5. Of particular interest was our finding that KLF5 forms a transcriptionally active complex with unliganded RAR/RXR heterodimer on the PDGF-A promoter; Am80 disrupts this complex, thereby inhibiting KLF5-dependent transcriptional activation. Knocking down KLF5 using small interfering RNA suppressed serum-induced downregulation of SMC differentiation marker gene expression in cultured SMCs, and haploinsufficiency of KLF5 in mice attenuated phenotypic modulation of SMCs after vascular injury, indicating that KLF5 plays a key role in the control of SMC phenotype. Am80 augmented expression of the SMC differentiation marker genes in culture and within the vessel walls, and oral administration of Am80 significantly inhibited in-stent neointima formation in a rabbit stent-placement model. Taken together, these results demonstrate that KLF5 plays an important role in the control of SMC phenotype after vascular injury and suggest the feasibility of using Am80, delivered systemically and/or with a drug eluting stent, to prevent in-stent neointima formation.
An 18-year-old patient is described who presented with febrile neutropenia and hepatitis caused by minocycline therapy. This rare complication of minocycline-induced lupus syndrome is discussed here.
The hemodynamic effects of intravenous infusion of milrinone were evaluated in 25 patients undergoing CABG using an internal mammary artery graft. Milrinone was administered to 9 patients at the time of weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, at a dosage of 3 to 5 micrograms/kg/min. Postoperative cardiac function was compared in this group versus the other 17 patients who were treated without milrinone. We determined such parameters as cardiac index, wedge pressure and mean pulmonary pressure. Our findings did not show any significant difference between the 2 groups. We also studied a subject of low-output patients (EF < 0.5). In the patients with low-cardiac output, the use of milrinone in addition to standard postoperative administration of low-dose dopamine reduced mean pulmonary pressure and wedge pressure. Thus, milrinone not only improved the left ventricular function, but also expanded the pulmonary vascular bed.
Mrs AB was admitted in the 34th week of pregnancy with eclampsia. Prompt parenteral (intravenous and intramuscular) administration of magnesium sulfate arrested the convulsions and prevented additional seizures. Because of a dangerously elevated blood pressure, intravenous hydralazine was administered to reduce the blood pressure. Unfortunately, the hydralazine was given more frequently than recommended, and the blood pressure was decreased rapidly and too far. This resulted in the development of a serious fetal bradycardia secondary to reduced uteroplacental perfusion. Fortunately, the blood pressure spontaneously recovered as did the fetus. Three hours after admission, Mrs AB was awake and alert. Her fetus had also recovered from the effects of the convulsions and the treatment with hydralazine. Mrs AB's laboratory values had all been reported by this time, and her intravenous intake and urinary output were well regulated. Importantly, because of the presence of significant hemoconcentration (hematocrit at 32 weeks' was 36 and at 34 weeks', 44), a careful search for pulmonary edema was made. Additionally, fluid administration was conservative in order not to produce pulmonary edema. At this point, an induction of labor was commenced. The induction of labor was rapidly successful, and Mrs AB delivered a small but vigorous male infant who subsequently did well. Mrs AB was monitored hourly for the first 12 hours postpartum to ensure adequate blood pressure control and to prevent pulmonary edema. Her subsequent puerperal course was without adverse incident. She diuresed massively, and her blood pressure rapidly returned to normal.
A 64-year-old man was diagnosed with unresectable cancer of the trachea. He was treated definitively with a novel chemoradiation regimen. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy (ChT) was given for two cycles as induction, followed by concurrent administration of this ChT with external beam radiotherapy (RT) (total dose 60 Gy). An unexpected partial tumour response was noted after the induction of ChT alone. Six weeks after finishing ChT/RT, complete response of the lesion was noted on computed tomography imaging. Two years later, the patient was free of disease. Primary chemoradiation appears to be effective in managing locally advanced tracheal cancer.
The conventional method of inducing status epilepticus by injecting pilocarpine 24 h after lithium chloride (LiCl) administration lacks kinetic correlate. Therefore, the present study was conducted to see the effect of altering the time schedule of lithium administration (from 2 to 72 h) on the convulsive behavior in response to pilocarpine challenge in rats. It was observed that reducing the pretreatment time of lithium from 24 to 2 h produced convulsions in 100% of the rats. However, incidence of convulsions decreased when lithium pretreatment time was increased to 48 h and no convulsions were recorded with 72-h lithium time schedule. The neuronal damage assessed histologically and the effectiveness of diazepam was similar irrespective of time schedule. This study provides evidence that LiCl pretreatment schedule can be adopted at any time between 2 to 24 h to suit the convenience and objectives of the experiment.
The tumorigenic potential of phenobarbital was examined in a 26-wk carcinogenesis bioassay using p53 heterozygous mice and wild-type controls. Fifteen mice/sex/genotype were exposed to either 500 or 1,000 ppm phenobarbital in the diet. Dietary administration of 3,750 ppm p-cresidine, a transspecies mutagenic carcinogen, to both heterozygous and wild-type mice served as a positive control. Phenobarbital treatment caused increases in liver:body weight ratios and histologic evidence of centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy. No tumors were observed in any phenobarbital-treated mice. Mice given p-cresidine exhibited a moderate reduction in body weight gain over the course of the study. Heterozygous mice treated with p-cresidine exhibited a high incidence of urinary bladder tumors. Similar tumors were also present in a small number of p-cresidine-treated wild-type mice. Our results demonstrate the lack of a hepatic tumor response to phenobarbital, a compound that is a potent and potent and prototypic hepatic microsomal enzyme inducer, a nongenotoxic rodent carcinogen, and a human noncarcinogen. This finding supports the continued utility of this model as an alternative to the mouse bioassay for human carcinogenic safety assessment of potentially genotoxic carcinogenes because it did not produce a false-positive response to this potent nongenotoxic agent.
The transgenic heterozygous p53+/- knockout mouse has been a model for assessing the tumorigenicity of selected carcinogens administered by noninhalation routes of exposure. The sensitivity of the model for predicting cancer by inhaled chemicals has not been examined. This study addresses this issue by acutely exposing p53+/- mice of both sexes by nose-only inhalation to either air (controls), or to 1 of 2 levels of 239PuO2 (500 or 100 Bq 239Pu) or beryllium (Be) metal (60 or 15 micrograms). Additional wild-type p53+/+ mice were exposed by inhalation to either 500 Bq of 239PuO2 or 60 micrograms of Be metal. These carcinogens were selected because they operate by differing mechanisms and because of their use in other pulmonary carcinogenesis studies in our laboratory. Four or 5 of the 15 mice per sex from each group were sacrificed 6 mo after exposure, and only 2 pulmonary neoplasms were observed. The remainder of the mice were held for life-span observation and euthanasia as they became moribund. Survival of the p53+/- knockout mice was reduced compared to the p53+/+ wild-type mice. No lung neoplasms were observed in p53+/- mice exposed to air alone. Eleven of the p53+/- mice inhaling 239PuO2 developed pulmonary neoplasms. Seven p53+/+ mice exposed to 239PuO2 also developed pulmonary neoplasms, but the latency period for pulmonary neoplasia was significantly shorter in the p53+/ mice. Four pulmonary neoplasms were observed in p53+/- mice exposed to the higher dose of Be, whereas none were observed in the wild-type mice or in the heterozygous mice exposed to the lower dose of Be. Thus, both p53+/- and p53+/+ mice were susceptible to 239Pu-induced carcinogenesis, whereas the p53+/- but not the p53+/+ mice were susceptible to Be-induced carcinogenesis. However, only 2 pulmonary neoplasms (1 in each of the 239PuO2 exposure groups) were observed in the 59 p53+/ mice that were sacrificed or euthanatized within 9 mo after exposure, indicating that the p53+/- knockout mouse might not be appropriate for a 6-mo model of carcinogenesis for these inhaled carcinogens.
Amphotericin B nephrotoxicity limits its therapeutic use. The mechanisms involved in the deleterious effect on the kidney include a preglomerular vasoconstriction. Nifedipine, a calcium antagonist which acts also on the afferent arteriolar tone, did not, however, prevent renal impairment in the rats of our study. This could be due either to a negligible role of the hemodynamic changes in the development of renal failure or to a lack of efficacy of nifedipine on the vasoconstrictor mechanism induced by amphotericin B.
The form and function of the heart are the final result of an integration of cells, tissues, and extracellular material. The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a complex array of different molecular components, and it plays an important role for the transfer of mechanical force in both contraction and relaxation phases in the cardiac cycle. ECM plays also a significant role in the development of the heart. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression of important ECM components in the heart of rats with induced CDH to test the hypothesis that an alteration of ECM may contribute to the cardiac maldevelopment, which recently has been identified as a contributive factor for the high mortality rate in babies with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH).
CDH model was induced in pregnant rats after administration of 100 mg of nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation (term, 22 days). In control animals the same dose of olive oil was given without nitrofen. Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. The fetuses were divided into 2 groups: normal control (n = 10) and nitrofen-induced CDH (n = 10). Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate the relative amount of tropoelastin and alpha1 (I) procollagen mRNA expression. Elastin protein content was measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
There was a reduction in tropoelastin mRNA (P <.05) and procollagen mRNA (P <.05) in CDH compared with controls. The cardiac alpha-elastin content also was reduced in CDH (P <.01).
The reduced cardiac tropoelastin and procollagen gene expression and the reduced alpha-elastin content indicate that the heart in CDH structurally is immature. The reduced production of cardiac ECM may contribute to a contractile dysfunction, which makes the heart unable to respond to the hemodynamic load accompanying persistent pulmonary hypertension (PPH).
Atypical antipsychotic medications are increasingly prescribed for child and adolescent patients. Relatively little information on adverse events (AEs), specifically in children or adolescents taking atypical antipsychotics, is available.
The Food and Drug Administration spontaneous AE reporting postmarketing surveillance database was queried for olanzapine until March 31, 2000. Patient exposure estimates as of the same date were provided by the manufacturer. AE complaints and exposure estimates were divided by age: children (birth-9 years), adolescents (10-19), and adults (20+). AE complaint risks per 10,000 patients exposed were calculated along with risk ratios across age groups and their 95% confidence intervals.
Extrapyramidal syndrome complaint risks were similar across development, and tardive dyskinesia complaint risks were comparable in adolescents and adults. Overrepresented AE complaints in children included sedation, weight gain, liver function abnormalities, and tardive dyskinesia. Overrepresented AE complaints in adolescents included sedation, weight gain, liver function abnormalities, and prolactin increase.
Extrapyramidal syndromes may be no more common in children and adolescents with olanzapine than in adults. The frequency of some other AEs may differ across development. Caution is warranted because of the likelihood of reporting bias. Similar analyses should be conducted with other atypical antipsychotics.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate age-related changes in the protein and gene expression of modulators of erectile function (nitric oxide [NO] and endothelin-1 [ET-1]) and growth factors such as transforming growth factor (TGF-beta1) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the penile tissue of Brown-Norway (BN) rats. Young and old BN male rats were euthanized, and the penile tissue was processed for immunohistochemical and molecular analyses. Total RNA was extracted, and an Access reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) system was used for messenger RNA (mRNA) expression analysis. Immunohistochemical studies showed a decreased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) protein and an increased staining for ET-1. Quantitative analysis of PCR products revealed decreased levels of VEGF mRNA expression in the old population of rats. The most significant decrease was detected between bands corresponding to splice forms 164 (21%) and 120 (18%). The observed alterations in the gene expression of growth factors such as VEGF may contribute to the abnormal age-related morphological and physiological alterations in the erectile tissue.
This paper reports the result of an open-label, non-randomized clinical trial investigating the efficacy and safety of an injectable preparation of testosterone undecanoate (TU) dissolved in castor oil and given over a 3.2-year period. In a previous study we demonstrated that injections of TU every 6 weeks resulted in satisfactory substitution but a tendency toward testosterone accumulation. Here we investigate prolonged TU treatment at extended injection intervals in 7 hypogonadal men. Injections were given at gradually increasing intervals between the fifth and 10th injection, and from then on every 12 weeks. Steady state kinetics were obtained after the 13th injection. Well-being, sexual activity, clinical chemistry, prostate volume, and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and serum hormone levels were monitored. Patients were clinically well-adjusted throughout the study. Before the next injection, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and estradiol levels were mostly within the normal range and showed a tendency to decrease with increasing injection intervals. Body weight, hemoglobin, serum lipids, PSA, and prostate volume did not change significantly during the 3.2 years of treatment. PSA levels were always within the normal limit. Maximal testosterone levels during steady state kinetics were measured after 1 week with 32.0 +/- 11.7 nmol/L (mean +/- SD). Before the last injection, mean testosterone concentrations were 12.6 +/- 3.7 nmol/L. Compared with conventional testosterone enanthate or cypionate treatment requiring injection intervals of 2-3 weeks and resulting in supraphysiological serum testosterone levels, injections of TU at intervals of up to 3 months offer an excellent alternative for substitution therapy of male hypogonadism.
The incidence of drug-induced congestive heart failure with several newer antiarrhythmic agents including encainide, ethmozine, lorcainide, mexiletine, propafenone and tocainide was determined in a group of 407 patients who underwent 1,133 drug tests. The incidence rate ranged from 0.7% with lorcainide to 4.7% with propafenone. Congestive heart failure was present in 167 patients (41%) who underwent 491 drug trials. Congestive failure was induced in 15 (9%) of these 167 patients and involved 19 (3.9%) of the 491 tests. Left ventricular ejection fraction was 20 +/- 8% in patients who developed congestive failure, in contrast to 39 +/- 19% in those who did not (p less than 0.001). It is concluded that each of the six antiarrhythmic drugs examined has the potential to aggravate congestive heart failure in patients with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction or a history of congestive heart failure, but the incidence rate is low and its occurrence unpredictable.
Alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) possess properties suggesting that they may be involved in the pathogenesis of restless legs syndrome (RLS). We sought to determine if alpha-MSH and ACTH when administered centrally in rat recapitulate features reminiscent of RLS: increased activity, sleep fragmentation, and periodic movements during sleep. Rats were instrumented with electroencephalography, electromyography, and intracerebral cannulae and recorded for the measurement of sleep, periodic movements, and behavior following intracerebroventricular administration of alpha-MSH, ACTH, or saline. Studied behavior included grooming, locomotion, and rearing during wake and limb movements during sleep. Vigilance states included active wake (AW), quiet wake (QW), slow wave sleep I (SWSI), slow wave sleep II (SWSII), and paradoxical sleep (PS). All rats received normal saline acting as their own controls. Different rats received alpha-MSH in doses of 0.05, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, and 6.0 microg or ACTH in doses of 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 microg. Administered alpha-MSH caused an increase in waking behavior and prolongation of sleep latency, while ACTH stimulated waking behavior and fragmented sleep, yielding more AW and less SWSII and PS. Both hormones increased periodic movements during sleep. When administered centrally in rat, alpha-MSH and ACTH stimulate motor activity in wake, cause changes in sleep architecture, and increase periodic movements in sleep. These melanocortin hormones may play a role in the pathogenesis of RLS.
A defect in opsonisation can cause a common immunodeficiency. A mutation in mannose binding protein (MBP) caused by point mutations in the MBP gene will lead to such a defect. This type of syndrome can cause recurrent infections in infants between 6 and 18 months of age but is not generally believed to predispose to adult infections. We looked at 4 patients with severe and unusual infections in whom MBP gene mutations were the only identified cause of immunodeficiency and one patient with combined MBP and IgA deficiency. We analysed the MBP genotypes of all the patients in whom we suspected an immunodeficiency because of their clinical history. Infections seen were recurrent skin abscesses, chronic cryptosporidial diarrhoea, meningococcal meningitis with recurrent herpes simplex, and fatal klebsiella lobar pneumonia. Both sexes were affected and ages ranged from 15 to 56 years. Two patients were homozygous for codon 54 mutations, one patient had codon 52 and codon 54 mutations and was phenotypically homozygous, and two patients were heterozygous for codon 54 mutations. Individuals homozygous for MBP mutations are unusual in the general population (approximate frequency 0.3%). The occurrence of three homozygotes for MBP mutations among these five infected patients suggests that MBP deficiency may confer a life-long risk of infection.
Long-term lamivudine treatment for chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection induces the emergence of lamivudine resistant HBV YMDD mutant strains. The aim of the present study was to observe the clone evolution of YMDD wild type and mutant strains in pretreatment and post-treatment samples during lamivudine therapy and analyze their clinical significance.
Ten serum samples (five before and five after 48 weeks of therapy) obtained from five patients chronically infected with HBV and treated with lamivudine were studied. Part of the HBV polymerase gene flanking the YMDD motif was sequenced after polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Meanwhile, 20-24 clones were selected at random from each sample and YMDD wild type and mutant strains were detected by real-time fluorimetry PCR established in our laboratory.
The YMDD mutants were not detectable in all five patients before treatment and were found in four patients after 48 weeks of therapy by sequencing directly on PCR products. Analysis of individual clones showed that the ratios of mutant strains in each of the five patients were 0, 9.5, 0, 4.5 and 5.6%, respectively, before therapy and 100, 100, 65, 100 and 0%, respectively, after 48 weeks of therapy. M552I was detected before therapy in one patient but M552V became the domain strain after therapy. Until 52 weeks of therapy, serum HBV DNA and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) breakthrough were found in two of the four patients with YMDD mutations. The fifth patient experienced breakthrough of ALT but HBV DNA remained undetectable.
The mutant strains of YMDD motif of HBV polymerase could be found in patients before lamivudine treatment, indicating that antiviral therapy allows the rapid selection of resistant strains. The replication ability of the M552V mutant strain might be stronger than that of the M552I mutant strain.
Zonisamide, a widely available antiepileptic drug, has been approved in Japan as adjunctive therapy with levodopa for the treatment of previously treated patients with Parkinson's disease. It is an oral 1,2-benzisoxazole-3-methanesulfonamide and is associated with increased striatal dopamine levels in animal models. In two 12-week, randomized, double-blind, multicentre trials in adult patients with inadequately controlled Parkinson's disease and receiving levodopa, zonisamide 25 mg once daily (the recommended dosage) significantly improved motor function from baseline at final assessment, as assessed by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part III total score (primary endpoint), compared with placebo. Zonisamide 25 mg once daily as adjunctive therapy with levodopa was generally well tolerated by patients with Parkinson's disease. The overall incidence of adverse events was not significantly different between zonisamide 25 mg once daily and placebo groups in the phase IIb/III trial.
The present study investigated whether several ECG markers of ventricular repolarization are associated with ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation (VT/VF) inducibility in subjects with type 1 ECG pattern of Brugada syndrome (BS).
The clinical data of 23 individuals (19 males, age 42.69 +/- 14.63) with spontaneous (n = 10) or drug-induced (n = 13) type 1 ECG pattern of BS who underwent programmed ventricular stimulation were analysed. Sustained VT/VF was induced in 17 subjects (74%) and was significantly associated with the presence of spontaneous type 1 ECG of BS (P = 0.012). Among the studied ECG repolarization markers, subjects with inducible VT/VF displayed an increased T(peak)-T(end) interval in leads V(2) (88.82 +/- 15.70 vs. 78.33 +/- 4.08 ms, P = 0.02) and V(6) (76.33 +/- 10.08 vs. 66.66 +/- 5.16 ms, P = 0.04) and a greater T(peak)-T(end)/QT ratio in lead V(6) (0.214 +/- 0.028 vs. 0.180 +/- 0.014, P = 0.009) compared with those without arrhythmias. Ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation inducibility was not associated with arrhythmic events during a mean follow-up period of 4.61 +/- 2.14 years (P = 0.739).
The T(peak)-T(end) interval and T(peak)-T(end)/QT ratio were associated with VT/VF inducibility in BS. The utility of T(peak)-T(end)/QT ratio as a new marker of arrhythmogenesis in BS requires further studies, including a large number of patients.
To evaluate the role of cytochrome 450 2D6 (CYP2D6) and ABCB1 variants on plasma risperidone concentrations and treatment response in 83 drug-naive patients experiencing a first episode of psychosis.
All patients were treated with risperidone for 8 weeks. The CYP2D6 genotyping was performed by allele-specific PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis (for alleles *3,*4,*6) and long-distance PCR (for duplications and allele *5), while real-time PCR analysis was used for the ABCB1 G2677T/A and C3435T variants. Plasma concentrations of risperidone and 9-OH risperidone were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography.
The number of patients with the CYP2D6 wild type (wt)/wt, wt/mutation (mut) and mut/mut genotype was 43, 32 and 8, respectively. The number of patients with the ABCB1 2677G/G, G/T and T/T variants was 29, 42 and 12, respectively; those with the 3435CC, C/T and T/T variants was 25, 37 and 21, respectively. The CYP2D6 genotype had a strong effect on the steady-state dose-corrected plasma levels (C/D) of risperidone, its 9-OH metabolite and the active moiety, while the ABCB1 2677 T/T and 3435 T/T genotypes has similarly strong effects on the active moiety C/D. The CYP2D6 poor metabolizers had a significantly higher risperidone C/D and active moiety C/D and lower 9-OH risperidone C/D. The ABCB1 3435 T allele and the ABCB1 2667 T-3435 T haplotype carriers were more frequent among subjects without extrapyramidal syndromes. Patients showed significant improvements in positive and general symptoms, but not in negative symptoms. These changes were not related to variations in genetic and drug concentration data.
Our findings suggest that CYP2D6 and ABCB1 G2677T and C3435T may be useful determinants of risperidone plasma concentrations, but the clinical implications of these associations in relation to treatment response and side-effects remain unclear.
Angiotensin-(1-7) displays antihypertensive and antiproliferative properties although its effect on cardiac remodeling and hypertrophy in hypertension has not been fully elucidated. The present study was designed to examine the effect of chronic angiotensin-(1-7) treatment on myocardial remodeling, cardiac hypertrophy and underlying mechanisms in spontaneous hypertension. Adult male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were treated with or without angiotensin-(1-7) or the angiotensin-(1-7) antagonist A-779 for 24 weeks. Mean arterial pressure, left ventricular geometry, expression of the hypertrophic markers ANP and β-MHC, collagen contents (type I and III), collagenase (MMP-1), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and tissue inhibitor of MMPs-1 (TIMP-1) were evaluated in WKY and SHR rats with or without treatment. Our data revealed that chronic angiotensin-(1-7) treatment significantly suppressed hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, expression of ANP and β-MHC as well as myocardial fibrosis in SHR rats, the effects of which were nullified by the angiotensin-(1-7) receptor antagonist A-779. In addition, angiotensin-(1-7) treatment significantly counteracted hypertension-induced changes in the mRNA expression of MMP-2 and TIMP-1 and collagenase activity, the effects of which were blunted by A-779. In vitro study revealed that angiotensin-(1-7) directly increased the activity of MMP-2 and MMP-9 while decreasing the content of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2. Taken together, our results revealed a protective effect of angiotensin-(1-7) against cardiac hypertrophy and collagen deposition, which may be related to concerted changes in MMPs and TIMPs levels. These data indicated the therapeutic potential of angiotensin-(1-7) in spontaneous hypertension-induced cardiac remodeling.
Arsenic has been identified as a major contributing risk factor for development of blackfoot disease (BFD), a unique peripheral vascular disease that was endemic to the southwestern coast of Taiwan, where residents imbibed artesian well water continuing high amounts of arsenic for more than 50 yr. Chronic arsenic exposure was found to be associated with ischemic heart disease (CHD) in a dose-dependent manner. A tap-water supply system was implemented in the early 1960s in the BFD-endemic areas. Artesian well water was no longer used for drinking and cooking after the mid-1970s. The objective of this study was to examine whether CHD-related mortality decreased after consumption of high-arsenic-containing artesian well water ceased and, if so, when the reduction occurred. Standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) for CHD were calculated for the BFD endemic area for the years 1971-2000. Cumulative-sum techniques were used to detect the occurrence of changes in the SMRs. Data show that mortality attributed to CHD declined gradually for approximately 17 to 20 yr following cessation of consumption of high-arsenic artesian well water. Based on the reversibility criterion, the association between arsenic exposure an1rd CHD-related mortality is likely to be causal.
