Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors are widely used as pesticides and drugs. Their primary effect is the overstimulation of cholinergic receptors which results in an improper muscular function. During vertebrate embryonic development nerve activity and intracellular downstream events are critical for the regulation of muscle fiber formation. Whether AChE inhibitors and related neurotoxic compounds also provoke specific changes in gene transcription patterns during vertebrate development that allow them to establish a mechanistic link useful for identification of developmental toxicity pathways has, however, yet not been investigated. Therefore we examined the transcriptomic response of a known AChE inhibitor, the organophosphate azinphos-methyl (APM), in zebrafish embryos and compared the response with two non-AChE inhibiting unspecific control compounds, 1,4-dimethoxybenzene (DMB) and 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP). A highly specific cluster of APM induced gene transcripts was identified and a subset of strongly regulated genes was analyzed in more detail. The small heat shock protein hspb11 was found to be the most sensitive induced gene in response to AChE inhibitors. Comparison of expression in wildtype, ache and sop(fixe) mutant embryos revealed that hspb11 expression was dependent on the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) activity. Furthermore, modulators of intracellular calcium levels within the whole embryo led to a transcriptional up-regulation of hspb11 which suggests that elevated intracellular calcium levels may regulate the expression of this gene. During early zebrafish development, hspb11 was specifically expressed in muscle pioneer cells and Hspb11 morpholino-knockdown resulted in effects on slow muscle myosin organization. Our findings imply that a comparative toxicogenomic approach and functional analysis can lead to the identification of molecular mechanisms and specific marker genes for potential neurotoxic compounds.
This study examined the effects of long-term treatments with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, and the calcium antagonist, amlodipine, on the morphologic changes, progressive left ventricular dysfunction, and gene expression of the ryanodine receptor (RyR) and phospholamban (PLN) in dilated cardiomyopathy. From the ages of 5 through 20 weeks, dilated cardiomyopathic hamsters, BIO53.58 (BIO), and control hamsters, F1b, orally received either enalapril or amlodipine. Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography. At the age of 20 weeks, the collagen volume fractions were analyzed by the stereologic method. RyR and PLN messenger RNAs (mRNAs) were examined by Northern blot in the amlodipine group. In BIO, the reduction of left ventricular percentage of fractional shortening was attenuated in the enalapril group (p < 0.05) and amlodipine group (p < 0.001), and the increase in the collagen volume fraction and the loss of myocytes were suppressed in the amlodipine group compared with the untreated group. RyR mRNA level decreased in BIO (p < 0.01) compared with F1b, but PLN mRNA level was unchanged. RyR and PLN mRNA levels were unaffected by the treatment with amlodipine. Enalapril and amlodipine prevent progressive remodeling and reduce cardiac dysfunction in BIO. Amlodipine prevents fibrosis and cell death without modifying RyR and PLN mRNA levels in BIO.
Tacrolimus (formerly known as FK506) is a macrolide immunosuppressant that has been used to prevent rejection of solid organ allografts. Acute hemolytic anemia is one of the side effects associated with tacrolimus therapy, and two mechanisms have been described to account for acute hemolytic anemia in patients receiving tacrolimus: drug-induced hemolysis and alloimmune hemolysis resulting from donor lymphocytes derived from the allograft (passenger lymphocyte syndrome). We report a case of a liver transplant recipient who developed fatal autoimmune hemolytic anemia while under treatment with tacrolimus for allograft rejection, and in whom postmortem examination revealed a clinically unsuspected posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder. This case implicates autoimmune hemolytic anemia as a novel mechanism of acute hemolysis in patients treated with tacrolimus and further suggests that acute hemolytic anemia in this group of patients may herald an occult lymphoproliferative disorder.
There is an ongoing debate over whether it is necessary to screen patients with an ECG before and during therapy with methadone. We present two patients who developed QT prolongation and sustained ventricular arrhythmias during treatment. Our experience as well as a literature survey indicate that an ECG should be performed before and during long-term methadone treatment.
After taking risperidone for 4 months, a 38-year-old man with a major depressive disorder experienced rabbit syndrome. This uncommon extrapyramidal side effect is characterized by rhythmic movements of the mouth and may be caused by typical antipsychotics and risperidone secondary to blockade of dopamine D2 receptors. The syndrome, whose exact mechanism is unknown, responded to anticholinergic treatment in this patient. A literature review indicated that most recent cases have occurred as reactions to the atypical antipsychotic risperidone. Changing treatment to an atypical antipsychotic other than risperidone, such as olanzapine 10 mg/day, may lead to suppression or elimination of the syndrome.
Several definitions have been used to assess rates of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Whether the definition influences observed rates of CIN is unclear. The Oxilan Registry was the first-ever prospective analysis of the efficacy and safety of ioxilan (low-osmolar and low-viscosity contrast medium), including rates of CIN assessed by multiple definitions, in PCI. From July 2006 to June 2007, consecutive patients undergoing PCI using ioxilan were enrolled. Serum creatinine (SCr) and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) were assessed at baseline and 3 to 5 days after PCI. CIN was defined as SCr increase >or=0.5 mg/dl, eGFR decrease >or=25%, SCr increase >or=25%, or the composite. Of 400 patients (age 62 +/- 11 years), 19% were women, 37% were diabetic, 22% were anemic, and 8% had a history of congestive heart failure. Baseline SCr was 1.12 +/- 0.3 mg/dl and 24% had an eGFR <60 ml/min. CIN rates were 3.3% (SCr increase >or=0.5 mg/dl), 7.6% (eGFR decrease >or=25%), 10.2% (SCr increase >or=25%), and 10.5% (composite). Hospitalization was prolonged in 3.4% of patients with CIN and none required dialysis. There were no deaths or severe allergic reactions. Non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction and repeat revascularization each occurred in 0.8%. In conclusion, in this unselected population undergoing PCI, CIN ranged in frequency from 3.3% to 10.5% depending on the definition used and was not associated with in-hospital mortality or substantial morbidity, such as dialysis. The wide variation in CIN and its lack of association with adverse outcomes underscore the need for a standardized, clinically relevant definition.
Current smoking cessation treatments are not optimal as the long-term abstinence rates are low. Nicotine replacement therapy and bupropion are the only pharmacotherapies widely available to smokers and there is a need to improve current cessation treatments and to develop new drug therapies. Our goal is to use pharmacogenetic information to improve smoking cessation treatments. Candidate genes include those involved in central mechanisms (such as genes encoding the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, dopamine receptors, dopamine transporters and opioid receptors) and peripheral mechanisms (such as genes encoding the drug-metabolizing enzymes CYP2A6 and CYP2B6). Pharmacogenetics could be used to improve current smoking cessation treatments through two general approaches. The first would be to identify novel drug targets based on genetic variants that are associated with a natural protection against nicotine dependence, decreased smoking behaviour and/or increased smoking cessation. This knowledge could be used to develop drugs that can mimic these advantages, reducing the risk for acquisition, block the rewarding effects of smoking, decreasing the amount smoked and increasing cessation. The second would be to identify smokers with particular genetic variants who are likely to respond better to one treatment (or dose) versus another and to individualize their treatment to maximize long-term abstinence. This review will highlight examples of how pharmacogenetic information from central and peripheral candidate genes could contribute to improving smoking cessation outcomes by these two approaches.
The Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is a malformation/mental retardation syndrome resulting from an inborn error in 3beta-hydroxysteroid Delta7-reductase (DHCR7), the terminal enzyme required for cholesterol biosynthesis. Using a targeting strategy designed to virtually eliminate Dhcr7 activity, we have created a SLOS mouse model that exhibits commissural deficiencies, hippocampal abnormalities, and hypermorphic development of serotonin (5-HT) neurons. The latter is of particular interest with respect to current evidence that serotonin plays a significant role in autism spectrum disorders and the recent clinical observation that 50% of SLOS patients present with autistic behavior. Immunohistochemical analyses have revealed a 306% increase in the area of 5-HT immunoreactivity (5-HT IR) in the hindbrains of mutant (Dhcr7-/-) mice as compared to age-matched wild type animals. Amount of 5-HT IR was measured as total area of IR per histological section. Additionally, a regional increase as high as 15-fold was observed for the most lateral sagittal hindbrain sections. In Dhcr7-/- mice, an expansion of 5-HT IR into the ventricular zone and floor plate region was observed. In addition, the rostral and caudal raphe groups exhibited a radial expansion in Dhcr7-/- mice, with 5-HT IR cells present in locations not seen in wild type mice. This increase in 5-HT IR appears to represent an increase in total number of 5-HT neurons and fibers. These observations may help explain the behavioral phenotype seen in SLOS, and provide clues for future therapeutic interventions that utilize pharmacological modulation of the serotonergic system.
Oxidative stress induces endothelial dysfunction and hypoadiponectinemia. We previously reported that supplementation with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), one of the most potent naturally occurring reducing agents and an essential cofactor of enzymatic NO synthase (NOS), ameliorates endothelial dysfunction and reverses hypoadiponectinemia as a result of oxidative stress in rats. To further confirm this hypothesis, we investigated the effects of treatment with BH4 on endothelium-dependent relaxation and adiponectin levels during oxidative stress in fructose-fed rats, which provide an animal model for the metabolic syndrome. Ingestion of a fructose diet for 8 weeks significantly impaired endothelium-dependent arterial relaxation in aortic strips and decreased plasma adiponectin levels, as well as adiponectin mRNA levels within adipose tissue. However, oral supplementation with BH4 (10 mg/kg day) over the final 4 weeks leads to a significant partial reversal of impaired endothelium-dependent arterial relaxation, as well as normalization of plasma adiponectin and fat adiponectin mRNA levels. Moreover, BH4 treatment of the fructose-fed rats significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation content of aorta, heart, liver, and kidney tissues, which were increased in fructose-fed rats. This effect of BH4 treatment may be due to its function as a cofactor for eNOS, as well as its anti-oxidative effects. Thus, BH4 might show promise for the treatment of oxidative stress-induced disorders, including the metabolic syndrome.
Haloperidol is a widely used neuroleptic drug for the treatment of acute and chronic psychosis. The use of haloperidol is limited by extrapyramidal movement disorders such as Parkinsonism, akathesia, dystonia, and tardive dyskinesia (TD). Treatment with haloperidol increases oxyradicals which are implicated in TD. Spirulina is widely used as nutritional supplement rich in proteins and antioxidants. The present study is proposed to study the effect of spirulina on haloperidol induced TD and oxidative stress by studying TD, various enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants and lipid peroxidation. Haloperidol 1 mg/kg/i.p was used to induce vacuous chewing movements in rats. Spirulina maxima suspended in 1% between 80 at a dose of 45, 90 and 180 mg/kg were administered by gavage along with haloperidol from 21st day to 49th day of treatment. Spirulina supplementation at a dose of 180 mg/kg significantly improved enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants and decreased the tardive dyskinesia induced by haloperidol. In conclusion, the results of present investigation suggest that spirulina decreases haloperidol induced oxidative stress and TD by many mechanisms as it is cocktail of antioxidants. On chronic use it may inhibit haloperidol induced reduced expression of DNA thereby increases the expression of enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants and protects against oxidative stress induced neurodegeneration and TD.
The aim of this study was to determine the incidence and characteristics of pain following intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 (PGE). We injected PGE into the cavernous tissues of 156 patients with erectile dysfunction who had never previously been injected with PGE. The incidence and characteristics of pain after injection were evaluated by the patients' response to a questionnaire. The intensity of pain was determined by the degree of impediment to intercourse, verbal rating scale (VRS), numerical rating scale (NRS), and visual analogue scale (VAS). Patients scoring 'no pain' on the VRS, NRS, and VAS were 11.5%, 7.7%, and 7.7%, respectively. Overall incidence of pain was 91%. There was 'much' or 'very much' impediment to intercourse because of pain in 14 (9.1%) patients. The most common kind of pain was 'heavy pain' in 90% of the patients followed by 'throbbing' in 38%, 'aching' in 21%, 'tightening' in 18%, and 'shooting' in 13%. The mean duration of pain was 101.2 +/- 63.7 minutes and it lasted during the entire erection period in 71(50.4%) patients. There were significant correlations among the degree of impediment to intercourse, VRS, NRS, and VAS scores (all p < 0.01). However, no association was noted between pain intensity and both erectile response to PGE and injected dose. The higher incidence of intracavernous PGE-induced pain reported here compared to other studies might be related to difference in pain thresholds among races. The high incidence of pain but low frequency of much impediment to intercourse would be related to the pain characteristics as well as the intensity of pain.
Clinical studies revealed that azithromycin reduces airway neutrophilia during chronic rejection after lung transplantation. Our aim was to investigate the possible effect of azithromycin on ischaemia-reperfusion injury. Azithromycin or water was administered to mice every other day during 2 weeks (n = 6/group). On the 14th day, the left lung was clamped to induce ischaemia (90 min). In two additional groups, animals underwent the same protocol, followed by 4 h of reperfusion. Two control groups were included with thoracotomy only. Inflammatory parameters and oxidative stress were measured in broncho-alveolar lavage of the left lung. Leukocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils, 8-isoprostane and IL-1beta levels after ischaemia and reperfusion were significantly reduced in mice treated with azithromycin. There was a trend towards lower IL-6 and KC levels. A significant correlation was seen between 8-isoprostanes and neutrophils (Pearson r = 0.72; P = 0.0086), IL-6 (Pearson r = 0.84; P = 0.0006), KC (Pearson r = 0.88; P = 0.0002) and IL-1beta (Pearson r = 0.62; P = 0.0326). We conclude (i) that azithromycin reduces inflammation and oxidative stress in our IRI model, and (ii) that oxidative stress is correlated with the number of neutrophils and IL-6, KC and IL-1beta levels after ischaemia and reperfusion. Azithromycin should be further investigated as a novel drug to prevent lung ischaemia-reperfusion injury.
We compared the effects of cilnidipine and nifedipine retard on 24-h blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), and autonomic nerve activity in patients with essential hypertension. Cilnidipine is a novel and unique 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium antagonist that has the L-type and N-type voltage-dependent calcium channel-blocking action. Fourteen hypertensive outpatients (four men and 10 women; aged 64 +/- 2 years, mean +/- SEM) were enrolled in this study. Their ambulatory BP and electrocardiogram were monitored for 24 h at intervals of 30 min with a portable recorder after a 4-week drug-free period, after a 4-week treatment period with cilnidipine (5 or 10 mg once daily), and after a 4-week treatment period with nifedipine retard (10 or 20 mg twice daily). The order of the three periods was randomized. Autonomic nerve activity was evaluated by a power spectral analysis of HR variability, by using the high-frequency (HF) component as an index of parasympathetic nerve activity and the ratio of the low-frequency (LF) component to the HF component (LF/HF) as an index of sympathovagal balance. Cilnidipine and nifedipine retard significantly reduced the 24-h BP of these patients to similar extents (cilnidipine, -11 +/- 3/-6 +/- 1 mm Hg; nifedipine retard, -15 +/- 3/-6 +/- 2 mm Hg). Cilnidipine did not change the 24-h average HR, whereas nifedipine retard significantly increased it (+3.3 +/- 1.4 beats/min; p < 0.05). Nifedipine retard significantly increased the LF/HF ratio in the daytime and the nighttime. Such changes were limited to the daytime in the treatment period with cilnidipine. These results suggest that cilnidipine is effective as a once-daily antihypertensive agent and had less influence on autonomic nervous system and HR than did nifedipine retard.
Methotrexate (MTX) is an indispensable antimetabolite for the treatment of oncological and immunological disorders in all age groups. Chronic leukoencephalopathy is a well know side effect of MTX, especially in conjunction with intrathecal administration and whole brain radio therapy. However, acute neurotoxicity with confusion, disorientation, seizures and focal deficits has also been reported. Because acute neurological symptoms in patients under chemotherapy for neoplastic disorders may have many reasons, MR-imaging is usually necessary to identify the underlying pathology. Apart from conventional sequences, diffusion-weighted imaging (DW-MRI) is frequently performed. We report on clinical and imaging findings of reversibly restricted diffusion in a patient with transient encephalopathy after intrathecal administration of MTX for recurrent acute lymphatic leukaemia.
The authors report a case of massive pulmonary embolism revealing thrombocytopenia induced by a low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) initially proposed for the treatment of superficial phlebitis. The diagnosis was confirmed by in vitro aggregation tests and a fall in the platelet count when the LMWH was reintroduced. The outcome was clinically, angiographically and hematologically satisfactory in response to in situ treatment with prostaglandin, subsequently replaced by Vitamin K antagonists.
Arsenic trioxide (As₂O₃) is a highly effective treatment for patients with refractory/relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), but resistance to As₂O₃ has recently been seen. In the present study, we report the findings that 2 of 15 patients with refractory/relapsed APL treated with As₂O₃ were clinically As₂O₃ resistant. Leukemia cells from these 2 patients harbored missense mutations in promyelocytic leukemia gene-retinoic acid receptor-α gene (PML-RARA) transcripts, resulting in amino acid substitutions of A216V and L218P in the PML B2 domain. When wild-type or mutated PML-RARA (PR-WT and PR-B/L-mut, respectively) were overexpressed in HeLa cells, immunoblotting showed SUMOylated and/or oligomerized protein bands in PR-WT but not in PR-B/L-mut after As₂O₃ treatment. Protein-localization analysis indicated that PR-WT in the soluble fraction was transferred to the insoluble fraction after treatment with As₂O₃, but PR-B/L-mut was stably detected in fractions both with and without As₂O₃. Immunofluorescent microscopy analysis showed PR-WT localization as a microgranular pattern in the cytoplasm without As₂O₃ and as a macrogranular pattern with As₂O₃. PR-B/L-mut was diffusely observed in the cytoplasm with and without As₂O₃. Nearly identical localization patterns were observed in patients' primary cells. Therefore, B2 domain mutations may play an important role in aberrant molecular responses toAs₂O₃ and may be critical for As₂O₃ resistance in APL.
120 children, 71 male and 49 female, aged between 2 years and 15 years (mean 6.15 +/- 3.52 years) with recurrent respiratory infections, were treated with Immucytal, an immunomodulator of bacterial origin, based on membrane proteoglycan fractions plus bacterial ribosomes. The children, selected on the basis of the previous year's clinical score, were treated according to a random design with either Immucytal or placebo, using the same dosage of one puff per nostril plus one puff in the oropharyngeal cavity three times a day, as follows: 1st month: two weeks' treatment, one week wash out, one week's treatment. 2nd, 3rd, 4th months: two weeks' treatment, two week's wash out. Monthly throughout the treatment period the frequency and severity of airway infections episodes were assessed using the same score as for admission. Blood chemistry test, immunological assays (circulating Ig, lymphocyte subpopulations, Merieux Multitest in vivo blastization test) and respiratory tests (spirometry using a pneumotachigraph) were done before and after the treatment. 118/120 children completed treatment; the two dropouts were in the placebo group, one for compliance and the other because of headaches. Respiratory symptoms improved significantly in the actively treated children already from the first month, but not in the placebo group. This improvement consisted of reduction of the respiratory infectious episodes in both the upper and lower airways. No changes were noted in respiratory function parameters. From the immunological viewpoint, there were significant rises in serum IgA and IgM and enhanced skin response tot he Multitest; there was no change in the percentages of different circulating lymphocyte subpopulations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The analysis of obesogenic effects in invertebrates is limited by our poor knowledge of the lipid metabolism's regulatory pathways. Recent data from the crustacean Daphnia magna points to three signaling hormonal pathways related to the molting and reproductive cycles (retinoic X receptor -RXR-, juvenile hormone -JH-, and ecdysone) as putative targets for exogenous obesogens.
The present study addresses the disruptive effects of the model obesogen tributyltin (TBT) on the lipid homeostasis in Daphnia along the molting and reproductive cycle, its genetic control, and health consequences of its disruption.
D. magna individuals were exposed to low and high levels of TBT. Reproductive effects were assessed by Life History analysis methods. Quantitative and qualitative changes in lipid droplets during molting and reproductive cycle were studied using Nile red staining. Lipid composition and dynamics were analyzed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to a time-of-flight mass spectrometer. Relative abundances of mRNA from different genes related to RXR, ecdysone and JH signalling pathways were studied by qRT-PCR.
TBT disrupted the dynamics of neutral lipids impairing the transfer of triacylglycerols to eggs and hence promoting their accumulation in adult individuals. TBT disruptive effects translated into a lower fitness for offspring and adults. Co-regulation of gene transcripts suggests that TBT activates the ecdysone, JH and RXR receptor signaling pathways, presumably through the already proposed interaction with RXR. This is the first clear evidence of obesogenic effects in a non-vertebrate species.
The effects of a new tricyclic antidepressant quinupramine (5-(3-quinuclidinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz [b, f] azepine) on various animal behaviors were examined in mice and rats and compared with those of imipramine, amitriptyline and maprotiline. Quinupramine antagonized haloperidol-induced catalepsy and tetrabenazine-induced ptosis and potentiated methamphetamine- and apomorphine-induced stereotyped behavior. These effects were almost the same as or even more potent than those of imipramine and amitriptyline. Quinupramine decreased locomotor activity in mice, but potentiated methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity to a greater degree than imipramine and amitriptyline. On the other hand, quinupramine inhibited muricide in accumbens-lesioned rats, but did not prominently inhibit muricide in olfactory-bulbectomized and raphe-lesioned rats. Quinupramine decreased the duration of immobility in low doses without affecting locomotor activity, and this effect was almost the same as that of imipramine and amitriptyline and more potent than that of maprotiline. Quinupramine antagonized physostigmine lethality and oxotremorine-induced tremor, suggesting that quinupramine has a central anticholinergic action. Quinupramine, like imipramine and amitriptyline, has no effect on conditioned avoidance behavior. In conclusion, quinupramine generally has the same behavioral profile as typical tricyclic antidepressants, but it has somewhat different effects from imipramine and amitriptyline since quinupramine has a potent central anticholinergic and a weak antimuricide effect.
Genipin is reported to stimulate the insertion of multidrug resistance protein 2 (Mrp2) in the bile canalicular membrane, thereby causing choleresis by the increased the biliary excretion of glutathione, which has been considered to be a substrate of Mrp2. In the present study, we examined the effect of genipin on cholestasis induced by estradiol-17beta-glucuronide and lithocholate-3-O-glucuronide, Mrp2 substrates, in rats. Further, the effect of genipin on the biliary excretion of substrates of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), vinblastine and erythromycin, was also studied.
The effect of genipin infusion at the rate of 0.5 micromol/min/100 g on cholestasis induced by estradiol-17beta-glucuronide (0.075 micromol/min/100 g for 20 min) and lithocholate-3-O-glucuronide (0.15 micromol/min/100 g for 40 min) was studied. The effect of genipin infusion on the biliary excretion of a tracer dose of vinblastine and erythromycin infused at the rate of 0.1 micromol/min/100 g was also studied.
Genipin relieved estradiol-17beta-glucuronide-induced cholestasis, and cumulative biliary estradiol-17beta-glucuronide excretion for 120 min was increased from 50 +/- 20%-81 +/- 20% dose. In contrast, genipin had no effect on lithocholate-3-O-glucuronide-induced cholestasis. Biliary excretion of a tracer dose of vinblastine and the maximum biliary excretion of erythromycin were significantly decreased by genipin.
Genipin protected estradiol-17beta-glucuronide-induced cholestasis. The mechanism of the protection of cholestasis by genipin is unknown, but it is speculated to be due to a conformational change of P-gp by genipin, in addition to the stimulation of Mrp2 insertion into the bile canaliculi.
Heparin, universally used in patients on dialysis, is the cause for immune-mediated heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT).
From an HIT registry, six patients were identified who received recent heparin solely for dialysis, developed HIT, and were treated with argatroban. Platelets counts, aPTTs, argatroban dosing, and outcomes were assessed.
Before HIT was diagnosed, unfractionated heparin was used in doses of 2,000-12,000 units. The mean platelet count fell from 122 +/- 62 x 10(9)/L to 35 +/- 22 x 10(9)/L, and one patient experienced thrombosis. After HIT was diagnosed, heparin was discontinued, and argatroban therapy (mean dose, 1.7 +/- 0.9 microg/kg/min) was administered for 6.5 +/- 4.5 days (mean aPTT, 66.1 +/- 12.4 s). Patients continued on renal replacement therapy. Platelet counts increased during argatroban therapy. A 37-day composite endpoint of death, amputation, or new thrombosis occurred in four (66.7%) patients: three patients died from causes unrelated to thrombosis, and one patient developed new thrombosis after argatroban was discontinued. One patient experienced a hematocrit drop during treatment without overt bleeding or a need for transfusion.
HIT can occur in patients administered heparin solely for hemodialysis. When HIT is suspected, heparin should be discontinued and an alternative anticoagulation initiated. Argatroban, which is not renally cleared, supports continued renal replacement therapy in HIT patients.
The carcinogenic effectiveness of a number of nitrosoalkylamides related to nitrosoethylurea and nitroso-n-propylurea has been compared by topical application to Swiss mice and by intragastric administration to F344 rats. Nitrosohydroxyethylurea and the related cyclic nitrosamide, nitrosooxazolidone, were as potent as nitrosoethylurea as skin carcinogens, although the latter was a much weaker mutagen to Salmonella. When administered p.o., nitrosooxazolidone induced mainly forestomach tumors in rats, while nitrosohydroxyethylurea was very broadly acting, inducing neoplasms of the lung, forestomach, glandular stomach, colon, duodenum, and bone (osteogenic sarcomas). Nitroso-2-hydroxypropylurea, nitroso-3-hydroxypropylurea, and nitroso-5-methyloxazolidone were all much more potent carcinogens on mouse skin than was nitroso-n-propylurea, nitroso-5-methyloxazolidone being somewhat less effective than the nitrosoureas; the mutagenicity to Salmonella seemed not to be quantitatively related to carcinogenicity. Nitroso-5-methyloxazolidone given p.o. to rats induced mainly forestomach neoplasms and a few neoplasms of the duodenum, whereas similar treatment of rats with nitroso-2-hydroxypropylurea induced a high incidence of neoplasms of the thymus, some of the forestomach, and few at any other site.
Tacalcitol is a synthetic vitamin D3 analogue developed for topical treatment of inflammatory skin diseases such as psoriasis. Hypercalcemia has not been previously reported during treatment with topical tacalcitol. We experienced a male patient with psoriasis and hypertension whose conditions were treated with tacalcitol ointment and thiazide, respectively, resulting in hypercalciuria and hypercalcemia. After initiation of topical vitamin D3 ointment (20 micro g/g of tacalcitol) 10 g/day for the skin lesions, both the serum level of calcium and urinary excretion of calcium increased gradually. On day 28 of the treatment, his serum calcium levels had reached 3.55 mmol/l, and his urinary calcium excretion had also increased from 0.008 g/day to 0.475 g/day. The tacalcitol treatment was terminated, seven days later, the serum calcium level had returned to the reference range without any specific treatment. The present case is the first report of hypercalcemia induced by vitamin D3 ointment and thiazide simultaneously.
In a patient with an overt Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and short paroxysms of atrio-ventricular tachycardia, episodes of atrial fibrillation occurred twice at age of 21 and 24. Atrial fibrillation degenerated into ventricular fibrillation. Intravenous injection of verapamil in this patient (with a short refractory period of the accessory pathway) could have facilitated ventricular fibrillation. The patient was resuscitated successfully. Electrophysiologic study revealed double accessory pathways--in the left free wall (effective refractory period in both directions--below 200 ms) and right posterior ++para-septal localization. 20th Nov 1990 A. Biederman M.D. performed surgical dissection of both accessory pathways. In control electrophysiologic studies there was no evidence of abnormal atrio-ventricular conduction. During one year follow up the patient reported no paroxysms of tachycardia.
Glutamine (Gln), glutamate (Glu) and gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) are essential amino acids for brain metabolism and function. Astrocytic-derived glutamine is the precursor of the two most important neurotransmitters: glutamate, an excitatory neurotransmitter, and GABA, an inhibitory neurotransmitter. In addition to their roles in neurotransmission these neurotransmitters act as alternative metabolic substrates that enable metabolic coupling between astrocytes and neurons. The relationships between Gln, Glu and GABA were studied under lead (Pb) toxicity conditions using synaptosomal fractions obtained from adult rat brains to investigate the cause of Pb neurotoxicity-induced seizures. We have found that diminished transport of [(14)C]GABA occurs after Pb treatment. Both uptake and depolarization-evoked release decrease by 40% and 30%, respectively, relative to controls. Lower expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), the GABA synthesizing enzyme, is also observed. In contrast to impaired synaptosomal GABA function, the GABA transporter GAT-1 protein is overexpressed (possibly as a compensative mechanism). Furthermore, similar decreases in synaptosomal uptake of radioactive glutamine and glutamate are observed. However, the K(+)-evoked release of Glu increases by 20% over control values and the quantity of neuronal EAAC1 transporter for glutamate reaches remarkably higher levels after Pb treatment. In addition, Pb induces decreased activity of phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG), which plays a role in glutamate metabolism. Most noteworthy is that the overexpression and reversed action of the EAAC1 transporter may be the cause of the elevated extracellular glutamate levels. In addition to the impairment of synaptosomal processes of glutamatergic and GABAergic transport, the results indicate perturbed relationships between Gln, Glu and GABA that may be the cause of altered neuronal-astrocytic interactions under conditions of Pb neurotoxicity.
Nineteen compounds of various classes, such as flavonoid glycosides, pterocarpanoids, lipids, glycolipids, and alkaloids, were isolated and identified from the Desmodium gangeticum whole plant. Aminoglucosyl glycerolipid (8) is reported here for the first time. Its structure has been elucidated by spectroscopic and degradation studies. This novel compound exhibited in vitro antileishmanial and immunomodulatory activities, as it enhanced nitric oxide (NO) production and provided resistance against infection established in peritoneal macrophages by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani. Another known compound, glycosphingolipid (cerebroside) (7) was found to possess significant in vitro antileishmanial and immunomodulatory activities against the same parasite. Other compounds were found to be inactive.
We report on a 22-year-old female who developed aplastic anemia after administration of phenobarbital for 6 years. Being refractory to steroid and anti-lymphocyte serum, the patient received allogeneic stem cell transplantation, achieving complete remission. We discuss here the potential mechanisms by which phenobarbital and other anti-epileptic drugs can cause aplastic anemia and review the literature for previous case reports and epidemiological studies.
