Since the introduction in 1979 of intravenous acetylcysteine (Parvolex) as an antidote for overdosage of paracetamol the National Poisons Information Service and the manufacturer have been notified of 38 adverse reactions that were anaphylactoid in nature and 19 accidental overdoses. The most common feature of the anaphylactoid reaction to normal dosage was rash; other features reported included angioedema, hypotension, and bronchospasm; all the patients recovered. The features associated with an overdose of acetylcysteine were similar but more severe; two patients died, but the extent to which the overdose of acetylcysteine may have been implicated was not clear in either case.
In elderly patients, both falls and impaired memory are considerable medical problems. Hypnotics, which are frequently administered to this patient group for the treatment of insomnia, should ideally not impair equilibrium or memory functions. This double-blind, randomised, four-way, cross-over study investigated the effects of frequently prescribed hypnotics from different classes on postural oscillation and memory under real life conditions. Zolpidem 5 mg, zopiclone 3.75 mg, lormetazepam 1 mg (i.e. usual starting doses in elderly) or placebo were administered at night to 48 healthy elderly volunteers aged 65 years or more. The study included four treatment periods separated by wash-out periods of at least 1 week.
Psychomotor tests up to 9 h or 10 h after drug intake included, for attention and body sway, clinical stabilometric platform (CSP) tests, simple reaction time (SRT), and the critical tracking test (CTT); for memory, the learning memory tasks (LMT) and the Sternberg memory scanning test (mean reaction time [MRT] and percentage of correct answers) were used. For subjective sleep evaluation the Leeds sleep evaluation questionnaire (LSEQ) and for sedation a visual analogue scale (VAS) were used. For safety evaluations, adverse events (AEs) were recorded.
The results demonstrate that compared with placebo, the active drugs increased body sway (area eyes open and closed in the CSP); however, this effect disappeared after 5 h with zolpidem, while it disappeared only after 8 h with lormetazepam and zopiclone. All three drugs did not affect attention assessed by the SRT and CTT. Concerning memory, Sternberg MRT at 9 h was not significantly different up to 5 digits for all groups in comparison with placebo, while for 6 digits it was significantly increased with lormetazepam and zopiclone. In the LMT, an impairment of performance was observed with lormetazepam relative to both zolpidem and placebo.
The safest compared drug with regard to body sway was zolpidem, because of its short-lasting effect. In addition, zolpidem did not show any significant effect on memory functions, in the present dose comparison.
GYKI 52466 [1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine] has been described as a non-competitive AMPA (non-NMDA glutamate) receptor antagonist. In the present paper some behavioral effects of GYKI 52466 were studied in male Wistar rats and male Albino Swiss mice. GYKI 52466 reduced the locomotor activity in normal rats and mice, without evoking any symptoms of behavioral stimulation. The CGP 37849-induced hyperlocomotion was increased by GYKI 52466. The akinesia in monoamine-depleted rats was not affected by the drug studied. The antiakinetic effect of L-DOPA was not changed by GYKI 52466, whereas the antiakinetic effect of L-DOPA+CGP 37849 was decreased. GYKI 52466 increased the hyperlocomotion induced by apomorphine or cocaine. The drug did not change the catalepsy induced by haloperidol or fluphenazine, as well as the anticataleptic effect of CGP 37849. GYKI 52466 was inactive in the forced swimming test, but increased the antidepressant effect of CGP 37849. The flexor and extensor muscle tone of the rats hind limb was not modified by GYKI 52466. The results obtained indicate that GYKI 52466 shows a neuropharmacological profile similar but not identical with that of the quinoxalines (competitive AMPA receptor antagonists) studied previously.
Taxol (paclitaxel, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ), a drug extracted from the stem bark of the western yew, shows great promise as an antineoplastic agent for ovarian, breast, nonsmall cell lung, and head and neck cancers; melanoma; and leukemia. Although Taxol first was isolated in 1971, completion of many phase I studies was delayed until 1988, primarily because the drug caused severe hypersensitivity reactions. Other side effects of Taxol include cardiotoxicity, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, mucositis, myelosuppression, tingling and numbness of the hands and feet, myalgia and arthralgia, alopecia, fatigue, headache, irritation at the injection site, and taste changes. Nursing care includes measures for preventing or minimizing side effects, close assessment and monitoring of potential side effects, patient education, and support. Because of the environmental impact of harvesting the western yew for Taxol, semisynthetic preparations such as taxotere are being explored.
Sex differences in mean arterial pressure (MAP) are reported in many experimental models of hypertension and are ascribed to gonadal sex based on studies showing that gonadectomy and gonadal hormone replacement affect MAP. The interpretation of these studies, however, has been confounded by differences in the sex chromosome complement (XX versus XY). To investigate the sex chromosome complement independent of gonadal sex, we used the 4 core genotype mouse model in which gonadal sex is separated from the sex chromosome complement enabling comparisons among XX and XY females and XX and XY males. We found that, in the gonadectomized (GDX) 4 core genotype, MAP after 2 weeks of angiotensin II infusion (200 ng/kg per minute) was greater in XX than XY (MAP [in millimeters of mercury]: GDX-XX-female, 148+/-4.5; GDX-XY-female, 133+/-4.4; GDX-XX-male, 149+/-9.4; GDX-XY-male, 138+/-5.5; P<0.03, XX versus XY; n=8 to 9 per group). In contrast, no sex chromosome effects were found on heart rate, body weight, or plasma angiotensin II 2 weeks after angiotensin II infusion. This study suggests that, in addition to effects of gonadal hormones on blood pressure, X- or Y-linked genes, parental imprinting, or X mosaicism contributes to sex differences in hypertension. Furthermore, the finding that MAP was greater in XX mice compared with XY mice in the GDX state suggests that adverse sex chromosome effects encoded within the XX sex chromosome complement could contribute to hypertension in women with ovarian hormone deficiency, such as postmenopausal women and women with premature ovarian failure.
Angiosarcoma is an aggressive malignancy that arises spontaneously or secondarily to ionizing radiation or chronic lymphoedema. Previous work has identified aberrant angiogenesis, including occasional somatic mutations in angiogenesis signaling genes, as a key driver of angiosarcoma. Here we employed whole-genome, whole-exome and targeted sequencing to study the somatic changes underpinning primary and secondary angiosarcoma. We identified recurrent mutations in two genes, PTPRB and PLCG1, which are intimately linked to angiogenesis. The endothelial phosphatase PTPRB, a negative regulator of vascular growth factor tyrosine kinases, harbored predominantly truncating mutations in 10 of 39 tumors (26%). PLCG1, a signal transducer of tyrosine kinases, encoded a recurrent, likely activating p.Arg707Gln missense variant in 3 of 34 cases (9%). Overall, 15 of 39 tumors (38%) harbored at least one driver mutation in angiogenesis signaling genes. Our findings inform and reinforce current therapeutic efforts to target angiogenesis signaling in angiosarcoma.
A patient with cryptogenic cirrhosis and disseminated sporotrichosis developed acute renal failure immediately following the administration of amphotericin B on four separate occasions. The abruptness of the renal failure and its reversibility within days suggests that there was a functional component to the renal dysfunction. We propose that amphotericin, in the setting of reduced effective arterial volume, may activate tubuloglomerular feedback, thereby contributing to acute renal failure.
At low doses, amphetamine has been shown to produce reliable increases in locomotor activity through its actions on the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) terminals in the nucleus accumbens (NAC). The basolateral amygdala (BLA) has recently been reported to have anatomical projections to the NAC, suggesting that it might serve to alter or modulate the function of the NAC. To test this hypothesis, the current experiment produced lidocaine-reversible lesions of the BLA and assessed changes in NAC function by examining alterations in locomotor activity in response to s.c. amphetamine (2mg/kg). While BLA inactivation alone was found to have no effect on spontaneous or basal locomotor activity, it produced a significant potentiation of amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. These results suggest that BLA inactivation removes a system that inhibits the locomotor response to amphetamine. The data are, therefore, consistent with the view that the BLA may serve to modulate NAC function.
Levodopa is a dopamine precursor exerting its cardiovascular effects by conversion to dopamine and by other mechanisms not elucidated yet. Since beta receptors are involved in levodopa Central Nervous System actions, we tried to find out whether adrenergic receptors are involved in the hypotensive effect of levodopa at peripheral level. Experiments were performed on urethane anesthetized (1 ml/100 g i.p.) and heparinized (300 U.I./kg i.v.) rats. Heart rate and mean carotid blood pressure were registered through a polygraph. Pulmonary ventilation was facilitated by a tracheal cannula. Drugs were infused into the femoral vein through a polyethylene catheter. Two series of the following drugs were assayed: a) Dopamine (3.12 to 25.0 micrograms/100 g i.v.) and levodopa (12.5 to 100 micrograms/100 g i.v.) as control groups. b) The aforementioned drugs and dosages were assayed 20 minutes after intravenous propranolol (50 micrograms/100 g), atenolol (100 micrograms/100 g) and ICI 118.55 (25 micrograms/100 g). Dopamine produced a dose-related hypotensive effect (p < 0.02) which was not modified by propranolol, atenolol or ICI 118.55. Levodopa produced a dose-related blood pressure fall which was not changed by atenolol pre-treatment. Contrariwise, propranolol and ICI 118.55 evoked a blood pressure raise with levodopa. Since propranolol and ICI 118.55 have in common the beta 2 receptor blockade, it is suggested that such receptor has a key role in the hypotensive response induced by levodopa.
The present study investigated whether the differential sensitivity of selectively bred gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB)-sensitive (GHB-S) and GHB-resistant (GHB-R) rats to GHB- and baclofen-induced sedation/hypnosis generalized to the motor incoordinating effect of the two drugs. To this aim, GHB-S and GHB-R rats were tested on a Rota-Rod after the acute administration of GHB (100-500 mg/kg, i.p.) and baclofen (1.25-5 mg/kg, i.p.). Significant line differences were observed in the dose-response curves for both GHB and baclofen, with GHB-S rats displaying a greater sensitivity to the motor incoordinating effects of both drugs than GHB-R rats. No line difference was observed in diazepam (1.25-5 mg/kg, i.p.), pentobarbital (5-15 mg/kg, i.p.), and ethanol (1-1.5 g/kg, i.p.) dose-response curves. These results suggest that the differential sensitivity of GHB-S and GHB-R rats to GHB and baclofen extends to the effects produced by doses of the two drugs which are 5-10 times lower than those for which rats have been selectively bred. These results are discussed in terms of the GABA(B) receptor being the likely neural substrate on which the differential sensitivity of GHB-S and GHB-R rats resides.
A patient with seizures, coma and respiratory depression after pentazocine overdose was treated successfully with naloxone and artificial ventilation. Pentazocine is an antagonist of the mu opioid receptors and a partial agonist of the kappa and sigma receptors. Because naloxone has less affinity for kappa and sigma receptors than for mu receptors, larger doses of naloxone are frequently required in the treatment of pentazocine overdose. Our case lends support to the view that large doses of the narcotic antagonist naloxone may be effective in pentazocine overdose.
The present study demonstrates that dose combinations of atropine sulfate and 2-pyridine aldoxime methylchloride (2-PAM), which do not produce any overt toxic effects on the behavior of mice or guinea pigs in a stable environment, elicit clonic-tonic convulsions and death when the animals are physically stressed by cold water swimming. Phenoxybenzamine (1-6 mg/kg), diazepam (0.625 and 1.25 mg/kg) and pilocarpine (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) significantly decreased (or abolished) the occurrence of atropine and 2-PAM stressed-induced convulsions and/or lethality. In contrast, propranolol (20 mg/kg), was ineffective in preventing either convulsions or lethality. Changes in plasma glucose levels and internal body temperature did not appear to explain the precipitation of convulsions or ensuing death. These results suggest that during acute physical stress, relatively low doses of atropine and 2-PAM produce toxic and lethal effects due to the activation of alpha-adrenergic mechanisms along with a concomitant inactivation of cholinergic mechanisms.
One of the obstacles in irradiation therapy is cytoresistance, acquired by activation of self-defense systems, such as antioxidant or molecular chaperone systems, to cope with stress. We investigated whether irradiation preconditioning (IP) rendered resistance of the kidney against subsequent ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) and attempted to elucidate any such protective mechanisms. Mice were irradiated with a total of 4, 6, or 8 Gy using a cesium-137 source irradiator and then, 6 days later, were subjected to 28 min of bilateral renal ischemia followed by reperfusion. Eight Gy of IP significantly attenuated the increases in plasma creatinine (PCr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration, structural damage, lipid peroxidation, superoxide formation, expression and activity of NADPH oxidase (NOX)-2, nitrotyrosine level, and hydrogen peroxide production after I/R in kidney tissues, indicating that IP protects the kidneys from I/R injury. IP markedly increased the activity of NOX, resulting in increased superoxide formation, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity and expression, and heat shock protein (HSP)-27 expression in kidneys. However, it did not change expressions of catalase, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD), and HSP-72. To investigate whether the protection afforded by IP was associated with increases in MnSOD and HSP-27 expression triggered by increased superoxide formation after IP, we administered manganese (III) tetrakis(1-methyl-4-pyridyl)porphyrin, a superoxide scavenger, to IP mice. This administration blocked superoxide formation and subsequent increases in MnSOD and HSP-27 expression and accelerated the post-I/R increases in PCr and BUN. In conclusion, IP renders kidney resistance to I/R injury, and this resistance is mediated by increased superoxide formation, which activates MnSOD activity and expression as well as HSP-27 expression.
We have identified a small molecular weight compound, SCH 14988, which specifically stimulates in vitro granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) production from activated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and monocytes but not other cytokines or CSFs with hematoregulatory activity. In vivo administration of SCH 14988 to mice rendered neutropenic by cyclophosphamide treatment resulted in the accelerated recovery of the peripheral neutrophil compartment. This activity correlated with increased in vivo G-CSF levels and stimulation of marrow granulopoiesis, and was comparable to that of exogenously administered recombinant human G-CSF. No alterations to other leukocyte populations in peripheral blood, spleen, or the peritoneal cavity were observed. These findings suggest that SCH 14988 may be clinically useful to enhance neutrophil granulopoiesis, as well as to study the mechanisms involved in G-CSF gene regulation.
To determine the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) and activity of levamisole administered concurrently with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in a standard 5-day course. To determine the pharmacokinetics of levamisole during the course of treatment.
Levamisole was administered to 38 patients orally three times a day for 5 days concurrently with a course of 5-FU administered daily by rapid intravenous injection for 5 days. Toxicity was evaluated in 20 patients who received escalating doses of levamisole. The activity of the combination was evaluated in 18 patients who received levamisole at the MTD with 5-FU. The pharmacokinetics of levamisole were characterized in ten patients at the MTD level.
Intractable vomiting, confusion and vertigo were the major dose-limiting toxicities. The MTD of oral levamisole was 100 mg/m2 administered three times a day concurrently with 450 mg/m2 per day intravenous 5-FU for 5 consecutive days. Partial responses lasting 5 and 11 months were observed in 2/18 patients with measurable disease at the MTD. Peak plasma concentrations of 1 microg/ml (range 0.6-1.3 microg/ml) were achieved 90 min (range 60-360 min) after an oral dose of 100 mg/m2 levamisole with a 3.5-fold accumulation noted following 4 days of administration. Peak plasma concentrations of p-hydroxylevamisole were about 5% of parent drug. Little parent drug (2-5%) was detected in urine.
Levamisole may be administered safely with 5-FU at doses which are up to four to five times greater than those presently given in conventional regimens. The recommended dose of levamisole combined with 5-FU for future research protocols is 75 mg/m2 t.i.d for 5 days.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), or liver cancer, is the third leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide, with prevalence 16-32 times higher in developing countries than in developed countries. Aflatoxin, a contaminant produced by the fungi Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus in maize and nuts, is a known human liver carcinogen.
We sought to determine the global burden of HCC attributable to aflatoxin exposure.
We conducted a quantitative cancer risk assessment, for which we collected global data on food-borne aflatoxin levels, consumption of aflatoxin-contaminated foods, and hepatitis B virus (HBV) prevalence. We calculated the cancer potency of aflatoxin for HBV-postive and HBV-negative individuals, as well as the uncertainty in all variables, to estimate the global burden of aflatoxin-related HCC.
Of the 550,000-600,000 new HCC cases worldwide each year, about 25,200-155,000 may be attributable to aflatoxin exposure. Most cases occur in sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, and China where populations suffer from both high HBV prevalence and largely uncontrolled aflatoxin exposure in food.
Aflatoxin may play a causative role in 4.6-28.2% of all global HCC cases.
Bisphenol A (BPA), an endocrine disrupting chemical, has been suspected to pose carcinogenic risks. However, likely mechanisms are obscure and there are difficulties to estimating its real significance for cancer development.
We therefore studied BPA-induced proteomic alterations in immune organs of ICR mice offspring that were prenatally exposed to BPA (15 and 300 mg/L of drinking water). We performed 2D-gel analyses of samples, considering differences in spleen, exposure levels, sex, and ages.
From proteomic analyses, we found various proteins were up- or down-regulated by BPA. Among them, SET, a putative oncogene and inhibitor of phosphatase 2A, was significantly down- regulated in a BPA dose-dependent manner. We also confirmed down-regulation of SET in western blot and real time PCR analyses. From gene network analysis, SET is predicted to communicate with other genes including CYP17, which is involved in biosynthesis and metabolism of sex-hormones.
This study provided evidence that SET can be applied as a new biomarker for prenatal BPA exposure and suggests a potential new mechanism of action in that BPA may disrupt CYP17 via SET.
Transferring parental splenocytes into unirradiated F1 mice induces a chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), characterized by the production of Th2 cytokines and immunocomplex-mediated glomerulonephritis resembling systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The effects of H1521, a new derivative of 4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxamide, were investigated in chronic GVHD lupus model. H1521 was administered to chronic GVHD mice for 10 weeks. Nephritic symptoms were monitored and cytokine expression in the spleen was detected. To clarify the direct effect of H1521 on CD4(+) T cell, CD4(+) T cells were isolated and co-cultured with H1521 under neutral and Th1 or Th2 driving conditions in vitro. H1521 (32 mg/kg) reduced the incidence of proteinuria by 50% in chronic GVHD mice. Ameliorated lupus symptoms and improved renal histopathology damage were also observed. Administration of H1521 had little impact on Th1 cytokine IL-2 and IFN-gamma or Th2 cytokine IL-4 and IL-10 mRNA expression. In contrast, severely deficient IFN-gamma production by concanavalin A-stimulated spleen cells in chronic GVHD mice was completely restored by H1521. In accordance with this, decreased T-bet mRNA expression became normalized with H1521 (32 mg/kg) treatment. In addition, in vitro studies demonstrated that H1521 preferentially favored Th1 differentiation in CD4(+) T cell and promoted IFN-gamma secretion in Th1 differential CD4(+) T cell. However, IL-4 secretion in naive or Th2 differential CD4(+) T cell was unaffected by H1521. In conclusion, H1521 can induce Th1 cytokine profile in CD4(+) T cells and has possible therapeutic value in Th2-predominant immune diseases.
Severe toxic ingestions of butoxyethanol (CAS No. 111-76-2) are rare despite the prevalence of this glycol ether in products such as glass and surface cleaners. Manifestations of acute butoxyethanol toxicity include metabolic acidosis, hemolysis, hepatorenal dysfunction, and coma, but vary widely in reported cases. Furthermore, the optimal therapeutic approach is not yet established. Much of the toxicity of butoxyethanol has been ascribed to its aldehyde and acid metabolites which are similar to those produced by oxidative metabolism of methanol and ethylene glycol. Although the roles of alcohol dehydrogenase inhibition with ethanol or fomepizole and hemodialysis are clear in the case of toxic ingestions of methanol and ethylene glycol, they remain poorly defined for butoxyethanol poisoning.
We report the case of a 51-year-old female who ingested up to 8 ounces of Sanford Expo White Board Cleaner (butoxyethanol and isopropanol). She developed prolonged hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis and mental status depression and was treated with ethanol therapy but not hemodialysis. This patient recovered without apparent sequelae. The kinetics of butoxyethanol metabolism in this case are described and the potential therapeutic options are discussed.
A case is described of bupivacaine toxicity after continuous cervical epidural infusion in a patient with intractable cancer pain. The patient had several periods of generalized tonic clonic seizures. Serial venous blood samples were taken after the first signs of toxicity. The highest total plasma bupivacaine level was 20.3 micrograms/mL. The corresponding free bupivacaine concentration was not determined. The highest measured free bupivacaine concentration was 1.21 micrograms/mL, corresponding with a total plasma bupivacaine level of 6.7 micrograms/mL. There were no signs of cardiovascular toxicity. The patient recovered after treatment without adverse sequelae.
A plasma concentration-time curve was constructed. There was a rise in the plasma concentration of bupivacaine after the continuous infusion was stopped.
Total body clearance of bupivacaine was 20 mL/min and elimination half-life was 27 hours.
The case emphasizes the importance of serial plasma concentrations of bupivacaine after continuous epidural infusion and the value of free bupivacaine concentration versus total bupivacaine concentration.
Bile acids are potentially toxic end products of cholesterol metabolism and their concentrations must be tightly regulated. Homeostasis is maintained by both feed-forward regulation and feedback regulation. We used humanized transgenic mice incorporating 13 kb of the 5' regulatory flanking sequence of CYP3A4 linked to a lacZ reporter gene to explore the in vivo relationship between bile acids and physiological adaptive CYP3A gene regulation in acute cholestasis after bile duct ligation (BDL). Male transgenic mice were subjected to BDL or sham surgery prior to sacrifice on days 3, 6, and 10, and others were injected with intraperitoneal lithocholic acid (LCA) or vehicle alone. BDL resulted in marked hepatic activation of the CYP3A4/lacZ transgene in pericentral hepatocytes, with an 80-fold increase in transgene activation by day 10. Individual bile acids were quantified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. Serum 6beta-hydroxylated bile acids were increased following BDL, confirming the physiological relevance of endogenous Cyp3a induction to bile acid detoxification. Although concentrations of conjugated primary bile acids increased after BDL, there was no increase in LCA, a putative PXR ligand, indicating that this cannot be the only endogenous bile acid mediating this protective response. Moreover, in LCA-treated animals, 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-d-galactopyranoside staining showed hepatic activation of the CYP3A4 transgene only on the liver capsular surface, and minimal parenchymal induction, despite significant liver injury. This study demonstrates that CYP3A up-regulation is a significant in vivo adaptive response to cholestasis. However, this up-regulation is not dependent on increases in circulating LCA and the role of other bile acids as regulatory molecules requires further exploration.
In the present study, we examined the neuroprotective effects of vitamin C in adult rats after pilocarpine-induced seizures. Vitamin C is an exogenous antioxidant that can be used in treatment of seizures. It can alter oxidative stress and damage neuronal induced by seizures. Its antioxidant properties can be proved in epilepsy models, such as pilocarpine-induced seizures in adult rats. In order to investigate neuroprotective effects of vitamin C, adult male rats (2 months-old) were pretreated with vitamin C (VIT C 250 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min before receiving pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, s.c., P400 group). The other three groups were treated with vitamin C (VIT C group) and saline 0.9 (control group) alone. The pretreatment with vitamin C increased the latency to first seizures and reduced mortality rate after pilocarpine-induced seizures. Pretreatment with vitamin C alone decrease lipid peroxidation levels when compared to pilocarpine group and P400+VIT C. In P400, P400+VIT C and VIT C groups were observed an increased hippocampal catalase activity when compared to control group. Our results can suggest that neuroprotective effects of vitamin C in adult rats can be the result of reduced lipid peroxidation levels and increase of catalase activity after seizures and status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine.
Intrinsic cervical spinal cord damage represents the serious and permanent complications that can occur if cervical epidural steroid injections are administered while the patient is sedated. Two case reports are presented.
To draw attention to the dangerous consequences that can arise from sedating a patient before administering a cervical epidural steroid injection.
Reported complications of cervical epidural steroid injections have been minor and infrequent. No reports of intrinsic cervical cord damage could be found in a comprehensive English language literature search.
Two case reports of permanent intrinsic cervical cord damage in patients who had been administered cervical epidural steroid injections while under intravenous sedation are presented. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed before and after the administration of cervical epidural steroid injections. Each patient had herniated nucleus pulposus before they received cervical epidural steroid injections and intrinsic cord damage on postinjection magnetic resonance images.
Both patients developed increased pain and neurologic symptoms within 24 hours of injection. To date, these symptoms appear to be permanent. However, Patient 1 had pain relief in her right arm and shoulder after undergoing a microdiscectomy, but pain was still persistent in her left leg, and she has developed a positive Lhermitte's sign.
These case reports indicate fluoroscopic guidance will not insure or prevent intrathecal perforation or spinal cord penetration during the administration of cervical epidural steroid injections. In addition, although intravenous sedations during cervical epidural steroid injections have been used numerous times without reported complications, it appears intravenous sedation in these two cases resulted in the inability of the patient to experience the expected pain and paresthesias at the time of spinal cord irritation. Therefore, the authors conclude that the patient should be fully awake during the administration of cervical epidural steroid injections, with only local anesthetic in the skin used for analgesia.
Passive smoking has been considered as a risk factor of many cancers. To examine whether it might also pose a risk for cervical cancer, we performed a meta-analysis based on published case-control studies.
We searched the PubMed database and references of included studies up to February 10th, 2012 for relevant studies. After two authors independently assessed the methodological quality and extracted data, a meta-analysis was conducted using CMA v2 software. Publication bias was evaluated by funnel plot, using Egger's and Begg's tests.
Finally 11 eligible studies yielded, involving 3,230 cases and 2,982 controls. The results showed that women who never smoke but exposed to smoking experience a 73% increase in risk of cervical cancer compared with non-exposed women (OR = 1.73, 95% CI = 1.35 - 2.21, p<0.001). Subgroup and sensitivity analyses indicated this result to be robust. Moderate publication bias was detected by visualing funnel plot, Egger's and Begg's tests.
Based on currently available evidence, the findings of this meta-analysis suggests that passive smoking significantly and independently increases the risk of cervical cancer.
The use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is based on their capacity to limit ventricular enlargement and dysfunction. To date, the safety profile of administration of ACE inhibitors early in the course of AMI has not been established. In-hospital and long-term consequences of treatment with the ACE inhibitor zofenopril initiated within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms were compared with those of standard treatment in an open-label trial involving 204 patients with AMI who were not undergoing thrombolytic treatment. Zofenopril promptly blocked ACE activation. Blockade was almost complete (91 +/- 6%) after 72 hours and paralleled decreases in systolic blood pressure. Systemic blood pressure was acutely reduced by zofenopril, and severe but reversible hypotension occurred in 15% of hospitalized patients and in 3% of those treated over the long term. No adverse clinical or biochemical events were reported during the course of zofenopril therapy. Overall cardiovascular mortality was not significantly reduced by early zofenopril compared with placebo therapy (7.8% vs 10.7% [difference not significant]). The inhospital incidence of acute left ventricular failure and ventricular arrhythmias decreased by 63% and 39%, respectively, among zofenopril-treated patients, who also reported fewer anginal episodes both acutely (68% reduction) and over the long term (56% reduction) and did not require as much drug treatment (i.e., diuretics, digoxin, and/or anti-ischemic agents) during the follow-up phase. Left ventricular size decreased and ejection fraction (EF) increased in patients who received zofenopril, and the improvement was greater among patients with poorer ventricular function (EF less than 40%). Early administration of ACE inhibitors may therefore constitute a safe form of therapy for patients with AMI, particularly when the event is complicated by clinical signs or evidence of ventricular dysfunction.
To develop an aplastic anemia model with hematopoietic stem cell failure in rats.
Normal Wistar rats were injected i.p. with 5-fluorouracil and 5 days later p.o. by busulfan once a week for 3 times. A 5-FU alone group and a busulfan alone group were as control. The parameters tested indices were as following: incidence and mortality of aplastic anemia rats, blood picture, bone marrow nucleated cell count, CFU-GM of bone marrow cells and histology of hematopoietic organs.
In the 5-FU plus busulfan group, the incidence of acute aplastic anemia was 82.0% (40/49 rats), the average survival time was (30.0 +/- 6.5) days. The remained 9 rats developed chronic aplastic anemia (18.0%). The total incidence of aplastic anemia was 100%, and the mortality was 98%. The blood cells count of the aplastic anemia rats was gradually reduced to a level of half the premedications and no CFU-GM was detected, and the patho-morphological examination showed that the bone marrow was replaced by fat cells, and the lymphoid tissue of spleen, thymus and lymph-nodes were remarkably atrophied without extra-medullary hematopoiesis. The control group (5-FU treated) developed a transient hematopoiesis suppression, and recovered rapidly to normal. Three of 12 rats in the busulfan treated group developed aplastic anemia.
5-FU combined with busulfan could impair the hematopoietic stem cells and resulted in an irreversible aplastic anemia in rats, making a rat aplastic anemia model with hematopoietic stem cell failure.
The purpose of the study was to assess the neurocognitive status of 6-month-old infants whose mothers were exposed to low but varying amounts of lead during pregnancy. Lead levels in the cord blood were used to assess environmental exposure and the Fagan Test of Infant Intelligence (FTII) assessed visual recognition memory (VRM). The cohort consisted of 452 infants of mothers who gave birth to babies at 33-42 weeks of gestation between January 2001 and March 2003. The overall mean lead level in the cord blood was 1.42 microg/dl (95% CI: 1.35-1.48). We found that VRM scores in 6 month olds were inversely related to lead cord blood levels (Spearman correlation coefficient -0.16, p=0.007). The infants scored lower by 1.5 points with an increase by one unit (1 microg/dl) of lead concentration in cord blood. In the lower exposed infants (1.67 microg/dl) the mean Fagan score was 61.0 (95% CI: 60.3-61.7) and that in the higher exposed group (>1.67 microg/dl) was 58.4 (95% CI: 57.3-59.7). The difference of 2.5 points was significant at the p=0.0005 level. The estimated risk of scoring the high-risk group of developmental delay (FTII classification 3) due to higher lead blood levels was two-fold greater (OR=2.33, 95% CI: 1.32-4.11) than for lower lead blood levels after adjusting for potential confounders (gestational age, gender of the child and maternal education). As the risk of the deficit in VRM score (Fagan group 3) in exposed infants attributable to Pb prenatal exposure was about 50%, a large portion of cases with developmental delay could be prevented by reducing maternal blood lead level below 1.67 microg/dl. Although the negative predictive value of the chosen screening criterion (above 1.67 microg/dl) was relatively high (89%) its positive predictive value was too low (22%), so that the screening program based on the chosen cord blood lead criterion was recommended.
Cilostazol (6-[4-(1-cyclohexyl-1H-tetrazol-5-yl)butoxy]-3,4-dihydro-2 (1H)-quinolinone, OPC-13013) is an anti-platelet aggregating and vasodilating drug. But cilostazol is known to have a tendency to cause headache, which is thought to be due to the dilatation of the external carotid artery. In the present study the effect of cilostazol on the blood flow in the carotid arteries was established by the Doppler ultrasound technique. Twelve patients with cerebral infarction (mean age 66.3 years) were divided into two groups consisting of 9 patients (Group 1) who did not have headache during treatment with cilostazol and 3 patients (Group II) who complained of headache. The systolic peak frequency (PEAK) of the common and external carotid arteries was measured using a Doppler ultrasound device. The PEAK of the common and external carotid arteries were examined before and 4 weeks after oral administration of 200 mg/d, 100 mg twice a day, cilostazol. In Group I, the PEAK in bilateral common carotid arteries increased significantly after treatment with cilostazol, but the PEAK in bilateral external carotid arteries showed no significant change. In Group II, the PEAK in both common carotid arteries showed no significant change after treatment with cilostazol, but the PEAK in the right external carotid artery increased significantly.
Previous reports of acute toxicity/harm associated with mephedrone use have been based on self-reported mephedrone use; toxicological screening has not been undertaken in these cases to determine whether mephedrone has been used.
To report the first case series of analytically confirmed mephedrone-related acute toxicity.
Serum samples were collected from individuals presenting to an emergency department (ED) with acute toxicity related to self-reported mephedrone use. Toxicological analysis, by gas-chromatography coupled with mass-spectrometry and liquid chromatography with tandem mass-spectrometry was performed to qualitatively confirm mephedrone use. Symptoms/signs of acute mephedrone toxicity and basic physiological parameters were extracted from the routine ED records.
Acute mephedrone-related toxicity was analytically confirmed in seven male patients; the mean ± SD age was 24.6 ± 6.5 years (range 16-36 years). Agitation (four patients) was the most common symptom/sign reported; other common symptoms/signs included: palpitations (two patients); chest pain (two patients); self-limiting pre-hospital seizures (one patient) and headaches (one patient). The mean heart rate was 109.1 ± 21.8 (range 80-140) beats per minute; one patient had a "severe" tachycardia (heart rate of ≥ 140 bpm). The mean systolic blood pressure was 153.0 ± 39.6 (range 110-210) mmHg; three patients had clinically significant hypertension (systolic blood pressure ≥ 160 mmHg).
These analytically confirmed acute mephedrone toxicity presentations had clinical features of toxicity consistent with an acute sympathomimetic toxidrome (e.g. hypertension, tachycardia and agitation). These findings are similar to the pattern of toxicity seen with other sympathomimetic recreational drugs such as 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and cocaine.
The process for determining whether a novel psychoactive substance should be controlled often relies on demonstrated/proven acute harm associated with its use. It is important that clinical toxicologists undertake appropriate biological sampling and toxicological analyses in suspected cases of "novel psychoactive drug" toxicity. This will ensure that both clinicians and legislative authorities are informed of the confirmed pattern of toxicity associated with these drugs.
