Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of furosemide, a widely used diuretic, were conducted by administering diets containing the drug to both sexes of F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice in 14-day, 13-week and 2-year studies. Deaths occurred among rats and mice receiving diets containing 46,000 ppm furosemide in 14-day studies, and animals given diets containing lower concentrations lost weight. No deaths were seen in 13-week studies using top concentrations ranging from 10,000 to 20,000 ppm, but animals at higher concentrations had lower weight gains than controls. Nephrosis in rats and mice was the only significant compound-related lesion observed in the prechronic studies. In 2-year studies, rats received diets containing 0, 350 or 700 ppm furosemide and mice received diets containing 0, 700 or 1400 ppm furosemide. Survival of dosed and control rats of both sexes and male mice was similar; survival of high-dose female mice was lower than controls. Nephropathy was increased in male rats and in male and female mice. In female mice, increased malignant tumors of the mammary gland were associated with furosemide administration. In male rats, marginal increases in tubular cell neoplasms of the kidney and in meningiomas of the brain were observed in dosed animals, but these were not considered to be related clearly to exposure to furosemide.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a developmental neurotoxicant and teratogen and is hypothesized to perturb a wide range of biological processes, like other metals including arsenic (As) and cadmium (Cd). Common inbred mouse strains including C57 (sensitive) and SWV (resistant) display differences in sensitivity to metals such as As and Cd when exposed during neurulation. In this study, we investigated the impact of MeHg on neurulation, assessing for potential differences in sensitivity and associated toxicogenomic response in C57 and SWV mouse embryos. Parallel with morphological assessments of neural tube closure, we evaluated quantitative differences in MeHg-induced alterations in expression between strains at the gene level and within gene-enriched biological processes. Specifically, we observed differing sensitivities to MeHg-induced impacts on neural tube closure between C57 and SWV embryos in a time-dependent manner. These observations correlated with greater impact on the expression of genes associated with development and environmental stress-related pathways in the C57 compared to the SWV. Additional developmental parameters (e.g. mortality, growth effects) evaluated showed mixed significant effects across the two strains and did not support observations of differential sensitivity to MeHg. This study provides potential insights into MeHg-induced mechanisms of developmental toxicity, alterations associated with increased MeHg sensitivity and common biological processes affected by metals in embryos undergoing neurulation.
Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of hydrochlorothiazide, a benzothiadiazide diuretic, were conducted by administering diets containing the drug to both sexes of F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice in 15-day, 13-week and 2-year studies. No rats died during the 15-day or 13-week studies at dietary concentrations of up to 50,000 ppm. Deaths of male mice in the top dose group in the 13-week study were likely to be related to chemical administration. In the prechronic studies, increased nephrosis and mineralization at the kidney corticomedullary junction were the primary toxic effects of hydrochlorothiazide observed in rats. In mice, chemical-related effects included nephrosis and calculi, inflammation and epithelial hyperplasia in the urinary bladder. In 2-year studies using dietary concentrations of 0, 250, 500 and 2000 ppm in rats and 0, 2500 and 5000 ppm in mice, survival of dosed and control groups of rats and mice was similar, as were body weights of mice. Dosed groups of male and female rats were uniformly lighter than controls (up to 25%) throughout the studies. Severe chronic renal disease with secondary parathyroid hyperplasia and fibrous osteodystrophy of the bone were attributed to chemical administration in rats. No neoplasms in rats or female mice or non-neoplastic lesions in mice were associated with hydrochlorothiazide. In high-dose male mice, liver neoplasms were increased but were not considered to be related to hydrochlorothiazide administration because of an unusually low incidence in the control group relative to historical controls.
Studies of fetal cocaine exposure and newborn neurologic function have obtained conflicting results. Although some studies identify abnormalities, others find no differences between cocaine-exposed and cocaine-unexposed infants. To determine the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on intrauterine growth and neurologic function in infants, we prospectively evaluated 253 infants shortly after birth.
Women who delivered a live singleton >36 weeks by dates were eligible for enrollment. Maternal exclusionary criteria were known parenteral drug use, alcoholism, and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; infant exclusionary criteria were Apgar scores </=4 at 5 minutes, obvious congenital malformations, seizures, or strokes. A total of 98% of infants were evaluated between 1 to 7 days of age. Newborns were assessed with the Neurological Examination for Children (NEC) by a pediatric neurologist (C.A.C.) who was blinded to exposure status. Gestational age was determined by Ballard's examination. Cocaine exposure was determined for the last trimester by radioimmunoassay of maternal hair (RIAH). Exposure values ranged from 2 to 4457 ng/10 mg hair. Infants were excluded if a maternal hair sample was missing (N = 13). The sample comprises 240 woman and infant pairs-104 cocaine-exposed and 136 cocaine-unexposed.
Compared with unexposed controls, cocaine-exposed infants exhibited higher rates of intrauterine growth retardation (24% vs 8%), small head circumference ([HC] <10th% percentile) (20% vs 5%) and neurologic abnormalities: global hypertonia (32% vs 11%), coarse tremor (40% vs 15%), and extensor leg posture (20% vs 4%). We found increasing odds (odds ratio) of growth and neurologic impairment with increasing level of cocaine exposure in stratified analyses. The odds ratio associated with three levels of cocaine exposure (no exposure, low exposure = RIAH 2-66 ng/mg; and high exposure = RIAH 81-4457 ng/mg) respectively are: 1.0, 3.3, and 6.1 for small head size (chi2 for trend); 1.0, 3. 3, and 4.3 for global hypertonia (chi2 for trend); 1.0, 3.4, and 7.4 for extensor leg posturing (chi2 for trend); and 1.0, 3.8, and 3.8 for coarse tremor (chi2 for trend). Significant associations between cocaine exposure and neurologic signs were found in logistic regression equations that controlled for 20 or more variables.
We conclude that adverse neonatal effects associated with fetal cocaine exposure follow a dose-response relationship: newborns with higher levels of prenatal cocaine exposure show higher rates of impairments in fetal head growth and abnormalities of muscle tone, movements, and posture. Significant relationships between cocaine exposure and these outcomes remain in controlled analyses.
In a crossover study 32 patients with hypertension were randomly allocated to treatment with spironolactone 200 mg/day for two months, propranolol 320 mg/day for two months, and a combination of both drugs at half the dose. Between the treatments placebo was given for two months. Both spironolactone and propranolol lowered the blood pressure significantly in both positions. The initial plasma renin activity (PRA) levels ranged from 0-4 to 5-0 mug angiotensin I l-1 h-1, and there was a close correlation between these levels and the effects of the drugs: with increasing PRA the response to propranolol was better while the opposite was true for spironolactone. Spironolactone reduced the blood pressure more at eight than at four weeks, while no such difference could be shown for propranolol. Spironolactone and propranolol together decreased the blood pressure still further irrespective of the initial PRA. All patients achieved a normal supine blood pressure.
An otherwise healthy 28-year-old man had a cardiac arrest after a day of motocross racing. He had consumed excessive amounts of a caffeinated "energy drink" throughout the day. We postulate that a combination of excessive ingestion of caffeine- and taurine-containing energy drinks and strenuous physical activity can produce myocardial ischaemia by inducing coronary vasospasm.
In a prospective, double-blind comparison, we assessed the efficacy of transdermal clonidine with that of chlordiazepoxide in the treatment of moderately severe acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome. While having significant withdrawal symptoms, 50 hospitalized men were randomly assigned to receive either transdermal clonidine or chlordiazepoxide over a 4-day study period. Outcome was evaluated daily, medically and psychiatrically, using both objective and subjective measurements for dependent variables. No patient in either study group had seizures or progression to delirium tremens. The group receiving transdermal clonidine had a more significant response globally for the signs and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal, as measured by the Alcohol Withdrawal Assessment Scale. Also, clonidine more effectively lowered elevated systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate. The core target symptom, anxiety, decreased significantly more in the patients receiving transdermal clonidine when measured by the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and its subscale for somatic anxiety. Cognitive function responded equally in both study populations. Clonidine-treated patients reported less diarrhea, dizziness, headache and fatigue, and the chlordiazepoxide-treated patients reported less nausea and vomiting. We conclude that transdermal clonidine is effective treatment for the acute alcohol withdrawal syndrome.
Small-colony variant (SCV) strains of Staphylococcus aureus show reduced antibiotic susceptibility and intracellular persistence, potentially explaining therapeutic failures. The activities of oxacillin, fusidic acid, clindamycin, gentamicin, rifampin, vancomycin, linezolid, quinupristin-dalfopristin, daptomycin, tigecycline, moxifloxacin, telavancin, and oritavancin have been examined in THP-1 macrophages infected by a stable thymidine-dependent SCV strain in comparison with normal-phenotype and revertant isogenic strains isolated from the same cystic fibrosis patient. The SCV strain grew slowly extracellularly and intracellularly (1- and 0.2-log CFU increase in 24 h, respectively). In confocal and electron microscopy, SCV and the normal-phenotype bacteria remain confined in acid vacuoles. All antibiotics tested, except tigecycline, caused a net reduction in bacterial counts that was both time and concentration dependent. At an extracellular concentration corresponding to the maximum concentration in human serum (total drug), oritavancin caused a 2-log CFU reduction at 24 h; rifampin, moxifloxacin, and quinupristin-dalfopristin caused a similar reduction at 72 h; and all other antibiotics had only a static effect at 24 h and a 1-log CFU reduction at 72 h. In concentration dependence experiments, response to oritavancin was bimodal (two successive plateaus of -0.4 and -3.1 log CFU); tigecycline, moxifloxacin, and rifampin showed maximal effects of -1.1 to -1.7 log CFU; and the other antibiotics produced results of -0.6 log CFU or less. Addition of thymidine restored intracellular growth of the SCV strain but did not modify the activity of antibiotics (except quinupristin-dalfopristin). All drugs (except tigecycline and oritavancin) showed higher intracellular activity against normal or revertant phenotypes than against SCV strains. The data may help rationalizing the design of further studies with intracellular SCV strains.
Deltamethrin is a synthetic pyrethroid insecticide used extensively in pest control. Aim of the current study was to investigate the ability of deltamethrin-based commercial formulation to induce genotoxicity and testicular injury in rats in comparison to the use of the biopesticide; Bacillus thuringiensis. Rats were divided into three groups: Group I (DEL) received deltamethrin, 5 mg/kgb.w./day orally, in corn oil. Group II (Biopesticide, B. thuringiensis) received oral suspension of the biopesticide at daily dose of 8400 mg/kgb.w./day. Group III (Control) received appropriate volume of corn oil. After 4 weeks, deltamethrin-treated rats showed decreased serum testosterone, luteinizing and follicle-stimulating hormone levels. Testicular total oxidant capacity (TOC), poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and DNA damage were significantly increased. Significant increase in bone marrow chromosomal aberrations, induced by deltamethrin, including chromatid breaks, deletions, fragments and gaps was also observed. RT-PCR demonstrated significant up-regulation in testicular mRNA for glutathione-s-transferase and heat-shock protein-70 (HSP-70) whereas steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) mRNA was down-regulated after deltamethrin exposure. Oral administration of the biopesticide, under the condition of our study, was found to be safe when compared to the deleterious effect of deltamethrin in rats.
PTH/PTHrP receptor gene expression was evaluated in situ in avian epiphyseal growth plates taken from normal, rachitic and tibial dyschondroplasia (TD) afflicted chicks induced by thiram or by genetic selection. In the normal growth plates, PTH/PTHrP receptor gene expression was localized to the maturation zone as demonstrated by the expression of collagen type II (col II), osteopontin (OPN) genes and alkaline phosphatase activity (AP). In TD, either induced by thiram or by genetic selection, normal levels of PTH/PTHrP receptor gene expression were observed up to 21 days post-hatch. In rickets, on the other hand, no PTH/PTHrP receptor gene expression was observed in the growth plate from day 8 of a vitamin D-deficient diet. In cultured chondrocytes, PTH caused time-dependent down-regulation of its own receptor. These results suggest that alterations in the PTH/PTHrP receptor gene expression are associated with rickets but not with TD. The reduction in the PTH/PTHrP receptor gene expression in rickets may be due to the high plasma levels of PTH.
To ascertain the molecule mechanism of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) inhibitor curcumin preventive and therapeutic effects in rats' colitis induced by trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS).
Sixty rats with TNBS-induced colitis were treated with 2.0% curcumin in the diet. Thirty positive control rats were treated with 0.5% sulfasalazine (SASP). Thirty negative control rats and thirty model rats were treated with general diet. Changes of body weight together with histological scores were evaluated. Survival rates were also evaluated. Cell nuclear NF-kappaB activity in colonic mucosa was evaluated by using electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Cytoplasmic IkappaB protein in colonic mucosa was detected by using Western Blot analysis. Cytokine messenger expression in colonic tissue was assessed by using semiquantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction.
Treatment with curcumin could prevent and treat both wasting and histopathologic signs of rats with TNBS-induced intestinal inflammation. In accordance with these findings, NF-kappaB activation in colonic mucosa was suppressed in the curcumin-treated groups. Degradations of cytoplasmic IkappaB protein in colonic mucosa were blocked by curcumin treatment. Proinflammatory cytokine messenger RNA expression in colonic mucosa was also suppressed.
This study shows that NF-kappaB inhibitor curcumin could prevent and improve experimental colitis in murine model with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The findings suggest that NF-kappaB inhibitor curcumin could be a potential target for the patients with IBD.
Humans are able to monitor their actions for behavioral conflicts and performance errors. Growing evidence suggests that the error-related negativity (ERN) of the event-related cortical brain potential (ERP) may index the functioning of this response monitoring system and that the ERN may depend on dopaminergic mechanisms. We examined the role of dopamine in ERN and behavioral indices of learning by administering either 3 mg of the dopamine antagonist (DA) haloperidol (n = 17); 25 mg of diphenhydramine (n = 16), which has a similar CNS profile but without DA properties; or placebo (n = 18) in a randomized, double-blind manner to healthy volunteers. Three hours after drug administration, participants performed a go/no-go Continuous Performance Task, the Eriksen Flanker Task, and a learning-dependent Time Estimation Task. Haloperidol significantly attenuated ERN amplitudes recorded during the flanker task, impaired learning of time intervals, and tended to cause more errors of commission, compared to placebo, which did not significantly differ from diphenhydramine. Drugs had no significant effects on the stimulus-locked P1 and N2 ERPs or on behavioral response latencies, but tended to affect post-error reaction time (RT) latencies in opposite ways (haloperidol decreased and diphenhydramine increased RTs). These findings support the hypothesis that the DA system is involved in learning and the generation of the ERN.
We report a case of anorexia nervosa in a 14-year-old girl following withdrawal of oral prednisolone used in the treatment of asthma. The patient exhibited depressed affect and disturbance of body image prior to onset of anorexia. To the authors' knowledge this is the first report of anorexia nervosa precipitated by steroid withdrawal. The pathogenesis is discussed with reference to recent literature, considering both the physiological and psychological impact of steroid withdrawal.
The exact mechanism of gentamicin-induced acute renal failure is presently unknown; various mechanisms have been proposed but there is no proposed commonality between them. In animals, dietary calcium loading and L-thyroxine administration have been shown to ameliorate toxicity, with again no common process. A mechanism of competitive displacement of calcium and other cations from anionic phospholipids at the plasma and organelle membrane level, resulting in a decrease in Na+ -K+ ATPase, adenylate cyclase, mitochondrial function and ATP production, protein synthesis, solute reabsorption and overall cellular function is proposed. A further proposal is dietary calcium loading and thyroxine (which increases intracellular calcium) reverse gentamicin-induced acute renal failure by increasing the calcium and solute flux, thereby competitively inhibiting the primary lesion: anionic phospholipid binding.
Hematuria and eosinophilia developed in two patients being treated for bacterial endocarditis with 20 or 24 gm/day of cephalexin given orally together with probenecid (Benemid). One patient had a concurrent transient increase in serum creatinine; both patients had a history of penicillin allergy and had previously received cephalexin intravenously. All abnormalities promptly remitted following discontinuation of therapy.
Comparative electron microscopic, electrophysiological and biochemical studies of thioridazine influence on lipid peroxidation in vivo (rats, rabbits) and in vitro (model systems) were performed. It was shown that thioridazine retinopathy was not followed by an increase in lipid peroxidation and antioxidant (dibunol) failed to protect the retina against the destructive action of thioridazine. Moreover, thioridazine inhibited lipid peroxidation in model system.
In the present report, we review the current standard and investigational treatments of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). Several studies have reported the use of gemcitabine and cisplatin as an induction chemotherapy in combination with extrapleural pneumonectomy (EPP) and thoracic radiation in a combined-modality approach for resectable MPM. Since the combination of cisplatin with pemetrexed was applied as the standard first-line regimen for unresectable MPM, the combination as an induction chemotherapy regimen has been proven effective in phase 2 trials. In addition, intensity-modulated radiation therapy and proton therapy have been introduced as new radiation methods into the combined modality. Hyperthermic intraoperative chemotherapy following EPP appears effective with acceptable toxicity. In addition, clinical studies that include molecular targeting agents, immunotherapy, and gene therapy have all been conducted. Thus, although there are numerous hopeful treatments for MPM, the benefits of these regimens remain to be proven in a randomized clinical setting.
To determine whether interferon: alpha 2b can improve results of 5-fluorouracil adjuvant treatment of Dukes C colorectal cancer patients, we compared the outcome of patients receiving a fluorouracil-interferon combination to that of historic controls treated with fluorouracil alone.
Fifty-seven Dukes C colorectal cancer patients were given 5-fluorouracil-interferon-alpha 2b adjuvant treatment from October 1986 to September 1990. The results were compared with those obtained in 51 consecutive patients treated at the same institutions with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) alone (used at the same doses and schedule) between 1983 and 1986. The main prognostic variables were similar in the two groups.
No life-threatening toxicity occurred in either group. The addition of interferon (IFN) slightly impaired tolerance to the treatment; however, the dose of IFN had to be reduced only in five patients and discontinued in one patient. Grade 3 and 4 myelotoxicity was rare and not substantially different in the two groups. Interferon-related side effects (fever, flu-like syndrome, malaise, etc.) were frequent, but, in general, mild or moderate. At the time of this analysis (July 1992), median follow-up was 49 (range, 20-70) months in the group of patients treated with 5-FU+IFN, and 86 (range, 68-103) months in the group receiving 5-FU alone. There were 17 recurrences and 15 cancer-related deaths among patients receiving combined treatment, and 27 deaths in the group treated with 5-FU alone. Both five-year relapse-free survival (65 percent vs. 47 percent; P = 0.043) and cause-specific survival (64 percent vs. 46 percent; P = 0.038) were significantly better in the patients receiving combined treatment. After correction for the influence of prognostic pretreatment variables, 5-FU+IFN again afforded a significant advantage in terms of both relapse-free (P < 0.01) and overall survival (P < 0.001).
5-FU-IFN-alpha 2b treatment seems to improve the prognosis in Dukes C colorectal cancer patients.
Orthostatic hypotension may be secondary to a variety of factors, prominent among which is administration of drugs effecting autonomic function. Therapy of orthostatic hypotension has been successful using a directly acting sympathomimetic amine, ethylnorphenylephrine, which has a distinctive spectrum of alpha, beta1, and beta2 adrenergic agonist properties. The directly acting vasoconstrictor, dihydroergotamine, is effective, producing hemodynamic patterns reflecting a selective effect on capacitance vessels. Orthostatic hypotension secondary to the administration of L-dopa should usually respond to peripheral decarboxylase inhibition by agents such as alpha-methyldopahydrazine. The combined administration of monoamine oxidase inhibitors with indirectly acting sympathomimetic amines will increase arterial pressure, but must be considered quite risky in light of inherently poor ability to regulate dose-response relationships and prior clinical experience with excessive arterial pressure elevation.
Ruboxistaurin is a selective protein kinase C beta inhibitor undergoing clinical investigation for treatment of diabetic microvascular complications. This study assessed a possible blood pressure (BP) interaction between ruboxistaurin and the exogenous nitric oxide donor, glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). Subjects (N=22) with chronic stable angina received placebo or ruboxistaurin 96 mg/day orally to steady state in a crossover design. Graded GTN (0, 5, 10, 20, 40, 80, and 120 microg/min) or 5% dextrose solution was then infused intravenously and BP was measured following each dose. Ruboxistaurin did not alter the slope of change in standing systolic BP (DeltasSBP/1n[GTN dose]) curve (P=0.272 analysis of covariance) or affect the DeltasSBP at the estimated GTN dose producing a 10-mm Hg reduction in sSBP from baseline on placebo (mean difference -0.9 mm Hg; 95% confidence of interval, -3.3-1.5). In conclusion, ruboxistaurin does not potentiate the acute BP-lowering effects of GTN.
The immunosuppressant azathioprine is used to prevent graft rejection after organ transplantation. To investigate whether azathioprine-associated mutagenesis contributes to the high incidence of skin tumours in organ transplant recipients (OTRs), we analysed PTCH gene mutations in 60 basal cell carcinomas (BCC); 39 from OTRs receiving azathioprine and 21 from individuals never exposed to azathioprine. PTCH was mutated in 55% of all tumours, independent of azathioprine treatment. In both the azathioprine and non-azathioprine groups, transitions at dipyrimidine sequences, considered to indicate mutation by ultraviolet-B radiation, occurred frequently in tumours from chronically sun-exposed skin. In BCC from non-sun-exposed skin of azathioprine-treated patients, there was an over-representation of unusual G:C to A:T transitions at non-dipyrimidine sites. These were exclusive to the azathioprine-exposed group and all in the same TGTC sequence context at different positions within PTCH. Meta-analysis of 247 BCCs from published studies indicated that these mutations are rare in sporadic BCC and had never previously been reported in this specific sequence context. This study of post-transplant BCC provides the first indication that azathioprine exposure may be associated with PTCH mutations, particularly in tumours from non-sun-exposed skin.
Recurrent hepatitis B infection after liver transplantation was previously frequent and associated with significant allograft failure and mortality. Recurrence rates of hepatitis B were improved with the use of passive immunoprophylaxis with hepatitis B immune globulin, and later, lamivudine monotherapy. Combination prophylaxis with intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin and lamivudine substantially decreased rates of hepatitis B recurrence, but intravenous administration of hepatitis B immune globulin was expensive and associated with significant adverse effects. In the current study, 59 patients receiving primary liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis B infection were prospectively followed up after converting from intravenous to intramuscular hepatitis B immune globulin in combination with lamivudine. All patients tolerated intramuscular hepatitis B immune globulin well. At a median follow-up of 511 days after conversion to intramuscular hepatitis B immune globulin, 58 of 59 patients (98.3%) were hepatitis B surface antigen-negative. Twenty-one patients (35.6%) required a median of one supplemental intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin infusion to maintain therapeutic antibody levels. Economic analysis showed an average cost-effectiveness ratio for combination intramuscular hepatitis B immune globulin plus lamivudine of $52,600 per recurrence prevented, which was far below the cost of lamivudine monotherapy and of intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin alone or in combination with lamivudine. These results suggest that intramuscular administration of hepatitis B immune globulin in combination with lamivudine offers a safe, effective, and cost-effective approach to preventing hepatitis B recurrence after orthotopic liver transplantation.
Atrial fibrillation is a common complication of cardiovascular surgery. Beta-blockers have been shown to decrease the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation. However, the use of magnesium is more controversial. It was our hypothesis that adjunctive magnesium sulfate would improve the efficacy of beta-blockers alone in the prevention of postoperative atrial fibrillation.
We prospectively randomized 167 coronary artery bypass patients (mean age 61+/-10 years, 115 men) to receive propranolol alone (20 mg four times daily) or propranolol and magnesium (18 g over 24 hours). Magnesium was begun intraoperatively, and propranolol was started on admission to the intensive care unit.
Using an intention-to-treat analysis, the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation was 19.5% in the propranolol-treated patients and 22.4% in propranolol + magnesium-treated patients (p = 0.65). Because combination therapy resulted in an excess of postoperative hypotension, which required withholding doses of propranolol, an on-treatment analysis was also performed. In this analysis, the incidence of atrial fibrillation was still not significantly different (18.5% in propranolol-treated patients and 10.0% in propranolol + magnesium-treated patients, p = 0.20).
Adjunctive magnesium sulfate, in combination with propranolol, does not decrease the incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation.
Retinoids such as all trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) have been used as chemopreventive agents for a number of premalignant conditions. To explore a potential role for retinoids as chemopreventive agents for Barrett's esophagus, we studied ATRA's effects on apoptosis in a nonneoplastic, telomerase-immortalized, metaplastic Barrett's cell line. We treated the Barrett's cells with ATRA in the presence and absence of inhibitors to p53 (pSRZ-siRNA-p53), p38 (SB-203580 and p38 siRNA), and the caspase cascade (z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone). We determined the effects of ATRA and the various inhibitors on apoptosis using cell morphology, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling staining, cleaved caspase-3 immunofluorescence, and Annexin V staining. We also determined how ATRA in the presence and absence of the inhibitors affected apoptosis following low-dose UV-B irradiation. ATRA induced apoptosis and increased the expression of p53 protein in a dose-dependent fashion. The apoptotic effect of ATRA was abolished by treatment with inhibitors of both p38 and caspase, but not by p53 interfering RNA (RNAi). Inhibition of p38 also prevented expression of cleaved caspase-3, suggesting that ATRA activates p38 upstream of the caspase cascade. We found that ATRA sensitized immortalized Barrett's cells to apoptosis induced by low-dose UV-B irradiation via a similar mechanism. ATRA induces apoptosis in Barrett's epithelial cells and sensitizes them to apoptosis induced by UV-B irradiation via activation of p38 and the caspase cascade, but not through p53. This study elucidates molecular pathways whereby retinoid treatment might prevent carcinogenesis in Barrett's metaplasia and suggests a potential role for the use of safer retinoids for chemoprevention in Barrett's esophagus.
Gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD) is partly caused by genetic factors. The underlying susceptibility genes are currently unknown, with the exception of COL3A1. We used three independent GERD patient cohorts to identify GERD susceptibility genes. Thirty-six families, demonstrating dominant transmission of GERD were subjected to whole genome microsatellite genotyping and linkage analysis. Five linked regions were identified. Two families shared a linked region (LOD 3.9 and 2.0) on chromosome 16. We used two additional independent GERD patient cohorts, one consisting of 219 trios (affected child with parents) and the other an adult GERD case control cohort consisting of 256 cases and 485 controls, to validate individual genes in the linked region through association analysis. Sixty six single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers distributed over the nine genes present in the linked region were genotyped in the independent GERD trio cohort. Transmission disequilibrium test analysis followed by multiple testing adjustments revealed a significant genetic association for one SNP located in an intron of the gene 4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase (ABAT) (P(adj) = 0.027). This association did not replicate in the adult case-control cohort, possibly due to the differences in ethnicity between the cohorts. Finally, using the selective ABAT inhibitor vigabatrin (γ-vinyl GABA) in a dog study, we were able to show a reduction of transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxations (TLESRs) by 57.3 ± 11.4 % (p = 0.007) and the reflux events from 3.1 ± 0.4 to 0.8 ± 0.4 (p = 0.007). Our results demonstrate the direct involvement of ABAT in pathways affecting lower esophageal sphincter (LES) control and identifies ABAT as a genetic risk factor for GERD.
Erythrocytosis represents a common complication in renal allograft recipients. Traditional therapies including phlebotomy and bilateral native nephrectomies are cumbersome for both the clinical personnel and the patient. Recently, pharmacological agents such as angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor and theophylline have been proposed as effective therapies for post-transplant erythrocytosis (PTE). We have treated a PTE patient successfully with enalapril without any side effects and renal dysfunction after theophylline treatment showed no improvement in PTE. A decline in Ht levels was independent of the changes in Epo levels during enalapril treatment. Although the mechanism underlying the beneficial effect of enalapril remains undetermined, enalapril is recommended for the initial treatment of PTE.
The measurement of the intellectual capacity (IC) in schizophrenic patients has been found to be of clinical relevance. A user-friendly tool such as the Cattell's intelligence test might facilitate this measurement in daily clinical practice.
In this study, we measured the intelligence quotient (IQ) using Cattell's test in 35 schizophrenic patients before and after treatment with risperidone.
At baseline, the sample showed an average intelligence of 78.3 points (standard deviation [SD]: 14.3), in the low-medium range. After 1 year on risperidone, the IQ significantly improved (mean: 84.8; SD: 17.0; p = 0.028). This IQ elevation was positively correlated with the improvement in the psychotic symptoms rated with the PANSS.
Cattell's intelligence test could be a valid instrument to measure cognitive performance in schizophrenic patients. Antipsychotic therapy with risperidone could be effective to improve cognitive functioning in these subjects.
Preliminary results from phase I trials suggest that the use of docetaxel (Taxotere) and doxorubicin (Adriamycin) is a well tolerated and highly active combination regimen for patients with metastatic breast cancer. The maximum tolerated dose of this combination was 50 mg/m2 of doxorubicin given as an intravenous bolus followed 1 hour later with 75 mg/m2 of docetaxel given as a 1-hour intravenous infusion. Because cardiotoxicity was not observed with this combination, we added cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan, Neosar) in a phase II trial to determine the antitumor activity and tolerability of this 3-drug combination as first-line therapy in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Preliminary results from this study indicate that the Taxotere/ Adriamycin/Cyclophosphamide (TAC) combination produces response rates of up to 80%. However, frequent grade 4 neutropenia was seen in 68% of cycles, febrile neutropenia in 5.5% of cycles, and grade 3 to 4 infection in .8% of cycles. Cardiac toxicity was rare, with 1 case of reversible congestive heart failure (2%), which occurred 2 months after completion of chemotherapy. These preliminary data show that TAC is highly active and that docetaxel did not significantly increase the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin. Phase III studies in both the first-line and adjuvant settings are warranted.
Environmental or occupational exposure to arsenic is associated with a greatly increased risk of skin, urinary bladder, and respiratory tract cancers in arseniasis-endemic areas throughout the world. Arsenic shares many properties of tumor promoters by affecting specific cell signal transduction pathways responsible for cell proliferation. The activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) pathway is important in mediating gene expression related to regulation of cellular growth. In the current studies, we demonstrate that arsenic activates EGFR and ERK in a human uroepithelial cell line. The EGFR phosphorylation by arsenic is ligand-independent and does not involve the major autophosphorylation site Tyr(1173). c-Src activity is also induced by arsenic and is a prerequisite for the EGFR and ERK activation. Consistent with these in vitro observations, exposure of mice to arsenic in drinking water, which has been found previously to be associated with AP-1 activation and epithelial proliferation, induces EGFR and ERK activation in the urinary bladder. This response is also accompanied with an increase in c-Src levels interacting with EGFR. These findings represent a potential pathway for mediating arsenic-induced phenotypic changes in the uroepithelium.
