Increased pulmonary capillary pressure and inhibition of alveolar Na+ transport putatively contribute to the formation of pulmonary edema in alveolar hypoxia such as at high altitude. Since both events might be linked to the inhibition of K+ channels, we studied whether in vivo application of minoxidil, a stimulator of ATP-gated K channels (K+ ATP channel activator) prevents both effects. In a double- blind, placebo-controlled crossover study on 17 volunteers with no known susceptibility to high altitude pulmonary edema, we tested whether a single dose of minoxidil (5 mg) prevents pulmonary hypertension and inhibition of nasal-epithelial Na+ transport in normobaric hypoxia (12% O2, 2 h). In hypoxia, arterial SO2 was decreased to about 80%, and systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) measured by Doppler echocardiography increased significantly from approximately 25 mmHg (normoxia) to approximately 38 mmHg (hypoxia; range 22 to 61 mmHg). Minoxidil decreased PAP in hypoxia in those individuals who had the highest increase in PAP in hypoxia when taking placebo. Nasal potentials decreased by about 10% in hypoxia. Although minoxidil had no effect on nasal potentials in normoxia, it increased nasal potentials significantly above normoxic control values after 2-h hypoxia. These results show that the K+ ATP activator minoxidil prevents the decrease in nasal-epithelial potential by hypoxia and seems to blunt an exaggerated increase in PAP in acute hypoxia.
Although a second-generation histamine H(1) blocker terfenadine induced torsades de pointes (TdP) arrhythmias in patients via the blockade of a rapid component of delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(Kr)), such action of terfenadine has not been detected in previous animal models. We analysed the potential of the canine persistent atrioventricular block heart, a new in vivo proarrhythmia model, to detect a torsadogenic effect of terfenadine of an oral dose of 3 or 30 mg kg(-1). The doses can provide therapeutic to supra-therapeutic plasma concentrations as an anti-histamine. In 2 weeks of bradycardiac heart model, there were no significant changes in any of the electrocardiogram parameters after the administration of both doses of terfenadine. In 4-6 weeks of bradycardiac heart model, the low dose of terfenadine hardly affected any of the electrocardiogram parameters except that it induced TdP in one out of six animals. The high dose significantly decreased the atrial rate and ventricular rate, prolonged the QT interval, and induced TdP in five out of six animals. Moreover, temporal variability of repolarization increased after the high-dose administration. These results suggest that long-term bradycardia caused by atrioventricular block can remodel the canine heart to detect terfenadine-induced TdP.
Vigabatrin, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase- inhibiting drug used for seizure control, has been associated with white matter vacuolation and intramyelinic edema in animal studies. Similar pathological lesions have never been described in the central nervous system of human participants treated with the drug. Described here is a child with quadriparetic cerebral palsy secondary to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury following premature birth, who received vigabatrin for the treatment of infantile spasms at 9 months of age. A severe deterioration of neurologic function immediately followed the initiation of vigabatrin, and the child died 3 weeks later. Neuropathological examination revealed white matter vacuolation and intramyelinic edema. This represents the first reported case of vigabatrin-induced intramyelinic edema in humans. It validates the concerns regarding vigabatrin safety in infants and individuals with preexisting abnormalities of myelin.
Methylmercury (MeHg) has cytotoxic effects on animals and humans, and a major target organ for MeHg is the central nervous system (CNS). It is well known that the developing CNS is extremely vulnerable to MeHg-induced changes in comparison to the mature brain. Most studies have concentrated on the direct effects of high levels of prenatal MeHg exposure. Surprisingly, behavioral outcomes found in adult offspring exposed developmentally to the neurotoxic effects of chronic, low-dose mercury more akin to ingestion in humans are not well characterized. The objective of this study was to determine whether such exposure produces deleterious effects on behavior in adult mice, including motor/coordination abilities, overall activity and mnemonic function. Developing mouse fetuses were exposed in utero during gestational days 8-18 by giving pregnant C57Bl/6J female mice food containing MeHg at a daily dose of 0.01 mg/kg body weight. Adult mice prenatally exposed to MeHg exhibited significant deficits in motor abilities, coordination, and overall activity, as measured by rotarod, footprint analysis and open field. In addition, MeHg-exposed mice were impaired with respect to reference memory but not in a visible, cued version of the Morris water maze task. These results indicate that prenatal exposure to the lowest dose of MeHg examined to date can have long-lasting motor and cognitive consequences on adult offspring. These findings have far reaching implications related to putative safe levels of MeHg ingestion, particularly during pregnancy, and increasing rates of cognitive and psychological disorders (e.g. attention hyperactivity deficit disorder, autism) in our society.
Cardiac dysfunction is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage liver disease; yet the mechanisms remain largely unknown. We hypothesized that the complex interrelated impairments in cardiac structure and function secondary to progression of liver diseases involve alterations in signaling pathways engaged in cardiac energy metabolism and hypertrophy, augmented by direct effects of high circulating levels of bile acids. Biliary fibrosis was induced in male C57BL/6J mice by feeding a 0.1% 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydroxychollidine (DDC) supplemented diet. After 3 weeks, mice underwent live imaging (dual energy x-ray absorptiometry [DEXA] scanning, two-dimensional echocardiography [2DE], electrocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging), exercise treadmill testing, and histological and biochemical analyses of livers and hearts. Compared with chow-fed mice, DDC-fed mice fatigued earlier on the treadmill, with reduced VO(2). Marked changes were identified electrophysiologically (bradycardia and prolonged QT interval) and functionally (hyperdynamic left ventricular [LV] contractility along with increased LV thickness). Hearts of DDC-fed mice showed hypertrophic signaling (activation of v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene/protein kinase B [AKT], inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta [GSK3beta], a 20-fold up-regulation of beta myosin heavy chain RNA and elevated G(s)alpha/G(i)alpha ratio. Genes regulating cardiac fatty acid oxidation pathways were suppressed, along with a threefold increase in myocardial glycogen content. Treatment of mouse cardiomyocytes (which express the membrane bile acid receptor TGR5) with potent natural TGR5 agonists, taurochenodeoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid, activated AKT and inhibited GSK3beta, similar to the changes seen in DDC-fed mouse hearts. This provides support for a novel mechanism whereby circulating natural bile acids can induce signaling pathways in heart associated with hypertrophy.
Three weeks of DDC feeding-induced biliary fibrosis leads to multiple functional, metabolic, electrophysiological, and hypertrophic adaptations in the mouse heart, recapitulating some of the features of human cirrhotic cardiomyopathy.
A 10-year-old girl with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome who received intravenous lorazepam for atypical absence status seizures is reported. Tonic seizures occurred immediately and appeared to represent a paradoxical seizure exacerbation. We also review other patients with paradoxical seizure exacerbation by benzodiazepines.
One of the critical issues in risk assessment for chemical carcinogens is the evaluation of dose-response relationships for tumor promoters. In the studies reported here we have systematically investigated dose-response relationships for the liver tumor-promoting actions of 17 alpha-Ethinylestradiol (EE2) following a single injection of diethylnitrosamine (200 mg/kg) to ovariectomized female rats. Parameters measured included tumor incidence, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) positive foci, serum prolactin and serum EE2. The length of tumor promotion ranged from 30 to 60 wk. Results showed a linear increase in GGT-positive foci between doses of 16 and 90 micrograms EE2 kg/d for 30 wk. This was associated with corresponding increases in liver tumor incidence at 60 wk. Seventy-five percent of the animals had either hepatocellular adenoma or hepatocellular carcinoma in the group promoted with 90 micrograms EE2/kg for 60 wk. No liver tumors were evident in either controls or animals receiving estrogen only. Serum prolactin concentrations were elevated in all estrogen-treated groups. In summary, our studies have evaluated dose-response relationships for GGT-positive foci and tumor incidence in a two-stage model for hepatocarcinogenesis using EE2 as the promoting agent.
The mode of action of PAHs that causes fish developmental malformations is unclear. The embryotoxicity of marine medaka (Oryzias melastigma) was investigated after individual exposure to three- to five-ring PAHs Phe, Py, and BaP or co-exposure with α-ANF for 18 days. We found that the relationships between EROD induction and developmental deformities of embryos showed a various pattern under different exposure scenarios of Phe, Py, and BaP, which suggested possibly different modes of action in determining the developmental toxicities. As for co-exposure scenarios of each PAH combined with ANF, it showed potentially synergistic effects. The inhibited CYP1A mediated enzyme activity by ANF after co-exposure did not effectively alleviate developmental toxicity of embryo. It showed potentially synergistic effects after co-exposure of marine fish embryos to CYP1A inhibitors and PAH-type CYP1A inducers. Heart deformities in the early life stages of marine medaka were recommended as a biomarker for indicating the extent of PAH pollution.
Disturbances in nitric oxide generation and the release of a vasoactive peptide, endothelin-1 (ET-1), are well recognized early events in pathogenesis of NSAID-induced gastropathy. In this study using phosphoramidon, a potent inhibitor of endothelin-converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1), we investigated the influence of ET-1 on the expression of constitutive (cNOS) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2) during gastric mucosal injury caused by indomethacin.
The experiments were conducted with groups of rats pretreated intragastrically with phosphoramidon (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg) or vehicle, followed 30 min later by an intragastric dose of indomethacin (60 mg/kg). The animals were killed 4 h later and their mucosal tissue subjected to macroscopic damage assessment and biochemical measurements.
In the absence of phosphoramidon, indomethacin caused extensive multiple hemorrhagic lesions of glandular mucosa, accompanied by a 29.9-fold increase in epithelial cell apoptosis, a 13.3-fold increase in NOS-2 and a 5.5-fold decline in the activity of cNOS, while the mucosal expression of ECE-1 activity increased 4-fold and the level of ET-1 showed a 4.8-fold increase. Pretreatment with phosphoramidon produced dose-dependent reduction in the extent of mucosal damage caused by indomethacin, accompanied by a significant recovery in the expression of cNOS, and a marked decline in ECE-1, epithelial cell apoptosis and the mucosal level of ET-1. Phosphoramidon, however, had no effect on the indomethacin-induced increase in the mucosal expression of NOS-2.
The results suggest that suppression of ET-1 generation counters the mucosal drop in cNOS and the extent of gastric mucosal damage caused by indomethacin, but has no effect on the mucosal responses associated with up-regulation of NOS-2 expression. Hence, only cNOS plays a role in the protection of gastric mucosa against damage by NSAIDs.
Transient receptor potential ankyrin subfamily member 1 (TRPA1) is a nonselective cation channel known as a noxious cold-activated ion channel. Recent findings implicated its involvement in acute and chronic cold nociception processes. Here, we investigated whether TRPA1 is involved in endothelin-1 (ET-1)-induced spontaneous pain-like behavior in C57BL/6J mice. We found that TRPA1 antagonists, HC-030031 and AP18, significantly reduced the pain-like behavior caused by ET-1. AP18 also significantly reduced the pain caused by cinnamaldehyde, an agonist of TRPA-1. However, AP18 did not alleviate the pain caused by capsaicin. The pain-like behavior caused by ET-1 was inhibited by phospholipase C inhibitor, but not by protein kinase C inhibitor. Low dose of ET-1 could potentiate cinnamaldehyde-induced nociception. Our results suggested that TRPA1 is involved in ET-1-induced spontaneous pain-like behavior in mice.
A 10-year double-blind prospective study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of estrogen replacement therapy (ERT). The sample population consisted of 84 pairs of randomly chosen postmenopausal in-patients, matched for age and diagnosis. The treatment group received high-dose conjugated estrogens, cyclically with progesterone. The controls recieved placebos. Results revealed no statistically significant difference in that incidence of thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction (MI), or uterine cancer. There was a lower incidence of breast cancer in the treated group. Estrogen-treated patients showed a higher incidence of cholelithiasis. Those in the treated group who began the study with elevated beta/alpha lipoprotein ratios showed a reduction in that ratio over the course of the study, while the controls either maintained or increased their ratios. The low number of cases precludes drawing any real significance from the data on diseases of low frequency. The study excludes only a high incidence of complications from estrogens.
A study involving 84 pairs of patients evaluated the effects of estrogen replacement therapy over a 10-year period. The pairs of patients were postmenopausal women matched for age and diagnosis. The treated group received high-dose conjugated estrogen, cyclically with progesterone while the control group received placebos. Thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, or uterine cancer incidences showed no significant differences in the 2 groups; however, there was a lower incidence of breast cancer in the treated group as well as reduced beta/alpha lipoprotein ratios. Yet the incidence of cholelithiasis was higher in the estrogen-treated group. Of the 168 in-patients, there were 7 deaths in the control group and 3 in the treated group. The results attributable to either estrogen or progesterone cannot be separated due to their concomitant use and due to the small study population, little significance can be placed on the data of diseases of low frequency.
The present study has examined the role of diltiazem as a protective agent in a canine model of norepinephrine cardiotoxicity. Effects of diltiazem, 20 micrograms/kg/min x 5 min pretreatment followed by 10 micrograms/kg/min x 90 min, or saline infusion were examined at baseline and 1 h after infusion of norepinephrine, 4 micrograms/kg/min for 90 min, in closed-chest anesthetized dogs. Left ventricular function was assessed by equilibrium radionuclide angiogram and two-dimensional echocardiogram. In 7 saline experiments, hypotension and increased heart rate were observed at 1 h post infusion. In the diltiazem-treated group (n = 7), mean arterial pressure and heart rate were unchanged. In the saline group, left ventricular ejection fraction fell from 0.50 +/- 0.04 to 0.28 +/- 0.04. Left ventricular ejection fraction was unchanged in the diltiazem-treated group: 0.52 +/- 0.03 to 0.55 +/- 0.07. Left ventricular end-diastolic volume was increased at 1 h post infusion in saline controls but not in the diltiazem-treated group. Measurement of fractional shortening from two-dimensional echocardiograms also indicated left ventricular dysfunction in the saline but not diltiazem-treated groups. Left ventricular end-systolic wall stress following norepinephrine infusion was significantly increased in the saline but not diltiazem-treated groups: 122.7 +/- 18.7 vs 67.6 +/- 19.7 g/cm2, respectively. In dogs receiving saline without norepinephrine infusion, no significant changes occurred over the course of the experiment. Histologic examination showed mild contraction band necrosis in saline controls but not in sham saline dogs. Diltiazem showed intermediate histologic evidence of injury, which was not further quantified. This study suggests that effects of norepinephrine on left ventricular function in the canine model of norepinephrine cardiotoxicity may be largely due to increased wall stress following a prolonged increase in afterload. Diltiazem pretreatment afforded significant protection of left ventricular function.
We did a prospective consecutive study of prophylaxis for heterotopic ossification (HO) comparing indomethacin (100 mg/day) and salmon calcitonin (3 MRC-U/kg/day) for 14 days. Each group consisted of 30 patients. 19 patients in the indomethacin group and 2 in the calcitonin group developed HO. We conclude that use of calcitonin in the prophylaxis of HO after total hip replacement is more effective than indomethacin.
Nitric oxide (NO) and peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) are potential mediators of the injury and cytotoxicity occurring over time to oligodendrocytes in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions. Our in vitro results indicate that human adult CNS-derived oligodendrocytes are relatively resistant to NO-mediated damage. In contrast, human oligodendrocytes are highly susceptible to peroxynitrite-mediated injury. In situ, we found that inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was expressed in astrocytes and macrophages in all active demyelinating and remyelinating MS lesions examined, yet no correlation was found between numbers of glial cells expressing iNOS and the extent of oligodendrocyte cell death. Nitrotyrosine groups, indicative of the presence of peroxynitrite in vivo, could be detected on astrocytes, macrophages, and oligodendrocytes in MS lesions. High numbers of nitrotyrosine-positive oligodendrocytes were found in one MS case that featured extensive oligodendrocyte cell death. Our results indicate that NO alone is unlikely to induce oligodendrocyte injury, whereas its more potent byproduct peroxynitrite is a potential mediator of injury to oligodendrocytes in MS.
The effects of the pure narcotic antagonists, naloxone and naltrexone, and their quaternary derivatives, methylnaloxone and methylnaltrexone, were examined in reversing the catalepsy induced by morphine in rats. Morphine, 20 mg/kg, induced rigid catalepsy which attained a peak effect (as manifested by duration of catalepsy) at 60-120 min and progressively declined thereafter. Both naloxone and naltrexone, administered subcutaneously 40 min after the injection of morphine, dose-dependently reduced the duration of the catalepsy at doses of 10-30 micrograms/kg. Methylnaloxone also completely reversed the catalepsy at doses of 1-10 mg/kg, when given subcutaneously. In contrast, the subcutaneous administration of methylnaltrexone only partially reversed the catalepsy at doses up to 56 mg/kg 60-90 min post-morphine. The extent of the reversal of catalepsy produced by methylnaltrexone tended to increase with time. Methylnaltrexone, administered into the cerebral ventricles 70 min after the injection of morphine, completely suppressed the catalepsy with an ED50 of approx. 1 microgram/kg when tested at 90 min after morphine. These results indicate that opiate-induced catalepsy is predominantly mediated at sites within the central nervous system. Methylnaltrexone is about 10,000 times more potent in reversing catalepsy when administered centrally than when administered peripherally. Thus, methylnaltrexone may be useful in defining sites of opiate action and in therapeutically blocking undesirable peripheral effects of opiate analgesics.
Arsenic toxicity induces type 2 diabetes via stress mediated pathway. In this study, we attempt to reveal how sodium arsenite (iAs) could induce stress mediated impaired insulin signaling in mice and if an isolated active fraction of ginger, [6]-gingerol could attenuate the iAs intoxicated hyperglycemic condition of mice and bring about improvement in their impaired insulin signaling. [6]-Gingerol treatment reduced elevated blood glucose level and oxidative stress by enhancing activity of super oxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and GSH. [6]-Gingerol also helped in increasing plasma insulin level, brought down after iAs exposure. iAs treatment to primary cell culture of β-cells and hepatocytes in vitro produced cyto-degenerative effect and accumulated reactive oxygen species (ROS) in pancreatic β-cells and hepatocytes of mice. [6]-Gingerol appeared to inhibit/intervene iAs induced cyto-degeneration of pancreatic β-cells and hepatocytes, helped in scavenging the free radicals. The over-expression of TNFα and IL6 in iAs intoxicated mice was down-regulated by [6]-gingerol treatment. iAs intoxication reduced expression levels of GLUT4, IRS-1, IRS-2, PI3K, AKT, PPARγ signaling molecules; [6]-gingerol mediated its action through enhancing the expressions of these signaling molecules, both at protein and mRNA levels. Thus, our results suggest that [6]-gingerol possesses an anti-hyperglycemic property and can improve impaired insulin signaling in arsenic intoxicated mice.
Pericarditis is a rare side effect of chemotherapy. We report here the case of a patient treated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (HD ara-c) who developed severe pericarditis. Interruption of HD ara-c and initiation of corticosteroid treatment were effective in resolving the pericardial effusion. This case illustrates this rare but potentially life-threatening cardiac complication of HD ara-c therapy as well as the beneficial effect of corticosteroid treatment.
The present report describes the effects of Ro 15-4513 (ethyl-8-azido-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo-(1,5-a) (1,4)-benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate) in the conflict test, on convulsions induced by isoniazid and DMCM (methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate) and on the binding of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid ([3H]GABA) to rat brain membrane preparations. Ro 15-4513 produced a dose-dependent proconflict effect that was prevented by the administration of the benzodiazepine antagonist, Ro 15-1788. In addition, Ro 15-4513 was not convulsant per se but enhanced the convulsions produced by isoniazid and completely blocked the convulsions induced by the full inverse agonist, DMCM. In vitro, Ro 15-4513, like ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (beta CCE), antagonized the increase in [3H]GABA binding induced by diazepam. The results indicate that Ro 15-4513 is anxiogenic and interacts with benzodiazepine recognition sites as a partial inverse agonist.
Chemotherapeutic efficacy of eremomycin in combination with tobramycin was investigated on a model of experimental sepsis of albino mice caused by Staphylococcus aureus cultures resistant to methicillin. Eremomycin is a novel original antibiotic of the glycopeptide structure isolated in the USSR and tobramycin is an aminoglycoside. Acute toxicity of the combination with a wide range of the dose fixed proportions was studied on mice and the nephrotoxic action of the antibiotics and their combinations administered intravenously for 5 days was studied on albino rats. The experiments showed that the chemotherapeutic effect of eremomycin in combination with tobramycin was of synergistic nature. Acute toxicity of the combined drugs mainly summed up and somewhat increased when the proportion of tobramycin and eremomycin was 1:2.4 or 1:3.6. Eremomycin had a dose-depended nephrotoxicity. Summing up of the nephrotoxic action of the drugs on their combined use was observed.
The effects of a colchicine-induced M-phase block of regeneration after partial hepatectomy on early-stage liver carcinogenesis were studied in rats. When administered 1 or 3 days after N-diethylnitrosamine initiation and partial hepatectomy, colchicine increased the mitotic index of regenerating hepatocytes at days 4-6 without evidence of liver cell necrosis. When the protocol was combined with a selection procedure (E. Cayama et al., Nature (Lond.), 275: 60-62, 1978), a significant increase in the size but not number of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase-positive foci at week 5 was observed in a colchicine dose-dependent manner. This was associated with an elevated incorporation of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine into the gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase-positive cells. In a longer-term experiment, the numbers, sizes, and 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine labeling index of persistent nodules were increased significantly in colchicine-treated rats at week 9. This was associated with significant increases in the incidences and numbers of hepatocellular carcinomas at week 42. The above results raise the interesting possibility that a cell cycle disturbance in the early stage of liver carcinogenesis provides a persisting growth advantage for initiated cells, resulting in enhanced growth of foci and persistent nodules that evolve into hepatocellular carcinomas.
The antinociceptive actions of morphine incorporated into an injectable chitosan-based gel were investigated in rats. Subcutaneous administration of 4.8 mg/kg morphine sulphate in a gel composed of N,O-carboxymethylchitosan (NOCC) and chitosan resulted in significant antinociception within 10 min that was maximal at 60 min and persisted for 6 h. In contrast, the same dose of morphine sulphate injected in sterile saline produced maximal responses at 30 min but only persisted for 2 h. NOCC/chitosan gel was easily injectable using a 22 guage needle and appears stable in long-term storage. No local or systemic adverse effects other than morphine-induced sedation were observed either at the time of injection or during the subsequent 48 h. We conclude that gels composed of chitosan and chitosan derivatives are effective matrices for sustained-release formulations of opioid analgesics capable of providing long-lasting antinociception.
Essential hypertension is a common human disease believed to result from the interplay of multiple genetic and environmental determinants. In genetic studies of two large panels of hypertensive sibships from widely separated geographical areas, we obtained evidence of genetic linkage between the angiotensinogen gene (AGT) and hypertension, demonstrated association of AGT molecular variants with the disease, and found significant differences in plasma concentrations of angiotensinogen among hypertensive subjects with different AGT genotypes. The corroboration and replication afforded by these results support the interpretation that molecular variants of AGT constitute inherited predispositions to essential hypertension in humans.
The effects of female sex hormones on responses to cocaine have not been systematically investigated in women. In this study, the safety and efficacy of acute progesterone treatment on smoked cocaine response was examined in female cocaine users. Five women had two experimental sessions during the early follicular phase, within 3-9 days after the beginning of their menses. In each experimental session, subjects received a single 200-mg dose of progesterone or placebo orally. Starting 2 h after the medication treatment, subjects received three deliveries of 0.4-mg/kg smoked cocaine 30 min apart. Progesterone treatment, compared to placebo, did not affect the blood pressure and heart rate changes in response to cocaine deliveries. For subjective responses to cocaine, the average of five-item Cocaine Effects Questionnaire (CEQ) was attenuated under progesterone treatment compared to placebo. For individual items of CEQ, progesterone treatment was associated with diminished rating of "feel the effect of last dose" in response to cocaine. These preliminary results suggest that acute progesterone treatment, given during the early follicular phase, may attenuate some of the subjective effects of cocaine. Further studies are warranted to examine the effects of progesterone treatment on cocaine dependence.
A case of deafness is reported in a patient undergoing bilateral nephrectomy after single irrigation of the peritoneal cavity with a neomycin containing solution for surgical prophylaxis.
In this patient, profound, late-postoperative deafness was heralded by prolonged neuromuscular blockade and respiratory insufficiency. Additional risk factors for ototoxicity in this particular patient included the presence of end-stage renal disease requiring daily peritoneal dialysis and, possibly, the concomitant use of clonazepam and clindamycin.
Antibiotic irrigation solutions containing neomycin may produce unwanted adverse systemic effects of deafness and prolonged neuromuscular blockade, even with only brief application within the peritoneal cavity. Concurrent end-stage renal disease, visceral inflammation from chronic dialysis and laparotomy, and the concomitant use of other medications may have contributed to these unwanted effects.
To clarify the effect of mast cell-derived histamine release in the brain on anxiety, histaminergics-induced anxiety-like behaviors were examined by a light/dark test in mast cell-deficient (W/Wv) and congenitally normal (+/+) mice. In +/+ mice, when cimetidine (an H2 receptor antagonist) was coadministered with thioperamide (a neuronal histamine releaser acting via inhibition of H3 autoreceptors) or Compound 48/80 (C48/80, a selective histamine releaser from mast cells), the time spent in the light zone and the number of crossings between light and dark zones in a light/dark test decreased significantly, suggesting induction of anxiety. In W/Wv mice, however, experimental anxiety was induced by coadministration of thioperamide-cimetidine, but not C48/80-cimetidine. These results suggest that both nonneuronal mast cell-derived histamine and neuronal histamine play an important role in inducing experimental anxiety.
