High circulating concentrations of calcium are toxic to the heart and may cause cardiac arrhythmias and arrest. To investigate the therapeutic use of calcium antagonists in hypercalcemia, we evaluated the efficacy of verapamil hydrochloride and magnesium chloride in the treatment of experimental calcium-induced cardiac arrest in laboratory rats. Verapamil rapidly reversed the experimental calcium-induced arrest and improved survival (83% survival versus 0% in controls). Magnesium failed to reverse this toxic event. We conclude from these experimental studies that verapamil may be useful in the treatment of hypercalcemic cardiac toxicity.
The clinical, audiovestibular and histopathological findings in a patient who suffered from a long-standing gentamicin-induced deafness are reported. In both temporal bones, the organ of Corti was completely absent, with only a few nerve fibres remaining in the apical part of the cochlea. Regenerative ingrowth of nerve fibers into the area of the degenerative organ of Corti was present apically in both ears. The stria vascularis exhibited considerable degeneration in all turns and loss of microvasculature was found in the basilar membrane. The spiral ganglion cells, the cochlear nerve and the central auditory pathways and nuclei appeared to be unaffected.
Previous studies suggest that the responsiveness of TrkB receptor to BDNF is developmentally regulated in rats. Antidepressant drugs (AD) have been shown to increase TrkB signalling in the adult rodent brain, and recent findings implicate a BDNF-independent mechanism behind this phenomenon. When administered during early postnatal life, ADs produce long-lasting biochemical and behavioural alterations that are observed in adult animals.
We have here examined the responsiveness of brain TrkB receptors to BDNF and ADs during early postnatal life of mouse, measured as autophosphorylation of TrkB (pTrkB).
We found that ADs fail to induce TrkB signalling before postnatal day 12 (P12) after which an adult response of TrkB to ADs was observed. Interestingly, there was a temporally inverse correlation between the appearance of the responsiveness of TrkB to systemic ADs and the marked developmental reduction of BDNF-induced TrkB in brain microslices ex vivo. Basal p-TrkB status in the brain of BDNF deficient mice was significantly reduced only during early postnatal period. Enhancing cAMP (cyclic adenosine monophosphate) signalling failed to facilitate TrkB responsiveness to BDNF. Reduced responsiveness of TrkB to BDNF was not produced by the developmental increase in the expression of dominant-negative truncated TrkB.T1 because this reduction was similarly observed in the brain microslices of trkB.T1(-/-) mice. Moreover, postnatal AD administration produced long-lasting behavioural alterations observable in adult mice, but the responses were different when mice were treated during the time when ADs did not (P4-9) or did (P16-21) activate TrkB.
We have found that ADs induce the activation of TrkB only in mice older than 2 weeks and that responsiveness of brain microslices to BDNF is reduced during the same time period. Exposure to ADs before and after the age when ADs activate TrkB produces differential long-term behavioural responses in adult mice.
Pediatric patients with malignancies are at significant risk for complications from their underlying condition and medical therapy. Emergency medicine physicians must be quick to suspect life-threatening events, which can present insidiously. We describe a case of anaphylaxis and superior vena cava syndrome in an 18-year-old female patient after polyethylene glycol-conjugated asparaginase chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Pertinent literature surrounding risk factors, diagnosis, and treatment is also reviewed.
Extrahepatic vasodilation and increased intrahepatic vascular resistance represent attractive targets for the medical treatment of portal hypertension in liver cirrhosis. In both dysfunctions, dysregulation of the contraction-mediating Rho kinase plays an important role as it contributes to altered vasoconstrictor responsiveness. However, the mechanisms of vascular Rho kinase dysregulation in cirrhosis are insufficiently understood. They possibly involve mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-dependent mechanisms in extrahepatic vessels. As the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits ERK, we tested the effect of sorafenib on haemodynamics and dysregulated vascular Rho kinase in rats with secondary biliary cirrhosis.
Secondary biliary cirrhosis was induced by bile duct ligation (BDL). Sorafenib was given orally for 1 week (60 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)). Messenger RNA levels were determined by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction, protein expressions and protein phosphorylation by Western blot analysis. Aortic contractility was studied by myographic measurements, and intrahepatic vasoregulation by using livers perfused in situ. In vivo, haemodynamic parameters were assessed invasively in combination with coloured microspheres.
In BDL rats, treatment with sorafenib decreased portal pressure, paralleled by decreases in hepatic Rho kinase expression and Rho kinase-mediated intrahepatic vascular resistance. In aortas from BDL rats, sorafenib caused up-regulation of Rho kinase and an improvement of aortic contractility. By contrast, mesenteric Rho kinase remained unaffected by sorafenib.
Intrahepatic dysregulation of vascular Rho kinase expression is controlled by sorafenib-sensitive mechanisms in rats with secondary biliary cirrhosis. Thus, sorafenib reduced portal pressure without affecting systemic blood pressure.
Imatinib combined with high-dose chemotherapy is now becoming the gold standard for treatment of Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute leukemias. However, in all studies imatinib dosage was tapered to 400-600 mg per day. We decided to initiate a clinical trial to evaluate an opposite strategy based on high-dose imatinib (800 mg per day) combined with a less intensive chemotherapeutic regimen (vincristine and dexamethasone), which we called the DIV induction regimen. Thirty-one patients (18 relapsing or refractory Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemias and 13 lymphoid blast crisis chronic myelogenous leukemias) were enrolled. Complete remission (CR) was obtained in 28 out of 30 assessable patients. The median bcr-abl/abl ratio after the induction course was 0.1%. Median time to neutrophil recovery was 21 days. Fungus infections were observed in six patients out of 31 and possibly related to dexamethasone. Neuropathy due to vincristine was noted in 14 cases. Nine out of 19 patients under 55 years received allogenic stem cell transplantation after a median time of 78 days post-CR. Patients older than 55 years experienced a 90% CR rate without additional toxicities, suggesting the DIV regimen may also be proposed as a front line therapy in older patients.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of the alpha 1 A-subtype selective drug tamsulosin with the nonsubtype-selective agent alfuzosin in the treatment of patients with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) suggestive of bladder outlet obstruction (BOO), often termed symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
The study comprised 256 patients with benign prostatic enlargement and LUTS suggestive of BOO (symptomatic BPH) who received tamsulosin 0.4 mg once daily or alfuzosin 2.5 mg three times daily during 12 weeks of treatment. The response was assessed by measurements of maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax), a symptom score (Boyarsky) and blood pressure at regular intervals.
Tamsulosin and alfuzosin produced comparable improvements in Qmax and total Boyarsky symptom score. Both treatments were well tolerated with respect to adverse events. Tamsulosin had no statistically significant effect on blood pressure compared with baseline but alfuzosin induced a significant reduction in both standing and supine blood pressure, compared with baseline (P < 0.05).
Tamsulosin is the first adrenoceptor antagonist that is selective for the alpha 1 A-subtype; this specificity may explain its lack of effect on blood pressure compared with alfuzosin, an agent that is not receptor subtype specific. Moreover, this finding may partly explain why tamsulosin, in contrast to other currently available alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonists, can be administered without dose titration. Another advantage compared with alfuzosin (and prazosin) is the once-daily dosing regimen of tamsulosin.
Ciprofloxacin-induced hemorrhagic vasculitis is a rare side effect. It has only been described in 10 case reports since 1989. However, recently we were confronted with two cases within 1 month. In one patient the vasculitis resolved after termination of the ciprofloxacin therapy; in the other patient the ciprofloxacin-induced hemorrhagic vasculitis was superimposed on a severe forefoot infection, leading to progressive gangrene and a below-knee amputation. Ciprofloxacin is among the standard treatments for infected ischemic ulcers; in the rare case of ciprofloxacin-induced hemorrhagic vasculitis, it might be interpreted as progression of infection, instead of a complication of the treatment, thus leading to faulty diagnosis and treatment. The intention of this case report is to raise awareness for anyone prescribing ciprofloxacin as treatment for infected diabetic and ischemic ulcers.
Novel trioxane 97/78, developed by Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Lucknow has shown promising antimalarial activity. Clinical experience of anti-malarial drugs registered the occurrence of phototoxicity in patients exposed with sunlight subsequent to medication. Photodegradation study has identified one photo-product up to 4h under UV-B/Sunlight by LC-MS/MS. UV-B irradiated 97/78 compound produced ¹O₂ via type-II dependent reaction mechanism, corroborated by its specific quencher. 2'-dGuO degradation and % tail development in photochemical as well as comet test, advocated the genotoxic potential of 97/78. The photocytotoxicity assays (MTT and NRU) on HaCaT cell line revealed the considerable decline in cell viability by 97/78. Cell cycle and Annexin V/PI double stain along with AO/EB demonstrated the G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis. Significant caspase-3 activity was measured in photoexcited 97/78 by colorimetric assay. Fluorescence stain with AO/JC-1 confirmed the lysosomal disruption and mitochondrial membrane destabilization by UV-B irradiated 97/78. Gene expression by RT-PCR showed significant upregulation of p21 and pro-apoptotic Bax, but no change observed in Bcl-2. In conclusion, the study highlights ROS mediated DNA damage, lysosomal and mitochondrial destabilization via upregulation of Bax and activation of caspase-3 which further leads to apoptosis.
Treatment with a combination of adriamycin (ADM) and cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum(II) (DDP) has been evaluated in 24 patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Twenty patients had received prior chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. Objective remissions were seen in ten patients. The usual toxic manifestations of ADM and DDP were observed. It is concluded that the combination is effective therapy for ovarian cancer. Further investigation of this combination versus single agents is warranted.
Many studies have supported a genetic etiology for autism. Here we report mutations in two X-linked genes encoding neuroligins NLGN3 and NLGN4 in siblings with autism-spectrum disorders. These mutations affect cell-adhesion molecules localized at the synapse and suggest that a defect of synaptogenesis may predispose to autism.
A 56-year-old female with symptomatic epilepsy was admitted to our hospital because of acute renal failure(ARF) and liver dysfunction(LD) after receiving CBZ for two months. She had suffered a drug eruption caused by phenobarbital and valproate six months previously. Renal and liver biopsies presented acute interstitial nephritis and active chronic hepatitis, respectively. Drug-induced lymphocyte stimulating test showed CBZ positivity. Steroid therapy resulted in recovery from ARF and LD. CBZ sometimes causes ARF or LD, but rarely induces both simultaneously, especially in adults. Pathological evidence of two lesions other than from autopsy seems to be the first step in this case. Cross reaction with other antiepileptic agents was also of interest, suggesting that one member of the cytochrome P450 subfamily, CYP3A, participated in the mechanism.
Drug-induced torsade de pointes (TdP) arrhythmias can readily be induced in anesthetized dogs with remodeled hearts [chronic complete atrioventricular block (CAVB) dogs]. Similar studies in conscious CAVB dogs reveal lower TdP incidences. Regulations forced us to reconsider our anesthetic regimen, which consist of pentobarbital followed by halothane (P + H). We investigated the relevance of anesthesia for this enhanced susceptibility (part 1) and compared 3 anesthetic regimens (part 2).
Part 1-Ten CAVB dogs paced from the high septum at 1000 milliseconds were challenged with dofetilide (25 microg x kg(-1) x 5 min(-1)) twice: once under anesthesia and once awake. Anesthesia consisted of P + H (n = 5) and thiopental maintained by isoflurane (T + I). Part 2-In CAVB dogs (n = 6) with spontaneous idioventricular rhythm, the electrophysiological and arrhythmogenic consequences of different anesthetic regimens (P + H, T + I, and P + I) were serially compared.
Part 1-In paced dogs, dofetilide-induced TdP was higher under anesthetized than in conscious circumstances, with the more severe outcome seen after T + I as compared with P + H or control (2x): 5/5, 2/5, 0/5, and 0/5, respectively; P < 0.05. Part 2-Electrophysiologically, T accelerated idioventricular rhythm, increased QTc, and transiently induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardias in 2 of 6 dogs. This was not seen after P. At 120 minutes (end of the preparation), QTc increase was highest after T + I, intermediate with P + I, and the smallest after P + H. Dofetilide in combination with T + I induced the most severe arrhythmogenic outcome.
Thiopental anesthesia causes arrhythmias sec, whereas anesthesia in general predisposes for drug-induced TdP in the CAVB dog. In combination with dofetilide, T + I has a more arrhythmic outcome than P + I or P + H.
As axon outgrowth and dentate granule cell neurogenesis are hallmarks of hippocampal development and are also the two morphologic changes in the structure of the dentate gyrus after status epilepticus (SE), we hypothesized that molecules involved in normal development may also play a role during epileptogenesis.
Using in situ hybridization, we have characterized mRNA expression of myocyte-specific enhancer binding factor 2C (MEF2C) in the dentate gyrus during development (P0, P3, P7, P14 and P28) and at multiple time points following pilocarpine-induced SE (3, 7, 14, 28 days after SE).
It was demonstrated that MEF2C is up-regulated during development (P0, P3, P7, P14 and P28) and in the adult rat dentate gyrus following SE (3, 7, 14, 28 days after SE).
The molecules controlling cell-fate decisions in the developing dentate gyrus are also operative during epileptogenesis.
Analyze the ability of Acetylcysteine to reduce distal necrosis in a random skin flap, in the rat.
The present study utilized 28 adult male Wistar-EPM rats distributed, at random, in two groups of 14 animals. Control group rats (CG) received distilled water and Acetylcysteine group animals (NACG) received NAC (300 mg/kg) by oral infusion, 15 minutes before flap elevation. On the seventh postoperative day, percentage of distal necrosis was determined and skin samples collected in order to allow determination of MDA levels.
The mean necrotic area in CG group (control) was 66% and in NACG group (Acetylcysteine) 52%, a statistically significant difference according to the Mann-Whitney test (U calc = 25; U crit = 45). MDA levels were lower in the CG flap skin samples than in the NACG samples (U calc = 24; U crit = 45), the oposite being true in the normal skin samples (U calc = 10; U crit = 45).
Acetylcysteine was effective, according to the model used, reducing the percentage of distal necrosis in NACG rats.
1. Isolated left atria from reserpine-pretreated guinea-pigs, electrically driven (3 Hz) in the presence of atropine (1 microM), phentolamine (0.3 microM) and propranolol (1 microM), responded to a train of stimuli (10 Hz for 2.5s) with a delayed neurogenic positive inotropic response which was insensitive to hexamethonium (10 microM) but abolished by either tetrodotoxin (1 microM), omega-conotoxin (0.1 microM), in vitro capsaicin desensitization or desensitization to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). 2. In these experimental conditions, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) produced a concentration-related (10 microM-1 mM) positive inotropic response similar to that produced by electrical field stimulation. The effect of GABA was competitively antagonized by bicuculline methiodide (10 microM), a GABAA receptor antagonist. 3. The selective GABAA receptor agonists, muscimol and homotaurine mimicked the positive inotropic effect of GABA while baclofen, the selective GABAB receptor agonist, did not. 4. The action of GABA (1 mM) was abolished by either tetrodotoxin (1 microM), omega-conotoxin (0.1 microM), in vitro capsaicin desensitization or desensitization to CGRP, while it was unaffected by hexamethonium. In contrast, the inotropic response to CGRP was unaffected by tetrodotoxin, omega-conotoxin, bicuculline methiodide, hexamethonium or in vitro capsaicin desensitization, but was abolished by CGRP desensitization. 5. In the spontaneously beating guinea-pig right atrium, GABA (1 microM) produced a small and transient positive chronotropic effect that was no longer observed after in vitro desensitization with capsaicin (1 microM). 6. In the guinea-pig isolated perfused heart from reserpine-pretreated animals (with atropine, phentolamine and propranolol in the perfusion medium), GABA (1 microM) produced a transient tachycardia and a small increase in coronary flow. Both capsaicin (1 microM) and CGRP (1 microM) produced marked tachycardias and increases in coronary flow. After exposure to capsaicin (1 microM), no effect of GABA could be detected. 7. We conclude that, in the guinea-pig heart, GABAA receptors, presumably located on the preterminal region of capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves, initiate a conducted impulse (since it is tetrodotoxin-sensitive) which leads to transmitter release (endogenous CGRP-like material) by activation of omega-conotoxin-sensitive, voltage-sensitive calcium channels and a functional response.
Upper urinary tract obstruction is a common cause of renal dysfunction in children and adults. While there is clinical evidence of an increased male incidence and mortality rate with acute renal failure, the effect of gender and testosterone on obstructive renal injury has not previously been evaluated. We hypothesized that testosterone exacerbates proinflammatory TNF-alpha production and proapoptotic and profibrotic signaling during renal obstruction, resulting in increased apoptotic cell death and tubulointerstitial fibrosis. To study this, male, female, castrated male, and testosterone-treated oophorectomized female rats were subjected to sham operation or 3 days of unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO). Renal cortical tissue was then analyzed for TNF-alpha production; proapoptotic caspase-8, -9, and -3 activity; apoptotic cell death; profibrotic transforming growth factor-beta1 production; and alpha-smooth muscle actin expression. In a separate arm, glomerular filtration rate (inulin clearance) was measured in rats pre- and post-UUO. Male and testosterone-treated oophorectomized female rats demonstrated a significant increase in TNF-alpha production, caspase activity, apoptotic cell death, tubulointerstitial fibrosis, and renal dysfunction during UUO compared with castrated males and normal female rats subjected to the same time course of obstruction. These results demonstrate that endogenous testosterone production in normal male rats and testosterone exogenously administered to oophorectomized females significantly increases TNF production and proapoptotic and profibrotic signaling during renal obstruction, resulting in increased apoptotic cell death, tubulointerstitial fibrosis, and renal dysfunction.
The genetic cause underlying the development of multiple colonic adenomas, the premalignant precursors of colorectal cancer (CRC), frequently remains unresolved in patients with adenomatous polyposis. Here we applied whole-exome sequencing to 51 individuals with multiple colonic adenomas from 48 families. In seven affected individuals from three unrelated families, we identified a homozygous germline nonsense mutation in the base-excision repair (BER) gene NTHL1. This mutation was exclusively found in a heterozygous state in controls (minor allele frequency of 0.0036; n = 2,329). All three families showed recessive inheritance of the adenomatous polyposis phenotype and progression to CRC in at least one member. All three affected women developed an endometrial malignancy or premalignancy. Genetic analysis of three carcinomas and five adenomas from different affected individuals showed a non-hypermutated profile enriched for cytosine-to-thymine transitions. We conclude that a homozygous loss-of-function germline mutation in the NTHL1 gene predisposes to a new subtype of BER-associated adenomatous polyposis and CRC.
Primary familial brain calcification (PFBC) is a neurological disease characterized by calcium phosphate deposits in the basal ganglia and other brain regions and has thus far been associated with SLC20A2, PDGFB or PDGFRB mutations. We identified in multiple families with PFBC mutations in XPR1, a gene encoding a retroviral receptor with phosphate export function. These mutations alter phosphate export, implicating XPR1 and phosphate homeostasis in PFBC.
To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities, and pharmacokinetics of topotecan administered as a 30-min intravenous (i.v.) infusion over 5 days in combination with a 1-h i.v. infusion of ifosfamide (IF) for 3 consecutive days every 3 weeks. Patients with advanced malignancies refractory to standard therapy were entered into the study. The starting dose of topotecan was 0.4 mg x m(-2) day(-1) x 5 days. Ifosfamide was administered at a fixed dose of 1.2 g x m(-2) day(-1) x 3 days. In all, 36 patients received 144 treatment courses. Owing to toxicities, the schedule of topotecan administration was reduced from 5 to 3 days. The MTD was reached at topotecan 1.2 mg x m(-2) day(-1) x 3 days with IF 1.2 g x m(-2) day(-1) x 3 days. Haematological toxicities were dose limiting. Neutropenia was the major toxicity. Thrombocytopenia and anaemia were rare. Nonhaematological toxicities were relatively mild. Partial responses were documented in three patients with ovarian cancer dosed below the MTD. Topotecan and IF did not appear to interact pharmacokinetically. The relationships between the exposure to topotecan lactone and total topotecan, and the decrease in absolute neutrophil count and the decrease in thrombocytes, were described with sigmoidal-E(max) models. The combination of 1.0 mg m(-2) day(-1) topotecan administered as a 30-min i.v. infusion daily times three with 1.2 g x m(-2) day(-1) IF administered as a 1-h i.v. infusion daily times three every 3 weeks was feasible. However, the combination schedule of topotecan and IF did result in considerable haematological toxicity and in conjunction with previously reported pronounced nonhaematological toxicities and treatment related deaths, it may be concluded that this is not a favourable combination.
Pyrazinamide (PZA) is an important front line anti-tuberculosis drug because of its sterilizing activity against semi-dormant tubercle bacilli. In spite of its remarkable role in shortening the treatment duration from 9 months to 6 months when used in combination with Rifampicin and Isoniazid, PZA remains a difficult paradox because of its incompletely understood mode of action and mechanism of resistance. PZA is a nicotinamide analog prodrug which is converted into the active bactericidal form pyrazinoic acid by the bacterial enzyme pyrazinamidase (PZase). PZA does not appear to have a specific cellular target and instead, exerts its bactericidal effect by disrupting the membrane energetics and acidification of cytoplasm. Majority (72-97%) of PZA-resistant isolates of M. tuberculosis exhibit mutations in their pncA gene or upstream area leading to loss of PZase activity. A wide diversity of pncA mutations scattered along the entire length of pncA gene is unique to PZA resistance. However, PZA resistant isolates with normal PZase activity and wild type pncA sequences have also been reported in several studies which indicate that alternate mechanisms of PZA resistance exist. Investigations into these mechanisms would be useful in developing alternative diagnostic/therapeutic measures. This review presents the update of various mechanisms of PZA resistance in different mycobacteria with special emphasis on mode of action of PZA and mechanisms of resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Bleomycin-related pneumonitis (BIP) has recently emerged as one of the main causes of death in Hodgkin's disease treated with standard chemotherapy ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine). We used 18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) scanning in a patient with Hodgkin's disease who developed bleomycin lung toxicity following the 4(th) cycle of chemotherapy. The PET scan done two month after the acute presentation with BIP showed uptake of FDG in the lungs. Following treatment with corticosteroids, the FDG avidity in the lungs disappeared. Corticosteroids were tapered off subsequently, without recurrence of the respiratory symptoms. Conventional CT scanning was not able to distinguish between residual changes and active inflammation. Thus PET represents a useful diagnostic tool and, independently of CT, indicates the resolution of disease activity, even in the presence of residual pulmonary scarring.
Antiarrhythmic drugs may aggravate or induce ventricular arrhythmia. The induction of a supraventricular tachycardia or its facilitation has rarely been reported. The purpose of the study was to know whether the potential for supraventricular proarrhythmic effect of a class Ia intravenous antiarrhythmic drug can be exposed during electrophysiologic study. Ajmaline was chosen because of its short duration of action. The protocol of the study consisted of an electrophysiological study and programmed atrial stimulation using 1 and 2 extrastimuli on driven rhythm and atrial pacing up to second-degree atrioventricular block. Then 1 mg/kg of ajmaline was injected and atrial pacing was performed 3 minutes after its injection. Supraventricular proarrhythmic effect of ajmaline was defined as the spontaneous occurrence of a supraventricular tachycardia or the facilitation of its induction. Seventy patients among 1955 presented a proarrhythmic effect: 63 developed a supraventricular tachyarrhythmia (atrial flutter, fibrillation, tachycardia) and 7 an atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia, either spontaneously (n = 23) or during atrial pacing (n = 47). Risk factors were identified in most patients: old age, underlying heart disease, history of spontaneous supraventricular tachycardia and/or induction of a supraventricular tachycardia by 2 extrastimuli on driven rhythm in the control state (34 patients), sinus node dysfunction (22 patients). Compared with patients without proarrhythmic supraventricular effect only the history of spontaneous supraventricular tachycardia and the existence of a sinus node dysfunction were significantly more frequent (P less than 0.05) in patients with proarrhythmic effect of ajmaline. In conclusion, the supraventricular proarrhythmic effect of intravenous ajmaline exists and is related both to the electrophysiologic characteristics of the drug and to the arrhythmia substrate. The results indicate that a supraventricular tachyarrhythmia may be induced by a class I antiarrhythmic drug.
Epileptogenic activity induced by combined treatment with antiinflammatory drugs and enoxacin was investigated in chronic electrode-implanted rats. Ferubinac ethyl and aspirin DL-lysine showed a spike and wave complex in EEG without showing remarkable behavioral changes when they were injected intraventricularly, although a relatively high dose was needed. Enoxacin, on the other hand, elicited potent epileptogenic activity characterized by uninterrupted high voltage spike and wave complex at doses of 50 and 100 micrograms. At the same time, rats showed hyperactivity, jumping and violent convulsion. Combined treatment with enoxacin (p.o.) and ferubinac ethyl (i.v.) caused potent epileptogenic activity characterized by uninterrupted burst of high voltage spike and wave complex. Behaviorally, animals showed forelimb clonus, head nodding and generalized convulsion. High voltage spike and wave complex was also observed after combined treatment with enoxacin (i. vent.) and ferubinac ethyl (i.v. or i. vent.) in association with hyperactivity and jumping and violent convulsion. Nicardipine remarkably inhibited epileptic seizures induced by combined treatment with enoxacin (p.o.) and ferubinac ethyl (i.v.). It is concluded that simultaneous treatment with enoxacin and ferubinac ethyl produced epileptogenic activity when injected intraventricularly, and nicardipine inhibited convulsions induced by combined use of enoxacin (p.o.) and ferubinac ethyl (i.v.).
The influence of genetic polymorphisms in GSTM1 and GSTT1 genes on micronucleus frequencies in human peripheral blood lymphocytes was assessed through a pooled analysis of data from seven laboratories that did biomonitoring studies using the in vivo cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay. A total of 301 nonoccupationally exposed individuals (207 males and 94 females) and 343 workers (237 males and 106 females) occupationally exposed to known or suspected genotoxic substances were analyzed by Poisson regression. The results of the pooled analysis indicate that the GSTT1 null subjects had lower micronucleus frequencies than their positive counterparts in the total population (frequency ratio, 0.55; 95% confidence interval, 0.33-0.89). The protective effect of this genotype is reversed with increasing age, with a frequency ratio of 1.33 (95% confidence interval, 1.06-1.68) in subjects aged 60 years. A significant overall increase in micronucleus frequency with age and gender (P < 0.001 and P = 0.024, respectively) was observed, females having higher micronucleus frequencies than males, when occupationally exposed (P = 0.002). Nonoccupationally exposed smokers had lower micronucleus frequencies than nonsmokers (P = 0.001), whereas no significant difference in micronucleus level was observed between smokers and nonsmokers in the occupationally exposed group (P = 0.79). This study confirms that pooled analyses, by increasing the statistical power, are adequate for assessing the involvement of genetic variants on genome stability and for resolving discrepancies among individual studies.
ANCA is detected in several vasculitic diseases, including drug-induced systemic vasculitis: propylthiouracil (PTU), hydralazine, minocycline, penicillamine, allopurinol, procainamide, carbimazole, thiamazole, clozapine and phenytoin. All have been known to induce ANCA positive vasculitis in adult patients.
To study the clinical manifestation, renal pathology and outcome of patients with ANCA positive vasculitis associated with propylthiouracil treatment in Siriraj Hospital.
Retrospective study in 7patients with Graves' disease who were treated with propylthiouracil and developed ANCA-positive glomerulonephritis between 2000-2008.
Seven cases with Graves' disease who received propylthiouracil whose ages were 43 +/- 14 years. The duration of propylthiouracil treatment was 68.5 +/- 39 months and the doses were 50-150 mg per day. Six cases had P-ANCA and one case had C-ANCA in the serum. Proteinuria ranged from 0.49-2.9 gram per day. Mean serum creatinine was 2.05 mg/dl with creatinine clearance of 44 +/- 35 ml/min. The propylthiouracil was withdrawn in every patient and corticosteroid was administered. Renal remission was found until 1 year of follow-up.
ANCA positive glomerulonephritis associated with propylthiouracil is not uncommon. The average onset of glomerulonephritis is 2 years or more. The propylthiouracil dosage was not necessary high. Urinalysis and other glomerulonephritis symptoms should be screened for early diagnosis and appropriate treatment in patients treated with PTU.
This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled trial was conducted to compare the analgesic efficacy and safety of oxymorphone extended release (ER) with placebo and oxycodone controlled release (CR) in ambulatory patients with moderate to severe chronic low back pain requiring opioid therapy. Patients (N = 213) aged 18 to 75 years were randomized to receive oxymorphone ER (10 to 110 mg) or oxycodone CR (20 to 220 mg) every 12 hours during a 7- to 14-day dose-titration phase. Patients achieving effective analgesia at a stable opioid dose entered an 18-day double-blind treatment phase and either continued opioid therapy or received placebo. With stable dosing throughout the treatment phase, oxymorphone ER (79.4 mg/day) and oxycodone CR (155 mg/day) were superior to placebo for change from baseline in pain intensity as measured on a visual analog scale; the LS mean differences were -18.21 and 18.55 (95% CI, -25.83 to -10.58 and -26.12 to -10.98, respectively; P = .0001). Use of rescue medication was 20 mg per day. Adverse events for the active drugs were similar; the most frequent were constipation and sedation. Oxymorphone ER and oxycodone CR were generally safe and effective for controlling low back pain. Oxymorphone ER was equianalgesic to oxycodone CR at half the milligram daily dosage, with comparable safety.
Definitive studies of long-acting opioids in patients with chronic low back pain are lacking. We report the results of a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study evaluating the analgesic efficacy and safety of oxymorphone ER and oxycodone CR in opioid-experienced patients with chronic low back pain.
