Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic, which induces renal tubular necrosis in rats. In the context of the European InnoMed PredTox project, transcriptomic and proteomic studies were performed to provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity. Male Wistar rats were treated with 25 and 75 mg/kg/day subcutaneously for 1, 3 and 14 days. Histopathology observations showed mild tubular degeneration/necrosis and regeneration and moderate mononuclear cell infiltrate after long-term treatment. Transcriptomic data indicated a strong treatment-related gene expression modulation in kidney and blood cells at the high dose after 14 days of treatment, with the regulation of 463 and 3241 genes, respectively. Of note, the induction of NF-kappa B pathway via the p38 MAPK cascade in the kidney, together with the activation of T-cell receptor signaling in blood cells were suggestive of inflammatory processes in relation with the recruitment of mononuclear cells in the kidney. Proteomic results showed a regulation of 163 proteins in kidney at the high dose after 14 days of treatment. These protein modulations were suggestive of a mitochondrial dysfunction with impairment of cellular energy production, induction of oxidative stress, an effect on protein biosynthesis and on cellular assembly and organization. Proteomic results also provided clues for potential nephrotoxicity biomarkers such as AGAT and PRBP4 which were strongly modulated in the kidney. Transcriptomic and proteomic data turned out to be complementary and their integration gave a more comprehensive insight into the putative mode of nephrotoxicity of gentamicin which was in accordance with histopathological findings.
This case study reveals an unusual finding of rapidly proliferative crescentic glomerulonephritis in a patient treated with rifampin who had no other identifiable causes for developing this disease. This patient underwent a 10-month regimen of rifampin and isoniazid for pulmonary tuberculosis and was discovered to have developed signs of severe renal failure five weeks after completion of therapy. Renal biopsy revealed severe glomerulonephritis with crescents, electron dense fibrillar deposits and moderate lymphocytic interstitial infiltrate. Other possible causes of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis were investigated and ruled out. This report documents the unusual occurrence of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with crescents and fibrillar glomerulonephritis in a patient treated with rifampin.
The aim of this retrospective study was to analyse the malignant behaviour of low-grade pulmonary neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) treated at our institution.
We reviewed 48 consecutive patients with pulmonary NETs referred to our Medical Oncology Unit between 1998 and 2006, including 33 subjects with typical carcinoids (TCs) and 15 with atypical carcinoids (ACs).
At diagnosis, there were 37 metastatic and 11 non-metastatic patients. Medical treatments used were somatostatin analogues, combined chemotherapy, within study protocols, 5-fluorouracil/dacarbazine/epiadriamycin (FDE), and oxaliplatin plus capecitabine (XELOX). Median disease-free survival was 72 months for the TC patients and 38 months for the AC patients. Actuarial 5-year survival was 93% for those with TCs and 73% for those with ACs. The mean overall survival was 68 months for the non-metastatic patients (78 months for TC patients and 58 months for AC patients) and 36 months for patients with advanced disease (42 and 32 months, respectively).
Cell type is the strongest determinant of prognosis, and the degree of malignancy increases from TCs to ACs. Moreover, the prognosis of metastatic pulmonary carcinoids is not as good as expected. Our analysis suggests that patients with advanced disease should receive first-line therapy with a somatostatin analogue, with chemotherapy regimens (FDE, XELOX) used in progressing cases.
3 cases with chronic methamphetamine psychoses (MAP-P) were studied from the clinical psychiatric point of view and discussed: 1.) The average time of occurrence of psychotic symptoms in our 3 cases after beginning of MAP abuse was two or three years. 2.) Although the psychotic states (often schizophrenia-like) were stable for a short time, the symptoms recurred promptly after reinjection of a small amount of MAP, unspecific stress or drinking sake (flashback phenomenon). The recurrence may happen even after several years. 3.) In cases of chronic MAP-P disturbances of consciousness are rare. Chronic process of MAP-P cases may show acute transient disturbances of consciousness (flashback phenomenon). 4.) The change of affects and behaviour ranges between irritable and indifferent attitudes. While there are close connections between the disturbance of feeling and change of personality (Wesensänderung), it is very difficult to decide whether premorbid character traits are dominant or there is a change of personality or emotional disturbance. 5.) About acute psychic symptoms which are responsible for recurrence of MAP-P, MAP-abusers make the experience that their intimate personal affairs are overlooked and become public (uncovered defensive experiences). In chronic cases of MAP-P we often meet patients with hypertrophic self-feeling or delusion of grandeur predominant in the symptomatology. 6.) In our cases sensations were amalgamated into each other and there were hallucinatory experiences without clear division between them. 7.) In chronic cases the auditory hallucinations criticized or censured the patients for their behaviour. Thought echoing (Gedankenlautwerden) was found. We found signs of mind reading (Gedankenausbreitung).
Metronidazole, administered to 5 dogs for periods ranging from 3 to 14 days, was associated with acute development of CNS dysfunction. Metronidazole dosage ranged from 67.3 to 129.0 mg/kg of body weight/d. Clinical signs of toxicosis began with anorexia and intermittent vomiting and progressed rapidly to include pronounced, generalized ataxia and vertical, positional nystagmus. These signs were consistent with lesions of the vestibular nuclei and/or cerebellum. High CSF protein content was detected in 2 of 3 dogs from which CSF was collected. Two dogs were euthanatized because of severe neurologic dysfunction. Three dogs improved slowly and recovered completely over several months. These findings suggest that currently recommended dosages of metronidazole may be too high for some dogs.
Curcumin, a safe nutritional component and a highly promising natural antioxidant with a wide spectrum of biological functions, has been examined in several metal toxicity studies, but its role in protection against mercury toxicity has not been investigated. Therefore, the detoxification and antioxidant effects of curcumin were examined to determine its prophylactic/therapeutic role in rats experimentally exposed to mercury (in the from of mercuric chloride-HgCl(2), 12 micromol kg(-1) b.w. single intraperitoneal injection). Curcumin treatment (80 mg kg(-1) b.w. daily for 3 days, orally) was found to have a protective effect on mercury-induced oxidative stress parameters, namely, lipid peroxidation and glutathione levels and superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities in the liver, kidney and brain. Curcumin treatment was also effective for reversing mercury-induced serum biochemical changes, which are the markers of liver and kidney injury. Mercury concentration in the tissues was also decreased by the pre/post-treatment with curcumin. However, histopathological alterations in the liver and kidney were not reversed by curcumin treatment. Mercury exposure resulted in the induction of metallothionein (MT) mRNA expressions in the liver and kidney. Metallothionein mRNA expression levels were found to decrease after the pre-treatment with curcumin, whereas post-treatment with curcumin further increased MT mRNA expression levels. Our findings suggest that curcumin pretreatment has a protective effect and that curcumin can be used as a therapeutic agent in mercury intoxication. The study indicates that curcumin, an effective antioxidant, may have a protective effect through its routine dietary intake against mercury exposure.
Meperidine is widely used for pain control in the hospital setting. It is also known for its propensity to cause mental status changes in renally and hepatically impaired patients. A case is reported of a 37-year-old man with chronic renal failure maintained on peritoneal dialysis in whom delirium developed when he was treated with meperidine not only on one occasion but also on two subsequent admissions. The pharmacology of meperidine is reviewed and the implications of using the medication in patients with renal impairment are discussed.
The early diagnosis and treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in patients with subclinical pleural metastasis is currently a challenge. In an effort to establish a method for the diagnosis and treatment of these patients, we conducted a single-blind study during which intraoperative pleural lavage cytology (PLC) was performed in 164 patients with NSCLC without obvious pleural effusion. Stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) serum concentrations were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunoassay on day 1 prior to tumor resection and on day 7 postoperatively. Western blot analysis was used for the detection of CXCR4 protein expression in resected tumors. Intraoperative pleural perfusion chemotherapy, with either cisplatin or cisplatin plus matrine, was given to patients with positive PLC. A group of 30 patients with NSCLC that did not undergo intraoperative PLC were used as a control group. Of the 164 study patients, 41 (25%) patients had positive PLC. Serum SDF-1 concentrations were higher in PLC-positive patients compared with patients negative for PLC and control patients. Serum SDF-1 concentrations were also lower at postoperative day 7 in patients treated with cisplatin plus matrine compared with control patients and those perfused with cisplatin alone. A lower incidence of chemotherapy-related adverse events was observed in patients treated with cisplatin plus matrine versus those treated with cisplatin alone during the first postoperative month. Patients with positive PLC showed a higher CXCR4 protein expression than patients with negative PLC. Based on the results of this study, PLC combined with serum SDF-1 concentration measurements may be considered as an effective index to determine the risk of subclinical pleural metastasis in patients with lung cancer. In addition, cisplatin plus matrine was confirmed as an initial approach for pleural perfusion and was superior to cisplatin alone.
In the UK almost one million individuals use cocaine on a regular basis, implying that dentists are likely to encounter individuals that use cocaine. Regular use of this drug may have several orofacial effects, such as perforation of the nasal septum and palate, gingival lesions and erosion of tooth surfaces. In addition, recent use of cocaine increases the risk of a medical emergency during dental treatment, especially when epinephrine-containing local anaesthetics or retraction cords are used. Therefore, dental treatment should be postponed for 6 to 24 hours after the use of cocaine.
Despite many advantages, spinal anesthesia often is followed by undesirable decreases in blood pressure, for which the ideal treatment remains controversial. Because spinal anesthesia-induced sympathectomy and management with a pure alpha-adrenergic agonist can separately lead to bradycardia, the authors hypothesized that epinephrine, a mixed alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonist, would more effectively restore arterial blood pressure and cardiac output after spinal anesthesia than phenylephrine, a pure alpha-adrenergic agonist.
Using a prospective, double-blind, randomized, cross-over study design, 13 patients received sequential infusions of epinephrine and phenylephrine to manage hypotension after hyperbaric tetracaine (10 mg) spinal anesthesia. Blood pressure, heart rate, and stroke volume (measured by Doppler echocardiography using the transmitral time-velocity integral) were recorded at baseline, 5 min after injection of tetracaine, and before and after management of hypotension with epinephrine and phenylephrine. Cardiac output was calculated by multiplying stroke volume x heart rate.
Five min after placement of a hyperbaric tetracaine spinal anesthesia, significant decrease in systolic (from 143 +/- 6 mmHg to 125 +/- 5 mmHg; P < 0.001), diastolic (from 81 +/- 3 to 71 +/- 3; P < 0.001), and mean (from 102 +/- 4 to 89 +/- 3; P < 0.001) arterial pressures occurred. Heart rate (75 +/- 4 beats/min to 76 +/- 4 beat/min; P = 0.9), stroke volume (115 +/- 17 to 113 +/- 13; P = 0.9), and cardiac output (8.0 +/- 1 l/m to 8.0 +/- 1l/m; P = 0.8) did not change significantly after spinal anesthesia. Phenylephrine was effective at restoring systolic blood pressure after spinal anesthesia (120 +/- 6 mmHg to 144 +/- 5 mmHg; P < 0.001) but was associated with a decrease in heart rate from 80 +/- 5 beats/min to 60 +/- 4 beats/min (P < 0.001) and in cardiac output from 8.6 +/- 0.7 l/m to 6.2 +/- 0.7 l/m (P < 0.003). Epinephrine was effective at restoring systolic blood pressure after spinal anesthesia (119 +/- 5 mmHg to 139 +/- 6 mmHg; P < 0.001) and was associated with an increase in stroke volume from 114 +/- 12 ml to 142 +/- 17 (P < 0.001) and cardiac output from 7.8 +/- 0.6 l/m to 10.8 +/- 1.1 l/m (P < 0.001).
Epinephrine management of tetracaine spinal-induced hypotension increases heart rate and cardiac output and restores systolic arterial pressure but does not restore mean and diastolic blood pressure. Phenylephrine management of tetracaine spinal-induced hypotension decreases heart rate and cardiac output while restoring systolic, mean, and diastolic blood pressure.
The efficacy of mangiferin, on metabolism of lipids was tested in experimental cardiotoxic rats. The cardiotoxicity was induced by myocardial infarction through subcutaneous administration of isoproterenol hydrochloride for 2 days using 0.1 ml saline. Mangiferin drug was given as pretreatment for 28 days through intraperitonial administration using 0.2 ml dimethyl sulphoxide. Mangiferin significantly reduced the cholesterol, triglycerol, free fatty acids levels in serum and heart of the cardiotoxic myocardial infarcted rats. Mangiferin also increased the level of heart tissue phospholipids significantly in isoproterenol induced cardio toxic rats. The experiment thus concludes that mangiferin possess cardioprotective and hypolipidemic effect on experimentally induced cardiotoxic myocardial infarcted rats.
The effects of natural antioxidants on nitric oxide (NO) modulation and oxidative status were determined in rat epithelial lung cells (L-2). Cells were stimulated with cytokines and treated with one of the following: resveratrol, soybean saponin group B (SSB), quercetin, genistein, olive leaf polyphenol concentrate (OLPC), or N-acetyl-L-cystein (NAC). NAC had no effect on NO levels, whereas resveratrol and OLPC were found to be effective in reducing nitrite levels, modifying iNOS mRNA, and decreasing free radical production. OLPC affected the levels of MnSOD while resveratrol did not, indicating that they act via different pathways. Quercetin and genistein reduced nitrite levels without affecting iNOS levels, presumably by scavenging NO. SSB did not affect nitrite levels, but exposure did reduce iNOS mRNA expression and protein levels, possibly due to antioxidant activity. Naturally occurring antioxidants, in particular resveratrol and OLPC, may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of inflammatory diseases.
The liver histology of 52 patients treated with intermittent low dose pulse methotrexate for rheumatoid arthritis was evaluated using a modification of the Roenigk grading system. Patients studied had had an average of 3.2 years of treatment or had received 1.7 g methotrexate. No patient had cirrhosis; 15 (29%) patients had evidence of mild fibrosis. Histological abnormalities were not predicted by liver function test changes, with the exception that hypoalbuminaemia occurred in 60% of those with grade IV (modified criteria) findings. The need for liver biopsy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with methotrexate before two years or 1500 mg of treatment has not been established. Whether serial liver biopsies will be needed beyond this time has yet to be determined.
Recurrent ventricular tachyarrhythmias required multiple resuscitative efforts with electrical countershock in a 45-year-old woman with previously undiagnosed asymptomatic congenital prolongation of the Q-T interval. This patient represents the oldest person with symptoms relating to idiopathic prolongation of the Q-T interval found in the literature. Exacerbating factors, including diuretic-induced hypokalemia and the concomitant administration of perphenazine, were present. In such cases, initially refractory to therapy with antiarrhythmic agents, insertion of a transvenous pacemaker with overdrive suppression of the ventricular tachyarrhythmias may be lifesaving, allowing for the institution of therapy with agents that can selectively shorten the Q-T interval.
Coumarin derivatives such as warfarin represent the therapy of choice for the long-term treatment and prevention of thromboembolic events. Coumarins target blood coagulation by inhibiting the vitamin K epoxide reductase multiprotein complex (VKOR). This complex recycles vitamin K 2,3-epoxide to vitamin K hydroquinone, a cofactor that is essential for the post-translational gamma-carboxylation of several blood coagulation factors. Despite extensive efforts, the components of the VKOR complex have not been identified. The complex has been proposed to be involved in two heritable human diseases: combined deficiency of vitamin-K-dependent clotting factors type 2 (VKCFD2; Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) 607473), and resistance to coumarin-type anticoagulant drugs (warfarin resistance, WR; OMIM 122700). Here we identify, by using linkage information from three species, the gene vitamin K epoxide reductase complex subunit 1 (VKORC1), which encodes a small transmembrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum. VKORC1 contains missense mutations in both human disorders and in a warfarin-resistant rat strain. Overexpression of wild-type VKORC1, but not VKORC1 carrying the VKCFD2 mutation, leads to a marked increase in VKOR activity, which is sensitive to warfarin inhibition.
Transplant arteriosclerosis is a leading cause of chronic transplant dysfunction and is characterized by occlusive neointima formation in intragraft arteries. Development of transplant arteriosclerosis is refractory to conventional immunosuppressive drugs and adequate therapy is not available. In this study, we determined the efficacy of the synthetic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma agonist rosiglitazone to attenuate the development of transplant arteriosclerosis in rat aortic allografts.
Lewis aortic allografts were transplanted into Brown Norway recipient rats. Recipient rats received either approximately 5 mg rosiglitazone/day (starting 1 week before transplantation until the end of the experiment) or were left untreated. Transplant arteriosclerosis was quantified using morphometric analysis. Alloreactivity was measured in vitro using mixed lymphocyte reactions. Regulatory T cell frequency and function were analyzed using flow cytometry and in vitro suppression assays, respectively. Intragraft gene expression was analyzed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Finally, medial and neointimal vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation was analyzed in vitro.
Rosiglitazone significantly reduced transplant arteriosclerosis development 8 weeks after transplantation (P<0.01 vs. nontreated). Rosiglitazone reduced T cell alloreactivity which was not mediated through modulation of CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells. Reduced development of transplant arteriosclerosis coincided with reduced intragraft expression of stromal-derived factor-1alpha and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta. Finally, rosiglitazone reduced growth-factor-driven proliferation of both medial and neointimal vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro, which was not mediated through PPARgamma.
PPARgamma agonists may offer a new therapeutic strategy in clinical transplantation to attenuate the development of transplant arteriosclerosis and thereby chronic transplant dysfunction.
Selective cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin (DOX) remains a significant and dose-limiting clinical problem. The mechanisms implicated are not yet fully defined but may involve the production of reactive oxygen species or expression of cytokines. Although patients with advanced congestive heart failure express elevated circulating levels of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), little is known about the prognostic importance and regulation of TNF in the heart in cardiac disease states. Here we tested whether the expression of TNFalpha, along with oxidative stress, is associated with the development of DOX-induced cardiomyopathy (DOX-CM) and whether concurrent treatment with taurine (Taur), an antioxidant, or rolipram (Rolp), a TNFalpha inhibitor, offer a certain protection against DOX cardiotoxic properties. DOX (cumulative dose, 12 mg kg(-1)) was administered to rats in six equal (intraperitoneal) injections over a period of 6 weeks. Cardiomyopathy was evident by myocardial cell damage, which was characterized by a dense indented nucleus with peripheral heterochromatin condensation and distorted mitochondria, as well as significant increase in serum levels of creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase. DOX also induced an increment (P<0.001) in serum TNF and plasma nitric oxide levels. The extent of left ventricular (LV) superoxide anion, lipid peroxide measured as malondialdehyde, catalase and calcium content were markedly elevated, whereas superoxide dismutase, total and non-protein-bound thiol were dramatically decreased in DOX-treated rats. Exaggeration of DOX-CM was achieved by intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (1 mg kg(-1)) 18 h before sampling and evaluated by highly significant increase in heart enzymes (P<0.001), oxidative stress biomarkers and TNFalpha production. Pre- and co-treatment of DOX or DOX-LPS rats with Taur (1% daily supplemented in drinking water, 10 days before and concurrent with DOX) or Rolp (3 mg kg(-1), intraperitoneally, one dose before DOX administration then every 2 weeks throughout the experimental period) ameliorated the deleterious effect of both DOX and LPS on the aforementioned parameters. Meanwhile, it is noteworthy that Rolp exhibited a more preferable effect on serum TNFalpha level. Taur and rolipram also restored the myocardial apoptosis induced by DOX. In conclusion, a cumulative dose of DOX affected free radical and TNFalpha production in the heart of an experimental cardiomyopathy animal model. The current results suggest that down-regulation of these radicals and cytokines could be maintained by using the free radical scavenger Taur or, more favourably, the TNFalpha inhibitor Rolp.
Regional anaesthesia can be associated with severe complications, which may be due to overdose or accidental intravascular injection of local anaesthetics. The clinical picture varies and depends on the pharmacodynamics of specific drugs, the total dose used, and the route of injection. Among the most common side effects are: excitation, seizures, loss of consciousness, cardiac dysrhythmias, severe shock and cardiac arrest. Cardiovascular resuscitation in such cases may be prolonged and very difficult, mostly because local anaesthetics are lipid soluble and require a long time for redistribution. The majority of cases with lidocaine-induced cardiovascular complications can be successfully resuscitated due to the relatively short duration of action of the drug. Bupivacaine-induced cardiac arrest is probably the most dangerous, with resuscitations in such cases being usually very long and frequently unsuccessful. Recently, intravenous fat emulsion (Intralipid) has been used during resuscitation. This review focuses on the role of intravenous fat emulsions in the treatment of toxicity due to local anaesthetics. The possible antidotal mechanisms are discussed.
The administration of glucocorticoids has been reported to exacerbate proteinuria in a few patients with glomerulonephritis. This effect has not been well recognized, and the pathogenetic mechanism responsible for this phenomenon remains to be clarified. In this study, we observed that a high daily oral dose (0.5 mg/kg body weight) of dexamethasone was capable of inducing overt proteinuria in mice, beginning on day 5 and persisting for a 19-day duration. One fourth of mice also intermittently presented with slight hematuria beginning on day 12. Renal lesions in the dexamethasone-treated mice, which were killed on day 23, were characterized by mild mesangial expansion, segmental or global hyalinosis/sclerosis in deep cortical glomeruli, and focal tubular changes. No glomerular inflammatory cell infiltration or proliferative lesion was noted in any of the mice. Ultrastructural features of glomeruli included mesangial widening characterized by either an increase of mesangial matrix, dilated mesangial channels filled with slightly electron-dense material or mesangial lysis-like appearance showing intracytoplasmic microcysts filled with electron-lucent material, and evidence to support injury of endothelial cells, erythrocytes, and podocytes. An immunofluorescence study revealed enhanced glomerular deposition of IgG, IgA, IgM, and fibrinogen (P < 0.001, compared with normal control mice), but no glomerular C3 deposition was identified in any of the dexamethasone-treated mice. Charge analysis showed no impairment in anionic property of glomerular tufts in the dexamethasone-treated mice. In addition, the dexamethasone-induced proteinuria was greatly attenuated by treatment with a low molecular weight heparin, although it was not reduced by an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. Data from these experiments suggest that a large dose of glucocorticoids is potentially nephrotoxic. Alteration of a size-dependent permeability may predominantly contribute to the dexamethasone-induced proteinuria. However, the effect of glomerular hyperfiltration may be only partially involved in the pathogenesis of this dexamethasone-induced glomerulopathy in mice.
We have studied, in 150 patients undergoing elective oral surgery, the effectiveness and sequelae of pretreatment with rocuronium for reducing myalgia after suxamethonium. Patients were allocated randomly to one of three groups: anaesthesia was induced with propofol and fentanyl, and group V received vecuronium 1 mg, group R rocuronium 6 mg and group P placebo pretreatment. Suxamethonium 1.5 mg kg-1 was given 60 s after the pretreatment agent. All patients received ketorolac 10 mg i.v. and morphine 10 mg i.m. for analgesia. The incidence of postoperative myalgia on day 1 after rocuronium (20%) was significantly less than after vecuronium (42%) (P < 0.05) or placebo (70%) (P < 0.01). By day 4 the incidence of myalgia was 28.6% in the rocuronium group, 46.3% in the vecuronium group and 95% in the placebo group. Intubating conditions were not affected adversely by any pretreatment regimen.
There is evidence to suggest that low levels of magnesium (Mg) are associated with affective disorders, however, causality and central neurobiological mechanisms of this link are largely unproven. We have recently shown that mice fed a low Mg-containing diet (10% of daily requirement) display enhanced depression-like behavior sensitive to chronic antidepressant treatment. The aim of the present study was to utilize this model to gain insight into underlying mechanisms by quantifying amygdala/hypothalamus protein expression using gel-based proteomics and correlating changes in protein expression with changes in depression-like behavior. Mice fed Mg-restricted diet displayed reduced brain Mg tissue levels and altered expression of four proteins, N(G),N(G)-dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase 1 (DDAH1), manganese-superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), glutamate dehydrogenase 1 (GDH1) and voltage-dependent anion channel 1. The observed alterations in protein expression may indicate increased nitric oxide production, increased anti-oxidant response to increased oxidative stress and potential alteration in energy metabolism. Aberrant expressions of DDAH1, MnSOD and GDH1 were normalized by chronic paroxetine treatment which also normalized the enhanced depression-like behavior, strengthening the link between the changes in these proteins and depression-like behavior. Collectively, these findings provide first evidence of low magnesium-induced alteration in brain protein levels and biochemical pathways, contributing to central dysregulation in affective disorders.
Herein we have characterized CYPs and antioxidant enzymes in a new steatotic rat model induced with a high fat diet (HFD) combined with a low dose of streptozotocin (STZ). This model was recently put forward in order to better replicate the NAFLD human pathology. HFD/STZ rats developed hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia and overt steatosis. The treatment also caused liver damage, but not lipid peroxidation, suggesting this damage was due to hepatic fat deposition and excess formation of toxic free fatty acids, rather than to oxidative stress. In the HFD/STZ group, a significant rise in total CYP content was found, in conjunction with increased activity and protein levels of CYP2E1 and CYP4A, the latter also up-regulated at the transcriptional level. A significant decrease of CYP2C11 was observed at the transcriptional and protein level, whereas CYP3A2 did not change in response to HFD/STZ treatment. In our experimental conditions, the activity of the HO-1 and NQO1 enzymes, whose genes are regulated by Nrf2, were not affected, and nor were the antioxidant enzymes SOD and CAT, confirming the lack of oxidative stress. Our HFD/STZ treatment, which established overt steatosis and changes in CYPs expression, but not oxidative stress, likely reflects an early stage of NAFLD.
Mercuric chloride (HgCl2) induces in Brown Norway rats a CD4+ T lymphocyte-dependent systemic autoimmune syndrome, involving synthesis of anti-glomerular basement membrane autoantibodies and development of proteinuria. Lewis rats are resistant to HgCl2-induced autoantibody production and, in contrast, develop immunosuppression, mediated by CD8+ T lymphocytes. In the present study, genetic requirements governing autoreactivity or immunosuppression in response to HgCl2 were further explored. Both major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and non-MHC genes are involved in determining susceptibility to HgCl2-induced autoimmunity. Both AO (RT1u) and DZB (RT1u) rats were found to develop a membranous autoimmune glomerulopathy upon exposure to HgCl2. Only the DZB strain, which differs in part of the non-MHC background from AO, developed proteinuria. AO.1P (RT1.AuB1D1Eu) rats, which are genetically identical to AO except for the Lewis haplotype at the MHC class II loci, appeared to develop immunosuppression upon exposure to HgCl2. It is concluded that autoreactivity and immunosuppression, induced by HgCl2, are both dependent on the MHC class II haplotype. In autoimmune responder strains the type of autoimmune glomerulopathy is influenced by non-MHC genes.
The use of various doses of metoprolol (spesicor, Leiras, Finland), a selective beta 1-adrenoblocker, in patients with CHD combined with clinical or instrumentally detectable symptoms of bronchial asthma or stage I-II essential hypertension with angina pectoris of I-II functional classes, has shown that metoprolol cardioselective blockade is a relative phenomenon which has definite correlation with a dose, duration of therapy, and the initial status of the bronchopulmonary system. An antianginal effect was observed in 68.5% of patients, an antihypertensive effect--in 71.3%, side-effects--in 6.4%.
Experimental and clinical studies have shown that aldosterone/mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) activation has deleterious effects in the cardiovascular system; however, the signalling pathways involved in the pathophysiological effects of aldosterone/MR in vivo are not fully understood. Several in vitro studies suggest that Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) plays a role in the cardiovascular effects of aldosterone. This hypothesis remains to be demonstrated in vivo. To investigate this question, we analyzed the molecular and functional consequences of aldosterone exposure in a transgenic mouse model with constitutive cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of a mutant EGFR acting as a dominant negative protein (DN-EGFR). As previously reported, Angiotensin II-mediated cardiac remodelling was prevented in DN-EGFR mice. However, when chronic MR activation was induced by aldosterone-salt-uninephrectomy, cardiac hypertrophy was similar between control littermates and DN-EGFR. In the same way, mRNA expression of markers of cardiac remodelling such as ANF, BNF or β-Myosin Heavy Chain as well as Collagen 1a and 3a was similarly induced in DN-EGFR mice and their CT littermates. Our findings confirm the role of EGFR in AngII mediated cardiac hypertrophy, and highlight that EGFR is not involved in vivo in the damaging effects of aldosterone on cardiac function and remodelling.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a syndrome associated with administration of antipsychotics drugs and may be a consequence of a free radical increase. Ilex paraguariensis (IP), rich in polyphenols, is used to prepare a tea-like beverage, the "mate", and has been investigated for its antioxidant action. Here, we examined the aqueous extract of IP on in vitro TBARS production and in vivo study, using two behavioral models, i.e., haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia (evaluated measuring vacuous chewing movements, VCMs) and memory dysfunction, evaluated in a water-maze task. In vitro, we examine different concentrations of IP against the basal, Fe(II) and sodium nitruproside-induced TBARS production in rat brain homogenate. IP extract was able to prevent the basal formation of TBARS (IC50 = 6.6 mg/ml) and TBARS induced by SNP (IC50 = 3.7 mg/ml) and Fe(II) (IC50= 4.8 mg/ml). Haloperidol administration (12 mg/kg/week, im, x4 weeks) increased VCMs (p <0.001). Rats treated with mate (50 g/l, ad libitum, 60 days) did not exhibit the increase in VCMs observed in control rats treated with haloperidol (p <0.001). In the water maze task, haloperidol treated animals displayed an impairment in memory acquisition (p <0.05) compared to rats treated with vehicle. The "mate" prevented the effects of haloperidol in this behavioral paradigm. Our results indicate that IP exhibits an antioxidant role probably related to the presence of polyphenols. The benefit of IP is possibly related to an indirect modulation of oxidative stress.
