The following four intravenous treatments were administered in a balanced, randomized Latin square design to eight healthy volunteers: (-)-adrenaline (0.06 microgram kg-1 min-1 for 90 min) + vehicle control (+)-glucose infusion (60 min), salbutamol (120 ng kg-1 min-1 for 30 min) + vehicle control (+)-glucose infusion (90 min), (-)-adrenaline (0.06 microgram kg-1 min-1 for 90 min) + salbutamol (120 ng kg-1 min-1 for 30 min) and two vehicle control infusions of (+)-glucose. All active solutions were preceded by a 1 h control infusion and the control infusion was continued for 1 h following the active solutions. Both the active solutions, (-)-adrenaline and salbutamol were increased stepwise to the above doses. Heart rate and blood pressure were recorded at frequent intervals throughout and venous blood was taken for the estimation of potassium, insulin, glucose, catecholamine and salbutamol levels. Adrenaline levels similar to those seen in acute illness were achieved using this infusion protocol. Salbutamol levels rose throughout the period of the salbutamol infusions and steady-state was not achieved. Potassium levels were unchanged on the control + control study day and fell on all active treatments (0.45 mmol l-1 following (-)-adrenaline + control; 0.48 mmol l-1 following salbutamol + control; 0.93 mmol l-1 following (-)-adrenaline + salbutamol). Insulin levels rose insignificantly after salbutamol alone and fell slightly on all other treatments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pegylated interferon (PegIFN) and ribavirin (RBV) treatment for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection can induce depressive episodes. Personality traits have been associated with mood disorders. The aim of this study was to evaluate the personality profile as a risk factor for induced depression by PegIFN and RBV treatment in patients with HCV.
In a prospective cohort study, 204 consecutive HCV outpatients who received PegIFN and RBV were assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I Disorders and the Temperament and Character Inventory-Revised (TCI-R). Moreover, the Patient Health Questionnaire and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale were administered at baseline and at 4, 12, 24, and/or 48 weeks of treatment. Patients were recruited between September 2003 and December 2006.
One hundred eighteen patients (57.8%) were men. The mean (SD) age was 44.39 (10.4) years. The incidence of induced depression during the 48 weeks of antiviral treatment was 73 (42%). Low self-directedness dimension (HR = 0.63, 95% CI = 0.446 to 0.890, p = .009), baseline subclinical depression levels (HR = 1.113, 95% CI = 1.023 to 1.22, p = .013), and history of mood disorders (HR = 0.372, 95% CI = 0.220 to 0.629, p <.001) were independent predictive factors for induced depression during PegIFN and RBV treatment. Other predictive personality TCI-R subscales were enlightened second nature (HR = 2.939, 95% CI = 1.423 to 6.071, p = .004), fatigability (HR = 0.421, 95% CI = 0.237 to 0.749, p = .01), and disorderliness (HR = 0.449, 95% CI = 0.248 to 0.815, p = .008).
Low self-directedness, depressive symptoms at baseline, and history of previous mood disorders may predict induced depression by PegIFN and RBV in euthymic HCV patients.
We have studied the potential effect against human malignant mesotheliomas (MM) of alpha-tocopheryl succinate (alpha-TOS), a redox-silent vitamin E analog with strong pro-apoptotic and anti-cancer activity. alpha-TOS at sub-apoptotic levels inhibited proliferation of MM cell lines, while being nontoxic to nonmalignant mesothelial cells. Because MM cells are typified by a highly metastatic phenotype, we investigated the effect of alpha-TOS on genes playing a major role in MM progression. Of these, alpha-TOS down regulated fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-1 and, in particular, FGF-2 on the transcriptional level in MM cells, and this was not observed in their nonmalignant counterparts. FGF-2 short interfering RNA suppressed proliferation of MM cells. Down-regulation of FGF-2 was likely because of inhibition of the egr-1 transcription activity that was decreased in MM cells via oxidative stress induced by alpha-TOS, as evidenced by EPR spectroscopy, whereas nonmalignant cells did not show this response. Treatment of MM cells with egr-1 short interfering RNA suppressed proliferation, which was overridden by exogenously added recombinant FGF-1 and, in particular, FGF-2. An analog of coenzyme Q targeted to mitochondria and superoxide dismutase overrode inhibition of MM cell proliferation by alpha-TOS as well as alpha-TOS-induced inhibition of egr-1-dependent transactivation. Finally, alpha-TOS significantly suppressed experimental MM in immunocompromised mice. Our data suggest that alpha-TOS suppresses MM cell proliferation by disrupting the FGF-FGF receptor autocrine signaling loop by generating oxidative stress and point to the agent as a selective drug against thus far fatal mesotheliomas.
Phthalate esters (PEs) constitute a large class of plasticizer compounds that are widely used for many consumer product applications. Ten or more members of the PE class of compounds are known to induce male fetal endocrine toxicity and postnatal reproductive malformations by disrupting androgen production during the sexual differentiation period of development. An early study conducted in the rat pubertal model suggested that dipentyl phthalate (DPeP) may be a more potent testicular toxicant than some more extensively studied phthalates. Regulatory agencies require dose-response and potency data to facilitate risk assessment; however, very little data are currently available for DPeP. The goal of this study was to establish a more comprehensive data set for DPeP, focusing on dose-response and potency information for fetal and postnatal male reproductive endpoints. We dosed pregnant rats on gestational day (GD) 17 or GD 14-18 and subsequently evaluated fetal testicular testosterone (T) production on GD 17.5 and GD 18, respectively. We also dosed pregnant rats on GD 8-18 and evaluated early postnatal endpoints in male offspring. Comparison of these data to data previously obtained under similar conditions for di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate indicates that DPeP is approximately eightfold more potent in reducing fetal T production and two- to threefold more potent in inducing development of early postnatal male reproductive malformations. Additionally, fetal testicular T production was more sensitive to inhibitory effects of DPeP exposure than was gene expression of target genes involved in male reproductive development, supporting the use of this endpoint as a critical effect in the risk assessment process.
Catecholamines stimulate cardiac contractility through beta(1)-adrenergic receptors (beta(1)-ARs), which in humans are polymorphic at amino acid residue 389 (Arg/Gly). We used cardiac-targeted transgenesis in a mouse model to delineate mechanisms accounting for the association of Arg389 with human heart failure phenotypes. Hearts from young Arg389 mice had enhanced receptor function and contractility compared with Gly389 hearts. Older Arg389 mice displayed a phenotypic switch, with decreased beta-agonist signaling to adenylyl cyclase and decreased cardiac contractility compared with Gly 389 hearts. Arg389 hearts had abnormal expression of fetal and hypertrophy genes and calcium-cycling proteins, decreased adenylyl cyclase and G alpha(s) expression, and fibrosis with heart failure This phenotype was recapitulated in homozygous, end-stage, failing human hearts. In addition, hemodynamic responses to beta-receptor blockade were greater in Arg389 mice, and homozygosity for Arg389 was associated with improvement in ventricular function during carvedilol treatment in heart failure patients. Thus the human Arg389 variant predisposes to heart failure by instigating hyperactive signaling programs leading to depressed receptor coupling and ventricular dysfunction, and influences the therapeutic response to beta-receptor blockade.
Flavonoids are potent antioxidants, freely available as high-dose dietary supplements. However, they can induce DNA double-strand breaks (DSB) and rearrangements in the mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) gene, which are frequently observed in childhood leukemia. We hypothesize that a deficient DSB repair, as a result of an Atm mutation, may reinforce the clastogenic effect of dietary flavonoids and increase the frequency of Mll rearrangements. Therefore, we examined the effects of in vitro and transplacental exposure to high, but biological amounts of flavonoids in mice with different genetic capacities for DSB repair (homozygous/heterozygous knock-in for human Atm mutation [Atm-ΔSRI] vs. wild type [wt]). In vitro exposure to genistein/quercetin induced higher numbers of Mll rearrangements in bone marrow cells of Atm-ΔSRI mutant mice compared with wt mice. Subsequently, heterozygous Atm-ΔSRI mice were placed on either a flavonoid-poor or a genistein-enriched (270 mg/kg) or quercetin-enriched (302 mg/kg) feed throughout pregnancy. Prenatal exposure to flavonoids associated with higher frequencies of Mll rearrangements and a slight increase in the incidence of malignancies in DNA repair-deficient mice. These data suggest that prenatal exposure to both genistein and quercetin supplements could increase the risk on Mll rearrangements especially in the presence of compromised DNA repair.
Regional anesthesia without adjunctive general anesthesia or sedation has been recommended for preterm infants to decrease the risk of postoperative apnea. Single-dose caudal local anesthetic has a limited duration, which may be insufficient for long surgery. Addition of clonidine to local anesthetics has been shown to prolong the duration of surgical analgesia. However, respiratory depression related to clonidine may occur in adults. Respiratory depression has not been reported after caudal administration of clonidine in preterm infants. Here we report a case of early postoperative apnea in a waking preterm infant after caudal anesthesia performed with lidocaine, bupivacaine, and clonidine.
A male infant, 39 postconceptual weeks old, was administered a single-injection caudal anesthesia without sedation with 5 mg/kg lidocaine plus 2.5 mg/kg bupivacaine and 1.25 microg/kg clonidine for bilateral inguinal hernia repair, and had early postoperative apneic events. Except for gestational age, the patient showed no apparent risk factors for postoperative apnea. The infant was monitored 24 hours in a neonatal intensive care unit, and no other apnea was recorded.
Our report suggests that clonidine may be responsible for postoperative apnea in a preterm neonate. Further studies are required to determine the useful safe dose of clonidine for single-injection caudal anesthesia in those infants.
Antineoplastic drugs belonging to platinum or taxane families are severely neurotoxic, inducing the onset of disabling peripheral neuropathies with different clinical signs. Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC) is a natural occurring compound with a neuroprotective activity in several experimental paradigms. In this study we have tested the hypothesis that ALC may have a protective role on cisplatin and paclitaxel-induced neuropathy.
Sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV) was measured in rats before, at end, and after an additional follow-up period from treatments with cisplatin, paclitaxel, or with the respective combination with ALC. In addition, serum from treated animals was collected to measure the levels of circulating NGF, and left sciatic nerves were processed for light and electron microscope observations. ALC interference on cisplatin and paclitaxel antitumor activity and protective mechanisms were investigated using several in vitro and in vivo models.
ALC cotreatment was able to significantly reduce the neurotoxicity of both cisplatin and paclitaxel in rat models, and this effect was correlated with a modulation of the plasma levels of NGF in the cisplatin-treated animals. Moreover, experiments in different tumor systems indicated the lack of interference of ALC in the antitumor effects of cisplatin and paclitaxel. The transcriptional profile of gene expression in PC12 cells indicated that ALC, in the presence of NGF, was able to positively modulate NGFI-A expression, a gene relevant in the rescue from tissue-specific toxicity. Finally, the transcriptionally ALC-mediated effects were correlated to increase histone acetylation.
In conclusion, our results indicate that ALC is a specific protective agent for chemotherapy-induced neuropathy after cisplatin or paclitaxel treatment without showing any interference with the antitumor activity of the drugs.
Thirty-seven children treated for bacterial meningitis with ampicillin in high doses were followed up with audiometric control. Defects were recorded in 6 cases. Two of these were ascribed to chronic otosalpingitis. In 4 patients with sensorineural hearing loss, 3 were unilateral, and in only one case was the damage bilateral. Even here there was a previous history of hearing loss. A suggested ototoxicity of ampicillin could not be confirmed.
The influence of acetylcysteine, administered at presentation to hospital, on the subsequent clinical course of 100 patients who developed paracetamol-induced fulminant hepatic failure was analysed retrospectively. Mortality was 37% in patients who received acetylcysteine 10-36 h after the overdose, compared with 58% in patients not given the antidote. In patients given acetylcysteine, progression to grade III/IV coma was significantly less common than in those who did not receive the antidote (51% vs 75%), although the median peak prothrombin time was similar for both groups. Whether the beneficial effect is related to replenishment of glutathione stores or a consequence of another hepatic protective mechanism of acetylcysteine requires further study.
Cytotoxicity of drugs can be a cause of cardiorespiratory disorders connected with chemotherapy. Doxorubicin is an antibiotic from the group of anthracyclines effective in antineoplastic therapy of solid and hematopoetic tumors. The most common cause of therapy ceasing is its cardiotoxicity. However, a lung injury connected with its cytotoxic activity to pulmonary endothelium (capillary leak syndrome) can be an equally serious complication. In the case presented, rapid, multi-profile diagnostics with the use of impedance cardiography, a modern noninvasive tool of hemodynamic monitoring, led to the recognition and effective treatment of a rare clinical syndrome.
A 6-year-old female crossbred Belgian Shepherd Dog with features of acromegaly was monitored for almost 4 years. The history of frequent and excessive administration of a progestational agent suggested that the progestational drug induced the acromegaly. During the monitoring period. soft tissue changes diminished and there was normalization of several factors: plasma growth hormone concentration, response of plasma insulin and glucose to an oral glucose load, and response of plasma glucose hormone to the injection of insulin.
Stress dramatically exacerbates pain in diseases such as fibromyalgia and rheumatoid arthritis, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We tested the hypothesis that stress causes generalized hyperalgesia by enhancing pronociceptive effects of immune mediators. Rats exposed to nonhabituating sound stress exhibited no change in mechanical nociceptive threshold, but showed a marked increase in hyperalgesia evoked by local injections of prostaglandin E(2) or epinephrine. This enhancement, which developed more than a week after exposure to stress, required concerted action of glucocorticoids and catecholamines at receptors located in the periphery on sensory afferents. The altered response to pronociceptive mediators involved a switch in coupling of their receptors from predominantly stimulatory to inhibitory G-proteins (G(s) to G(i)), and for prostaglandin E(2), emergence of novel dependence on protein kinase C epsilon. Thus, an important mechanism in generalized pain syndromes may be stress-induced coactivation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal and sympathoadrenal axes, causing a long-lasting alteration in intracellular signaling pathways, enabling normally innocuous levels of immune mediators to produce chronic hyperalgesia.
Maternal immune responses can promote allergy development in offspring, as shown in a model of increased susceptibility to asthma in babies of ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized and -challenged mother mice. We investigated whether inflammatory responses to air pollution particles (diesel exhaust particles, DEP) or control "inert" titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) particles are enhanced during pregnancy and whether exposure to particles can cause increased neonatal susceptibility to asthma. Pregnant BALB/c mice (or nonpregnant controls) received particle suspensions intranasally at Day 14 of pregnancy. Lung inflammatory responses were evaluated 48 hours after exposure. Offspring of particle- or buffer-treated mothers were sensitized and aerosolized with OVA, followed by assays of airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and allergic inflammation (AI). Nonpregnant females had the expected minimal response to "inert" TiO(2). In contrast, pregnant mice showed robust and persistent acute inflammation after both TiO(2) and DEP. Genomic profiling identified genes differentially expressed in pregnant lungs exposed to TiO(2). Neonates of mothers exposed to TiO(2) (and DEP, but not PBS) developed AHR and AI, indicating that pregnancy exposure to both "inert" TiO(2) and DEP caused increased asthma susceptibility in offspring. We conclude that (1) pregnancy enhances lung inflammatory responses to otherwise relatively innocuous inert particles; and (2) exposures of nonallergic pregnant females to inert or toxic environmental air particles can cause increased allergic susceptibility in offspring.
To determine specificity of rodent models of arrhythmia for different Vaughan Williams classes of antiarrhythmic drugs, we tested 17 drugs from the four classes in one in vitro and four in vivo models. In the mouse chloroform-induced ventricular fibrillation model and in the guinea pig ouabain-induced arrhythmia model, drugs of classes I (amefalone, aprindine, lidocaine, mexiletine, phenytoin, procainamide, or quinidine), II (metoprolol or propranolol), and IV (bepridil) were active. Class III drugs (bretylium, clofilium, or melperone did not suppress ouabain arrhythmias, but were active in the mouse chloroform model. In the rat coronary artery ligation model, disopyramide (class I), amefalone and melperone significantly (P less than 0.05) reduced the number of extrasystoles. Propranolol, sotalol, and verapamil (class IV) were less effective. In the rat coronary artery ligation/reperfusion model, all four classes of antiarrhythmic agents were active in vitro (isolated heart) and in vivo (anesthetized rat). Thus, one model of automaticity, the guinea pig ouabain model, detected class I, II, and IV drugs, whereas another automaticity model, the mouse chloroform model, also detected class III agents. The model of reentry induced by ischemia plus reperfusion (rat coronary artery ligation reperfusion) can be recommended as a screen for new antiarrhythmic agents based on its sensitivity to all four classes of antiarrhythmic drugs. The Vaughan Williams class of an antiarrhythmic agent must be determined, however, by additional mechanism studies.
A 60-year-old man experienced right orbital pain, periorbital swelling, and double vision 2 hours after treatment with streptokinase and heparin for myocardial infarction. Orbital CT revealed a right superior subperiosteal orbital hemorrhage. Conservative management in the absence of visual compromise was sufficient, as his symptoms and signs resolved completely in approximately 6 weeks with no recurrence during 6 months of follow-up. This case demonstrates that nontraumatic subperiosteal orbital hemorrhage may occur after thrombolytic therapy for myocardial infarction. Conservative treatment with cold compresses in the absence of visual impairment may be sufficient, as was in our patient and others.
We examined the prophylactic effect of lafutidine, a novel histamine H(2)-receptor antagonist [(+/-)-2-(furfurylsulfinyl)-N-[4-[4-(piperidinomethyl)-2-pyr idyl]oxy- (Z)-2 butenyl]acetamide], on indomethacin-induced small intestinal ulcers in rats and investigated the relation of this action to capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons.
Subcutaneously administered indomethacin (10 mg/kg) provoked ulceration in the small intestine, mainly the jejunum and ileum, accompanied by increases in myeloperoxidase (MPO) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) activities as well as the enterobacterial numbers invading the mucosa. Intestinal ulcerogenic response to indomethacin was prevented by 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E(2) (10 microg/kg, p.o.) and capsaicin (10 mg/kg, p.o. ) as well as ampicillin (800 mg/kg, p.o.), but not omeprazole (100 mg/kg, p.o.). Likewise, lafutidine (1-10 mg/kg, p.o.), but not cimetidine (100 mg/kg, p.o.), reduced the occurrence of intestinal ulcers in response to indomethacin in a dose-dependent manner, and a significant effect was observed at 3 mg/kg or greater. The protective action of lafutidine as well as capsaicin was almost totally abolished by chemical ablation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons. Both lafutidine and capsaicin significantly suppressed the increases in MPO and iNOS activities as well as enterobacterial numbers in the mucosa. These agents also significantly enhanced mucus secretion in the small intestine.
These results suggest that lafutidine protects the small intestine against ulceration via stimulation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons. This action may be attributable to inhibition of enterobacterial invasion in the intestinal mucosa, probably by increasing the mucus secretion.
Ceftriaxone is known to induce reversible precipitations, known as pseudolithiasis, in the gallbladder and urinary tract. The aim of this study was to investigate the incidence and predisposing factors that contribute to this side effect.
A prospective study was conducted in 156 children admitted for the treatment of various infections with different daily ceftriaxone doses (50 mg/kg, 75 mg/kg, and 100 mg/kg). Sonographic examinations of the gallbladder and urinary tract were performed before treatment on the third and seventh day of therapy, and at the first and second month after the end of treatment. Patients with positive findings were followed with weekly sonographic examinations until the abnormality resolved.
Abnormal gallbladder sonograms were demonstrated in 27 children (17%); 16 of them (10%) had gallbladder lithiasis, 11 had gallbladder sludge (7%) (n = 4 on the third day, n = 23 on the seventh day), and 1 developed urolithiasis (0.6%). Five children (19%) were symptomatic. The abnormalities resolved after a mean of 16 days (range 10-30 days). Patients with pseudolithiasis were older and treated with higher drug doses than those with normal sonographic findings (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively).
Biliary pseudolithiasis (and infrequently nephrolithiasis) usually occurs in children receiving high doses of ceftriaxone. It is generally asymptomatic. When this reversible complication becomes symptomatic, unnecessary cholecystectomy should be avoided.
To report the occurrence of apnea and bradycardia in two former pre-term infants who received spinal anaesthesia without inhalational or intravenous anaesthetic agents during inguinal herniorrhaphy.
Two former pre-term infants who had no recent history of apnea or bradycardia and who had been discharged from the hospital presented for anaesthetic care during inguinal herniorrhaphy. Spinal anaesthesia using 1 mg.kg-1 tetracaine in dextrose 10% was performed. A sensory level of T4-6 was obtained in both infants. Neither infant received intravenous, oral, or inhalational agents for sedation. Five to ten minutes after placement of the spinal block, the two infants had frequent episodes of apnea and bradycardia. No change in the sensory level of spinal anaesthesia was noted. The apnea and bradycardia continued for a variable time into the postoperative period. Caffeine benzoate 10 mg.kg-1 was administered to one infant. Other than the apnea and bradycardia, both infants had uncomplicated postoperative courses.
Apnea can occur when spinal anaesthesia is used as the sole anaesthetic technique in the former pre-term infant. Appropriate monitoring for such problems based on the infant's post-conceptual age is suggested.
To define at the molecular level the vascular endothelial cell (VEC) injury characteristics of catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome (CAPS) and to report successful therapeutic use of a VEC modulator, defibrotide.
We describe a 55-year-old man with primary APS with an intractable prothrombotic state (CAPS) resistant to combined therapy with heparin, warfarin, aspirin, and dipyridamole. Treatment with defibrotide was conducted in the context of an investigational phase II protocol where the dose was regulated and individualized by disease/patient-specific molecular and clinical markers.
The patient entered complete remission with defibrotide treatment. During treatment, dose dependent pharmacological actions of defibrotide and key stress markers for VEC injury were identified. Evidence of defibrotide's polypharmacology included downregulation of cytokines, notably tumor necrosis factor-alpha, as the earliest effect, cellular differentiation of VEC, possibly with direct regulatory effect over cellular genes, and the reversal of platelet consumption and prothrombotic state. Von Willebrand antigen levels were used as the sole marker to guide therapy.
This case demonstrates effective remission of CAPS with defibrotide treatment. In contrast to theories that CAPS is triggered by ischemic and thrombotic tissue damage, these data present VEC injury as the primary and representative lesion of CAPS. The pathogenesis may involve concurrent impairment of different VEC functions. Achieving remission may require a polypharmacologic approach, represented here by use of defibrotide.
Ferroportin [FPN; Slc40a1 (solute carrier family 40, member 1)] is a transmembrane iron export protein expressed in macrophages and duodenal enterocytes. Heterozygous mutations in the FPN gene result in an autosomal dominant form of iron overload disorder, type-4 haemochromatosis. FPN mutants either have a normal iron export activity but have lost their ability to bind hepcidin, or are defective in their iron export function. The mutant protein has been suggested to act as a dominant negative over the wt (wild-type) protein by multimer formation. Using transiently transfected human epithelial cell lines expressing mouse FPN modified by the addition of a haemagglutinin or c-Myc epitope at the C-terminus, we show that the wtFPN is found at the plasma membrane and in Rab5-containing endosomes, as are the D157G and Q182H mutants. However, the delV162 mutant is mostly intracellular in HK2 cells (human kidney-2 cells) and partially addressed at the cell surface in HEK-293 cells (human embryonic kidney 293 cells). In both cell types, it is partially associated with the endoplasmic reticulum and with Rab5-positive vesicles. However, this mutant is complex-glycosylated like the wt protein. D157G and G323V mutants have a defective iron export capacity as judged by their inability to deplete the intracellular ferritin content, whereas Q182H and delV162 have normal iron export function and probably have lost their capacity to bind hepcidin. In co-transfection experiments, the delV162 mutant does not co-localize with the wtFPN, does not prevent its normal targeting to the plasma membrane and cannot be immunoprecipitated in the same complex, arguing against the formation of FPN hetero-oligomers.
The aim of this study was to report a rare side effect of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid resulting in drug-induced hepatitis in the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis.
This is a case report and literature review of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid-induced hepatitis in the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis. A MEDLINE search of the published literature from 1966 to 2006 was performed using the term "amoxicillin-clavulanic acid + hepatitis."
We report a case of a 53-year-old man who developed drug-induced hepatitis after the use of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis. After a 4-week course of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, the patient developed pruritus and jaundice. Liver function tests revealed elevated aminotransferase levels. Serologic examination result for hepatitis A, B, and C was negative. The amoxicillin-clavulanic acid was discontinued and the patient was treated conservatively. The pruritus and jaundice gradually resolved and the patient had no long-term complications. The literature review revealed this is the first reported case of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid-induced hepatitis for the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis.
Drug-induced hepatitis is a rare side effect of amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. Care must be taken in prescribing this drug to elderly patients and patients with liver disease. In general, the hepatitis is mild to moderate, rarely leads to liver failure, and can be managed conservatively.
A 53-year-old patient with metastatic testicular choriocarcinoma died of renal failure after treatment with cis-platinum and antibiotics. Serum creatinine was first noted to be elevated on day 8 of cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum (DDP) therapy. However, a sharp rise in its level occurred soon after the start of antibiotic therapy with cephalothin, gentamicin and carbenicillin. Renal failure was progressive in nature and persisted until death occurred on day 24 of therapy and after 8 days of antibiotic treatment. The most likely explanation for the progressive worsening of renal function in this patient was renal injury incurred by DDP and antibiotics. The combination of cephalothin-gentamicin should be discouraged in the treatment of patients receiving platinum.
2 major British studies indicate that the progestogen content as well as the estrogen content of combined oral contraceptives probably contributes to increased risk of vascular disease. 1922 cases of suspected cardiovascular reactions to pill use reported to the Committee on Safety of Medicines and accepted for study between 1964 and 1977 were classified as venous or nonvenous and fatal or nonfatal. The researchers obtained pill sales figures for each of the study years to compare observed and expected numbers of reactions to different preparations. Results showed evidence of a statistically significant positive association between progestogen dose and deaths from arterial stroke and ischemic heart disease. A significant positive relationship between dose level and stroke was found in pills containing levonorgestrel. The Royal College of General Practitioners' study was started in 1968 when 23,000 pill users and 23,000 women who had never taken pills were enrolled in the research by their general practitioners. A positive relationship between progestogen dose and hypertension rates was noted between 1975 and 1978. The author of the RCGP report recommends that the progestogen content and the relative potency of the estrogen and progestogen in oral contraceptives be evaluated carefully before prescribing.
Hydroxyurea is frequently used to treat myeloproliferative syndromes. Cutaneous lesions resembling those seen in dermatomyositis have rarely been reported in the course of treatment with hydroxyurea. We report six additional patients with this unusual adverse effect. All of the patients had a very typical and similar cutaneous eruption, with scaly, linear erythema on the dorsa of the hands. Leg ulceration occurred in two cases. Muscle involvement was never observed. One patient had unexplained lung disease. In all the others the disorder pursued a benign course, even when hydroxyurea was not withdrawn. Dermatomyositis-like lesions seem to be a not infrequent and characteristic adverse reaction to hydroxyurea. Investigations are not required, and the course is usually benign.
To determine the efficacy and safety of intradural-epidural analgesia in comparison with continuous epidural analgesia during labor and childbirth.
Forty-two women whose labor began spontaneously were enrolled and distributed randomly in two groups. The intradural-epidural analgesia group (IEA, n = 21) received 25 microgram of intradural fentanyl with 2.5 mg of isobaric bupivacaine with adrenalin, after which analgesia was maintained with epidural administration of one 8 mL bolus of 0.125% bupivacaine, followed by perfusion of a balanced concentration at a rate of 8 ml/h. Patients in the continuous epidural analgesia group (CEA, n = 21) were given 8 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine with adrenalin; the epidural perfusion of 0.125% bupivacaine and 1 microgram/ml of fentanyl was started at the same rate as in the IEA group. We recorded pain as assessed on a visual analog scale, extension of sensory and motor block, maternal hemodynamic constants, number of boluses of bupivacaine used, total doses of bupivacaine and oxytocin, instruments needed for childbirth, and side effects (pruritus, nausea and vomiting).
Analgesic efficacy during the first 30 minutes was greater in the IEA group. The total dose of bupivacaine, required top-up boluses, and the extension of sensory block at 30 minutes, one hour and two hours were also significantly less in the IEA group. The incidence of pruritus was higher in the IEA group. No significant differences were observed for other variables.
Intradural-epidural analgesia provides effective analgesia for labor, with rapid onset, reduced extension of sensory block, lower total doses of local anesthetics and few side effects.
