Cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors are one of the most often ingested drugs during pregnancy. Unlike general toxicity data, their prenatal toxic effects were not extensively studied before. The aim of the experiment was to evaluate the developmental toxicity of the non-selective (piroxicam) and selective (DFU; 5,5-dimethyl-3-(3-fluorophenyl)-4-(4-methylsulphonyl) phenyl-2(5H)-furanon) COX-2 inhibitors.
Drugs were separately, orally once daily dosed to pregnant rats from day 8 to 21 (GD1=plug day). Doses were set at 0.3, 3.0 and 30.0mg/kg for piroxicam and 0.2, 2.0 and 20.0mg/kg for DFU. Fetuses were delivered on GD 21 and routinely examined. Comprehensive clinical and developmental measurements were done. The pooled statistical analysis for ventricular septal (VSD) and midline (MD) defects was performed for rat fetuses exposed to piroxicam, selective and non-selective COX-2 inhibitor based on present and historic data.
Maternal toxicity, intrauterine growth retardation, and increase of external and skeletal variations were found in rats treated with the highest dose of piroxicam. Decrease of fetal length was the only signs of the DFU developmental toxicity observed in pups exposed to the highest compound dose. Lack of teratogenicity was found in piroxicam and DFU-exposed groups. Prenatal exposure to non-selective COX inhibitors increases the risk of VSD and MD when compared to historic control but not with selective COX-2 inhibitors.
Both selective and non-selective COX-2 inhibitors were toxic for rats fetuses when administered in the highest dose. Unlike DFU, piroxicam was also highly toxic to the dams. Prenatal exposure to selective COX-2 inhibitors does not increase the risk of ventricular septal and midline defects in rat when compared to non-selective drugs and historic control.
Imatinib (Glivec) is a new molecule that specifically inhibits tyrosine-kinase activity and is used in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia. Cutaneous side effects with imatinib are frequent. We report the first case of purpuric vasculitis probably due to this drug.
A 65 year-old man was treated for chronic myeloid leukemia with imatinib. After two months of treatment, he developed an erythematous and squamatous on the trunk, which regressed spontaneously one week after suspension of the product. Imatinib was reintroduced two months later. The patient immediately developed a painful, infiltrated, purpuric eruption on the legs. Histological examination revealed vasculitis compatible with the diagnosis of toxiderma. Since treatment could not be suspended, oral corticosteroids were introduced and the lesions cleared within three weeks.
Adverse cutaneous reactions to imatinib are frequent. Their physiopathological mechanism is unknown.
A 54-year-old woman with acute schizoaffective psychosis was treated with lithium carbonate (1,350 mg daily) and zuclopenthixol. On admission, clozapine was added (250 mg daily). Because extrapyramidal symptoms (rigor, akinesia) developed, she was additionally given biperiden retard (4 mg daily) from the fourth hospital day onwards. Eleven days after admission she began to complain of "unsteadiness" and "tremors" in her arms and she had asterixis (flapping tremor) on holding up her arms. The electromyogram showed electrical pauses of 60-120 ms, typical for asterixis. There were no significant metabolic or organic cerebral changes that could have accounted for the symptoms which presumably had been induced by the drugs even though their dosage was not unusual. The symptoms in fact regressed completely after the clozapine dose had been reduced, at first to 125 mg then to 50 mg. Previous experience has suggested that the risk of asterixis is particularly high when lithium and clozapine are taken together.
We report a case of hepatocellular adenomas in a 39-year-old woman who had been taking danazol for uterine fibroids. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which multiple hepatocellular adenomas were discovered after only 6 months of danazol intake.
The anti-amnestic action of nicergoline was studied using the following experimental methods for learning and memory impairment, based on passive avoidance response: amnesia induced by maximal electroshock in mice, scopolamine-induced amnesia in mice and amnesia by paradoxical sleep deprivation in rats. Piracetam, meclofenoxate, pyritinol, deanol and phenazepam were used as reference drugs. The results show that nicergoline demonstrates well-expressed anti-amnestic effect manifested by reducing the amnestic effect of maximal electroshock, scopolamine or paradoxical sleep deprivation, its effect being equal to or more pronounced than piracetam, meclofenoxate, pyritinol, deanol and phenazepam.
Metallothionein is a low-molecular-weight cysteine-rich protein that has the ability to bind and sequestrate heavy metal ions. It is associated with metalloregulatory functions such as cell proliferation, growth and differentiation.
To investigate the expression of metallothionein in hyperplastic, dysplastic and neoplastic prostatic lesions and to correlate its expression with histological grade of prostatic carcinoma.
The study was carried out on formalin-fixed and paraffin-wax-embedded tissue blocks from 8 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia, 6 patients with prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) and 30 patients with prostatic carcinoma, using the streptavidin-biotin technique. The histological grade was defined and the carcinomas were divided into low-grade (Gleason Score 2-4), 12 moderate grade (Gleason Score 5-6) and 10 high-grade (Gleason Score 7-10) carcinomas.
Patchy metallothionein staining of epithelial cells was observed in normal and benign prostatic tissues. All cases of PIN and 20 of 30 patients with prostatic carcinoma showed positive staining for metallothionein. Metallothionein expression considerably increased from low-grade to high-grade tumours. The proportion of cells staining positively for metallothionein was directly correlated with histological grade of prostatic carcinoma. The epithelial cells lack uniformity in staining intensity, but the percentage of strongly positive cells increased with the histological grade of prostatic carcinoma.
The high incidence of metallothionein expression in PIN in our study suggests that it is associated with early prostate tumorigenesis. Also, metallothionein expression was directly correlated with the histological grade of prostatic carcinoma, suggesting that metallothionein may be a useful marker for predicting the prognosis of prostate cancer.
In the present study, the anti-diabetic effects of a traditional Chinese medicinal formula extract, TongGuanWan, were investigated in type 2 diabetic animals. It was orally administered to C57BL/KsJ-db/db mice once a day for 4 weeks at the doses of 62, 125, and 250 mg/kg body weight. TongGuanWan significantly lowered the blood glucose and glycosylated haemoglobin levels as well as improved the glucose tolerance in db/db mice. The serum triglyceride levels in the db/db mice were significantly decreased, whereas the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly increased, after treatment with this herbal formula. TongGuanWan also markedly decreased the animals' body weights compared to those of the control db/db group but did not alter food intake. The effects of TongGuanWan were compared to those of the drug rosiglitazone. In addition, five main constituents of TongGuanWan, mangiferin, berberine, cinnamic aldehyde, timosaponin BII, and timosaponin AIII, were quantified using high performance liquid chromatography coupled with a diode array and an evaporative light scattering detector (HPLC-DAD-ELSD). These results suggest that TongGuanWan may be useful for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
The essential oil obtained from the leaves of Psidium guyanensis Pers. (Myrtaceae) was studied against lethal seizures induced by intraperitoneal injection of pentylenetetrazole (80 mg/kg), picroptoxin (6 mg/kg), and strychnine (2 mg/kg) in mice. At oral doses of 100, 200, and 400 mg/kg, the essential oil attenuated the severity of pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures and offered a dose-related protection but it was found to be ineffective against convulsions induced by picrotoxin and strychnine. The blockade of its protective effect on pentylenetetrazole lethal seizures by caffeine (10 and 50 mg/kg, i.p.) suggests a probable participation of endogenous adenosine in its mechanism. Furthermore, a peripheral mechanism also appears to be involved as the essential oil (5-20 micrograms/ml) was able to block selectively the acetylcholine (1.65 x 10(-6) M) induced contractions but not those evoked by high potassium (80 mM) or caffeine (2 x 10(-3) M) on isolated toad rectus abdominis muscle.
A recent controlled clinical trial suggested a role for amantadine as a treatment for pathological gambling in patients with Parkinson disease (PD). Analyzing data from a large cross-sectional study of impulse control disorders (ICDs) in PD, amantadine use (n = 728), vs no amantadine use (n = 2,357), was positively associated with a diagnosis of any ICD (17.6% vs 12.4%, p < 0.001) and compulsive gambling specifically (7.4% vs 4.2%, p < 0.001). This amantadine association remained after controlling for covariates of amantadine use, including both dopamine agonist use and levodopa dosage. Further research, including larger clinical trials, is needed to assess the role of amantadine in the development and treatment of ICDs in PD.
To evaluate through a longitudinal study the effects on visual fields of long-term vigabatrin medication in patients with partial epilepsy and to discuss visual field screening strategies.
A total of 26 patients aged 14-68 years with a mean history of vigabatrin medication of 8.5 years (range 2-14 years) were followed by manual kinetic Goldmann perimetry (objects IV,4 and I,4) for 6-26 months (mean value 12.3 months). At time zero and at follow-up, each patient was assigned a "pooled" averaged value, as a linear percentage of normal isopter position, for the two objects as tested nasally and temporally in the five most horizontal meridians on the Goldmann chart. Twelve eyes from nine adults (age 24-60 years) served as controls.
Constrictions were recorded in 24 of 26 patients at baseline. Averaged isopters ranged from 8% to 96% of the controls' averaged isopter positions. Median values of 71.5% and 60.5% for large and small objects, respectively, indicated that the smaller object was more sensitive to visual field constriction. There was no difference in the degree of constriction between nasal and temporal hemifields. Significant improvement in the visual field (mean gain 13.6% units) was seen in the eight patients who underwent full drug withdrawal. No similar improvement was seen in the 12 patients still on full dose or the six with reduced intake.
Most Danish patients on long-term vigabatrin medication have suffered some visual field loss. Contrary to most clinical evidence so far, the present follow-up study indicates some reversibility of visual field loss after drug withdrawal. Kinetic Goldmann perimetry appears to be a fair alternative to computerized static perimetry techniques for screening and following vigabatrin-treated patients.
This study was undertaken to elucidate the mechanism(s) of cross-resistance to cisplatin (CDDP) in a mitomycin C (MMC)-resistant human bladder cancer cell line, J82/MMC. The J82/MMC cell line displayed 2- to 3-fold cross-resistance to CDDP and carboplatin when compared to the parental J82/WT cells. Drug uptake studies revealed that cross-resistance to CDDP in the J82/MMC cell line was independent of reduced platinum accumulation. The J82/MMC cell line exhibited approximately a 1.5-fold resistance to cadmium chloride, an indicator for increased metallothionein (MT) content, when compared to the J82/WT cells. Northern blot analysis showed a 2.7-fold higher level of MT-IIA mRNA in the J82/MMC cell line compared with J82/WT. We have reported previously that, whereas glutathione (GSH) level is comparable in these cells, GSH transferase (GST) activity is significantly higher in the J82/MMC cell line compared with J82/WT. Results of the present study showed that the elevated GST activity in the J82/MMC cell line was due to an over-expression of pi-type GST protein. Although buthionine-S,R-sulfoximine (BSO)-induced GSH depletion significantly enhanced CDDP cytotoxicity in both cell lines, the magnitude of potentiation was markedly higher in J82/MMC cells (about 2.1-fold) relative to J82/WT (about 1.6-fold). Our results suggest that cross-resistance to CDDP in the J82/MMC cell line may be due to alterations in cellular thiols.
The aim of this study was to assess the influence of social environmental factors on school performance and behavioural problems among 14-year-old children who had been exposed to amphetamine during foetal life. The study group comprised a cohort of 65 children who had suffered intrauterine exposure to amphetamine due to maternal drug abuse. This group has been followed since birth and examined at regular intervals. Information regarding the academic performance of the children was gathered from the school authorities. The psychosocial environment of the children was determined through interviews and through information obtained from the social authorities. Of the 64 children who attended a school within the state school system, 10 (15%) were a year behind for their age. The mean grades were significantly lower than those of their classmates. Behavioural problems were mentioned in the social authority documentation of one-third of the children, regardless of whether the child was placed in a foster home or was residing with the biological mother. A positive significant correlation was found between maternal age and the outcome of the children, as well as between therapy during pregnancy and outcome, whilst several environmental factors, particularly during the child's first four years, correlate negatively to outcome. Psychosocial factors early in life influence the outcome at 14 years. The positive effect of intervention during pregnancy illustrates the importance of early identification preferable during pregnancy.
The catalepsy induced by subcutaneously (sc.) and intracerebroventricularly (icv.) administered cholecystokinin octapeptide sulfate ester (CCK-8-SE) and desulfated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8-NS), and the effects of CCK-8-SE and CCK-8-NS on haloperidol-induced catalepsy, were investigated in mice. The results demonstrate the bimodal effect of CCK octapeptides in a catalepsy test. With sc. administration CCK-8-SE in the doses of 0.4 or 0.8 mumole/kg, but not CCK-8-NS at any dose, induced catalepsy. Furthermore, the catalepsy induced by CCK-8-SE was of short duration. With icv. administration only 40 pmole CCK-8-NS induced significant catalepsy. When 0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mumole/kg sc. doses of CCK-8-NS or 0.4 pmole icv. dose of CCK-8-SE or CCK-8-NS was given in combination with intraperitoneal (ip.) administration of 1.0 mg/kg haloperidol, the total duration of catalepsy was suppressed. Finally, CCK-8-SE sc. when given in combination with haloperidol ip., exerted a biphasic, synergistic-antagonistic effect on the haloperidol-induced catalepsy.
Although the teratogenicity of valproic acid (VPA) has been well established, the mechanism(s) by which this anticonvulsant drug induces malformations remains controversial. Using the combined molecular techniques of in situ-transcription (IST) and antisense RNA (aRNA) amplification we analyzed VPA-induced alterations in the gene expression for 10 genes within the neural tubes of embryos from two murine strains that have been shown to differ in their susceptibility to VPA-induce neural tube defects (NTD). Pregnant dams from both SWV (susceptible) and LM/Bc (resistant) strains were either treated with saline (control) or VPA (600 mg/kg) on gestational day (GD) 8:12 (day:hour). Neural tubes were isolated from control or VPA exposed embryos at three gestational time points, which represented the beginning (GD 8:18), middle (GD 9:00), and end (GD 9:12) of neural tube closure (NTC) in both of these murine strains. Using univariant statistics we demonstrated that in LM/Bc embryos with NTDs, the expression of bdnf, ngf, and trk, ngf-R were significantly elevated at all three time points, and the cytokine, cntf was significantly decreased at GD 9:00. In contrast, the major gene alterations observed in SWV embryos were a significant increase in tfgalpha and tgfbeta1-3 at GD 9:00. In an effort to better define the more intricate interactions between VPA exposure and the expression of these genes, we analyzed our data using Principal Component Analysis. The results from this analysis demonstrated that embryos from these two stains behaved differently, not only in response to a VPA exposure, but also under control conditions, which may explain the multifactorial nature of NTDs in these mice.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired social reciprocity, impaired communication and stereotypical behaviors. Despite strong evidence for a genetic basis, few susceptibility genes have been identified. Here, we describe the positional cloning of SCAMP5, CLIC4 and PPCDC as candidate genes for autism, starting from a person with idiopathic, sporadic autism carrying a de novo chromosomal translocation. One of these genes, SCAMP5 is silenced on the derivative chromosome, and encodes a brain-enriched protein involved in membrane trafficking, similar to the previously identified candidate genes NBEA and AMISYN. Gene silencing of Nbea, Amisyn and Scamp5 in mouse beta-TC3 cells resulted in a 2-fold increase in stimulated secretion of large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs), while overexpression suppressed secretion. Moreover, ultrastructural analysis of blood platelets from the patients with haploinsufficieny of one of the three candidate genes, showed morphological abnormalities of dense-core granules, which closely resemble LDCVs. Taken together, this study shows that in three independent patients with autism three different negative regulators of LDCV secretion are affected, respectively, suggesting that in at least a subgroup of patients the regulation of neuronal vesicle trafficking may be involved in the pathogenesis of autism.
Recently, leukotrienes have been implicated in the mediation of bronchoconstriction and inflammatory changes in asthma. Leukotriene levels have also been shown to be elevated in patients with asthma as well as in those with sinonasal polyposis and sinusitis. The leukotriene synthesis inhibitor zileuton and the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast have been shown to produce subjective and objective improvements in patients with mild to moderate asthma. Given these findings, we evaluated the efficacy of these two medications in controlling sinonasal polyposis and their associated symptoms. We treated 40 patients diagnosed with sinonasal polyposis and sinusitis with either zileuton or zafirlukast. No other change was made in their standard therapy. Outcome measures included subjective interviews and questionnaire responses, as well as office endoscopic examinations and chart reviews. At study's end, 36 patients were available for evaluation. Twenty-six had taken zafirlukast, five had taken zileuton, and five others had switched from zafirlukast to zileuton. Overall, 26 patients (72%) experienced subjective improvement in their symptomatology after starting their medication. Statistically significant improvement was noted with respect to headache, facial pain and pressure, ear discomfort, dentalgia, purulent nasal discharge, postnasal drip, nasal congestion and obstruction, olfaction, and fever. An objective alleviation, or at least stabilization, of sinonasal polyposis was seen in 50% of the patients. Four patients (11%) discontinued their medication because of side effects. We conclude that antileukotrienes might play a significant role in controlling polyposis and symptoms secondary to sinonasal disease, and they might be a viable alternative to long-term oral steroid therapy and repeated surgical debridement.
To analyze occurrence of thyroid dysfunction due to regular long-term intake of amiodaron (for one year), to search for predictors of amiodaron-induced hypothyroidism and thyrotoxicosis.
Sixty two patients with different types of arrhythmia have undergone examination including tests for TTH (once in three months), free T3 and T4 (once in 6 months), ultrasound thyroid investigation, general clinical and physical check-up, resting ECG in 12 leads, echocardiography, chest x-ray, biochemical blood tests, blood count, urinalysis.
Amiodaron intake for 1 year was associated with amiodaron-induced thyroid dysfunction in 25% patients: 19.2% developed hypothyroidism, 5.8%--thyrotoxicosis. Organic pathology of cardiovascular system, cardiac failure, left ventricular aneurysms, low global myocardial contractility, organic thyroid pathology, elevated levels of antithyroid antibodies predicted hypothyroidism. Thyrotoxicosis was associated with a young age and male sex.
Amiodaron may cause thyroid dysfunction in patients with arrhythmia.
Bupropion HCl is a widely used antidepressant that is known to cause seizures in a dose-dependent manner. Many patients taking antidepressants will consume alcohol, even when advised not to. Previous studies have not shown any interactions between bupropion HCl and alcohol. However, there have been no previous studies examining possible changes in seizure threshold induced by a combination of alcohol and bupropion HCl.
Experimentally naïve female Swiss albino mice (10 per group) received either single doses of bupropion HCl (ranging from 100 mg/kg to 120 mg/kg) or vehicle (0.9% NaCl) by intraperitoneal (IP) injection in a dose volume of 10 ml/kg, and single-dose ethanol alone (2.5 g/kg), or vehicle, 5 min prior to bupropion dosing. The presence or absence of seizures, the number of seizures, the onset, duration and the intensity of seizures were all recorded for 5 h following the administration of ethanol.
The results show that administration of IP bupropion HCl alone induced seizures in mice in a dose-dependent manner, with the 120 mg/kg dose having the largest effect. The percentage of convulsing mice were 0%, 20%, 30% and 60% in the 0 (vehicle), 100, 110, and 120 mg/kg dose groups, respectively. Pretreatment with ethanol produced a larger bupropion HCl-induced convulsive effect at all the doses (70% each at 100, 110 and 120 mg/kg) and a 10% effect in the ethanol + vehicle only group. The convulsive dose of bupropion HCl required to induce seizures in 50% of mice (CD50), was 116.72 mg/kg for bupropion HCl alone (CI: 107.95, 126.20) and 89.40 mg/kg for ethanol/bupropion HCl (CI: 64.92, 123.10).
These results show that in mice alcohol lowers the seizure threshold for bupropion-induced seizures. Clinical implications are firstly that there may be an increased risk of seizures in patients consuming alcohol, and secondly that formulations that can release bupropion more readily in alcohol may present additional risks to patients.
The purpose of this study was to assess the urogenital effects of raloxifene, tamoxifen, conjugated equine estrogen, and placebo in healthy postmenopausal women.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study compared the urogenital effects of 0.625 mg of conjugated equine estrogen (n = 15 women), 20 mg of tamoxifen (n = 14 women), 60 mg of raloxifene, (n = 15 women), and placebo (n = 13 women). Evaluations at baseline and evaluations after 20 weeks receiving the drug included a pelvic examination with cytologic evaluation of vagina and urethra, pelvic organ prolapse quantitation, and urethral axis deflection by cotton swab test (only in patients with incontinence [33%]).
Conjugated equine estrogen increased the maturation value of both urethral and vaginal cytologic condition (P =.002, P =.032, respectively). There was a decrease in vaginal maturation value in the raloxifene group (not significant). Two of 8 women in the conjugated equine estrogen group showed evidence of worsening prolapse by pelvic organ prolapse quantitation; the condition of 2 of 8 women improved. In the raloxifene, tamoxifen, and placebo groups 8 of 12 women, 4 of 13 women, and 2 of 11 women had worsening in prolapse scores, respectively, whereas none of the women had improvement. Increased cotton swab deflection was found in 3 of 5 women in the raloxifene group, in 5 of 8 women in the tamoxifen group, in 0 of 4 women in the placebo group, and in 0 of 2 women in the conjugated equine estrogen group. Seventy-five percent of the patients who received raloxifene and 60% of the patients who received tamoxifen had increases in prolapse by any measure (ie, pelvic organ prolapse quantitation or cotton swab or clinical assessment) compared with 18% of the patients in the placebo group and 22% of the patients in the conjugated equine estrogen group (P =.015), although symptoms did not differ among groups.
Neither raloxifene nor tamoxifen improve cytohormonal effects in the vagina or urethra, whereas conjugated equine estrogen does. Raloxifene and tamoxifen appear to show worsening prolapse compared with conjugated equine estrogen and placebo. The clinical relevance of these effects is unknown and requires investigation.
Depression following withdrawal from long- or short-term use of benzodiazepines is not uncommon, yet it is under-reported in the benzodiazepine withdrawal literature. Four cases of depressive illness supervening during benzodiazepine withdrawal are reported. Depression may, it is suggested, be an integral part of the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome.
Resolution of liver fibrosis is associated with clearance of hepatic myofibroblasts by apoptosis; development of strategies that promote this process in a selective way is therefore important. The aim of this study was to determine whether the inhibitor of kappaB kinase suppressor sulfasalazine stimulates hepatic myofibroblast apoptosis and recovery from fibrosis.
Hepatic myofibroblasts were generated by culture activation of rat and human hepatic stellate cells. Fibrosis was established in rat livers by chronic injury with carbon tetrachloride followed by recovery with or without sulfasalazine (150 mg/kg) treatment.
Treatment of hepatic stellate cells with sulfasalazine (0.5-2.0 mmol/L) induced apoptosis of activated rat and human hepatic stellate cells. A single in vivo administration of sulfasalazine promoted accelerated recovery from fibrosis as assessed by improved fibrosis score, selective clearance of smooth muscle alpha-actin-positive myofibroblasts, reduced hepatic procollagen I and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 messenger RNA expression, and increased matrix metalloproteinase 2 activity. Mechanistic studies showed that sulfasalazine selectively blocks nuclear factor-kappaB-dependent gene transcription, inhibits hepatic stellate cell expression of Gadd45beta, stimulates phosphorylation of Jun N-terminal kinase 2, and promotes apoptosis by a mechanism that is prevented by the Jun N-terminal kinase inhibitor SP600125. As further evidence for a survival role for the inhibitor of kappaB kinase/nuclear factor-kappaB pathway in activated hepatic stellate cells, a highly selective cell-permeable peptide inhibitor of kappaB kinase activation also stimulated hepatic stellate cell apoptosis via a Jun N-terminal kinase-dependent mechanism.
Inhibition of the inhibitor of kappaB kinase/nuclear factor-kappaB pathway is sufficient to increase the rate at which activated hepatic stellate cells undergo apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo, and drugs that selectively target inhibitor of kappaB kinase have potential as antifibrotics.
Data suggest that higher doses of vancomycin can increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. No study has been undertaken to determine the pharmacodynamic index (ie, the area under the curve [AUC] or the trough value) that best describes the relationship between vancomycin exposure and onset of nephrotoxicity.
A retrospective study was conducted among patients who received vancomycin for a suspected or proven gram-positive infection during the period from 1 January 2005 through 31 December 2006 at Albany Medical Center Hospital. Patients were included in our study if they (1) were > or =18 years old, (2) had an absolute neutrophil count of > or =1000 cells/mm(3), (3) received vancomycin for >48 h, (4) had 1 vancomycin trough level collected within 96 h of vancomycin therapy, and (5) had a baseline serum creatinine level of <2.0 mg/dL. Patients were excluded if they (1) had a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis, (2) received intravenous contrast dye within 7 days of starting vancomycin or during therapy, or (3) required vasopressor support during therapy. Demographics, comorbid conditions, and treatment data were collected. The highest observed vancomycin trough value within 96 h of initiation of vancomycin therapy and the estimated vancomycin AUC were analyzed as measures of vancomycin exposure. The vancomycin AUC value from 0 to 24 h at steady state (in units of mg x h/L) for each patient was estimated by use of the maximum a posteriori probability Bayesian procedure in ADAPT II. Nephrotoxicity was defined as an increase in serum creatinine level of 0.5 mg/dL or 50%, whichever was greater, following initiation of vancomycin therapy. Logistic and Cox proportional hazards regression models identified the vancomycin pharmacodynamic index that best describes the relationship between vancomycin exposure and toxicity.
During the study period, 166 patients met the inclusion criteria. Both initial vancomycin trough values and 0-24-h at steady state AUC values were associated with nephrotoxicity in the bivariate analyses. However, the vancomycin trough value, modeled as a continuous variable, was the only vancomycin exposure variable associated with nephrotoxicity in the multivariate analyses.
The results indicate that a vancomycin exposure-toxicity response relationship exists. The vancomycin trough value is the pharmacodynamic index that best describes this association.
A series of new ionic Pt(II) complexes of general formula [Pt(II)(A)n(Cl)(AO)]X (A=en, NH3; n=1, 2; X-=BF4-, NO3-, PF6-, CF3SO3-), 1-5, containing Acridine Orange (AO) bound to the metal atom through the endocyclic N atom, have been tested in human melanoma cells (M14, JR8 and PLF2), human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y and its cis-platin resistant subline SH-SY5Yres. The Pt(II) compounds, and in particular complexes 1 and 4, exhibit higher cytotoxic activity at lower concentration compared to cis-DDP in melanoma cells, affecting cell growth behavior and causing cell cycle perturbation. Moreover, M14 and JR8 cell lines were not able to rescue the impairment due to the new Pt(II) complexes since perturbation of cell cycle phases and cell proliferation inhibition were found after 72 h of recovery time. In order to evaluate whether GSTP1 may play a role in chemo-resistance of our melanoma model, we investigated the effect of the treatment with these Pt(II) compounds on GSTP1 gene expression. Up-regulation of GSTP1, evaluated by Qreal-time PCR was observed after treatment with complexes 1 and 4, showing that the effect of these Pt(II) compounds is GSTP1 indipendent. The lack of resistance of the new Pt(II)-AO complexes and their cytotoxicity, cell growth and cell cycle recovery in melanoma cells provide the basis for the development of new platinum anticancer compounds, directed to those tumors that over express GSTs enzymes.
Lovastatin and simvastatin are the 2 best-known members of the class of hypolipidaemic agents known as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors. Clinical experience with lovastatin includes over 5000 patients, 700 of whom have been treated for 2 years or more, and experience with simvastatin includes over 3500 patients, of whom 350 have been treated for 18 months or more. Lovastatin has been marketed in the United States for over 6 months. Both agents show substantial clinical efficacy, with reductions in total cholesterol of over 30% and in LDL-cholesterol of 40% in clinical studies. Modest increases in HDL-cholesterol levels of about 10% are also reported. Clinical tolerability of both agents has been good, with fewer than 3% of patients withdrawn from treatment because of clinical adverse experiences. Ophthalmological examinations in over 1100 patients treated with one or the other agent have revealed no evidence of significant short term (up to 2 years) cataractogenic potential. One to 2% of patients have elevations of serum transaminases to greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal. These episodes are asymptomatic and reversible when therapy is discontinued. Minor elevations of creatine kinase levels are reported in about 5% of patients. Myopathy, associated in some cases with myoglobinuria, and in 2 cases with transient renal failure, has been rarely reported with lovastatin, especially in patients concomitantly treated with cyclosporin, gemfibrozil or niacin. Lovastatin and simvastatin are both effective and well-tolerated agents for lowering elevated levels of serum cholesterol. As wider use confirms their safety profile, they will gain increasing importance in the therapeutic approach to hypercholesterolaemia and its consequences.
Gastrin is a hormone regulating gastric acid secretion and the growth of the gastrointestinal epithelium. It is expressed by endocrine tumors and by adenocarcinomas of the gastroenteropancreatic region and may represent an autocrine tumor growth factor. Gastrin is also implicated in the genesis of peptic ulcer disease both in conjunction with H. pylori infections and with gastrin-producing tumors. The secretion and expression of gastrin are under the paracrine control of somatostatin, produced by D cells situated in close contact with gastrin-producing G cells. D cells also contain neuronal nitric oxide synthase and appear to regulate apoptosis of G cells by paracrine release of nitric oxide. Both G and D cells are derived from a common multihormonal precursor cell present in the regenerative (isthmus) region of the gastric units. The precursor cells have been suggested to undergo asymmetrical divisions resulting in gastrin- and somatostatin-producing daughter cells that remain in paracrine contact during their migration into the glands. The precursor cells also give rise to the third main antropyloric endocrine cell type; the serotonin-producing EC cell. The maturation of all of these cell types is regulated by a number of transcription factors containing homeobox motifs (Pdx-1, Pax 4 and 6, Isl-1, Nkx6.1). Many of these also regulate the development of the central nervous system and the pancreas. The use of different combinations of these factors for regulating the expression of different hormones may explain the phenomenon of abberant hormone expression during development and carcinogenesis and the occurrence of multihormonal cells.
Brimonidine is a relatively selective alpha-agonist, which reduces intraocular pressure (IOP) by decreasing aqueous production and increasing uveoscleral outflow. Brimonidine passes through the blood-brain barrier, potentially causing central nervous system (CNS) toxicity. There have been reports of bradycardia, hypotension, hypothermia, hypotonia, and apnea in infants after topical brimonidine.
We reviewed the IOP data and side effects of children at the Duke University Eye Center placed on brimonidine from June 1997 to October 2000. Brimonidine 0.2% was used for patients whose glaucoma was uncontrolled on maximal tolerated medical therapy. A monocular trial was performed whenever possible, and brimonidine was not prescribed for infants. Included were 32 eyes of 30 patients with uncontrolled IOP and varied glaucoma diagnoses.
The mean patient age was 10.5 years, with a mean follow-up on brimonidine of 10.8 months. Most patients were on other glaucoma medications. In 11 of the 32 eyes the IOP data could be interpreted, and in these eyes the IOP decreased from a mean of 22.5 +/- 4.9 mm Hg to a mean of 20.8 +/- 4.0 mm Hg (a mean decrease of 6.7% +/- 10%, P =.04) on brimonidine after a mean follow-up of 11.0 +/- 6.9 months. Two young children (ages 2.4 and 3.7 years) repeatedly were unarousable soon after the administration of brimonidine. Five other children experienced extreme fatigue after brimonidine administration. All symptoms resolved after brimonidine was discontinued.
Brimonidine should be used with caution in young children because of the potential for CNS depression. In selected patients, brimonidine has a substantial ocular hypotensive effect.
