The present study was carried out to examine the effect of orally administered T-3262, a new synthetic antibacterial agent, on the kidney of male rats with experimental nephropathy. These rats had been treated with single intramuscular injection of mercuric chloride (HgCl2, 3 mg/kg) or daily subcutaneous administration of puromycin-aminonucleoside (PAN, 15 mg/kg) for 11 days. T-3262 was administered orally to these pretreated rats at a dose of 1,000 mg/kg/day for 2 or 6 days. Twenty-four hours after the second or the sixth day of T-3262 administration, the kidneys of these rats disclosed similar biochemical and pathological findings as observed in the kidneys of the rats treated with HgCl2 alone. Thus, no T-3262-related alterations were demonstrated in renal functional test, kidney weight or histopathological examinations at a dose of 1,000 mg/kg of T-3262. The HgCl2-induced nephropathy was not enhanced by the oral administration of T-3262. Twenty-four hours after the second or the sixth day of T-3262 administration, the kidneys of the PAN-pretreated rats disclosed the biochemical and pathological findings largely similar to those with PAN-induced nephropathy. Enhancement of PAN-induced nephropathy by the oral administration of T-3262 was hardly evident.
Three cases are reported where patients experienced severe central nervous system adverse effects on high-dose hydromorphone. These effects were rapidly alleviated following a change in therapy to morphine at 20-25% of the usually accepted potency equivalent dose. We recommend caution in using equivalent dose tables when changing opioid therapy in patients receiving high-dose opioid treatment.
Resveratrol (RV), a polyphenolic substance found in grape skin, is proposed to account in part for the protective effect of red wine in the cardiovascular system. Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced hypertrophy of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is a pivotal step in the development of cardiovascular disease. The aims of this study were to test the hypothesis that RV may alter Ang II-mediated hypertrophic VSMC growth and to identify the putative underlying signaling pathways. We show that RV indeed potently inhibits Ang II-induced [(3)H]leucine incorporation in a concentration-dependent manner (50 microM RV, 71% inhibition). Western blot analysis reveals that phosphorylation of Akt/protein kinase B (PKB) and to a lesser extent the mitogen-activated protein kinase extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, both essentially involved in Ang II-mediated hypertrophy, is dose dependently reduced by RV. Consistent with these results, we show that RV attenuates phosphorylation of the p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70(S6K)), a kinase downstream of the ERK 1/2 as well as the Akt pathway, that is implicated in Ang II-induced protein synthesis. Upstream of Akt/PKB RV seems to mediate its antihypertrophic effect by inhibiting phosphorylation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI(3)K) rather than by activating phosphatases. In summary, we demonstrate for the first time that RV inhibits Ang II-induced VSMC hypertrophy, possibly by interfering mainly with the PI(3)K/Akt and p70(S6K) but also with the ERK 1/2 signaling pathway. Thus, this study delivers important new insight in the molecular pathways that may contribute to the proposed beneficial effects of RV in cardiovascular disease.
Identifying molecular markers for tumor recurrence is critical in successfully selecting patients with stage II colon cancer who are more likely to benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy. Interleukin 1 beta (IL1B) and interleukin 1 receptor antagonist (IL1RN) have been shown to play a critical role in the early onset of tumor-associated angiogenesis. In this study, we tested whether eight functionally significant polymorphisms within six genes of the angiogenesis pathway [IL1B, IL1RN, vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), VEGF receptor 2, interleukin-8, cyclooxygenase-2] will predict the risk of tumor recurrence in stage II colon cancer patients treated with 5-fluorouracil based adjuvant chemotherapy.
Blood samples were obtained from 109 patients with stage II colon cancer at the University of Southern California medical facilities. DNA was extracted from peripheral blood and the genotypes were analyzed using PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism protocols.
Patients harboring the IL1RN/IL1B 1-T-C (IL-1RN variable number tandem repeats (VNTR)/IL1B C+3954T/C-511T) haplotype were at greatest risk of developing tumor recurrence [relative risk (RR): 2.72, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.22-6.08] (adjusted P=0.015). In addition, IL1B +3954 any T (RR: 2.78, 95% CI: 0.99-7.83) (adjusted P=0.043), IL1RN VNTR (RR: 6.09, 95% CI: 1.11-33.4) (adjusted P=0.038), and VEGFA -634 any C (RR: 2.91, 95% CI: 1.13-7.48) (adjusted P=0.026) were shown to be adverse prognostic markers, in both univariate and multivariable analyses.
Polymorphisms in IL1B, IL1RN, and VEGFA as well as IL1B/IL1RN haplotype analysis may serve as molecular markers for tumor recurrence in stage II colon cancer, indicating that the analysis of angiogenesis-related gene polymorphisms may help to identify patient subgroups at high risk for tumor recurrence.
The authors envisage the hypothesis of an embryofetal intoxication by a beta-blocker (B-), sotalol, taken by the mother, not hypertensive, during all her pregnancy (160 mg/day). The fullterm newborn, hypotrophic and hypothermic, is suffering from facial dysmorphy with microcephaly, and present a severe tracheal stenosis associated with cardiopathy and important rhythm disorders: bradycardia and permanent bigeminate ventricular extrasystoles for three days. Course is fatal at five months old. On the occasion of this probable intoxication, a brief recall about pharmacology and physiopathology of transplacental passage of B- during pregnancy is done. Then, are enumerated the experimental repercussion of B blockers and their more often theoretical than real undesirable effects, on the fetus. Sotalol is possibly a B-specially aggressive, when it is prescribed abusively, on account of its excellent diffusibility and of its high tissular impregnation.
The present work studied the effects of REM sleep deprivation on the responses to cholinomimetic drugs in rats. Cataleptic behavior induced by pilocarpine, oxotremorine and eserine was not modified by previous REM sleep deprivation. On the other hand, the intensity of oxotremorine- and eserine-induced tremors, but not that of pilocarpine, was clearly augmented in the REMd rats and latency to the first tremor was shorter. REM sleep deprivation also potentiated the convulsions induced by nicotine. Two hypothetical mechanisms through which REM sleep deprivation could lead to the described hyperresponsiveness to cholinomimetic drugs are discussed.
Thirty-four patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) who had progression of disease after high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) with peripheral blood progenitor cell support (PBPC) had methotrexate, uracil and tegafur (UFT), and leucovorin (MUL) therapy administered: methotrexate administered intramuscularly in combination with UFT given orally and leucovorin given orally. All patients had received extensive prior chemotherapy including a high-dose regimen with PBPC support. Two complete responses (CR) and 11 partial responses (PR) were observed (objective response rate: 13/34 or 38%, 95% confidence interval 22-56%). Seven additional patients had stable disease (SD), 4 of whom (12% of the total population) of 6 months or longer duration, with the clinical benefit rate (CR + PR + SD of at least 6-month duration) reaching 50%. Median follow-up was 38 months, and the median time to progression and the median overall survival time from the start of MUL were 5.5 and 11 months, respectively. Toxicity was mainly gastrointestinal. Eight patients (24%) had World Health Organization grade II or greater diarrhea and/or enteritis and, consequently, the UFT dose was reduced. Emesis was mild and easily manageable with thiethylperazine given orally. The regimen did not produce significant myelosuppression or alopecia. In conclusion, patients with MBC retain chemosensitivity even when they progress after HDCT/PBPC and can be treated again with chemotherapy. MUL is active and well tolerated in patients with MBC progressing after HDCT. Further studies with this regimen, as salvage chemotherapy or as maintenance chemotherapy after HDCT/PBPC, would appear to be warranted.
In this study, telmisartan, a new angiotensin AT ( 1 ) receptor antagonist given as monotherapy and in combination with hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), was compared with lisinopril as monotherapy and in combination with HCTZ. This 52-week, randomized, multicenter, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group, dose-titration study of 578 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension (mean diastolic blood pressure [DBP], >/=95 mm Hg), compared the efficacy and safety of telmisartan (n = 385) with lisinopril (n = 193). Dosage could be increased for both telmisartan (40 --> 80 --> 160 mg) and lisinopril (10 --> 20 --> 40 mg) at each of the first 2 monthly visits if DBP control (<90 mm Hg) had not been established. Once DBP control was established, patients entered the 48-week maintenance period. During this period, the dose of the study drug was fixed, although open-label HCTZ at 12.5 mg or 25 mg was added, when needed, to regain DBP control. At the end of the titration period, DBP control was achieved on monotherapy by 67% and 63% of the telmisartan and lisinopril patients, respectively. At the end of the maintenance period, supine DBP was controlled in 83% and 87% of the telmisartan and lisinopril patients, respectively, with systolic blood pressure over DBP reductions of 23.8/16.6 mm Hg for telmisartan and 19.9/15.6 mm Hg for lisinopril. Treatment-related side effects occurred in fewer telmisartan-treated patients (28%) than in lisinopril-treated patients (40%; P =.001). Significantly fewer patients (P =.018) receiving telmisartan experienced treatment-related cough (3% v 7%), and cough led to discontinuation significantly less often (P =.007) with telmisartan treatment than with lisinopril treatment (0.3% v 3.1%). In addition, two cases of angioedema were observed, both in the lisinopril group. The selective AT (1) receptor antagonist, telmisartan, is extremely effective in the treatment of mild-to-moderate hypertension both as monotherapy and in combination with HCTZ and is at least comparable in efficacy to lisinopril, with a tolerability profile that may offer advantages in terms of a reduced incidence of adverse events.
The authors describe the development of a clinical protocol to treat mustard gas-induced myelosuppression with granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), a hematopoietic growth factor. Limited clinical evidence suggests a significant role for mustard gas-induced myelosuppression in the overall morbidity of mustard gas victims. Initial data from primates revealed that G-CSF could ameliorate neutropenia following nitrogen mustard exposure. Exploiting the extensive oncologic experience with G-CSF, which demonstrated its safety and absence of serious side effects the authors developed a clinical protocol for use of this drug in potential mustard gas victims in the Persian Gulf conflict.
The antihypertensive effect of nitrendipine cannot be explained only by its reduction of the increased peripheral vascular resistance. In contrast to the antihypertensive vasodilators, nitrendipine improves impaired renal function and prevents generalized vasculopathy in hypertensive animals. Chronic treatment with nitrendipine prevents spontaneous (Okamoto rats) and salt-induced (Dahl rats) hypertension and cardiac hypertrophy. In rats with established hypertension, nitrendipine normalizes blood pressure, reduces cardiac hypertrophy, and improves renal ischaemia. In salt-induced malignant hypertension in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats, nitrendipine only slightly reduces blood pressure but dramatically improves survival and prevents vascular lesions in the heart, brain, and kidneys. Nitrendipine reduces the intracellular availability of calcium ions in vascular smooth muscle responsible for the increased peripheral and renovascular resistance in hypertension. Moreover, in preventing the deleterious calcium overload, nitrendipine preserves tissue integrity and increases life span in malignant hypertension.
Drug-induced interstitial nephritis can be caused by a plethora of drugs and is characterized by a sudden impairment of renal function, mild proteinuria, and sterile pyuria. For investigation of the possible pathomechanism of this disease, drug-specific T cells were analyzed, their function was characterized, and these in vitro findings were correlated to histopathologic changes that were observed in kidney biopsy specimens. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from three patients showed a proliferative response to only one of the administered drugs, namely flucloxacillin, penicillin G, and disulfiram, respectively. The in vitro analysis of the flucloxacillin-reactive cells showed an oligoclonal immune response with an outgrowth of T cells bearing the T cell receptor Vbeta9 and Vbeta21.3. Moreover, flucloxacillin-specific T cell clones could be generated from peripheral blood, they expressed CD4 and the alphabeta-T cell receptor, and showed a heterogeneous cytokine secretion pattern with no clear commitment to either a Th1- or Th2-type response. The immunohistochemistry of kidney biopsies of these patients revealed cell infiltrations that consisted mostly of T cells (CD4+ and/or CD8+). An augmented presence of IL-5, eosinophils, neutrophils, CD68+ cells, and IL-12 was observed. In agreement with negative cytotoxicity assays, no cytotoxicity-related molecules such as Fas and perforin were detected by immunohistochemistry. The data indicate that drug-specific T cells are activated locally and orchestrate a local inflammation via secretion of various cytokines, the type of which depends on the cytokine pattern secreted and which probably is responsible for the renal damage.
Hypothermia after induction of general anesthesia results largely from core-to-peripheral redistribution of body heat. Both central inhibition of tonic thermoregulatory vasoconstriction in arteriovenous shunts and anesthetic-induced arteriolar and venous dilation contribute to this redistribution. Ketamine, unique among anesthetics, increases peripheral arteriolar resistance; in contrast, propofol causes profound venodilation that other anesthetics do not. We therefore tested the hypothesis that induction of anesthesia with ketamine causes less core hypothermia than induction with propofol. Twenty patients undergoing elective surgery were randomly assigned to anesthetic induction with either 1.5 mg/kg ketamine (n = 10) or 2.5 mg/kg propofol (n = 10). Anesthesia in both groups was subsequently maintained with sevoflurane and 60% nitrous oxide in oxygen. Forearm minus finger, skin-temperature gradients <0 degrees C were considered indicative of significant arteriovenous shunt vasodilation. Ketamine did not cause vasodilation just after induction, whereas propofol rapidly induced vasodilation. Core temperatures in the patients given ketamine remained significantly greater than those in the patients induced with propofol. These data suggest that maintaining vasoconstriction during induction of anesthesia reduces the magnitude of redistribution hypothermia.
Core hypothermia during the first hour of anesthesia was less after induction of anesthesia with ketamine than propofol. Maintaining arteriovenous shunt vasoconstriction during induction of anesthesia reduces the magnitude of redistribution hypothermia.
The papers describing the secondary headache attributed simultaneously to vascular disorder beyond the head and neck and use of drug are lacking. There is no adequate position for that type of headache in the current classification of headache, either. The case of secondary headache induced by metoprolol in a 57-year-old patient with superior vena cava syndrome (SVCS) is reported. He suffered from chronic paroxysmal headache with accompanying rash and the superficial jugular veins were over-flown about 30 minutes after an intake of 25 mg of metoprolol. At the seventh day of hospital stay, the sudden death occurred. Postmortem examination showed the limited cardiac tamponade caused by aortal perforation and adhesive pericarditis SVCS produced by chronic, limited cardiac tamponade revealed after oral intake of metoprolol can be the cause of secondary headache that might be defined as "headache attributed to vascular disorder beyond the head and neck and related to medication for other indications".
Doxorubicin is a chemotherapeutic agent prescribed for a variety of tumors. While undergoing treatment, patients exhibit frequent symptoms that suggest respiratory muscle weakness. Cancer patients can receive doxorubicin chemotherapy through either intravenous (IV) or intraperitoneal (IP) injections. We hypothesized that respiratory muscle function would be depressed in a murine model of chemotherapy. We tested this hypothesis by treating C57BL/6 mice with a clinical dose of doxorubicin (20 mg/kg) via IV or IP injection. Three days later we measured contractile properties of muscle fiber bundles isolated from the diaphragm. Doxorubicin consistently depressed diaphragm force with both methods of administration (P < 0.01). Doxorubicin IP exaggerated the depression in diaphragm force and stimulated tissue inflammation and muscle fiber injury. These results suggest that clinically relevant doses of doxorubicin cause respiratory muscle weakness and that the loss of function depends, in part, on the route of administration.
Synaptic vesicle protein 2B (SV2B) was identified by the subtraction hybridization technique as a molecule of which mRNA expression was decreased in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephropathy by glomerular cDNA subtraction assay. The expression of SV2B was detected in glomerular lysate with Western blot analysis. Dual-labeling immunofluorescence studies with glomerular cell markers demonstrated that SV2B is expressed in glomerular visceral epithelial cells (podocytes). The expression of SV2B is detected also in cultured podocyte and in human kidney section as podocytic pattern. The decrease of SV2B mRNA was already detected before the onset of proteinuria in PAN nephropathy. The mRNA expression of SV2B clearly is altered not only in PAN nephropathy but also in another proteinuric state that is caused by an antibody against nephrin, a functional molecule of the slit diaphragm. The decreased intensity in SV2B staining was already detected before the peak of proteinuria in both models with immunofluorescence study. A reduced amount of SV2B was detected in both models also with Western blot analysis. CD2AP, another functional molecule of the slit diaphragm, was observed in cytoplasm, including the processes area of the cultured podocyte, and when the podocyte was treated with small interfering RNA for SV2B, CD2AP staining at the process area was not detected. These results suggest that SV2B is a functional molecule of podocyte, and SV2B may play a role in the expression and proper localization of CD2AP.
To determine whether the increase in baroreflex sensitivity previously reported in lifetime captopril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) was due to an inhibition of brain angiotensin II mechanisms, we tested the effect of intracerebroventricular administration of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist on baroreflex control of heart rate in lifetime captopril-treated and untreated male and female SHR. Baroreceptor reflex control of heart rate was assessed by the slope of the relationship between changes in mean arterial pressure (delta MAP, mmHg) and changes in pulse interval (delta PI, ms). MAP was raised and lowered with infusions of phenylephrine and nitroprusside, respectively. Following basal assessment of baroreflex control of heart rate, rats received an intracerebroventricular injection (100 pmol) of Sar1Thr8 angiotensin II (sarthran) and reflex control of heart rate was reassessed. Adequacy of blockade was tested with central and peripheral administration of angiotensin II. Captopril-treated male (130 +/- 7 mmHg) and female (123 +/- 4 mmHg) rats had significantly lower MAP than untreated rats (174 +/- 4 and 173 +/- 8 mmHg, respectively) and enhanced bradycardia in response to increases in MAP. Intracerebroventricular administration of sarthran had no effect on basal blood pressure or heart rate but enhanced the bradycardia in response to increases in MAP in both untreated and captopril-treated rats. The increase in the slope of the line relating delta MAP to delta PT was greater for untreated than captopril-treated SHR (male untreated 2.7-fold versus captopril-treated 1.5-fold; female untreated 1.6-fold versus captopril-treated 1.5-fold).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Capsaicin is the active component of chili peppers, which has been shown to possess several beneficial effects. Currently, the best-known medical use of capsaicin is as a topical painkiller. Drug-induced myocardial infarction is not a common phenomenon and the underlying mechanism has been related with coronary spasm in the majority of cases. We present a 29-year-old man who experienced coronary vasospasm and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) which were possibly induced by the use of a topical capsaicin patch to relieve lumbago. He presented with chest pain of one hour onset. The electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation in the leads II, III, and aVF, consistent with inferior wall AMI. Echocardiography confirmed inferior hypokinesia. Urgent coronary angiography showed normal right and left coronary arteries. Since he had no cardiac risk factors for coronary artery disease, nor a history of recent emotional or physical stress, or ingestion of any illicit substance, the vasospasm and subsequent AMI was attributed to the use of the capsaicin patch for six days. Upon institution of appropriate treatment and removal of the patch, no new anginal attacks or ischemic episodes were seen within a follow-up of one month. This is the first case report of AMI induced by the use of a topical capsaicin patch.
The effects of the food mutagen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) were studied in DNA repair deficient XPA(-/-) mice. The nullizygous XPA-knockout mice, which lack a functional nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway, were exposed to dietary concentrations ranging from 10 to 200 p.p.m. The results show that PhIP is extremely toxic to XPA(-/-) mice, even at doses 10-fold lower than tolerated by wild-type C57BL/6 mice. XPA(-/-) mice rapidly lost weight and died within 2 and 6 weeks upon administration of 200 and 100 p.p.m., respectively. Intestinal abnormalities like distended and overfilled ileum and caecum, together with clear signs of starvation, suggests that the small intestines were the primary target tissue for the severe toxic effects. Mutation analysis in XPA(-/-) mice carrying a lacZ reporter gene, indicated that the observed toxicity of PhIP might be caused by genotoxic effects in the small intestine. LacZ mutant frequencies appeared to be selectively and dose-dependently increased in the intestinal DNA of treated XPA(-/-) mice. Furthermore, DNA repair deficient XPC(-/-) mice, which are still able to repair DNA damage in actively transcribed genes, did not display any toxicity upon treatment with PhIP (100 p.p.m.). This suggests that transcription coupled repair of DNA damage (PhIP adducts) in active genes plays a crucial role in preventing the intestinal toxicity of PhIP. Finally, PhIP appeared to be carcinogenic for XPA(-/-) mice at subtoxic doses. Upon treatment of the mice for 6 months with 10 or 25 p.p.m. PhIP, significantly increased tumour incidences were observed after a total observation period of one year. At 10 p.p.m. only lymphomas were found, whereas at 25 p.p.m. some intestinal tumours (adenomas and adenocarcinomas) were also observed.
Cocaine use has increased in recent years, in part as a result of the increased availability of "crack," the inexpensive freebase form. Although it is used medicinally and initially was considered a relatively safe street drug, cocaine clearly has addictive potential as well as adverse health consequences even in low doses. Some of its most serious adverse effects involve the cardiovascular system. Understanding the cellular mechanisms of the action of cocaine on the heart allows insight into the pathophysiology of its adverse effects. Blockade of sodium channels accounts for cocaine's anesthetic effects and acts directly on myocytes to impair action potential generation and conduction, predisposing to dysrhythmias. Blockade of neurotransmitter reuptake has many deleterious effects, including dysrhythmogenesis via increased intracellular calcium, myocardial ischemia via vasospasm and increased myocardial oxygen demand, and contraction band necrosis also via increased intracellular calcium. In addition, alterations in platelet-endothelial cell function predispose to coronary artery thrombosis and ischemia. Alterations in immune function of natural killer cells may, among other effects, predispose to the development of myocarditis, the etiology of which is probably multifactoral. Finally, a direct toxic effect of cocaine on myocytes may, in some cases, produce heart muscle dysfunction. These multiple mechanisms of action combined with the deleterious effects of often-present adulterants give rise to an unpredictable, variable, and potentially life-threatening cardiovascular response to cocaine administration.
As a natural alkaloid extracted from Amaryllidaceae, lycorine shows various biological effects on tumor cells. Here we show that lycorine dose-dependently inhibited the LPS-induced up-regulation of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein level in RAW264.7 cells. Besides, it also inhibited NO, PGE(2), TNF-α and IL-6 release from LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells. RT-PCR experiments showed that lycorine suppressed LPS-induced iNOS but not COX-2 gene expression. Moreover, lycorine decreased LPS-induced mortality in mice. Mechanistically, LPS-induced activation of P38 and STATs pathways was suppressed significantly by lycorine. In addition, lycorine did not interfere with the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, JNK1/2 and NF-κB pathways. In conclusion, lycorine inhibits LPS-induced production of pro-inflammatory mediators and increases the survival rate of mice after LPS challenge, suggesting that lycorine could play an anti-inflammatory role in response to LPS.
The present investigation focuses on learning and working memory capabilities of adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats that were exposed to either cocaine (50 mg/kg/day sc) or distilled water during infancy (postnatal days 11-20). Learning and memory were assessed at 4 months using the eight-arm radial maze. Training was carried out in three phases in order to separate procedural learning from spatial capacity. Once criterion (entering at least seven arms without repeating arms for four out of five trials) was achieved in the first training room (Room 1), testing was moved to a second room (Room 2) with unique visual cues and an identical maze. Upon reaching criterion in Room 2, animals were returned to Room 1 and examined again. Cocaine-pretreated rats were less accurate than vehicle-pretreated rats during the first 10 trials of training. During the first five trials in Room 2 cocaine-pretreated animals made more errors, and made errors earlier within trials, than the vehicle-pretreated animals. Upon return to Room 1, reliable Gender x Pretreatment interactions were found for errors and total arms entered. These data demonstrate that a brief period of postnatal cocaine exposure can impair spatial cognition in adulthood and tentatively suggest that females are more sensitive than males.
In a prospective study, 17 Brazilian patients with parenchymatous neurocysticercosis were monitored for a period of 12 months after treatment with praziquantel. Taenia solium-specific IgG antibodies, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), tumor necrosis factor alpha, neopterin, and soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) were measured in serum and CSF before starting the therapy, on the last day of treatment, 5 weeks after treatment, and 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment. The most common symptoms and signs found in patients before treatment were headache, neck stiffness, and seizures. Six months after commencement of therapy, 13 of the 17 patients were free of complaints. Clinical normalization was paralleled by a significant decrease (p < 0.05) in the amount of intrathecally produced anti-T solium IgG 1 year after treatment. IL-1 beta was undetectable in serum at all times, whereas in the CSF it was within the normal range during the whole study period. The mean concentration of sIL-2R in the CSF was 65 kU/l (normal, < 50 kU/l) 5 weeks after treatment, whereas in all subsequent investigations sIL-2R was undetectable. The median CSF neopterin level was slightly elevated before treatment (6.8 nmol/l). One year after treatment, it had dropped by 69% (p < 0.001) to a median value of 2.1 nmol/l. The size of planimetrically measured focal cystic brain lesions on CT correlated with the amount of intrathecally synthesized anti-T solium IgG at the end of the study (r = 0.89, p < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Analysis of covariance was employed to explore possible correlations among duration of phenytoin therapy, phenytoin and folate serum concentrations, and clinical and electrophysiologic findings in 32 patients receiving single phenytoin therapy. None of our patients volunteered peripheral nervous system complaints. On examination, 9 of 32 (28%) were found to have signs suggestive of neuropathy (absent knee and/or ankle jerks). Neither phenytoin serum concentration nor duration of phenytoin therapy was found to significantly (p greater than 0.05) affect nerve function after an adjustment for age differences. A test for overall effect of folate serum concentration (grouped greater than or equal to 5 or less than 5 ng/ml) also failed to reach statistical significance (p greater than 0.05). Our findings suggest that phenytoin and folate serum concentrations and duration of phenytoin therapy do not have an important role in the development of clinical neuropathy and electrophysiologic abnormalities.
Lithium is a monovalent cation that influences calcium metabolism in various tissues including the brain, kidney, heart, and parathyroid gland. Mr. A received treatment with lithium for 19 years because this medication proved to be effective in the management of his bipolar illness. However, he developed hypercalcemia, hypertension, and episodes of severe bradyarrhythmia (one of them requiring admission to the medical intensive care unit), with lithium levels within the therapeutic range. An extended endocrine workup showed hyperparathyroidism, with elevated serum parathyroid hormone levels, hypercalcemia, hypocalciuria, and normal serum phosphate levels. These biochemical findings are different from those of primary hyperparathyroidism and are attributed to direct actions of the lithium in the kidney. Discontinuation of the lithium did not result in reversal of the abnormal findings. The patient had surgery, and hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland was found. After parathyroidectomy, the bradyarrhythmia subsided and the patient showed improvement both in his psychiatric condition and hypertension. Preliminary observations in nine other lithium-induced hypercalcemic patients show a high frequency of arrhythmias with bradycardia and conduction defects. These findings suggest that hypercalcemia with lithium increases the risk of cardiac arrhythmia and emphasize the need for regular laboratory and electrocardiographic monitoring of patients on maintenance lithium therapy.
Our study evaluated the effects of verapamil in elderly patients with stable effort angina using a medium-term double-blind placebo-controlled protocol. Thirty-nine consecutive patients, 23 middle-age patients (50 +/- 6 years; range 38-60 years) and 16 elderly patients (66 +/- 2 years; range 65-70 years) with exertional angina were chosen. After a run-in period, both groups received treatment with either placebo or verapamil--360 mg daily--for 4 weeks. During treatment, weekly angina frequency and nitroglycerin consumption were significantly reduced in both groups. Verapamil significantly decreased the rate-pressure product at rest in elderly patients and in both groups at submaximal exercise, due to a reduction in heart rate in both groups and to a more marked decrease in arterial pressure in older patients. At peak exercise, the rate-pressure product was unchanged in both groups after verapamil, while exercise capacity showed a significant improvement in the middle-aged, and ST segment depression was reduced in both groups. After verapamil, 30% of middle-aged patients and 44% of elderly patients had to stop exercising because of angina. Side effects were rare and no drop-out was recorded. Verapamil exerted its antianginal action by means of a decrease in myocardial oxygen consumption at rest and at submaximal exercise in the elderly, while only at submaximal exercise in the middle-aged. Therefore verapamil at the dose of 360 mg daily proved an effective antianginal drug with a safe effect profile also in elderly patients.
The differences in potencies of optical isomers of anesthetics support the hypothesis that anesthetics act by specific receptor interactions. Diastereoisomerism and geometrical isomerism offer further tests of this hypothesis but have not been explored. They are the subject of this report. We quantified the nonimmobilizing and convulsant properties of the cis and trans diastereomers of the nonimmobilizer 2N (1,2-dichlorohexafluorocyclobutane). Although the lipophilicity of the diastereomers predicts complete anesthesia at the partial pressures applied, neither diastereomer had anesthetic activity alone, and the cis form may have a small (10%) capacity to antagonize anesthesia, as defined by additive effects on the MAC (the minimum alveolar concentration required to suppress movement to a noxious stimulus in 50% of rats) of desflurane. Both diastereomers produced convulsions, the cis form being nearly twice as potent as the trans form: convulsant 50% effective dose (mean +/- SD) was 0.039 +/- 0.009 atmospheres (atm) for the purified cis and 0.064 +/- 0.009 atm for the purified trans isomer. The MAC value for cis-1,2-dichloroethylene equaled 0.0071 +/- 0.0006 atm, and MAC for trans-1,2-dichloroethylene equaled 0.0183 +/- 0.0031 atm. In qualitative accord with the Meyer-Overton hypothesis, the greater cis potency was associated with a greater lipophilicity. However, the product of MAC x solubility differed between the cis and trans isomers by 40%-50%. We conclude that neither the cis nor trans isomers of 2N have anesthetic properties, but isomerism does influence 2N's convulsant properties and the anesthetic properties of dichloroethylene. These isomeric effects may be as useful in defining receptor-anesthetic interactions as those found with optical isomers.
Cis-trans isomerism can influence the convulsant properties of the nonimmobilizer 2N (1,2-dichlorohexafluorocyclobutane) and the anesthetic properties of dichloroethylene. Such isomeric effects may be as useful as those found with optical isomers in defining receptor-anesthetic interactions.
Secondary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) occurring after breast cancer is a rare long-term complication of the chemo- and/or radiation therapy required to treat breast cancer. The usually recognized curative option of these secondary AML includes courses of anthracycline-based chemotherapy followed by haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Cardiac dysfunction during AML treatment of these patients previously treated with anthracyclines for breast cancer has not been reported to date. We evaluated the evolution of cardiac function in seven patients treated with anthracyclines and/or autologous or allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for secondary AML occurring after breast cancer. All of the patients who received a cumulative anthracycline dose above the cardiac toxicity threshold developed cardiac symptoms during AML chemotherapy courses. Moreover, four of the five transplanted patients developed severe heart failure among which two were fatal. Thus, the risk of severe cardiac dysfunction after treatment of secondary AML following breast cancer must be taken in account as part of the therapeutic strategy of those patients. As discussed here, an accurate evaluation of risk factors, the use of sensitive detection tests and of cardioprotective drugs as well as that of non-cardiotoxic chemotherapy might decrease the occurrence and severity of this life-threatening complication.
