Previous reports have indicated that certain mouthrinses, even when used as directed can induce oral pain. In order to help determine the causal agent(s), various commercially available mouthrinses, as well as control solutions, were tested in a psychophysical study in which subjects rated categories of pain during and after mouthrinsing. More specifically, the studies tested the effects of ethanol concentration on induced pain. The results show that there is a direct relationship between ethanol content and the amount of induced pain. Furthermore, the amount of pain was found to increase with time of rinsing, and to slowly decrease after cessation of rinsing. Lastly, comparison of ethanol/water controls with a marketed product (Clear Choice) matched for ethanol content showed that, while ethanol was the key factor in mouthwash-induced oral pain, other presently unidentified agents can also add to the effect.
The use of low doses of naltrexone for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) enjoys a worldwide following amongst MS patients. There is overwhelming anecdotal evidence, that in low doses naltrexone not only prevents relapses in MS but also reduces the progression of the disease. It is proposed that naltrexone acts by reducing apoptosis of oligodendrocytes. It does this by reducing inducible nitric oxide synthase activity. This results in a decrease in the formation of peroxynitrites, which in turn prevent the inhibition of the glutamate transporters. Thus, the excitatory neurotoxicity of glutamate on neuronal cells and oligodendrocytes via activation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid class of glutamate receptor is prevented. It is crucial that the medical community respond to patient needs and investigate this drug in a clinical trial.
Three patients are reported who developed liver enzyme abnormalities of a cholestatic pattern, without jaundice, after 10-28 d of heparin treatment. The values normalized within 4 months in all patients. Thus heparin should be added to the list of drugs that may cause a cholestatic liver reaction.
In a double-blind trial, we randomly assigned 1330 high-risk health care personnel to receive three 20-micrograms doses of hepatitis B vaccine or placebo. Among vaccine recipients 58% responded within 1 month and 97% within 9 months; there was no difference in immune response to the vaccine between men and women. Efficacy was evaluated after a mean follow-up of only 13.2 months, just before the vaccine was released commercially. Five hepatitis B infections were identified in placebo recipients and one in a vaccine recipient. Although the number of infections was too small to allow confident conclusions about protective efficacy of the vaccine, we saw a 67% reduction in the need for hepatitis B immune globulin after accidental hepatitis B inoculation in the vaccine group (relative risk, 5.08; 95% confidence intervals, 1.3 to 19.9). Minor side effects occurred with equal frequency after vaccine (28.7%) and placebo (27.2%) injections; no participant had a severe adverse reaction. Vaccination with the 20-micrograms hepatitis B vaccine was highly immunogenic and safe in health care workers.
Primary Liver Cancer (PLC) is the leading cause of death by cancer among males in Thailand and the 3(rd) among females. Most cases are hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) but cholangiocarcinomas represent between 4 and 80% of liver cancers depending upon geographic area. Most HCC are associated with chronic infection by Hepatitis B Virus while a G → T mutation at codon 249 of the TP53 gene, R249S, specific for exposure to aflatoxin, is detected in tumors for up to 30% of cases. We have used Short Oligonucleotide Mass Analysis (SOMA) to quantify free circulating R249S-mutated DNA in plasma using blood specimens collected in a hospital case:control study. Plasma R249S-mutated DNA was detectable at low concentrations (≥ 67 copies/mL) in 53 to 64% of patients with primary liver cancer or chronic liver disease and in 19% of controls. 44% of patients with HCC and no evidence of cirrhosis had plasma concentrations of R249S-mutated DNA ≥ 150 copies/mL, compared to 21% in patients with both HCC and cirrhosis, 22% in patients with cholangiocarcinoma, 12% in patients with non-cancer chronic liver disease and 3% of subjects in the reference group. Thus, plasma concentrations of R249S-mutated DNA ≥ 150 copies/mL tended to be more common in patients with HCC developing without pre-existing cirrhosis (p = 0.027). Overall, these results support the preferential occurrence of R249S-mutated DNA in HCC developing in the absence of cirrhosis in a context of HBV chronic infection.
The present study was designed to investigate the dose-response of clomiphene on several estrogenic responses in the immature rat uterus and to compare it to available data on estradiol-17 beta. A dissociation was demonstrated among the different estrogenic responses induced by clomiphene. Very high doses of clomiphene were needed to induce the 6-h uterine eosinophilia and deep endometrial edema, and maximal response levels were not reached at any dose studied. On the contrary, many genomic responses were induced with much lower doses of clomiphene, and maximal response levels were reached with at least the two highest doses of clomiphene. This dissociation is in agreement with the existence of separate groups of responses that are mediated by multiple and independent mechanisms of estrogen action involving different kind of receptors. Luminal epithelial, glandular epithelial, and myometrial hypertrophies were also found to differ with regard to the dose needed to induce this response in each cell type. The dissociation between genomic responses of the different uterine cell types supports the hypothesis of different estrogen receptors for each kind of cell. Clomiphene induces mitoses in the different cell types, but the proportion of mitoses in the cell types was different from that described for estradiol. It is suggested that these differences are also due to differences between receptors involved in cell proliferation.
Though the increased resistance to antibiotics observed worldwide is not a major concern in France, treatment of methicillin-resistant S. aureus has important limitations. New antibiotics have recently been marketed or will soon be (quinupristin-dalfopristin, linelozide, tigecyclin, daptomycin, ceftobiprole, dalbavancin). Their role, which has been documented in several forms of acute infections, remains to be established in infective endocarditis. At present, only treatment of methicillin-resistant S. aureus right-sided endocarditis justifies the use of daptomycin, preferably in association with rifampicin, when the use of vancomycin is not possible or contraindicated.
The traditional Chinese medicine prescription "sheng-mai-san (SMS)" has been used for treating patients with coronary heart disease for a long time and was found to have antioxidative effects. Here, we applied adriamycin (doxorubicin, ADR), a highly effective anticancer agent, as an inducer to establish the animal model of dose-related cardiomyopathy due to inhibition of nucleic acid as well as protein synthesis, formation of free radicals, and lipid peroxidation. The objective of this study was to investigate the protective effects of SMS on adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy. Wistar rats were divided into four groups: CONT (control), ADR, SMS, and ADR + SMS. ADR (cumulative dose, 15 mg/kg) was administered to rats in six equal intraperitoneal injections over a period of 2 weeks and SMS was administered via a feeding tube throughout the mouth once a day for 30 days (cumulative dose, 150 g/kg). At the end of the 5-week post-treatment period, the hearts of the rats were surgically removed for the study of synthesis rates of DNA, RNA and proteins. Besides myocardial antioxidants, lipid peroxidation and morphological ultrastructure were also evaluated. Three weeks after the treatment, cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure were characterized according to assessment in ascites, congested liver, depressed cardiac function and myocardial cell damage. The results demonstrated that nucleic acid as well as protein synthesis was inhibited, while lipid peroxidation was increased. Myocardial glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) activity was decreased and electron microscopic examination revealed myocardial lesion indicative of ADR-induced cardiomyopathy. In contrast, administration of SMS before and concurrent with ADR significantly attenuated the myocardial effects. It also lowered mortality as well as the amount of ascites. In addition, indexes in myocardial GSHPx, macromolecular biosynthesis and superoxide dismutase activities were increasing, with a concomitant decrease in lipid peroxidation and preserved myocardial ultrastructure. These results indicated that SMS may be partially protective against ADR-induced cardiomyopathy.
Extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) functions as a novel danger signal that boosts antitumor immunity and can also directly kill tumor cells. We have previously reported that chronic exposure of tumor cells to ATP provokes P2X7-mediated tumor cell death, by as yet incompletely defined molecular mechanisms.
Here, we show that acute exposure of tumor cells to ATP results in rapid cytotoxic effects impacting several aspects of cell growth/survival, leading to inhibition of tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Using agonist and antagonist studies together with generation of P2X7 deficient tumor cell lines by lentiviral shRNA delivery system, we confirm P2X7 to be the central control node transmitting extracellular ATP signals. We identify that downstream intracellular signaling regulatory networks implicate two signaling pathways: the known P2X7-PI3K/AKT axis and remarkably a novel P2X7-AMPK-PRAS40-mTOR axis. When exposed to high levels of extracellular ATP, these two signaling axes perturb the balance between growth and autophagy, thereby promoting tumor cell death.
Our study defines novel molecular mechanisms underpinning the antitumor actions of P2X7 and provides a further rationale for purine-based drugs in targeted cancer therapy.
Clopidogrel -- a popular antiplatelet drug widely used in treatment of various vascular diseases -- is known for its favourable safety profile. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is very rare but serious adverse reaction associated with clopidogrel. We present a case of patient treated with clopidogrel who developed moderate TTP with leukopenia and symptoms of haemorrhagic diathesis.
The purpose of this study was to test the effectiveness of various doses of disodium ethane-1-hydroxy-1,1-diphosphonate (EHDP) in an experimental rabbit model of athero-arteriosclerosis designed by Hass et al. (Amer. J. Pathol., 49 (1966) 739). This model, which involves the feeding of a hypercholesterolemic diet in conjunction with the administration of moderately high doses of vitamin D and nicotine, results in an extensive arterial disease with complicated lesions. EHDP was administered daily by subcutaneous injection at levels of 0.25, 1.0 and 2.5 mg/kg body weight beginning with the initiation of the atherogenic regimen. Results of chemical and histopathological analyses after 8 and 12 weeks of treatment indicate the following: (1) There was a dose-related inhibition of arterial calcification at 8 weeks. At 12 weeks, only the 2.5 mg/kg dose of EHDP resulted in reduced calcification. (2) EHDP administration appeared to influence arterial lipid-containing plaque formation in medium sized arteries at 12 weeks. There was no apparent effect of EHDP administration on serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. (3) EHDP, at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg/day, inhibited the vitamin D induced hypercalcemia. (4) EHDP administration at 2.5 mg/kg/day almost totally inhibited the thromboarteritis accompanying this disease. (5) The data thus indicate that if arterial calcification is inhibited, the other morphological effects of this treatment regime are also inhibited. This effect occurred even though serum lipid levels were unaffected. The data therefore emphasize the role of calcification in the pathogenesis of this type of experimental atherosclerosis and perhaps in human disease as well.
The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the antiepileptic compound levetiracetam (LEV) for the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD). We thus performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group pilot study in PD patients with moderate-to-severe LID on stable dopaminergic therapy. Placebo or LEV was administered twice daily (titrated from 250 to 2,000 mg/day) as add-on therapy. Subjects underwent evaluation of the unified-PD-rating scale (UPDRS) and the modified abnormal involuntary movement scale (AIMS). The primary outcome variable was the change of the AIMS score between baseline and end-of-treatment visit. Secondary variables included total UPDRS score and response to levodopa challenge. Of 32 randomized patients (mean age 65.2 years, 62.5% women), 17 received LEV and 15 placebo. After 11 weeks of treatment, mean changes of the modified AIMS from baseline were -1.5 (-26%) for LEV (p = 0.332) and +0.9 (+13%) for placebo (p = 0.588) without significant differences between groups. Mean changes of the UPDRS item 32/33 sum score from baseline showed significant improvement of dyskinesia in the LEV group [-1.0 (-20%); p = 0.012], but not in the placebo group [-0.4 (-8%); p = 0.306]. Treatment had no effects on UPDRS motor score or levodopa response. Frequency and quality of adverse events were similar in both treatment groups. Together, LEV showed only mild antidyskinetic effects without worsening of Parkinsonian symptoms or compromising levodopa efficacy. LEV was well tolerated in doses up to 2,000 mg/day. Further large controlled studies are warranted to evaluate the impact of LEV on LID in PD patients.
Activation of the renin-angiotensin system which is common in diabetes mellitus might affect heme oxygenase (HO-1) gene expression.
Assessment of the effects of administration of angiotensin II (Ang II) receptor antagonist (losartan) with HO-1 inducer or inhibitor on erectile signaling in diabetic rats.
Seventy male rats were divided equally into seven groups; healthy controls, streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, rats on citrate buffer, diabetic rats on losartan, diabetic rats on HO-1 inducer (cobalt protoporphyrin [CoPP]), diabetic rats on losartan and CoPP, and diabetic rats on losartan and HO-1 inhibitor (stannus mesoporphyrin [SnMP]).
HO enzyme activity, HO-1 gene expression, cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) assay, intracavernosal pressure (ICP), and cavernous tissue sinusoids surface area.
HO-1 gene expression, HO enzymatic activity, and cGMP were significantly decreased in the cavernous tissue of diabetic rats. These parameters were significantly elevated with the use of CoPP that restored the normal control levels of HO enzyme activity. Administration of losartan exhibited a significant enhancing effect on these parameters compared with the diabetic group, but not restored to the control levels, whereas administration of CoPP combined with losartan led to the restoration of their normal levels. ICP demonstrated significant decline in diabetic rats. The use of CoPP and/or losartan led to its significant improvement compared with diabetic rats. Administration of either losartan and/or CoPP led to a significant increase in the cavernous sinusoids surface area of diabetic rats. Administration of losartan with SnMP significantly decreased the enhancing effect of losartan on the studied parameters.
The decline in erectile function in diabetes mellitus could be attributed to the downregulation of HO-1 gene expression. HO-1 induction added to Ang II receptor antagonist could improve erectile function.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a significant toxic effect of cyclophosphamide therapy. Continuous bladder irrigation of a 1% alum solution is a simple and generally safe method of chemical cautery to treat the bleeding urothelium. We report four cases of encephalopathy coincident with elevated aluminum levels as well as one patient who developed seizures while receiving continuous bladder irrigations with alum. All patients had significant renal insufficiency. We recommend the cautious use of alum irrigation in patients with renal impairment and monitoring of serum aluminum levels to prevent excessive accumulation and toxicity.
The objectives of these analyses were to (1) develop a semimechanistic-physiologic population pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) model to describe neutropenic response to pemetrexed and to (2) identify influential covariates with respect to pharmacodynamic response.
Data from 279 patients who received 1,136 treatment cycles without folic acid or vitamin B12 supplementation during participation in one of eight phase II cancer trials were available for analysis. Starting doses were 500 or 600 mg pemetrexed per m2 body surface area (BSA), administered as 10-min intravenous infusions every 21 days (1 cycle). The primary analyses included 105 patients (279 cycles) for which selected covariates-including vitamin deficiency marker data (i.e., homocysteine, cystathionine, methylmalonic acid, and methylcitrate [I, II, and total] plasma concentrations)-were available. Classical statistical multivariate regression analyses and a semimechanistic-physiologic population PK/PD model were used to evaluate neutropenic response to single-agent pemetrexed administration.
The timecourse of neutropenia following single-agent pemetrexed administration was adequately described by a semimechanistic-physiologic model. Population estimates for system-based model parameters (i.e., baseline neutrophil count, mean transit time, and the feedback parameter), which mathematically represent current understanding of the process and physiology of hematopoiesis, were consistent with previously reported values. The population PK/PD model included homocysteine, cystathionine, albumin, total protein, and BSA as covariates relative to neutropenic response.
These results support the programmatic decision to introduce folic acid and vitamin B12 supplementation during pemetrexed clinical development as a means of normalizing patient homocysteine levels, thereby managing the risk of severe neutropenia secondary to pemetrexed administration. The current results also suggest that the addition of vitamin B6 supplementation to normalize patient cystathionine levels may further decrease the incidence of grade 4 neutropenia following pemetrexed administration. The results also suggest the use of folic acid as a means of lessening hematologic toxicity following administration of cytotoxic agents other than antifolates.
Although the therapeutic administration of lithium in the psychiatric setting has been associated with various renal side effects, only a few reported cases have suggested a possible link to glomerular disease. We report two patients who, while taking lithium, developed heavy proteinuria caused by minimal change disease and acute renal insufficiency attributable to acute tubular necrosis. These clinical findings resolved on discontinuation of the drug, suggesting a role for lithium in their development. We also postulate that lithium, with its unique properties as a modulator of the phosphoinositol pathway, may play a key role in the pathogenesis of minimal change disease.
Therapy with protease inhibitors is commonly used in patients infected by human inmunodeficency virus (HIV). 20% of the administered dose is excreted by the kidney, and when alkaline urine is present, indinavir may crystallize forming stones and patients may experience renal colic due to this fact.
Between January 1998 and June 2005, 26 patients receiving antiretroviral treatment with protease inhibitors received care at our hospital because of renal colic or flank pain. All of them underwent physical examination, echography and urography as well as blood and urine analysis. Patients were treated ambulatory excepting those in whom oral analgesics were insufficient to control the pain.
All patients had been treated with indinavir for longer than 12 months. They represented 4% of all patients treated with the recommended dose of Crivixan. Most of them presented flank pain, associated in most cases to microhaematuria. Five of them required hospitalization because of persistent pain in spite of endovenous analgesia. Imaging tests (echography and urography) showed functional delay of the kidney (2 cases), ureteral stasis (4 cases) and little lithiasic concretions of mild radiologic density (5 cases). Urinalysis revealed suggestive christaluria and alkaline pH. All patients required hidratation and analgesic treatment. In 3 patients indinavir dose was reduced, it was retired in another one, and 100 mg of rito-navir were added in another one. Unsuccesfuly ureteral cateterization was tried in one patient. All of them presented symptomatic improvement.
We ought to know the capability of indinavir to form urolithiasis in HIV patients treated with protease inhibitors, although its use is decreasing along time. Prevalence of urolithiasis in these patients seems to be higher as length of treatment becomes longer. Metabolic alterations in urine have been proved in these patients, contributing to a higher incidence of lithiasis than in general population.
Few drug reactions are more life threatening than the sudden development of edema involving the mucosal and submucosal layers of the upper aerodigestive tract. Drug-induced angioedema is a recognized entity of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and despite reports in medical journals and drug insert warnings, captopril and enalapril continue to be widely prescribed. As these drugs are efficacious and usually well-tolerated in the treatment of mild forms of hypertension, their popularity is rising. From June 1, 1984 to August 1, 1991, 36 patients with angioedema secondary to ACE inhibitors presented at the Medical College of Virginia Hospitals. Thirty were successfully managed with medical therapy. Two were intubated, 1 had placement of a nasal trumpet, and 3 required tracheostomies. Of extreme importance is the recognition that angioedema resulting from ACE inhibitors is probably not immunoglobulin E (IgE) mediated and that antihistaminics and steroids may not alleviate the airway obstruction. The otolaryngologist must be prepared for the need of possible early surgical intervention.
The messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for the neurotrophins, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and nerve growth factor (NGF), are upregulated during epileptic seizure activity, as visualized by in situ hybridization techniques. Neurotrophins might be protective against excitotoxic cell stress, and the upregulation during seizures might provide such cell protection. In this study, a high dose of pilocarpine (300 mg/kg) was used to induce long-lasting, limbic motor status epilepticus and a selective pattern of brain damage. The regulation of BDNF, trkB, and NGF mRNA was studied by in situ hybridization at 1, 3, 6, and 24 h after induction of limbic motor status epilepticus. BDNF immunoreactivity was examined with an anti-peptide antibody and the neuropathological process studied in parallel. BDNF mRNA increased in hippocampus, neocortex, piriform cortex, striatum, and thalamus with a maximum at 3-6 h. Hybridization levels increased earlier in the resistant granule and CA1 cells as compared to the vulnerable CA3 neurons. BDNF immunoreactivity was elevated in dentate gyrus at 3-6 h. trkB mRNA increased in the entire hippocampus. NGF mRNA in hippocampus appeared in dentate gyrus at 3-6 h and declined in hilar neurons at 6-24 h. Cell damage was found in the CA3 area, entire basal cortex, and layers II/III of neocortex. Endogenous neurotrophins are upregulated during status epilepticus caused by pilocarpine, which is related to the coupling between neuronal excitation and trophic factor expression. This upregulation of neurotrophic factors may serve endogenous protective effects; however, the excessive levels of neuronal hyperexcitation resulting from pilocarpine seizures lead to cell damage which cannot be prevented by endogenous neurotrophins.
Urine samples from patients with propionic acidemia and from a patient with methylmalonic acidemia contained unknown non-acidic metabolites by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry after ethyl acetate extraction. It could be demonstrated by mass spectrometric studies and by synthesis of reference compounds that the major metabolite was 2-methyl-2,3-butanediol, while smaller amounts of 2,3-pentanediol were also present. These diols were present in abnormal amounts in these patients during attacks of metabolic decompensation.
A low-dose combination of flutamide-metformin and ethinylestradiol-drospirenone was recently found to reduce the excess of total and abdominal fat, to diminish the deficit in lean mass, and to attenuate the dysadipocytokinemia of young women with ovarian hyperandrogenism, a variant of polycystic ovary syndrome. We questioned the need to give flutamide, an androgen receptor blocker, together with an oral contraceptive that contains drospirenone, a progestin claimed to have antiandrogen properties. The additive effects of low-dose flutamide (62.5 mg/d) were assessed over 3 months in young patients with hyperinsulinemic ovarian hyperandrogenism (n = 40; age, approximately 17 yr; body mass index, approximately 22 kg/m(2)); all participants started on metformin (850 mg/d) and a fourth-generation contraceptive (ethinylestradiol 30 microg plus drospirenone 3 mg, 21 d/month), and they were randomized to receive flutamide in addition (n = 20) or not (n = 20). Fasting blood glucose, serum insulin, lipid profile, testosterone, adiponectin, and IL-6 were determined at baseline and after 3 months, together with body composition (by dual x-ray absorptiometry) and with Doppler assessment of ovarian arterial resistance. At start, the pulsatility and resistance indices of ovarian arteries were elevated. By comparison of 3-month changes between randomized subgroups, the addition of low-dose flutamide was found to have consistently (more) normalizing effects on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, IL-6, and adiponectin, lean body mass, total and abdominal fat mass, and arterial flow in the ovaries. In conclusion, low-dose flutamide is herewith identified as a pivotal component within a first contraceptive combination therapy that has been shown to attenuate the hypoadiponectinemia, ovarian vascular hyperresistance, lean mass deficit, and central adiposity of young women with polycystic ovary syndrome. Finally, these data challenge any claim that drospirenone, as currently used in a contraceptive, is a clinically significant antiandrogen.
Maternal exposure to 4-nonylphenol (4-NP) during pregnancy was shown to alter adipogenesis in rodents, yet whether the effects are restricted to 4-NP-exposed offspring only or can be transmitted to the next generation are not known. Pregnant Wistar rats received either vehicle or 4-NP (5, 25 and 125μg/kg/day) from gestation to postnatal day 21. F1 pups were subjected to blood biochemistry tests, or killed to obtain their gonadal fat to determine gene expression. Some F1 adult female rats were mated with F1 males from control group to obtain F2 pups, but without any exposure to 4-NP in the perinatal stage. F2 pups underwent studies similar to those performed on F1 pups. Serum total cholesterol, leptin levels were significantly elevated, the quantity and size of fat cells were increased, gene expression of key regulators of adipogenesis and lipogenic pathway of fat tissue were perturbed by 4-NP (p<0.05 or p<0.01). In addition, the expression of mRNA levels and protein of ERα were downregulated in adipose tissue in the two generation offspring. Perinatal exposure to 4-NP affects the adipogenesis in both male and female F1 offspring, and this effect can be progressed to the F2 offspring through the maternal line.
Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) is an enzyme capable of hydrolysing a wide variety of esters including acetylcholine, a molecule involved in neurotransmission and modulation of immune cell activity. In the brain, BuChE is expressed in white matter and certain populations of neurons and glia. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease affecting white matter characterized by neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in the central nervous system. Here we demonstrate alterations in BuChE activity in MS white matter lesions, including diminished enzyme activity associated with myelin and an increased activity in cells with microglial morphology. Increased BuChE activity within MS lesions could contribute to the pro-inflammatory immune responses through hydrolysis of acetylcholine and to demyelination through hydrolytic deacylation of myelin proteins such as proteolipid protein. This suggests that BuChE could be a potential target for novel disease-modifying strategies for MS.
