Risperidone, as all atypical antipsychotics, can cause hyperprolactinemia which can in turn lead to galactorrhea. Mood stabilizers, one of which is valproic acid and its derivate "Depakine Chrono", are rarely linked with symptomatic hyperprolactinemia and do not alter prolactin concentrations. This case is based around a patient suffering from a bipolar disorder that has been psychiatrically treated in an outpatient clinic during four years. Bipolar disorder treatment was started with carbamazepine, but later it was discontinued due to adverse events and extreme increase of liver transaminases. Treatment was continued with introduction of lithium, but the patient stated that she could not tolerate it. Subsequently, her endocrinologist advised for lithium discontinuation due to very severe osteoporosis. At the beginning of 2009, lithium was discontinued and Depakine Chrono was introduced. Due to patient's psychotic decompensation it was necessary to introduce risperidone into treatment and soon afterwards her psychotic symptoms settled. After several months of treatment her mood lowered, she began to feel sedated, psychomotorically retarded and that lead to dose lowering of Depakine Chrono and risperidone, at which point galactorrhea as a serious adverse event occurred. Occurrence of galactorrhea at lower risperidone doses in this case might be partially explained by recent studies that showed that lower doses of risperidone can also improve psychic state, but could also cause adverse events. Although galactorrhea, as a direct consequence of hyperprolactinemia caused by risperidone has mainly been researched with higher doses of this atypical antipsychotic, we have to keep in mind that lower doses could also cause serious adverse events.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of an adenosine A1 agonist, phenylisopropyl adenosine (PIA), on metamidophos poisoning compared to specific antidotes. Rats were poisoned with metamidophos (30 mg/kg, oral) and observed for 24 hours. One group received sodium chloride (1 mL/kg) and four experimental groups received atropine (5 mg/kg), pralidoxime (PAM, 20 mg/kg), atropine/PAM (5/20 mg/kg) or PIA (1 mg/kg) intraperitoneally. Atropine reduced salivation and prevented respiratory distress when compared to sodium chloride-treated rats. Treatment with PAM did not cause any suppression of cholinergic signs. Atropine and PAM combination prevented salivation, convulsion and respiratory distress. PIA delayed initial time of the salivation, convulsion and time to death. However, PIA was found ineffective against the metamidophos-induced cholinergic symptoms and mortality. All treatments, except PIA, lead to survival of these animals. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was not normalized by PIA or PAM. PIA prevented metamidophos-induced diaphragmatic muscle necrosis as much as PAM. In conclusion, a single dose of PIA was unable to protect the rats from metamidophos toxicity. Further studies are needed involving a combination of PAM and/or atropine with repeated doses of PIA to clarify the efficacy of adenosine agonists in OP poisoning.
Atherosclerosis is linked to a number of oxidative events ranging from low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation to the increased production of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS). We have recently demonstrated that liver mitochondria isolated from the atherosclerosis-prone hypercholesterolemic LDL receptor knockout (LDLr(-/-)) mice have lower content of NADP(H)-linked substrates than the controls and, as consequence, higher sensitivity to oxidative stress and mitochondrial membrane permeability transition (MPT). In the present work, we show that oral supplementation with the antioxidants Mangifera indica L. extract (Vimang) or its main polyphenol mangiferin shifted the sensitivity of LDLr(-/-) liver mitochondria to MPT to control levels. These in vivo treatments with Vimang and mangiferin also significantly reduced ROS generation by both isolated LDLr(-/-) liver mitochondria and spleen lymphocytes. In addition, these antioxidant treatments prevented mitochondrial NAD(P)H-linked substrates depletion and NADPH spontaneous oxidation. In summary, Vimang and mangiferin spared the endogenous reducing equivalents (NADPH) in LDLr(-/-) mice mitochondria correcting their lower antioxidant capacity and restoring the organelle redox homeostasis. The effective bioavailability of these compounds makes them suitable antioxidants with potential use in atherosclerosis susceptible conditions.
We have previously shown that chronic administration of a pharmacological dose of testosterone propionate (TP) after treatment with the carcinogen, 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB), results in development of invasive and metastatic adenocarcinomas arising from the dorso-lateral and anterior prostate, as well as the seminal vesicles. Co-administration of ethinyl estradiol (EE) with TP increased the yield of carcinomas in the lateral and anterior lobes. In the present experiment, male F344 rats were treated with DMAB for 20 weeks and then co-administered a pharmacological dose of TP together with various doses of EE for 40 weeks. Without hormone(s) administration, carcinomas were confined to the ventral prostate and all were of intra-acinar type. TP administration suppressed development of the ventral prostate carcinomas but caused invasive carcinomas of the lateral and anterior lobes and of seminal vesicles and intra-acinar carcinomas in the dorsal prostate. The appearance of carcinomas in the lateral and anterior prostate was increased by co-administration of EE in a dose-related fashion but carcinomas of the seminal vesicles were inversely reduced. The suppressive influence of TP on ventral carcinoma development was overcome by only the highest dose of EE. It is concluded that estrogen can modify the enhancing effects of TP on induction of rat prostate and seminal vesicle carcinomas in a dose-related fashion with lobe specificity.
The third-generation aromatase inhibitors (AIs) anastrozole, exemestane and letrozole have largely replaced tamoxifen as the preferred treatment for hormone receptor - positive breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Approximately 185,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer are diagnosed yearly, and at least half of these women are both postmenopausal and eligible for adjuvant therapy with AIs. In addition, AIs are currently being tested as primary prevention therapy in large randomised trials involving tens of thousands of women at increased risk for breast cancer. Given the volume of use, internists will increasingly see postmenopausal women who are taking or considering treatment with AIs. Physicians need to be able to: (i) briefly discuss the pros and cons of using a selective estrogen receptor modulator such as tamoxifen or raloxifene vs. an AI for risk reduction and (ii) recognise and manage AI-associated adverse events. The primary purpose of this review is to help internists with these two tasks.
Severe lactic acidosis has been reported in patients struggling against restraints, especially in association with the use of stimulant drugs, such as cocaine. Profound acidosis occurring under these conditions can lead to cardiac arrhythmias, autonomic instability and cardiac arrest, a syndrome known as restraint associated asphyxia. Early recognition of this condition and removing the stimulus for lactic acid production (excessive muscle activity) by aggressive sedation and ventilatory assistance, coupled with fluid administration to improve tissue perfusion and lactate metabolism, can be life-saving. The current report describes a case of restraint associated severe lactic acidosis in a cocaine intoxicated patient that was successfully treated by sedation, muscular paralysis and mechanical ventilation. Public safety personnel must be aware of this potentially life threatening complication. Avoiding hobble and prone restraint positions may eliminate some of the problems that contribute to the pathophysiology of this condition.
Status epilepticus is a neurological emergency associated with neuronal injury, lasting behavioral disturbance, and a high rate of mortality. Intravenous levetiracetam (LEV), an anti-epileptic drug approved to treat partial seizures, has recently been introduced. We sought to determine the effect of LEV administered intravenously in a chemoconvulsant model of status epilepticus.
We examined the effect of intravenous LEV in the rat lithium-pilocarpine model of status epilepticus. Ten or 30 min after the onset of behavioral status epilepticus, animals were treated with LEV (200-1200 mg/kg i.v.) administered in a single bolus. Behavioral responses were recorded. Selected animals had continuous EEG recording before, during and after the administration of LEV. Some animals were sacrificed 24 h after the experiment and processed for histochemical assessment of neuronal injury.
When administered 30 min after the onset of behavioral epileptic seizures, transient attenuation of ictal behavior was observed in animals treated with 800 mg/kg or more of LEV. The duration of behavioral attenuation increased sharply as the dose rose to 1000 mg/kg or higher, from a mean of 4-23.6 min. When administered 10 min after seizure onset, 400 mg/kg of LEV resulted in transient ictal behavioral attenuation, and higher doses caused relatively longer periods of attenuation. Pretreatment with LEV prior to pilocarpine also delayed the onset of seizures. EEG recordings, however, showed no significant attenuation of ictal discharge. By contrast, TUNEL staining demonstrated less neuronal injury in hippocampii and other limbic structures in animals that responded behaviorally to LEV.
Intravenous administration of LEV in a chemoconvulsant model of status epilepticus results in attenuation of behavioral manifestations of seizure discharge and in reduction of neuronal injury but does not significantly alter ictal discharge recorded by EEG.
Air pollution is a critical factor in the development and exacerbation of pulmonary diseases. Ozone, automobile exhaust, cigarette smoke, and metallic dust are among the potentially harmful pollution components that are linked to disease progression. Transition metals, such as cobalt, have been identified at significant levels in air pollution. Cobalt exerts numerous biological effects, including mimicking hypoxia. Similar to hypoxia, cobalt exposure results in the stabilization of hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs), a family of proteins that regulate the cellular response to oxygen deficit. HIFs also play an important role in innate immunity and inflammatory processes. To characterize the role of HIF1alpha, the most ubiquitously expressed HIF, in the early events during cobalt-induced lung inflammation, an inducible lung-specific HIF1alpha deletion model was employed. Control mice showed classical signs of metal-induced injury following cobalt exposure, including neutrophilic infiltration and induction of Th1 cytokines. In contrast, HIF1alpha-deficient mice exhibited pronounced eosinophil counts in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and lung tissue complemented with Th2 cytokine induction. The timing of these results suggests that the loss of epithelial-derived HIF1alpha alters the lung's innate immune response and biases the tissue toward a Th2-mediated inflammation.
Gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase catalyzes the first step in glutathione synthesis. The enzyme consists of 2 subunits, heavy and light, with the heavy subunit serving as the catalytic subunit. A patient with hemolytic anemia and low red blood cell glutathione levels was found to have a deficiency of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase activity. Examination of cDNA from the patient and her mother showed that she was homozygous and that her mother was heterozygous for a A-->T transversion at nt1109 producing a deduced amino acid change of His370Leu. The partial genomic structure of the catalytic subunit of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GLCLC) was determined, providing some intron/exon boundaries to make it possible to sequence an affected part of the coding region from genomic DNA. The 1109A-->T mutation was not present in the DNA of 38 normal subjects. In the course of these studies we found a diallelic polymorphism in nt +206 of an intron and another polymorphism that consisted of a duplication of a CAGC at cDNA nt1972-1975 in the 3' untranslated region. The 2 polymorphisms were found to be only in partial linkage disequilibrium.
We studied the effects of chlorpromazine HCl (CPZ) on the pressor responses of norepinephrine and phenylephrine in the isolated, perfused hindlimbs of anesthetized dogs. Our results show that, in contrast to phentolamine, CPZ produced a much greater degree of blockade of the pressor responses of phenylephrine than of norepinephrine. Pre-treatment with cocaine prevented the differential blockade. On the other hand, CPZ acted as a classical competitive antagonist in the isolated femoral artery strip preparation. We conclude that differences in affinity for the Uptake system of the adrenergic nerve endings provide the basis for the differential alpha-adrenergic blocking effect of CPZ. These results explain the finding that although a significant degree of alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade may be present after hypotensive doses of CPZ, responses to the naturally occurring neurotransmitter, norepinephrine, are not decreased.
Group-A xeroderma pigmentosum (XPA) gene-deficient mice are defective in nucleotide-excision repair and highly susceptible to ultraviolet-B-, and 9,10-dimethyl-1,2-benz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced skin carcinogenesis. In this study, changes of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b] pyridine (PhIP)-DNA adduct formations in the liver, colon and lung, as assessed by the 32P-postlabeling method and immunohistochemical analysis, and carcinogenic and/or toxic susceptibility of both sexes of XPA-deficient mice (XPA-/-) to PhIP, which is a carcinogenic heterocyclic amine, was examined. Levels of PhIP-DNA adduct formations in the liver, colon and lung, were almost twice as high in XPA-/- as in wild type mice (XPA+/+) mice, 7 days after a single i.g. administration of PhIP, and their delay in recovery was observed in XPA-/- mice. For the long-term experiment, XPA-/- and XPA+/+ type mice were treated with 80 ppm PhIP in the diet for the first 4 weeks followed by 40 ppm after a 2-week recovery period (long-term experiment I), or 40 ppm PhIP throughout the experiment (long-term experiment II). Severe toxicity, as evidenced by body weight retardation and poor survival, was observed in the PhIP treated XPA-/- mice of both sexes, but not in the XPA+/+. At week 40 the experiments were terminated and histopathological examinations were performed after complete autopsy. Only lymphomas/leukemias were observed as neoplastic lesions, but no significant differences were observed between the groups. As non-neoplastic lesions, degenerating changes, for example in the pancreatic acinar cells, were observed with XPA-/- mice tending to be more sensitive than XPA+/+ mice. The present study demonstrated that PhIP-DNA adduct formations in the liver, colon and lung of XPA-/- mice were demonstrated and their recovery rate was more delayed than XPA+/+ mice, and furthermore, more severe toxicity to PhIP in XPA-deficient mice was observed, but they were not susceptible to PhIP carcinogenicity under the conditions of the experiment.
Central effects of remoxipride /(-)-(S)-3-bromo-N-[(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-2-6-dimethoxybenz amide hydrochloride, RPD/, one of newer antipsychotic drugs with high affinity to sigma sites was studied in comparison with clozapine (CLOZ), another atypical antipsychotic agent, devoid of such an activity. It has been found that RPD decreased the locomotor activity of naive rats, as well as hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine and apomorphine. The drug antagonized stereotypy induced by both dopamine agonists as well as apomorphine-induced climbing in mice. RPD shortened the time of SKF 38393 (dopamine D1 receptor agonist)-induced grooming in rats. Moreover, it markedly decreased quinpirole (dopamine D2/3 receptor agonist)-induced hyperactivity of rats, and less potently inhibited stimulatory activity induced by cocaine and MK-801 (non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist). The drug impaired retention of conditioned avoidance responses and induced catalepsy in rats, at relatively high doses though. The effects of CLOZ differed to some extent from those of RPD. The former did not antagonize the apomorphine-induced stereotypy and decreased that caused by D-amphetamine less potently than RPD did. Besides, it did not induce catalepsy, even at relatively high doses while its inhibitory activity towards apomorphine- and quinpirole-induced hyperactivity, as well as locomotor activity of naive rats were much less potent. The effects of RPD and CLOZ in other experimental models were comparable. The obtained results indicating many similarities between psychopharmacological profiles of RPD and CLOZ with some essential differences as well as an equivalence of RPD central effects and the activity of EMD 57445 (selective sigma ligand devoid of any effects at other receptors) permit a supposition that, beside dopamine receptors, the sigma receptors may also be of importance to the mechanism of action of RPD.
Patients on methadone maintenance therapy are relatively intolerant of pain, a finding hypothesized to reflect a hyperalgesic state induced by chronic opioid administration. To explore if the intrinsic activity of the opioid maintenance agent might affect expression of hyperalgesia in this population, withdrawal latency for cold-pressor (CP) pain was compared between small groups of methadone-maintained (n = 18), buprenorphine-maintained (n = 18), and matched control (n = 18) subjects. The opioid-maintained groups had equal and significantly shorter withdrawal latencies than controls, however it is possible that high rates of continued illicit opioid use precluded finding differences between methadone and buprenorphine groups. Differential effects of maintenance agent were found for the few subjects without illicit opioid use, such that withdrawal latencies for methadone-maintained (n = 5) were less than for buprenorphine-maintained (n = 7) which were less than controls (n = 18). Diminished pain tolerance in patients receiving opioid maintenance treatment has significant clinical implications. More research is needed to determine if buprenorphine offers advantages over methadone in this regard.
Droperidol is useful for postoperative sedation in infants and children after cardiac surgery because it provides sedation and akinesia with minimal respiratory depression. However, droperidol has been associated with QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. We investigated, if neuroleptanalgesic doses of droperidol led to QT prolongation and cardiac arrhythmias in children undergoing cardiac surgery.
We retrospectively analysed electrocardiogram rhythm strips that were obtained before and in time increments after a 100 microg x kg(-1) intravenous bolus of droperidol in 20 children undergoing cardiac surgery. The longest QT interval was determined in each ECG and corrected for heart rate (QTc). All arrhythmias were recorded.
Droperidol led to a significant increase in QTc time that was still present at 15 min but had resolved within 30 min after the bolus. No associated arrhythmias were observed.
The statistically significant prolongation of QTc time after a sedative dose of droperidol is of concern because it may increase the risk for malignant cardiac arrhythmias. A large, prospective study is necessary to identify the true risk for arrhythmias after droperidol in this patient population, but our study suggests that any arrhythmogenic risk, if present, will be very transient, since the increase in QTc time was limited to a period of less than 30 min after the bolus.
Air pollution in Darwin, Northern Australia, is dominated by smoke from seasonal fires in the surrounding savanna that burn during the dry season from April to November. Our aim was to study the association between particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns diameter (PM10) and daily emergency hospital admissions for cardio-respiratory diseases for each fire season from 1996 to 2005. We also investigated whether the relationship differed in indigenous Australians; a disadvantaged population sub-group.
Daily PM10 exposure levels were estimated for the population of the city from visibility data using a previously validated model. We used over-dispersed Poisson generalized linear models with parametric smoothing functions for time and meteorology to examine the association between admissions and PM10 up to three days prior. An interaction between indigenous status and PM10 was included to examine differences in the impact on indigenous people.
We found both positive and negative associations and our estimates had wide confidence intervals. There were generally positive associations between respiratory disease and PM10 but not with cardiovascular disease. An increase of 10 microg/m3 in same-day estimated ambient PM10 was associated with a 4.81% (95%CI: -1.04%, 11.01%) increase in total respiratory admissions. When the interaction between indigenous status and PM10 was assessed a statistically different association was found between PM10 and admissions three days later for respiratory infections of indigenous people (15.02%; 95%CI: 3.73%, 27.54%) than for non-indigenous people (0.67%; 95%CI: -7.55%, 9.61%). There were generally negative estimates for cardiovascular conditions. For non-indigenous admissions the estimated association with total cardiovascular admissions for same day ambient PM10 and admissions was -3.43% (95%CI: -9.00%, 2.49%) and the estimate for indigenous admissions was -3.78% (95%CI: -13.4%, 6.91%), although ambient PM10 did have positive (non-significant) associations with cardiovascular admissions of indigenous people two and three days later.
We observed positive associations between vegetation fire smoke and daily hospital admissions for respiratory diseases that were stronger in indigenous people. While this study was limited by the use of estimated rather than measured exposure data, the results are consistent with the currently small evidence base concerning this source of air pollution.
We elucidated the possible role of chimerism in skin and heart allograft tolerance using cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced tolerance. When C3H (H-2k; Thy1.2, Mls-1b) mice were i.v. primed with 1x10(8) spleen cells (SC) from H-2 matched AKR (H-2k; Thy1.1, Mls-1a) mice and then treated i.p. with 200 mg/kg of CP, the survivals of both AKR skin grafts and heart grafts (HG) were permanently prolonged in a tolerogen-specific fashion. After this treatment, a minimal degree of mixed chimerism, the clonal destruction of Mls-1a-reactive CD4+Vbeta6+ T cells in the periphery, and the clonal deletion of Vbeta6+ thymocytes were all observed. When AKR SC and 100 mg/kg CP were used for conditioning, the AKR HG were permanently accepted, but the survival of the AKR skin grafts was only mildly prolonged. The clonal destruction of CD4+Vbeta6+ T cells in the periphery and the intrathymic clonal deletion of Vbeta6+ thymocytes were induced in both the SC and the 100 mg/kg CP-treated C3H mice. A minimal degree of mixed chimerism was detectable at 4 and 12 weeks after AKR SC and 100 mg/kg CP treatment, and still did not disappear at 40 weeks. The degree of mixed chimerism induced with SC and 100 mg/kg CP was significantly lower than that with SC and 200 mg/kg CP during the observation. No posttransplant cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) was observed to develop, while both the Th1 type (interferon-gamma) and Th2 type (interleukin-4 and -10) cytokine expressions decreased in the AKR HG of the tolerant C3H mice treated with both AKR SC plus 200 mg/kg CP, and AKR SC plus 100 mg/kg CP. A second set of skin grafts from donor AKR mice survived for more than 100 days in a tolerogen-specific fashion in all C3H mice treated with AKR SC and 200 mg/kg CP and also accepted the AKR HG for over 200 days, while 80% of the C3H mice treated with AKR SC and 100 mg/kg CP and accepted the AKR HG for more than 200 days. These results strongly suggested the following conclusions: 1) the degree of chimerism can strongly influence the induction of skin and heart allograft tolerance, 2) posttransplant CAV does not develop in the donor HG maintained by chimerism-based CP-induced tolerance, 3) the mRNA expression of both Th1 and Th2 type cytokine decreased in the donor HG maintained by chimerism-based CP-induced tolerance, and 4) the induction of skin allograft tolerance is more difficult than the prevention of posttransplant CAV.
To clarify the histopathological progression of invasive tumors in the pituitary pars distalis due to estrogen, female Fischer 344 (F344) rats were treated subcutaneously with 5 mg/animal of estradiol dipropionate (ED) once every 2 wk for 13 wk. The animals were killed serially at 2-wk intervals during the investigation. The pituitaries with surrounding tissues were examined light microscopically. At week 7, pituitary cells showed proliferation and atypia with formation of blood-filled spaces. Lesions with these characteristics were diagnosed as adenomas. At week 9 or later, neoplastic cells exhibited extensive proliferation and infiltration into the surrounding tissues, suggesting development of carcinoma. Both proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling index, markers of cell proliferation, were significantly increased in animals with adenoma or carcinoma. To detect sequential changes in pituitary weight, its signal intensity was periodically monitored in identical rats by using magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. The estimated pituitary weights revealed by MR imaging were comparable to the tumor weights obtained from rats at scheduled sacrifices. These results indicate that ED possesses the potential to cause carcinoma in rat pituitary and MR imaging is an effective tool for estimating the pituitary weight.
The aim of this study was to evaluate postoperative analgesia provided by caudal S(+)-ketamine and S(+)-ketamine plus clonidine without local anesthetic.
Forty-four children aged 1-5 years consecutively scheduled for inguinal hernia repair, hydrocele repair or orchidopexy were randomly assigned to receive a caudal injection of either S(+)-ketamine 1 mg x kg(-1) (group K) or S(+)-ketamine 0.5 mg x kg(-1) plus clonidine 1 microg x kg(-1) (group KC). Postoperative analgesia and sedation were evaluated by CHEOPS and Ramsay scale from emergence from general anesthesia for 24 h.
No statistical difference was observed between study groups with respect to pain and sedation assessment. A slight trend toward a reduced requirement for rescue analgesia in group KC was observed, although not statistically significant.
Caudal S(+)-ketamine 1 mg x kg(-1) and S(+)-ketamine 0.5 mg x kg(-1) plus clonidine 1 microg x kg(-1) are safe and provide effective postoperative analgesia in children without adverse effects.
To evaluate prospectively the cardiotoxic effects of epirubicin-containing adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients.
Patients (median age, 46 years; range, 28 to 55 years) were treated with five cycles of fluorouracil, epirubicin (90 mg/m2), and cyclophosphamide (FEC) (group I, n = 21) or with four cycles of FEC followed by high-dose chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, and carboplatin (group II, n = 19). Locoregional radiotherapy was applied subsequently. Cardiac evaluation was performed before chemotherapy (T0), 1 month after chemotherapy, 1 month after radiotherapy (T2), and 1 year after start of chemotherapy (T3). Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was determined by radionuclide ventriculography and diastolic function by echocardiography. Autonomic function was assessed by 24-hour ECG registration for heart rate variability (HRV) analysis. Time-corrected QT (QTc) was assessed and N-terminal atrial natriuretic peptide (NT-ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) were measured as biochemical markers of cardiac dysfunction.
No patient developed overt congestive heart failure (CHF) and the mean LVEF declined from 0.61 at T0 to 0.54 at T3 (P =.001), resulting in an LVEF below 0.50 (range, 0.42 to 0.49) in 17% of the patients, whereas 28% had a decline of more than 0.10. Plasma NT-ANP levels increased gradually from 237 pmol/L at T0 to 347 pmol/L at T3 (P <.01), whereas plasma BNP levels increased from 2.9 pmol/L to 5.1 pmol/L (P =.04). Mean QTc increased from 406 msec at T0 to 423 msec at T3 (P <.01). No persistent alterations were found in diastolic function and HRV.
Relatively low doses of epirubicin in adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer results in mild subclinical myocardial damage demonstrated by a decline in LVEF, an increase in natriuretic peptide levels, and an increase in QTc, which may indicate a long-term risk of CHF.
Aristolochic acid (AA) is a strong cytotoxic nephrotoxin and carcinogen associated with the development of urothelial cancer in humans. AA induces forestomach, kidney and urothelial tract tumours in rats and mice. This study was conducted to characterise AA's carcinogenic mechanism of action and compare allele-specific competitive blocker-polymerase chain reaction (ACB-PCR)-based early detection of carcinogenic effect using two different tumour-relevant endpoints. H-Ras codon 61 CAA→CTA mutation was analysed because it is found in rodent forestomach tumours and A:T→T:A transversion is the predominant mutational specificity induced by AA. K-Ras codon 12 GGT→GAT mutation was analysed because it is a common spontaneous mutation present in various rodent tissues and may be a useful generic biomarker for carcinogenic effect. DNA samples from Big Blue rats treated with 0, 0.1, 1.0 or 10.0 mg AA/kg body weight (bw) by gavage, 5 days/week for 12 weeks were used in ACB-PCR in order to examine the induction of the two specific mutations. A significant dose-dependent induction of H-Ras mutant fraction (MF) was observed in liver and kidney. Statistically significant correlations were observed between AA-induced DNA adduct levels or cII mutant frequencies (previously measured in the same rats) and H-Ras MF measurements. No correlation between AA dose and K-Ras MF was found in liver or kidney, although there was a significant induction of K-Ras mutation in kidneys exposed to 0.1 mg/kg bw AA relative to controls. Thus, the data establish a straightforward dose-related increase in H-Ras MF due to fixation of AA-induced DNA adducts, whereas the common spontaneous K-Ras mutation showed a non-monotonic dose-response, consistent with loss of non-targeted mutation at cytotoxic doses.
Rats receiving a single dose of adriamycin (7.5 mg/kg) develop heavy proteinuria and histologic lesions similar to those found in minimal change nephrotic syndrome in humans. We found that whole isolated glomeruli from rats injected with adriamycin secreted an IL-1-like cytokine which closely resembled macrophage IL-1. Maximal IL-1-like activity was detected on day 14 of the experiment when rats were heavily proteinuric. Administration of anti-IL-1 antiserum to rats with adriamycin-induced nephrosis provoked a transient but marked reduction in the urinary protein excretion. Our results indicate that IL-1-could be an important mediator implicated in the development of proteinuria in this experimental nephropathy.
The case history of two patients with atrial fibrillation are presented. In order to prevent/terminate fibrillation propafenone (Rytmonorm, 450-600 mg/day) was started, however this therapy resulted in permanent atrial flutter of 230-270/min mainly with 2:1 antrioventricular conduction. Analyzing the cases the authors emphasize that although Class Ic antiarrhythmic drugs (flecainide, encainide, propafenone) are capable to prevent or terminate atrial fibrillation, they may also induce atrial flutter in approximately 3.5-5% of these patients. The mechanism and recognition of this atrial proarrhythmic action are discussed.
The purpose of the study was to evaluate the efficiency of administration of high dose progesterone in combination with oestradiol during the luteal phase for the prevention of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in a high-risk population of patients undergoing in vitro fertilization. An observational study was carried out involving 21 women (mean age 28.6 years) undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation for in vitro fertilization. The women were identified as at risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome as they had suffered from the condition when hCG was used for luteal phase support in previous cycles. Steroidal suppression of the stimulated ovary on days 2, 6, 10 and 14 after embryo transfer was achieved by intramuscular injections of 500 mg hydroxyprogesterone caproate and 10 mg oestradiol valerate. The incidence of moderate and severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome under steroidal ovarian suppression, serum progesterone concentration and pregnancy rates were compared with those in cycles in which human chorionic gonadotrophin was used for luteal phase support. No cases of moderate or severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome occurred under steroidal ovarian suppression. Despite low progesterone concentrations (mean 10.7 nmol l(-1), range 2.6-24.5), indicating almost complete ovarian suppression, the pregnancy rate was not impaired. These preliminary results indicate that steroidal ovarian suppression during the luteal phase is a promising tool for reducing the incidence and severity of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in a high-risk population, without compromising the pregnancy rate.
1 An assessment of the current role of naloxone in clinical toxicology has been made in a series of three separate epidemiological studies. 2 Through the National Poisons Information Service we found that the role of naloxone in opioid poisoning is often not appreciated by the enquirer and that toxicological screening is often requested before the diagnostic use of naloxone. 3 The recommended dose of naloxone (0.4--1.2 mg i.v.) is not always adequate. In 51 cases where naloxone was effective, doses of up to 3.2 mg were necessary (mean 1.8 +/- 0.3 mg SEM i.v.). 4 In 31 cases of non-opioid poisoning, naloxone in doses of 0.4--1.2 mg i.v. caused no deterioration, whilst six patients in whom no opioids were detected showed clinical improvement. 5 In 300 cases of suspected ethanol-induced coma, 49 showed reversal of coma with naloxone, and in 38 cases ethanol was the sole cause of coma (mean plasma concentration 3.54 +/- 0.62 g/l SEM). 6 These results suggest that the role of naloxone in clinical toxicology is not fully appreciated. There is a need for further education as to its indications in opioid poisoning, together with additional studies to define more accurately the dose/response relationship. In addition, the role of naloxone in coma induced by ethanol and certain other non-opioids needs to be evaluated further.
In summary, we have showed that levels of COX-2 are increased in both TCC and RCC derived from urinary tract epithelium as well as gastrointestinal cancer. These results raised the possibility that selective inhibitors of COX-2 may be useful in the prevention or treatment of these diseases.
Two unipolar depressed patients developed manic symptoms when treated with trazodone. The symptoms resolved when the drug was discontinued. The authors believe these to be the first two cases of such a reaction reported in the literature.
