Gastrointestinal abnormalities in Parkinson's disease (PD) have been known for almost two centuries, but many aspects concerning their pathophysiology have not been completely clarified. The aim of this study was to characterize the oropharyngeal dynamics in PD patients with and without levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Fifteen dyskinetic, 12 nondyskinetic patients, and a control group were included. Patients were asked about dysphagia and evaluated with the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Parts II and III and the Hoehn and Yahr scale. Deglutition was assessed using modified barium swallow with videofluoroscopy. Nondyskinetic patients, but not the dyskinetic ones, showed less oropharyngeal swallowing efficiency (OPSE) for liquid food than controls (Dunnett, P = 0.02). Dyskinetic patients tended to have a greater OPSE than nondyskinetic (Dunnett, P = 0.06). Patients who were using a higher dose of levodopa had a greater OPSE and a trend toward a smaller oral transit time (Pearson's correlation, P = 0.01 and 0.08, respectively). Neither the report of dysphagia nor any of the PD severity parameters correlated to the videofluoroscopic variables. In the current study, dyskinetic patients performed better in swallowing function, which could be explained on the basis of a greater levodopa dose. Our results suggest a role for levodopa in the oral phase of deglutition and confirm that dysphagia is not a good predictor of deglutition alterations in PD.
Cysteinyl adducts of hemoglobin (Hb) and albumin (Alb) formed via reactions with reactive species were measured in 48 subjects exposed to styrene (0.24-55.2 ppm) and to styrene-7,8-oxide (SO) (2.65-107 ppb) in a factory producing boats in the USA. Hb and Alb adducts were also investigated among 88 workers exposed to benzene (0-138 ppm) in several Chinese factories. The particular adducts were S-(2-hydroxy-1-phenylethyl) cysteine, from reactions of SO with Alb (designated SO-Alb), and S-phenylcysteine, from reactions of the CYP450 benzene metabolite, benzene oxide (BO), with Hb and Alb (designated BO-Hb and BO-Alb, respectively). The relationships between adduct levels and exposures were investigated in both studies. The estimated slopes varied considerably among the particular combinations of adduct and agent to which the workers were exposed, ranging from 0.815 pmol BO-Hb/g Hb per ppm benzene to 24400 pmol SO-Alb/g Alb per ppm SO. We used these estimated slopes, along with kinetic constants, to predict the systemic doses of SO and BO in humans per mg of styrene, SO or benzene per kg body weight, under certain assumptions. Using RX to signify the particular electrophile (SO or BO) the doses of RX to the blood per unit of dose varied between 2.21 and 4110 nM RX-h/mg agent per kg b.w. The dose of RX to the blood arising from inhalation of SO was almost 2000 times that of styrene (i.e. 4110 vs. 2.21 nM RX/mg agent per kg b.w.) and 430-781 times that of benzene (i.e. 4110 vs. 5.26-9.55 nM RX/mg agent per kg b.w.), depending upon the study. Comparable estimates of the blood dose of BO were obtained from adducts of Hb and Alb and two independent studies of BO-Alb yielded similar dose estimates. These results point to the utility of protein adducts as dosimeters of reactive electrophilic species in occupational studies. Finally, significant levels of background adducts of SO and BO with Hb and Alb were observed among workers, among control subjects and in commercial human proteins. Levels of these background adducts were too great to have arisen from non-occupational exposures to styrene or benzene or from cigarette smoking.
Polyuria, polydipsia, and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus have been associated with use of psychotropic medications, especially lithium.
The impact of psychotropic medications on urinary concentrating ability and urinary aquaporin 2 (AQP2) excretion was investigated after overnight fluid deprivation, and over 6 h after 40 microg of desmopressin (dDAVP), in patients on lithium (n = 45), compared with those on alternate psychotropic medications (n = 42).
Those not on lithium demonstrated normal urinary concentrating ability (958 +/- 51 mOsm/kg) and increased urinary excretion of AQP2 (98 +/- 21 fmol/micromol creatinine) and cAMP (410 +/- 15 pmol/micromol creatinine). Participants taking lithium were divided into tertiles according to urinary concentrating ability: normal, >750 mOsm/kg; partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), 750 to 300 mOsm/kg; full NDI, <300 mOsm/kg. Urinary AQP2 concentrations were 70.9 +/- 13.6 fmol/micromol creatinine (normal), 76.5 +/- 10.4 fmol/micromol creatinine (partial NDI), and 27.3 fmol/micromol creatinine (full NDI). Impaired urinary concentrating ability and reduced urinary AQP2, cAMP excretion correlated with duration of lithium therapy. Other psychotropic agents did not impair urinary concentrating ability. Eleven patients on lithium were enrolled in a randomized placebo-controlled crossover trial investigating the actions of amiloride (10 mg daily for 6 wk) on dDAVP-stimulated urinary concentrating ability and AQP2 excretion. Amiloride increased maximal urinary osmolality and AQP2 excretion.
By inference, amiloride-induced reduction of lithium uptake in the principal cells of the collecting duct improves responsiveness to AVP-stimulated translocation of AQP2 to the apical membrane of the principal cells.
Aberrant crypt foci (ACF) are preneoplastic lesions for colon cancer. Altered amounts of copper-zinc (CuZnSOD) and manganese (MnSOD) superoxide dismutases have been implicated in multistage carcinogesis of both rodents and humans. Dietary factors are potential modulators of both CuZnSOD and MnSOD activity. The purpose of this study was to investigate the interactive effects of dietary copper, manganese, and iron on 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMABP)-induced ACF and superoxide dismutase activities in weanling rats fed low or adequate copper (0.8 or 5.1 microg Cu/g diet), low or adequate manganese (0.6 or 17 microg Mn/g diet), and adequate or high iron (37 or 140 microg Fe/g diet). Twelve rats were allowed free access to each of these eight diets for 3.5 wk prior to DMABP administration and for an additional 8 wk after the first DMABP injection. Rats fed low dietary copper had 105% (P < 0.0001) higher formation of DMABP-induced ACF than those fed adequate dietary copper. Rats ingesting low rather than adequate dietary manganese had 23% higher formation of ACF, and rats ingesting high rather than adequate dietary iron had 18% higher formation of ACF. Heart total superoxide dismutase activity was significantly correlated with the number of ACF (r = -0.43, P < 0.0001) in rats administered DMABP. These results suggest that dietary alterations that affect superoxide dismutase activity may affect cancer susceptibility.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced proteinuria in rats may be mediated by reactive oxygen metabolites (ROM), which are injurious to several cell components including membrane lipids. Increased malondialdehyde (MDA) production is indicative of lipid peroxidation. We examined if MDA content of glomeruli and its urinary excretion were increased in rats administered PAN. Of three groups of 8 Sprague-Dawley rats each, group 1 served a control, group 2 animals received a single intravenous injection of PAN (5 mg/100 g body weight) and group 3 animals PAN with intraperitoneal injections of dimethylthiourea (DMTU), a free radical scavenger of oxidants such as hydroxyl radicals, for 4 days. The rats were sacrificed on day 8 after PAN injection. Increasing proteinuria, starting on day 4, developed in animals in group 2 but not in the others. The glomerular MDA (nmol/mg protein) in group 2 animals was 2.93 +/- 1.91, significantly higher than 0.87 +/- 0.63 and 1.26 +/- 0.76 in groups 1 and 3, respectively. Urinary levels of MDA markedly increased in group 2 rats on day 3 and remained high thereafter, but no such increase occurred in the control animals and those administered PAN with DMTU; the latter was thus protective against PAN toxicity. Our observations support the view that ROM are involved in PAN-induced glomerular injury and that increased urinary MDA excretion can be a marker of ROM-mediated lipid peroxidation.
A 60 year old man with ulcerative colitis since 1975 and treated with sulphasalazine, presented with severe megaloblastic anaemia caused by folate deficiency. The drug was stopped, and the anaemia recovered promptly. There was no relapse one year later.
The role of alpha 1b-adrenergic receptor (alpha 1b-AR) in relation with neuronal degeneration, drug addiction, and seizure susceptibility has recently emerged. In particular, mice that overexpress alpha 1b-AR undergo spontaneous epileptic seizures and progressive neuronal loss in a variety of brain areas. Therefore, one should expect that the blockade of alpha 1b-AR leads to anticonvulsant and neuroprotective effects. However, the lack of alpha 1b-AR antagonists does not allow testing of this hypothesis.
The development of alpha 1b-AR knockout (KO) mice led us to measure seizure susceptibility and neurodegeneration following systemic excitotoxins in these mice.
We found that alpha 1b-AR KO mice are markedly resistant to kainate- and pilocarpine-induced seizures. Moreover, when marked seizure duration and severity are obtained by doubling the dose of chemoconvulsants in alpha 1b-AR KO, neuronal degeneration never occurs.
These data indicate that alpha 1b-AR per se plays a fundamental role in the mechanisms responsible for seizure onset, severity, and duration, whereas the brain damage observed in alpha 1b-AR-overexpressing mice is likely to be a secondary phenomenon. In fact, the absence of alpha 1b-AR confers resistance to neurotoxicity induced by seizures/chemoconvulsants. These data, although confirming a pivotal role of alpha 1b-AR in modulating seizure threshold and neuronal death, offer a novel target, which may be used to develop novel anticonvulsants and neuroprotective agents.
Morphological changes induced by clofibrate in type-1 predominant soleus, type-2 predominant tensor fasciae latae, and type-1 and -2 mixed biceps femoris muscles and diaphragm in rats were investigated. Administration of the agent at 500 or 750 mg/kg/day by oral gavage for 14 or 28 days caused lesions in the soleus muscle and diaphragm, bur no changes in the tensor fasciae latae and biceps femoris muscles. In soleus muscle, vacuolation of muscle fibers was observed in all animals treated with clofibrate, and degeneration of muscle fibers and infiltration of leukocytes were noted at 750 mg/kg/day. In diaphragm, vacuolation of muscle fibers was also observed in all animals treated with clofibrate, and these lesions were located in type-1 skeletal muscles densely stained with NADH-TR. The vacuoles seen in soleus muscle and diaphragm were positive for oil red O staining. In addition, increase of lipid droplets and mitochondrial hypertrophy was seen in soleus muscle, ultrastructurally. These data suggest that sensitivity to clofibrate-induced muscle toxicity differs among muscles, with type-1 fibers being susceptible.
Five patients out of 71 with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), who received D-penicillamine, developed myasthenia gravis (MG) within a two-year period. They all responded promptly to discontinuation of the drug and pyridostigmine administration. None of the patients had anti-Ro(SSA) antibodies or features of Sjögren's syndrome, whereas three of the five had the HLA-DR1 phenotype. The relatively high frequency of MG observed in our population, along with its unpredictability and potentially serious sequelae, necessitates its inclusion in the list of side effects of D-penicillamine routinely discussed with the patient, prior to initiation of the treatment. Full alertness of both the patient and the physician to even minor initial myasthenic symptoms, that dictate immediate discontinuation of the drug, is of obvious importance.
Although no ideal sedative exists, dexmedetomidine is unique because it produces sedation and analgesia without decreasing the respiratory drive. Hemodynamic responses to dexmedetomidine are variable and dependent on the patient population. Our initial experience was associated with an unacceptable incidence of hypotension and bradycardia. We evaluated occurrence of hypotension and bradycardia in critically ill surgical patients receiving dexmedetomidine before and after implementation of a dosing protocol.
This is a retrospective chart review of all admissions to a university medical center-based, 44-bed surgical intensive care unit pre and post protocol implementation.
Forty-four patients received dexmedetomidine including 19 historic controls and 25 dosed via protocol. Both groups had comparable demographics and initial and maximum dosages of dexmedetomidine. Use of the dosing protocol resulted in fewer dosage changes (mean +/- standard deviation, 4.8 +/- 3.8 compared to 7.8 +/- 3.9; P = .014) and fewer episodes of hypotension (16% vs 68.4%; P = .0006) but did not influence bradycardic episodes (20% vs 15.5%; P > .99).
We found that use of a protocol that increases the time interval between dosage adjustments may reduce dexmedetomidine-associated hypotension.
Familial adenomatous polyposis is an inherited colorectal cancer syndrome characterized by the presence of multiple adenomatous colorectal polyps. Molecular studies have revealed that germline mutations in the APC gene are the underlying cause of the disease. The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent sulindac has been shown to reduce the number of colorectal adenomas. Most sulindac trials in the large bowel have focused on the distal colon and relatively little is known about its effect on the proximal colon. Moreover, it is unknown whether the site of the APC mutation affects the efficacy of sulindac.
This study investigated whether there were regional differences in the effect of sulindac on the colon and whether response to sulindac was dependent on the site of mutation in the APC gene. In an open prospective study 17 patients with familial adenomatous polyposis were treated with 300 mg oral sulindac daily for four months followed by a washout phase of six months. Ten of the patients had an intact colon and seven had rectal stumps only. The number, size, and the degree of dysplasia of the adenomas were evaluated by colonoscopy at entry, end of treatment and end of the study.
Overall, a statistically significant decrease in the number of adenomas was observed (120 +/- 112 to 28 +/- 64, P = 0.007). After cessation of sulindac treatment the number of adenomas increased to 48 +/- 44.5, but remained significantly lower than the values observed at baseline. In the ten patients with intact colons, adenomas decreased by sevenfold in the proximal colon (103 +/- 73 to 15.1 +/- 47.4, P = 0.011) and twofold in the distal colon (80 +/- 52 to 29.6 +/- 37.2, P = 0.005). The size of adenomas and the grade of dysplasia also decreased. No correlation could be seen between the APC mutation site and the response to treatment.
These data indicate that sulindac reduces the number of adenomas in the entire colon and that the effect seems to be more pronounced in the proximal colon.
A severe, generalized myopathy developed in 2 children treated with labetalol. An 11-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy demonstrated proximal weakness and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels during labetalol therapy. Clinical improvement began immediately when labetalol administration was halted; muscle strength was normal within 2 months. Muscle biopsies were consistent with rhabdomyolysis.
Recent evidence suggests that amiloride, a potent and nonselective blocker of acid-sensing ion channels, suppresses generalized seizures induced by maximal electroshock and pentylenetrazole. Here I further determined and quantified the effects of amiloride on the occurrence of limbic seizures and status epilepticus-induced by intraperitoneal administration of pilocarpine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist. Pretreatment with various doses (5, 10, 30, 100, and 200 mg/kg) of amiloride significantly delayed the onset of the first episode of limbic seizures and the occurrence of status epilepticus following administration of pilocarpine (380 mg/kg). At the dose of 100 and 200 mg/kg, amiloride suppressed limbic seizures in 33% of pilocarpine-treated animals and significantly reduced the seizure severity score in 67% of the remaining animals. These findings suggest that amiloride may modulate seizure generation and propagation, probably via mechanisms involving acid-sensing ion channels in the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy.
To examine the safety and efficacy of modafinil (200 mg/day) compared to placebo in the treatment of methamphetamine dependence and to examine predictors of post-treatment outcome.
Eighty methamphetamine-dependent subjects in Sydney, Australia were allocated randomly to modafinil (200 mg/day) (n = 38) or placebo (n = 42) under double-blind conditions for 10 weeks with a further 12 weeks post-treatment follow-up.
Comprehensive drug use data (urine specimens and self-report) and other health and psychosocial data were collected weekly during treatment and research interviews at baseline, week 10 and week 22.
Treatment retention and medication adherence were equivalent between groups. There were no differences in methamphetamine abstinence, craving or severity of dependence. Medication-compliant subjects tended to provide more methamphetamine-negative urine samples over the 10-week treatment period (P = 0.07). Outcomes were better for methamphetamine-dependent subjects with no other substance dependence and those who accessed counselling. There were statistically significant reductions in systolic blood pressure (P = 0.03) and weight gain (P = 0.05) in modafinil-compliant subjects compared to placebo. There were no medication-related serious adverse events. Adverse events were generally mild and consistent with known pharmacological effects.
Modafinil demonstrated promise in reducing methamphetamine use in selected methamphetamine-dependent patients. The study findings support definitive trials of modafinil in larger multi-site trials.
This retrospective study describes the outcome in 53 patients who had immunosuppressive treatment changed from cyclosporine (CSP) to tacrolimus for resistant acute GVHD (n = 23), hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) (n = 13) or CSP-associated neurotoxicity (n = 17). Tacrolimus was administered at doses of 0.03 mg/kg/day intravenously or 0.12 mg/kg/day orally in divided doses, as tolerated. Median time of conversion to tacrolimus after transplant was day 47. Nineteen patients had treatment changed to tacrolimus for resistant acute GVHD grades III or IV, with the median day of conversion being day 49 after transplant. Two of 20 evaluable patients had a complete resolution of GVHD after changing treatment to tacrolimus, with 18 showing no improvement. Eleven evaluable patients had therapy changed to tacrolimus for CSP-associated neurotoxicity at a median of 36 days after transplant. Eight patients had resolution of neurotoxicity and three had partial improvement. Eleven evaluable patients had therapy changed to tacrolimus for HUS at a median of 46 days after transplant. One patient had complete resolution of HUS and 10 showed no response. Side-effects related to tacrolimus included renal toxicity (34%), neurotoxicity (15%) and HUS (9%). Nine (17%) patients remain alive, including six patients who had therapy changed to tacrolimus for CSP-associated neurotoxicity. While often successful for dealing with neurotoxicity, only a rare patient improved after therapy was changed from CSP to tacrolimus for HUS or resistant acute GVHD.
2-(2"-Dichloroacetamidobenzyl)-3-(3'-indolylquinoline), designated indolylquinoline derivative A, reduced the splenic and the liver parasite burdens by >93.0% in Leishmania donovani-infected hamsters, whereas sodium antimony gluconate (SAG) reduced the burdens approximately 80.0%. Complete clearance of parasitemia from the livers and spleens was noticed when infected animals received indolylquinoline derivative A plus SAG, suggesting that indolylquinoline derivative A has potential as a new agent for sole or conjunctive therapy for leishmaniasis.
A genomewide scan was conducted to detect quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for haloperidol-induced catalepsy in a C57BL/6J (B6) x DBA/2J (D2) F2 intercross (N = 678). Significant QTLs (LOD, > 4.3) were detected on chromosomes 1 and 9. The relative position of the QTL on chromosome 1 is similar to open-field activity QTLs previously identified by Flint et al. (1995) and Gershenfeld et al. (1997). Given the broad confidence intervals for these QTLs, such associations must be viewed cautiously. However, these data are consistent with the report of Kline et al. (1998), who found a significant genetic associations between catalepsy and open-field activity. The QTL interval on chromosome 9 stretched from approximately 25 to 55 cM; this region contains numerous candidate genes, including Drd2, Ncam, Acat1, and Htr1b. The data also suggest the presence of a second QTL on chromosome 9 (LOD, > 3.5) in the proximal region of the chromosome. Potential candidate genes in this region include Penk2 and Gria4. Overall, these data support our previous observation (Kanes et al., 1996) that for the B6 x D2 genotypes, one or more polymorphisms on chromosome 9 are associated with the variance in haloperidol response.
Twenty-one patients with acute myocardial infarction were treated 7.6 +/- 4.9 h after the onset of symptoms with intravenous nifedipine for 48-72 h. No other vasoactive medication was given. Three patients with hypertension did not respond to nifedipine and were excluded from the analysis. In the remaining 18 patients, arterial blood pressure decreased significantly, whereas the heart rate remained unchanged. The mean pulmonary artery and capillary pressure showed a slight but significant decrease. Cardiac index increased significantly. In nine patients, two-dimensional and M-mode echocardiography could be analyzed. The left ventricular ejection fraction increased significantly from 50 +/- 3% to 56 +/- 1%. There was a significant decrease in systemic peripheral resistance index, systolic wall stress, and the calculated myocardial oxygen consumption. These hemodynamic effects persisted throughout the study period. The therapy was well controllable, and there were no significant side effects. Nifedipine improves left ventricular function without an increase in myocardial oxygen demand. This effect is primarily due to afterload reduction.
We sought to assess the efficacy and safety of ibutilide cardioversion for those with atrial fibrillation (AF) or atrial flutter (AFL) receiving long-term treatmentwith class IC agents.
Attenuation of ibutilide-induced QT prolongation has been observed in a small number of patients pretreated with class IC agents. The clinical significance of the interaction between ibutilide and class IC agents is unknown.
Seventy-one patients with AF (n = 48) or AFL (n = 23), receiving propafenone 300 to 900 mg/day (n = 46) or flecainide 100 to 300 mg/day (n = 25), presented for ibutilide (2.0 mg) cardioversion.
The mean durations of arrhythmia episode and arrhythmia history were 25 +/- 48 days and 4.4 +/- 6.4 years, respectively. Sixty-five patients (91.5%) had normal left ventricular systolic function. Twenty-three of 48 patients (47.9%; 95% confidence interval, 33.3% to 62.8%) with AF and 17 of 23 patients (73.9%; 95% confidence interval, 51.6% to 89.8%) with AFL converted with mean conversion times of 25 +/- 14 min and 20 +/- 12 min, respectively. There was a small increase in corrected QT interval after ibutilide (from442 +/- 61 ms to 462 +/- 59 ms, p = 0.006). One patient developed non-sustained polymorphous ventricular tachycardia and responded to intravenous magnesium. Another developed sustained torsade de pointes and was treated effectively with direct-current shock and intravenous dopamine.
Our observations suggest that the use of ibutilide in patients receiving class IC agents is as successful in restoring sinus rhythm and has a similar incidence of adverse effects as the use of ibutilide alone.
In a prospective study, the intensity of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) was rated in two groups of delirious, medically ill patients. Fourteen patients received intravenous (IV) haloperidol and benzodiazepines for control of severe agitation and four received IV haloperidol alone. Patients were rated daily by a standardized scale for EPS by raters blind to the dose of haloperidol and benzodiazepines. Patients receiving haloperidol and benzodiazepines had significantly (p less than 0.001) less EPS than patients receiving IV haloperidol alone. In the haloperidol and benzodiazepine group there were only one case of very mild parkinsonian-like EPS and no cases of akathisia or dystonia. No adverse respiratory or cardiac reactions were seen in any patients. The literature on the use of IV haloperidol alone and in combination with benzodiazepines is briefly reviewed and possible explanations of the lower intensity of EPS with IV haloperidol in combination with benzodiazepines are discussed.
Galphimia glauca Cav. is a plant used in Mexican traditional medicine as a "nerve tranquilizer". Previous studies have demonstrated that the methanolic extract from this plant species possess an anxiolytic effect. Galphimine B (GB, a nor-seco-triterpene), is the active principle, with an innovative action mechanism. Against this background, a standardized herbal medicinal product was developed from the aqueous extract of G. glauca (GgHP). The present work compared the therapeutic effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of the new GgHP with lorazepam on patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). By means of a controlled, randomized, double-blind clinical trial, outpatients of either sex who matched the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria with a score of > or = 19 points on the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) were included. The experimental group was treated orally with GgHP in capsules twice a day for 4 weeks. The control group received lorazepam (1 mg) under the same conditions and presentation. A total of 152 patients were included in the trial (72 in the experimental group). From the first week of treatment, GgHP showed important anxiolytic effectiveness, very similar to that produced with lorazepam. Both treatments showed therapeutic safety (no alterations on biochemical analysis of hepatic and renal function). Nevertheless, concerning side effects, GgHP evidenced a considerably higher tolerability than lorazepam.
A prolonged succinylcholine-induced paralysis was observed in connection with a casearean section in an otherwise healthy, 25-year-old female. Her serum pseudocholinesterase was analysed and found to be pathologically low, displaying in addition an atypical dibucaine number. Ten individuals related to her were also studied as regards pseudocholinesterase in serum. She had two brothers, one displaying the same pattern as herself, while the other had a normal pattern. Both of the parents had ordinary dibucaine numbers, while the father had a slightly decreased pseudocholinesterase activity. Possible mechanisms underlying the disorder are discussed.
Twenty-four children with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma underwent high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) with bone marrow transplantation (BMT). HDC comprised in all cases busulfan (16 mg/kg or 600 mg/m2), with either cyclophosphamide (200 mg/kg or 4.4 g/m2) and/or melphalan (140 mg/m2). Twenty-three of these children had received second-line therapy before receiving HDC. There were 16 B cell and eight T cell lymphomas. Twenty-three patients were evaluable at day 30 post-BMT; 19 were in complete remission, four did not respond. Eight patients are long-term survivors between 62 and 296 weeks after BMT. Among the seven children with resistant disease before HDC, only one is a long-term survivor. No toxic deaths occurred. The main adverse side effect was hepatic veno-occlusive disease which occurred in four patients, but resolved completely in all cases. Comparisons with other classic HDC regimens in relapsed childhood lymphomas show that HDC containing busulfan with BMT appears reasonably safe and is effective in refractory or relapsed lymphomas, even in these highly previously treated patients.
In this study, the effects of scopolamine, an acetylcholine muscarinic receptor antagonist, and physostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, on the learning ability and memory of zebrafish were evaluated using a passive avoidance response test. The zebrafish were trained to stay in a dark compartment to avoid a weight dropping into an acryl shuttle chamber with a central sliding door. The crossing time was increased significantly, from 30.7+/-40.8s to 179.3+/-27.3s in the training session and 179.9+/-28.0s in the test session carried out 2h later in the controls. When treatment with 200 microM scopolamine was administered for 1h prior to the training session, the crossing time did not increase. The scopolamine-induced learning deficit was ameliorated by pretreatment with 20 microM physostigmine for 1h prior to scopolamine treatment; the crossing time was similarly increased, as shown with the controls (60.9+/-11.5s, 130.9+/-27.5s, and 183.4+/-26.6s in the training session and 108.1+/-23.9s in the test session). When scopolamine treatment was administered after the training session, the crossing time in the test session was reduced significantly as compared to that noted in the third trial of the training session, which was also ameliorated by physostigmine pretreatment. These results show that scopolamine impairs both the acquisition of passive avoidance response and retention of the learned response, and that physostigmine rescues the amnesic effects of scopolamine in zebrafish.
