I have reported a case of acute memory loss and nominal aphasia in a 36-year-old woman after the use of Dexatrim Extra Strength. The toxic reaction improved within 36 hours after discontinuation of the drug.
Fibrates such as bezafibrate, gemfibrozil, clofibric acid, ciprofibrate and fenofibrate, are ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha), and are used as therapeutic agents in the treatment of hyperlipidemia. Synthesis and accumulation of sorbitol in cells due to aldose reductase (AR) activity is implicated in secondary diabetic complications. In pursuit of finding a lead compound identification to design an effective AR inhibitor employing fragment-based design-like approach, we found that this class of compounds and their nearest neighbors could inhibit AR. Bezafibrate and gemfibrozil displayed a mixed non-competitive inhibition pattern in the glyceraldehyde reduction activity and pure non-competitive inhibition pattern in the benzyl alcohol oxidation activity of AR. Clofibric acid, ciprofibrate and fenofibrate showed pure non-competitive inhibition patterns in the forward reaction. In the reverse reaction, clofibric acid displayed a non-competitive inhibition pattern while ciprofibrate and fenofibrate displayed competitive inhibition patterns. This finding reveals for the first time a novel attribute of the fibrates in the regulation of AR activity and may be useful as lead compounds to control the function of AR in the progression and treatment of secondary diabetic complications in addition to other clinical conditions. Alternatively, these findings demonstrate that AR plays a significant role in the fibrate metabolism under various scenarios.
We developed an objective and automatic procedure to assess the severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in patients with Parkinson's disease during daily life activities. Thirteen patients were continuously monitored in a home-like situation for a period of approximately 2.5 hours. During this time period, the patients performed approximately 35 functional daily life activities. Behavior of the patients was measured using triaxial accelerometers, which were placed at six different positions on the body. A neural network was trained to assess the severity of LID using various variables of the accelerometer signals. Neural network scores were compared with the assessment by physicians, who evaluated the continuously videotaped behavior of the patients off-line. The neural network correctly classified dyskinesia or the absence of dyskinesia in 15-minute intervals in 93.7, 99.7, and 97.0% for the arm, trunk, and leg, respectively. In the few cases of misclassification, the rating by the neural network was in the class next to that indicated by the physicians using the AIMS score (scale 0-4). Analysis of the neural networks revealed several new variables, which are relevant for assessing the severity of LID. The results indicate that the neural network can accurately assess the severity of LID and could distinguish LID from voluntary movements in daily life situations.
A double-blind control study was designed to determine the efficacy and safety of indomethacin treatment of patients with symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus. Infants with severe respiratory distress syndrome and symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus were eligible for the prospective study if the ratio of left atrial/aortic root diameter remained greater than or equal to 1.3:1 following a 24-hour period of medical management. Thirty-nine eligible infants were randomly assigned to the control or indomethacin group and given 0.2 mg/kg of enteral indomethacin or placebo in a double-blind manner. Second and third doses were administered at 24-hour intervals in phase 1 (17 patients), and at eight-hour intervals in phase 2 (22 patients). The 75% patent ductus arteriosus closure rate with indomethacin treatment in phase 1 was not statistically significant due to a 44% spontaneous closure rate in the control group. In phase 2, however, 85% of the indomethacin group demonstrated patent ductus arteriosus closure vs only 11% in the matched control group (P less than .01). Although no indomethacin side effects occurred in phase 1, in phase 2 indomethacin administration was associated with minimal, but statistically significant, transient impaired renal function and, in three infants (23%), mild upper gastrointestinal bleeding. In summary, enteral administration of three 0.2 mg/kg indomethacin doses at eight-hour intervals thus appears to be a safe and effective alternative to surgical closure.
Little is known about the respiratory effects of short-term exposures to petroleum refinery emissions in young children. This study is an extension of an ecologic study that found an increased rate of hospitalizations for respiratory conditions among children living near petroleum refineries in Montreal (Canada).
We used a time-stratified case-crossover design to assess the risk of asthma episodes in relation to short-term variations in sulfur dioxide levels among children 2-4 years of age living within 0.5-7.5 km of the refinery stacks. Health data used to measure asthma episodes included emergency department (ED) visits and hospital admissions from 1996 to 2004. We estimated daily levels of SO2 at the residence of children using a) two fixed-site SO2 monitors located near the refineries and b) the AERMOD (American Meteorological Society/Environmental Protection Agency Regulatory Model) atmospheric dispersion model. We used conditional logistic regression to estimate odds ratios associated with an increase in the interquartile range of daily SO2 mean and peak exposures (31.2 ppb for AERMOD peaks). We adjusted for temperature, relative humidity, and regional/urban background air pollutant levels.
The risks of asthma ED visits and hospitalizations were more pronounced for same-day (lag 0) SO2 peak levels than for mean levels on the same day, or for other lags: the adjusted odds ratios estimated for same-day SO2 peak levels from AERMOD were 1.10 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.00-1.22] and 1.42 (95% CI, 1.10-1.82), over the interquartile range, for ED visits and hospital admissions, respectively.
Short-term episodes of increased SO2 exposures from refinery stack emissions were associated with a higher number of asthma episodes in nearby children.
Few data are available about myopathy and polyneuropathy as rare side effects of chloroquine treatment. Even more rarely are cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) abnormalities in chloroquine polyneuropathy/myopathy.
The patient is an 81-year-old woman with a 30-year history of chronic polyarthritis. As a basic therapy, she received chloroquine (250 mg per day) since 1997. Already, 1 year later she developed slowly progressive gait disturbance, which led to recurrent falls, and forced her to use crutches and other orthotic devices. Since March 2001, she was no longer able to climb stairs. Since then she also developed sensory disturbances in both lower limbs. Clinical neurological investigation revealed weakness and wasting of all four limbs and reduced tendon reflexes and stocking-type sensory disturbances. Nerve conduction studies were indicative of an axonal polyneuropathy. Electromyography was non-specifically abnormal. Muscle biopsy of the gastrocnemius muscle disclosed neuropathic and myopathic features and frequent fibers with partially rimmed vacuoles, containing concentrically or parallelly sliced inclusions. CSF investigations disclosed increased protein but otherwise normal findings. Five months after discontinuation of chloroquine and replacement by leflunomid, there was marked clinical improvement.
Chloroquine polyneuropathy/myopathy may go along with increased CSF protein. Discontinuation of the causative agent results in prompt recovery of the described abnormalities.
Air pollution is associated with respiratory symptoms, lung function decrements, and hospitalizations. However, there is little information about the influence of air pollution on lung injury.
In this study we investigated acute effects of air pollution on pulmonary function and airway oxidative stress and inflammation in asthmatic children.
We studied 182 children with asthma, 9-14 years of age, for 4 weeks. Daily ambient concentrations of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, and particulate matter < or = 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM(2.5)) were monitored from two stations. Once a week we measured spirometry and fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), and determined thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and 8-isoprostane--two oxidative stress markers--and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in breath condensate. We tested associations using mixed-effects regression models, adjusting for confounding variables.
Interquartile-range increases in 3-day average SO2 (5.4 ppb), NO2 (6.8 ppb), and PM(2.5) (5.4 microg/m3) were associated with decreases in forced expiratory flow between 25% and 75% of forced vital capacity, with changes being -3.1% [95% confidence interval (CI), -5.8 to -0.3], -2.8% (95% CI, -4.8 to -0.8), and -3.0% (95% CI, -4.7 to -1.2), respectively. SO2, NO2, and PM(2.5) were associated with increases in TBARS, with changes being 36.2% (95% CI, 15.7 to 57.2), 21.8% (95% CI, 8.2 to 36.0), and 24.8% (95% CI, 10.8 to 39.4), respectively. Risk estimates appear to be larger in children not taking corticosteroids than in children taking corticosteroids. O3 (5.3 ppb) was not associated with health end points. FeNO, 8-isoprostane, and IL-6 were not associated with air pollutants.
Air pollution may increase airway oxidative stress and decrease small airway function of asthmatic children. Inhaled corticosteroids may reduce oxidative stress and improve airway function.
A 10-week-old female infant developed hypertension. The elevated blood pressure was associated with metabolic alkalosis and urinary chloride wastage. The family history was unremarkable. Her urinalysis, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and serum creatinine concentrations were all normal. A renal ultrasound was normal. A technetium-99m diethylenetriaminopentoacetic acid (DTPA) renal scan with captopril showed normal blood flow bilaterally. The head ultrasound and echocardiogram were normal. Blood epinephrine, norepinephrine, catecholamines, thyroxine, and steroid levels were also normal. Treatment with various combinations of labetalol, hydralazine, captopril, methyldopa, nifedipine, and spironolactone, all at high doses, failed to control the elevated blood pressure. Serum aldosterone level and peripheral plasma renin activity were low. The lack of therapeutic response to spironolactone, with a good response to amiloride and recurrence of hypertension and metabolic alkalosis after amiloride cessation that was subsequently treated with amiloride, established the diagnosis of Liddle syndrome. To our knowledge, this is the youngest patient with Liddle syndrome that has been reported in the literature.
Prevention of esophageal cancer may be possible through dietary modification or supplementation. In this study we have investigated the mutation preventive properties of ellagic acid, green tea, and diallyl sulfide (DAS) against the mutagenicity of the nitrosamine N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA) in the esophagus of the rat. In addition, the effect of the consumption of ethanol on the mutagenicity of NMBA was examined. NMBA is specific in inducing tumors in the rat esophagus and has been used in many studies investigating the mechanism and the prevention of this cancer. We found that the type of mutations induced by two 2-mg/kg subcutaneous injections of NMBA in the lacI gene of "Big Blue" rats is consistent with that found previously for nitrosamines in other systems and consists of G:C-->A:T transitions. We report that the addition of ellagic acid to the feed, replacing drinking water with green tea, and gavage with DAS significantly reduced the mutagenicity of NMBA. In contrast, the addition of 5% ethanol to the drinking water increased the mutagenicity of NMBA. This is consistent with findings that these compounds modulate NMBA-induced carcinogenesis in the rat.
Rhabdomyolysis is a life-threatening clinical and biochemical syndrome that results from injury to skeletal muscle. Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) have been associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Although rhabdomyolysis is a rare adverse event associated with this class of drugs, their prevalent use in the management of dyslipidemia makes it increasingly important for clinicians to understand the nature of this condition. Rhabdomyolysis can occur with all statins when used alone and particularly when combined with other drugs that are themselves myotoxic or that elevate the concentration of the statin. Statins are particularly susceptible to the latter effect because of their metabolism by the CYP450 system and their low oral bioavailability. In this report, we describe a case of rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure secondary to the interaction between danazol and simvastatin.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is a commonly used medication. Side effects are numerous and include drug hypersensitivity syndrome. The case of a 24-year-old woman with severe liver failure is presented. Erythema multiforme and thrombocytopenia developed after the acute onset of hepatotoxicity and after all medications had been stopped. Clinical resolution of all features occurred over weeks but laboratory abnormalities persisted up to eight months later. A causal link with sulfamethoxazole was supported by timing, liver biopsy and lymphocyte toxicity test. This case illustrates one presentation and the possible severity of the drug hypersensitivity syndrome associated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
A 61-year-old man developed clinical lupus syndrome with positive antinuclear antibody, positive lupus erythematosus (LE) cell preparation, and diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis following 26 months of procainamide therapy. He was treated sequentially with prednisone and azathioprine (2 weeks), decreasing doses of prednisone alone (21 months), and no immunosuppressive drugs (10 months). Coincidental with this treatment, the immunopathology of the glomerulonephritis improved dramatically, dramatically, renal function returned almost to normal, and both antinuclear antibody and LE cell preparation became negative. The course of this patient's renal disease contrasts sharply with diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis of idiopathic systemic lupus, and suggests that this rare complication of procainamide therapy may have a favorable course.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the possible mechanism of curcumin-mediated beneficial effects in memory deficits associated with experimental dementia. Dementia was induced in Swiss albino mice by administering streptozotocin (3 mg kg(-1)) intracerebroventricularly on first and third day. Morris water maze test was employed to assess learning and memory of the animals. Biochemical analysis of brain homogenate was performed to assess brain acetyl cholinesterase (AChE) activity and total oxidative stress. Streptozotocin (STZ) produced a significant decrease in water maze performance of mice indicative of impairment in spatial reference memory. Curcumin (20 mg/kg p.o. daily for 14 days) successfully attenuated STZ-induced memory deficits. Higher levels of brain AChE activity and oxidative stress were observed in STZ-treated animals, which were significantly attenuated by curcumin. Furthermore, the noted beneficial effect of curcumin on STZ-induced dementia was significantly abolished by pretreatment with PPAR-gamma receptor antagonist bisphenol-A-diglycidyl ether, i.e., BADGE (30 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)). It may be concluded that the beneficial effects of curcumin are mediated through the activation of PPAR-gamma receptors.
Macrophage-related oxidative stress plays an important role in the inflammatory process in atherosclerosis. Recently, dextromethorphan (DXM), a common cough-suppressing ingredient with a high safety profile, was found to inhibit the activation of microglia, the resident macrophage in the nervous system. We investigated whether DXM could reduce macrophage production of cytokines and superoxide and the resultant influence on atherosclerosis formation in mice.
We used in vitro and in vivo studies to evaluate the DXM inhibitory effect on oxidative stress. Dextromethorphan pretreatment significantly suppressed the production of tumour necrosis factor-alpha, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, interleukin-6, interleukin-10, and superoxide in macrophage cell culture after stimulation. Indeed, DXM reduced macrophage nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase activity by decreasing membrane translocation of p47(phox) and p67(phox) through the inhibition of protein kinase C and extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation. The anti-atherosclerosis effect of DXM was tested using two animal models, apolipoprotein E (apoE)-deficient mice and a mouse carotid ligation model. Dextromethorphan treatment (10-40 mg/kg/day) for 10 weeks in apoE-deficient mice significantly reduced superoxide production in their polymorphonuclear leukocytes and aortas. It significantly decreased the severity of aortic atherosclerosis in the apoE-deficient mice and decreased carotid neointima formation after ligation in C57BL/6 mice.
Our data show that DXM, with its novel effect in reducing oxidative stress, significantly reduces atherosclerosis and neointima formation in mice.
The modulation of intracellular nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) signaling pathway involved in the deregulated expression of cell proliferation and cell cycle regulatory molecules is a pragmatic approach for chemoprevention. Eugenol (4-allyl-1-hydroxy-2-methoxybenzene), a natural phenolic constituent of oils of cloves is known to possess attractive remedial features. In the present study, we investigated the modulatory effects of eugenol on NF-κB signaling in a rat model of gastric carcinogenesis induced by N-methyl-N(')-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) by analysing the expression of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) family members ((NF-κB (p50 and p65), inhibitor of kappaB alpha (IκBα), phosphorylated IκBα (p-IκBα), IκB kinase β (IKKβ)) and the NF-κB target genes that promote (e.g., cyclin D1, cyclin B and PCNA) or inhibit (e.g., p53, p21, and Gadd45) cell proliferation and cell survival. MNNG-induced gastric tumours were characterized by NF-κB activation that correlated with upregulation of IKKβ, and phosphorylation and degradation of IκBα. Furthermore, upregulation of cyclins and PCNA with downregulation of p21, p53, and Gadd45 suggested that the proliferative advantage in gastric carcinomas is dependent on elevated constitutive NF-κB activity. Administration of eugenol significantly reduced the incidence of MNNG-induced gastric tumours by suppressing NF-κB activation and modulating the expression of NF-κB target genes that regulate cell proliferation and cell survival. The targeting of NF-κB signaling pathway by eugenol may have a significant impact on chemopreventive and therapeutic approaches for cancer.
This study examined the effects of beta-adrenergic and muscarinic blockade on spatial learning and strategy use in the water maze. Male Long-Evans rats received systemic injections of propranolol (PRO; 10 or 20 mg/kg) or scopolamine (SCO; 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg) either singly or in combination. To separate strategies learning from spatial learning approximately half of the rats underwent water maze strategies pretraining prior to drug administration and spatial training. PRO did not impair performance in any group. SCO impaired naive but not pretrained rats. PRO and SCO given together in high doses impaired all aspects of behavior in both naive and pretrained rats, and caused sensorimotor disturbances in some groups. PRO (10 mg/kg) and SCO (0.3 mg/kg) together caused a specific spatial reversal learning impairment in pretrained rats without causing strategies impairments or sensorimotor disturbances. Nadolol administered with SCO failed to produce the same impairments as PRO, suggesting that PRO produced its effects by acting on central nervous system sites. These results point to a greater than additive impairing effect of PRO and SCO on adaptive behavior, and a specific role for beta-adrenergic and cholinergic systems working in conjunction in spatial learning. They also suggest that some of the behavioral and cognitive impairments seen in Alzheimer patients or patients receiving pharmacotherapy with beta-adrenergic antagonists in which cholinergic activity is also compromised may result from the combined impairment of beta-adrenergic and cholinergic systems.
The standard rodent model of itch uses scratching with the hind limb as a behavioral response to pruritic stimuli applied to the nape of the neck. The assumption is that scratching is an indicator of the sensation of itch. But because only one type of site-directed behavior is available, one cannot be certain that scratching is not a response to nociceptive or other qualities of sensations in addition to, or instead of, itch. To extend the model, we administered chemical stimuli to the cheek of the mouse and counted scratching with the hind limb as an indicator of itch and wiping with the forelimb as an indicator of pain. An intradermal injection of histamine and capsaicin, known to evoke predominantly itch and pain, respectively, in humans, each elicited hind limb scratching behavior when injected into the nape of the neck of the mouse. In contrast, when the same chemicals were injected into the cheek of the mouse, there were two site-directed behaviors: histamine again elicited scratching with the hind limb, but capsaicin evoked wiping with the forelimb. We conclude that the "cheek model of itch" in the mouse provides a behavioral differentiation of chemicals that elicit predominantly itch in humans from those that evoke nociceptive sensations. That is, the model provides a behavioral differentiation between itch and pain in the mouse.
The inhibition of gap-junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) between initiated and surrounding normal cells by tumor promoters is believed to be important in the promotion stage of carcinogenesis. Therefore, we examined the effect of skin-tumor promoters on the expression of the gap-junctional proteins connexin (Cx) 26, Cx43, and Cx31.1 in SENCAR mouse skin. Animals were treated with 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) (8.3 nmol), okadaic acid (OA) (2.5 nmol), chrysarobin (220 nmol), or benzoyl peroxide (BzPo) (83 micromol). Northern blot and immunofluorescence analyses revealed that keratinocytes in adult mouse skin expressed Cx31.1 and Cx43 but not Cx26. All four of the skin-tumor promoters switched on the Cx26 gene, transiently increased expression of Cx43, and significantly inhibited the expression of Cx31.1. The time courses for changes in Cx26, Cx3l. 1, and Cx43 mRNA levels coincided in most cases and in general corresponded well to the time-response curves for hyperplastic changes in mouse skin. The peaks of Cx26 and Cx43 expression and Cx31.1 inhibition appeared 12 h after TPA application and 24 h after OA and chrysarobin application. BzPo elevated the levels of Cx26 and Cx43 transcripts later (peak at 2-4 d). In tumor promoter-treated skin, Cx26 and Cx43 plaques were on the plasma membrane of most keratinocytes. Cx31.1 staining was much weaker than in untreated epidermis. Thus, tumor promoters induce a large change in the expression of several Cxs, which in turn may affect both the level of GJIC and the sensitivity of GJlC to regulatory factors.
Earlier studies have demonstrated that an excitatory cardiovascular response can be produced through activation of a spinal cholinergic system in rats. The present study was performed to determine whether this excitatory cardiovascular response was elicited through cholinergic potentiation of a descending spinal sympathoexcitatory pathway. Application of the cholinesterase inhibitor, neostigmine, directly to the surface of the spinal cord elicited increases in heart rate selectively when neostigmine was applied to upper thoracic segments (Th1-Th4), whereas all thoracic segments participated in the generation of the associated hypertensive response. The injection of a direct cholinergic agonist, carbachol, into an upper thoracic segment (Th2) produced tachycardic and pressor responses but only pressor responses when injected into a lower segment (Th11). Tachycardic responses occurred after injection of carbachol into the intermediolateral nucleus, a site between the intermediolateral nucleus and the central canal, the right lower dorsal horn and the ventral horn. At the Th11 level, carbachol increased blood pressure only when injected into sites between the intermediolateral nucleus and central canal. The pressor response, induced by electrical stimulation of the descending spinal sympathetic tract, was markedly potentiated at all stimulus strengths after intrathecal (i.t.) injection of neostigmine and this potentiation was antagonized by atropine. The accompanying tachycardic response to electrical stimulation was not affected when low stimulus strengths were employed but means increases in the heart rate, obtained in response to larger stimulus intensities, were eliminated after administration of neostigmine. These results are consistent with the presence of an intrinsic spinal cholinergic sympathoexcitatory pathway, possibly relegated to interneurons, which elicits cardiovascular responses, at least in part through potentation of descending sympathetic influences.
This study investigated the influence of the cholinergic system on neuro-inflammation using nicotinic and muscarinic receptor agonists and antagonists. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 50 microg) was used to induce neuro-inflammation in rats and estimations of pro-inflammatory cytokines, alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) mRNA expression were done in striatum, cerebral cortex, hippocampus and hypothalamus at 24 h after LPS injection. Nicotine (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) or oxotremorine (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) were administered 2 h prior to sacrifice. We found that only nicotine was able to block the proinflammatory cytokines induced by LPS whereas, oxotremorine was found ineffective. Methyllycaconitine (MLA; 1.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.), an alpha7 nAChR antagonist or dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE; 1.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.), an alpha4beta2 nAChR antagonist, was given 20 min prior to nicotine in LPS-treated rats. Methyllycaconitine antagonized the anti-inflammatory effect of nicotine whereas DHbetaE showed no effect demonstrating that alpha7 nAChR is responsible for attenuation of LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines. This study suggests that the inhibitory role of the central cholinergic system on neuro-inflammation is mediated via alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and muscarinic receptors are not involved.
The effects of pimozide, a dopamine-receptor blocker and oxytocin, a neurohypophyseal neuropeptide were investigated in mice on the cocaine-induced exploratory hyperactivity. The action of oxytocin on changes of dopaminergic neurotransmission induced by cocaine was also measured. Cocaine-induced exploratory hyperactivity could be blocked by pimozide (1 mg kg-1, s.c.). Oxytocin (0.05-1.0 micrograms) inhibited the cocaine-induced hyperactivity in an U-shaped dose-response manner. In the nucleus accumbens, oxytocin antagonized the increased dopamine disappearance, elicited by cocaine, but not in the nucleus caudatus. The data suggest that oxytocin may influence the behavioural effect of cocaine by modulating dopaminergic neurotransmission in mesolimbic dopaminergic terminal region of the brain.
In a recently completed US case-control study (Children's Oncology Group, 1993-2001) with 253 cases and 394 controls, the authors investigated the association between parental occupational exposure to pesticides and risk of childhood germ-cell tumors. Information on occupational pesticide exposure was collected using job-specific module questionnaires and assessed by an experienced industrial hygienist. Odds ratios for childhood germ-cell tumors associated with maternal exposures before pregnancy, during pregnancy, and after the birth of the index child were 1.0 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.8, 1.4), 1.1 (95% CI: 0.7, 1.6), and 1.3 (95% CI: 0.9, 1.8), respectively. Paternal exposures before pregnancy, during pregnancy, and after the birth of the index child were not related to germ-cell tumors (odds ratios (ORs) were 0.9 (95% CI: 0.7, 1.2), 0.8 (95% CI: 0.5, 1.2), and 0.8 (95% CI: 0.5, 1.3), respectively). When both parents had ever been occupationally exposed to pesticides before the index pregnancy, the odds ratio was 0.8 (95% CI: 0.4, 1.3). Subgroup analyses showed a positive association between maternal exposure to herbicides during the postnatal period and risk of germ-cell tumors in girls (OR = 2.3, 95% CI: 1.0, 5.2) and an inverse association between paternal exposure to pesticides during the index pregnancy and germ-cell tumors in boys (OR = 0.2, 95% CI: 0.1, 1.0). This study did not provide strong evidence supporting a relation between parental pesticide exposure in the workplace and risk of germ-cell tumors among offspring.
Neurologic toxicity is an infrequently reported and under-recognized consequence of amiodarone, symptoms of which may include tremor, peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, proximal weakness, and ataxia. The investigators report the rapid and complete remission of 4 months of progressively debilitating ataxia with the discontinuation of small-dose amiodarone in an elderly woman with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Despite the long half-life of amiodarone, her symptoms began to reduce after several days, and she was walking without assistance within 1 week. Wider recognition of this syndrome may avoid unnecessary and lengthy diagnostic evaluation and promote earlier neurologic recovery.
The analgesic properties of the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist dextromethorphan, available for clinical use as an antitussive, have been studied in the human capsaicin pain model to determine a possible clinical effect on pain due to central sensitization. Ninety milligrams dextromethorphan or vehicle was given orally to ten volunteers, each at two different occasions in a double-blind fashion, prior to an intradermal injection of 300 micrograms capsaicin. Ongoing pain, pain evoked by von Frey filament stimulation, and pressure pain thresholds were assessed before and after the capsaicin injection. The area in which von Frey filament stimulation evoked pain was mapped after the capsaicin injection. There were no significant group effects on ongoing pain, or on von Frey or pressure hypersensitivity. There was also no significant effect on the area of mechanical hypersensitivity. These results show that clinical doses of dextromethorphan do not effect ongoing or mechanically evoked pain after capsaicin injection.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that ceruloplasmin (CP) dysmetabolism is correlated with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the causes of decreased serum CP levels in PD patients remain to be clarified. This study aimed to explore the potential association between genetic variants of the CP gene and PD. Clinical features, serum CP levels, and the CP gene (both promoter and coding regions) were analyzed in 60 PD patients and 50 controls. A luciferase reporter system was used to investigate the function of promoter single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). High-density comparative genomic hybridization microarrays were also used to detect large-scale copy-number variations in CP and an additional 47 genes involved in PD and/or copper/iron metabolism. The frequencies of eight SNPs (one intronic SNP and seven promoter SNPs of the CP gene) and their haplotypes were significantly different between PD patients, especially those with lowered serum CP levels, and controls. However, the luciferase reporter system revealed no significant effect of the risk haplotype on promoter activity of the CP gene. Neither these SNPs nor their haplotypes were correlated with the Hoehn and Yahr staging of PD. The results of this study suggest that common genetic variants of CP are associated with PD and further investigation is needed to explore their functions in PD.
Microsatellite instability (MI) and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) were examined in mammary tumors induced in Sprague-Dawley x F344 F1 female rats by 2-amino-l-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP). Examination of 62 microsatellite loci revealed MI in nine of 15 (60%) PhIP-induced mammary tumors, and five of these MI-positive tumors had mutations in more than one microsatellite locus. In contrast, two of 12 (17%) 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary tumors were MI positive but had mutations at only one locus each. Further, by using 37 polymorphic markers specific LOH was observed in four of 15 PhIP induced mammary tumors on distal parts of rat chromosome 10, which is homologous to human chromosome 17q with no background level of LOH. Similarly, DMBA-induced mammary tumors showed specific LOH on the same region of chromosome 10. These data suggest that mismatch-repair deficiency and loss of chromosome 10 are involved in carcinogenesis of PhIP-induced rat mammary tumors.
To investigate the effects of injecting Shenfu, an extract of traditional Chinese herbal medicines, on the central nervous system (CNS) and the cardiac toxicity of bupivacaine in rats.
Sixteen male Sprague-Dawley rats, weighing form 280 to 320 g, were randomly assigned to two groups (n = 8 in each group). Animals in the control group received a saline injection 10 ml/kg while animals in the Shenfu group received an injection of Shenfu 10 ml/kg intraperitoneally 30 minutes before intravenous infusion of bupivacaine. Lead II of an electrocardiogram (EEG) was continuously monitored after 3 needles were inserted into the skin of both forelimbs and the left hind-leg of each rat. The femoral artery was cannulated for measurement of arterial blood pressure and blood sampling. The femoral vein was cannulated for the infusion of bupivacaine. After baseline measurement (arterial blood pressure, heart rate and arterial blood gas), 0.5% bupivacaine was infused intravenously at a rate of 2 mg.kg(-1).min(-1) to all animals until asystole occurred. The time of bupivacaine-induced convulsions, arrhythmia and asystole were determined. The dose of bupivacaine was then calculated at the corresponding time point.
The doses of bupivacaine that induced convulsions, arrhythmia and cardiac arrest were remarkably larger in Shenfu injection-treated animals than in saline-treated rats [convulsions, (10.5 +/- 1.9) mg/kg vs (7.2 +/- 1.5) mg/kg; arrhythmia (10.5 +/- 2.0) mg/kg vs (7.2 +/- 1.9) mg/kg; asystole, (32.8 +/- 8.5) mg/kg vs (25.0 +/- 5.0) mg/kg; P = 0.006, 0.009 and 0.044, respectively].
The Shenfu injection is able to reduce the toxicity of bupivacaine to CNS and cardiac system in rats.
