Angiogenesis, i.e. formation of new blood vessels out of pre-existing capillaries, is essential to the development of tumour vasculature. The discovery of specific antiangiogenic inhibitors has important therapeutic implications for the development of novel cancer treatments. Vasostatin, the N-terminal domain of calreticulin, is a potent endogenous inhibitor of angiogenesis and tumour growth. In our study, using B16(F10) murine melanoma model and electroporation we attempted intramuscular transfer of human vasostatin gene. The gene therapy was combined with antiangiogenic drug dosing schedule of a known chemotherapeutic (cyclophosphamide). The combination of vasostatin gene therapy and cyclophosphamide administration improved therapeutic effects in melanoma tumours. We observed both significant inhibition of tumour growth and extended survival of treated mice. To our knowledge, this is one of the first reports showing antitumour efficacy of electroporation-mediated vasostatin gene therapy combined with antiangiogenic chemotherapy.
Eight Australian cases of D-penicillamine induced polymyositis/dermatomyositis (PM/DM) are reported. In terms of clinical, pathological and electromyographic features, D-penicillamine PM/DM is similar to idiopathic PM/DM but is generally less severe. Recovery is usually rapid when D-penicillamine is withdrawn. Sera were available for study in 6 of the 8 reported cases. Two of the 6 had elevated titers of acetylcholine receptor autoantibodies. Neither of these patients had clinical signs of myasthenia gravis. In 3 of 6 patients typed for C2, no bands were detected suggesting homozygous C2 deficiency. D-penicillamine PM/DM is associated with HLA-B18, B35 and DR4 and is immunogenetically different from idiopathic PM/DM, rheumatoid arthritis and D-penicillamine myasthenia gravis.
Tumor cells are able to survive and proliferate in spite of their increased oxidative stress. This was taken as a hint for the implication of oxidants/antioxidants in the proliferation of glial-tumor cells. In the present study, an anti-proliferative effect of Naringenin, an antioxidant against cerebrally implanted C6 glioma cells in rats has been investigated. The status of lipid peroxidation/antioxidants, expressions of protein kinase C, nuclear factor κB, cyclin D1, cyclin dependent kinase 4, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, vascular endothelial growth factor, argyophillic nucleolar organizing regions and histopathology of brain tissues of control and experimental rats were analyzed. On supplementation of naringenin (50mg/kg BW for 30 days) to glioma induced rats, there was a reduction in lipid peroxidation with an increased antioxidant status. There was a significant decrease in the expressions of protein kinase C, nuclear factor κB, cyclin D1 and cyclin dependent kinase 4 on naringenin treatment. Further, the drug could modulate the glial-tumor cell proliferation as evidenced from the histopathological findings, argyophillic nucleolar organizing regions staining, proliferating cell nuclear antigen and vascular endothelial growth factor immunostaining. The findings suggest that naringenin could underlie the inhibition of glial tumor cell proliferation in C6 glioma models of rat.
New anesthetics have been introduced during the last 25 years which are not without inherent disadvantages. They are expensive, and some produce nephrotoxicity and possibly hepatotoxicity. Although the use of procaine intravenously as an anesthetic has been discarded, probably because of a convulsive effect, it is believed this disadvantage can be controlled by concomitant use of other drugs. Hence procaine, preceded by thiamylal, was administered to dogs to test its anesthetic capability, reversibility, and effects on the cardiovascular and central nervous systems. Blood levels of procaine were measured and correlated with these physiologic responses. Convulsive doses were ten times those producing anesthesia. There were no detrimental effects which would preclude a reevaluation in humans. Intravenous procaine produces definite general anesthesia, and it has the additional advantages of being rapidly hydrolyzed and providing antiarrhythmic effects. It may prove useful in modern anesthesia.
Cyclosporine (CsA) is a universally used immunosuppressive drug which induces adverse side effects in several organs, but its impact on the heart is still controversial. Small heat shock proteins (sHSPs), such as HSP25 and alpha B-crystallin, are cytoprotective stress proteins exceptionally represented in the heart. They act as myofibrillar chaperones that help actin and desmin to maintain their optimum configuration and stability, thereby antagonizing oxidative damage. The present study examined: (1) the cardiac distribution and abundance of HSP25 and alpha B-crystallin in rats receiving CsA at a therapeutic dosage (15 mg/kg/day) for 42 days and 63 days; (2) the presence of myofibrillar proteins, such as actin, alpha-actinin and desmin following the CsA treatments; (3) the subcellular effects of prolonged CsA exposure on the cardiomyocytes by histopathology and transmission electron microscopy. After 63 days CsA intake, sHSPs translocated from a regular sarcomeric pattern to peripheral sarcolemma and intercalated discs, together with actin and desmin. In contrast, the sarcomeric alpha-actinin pattern did not change in all experimental groups. The abundance of actin and HSP25 was unchanged in every time point of treatment while after 63 days CsA, alpha B-crystallin and desmin levels significantly decreased. Furthermore CsA induced fibrosis, irregular sarcomeric alignment and damaged desmosomes. These findings indicate that following prolonged CsA exposure, the cardiac muscle network was affected. In particular, the translocation of sHSPs to intercalated discs merits special consideration as a direct compensatory mechanism to limit CsA cardiotoxicity.
Antioxidants have been used as adjuvant with anticancer therapy to synergize the potential of the anti-neoplastic therapeutics. Based on the fact, we have studied the effect of three natural antioxidants curcumin, silymarin and acteoside on AP9-cd (standardized lignan composition from Cedrus deodara) induced cytotoxicity in human leukemia HL-60 cells. The antioxidant potential of individual test compounds was first evaluated with ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) test, which revealed that all four molecules behave as antioxidants. The apoptotic potential of AP9-cd was significantly enhanced in HL-60 cells in the presence of curcumin, silymarin and acteoside. It was confirmed by using various models like MTT assay, DNA fragmentation, nuclei condensation, sub-Go DNA population, Annexin-V-FITC binding, ROS depletion and immunoblotting in HL-60 cells. AP9-cd and individual antioxidants alone at low doses (10μg and 10μM, respectively) have meager or no cytotoxicity in HL-60 cells, whereas in mutual combinations, there were 2-3 times enhancement in Annexin-V-FITC and sub-Go DNA population. Moreover, prominent DNA ladders were observed at low doses of AP9-cd in combinations with various antioxidants. The Hoechst staining of the nucleus also revealed the same results for the HL-60 cells treated with AP9-cd and different antioxidants. The molecular diagnostics revealed that the combinations induced a strong antioxidant effect which was correlated with the downregulation of NF-κB expression in the nucleus. Out of the three antioxidants, curcumin was found to be more potent than acteoside and silymarin in terms of enhancing the apoptotic potential of AP9-cd. These results propose an important role of natural antioxidant as adjuvant to enhance the anticancer potential of AP9-cd and more likely other anti-neoplastic therapeutics.
The frequently seen side effect of hyperprolactinemia thought to be the 'price' paid for the antipsychotic treatment of schizophrenia. Various reports have linked the use of risperidone, an atypical antipsychotic drug, with the significant rise of prolactin levels. Thus, we set to assess possible difference between prolactin levels among schizophrenia subtypes in 45 male patients treated with stable doses (2-6 mg/day) of risperidone as antipsychotic monotherapy. All patients showed increased prolactin levels beyond the normal range, with a significant difference between the paranoid and all other groups (P<0.0001). Specifically, the paranoid patients' prolactin levels were higher than those of the schizoaffective and the disorganized ones. These results suggest that the blockade of higher dopamine activity in the paranoid schizophrenia corresponds to the prolactin increase, more than in the schizoaffective and disorganized subtypes. These findings are opposite of what was observed in the previous study of unmedicated patients.
The present study investigates whether exposure to acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) affects the permanent auditory loss, caused by simultaneous exposure to toluene. Rats were exposed to toluene by inhalation (1,000 ppm), or to ASA by gavage (100 mg kg-1), or to both toluene and ASA, during 10 days. Toluene exposure caused a loss of auditory sensitivity recorded as auditory brainstem response, and no loss was found after exposure to ASA alone. The group exposed to both ASA and toluene had a more severe sensitivity loss (p < 0.05) at all frequencies compared with all other groups immediately after (2-5 days) exposure and also 4 months later. The results indicate that ASA permanently potentiates toluene induced loss of auditory sensitivity.
We reported a case of large right atrial thrombus which migrated from the inferior vena cava after acute left ventricular dysfunction due to 5-Fluorouracil cardiotoxicity. The patient had recurrent episodes of chest pain and dyspnea suggestive of pulmonary thromboembolism and several days later control echocardiography showed that the right atrial thrombus had disappeared. The patient was discharged with oral anticoagulant therapy with no further clinical sequelae during an 11 month period but died because of progression of metastatic processes. We hypothesized that initial congestive heart failure had been a provocative factor for thromboembolic events from previous thrombus formation at the inferior vena cava.
Premedication with dexamethasone, ranitidine and clemastine is mandatory for patients receiving paclitaxel to avoid hypersensitivity reactions. The proposed dexamethasone dose is 20 mg orally 12 and 6 h prior to paclitaxel infusion. With this premedication severe hypersensitivity reactions are reduced to 1-2% of the treated patients. Besides this oral schedule a single dose of dexamethasone, 40 mg given i.v., just prior to paclitaxel has been shown to be equally effective. In an attempt to reduce steroid-induced side effects, especially for patients receiving weekly paclitaxel protocols, we reduced the dexamethasone dose.
A total of 132 patients were treated on an outpatient basis with paclitaxel-containing protocols. Paclitaxel was given in doses of 135-175 mg/m(2) once every 3 weeks in 76 patients and/or with 100 mg/m(2) weekly in 70 patients. Dexamethasone premedication was given in a single dose (40, 20, 10 mg) as an infusion directly before paclitaxel.
0/46 patients receiving 40 mg dexamethasone premedication in 235 cycles and 0/48 patients receiving 20 mg dexamethasone premedication in 186 cycles experienced a severe hypersensitivity reaction. 1/52 patients receiving 10 mg dexamethasone in 480 applications developed a severe hypersensitivity reaction with bronchospasm, hypotension and supraventricular tachycardia shortly after her first paclitaxel infusion started.
No increase of severe hypersensitivity reactions is seen when dexamethasone premedication is reduced to doses of 20 or even 10 mg prior to paclitaxel infusion.
Cigarette smoking is known to contribute to inflammatory diseases of the respiratory tract by promoting recruitment of inflammatory-immune cells such as neutrophils and perhaps by altering neutrophil functional properties. We investigated whether acrolein, a toxic unsaturated aldehyde found in cigarette smoke, could directly affect neutrophil function. Exposure of freshly isolated human neutrophils to acrolein markedly inhibited spontaneous neutrophil apoptosis as indicated by loss of membrane asymmetry and DNA fragmentation and induced increased neutrophil production of the chemokine interleukin-8 (IL-8). Acrolein (1--50 microM) was found to induce marked activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and inhibition of p38 MAPK activation by SB-203580 prevented acrolein-induced IL-8 release. However, inhibition of either ERK or p38 MAPK did not affect acrolein-dependent inhibition of apoptosis. Acrolein exposure prevented the activation of caspase-3, a crucial step in the execution of neutrophil apoptosis, presumably by direct inhibition of the enzyme. Our results indicate that acrolein may contribute to smoke-induced inflammatory processes in the lung by increasing neutrophil recruitment and reducing neutrophil clearance by apoptosis.
To investigate the effects of: I) short- (8 weeks), II) long-term (3 years) weight loss, and III) the degree of weight loss on circulating levels of adiponectin, high sensitive-C reactive protein (hs-CRP), and fibrinogen in obese subjects. Moreover, to evaluate the effect of the lipase inhibitor, orlistat, on these parameters.
Weight loss induced in 93 obese subjects (mean weight: 108.9+/-15.8 kg) through 8-week very-low-energy diet (VLED, 800 kcal/day) followed by randomization to orlistat or placebo together with lifestyle intervention for further 3 years. Adiponectin and hs-CRP were measured at baseline, after 8 weeks of VLED and 6, 12, and 36 months after the VLED by flowmetric xMAP technology (Luminex Multi-Analyte Profiling System, Luminex Corp., Austin, TX, USA). Fibrinogen was measured in a coagulation assay.
Weight loss after VLED treatment was 14.3+/-4.5 kg and after 3 years 7.7+/-8.7 kg. Orlistat-treated subjects regained 3.9 kg less than placebo-treated from the end of the VLED to 3 years (P=0.01). No differences were detected between the two groups regarding changes in adiponectin, hs-CRP, or fibrinogen. Accordingly, the groups were combined for further analyses. Serum adiponectin increased by 22% (P<0.05) after the VLED but returned to baseline after 3 years. Both short- and long-term weight losses needed to be in excess of 10% (approximately 12 kg) in order to increase adiponectin levels significantly. Weight loss was associated with a significant decrease in hs-CRP. Fibrinogen decreased by 12% (P<0.05) after 3 years.
In obese subjects, weight loss was associated with an increase in serum adiponectin and a decrease in hs-CRP and plasma fibrinogen. Long-term weight loss (3 years) must exceed 10% to induce a combined significant improvement in these inflammatory markers.
The renin-angiotensin system has been shown to have an effect on erythropoietin synthesis and hemoglobin concentration. We present a retrospective study of stable renal transplant recipients who received an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor as treatment of hypertension. Fifteen patients were eligible, with a mean hemoglobin concentration of 130.7 +/- 22.7 g/L (SD). Within 6 months of ACE-inhibitor therapy, the mean hemoglobin had fallen significantly to 110.5 +/- 23.2 g/L (p less than 0.001). No parallel change in leukocyte or platelet counts was evident. Prospective studies are needed to clarify the effect of inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system on erythropoietin synthesis and release.
Three anti-emetic treatment regimens were compared in 357 patients receiving cisplatin therapy (mean dose 81 mg/m2) in this double-blind randomized study. Regimens studied were i) granisetron 1 mg bd orally for 7 days (granisetron alone); ii) gran 1 mg bd orally for 7 days plus prophylactic dexamethasone (12 mg i.v.) on the first day only (gran/dex); iii) metoclopramide (3 mg/kg i.v. loading dose; 4 mg/kg i.v. infusion) plus dex (12 mg i.v.) on the first day followed by met 10 mg orally tds for a further 6 days (met/dex).
At 24 hours, gran/dex was significantly superior to met/dex in terms of total anti-emetic control, defined as no nausea, no vomiting, no rescue anti-emetic therapy, not withdrawn (54.7% gran/dex vs. 37.2% met/dex; P < 0.01). There was also a significant delay in time to onset of nausea (P < 0.01) and vomiting (P < 0.01) following gran/dex compared with met/dex. Oral granisetron alone was as effective as met/dex in control of acute emesis in all parameters examined. There were no significant differences between the three groups in the control of delayed nausea and vomiting. The most common adverse experiences in both granisetron groups were headache and constipation, both characteristic of 5-HT3 antagonists. Agitation, somnolence, diarrhoea and decreased appetite were reported more frequently by the met/dex group.
Oral granisetron as a single agent is as effective as high doses of i.v. met/dex in preventing cisplatin-induced emesis. Oral granisetron in combination with a corticosteroid provides superior anti-emetic control to the met/dex regimen in patients undergoing highly emetogenic chemotherapy.
In 75 children undergoing adenoidectomy, occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and influence of anaesthesia on respiration were studied during halothane and enflurane anaesthesia. All the children were intubated orally. In 25 children halothane, and in another 25 children enflurane was used during spontaneous ventilation. Twenty-five children were also followed during halothane anaesthesia with manually controlled ventilation. The overall incidence of cardiac arrhythmias was higher during halothane anaesthesia (72% at spontaneous breathing and 68% with controlled ventilation) than during enflurane anaesthesia (32%, P less than 0.05). Ventricular arrhythmias were noted in 20% of the spontaneously breathing children in 12% of those with controlled ventilation during halothane anaesthesia. Three children breathing spontaneously during halothane anaesthesia developed ventricular tachycardia. During enflurane anaesthesia the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias was lower (8%) in spite of higher end-tidal CO2 tensions and an anaesthetic depth that was only just the level needed to allow intubation. The incidence of ventricular arrhythmia during halothane anaesthesia was shown to be influenced by the anaesthetic technique used, which was not found with enflurane anaesthesia. The greater stability in cardiac rhythm with enflurane indicates a more favourable effect of this agent on the myocardium as well as a decreased sympathetic response to anaesthesia and surgery as compared with halothane anaesthesia.
We sought to determine whether the response to varying doses of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) injected in BTX-A-treated torticollis patients differed from the same injections given in toxin-naive individuals. We have developed a technique to objectively measure muscle weakness resulting from BTX injections in humans and have validated the technique in those not previously treated with BTX. We now examine BTX-A-treated torticollis patients to see if their response to BTX-A injection is similar to that of toxin-naive individuals. We injected 11 torticollis patients who had been receiving BTX-A injections with a standard 5-mouse unit (mu) dose into one extensor digitorum brevis (EDB) muscle and a varying dose into the other EDB, measuring muscle paralysis 2 weeks after the injection. Nine of the 11 patients were clinical and electrophysiologic responders. Two patients were non-responders. In the 9 responding patients the dose response curve to increasing doses of BTX-A was very similar to that seen in toxin-naive individuals. The mean muscle paralysis from the standard 5 mu dose was also similar to that previously reported in toxin-naive individuals. Torticollis patients who continue to respond clinically to BTX-A injections demonstrate essentially the same degree of muscle paralysis from the EDB injections as do subjects who have never been exposed to BTX-A.
Melatonin, a hormone from the pineal gland, was tested for its anticonvulsant effects in male gerbils. Daily administration of melatonin (25 micrograms injection-1, s.c.) for ten weeks reduced the number and severity of seizures (total convulsion score: 7.67 +/- 1.83 in controls vs 2.47 +/- 0.90 in melatonin-injected animals, p < 0.05) associated with the injection of the convulsant, pentylenetetrazol (PTZ, 60 mg kg-1, s.c.). However, neither 12 weeks of short photoperiod exposure (LD 10:14) nor biweekly administration of melatonin pellets altered PTZ-induced convulsions. Overall, melatonin-injected gerbils were better able to survive and respond to seizures than control animals. No melatonin-injected gerbils died during seizure induction (0/31) while 5 out of 33 control gerbils died after PTZ injection. The mechanism for melatonin's anticonvulsant effects could be due to a direct inhibitory action on neural activity or a conversion of melatonin to an anticonvulsant compound that resembles the kynurenines.
Twenty-three patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were enrolled in this cooperative study conducted in Hirosaki University Hospital. They were treated with YNK-01, a prodrug of cytarabine for oral administration. YNK-01 was given for 2 weeks and repeated every 4 weeks for as long as possible. There were 13 patients with NC, 10 with PD, and no PR. Among NC cases, 5 patients were maintained with NC for longer than 6 months. The main side effects of YNK-01 were anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and symptoms of the alimentary tract (nausea, anorexia, diarrhea, etc), but no severe side effects over Grade 3 were observed.
To evaluate crack cocaine use practices, risk behaviors associated with HIV infection among drug users, and their involvement with violence.
HIV infections are frequent among drug users due to risky sexual behavior. It is generally accepted that crack cocaine use is related to increased levels of violence. Several reports point to an increase in violence from those involved in drug trafficking. Although HIV infections and risky sexual behavior among drug users have been quite well studied, there are few studies that evaluate violence as it relates to drugs, particularly crack.
A total of 350 drug users attending drug abuse treatment clinics in São Paulo, Brazil were interviewed about their risky behaviors. Each patient had a serological HIV test done.
HIV prevalence was 6.6% (4.0 to 10.2). Violence was reported by 97% (94.7 to 99.1) of the subjects (including cases without personal involvement). Acts of violence such as verbal arguments, physical fights, threats, death threats, theft, and drug trafficking were significantly higher among crack users. A decrease in frequency of sexual intercourse was observed among users of injected drugs, though prostitution was observed as a means of obtaining drugs. A high number of crack cocaine users had a history of previous imprisonment, many for drug-related infractions.
The data presented are in accordance with other reports in the literature, and they show a correlation between drug use, imprisonment, violence, and drug trafficking.
A high HIV prevalence and associated risky sexual behaviors were observed among crack cocaine users. The society and the authorities that deal with violence related to crack users and drug trafficking should be aware of these problems.
