In order to try to gain a better understanding of the mechanisms of post-operative pain, this study was designed to psychophysically determine physiological and pharmacological characteristics of experimental pain induced by a 4-mm-long incision through the skin, fascia and muscle in the volar forearm of humans. In experiment 1, the subjects (n=8) were administered lidocaine systemically (a bolus injection of 2mg/kg for a period of 5 min followed by an intravenous infusion of 2mg/kg/h for another 40 min), and then the incision was made. In experiment 2, cumulative doses of lidocaine (0.5-2mg/kg) were systemically injected in the subjects (n=8) 30 min after the incision had been made, when primary and secondary hyperalgesia had fully developed. Spontaneous pain was assessed using the visual analog scale (VAS). Primary hyperalgesia was defined as mechanical pain thresholds to von Frey hair stimuli (from 7 to 151 mN) in the injured area. The area of secondary hyperalgesia to punctate mechanical stimuli was assessed using a rigid von Frey hair (151 mN). Flare formation was assessed in the first experiment using a laser doppler imager (LDI). Pain perception was maximal when the incision was made and then rapidly disappeared within 30 min after the incision had been made. Primary hyperalgesia was apparent at 15 min after the incision had been made and remained for 2 days. The incision resulted in a relatively large area of flare formation immediately after the incision had been made. The area of flare began to shrink within 15 min and was limited to a small area around the injured area at 30 min after incision. Secondary hyperalgesia was apparent at 30 min after incision and persisted for 3h after incision and then gradually disappeared over the next 3h. In experiment 1, pre-traumatic treatment with systemic lidocaine suppressed primary hyperalgesia only during the first 1h after the incision had been made. The lidocaine suppressed the development of flare formation without affecting the pain rating when the incision was made. The development of secondary hyperalgesia continued to be suppressed after completion of the lidocaine infusion. In experiment 2, post-traumatic treatment with lidocaine temporarily suppressed primary as well as secondary hyperalgesia that had fully developed; however, the primary and secondary hyperalgesia again became apparent after completion of the lidocaine administration. These findings suggest that pre-traumatic treatment with lidocaine reduces the excessive inputs from the injured peripheral nerves, thus suppressing development of flare formation and secondary hyperalgesia through peripheral and central mechanisms, respectively. Pre-traumatic treatment with lidocaine would temporarily stabilize the sensitized nerves in the injured area, but the nerves would be sensitized after completion of the administration. Post-traumatic treatment with lidocaine reduced primary and secondary hyperalgesia that had fully developed. However, the finding that the suppressive effect of lidocaine on secondary hyperalgesia was temporary suggests that the development and maintenance of secondary hyperalgesia are caused by different mechanisms.
Arsenic trioxide produces high rates of complete clinical remission in patients with relapsed/refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia. Platelet activation is relevant in a variety of acute thrombotic events and coronary heart diseases. Few studies have examined the effects of arsenic trioxide on platelets, and the mechanisms underlying the signaling pathways remain obscure. The aim of this study was to examine systematically the detailed mechanisms of arsenic trioxide in preventing platelet activation. Arsenic trioxide (5 micromol/L) exhibited more potent activity at inhibiting collagen (1 microg/mL)-induced platelet aggregation than other agonists. Arsenic trioxide (15 and 25 micromol/L) inhibited collagen-induced platelet activation accompanied by [Ca(+2)]i mobilization, thromboxane A(2) (TxA(2)) formation, phospholipase C (PLC)gamma 2 phosphorylation, and protein kinase C (PKC) activation. Arsenic trioxide (15 and 25 micromol/L) did not significantly affect cyclic nucleotide-induced vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein phosphorylation. Moreover, arsenic trioxide markedly inhibited p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) but not JNK1/2 or ERK2 phosphorylation in washed platelets. Arsenic trioxide also markedly reduced hydroxyl radical (OH(.)) formation in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) study. The most important findings of this study suggest that the inhibitory effect of arsenic trioxide possibly involves inhibition of the PLC gamma 2-PKC-p38 MAPK cascade, thereby leading to inhibition of [Ca(+2)]i or free radical formation, and finally the inhibition of platelet aggregation.
In this study we tested the hypothesis that sirolimus (a target of rapamycin inhibitor that attenuates intrinsic renal and immune cell proliferation) reduces glomerular hypertrophy and tubular epithelial cell (TEC) proliferation, and attenuates the progression of renal scarring and dysfunction, in a non-immune initiated model of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS).
Adult male Wistar rats with adriamycin nephropathy (AN) were stratified into two groups, according to proteinuria on day 12, and received either vehicle (dimethylsulphoxide) or sirolimus (0.1 mg/kg) by daily subcutaneous injection, from day 14 until day 49 (n = 8 each). Control animals were also examined (n = 3 each).
Sirolimus did not affect the progression of proteinuria, renal dysfunction, hypercholesterolaemia, body weight or alter intraluminal cast formation in AN. Sirolimus prevented the increase in kidney enlargement in AN, and attenuated glomerular capillary tuft expansion, glomerulosclerosis and periglomerular myofibroblast accumulation. In the tubulointerstitium, sirolimus attenuated tubular dilatation, TEC proliferation and interstitial fibrosis. This was accompanied by a reduction in renal cortical TGF-beta1, but peritubular myofibroblast accumulation and renal inflammation (glomerular and interstitial ED-1 and CD3-positive cell accumulation), were unaffected.
The anti-renotrophic properties of sirolimus were correlated with a reduction in renal scarring in AN. These data suggest that sirolimus has renoprotective effects when administered during the early stages of an FSGS pattern of chronic renal injury.
Prostate cancer is a major cause of cancer death among men and the development of new biomarkers is important to augment current detection approaches.
We identified hypermethylation of the ssDNA-binding protein 2 (SSBP2) promoter as a potential DNA marker for human prostate cancer based on previous bioinformatics results and pharmacologic unmasking microarray. We then did quantitative methylation-specific PCR in primary prostate cancer tissues to confirm hypermethylation of the SSBP2 promoter, and analyzed its correlation with clinicopathologic data. We further examined SSBP2 expression in primary prostate cancer and studied its role in cell growth.
Quantitative methylation-specific PCR results showed that the SSBP2 promoter was hypermethylated in 54 of 88 (61.4%) primary prostate cancers versus 0 of 23 (0%) in benign prostatic hyperplasia using a cutoff value of 120. Furthermore, we found that expression of SSBP2 was down-regulated in primary prostate cancers and cancer cell lines. Hypermethylation of the SSBP2 promoter and its expression were closely associated with higher stages of prostate cancer. Reactivation of SSBP2 expression by the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine in prostate cancer cell lines confirmed epigenetic inactivation as one major mechanism of SSBP2 regulation. Moreover, forced expression of SSBP2 inhibited prostate cancer cell proliferation in the colony formation assay and caused cell cycle arrest.
SSBP2 inhibits prostate cancer cell proliferation and seems to represent a novel prostate cancer-specific DNA marker, especially in high stages of human prostate cancer.
Hedgehog (Hh) signaling is activated in several cancers. However, the mechanisms of Hh signaling activation in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have not been fully elucidated. We analyzed the involvement of Hh-interacting protein (HHIP) gene, a negative regulator of Hh signaling, in HCC.
Glioma-associated oncogene homologue (Gli) reporter assay, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium assay, and quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR for the target genes of the Hh signals were performed in HHIP stably expressing hepatoma cells. Quantitative real-time PCR for HHIP was performed in hepatoma cells and 36 HCC tissues. The methylation status of hepatoma cells and HCC tissues was also analyzed by sodium bisulfite sequencing, demethylation assay, and quantitative real-time methylation-specific PCR. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) analysis was also performed in HCC tissues.
HHIP overexpression induced significant reductions of Gli reporter activity, cell viability, and transcription of the target genes of the Hh signals. HHIP was hypermethylated and transcriptionally down-regulated in a subset of hepatoma cells. Treatment with a demethylating agent led to the HHIP DNA demethylation and restoration of HHIP transcription. HHIP transcription was also down-regulated in the majority of HCC tissues, and more than half of HCC tissues exhibited HHIP hypermethylation. The HHIP transcription level in HHIP-methylated HCC tissues was significantly lower than in HHIP-unmethylated HCC tissues. More than 30% of HCC tissues showed LOH at the HHIP locus.
The down-regulation of HHIP transcription is due to DNA hypermethylation and/or LOH, and Hh signal activation through the inactivation of HHIP may be implicated in the pathogenesis of human HCC.
Bifenazate is a very selective acaricide that controls the spider mite, Tetranychus urticae. Bifenazate is the first example of a carbazate acaricide. Its mode of action remains unclear. Bifenazate and its active metabolite diazene induce paralysis in spider mites, suggesting that they may act on the nervous system. Here we have employed a homologue (TuGABAR) of RDL (Resistance to dieldrin), a subunit of ionotropic γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor, from T. urticae to investigate the action of bifenazate and its active metabolite diazene on this receptor function. Although neither acaricide showed a GABA agonist action, 30 μM of bifenazate or diazene significantly enhanced the GABA-induced response of TuGABAR in a dose-dependent manner, shifting the EC(50) of GABA from 24.8 μM to 4.83 μM and 10.8 μM, respectively. This action demonstrates a positive allosteric modulator effect of bifenazate on T. urticae GABA receptors. This synergistic action is likely the result of bifenazate binding to a site distinct from that of the GABA binding site causing a conformational change that affects the magnitude of the GABA response. Precisely how the observed GABA synergist action correlates with the acaricidal activity of bifenazate, if at all, has yet to be determined.
One of the very real complications possible in the use of local anesthetic agents is a relative overdose of the drug, resulting in an inordinate and potentially dangerous serum level. Even when using strict and careful technique, problems can occur. The reactions cited in the aforementioned cases were most likely the result of the accidental intravenous injection of a local anesthetic agent. Two cases were treated with anticonvulsants; one was not. In retrospect, it is possible that the seizure activity seen in Case 2 may have been prevented by an intravenous injection of benzodiazepine. A variety of currently available local anesthetic compounds has been deemed safe for common usage in the field of anesthesia. The majority of problems associated with their use stem from faulty technique, ignorance, mismanagement, or simple oversight, and are not necessarily due to any intrinsic property of the drug. Nevertheless, local anesthetics are potentially toxic and their use should be approached with knowledge of and a healthy respect for their associated complications. It should also be remembered that virtually all local anesthetic toxic reactions are preventable and treatable. Their occurrence need not necessarily result in a poor outcome.
Arsenic is a widespread environmental contaminant to which millions of people are exposed worldwide. Exposure to arsenic is epidemiologically linked to increased cardiovascular disease, such as atherosclerosis. However, the effects of moderate concentrations of arsenic on atherosclerosis formation are unknown. Therefore, we utilized an in vivo ApoE(-/-) mouse model to assess the effects of chronic moderate exposure to arsenic on plaque formation and composition in order to facilitate mechanistic investigations. Mice exposed to 200 ppb arsenic developed atherosclerotic lesions, a lower exposure than previously reported. In addition, arsenic modified the plaque content, rendering them potentially less stable and consequently, potentially more dangerous. Moreover, we observed that the lower exposure concentration was more atherogenic than the higher concentration. Arsenic-enhanced lesions correlated with several proatherogenic molecular changes, including decreased liver X receptor (LXR) target gene expression and increased proinflammatory cytokines. Significantly, our observations suggest that chronic moderate arsenic exposure may be a greater cardiovascular health risk than previously anticipated.
Lithium is the drug that is most frequently associated with acquired nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI). The exact mechanism of lithium-induced NDI in man is unknown. The aim of the present study was to investigate the kidney response to minimal and maximal stimulation of the kidney urine concentrating mechanism by measuring urine osmolality, and urine levels of cAMP and AQP-2 in urine of patients under long-term lithium treatment. Twenty patients under long-term lithium treatment were included. The kidney urinary 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP), aquaporin-2 levels and urine osmolality were determined during a situation of minimal kidney urine concentrating activity (induced by water loading) and during a situation following maximal stimulation of kidney urine concentrating activity (induced by 1-desamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin). Patients were classified as NDI, partial NDI and non-NDI based on maximal reached urine osmolality. The partial correlation (r) between urinary cyclic AMP levels (mol/l) and urine osmolality was 0.94 (P<0.001). No significant correlation was observed between urinary aquaporin-2 levels (mol/mol creatinine) and osmolality nor between urinary cyclic AMP and aquaporin-2 levels. The rise in urinary cyclic AMP but not aquaporin-2 levels upon 1-desamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin administration after water loading significantly differed between the three categories, decreasing with increasing NDI category. In conclusion we found that in lithium-induced kidney urine concentrating deficit in man, the cyclic AMP generation in response to 1-desamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin administration after water loading, is impaired. It remains to be elucidated whether principal cells, G-proteins or adenylate cyclase e.g. are the major targets for the mechanism underlying lithium-induced NDI in man.
Evidence supports the role of inflammation in the development of neurodegenerative diseases. In this work, we are interested in inflammation as a risk factor by itself and not only as a factor contributing to neurodegeneration. We tested the influence of a mild to moderate peripheral inflammation (injection of carrageenan into the paws of rats) on the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in an animal model based on the intranigral injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a potent inflammatory agent. Overall, the treatment with carrageenan increased the effect of the intranigral injection of LPS on the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the SN along with all the other parameters studied, including: serum levels of the inflammatory markers TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and C-reactive protein; activation of microglia, expression of proinflammatory cytokines, the adhesion molecule ICAM and the enzyme iNOS, loss of astrocytes and damage to the blood brain barrier (BBB). The possible implication of BBB rupture in the increased loss of dopaminergic neurons has been studied using another Parkinson's disease animal model based on the intraperitoneal injection of rotenone. In this experiment, loss of dopaminergic neurons was also strengthened by carrageenan, without affecting the BBB. In conclusion, our data show that a mild to moderate peripheral inflammation can exacerbate the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons caused by a harmful stimulus.
This is a retrospective study covering the ten-year period 1984-1993. Single shot spinal morphine (ITM) is compared with PCA nalbuphine for postoperative pain relief in children having abdominal or thoracic procedures. The records of 52 patients meeting selection criteria were examined. Nursing and physician notations were reviewed for hourly pain assessments, evidence of associated complications, respiratory depression, nausea and or vomiting, pruritus, and urinary retention. ITM provided significantly better pain relief (2.2 h in pain) during the first 24 h postoperatively than PCA nalbuphine (9.2 h in pain). With the exception of urinary retention which was significantly more frequent following ITM (58.6%) compared to PCA nalbuphine (8.7%), narcotic related complications were not different between the two groups. No difference in duration of hospital stay or ICU stay could be demonstrated. We conclude that ITM provides better pain relief, without more serious complications, than PCA nalbuphine. We recommend it as a safe, effective technique to treat postoperative pain in children following thoracic or upper abdominal procedures.
Manganese toxicity can cause a neurodegenerative disorder affecting cortical and basal ganglia structures with a neurological presentation resembling features of Parkinson's disease. Children are more sensitive to Mn-induced neurological dysfunction than adults, and recent studies from our laboratory revealed a marked sensitivity of male juvenile mice to neuroinflammatory injury from Mn, relative to females. To determine the role of estrogen (E2) in mediating sex-dependent vulnerability to Mn-induced neurotoxicity, we exposed transgenic mice expressing an NF-κB-driven enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) reporter construct (NF-κB-EGFP mice) to Mn, postulating that supplementing male mice with E2 during juvenile development would attenuate neuroinflammatory changes associated with glial activation, including expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) and neuronal protein nitration. Juvenile NF-κB-EGFP mice were separated in groups composed of females, males, and males surgically implanted with Silastic capsules containing 25 μg of 17-β-estradiol (E2) or vehicle control. Mice were then treated with 0 or 100 mg/Kg MnCl(2) by intragastric gavage from postnatal days 21-34. Manganese treatment caused alterations in levels of striatal dopamine, as well as increases in NF-κB reporter activity and NOS2 expression in both microglia and astrocytes that were prevented by supplementation with E2. E2 also decreased neuronal protein nitration in Mn-treated mice and inhibited apoptosis in striatal neurons cocultured with Mn-treated astrocytes in vitro. These data indicate that E2 protects against Mn-induced neuroinflammation in developing mice and that NF-κB is an important regulator of neuroinflammatory gene expression in glia associated with nitrosative stress in the basal ganglia during Mn exposure.
It has been shown that systemic administration of morphine induced a hyperalgesic response at an extremely low dose. We have examined the effect of nifedipine, as a calcium channel blocker, on morphine-induced hyperalgesia in intact and adrenalectomized rats and on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity induced by ultra-low dose of morphine. To determine the effect of nifedipine on hyperalgesic effect of morphine, nifedipine (2 mg/kg i.p. and 10 microg i.t.) that had no nociceptive effect, was injected concomitant with morphine (1 microg/kg i.p. and 0.01 microg i.t. respectively). The tail-flick test was used to assess the nociceptive threshold, before and 30, 60, 120, 180, 240 and 300 min after drug administration. The data showed that low dose morphine systemic administration could produce hyperalgesic effect in adrenalectomized rats equivalent to sham-operated animals while intrathecal injection of morphine only elicited hyperalgesia in sham-operated animals. Nifedipine could block morphine-induced hyperalgesia in sham and adrenalectomized rats and even a mild analgesic effect was observed in the adrenalectomized group which was reversed by corticosterone replacement. Systemic administration of low dose morphine produced significant increase in plasma level of corticosterone. Nifedipine has an inhibitory effect on morphine-induced corticosterone secretion. Thus, the data indicate that dihydropyridine calcium channels are involved in ultra-low dose morphine-induced hyperalgesia and that both the pattern of morphine hyperalgesia and the blockage of it by nifedipine are modulated by manipulation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is in use for the production of fluoropolymers (PFT). Due to its toxic properties it was proposed to replace the substance in its industrial applications by homologous compounds with shorter carbon chain length that were supposed to be less toxic compared to PFOA, however, the smaller PFOA homologs are poorly characterized so far. In this study we have conducted a comparative analysis of the toxicity of perfluorinated carboxylic acids (PFCA) with a carbon chain length ranging from four to twelve carbon atoms. By using the human hepatocarcinoma cell line HepG2 as an in vitro model for human hepatocytes we could show a positive correlation between the carbon chain length of the respective PFCA and its cytotoxicity. There was, however, no indication of an apoptotic mechanism for cytotoxicity. All PFCA under investigation were negative in two independent genotoxicity assays. As PFOA, being a well-known peroxisome proliferator, the other PFCA tested in this study were also shown to activate human peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) with PFOA having the highest potential of PPARα activation. Moreover, the compounds showed weak potential to activate PPARγ and hardly activated PPARδ. Taken together, the in vitro study revealed that PFCA with a shorter carbon chain length seem to be less toxic than PFOA.
Positron emission tomography studies in drug-addicted patients have shown that exposure to drug-related cues increases striatal dopamine, which displaces binding of the D(2) ligand, [(11)C]-raclopride. However, it is not known if animals will also show cue-induced displacement of [(11)C]-raclopride binding. In this study, we use [(11)C]-raclopride imaging in awake rodents to capture cue-induced changes in dopamine release associated with the conditioned place preference model of drug craving. Ten animals were conditioned to receive cocaine in a contextually distinct environment from where they received saline. Following conditioning, each animal was tested for preference and then received two separate [(11)C]-raclopride scans. For each scan, animals were confined to the cocaine and/or the saline-paired environment for the first 25 min of uptake, after which they were anesthetized and scanned. [(11)C]-raclopride uptake in the saline-paired environment served as a within-animal control for uptake in the cocaine-paired environment. Cocaine produced a significant place preference (p = 0.004) and exposure to the cocaine-paired environment decreased [(11)C]-raclopride binding relative to the saline-paired environment in both the dorsal (20%; p < 0.002) and ventral striatum (22%; p < 0.05). The change in [(11)C]-raclopride binding correlated with preference in the ventral striatum (R(2) = -0.87; p = 0.003). In this region, animals who showed little or no preference exhibited little or no change in [(11)C]-raclopride binding in the cocaine-paired environment. This noninvasive procedure of monitoring neurochemical events in freely moving, behaving animals advances preclinical molecular imaging by interrogating the degree to which animal models reflect the human condition on multiple dimensions, both biological and behavioral.
Pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) has been shown to induce seizure-like behavior, learning deficits in passive avoidance response test, and an increase in hsp70 (heat shock protein 70) mRNA expression in the adult zebrafish; PTZ has been increasingly appreciated as an excellent model system for the study of seizures. In this study, we demonstrate that valproic acid (VPA), an antiepileptic drug, suppresses seizure-like behavior and improves learning ability in adult zebrafish treated with PTZ. Pretreatment with VPA significantly reduces rapid involuntary movement and abrupt changes in moving direction in the PTZ-treated zebrafish. PTZ-induced learning impairments were also improved in the zebrafish pretreated with 200 or 500 microM VPA. However, the scopolamine-induced impairments of learning ability were not improved by VPA pretreatment. It is worth noting that while the zebrafish treated with 500 microM VPA for 1-3 weeks learned the passive avoidance response, those treated with 1 or 2mM VPA for 3h didn't. Furthermore, the increased level of hsp70 expression induced by PTZ, a stress marker protein, was significantly reduced in the VPA-pretreated zebrafish brains. Collectively, our data show the antiepileptic effects of VPA in the adult zebrafish, which coincides with reduced hsp70 mRNA expression, rescued learning impairment under PTZ-treated conditions.
Fanconi anaemia (FA) is a genetic disease featuring bone marrow failure, proneness to malignancies, and chromosomal instability. A line of studies has related FA to oxidative stress (OS). This review attempts to evaluate the evidence for FA-associated redox abnormalities in the literature from 1981 to 2010. Among 2170 journal articles on FA evaluated, 162 related FA with OS. Early studies reported excess oxygen toxicity in FA cells that accumulated oxidative DNA damage. Prooxidant states were found in white blood cells and body fluids from FA patients as excess luminol-dependent chemiluminescence, 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine, reduced glutathione/oxidized glutathione imbalance, and tumour necrosis factor-α. Some FA gene products involved in redox homeostasis can be summarized as follows: (a) FANCA, FANCC, and FANCG interact with cytochrome P450-related activities and/or respond to oxidative damage; (b) FANCD2 in OS response interacts with forkhead box O3 and ataxia telangiectasia mutated protein; (c) FANCG is found in mitochondria and interacts with PRDX3, and FA-G cells display distorted mitochondria and decreased peroxidase activity; (d) FANCJ (BACH1/BRIP1) is a repressor of haeme oxygenase-1 gene and senses oxidative base damage; (e) antioxidants, such as tempol and resveratrol decrease cancer incidence and haematopoietic defects in Fancd2(-/-) mice. The overall evidence for FA-associated OS may suggest designing chemoprevention studies aimed at delaying the onset of OS-related clinical complications.
Doxorubicin (DXR) is a chemotherapeutic agent used effectively in the treatment of several childhood malignancies. During treatment, cardiotoxicity caused by cell damage due to the free oxygen radicals that are generated is a major limiting factor. This study was undertaken to determine whether DXR-induced cardiotoxicity could be prevented by natural foods with antioxidant properties such as aged garlic extract (AGEX), grape seed proanthocyanidin (PA), and hazelnut. Wistar albino male rats were assigned randomly to 9 groups each consisting of 15 rats. AGEX, PA, and hazelnut groups received these antioxidants in addition to their standard rat diet. They were also treated with cumulative intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections according to 2 different regimens: either a high-dose of 15 mg/kg DXR (3.75 mg/kg per week for 4 weeks) or a low-dose of 7.5 mg/kg DXR (1.875 mg/kg per week for 4 weeks). The control group received i.p. 0.9% saline. AGEX, PA, or hazelnut supplements were given orally to the groups for a 6-week period starting 1 week before the DXR treatment and ending 1 week after the treatment. One week after the last DXR injection, heart tissue samples were analyzed to determine malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and xanthine oxidase (XO) levels, and serum samples were taken for creatine kinase (CK). There were no significant changes in MDA levels among the control, DXR-treated groups, or supplemented groups that received additional natural antioxidant foods. SOD enzyme levels were decreased in rats treated with DXR. PA prevented the decrease at low doses of DXR. DXR treatment decreased CAT enzyme levels, but additional PA and hazelnut consumption increased these levels at low cumulative doses. XO enzyme levels were decreased in AGEX and hazelnut groups, but PA prevented the decrease. CK levels were elevated after DXR administration, indicating myocardial injury, but PA significantly reversed this. Although there were no differences histopathologically between AGEX, PA, and hazelnut groups, the protective effects of AGEX and PA were evident in electron microscopy. In conclusion, the positive effects of natural antioxidant foods on the prevention of DXR-induced cardiac injury could not be clearly shown on the basis of antioxidant enzymes. However, the electron microscopic changes clearly demonstrated the protective effects of AGEX and PA. The supplementation of these antioxidant foods over longer periods may show more definitive results. Human studies with different doses are needed to evaluate the effects of these foods on the human heart.
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors reduce blood pressure without reflex tachycardia, possibly as a result of enhanced hypothesis that this results from the removal of the parasympathetic activity. We examined the vagolytic action of angiotensin II or alternatively by acetylcholinesterase inhibition. Both captopril and [Sar1ala8] angiotensin II, (saralasin), caused modest falls in blood pressure, without increasing heart rate in normotensive subjects. Captopril and saralasin significantly attenuated the vagally mediated heart rate slowing after facial immersion in water. There was a close correlation between the effects produced by captopril and saralasin on the diving reflex. Infusion of subpressor doses of angiotensin II, reversed the hypotensive effect of captopril and returned the bradycardia after facial immersion to placebo level. In vitro neither captopril nor enalapril or lisinopril affected bovine erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase activity. The parasympathetic effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors appear to reflect a direct consequence of the removal of angiotensin II.
Striatal neuronal responses to dexamphetamine, 2.5 mg/kg i.p., were examined in normal and bilateral cortically ablated freely moving rats using multiunit recording. Striatal glutamate levels, D1 and D2 receptor binding, and haloperidal catalepsy were examined in both sham-operated and ablated animals. Bilateral ablation of the cortex, while not affecting dexamphetamine-induced behavioral activation, changed the striatal neuronal response from predominantly excitation to inhibition. Striatal glutamate levels were reduced 22% in ablated animals; and dopamine D-2 receptor binding sites were similarly decreased by 20%. In bilaterally ablated animals, haloperidol-induced catalepsy was greatly reduced.
To test the hypothesis that angiotensin II (Ang II) in the central nervous system modulates catecholamine-induced cardiac arrhythmias and to determine whether endogenous opioids are operative in this action, arrhythmias were produced in male Wistar rats, by continuous infusion of epinephrine at incremental doses until the development of fatal arrhythmias that were usually ventricular fibrillation. Rats were instrumented with catheters in the lateral cerebral ventricle, femoral vein and femoral artery. Ang II, 0.5 microgram, in the lateral cerebral ventricle (ICV) markedly and significantly (p less than 0.05) increased the epinephrine dose, at the occurrence of ventricular premature beats compared to the control group 228 +/- 11 (SEM) vs 116 +/- 7 micrograms epinephrine/kg and at the onset of fatal arrhythmias 225 +/- 13 vs 185 +/- 9 micrograms epinephrine/kg. Ang II, 0.5 microgram i.v., did not affect arrhythmia threshold. The angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril, 1 mg/kg, decreased arrhythmia threshold as ventricular arrhythmias were first noted at 106 +/- 4 and fatal arrhythmias occurred at 118 +/- 4 micrograms epinephrine/kg. The Ang II receptor antagonist saralasin 150 micrograms/kg ICV, blunted and 300 micrograms/kg ICV reversed the effect of Ang II. The mu opioids antagonist naloxone and the kappa opioid antagonist MR 2266, 50 micrograms/kg ICV, prevented the effect of Ang II on fatal arrhythmias. The action Ang II on arrhythmias could not be explained by the effects of Ang II on blood pressure or heart rate. These data indicate a role for Ang II within the CNS to modulate cardiac arrhythmias and that this is mediated in part, by endogenous opioids.
Leukoencephalopathy probably caused by tacrolimus hydrate after stem cell transplantation in a girl with MDS 7 monosomy is reported. The conditioning regimen consisted of thiotepa (150 mg/m2 x 4), melphalan (70 mg/m2 x 2) and 12 Gy total body irradiation. She received peripheral blood CD34 positive cells (4.17 x 10(6)/kg) from her HLA-mismatched father and tacrolimus hydrate was used for GVHD prophylaxis. Engraftment was rapid and grade 1 acute GVHD of the skin responded well to pulse therapy. From day 27 she became irritable and sleepless, and right facial convulsions developed on day 37. No abnormality was found in the cerebrospinal fluid. Cranial CT findings showed no abnormalities except for low density lesions around the bilateral ventricle. Leukoencephalopathy was suspected and tacrolimus hydrate was discontinued. Thereafter psychosomatic symptoms improved, temporarily however, similar symptoms again developed following cyclosporine administration. Therefore we had to halt the administration of both tacrolimus and cyclosporine. She died on day 104 because of GVHD and fungal infection without recovering from leukoencephalopathy.
Transient developmental exposure to 0.1μM bisphenol A (BPA) results in larval zebrafish hyperactivity and learning impairments in the adult, while exposure to 80μM BPA results in teratogenic responses, including craniofacial abnormalities and edema. The mode of action underlying these effects is unclear. We used global gene expression analysis to identify candidate genes and signaling pathways that mediate BPA's developmental toxicity in zebrafish. Exposure concentrations were selected and anchored to the positive control, 17β-estradiol (E2), based on previously determined behavioral or teratogenic phenotypes. Functional analysis of differentially expressed genes revealed distinct expression profiles at 24h post fertilization for 0.1μM versus 80μM BPA and 0.1μM versus 15μM E2 exposure, identification of prothrombin activation as a top canonical pathway impacted by both 0.1μM BPA and 0.1μM E2 exposure, and suppressed expression of several genes involved in nervous system development and function following 0.1μM BPA exposure.
Children undergoing strabismus surgery have a high incidence of postoperative vomiting (POV). The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of dolasetron for the prevention of emesis comparing a single 0.35 mg.kg-1 or 12.5 mg dose with placebo.
Children aged 2-12 years with an ASA status of 1 or 2 undergoing strabismus surgery were randomized in a double-blind manner to one of three treatment groups. Patients were excluded with a history of previous postoperative vomiting or motion sickness, allergy to serotonin receptor antagonists or previous antiemetic administration within 24 h prior to enrollment. General anaesthesia was induced with sevoflurane and N2O/O2 and maintained with isoflurane and N2O/O2. The study medication was administered 15 min prior to the end of surgery. Patients experiencing two or more episodes of vomiting were rescued in the postanaesthesia care unit (PACU) with metoclopramide 0.15 mg.kg-1. A total of 118 patients were enrolled with documentation of the number and severity of vomiting episodes, time to awakening, PACU length of stay and postoperative agitation.
Patients with an acute complete response (ACR), defined as no emetic episodes and no rescue medication within 24 h of study drug administration were 62% (weight dose), 64% (fixed dose) and 33% (placebo, P < 0.05).
There was no statistical difference between the 0.35 mg.kg-1 dose and the fixed 12.5 mg dose of dolasetron with both reducing the incidence of POV.
The participation of prostaglandins (PGs) E2 and F2 alpha administered icv in the action of fibrinopeptides A and B (FAB) on the central dopamine neurons was investigated. PGE2 and PGF2 alpha (0.5 microgram) attenuated the intensity of apomorphine (APO)-induced stereotypy and completely abolished the stimulatory action of FAB. PGE2 given together with FAB attenuated, while PGF2 alpha did not affect the amphetamine-induced stereotypy and haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The investigated PGs did not affect or normalized the level of dopamine depressed by peptides in some parts of the brain. The results indicate that PGE2 alpha and PGF2 alpha do not participate in the mechanism of the central action of FAB.
The mechanism and treatment of diastolic heart failure are poorly understood. We compared the effects of an ACE inhibitor, an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), and their combination on diastolic heart failure in Dahl salt-sensitive (DS) rats.
DS rats fed an 8% NaCl diet from 7 weeks of age were treated with benazepril 10 mg/kg alone, valsartan 30 mg/kg alone, or combined benazepril and valsartan at 5 and 15 mg/kg, respectively, or at 1 and 3 mg/kg, respectively. At 16 weeks of age, DS rats exhibited prominent concentric left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy and diastolic dysfunction with preserved systolic function, as estimated by echocardiography. Despite comparable hypotensive effects among all drug treatments, the combination of benazepril 5 mg/kg and valsartan 15 mg/kg improved diastolic dysfunction and survival in DS rats more effectively than ACE inhibitor or ARB alone. Furthermore, the increase in LV endothelin-1 levels and hydroxyproline contents in DS rats was significantly suppressed only by combined benazepril and valsartan, and LV atrial natriuretic peptide mRNA upregulation in DS rats was suppressed to a greater extent by the combination therapy than monotherapy.
The combination of ACE inhibitor and ARB, independently of the hypotensive effect, improved LV phenotypic change and increased LV endothelin-1 production and collagen accumulation, diastolic dysfunction, and survival in a rat heart failure model more effectively than either agent alone, thereby providing solid experimental evidence that the combination of these 2 agents is more beneficial than monotherapy for treatment of heart failure.
Glomerular synechiae that occurred in nephrotic rats with a single intraperitoneal injection of puromycin aminonucleoside were analyzed by immunohistochemistry, radiolabeled thymidine ([3H]-thymidine) autoradiography, as well as light, electron and immunoelectron microscopy. To discriminate podocytes from parietal epithelial cells (PEC) and monocytes, monoclonal antibodies (mAb) against podocalyxin and ED1 were used. The cell kinetics of glomerular epithelial cells were autoradiographically assessed with isotope labeling procedures before and during nephrosis (co-labeled), and a mAb against proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). All the cell types except the podocyte of normal kidneys were labelled with [3H]-thymidine at different rates. Detachment of degenerated podocytes from the outside of the glomerular basement membrane (GBM) is the first step of synechia, and detached sites are confronted by PEC that were hypertrophied and frequently radiolabeled. Evidence that podocytes in glomeruli of nephrotic rats can proliferate was shown by the presence of mitoses, [3H]-thymidine uptake in the co-labeled experiment, and by PCNA staining, but re-epithelialization over bare segments of the GBM with proliferated podocytes is doubtful. It was concluded that glomerular synechia resulted from the limits of podocyte adaptation to glomerular injuries.
