Exposure to estrogens is associated with an increase in cancers, including malignancies of the breast and uterus in humans, and of the kidney in hamsters. DNA damage induced by metabolic activation of estrogen has been postulated to result in gene mutations critical for the development of estrogen-induced kidney tumors in hamsters. As part of our examination of the genetic consequences of estrogen-induced DNA damage, we searched for estrogen-induced alterations in microsatellite DNA, a frequent site of mutation in tumors. Genomic DNA isolated from kidney of hamsters treated with estradiol, from estrogen-induced kidney tumors and from untreated age-matched controls, was examined by Southern blot analysis with three multi-locus oligonucleotide probes: (GACA)4, (CAC)6 and (CAG)6. Alterations in DNA fragments containing GACA and CAC tandem repeats were detected in kidney DNA of hamsters treated with hormone for 3 and 4 months, whereas no such effects were seen in control animals. In estrogen-induced tumors, microsatellite alterations were observed in fragments that contain these same two repeat sequences and also CAG repeat sequences. The induction of microsatellite alterations by estradiol in kidney DNA preceding estrogen-induced renal malignancy may play a role in hormone-induced tumorigenesis.
E2012, a gamma secretase modulator without affecting Notch processing, aimed at Alzheimer's disease by reduction of amyloid β-42, induced cataract following repeated doses in the rat. Cataract appeared first at week 10-11 of treatment as a posterior subcapsular area with granular/punctate opaque or shiny dots along the suture line, characterized histologically as lenticular fiber degeneration, which eventually coalesced to form a triangular or circular opacity. It was associated with prolonged and sustained elevation of lenticular desmosterol (24-dehydrocholesterol), the final precursor of cholesterol, and decrease in lenticular cholesterol. In vitro studies to investigate the effect of E2012 on cholesterol metabolism demonstrated that E2012 inhibits 3β-hydroxysterol Δ24-reductase (DHCR24) at the final step in the cholesterol biosynthesis. In vivo lenticular concentration of E2012 after 13-week repeated dose with cataract was well above those where inhibition was observed in vitro. There was no cataract formation at doses where desmosterol did not accumulate in the lens. The elevation of desmosterol and decreased cholesterol levels were also seen in the liver and plasma and preceded those in the lens. These results demonstrate that E2012 induces cataract in the rat by inhibiting DHCR24 at the final step of cholesterol synthesis with associated elevation in desmosterol within the lens, preceded by desmosterol changes that would serve as a predictive safety biomarker for lenticular opacity.
A 37-year-old woman presented with cerebral venous and sinus thrombosis (CVST). During the period of anticoagulation she developed asymptomatic dissection of the intracranial segments of both vertebral arteries with an enlarging false aneurysm on the right side. Endovascular occlusion of the pathological segment of the right vertebral artery including the dissecting aneurysm and conservative management of the other side resulted in complete recovery without neurological complications.
Both endogenous and exogenous estrogen exposure is associated with an increased breast cancer risk. In some studies, elevated serum testosterone levels have also been linked to an increased breast cancer risk. Estrogen alone or combined with progesterone induces high mammary tumor incidences in various strains of both male and female rats. Mammary gland ductal adenocarcinomas were induced after 17beta-estradiol (E2) and testosterone propionate (TP) treatment in male Noble rats. Tumor incidence was 100% after 8-9 months of treatment. Such neoplasms were not detected after either estrogen or androgen exposure alone within this time period. TP alone caused disruption of mammary gland ducts and proliferation of stromal tissue, while E2 treatment alone induced both ductal epithelial growth and nodular atypical hyperplasia. To study the interaction of these hormones in mammary tumorigenesis, sex hormone receptors were characterized in mammary glands of Noble rats. Estrogen receptor-alpha (ER) was detected in age-matched, untreated mammary gland epithelium; in most early atypical hyperplastic lesions appearing after E2 and E2 + TP treatment and in E2 + TP-induced mammary tumors. Two major ER putative isoforms, 116 and 120 kDa, were detected in E2- and E2 + TP-treated mammary glands, and in the induced tumors. A 54 kDa ER protein was found in untreated and TP-treated mammary glands, and in the induced tumors. Both progesterone receptor-B (PR-B) and PR-A2, as well as androgen receptor-B (AR-B) and AR-A isoforms were markedly elevated in all E2 + TP-induced mammary tumors. However, the levels of both PR and AR were very low in mammary glands of E2- and E2 + TP-treated male rats. Low and moderate levels of AR and PR, respectively, were detected in most atypical hyperplastic lesions induced by E2- and E2 + TP-treated mammary glands. These results suggest that androgens may interact with either AR or PR, and perhaps both receptors, in E2 + TP-induced mammary glands and the induced tumors to effect the reduction in latency period, enhance tumor size, and increase incidence to 100%.
Cocaine use can result in a variety of cardiovascular complications, including myocardial infarction, arterial thrombosis, coronary dissection, and cardiomyopathy. Cocaine-induced aortic dissection is uncommon and has been described largely in case reports. The purpose of this study was to review our experience with aortic dissection associated with cocaine abuse.
A retrospective chart review was performed of all hospital records during a 15-year period in patients diagnosed with aortic dissection. Among the 164 cases of acute aortic dissection, 16 patients (9.8%) had used cocaine or its derivative, crack cocaine, within 24 hours prior to the onset of symptoms. The remaining 148 patients (90.2%) had no history of cocaine usage. Clinical features, management, and outcome in these two groups were compared.
In the cocaine group, powder cocaine was inhaled intranasally in 11 patients (69%) and crack cocaine was smoked in five cases (31%). The mean duration between cocaine use and the onset of aortic dissection was 12.8 hours (range, 4 to 24 hours). Patients in the cocaine group were younger in age and more likely to have a history of polysubstance abuse than the non-cocaine cohort. In the cocaine group, the incidence of DeBakey dissection type I, II, IIIa, and IIIb was 19%, 25%, 38%, and 19%, respectively. In the group without cocaine use, the incidence of DeBakey dissection type I, II, IIIa, and IIIb was 18%, 23%, 39%, and 20%, respectively. Surgical intervention for aortic dissection was performed in 50% of the cocaine group and 45% of the non-cocaine group. In patients who underwent surgical repair, greater pulmonary complications occurred in the cocaine group than the non-cocaine group (n = 0.02). No difference was noted in the hospital length of stay or 30-day operative mortality among the two groups.
Cocaine-associated aortic dissection occurs in predominantly male patients with illicit drug abuse who were younger than patients with aortic dissection without cocaine use. Greater pulmonary complications can occur in patients with cocaine-related aortic dissection following surgical interventions.
The fentanyl HCl iontophoretic transdermal system (ITS) has effectively managed pain following several types of surgery. This study evaluated the efficacy, safety, and ease of care associated with fentanyl ITS and morphine intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (IV PCA) for pain management following abdominal or pelvic surgery.
This open-label, multicenter, randomized, active-controlled, parallel-group, phase IIIb study enrolled 506 postoperative patients at 39 U.S. sites. Patients received fentanyl ITS (40 microg fentanyl/dose) or morphine IV PCA (1 mg morphine/dose). The primary efficacy measure was demonstrating equivalence on the patient global assessment (PGA) of the method of pain control in the first 24 hours of treatment between the groups.
Percentages of patients in the fentanyl ITS and morphine IV PCA groups reporting PGA ratings of "good" or "excellent" in the first 24 hours were statistically equivalent (84.9% vs 84.3%, respectively; difference = 0.7%, 95% CI: -5.6% to 7.0%). Equivalence was also demonstrated based on mean last pain intensity scores in the first 24 hours (3.0 vs 2.9, respectively; difference = 0.1, 95% CI: -0.28 to 0.43). Overall discontinuation rates were not significantly different between groups (16.7% vs 11.8%, respectively; P = 0.128). Patients and nurses reported better ease-of-care ratings for fentanyl ITS than for morphine IV PCA. Commonly occurring adverse events were similar between groups.
Fentanyl ITS and morphine IV PCA were comparable methods of pain control following abdominal or pelvic surgery; however, fentanyl ITS was rated better than morphine IV PCA for ease of care by patients and nurses.
Recently, we demonstrated the hepatoprotective effects of nicotinic acid amide, a selective inhibitor of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP; EC 2.4.2.30) on mice suffering from acetaminophen (AAP)-hepatitis, suggesting that the AAP-induced liver injury involves a step which depends on adenoribosylation. The present study investigates the effects of a diet free of precursors of NAD, the substrate on which PARP acts, in female NMRI mice with AAP hepatitis and evaluates the influence of simultaneous ethanol consumption in these animals. Liver injuries were quantified as serum activities of glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT) and glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (GPT). While AAP caused a 117-fold elevation of serum transaminase activities in mice kept on a standard laboratory diet, which was significantly exacerbated by ethanol and inhibited by nicotinic acid amide (NAA), adverse effects were noted in animals fed a diet free of precursors of NAD. In these animals, only minor increases of serum transaminase activities were measured in the presence of AAP, and unlike the exacerbation caused by ethanol in mice on a standard diet, the liver damage was inhibited by 50% by ethanol. A further 64% reduction of hepatitis was observed, when NAA was given to ethanol/AAP-mice. Our results provide evidence that the AAP-induced hepatitis and its exacerbation by ethanol can either be reduced by end-product inhibition of PARP by NAA or by dietary depletion of the enzyme's substrate NAD. We see the main application of NAA as for the combinational use in pharmaceutical preparations of acetaminophen in order to avoid hepatic damage in patients treated with this widely used analgesic.
A 61-year-old man with incomplete Behçet's disease was admitted to our hospital because of weakness and muscle pain in August 2001. The patient was diagnosed as having incomplete Behçet's disease because of oral aphtha, genital ulcer and uveitis. He had been administered with colchicine since December 1999. Cyclosporin was added in June 2000, because of repeated ocular attacks. In May 2001, he noticed weakness of proximal limb muscles. In three months, severe generalized muscle pain and numbness in his hands progressed. Laboratory findings showed elevation of muscular enzyme, serum creatinine, and hepatic transaminases. Electromyography and nerve conduction studies indicated myopathy and mild polyneuropathy, respectively. On diagnosis as drug induced neuromyopathy, colchicine administration was stopped. But, severe muscle pain continued. Thus, the cyclosporin dose was also reduced. Seven days later, weakness and muscle pain disappeared and laboratory findings markedly improved. These data indicate that the pathogenesis of neuromyopathy in this case was closely related to colchicine and cyclosporin. Caution will be needed in using these drugs for patients with Behçet's disease.
We have established ten transplantable human soft-tissue sarcoma (STS) xenografts grown as subcutaneous tumours in the nude mouse. Nine xenografts originated from patients that needed chemotherapy in the course of their disease. The xenografts were tested for their sensitivity to maximum tolerated doses of five anti-cancer agents. Growth of treated tumours was expressed as a percentage of control tumour growth and a growth inhibition > 75% was measured for doxorubicin in 20% of the STS xenografts, for cyclophosphamide in 30%, for ifosfamide in 20%, for vincristine in 20%, whereas etoposide was not effective in the STS xenografts. In three out of ten STS xenografts MDR1 mRNA was detectable, but this was not related to the resistance against doxorubicin, vincristine or etoposide. Topoisomerase IIalpha mRNA expression levels did not reflect sensitivity to doxorubicin or etoposide. In all STS tissues, however, these levels were lower than topoisomerase IIalpha mRNA in a drug-sensitive human ovarian cancer xenograft. Glutathione concentrations and the activities of glutathione S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase were not related to resistance against the alkylating agents or doxorubicin. Of interest, in all STS tissues, glutathione S-transferase pi was the predominant isoenzyme present. In conclusion, chemosensitivity of the STS xenografts reflects clinical response rates in phase II trials on the same compounds in adult STS patients. Relatively low levels of topoisomerase IIalpha mRNA may partly account for intrinsic resistance against, for example, doxorubicin. Additional factors must contribute to moderate responsiveness to alkylating agents.
Thrombotic complications and transplant coronary artery disease are among the main causes of morbidity and mortality after heart transplantation. A thrombophilic state has been described in transplant recipients, and correlated to immunosuppressive therapy with cyclosporine A or azathioprine, whereas the prothrombotic effects of steroids, even though always given, have never been duly considered. A reduced fibrinolytic capacity due to high levels of PAI-1, the most important inhibitor of plasminogen activators, was suggested to play a role in the development of cardiovascular diseases and transplant coronary artery disease. A severe hypofibrinolytic state secondary to PAI-1 increase has been found in patients with Cushing's disease, and in hypercorticism secondary to long-term steroid treatment after renal transplantation.
We evaluated plasma clotting and fibrinolytic behaviors in 2 groups of heart transplant patients treated with (26 cases) or without (23 cases) steroids together with cyclosporine A and azathioprine. Twenty-five healthy subjects were studied as normal controls. The following tests were assayed at least 1 year after transplantation: fibrinogen, factor VIII coagulant activity, von Willebrand factor antigen, euglobulin lysis time, tissue plasminogen activator antigen and activity, PAI-1 antigen and activity. In addition, the presence of cardiac microthrombi was evaluated on 2 endomyocardial biopsy specimens obtained in each patient both on day 7 after heart transplantation (first control) and usually 1 year or more later (last control).
Plasma levels of fibrinogen, factor VIII and von Willebrand factor were significantly higher in both groups of patients than in normal controls. Fibrinolytic activity was significantly reduced in transplant patients treated with steroids, compared with steroid-free patients and normal controls. In steroid-treated heart transplant recipients, the hypofibrinolytic state was due to a significant and pathological increase in PAI-1 antigen and activity levels. The fibrinolytic impairment was more evident in patients transplanted for ischemic heart disease and treated with steroids than in patients with previous dilated cardiomyopathy and treated either with or without steroids. Myocardial microthrombi were found in 2/49 cases at the first biopsy control, and in 12/49 cases at the last biopsy control after transplantation. This different prevalence was statistically significant (chi2 = 8.33, p = .003). Plasma PAI-1 activity was significantly higher and, as a consequence, euglobulin lysis time was more prolonged in microthrombi-positive patients than in microthrombi-negative ones. Among the 12 transplant recipients who developed cardiac microthrombi, 7 patients were treated with steroids and showed higher PAI-1 levels and more reduced fibrinolytic activity than the 5 steroid-free patients.
Our data confirm the prothrombotic state induced by long-term steroid treatment, characterized by an increase in PAI-1 levels and secondary impairment of fibrinolytic capacity. In heart transplant patients, steroid-related hypofibrinolysis might constitute a further risk factor for transplant coronary artery disease.
Guanfacine, 1 to 3 mg/day, and clonidine, 0.1 to 0.3 mg twice a day, were compared in a 24-week double-blind, randomized, parallel study of 42 patients with hypertension that was inadequately treated by chlorthalidone, 25 mg/day. Mean reduction of blood pressure was 18/9 mm Hg after guanfacine and 14/8 mm Hg after clonidine. To determine the incidence of rebound hypertension, subjects were hospitalized for 7 days during chlorthalidone therapy for collection of baseline data and once again immediately after abrupt withdrawal of the alpha-agonist after 24 weeks of dosing. Although blood pressure and heart rate rose significantly in both groups, the changes after clonidine withdrawal were greater and occurred earlier (day 2) than those after guanfacine withdrawal (day 4). Forty percent of the subjects receiving guanfacine and 64% of subjects receiving clonidine had diastolic blood pressure elevations greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg from baseline. There were increases in urinary norepinephrine levels in both groups after drug withdrawal, but these correlated poorly with blood pressure rise. Side effects after guanfacine were much the same as those after clonidine. Guanfacine taken once a day provides an effective and safe alternative to clonidine in the management of essential hypertension.
The pathophysiological significance of coronary collateral vessels remains controversial, despite previous intensive studies. We performed the multistage supine ergometer stress test for 26 patients with effort angina and collaterals. The changes in the collaterals were observed during each anginal attack by coronary angiography before and after intravenous nitroglycerin. The collaterals of 21 patients disappeared or diminished during exercise-induced angina before nitroglycerin administration, and were unchanged in the remaining five cases. However, the collaterals of all patients after nitroglycerin administration were unchanged or increased during exercise-induced angina. Considering there were no significant changes in pulmonary arterial end-diastolic pressures during angina before and after nitroglycerin administration, a pressure gradient between the donor and recipient coronary arteries was suggested as being related to the patency of the collaterals. These results suggested the following: 1. It is not appropriate to postulate that the collaterals visualized at rest may remain unchanged during exercise-induced angina. 2. It is not reasonable to conclude that exercise accelerates the development of collateral circulation. 3. One favorable effect of nitroglycerin administration is the prevention of exercise-induced ischemia via collateral circulation.
In this prospective cohort study of Caucasian mothers and children in Krakow, Poland, we evaluated the role of prenatal exposure to urban air pollutants in the pathogenesis of neurobehavioral disorders.
The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between prenatal polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) exposure and child intelligence at 5 years of age, controlling for potential confounders suspected to play a role in neurodevelopment.
A cohort of pregnant, healthy, nonsmoking women was enrolled in Krakow, Poland, between 2001 and 2006. During pregnancy, participants were invited to complete a questionnaire and undergo 48-hr personal air monitoring to estimate their babies' exposure, and to provide a blood sample and/or a cord blood sample at the time of delivery. Two hundred fourteen children were followed through 5 years of age, when their nonverbal reasoning ability was assessed using the Raven Coloured Progressive Matrices (RCPM).
We found that higher (above the median of 17.96 ng/m3) prenatal exposure to airborne PAHs (range, 1.8-272.2 ng/m3) was associated with decreased RCPM scores at 5 years of age, after adjusting for potential confounding variables (n = 214). Further adjusting for maternal intelligence, lead, or dietary PAHs did not alter this association. The reduction in RCPM score associated with high airborne PAH exposure corresponded to an estimated average decrease of 3.8 IQ points.
These results suggest that prenatal exposure to airborne PAHs adversely affects children's cognitive development by 5 years of age, with potential implications for school performance. They are consistent with a recent finding in a parallel cohort in New York City.
Bortezomib (PS-341) is a newly developed proteosome inhibitor that shows extremely promising antineoplastic effects against a variety of neoplasias. Neuropathic pain is emerging as a major complication of bortezomib. Although clinical reports have appeared in the literature describing the general symptoms of bortezomib chemoneuropathy, specific quantitative sensory data that detail the sensory deficits that might yield insight to the primary afferent dysfunction contributing to this pain is lacking. In this report, it is shown that patients with bortezomib-induced neuropathic pain have significantly elevated touch detection threshold and slotted peg board time, impaired sharpness detection, and elevated thresholds for the detection of skin warming and heat pain. Patients also had increased reports of cold pain. These data indicate that bortezomib-induced neuropathy is associated with deficits in Abeta, Adelta, and C caliber primary afferent fibers.
This work demonstrates that pain induced by the chemotherapy drug bortezomib is accompanied by dysfunction in all fiber types in sensory nerves. Impaired Abeta and C sensory function also extends into areas of skin that are not perceived as affected by pain.
To examine the effect of raloxifene on major adverse events that occur with postmenopausal estrogen therapy or tamoxifen.
The Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation, a multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial, enrolled 7,705 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Women were randomly assigned to raloxifene 60 mg/d or 120 mg/d or placebo. Outcomes included venous thromboembolism, cataracts, gallbladder disease, and endometrial hyperplasia or cancer.
During a mean follow-up of 3.3 years, raloxifene was associated with an increased risk for venous thromboembolism (relative risk [RR] 2.1; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.2-3.8). The excess event rate was 1.8 per 1,000 woman-years (95% CI -0.5-4.1), and the number needed to treat to cause 1 event was 170 (95% CI 100-582) over 3.3 years. Risk in the raloxifene group was higher than in the placebo group for the first 2 years, but decreased to about the same rate as in the placebo group thereafter. Raloxifene did not increase risk for cataracts (RR 0.9; 95% CI 0.8-1.1), gallbladder disease (RR 1.0; 95% CI 0.7-1.3), endometrial hyperplasia (RR 1.3; 95% CI 0.4-5.1), or endometrial cancer (RR 0.9; 95% CI 0.3-2.7).
Raloxifene was associated with an increased risk for venous thromboembolism, but there was no increased risk for cataracts, gallbladder disease, endometrial hyperplasia, or endometrial cancer.
I
Unilateral, site-specific microinjection of fentanyl (2.5 micrograms/50 nl) into the locus coeruleus (LC) in Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with ketamine evoked a significant increase in the electromyographic activity recorded from both caudal lateral extensor and gastrocnemius muscles. This correlate of opiate-induced muscular rigidity was appreciably antagonized by a pretreatment with the specific alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocker, prazosin (250 micrograms/kg, i.v.). On the other hand, an equimolar dose (0.65 mumol/kg) of the specific alpha 2-adrenoceptor blocker, yohimbine (0.23 mg/kg, i.v.) failed to prevent the occurrence of fentanyl-induced EMG activation. We suggest that the coerulospinal noradrenergic pathway may be directly involved in the elicitation of muscular rigidity by fentanyl, possibly via alpha 1-adrenoceptors in the spinal cord.
Visual evoked responses (VERs) were recorded in 47 children, aged 3-13 years with tuberculosis, treated with ethambutol (20 mg/kg/day) as a part of the antitubercular regimen. VERs were evoked by monocular whole field stimulation, the stimulus being provided by a black and white checker-board pattern reversed every 560 msec and recorded before the commencement, 2, 4, 6, 9 and 12 months of therapy and between 3 to 6 months after stopping the drug. In the first 6 months of therapy the mean values of latency ranged from 92.8 to 101.3 msec in the 3 to less than 6 years age group and 88.5 to 100.3 msec in children 6-13 years of age. Between 6-12 months of therapy the mean values of latency were between 93.3 to 101.0 msec in the 3 to less than 6 years age group and 96.0 to 101.5 msec in the older group. Between 3-6 months after stopping therapy the means of latency ranged from 92 to 96 msec. The differences were not statistically significant at any point of time. Thus, children do not seem to be at greater risk for developing ethambutol inducted optic damage as compared to adults. Ethambutol in the above stated dose may, therefore, be recommended for inclusion in antitubercular chemotherapy in pediatrics without undue fear of subclinical toxicity.
The epileptogenicity of antibiotic drugs represents a clinical problem, and it is well known that the use of penicillin and certain other preparations can induce seizures. In the present study, the authors investigated the epileptogenic properties of different concentrations of 12 commonly used antibiotic medications belonging to seven separate groups. The drugs were tested in the hippocampus, which has a low threshold for the development of epileptiform activity. The hippocampal slice technique, using rat tissue, was employed since absence of the blood-brain barrier allows administration of the drugs in known concentrations. The preparation was exposed to antibiotics in known concentrations and the amplitude and number of population spikes were recorded. Penicillin G was used as a reference substance. Cloxacillin (> or = 1 gm/liter), cephalothin (> or = 1 gm/liter), gentamicin (> or = 80 mg/liter), chloramphenicol (> or = 1 gm/liter), ciprofloxacin (> or = 50 mg/liter), erythromycin (> or = 1 gm/liter), and ampicillin (> or = 1 gm/liter) showed moderate to marked epileptogenic effects, whereas cefuroxime, clindamycin, cefotaxime, vancomycin, and tobramycin had no epileptogenic effects.
The aim of this study was to estimate cytokeratin 7 (CK-7) expression in biopsy specimens of patients with different stages of primary biliary cirrhosis and clinicopathological patterns (cholestatic and hepatitic) and its correlation with some biochemical and pathological parameters and to examine a diagnostic value of CK-7 expression.
A total of 82 biopsy specimens of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis were analyzed. CK-7 expression was graded by 4 grades depending on the extent into parenchymal areas and bile duct epithelium. The correlations of CK-7 expression grade with copper deposition, bile duct/portal tract ratio, bilirubin concentration, and activity of alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase were studied. CK-7 expression was evaluated as a marker of cholestasis (cholestatic pattern) and inflammation (hepatitic pattern).
A positive correlation of CK-7 expression grade with copper-binding protein grade (r=0.698, P<0.0001; OR=6.199, P<0.0001), serum bilirubin level (r=0.375, P=0.001), and alkaline phosphatase activity (r=0.276, p=0.014) was found. CK-7 expression grades correlated positively with histological stages of primary biliary cirrhosis (r=0.639, P<0.000) and negatively with granulomas (r=-0.432, P<0.0001; OR=0.173, P=0.0011).
CK-7 expression is a sensitive marker of bile duct injury, which correlated well with histological stages of primary biliary cirrhosis, copper deposits, and biochemical markers of cholestasis: serum bilirubin level and alkaline phosphatase activity. Evaluation of CK-7 expression may improve the diagnosis of this serious and progressive disease. It is recommended to evaluate copper staining together with cytokeratin 7 expression in liver biopsy specimens for more precise diagnostic evaluation of asymptomatic primary biliary cirrhosis.
Twelve of 30 Africans with heart block gave a history of chronic chloroquine abuse. Eleven of these had evidence of chloroquine retinopathy whereas four of the 18 nonabusers had abnormal ophthalmologic findings, thought to be senile changes. The chronic chloroquine abusers were all male and were younger (mean age 51.6 years) than the non-abusers (mean age 61.2), nine of whom were female. Serum chloroquine levels were not helpful diagnostically. In the absence of other etiological factors, chronic chloroquine toxicity is important in the causation of heart block in Africans.
There will be an estimated 59,940 new cases of melanoma and 8,110 deaths from melanoma in the United States in 2007. There has been no improvement in survival with melanomas in the last 22 years, with current treatment indicating that new treatment(s) of melanoma are drastically needed. Four cardiac hormones ie, atrial natriuretic peptide, vessel dilator, long-acting natriuretic peptide, and kaliuretic peptide, have significant anticancer effects in adenocarcinomas.
Dose-response curves evaluated the effects of these cardiovascular hormones on cell death and DNA synthesis in several melanoma cell lines in culture for 96 hours. Receptors to mediate these peptide hormones effects were examined in the melanoma cells with Western blots. Their intracellular mediator-analog 8-bromo-cyclic GMP was used to determine if it could mimic their effects on decreasing melanoma cell number and DNA synthesis.
The four cardiac hormones caused cell death in up to 71% (P < 0.001) of the melanoma cells within 24 hours. Cardiac hormone receptors (NPR-A, -B, -C) were present on the melanoma cells, and each of the peptide hormones decreased DNA synthesis within the melanoma cells up to 73% (P < 0.001) at their 1-microM concentrations. 8-Bromo-cyclic GMP mimicked their effects, decreasing the number of melanoma cells up to 67% and their DNA synthesis by 58% (both at P < 0.01).
These results indicate that 4 cardiac hormones have potent beneficial effects by increasing cell death in up to 71% of melanoma cells within 24 hours mediated in part by a 73% decrease in their DNA synthesis.
A 55-year-old male with chronic lymphocytic leukemia developed a skin eruption after receiving oral cyclophosphamide. Subsequent rechallenge with parenteral cyclophosphamide led to recurrence of the skin lesions, which on biopsy were shown to be vasculitic in nature.
Statins reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and can raise high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). HDL-bound paraoxonase-1 (PON1) is associated with variations in plasma HDL-C, and may, therefore, contribute to changes of HDL-C during statin therapy.
The effects of baseline PON1 status to HDL-C changes because of statin therapy were investigated. PON1 status was determined with (i) PON1 -107C>T and 192Q>R genotype, (ii) PON1 levels and (iii) PON1 paraoxonase, diazoxonase and arylesterase activity.
Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
A total of 134 familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) patients undergoing atorvastatin or simvastatin therapy.
PON1 levels and activities significantly modified the HDL-C increment (P=0.002 for PON1 levels and arylesterase activity and P=0.001 for diazoxonase activity). The effects were even more evident amongst subgroup classifications based on PON1 status and baseline HDL-C concentrations: the HDL-C increment was more pronounced in subgroups of -107CT/TT or 192QR/RR genotype combined with low baseline HDL-C (+13.9%, P<0.001, respectively+15.4%, P<0.001). In contrast, the -107CC or 192QQ genotype in combination with high baseline HDL-C, did not show a significant increase of HDL-C.
PON1 status in conjunction with baseline HDL-C levels predicts HDL-C increment during statin therapy in FH patients.
Several findings have indicated that schizophrenia may be connected with the impaired epigenetic regulation of gene transcription. The present study investigated the epigenetic modifications connected with histone H3 methylation at lysine (K)4 and K9 in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in a neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia based on prenatal administration of methylazoxymethanol (MAM) at embryonic day 17, which impairs the sensorimotor gating process in adult but not adolescent animals. The effect of MAM was determined at different postnatal ages, pre-puberty (P15, P30 and P45) and post-puberty (P60 and P70), using western blot analyses. MAM treatment altered the levels of H3K9me2 before puberty. H3K9me2 was decreased at P15 and P45 but was increased at P30. In contrast, H3K4me3 was noticeably decreased in adult rats. Immunofluorescence experiments revealed that H3K9me2 protein levels were increased in neuronal cells at P30 and that H3K4me3 levels were decreased in astrocytes at P60 after MAM administration. Decreases in the methyltransferase ASH2L protein levels at P45, P60 and P70 were also observed, while the protein levels of the methyltransferase G9a did not change. In addition, levels of the demethylases LSD1 and JARID1c were analysed after MAM administration. LSD1 protein levels were increased at P15 but decreased at P30. JARID1c protein levels were increased in the MAM-treated animals at P60. Decreased Gad1 mRNA levels were found in adult MAM-treated animals, similar to alternation observed in schizophrenia. The present study indicates that prenatal MAM administration evokes changes in the methylation patterns of histone H3 during postnatal life.
Haloperidol, a dopamine receptor antagonist and sigma-receptor-active neuroleptic drug, is cytotoxic to primary hippocampal neurones, C6 glioma cells and NCB20 cells. A 24 h challenge of these cells with haloperidol resulted in reduced cell viability and ultimately cell lysis. The most dramatic changes in cellular morphology were the retraction of cellular extensions, development of membrane blebs, and finally cell detachment from the culture dish. DNA isolated from haloperidol-treated cells was randomly degraded, indicating a necrotic rather than an apoptotic pathway of cell death. Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol), a lipophilic free radical scavenger, prevented haloperidol-induced DNA fragmentation and ultimately cell death. These findings suggest that haloperidol induces necrotic cell death in which free radicals play a major role.
The authors report a new case of acute renal insufficiency with Rifampicin. They evoke the clinical background which is characteristic of these anuric tubular nephritis. They recall the different complications with Rifampicin to which they can be associated and the different mechanisms which can be at the origin of this affection as well as the difficulties to reveal them. Then, they insist on the prevention of renal accidents within the frame of our present knowledge.
Pharmacogenetics uses genetic variation to predict individual differences in response to medications and holds much promise to improve treatment of addictive disorders.
To review how genetic variation affects responses to cocaine, amphetamine, and methamphetamine and how this information may guide pharmacotherapy.
We performed a cross-referenced literature search on pharmacogenetics, cocaine, amphetamine, and methamphetamine.
We describe functional genetic variants for enzymes dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH), catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), and dopamine transporter (DAT1), dopamine D4 receptor, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP; C-1021T) in the DbetaH gene is relevant to paranoia associated with disulfiram pharmacotherapy for cocaine addiction. Individuals with variable number tandem repeats (VNTR) of the SLC6A3 gene 3'-untranslated region polymorphism of DAT1 have altered responses to drugs. The 10/10 repeat respond poorly to methylphenidate pharmacotherapy and the 9/9 DAT1 variant show blunted euphoria and physiological response to amphetamine. COMT, D4 receptor, and BDNF polymorphisms are linked to methamphetamine abuse and psychosis.
Disulfiram and methylphenidate pharmacotherapies for cocaine addiction are optimized by considering polymorphisms affecting DbetaH and DAT1 respectively. Altered subjective effects for amphetamine in DAT1 VNTR variants suggest a 'protected' phenotype.
Pharmacogenetic-based treatments for psychostimulant addiction are critical for successful treatment.
