Hyperprolactinaemia is a common finding in patients treated with antipsychotics. A complete cohort of 194 schizophrenia and bipolar disorder patients receiving antipsychotics in a single community mental health trust in Halifax UK underwent routine prolactin screening in the absence of any reLevant symptomatoLogy. Values above the upper limit of normal were measured in 38% of the cohort and were more common in females (52%) than males (26%). Significantly elevated levels (>1000 mIU/l) were measured in 21% of the cohort. Risperidone monotherapy treatment was associated with hyperprolactinaemia in 69% of patients ( n = 35) and in 100% of female patients (n = 16) and amisulpride monotherapy in 100% (n = 7). Prolactin screening is not currently undertaken routinely in the UK. These data give some indication of prevalence of varying degrees of hyperproLactinaemia that might be found when screening an asymptomatic cohort of schizophrenia and bipolar outpatients. Clinicians may be helped by the reporting of such categorical data from clinical trials in addition to mean cohort values of prolactin. Long-term hyperprolactinaemia may be associated with clinical sequeLae in some patients.
This study was performed to investigate the effect of muscimol on morphine-induced hyperactivity, reverse tolerance and postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity in mice. A single administration of morphine induced hyperactivity as measured in mice, and the morphine-induced hyperactivity was inhibited dose-dependently by the administration of the GABA(A) agonist, muscimol (0.3, 0.5 and 1.0 mg kg(-1) i.p.). However, daily repeated administration of morphine caused the development of reverse tolerance against morphine hyperactivity (10 mg kg(-1) s.c.). The administration of muscimol inhibited the development of reverse tolerance against morphine hyperactivity (10 mg kg(-1) s.c.) in mice that had received chronic administration of morphine. Postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity, as shown by the enhanced ambulatory activity after administration of apomorphine (2 mg kg(-1) s.c.), also developed in reverse-tolerant mice. Muscimol also inhibited the development of postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity induced by the chronic administration of morphine. These results suggest that the hyperactivity, reverse tolerance and postsynaptic dopamine receptor supersensitivity induced by morphine can be inhibited via the activation of GABA(A) receptors.
We have shown previously that interleukin-8 (IL-8) and IL-8 receptor expression is elevated in tumor cells of human prostate biopsy tissue and correlates with increased cyclin D1 expression. Using PC3 and DU145 cell lines, we sought to determine whether IL-8 signaling regulated cyclin D1 expression in androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC) cells and to characterize the signaling pathways underpinning this response and that of IL-8-promoted proliferation. Administration of recombinant human IL-8 induced a rapid, time-dependent increase in cyclin D1 expression in AIPC cells, a response attenuated by the translation inhibitor cycloheximide but not by the RNA synthesis inhibitor, actinomycin D. Suppression of endogenous IL-8 signaling using neutralizing antibodies to IL-8 or its receptors also attenuated basal cyclin D1 expression in AIPC cells. Immunoblotting using phospho-specific antibodies confirmed that recombinant human IL-8 induced rapid time-dependent phosphorylation of Akt and the mammalian target of rapamycin substrate proteins, 4E-BP1 and ribosomal S6 kinase, resulting in a downstream phosphorylation of the ribosomal S6 protein (rS6). LY294002 and rapamycin each abrogated the IL-8-promoted phosphorylation of rS6 and attenuated the rate of AIPC cell proliferation. Our results indicate that IL-8 signaling (a) regulates cyclin D1 expression at the level of translation, (b) regulates the activation of proteins associated with the translation of capped and 5'-oligopyrimidine tract transcripts, and (c) activates signal transduction pathways underpinning AIPC cell proliferation. This study provides a molecular basis to support the correlation of IL-8 expression with that of cyclin D1 in human prostate cancer and suggests a mechanism by which this chemokine promotes cell proliferation.
In the late 1960s, an epidemic of primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) occurred in Europe shortly after the introduction of aminorex fumarate, a potent anorexigen. A recently published case-control study from Europe reported that use of other anorexigens (the most prevalent of which was dexfenfluramine) was also associated with an increased risk of PPH. This led to warnings of a repeat epidemic, especially after the introduction of dexfenfluramine on the North American market.
To compare the epidemiologic associations of PPH with aminorex and dexfenfluramine, both with respect to strength of association (estimate of relative risk) and public health impact (etiologic fraction) and thus to assess the potential for a new epidemic of PPH.
We constructed a "synthetic" case-control study for aminorex based on reported case series from Berne and Basel, Switzerland, and a random population sample from Hanover, Germany, and compared the results with those recently reported for dexfenfluramine. Control rates of exposure were used to estimate population exposure prevalences and, hence, etiologic fractions.
The estimated odds ratio (and 95% confidence interval) for the association between PPH and any exposure to aminorex was 97.8 (78.9-121.3), with a corresponding etiologic fraction of 77%. The corresponding figures for dexfenfluramine were 3.7 (1.9-7.2) and 17%, respectively.
The strong association between aminorex and PPH probably led to a 5-fold increase in PPH incidence, and thus a very noticeable epidemic. The association with dexfenfluramine would result in an increase in incidence of only 20%. Based on the available evidence, a repeat PPH epidemic seems unlikely.
Epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA) has been used to prevent rebleeding in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although this agent does decrease the frequency of rebleeding, several reports have described thrombotic complications of EACA therapy. These complications have included clinical deterioration and intracranial vascular thrombosis in patients with SAH, arteriolar and capillary fibrin thrombi in patients with fibrinolytic syndromes treated with EACA, or other thromboembolic phenomena. Since intravascular fibrin thrombi are often observed in patients with fibrinolytic disorders, EACA should not be implicated in the pathogenesis of fibrin thrombi in patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation or other "consumption coagulopathies." This report describes subtotal infarction of the kidney due to thrombosis of a normal renal artery. This occlusion occurred after EACA therapy in a patient with SAH and histopathological documentation of recurrent SAH. The corresponding clinical event was characterized by marked hypertension and abrupt neurological deterioration.
To examine possible influences of premorbid and comorbid factors on the neuropsychological test performance of recently abstinent (3-5 weeks) drug abusers, we studied 24 alcoholics, 23 cocaine abusers, and 22 healthy controls of comparable age and education. Both alcoholics and cocaine abusers performed significantly more poorly than controls on most measures of learning and memory, problem solving and abstraction and perceptual-motor speed, but the groups did not differ on the measure of sustained attention. Correlational analyses revealed no significant relationships between measures of childhood and residual hyperactivity and neuropsychological performance; scores on the Beck Depression Inventory were related only to performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. The findings indicate that abuse of cocaine or alcohol is associated with deficits on neuropsychological tests which cannot be attributed to specific premorbid or comorbid factors such as depression or childhood or residual attention deficit disorder.
The authors' objective was to assess the frequency and nature of cocaine-induced paranoia.
They interviewed 50 cocaine-dependent men consecutively admitted to a 28-day rehabilitation program.
Thirty-four (68%) of the 50 men reported highly distressing transient paranoid states in the context of cocaine use. The men who experienced paranoia did not differ from those who did not in age, race, or measures of cocaine use. The mean duration and amount of cocaine use before development of paranoia of the men who reported paranoia were not significantly different from the mean lifetime duration and amount of cocaine used by the men who did not report paranoia. Paranoia became more severe and developed more rapidly with continued cocaine use.
The transient paranoid state appears to be a common feature of cocaine dependence and does not seem to be simply a result of exceeding a threshold of use. Rather, affected individuals might possess a predisposition to this drug-induced state. The fact that paranoia became more severe and developed more rapidly with continued drug use is consistent with a sensitization model of cocaine-induced paranoia. In vulnerable individuals, limbic sensitization may underlie its expression, but localization to a specific brain region is speculative. Quantity of use and route of administration do not appear directly to predispose to this phenomenon. Future investigations must be aimed at uncovering the markers and meaning of vulnerability to transient paranoia in heavy cocaine users.
Abstract Potentially teratogenic agents enter the environment at a rate that greatly exceeds current capabilities to effectively evaluate their reproductive toxicities. This is due, in part, to costly, labour-intensive methodologies involving mammalian embryonic screening assays that are currently in use worldwide. Therefore, we sought to develop a rapid, less expensive screening system with which to identify molecular biomarkers of teratogenicity using a non-mammalian system. Embryos of the topminnow, Fundulus heteroclitus, offer several advantages in terms of reproductive toxicity screening efficiency as compared with mammalian embryonic systems. These embryos are easily manipulated and develop normally at ambient temperature in air, water, or air-saturated mineral oils, making them readily adapted for field studies. In the present study, developing f. heteroclhs embryos were exposed to teratogenic concentrations of sodium valproate (VPA) or arsenic acid (arsenate), and the frequency and types of induced malformations were evaluated. Using in situ transcription and antisense RNA (aRNA) amplification procedures (IST/aRNA), we attempted to correlate the teratogenic outcomes to specific alterations in the expression of a panel of developmentally regulated genes. Preliminary studies identified treatment concentrations of arsenate and VPA that induced abnormal development in 95 % of the surviving embryos. Among the F. heteroclitus embryos, the structural defects most commonly induced by these compounds were cardiac and neural tube malformations. The genetic expression profiles revealed a number of genes whose expression levels were significantly altered by exposure to the test compounds. Molecular analysis of f. heteroclitus embryonic development represents a novel, inexpensive approach to screen for potential teratogens, and identify genes whose expression patterns may be used as biomarkers, or indicators, of teratogenicity.
Cadmium is a well-known carcinogenic and immunotoxic metal commonly found in cigarette smoke and industrial effluent. An altered intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) level has been implicated in the pathophysiology of immune dysfunction. The present study was designed to determine the possible involvement of calcium (Ca(2+)) and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) signaling pathways on cadmium-induced cell death in J774A.1 murine macrophage cells. Cadmium caused a low-amplitude [Ca(2+)](i) elevation at 20 microM and rapid and high-amplitude [Ca(2+)](i) elevation at 500 microM. Exposure to cadmium dose-dependently induced phosphorylation of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) and deactivated p38 MAPK. Use of the selective JNK inhibitor SP600125 suggested that activation of JNK is pro-apoptotic and pro-necrotic. Buffering of the calcium response with 1,2-bis-(2-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetrakis (acetoxy-methyl) ester (BAPTA-AM) and ethylene glycol-bis-(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA) completely blocked cadmium-induced apoptotic response. The pretreatment of cells with BAPTA-AM and EGTA suppressed the cadmium-induced cell injury, including growth arrest, mitochondrial activity impairment, and necrosis, and it also recovered the cadmium-altered JNK and p38 MAPK activity. Chelating [Ca(2+)](i) also reversed cadmium-induced hydrogen peroxide generation, suggesting that production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is related to [Ca(2+)](i). The present study showed that cadmium induces a [Ca(2+)](i)-ROS-JNK-caspase-3 signaling pathway leading to apoptosis. Furthermore, cadmium-induced [Ca(2+)](i) regulates phosphorylation/dephosphorylation of JNK and p38, and it modulates signal transduction pathways to proliferation, mitochondrial activity, and necrosis.
Endothelin and its receptors have been identified in the spinal cord. Intrathecal administration of endothelin-3 produces hypotension in anesthetized rats. The present study was designed to identify whether endothelin-3 is released upon changes in sympathetic nervous activity. Endothelin-3-like immunoreactivity in spinal superfusates was directly correlated with resting arterial pressure. Endothelin-3 levels were enhanced by hypothalamic stimulation and by hemorrhage-induced hypotension and reduced by nitroprusside-induced hypotension. These findings suggest that sympathetic activation enhances endothelin-3 release but that nitroprusside may act directly to suppress release. We propose that endothelin-3 plays a role in spinal regulation of sympathetic outflow.
Hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (HCBD) causes damage specifically to the renal proximal tubule in rats. In the present study, injury to the nephron of male Hanover Wistar rats was characterized at 24 h following dosing with HCBD in the range 5-90 mg kg⁻¹ to determine the most sensitive biomarkers of damage, that is, the biomarkers demonstrating significant changes at the lowest dose of HCBD, using a range of measurements in serum and urine, renal histopathology, and renal and hepatic gene expression. Histologically, kidney degeneration was noted at doses as low as 10 mg kg⁻¹ HCBD. Significant changes in the hepatic and renal gene expression categories of xenobiotic metabolism and oxidative stress were observed at 5 mg kg⁻¹ HCBD, and in the kidney alone, evidence of inflammation at 90 mg kg⁻¹ HCBD. Increases in the urinary excretion of α-glutathione S-transferase (α-GST) and kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) were seen at 10 mg kg⁻¹ HCBD, and increases in urinary excretion of albumin and total protein were evident at 15 mg kg⁻¹ HCBD. The most sensitive, noninvasive biomarkers of HCBD-induced renal toxicity in Hanover Wistar rats were urinary α-GST and KIM-1. Urinary albumin measurement is also recommended as, although it is not the most sensitive biomarker, together with α-GST, albumin showed the largest relative increase of all the biomarkers investigated, and the protein is easily measured.
Oxidative stress plays a pathological role in the development of heart failure. This study examined telomere biology in heart/muscle-specific manganese superoxide dismutase-deficient mice (H/M-SOD2(-/-)), which develop progressive congestive heart failure and exhibit pathology typical of dilated cardiomyopathy. EUK-8 (25mg/kg/day), a superoxide dismutase and catalase mimetic, was administered to H/M-SOD2(-/-) mice for four weeks beginning at 8 weeks of age. Telomere length, telomerase activity, telomere-associated proteins, and cell death signals were assessed in hearts from control wild-type mice (H/M-Sod2 (lox/ lox)) and H/M-SOD2(-/-) mice either treated or untreated with EUK-8. While cardiac function was unchanged in these experimental mice, the end-diastolic dimension in H/M-SOD2(-/-) mice was notably dilated and could be significantly reduced by EUK-8 treatment. At the end of the study, no shortening of telomere length was observed in heart tissues from all mice tested, but telomerase activity was decreased in heart tissue from H/M-SOD2(-/-) mice compared to control mice. Protein expression for telomerase reverse transcriptase and telomere repeat binding factor 2 was also downregulated in H/M-SOD2(-/-) heart tissue as was expression of phospho-Akt, insulin-like growth factor, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Expression levels of Sirt1, a lifespan modulator, were enhanced while FoxO3a was depressed in H/M-SOD2(-/-) hearts. All of the changes seen in H/M-SOD2(-/-) heart tissue could be inhibited by EUK-8 treatment. Taken together, the results suggest that oxidant stress might affect myocardial telomerase activity and telomere-associated proteins. Telomerase may therefore play a pivotal role in antioxidant defense mechanisms, and may be useful as a novel therapeutic tool for treating human heart failure.
Fragile X syndrome is one of the most common causes of mental retardation in males, and patients with fragile X syndrome occasionally develop autism. It is usually caused by an expansion of the trinucleotide repeat in the 5'-untranslated region of the FMR1 gene, but in a small number of patients deletions and point mutations have been identified. We screened all 17 exons of the FMR1 gene for mutations in 90 autistic or mentally retarded children using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis. No mutations were found in 76 male patients. However, one female patient was heterozygous for a normal allele and a mutant allele with an A to C substitution at nucleotide 879 in exon 9. This mutation was not found in 50 controls. Reverse transcription-PCR revealed that a large proportion of the mutant transcripts were spliced aberrantly, causing premature termination of the protein synthesis. Although uncommon, point mutations in the FMR1 gene may be a cause of autism and mental retardation in Japanese patients.
Shakuyakukanzoto (SKT) composed of Glycyrrhizae radix (G. radix) and Paeoniae radix (P. radix) has been traditionally used in Japan, Korea and China as an antispasmodic drug for the treatment of skeletal muscle cramps and intestinal cramps.
To evaluate the antispasmodic activity of SKT and its two components, as well as to identify the key constituents of the components which mediate this effect in skeletal muscles in vivo.
An experimental cramp model was constructed to evaluate the effects of peripherally-acting muscle relaxants on electrically-induced cramps under physiological conditions. This was accomplished by surgically isolating the motor supply to the gastrocnemius muscle in an anesthetized rat and delivering electrical stimuli to an isolated tibial nerve to induce tetanic contractions. We first tested dantrolene, a well-known peripherally-acting relaxant, to determine the sensitivity and reliability of our experimental model. We then evaluated the effects of SKT, P. radix, G. radix, and the eight active constituents of G. radix against tetanic contractions.
We found that dantrolene (10 and 30 mg/kg, i.d.) rapidly and significantly inhibited tetanic contractions (P<0.01) irrespective of dose. SKT (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 g/kg, i.d.) and G. radix (0.5 and 1.0 g/kg, i.d.) also significantly inhibited tetanic contractions (P<0.01) but in a dose-dependent manner owing to the actions of six of the eight active constituents in G. radix (liquiritin apioside, liquiritigenin, isoliquiritin apioside, isoliquiritigenin, glycycoumarin, and glycyrrhetinic acid, 20 μmol/kg, i.v.). These constituents, which include flavonoids, a triterpenoid, and a courmarin derivative, demonstrated temporal variations in their inhibitory activity. In contrast, P. radix (0.5 and 1.0 g/kg, i.d.) did not show a statistically significant antispasmodic effect in our study; however, we previously found that it had a significant antinociceptive effect.
Our findings show that SKT inhibits tetanic contractions in vivo and that G. radix is the main antispasmodic component due to the actions of its active constituents, thus supporting the traditional use of SKT. We further propose that SKT containing the antispasmodic G. radix and antinociceptive P. radix is a pharmaceutically elegant option for muscle cramps as treatment requires a two-pronged approach, i.e., inhibition of hyperexcitable skeletal tissues and modulation of the pain accompanying cramps.
Methotrexate (MTX) use is associated with hepatic fibrosis in psoriasis patients. To monitor this serial liver biopsies were performed. The Fibroscan and the Fibrotest are two novel, non-invasive methods that might be able to assess MTX-induced hepatic fibrosis.
Evaluating the accuracy and feasibility of the Fibroscan and Fibrotest to detect significant MTX-induced liver fibrosis in psoriasis patients.
We assessed 24 psoriasis patients who had a recent liver biopsy during MTX use. The results from the Fibroscan and Fibrotest were compared with liver histology.
Fibroscan values (n=20) ranged between 3.3 and 18.4 kPa (median value 6.4 kPa) and correctly identified 88% of the patients without significant liver fibrosis (Metavir score <F2, Fibroscan</=7.1 kPa). The Fibrotest identified 83% of the patients with significant liver fibrosis (Metavir score >/=F2, Fibrotest >0.31).
In this population, Fibrotest accurately predicted the presence of significant liver fibrosis while the Fibroscan accurately predicted the absence of significant liver fibrosis in MTX users. This suggests that a combination of Fibrotest and Fibroscan should prospectively be evaluated in monitoring and detecting significant MTX-induced liver fibrosis in psoriasis patients.
In the present study, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), as an immune modulator in male adult rats and alpha-lipoic acid (ALA), as a powerful biological antioxidant and anti-inflammatory, are examined to help understanding the role of the immune and redox perturbation in testicular dysfunction with a possible protection. A total of 60 male Swiss albino rats were divided into 5 groups (10/group) respectively as follows Saline, ALA-vehicle, ALA (200mg/kg), LPS (5mg/kg) started with 20 rats and LPS+ALA. Obtained data from previously reported study, in our laboratory, and from the present one revealed that LPS induced marked reductions in sperm's count, motility and resulted in deterioration of the testicular histological features. In addition, LPS decreased testicular reduced glutathione (GSH) level and lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme-x (LDH-x) activity. However, it increased testicular levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), nitric oxide (NO) and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-HDG) in testicular DNA, along with increased serum IL-2 level. In contrast, rats pretreated with ALA showed almost complete normalization of all the tested parameters. In conclusion, LPS induced perturbation of the immune-testicular barrier as a result of redox imbalance with a subsequent testicular dysfunction. Pretreatment with ALA ameliorated all these effects by its immune-modulator and antioxidant mechanisms suggesting a protective role against male infertility in septic or severely infected patients.
Cigarette smoke is a reproductive hazard associated with pre-mature reproductive senescence and reduced clinical pregnancy rates in female smokers. Despite an increased awareness of the adverse effects of cigarette smoke exposure on systemic health, many women remain unaware of the adverse effects of cigarette smoke on female fertility. This issue is compounded by our limited understanding of the molecular mechanisms behind cigarette smoke induced infertility. In this study we used a direct nasal exposure mouse model of cigarette smoke-induced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease to characterise mechanisms of cigarette-smoke induced ovotoxicity. Cigarette smoke exposure caused increased levels of primordial follicle depletion, antral follicle oocyte apoptosis and oxidative stress in exposed ovaries, resulting in fewer follicles available for ovulation. Evidence of oxidative stress also persisted in ovulated oocytes which escaped destruction, with increased levels of mitochondrial ROS and lipid peroxidation resulting in reduced fertilisation potential. Microarray analysis of ovarian tissue correlated these insults with a complex mechanism of ovotoxicity involving genes associated with detoxification, inflammation, follicular activation, immune cell mediated apoptosis and membrane organisation. In particular, the phase I detoxifying enzyme cyp2e1 was found to be significantly up-regulated in developing oocytes; an enzyme known to cause molecular bioactivation resulting in oxidative stress. Our results provide a preliminary model of cigarette smoke induced sub-fertility through cyp2e1 bioactivation and oxidative stress, resulting in developing follicle depletion and oocyte dysfunction.
Lidocaine induces electroencephalographic seizures and generalized convulsions at large doses. It is possible that epileptic patients are more susceptible to the proconvulsant effect of lidocaine. Using a kindling model of epilepsy, we examined whether the seizure susceptibility to lidocaine increases in epileptic rats. Kindled epileptic rats were prepared by repeated, initially subconvulsive, electrical stimulations applied to the amygdala for 9-14 days through a chronically implanted electrode, resulting in the establishment of a long-lasting epileptic focus. Unexpectedly, kindled rats had significantly less susceptibility to the proconvulsant action of IV lidocaine. Lidocaine-induced convulsions were observed in 11%, 75%, and 77% of control rats at 7.5, 10.0, and 12.5 mg/kg, respectively, compared with 0%, 25%, and 37% of amygdala-kindled rats, respectively. We also demonstrated that small doses of lidocaine suppressed kindled seizures in a dose-dependent manner. We conclude that the critical mechanisms underlying lidocaine-induced seizures differ from the mechanisms underlying kindled epileptogenesis. Furthermore, the establishment of a kindled epileptic focus decreases susceptibility to the proconvulsant action of lidocaine.
Our previous study indicated petroleum ether layer of Cnidium monnieri L. Cuss. (CM) and its ingredient osthole could alleviate scopolamine-induced amnesia in female rats.
Hence, this study was desired to investigate the mechanism of the ameliorating effects of petroleum ether layer of CM on the performance impairment of inhibitory avoidance task and Morris water maze induced by scopolamine in male rats.
CM at 0.1-0.6g/kg orally administered 60 min before the training trial ameliorated the scopolamine-induced performance impairment on inhibitory avoidance learning and water maze in male rats. Only adrenalectomy but not peripheral cholinergic antagonist scopolamine methylbromide and catecholaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine blocked the ameliorating effects of CM on scopolamine-induced performance impairment in rats.
Therefore, we demonstrated that the ameliorating effects of CM on scopolamine-induced performance impairment may be related to activating the adrenal gland and central acetylcholingeric neuron, instead of peripheral nervous system.
A 29-year-old man with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and atrial fibrillation developed fatal ventricular fibrillation shortly after receiving intravenous verapamil. The patient presented with an irregular pulse of 190. A total of 23 mg of verapamil was administered in small intravenous doses over 35 minutes. The ventricular rate accelerated as verapamil was administered, and fatal ventricular fibrillation followed. Three theoretical mechanisms by which verapamil may enhance conduction of atrial fibrillation in Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, predisposing to ventricular fibrillation, are mentioned.
Diabetes has a markedly greater incidence of cardiovascular disease than the non-diabetic population. The heart shows a slowly developing increase in fibrosis in diabetes. Extended cardiac fibrosis results in increased myocardial stiffness, causing ventricular dysfunction and, ultimately, heart failure. Reversal of fibrosis may improve organ function survival. Postprandial hyperglycemia plays an important role in the development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular complications, and has been proposed as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular diseases. Salacia oblonga (S.O.) is traditionally used in the prevention and treatment of diabetes. We investigated the effects of its water extract on cardiac fibrosis and hyperglycemia in a genetic model of type 2 diabetes, the obese Zucker rat (OZR). Chronic administration of the extract markedly improved interstitial and perivascular fibrosis in the hearts of the OZR. It also reduced plasma glucose levels in non-fasted OZR, whereas it had little effect in the fasted animals, suggesting inhibition of postprandial hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetic animals, which might play a role in improvement of the cardiac complications of OZR. Furthermore, S.O. markedly suppressed the overexpression of mRNAs encoding transforming growth factor betas 1 and 3 in the OZR heart, which may be an important part of the overall molecular mechanisms. S.O. dose-dependently inhibited the increase of plasma glucose in sucrose-, but not in glucose-loaded mice. S.O. demonstrated a strong inhibition of alpha-glucosidase activity in vitro, which is suggested to contribute to the improvement of postprandial hyperglycemia.
Effects of combined administration of pentoxifylline (PTX) and precursors of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) on behavior and cerebral contents of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were examined in mice. The intraperitoneal administration of PTX at 100 mg/kg to mice pretreated with pargyline (100 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly increased the frequency of head twitches induced by 5-HTP (25 mg/kg, i.p.), and the effect of PTX was approximately 2 times more potent than that of other methylxanthines. In these mice, the cerebral contents of 5-HTP, 5-HT and 5-HIAA were also elevated significantly. However, PTX itself had no effect to induce head twitch response or to increase the contents of the indoles in mice. When administered in combination with tryptophan (100 mg/kg, i.v.) to pargyline-pretreated mice, PTX (100 mg/kg, i.p.) did not affect the contents of the indoles in the brain. These results suggest that PTX may have an effect to promote transport of exogenous 5-HTP into the neurons, besides the 5-HT turnover-increasing effect common to methylxanthine derivatives.
For proof-of-concept of halogen bonding in drug design, a series of halogenated compounds were designed based on a lead structure as new inhibitors of phosphodiesterase type 5. Bioassay results revealed a good correlation between the measured bioactivity and the calculated halogen bond energy. Our X-ray crystal structures verified the existence of the predicted halogen bonds, demonstrating that the halogen bond is an applicable tool in drug design and should be routinely considered in lead optimization.
To study the effects of propranolol and bepridil on levothyroxine-induced rat cardiac hypertrophy and mitochondrial Ca2+ Mg(2+)-ATPase activity elevation.
Rat heart hypertrophy was induced by i.p., levothyroxine 1 mg.kg-1.d-1 x 10 d. Then rats were treated by ig propranolol (Pro) or bepridil (Bep) 10 mg.kg-1 daily. Ca2+ Mg(2+)-ATPase activity and enzyme kinetic parameters were assayed.
The activity and Vmax of mitochondrial Ca2+ Mg(2+)-ATPase isolated from hypertrophic left ventricle were 25 +/- 4 and 35.1 +/- 0.8 mumol Pi.h-1/mg protein, respectively, those of normal were 6.7 +/- 1.8 and 10 +/- 4 mumol Pi.h-1/mg protein, respectively. Apparent K(m) of the hypertrophic group Ca2+ Mg(2+)-ATPase was 0.4 +/- 0.12 mmol.L-1 ATP, and that of normal was 0.59 +/- 0.22 mmol.L-1 ATP. The total protein quantity of hypertrophic left ventricle was 80 +/- 30 mg, and that of normal was 47 +/- 9 mg. After treated with Pro or Bep (both 10 mg.kg-1 ig), the cardiac hypertrophy was attenuated, the enzyme activity and Vmax as well as total protein quantity of hypertrophic left ventricle were reduced to normal level, but apparent K(m) was not affected.
Both Pro and Bep prevented the myocardium and its mitochondria from ischemia and overload calcium injury.
Previous reports suggest that some atypical antipsychotics may have obsessogenic as well as antiobsessional effects. Given their higher affinity for serotonin 5HT2 receptors than dopamine D2 receptors, it has been speculated that atypical antipsychotics may induce obsessive-compulsive (OC) symptoms, even at low doses, due to high 5HT2 antagonism, whereas improvement in OC symptoms is thought to occur only at high doses due to high D2 antagonism.
In this open case series, the dose-response relationship of atypical antipsychotic augmentation in the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), and the dose-severity relationship in atypical anti psychotic-induced OC symptoms were examined. Three patients were identified who had either refractory OCD or OC symptoms following administration of atypical antipsychotics such as olanzapine and risperidone.
Case 1: A linear dose-response relationship between increasing doses of olanzapine and improvement in OC symptoms was observed in an OCD patient resistant to 5-HT reuptake inhibitors. 2: OC symptoms induced by low doses of risperidone (1 mg) were reversed by increasing the doses of risperidone (3 mg) in a bipolar disorder patient suggesting an inverse dose-severity relationship. 3: No inverse dose-severity relationship was noted between olanzapine induced OC symptoms and its dosage in an asymptomatic OCD patient. Tretment-emergence OC symptoms responded to increasing the doses of maintanance clomipramine treatment.
Controlled studies are needed to investigate the dose-response or dose-severity relationships between OCD and atypical antipsychotics.
In 4-6% of treatment histories, clozapine induces generalized seizures by reducing the seizure threshold. Despite the knowledge of high risks combined therapy (such as bone marrow suppression, pathological EEG changes), some authors even suggest the prophylactic combination with anticonvulsants in high dose treatment of clozapine. We report a case of a 33-year-old female patient, a heavy smoker, suffering from mixed schizoaffective disorder from 1989 onwards. At her 8th admission in 1998, she was rehospitalized after experiencing her first generalized seizure under clozapine treatment, although no seizure phenomenon or other relevant side-effects under several previous clozapine therapies had been observed. Therefore, she received a valproic acid co-medication during her clozapine therapy. Based on therapeutic drug monitoring of clozapine (weekly) under compliance-controlled conditions, the serum levels of clozapine significantly decreased, probably induced by valproic acid. According to the literature, this case report might support the clinical relevance of therapeutic drug monitoring when clozapine therapy is combined with valproic acid as co-medication.
A patient with chronic myeloid leukaemia treated with busulphan for 4-5 years, developed signs of busulphan toxicity and portal hypertension with ascites, oesophageal varices and jaundice. At post-mortem there was minimal leukaemic infiltration but there were alterations in the liver architecture sufficient to explain the portal hypertension. The pathogenesis of the liver changes and their possible relationship to splenomegaly and busulphan toxicity are considered.
