The exposure to nickel chloride (NiCl₂) can cause hematotoxicity and hepatotoxicity and canaffect development. The present study pertains to the protective effect of selenium (Se) against NiCl₂-induced toxicity in preimplanted Wistar albino rats. The subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of 25 or 50 mg/kg of NiCl₂ to Wistar albino rats on day 3 of gestation induced an immediate and significant decrease in maternal body weight and anemia 2 days after treatment. In addition, an increase in plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) was observed. These effects were maintained on day 20 of gestation. Moreover, a significant increase in plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels was observed with the administration of 25 mg/kg of NiCl₂. Conversely, administration of 50 mg/kg of NiCl₂ by s.c. injection increased erythropoiesis at day 20 of gestation and decreased platelets counts. In addition, administration of 100 mg/kg of NiCl₂ markedly reduced the maternal body weight and number of live fetuses and increased fetal loss, predominantly at the end of the experimental period. All dose levels of NiCl₂ caused an alteration in the hepatic histoarchitecture. When 0.3-mg/kg Se was injected s.c. with 100-mg/kg NiCl₂, the levels of plasma AST and ALT and the structure of the liver were restored. Administration of 20 mg/L/day of NiCl₂ in the drinking water significantly reduced the maternal body weight at day five of gestation as well as erythropoiesis during the exposure period. The present study suggests that Se can counteract the nocuous effect of nickel on the liver; however this antioxidant did not prevent alterations in development and erythropoiesis.
The time of administration of once-daily antihypertensive agents may have a significant impact on blood pressure control during awake and sleep periods. Using 24-h ambulatory monitoring, we compared the effects of morning and evening dosing of the long-acting dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, nisoldipine extended-release (ER), on circadian blood pressure (BP) and heart rate in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. After completing a 3-week placebo run-in period, 85 patients were randomized to morning versus evening nisoldipine ER treatment at a fixed 20-mg dose. Patients were treated for 4 weeks, followed by crossover to the alternate dosing regimen for 4 additional weeks. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory monitoring was performed at baseline and at 4 and 8 weeks after randomization. Awake and sleep times were determined by electronic activity recorders (Actigraphy). Similar least-squares (+/-SE) mean changes from baseline in 24-h BP (systolic BP/diastolic BP: -11.9/-7.4 +/- 0.6/0.5 v -11.6/-6.5 +/- 0.6/0.5 mm Hg) and heart rate (1.0/1.7 +/- 0.4/0.4 beats/min) occurred with morning and evening administration, respectively. A significantly greater effect on awake diastolic BP (systolic BP/diastolic BP: -12.6/-8.1 +/- 0.7/0.4 v -11.3/-6.4 +/- 0.7/0.4 mm Hg; P = .16/.01) was observed with morning dosing compared with evening dosing. In addition, small increases in sleep and early morning heart rate were seen with evening compared with morning administration of nisoldipine (sleep, 3.1 +/- 0.4 v 0.4 +/- 0.4 beats/min; P < .001; early morning, 3.5 +/- 0.7 v 0.5 +/- 0.7 beats/min; P = .002). These differential effects on awake BP and sleep heart rate were also observed in patients who had normal (dippers) and elevated (nondippers) BP values during sleep. Appropriate evaluation of the efficacy and safety of long-acting antihypertensive agents is essential when evening administration is being considered. In the present study, the timing of nisoldipine ER administration had no effect on mean changes in BP and heart rate over a 24-h period. However, nisoldipine ER had some differential effects during sleep and awake periods with morning relative to evening dosing.
Eugenol is widely used in dentistry as a local analgesic agent, because of its ability to allay tooth pain. Interestingly, eugenol shares several pharmacological actions with local anesthetics which include inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) and activation of transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype 1 (TRPV1). In the present study, we investigated the effects of eugenol on pain behaviors in orofacial area, and as an attempt to elucidate its mechanism we characterized inhibitory effects of eugenol on VGSCs in trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons. TG neurons were classified into four types on the basis of their neurochemical and electrophysiological properties such as cell size, shapes of action potential (AP), isolectin-B(4) (IB(4)) binding, and were analyzed for the association of their distinctive electrophysiological properties and mRNA expression of Na(v)1.8 and TRPV1 by using single-cell RT-PCR following whole-cell recordings. Subcutaneous injection of eugenol reduced the thermal nociception and capsaicin-induced thermal hyperalgesia in a dose-dependent manner. Eugenol also diminished digastric electromyogram evoked by noxious electrical stimulation to anterior tooth pulp, which was attributable to the blockade of AP conduction on inferior alveolar nerve. At cellular level, eugenol reversibly inhibited APs and VGSCs in IB(4)+/TRPV1+/Na(v)1.8+ nociceptive TG neurons (Type I-Type III) and IB(4)-/TRPV1-/Na(v)1.8- nociceptive TG neurons (Type IV). Both TTX-resistant I(Na) in Type I-Type III neurons and TTX-sensitive I(Na) in Type IV neurons were sensitive to eugenol. Taken together, these results suggest that eugenol may serve as local anesthetics for other pathological pain conditions in addition to its wide use in dental clinic.
Deafness is the most common form of sensory impairment in the human population and is frequently caused by recessive mutations. To obtain animal models for recessive forms of deafness and to identify genes that control the development and function of the auditory sense organs, we performed a forward genetics screen in mice. We identified 13 mouse lines with defects in auditory function and six lines with auditory and vestibular defects. We mapped several of the affected genetic loci and identified point mutations in four genes. Interestingly, all identified genes are expressed in mechanosensory hair cells and required for their function. One mutation maps to the pejvakin gene, which encodes a new member of the gasdermin protein family. Previous studies have described two missense mutations in the human pejvakin gene that cause nonsyndromic recessive deafness (DFNB59) by affecting the function of auditory neurons. In contrast, the pejvakin allele described here introduces a premature stop codon, causes outer hair cell defects, and leads to progressive hearing loss. We also identified a novel allele of the human pejvakin gene in an Iranian pedigree that is afflicted with progressive hearing loss. Our findings suggest that the mechanisms of pathogenesis associated with pejvakin mutations are more diverse than previously appreciated. More generally, our findings demonstrate that recessive screens in mice are powerful tools for identifying genes that control the development and function of mechanosensory hair cells and cause deafness in humans, as well as generating animal models for disease.
Amnesia can be induced in rats in the passive avoidance paradigm by administration of scopolamine, a central muscarinic receptor antagonist. Tacrine or galanthamine, inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase, given in conjunction with scopolamine partially reversed the scopolamine-induced deficit in passive avoidance performance. Four so-called cognitive enhancers, all widely used for the treatment of the symptoms associated with mental aging, cerebral insufficiency and senile memory disorder, were investigated in this paradigm. Piracetam, an extract of Ginkgo biloba, dihydroergocristine and a combination of raubasine with dihydroergocristine, all attenuated the amnesia induced by scopolamine. In contrast, nicergoline had no significant effect. Raubasine alone also failed to significantly attenuate scopolamine-induced amnesia, although some doses of raubasine had a non-significant tendency (P less than 0.10) to reduce the amnesia.
Physiologically based modelling using DEBtox (dynamic energy budget in toxicology) and transcriptional profiling were used in Caenorhabditis elegans to identify how physiological modes of action, as indicated by effects on system level resource allocation were associated with changes in gene expression following exposure to three toxic chemicals: cadmium, fluoranthene (FA) and atrazine (AZ).
For Cd, the physiological mode of action as indicated by DEBtox model fitting was an effect on energy assimilation from food, suggesting that the transcriptional response to exposure should be dominated by changes in the expression of transcripts associated with energy metabolism and the mitochondria. While evidence for effect on genes associated with energy production were seen, an ontological analysis also indicated an effect of Cd exposure on DNA integrity and transcriptional activity. DEBtox modelling showed an effect of FA on costs for growth and reproduction (i.e. for production of new and differentiated biomass). The microarray analysis supported this effect, showing an effect of FA on protein integrity and turnover that would be expected to have consequences for rates of somatic growth. For AZ, the physiological mode of action predicted by DEBtox was increased cost for maintenance. The transcriptional analysis demonstrated that this increase resulted from effects on DNA integrity as indicated by changes in the expression of genes chromosomal repair.
Our results have established that outputs from process based models and transcriptomics analyses can help to link mechanisms of action of toxic chemicals with resulting demographic effects. Such complimentary analyses can assist in the categorisation of chemicals for risk assessment purposes.
Fusarenon-X (FX), a type B trichothecene mycotoxin, is mainly produced by Fusarium crookwellense, which occurs naturally in agricultural commodities, such as wheat and barley. FX has been shown to exert a variety of toxic effects on multiple targets in vitro. However, the embryonic toxicity of FX in vivo remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated FX-induced apoptosis and the relationship between the genetic regulatory mechanisms and FX-induced apoptosis in the developing mouse brain of FX-treated pregnant mice. Pregnant mice were orally administered FX (3.5 mg/kg b.w.) and were assessed at 0, 12, 24 and 48 h after treatment (HAT). Apoptosis in the fetal brain was determined using hematoxylin and eosin staining, the TUNEL method, immunohistochemistry for PCNA and electron microscopy. Gene expressions were evaluated using microarray and real time-reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Histopathological changes showed that the number of apoptotic cells in the telencephalon of the mouse fetus peaked at 12 HAT and decreased at 24 and 48 HAT. FX induced the up-regulation of Bax, Trp53 and Casp9 and down-regulated Bcl2 but the expression levels of Fas and Casp8 mRNA remained unchanged. These data suggested that FX induces apoptosis in the developing mouse brain in FX-treated dams. Moreover, the genetic regulatory mechanisms of FX-induced apoptosis are regulated by Bax, Bcl2, Trp53 and Casp9 or can be defined via an intrinsic apoptotic pathway.
Spinal reflex and neuromuscular functions were investigated in the beagles ingesting clioquinol over a long period. The twitch tension, the refractory period, the summation of contraction and the discharge of the muscle spindles of the gastrocnemius muscle were not significantly damaged in the treated beagles, whereas the response with long latency of the spinal reflex disappeared completely during the administration not in the control but in the treated dogs. The meanings of disappearance of the spinal reflex in the treated dogs are discussed in relation to the degenerative change in the fasciculus gracilis at the cervical level of the spinal cord.
Patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia (HFH) have abnormalities in both low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor alleles, resulting in severe hypercholesterolaemia and premature coronary heart disease. Limited treatment options are available and the response to drug therapy has been poor. In the present paper, we have evaluated the efficacy and safety of simvastatin at doses beyond the current maximal dose of 40 mg/day in patients with HFH. After a 4 week placebo diet run-in period, 12 patients with well-characterized HFH were randomized to simvastatin 80 mg/day administered in three divided doses (n = 8; group 1) or 40 mg once daily (n = 4; group 2). After 9 weeks, the dose in group 1 was increased to 160 mg/day while the dose in group 2 was kept at 40 mg/day, but with the drug given in three divided doses and treatment continued for an additional 9 weeks. All 12 patients completed the study and there were no serious or unexpected adverse effects. LDL-cholesterol concentrations fell by 14% at the 40 mg/day dose, but were reduced further at the higher doses (25% at the 80 mg/day and by 31% at the 160 mg/day dosage, P < 0.0001). Excretion of urinary mevalonic acid, as an index of in vivo cholesterol biosynthesis, was reduced but did not correlate with reduction in LDL-cholesterol in the individual patients. The magnitude of response to therapy was not predicted by the LDL-receptor gene defect as patients with the same LDL-receptor mutations responded differently to the same dose of simvastatin therapy. The ability of expanded doses of simvastatin (80 or 160 mg/day) to reduce LDL-cholesterol levels in patients with HFH, even if receptor negative, suggests that at these doses, the drug reduces LDL production. Simvastatin therapy, at doses of 80 or 160 mg/day, should therefore be considered in all patients with HFH, either as an adjunct to apheresis, or as monotherapy for those patients who do not have access to apheresis or other such treatment modalities.
To assess the renal benefits of a specific angiotensin II receptor antagonist, losartan, in diabetic rats with renal impairment.
Uninephrectomized streptozotocin diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were randomly assigned to receive vehicle, or to receive losartan or captopril, or both, intraperitoneally via osmotic minipumps for 8 weeks.
Blood pressure and urinary protein excretion in the diabetic SHR increased progressively during the experimental period. Both captopril treatment and losartan treatment completely blocked the development of hypertension in diabetic SHR. Simultaneous administration of captopril and losartan did not enhance the antihypertensive effects of losartan treatment or captopril treatment. Furthermore, losartan treatment, captopril treatment and losartan + captopril treatment all significantly decreased urinary protein excretion, urinary albumin excretion and serum creatinine to the same extent. These effects were sustained for the entire experimental period and were not associated with any significant changes in body weight, urine volume, urine sugar and urinary electrolytes excretion. These results were confirmed by morphological analysis of kidneys in each group of rats. Losartan treatment, captopril treatment and losartan+captopril treatment all significantly and effectively protected against an increase in the percentage of focal glomerular sclerosis. Losartan treatment and captopril treatment both significantly attenuated the increase in heart weight: body weight ratio. The heart weight: body weight ratio in the losartan-treated group was significantly lower than in the captopril-treated group.
These results indicate that hypertension could accelerate diabetic renal impairment and that losartan has antihypertensive and renoprotective effects in this rat model. They also suggest that the antihypertensive and renoprotective effects of captopril treatment in this rat model are caused mainly by inhibition of angiotensin II production rather than stimulation of the kallikrein-kinin system or of vasodilator prostaglandins. The difference in potency between losartan treatment and captopril treatment to attenuate the increase in heart weight: body weight ratio might partly explain the existence in the heart of angiotensin-forming pathways, which are not dependent on angiotensin converting enzyme.
Pregnancy protects against breast cancer development in humans and rats. Parous rats have persistently reduced circulating levels of growth hormone, which may affect the activity of the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I axis. We investigated the effects of IGF-I on parity-associated protection against mammary cancer.
Three groups of rats were evaluated in the present study: IGF-I-treated parous rats; parous rats that did not receive IGF-I treatment; and age-matched virgin animals, which also did not receive IGF-I treatment. Approximately 60 days after N-methyl-N-nitrosourea injection, IGF-I treatment was discontinued and all of the animal groups were implanted with a silastic capsule containing 17beta-estradiol and progesterone. The 17beta-estradiol plus progesterone treatment continued for 135 days, after which the animals were killed.
IGF-I treatment of parous rats increased mammary tumor incidence to 83%, as compared with 16% in parous rats treated with 17beta-estradiol plus progesterone only. Tumor incidence and average number of tumors per animal did not differ between IGF-I-treated parous rats and age-matched virgin rats. At the time of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea exposure, DNA content was lowest but the alpha-lactalbumin concentration highest in the mammary glands of untreated parous rats in comparison with age-matched virgin and IGF-I-treated parous rats. The protein levels of estrogen receptor-alpha in the mammary gland was significantly higher in the age-matched virgin animals than in untreated parous and IGF-I-treated parous rats. Phosphorylation (activation) of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2) and expression of the progesterone receptor were both increased in IGF-I-treated parous rats, as compared with those in untreated parous and age-matched virgin rats. Expressions of cyclin D1 and transforming growth factor-beta3 in the mammary gland were lower in the age-matched virgin rats than in the untreated parous and IGF-I-treated parous rats.
We argue that tumor initiation (transformation and fixation of mutations) may be similar in parous and age-matched virgin animals, suggesting that the main differences in tumor formation lie in differences in tumor progression caused by the altered hormonal environment associated with parity. Furthermore, we provide evidence supporting the notion that tumor growth promotion seen in IGF-I-treated parous rats is caused by activation of estrogen receptor-alpha via the Raf/Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade.
Palpitation is a common chief complaint among emergency department patients, and is often associated with a tachydysrhythmia. Tachydysrhythmia is classified as supraventricular tachycardia or ventricular tachycardia. Reentry in a normal or accessory pathway is one of the most frequently seen mechanisms explaining the tachydysrhythmia. In the present case, we report an unusual cause of atrioventricular paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia due to pseudoephedrine intake.
Somatostatin is a mediator of immune functions and has been used as an antineoplastic agent in animal models and human neoplasias. We have demonstrated that Octreotide inhibits only LPS induced secretion of proinflammatory cytokines including TNFa by Kupffer cells (KC). We, therefore, tested the hypothesis that somatostatin modulates the expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF?) receptors and apoptosis of KC.
Rat KC were isolated by centrifugal elutriation. TNFR1 and TNFR2 expression was studied by RT-PCR, quantitative PCR, Western Blot and immunofluorescence before and after Octreotide pre-incubation. Apoptosis was assessed by quantitative measurement of cytoplasmic histone-associated DNA fragments. TNFa mRNA expression was assessed by semiquantitative PCR and TNFa was measured in cell supernatants by ELISA.
TNFR1 and TNFR2 mRNA are constitutively expressed in KC. Octreotide incubation increased both receptors expression with a peak at 6?h and return to basal levels at 24?h. TNFR1 was mostly influenced. However, only increase in TNFR2 protein was identified, whereas a band at 90 kD was present instead of a band at 55 kD as expected for TNFR1. TNF? mRNA expression was inhibited by Octreotide and a significant inhibition was observed at 48?h. TNF had no effect on KC apoptosis, whereas Octreotide significantly increased their apoptosis, and this effect was not influenced by co-incubation with TNFa.
TNFR1 and TNFR2 are constitutively expressed in KC and their expression is strongly increased by somatostatin. Moreover, somatostatin increases KC apoptosis. These findings may in part explain the antineoplasmatic effect of somatostatin.
1,3-Butanediol (BD) is converted in the body to beta-hydroxybutyrate, and previous studies have shown that hyperketonemia had beneficial effects in experimental models of generalized hypoxia. The aim of this study was to determine if BD would reduce brain damage following cerebral ischemia. A transient forebrain ischemia of 30-min duration was induced by the four-vessel occlusion technique in control and BD-treated rats (25 mmol/kg, i.p.; 30 min prior to ischemia). BD treatment led to significant improvement of neurologic deficit during the 72-h recovery period and reduced neuronal damage in the striatum and cortex but not in the CA1 sector of the hippocampus. Evaluation of cerebral energy metabolism before and at the end of the ischemic period showed that the treatment did not change the preischemic glycolytic and energy metabolite levels but attenuated the ischemia-induced metabolic alterations. It increased energy charge, phosphocreatine, and glucose levels, and reduced lactate accumulation. The decrease in brain lactate concentration might account for the beneficial effects of BD by minimizing the neuropathological consequences of lactic acidosis.
The effects of benzodiazepine (mainly diazepam) on the following central action of narcotic analgesics were tested: antinociceptive action (Randall-Selitto and hot plate tests), hypermotility, inhibition of methylphenidate stereotypy, catalepsy. Diazepam, in doses not affecting the pain threshold markedly potentiated morphine, codeine, etorphine, pentazocine and fentanyl antinociception. Hypermotility produced by morphine and fentanyl was inhibited by pretreatment with chlordiazepoxide, diazepam and clonazepam. Diazepam potentiated the inhibitory effect of opiates on methylphenidate-induced stereotyped gnawing in mice and increased the catalepsy induced by morphine and fentanyl in rats. In all experiments the effects of diazepam were suppressed by the substances which impair GABA-ergic neurotransmission: bicuculline and picrotoxin. Obtained results indicate that benzodiazepine potentiate the antinociceptive and cataleptogenic effects of opiates and their inhibitory influence on methylphenidate stereotypy. However, these drugs antagonize locomotor hyperactivity in mice. All these actions seem to be related to facilitation of GABA-ergic neurotransmission by benzodiazepines.
Inner ear damage may lead to structural changes in the central auditory system. In rat and chinchilla, cochlear ablation and noise trauma result in fiber growth and synaptogenesis in the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN). In this study, we documented the relationship between carboplatin-induced hair cell degeneration and VCN plasticity in the chinchilla. Unilateral application of carboplatin (5mg/ml) on the round window membrane resulted in massive hair cell loss. Outer hair cell degeneration showed a pronounced basal-to-apical gradient while inner hair cell loss was more equally distributed throughout the cochlea. Expression of the growth associated protein GAP-43, a well-established marker for synaptic plasticity, was up-regulated in the ipsilateral VCN at 15 and 31 days post-carboplatin, but not at 3 and 7 days. In contrast, the dorsal cochlear nucleus showed only little change. In VCN, the high-frequency area dorsally showed slightly yet significantly stronger GAP-43 up-regulation than the low-frequency area ventrally, possibly reflecting the high-to-low frequency gradient of hair cell degeneration. Synaptic modification or formation of new synapses may be a homeostatic process to re-adjust mismatched inputs from two ears. Alternatively, massive fiber growth may represent a deleterious process causing central hyperactivity that leads to loudness recruitment or tinnitus.
Haloperidol is a classical neuroleptic drug that is still in use and can lead to abnormal motor activity such as tardive dyskinesia (TD) following repeated administration. TD has no effective therapy yet. There is involvement of calcium in triggering the oxidative damage and excitotoxicity, both of which play central role in haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia and associated alterations. The present study was carried out to investigate the protective effect of calcium channel blockers [verapamil (10 and 20 mg/kg), diltiazem (10 and 20 mg/kg), nifedipine (10 and 20 mg/kg) and nimodipine (10 and 20 mg/kg)] against haloperidol induced orofacial dyskinesia and associated behavioural, biochemical and neurochemical alterations in rats. Chronic administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p., 21 days) resulted in a significant increase in orofacial dyskinetic movements and significant decrease in % retention, coupled with the marked increase in lipid peroxidation and superoxide anion generation where as significant decrease in non protein thiols and endogenous antioxidant enzyme (SOD and catalase) levels in rat brain striatum homogenates. All these deleterious effects of haloperidol were significantly attenuated by co-administration of different calcium channel blockers. Neurochemically, chronic administration of haloperidol resulted in significant decrease in levels of catecholamines (dopamine, serotonin) and their metabolites (HVA and HIAA) but increased turnover of dopamine and serotonin. Co-administration of most effective doses of verapamil, diltiazem, nifedipine and nimodipine significantly attenuated these neurochemical changes. Results of the present study indicate that haloperidol-induced calcium ion influx is involved in the pathogenesis of tardive dyskinesia and calcium channel blockers should be tested in clinical trials with nifedipine as the most promising one.
Human consumption of ephedrine and caffeine in dietary supplements has been associated with a number of adverse effects including changes in the ECG, myocardial infarction, hyperthermia, and, in rare instances, death. The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential mechanisms associated with the cardiotoxicity of combined ephedrine and caffeine ingestion. Seven- and fourteen-week-old Fischer 344 rats treated with ephedrine in combination with caffeine exhibited increases in heart rate (HR), temperature, and corrected QT interval. Of the 14-wk-old rats treated with 25 mg/kg ephedrine plus 30 mg/kg caffeine, 57% died within 3-5 h of treatment, whereas none of the similarly treated 7-wk-old rats nor any of the rats treated with vehicle died. One hour after treatment with this dose of ephedrine plus caffeine, 14-wk-old rats exhibited a larger increase in HR (as % increase over baseline) than 7-wk-old rats. Furthermore, the 14-wk-old rats that died had a higher HR and temperature than the 14-wk-old rats that lived. Histopathological studies suggested interstitial hemorrhage and myofiber necrosis in the 14-wk-old rats treated with the highest concentration of ephedrine and caffeine. This study showed enhanced susceptibility to ephedrine plus caffeine in 14-wk-old rats compared with 7-wk-old rats. The greater mortality in the 14-wk-old rats was associated with increases in body temperature, HR, and myocardial necrosis.
In 1983 Sommer described a new syndrome in a mother and her infant daughter which was subsequently called the syndrome of craniofacial, hand anomalies and sensorineural deafness. The syndrome consisted of a normal calvarium with a flat facial profile, hypertelorism and small palpebral fissures with an antimongoloid slant, a depressed nasal bridge with a button tip and slitlike nares and a small "pursed" mouth. Profound sensorineural hearing loss and ulnar deviation of the hands with flexion contractures of digits three, four and five was evident. The family had another child, a son, two years after the birth of the index case that had the exact manifestations as his mother and sister. Because of three affected family members in two generations and a phenotype of midfacial anomalies and dystopia canthorum resembling Waardenburg syndrome, a search for mutations in the PAX3 gene was undertaken. A missense mutation in the paired domain of PAX3 (Asn47Lys) was detected. We have provided a 20-year follow-up of a syndrome characterized by craniofacial anomalies, hearing loss and hand deformities and which is caused by a PAX3 missense mutation.
This study examines possible synergistic effects of lindane and ethanol on inducing liver injury and serum fatty acid derangement in adult male Wistar rats. When administered together, ethanol and lindane-induced even more pronounced increase of alanine aminotransferase (165 +/- 10 U/L) and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity (10.3 +/- 0.6 U/L) than after isolated administration of either substance. In addition, separate administration of lindane and ethanol was followed by a significant decrease of linoleic acid level in the serum (301 +/- 38 mg/L, 276 +/- 35 mg/L vs. 416 +/- 48 mg/L). However, when ethanol administration was followed by lindane injection, serum linoleic acid was at the similar level found in the control group (516 +/- 62 mg/L). Ethanol-treated rats that received lindane 30 min after ethanol administration have shown a marked increase of palmitic (421 +/- 27 mg/L) and linolic acid level (43 +/- 5 mg/L) in comparison with rats that have been treated only with ethanol (316+/-26 mg/L for palmitic and 32 +/- 2 mg/L for linolic acid) or lindane (295 +/- 26 mg/L for palmitic and 301 +/- 38 mg/L for linolic acid). Linolic acid level was significantly greater in comparison with control group (29 +/- 1 mg/L). In conclusion, this study found enough evidence to support the hypothesis that acute ethanol intoxication potentiates lindane-induced liver injury and enhances lipid derangement.
The effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, two inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase, on apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning, was studied in male rats after intravenous and intracerebroventricular administration. Both compounds prevented dose-dependently apomorphine and oxytocin responses, when given systemically (5-50 mg/kg) or centrally (30-500 micrograms per rat), but NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was about 5 times more potent than NG-monomethyl-L-arginine. The D-isomer of NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, which does not inhibit nitric oxide synthase, was ineffective. The results suggest that central nitric oxide is involved in the expression of penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine and oxytocin.
The characterization of sensory, motor and cognitive dysfunctions following occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) is prerequisite to investigations of treatment intervention in animal models of ischemia. Different strategies are used to induce ischemia, but the focal, transient occlusion of the MCA has been reported to result in neuropathology most similar to that seen in clinical cerebral ischemia. If the MCA occlusion technique results in a stroke animal model, then the behavioral impairments inherent in stroke should be manifested in this model. The present study provides a further characterization of behavioral alterations associated with MCA occlusion. Sprague-Dawley rats underwent temporal occlusion of the right MCA, and at 1 mo and 2 mo postischemia, were subsequently tested in passive avoidance behavior, motor coordination, asymmetrical motor behavior, neurological functioning, nocturnal spontaneous and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity, and haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Results revealed that ischemic rats showed long-term impairments in sensory, motor and cognitive functions. The discrepancy with other studies reporting temporal MCA-induced behavioral deficits may be due to techniques used to induce ischemia and consequent CNS damage, differences in time period of testing (i.e., immediate vs. later postischemia, nighttime vs. daytime), number of test-retests over the course of the experiment, and age of the animals. The mechanism involved in the MCA-induced behavioral changes may be represented by loss of dopamine receptors on striatal neurons. Histological analysis revealed damage limited to the lateral aspect of the striatum. These behavioral and anatomical data support MCA occlusion as a model of ischemia, and elucidate important factors that should be controlled for in characterizing the MCA-induced neuropathological alterations.
We describe the clinical course of a girl with onset of type I diabetes mellitus at the age of 3 years. At the age of 10, coeliac disease and shortly thereafter a vitamin B12 deficiency anemia (Imerslund-Gräsbeck-syndrome) was diagnosed. Her younger sister also suffered from Imerslund-Gräsbeck-syndrome when she was 11 year old. This unusual, so far not described association of rare diseases suggests a common autoimmune etiology.
The central nervous system and concurrent cardiovascular effects of bupivacaine infusion were studied in cats. It was possible to block cortical E.E.G. desynchronization resulting from a sensory stimulus with bupivacaine. The earliest subcortical change that occurred was rhythmic activity in the amygdala and later in the hippocampus. Occasionally, this activity appeared simultaneously in both these sites. Diazepam pretreatment raised the seizure threshold of bupivacaine. Diazepam was also effective in terminating established seizure activity resulting from bupivacaine. All animals pretreated with diazepam (Valium) or diazepam solvent developed cardiac dysrhythmias durind bupivacaine infusion. The possible clinical significance of the interaction of bupivacaine and diazepam solvent is considered.
