To compare the hemodynamic and humoral effects of increasing doses of captopril, blood pressure, heart rate, plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone and angiotensin-converting enzyme activity were measured in 10 patients with mild uncomplicated essential hypertension before and after captopril given in an increasing dose of 25, 50 and 100 mg twice a day, with each dose given for 3 days. The maximal decrease in blood pressure, which was predicted both by basal plasma renin activity values and by the hypotensive response to the first dose, was found after the lowest (25 mg) dose; this effect was detectable for 12 hours independently of the dose administered. Similarly, plasma renin activity was already maximally increased and plasma aldosterone maximally decreased at the lowest dose, while angiotensin-converting enzyme activity showed a dose-dependent inhibition. These data suggest that (1) neither the magnitude nor the duration of the hypotensive effect nor the resin-stimulating and aldosterone-inhibiting actions of captopril are enhanced by drug doses above 25 mg (at least up to 100 mg), and (2) there was no apparent correlation between the degree of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition with increasing doses of captopril and the hypotensive effects of the drug.
The time-course of psychopathological symptoms, of extrapyramidal side effects, and of changes in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration of homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were simultaneously studied during Haloperidol treatment of 14 psychotic patients with chronic organic brain damage. After 15 days of treatment significant antipsychotic effect was found, while Parkinsonism scores in clinical and experimental tests increased only slightly. CSF concentration of HVA increased significantly by 150% compared to the baseline value (p less than 0.05) and 5-HIAA remained unchanged. No correlation was found between the clinical and biochemical variables studied. The comparison of these results with those obtained in patients without brain damage suggests that different psychopathological and extrapyramidal responses to neuroleptics are not strictly associated with specific HVA changes in CSF.
The chronic effects of ACTH on mean arterial pressure (MAP) and related variables were studied in dogs with both chronic norepinephrine (NE)- and chronic aldosterone-induced hypertension. MAP was recorded continuously for 24 hours/day, and sodium intake was 71 mEq/day. ACTH was infused for 8 days at a rate that does not increase MAP in normotensive dogs and yet a rate that produces pronounced mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid effects. Chronic ACTH infusion in dogs with NE hypertension caused natriuresis, kaliuresis, diuresis, hypernatremia, hypokalemia, and suppression of PRA; additionally, there was either no net change in water balance or net water balance was positive. However, in marked contrast to dogs without pre-existing hypertension, in dogs with NE hypertension ACTH produced a pronounced additional increase in MAP of 39 to 63 mm Hg. Although ACTH markedly potentiated NE hypertension, high infusion rates of aldosterone (+6 mm Hg) and cortisol (-7 mm Hg) had relatively weak effects on MAP; further, in dogs with NE hypertension, the increase in MAP associated with simultaneous infusions of high rates of cortisol and aldosterone was equal to only approximately half of that produced by ACTH. In dogs with aldosterone hypertension, the changes in salt and water balance produced by ACTH were comparable to those that occurred when ACTH was administered to dogs with NE hypertension. In dogs with aldosterone hypertension, however, ACTH did not produce kaliuresis, hypernatremia, or hypokalemia; moreover, ACTH did not exacerbate aldosterone hypertension. Thus, the data indicate that the hypertensive effects of ACTH are manifested in conditions of reduced renal excretory capacity such as exist when plasma levels of the potent sodium -retaining hormone NE are inappropriately elevated. Finally, the hypertensive effects of ACTH cannot be accounted for simply on the basis of enhanced mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid activity.
We examined the effect of tacrolimus (FK506), an immunosuppressive drug, on indomethacin-induced small intestinal ulceration in rats. Animals were given indomethacin (10 mg/kg, s.c.), killed 24 h later, and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and thiobarbituric acid reactants (TBARS) were evaluated in intestinal lesions. Tacrolimus (0.3 - 3 mg/kg) was administered p.o. twice 0.5 h before and 6 h after indomethacin injection. The expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA was determined by a TaqMan real-time RT-PCR, while the activity of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB DNA-binding was analyzed by electrophoresis mobility shift assays (EMSA) 6 h after indomethacin treatment. Indomethacin provoked severe hemorrhagic lesions in the small intestine, mainly in the jejunum and ileum, accompanied with increases in MPO activity and TBARS. Oral administration of tacrolimus reduced the severity of indomethacin-induced intestinal lesions in a dose-dependent manner. The increases in MPO activity and TBARS were also significantly attenuated by tacrolimus. The expression of iNOS mRNA was markedly enhanced when examined 6 h after indomethacin administration, and this response was counteracted by tacrolimus. Indomethacin also activated NF-kappaB in a tacrolimus-preventable manner. These results suggest that tacrolimus prevents indomethacin-induced small intestinal ulceration in the rat. This effect may be due to inhibition of iNOS induction through suppression of NF-kappaB activation.
In the present study, we investigated whether estrogen remains effective as a neuroprotectant within an impaired nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) system of gonadectomized female and male mice. In Experiment 1, mice were treated with four different regimens of methamphetamine (MA) to establish a protocol for an impaired NSDA system to be used in subsequent experiments. Based upon the results of Experiment 1, in Experiment 2 gonadectomized female mice received a treatment with either control (saline), low- or high-dose of MA to produce an initial NSDA impairment. At one week post-MA, mice received either estradiol benzoate (10 microg) or vehicle followed 24 h later with low-MA or saline. Estrogen altered the toxic effects of the second invasion of MA as indicated by a significant decrease in striatal dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) concentrations. In addition, DA and DOPAC depletion was greater in high- vs. low-dose MA. In gonadectomized male mice (Experiment 3), striatal DA and DOPAC concentrations showed greater decreases following high-, vs. low-doses of MA; however, estrogen did not alter these responses. These results demonstrate that the capacity for estrogen to protect or worsen MA-induced neurotoxicity of dopaminergic neurons is limited to female mice and depends on the condition of the NSDA system.
We have identified disruptions in the dedicator of cytokinesis 8 gene, DOCK8, in two unrelated patients with mental retardation (MR). In one patient, a male with MR and no speech, we mapped a genomic deletion of approximately 230 kb in subtelomeric 9p. In the second patient, a female with mental retardation and ectodermal dysplasia and a balanced translocation, t(X;9) (q13.1;p24), we mapped the 9p24 breakpoint to a region overlapping with the centromeric end of the 230-kb subtelomeric deletion. We characterized the DOCK8 gene from the critical 9p deletion region and determined that the longest isoform of the DOCK8 gene is truncated in both patients. Furthermore, the DOCK8 gene is expressed in several human tissues, including adult and fetal brain. Recently, a role for DOCK8 in processes that affect the organization of filamentous actin has been suggested. Several genes influencing the actin cytoskeleton have been implicated in human cognitive function and thus a possibility exists that the rare mutations in the DOCK8 gene may contribute to some cases of autosomal dominant mental retardation.
Endogenous beta-endorphin levels in the brain are elevated in response to cocaine and are downstream of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. However, beta-endorphin's direct involvement in cocaine reinforcement has not been demonstrated. In the present study, a single bilateral microinjection of anti-beta-endorphin antibodies (4 microg) to the nucleus accumbens during the maintenance phase of cocaine self-administration (1 mg/kg/infusion) significantly increased the number of active and inactive lever responses. The increase in lever responses is reminiscent of rat behavior during extinction of cocaine self-administration. Further, a cocaine dose-response demonstrates that the increased lever presses in anti-beta-endorphin antibody-injected rats was still present after substitution with a lower dose of cocaine. These findings support a critical role for beta-endorphin in the cocaine brain reward system.
We compared the ketoprofen-propacetamol combination relative to propacetamol alone in thyroid and parathyroid surgery in terms of postoperative analgesic efficacy, bleeding, and incidence of nausea and vomiting to determine whether ketoprofen results in any benefit in this type of surgery. Patients were distributed in two parallel groups to be managed by anesthesiologists habitually prescribing (Ketoprofen group) or not prescribing (Control group) ketoprofen in this situation. The same anesthetic technique was used for all patients. Postoperative analgesia consisted of 2 g of propacetamol every 6 h and morphine boluses if the pain score measured by the numerical rating scale pain exceeded 40 (3 mg IV every 10 min in the recovery room, then 5 mg SC every 4 h in the ward). The Ketoprofen group received 100 mg of ketoprofen IV during surgery (starting on resection of specimen) and 8 h later. In the recovery room, patients received oxygen if the SpO(2) while they were breathing room air was < 95% on admission and at 1 and 2 h. Pain scores, opioid consumption, the volume of the cervical draining fluid, and the concentration and mass of hemoglobin in this fluid collected over 24 h were recorded. The 214 patients were distributed into two groups (n = 107 in each group) that were comparable in terms of age, weight, sex, duration of surgery, type of endocrinopathy, surgeon involvement, and the intraoperative dose of sufentanil (P > 0.2). The Ketoprofen group had lower numerical rating scale (P < 0.05), received less morphine during the first 24 h after surgery (7.4 +/- 5 vs 11.7 +/- 6 mg, P < 0.05), had fewer nausea and vomiting episodes (21 vs 38, P < 0.05), and were less likely to require oxygen breathing after 1 h in the recovery room (33 vs 59 patients, P < 0.05). The two groups had the same 24-h volume of cervical draining fluid (72.5 +/- 43 vs 70 +/- 42 mL, P > 0.2) and the same concentration (5.9 +/- 3.4 vs 6.4 +/- 2.8 g per 100 mL, P > 0.1) and mass of hemoglobin (3.9 +/- 2.8 vs 4.2 +/- 2.5 g, P > 0.2) in this collected fluid. Two cervical hematomas necessitating reintervention occurred in the Control group, compared with none in the Ketoprofen group. Ketoprofen reduces the pain score after thyroid and parathyroid surgery, as well as morphine requirements and related adverse effects, without increasing the risk of cervical bleeding.
In a prospective open study, ketoprofen reduced the pain score after thyroid and parathyroid surgery, as well as morphine requirements and related adverse effects, without increasing the risk of cervical bleeding.
Antiarrhythmic and electrophysiologic actions of bethanidine sulfate, a chemical analog of bretylium tosylate, were studied using programmed cardiac electrical stimulation in 14 survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest unassociated with acute myocardial infarction. Before bethanidine sulfate was administered sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias (VT) were inducible in 11 patients and reproducible nonsustained VT was induced in 3 patients. Bethanidine sulfate shortened sinus cycle length and absolute and relative ventricular refractory periods measured during sinus rhythm, but did not alter ventricular effective refractory period measured during ventricular pacing. Bethanidine sulfate prevented inducible VT in 8 patients (57%), increased the number of extrastimuli needed to induce VT in 2 patients, and was ineffective in 4 patients. In contrast, in only 1 of 26 trials with other conventional and investigational antiarrhythmic drugs in these patients was VT prevented. Orthostatic hypotension was a prominent side effect of bethanidine sulfate therapy, but could be reversed in most patients by concomitant administration of protriptyline. Five patients in whom bethanidine sulfate was effective in the laboratory have been treated chronically (400 to 600 mg 4 times daily), and all are alive at 3 to 40 months. In the remaining 9 patients, 8 were treated empirically because no drug was effective in the laboratory and 1 was treated with quinidine, which appeared to be protective during testing. Four of these 9 patients, including the patient treated with quinidine, died suddenly during follow-up. Thus, although bethanidine sulfate therapy is difficult to initiate because of orthostatic hypotensive side effects, it may be useful in treating patients at high risk of recurrent cardiac arrest.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study 10 mg nisoldipine was given orally twice daily for 3.5 days to 12 normotensives and 12 essential hypertensives. In each study period, subjects were exposed to 6 min of physical exercise and 3 min of mental stress following the morning dose on day 3 and 4, respectively. Blood pressure, heart rate, systolic time intervals (day 3 only) and plasma levels of noradrenaline, adrenaline, dopamine as well as dihydroxyphenylglycol (DOPEG; the main presynaptic metabolite of noradrenaline) were determined at rest and at the end of both tests. Nisoldipine increased resting heart rate in normotensives and hypertensives, but reduced resting BP and BP during mental stress in hypertensives only. It also increased plasma concentrations of noradrenaline and DOPEG at rest and plasma noradrenaline concentrations during mental stress in both groups. However, nisoldipine affected neither exercise- nor stress-induced changes in any of the parameters monitored here. There was a correlation between the drug-induced percentage fall in resting BP and the height of BP during placebo treatment. While the resting values of plasma DOPEG were higher in hypertensives than in normotensives, those of plasma noradrenaline were not. Consequently, the linear relationship that existed between the resting plasma concentrations of DOPEG and noradrenaline in both groups was shifted to higher DOPEG levels in hypertensives when compared with normotensives. In conclusion, the effectiveness of nisoldipine in lowering BP was the more pronounced the higher the BP to begin with. Nisoldipine did not attenuate exercise- or stress-induced increases in plasma catecholamines. Essential hypertension may be associated with an enhanced presynaptic formation of DOPEG.
Cocaine dependence continues to be a significant problem in the United States, without any approved pharmacotherapy. Promising findings from preclinical research on the effects of cocaine on serotonin lead to examination of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) as potential treatments for cocaine dependence with mixed results, possibly due to drug interactions or specifics of concomitant behavioral therapy. The purpose of this study was to examine whether the SSRI citalopram would reduce cocaine positive urines in a 12-week, double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Seventy-six cocaine dependent patients received either citalopram 20 mg per day or placebo along with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and contingency management (CM). Citalopram treated subjects showed a significant reduction in cocaine-positive urines during treatment compared to placebo treated subjects. No differences were noted in retention between the two groups. Side effects reported for citalopram were mild, with none leading to discontinuation of study drug. Results of this study support further examination of citalopram in combination with behavioral therapy as a treatment for cocaine dependence.
A case of anaphylactic reaction in the form of acute cyanosis, hypotension with sudden and unexpected death of a patient in the post-operative period following the administration of tetracycline is described. There was no history of previous exposure to the drug.
Although some β-blockers are effective for patients after acute myocardial infarction (AMI), few studies have compared their additive effects on renin-angiotensin system inhibitors (RAS-Is).
The 251 consecutive AMI patients administered angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE-Is) or angiotensin-II receptor blockers (ARBs) were retrospectively investigated and divided into 2 groups: treated without β-blockers (no-β-blocker group, n=80) or treated with β-blockers before discharge (β-blocker group, n=171; carvedilol [n=91] or bisoprolol [n=80]). The doses of RAS-Is used for patients in the no-β-blocker group were at least double those used in the β-blocker group. No significant differences between the 2 groups were observed with regard to baseline characteristics. After a 12-month follow-up, the survival and cardiac event-free rates in the β-blocker group were significantly higher than those in the no-β-blocker group. The percent change in blood pressure did not significantly differ between the 2 groups, but the levels of brain natriuretic peptide, metalloproteinase-2, and metalloproteinase-9 and the left ventricular ejection fraction improved significantly in the β-blocker group compared with the no-β-blocker group. Regarding the 2 β-blockers, carvedilol treatment produced more favorable outcomes than bisoprolol.
The data suggest that treatment with RAS-I in combination with β-blocker is more effective for patients after AMI than treatment with RAS-I alone.
Ewes treated prenatally with testosterone develop metabolic deficits, including insulin resistance, in addition to reproductive dysfunctions that collectively mimic polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), a common endocrine disease in women. We hypothesised that metabolic deficits associated with prenatal testosterone excess involve alterations in arcuate nucleus (ARC) neurones that contain either agouti-related peptide (AgRP) or pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC). Characterisation of these neurones in the ewe showed that immunoreactive AgRP and POMC neurones were present in separate populations in the ARC, that AgRP and POMC neurones co-expressed either neuropeptide Y or cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript, respectively, and that each population had a high degree of co-localisation with androgen receptors. Examination of the effect of prenatal testosterone exposure on the number of AgRP and POMC neurones in adult ewes showed that prenatal testosterone excess significantly increased the number of AgRP but not POMC neurones compared to controls; this increase was restricted to the middle division of the ARC, was mimicked by prenatal treatment with dihydrotestosterone, a non-aromatisable androgen, and was blocked by co-treatment of prenatal testosterone with the anti-androgen, flutamide. The density of AgRP fibre immunoreactivity in the preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus, lateral hypothalamus and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus was also increased by prenatal testosterone exposure. Thus, ewes that were exposed to androgens during foetal life showed alterations in the number of AgRP-immunoreactive neurones and the density of fibre immunoreactivity in their projection areas, suggestive of permanent prenatal programming of metabolic circuitry that may, in turn, contribute to insulin resistance and an increased risk of obesity in this model of PCOS.
The effects of propranolol and diltiazem on left ventricular systolic and diastolic function in hypertensive subjects (DBP 90-114 mmHg) were examined with M-mode and 2D echocardiograms in 21 patients in a double-blind fashion prior to and after 4 months of treatment. Systolic function was assessed by measurement of fractional shortening, mean velocity of fibre shortening, peak systolic pressure/end systolic dimension ratio, and end systolic stress/end systolic dimension ratio. To assess diastolic function, maximal rate of change in left ventricular dimension (MAXD), maximal rate of change in posterior wall thinning (MAX PWT) and early diastolic (EDD) and late diastolic dimension changes (LDD) were calculated using digitised M-mode images of mid-wall diameter. Both propranolol and diltiazem reduced systolic and diastolic pressures similarly. No significant changes were observed in any of the parameters of systolic function with either drug. Similarly neither propranolol nor diltiazem altered MAXD or EDD significantly. Although changes in maximal rate of posterior wall thinning (MAX PWT) were not significant with either drug, diltiazem improved MAX PWT in 7 of 8 patients. The results of the study demonstrate that both propranolol and diltiazem reduce blood pressure without significant deleterious effects on systolic or diastolic function. Diastolic functional parameters, which were not abnormal at baseline, showed no consistent change with either propranolol or diltiazem.
Cadmium (Cd) is a nephrotoxic industrial and environmental pollutant that causes a generalized dysfunction of the proximal tubule. Kim-1 is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is normally not detectable in non-injured kidney, but is up-regulated and shed into the urine during the early stages of Cd-induced proximal tubule injury. The objective of the present study was to examine the relationship between the Cd-induced increase in Kim-1 expression and the onset of necrotic and apoptotic cell death in the proximal tubule. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with 0.6 mg (5.36 micromol) Cd/kg, subcutaneously, 5 days per week for up to 12 weeks. Urine samples were analyzed for levels of Kim-1 and the enzymatic markers of cell death, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and alpha-glutathione-S-transferase (alpha-GST). In addition, necrotic cells were specifically labeled by perfusing the kidneys in situ with ethidium homodimer using a procedure that has been recently developed and validated in the Prozialeck laboratory. Cryosections of the kidneys were also processed for the immunofluorescent visualization of Kim-1 and the identification of apoptotic cells by TUNEL labeling. Results showed that significant levels of Kim-1 began to appear in the urine after 6 weeks of Cd treatment, whereas the levels of total protein, alpha-GST and LDH were not increased until 8-12 weeks. Results of immunofluorescence labeling studies showed that after 6 weeks and 12 weeks, Kim-1 was expressed in the epithelial cells of the proximal tubule, but that there was no increase in the number of necrotic cells, and only a modest increase in the number of apoptotic cells at 12 weeks. These results indicate that the Cd-induced increase in Kim-1 expression occurs before the onset of necrosis and at a point where there is only a modest level of apoptosis in the proximal tubule.
We have demonstrated recently [Callera, Touyz, Teixeira, Muscara, Carvalho, Fortes, Schiffrin and Tostes (2003) Hypertension 42, 811-817] that increased vascular oxidative stress in DOCA (deoxycorticosterone acetate)-salt rats is associated with activation of the ET (endothelin) system via ETA receptors. The exact source of ET-1-mediated oxidative stress remains unclear. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether ET-1 increases generation of ROS (reactive oxygen species) in DOCA-salt hypertension through NADPH-oxidase-dependent mechanisms. Xanthine oxidase, eNOS (endothelial nitric oxide synthase) and COX-2 (cyclo-oxygenase-2) were also examined as potential ET-1 sources of ROS as well as mitochondrial respiration. DOCA-salt and control UniNX (uninephrectomized) rats were treated with the ETA antagonist BMS182874 (40 mg.day(-1).kg(-1) of body weight) or vehicle. Plasma TBARS (thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances) were increased in DOCA-salt compared with UniNX rats. Activity of NADPH and xanthine oxidases in aorta, mesenteric arteries and heart was increased in DOCA-salt rats. BMS182874 decreased plasma TBARS levels without influencing NADPH and xanthine oxidase activities in DOCA-salt rats. Increased p22(phox) protein expression and increased p47(phox) membrane translocation in arteries from DOCA-salt by rats were not affected by BMS182874 treatment. Increased eNOS and COX-2 expression, also observed in aortas from DOCA-salt rats, was unaltered by BMS182874. Increased mitochondrial generation of ROS in DOCA-salt rats was normalized by BMS182874. ETA antagonism also increased the expression of mitochondrial MnSOD (manganese superoxide dismutase) in DOCA-salt rats. In conclusion, activation of NADPH oxidase does not seem to be the major source of oxidative stress induced by ET-1/ETA in DOCA-salt hypertension, which also appears to be independent of increased activation of xanthine oxidase or eNOS/COX-2 overexpression. Mitochondria may play a role in ET-1-driven oxidative stress, as evidenced by increased mitochondrial-derived ROS in this model of hypertension.
As a result of the widespread use of Cd in industry and its extensive dissemination in the environment, there has been considerable interest in the identification of early biomarkers of Cd-induced kidney injury. Kim-1 is a transmembrane glycoprotein that is not detectable in normal kidney, but is up-regulated and shed into the urine following ischemic or nephrotoxic injury. Recent studies utilizing a sub-chronic model of Cd exposure in the rat have shown that Kim-1 is an early urinary marker of Cd-induced kidney injury. Kim-1 was detected in the urine 4-5 weeks before the onset of proteinuria and 1-3 weeks before the appearance of urinary metallothionein and Clara cell protein 16, which are standard markers of Cd nephrotoxicity. In the present study, we have compared the time course for the appearance of Kim-1 in the urine with the time course for the appearance of alpha glutathione-S-transferase (alpha-GST), N-acetyl-beta-D-glucose amidase (NAG) and Cd, each of which have been used or proposed as urinary markers of Cd nephrotoxicity. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were given daily subcutaneous injections of 0.6 mg (5.36 micromoles)/kg Cd, 5 days per week for up to 12 weeks. One day each week, 24 h urine samples were collected and analyzed for protein, creatinine and the various markers. The results showed that significant levels of Kim-1 appeared in the urine as early as 6 weeks into the treatment protocol and then continued to rise for the remainder of the 12 week treatment period. By contrast, significant levels of alpha-GST and NAG did not appear in the urine until 8 and 12 weeks, respectively, while proteinuria was not evident until 10 weeks. The urinary excretion of Cd was below the level of detection until week 4 and then showed a slow, linear increase over the next 6 weeks before increasing markedly between weeks 10 and 12. These results provide additional evidence that Kim-1 is a sensitive biomarker of the early stages of Cd-induced proximal tubule injury.
Dietary factors are believed to modulate arsenic toxicity, potentially influencing risk of arsenical skin lesions. The authors evaluated associations among dietary patterns, arsenic exposure, and skin lesion risk using baseline food frequency questionnaire data collected in the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS) in Araihazar, Bangladesh (2000-2009). They identified dietary patterns and estimated dietary pattern scores using factor analysis. Scores were tested for association with incident skin lesion risk and interaction with water arsenic exposure by using ∼6 years of follow-up data (814 events among 9,677 individuals) and discrete time hazards models (adjusting for key covariates). The authors identified 3 clear dietary patterns: the "gourd and root," "vegetable," and "animal protein" patterns. The gourd and root pattern score was inversely associated with skin lesion risk (P(trend) = 0.001), with hazard ratios of 0.86, 0.73, and 0.69 for the second, third, and fourth highest quartiles. Furthermore, the association between water arsenic and skin lesion incidence was stronger among participants with low gourd and root scores (multiplicative P(interaction) < 0.001; additive P(interaction) = 0.05). The vegetable pattern and animal protein pattern showed similar but weaker associations and interactions. Eating a diet rich in gourds and root vegetables and increasing dietary diversity may reduce arsenical skin lesion risk in Bangladesh.
Cyproheptadine is a drug with direct antimuscarinic, antihistaminic (H1) and antiseronergic (5HT2) effects. In spite of its use as an orexigenic agent in normal or anorectic subjects, little is known about its effect in affective, anxiety or psychotic disorders. We present the case of a 14-year patient beginning with a psychotic syndrome after the sudden withdrawal cyproheptadine, achieving a total control of the symptoms with olanzapine at low dose, besides a good family, school and social adaptation.
Nonconvulsive Status Epilepticus (NCSE) is not uncommon in children, and can be challenging to diagnose and treat. Etiologies vary widely and include infection, trauma and acute withdrawal from medications such as anticonvulsants. We report a child who experienced orofacial dyskinesias concerning for NCSE after withdrawal from high dose benzodiazepines andopiates. Automonic signs typically associated with sedative withdrawal were absent and treatment with benzodiazepines did not improve his symptoms. Diagnostic testing was negative, including electroencephalogram, and resolution was complete within five days. Our case demonstrates the orofacial dyskinesias that may occur during sedative medication withdrawal, and highlights potential confusion with non-convulsive status epilepticus.
Environmental asbestos pollution can cause malignant mesothelioma, but few studies have involved dose-response analyses with detailed information on occupational, domestic, and environmental exposures.
In the present study, we examined the spatial variation of mesothelioma risk in an area with high levels of asbestos pollution from an industrial plant, adjusting for occupational and domestic exposures.
This population-based case-control study included 103 incident cases of mesothelioma and 272 controls in 1987-1993 in the area around Casale Monferrato, Italy, where an important asbestos cement plant had been active for decades. Information collected included lifelong occupational and residential histories. Mesothelioma risk was estimated through logistic regression and a mixed additive-multiplicative model in which an additive scale was assumed for the risk associated with both residential distance from the plant and occupational exposures. The adjusted excess risk gradient by residential distance was modeled as an exponential decay with a threshold.
Residents at the location of the asbestos cement factory had a relative risk for mesothelioma of 10.5 [95% confidence interval (CI), 3.8-50.1), adjusted for occupational and domestic exposures. Risk decreased rapidly with increasing distance from the factory, but at 10-km the risk was still 60% of its value at the source. The relative risk for occupational exposure was 6.0 (95% CI, 2.9-13.0), but this increased to 27.5 (95% CI, 7.8-153.4) when adjusted for residential distance.
This study provides strong evidence that asbestos pollution from an industrial source greatly increases mesothelioma risk. Furthermore, relative risks from occupational exposure were underestimated and were markedly increased when adjusted for residential distance.
The contamination of groundwater by arsenic in Bangladesh is a major public health concern affecting 35-75 million people. Although it is evident that high levels (>300 microg/L) of arsenic exposure from drinking water are related to adverse health outcomes, health effects of arsenic exposure at low-to-moderate levels (10-300 microg/L) are not well understood. We established the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS) with more than 20,000 men and women in Araihazar, Bangladesh, to prospectively investigate the health effects of arsenic predominantly at low-to-moderate levels (0.1 to 864 microg/L, mean 99 microg/L) of arsenic exposure. Findings to date suggest adverse effects of low-to-moderate levels of arsenic exposure on the risk of pre-malignant skin lesions, high blood pressure, neurological dysfunctions, and all-cause and chronic disease mortality. In addition, the data also indicate that the risk of skin lesion due to arsenic exposure is modifiable by nutritional factors, such as folate and selenium status, lifestyle factors, including cigarette smoking and body mass index, and genetic polymorphisms in genes related to arsenic metabolism. The analyses of biomarkers for respiratory and cardiovascular functions support that there may be adverse effects of arsenic on these outcomes and call for confirmation in large studies. A unique strength of the HEALS is the availability of outcome data collected prospectively and data on detailed individual-level arsenic exposure estimated using water, blood and repeated urine samples. Future prospective analyses of clinical endpoints and related host susceptibility will enhance our knowledge on the health effects of low-to-moderate levels of arsenic exposure, elucidate disease mechanisms, and give directions for prevention.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated in the activation of protein kinases, DNA damage responses, and cell apoptosis. The details of how ROS regulate these intracellular biochemical and genetic processes remain to be fully understood. By establishing transformed bronchial epithelial cells through chronic low-dose arsenic treatment, we showed that the capacity of ROS generation induced by arsenic is substantially reduced in the transformed cells relative to the nontransformed cells. Such a reduction in ROS generation endows cells with premalignant features, including rapid growth, resistance to arsenic toxicity, and increased colony formation of the transformed cells. To validate these observations, the capability of ROS generation was restored in the transformed cells by treatment with inhibitors or siRNAs to silence the function of superoxide dismutase (SOD) or catalase and cell growth was determined following these treatments. Enhancement in ROS generation suppressed cell growth and colony formation of the transformed cells significantly. Despite the fact that the transformed cells showed a decreased expression of NF-kappaB signaling proteins IKKbeta and IKKgamma, the proteolytic processing p105 and p100 and NF-kappaB DNA binding activity were elevated in these cells. Increasing ROS generation by silencing SOD and catalase reduced the DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB in the transformed cells. Taken together, the transformed cells induced by arsenic exhibited a decrease in ROS generation, which is responsible for the enhanced cell growth and colony formation of the transformed cells, most likely through a sustained alternative activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor.
A case history is presented of a child in puberty with multiple tics, concentration problems and conduct disorder. Contrary to expectations, the tics diminished after neuroleptics were discontinued and dexamphetamine given in an increasing dose. It is thus argued that multiple tics can hardly be regarded as a clearcut neuro-organic hyperdopaminergic disease.
