We have found that amorphous tau deposits in chloroquine myopathy (CM), a vacuolar myopathy induced by the administration of chloroquine, a well-known lysosomotropic agent. The dynamics of tau in CM and immunocytochemistry strongly suggest that the accumulation of tau is due to defective tau degradation in the lysosomal compartment in the muscle. This observation may offer a new view on the formation of paired helical filaments in Alzheimer's disease: this selective protein degradation pathway may be defective and result in intracellular accumulation of tau, thereby forming the unusual filaments.
Thirteen HIV positive schizophrenic patients (Group 1), age ranging from 23 to 60 years, diagnosed as schizophrenics (DSM IV), were studied during a four week hospitalization period, due to an acute exacerbation phase. The patients were treated with haloperidol (3-15 mg/die p.o.) and diazepam (2-25 mg/die p.o.). Clinical picture and side-effects were assessed by BPRS, HRS-A, HRS-D, and DOTES, at admission and after 2, 3, 4 weeks of hospitalization period (Time 5, 7, 8, 9). Clinical evaluations were compared to a previous hospitalization period, before seroconversion (Time 0, 2, 3, 4), and to a control group (Group 2) of HIV negative schizophrenic patients (11 pb) followed as well during 2 periods of hospitalization. Our data seem to emphasize that the HIV infection could induce organic alterations in the CNS which might cause psychopathological consequences: significantly more severe depressive symptomatology and a reduction of tolerability to neuroleptics in the seroconverted patients' group.
To report a case of acute hepatitis resulting from the use of cyproterone acetate, an adjuvant treatment for prostate cancer.
An 87 year-old white man, admitted to surgery for prostate cancer, received cyproterone acetate 300 mg/d orally and developed acute hepatitis, which initially was diagnosed clinically. A liver biopsy showed changes suggestive of acute cholestatic hepatitis. Cyprotorone was stopped immediately, and the patient was subsequently treated with corticosteroids. He then improved rapidly.
Cyproterone acetate is thought to be well tolerated, but some authors have reported severe hepatic reactions, in particular acute hepatitis, fatal fulminant hepatic failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma. The above-mentioned hepatotoxicity represents an idiosyncratic drug reaction, probably due to the hepatomitogen action of cyproterone, causing an increase of hepatocytes expressing placental glutathione S-transferase, which are considered preneoplastic elements.
This case suggests the possibility of hepatotoxicity from cyproterone.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) receives primary afferents involved in cardiovascular regulation. We investigated the role of NK(1)-receptor bearing neurons in the NTS on cardiovascular reflexes in awake rats fitted with chronic venous and arterial cannulae. These neurons were lesioned selectively with saporin conjugated with substance P (SP-SAP, 2 microM, bilateral injections of 20 nL in the subpostremal NTS, or 200 nL in both the subpostremal and the commissural NTS). Before, and 7 and 14 days after injection of SP-SAP, we measured changes in blood pressure and heart rate induced by i.v. injection of phenylephrine and nitroprusside (baroreceptor reflex), cyanide (arterial chemoreceptor reflex), and phenylbiguanide (Bezold-Jarisch reflex). The smaller injections with SP-SAP completely abolished NK1 receptor staining in the subpostremal NTS. The larger injections abolished NK1 receptor immunoreactivity in an area that extended from the commissural NTS to the rostral end of the subpostremal NTS. The lesions seemed to affect only a limited number of neurons, since neutral red stained sections did not show any obvious reduction in cell number. The smaller lesions reduced the gain of baroreflex bradycardia and the hypotension induced by phenylbiguanide. The larger lesions completely abolished the response to phenylbiguanide, blocked the baroreflex bradycardia induced by phenylephrine, severely blunted the baroreflex tachycardia, and blocked the bradycardia and reduced the hypertension induced by cyanide. Thus, these responses depend critically on NK(1)-receptor bearing neurons in the NTS.
Ten patients attending outpatient clinics who were taking oral corticosteroids ruptured their Achilles tendon in the course of 12 years. It is suggested that Achilles tendon rupture is a complication of corticosteroid treatment.
Musculoskeletal injuries secondary to seizures are well documented and have a variable incidence. Meperidine (Demerol [Abbott, Abbott Park, IL]) has been used for many years in the postoperative setting for pain control; however, in high doses, it has been associated with seizure. We report the case of patient who experienced a tonic-clonic seizure 5 days after hip revision surgery, resulting in dissociation of the socket from the acetabulum with an associated acetabular fracture. In this patient, meperidine administered for patient-controlled analgesia within recommended range caused the seizure.
Coronary artery spasm is not rare in patients with coronary artery disease, but the influence of regional anesthesia on spasm-induced myocardial ischemia is not known. We investigated the effects of spinal anesthesia on myocardial ischemia during coronary artery spasm in rats, and compared these with the effects of an alpha- and beta-adrenergic antagonist, and an alpha-adrenergic agonist. An intraaortic catheter was inserted via the right internal carotid artery so that the tip of the catheter was placed near the coronary ostium. An intrathecal catheter was placed at lumbar level. Coronary spasm was induced by the intraaortic injection of methacholine, and we identified the thresholds of myocardial ischemia, defined as the dose of methacholine that induced ST-segment elevation. Subsequently, the thresholds were determined after spinal anesthesia, and after the intraaortic injection of phentolamine and propranolol. The thresholds of myocardial ischemia increased significantly after intrathecal bupivacaine. In contrast, the threshold did not change after the injection of phentolamine. The thresholds increased significantly after the injection of propranolol. Methoxamine significantly decreased the threshold of ischemia. These results demonstrated that spinal anesthesia attenuated myocardial ischemia during methacholine-induced coronary spasm. This effect was equivalent to that of propranolol.
To describe a patient who developed delirium when switched from cimetidine to famotidine.
An 84-year-old Taiwanese woman was hospitalized for tarry stools. Her past medical history revealed only a decrease in renal function. She tolerated both oral and intravenous cimetidine therapy with a daily dose of 400-900 mg intermittently for 20 years. On hospital days 1-3, cimetidine 300 mg was injected intravenously every eight hours without difficulty. Considering the possible existence of a cimetidine-resistant bleeding ulcer, famotidine 20 mg was given twice daily orally on hospital days 4-7 and then injected intravenously. Six days after being switched from cimetidine to famotidine, the woman's mental status deteriorated. A series of clinical tests revealed no apparent causative factors. Famotidine was then suspected as a probable cause of her delirium. Discontinuation of the drug resulted in rapid resolution of the patient's delirious status. DICUSSION: Famotidine crosses the blood-brain barrier less easily than cimetidine and was taken for a much shorter period in this patient. Thus, we propose that the occurrence of delirium in this patient was associated with famotidine, but not cimetidine, and was idiosyncratic rather than dose related. Furthermore, this case involved an elderly patient with compromised renal function who developed delirium in response to intravenous, but not oral, administration of famotidine. These factors seem to increase the risk for, famotidine-induced delirium.
Clinicians should be aware of the possible occurrence of delirium following a switch from one histamine2-receptor antagonist to another. In rare instances, patients switched to famotidine from cimetidine may experience delirium, particularly elderly patients with poor renal function who receive intravenous famotidine.
To report the occurrence of nimesulide-induced acute hepatitis confirmed by biopsy and an in vitro lymphocyte toxicity assay.
A 54-year-old Arabic woman treated with nimesulide for chronic low back pain was admitted to the hospital with acute hepatitis confirmed by biopsy. Her liver function test results returned to normal within one month after nimesulide discontinuation. An in vitro lymphocyte toxicity assay confirmed that the liver injury was due to nimesulide exposure.
A case of acute hepatitis secondary to nimesulide, confirmed by biopsy and a laboratory in vitro assay, is described. Although the occurrence of clinically significant liver damage due to nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is low, the enormous consumption of these drugs has made them an important cause of liver damage. Nimesulide, a relatively new NSAID commonly used in Europe, with a relative selectivity to cyclooxygenase type 2, can cause a wide range of liver injuries, from mild abnormal liver function to severe liver injuries. These effects are usually reversible on discontinuation of the drug, but occasionally can progress to fatal hepatic failure.
Drug-induced acute hepatitis is a well-recognized adverse effect of many drugs, including nimesuilde. Identification of a drug as a cause for this life-threatening disease is important because the discontinuation of it may be life saving. This article confirms the occurrence of nimesulide-induced hepatitis. It also highlights the importance of monitoring liver function test results after initiating therapy with such a drug.
Mice fed with sodium valproate for 7, 14 and 21 days were evaluated for hepatotoxicity and renal tubular disorder. The drug was administered as an aqueous solution with an increasing concentration up to five days gradually reaching up to 0.71% w/v, which persisted throughout the study period. Mice fed with sodium valproate for 7, 14 and 21 days showed, marked hepatic injury and renal tubular disorder, evidenced by increased levels of malondialdehyde as a measure of lipid peroxidation. Administration of sodium valproate affected the glutathione contents both in liver and kidney tissue at all the three time points. However, this reduction in glutathione concentration was more pronounced in kidney when compared to control group. These results support the hypothesis that lipid peroxidation mediates the effect of sodium valproate on liver and kidney. Furthermore, the valproate induced toxicity is time related and the increase in lipid peroxide levels and depletion of glutathione occur time dependent even if the dose is clinically appropriate.
To report a case of multiple episodes of seizure activity in an AIDS patent following amphotericin B infusion.
A 46-year-old African-American man experienced recurrent grand mal seizures during intravenous infusion of amphotericin B, then petit mal seizures as the infusion was stopped and the drug concentrations decreased with time. The patients concurrent medications included didanosine, hydroxyzine, promethazine, hydrocortisone, and prochlorperazine. Despite administration of phenytoin and lorazepam, the seizures persisted and occurred only during amphotercin B administration.
AIDS and cryptococcal meningitis, both of which the patient had, can potentially cause seizures. The patient had a history of alcohol abuse; alcohol intake as well as withdrawal can also cause seizures. Didanosine also has a potential for inducing seizures. However, these other potential causes of seizure were ruled out. The time course of events suggested that amphotericin B was the cause of the seizures in this AIDS patient.
Amphotericin B seems to be the probable cause of the seizures. To date, only three cases of seizures associated with amphotericin B have been reported in the literature, but healthcare providers should be aware of the potential for this rare adverse effect.
Aberrant mossy fiber sprouting and synaptic reorganization are plastic responses in human temporal lobe epilepsy, and in pilocarpine-induced epilepsy in rodents. Although the morphological features of the hippocampal epileptic reaction have been well documented, the molecular mechanisms underlying these structural changes are not understood. The classic cadherins, calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecules, are known to function in development in neurite outgrowth, synapse formation, and stabilization. In pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, the expression of N-cadherin mRNA was sharply upregulated and reached a maximum level (1- to 2.5-fold) at 1- to 4 weeks postseizure in the granule cell layer and the pyramidal cell layer of CA3. N-cadherin protein was correspondingly increased and became concentrated in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, consistent with the position of mossy fiber axonal sprouts. Moreover, N-cadherin labeling was punctate; colocalized with definitive synaptic markers, and partially localized on polysialated forms of neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM)-positive dendrites of granule cells in the inner molecular layer. Our findings show that N-cadherin is likely to be a key factor in responsive synaptogenesis following status epilepticus, where it functions as a mediator of de novo synapse formation.
To report a case of hepatitis associated with atomoxetine hydrochloride use and to describe the previously-unpublished severe cases of this syndrome.
An eight-year-old female with attention deficient hyperactive disorder (ADHD) was treated with atomoxetine hydrochloride. She complained of increased abdominal pain and occasional emesis; her transaminases and bilirubin were markedly elevated. She was admitted to a tertiary-care pediatric hospital and treated for drug-induced hepatitis. Atomoxetine was discontinued and supportive care was instituted. A liver biopsy showed hepatitis with moderate piecemeal necrosis. Clinical status and liver function tests improved over 13 days of hospitalization.
To our knowledge this is the first published severe case of atomoxetine-induced hepatitis. The International Organization of Medical Science Diagnostic Scale and the Adverse Drug Reaction Probability Scale by Naranjo et al. were applied to assess causality. Both scales indicated the association of atomoxetine and hepatitis as "probable;" a positive rechallenge would have made this association "definitive." This potential serious adverse reaction should be considered in children receiving atomoxetine therapy.
Treatment of hypotension caused by calcium channel blocker overdose (CCB) remains a challenge. We describe the successful use of vasopressin in two patients with massive CCB overdoses in whom hypotension was unresponsive to calcium, glucagon, insulin, and conventional vasopressor therapies. While various modes of treatments have been used to treat the hypotension of CCB overdose, this is the first report to our knowledge of the successful use of vasopressin in this clinical setting.
The role of C-reactive protein (CRP) in heart failure is not well studied. We assessed the prognostic value of CRP in patients randomized in Val-HeFT (Valsartan Heart Failure Trial) and studied changes in CRP that were associated with valsartan.
Characteristics of patients with baseline CRP levels above and below the median value were compared. Univariable and multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to examine the relationship of CRP to mortality and morbidity. Interactions were tested to determine whether differences in CRP changes from baseline to 4 and 12 months between groups randomly assigned to valsartan or placebo depended on baseline ACE inhibitor use. Median plasma CRP was 3.23 mg/L (interquartile range 1.42 to 7.56 mg/L), which is higher than in the general population. Patients with CRP above the median had features of more severe heart failure than those with CRP levels below the median. The cumulative likelihood of death and first morbid event increased with increasing quartile of CRP. Relative to the lowest CRP quartile, the risk of mortality (hazard ratio 1.51, 95% CI 1.2 to 1.9) and first morbid event (hazard ratio 1.53, 95% CI 1.28 to 1.84) was increased in the highest CRP quartile in multivariable models. CRP added incremental prognostic information to that provided by brain natriuretic peptide alone. CRP did not change significantly over time in the placebo group; however, after 12 months, valsartan was associated with a decrease in CRP in patients not receiving ACE inhibitors but not in those receiving ACE inhibitors at 12 months.
CRP is increased in heart failure. Higher levels are associated with features of more severe heart failure and are independently associated with mortality and morbidity. The ability of treatments to reduce CRP levels and the prognostic importance of reducing CRP require further study.
The effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptors and of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor blockade on clonidine hypotension was studied. The experiments were performed on spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. We found that the blockade of GABAA receptors line significantly (P < 0.01) reduced hypotensive responses to clonidine. Similarly, the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) completely abolished the blood pressure lowering effect of clonidine. Our findings support the conclusion that clonidine hypotension is closely related to the functional state of both inhibitory GABAergic and excitatory glutamatergic systems.
In this study, we measured the excretion rate of nicotine and its two major metabolites, cotinine and trans-3'-hydroxycotinine (THOC), in the urine of 25 healthy smokers and 15 smokers who underwent a coronary artery bypass surgery or coronary angioplasty. After 1 day of smoking cessation, urine samples were collected in the morning, before smoking two cigarettes, and then three times after smoking, approximately 4 h apart. The results show that (i) in healthy smokers, nicotine and its two major metabolites were present at high concentration in the first urine sample after smoking, (ii) in smokers with cardiovascular disease nicotine and cotinine were less excreted whereas THOC was more excreted, mainly in the second urine sample. We conclude that this shift in nicotine metabolism may contribute to smoking-induced cardiovascular disease.
Intermittent androgen deprivation therapy (IADT) was developed to improve the quality of life and retard prostate cancer progression to castration resistance. IADT involves regrowth of the tumor during the off cycle upon testosterone recovery. Our previous studies showed that testosterone is more potent than dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in the induction of a subset of androgen-responsive genes during rat prostate regrowth. However, it is not clear if the same phenomenon would occur during androgen-induced regrowth of prostate tumors. Understanding the differences between testosterone and DHT in inducing androgen-responsive genes during prostate tumor regrowth may provide new insight for improving IADT.
Nude mice bearing androgen-sensitive LNCaP xenograft were castrated and followed up for 7-10 days before being randomized into various androgen manipulations, consisting of continuous castration (C) or testosterone replacement (T) in the absence or presence of dutasteride (D), a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor that blocks the conversion of testosterone to DHT. Testes-intact animals in the absence or presence of D were used as controls. The expression of five androgen-responsive genes, including the tumor suppressor U19/Eaf2, was determined using real-time RT-PCR, 3 days after randomization.
In LNCaP tumors, the expression of U19/Eaf2 was higher in the T+D group as compared with T alone (2.87-fold, P < 0.05). In contrast, dutasteride treatment in testes-intact animals inhibited the expression of U19/Eaf2.
Inhibition of 5alpha-reductase during LNCaP tumor regrowth enhanced the expression of U19/Eaf2, an androgen-regulated tumor suppressor. This finding suggests that off cycle 5alpha-reductase inhibition may enhance the efficacy of IADT.
To define the short-term effects of intravenous nicardipine on exercise- and pacing-induced myocardial ischemia, 15 men with coronary artery disease were studied. Nicardipine was administered as a 2 mg bolus followed by an infusion, titrated to maintain a 10 to 20 mm Hg decrease in systolic arterial pressure. At rest, nicardipine significantly decreased systemic and coronary vascular resistances and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure but increased coronary blood flow, heart rate, and myocardial oxygen consumption. With bicycle exercise performed to evoke myocardial ischemia, nicardipine prolonged exercise duration, time to of 1 mm ST segment depression, and increased cardiac work to onset of angina in most patients. These changes in cardiac performance were not associated with alteration in the product of systolic pressure and heart rate or with increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. During increased heart rate induced by atrial pacing to cause ischemia, the heart rate threshold for myocardial ischemia was not changed by nicardipine. This occurred despite decreased myocardial oxygen consumption, unchanged coronary blood flow, and otherwise similar hemodynamic changes as those observed during exercise. However, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure remained lower and stroke volume increased more after nicardipine with pacing stress when compared with observations before nicardipine with the same heart rate stress. These findings support beneficial antiischemic actions of nicardipine with possible prevention of ischemia-related left ventricular dysfunction.
A 65-year-old man on maintenance dapsone therapy for dermatitis herpetiformis for 30 years was admitted to hospital with acute abdominal pain and vomiting. Investigations revealed a Heinz body haemolytic anaemia. Worsening symptoms prompted an emergency laparotomy that revealed a perforated gall bladder with pigmented biliary calculi. In previous reviews of the haematological abnormalities associated with dapsone therapy, life-threatening cholecystitis has not been described.
Mitochondria are the major intracellular organelles producing ATP molecules via the electron transport chain. Cancer cells have a deviant energy metabolism, and a high rate of glycolysis is related to a high degree of dedifferentiation and proliferation. The overall net ATP production is diminished with cancer, which ultimately leads to cancer cachexia. The present study was designed to investigate the altered energy metabolism in cancer cells and to enhance ATP production in the normal host cell metabolism by enhancing the activities of mitochondrial enzymes, using energy-modulating vitamins, and thus prevent cancer cachexia. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were selected for the experimental study. Mammary carcinoma was induced by the oral administration of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (25 mg/kg body weight), and treatment was started by the oral administration of the energy-modulating vitamins riboflavin (45 mg/kg body weight per d), niacin (100 mg/kg body weight per d) and coenzyme Q10 (40 mg/kg body weight per d) for 28 d. Mitochondria were isolated from the mammary gland and liver of all four groups, and the Krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation enzymes were assayed. In mammary carcinoma-bearing animals, the activities of the Krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation enzymes were significantly decreased. These activities were restored to a greater extent in animals treated with energy-modulating vitamins. From these experimental results, one may hypothesize that the combination therapy of energy-modulating vitamins could be of major therapeutic value in breast cancer.
S134N copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is one of the many mutant SOD1 proteins known to cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Earlier studies demonstrated that partially metal-deficient S134N SOD1 crystallized in filament-like arrays with abnormal contacts between the individual protein molecules. Because protein aggregation is implicated in SOD1-linked familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, abnormal intermolecular interactions between mutant SOD1 proteins could be relevant to the mechanism of pathogenesis in the disease. We have therefore applied NMR methods to ascertain whether abnormal contacts also form between S134N SOD1 molecules in solution and whether Cys-6 or Cys-111 plays any role in the aggregation. Our studies demonstrate that the behavior of fully metallated S134N SOD1 is dramatically different from that of fully metallated wild type SOD1 with a region of subnanosecond mobility located close to the site of the mutation. Such a high degree of mobility is usually seen only in the apo form of wild type SOD1, because binding of zinc to the zinc site normally immobilizes that region. In addition, concentration-dependent chemical shift differences were observed for S134N SOD1 that were not observed for wild type SOD1, indicative of abnormal intermolecular contacts in solution. We have here also established that the two free cysteines (6 and 111) do not play a role in this behavior.
Cardiac troponin T (cTnT) and troponin I (cTnI) are becoming acknowledged as useful biochemical markers of drug-induced cardiotoxicity. In this study we examined the release kinetics of cTnT and cTnI using an in vitro model of isolated rat neonatal ventricular cardiomyocytes (NVCM, 72h treatment with 0.1-3microM of daunorubicin) and compared it with data from a rabbit model of chronic anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy in vivo (3mg/kg of daunorubicin weekly, 10 weeks). In cell-culture media, the cTnI and cTnT concentrations were concentration- and time-dependently increasing in response to daunorubicin exposure and were negatively exponentially related to cardiomyocyte viability. With 3microM daunorubicin, the relative increase of AUC of cTnT and cTnI was 2.4- and 5.3-fold higher than the increase of LDH activity, respectively. In rabbits, the daunorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy was associated with progressive increase of both cTnT and cTnI. Although the correlation between cTnT and cTnI cumulative release (AUCs) was found (R=0.81; P<0.01) and both cardiac troponins corresponded well with the echocardiographically-assessed systolic dysfunction (R=0.83 and 0.81 for cTnT and cTnI, respectively; P<0.001), the first significant increase in cTnI levels was observed earlier (at a cumulative daunorubicin dose of 200mg/m(2)) than with cTnT (350mg/m(2)). In conclusion, our study has confirmed cTnT and cTnI as very sensitive and specific markers of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. The troponins can become not only the bridge between the clinical and experimental studies of drug-induced cardiotoxicity but also the linkage between the preclinical experiments in vitro and in vivo.
The water channel protein aquaporin (AQP) may play roles in the homeostasis of water content in the brain and brain edema. One possible mechanism of brain edema is glial swelling due to lactic acidosis associated with ischemia. Here, we investigated the effect of lactic acid on the expression and cellular distribution of AQP 4 in cultured rat astrocytes. After 24h of incubation, the AQP4 expression level increased maximally with 35mM lactic acid. The AQP4 expression levels also increased with hydrochloric acid or acetic acid. In contrast, with sodium lactate, the AQP4 levels did not increase. The increase in AQP4 expression level occurred without a significant increase in AQP4 mRNA expression level by lactic acid. Under the conditions of de novo protein synthesis inhibition with cycloheximide, lactic acid increased the AQP4 expression level. Furthermore, lactic acid increased the AQP4 expression level on the cell surface of the astrocytes, as determined by a cell surface biotinylation assay and immunocytochemical examination. The increase in AQP4 expression level on the cell membrane of astrocytes induced by lactic acid may be a new regulation mechanism of AQP4 in the brain.
Prenatal exposure to cocaine can be deleterious to embryonic brain development, but the results in humans remain controversial, the mechanisms involved are not well understood and effective therapies are yet to be designed. We hypothesize that some of the prenatal effects of cocaine might be related to dysregulation of physiological rhythms due to alterations in the integrating circadian clock function.
Here we introduce a new high-throughput genetically well-characterized diurnal vertebrate model for studying the mechanisms of prenatal cocaine effects by demonstrating reduced viability and alterations in the pattern of neuronal development following repeated cocaine exposure in zebrafish embryos. This effect is associated with acute cocaine-induced changes in the expression of genes affecting growth (growth hormone, zGH) and neurotransmission (dopamine transporter, zDAT). Analysis of circadian gene expression, using quantitative real-time RT-PCR (QPCR), demonstrates that cocaine acutely and dose-dependently changes the expression of the circadian genes (zPer-3, zBmal-1) and genes encoding melatonin receptors (zMelR) that mediate the circadian message to the entire organism. Moreover, the effects of prenatal cocaine depend on the time of treatment, being more robust during the day, independent of whether the embryos are raised under the light-dark cycle or in constant light. The latter suggests involvement of the inherited circadian factors. The principal circadian hormone, melatonin, counteracts the effects of cocaine on neuronal development and gene expression, acting via specific melatonin receptors.
These findings demonstrate that, in a diurnal vertebrate, prenatal cocaine can acutely dysregulate the expression of circadian genes and those affecting melatonin signaling, growth and neurotransmission, while repeated cocaine exposure can alter neuronal development. Daily variation in these effects of cocaine and their attenuation by melatonin suggest a potential prophylactic or therapeutic role for circadian factors in prenatal cocaine exposure.
Little consideration has been given to the possibility that there could be variations in protein expression that alter susceptibility to tumorigenesis without causing other obvious phenotypic effects. Therefore, we sought to determine if haploinsufficiency for the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-x(L) would affect tumorigenesis. We chose to study Bcl-x(L) because although bcl-x+/- mice were thought to be phenotypically normal, we and others found that haploinsufficiency for Bcl-x(L) lowers fibroblast resistance to apoptosis in tissue culture. Since resistance to certain forms of apoptosis is required for tumor formation, this suggested that decreased Bcl-x(L) expression would afford protection against tumorigenesis. Indeed, we demonstrate here that bcl-x+/- mice are strikingly resistant to carcinogen-induced tumorigenesis. However, we found that they pay a price for their resistance in that they are more susceptible to clinically relevant forms of tissue injury--they suffer increased hepatic injury in a model of binge alcohol abuse and in response to TNF-alpha treatment. These findings are important because they suggest that even minor variations in Bcl-x(L) expression could affect susceptibility to cancer and other diseases. Additionally, they indicate that the potential for increased susceptibility to tissue injury must be considered in the design of chemopreventative and antineoplastic strategies that involve inhibition of Bcl-x(L) activity.
