Among 58 consecutive patients who underwent electrophysiologic testing for risk assessment and who subsequently received a third-generation implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, 39 had ventricular tachycardia induced in the baseline state and 19 had ventricular tachycardia induced only after administration of intravenous procainamide, increasing the yield of electrophysiologic risk assessment by 49%. At follow-up, ventricular arrhythmias requiring implantable cardioverter-defibrillator termination occurred in 14 of 39 patients inducible in the baseline state and in 7 of 19 patients inducible only with intravenous procainamide. The provocative use of intravenous procainamide during electrophysiologic risk assessment increases the detection rate for risk of sustained ventricular arrhythmias with no loss of positive predictive value.
The island factor of the cities of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria and Santa Cruz de Tenerife, along with their proximity to Africa and their meteorology, create a particular setting that influences the air quality of these cities and provides researchers an opportunity to analyze the acute effects of air-pollutants on daily mortality.
From 2000 to 2004, the relationship between daily changes in PM10, PM2.5, SO2, NO2, CO, and ozone levels and daily total mortality and mortality due to respiratory and heart diseases were assessed using Generalized Additive Poisson models controlled for potential confounders. The lag effect (up to five days) as well as the concurrent and previous day averages and distributed lag models were all estimated. Single and two pollutant models were also constructed.
Daily levels of PM10, PM2.5, NO2, and SO2 were found to be associated with an increase in respiratory mortality in Santa Cruz de Tenerife and with increased heart disease mortality in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, thus indicating an association between daily ozone levels and mortality from heart diseases. The effects spread over five successive days. SO2 was the only air pollutant significantly related with total mortality (lag 0).
There is a short-term association between current exposure levels to air pollution and mortality (total as well as that due specifically to heart and respiratory diseases) in both cities. Risk coefficients were higher for respiratory and cardiovascular mortality, showing a delayed effect over several days.
The physiological effects of human plasma-derived butyrylcholinesterase (huBuChE) administration and its modulation of the effects of percutaneous VX challenge are poorly understood. Percutaneously administered nerve agents are more slowly absorbed than inhaled agents; consequently, signs of poisoning occur later, with a longer duration. Telemetry was used to monitor heart rate, EEG, temperature and activity in guinea-pigs. Treatment with huBuChE at 30 or 120 min following percutaneous VX challenge ( approximately 2.5 x LD(50)) provided 100% protection from lethality. When huBuChE administration was delayed until the onset of observable signs of poisoning only 1 out of 6 animals survived to the end of the experiment at 7 days. This study adds to the body of evidence demonstrating the efficacy of huBuChE in animals by describing the successful therapeutic use of a protein bioscavenger as a post-exposure treatment against dermal exposure to VX up to 2h post-exposure. This study simultaneously used telemetric methods to show that the efficacy of huBuChE is linked to the prevention of detrimental physiological changes observed in control VX-treated animals. Post-exposure therapy is a promising additional indication for the concept of use of this material, and one that has particular relevance in a civilian exposure scenario.
There is growing evidence that chronic exposure of humans to inorganic arsenic, a potent environmental oxidative stressor, is associated with the incidence of type 2 diabetes (T2D). One critical feature of T2D is insulin resistance in peripheral tissues, especially in mature adipocytes, the hallmark of which is decreased insulin-stimulated glucose uptake (ISGU). Despite the deleterious effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS), they have been recognized as a second messenger serving an intracellular signaling role for insulin action. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) is a central transcription factor regulating cellular adaptive response to oxidative stress. This study proposes that in response to arsenic exposure, the NRF2-mediated adaptive induction of endogenous antioxidant enzymes blunts insulin-stimulated ROS signaling and thus impairs ISGU. Exposure of differentiated 3T3-L1 cells to low-level (up to 2 μM) inorganic arsenite (iAs³(+)) led to decreased ISGU in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Concomitant to the impairment of ISGU, iAs³(+) exposure significantly attenuated insulin-stimulated intracellular ROS accumulation and AKT S473 phosphorylation, which could be attributed to the activation of NRF2 and induction of a battery of endogenous antioxidant enzymes. In addition, prolonged iAs³(+) exposure of 3T3-L1 adipocytes resulted in significant induction of inflammatory response genes and decreased expression of adipogenic genes and glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4), suggesting chronic inflammation and reduction in GLUT4 expression may also be involved in arsenic-induced insulin resistance in adipocytes. Taken together our studies suggest that prolonged low-level iAs³(+) exposure activates the cellular adaptive oxidative stress response, which impairs insulin-stimulated ROS signaling that is involved in ISGU, and thus causes insulin resistance in adipocytes.
This study mainly focuses on cardio protective anti-fibrotic activity of aminoguanidine against streptozotocin induced cardiac fibrosis and high glucose induced collagen accumulation in cardiac fibroblasts. Dysregulation of matrix metalloproteinase especially 2 and 9 were considered to be responsible for the abnormal collagen deposition, which resulting improper cardiac contractile function in diabetic mice. Mice received a single dose of streptozotocin (100 mg/kg) through tail vein to induce diabetes. Normal and diabetic mice received aminoguanidine orally (100 mg/kg/day) throughout the study period of 8 weeks. Cardiac fibroblasts cultured and exposed to high glucose, aminoguanidine and both for 48 h. Collagen quantitatively estimated in both in vivo and in vitro models. Altered structural changes were studied using the Masson tri-chrome staining, TEM images of cardiac sections. Increased collagen and metalloproteinase activities were confirmed using gelatin zymography, western blotting and gene expression studies. The exact mechanism responsible for high glucose induced collagen up regulation in diabetic heart was incompletely understood. From this above in vivo and in vitro results, we conclude that, the cardio protective anti fibrotic activity of amino guanidine was mainly attributed by exhibiting the inhibitory efficacy against streptozotocin and high glucose induced collagen accumulation probably by inhibiting high glucose altered metalloproteinase-2 and -9 activities.
We previously demonstrated that cannabidiol (CBD) was a potent mechanism-based inhibitor of human cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1). However, the moiety of CBD that contributes to the potent mechanism-based inhibition of human CYP1A1 remains unknown. Thus, the effects of compounds structurally related to CBD on CYP1A1 activity were examined with recombinant human CYP1A1 in order to characterize the structural requirements for potent inactivation by CBD. When preincubated in the presence of NADPH for 20min, olivetol, which corresponds to the pentylresorcinol moiety of CBD, enhanced the inhibition of the 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activity of CYP1A1. In contrast, d-limonene, which corresponds to the terpene moiety of CBD, failed to inhibit CYP1A1 activity in a metabolism-dependent manner. Pentylbenzene, which lacks two free phenolic hydroxyl groups, also did not enhance CYP1A1 inhibition. On the other hand, preincubation of the CBD-2'-monomethyl ether (CBDM) and CBD-2',6'-dimethyl ether (CBDD) enhanced the inhibition of CYP1A1 activity. Inhibition by cannabidivarin (CBDV), which possessed a propyl side chain, was strongly potentiated by its preincubation. Orcinol, which has a methyl group, augmented CYP1A1 inhibition, whereas its derivative without an alkyl side chain, resorcinol, did not exhibit any metabolism-dependent inhibition. The preincubation of CBD-hydroxyquinone did not markedly enhance CYP1A1 inhibition. We further confirmed that olivetol, CBDM, CBDD, CBDV, and orcinol, as well as CBD (kinact=0.215min(-1)), inactivated CYP1A1 activity; their kinact values were 0.154, 0.0638, 0.0643, 0.226, and 0.0353min(-1), respectively. These results suggest that the methylresorcinol structure in CBD may have structurally important roles in the inactivation of CYP1A1.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) typically manifests as either ulcerative colitis (UC) or Crohn's disease (CD). Systematic identification of susceptibility genes for IBD has thus far focused mainly on CD, and little is known about the genetic architecture of UC. Here we report a genome-wide association study with 440,794 SNPs genotyped in 1,167 individuals with UC and 777 healthy controls. Twenty of the most significantly associated SNPs were tested for replication in three independent European case-control panels comprising a total of 1,855 individuals with UC and 3,091 controls. Among the four consistently replicated markers, SNP rs3024505 immediately flanking the IL10 (interleukin 10) gene on chromosome 1q32.1 showed the most significant association in the combined verification samples (P = 1.35 x 10(-12); OR = 1.46 (1.31-1.62)). The other markers were located in ARPC2 and in the HLA-BTNL2 region. Association between rs3024505 and CD (1,848 cases, 1,804 controls) was weak (P = 0.013; OR = 1.17 (1.01-1.34)). IL10 is an immunosuppressive cytokine that has long been proposed to influence IBD pathophysiology. Our findings strongly suggest that defective IL10 function is central to the pathogenesis of the UC subtype of IBD.
Previously we have shown that nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P) is strongly associated with SNPs in IRF6 (interferon regulatory factor 6). Here, we use multispecies sequence comparisons to identify a common SNP (rs642961, G>A) in a newly identified IRF6 enhancer. The A allele is significantly overtransmitted (P = 1 x 10(-11)) in families with NSCL/P, in particular those with cleft lip but not cleft palate. Further, there is a dosage effect of the A allele, with a relative risk for cleft lip of 1.68 for the AG genotype and 2.40 for the AA genotype. EMSA and ChIP assays demonstrate that the risk allele disrupts the binding site of transcription factor AP-2alpha and expression analysis in the mouse localizes the enhancer activity to craniofacial and limb structures. Our findings place IRF6 and AP-2alpha in the same developmental pathway and identify a high-frequency variant in a regulatory element contributing substantially to a common, complex disorder.
Many drugs, including sotalol, have been implicated in prolonging QT interval and triggering torsades de pointes, a potentially fatal ventricular arrhythmia, especially during chronic therapy or in case of acute high dose toxicity. We report here a case with a severely prolonged QT interval and torsades de pointes after an initial intake of low dose sotalol (80 mg), indicating a probable inherent individual oversensitivity to sotalol.
This study assessed striatal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors of 1-methyl 4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) monkeys with levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias (LID). In a first experiment, four MPTP monkeys receiving L-DOPA/Benserazide alone developed dyskinesias. Four MPTP monkeys received L-DOPA/Benserazide plus CI-1041 an NMDA antagonist selective for NR1/NR2B and four were treated with L-DOPA/Benserazide plus a small dose of cabergoline; one monkey of each group developed mild dyskinesias at the end of treatment. In a second experiment, a kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitor Ro 61-8048, combined with L-DOPA/Benserazide, reduced dyskinesias in MPTP monkeys. Drug-treated MPTP monkeys were compared to intact monkeys and saline-treated MPTP monkeys. Glutamate receptors were investigated by autoradiography using [(3)H]CGP-39653 (NR1/NR2A antagonist) and [(3)H]Ro25-6981 (NR1/NR2B antagonist). In general, striatal [(3)H]CGP-39653 specific binding was unaltered in all experimental groups. MPTP lesion decreased striatal [(3)H]Ro25-6981 specific binding; these levels were enhanced in the L-DOPA-alone-treated MPTP monkeys and decreased in antidyskinetic drugs treated monkeys. Maximal dyskinesias scores of the MPTP monkeys correlated significantly with [(3)H]Ro25-6981 specific binding in the rostral and caudal striatum. Hence, MPTP lesion, L-DOPA treatment and prevention of LID with CI-1041 and cabergoline, or reduction with Ro 61-8048 were associated with modulation of NR2B/NMDA glutamate receptors.
A 74 year old man was admitted to the hospital for purpura. The history revealed coronary heart disease. Bypass surgery had been performed 18 months ago. Furosemide had recently been prescribed for cardiac insufficiency and the patient had taken the drug intermittently over two weeks. Laboratory analysis showed severe thrombocytopenia. Despite immediate treatment with intravenous prednisolone and platelet transfusions the patient succumbed to cerebral hemorrhage. Autopsy confirmed a diffuse hemorrhagic diathesis and a cellular response of the bone marrow typical for an acute immune reaction. The start of the purpura nine to ten days after the first dose of furosemide, the exclusion of other possible causes for purpura and the focal proliferation of T-lymphocytes in the bone marrow render it highly probable, that furosemide was responsible for the fatal thrombocytopenia. Furosemide is discussed to have a potential for autoimmunological untoward effects due to its sulfonamide structure. Few case reports describe vasculitic and allergic phenomena. The generation of antibodies against thrombocytes and the depression of megakaryocytic function are thought to be involved. Our patient had been treated with furosemide during the bypass surgery 18 months before the development of purpura. A sensitization to furosemide probably took place at that time.
The antihypertensive efficacy of sustained-release isradipine administered once daily compared to the immediate-release formulation administered twice daily was assessed by ambulatory blood pressure (BP) monitoring in a double-blind randomized crossover study in 76 mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients. Conventional BP and heart rate parameters were evaluated after a 4-week placebo period and patients qualified for entry if sitting diastolic BP was between 95 and 114 mm Hg. Ambulatory BP monitoring was measured at baseline and after active treatment with both formulations. The 2 regimens induced a significant and almost identical reduction (p less than 0.001) in the mean 24-hour BP without affecting heart rate. Isradipine was more effective in patients whose clinical hypertension was confirmed by ambulatory BP monitoring (35) than in patients who remained normotensive by ambulatory BP monitoring criteria (41). The isradipine-treated ambulatory hypertensive group experienced significantly greater decreases in BP during 24-hour, work, awake and sleep periods than did the ambulatory normotensive group. These data suggest that sustained-release isradipine has a sustained antihypertensive effect throughout 24 hours comparable to that of isradipine given twice daily and may improve compliance with long-term treatment. In addition, the results confirm the usefulness of ambulatory BP monitoring in determining truly hypertensive patients likely to respond to drug administration.
Using a positional cloning approach supported by comparative genomics, we have identified a previously unreported gene, EYS, at the RP25 locus on chromosome 6q12 commonly mutated in autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Spanning over 2 Mb, this is the largest eye-specific gene identified so far. EYS is independently disrupted in four other mammalian lineages, including that of rodents, but is well conserved from Drosophila to man and is likely to have a role in the modeling of retinal architecture.
In a double-blind trial lasting 2 weeks, a new, long-acting antihistamine, Mequitazine, and a placebo, were compared. 115 allergic patients participated in this experiment (mequitazine n = 56, placebo n = 59). Therapeutic results and the effect on diurnal alertness were evaluated by means of a questionnaire filled in daily by the patients. Whether considering the day by day results or the results of the entire treatment period, statistically, Mequitazine (10 mg/24 hrs) is very significantly more active than the placebo. The daytime drowsiness induced by Mequitazine is statistically no greater than that induced by the placebo, whether analyzed on a day by day basis or over the entire treatment period (P = 0.23). The side effects, 8 for Mequitazine, 5 for placebo, are mild and did not lead to discontinuation of the treatment in the Mequitazine group.
Combined nitrate/beta-blocker/nifedipine therapy is commonly used to treat refractory angina pectoris. We have observed "paradoxical" myocardial ischemia in ten patients with refractory angina (seven receiving combined beta-blocker and nitrate therapy, and three receiving nitrate treatment alone) in whom nifedipine (mean dosage, 92 mg/day; range, 60 to 120 mg/day) induced a decrease in blood pressure, angina pectoris (10/10 patients), and ischemic ECG changes (7/10 patients). These ten patients, all of whom regularly reported angina within 20 to 30 minutes of nifedipine ingestion, were prospectively studied before and after usual nifedipine dose administration, while blood pressures, heart rate, and ECGs were recorded. Mean systolic BP fell from 109 to 94 mm Hg after nifedipine (P less than .001, paired t test); mean heart rate increased from 64 to 68 beats per minute (P less than .05); seven patients developed transient ECG changes (five with ST-T wave depression and two with ST-T wave elevation) during the hypotensive period. Nifedipine may provoke angina and myocardial ischemia in certain patients with refractory angina pectoris receiving concomitant beta-blocker and nitrate therapy.
To investigate the effects of Tangshenling Mixture (TSLM) and benazepril on rats with diabetic nephropathy (DN) and its mechanism.
Diabetic nephropathy was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin. Fifty-eight rats with DN were randomly divided into four groups: untreated group, TSLM-treated group, TSLM plus benazepril-treated group and benazepril-treated group. Another seven normal rats were included in normal control group. Then, rats in each group were accordingly given normal saline, TSLM, TSLM plus benazepril and benazepril orally for six weeks respectively. Blood and urine biochemical indexes, plasma atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), pathomorphology of renal tissue, transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) mRNAs in renal tissue were observed.
Both TSLM and benazepril could decrease urinary albumin excretion rates, creatinine clearance and ratio of kidney weight to body weight of the rats with DN as well as reduce the pathological damages of the renal tissues. TSLM could reduce the level of plasma ANF and the expression of GLUT1 mRNA, but had no significant effect on the expression of TGF-beta1 mRNA. Benazepril could reduce the expression of TGF-beta1 mRNA, but had no significant effect on plasma ANF and the expression of GLUT1 mRNA.
TSLM can reduce the pathological damages of renal tissues in rats with early-stage DN, and its mechanism may relate to decreasing the level of plasma ANF and the expression of GLUT1 mRNA which is different from that of benazepril. It seems that TSLM has synergetic effect with benazepril.
Respiratory depression is a serious and potentially life-threatening side-effect of opioid therapy. The objective of this investigation was to characterize the relationship between buprenorphine or fentanyl exposure and the effectiveness and safety outcome in rats.
Data on the time course of the antinociceptive and respiratory depressant effect were analyzed on the basis of population logistic regression PK-PD models using non-linear mixed effects modeling software (NONMEM). The pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine and fentanyl were described by a three- and two-compartment model, respectively. A logistic regression model (linear logit model) was used to characterize the relationship between drug exposure and the binary effectiveness and safety outcome.
For buprenorphine, the odds ratios (OR) were 28.5 (95% CI, 6.9-50.1) and 2.10 (95% CI, 0.71-3.49) for the antinociceptive and respiratory depressant effect, respectively. For fentanyl these odds ratios were 3.03 (95% CI, 1.87-4.21) and 2.54 (95% CI, 1.26-3.82), respectively.
The calculated safety index (OR(antinociception)/OR(respiratory depression)) for fentanyl of 1.20 suggests that fentanyl has a low safety margin, implicating that fentanyl needs to be titrated with caution. For buprenorphine the safety index is 13.54 suggesting that buprenorphine is a relatively safe opioid.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether abnormalities of mitochondrial divalent cation metabolism are early, causative events in doxorubicin (DXR, Adriamycin) cardiotoxicity. We used electron probe microanalysis (EPMA) to examine the calcium (Ca) and magensium (Mg) content of in situ mitochondria in cryosections of rat hearts, rapidly frozen at 6 hr and 1, 3, and 5 days after a single iv injection of 20 mg/kg DXR. This dose produced 100% mortality in 7 days, with a mean survival of 5.8 days. Mean control mitochondrial Ca and Mg was 0.7 and 28 mmol/kg dry wt, respectively (+/- SEM), and did not change in the DXR-injected animals, even in severely symptomatic rats 5 days after DXR. This suggests that an alteration in mitochondrial divalent cation metabolism is unlikely to be a primary event in the pathogenesis of DXR-induced cardiotoxicity, and that the mitochondrial Ca accumulation demonstrated in previous studies represents a secondary event in cells damaged by another mechanism.
In 1984, three patients died of severe hypoglycemia after receiving pentamidine isethionate to treat Pneumocystis pneumonia. These deaths occurred on days 8, 12, and 19 of treatment, respectively. To assess risk factors associated with pentamidine treatment and hypoglycemia, we reviewed records of patients treated with pentamidine in New York City in 1984; ninety-seven percent of these patients had a diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Hypoglycemia occurred in 23 (14%) of 164 patients. Hypoglycemia was more likely to occur in patients who received therapy of longer duration and an increasing dosage of pentamidine. Patients at greater risk for hypoglycemia also included those who had received pentamidine previously and those who experienced azotemia during treatment. This serious, potentially fatal, reaction should be considered in all patients who are treated with pentamidine, particularly those receiving prolonged or recurrent therapy.
A 34-year-old lady developed a constellation of dermatitis, fever, lymphadenopathy and hepatitis, beginning on the 17th day of a course of oral sulphasalazine for sero-negative rheumatoid arthritis. Cervical and inguinal lymph node biopsies showed the features of severe necrotising lymphadenitis, associated with erythrophagocytosis and prominent eosinophilic infiltrates, without viral inclusion bodies, suggestive of an adverse drug reaction.A week later, fulminant drug-induced hepatitis, associated with the presence of anti-nuclear autoantibodies (but not with other markers of autoimmunity), and accompanied by multi-organ failure and sepsis, supervened. She subsequently died some 5 weeks after the commencement of her drug therapy.Post-mortem examination showed evidence of massive hepatocellular necrosis, acute hypersensitivity myocarditis, focal acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis and extensive bone marrow necrosis, with no evidence of malignancy. It is thought that the clinico-pathological features and chronology of this case bore the hallmarks of the so-called "3-week sulphasalazine syndrome", a rare, but often fatal, immunoallergic reaction to sulphasalazine.
Previous studies have shown ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 to be sensitive to adduction through both Michael addition and SN(2) chemistry in vitro. E1 presents a biologically important putative protein target for adduction due to its role in initiating ubiquitin based protein processing and the involvement of impaired ubiquitin protein processing in two types of familial Parkinson's disease. We tested whether E1 is susceptible to xenobiotic-mediated electrophilic adduction in vivo and explored the potential contribution of E1 adduction to neurodegenerative events in an animal model. N,N-Diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDC) was administered to rats using a protocol that produces covalent cysteine modifications in vivo, and brain E1 protein adducts were characterized and mapped using shotgun LC-MS/MS. E1 activity, global and specific protein expression, and protein carbonyls were used to characterize cellular responses and injury in whole brain and dorsal striatal samples. The data demonstrate that DEDC treatment produced S-(ethylaminocarbonyl) adducts on Cys234 and Cys179 residues of E1 and decreased the levels of activated E1 and total ubiquitinated proteins. Proteomic analysis of whole brain samples identified expression changes for proteins involved in myelin structure, antioxidant response, and catechol metabolism, systems often disrupted in neurodegenerative disease. Our studies also delineated localized injury within the striatum as indicated by decreased levels of tyrosine hydroxylase, elevated protein carbonyl content, increased antioxidant enzyme and α-synuclein expression, and enhanced phosphorylation of tau and tyrosine hydroxylase. These data are consistent with E1 having similar susceptibility to adduction in vivo as previously reported in vitro and support further investigation into environmental agent adduction of E1 as a potential contributing factor to neurodegenerative disease. Additionally, this study supports the predictive value of in vitro screens for identifying sensitive protein targets that can be used to guide subsequent in vivo experiments.
This report presents 2 patients with previous malignancy in whom congestive cardiomyopathy developed secondary to doxorubicin toxicity. Both patients underwent orthotopic cardiac transplantation 3 and 5 years ago and are now in functional class I with no evidence of malignant recurrence.
Dystonia is a movement disorder characterized by repetitive twisting muscle contractions and postures. Its molecular pathophysiology is poorly understood, in part owing to limited knowledge of the genetic basis of the disorder. Only three genes for primary torsion dystonia (PTD), TOR1A (DYT1), THAP1 (DYT6) and CIZ1 (ref. 5), have been identified. Using exome sequencing in two families with PTD, we identified a new causative gene, GNAL, with a nonsense mutation encoding p.Ser293* resulting in a premature stop codon in one family and a missense mutation encoding p.Val137Met in the other. Screening of GNAL in 39 families with PTD identified 6 additional new mutations in this gene. Impaired function of several of the mutants was shown by bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) assays.
Vici syndrome is a recessively inherited multisystem disorder characterized by callosal agenesis, cataracts, cardiomyopathy, combined immunodeficiency and hypopigmentation. To investigate the molecular basis of Vici syndrome, we carried out exome and Sanger sequence analysis in a cohort of 18 affected individuals. We identified recessive mutations in EPG5 (previously KIAA1632), indicating a causative role in Vici syndrome. EPG5 is the human homolog of the metazoan-specific autophagy gene epg-5, encoding a key autophagy regulator (ectopic P-granules autophagy protein 5) implicated in the formation of autolysosomes. Further studies showed a severe block in autophagosomal clearance in muscle and fibroblasts from individuals with mutant EPG5, resulting in the accumulation of autophagic cargo in autophagosomes. These findings position Vici syndrome as a paradigm of human multisystem disorders associated with defective autophagy and suggest a fundamental role of the autophagy pathway in the immune system and the anatomical and functional formation of organs such as the brain and heart.
Atypical chronic myeloid leukemia (aCML) shares clinical and laboratory features with CML, but it lacks the BCR-ABL1 fusion. We performed exome sequencing of eight aCMLs and identified somatic alterations of SETBP1 (encoding a p.Gly870Ser alteration) in two cases. Targeted resequencing of 70 aCMLs, 574 diverse hematological malignancies and 344 cancer cell lines identified SETBP1 mutations in 24 cases, including 17 of 70 aCMLs (24.3%; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 16-35%). Most mutations (92%) were located between codons 858 and 871 and were identical to changes seen in individuals with Schinzel-Giedion syndrome. Individuals with mutations had higher white blood cell counts (P = 0.008) and worse prognosis (P = 0.01). The p.Gly870Ser alteration abrogated a site for ubiquitination, and cells exogenously expressing this mutant exhibited higher amounts of SETBP1 and SET protein, lower PP2A activity and higher proliferation rates relative to those expressing the wild-type protein. In summary, mutated SETBP1 represents a newly discovered oncogene present in aCML and closely related diseases.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is implicated as a significant contributor to neurodegeneration and cognitive dysfunction. Previously, we reported that the widely used pyrethroid pesticide deltamethrin causes ER stress-mediated apoptosis in SK-N-AS neuroblastoma cells. Whether or not this occurs in vivo remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that repeated deltamethrin exposure (3 mg/kg every 3 days for 60 days) causes hippocampal ER stress and learning deficits in adult mice. Repeated exposure to deltamethrin caused ER stress in the hippocampus as indicated by increased levels of C/EBP-homologous protein (131%) and glucose-regulated protein 78 (96%). This was accompanied by increased levels of caspase-12 (110%) and activated caspase-3 (50%). To determine whether these effects resulted in learning deficits, hippocampal-dependent learning was evaluated using the Morris water maze. Deltamethrin-treated animals exhibited profound deficits in the acquisition of learning. We also found that deltamethrin exposure resulted in decreased BrdU-positive cells (37%) in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, suggesting potential impairment of hippocampal neurogenesis. Collectively, these results demonstrate that repeated deltamethrin exposure leads to ER stress, apoptotic cell death in the hippocampus, and deficits in hippocampal precursor proliferation, which is associated with learning deficits.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a leading cause of acute liver failure and the major reason for withdrawal of drugs from the market. Preclinical evaluation of drug candidates has failed to detect about 40% of potentially hepatotoxic compounds in humans. At the onset of liver injury in humans, currently used biomarkers have difficulty differentiating severe DILI from mild, and/or predict the outcome of injury for individual subjects. Therefore, new biomarker approaches for predicting and diagnosing DILI in humans are urgently needed. Recently, circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) such as miR-122 and miR-192 have emerged as promising biomarkers of liver injury in preclinical species and in DILI patients. In this study, we focused on examining global circulating miRNA profiles in serum samples from subjects with liver injury caused by accidental acetaminophen (APAP) overdose. Upon applying next generation high-throughput sequencing of small RNA libraries, we identified 36 miRNAs, including 3 novel miRNA-like small nuclear RNAs, which were enriched in the serum of APAP overdosed subjects. The set comprised miRNAs that are functionally associated with liver-specific biological processes and relevant to APAP toxic mechanisms. Although more patients need to be investigated, our study suggests that profiles of circulating miRNAs in human serum might provide additional biomarker candidates and possibly mechanistic information relevant to liver injury.
Peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) and oxidative stress are two important pathological factors in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Tetracycline-induced fatty liver was partly due to the disturbance of mitochondrial fatty acids beta-oxidation regulated by PPARalpha. Bicyclol was found to protect against high fat diet-induced fatty liver through modulating PPARalpha and clearing reactive oxygen species (ROS). The present study was performed to further investigate the effect of bicyclol on tetracycline-induced fatty liver and related mechanism in mice. Bicyclol (75, 150, 300 mg/kg) was given orally three times in two consecutive days. Tetracycline (200 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally 1h after the last administration of bicyclol. Oxidative stress, mitochondrial function, PPARalpha and its target genes were evaluated by biochemical and RT-PCR analysis. The activity of CYP4A was assessed by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) method. Bicyclol significantly protected against tetracycline-induced fatty liver by reducing the accumulation of hepatic lipids and elevation of serum aminotransferase. In addition, bicyclol remarkably alleviated the over-production of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance. The reduced activity of mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC) complexes I and IV and mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) were also improved by bicyclol. Furthermore, bicyclol inhibited the decrease of PPARalpha expression and its target genes, including long-chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase (LCAD), acetyl CoA oxidase (AOX) and CYP4A at mRNA and enzyme activity level. Bicyclol protected against tetracycline-induced fatty liver mainly through modulating the disturbance of PPARalpha pathway and ameliorating mitochondrial function.
