Warfarin is the most widely used oral anticoagulant and is indicated for many clinical conditions. Levofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone, is one of the most commonly prescribed antibiotics in clinical practice and is effective against Gram-positive, Gram-negative, and atypical bacteria. While small prospective studies have not revealed any significant drug-drug interaction between warfarin and levofloxacin, several case reports have indicated that levofloxacin may significantly potentiate the anticoagulation effect of warfarin. We report 3 cases of serious bleeding complications that appear to be the result of the interaction between warfarin and levofloxacin. Physicians should be aware of this potential interaction and use caution when prescribing levofloxacin to patients taking warfarin.
Stem cell-derived tyrosine kinase (STK) is a transmembrane receptor reported to play a role in macrophage switching from a classically activated/proinflammatory phenotype to an alternatively activated/wound repair phenotype. In the present studies, STK⁻/⁻ mice were used to assess the role of STK in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity as evidence suggests that the pathogenic process involves both of these macrophage subpopulations. In wild type mice, centrilobular hepatic necrosis and increases in serum transaminase levels were observed within 6h of acetaminophen administration (300 mg/kg, i.p.). Loss of STK resulted in a significant increase in sensitivity of mice to the hepatotoxic effects of acetaminophen and increased mortality, effects independent of its metabolism. This was associated with reduced levels of hepatic glutathione, rapid upregulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase, and prolonged induction of heme oxygenase-1, suggesting excessive oxidative stress in STK⁻/⁻ mice. F4/80, a marker of mature macrophages, was highly expressed on subpopulations of Kupffer cells in livers of wild type, but not STK⁻/⁻ mice. Whereas F4/80⁺ macrophages rapidly declined in the livers of wild type mice following acetaminophen intoxication, they increased in STK⁻/⁻ mice. In wild type mice hepatic expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-12, products of classically activated macrophages, increased after acetaminophen administration. Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and its receptor, CCR2, as well as IL-10, mediators involved in recruiting and activating anti-inflammatory/wound repair macrophages, also increased in wild type mice after acetaminophen. Loss of STK blunted the effects of acetaminophen on expression of TNFα, IL-1β, IL-12, MCP-1 and CCR2, while expression of IL-10 increased. Hepatic expression of CX3CL1, and its receptor, CX3CR1 also increased in STK⁻/⁻ mice treated with acetaminophen. These data demonstrate that STK plays a role in regulating macrophage recruitment and activation in the liver following acetaminophen administration, and in hepatotoxicity.
Unlike other essential trace elements (e.g., zinc and iron) it is the toxicity of manganese (Mn) that is more common in human populations than its deficiency. Data suggest alterations in dopamine biology may drive the effects associated with Mn neurotoxicity, though recently gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been implicated. In addition, iron deficiency (ID), a common nutritional problem, may cause disturbances in neurochemistry by facilitating accumulation of Mn in the brain. Previous data from our lab have shown decreased brain tissue levels of GABA as well as decreased (3)H-GABA uptake in synaptosomes as a result of Mn exposure and ID. These results indicate a possible increase in the concentration of extracellular GABA due to alterations in expression of GABA transport and receptor proteins. In this study weanling-male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly placed into one of four dietary treatment groups: control (CN; 35mg Fe/kg diet), iron-deficient (ID; 6mg Fe/kg diet), CN with Mn supplementation (via the drinking water; 1g Mn/l) (CNMn), and ID with Mn supplementation (IDMn). Using in vivo microdialysis, an increase in extracellular GABA concentrations in the striatum was observed in response to Mn exposure and ID although correlational analysis reveals that extracellular GABA is related more to extracellular iron levels and not Mn. A diverse effect of Mn exposure and ID was observed in the regions examined via Western blot and RT-PCR analysis, with effects on mRNA and protein expression of GAT-1, GABA(A), and GABA(B) differing between and within the regions examined. For example, Mn exposure reduced GAT-1 protein expression by approximately 50% in the substantia nigra, while increasing mRNA expression approximately four-fold, while in the caudate putamen mRNA expression was decreased with no effect on protein expression. These data suggest that Mn exposure results in an increase in extracellular GABA concentrations via altered expression of transport and receptor proteins, which may be the basis of the neurological characteristics of manganism.
Intravenous oxygen infusions have been introduced in complementary medicine for treatment of atherosclerosis and inflammatory diseases. As atherosclerosis and inflammation are causally related to oxidative stress and as intravenous supply with oxygen causes oxidative stress, it was suggested that the clinical success of intravenous oxygen therapy is biochemically based on an enhancement of endogenous antioxidative mechanisms. The anti-atherogenic enzyme paraoxonase-1 (PON1) is is part of this system.
To evaluate the effect of repeated intravenous oxygen infusions on serum PON1 activity.
A total of 45 patients were treated with intravenous oxygen. During treatment oxygen dosage was increased from 15 to 50 ml (1-2 ml/min). Before treatments 1 and 10 blood was obtained for measurement of PON1 activities. From 20 patients blood was additionally obtained after 20 days of treatment and 2 weeks post treatment. Serum PON1 activity was measured spectrophotometrically using the synthetic substrates paraoxon, phenylacetate, and p-nitrophenyl-acetate.
Using the substrate paraoxon PON1 activity significantly increased by 38% above basal levels 24 hours after intravenous oxygen infusion 9 (p < 0.001). Adverse effects were not observed.
Treatments with intravenous oxygen infusions evoke an adaptation to oxidative stress by an increase of serum PON1 activity. In this regard, a potential molecular mechanism has been found, that explains the protecting effects of intravenous oxygen therapy against oxidative stress and its consequences. PON1 activity is proposed to be an appropriate parameter for monitoring the success of this kind of oxygen therapy.
To examine the prevalence of psychotic symptoms among regular methamphetamine users.
Cross-sectional survey.
Participants were recruited from Sydney, Australia, through advertisements in free-press magazines, flyers and through word-of-mouth.
Methamphetamine users (n = 309) who were aged 16 years or over and took the drug at least monthly during the past year.
A structured face-to-face interview was used to assess drug use, demographics and symptoms of psychosis in the past year. Measures of psychosis included: (a) a psychosis screening instrument derived from the Composite International Diagnostic Interview; and (b) the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale subscales of suspiciousness, unusual thought content, and hallucinations. Dependence on methamphetamine was measured using the Severity of Dependence Scale.
Thirteen per cent of participants screened positive for psychosis, and 23% had experienced a clinically significant symptom of suspiciousness, unusual thought content or hallucinations in the past year. Dependent methamphetamine users were three times more likely to have experienced psychotic symptoms than their non-dependent counterparts, even after adjusting for history of schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders.
The prevalence of psychosis among the current sample of methamphetamine users was 11 times higher than among the general population in Australia. Dependent methamphetamine users are a particularly high-risk group for psychosis.
The study aimed to investigate the effect of oxytocin on antinociception in the rat. The pain threshold was elevated by oxytocin following intraventricular (icv) or intrathecal injection (ith), and reduced by anti-oxytocin serum (icv or ith). But the pain threshold was not altered by intravenous injection (iv) of oxytocin or anti-oxytocin serum. Pain stimulation induced oxytocin concentration decrease in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus, and increase in the locus coeruleus, raphe magnus nucleus, caudate nucleus and spinal cord, but no change in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and plasma. The results indicated that central, not peripheral oxytocin could enhance antinociception.
The mechanism for inflammation associated tumor development is a central issue for tumor biology and immunology and remains to be fully elucidated. Although IL-17 is implicated in association with inflammation mediated carcinogenesis, mechanisms are largely elusive. In the current studies, we showed that IL-17 receptor-A gene deficient (IL-17R-/-) mice were resistant to chemical carcinogen-induced cutaneous carcinogenesis, a well-established inflammation associated tumor model in the skin. The deficiency in IL-17R increased the infiltration of CD8+ T cells whereas it inhibited the infiltration of CD11b+ myeloid cells and development of myeloid derived suppressor cells. Inflammation induced skin hyperplasia and production of pro-tumor inflammatory molecules were inhibited in IL-17R-/- mice. We found that pre-existing inflammation in the skin increased the susceptibility to tumor growth, which was associated with increased development of tumor specific IL-17 producing T cells. This inflammation induced susceptibility to tumor growth was abrogated in IL-17R-/- mice. Finally, neutralizing IL-17 in mice that had already developed chemical carcinogen induced skin tumors could inhibit inflammation mediated tumor progression at late stages. These results demonstrate that IL-17 mediated inflammation is an important mechanism for inflammation mediated promotion of tumor development. The study has major implications for targeting IL-17 in prevention and treatment of tumors.
Cocaine abuse has been associated with widely distributed areas of significant cerebral blood flow (CBF) reductions or hypo-perfusion as well as CBF hyper-perfusion, but these perfusion abnormalities have not been examined using newer technologies such as statistical parametric mapping (SPM). These areas of abnormal CBF may be more likely among those who abuse cocaine and alcohol together.
Using SPECT with HMPAO for CBF we compared proportional scaling (PS) to histogram normalization (HEQ) in SPM among 20 controls and 32 recently abstinent cocaine abusers. We then separated the cocaine abusers into two groups (12 cocaine plus alcohol abusers and 20 cocaine alone abusers) and compared both groups to the 20 controls for brain areas of hypo- and hyper-perfusion.
Sensitivity to hypo-perfusion was greater with HEQ than PS. Hypo-perfused areas were more likely in the 12 alcohol plus cocaine abusers than in the 20 cocaine alone abusers or 20 controls, and hyper-perfused areas were significantly more likely among the cocaine abusers than controls. The type of CBF abnormality varied by brain location with hypo-perfusion significantly more likely in occipital and temporal cortex or cerebellum and hyper-perfusion more likely in frontal and parietal cortex.
These abnormalities in brain perfusion are consistent with previous non-SPM approaches that showed more hypo-perfusion in cocaine abusers than controls and appear to reflect vasospasm and potential compensations in cerebral blood flow.
A 49-year-old female with rheumatoid arthritis developed liver cirrhosis after a cumulative dosage of 6 g methotrexate (MTX). There were mild liver enzyme abnormalities, decreased liver synthesis function and possible signs of portal hypertension. After stopping MTX all laboratory abnormalities disappeared except for a mild thrombocytopenia. Risk factors and guidelines for monitoring liver toxicity during MTX treatment in rheumatoid arthritis are discussed.
To assess physician use of erythropoietin in cancer patients before publication of the American Society of Clinical Oncology/American Society of Hematology guidelines.
Questionnaires about erythropoietin use in practice and 12 hypothetical clinical scenarios involving patients with cancer were mailed to 2000 oncologists/hematologists in the United States and 19 other countries. Response rates were 30% in the United States and 25% internationally. Data on erythropoietin use for ovarian cancer were obtained from one clinical trial. Multivariate regression models assessed predictors of erythropoietin prescription.
Most physicians selected a hemoglobin level < or =10 g/dL as an upper threshold for erythropoietin use (36% to 51% of U.S. physicians and 21% to 32% of foreign physicians). Frequent erythropoietin use (defined as use in at least 10% of cancer patients) was higher in the United States than elsewhere (adjusted odds ratio [OR] = 5.8; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.5 to 13.4). Among U.S. physicians, those who said they used erythropoietin frequently were more likely to be in fee-for-service than managed care settings (OR = 2.2; 95% CI: 1.3 to 3.7). Those who reported never using erythropoietin practiced in countries that had lower annual per capita health care expenditures, lower proportions of privately funded health care, and a national health service (P <0.05 for all comparisons). Of 235 ovarian cancer patients who received topotecan, 38% (45/118) of U.S. patients and 2% (2/117) of European patients who developed grade 1 anemia (hemoglobin level between 10 and 12 g/dL) were treated with erythropoietin (P <0.01).
Financial considerations and a hemoglobin level <10 g/dL appear to influence erythropoietin use in the United States, whereas financial considerations alone determine erythropoietin use abroad.
Renal effects of 1,4-dihydropyridine (DHP)-type calcium antagonists (nitrendipine and nisoldipine) were analyzed in diverse conditions, such as long-term antihypertensive treatment, acute saline-loading, and acute renal failure in rats. In spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), 60-week treatment with nitrendipine resulted in normotensive blood pressure values without increasing body weight, an indicator of salt-water retention, or increasing plasma renin activity and plasma aldosterone concentration compared with the untreated rats. After acute saline-loading of normotensive or hypertensive rats, administration of calcium antagonists nitrendipine and nisoldipine increased urinary volume and sodium excretion. This was in contrast to the effects observed with the vasodilator minoxidil, with which salt-water retention was shown. In acute renal failure induced by 60-min renal ischemia in uninephrectomized rats, administration of nisoldipine decreased mortality rate and improved kidney function. The increase in renal tissue calcium content and the decrease in ATP content associated with the renal failure was abolished by nisoldipine treatment. In conclusion, renal protective effects are present with DHP-type calcium antagonists; however, mechanisms in situations such as hypertension or acute renal failure might be different and deserve further analysis.
Patients infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 2 or 3 have sustained virologic response rates of approximately 80% after receiving treatment with peginterferon and ribavirin for 24 weeks. We conducted a large, randomized, multinational, noninferiority trial to determine whether similar efficacy could be achieved with only 16 weeks of treatment with peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin.
We randomly assigned 1469 patients with HCV genotype 2 or 3 to receive 180 mug of peginterferon alfa-2a weekly, plus 800 mg of ribavirin daily, for either 16 or 24 weeks. A sustained virologic response was defined as an undetectable serum HCV RNA level (<50 IU per milliliter) 24 weeks after the end of treatment.
The study failed to demonstrate that the 16-week regimen was noninferior to the 24-week regimen. The sustained virologic response rate was significantly lower in patients treated for 16 weeks than in patients treated for 24 weeks (62% vs. 70%; odds ratio for 16 weeks vs. 24 weeks, 0.67; 95% confidence interval, 0.54 to 0.84; P<0.001). In addition, the rate of relapse (a detectable HCV RNA level during follow-up in patients who had undetectable HCV RNA at the end of treatment) was significantly greater in the 16-week group (31%, vs. 18% in the 24-week group; P<0.001). The sustained virologic response rates in patients with a pretreatment serum HCV RNA level of 400,000 IU per milliliter or less was 82% with the 16-week regimen and 81% with the 24-week regimen. Among patients with a rapid virologic response (an undetectable HCV RNA level by week 4), sustained virologic response rates were 79% in the 16-week group and 85% in the 24-week group (P=0.02).
Treatment with peginterferon and ribavirin for 16 weeks in patients infected with HCV genotype 2 or 3 results in a lower overall sustained virologic response rate than treatment with the standard 24-week regimen. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00077636 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).
We have evaluated the effects of a B2 receptor antagonist (B5630) of kinins on BK and captopril-induced acute hypotensive responses in anaesthetized SHR. Intravenous treatment of BK (1.0 microgram) and captopril (0.3 mg/kg) caused significant (p < 0.05) fall in the SBP and DBP. Whereas BK caused greater fall in the SBP (p < 0.05), DBP (p < 0.01) and duration of hypotension (p < 0.05) when administered after captopril (Fig 1 and 2). All the hypotensive effects of BK and captopril were significantly antagonised (p < 0.05) in the presence of B5630 (2.0 mg/kg). Further, the duration of hypotensive responses of BK and captopril were blocked (p < 0.05) by B5630. The agonists and BK-antagonist did not cause significant (p > 0.05) alterations in HR during the entire investigation. These findings provide evidence to support the suggestion that B2 receptor might be involved in the regulation of the hypotensive actions of BK and captopril. Kinins should also have valuable functions in the antihypertensive property of captopril-like drugs.
Women who are diagnosed with breast cancer and undergoing chemotherapy and radiation are at high risk of developing acute radiation dermatitis. The purpose of this case study is to explore an alternative topical therapy for skin toxicity in the post-radiation care of a patient with a history of breast cancer. The patient, a 54-year-old white female, was treated by modified radical mastectomy, chemotherapy, and radiation. During post-radiation therapy the patient developed wet desquamation reaction over the midincision line into the right axilla. Balsam Peru, hydrogenated castor oil, trypsin (Xenaderm Healthpoint, San Antonio, Tex) was trialed to evaluate efficacy in providing wound healing to the denuded skin. Within 14 days of treatment, the area was completely healed and topical therapy stopped. This case study provides the basis for further research into the area of topical therapy for women with moist desquamation after radiation for breast cancer.
To determine the response rate, toxicity, failure free and overall survival of weekly topotecan in patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer who received one prior platinum based chemotherapy.
Twenty two patients with relapsed disease after response to one prior chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy and patients with relapse more than 90 days after their last therapy received topotecan 4mg/m(2) intravenous over 30min on days 1,8,15; every 4 weeks (3 weeks on and 1 weeks off). Chemotherapy was given until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Of 22 patients, none of the patients responded to weekly topotecan therapy. Four patients had stable disease. After a median follow up of 1 year, median time to progression was 6 weeks and median survival was 5 months. The common toxicities associated with this regimen were anemia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue, GI side effects and alopecia.
Weekly topotecan was well tolerated but ineffective in this trial. Although commonly used, weekly regimen of topotecan should be used with caution in relapsed SCLC.
Acute interstitial nephritis is rarely reported with vancomycin. Literature searches revealed six biopsy-proven cases of vancomycin-induced interstitial nephritis. We report a case of a 51-year-old male who was treated with vancomycin and gentamicin for primary osteomyelitis with methicillin resistant Staphyloccocus aureus bacteremia. He developed rash and acute kidney injury after vancomycin therapy. Renal function continued to decline despite discontinuation of vancomycin and prednisone was initiated. Rapid improvement of kidney function was noted and the patient was discharged with an improved creatinine. There was a failure of compliance with steroid therapy, and a second episode of acute kidney injury developed. Creatinine again improved after restarting steroids. Physicians should consider interstitial nephritis when patients are on vancomycin even when they have been on the medication for weeks. Although there have been no controlled clinical trials on the efficacy of steroids in acute interstitial nephritis, it should still be considered if improvement is not evident after drug withdrawal.
Active cigarette smoking is a major risk factor for bladder cancer. Secondhand exposure to cigarette smoke may also contribute to bladder carcinogenesis. The authors conducted a prospective cohort study to examine the influence of both active smoking and household exposure to secondhand smoke (SHS) on subsequent bladder cancer risk. The study population included persons from two cohorts established from private censuses conducted in Washington County, Maryland, in 1963 (n = 45,749; 93 cases) and 1975 (n = 48,172; 172 cases). Poisson regression models were fitted to estimate the relative risk of bladder cancer associated with active and passive smoke exposure in the two cohorts (referent category: never smokers who did not live with any smokers). Current smokers had an elevated risk of bladder cancer in both the 1963 cohort (relative risk (RR) = 2.7, 95% confidence limits (CL): 1.6, 4.7) and the 1975 cohort (RR = 2.6, 95% CL: 1.7, 3.9) after adjustment for age, education, and marital status. Among nonsmoking women, current household SHS exposure was associated with bladder cancer risk in the 1963 cohort (RR = 2.3, 95% CL: 1.0, 5.4) but not in the 1975 cohort (RR = 0.9, 95% CL: 0.4, 2.3). This study further solidifies the evidence that active smoking is causally associated with bladder cancer. Additional studies are needed to determine whether passive smoking is a risk factor for bladder cancer.
This article describes a 49-year-old man with lower gum cancer who received tumor ablation by an otolaryngologist and immediate reconstruction with microsurgical free tissue transfer. The thrombosis occurred at the arterial anastomotic site at least twice during operation by an experienced microsurgeon and progressed to skin paddle necrosis following surgery. The thalidomide-induced recipient vessel thrombosis is highly suspected after excluding other hypercoagulation problems and technique errors. While thalidomide is increasingly used as an adjuvant therapy agent in head and neck cancer treatment, its potential adverse effect resulting in recipient vessel thrombosis is worth consideration in microsurgery. Prophylatic antithrombosis agents are thus recommended to prevent this potential side effect.
Madopar Hydrodynamically Balanced System (HBS), a new sustained-release levodopa preparation, was used to control severe nightly disabilities in 15 outpatients suffering from Parkinson's disease in an advanced state and with long-term levodopa therapy. This medication was given ante noctem in addition to an otherwise unchanged daily regimen of levodopa administration. In 13 patients a considerable diminution in nocturnal akinesia and in the frequency of waking up was reached with a mean dosage of 308 mg of Madopar HBS. Early morning akinesia was only slightly alleviated in four patients. The nocturnal off-period pain disappeared in one patient. Adverse effects consisted of nocturnal dyskinesia in two patients and early morning dystonia in another two patients. The regular use of sleeping pills was clearly reduced after Madopar HBS therapy.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of nicardipine-induced hypotension on cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity in patients with diabetes mellitus under sevoflurane anesthesia.
Nineteen diabetic patients, and 11 nondiabetic patients (serving as controls), undergoing elective orthopedic, cardiovascular, or thoracic surgery were included in the study. The diabetic patients were divided into three groups according to the antidiabetic therapy they were receiving, i.e., diet therapy (n = 6), oral antidiabetic drugs (n = 7), and insulin (n = 6). Anesthesia was maintained with 1.0 minimum alveolar concentration of sevoflurane. Absolute and relative cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity was calculated using a 2.5-MHz pulsed transcranial Doppler (TCD) probe for the continuous measurement of mean blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (Vmca). The cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity was measured both at baseline and during hypotension by increasing the ventilatory frequency by 4 to 7 breaths.min(-1). Nicardipine was used to induce hypotension.
We found that values for the Bispectral index (BSI), baseline mean blood pressure, endtidal CO2 (Pet(CO2)), and Vmca were essentially identical in all patients, irrespective of the type of antidiabetic treatment being taken. Values for absolute and relative CO2 reactivity in insulin-dependent patients, at both baseline blood pressure and during hypotension, were lower than those in patients in the antidiabetic drug, diet, and control groups (during hypotension, absolute CO2 reactivity: diet group: 3.2 +/- 0.9; oral antidiabetic drug group: 3.2 +/- 0.7; insulin group: 1.5 +/- 0.6; control group: 3.4 +/- 0.8 cm.s(-1).mmHg(-1), [P < 0.05 insulin group vs the other groups]; relative CO2 reactivity: diet group, 6.3 +/- 1.0; oral antidiabetic drug group, 6.5 +/- 0.8; insulin group, 3.5 +/- 0.8; control group, 6.5 +/- 0.7%.mmHg(-1), [P < 0.05 insulin group vs the other groups].
We concluded that cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity in insulin-dependent patients is impaired during nicardipine-induced hypotension under sevoflurane anesthesia.
In the treatment of epilepsy, benzodiazepines are often administered in combination with other antiepileptic drug (s) because of the development of tolerance. In this study, the influence of concurrently administered antiepileptic drugs on tolerance to the anticonvulsant action of the nitrazepam (NZP) was studied using an animal tolerance model. Mice were given vehicle, NZP alone or NZP concurrently with one of six antiepileptic drugs (carbamazepine CBZ, phenytoin PHT, zonisamide ZNS, vigabatrin VGB, lamotrigine LTG, or flunarizine FNR) twice daily for 5 days. Tolerance was assessed by the ability of NZP to prevent pentylenetetrazol-induced clonic convulsions. Tolerance developed in mice treated with NZP alone, NZP plus CBZ, PHT, ZNS, VGB or LTG. On the other hand, mice receiving NZP + FNR showed no tolerance; there was no significant difference in seizure frequency between the vehicle group and NZP + FNR group. These data suggest that co-administration of FNR but not CBZ, PHT, ZNS, VGB or LTG may delay if not prevent development of tolerance to the anticonvulsant action of benzodiazepines.
Amineptine-induced immunoallergic hepatitis is unpredictable. It may be related to its oxidation into a reactive metabolite acting as hapten. We have looked for a possible genetic predisposition involving drug oxidation capacity and/or cell defense mechanisms in nine patients with previous amineptine hepatitis. Drug oxidation capacity was assessed using dextromethorphan, a test compound recently proposed as a substitute for debrisoquine. The eight patients tested had the extensive metabolizer phenotype. The susceptibility to amineptine metabolites was studied by an in vitro test assessing the destruction of the patients' lymphocytes by reactive metabolites generated from amineptine by a standardized oxidation microsomal system. Lymphocyte death increased with the dose of amineptine (1 to 2.5 mM); it was increased by preincubation with trichloropropene oxide, but was absent when amineptine was omitted or when the oxidation system was not operating. Mean lymphocyte death was twice higher in the nine patients with amineptine hepatitis than in 17 healthy controls. In contrast, when the test was performed with acetaminophen (3 to 10 mM), lymphocyte death was similar in controls and in patients. Basal epoxide hydrolase activity toward benzo[a]pyrene-4,5-oxide and glutathione concentration was similar in lymphocytes from controls and patients. Family studies showed an increased susceptibility to amineptine metabolites in lymphocytes from several first-degree relatives of two patients. These results show that amineptine hepatitis occurs in patients with extensive dextromethorphan oxidation capacity but with an increased susceptibility to amineptine reactive metabolites, probably related to a genetic deficiency in a cell defense mechanism.
Ammonia absorption by the medullary thick ascending limb of Henle's loop (MTALH) is thought to be a critical step in renal ammonia handling and excretion in urine, in which it is the main acid component. Basolateral Na+/H+ exchangers have been proposed to play a role in ammonia efflux out of MTALH cells, which express 2 exchanger isoforms: Na+/H+ exchanger 1 (NHE1) and NHE4. Here, we investigated the role of NHE4 in urinary acid excretion and found that NHE4-/- mice exhibited compensated hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, together with inappropriate urinary net acid excretion. When challenged with a 7-day HCl load, NHE4-/- mice were unable to increase their urinary ammonium and net acid excretion and displayed reduced ammonium medulla content compared with wild-type littermates. Both pharmacologic inhibition and genetic disruption of NHE4 caused a marked decrease in ammonia absorption by the MTALH. Finally, dietary induction of metabolic acidosis increased NHE4 mRNA expression in mouse MTALH cells and enhanced renal NHE4 activity in rats, as measured by in vitro microperfusion of MTALH. We therefore conclude that ammonia absorption by the MTALH requires the presence of NHE4 and that lack of NHE4 reduces the ability of MTALH epithelial cells to create the cortico-papillary gradient of NH3/NH4+ needed to excrete an acid load, contributing to systemic metabolic acidosis.
We have previously shown that the common feature of both pressure overload-induced hypertrophy and atrophy is a reactivation of the fetal gene program. Although gene expression profiles and signal transduction pathways in pressure overload hypertrophy have been well studied, little is known about the mechanisms underlying atrophic remodeling of the unloaded heart. Here, we induced atrophic remodeling by heterotopic transplantation of the rat heart. The activity parameters of three signal transduction pathways important in hypertrophy, i.e. mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), and Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT), were interrogated. Gene expression of upstream stimuli--insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2)--and metabolic correlates, i.e. peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) and PPARalpha-regulated genes, of these pathways were also measured. In addition, we measured transcript levels of genes known to regulate skeletal muscle atrophy, all of which are negatively regulated by IGF-1 (Mafbx/Atrogin-1, MuRF-1). Atrophic remodeling of the heart was associated with increased expression of IGF-1 and FGF-2. Transcript levels of the nuclear receptor PPARalpha were decreased, as were the levels of PPARalpha-regulated genes. Furthermore, there was phosphorylation of ERK1, STAT3, and p70S6K with unloading. Consistent with the increase in IGF-1, we found a decrease in Mafbx/Atrogin-1 and MuRF-1 transcript levels. Rapamycin administration at 0.8 mg/kg/day for 7 days resulted in enhanced atrophy and attenuated the phosphorylation of ERK1, STAT3, and p70S6K without altering gene expression. We conclude that there is significant crosstalk between the mTOR, MAP kinase, and JAK/STAT signaling cascades. Furthermore, ubiquitin ligases, known to be essential for skeletal muscle atrophy, decrease in unloading-induced cardiac atrophy.
In 126 epileptic dogs with spontaneously recurring generalized tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizures, epidemiological aspects and the efficacy of chronic oral treatment with common antiepileptic drugs were studied. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetics of antiepileptic drugs in dogs was compared with the values known for man. As in man, idiopathic epilepsy appeared to be more common than symptomatic epilepsy in dogs. There was a preponderance of male vs. female animals. When the breeds of the epileptic dogs were compared to the distribution of breeds in the hospital population, breed-related differences in the prevalence of epilepsy were found. The highest prevalence was seen in Cocker spaniels, Miniature schnauzers, Collies and Bassets. The total prevalence of dogs with epilepsy was 0.55%. Comparison of pharmacokinetics of antiepileptic drugs showed that some drugs were suited for maintenance therapy in dogs (primidone, phenobarbital, ethosuximide, trimethadione) whereas others appeared not to be ideally suited because of their short half-lives (phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproic acid, diazepam, clonazepam, nitrazepam). This was confirmed by the evaluation of antiepileptic drug efficacy in epileptic dogs. 46 dogs were treated with primidone at daily doses of 14-104 mg/kg for 6-60 months. During medication with primidone, effective plasma levels of its metabolite phenobarbital could be maintained. Complete control of seizures or a reduction of seizure frequency by at least 75% was achieved in 39% of the dogs at phenobarbital concentrations of 5-49 micrograms/ml. Similar figures were obtained during chronic treatment with phenobarbital at daily doses of 2.5-13 mg/kg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 4% cocaine (total dose; 200 mg) solution with 1 mg epinephrine was used as a topical anesthetic for 178 cases undergoing functional endoscopic sinus surgery. Complications were investigated before and during surgery. Bleeding amount and operative duration were compared between patients with and without topical cocaine application. Tachycardia (26 cases) was the only complication encountered in this study. Tachycardia occurred at a high incidence in cases which used atropine as a premedication. Total bleeding amount did no differ significantly between those with and without topical cocaine. However, minimum bleeding cases (less than 20 ml) were found in the cocaine group more frequently than in the non-cocaine group. Operative durations of cases with cocaine anesthesia were significantly shorter than cases without cocaine anesthesia. Those findings suggest that cocaine is effective for prevention of bleeding from micro-vessels and/or mucosal oozing, whereas bleeding from macro-vessels was not controlled by topical cocaine application. Topical cocaine anesthesia produced no major complications, even at 200 mg, in the presence of 1 mg epinephrine and when atropine use was avoided.
