So far, two genes associated with familial melanoma have been identified, accounting for a minority of genetic risk in families. Mutations in CDKN2A account for approximately 40% of familial cases, and predisposing mutations in CDK4 have been reported in a very small number of melanoma kindreds. Here we report the whole-genome sequencing of probands from several melanoma families, which we performed in order to identify other genes associated with familial melanoma. We identify one individual carrying a novel germline variant (coding DNA sequence c.G1075A; protein sequence p.E318K; rs149617956) in the melanoma-lineage-specific oncogene microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF). Although the variant co-segregated with melanoma in some but not all cases in the family, linkage analysis of 31 families subsequently identified to carry the variant generated a log of odds (lod) score of 2.7 under a dominant model, indicating E318K as a possible intermediate risk variant. Consistent with this, the E318K variant was significantly associated with melanoma in a large Australian case-control sample. Likewise, it was similarly associated in an independent case-control sample from the United Kingdom. In the Australian sample, the variant allele was significantly over-represented in cases with a family history of melanoma, multiple primary melanomas, or both. The variant allele was also associated with increased naevus count and non-blue eye colour. Functional analysis of E318K showed that MITF encoded by the variant allele had impaired sumoylation and differentially regulated several MITF targets. These data indicate that MITF is a melanoma-predisposition gene and highlight the utility of whole-genome sequencing to identify novel rare variants associated with disease susceptibility.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) can induce non-dose-related hepatitis, possibly classified as delayed-type hypersensitivity (immune-mediated hepatitis), as well as dose-related toxic liver injury. However, the difference in pathophysiology between the two kinds of hepatitis remains unknown. This study aimed to characterize the liver injury associated with hypersensitive skin reactions induced by TCE in guinea pigs. As a model of dose-related acute toxic liver injury, the animals were treated with intradermal injection (ii) (0, 167, 500, 1500 or 4500 mg/kg of TCE) or dermal patch (dp) (0 or 900 mg/kg of TCE). The guinea pig maximization test (GPMT) was also carried out as a model of immune-mediated liver injury, in which the total TCE dosage was below 340 mg/kg. In the group of TCE 4500 mg/kg (ii), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) increased (p<0.01), while total protein and globulin decreased (p<0.05). Evident fatty degeneration, hepatic sinusoid dilation and inflammatory cell infiltration were observed. No significant change was found in animals treated with TCE of doses below 500 mg/kg (ii) or 900 mg/kg (dp). In the GPMT, sensitization rates of TCE-induced dermal allergy were 66%. ALT, AST, lactate dehydrogenase and the relative liver weight increased significantly (p<0.05) while albumin, IgA and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase decreased significantly (p<0.05). Lesions of ballooning changes were observed in liver pathology. Thus, TCE could cause both acute-type toxic liver injury and immune-mediated liver injury, the so-called delayed-type hypersensitivity at doses below the dosage for toxic liver injury. Interestingly, the histopathological features were quite different: fatty degeneration was most prominent in the former, and ballooning in the latter.
To describe 3 patients with calcium carbonate-induced hypercalcemia and gain insights into the cause and management of the milk-alkali syndrome.
We report the clinical and laboratory data in 3 patients who presented with severe hypercalcemia (corrected serum calcium > or = 14 mg/dL) and review the pertinent literature on milk-alkali syndrome.
The 3 patients had acute renal insufficiency, relative metabolic alkalosis, and low parathyroid hormone (PTH), PTH-related peptide, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentrations. No malignant lesion was found. Treatment included aggressive hydration and varied amounts of furosemide. The 2 patients with the higher serum calcium concentrations received pamidronate intravenously (60 and 30 mg, respectively), which caused severe hypocalcemia. Of the 3 patients, 2 were ingesting acceptable doses of elemental calcium (1 g and 2 g daily, respectively) in the form of calcium carbonate. In addition to our highlighted cases, we review the history, classification, pathophysiologic features, and treatment of milk-alkali syndrome and summarize the cases reported from early 1995 to November 2003.
Milk-alkali syndrome may be a common cause of unexplained hypercalcemia and can be precipitated by small amounts of orally ingested calcium carbonate in susceptible persons. Treatment with hydration, furosemide, and discontinuation of the calcium and vitamin D source is adequate. Pamidronate treatment is associated with considerable risk for hypocalcemia, even in cases of initially severe hypercalcemia.
To assess the frequency and type of cardiac effects in women treated with adjuvant chemotherapy with or without breast irradiation for operable breast cancer.
Retrospective analysis of a series of 825 women taking part in prospectively randomized trials on adjuvant chemotherapy with or without adriamycin (doxorubicin; Farmitalia-Carlo Erba, Milan, Italy) for operable breast cancer at high risk of new disease manifestations. A total of 360 patients (44%) also received breast irradiation because of conservative surgery. Median follow-up in first clinical complete remission from end of all adjuvant treatments was 80 months. According to the protocol requirements, electrocardiograms were obtained before breast cancer surgery, before starting therapy with adriamycin and at the end of all adjuvant treatments. During the follow-up observation, electrocardiograms were systematically obtained at least once a year. In the presence of suspicious findings as well as of clinical symptoms and signs of cardiovascular disease, additional cardiac investigations were undertaken. However, percutaneous endomyocardial biopsies were never performed.
Congestive heart failure occurred in a total of 4 women (0.5% of all patients; 0.8% following adriamycin-containing chemotherapy; 2.6% after both adriamycin and irradiation to the left breast), in two of whom it was fatal. ST-segment and T-wave abnormalities in the absence of other symptoms and signs were detected in 3.4% of the case series. Other cardiac events were documented in 6.8% of all patients Overall, cardiac effects were more frequently detected in women who received irradiation to the left breast. In addition, age greater than 55 years at surgery and history of risk factors were important risk modifiers in the occurrence of cardiac events.
The addition of full-dose adriamycin to alkylating-containing adjuvant chemotherapy, as given in our studies, failed per se to increase the frequency of cardiac effects. Thus anthracyclines, which have the potential to improve current treatment results, deserve a proper place in the design of future adjuvant studies.
The importance of treating hepatitis C virus (HCV)-associated morbidities in a growing population of patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has increased since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy. As a result, investigative attention is turning to HCV-related liver disease and treatment-associated issues in coinfection. HIV/HCV-coinfected patients have higher HCV RNA loads and show more rapid progression of fibrosis than do monoinfected patients. Combination therapy with pegylated interferon plus ribavirin (RBV) is the standard of care for HCV in coinfected patients. Therapy slows fibrosis progression, but toxicity prevents identification of the most effective RBV dose. Coinfected patients have about a threefold greater risk of antiretroviral therapy-associated hepatotoxicity than patients with HIV only. Other challenges include anaemia, mitochondrial toxicity, drug-drug interactions and leucopenia. Thus, chronic hepatitis C should be treated in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients, but steps must be taken to prevent and treat potential toxicities. The first European Consensus Conference on the Treatment of Chronic Hepatitis B and C in HIV Co-infected Patients was held March 2005 in Paris to address these issues. This article reviews the peer-reviewed literature and expert opinion published from 1990 to 2005, and compares results with presentations and recommendations from the Consensus Conference to best present current issues in coinfection.
Sympathetic nervous system and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) system play fundamental roles in the regulation of cardiovascular functions. Overactivity of sympathetic nervous system can lead into cardiovascular diseases such as heart failure and hypertension. The present study aimed to define which adrenergic receptors (ARs) affect atrial contractility and ANP release and to determine their modification in renal hypertensive rat atria. An alpha(1)-AR agonist, cirazoline increased ANP release with positive inotropism. These alpha(1)-AR agonist-mediated responses were attenuated by the alpha(1A)-AR antagonist, but not by the alpha(1B)- or alpha(1D)-AR antagonist. An alpha(2)-AR agonist, guanabenz and clonidine increased ANP release with negative inotropism and decreased cAMP level. The order of potency for the increased ANP release was cirazoline>phenylephrine=guanabenz>clonidine. In contrast, a beta-AR agonist, isoproterenol decreased ANP release with positive inotropism and these responses were blocked by the beta(1)-AR antagonist but not by the beta(2)-AR antagonist. The increased cAMP level by isoproterenol was suppressed by pretreatment with both beta(1)- and beta(2)-AR antagonists. In renal hypertensive rat atria, the effects of isoproterenol on atrial contractility, ANP release, and cAMP level were attenuated whereas the effect of cirazoline on ANP release was unaltered. Atrial beta(1)-AR mRNA level but not alpha(1A)-AR mRNA level was decreased in renal hypertensive rats. These findings suggest that alpha(1A)- and beta(1)-AR oppositely regulate atrial ANP release and that atrial beta(1)-AR expression/function is impaired in renal hypertensive rats.
Hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD) is widely used as a brominated flame retardant, and has been detected in the aquatic environment, wild animals, and humans. However, details of the environmental health risk of HBCD are not well known. In this study, zebrafish embryos were used to assess the developmental toxicity of the chemical. Four-hour post-fertilization (hpf) zebrafish embryos were exposed to various concentrations of HBCD (0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mg L(-1)) until 96 h. Exposure to 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mg L(-1) HBCD significantly increased the malformation rate and reduced survival in the 0.5 and 1.0 mg L(-1) HBCD exposure groups. Acridine orange (AO) staining showed that HBCD exposure resulted in cell apoptosis. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) was significantly induced at exposures of 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mg L(-1) HBCD. To test the apoptotic pathway, several genes related to cell apoptosis, such as p53, Puma, Apaf-1, caspase-9, and caspase-3, were examined using real-time PCR. The expression patterns of these genes were up-regulated to some extent. Two anti-apoptotic genes, Mdm2 (antagonist of p53) and Bcl-2 (inhibitor of Bax), were down-regulated, and the activity of capspase-9 and caspase-3 was significantly increased. The overall results demonstrate that waterborne HBCD is able to produce oxidative stress and induce apoptosis through the involvement of caspases in zebrafish embryos. The results also indicate that zebrafish embryos can serve as a reliable model for the developmental toxicity of HBCD.
The effect of the selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole, the selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT and the selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist ketanserin on catalepsy induced by atypical antipsychotics clozapine, risperidone, olanzapine and sertindole at higher doses was studied in rats. Haloperidol (0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg), clozapine (50 and 75 mg/kg) and olanzapine (15 and 30 mg/kg) produced catalepsy dose-dependently while sertindole at doses up to 40 mg/kg failed to produce catalepsy in rats. However, sertindole (15, 30 and 45 mg/kg) produced a cataleptic effect in mice in a dose-dependent manner. At a high dose (5 mg/kg), risperidone produced catalepsy in rats. Quinpirole (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg) reversed the cataleptic effect of haloperidol (2 mg/kg), risperidone (5 mg/kg), olanzapine (30 mg/kg) and sertindole (45 mg/kg). Quinpirole (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg) reversed clozapine (75 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy. 8-OH-DPAT (0.15 and 0.3 mg/kg) dose-dependently reversed catalepsy induced by haloperidol (2 mg/kg) and risperidone (5 mg/kg) without affecting the cataleptic effect of olanzapine. However, the higher dose (0.45 mg/kg) of 8-OH-DPAT reversed it significantly. 8-OH-DPAT (0.3 mg/kg) reversed clozapine (75 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy. 8-OH-DPAT (0.15, 0.3 and 0.45 mg/kg) failed to reverse sertindole-induced catalepsy. Ketanserin (0.75 and 1.5 mg/kg) completely reversed catalepsy induced by haloperidol (2 mg/kg) and risperidone (5 mg/kg). Ketanserin (0.75 and 1.5 mg/kg) dose-dependently reversed olanzapine (30 mg/kg) and sertindole (45 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy without any effect on clozapine (75 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy. A higher dose (3 mg/kg) of ketanserin reversed clozapine-induced catalepsy. The present study suggests that atypical antipsychotics show fewer extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) due to greater modulation of the serotonergic system. Therefore, an antipsychotic with dopamine D2/5-HT2A antagonistic action and 5-HT1A agonistic action may prove to be superior to the existing antipsychotics.
Vigabatrin, one of the newer anti-epileptic drugs (AED), whose effect is mediated via elevated levels of brain GABA, has proved to be effective in drug resistant partial seizures and infantile spasms. Recently, visual field constriction was found in up to 30% of adults, whereas information for the pediatric age group is sparse. We examined 24 visually-asymptomatic children, ages 3.5-18 years, treated for 3.01.6 years at doses of 25-90 mg/kg. These children underwent an ophthalmologic examination, visual evoked potentials, electroretinogram and when possible, perimetry. Over half of the children had at least one abnormal test and 11/17, who were able to undergo perimetric studies, had symmetrical, nasal visual field constriction. In view of the gravity and prevalence of visual field constriction, use of the AED vigabatrin should be weighed against its clinical benefits.
In few cases, pure citalopram overdose at doses above 600 mg showed electro-cardiographic changes with prolonged QT intervals and sinus bradycardia gradually resolving within 12-24 hours after intoxication. We report on a 32-year-old patient with borderline personality disorder (BPD) who ingested a total of 800 mg citalopram to attempt suicide due to an interpersonal disappointment. She developed severe sinus bradycardia with a minimal pulse rate of 41/min within about 4 hours after intoxication lasting up to six days during intensive care unit (ICU) treatment. Further, hypotension and syncopes occurred. No QT interval prolongations were recorded. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of pure citalopram overdose-induced long-lasting sinus bradycardia associated with severe hypotension and intermittent syncopes that required therapy with a temporary pacemaker.
Although griseofulvin is currently considered the primary antifungal agent used to treat tinea capitis in many countries, increasingly higher doses and longer durations of treatment are becoming necessary to achieve effective treatment. Alternative antifungal therapies with shorter/simpler treatment regimens may be important to develop for this indication.
To compare the efficacy and safety of a new pediatric formulation of terbinafine hydrochloride oral granules with griseofulvin oral suspension in the treatment of tinea capitis.
Children (4-12 years of age) with clinically diagnosed and potassium hydroxide microscopy-confirmed tinea capitis were randomized in two identical studies (trial 1, trial 2) to once-daily treatment with terbinafine (5-8 mg/kg; n = 1040) or griseofulvin administered per label (10-20 mg/kg; n = 509) for a period of 6 weeks followed by 4 weeks of follow-up. End-of-study complete cure (negative fungal culture and microscopy with Total Signs and Symptoms Score [TSSS] = 0), and mycologic (negative culture and microscopy) and clinical cure (TSSS = 0) were primary and secondary efficacy variables, respectively. Efficacy analysis was based on pooled data using modified intent-to-treat population (those who received at least one dose of study drug and had positive baseline fungal culture, N = 1286). Safety assessments included monitoring of the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs).
Rates of complete cure and mycologic cure were significantly higher for terbinafine than for griseofulvin (45.1% vs 39.2% and 61.5% vs 55.5%, respectively; P < .05). A majority (86.7%) of patients received griseofulvin, 10 to 19.9 mg/kg per day; complete cure rate was not found to be higher among patients who received griseofulvin more than 20 mg/kg per day compared with those who received less than 20 mg/kg per day. Complete cure rate was statistically significantly greater for terbinafine compared to griseofulvin in trial 1 (46.23% vs 34.01%) but not in trial 2 (43.99% vs 43.46%). On the basis of pooled data, clinical cure was higher for terbinafine than for griseofulvin, but the difference was not found to be statistically significant (P = .10). Subgroup analyses revealed that terbinafine was significantly better than griseofulvin for all cure rates--mycologic, clinical, and complete--among patients with Trichophyton tonsurans but not Microsporum canis (P < .001). For M. canis, mycologic and clinical cure rates were significantly better with griseofulvin than with terbinafine (P < .05). Approximately 50% of patients in each group reported an AE; almost all were mild or moderate in severity. Nasopharyngitis, headache, and pyrexia were most common in both groups. There were no drug-related serious AEs, no deaths, and no significant effects on weight or laboratory parameters, including liver transaminases.
In retrospect, a difference in the distribution of infecting microorganisms between the two trials was a limitation. Stringent adherence to griseofulvin doses recommended by prescribing information but smaller than those used in current clinical practice, and exclusion of adjuvant therapies such as shampoos or topical agents, which are routinely used in practice, are other limitations.
Data from this largest pediatric trial of terbinafine to date indicate that terbinafine is efficacious and well tolerated in the treatment of tinea capitis. Terbinafine is an effective alternative to griseofulvin against T. tonsurans tinea capitis.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated in the aetiology of HCl/ethanol- and indomethacin gastric mucosal damage. This study investigated the protective effects of kolaviron, a natural antioxidant from the seed of Garcinia kola, on oxidative gastric mucosal damage induced by HCl/ethanol, and indomethacin.A HCl/ethanol mixture (1.5 mL of 0.15 n HCl in 70% ethanol) and indomethacin (IND) caused severe gastric damage with an ulcer index of 2.90 +/- 0.8 and 2.5 +/- 0.4, respectively, and significant reductions in the gastric mucosal content of catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH) (p < 0.001).Pre-treatment of animals with kolaviron (100 mg/kg) orally 1 h and once daily for 3 days prior to ulcer induction significantly reduced the formation of ulcers induced by HCl/ethanol with preventive ratios of 65 and 72, respectively, while rats treated with kolaviron 1 day and for 7 days prior to IND treatment attenuated ulcer formation by 59% and 77%. Pre-treatment with ranitidine 1 h prior to ulcer induction (50 mg/kg) elicited preventive ulcer ratio of 55. Kolaviron pre-treatment 1 h before ulcer induction attenuated the HCl/ethanol reduction in CAT, SOD and GSH by 43%, 42% and 30%, respectively, and 67%, 68% and 64% following 72 h treatment with kolaviron. Ranitidine elicited 24%, 41% and 29% protective effects, respectively.Similarly, kolaviron administered to rats 1 day and for 7 days before IND treatment attenuated the drug-induced inhibition of CAT by 44% and 70%; SOD by 23% and 43% and GSH by 32% and 55%, respectively. In a 1 h and 3-day treatment with kolaviron before HCl/ethanol administration, MDA was reduced by 35% and 55%, respectively, while kolaviron administration 1 day and for 7 days before IND elicited a 39% and 58% reduction in MDA. Ranitidine elicited 39% and 50% reduction in MDA following HCl/ethanol and IND treatment. The results indicate the gastroprotective activity of kolaviron, which may be linked to its intrinsic antioxidant properties.
To compare the effects of spinal anesthesia with different doses of hyperbaric bupivacaine with or without fentanyl in patients undergoing cesarean section.
Prospective study enrolling 50 ASA 1-2 patients undergoing cesarean section, randomized to 5 treatment groups. Groups A, B, C, and D received 15 microg of fentanyl and group X received no fentanyl. The doses of hyperbaric bupivacaine given in each group were as follows: 10 mg in Group A, 11 mg in group B, 12 mg in group C, 13 mg in group D, and 14 mg in group X.
Patients in groups A and B had greater hemodynamic stability than patients in groups C, D, or X (P < 0.05). The incidence of hypotension was 70% in group C and 80% in groups D and X. The sensory block reached level T4 in groups D and X and the motor block was complete in all cases. Postoperative analgesia lasted longer in group D with a mean (SD) duration of 202 (25) minutes than in group X with a mean duration of 194 (19) minutes. Assessment on a visual analog scale was under 3 in all groups except group A, where 2 patients required administration of propofol.
Acceptable operative conditions with a low incidence of hypotension are provided with an 11 mg dose of hyperbaric bupivacaine.
Inhalation studies were conducted to determine the potential subchronic toxicity of a mixture of trans-1,2-dichloroethylene (70%), cis-1,2-dichloroethylene (5%), and perfluorobutylethylene (25%). Groups of rats were exposed to 0, 400, 2000, or 8000 ppm concentrations of the mixture vapor 6 h/day, 5 days/wk, for a total of 20 exposures. Subgroups of rats were further observed during a 1-mo recovery period. Functional observational battery (FOB) and motor activity (MA) behavioral tests were conducted prior to initiation of the exposures, during exposure wk 4, and after a 1-mo postexposure recovery period. Clinical pathology evaluations were conducted at the end of the exposure period and after a 1-mo recovery period. At the end of the 4-wk exposure period, tissues from rats were collected, histologically processed, and evaluated by light microscopy. Test substance-related, biologically significant decreased body weights and body weight gains occurred in male and female rats exposed to 8000 ppm. In addition, test substance-related, statistically significant decreases in food consumption and/or food efficiency were observed in male rats exposed to 8000 ppm. During exposures to 8000 ppm, some rats exhibited tremors and ataxia. Usually tremors and ataxia were observed within 1 h after initiation of the daily exposure period and were observed during each exposure day. Tremors were also observed during 1 exposure day in the 2000 ppm animals. In addition to the tremors and ataxia, rats exposed to 2000 ppm or 8000 ppm had a diminished and/or no alerting response to a sharp, sound stimulus during each of the daily exposure periods. These effects were transient since no clinical observations of compromised neurological function were detected when the rats were evaluated upon return to the animal room following exposure. Daily reoccurrence of this apparently acute effect in the 8000 ppm group did not produce enduring neurological changes since there were no test substance-related effects on FOB parameters or on MA conducted the day following the last exposure or during the recovery period. In addition, there were no toxicologically significant changes in hematology, clinical chemistry, or urinalysis parameters in either males or females for any exposure concentration; and there were no test substance-related gross or microscopic morphological changes in males or females administered any exposure concentration. Under the conditions of the study, the no-observed-effect level (NOEL) was 400 ppm in males and females based on clinical signs of toxicity during exposure to 2000 or 8000 ppm.
Alachlor and butachlor are chloracetanilide herbicides that induce olfactory tumors in rats, whereas propachlor does not. The mechanism by which alachlor induces tumors is distinct from many other nasal carcinogens, in that alachlor induces a gradual de-differentiation of the olfactory mucosa (OM) to a more respiratory-like epithelium, in contrast to other agents that induce cytotoxicity, followed by an aberrant regenerative response. We studied biochemical and genomic effects of these compounds to identify processes that occur in common between alachlor- and butachlor-treated rats. Because we have previously shown that matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) is activated in OM by alachlor, in the present studies we evaluated both MMP2 activation and changes in OM gene expression in response to carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic chloracetanilide treatments. All three chloracetanilides activated MMP2, and >300 genes were significantly up- or downregulated between control and alachlor-treated rats. The most significantly regulated gene was vomeromodulin, which was dramatically upregulated by alachlor and butachlor treatment (>60-fold), but not by propachlor treatment. Except for similar gene responses in alachlor- and butachlor-treated rats, we did not identify clear-cut differences that would predict OM carcinogenicity in this study.
Mice of two inbred strains, DBA and C3H, were pretreated with mecamylamine before challenge with nicotine. Mecamylamine blocked nicotine-induced seizures, enhanced startle, and alterations in respiratory rate, Y-maze activity, heart rate and body temperature. Mecamylamine blocked nicotine-induced seizures and enhanced startle with IC50 values of less than 0.1 mg/kg. The other nicotine effects were blocked by mecamylamine with IC50 values between 0.8 and 2.3 mg/kg. Strain differences in sensitivity to mecamylamine blockade were also detected. These results suggest that nicotine elicits its effects at two receptors, which may be those labeled with [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin and with [3H]-nicotine.
Sprague-Dawley rats given gentamicin from 10 to 70 mg/kg/day for 9 days showed a linear decrease in glomerular filtration rate with increasing dose, paralleled by histologic changes of acute tubular necrosis and cast formation only at the higher doses. Nephrotoxicity was correlated with the peak, rather than trough, serum gentamicin levels in this study, suggesting that it is the mean level of gentamicin over time that determines renal injury. The polyuria caused by gentamicin resulted mainly from a tubular concentrating defect rather than enhanced sodium or osmolal excretion and may be explained by the finding of a predominance of casts in the medullary thin limbs of the loops of Henle. No effect of gentamicin on the activity of cortical or medullary sodium-potassium adenosine triphosphatase was found to account for the modest sodium wasting. Concurrent administration of sodium cephalothin decreased the renal toxicity of gentamicin at high doses, an effect not explained by the added sodium or nonreabsorbable anion.
Neural remodeling is part of the pathophysiology of ventricular arrhythmias after myocardial infarction (MI). In this study, we developed a rabbit model of MI to investigate the effect of the beta-blocker metoprolol on ventricular neural remodeling and susceptibility to ventricular arrhythmias.
MI was induced by ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery in 30 rabbits, and sham operations were performed in 12 control animals. Metoprolol was then administered to 15 of the MI animals. After electrophysiological recordings, the expression of nerve markers was studied at the infarct border and the non-infarct left ventricle free wall (LVFW) by immunostaining or RT-PCR.
Eight weeks after MI, the incidence of inducible ventricular arrhythmias was significantly (P<0.01) higher in the MI group than in the sham group. However, metoprolol treatment decreased incidence of post-MI ventricular arrhythmias (8.3%) compared to those without treatment (58.3%, P<0.001). The density of nerve fibers was increased in MI group (3889+/-521 microm(2)/mm(2)) compared to the sham group (1727+/-304 microm(2)/mm(2)). Treatment of MI rabbits with metoprolol resulted in a partial reduction (2725+/-283 microm(2)/mm(2)). However, the shape and imbalance of nerve fibers appeared to be normalized by the metoprolol treatment. The expression levels of TH mRNA were reduced (P<0.01) by metoprolol treatment.
Metoprolol reduces post-MI ventricular arrhythmias, partly by altering the neural remodeling process.
Low-dose intravenous nitroglycerin infusion can be safely administered during acute myocardial infarction to unload the left ventricle and salvage ischemic myocardium and left ventricular geometry and function. In an experimental conscious dog model, low-dose infusion titrated to decrease mean blood pressure by 10% over the first 6 hours after coronary artery ligation resulted in 51% decrease in infarct size, 54% decrease in preload, and more than 50% increase in collateral blood flow. The same benefits were seen when methoxamine was given to counteract that 10% decrease in blood pressure. Similar short-term nitroglycerin infusion also limited remodeling in the dog model. More important, no myocardial salvage was seen with excessive nitroglycerin-induced hypotension to levels less than 80 mm Hg. Clinically, prolonged low-dose nitroglycerin infusion was evaluated in a prospective, randomized, single-blinded, placebo-controlled study of 310 patients with acute infarction: 154 received nitroglycerin and 156 received placebo. Nitroglycerin was titrated to reduce mean blood pressure by 10% in normotensive patients and up to 30% in hypertensive (blood pressure greater than 140/90 mm Hg) patients, but not to less than 80 mm Hg. Nitroglycerin produced several benefits compared with placebo: (1) smaller creatine kinase infarct size; (2) less regional left ventricular dysfunction, better global ejection fraction, and less infarct expansion and thinning; (3) better clinical functional status and hemodynamics; (4) fewer inhospital complications such as acute left ventricular failure and dilation due to marked infarct expansion, left ventricular thrombus, cardiogenic shock, and infarct extension; and (5) fewer deaths up to 1 year in patients with anterior Q-wave infarction.
A 48-year-old woman presented with acute coronary syndrome and underwent coronary angiography which revealed myocardial bridging at the distal end of the left anterior descending artery with otherwise normal coronary arteries. The patient used to take ergotamine for her chronic migraine. Possible association with myocardial bridging which was found in this patient is discussed.
Since xenobiotics enter the organism via the liver, hepatocytes must cope with numerous perturbations, including modifications of proteins leading to endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER-stress). This triggers a signaling pathway termed unfolded protein response (UPR) that aims to restore homeostasis or to eliminate disturbed hepatocytes by apoptosis. In the present study, we used the well-established CCl4 hepatotoxicity model in mice to address the questions whether CCl4 induces ER-stress and, if so, whether the well-known ER-stress effector CHOP is responsible for CCl4-induced apoptosis. For this purpose, we treated mice with a high dose of CCl4 injected i.p. and followed gene expression profile over time using Affymetrix gene array analysis. This time resolved gene expression analysis allowed the identification of gene clusters with overrepresented binding sites for the three most important ER-stress induced transcription factors, CHOP, XBP1 and ATF4. Such result was confirmed by the demonstration of CCl4-induced XBP1 splicing, upregulation of CHOP at mRNA and protein levels, and translocation of CHOP to the nucleus. Two observations indicated that CHOP may be responsible for CCl4-induced cell death: (1) Nuclear translocation of CHOP was exclusively observed in the pericentral fraction of hepatocytes that deteriorate in response to CCl4 and (2) CHOP-regulated genes with previously reported pro-apoptotic function such as GADD34, TRB3 and ERO1L were induced in the pericentral zone as well. Therefore, we compared CCl4 induced hepatotoxicity in CHOP knockout versus wild-type mice. Surprisingly, genetic depletion of CHOP did not afford protection against CCl4-induced damage as evidenced by serum GOT and GPT as well as quantification of dead tissue areas. The negative result was obtained at several time points (8, 24 and 72 h) and different CCl4 doses (1.6 and 0.132 g/kg). Overall, our results demonstrate that all branches of the UPR are activated in mouse liver upon CCl4 treatment. However, CHOP does not play a critical role in CCl4-induced cell death and cannot be considered as a biomarker strictly linked to hepatotoxicity. The role of alternative UPR effectors such as XBP1 remains to be investigated.
A 33-year-old renal transplant recipient presented with painless swelling of the right knee. Physical examination revealed an impressive knee joint effusion with no signs of inflammation. The patient did not remember a recent trauma, but he mentioned a strain 3 years earlier; radiographic findings had been normal at that time. The patient had suffered from end-stage renal disease due to chronic glomerulonephritis and had previously undergone two transplantations. At presentation, his kidney function was stable under treatment with ciclosporin, azathioprine and steroids.
Conventional radiography revealed a tumor at the superolateral pole of the right patella. Extensive soft tissue invasion and bone destruction was seen on MRI. A knee arthroscopy with biopsy, performed to aid diagnosis, showed extensive chondrocalcinosis macroscopically; histologically, gouty tophi were found.
Pseudotumor of gout in the patella.
Uric-acid-lowering therapy with benzbromarone was started immediately after diagnosis. A local arthroscopic debridement of the right knee joint was performed 4 months later, and the patient remained asymptomatic for the next 3 years.
Central nervous system effects, such as mental confusion and hallucinations, have been reported with both cimetidine and ranitidine. Elderly patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction are more susceptible to these adverse reactions. We report two cases of reversible mental confusion in elderly patients with mild renal insufficiency following intravenous famotidine therapy, possibly explained by an increased permeability of the blood-brain barrier in patients with decreased renal function.
Pierre Robin sequence (PRS) is an important subgroup of cleft palate. We report several lines of evidence for the existence of a 17q24 locus underlying PRS, including linkage analysis results, a clustering of translocation breakpoints 1.06-1.23 Mb upstream of SOX9, and microdeletions both approximately 1.5 Mb centromeric and approximately 1.5 Mb telomeric of SOX9. We have also identified a heterozygous point mutation in an evolutionarily conserved region of DNA with in vitro and in vivo features of a developmental enhancer. This enhancer is centromeric to the breakpoint cluster and maps within one of the microdeletion regions. The mutation abrogates the in vitro enhancer function and alters binding of the transcription factor MSX1 as compared to the wild-type sequence. In the developing mouse mandible, the 3-Mb region bounded by the microdeletions shows a regionally specific chromatin decompaction in cells expressing Sox9. Some cases of PRS may thus result from developmental misexpression of SOX9 due to disruption of very-long-range cis-regulatory elements.
Males are at greater risk of cardiovascular and renal disease than are females. For example, male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) have higher blood pressures than females. Androgens have been strongly implicated in the hypertension of male SHR, because castration attenuates the hypertension. This study determined whether the androgen receptor plays a role in hypertension in male SHR and whether testosterone alone can cause the hypertension or whether conversion to dihydrotestosterone is necessary. Male SHR, aged 10 weeks, were given the androgen receptor antagonist flutamide (8 mg/kg SC; n=8) or the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride (30 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) SC; n=11) daily for 5 to 6 weeks. Control rats (n=10) received vehicle (20% benzyl benzoate or ethanol in castor oil). After 5 to 6 weeks, blood pressure (mean arterial pressure) and glomerular filtration rate were measured. Long-term flutamide treatment caused a reduction in mean arterial pressure (control 178+/-5 mm Hg; flutamide 159+/-3 mm Hg; P<0.01), but finasteride had no effect (180+/-5 mm Hg). There were no differences in glomerular filtration rate among the groups. These data indicate that hypertension in male SHR is mediated via the androgen receptor and does not require conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone.
Childhood lead exposure adversely affects neurodevelopment. However, few studies have examined changes in human brain metabolism that may underlie known adverse cognitive and behavioral outcomes.
We examined the association between mean childhood blood lead levels and in vivo brain metabolite concentrations as adults, determined by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in a birth cohort with documented low-to-moderate lead exposure.
Adult participants from the Cincinnati Lead Study [n = 159; mean age (± SD), 20.8 ± 0.9 years] completed a quantitative, short-echo proton MRS protocol evaluating seven regions to determine brain concentrations of N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), creatine and phosphocreatine (Cr), cholines (Cho), myo-inositol, and a composite of glutamate and glutamine (GLX). Correlation and multiple linear regression analyses were conducted.
Mean childhood blood lead levels were associated with regionally specific brain metabolite concentrations adjusted for age at imaging and Full-Scale intelligence quotient. Adjusted analyses estimated for a unit (micrograms per deciliter) increase in mean childhood blood lead concentrations, a decrease of NAA and Cr concentration levels in the basal ganglia, a decrease of NAA and a decrease of Cho concentration levels in the cerebellar hemisphere, a decrease of GLX concentration levels in vermis, a decrease of Cho and a decrease of GLX concentration levels in parietal white matter, and a decrease of Cho concentration levels in frontal white matter.
Gray-matter NAA reductions associated with increasing childhood blood lead levels suggest that sustained childhood lead exposure produces an irreversible pattern of neuronal dysfunction, whereas associated white-matter choline declines indicate a permanent alteration to myelin architecture.
Adenosine (Ado) triggers several protective mechanisms that may attenuate development of heart failure, both locally and systemically. We developed a procedure allowing sustained increase in endogenous Ado production by the combined application of Ado metabolism inhibitors and nucleotide precursors. We found that our procedure attenuate the development of heart failure induced by adriamycin.
