1. The cardiovascular responses of mianserin hydrochloride and tricyclic antidepressant drugs were investigated using non-invasive methods of cardiac investigation. A study of the interaction of mianserin and antihypertensive drug therapy is reported. 2. In six normal volunteers, mianserin hydrochloride 20 mg was shown to prolong the corrected Q-T interval at 150 min (P less than 0.001). It did not affect heart rate, systolic time intervals or the peak normalized derivative of the apexcardiogram. Amitriptyline 50 mg increased the corrected pre-ejection period interval (PEPI) and the PEP/left ventricular ejection time (LVET) ratio of the systolic time intervals at 150 min (P less than 0.001). Q-T interval was shortened at 90 minutes. 3. In a double-blind patient study, clomipramine increased heart rate, P-R interval, QRS and corrected Q-T interval in one patient at 2 weeks. Mianserin prolonged corrected Q-T interval at 1 week but this returned to the pretreatment time by 2 weeks in two patients. 4. In an open study, mianserin 20 mg three times daily did not antagonize the hypotensive action of propranolol or propranolol and hydrallazine in three patients. 5. In a double-blind study in three patients with desmethylimipramine 25 mg three times daily, mianserin 20 mg three times daily did not antagonize the hypotensive action of either guanethidine or bethanidine.
A double-blind, cross-over trial of the effectiveness of piribedil, procyclidine and placebo in the control of parkinsonism induced by fluphenazine decanoate was conducted in sixteen cases of chronic schizophrenia. Procyclidine was shown to be more effective and piribedil less effective than the placebo. Piribedil produced a number of unpleasant effects, including headache, vomiting and malaise.
Patients with acute myocardial infarction were repeatedly investigated in the course of their disease. Blood aldosterone was assayed radioimmunologically to determine its baseline level and response to the acute hydrocortisone load test. Cases where acute myocardial infarction was combined with essential hypertension were characterized by high blood aldosterone baseline, as were cases with circulatory insufficiency developing at the acute stage of infarction. Pattern of aldosterone variation in response to hydrocortisone administration was dependent on the phase of infarction and provided indirect evidence of glucocorticoid activity at various dates of the disease. The acute stage was associated with hyperaldosteronemia.
Factors impacting life stage-specific sensitivity to chemicals include toxicokinetic and toxicodynamic changes. To evaluate age-related differences in the biochemical and behavioral impacts of two typical N-methyl carbamate pesticides, we systematically compared their dose-response and time-course in preweanling (postnatal day, PND, 18) and adult male Brown Norway rats (n=9-10/dose or time) ranging from adolescence to senescence (1, 4, 12, 24mo). Carbaryl was administered orally at 3, 7.5, 15, or 22.5mg/kg and data were collected at 40min after dosing, or else given at 3 or 15mg/kg and data collected at 30, 60, 120, and 240min. Methomyl was studied only in adult and senescent rat (4, 12, 24mo) in terms of dose-response (0.25. 0.6, 1.25, 2.5mg/kg) and time-course (1.25mg/kg at 30, 60, 120, 240min). Motor activity as well as brain and erythrocyte (RBC) cholinesterase (ChE) activity were measured in the same animals. In the carbaryl dose-response, PND18 rats were the most sensitive to the brain ChE-inhibiting effects of carbaryl, but 12- and 24-mo rats showed more motor activity depression even at similar levels of brain ChE inhibition. We have previously reported that brain ChE inhibition, but not motor activity effects, closely tracked carbaryl tissue levels. There were no age-related differences in methomyl-induced ChE inhibition across doses, but greater motor activity depression was again observed in the 12- and 24-mo rats. Carbaryl time-course data showed that motor activity depression reached a maximum later, and recovered slower, in the 12- and 24-mo rats compared to the younger ages; slowest recovery and maximal effects were seen in the 24-mo rats. Acetylcholinesterase sensitivity (concentration-inhibition curves) was measured in vitro using control tissues from each age. Inhibitory concentrations of carbaryl were somewhat lower in PND18, 12-, and 24-mo tissues compared to 1- and 4-mo, but there were no differences with methomyl-treated tissues. Thus, in the dose-response and time-course, there were dissociations between brain ChE inhibition and the magnitude as well as recovery of motor activity changes. The explanation for this dissociation is unclear, and is likely due to early development followed by aging-related decline in both kinetic parameters and neurological responsiveness.
Impaired metabolism of retinol has been shown to occur in alcohol-induced liver disease (ALD). The purpose of the present study was to investigate the saturation of retinol-binding protein (RBP) in 6 patients with different stages of ALD. Hospitalized alcohol consumers (n=118) with different stages of ALD (ALD1: mild stage of liver damage; ALD2: moderately severe changes of the liver with signs of hepatic inflammation; ALD3: severely impaired liver function) and 45 healthy control subjects were nutritionally assessed, and retinol and RBP content was measured in plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay methods, respectively. No differences were noted in daily retinol intake, but subjects with ALD had significantly lower concentrations of retinol in plasma (ALD1: 1.81+/-0.17 micromol/l [mean+/-S.E.M.]; ALD2: 1.95+/-0.24 micromol/l; ALD3: 0.67+/-0.13 micromol/l) compared to controls (2.76+/-0.19 micromol/l). Subjects of group ALD2 had significantly higher plasma RBP levels than controls (P<.05) and patients with ALD1 (P<.05) and ALD3 (P<.001). The relative saturation of RBP with retinol decreased with severity of ALD (controls: 76.8+/-5.0%; ALD1: 55.8+/-6.5%; ALD2: 43.5+/-6.2%; ALD3: 29.0+/-5.1%). The present study indicates that plasma concentrations of retinol and RBP per se do not correlate to severity of ALD, but rather that the retinol/RBP ratio links to the severity of alcohol-induced liver damage. From these results, a reduced availability of retinol in the periphery due to an altered saturation of RBP can be concluded.
Improved efficacy of Doxil (STEALTH liposomal doxorubicin) compared to free doxorubicin has been demonstrated in the treatment of several tumor types. We have shown that addition of low-dose tumor necrosis factor (TNF) to systemic Doxil administration dramatically improved tumor response in the highly vascularized rat soft tissue sarcoma BN175. Whether a similar enhanced efficacy can be achieved in less vascularized tumors is uncertain. We therefore examined the effect of systemic administration of Doxil in combination with low-dose TNF in intermediate vascularized osteosarcoma-bearing rats (ROS-1). Small fragments of the osteosarcoma were implanted s.c. in the lower limb. Treatment was started when the tumors reached an average diameter of 1 cm. Rats were treated with five i.v. injections at 4-day intervals with Doxil or doxorubicin and TNF. Systemic treatment with Doxil resulted in a better tumor growth delay than free doxorubicin, but with progressive diseases in all animals. The 3.5-fold augmented accumulation of Doxil compared to free doxorubicin presumably explains the enhanced tumor regression. Addition of low-dose TNF augmented the anti-tumor activity of Doxil, although no increased drug uptake was found compared to Doxil alone. In vitro studies showed that ROS-1 is sensitive to TNF, but systemic treatment with TNF alone did not result in a tumor growth delay. Furthermore, we demonstrated that treatment with Doxil alone or with TNF resulted in massive coagulative necrosis of tumor tissue. In conclusion, combination therapy of Doxil and low-dose TNF seems attractive for the treatment of highly vascularized tumors, but also of intermediate vascularized tumors like the osteosarcoma.
A 57-yr-old lady developed polymyositis whilst taking D-penicillamine for RA. D-Penicillamine-induced polymyositis occurs in RA with a greater frequency than idiopathic polymyositis. Anti-acetyl choline receptor antibodies and ANA were positive, consistent with drug-induced disease. Anti-Jo-1 antibodies are considered specific for idiopathic myositis, and their presence was unexpected. Following withdrawal of the drug, the disappearance of the anti-Jo-1 and other antibodies coincident with clinical improvement, suggested that D-penicillamine was responsible for inducing antibody production.
A prospective randomized trial was conducted to compare the cardiotoxic and therapeutic effects of doxorubicin (60 mg/m2 every 3 to 4 weeks) administered by bolus or 72-hour continuous infusion as adjuvant chemotherapy in 82 eligible patients after resection of high-grade soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or superficial trunk. Cardiac toxicity, defined as a 10% or greater decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction as assessed by radionuclide cineangiography, was evaluated in 69 patients. Cardiotoxicity was seen in 61% of patients in the bolus treatment arm with the median doxorubicin dose of 420 mg/m2. Among patients who received continuous infusion, 42% had cardiotoxicity with a median dose of 540 mg/m2. The rate of cardiotoxicity as a function of the cumulative dose of doxorubicin was significantly higher in the bolus treatment arm (P = 0.0017). Two patients in each group had clinical congestive heart failure, with one cardiac death occurring in each. There was a trend toward a lower rate of metastasis (P = 0.19) and a significantly lower rate of death of disease (P = 0.036) for patients treated with the bolus dose. Cox model analysis identified three unfavorable characteristics for the rate of developing a distant metastasis: blood transfusion within 24 hours of operation (P less than 0.00001), tumor deep to the fascia and 5 cm or more in size (P = 0.0043), and a histologic subtype other than liposarcoma (P = 0.0002). The unfavorable effect of continuous infusion was not selected in the model (P = 0.16). Adjuvant chemotherapy for patients with soft tissue sarcoma is investigational. Furthermore, the impact of perioperative blood transfusion merits further study.
We have previously described that chronic administration of ouabain induces hypertension and functional alterations in mesenteric resistance arteries. The aim of this study was to analyze whether ouabain treatment also alters the structural and mechanical properties of mesenteric resistance arteries. Wistar rats were treated for 5 wk with ouabain (8.0 microg/day sc). The vascular structure and mechanics of the third-order branches of the mesenteric artery were assessed with pressure myography and confocal microscopy. Total collagen content was determined by picrosirius red staining, collagen I/III was analyzed by Western blot, and elastin was studied by confocal microscopy. Vascular reactivity was analyzed by wire myography. Internal and external diameters and cross-sectional area were diminished, whereas the wall-to-lumen ratio was increased in arteries from ouabain-treated rats compared with controls. In addition, arteries from ouabain-treated rats were stiffer. Ouabain treatment decreased smooth muscle cell number and increased total and I/III collagens in the vascular wall. However, this treatment did not modify adventitia and media thickness, nuclei morphology, elastin structure, and vascular reactivity to norepinephrine and acetylcholine. The present work shows hypotrophic inward remodeling of mesenteric resistance arteries from ouabain-treated rats that seems to be the consequence of a combination of decreased cell number and impaired distension of the artery, possibly due to a higher stiffness associated with collagen deposition. The narrowing of resistance arteries could play a role in the pathogenesis of hypertension in this model.
The role of amsacrine in inducing remission in patients with cardiac disease and acute leukemia was evaluated. There were 17 patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), six with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), and one with biphenotypic leukemia. In this series of 24 patients whose disease had relapsed and who had reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, nine had a complete remission, seven with AML and two with ALL. In addition, four of six with newly diagnosed acute leukemia and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction also responded. Among nine patients who underwent endomyocardial biopsy, none had morphologic changes of sufficient degree to account for drug-induced heart failure. Patients with preexisting arrhythmias received amsacrine without incident if their serum potassium level was higher than 4.0 mEq/l at the time of drug administration. Amsacrine is safe and effective therapy for patients with acute leukemia and cardiac disease.
Visceral hypersensitivity is a common feature of functional gastrointestinal disorders. One speculated mechanism is an activity-dependent increase in spinal cord neuronal excitability (central sensitization), which is dependent on activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Our aims were to determine whether the development and maintenance of human visceral hypersensitivity is NMDA receptor mediated.
Healthy subjects were studied using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover design. Pain thresholds to electrical stimulation were determined both in the proximal esophagus and in the foot (control) before and after a 30-minute distal esophageal infusion of 0.15 mol/L HCl acid. Ketamine (NMDA receptor antagonist) or saline (vehicle) was given intravenously either prior to or following acid infusion, and pain thresholds were measured for the following 120 minutes. Protocol 1: In 6 subjects, the effect of ketamine in the esophagus was assessed without acid infusion. Protocol 2: In 14 subjects, ketamine was given prior to esophageal acid. Protocol 3: In 12 subjects, ketamine was given after esophageal acid.
Protocol 1: In the absence of esophageal acid, ketamine had no effect on either esophageal or foot pain thresholds (area-under-the-curve, [AUC] P = 0.36 esophagus, P = 0.34 foot, ANOVA) within 30 minutes of cessation of the infusion. Protocol 2: Acid-induced esophageal hypersensitivity was prevented by ketamine (AUC, P < 0.0001, ANOVA) without affecting foot pain thresholds (AUC, P = 0.06, ANOVA). Protocol 3: Ketamine delivered after acid reversed the induction of esophageal hypersensitivity induced by acid (AUC, P < 0.0001, ANOVA).
The induction and maintenance of acid-induced esophageal hypersensitivity is prevented and reversed by ketamine. This finding strongly indicates that central sensitization is a mechanism of visceral hypersensitivity.
A high incidence of cardiac arrhythmias and hypertension has been noted after coronary artery bypass surgery in patients previously treated with oral propranolol. Forty-two patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery had propranolol withdrawal 10 hours before surgery and were randomized into a group treated with propranolol immediately postoperatively, and a nontreatment group. Patients treated with prophylactic propranolol had a significantly lower incidence of postoperative supraventricular arrhythmias compared to patints who received no prophylaxis. All the arrhythmias responded rapidly to 1 mg of intravenous propranolol therapy, whether it was used as a primary treatment or as a supplement to prophylactic propranolol. The findings suggest that (1) there is a high incidence of supraventricular arrhythmias and sinus tachycardia after coronary artery bypass which might reflect an abrupt propranolol withdrawal, and (2) that perioperative prophylactic or supplementary propranolol therapy will successfully prevent or treat most of these arrhythmias.
Familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) was long considered to be an incurable disease, but a new therapeutic approach was developed 15 years ago. As the liver produces most of the transthyretin (TTR) in serum, it was assumed that the replacement of a liver expressing an abnormal TTR gene should stop the production of the variant TTR, the serum amyloid precursor in FAP. Until now about 1,500 FAP patients underwent liver transplantation, and the 10-year-survival rate is about 77%. After operation the progression of FAP symptoms certainly stopped, and patients who were in an early stage of the disease and underwent successful operations showed considerable improvement in their quality of life. Electrophysiological study of peripheral nerve function has demonstrated that liver transplantation can halt the progression of peripheral neuropathy in FAP patients, and histopathological regression of amyloid deposits was seen on the patients with long post-transplatation courses. Pharmacological therapies have been considered for FAP patients and among them, diflunisal, one of non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs, is very promising. TTR tetramer dissociation is an initial step for the process of TTR-derived amyloid fibril formation associated with FAP and diflinisal can inhibit this process by stabilization of the TTR tetramer. Clinical trial of this drug for FAP patients is now going worldwide.
This prospective, double-blind, multicenter, parallel-group study compared the efficacy and safety of therapeutic doses of clozapine and risperidone in patients with severe chronic schizophrenia and poor previous treatment response.
Male or female patients aged 18-65 years who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia and study requirements for poor previous treatment response (N=273) were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with either clozapine or risperidone administered over 12 weeks in increasing increments. The primary efficacy measures were the magnitude of improvement in Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scores. Adverse events were recorded throughout the study.
The magnitude of improvement in mean BPRS and CGI scores from baseline to end of the study was significantly greater in the clozapine group than in the risperidone group. Statistically significant differences in favor of clozapine were also seen for most of the secondary efficacy measures (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, Calgary Depression Scale, Psychotic Depression Scale, and Psychotic Anxiety Scale). The adverse event profile was similar for both treatment groups, with a lower risk of extrapyramidal symptoms in the clozapine group.
Clozapine showed superior efficacy over risperidone in this patient population. Both treatments were equally well tolerated as demonstrated through their adverse event profiles, although as expected clozapine was associated with a lower risk of extrapyramidal symptoms than risperidone.
No study has reported on the comparative effect of adefovir (ADV) add-on lamivudine (LAM) versus switching to entecavir (ETV) in LAM-resistant patients with chronic hepatitis B. From October 2007 to September 2008, 92 consecutive LAM-resistant patients were enrolled (47 LAM+ADV and 45 ETV 1 mg). All patients were followed for at least 12 months. The parameters assessed included normalization of ALT, HBeAg seroconversion, undetectable HBV DNA, reduction of HBV DNA, and predictors of virologic response. In the LAM+ADV and ETV groups, the baseline DNA levels were 7.61 (5.19-9.49) and 7.10 (5.43-9.74)log(10)copies/ml, respectively. At month 12, a virologic response occurred in 18/47 (38.3%) and 11/45 (24.4%; P=0.182) patients; ALT normalization, in 39/41 (95.1%) and 36/40 (90.0%; P=0.432); HBeAg seroconversion, in 5.1% and 2.4% (P=0.606); and virologic breakthrough, in 2.1% and 11.1% (P=0.107), respectively. The mean reduction from the baseline HBV DNA level was greater in the LAM+ADV group at month 12 (3.80 ± 1.12 vs. 2.7 ± 1.32 log(10)copies/ml; P<0.001). In the multivariate analysis, the independent parameters related to a virologic response at month 12 were baseline ALT (OR=1.003, 95% CI=1.000-1.006, P=0.026) and baseline HBV DNA (OR=0.495, 95% CI=0.298-0.823, P=0.007). Compared with switching to ETV monotherapy, ADV add-on LAM therapy was more effective at reducing the viral load in patients with LAM resistance, and the baseline HBV DNA and ALT levels were independent predictors of the virologic response. However, ADV add-on therapy had limitations in patients with a higher baseline HBV DNA in LAM rescue therapy.
Molecularly targeted therapies that are more tumor specific in their efficacy, with associated fewer toxicities, are currently being developed. Specific biomarkers that may predict response or resistance to a particular agent are being sought. Several classes of compounds now target specific steps in cellular proliferation and apoptosis. These include epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors, vascular endothelial cell targeting agents, matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors, farnesyltransferase inhibitors, retinoids, proteosome inhibitors, and raf/MAPkinase (mitogen-activated protein kinase) inhibitors. Many of these agents, such as bortezomib, have demonstrated promise in the fields of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, a cautionary perspective must be maintained because agents such as bexarotene, which showed promise in early studies, have proved disappointing in randomized trials. As the number of therapeutic agents increases in NSCLC, there will be greater emphasis on the selection of an appropriate patient population in which to give specific, targeted therapies.
The pharmacological and toxicological properties of furazolidone have been briefly reviewed. Among the most important pharmacological actions of furazolidone is the inhibition of mono- and diamine oxidase activities, which seem to depend, at least in some species, on the presence of the gut flora. The drug also seems to interfere with the utilization of thiamin, which is probably instrumental in the production of anorexia and loss of body weight of the treated animals. Furazolidone is known to induce a condition of cardiomyopathy in turkeys, which could be used as a model to study alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency in man. The drug is most toxic to ruminants. The toxic signs observed were of nervous nature. Experiments are in progress in this laboratory to try to explain the mechanism(s) by which this toxicity is brought about. It is uncertain whether the use of furazolidone at the recommended therapeutic dose would result in drug residues in tissues of treated animals. This is a matter of public health importance as the drug has been shown to possess a carcinogenic activity. It is important that a simple and reliable method of identification and estimation of furazolidone residues be devised. More work is needed to elucidate the mode of action and biochemical effects caused by the drug in both the host and the infective organisms.
In a retrospective study we analyzed the cases of 112 patients with erythema nodosum treated during the period 1983-1993 in the Department of Dermatology, University Hospital of Basel, Switzerland. The aim of the study was to investigate the epidemiology, incidence of different etiologies, relevance of laboratory investigations and the histopathologic features in our patients, 83% of whom were females. The peak incidence occurred between the ages of 18 and 34 years. The commonest cause of erythema nodosum was infection. Other etiologic factors were adverse drug reactions, sarcoidosis, Crohn's disease, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, pregnancy, discoid lupus erythematosus, Sharp syndrome and aspartame. Only 47% of patients showed the classic bilateral distribution of the nodes on the extensor surface of the lower extremities. 77% of infection-induced erythema nodosum healed after 7 weeks, the longest course being 18 weeks. In contrast, 30% of idiopathic erythema nodosum lasted more than 6 months. Patients in whom erythema nodosum was associated with non-Hodgkin lymphoma had an extremely protracted course. Erythema nodosum associated with non-Hodgkin lymphoma may precede the diagnosis of lymphoma by months. In 4 cases erythema nodosum was the initial sign of sarcoidosis. In 30% of biopsies we found single vessels with leukocytoclastic vasculitis. The histologic pattern failed to provide etiologic pointers.
We conducted a phase II study to assess the efficacy and tolerability of irinotecan and cisplatin as salvage chemotherapy in patients with advanced gastric adenocarcinoma, progressing after both 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)- and taxane-containing regimen. Patients with measurable metastatic gastric cancer, progressive after previous chemotherapy that consisted either of a 5-FU-based regimen followed by second-line chemotherapy containing taxanes or a 5-FU and taxane combination were treated with irinotecan and cisplatin. Irinotecan 70 mg/m(2) was administered on day 1 and day 15; cisplatin 70 mg/m(2) was administered on day 1. Treatment was repeated every 4 weeks. For 28 patients registered, a total of 94 chemotherapy cycles were administered. The patients' median age was 51 years and 27 (96%) had an ECOG performance status of 1 or below. In an intent-to-treat analysis, seven patients (25%) achieved a partial response, which maintained for 6.3 months (95% confidence interval 6.2-6.4 months). The median progression-free and overall survival were 3.5 and 5.6 months, respectively. Major toxic effects included nausea, diarrhea and neurotoxicity. Although there was one possible treatment-related death, toxicity profiles were generally predictable and manageable. We conclude that irinotecan and cisplatin is an active combination for patients with metastatic gastric cancer in whom previous chemotherapy with 5-FU and taxanes has failed.
Vincristine sulfate is a known neurotoxin. Peripheral neuropathy is the most common toxic manifestation and is usually of the symmetrical, mixed, sensory-motor type. With this report we alert other physicians to another feature of vincristine neurotoxicity, namely, mononeuropathy.
The hepatotoxicity and the relationship between the hepatotoxicity and free radical induced by 1,1,2-trichloroethane (1,1,2-TCE) and 1,1,1-trichloroethane (1,1,1-TCE) were studied by whole animals test and the isolated perfused rat liver test. Enzymatic parameters measured during the test included the assay of levels of glutamic pyruvic transaminase (GPT), sorbital dehydrogenase (SDH) and glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH). The observation of the pathologic changes of the liver by the light microscope and the measurement of the relative total free radical concentration in the liver were also made. The results showed that 1,1,2-TCE caused definite pathologic changes of rat liver. It led to much higher values for GPT, SDH and GDH both in serum and perfusate than 1,1,1-TCE did (P < 0.01). The concentration of perfusate K+ caused by 1,1,2-TCE was higher than that by 1,1,1-TCE (P < 0.01). The value of the relative total free radical concentration induced by 1,1,2-TCE was also greater than that by 1,1,1-TCE (P < 0.05). The results suggested that the hepatotoxicity of 1,1,2-TCE was stronger than that of 1,1,1-TCE. The free radical concentration was increased proportionally to the increase of the hepatotoxicity of 1,1,2-TCE and 1,1,1-TCE. It appeared that free radical may play an important role in the mechanism of the hepatic injury induced by 1,1,2-TCE.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma(MM), a rare tumor characterized by high local invasiveness and low metastatic efficiency, is poorly responsive to current therapeutic approaches. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the cytotoxic efficacy of the hybrid polar compound hexamethylene bisacetamide(HMBA), either as a single agent or in combination with the anthracycline doxorubicin (DOX), against MM cells.
The MM cell lines MM-B1 and MM-El were treated with HMBA, DOX or with combinations of the two drugs. Cell survival and death were assessed by the MTS assay and trypan blue staining/TUNEL, respectively. The interactions between drugs were evaluated by the method of Kern et al. Western blot analysis was used to investigate the expression of Bcl-2 family proteins.
When administered alone, HMBA dose-dependently decreased the number of viable cells and increased the death rate of MM-B1 and MM-E1 cultures. Combinations of HMBA and DOX achieved a synergistic inhibition of MM cell survival, and the simultaneous administration of HMBA counteracted the resistance induced by DOX in MM-El cells. HMBA,used at cytostatic concentrations, reduced the ratio be-tween antiapoptotic (Bcl-2, Bcl-XL) and proapoptotic(Bax) members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins, thus lowering the threshold for MM cell death commitment.
HMBA has therapeutic potential in MM both as a single agent and through potentiation of DOX toxicity. These results support future investigations on the feasibility of intrapleural chemotherapy with this hybrid polar compound.
Twelve male patients with chronic drug consumption including cannabis (ICD = 304.3) and morphine (ICD = 304.7), who required inpatient treatment for drug-induced paranoid hallucinatory states (ICD = 292.1) were investigated using computed tomography for macroscopic structural changes in the brain. The findings were compared with those in a control group of schizophrenic patients who did not consume drugs. The brain scans were measured and not show any significant morphological differences between the two groups.
