Until quite recently, pentabromodiphenyl ether (PentaBDE) was most commonly used as a flame retardant. Due to the considerably long atmospheric half-life of PentaBDE and its contribution to environmental pollution, it is categorized as a persistent organic pollutant (POP). As the data on the toxicity of PentaBDE is rather scarce, its potential acute toxicity was the subject of this study. PentaBDE was administered intragastrically to female rats, in a single dose (25, 200 or 2000 mg/kg b.w.). PentaBDE administered to rats disturbed redox homeostasis, which was manifested by lower total antioxidant status (TAS) in serum and by higher liver glutathione reduced (GSH) concentration. The toxic effect of PentaBDE intensified lipid peroxidation. On histopathological examination, administration of the highest PentaBDE dose (2000 mg/kg b.w.) was seen to induce symptoms of fatty liver. PentaBDE caused an increase in relative liver mass, cytochromes P-450 (after two highest doses), a dose-dependent increase in the activity of CYP lA (12-26 fold) and CYP 2B (5-6 fold) as well as the levels of CYP lAl (16-50 fold) and CYP 4A (2-3 fold) in liver.
The ubiquitous spread of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) has led to concerns regarding the metabolites of these congeners, in particular hydroxylated PBDEs. There are limited studies regarding the biological interactions of these chemicals, yet there is some concern they may be more toxic than their parent compounds. In this study three hydroxylated PBDEs were assessed for toxicity in embryonic zebrafish: 3-OH-BDE 47, 5-OH-BDE 47, and 6-OH-BDE 47. All three congeners induced developmental arrest in a concentration-dependent manner; however, 6-OH-BDE 47 induced adverse effects at lower concentrations than the other congeners. Furthermore, all three induced cell death; however apoptosis was not observed. In short-term exposures (24-28 hours post fertilization), all hydroxylated PBDEs generated oxidative stress in the region corresponding to the cell death at 5 and 10 ppm. To further investigate the short-term effects that may be responsible for the developmental arrest observed in this study, gene regulation was assessed for embryos exposed to 0.625 ppm 6-OH-BDE 47 from 24 to 28 hpf. Genes involved in stress response, thyroid hormone regulation, and neurodevelopment were significantly upregulated compared to controls; however, genes related to oxidative stress were either unaffected or downregulated. This study suggests that hydroxylated PBDEs disrupt development, and may induce oxidative stress and potentially disrupt the cholinergic system and thyroid hormone homeostasis.
Chemotherapy-treated patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease (HD) differ considerably in acute hematotoxicity. Hematotoxicity may be indicative of pharmacological and metabolic heterogeneity. We hypothesized that low hematotoxicity might correlate with reduced systemic dose and thus reduced disease control. A total of 266 patients with advanced HD treated with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone, doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (COPP-ABVD) were analyzed (HD6 trial of the German Hodgkin's Lymphoma Study Group). The reported WHO grade of leukocytopenia was averaged over chemotherapy cycles given and weighted with the reciprocal dose intensity of the corresponding cycle. The low and high toxicity groups were defined in retrospect as having had an averaged WHO grade of leukocytopenia </=2.1 and >2.1, respectively. The independent impact of low hematological toxicity on freedom from treatment failure (FFTF) was assessed multivariately adjusting for the international prognostic score for advanced HD. The results were validated in two independent cohorts [181 patients treated with COPP-ABVD (HD9-trial) and 250 patients treated with COPP-ABV-ifosfamide, methotrexate, etoposide, and prednisone (IMEP) (HD6 trial)]. The 5-year FFTF rates were 68% for patients with high toxicity vs 47% for patients with low toxicity [multivariate relative risk (RR) 2.0, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.4-3.0, p=0.0002]. Patients with low toxicity received significantly higher nominal dose ( p=0.02) and dose intensity ( p<0.0001). This finding was confirmed in both validation cohorts (multivariate RR 2.1, 95% CI 1.2-3.8, p=0.01 and RR 1.5, 95% CI 1.01-2.26, p=0.04, respectively). Patients with low hematotoxicity have significantly higher failure rates despite higher doses and dose intensity. Hematotoxicity is an independent prognostic factor for treatment outcome. This observation suggests a strategy of individualized dosing adapted to hematotoxicity.
Long-term peritoneal dialysis (PD) leads to histological changes in the peritoneal membrane. Angiogenesis and inflammation caused by glucose degradation products (GDPs) play crucial roles in peritoneal fibrosis. One such GDP is methylglyoxal (MGO), which enhances the formation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs). AGEs bind to their receptor (RAGE) and activate nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), which is a key regulator of angiogenesis and inflammation. Recent studies have indicated that (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a tea polyphenol, inhibits angiogenesis and inflammation. Here, we examined whether EGCG suppresses peritoneal fibrosis in mice. Based on preliminary examination, 2mL of 40mM MGO or PD fluid was injected intraperitoneally and EGCG (50mg/kg) or saline was injected subcutaneously for 3weeks. In comparison to PD fluid+saline-treated mice, the peritoneal tissues of MGO+saline-treated mice showed marked thickening of the submesothelial compact zone. In the submesothelial compact zone of the MGO+saline-treated mice, CD31-positive vessels and vascular endothelial growth factor-positive cells were significantly increased, as were inflammation, F4/80-positive macrophages, and monocyte chemotactic protein-1. Moreover, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine, a marker of reactive oxygen species, and NF-κB, determined by Southwestern histochemistry, in the submesothelial compact zone were also increased in MGO+saline-treated mice. These changes were attenuated in MGO+EGCG-treated mice. We demonstrated that EGCG treatment suppresses peritoneal fibrosis via inhibition of NF-κB. Furthermore, EGCG inhibits reactive oxygen species production. The results of this study indicate that EGCG is a potentially novel candidate for the treatment of peritoneal fibrosis.
Tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), an endogenous bile acid, modulates cell death by interrupting classic pathways of apoptosis. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating acute neurological disorder, without effective treatment, in which a significant loss of neuronal cells is thought to occur by apoptosis. In this study, we evaluated whether TUDCA can reduce brain injury and improve neurological function after ICH in rats. Administration of TUDCA before or up to 6 h after stereotaxic collagenase injection into the striatum reduced lesion volumes at 2 days by as much as 50%. Apoptosis was approximately 50% decreased in the area immediately surrounding the hematoma and was associated with a similar inhibition of caspase activity. These changes were also associated with improved neurobehavioral deficits as assessed by rotational asymmetry, limb placement, and stepping ability. Furthermore, TUDCA treatment modulated expression of certain Bcl-2 family members, as well as NF-kappaB activity. In addition to its protective action at the mitochondrial membrane, TUDCA also activated the Akt-1protein kinase Balpha survival pathway and induced Bad phosphorylation at Ser-136. In conclusion, reduction of brain injury underlies the wide-range neuroprotective effects of TUDCA after ICH. Thus, given its clinical safety, TUDCA may provide a potentially useful treatment in patients with hemorrhagic stroke and perhaps other acute brain injuries associated with cell death by apoptosis.
Deferasirox is a once-daily, oral iron chelator developed for treating transfusional iron overload. Preclinical studies indicated that the kidney was a potential target organ of toxicity. As patients with sickle cell disease often have abnormal baseline renal function, the primary objective of this randomised, open-label, phase II trial was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of deferasirox in comparison with deferoxamine in this population. Assessment of efficacy, as measured by change in liver iron concentration (LIC) using biosusceptometry, was a secondary objective. A total of 195 adult and paediatric patients received deferasirox (n = 132) or deferoxamine (n = 63). Adverse events most commonly associated with deferasirox were mild, including transient nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and skin rash. Abnormal laboratory studies with deferasirox were occasionally associated with mild non-progressive increases in serum creatinine and reversible elevations in liver function tests. Discontinuation rates from deferasirox (11.4%) and deferoxamine (11.1%) were similar. Over 1 year, similar dose-dependent LIC reductions were observed with deferasirox and deferoxamine. Once-daily oral deferasirox has acceptable tolerability and appears to have similar efficacy to deferoxamine in reducing iron burden in transfused patients with sickle cell disease.
Quercetin, one of the most widely distributed flavonoids in plants, possesses strong free radical scavenging ability and potent hepatoprotective effects. However, the protective effect and mechanism of quercetin on ethanol-induced oxidative damage in hepatocytes remain unclear. In this study, primary rat hepatocytes were incubated with ethanol and quercetin in the presence or absence of ZnPP 9, an antagonist of HO-1 induction. The ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity was found to be greatly diminished by pre-treatment of quercetin and this hepatoprotective effect could be partly blocked by ZnPP 9. This study also showed that quercetin significantly stimulated HO-1 expression at both mRNA and protein levels, then subsequently induced HO-1 activity. To further study the signaling pathways underlying quercetin-induced HO-1 up-regulation, HO-1 expression and activity in cytosolic microsomal fractions and Nrf2 expression in nuclear fractions were analyzed following quercetin or/and MAPK inhibitor(s) as well as PI3K inhibitor incubation for primary rat hepatocytes. These results indicated that ERK was required to induce HO-1 expression in rat hepatocytes. In summary, these data suggested that quercetin attenuates ethanol-induced oxidative stress through a pathway which involves ERK activation and HO-1 upregulation.
This study evaluated the anti-cancer effects of a naringenin derivative in human cervical cancer cells. In this study, a synthesized naringenin derivative, diethyl 5,7,4'-trihydroxy flavanone N-phenyl hydrazone (N101-2), inhibited cervical cancer cell growth, whereas naringenin itself exhibited no anti-cancer activity. N101-2 treatment inhibited cancer cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent manner through cell cycle arrest at sub-G1 phase, accompanied by an increase in apoptotic cell death. Expression of cyclins and ppRB was down-regulated, whereas that of CDK inhibitors and p53 increased upon N101-2 treatment. Meanwhile, we detected processing of caspases-8, -9, and -3, cleavage of PARP, as well as Bax up-regulation, which indicates activation of mitochondria-emanated intrinsic apoptosis signaling. Treatment with caspase-8 and -3 inhibitors also recovered cell cycling, and Fas/FasL expression increased in N101-2-treated cervical cancer cells, suggesting that Fas-mediated extrinsic apoptosis signaling was also activated. The tumor suppressor PTEN and its upstream regulator PPARγ were up-regulated with coincident inhibition of PI3K and phospho-Akt after N101-2 treatment. Taken together, we could conclude that N101-2 induces apoptosis by arresting the cell cycle at sub-G1 phase, activating mitochondria-emanated intrinsic and Fas-mediated extrinsic signaling pathways, and inhibiting the PI3K/AKT pathway in CaSki and SiHa human cervical cancer cells.
To study halothane hepatitis (HH) in Iran and its associated risk factors.
We retrospectively studied files of all cases diagnosed with HH referred to three referral hospitals and four private centers in Iran from April 1994 to September 2006. Information on age at surgery, gender, medications history, obesity, history of previous exposure, previous reaction to halothane, familial history, type of surgery, perioperative hypoxia or sepsis, morbidity and mortality were recorded and analyzed.
A total of 59 cases were identified. Forty-eight (81%) were women. The median age at the time of surgery was 44 years (range, 18 to 80 years). Sixty percent of patients were above 40-year-old. Obesity was observed in 22.2%. Previous history of exposures to halothane was noted in 61% of which 50% had history of post-exposure reaction. Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), cholecystectomy, and cosmetic surgeries (mainly weight reduction) were the most frequent surgeries. The mortality rate was 12.2%. In patients developing encephalopathy, it was as high as 50%.
HH remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality in centers still using this anesthetic. However, a large percentage of these cases could have been avoided. To lessen occurrence of further cases of HH, the authors suggest that in female patients having a history of surgery (or delivery) with general anesthesia, the use of halothane should be absolutely avoided. Utilization of proper substitutes in adults' anesthesia is advocated.
Soil, water, and amphibian tissues collected between 1995 and 1999 from 15 study sites in Bermuda were analysed for pesticides and heavy metals. The most abundant pesticide residue in soil was p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) which was found at all sites in concentrations ranging from 0.003 to 4.023 p.p.m. No pesticide residues were found in water. DDE was also recovered from the livers and fat bodies of marine toads (Bufo marinus) and whistling frogs (Eleutherodactylus johnstonei). Analyses of food sources consumed by these anuran species revealed residue levels of p, p'-DDE ranging from 0.05 to 0.217 p.p.m. Other soil residues included dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) at eight study sites, Dicofol(kelthane) at eight sites, dieldrin at five sites, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) as Arochlor 1254 and Arochlor 1260 at seven sites. Analyses of toad livers revealed significant concentrations of cadmium, chromium, copper and zinc. Livers of Bermuda toads exhibited altered hepatocytic morphology and an increased number of melanomacrophages and possible granulomas, while spleens showed a marked decrease in white pulp. Spleen cells from Bufo marinus collected at one site having high levels of cadmium exhibited a decreased B cell response to lipopolysaccharide. The incidence of trematode infection in Bufo marinus increased from 53.8% in 1995 to 90% in 1999. Deformity rates in the limbs of subadult and adult toads ranged between 15 and 25%. Examination of 1,995 newly-metamorphosed toads revealed deformity rates as high as 47%. The current comprehensive study suggests that environmental pollutants may account for immunosuppression, increased susceptibility to infections, limb malformations and possible decline in amphibian populations from Bermuda.
Anthracycline therapy is well known for its adverse cardiac effects. However, few studies have been performed of the long-term follow-up of myocardial function in adult survivors of Hodgkin's lymphoma receiving anthracycline. Two-dimensional speckle tracking echocardiography is an accurate angle-independent modality for the quantification of left ventricular (LV) function. The aim of the present study was to investigate the long-term effect of anthracycline on LV systolic function. Echocardiography was performed in 47 survivors of Hodgkin's lymphoma 22 ± 2 years after successful mediastinal radiotherapy with (n = 27) or without (n = 20) anthracycline (doxorubicin) treatment and in 20 healthy controls. LV function was assessed by the LV ejection fraction and global longitudinal and circumferential strain. Both patient groups had received a similar dosage of radiation, and doxorubicin was given at a total dose of 309 ± 92 mg. The global longitudinal strain was reduced in patients receiving anthracycline with mediastinal radiotherapy compared to the other group receiving mediastinal radiotherapy alone or combined radiotherapy and regimens without anthracyclines (-16.1 ± 1.9% vs -17.5 ± 1.7%, respectively, p <0.05). Both patient groups had reduced strain compared to the healthy controls (-20.4 ± 1.7%, both p <0.001). The circumferential strain was also reduced in the treatment groups (-18.3 ± 3.2% and -17.8 ± 3.6% vs -22.5 ± 2.1%, both p <0.001). The LV ejection fraction did not differ between the patient groups (55 ± 8% vs 56 ± 6%, p = 1.0) but was reduced compared to that of the controls (62 ± 5%, both p <0.05). In conclusion, myocardial function was reduced in the survivors of Hodgkin's lymphoma 2 decades after successful treatment consisting of mediastinal radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy. Patients receiving anthracycline therapy had additional negative long-tem effects on LV systolic function.
A 15-yr-old patient with chronic cholestatic liver disease associated with haloperidol therapy is presented. Emphasis is placed on the pattern of biochemical abnormalities and on the histologic features observed in the four serial biopsies which demonstrated a pronounced injury to the bile duct epithelium, correlating well with the clinical and biochemical abnormalities. During the early stage of illness, the clinicopathologic features simulated obstructive jaundice, whereas a resemblance to chronic chlorpromazine-induced cholestasis or primary biliary cirrhosislike syndrome was striking as the chronicity developed. Comparison is made of the features in our patient with those in 2 patients with biopsy-documented, acute haloperidol-induced liver disease reported for the first time in 1977. Despite the lack of concrete evidence, both the clinical and morphologic features, and the close temporal relationship between the medication and onset of illness in this patient led to the reasonable inference that haloperidol was responsible for the chronic cholestatic reaction on a hypersensitivity basis.
The intravenous anaesthetic ketamine is widely used in subanaesthetic doses as a potent analgesic in emergency and disaster medicine. At present, ketamine is commercially available only in its racemic form, although the S(+)-isomer has proved to be approximately three times as potent than the R(-)-isomer. In first clinical trials in Germany, S(+)-ketamine was reported to be markedly advantageous with regard to analgesia in anaesthetized patients. We therefore evaluated ketamine's analgesic and psychotropic effects in subanaesthetic doses given to healthy volunteers. MATERIALS AND METHODS. After institutional approval of the study by the university's Ethics Committee, 16 volunteers received ketamine racemate (1 mg/kg) and S(+)-ketamine (0.5 mg/kg) i.m. with 1-week intervals between injections in a randomized, double-blind fashion. Analgesia (electric pain stimulation of the median nerve), long-term memory, anterograde amnesia (recognition of simple pictures), motor coordination (Trieger test), immediate recall (short test of general intelligence) and concentration capacity (CI test: recognition of a preselected symbol among several symbols) were measured over a 60-min period and mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and ketamine plasma levels in venous blood samples were determined. Values were calculated as means and data were analysed by Wilcoxon's paired test for group comparison. RESULTS. Within 15 min, both agents induced a measurable degree of analgesia. After ketamine racemate, the level of pain tolerated increased from 38.8 +/- 14.0 to 57.0 +/- 13.7 mA and after S(+)-ketamine, from 36.9 +/- 10.5 to 53.3 +/- 15.2 mA. Ketamine racemate did not exert measurable effects on long-term memory, whereas anterograde amnesia was observed in 46% and 54% of the study subjects after 15 and 30 min, respectively. However, after S(+)-ketamine, only 8% of the volunteers demonstrated anterograde amnesia (P < 0.05). Immediate recall also declined in both groups (baseline: 5 points, after 15 min: 3.5 points for ketamine racemate, 4 points for S(+)-ketamine), whereas concentration capacity worsened from 14.5 +/- 3.8 s to 35.9 +/- 18.6 s after ketamine racemate and significantly less, from 14.8 +/- 2.5 s to 22.9 +/- 7.6 s, after S(+)-ketamine (P < 0.01). Furthermore, after 15 min, ketamine racemate induced an increase in heart rates from 73 +/- 15 b/min to 97 +/- 11 b/min, while S(+)-ketamine raised heart rates from 74 +/- 13 b/min to 89 +/- 11 b/min only (P < 0.05). Mean arterial pressure increased from 97 +/- 11 mmHg to 111 +/- 9 mmHg after ketamine racemate and from 92 +/- 11 mmHg to 110 +/- 13 mmHg after S(+)-ketamine (not significantly different). CONCLUSION. S(+)-Ketamine at half-dose of ketamine-racemate is as potent as ketamine-racemate in subanaesthetic doses with powerful analgesic properties. The (+)-isomer exerts less adverse effects on measurable cerebral functions and induces a significantly smaller increase in heart rate. Since states of impaired consciousness and disorientation are especially disturbing under emergency conditions, further investigations should be carried out to define S(+)-ketamine's position as a potent analgesic for therapeutic use in emergency and disaster medicine.
To elucidate the specificity of glucose metabolism in chicken skeletal muscle, changes in mRNA levels of hexokinase I (HKI), hexokinase II (HKII), phosphofructokinase-1 (PFK-1) and glycogen synthase (GS) were characterized in acute and persistent hypoglycemia induced by tolbutamide administration. In acute hypoglycemia, induced by a single dose of tolbutamide (100 mg/kg body mass), HKII, PFK-1 and GS mRNA levels remained unchanged; however, levels of HKI mRNA and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) were significantly increased 4 h after administration. In persistent hypoglycemia, induced by sequential administration of tolbutamide (100 mg/kg body mass) 3 times a day for 5 days, GS mRNA was significantly increased at day 5, while HKI, HKII and PFK-1 mRNA levels remained unchanged. These results suggest that HKI is responsible for glucose transport into skeletal muscle in acute hypoglycemia and that glucose preferentially enters the glycogenic pathway before the glycolytic pathway in persistently hypoglycemic chickens.
Cholestyramine, colestipol, clofibrate, gemfibrozil, nicotinic acid (niacin), probucol, neomycin, and dextrothyroxine are the most commonly used drugs in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinaemic disorders. While adverse reaction data are available for all of them, definitive data regarding the frequency and severity of potential adverse effects from well-controlled trials using large numbers of patients (greater than 1000) are available only for cholestyramine, clofibrate, nicotinic acid and dextrothyroxine. In adult patients treated with cholestyramine, gastrointestinal complaints, especially constipation, abdominal pain and unpalatability are most frequently observed. Continued administration along with dietary manipulation (e.g. addition of dietary fibre) and/or stool softeners results in diminished complaints during long term therapy. Large doses of cholestyramine (greater than 32 g/day) may be associated with malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins. Most significantly, osteomalacia and, on rare occasions, haemorrhagic diathesis are reported with cholestyramine impairment of vitamin D and vitamin K absorption, respectively. Paediatric patients have been reported to experience hyperchloraemic metabolic acidosis or gastrointestinal obstruction. Concurrent administration of acidic drugs may result in their reduced bioavailability. Serious adverse reactions to clofibrate will probably limit its role in the future. Of particular concern are ventricular arrhythmias, induction of cholelithiasis and cholecystitis, and the potential for promoting gastrointestinal malignancy which far outweigh the reported benefits in preventing new or recurrent myocardial infarction, cardiovascular death and overall death. Patients with renal disease are particularly prone to myositis, secondary to alterations in protein binding and impaired renal excretion of clofibrate. Drug interactions with coumarin anticoagulants and sulphonylurea compounds may produce bleeding episodes and hypoglycaemia, respectively. Nicotinic acid produces frequent adverse effects, but they are usually not serious, tend to decrease with time, and can be managed easily. Dermal and gastrointestinal reactions are most common. Truncal and facial flushing are reported in 90 to 100% of treated patients in large clinical trials. Significant elevations of liver enzymes, serum glucose, and serum uric acid are occasionally seen with nicotinic acid therapy. Liver enzyme elevations are more common in patients given large dosage increases over short periods of time, and in patients treated with sustained release formulations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Arsenic is associated with bladder cancer risk even at low exposure levels. Genetic variation in enzymes involved in xenobiotic and arsenic metabolism may modulate individual susceptibility to arsenic-related bladder cancer. Through a population-based case-control study in NH (832 cases and 1191 controls), we investigated gene-environment interactions between arsenic metabolic gene polymorphisms and arsenic exposure in relation to bladder cancer risk. Toenail arsenic concentrations were used to classify subjects into low and high exposure groups. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GSTP1, GSTO2, GSTZ1, AQP3, AS3MT and the deletion status of GSTM1 and GSTT1 were determined. We found evidence of genotype-arsenic interactions in the high exposure group; GSTP1 Ile105Val homozygous individuals had an odds ratio (OR) of 5.4 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.5-20.2; P for interaction=0.03] and AQP3 Phe130Phe carriers had an OR=2.2 (95% CI: 0.8-6.1; P for interaction=0.10). Bladder cancer risk overall was associated with GSTO2 Asn142Asp (homozygous; OR=1.4; 95% CI: 1.0-1.9; P for trend=0.06) and GSTZ1 Glu32Lys (homozygous; OR=1.3; 95% CI: 0.9-1.8; P for trend=0.06). Our findings suggest that susceptibility to bladder cancer may relate to variation in genes involved in arsenic metabolism and oxidative stress response and potential gene-environment interactions requiring confirmation in other populations.
Starting in 2008 a new designer drug, 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV) appeared among users of illegal drugs in Finland. Since then there have been several seizures of MDPV by police and customs and it has been connected to many crimes of different types. In this study the incidence and impact of the use of MDPV in drivers suspected of being under the influence of drugs (DUID) in Finland was assessed. Since autumn 2009, blood samples from drivers suspected of DUID in Finland have been analysed for the presence of MDPV. A new LC-MS/MS method for the determination of MDPV in serum was established. In order to assess the impact of MDPV on driving performance, drug and alcohol findings of positive MDPV cases were compared with data from the clinical examination carried out while the suspect was under arrest. In a period of one year there were 259 positive MDPV cases from apprehended drivers (5.7% of all confirmed DUID cases). In 80% of the cases in which MDPV was found, amphetamine was also present. Benzodiazepines were also frequently found together with MDPV, which was to be expected since in Finland, in our experience, stimulants are very often used together with benzodiazepines. In most cases it remained unclear whether the observed psycho-physical achievement deficiency was induced by MDPV because the concentrations of other drugs, especially other stimulants, were often high. However, in some subjects, MDPV, or MDPV in combination with other substances was the most probable cause of the impairment. The concentrations of MDPV varied from 0.016mg/L to over 8.000mg/L. Little is known about the pharmacology of MDPV. However, based on our findings it is clear that MDPV has a serious impact on traffic safety in Finland.
We report a 16-year-old woman with secondary generalization of partial seizure, who complained of an auditory disturbance after carbamazepine (CBZ) administration. She had been taking sodium valproate (VPA) from the age of 15. However, her seizures remained poorly controlled. We changed her antiepileptic drug from VPA to CBZ. At 1 week after CBZ administration, she noticed that electone musical performances were heard as a semitone lower. When oral administration of CBZ was stopped, her pitch perception returned to normal. If she had not been able to discern absolute pitch, she might have been unable to recognize her lowered pitch perception. Auditory disturbance caused by CBZ is reversible and very rare.
Acute chorea in a child followed ingestion of pemoline mesylate. In guinea pigs, in an experimental model of chorea, chronic administration of pemoline induced behavioral supersensitivity to other dopaminergic agonists. Pemoline is similar to both d-amphetamine and methylphenidate in altering central dopaminergic sensitivity, and may cause chorea by similar mechanisms. Chronic pemoline therapy may offer no significant advantage over therapy with other indirect dopamine agonists.
The stimulation of cortical dopaminergic D1 receptors can counteract the increased locomotor activity evoked by D-amphetamine application in the nucleus accumbens (Vezina et al., Eur. J. Neurosci., 3, 1001-1007, 1991). Moreover, an alpha 1 antagonist, prazosin, prevents the locomotor hyperactivity induced by electrolytic lesions of the ventral tegmental area (Trovero et al., Neuroscience, 47, 69-76, 1992). Attempts were thus made to see whether blockade of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors in the rat prefrontal cortex could reduce nucleus accumbens D-amphetamine-evoked locomotor activity. Rats implanted chronically and bilaterally with cannulae into the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens were used for this purpose and locomotor activity was monitored in circular corridors. Preliminary experiments indicated that intraperitoneal injection of prazosin (0.06 mg/kg) reduces the locomotor hyperactivity induced by the peripheral administration of D-amphetamine (0.75 mg/kg). This effect of prazosin was not observed when locomotor hyperactivity was obtained by an intraperitoneal injection of scopolamine (0.8 mg/kg). Bilateral nucleus accumbens injections of D-amphetamine (4.0 nmol/side) markedly increased locomotor activity, as estimated in a 30 min period. Prior (20 min) bilateral injections of either prazosin or WB-4101 (0.16 pmol) into the medial prefrontal cortex abolished the nucleus accumbens D-amphetamine-evoked response. The recovery of the nucleus accumbens D-amphetamine-evoked response was closely dependent on the amount of prazosin used, very prolonged inhibitory effects of the drug being seen with a high amount (> 4 days with 160 pmol). In contrast, whatever the amount of WB-4101 used (0.16-160 pmol), recovery occurred within 3 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nelumbo nucifera semen (NNS) is a traditional herb with anti-diarrheal, anti-ganacratia, and tranquilizer-like pharmacological activities. In this study, we examined the anti-amnesic effect of NNS on rats with scopolamine-induced amnesia. Passive avoidance tests, acetylcholinesterase (ACHE) activity, and choline acetyltransferase (CHAT) expression were used to evaluate the NNS anti-amnesic effects. The rats were divided into five groups: the normal group, scopolamine-treated group (1mg/kg; control), NNS (1g/kg) and scopolamine (1mg/kg) co-treatment group, and the ARICEPT (1mg/kg) and scopolamine (1mg/kg) co-treatment group (positive control). The rats were administered the compounds orally for 14 days. The latency time of passive avoidance significantly increased by 54% in the NNS-treated group compared to the scopolamine-treated group. The ACHE activity in the NNS-treated group significantly decreased to 7.35% than that of the control group. CHAT-positive neurons increased by 51.02% in the NNS group compared to the control group. These results suggest that NNS extract improves scopolamine-induced dementia by inhibiting ACHE activity and inducing CHAT expression.
Drug addiction poses serious social, medical, and economic problems, but effective treatments for drug addiction are still limited. Cocaine and morphine elevate dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), and the overwhelming actions of dopamine are implicated in reinforcement and addiction of abusive drugs. In our previous studies, we reported the regulatory role of acetylcholine (ACh) in the NAc function by selectively ablating the NAc cholinergic neurons with use of immunotoxin-mediated cell targeting. These studies indicated that ACh and dopamine acted convergently but oppositely on the NAc circuit and that cholinergic cell ablation enhanced long-lasting behavioral changes of cocaine addiction. In this investigation, we showed that immunotoxin-mediated ablation of the NAc cholinergic neurons enhanced not only the sensitivity to morphine in conditioned place preference but also negative reinforcement of morphine withdrawal in conditioned place aversion. Remarkably, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors that act on the brain AChE suppressed both cocaine- and morphine-induced conditioned place preference and blocked the induction and persistence of cocaine-evoked hyperlocomotion. Importantly, this inhibition was abolished by ablation of the NAc cholinergic neurons. These results demonstrate that centrally active AChE inhibitors prevent long-lasting behavioral abnormalities associated with cocaine and morphine addictions by potentiating the actions of ACh released from the NAc cholinergic neurons. Centrally active AChE inhibitors could thus be approached as novel and potential therapeutic agents for drug addiction.
Increasing attention has been paid to Spirulina for its potential clinical uses. The present study investigated the protection by dietary Spirulina platensis against d-galactosamine (d-GalN)- and acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatitis in ICR mice. Mice in each group (n 6) were fed with a standard diet (American Institute of Nutrition (AIN)-93G), a positive control diet containing 0.5 % butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), or a diet containing 3, 6 or 9 % S. platensis for 1 week. On the last day the mice were treated with d-GalN (300 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally) or APAP (150 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally) and 24 h later the mice were killed. The doses of both 6 and 9 % S. platensis were found to significantly alleviate the increase of serum glutamate oxaloacetoacetate transaminase (GOT) and glutamate pyruvate transaminase (GPT) activities in d-GalN- or APAP-intoxicated mice. The observation was very similar to that of the positive control groups. Two more experiments were carried out to investigate the involvement of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and IL-18 in the suppression of 6 % S. platensis on d-GalN- and APAP-induced hepatitis. The significant increase of GOT and GPT activities was found to be accompanied with the elevation of hepatic TBARS level, IL-18 mRNA expression and serum IL-18 concentration, and was significantly alleviated by supplementation with 6 % S. platensis in diets. These results showed that dietary S. platensis could provide a significant protection against d-GalN- and APAP-induced liver injuries, and IL-18 and lipid peroxidation might be involved in the protective influence of S. platensis.
A number of physiopathogenic mechanisms have been outlined to explain the "infarct-like" lesions produced by isoproterenol (ISP) in the hearts of various animals: Excess of oxygen consumption and inotropic effect, coronary vasoconstriction, deleterious action on glucose and lipid metabolism, direct cardiotoxic effect, platelet aggregation in the small cardiac vessels and formation of microclots, excessive mobilization of fatty acids, fluid and electrolytic imbalances, loss of high-energy intracellular coupling, and inadequate activation of the "calcium pump." For this reason, localization of the tritiated ISP in the normal myocardial fibers and in the induced lesions was studied. The first control group (G-1), consisted of 40 Wistar rats, weighing from 180 to 200 grams; they were injected intraperitoneally with ISP sulfate (10 mg. per kilogram) and were killed under ether anesthesia after periods of 5, 30, and 120 minutes, and 12 and 24 hours. A similar group (G-2) was injected intraperitoneally with an equal dose of ISP plus 5 muCi of tritiated ISP sulfate (3H). In this group animals were killed at the same periods as above. In rats treated with ISP-3H an abundant amount of the labeled drug was observed on the sarcolemma surface and a smaller quantity was noted inside the myocardial fibers. This observation was noted in the autoradiographs obtained 5 minutes after the injection and persisted in all subsequent observation times. In those animals which were killed 5 and 30 minutes after injection, the deposit was noted in "grooves" along the edge of the sarcolemma, strongly suggesting a primary action on the cellular membrane. These findings and the peculiar topography suggest that (1) myocardial necrosis induced by ISP is probably due to an increased activation of the "calcium pump"; the early presence of contracture bands and the positivity of the ischemia test further emphasize this statement; (2) the ISP effect is rapid; (3) the morphologic alterations are similar to those recently described as "coagulation myocytolysis" and present in human infarctions or following sudden death.
The study aimed to assess the efficacy of the Severity of Dependence Scale (SDS) as a diagnostic measure of cocaine dependence and determine the cut-off score that best discriminates between the presence and absence of a DSM-IV diagnosis of cocaine dependence.
Cross-sectional survey.
Sydney, Australia.
One hundred and forty-two cocaine users.
The diagnostic performance of the SDS was measured via ROC analysis against DSM-IV diagnoses of cocaine dependence, as measured by the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI).
ROC analysis revealed the SDS to be a test of high diagnostic utility for the measurement of cocaine dependence. The cut-off point on the SDS at which there is optimal discrimination between the presence and absence of a DSM-IV diagnosis of cocaine dependence was found to be 3 (i.e. a score of 3 or more).
The study statistically validated the utility of the SDS as a diagnostic measure of cocaine dependence and has determined an appropriate cut-off point. The SDS is recommended as a brief screening instrument for cocaine dependence that can be used in addition to more comprehensive measures, such as the CIDI.
Indinavir (IDV) is a protease inhibitor widely used in AIDS treatment. A sustained elevation of creatinine was identified in IDV-treated patients. We have previously demonstrated that IDV causes renal vasoconstriction in rats. The objective of this study was to investigate the mechanism of IDV-induced vasoconstriction and the effect that the vasodilator agents L-arginine (LA), nifedipine (NF), as well as magnesium supplementation (Mg), have on IDV-induced nephrotoxicity. Male Wistar rats were kept on fast overnight and given free access to water. IDV (80 mg/kg BW) and NF (3 mg/kg BW) were given by gavage for 15 days. LA (1.5%) and MgCl2 x 6H2O (1%) were added to drinking water. Six groups were studied: Control (n=6): normal rats treated with vehicle, a 0.05 M citric acid solution; IDV (n=7): IDV-treated rats; IDV+LA (n=6): IDV- and LA-treated rats; IDV+NF (n=7): IDV- and NF-treated rats; IDV+Mg (n=7): IDV- and MgCl2-treated rats; IDV+Mg+L-NAME (n=9): IDV- and MgCl2-treated rats, supplemented with L-NAME (2.5 mg/l in drinking water). Clearance studies and evaluations of urinary nitrite (NO2) excretion were performed on day 16. No changes in blood pressure were observed. NO2 excretion decreased in IDV-treated rats. LA and NF protected against IDV effects, improving GFR (IDV+LA, 1.95 +/- 0.10; IDV+NF, 1.94 +/- 0.07 vs IDV, 1.15 +/- 0.07 ml/min, P<0.001) and RBF (IDV+LA, 7.83 +/- 0.09; IDV+NF, 7.63 +/- 0.14 vs IDV, 6.17 +/- 0.25 ml/min, P<0.001). These results suggest that IDV-induced vasoconstriction is mediated by NO and Ca2+ channels. Magnesium also ameliorated GFR and RBF in IDV-treated rats (GFR IDV+Mg, 1.77 +/- 0.08 ml/min, P<0.001; RBF IDV+Mg, 7.35 +/- 0.158 ml/min, P<0.001). Magnesium protection is not NO-mediated since it was not blocked by L-NAME. In conclusion, LA, NF and Mg protect against IDV-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. This study may have potential clinical implications for prevention of IDV-induced nephrotoxicity.
