The concentration of the endogenous neurotoxin quinolinic acid (QA) is increased in the central nervous system of mice with herpes simplex encephalitis. We have previously shown that the antiherpetic agent acyclovir (AC) has the ability to reduce QA-induced neuronal damage in rat brain, by attenuating lipid peroxidation. The mechanism by which QA induces lipid peroxidation includes the enhancement of the iron (Fe)-mediated Fenton reaction and the generation of free radicals, such as the superoxide anion (O(2)(-)). Thus, the present study determined whether AC has the ability to reduce Fe(2+)-induced lipid peroxidation, O(2)(-) generation and QA-induced superoxide anion generation, and to bind free Fe. O(2)(-) and Fe(2+) are also cofactors of the enzymes, indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and 3-hydroxyanthranilate-3,4-dioxygenase (3-HAO) respectively. These enzymes catalyse steps in the biosynthesis of QA; thus, the effect of AC on their activity was also investigated. AC significantly attenuates Fe(2+)-induced lipid peroxidation and O(2)(-) generation. AC reduces O(2)(-) generation in the presence of QA and strongly binds Fe(2+) and Fe(3+). It also reduces the activity of both IDO and 3-HAO, which could be attributed to the superoxide anion scavenging and iron binding properties, respectively, of this drug.
Extremely low birth weight (ELBW) infants are at increased risk for invasive candidiasis and associated morbidity and mortality. The use of fluconazole prophylaxis in this population has raised a benefit versus risk concern among clinicians.
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of fluconazole prophylaxis in ELBW infants.
ELBW infants (BW<or=1,000 g) born during the pre-prophylaxis era (PPE, January 1998-February 2002) were compared with prophylaxis era (PE, March 2002-September 2005). Infants born during PE received fluconazole prophylaxis for 6 weeks, as long as they had intravenous access. Demographic and clinical data were collected. The two groups were compared for baseline demographics, risk factors for candidiasis, the incidence of invasive candidiasis, liver enzymes, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin (total and direct).
Nine out of 137 infants (6.6%) developed invasive candidiasis during PPE compared to none of 140 (0%) during PE (P=0.006). During PE, 60/140 (42.9%) infants developed conjugated hyperbilirubinemia compared to 12/137 (8.8%) during PPE (P<0.001).
Although a fluconazole prophylaxis regimen for ELBW infants was effective in preventing invasive candidiasis, an increase in the incidence of conjugated hyperbilirubinemia was observed. Further studies are needed to evaluate the safety of fluconazole prophylaxis in this population.
Autism has a strong genetic background with a higher frequency of affected males suggesting involvement of X-linked genes and possibly also other factors causing the unbalanced sex ratio in the etiology of the disorder. We have identified two missense mutations in the ribosomal protein gene RPL10 located in Xq28 in two independent families with autism. We have obtained evidence that the amino-acid substitutions L206M and H213Q at the C-terminal end of RPL10 confer hypomorphism with respect to the regulation of the translation process while keeping the basic translation functions intact. This suggests the contribution of a novel, possibly modulating aberrant cellular function operative in autism. Previously, we detected high expression of RPL10 by RNA in situ hybridization in mouse hippocampus, a constituent of the brain limbic system known to be afflicted in autism. Based on these findings, we present a model for autistic disorder where a change in translational function is suggested to impact on those cognitive functions that are mediated through the limbic system.
The subcellular distribution and properties of four aldehyde dehydrogenase isoenzymes (I-IV) identified in 2-acetylaminofluorene-induced rat hepatomas and three aldehyde dehydrogenases (I-III) identified in normal rat liver are compared. In normal liver, mitochondria (50%) and microsomal fraction (27%) possess the majority of the aldehyde dehydrogenase, with cytosol possessing little, if any, activity. Isoenzymes I-III can be identified in both fractions and differ from each other on the basis of substrate and coenzyme specificity, substrate K(m), inhibition by disulfiram and anti-(hepatoma aldehyde dehydrogenase) sera, and/or isoelectric point. Hepatomas possess considerable cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase (20%), in addition to mitochondrial (23%) and microsomal (35%) activity. Although isoenzymes I-III are present in tumour mitochondrial and microsomal fractions, little isoenzyme I or II is found in cytosol. Of hepatoma cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase activity, 50% is a hepatoma-specific isoenzyme (IV), differing in several properties from isoenzymes I-III; the remainder of the tumour cytosolic activity is due to isoenzyme III (48%). The data indicate that the tumour-specific aldehyde dehydrogenase phenotype is explainable by qualitative and quantitative changes involving primarily cytosolic and microsomal aldehyde dehydrogenase. The qualitative change requires the derepression of a gene for an aldehyde dehydrogenase expressed in normal liver only after exposure to potentially harmful xenobiotics. The quantitative change involves both an increase in activity and a change in subcellular location of a basal normal-liver aldehyde dehydrogenase isoenzyme.
A novel autosomal recessive mutant was produced using N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis. The characteristics of the mutant mice included progressive irreversible hair loss within a month of birth, wrinkled skin, and long curved nails. Linkage analysis revealed that the causative gene is linked to D14Mit193 on chromosome 14. Sequence analysis of the complete cDNA of the candidate gene, hairless (Hr), identified a homozygous G-to-T transition at nucleotide 3572, leading to the substitution of glycine by tryptophan, designated Gly960Trp. This missense mutation occurs in the vicinity of repression domain 3 of the hairless protein (HR). This allele was named Hr(m1Enu). The relative amounts of Hr mRNA and HR protein determined by real-time PCR and Western blot analyses, respectively, were slightly elevated in the mutant mice. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed the increased expression of Kc1 and Vdr in the mutant mice, whereas the expression of Nrs1 and Krtap16-6 was decreased. These results suggest that the Gly960Trp substitution in HR protein in Hr(m1Enu) mice may alter the function of HR as a transcriptional corepressor.
Hepatic microvesicular fat (MVF) has been associated with clinical syndromes of liver failure (such as acute fatty liver of pregnancy and Reye's syndrome). We performed this pilot study to investigate the specificity and potential risk factors of MVF. Sections of the liver from 17 adult autopsies were snap-frozen, and Oil Red O (ORO)-stained sections were obtained. The presence of MVF in the ORO stains was analyzed in a semiquantitative manner: 3+ = > 90% liver parenchyma with MVF; 2+ = 25-90%; 1+ = 1-24%. H&E-stained liver sections were reviewed independently to determine the presence and extent of inflammation, fibrosis, and necrosis. Autopsy reports were reviewed for the gross findings; medical records were reviewed for demographic data, medical history, and, in particular, medication usage. The study consisted of 10 males and 7 females (15 white, 2 black), with a median age of 76 years (range: 50-88). MVF was identified in 16 patients (94%); it was infrequent (1+, 2+) in the majority, but 4 patients (24%) had 3+ MVF. MVF was not associated with the age or sex of the patients, liver weight, postmortem interval to examination, or other histologic features in the liver. None of the patients, including those with 3+ MVF, had a history of liver disease. All 4 patients with extensive MVF were using salicylates, as opposed to 2 of 5 with 2+ MVF and 1 of 8 with 0 to 1+ MVF (P = 0.015). In this autopsy study, the prevalence of MVF was high, with 24% of patients having extensive MVF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of slow Ca2+ channel blocker verapamil and Ca2(+)-binding agent EDTA were studied on the model of choreic hyperkinesia induced by chronic intrastriatal microinjections GABAA receptor antagonist picrotoxin. Normal and pathological movements were recorded. The test preparations facilitated the effect of picrotoxin on spontaneous and learned behavior. They exerted a permissive effect on picrotoxin-induced hyperkinesia: increase reproducibility and duration of hyperkinesia and decrease the latency of this reaction. Our results indicate that Ca2+ channels are involved into the development and progression of hyperkinesia.
In conscious 18-21-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats, DuP 753, a nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist, given orally at 3 and 10 mg/kg or intravenously at 3, 10, and 30 mg/kg, reduced blood pressure dose dependently. It did not alter heart rate at these doses. At 10 mg/kg i.v., DuP 753 decreased blood pressure significantly for at least 24 hours, suggesting a long duration of the antihypertensive effect. Unlike saralasin, DuP 753 did not cause a transient increase in blood pressure. The acute antihypertensive efficacy of DuP 753 was greater than that of captopril. Our data indicate that, for captopril to reduce blood pressure to a similar extent as that of DuP 753, it would need to be supplemented by a diuretic. DuP 753 did not have an acute diuretic effect. Bilateral nephrectomy, but not inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, abolished the antihypertensive effect of DuP 753, suggesting that the antihypertensive effect of DuP 753 is dependent on an active renin-angiotensin system. Furthermore, DuP 753 inhibited the pressor response to angiotensin II but not the responses to norepinephrine, vasopressin, and Bay K 8644 (a calcium agonist). As neither DuP 753 nor captopril decreased blood pressure acutely in Wistar-Kyoto normotensive rats, our results suggest that the renin-angiotensin system plays a significant role in the control of blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats.
To report the case of a ciprofloxacin-allergic patient who developed a generalized tonic-clonic seizure and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) following a single dose of levofloxacin.
An 87-year-old white woman was admitted to the hospital following a transient episode of unresponsiveness that had been accompanied by flailing of her limbs. Approximately 4 hours earlier, she had developed a pruritic rash on her trunk and limbs, and 3 hours before this had taken a first dose of levofloxacin. The fluoroquinolone had been prescribed for treatment of an upper respiratory tract infection. She had developed a skin rash approximately 3 years earlier following ciprofloxacin prescribed for a urinary tract infection. On admission, the patient had a normal neurologic examination. She was mildly hypomagnesemic (serum magnesium 1.7 mg/dL), with no other electrolyte imbalances present. Skin biopsy confirmed TEN. The lesions progressed to involve 30% of the body surface area and were managed with polymyxin B and gramicidin cream. Levofloxacin was discontinued on admission, and no anticonvulsants were prescribed. The woman remained seizure-free at discharge one week later.
Generalized tonic-clonic seizures are a rare complication of levofloxacin therapy. TEN following levofloxacin use has, to our knowledge, as of March 28, 2005, been previously reported only once. The seizure and TEN were probably induced by levofloxacin as corroborated by the Naranjo probability scale. We believe that the previous adverse dermatologic reaction to ciprofloxacin sensitized our patient to levofloxacin.
These rare adverse reactions to levofloxacin, involving disparate organ systems, can occur simultaneously. A previous dematologic adverse reaction to a fluoroquinolone can sensitize a patient to more severe adverse reactions (with onset after only a single dose of the subsequent fluoroquinolone). Further fluoroquinolone use should be avoided in such patients.
To study the pharmacokinetic behaviour of quinine in Caucasians with and without malaria.
Quinine-dihydrochloride was administered intravenously as a single dose of 300 mg to 12 healthy subjects and as multiple doses of 600 mg in 4 h every 8 h in 10 patients with falciparum malaria. Plasma quinine concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography
Quinine pharmacokinetics are time-dependent: the apparent elimination halftime is shorter in the accumulation phase than in the elimination phase; in malaria patients the maximal quinine concentration was reached in half the time calculated on the basis of the elimination phase after the last quinine infusion. Nevertheless a loading dose seemed advisable to reach adequate therapeutic levels quickly. In malaria patients the highest plasma concentrations during or at the end of the infusions were positively correlated with body weight. There was no correlation between body weight and the volume of distribution of quinine as calculated during the elimination phase. Hearing loss was audiometrically documented in 9 healthy subjects at a mean maximal plasma quinine concentration of only 2 mg/l. All malaria patients suffered serious cochlear hearing impairment. The ototoxic effects in both healthy subjects and patients appeared to be reversible. No electrographic changes were noted in the healthy subjects, whereas a clinically insignificant mean lengthening of the corrected QT interval was seen in the malaria patients.
Intravenous quinine pharmacokinetics in healthy Caucasians were similar to those reported for Nigerian or Thai subjects. At effective doses quinine causes considerable but reversible cochlear hearing losses in both healthy persons and in patients. Our findings do support the need for a loading dose. The fact that in malaria patients there was no correlation between body weight and quinine VD as calculated during the elimination phase renders questionable the usefulness of dosing quinine according to body weight.
The present investigation was carried out to elucidate the possible involvement of the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system in the development of dichlorvos induced delayed neurotoxicity in the rat and to assess the protective efficacy of nimodipine against OPIDN (Organophosphate induced delayed neurotoxicity). Single subcutaneous dose of dichlorvos (200 mg/kg body weight) resulted in marked changes in the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system in terms of increased levels of both dopamine and norepinephrine along with significant increase in the activity of both the catecholamine synthesizing enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. This increase was accompanied with a concomitant decrease in the activity of the major degradative enzyme, monoamine oxidase. Scatchard plot analysis revealed a significant decrease in both K(d) and B(max) for dopamine D2 receptors. Administration of nimodipine, a centrally acting calcium channel blocker, along with dichlorvos restricted all these alterations to within control values and could also ameliorate certain behavioural deficits by maintaining the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system. The study underlines the importance of alterations in the dopamine system as a possible causative mechanism behind the behavioural and functional changes associated with delayed neurotoxicity.
Flavopiridol is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor currently under development by the National Cancer Institute both as a single agent and in combination with chemotherapy. There have been numerous reports that flavopiridol potently enhances the induction of apoptosis by chemotherapy. However, the effect of flavopiridol on radiotherapy (RT)-induced apoptosis has been largely untested. RT has become the cornerstone of adjuvant treatment of colorectal and gastric cancer. In view of this, we elected to evaluate the effect of flavopiridol on potentiating RT-induced apoptosis in the human colon cancer cell line HCT-116 and the gastric cancer cell line MKN-74.
The efficacy of combination of gamma-irradiation and flavopiridol was tested in vitro in MKN-74 and HCT-116 cells and correlated to changes in p21 expression. HCT-116 cells were also established as tumors in nude mice and treated with gamma-irradiation and flavopiridol either as single agents or in sequential combinations such that flavopiridol was either given 7 h before, concomitantly, or 3 and 7 h after gamma-irradiation.
Flavopiridol significantly enhanced the induction of apoptosis by gamma-irradiation in both cell lines as measured by quantitative fluorescent microscopy, caspase-3 activation, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage, and cytochrome c release. To achieve the best effect, it was important to expose the tumor cells to gamma-irradiation before the flavopiridol. This sequence dependence was confirmed in vivo. When gamma-irradiation was administered 7 h before flavopiridol, 42% of the tumor-bearing animals were rendered disease free, compared with no animals treated with either gamma-irradiation or flavopiridol alone. Examination of the p21 status of HCT-116 and MKN-74 cells, after treatment with sequential gamma-irradiation and flavopiridol, indicated a loss of p21 protein expression. Loss of p21 was mainly due to cleavage by caspases. HCT-116 cells that lack p21 (p21(-/-)) also exhibited sensitization to gamma-irradiation and showed an even greater enhancement of gamma-irradiation-induced apoptosis by flavopiridol when compared with the parental HCT-116 cells.
These studies indicate that gamma-irradiation followed by flavopiridol enhances apoptosis and yields significantly increased tumor regressions and cures that are not achievable with radiation alone. These results indicate that flavopiridol can potently enhance the effect of gamma-radiation both in vitro and in vivo and may provide a new means to treat patients with locally advanced gastrointestinal cancers.
We report two patients with deep-vein thrombosis complicating immune heparin-induced thrombocytopenia who developed venous limb gangrene during overlapping therapy with a direct thrombin inhibitor (lepirudin or argatroban) and warfarin. In both patients, therapy with the direct thrombin inhibitor was interrupted during persisting severe athrombocytopenia while warfarin administration continued. Both patients exhibited the typical feature of a supratherapeutic international normalized ratio (INRs, 5.9 and 7.3) that has been linked previously with warfarin-associated venous limb gangrene. These data suggest that warfarin anticoagulation be postponed in patients with acute heparin-induced thrombocytopenia until substantial recovery of the platelet count has occurred.
The purpose of this study was an attempt to compare different methods of inducing the experimental nephrotic syndrome by different factors performed by numerous researchers, with the experimental model of the nephrotic syndrome obtained by the present authors after a single dose of adriamycin.
Ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia (TIAA) is considered very uncommon. We present two new cases, and we review 55 additional cases from the literature. The first case concerns a 70-year-old man who developed severe aplastic anemia 7 weeks after treatment with 500 mg of ticlopidine daily. The patient sustained a severe septic episode, was treated with antibiotics and GM-CSF, and recovered the 14(th) day after ticlopidine withdrawal. The second was an 82-year-old man receiving ticlopidine for 2 years when, during a febrile episode, he was found neutropenic with marrow aplasia. Ticlopidine withdrawal and treatment with antibiotics, transfusions, and G-CSF helped him to recover. When the data of the 57 patients are evaluated, a reversible direct cytotoxic effect of ticlopidine on the pluripotent/bipotent hematopoietic progenitor stem cell is proposed. It is estimated that the real incidence if TIAA is higher, and many cases, initially presented as agranulocytosis +/- thrombocytopenia, might be true aplastic anemias, not proven by marrow aspiration or trephine biopsy. There is no effective monitoring to prevent this side effect. Recombinant growth factors appear not to help in shortening the neutropenic period.
A number of 1,4-benzothiazine-2-acetic acid derivatives (1, 2 and 3) and their bioisosteres (15b, 16, 18 and 20b) were synthesized and evaluated in vitro for the ability to inhibit aldose reductase (AR) in porcine lens. The compounds which exhibited potent activity in vitro were also assayed in vivo for inhibitory activity against sorbitol accumulation in the erythrocytes, sciatic nerve and lens of streptozotocin-diabetic rats. The 4-(substituted benzothiazol-2-ylmethyl)-1,4-benzothiazine-2-acetic acid derivatives (2 and 3) showed more potent AR inhibitory activity than did the 4-(4-bromo-2-fluorobenzyl)-1,4-benzothiazine-2-acetic acid derivatives (1). 4-(4,5,7-Tri-fluorobenzothiazol-2-ylmethyl)-3,4-dihydro-3- oxo-2H-1,4-benzothiazine-2-acetic acid (2q, SPR-210) showed not only a potent AR-inhibitory activity in vitro (IC50 9.5 x 10(-9) M) but also a significant reduction in sorbitol accumulation in rat sciatic nerve (ID50 0.1 mg/kg) and lens (ID50 9.8 mg/kg). Optical resolution of the racemic SPR-210 was achieved by means of a diastereomer salt method using (-)-brucine. The biological activities of both enantiomers, (+)- and (-)-SPR-210, were comparable to that of the racemate.
Curcumin, an active ingredient of Curcumin longa mediates its anti-inflammatory effects through inhibition of NFkB. Several pathways including toll-like receptors (TLR) induce NFkB leading to inflammation. In this study, we investigated the effects of curcumin on the expression of TLR-4 and MyD88, the upstream signaling pathway in experimental colitis induced in the Sprague-Dawley male rats by intra-rectal administration of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). The animals which received TNBS were divided into two groups: Group 1, received aqueous suspension of curcumin (100 mg/Kg body weight) 2 h prior to inducing colitis, and the treatment was repeated every day for 5 days, and Group 2 and non-colitis (Group 3) animals received phosphate buffered saline (PBS) in a similar fashion. Non-colitis animals (Group 4) received curcumin and served as controls. Animals were sacrificed on day 5 post-TNBS by cervical dislocation, colon was taken out, and cleaned with PBS. Levels of TLR-4, MyD88, and NFkB proteins were measured using ECL Western blot analysis, and TLR-4 mRNA by a competitive RT-PCR method. Colitis was confirmed histologically by measuring myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in the colonic tissues. TNBS-induced increase in the level of MPO activity and MDA concentrations was reversed by curcumin treatment, whereas the same dose of curcumin did not affect their levels in the non-colitis animals. Increases in the levels of TLR-4, MyD88, and NFkB proteins in inflamed tissue were also suppressed significantly by curcumin treatment. The level of TLR-4 mRNA remained unchanged in the colitis animals. These findings demonstrate that signaling pathway of curcumin-induced inhibition of inflammation involves TLR-4 and MyD88, and therefore may serve as an important therapeutic target in IBD.
Severe intrahepatic cholestasis occurred in a patient after taking nitrofurantoin, ampicillin, and cloxacillin. As only nitrofurantoin was known to cause cholestasis she was given cloxacillin again two years later. The cholestasis reappeared at once. A macrophage inhibition factor test confirmed that cloxacillin was the offending drug. Cloxacillin should be added to the growing list of drugs causing cholestasis. Inadvertent rechallenge with hepatototoxic drugs might be prevented by routine use of the macrophage inhibition factor test.
A 35-year-old nephrotic man developed acute renal failure with serum creatinine to 1543 micromol/l after a month of therapy with enalapril. Renal biopsy demonstrated minimal glomerular changes with fusion of podocytes, tubular necrosis with regeneration of tubular epithelial cells, interstitial edema with focal interstitial fibrosis, and interstitial infiltration with neutrophils, eosinophils, plasma cells and mononuclear cells. Three hemodialyses were performed in the patient during the oliguric phase of the disease. Renal function was restored after withdrawal of enalapril and initiation of steroid therapy. Steroids also contributed to the improvement of the nephrotic syndrome and proteinuria decreased from maximal ranges of 27 g/l to 2.2 g/l after six months of the follow-up. Similar cases were previously described associated with captopril treatment, but not with enalapril.
Oxygen toxicity is known to be one of the major contributors to bronchopulmonary dysplasia, a chronic lung disease in premature infants. Thioredoxin (Trx) is an antioxidant that prevents oxidative stress-induced cell death, suggesting a potential therapeutic role in bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The aim of this study was to determine the role of Trx in the pathogenesis of hyperoxia-induced alveolar epithelial cell injury. Alveolar type II epithelial cells from fetal rat lung were exposed to hyperoxia in vitro in the presence or absence of recombinant human Trx (rhTrx 2 µg/ml). Cell viability was assessed by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay. Apoptosis and levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured by flow cytometry. Activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt (PI3K-Akt) pathways were detected by Western blotting. We also investigated the effects of rhTrx on the following antioxidants (superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase). Trx significantly reduced hyperoxia-induced cell death and increased cell viability. In addition, ROS generation in type II cells was inhibited by rhTrx under hyperoxic conditions. We demonstrated that rhTrx protected type II cells against hyperoxic injury via sustaining the extracellular signal regulated kinase and PI3K activation, and decreasing of c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase and p38 activation. The results also showed manganese superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities were increased by rhTrx in type II cells exposed to hyperoxia.Taken together, these results demonstrate that rhTrx administration markedly attenuates hyperoxia-induced type II cell injury through reduction of ROS generation, elevation of antioxidant activities and regulation of both MAPK and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways.
The intent of our study was to determine the efficacy of oral naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, in the treatment of pruritus in patients with chronic eczema.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled study recruited 38 patients with eczema complaining from pruritus. Pruritus scores were evaluated. Patients were given placebo (n = 20) or naltrexone 50 mg (n = 18) for 2 weeks period. During the study, pruritus scores based on visual analogue scale system (VAS) were assessed three times: at the start of study, after 1 week, and after 2 weeks.
In both groups, decreased VAS scores were observed, but naltrexone showed to be significantly more effective than placebo in decreasing VAS score after 1 week (P < 0.005) and 2 weeks (P < 0.001).
Naltrexone is more effective than placebo in the treatment of pruritus in patient with eczema. Naltrexone might be considered as an adjunct treatment in the treatment of pruritus. However, further studies in this aspect are highly fostered.
Three patients are described who developed a severe neuropathy after chemotherapy with high dose cis-diamine-(1,1-cyclobutane dicarboxylato) platinum (carboplatin). This toxic side effect, which is unusual at conventional doses, might become more frequent as increasing doses are administered to overcome drug resistance in cancer treatment, and might limit its use at very high doses before haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
In female rats, zoxazolamine paralysis time and mortality caused by indomethacin were significantly reduced by pretreatment with khellin, 7,8-benzoflavone or rutin. Pretreatment with khellin and 7,8-benzoflavone increased the in vitro zoxazolamine and ethylmorphine metabolism. These results were compared with those obtained by equimolar doses of phenobarbital, pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile and spironolactone in experiments performed simultaneously. It was concluded: Khellin, 7,8-benzoflavone and rutin increased the body's resistance to drugs via induction of the drug metabolizing enzymes of the liver, this action has about the same magnitude with that of phenobarbital and pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile. For the benzopyrone derivatives, some common structural features have been indicated as probable structural requirements for drug metabolizing enzyme inductive activity in this group of compounds.
To investigate the effect of 17alpha-ethynylestradiol (EE)-induced cholestasis on the expression of organic cation transporters (Octs) in the liver and kidney, as well as the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of metformin in rats.
Octs mRNA and protein expression were determined. The pharmacokinetics and tissue uptake clearance of metformin were determined following iv administration (5 mg/kg). Uptake of metformin, glucagon-mediated glucose production, and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation were measured in isolated hepatocytes. The effect of metformin (30 mg/kg) on blood glucose levels was tested using the iv glucose tolerance test (IVGTT).
The mRNAs of hepatic Oct1, renal Oct1, and Oct2 were decreased by 71.1%, 37.6%, and 94.5%, respectively, by EE cholestasis. The hepatic Oct1 and renal Oct2 proteins were decreased by 30.6% and 60.2%, respectively. The systemic and renal clearance of metformin were decreased. The in vitro hepatocyte uptake of metformin was decreased by 86.4% for V (max). Suppression of glucagon-stimulated glucose production and stimulation of AMPK activation in hepatocytes by metformin were diminished. In addition, metformin did not demonstrate a glucose-lowering effect during IVGTT in EE cholestasis.
The antidiabetic effect of metformin may be diminished in diabetic patients with EE cholestasis, due to impaired hepatic uptake of the drug via OCT1.
The currently recommended protocol for treatment of kala-azar (KA) necessitates repeated bone marrow/splenic aspiration to monitor the response and duration of therapy as well as to detect resistance and change to alternative drugs. These procedures being invasive, there is a pressing need for less invasive diagnostic tools for this purpose. We have evaluated the role of C-reactive protein (CRP) in 201 children with visceral leishmaniasis at different stages of the disease to work out the relationship, if any, between CRP levels and disease activity, including response to therapy. The subjects belonged to the 2-12 year age group in whom CRP estimation was done on admission, every 5th day during treatment, and repeated on follow-up at 2 and 6 months. The levels were compared with those of 50 randomly chosen age-matched healthy children who served as controls. The mean serum CRP value in the study group before the commencement of treatment was 62.96 +/- 1.03 mg/l, which was significantly higher (p < 0.001) in comparison to the control group. Commencement of treatment resulted in a simultaneous decline in serum CRP. Parasitic clearance from the spleen was faster in patients with an initial low serum CRP level (< 60 mg/l) in comparison to patients with high levels (> 60 mg/l). During treatment, mean serum CRP levels were significantly higher in late responders than in early responders (p < 0.001). Correlation of CRP levels to indicate the presence or absence of parasites suggested a cut-off level of 12 mg/l by day 10, with a sensitivity of 82.5 per cent, specificity of 78.5 per cent, positive predictive value of 92 per cent, and negative predictive value of 60.2 per cent. Our observations suggest a promising role for CRP estimation every 5-10 days during therapy in visceral leishmaniasis for monitoring the response to therapy and to detect possible resistance.
Patients receiving gentamicin or tobramycin were studied to determine whether there were differences in the urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) between the two groups. The average daily increases in NAG excretion were significantly higher in the group receiving gentamicin. In individual patients, the best correlation with nephrotoxicity was with high initial rates of NAG excretion. If abnormally high initial rates of increase can serve as a prognosticator of nephrotoxicity, it may be possible to alter aminoglycoside therapy and to avoid renal damage.
Nifedipine, a calcium-channel blocker, differs in structure and mode of action not only from the nitrates and beta blockers but also from the other well-known calcium-channel blockers. These differences have important implications for the treatment of angina pectoris. Our clinical experience over a period of 6 years with all types of angina patients--mostly those with chronic stable angina but also those with Prinzmetal's and unstable angina-corroborates the efficacy reports published in the world literature. Although the safety profile of nifedipine has been generally regarded as favorable, a few reports of clinically significant adverse effects in specific patient groups have appeared in the literature. In order to provide a more comprehensive assessment of safety, the records of over 3000 patients treated with nifedipine in open and controlled multiple-dose studies were tabulated and analyzed. Of special concern were patients with clinically significant adverse experiences, patients with a concomitant diagnosis of congestive heart failure (CHF), patients who were being treated concurrently with beta blockers, and patients who had been taking nifedipine for more than 6 months. Results of this analysis confirm that nifedipine can be safely administered to a broad spectrum of angina patients, including those with a concomitant diagnosis of CHF and those receiving concurrent therapy with beta-blocking agents.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a parasomnia defined by intermittent loss of electromyographic atonia during REM sleep with emergence of complex and vigorous behaviors. Although the efficacy of several agents for treating RBD has been reported, a rationale for medication has not been established and the exact pathophysiological mechanisms of RBD are uncertain. We encountered a patient with idiopathic RBD that dramatically improved with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and deteriorated with a 5-HT1A partial agonist, tandospirone. We report on the effects of these serotonin-modulating agents, which yield clues to a possible pharmacological approach to RBD.
