Postoperative ileus is a transient cessation of bowel motility that occurs after bowel resection (BR). Alvimopan, a peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist accelerated gastrointestinal (GI) recovery in 5 randomized, double-blind, phase III postoperative ileus trials.
Individual covariates (age, gender, race) were assessed separately using Cox proportional hazards models that included the main effects of treatment and covariate factor. Time-to-GI recovery (GI-3 [first toleration of solid food and first bowel movement or flatus]; GI-2 [first toleration of solid food and first bowel movement]) for patients who underwent open laparotomy for BR in the absence of epidural anesthesia and received alvimopan (12 mg) or placebo was analyzed within subgroups (age, gender, race, concomitant medication use) using Cox proportional hazards models to generate hazard ratios (HRs). P values were calculated with the Wald chi2 test.
Elderly (>or=65 years), male, and nonwhite patients achieved GI-3 recovery later than younger (<65 years), female, and white patients (HR > 1 and P < .05 for all). Overall, alvimopan (12 mg) accelerated GI-3 recovery by 12 hours and GI-2 recovery by 17 hours compared with placebo. Within subgroups, regardless of covariate effect, patients who received alvimopan (12 mg) achieved GI-2 and GI-3 recovery sooner than patients who received placebo (HR > 1 and P < .05 for all).
These post hoc analyses support that alvimopan (12 mg) accelerates GI recovery across various patient populations.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a highly diverse group of cancers, and subtyping is necessary to better identify molecular-based therapies. In this study, we analyzed gene expression (GE) profiles from 21 breast cancer data sets and identified 587 TNBC cases. Cluster analysis identified 6 TNBC subtypes displaying unique GE and ontologies, including 2 basal-like (BL1 and BL2), an immunomodulatory (IM), a mesenchymal (M), a mesenchymal stem-like (MSL), and a luminal androgen receptor (LAR) subtype. Further, GE analysis allowed us to identify TNBC cell line models representative of these subtypes. Predicted "driver" signaling pathways were pharmacologically targeted in these cell line models as proof of concept that analysis of distinct GE signatures can inform therapy selection. BL1 and BL2 subtypes had higher expression of cell cycle and DNA damage response genes, and representative cell lines preferentially responded to cisplatin. M and MSL subtypes were enriched in GE for epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and growth factor pathways and cell models responded to NVP-BEZ235 (a PI3K/mTOR inhibitor) and dasatinib (an abl/src inhibitor). The LAR subtype includes patients with decreased relapse-free survival and was characterized by androgen receptor (AR) signaling. LAR cell lines were uniquely sensitive to bicalutamide (an AR antagonist). These data may be useful in biomarker selection, drug discovery, and clinical trial design that will enable alignment of TNBC patients to appropriate targeted therapies.
To evaluate the influence of the angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor enalapril (2.5 to 40 mg per day) on the prognosis of severe congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association [NYHA] functional class IV), we randomly assigned 253 patients in a double-blind study to receive either placebo (n = 126) or enalapril (n = 127). Conventional treatment for heart failure, including the use of other vasodilators, was continued in both groups. Follow-up averaged 188 days (range, 1 day to 20 months). The crude mortality at the end of six months (primary end point) was 26 percent in the enalapril group and 44 percent in the placebo group--a reduction of 40 percent (P = 0.002). Mortality was reduced by 31 percent at one year (P = 0.001). By the end of the study, there had been 68 deaths in the placebo group and 50 in the enalapril group--a reduction of 27 percent (P = 0.003). The entire reduction in total mortality was found to be among patients with progressive heart failure (a reduction of 50 percent), whereas no difference was seen in the incidence of sudden cardiac death. A significant improvement in NYHA classification was observed in the enalapril group, together with a reduction in heart size and a reduced requirement for other medication for heart failure. The overall withdrawal rate was similar in both groups, but hypotension requiring withdrawal occurred in seven patients in the enalapril group and in no patients in the placebo group. After the initial dose of enalapril was reduced to 2.5 mg daily in high-risk patients, this side effect was less frequent. We conclude that the addition of enalapril to conventional therapy in patients with severe congestive heart failure can reduce mortality and improve symptoms. The beneficial effect on mortality is due to a reduction in death from the progression of heart failure.
Magnesium sulfate injected into the cerebral ventricles of conscious cats inhibited the vocalization and the fighting evoked by intracerebroventricular injections of carbachol and eserine. The magnesium completely blocked the convulsions caused by eserine, but had no effect on the convulsions produced by carbachol. Other motor phenomena and signs of autonomic activation produced these cholinergic agents were not significantly altered by MgSO4.
To report and describe the apparent first case of acute oculogyric crisis following administration of pentazocine, and to discuss the possible mechanism for this reaction.
Patient case and relevant review of literature. The patient, a 39-year-old woman, developed acute oculogyric crisis following administration of Talacen (pentazocine and acetaminophen) for pain relief. The crisis resolved after discontinuation of the medication and administration of intravenous diphenhydramine 50 mg.
Based on the temporal relationship of drug administration to occurrence of the event, pentazocine is implicated as the cause of this acute oculogyric crisis. A plausible mechanism for precipitation of this crisis is the agonism of pentazocine on sigma opiate receptors, with postulated subsequent modulation of dopamine receptors.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most prevalent cancers worldwide. However, effective chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agents for this cancer have not yet been developed. In clinical trials acyclic retinoid (ACR) and vitamin K(2) (VK(2)) decreased the recurrence rate of HCC. In the present study we examined the possible combined effects of ACR or another retinoid 9-cis retinoic acid (9cRA) plus VK(2) in the HuH7 human HCC cell line. We found that the combination of 1.0 microM ACR or 1.0 microM 9cRA plus 10 microM VK(2) synergistically inhibited the growth of HuH7 cells without affecting the growth of Hc normal human hepatocytes. The combined treatment with ACR plus VK(2) also acted synergistically to induce apoptosis in HuH7 cells. Treatment with VK(2) alone inhibited phosphorylation of the retinoid X receptor (RXR)alpha protein, which is regarded as a critical factor for liver carcinogenesis, through inhibition of Ras activation and extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. Moreover, the inhibition of RXRalpha phosphorylation by VK(2) was enhanced when the cells were cotreated with ACR. The combination of retinoids plus VK(2) markedly increased both the retinoic acid receptor responsive element and retinoid X receptor responsive element promoter activities in HuH7 cells. Our results suggest that retinoids (especially ACR) and VK(2) cooperatively inhibit activation of the Ras/MAPK signaling pathway, subsequently inhibiting the phosphorylation of RXRalpha and the growth of HCC cells. This combination might therefore be effective for the chemoprevention and chemotherapy of HCC.
Paclitaxel, an anti-neoplastic agent effective against several solid tumors, has several side effects including peripheral neuropathy. So far, there are no effective treatments for this complication. Monosialic acid ganglioside (GM1) has been shown to protect neurons against injuries and degeneration. However, its efficacy in the treatment of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy has not been verified.
To evaluate the effect of porcine GM1 on neurophysiological abnormalities in rats receiving paclitaxel.
Fifty-four Wistar rats were divided into control, vehicle for paclitaxel (Cremophor EL), paclitaxel, and paclitaxel + GM1 groups. Paclitaxel 16 mg/kg/week for five consecutive weeks was given intraperitoneally. Treatment with 30 mg/kg 5 days per week of GM1 was started 3 days prior to the first dose and continued until 3 days after the last dose of paclitaxel. Tail and hind paw thermal thresholds including tail motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) were measured prior to and after the start of treatments. Histopathology of the sciatic nerve was also examined.
Paclitaxel alone induced thermal hypoalgesia and reduced tail MNCV Less severe abnormalities were also found with the vehicle. GM1 appeared to prevent the development of hypoalgesia and ameliorated the decreased MNCV without any evidence of Guillain-Barre Syndrome. Mild endoneurial edema and axonal degeneration in the sciatic nerve sections were seen in paclitaxel treated rats. Microtubule accumulation and activated Schwann cell were also presented in the paclitaxel treated groups.
These data suggest that porcine GM1 may be useful in the prevention and treatment of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy. However the adverse effect of Cremophor EL should be of concern.
To study basic epidemiological datas and ocular involvment during toxic epidermal necrolysis (T.E.N.) in Cameroonian patients.
Ten consecutive patients in the Central Hospital of Yaounde were included during a 4 years period. Anamnesis, clinical features, dermatological, ophthalmological and pathological examinations were done. Minimal follow up of 3 months.
Mean age: 20.1 +/- 11.4 yrs (SD); culprit drugs: sulfadoxin (5/10), sulfamethoxazol (3/10); phenytoin (1/10). Mean of skin detachment: 41 +/- 17%. 2 patients died with sulfadoxin as culprit drug. Early ocular findings: conjunctivitis (all patients), symblepharon (1/8), ankyloblepharon (3 patients over 8 with sulfadoxin as culprit drug). All cases with ankyloblepharon (3) evoluated toward formation of a fibrovascular precorneal membrane with blindness. Two of the patients received a kerothoprosthesis on one eye. The 3 patients had a severe dry eye syndrome.
TEN appears to be uncommon in Cameroon. Use of sulfonamides for treatment and prevention of malaria and AID'S opportunistic infections may increase the incidence of disease in tropical african areas. Ophthalmologists should be aware of early management of ocular manifestations in Lyell syndrome to avoid severe sequelae. That sequelae may be due to usual intensive healing in African patients. Severe corneal damages can be corrected only by keratoprosthesis.
The pyrophosphate (PP(i)) analog foscarnet inhibits viral DNA-polymerases and is used to treat cytomegalovirus and human immunodeficiency vius infections. Nucleotide cyclases and DNA-polymerases catalyze analogous reactions, i.e. a phosphodiester bond formation, and have similar topologies in their active sites. Inhibition by foscarnet of adenylyl cyclase isoforms was therefore tested with (i) purified catalytic domains C1 and C2 of types I and VII (IC1 and VIIC1) and of type II (IIC2) and (ii) membrane-bound holoenzymes (from mammalian tissues and types I, II, and V heterologously expressed in Sf9 cell membranes). Foscarnet was more potent than PP(i) in suppressing forskolin-stimulated catalysis by both, IC1/IIC2 and VIIC1/IIC2. Stimulation of VIIC1/IIC2 by Galpha(s) relieved the inhibition by foscarnet but not that by PP(i). The IC(50) of foscarnet on membrane-bound adenylyl cyclases also depended on their mode of regulation. These findings predict that receptor-dependent cAMP formation is sensitive to inhibition by foscarnet in some, but not all, cells. This was verified with two cell lines; foscarnet blocked cAMP accumulation after A(2A)-adenosine receptor stimulation in PC12 but not in HEK-A(2A) cells. Foscarnet also inhibited soluble and, to a lesser extent, particulate guanylyl cylase. Thus, foscarnet interferes with the generation of cyclic nucleotides, an effect which may give rise to clinical side effects. The extent of inhibition varies with the enzyme isoform and with the regulatory input.
We investigated the SPINK 1 mutations in 156 sporadic pancreatic cancer (PCa), and 8 pancreatic cancer with chronic pancreatitis (CPPCa) patients, and in 527 healthy subjects. The results demonstrated that 3 of 8 patients with CPPCa (37.5%) had the SPINK 1 gene N34S mutation. In addition, 3 of 156 sporadic PCa patients (1.9%) and 1 of them (0.6%) had the N34S and IVS3+2T>C mutation, respectively. The combined frequency of 2.5% was significantly higher than that of healthy subjects (0.38%), suggesting that the SPINK 1 mutation is an important risk factor for the development of pancreatic cancer. To investigate the genetic difference between sporadic PCa and CPPCa, we investigated several factors involved in the pathogenesis of PCa in 6 CPPCa and 15 sporadic PCa patients. The factors examined were genes including K-ras, p53, smad 4, p-smad 1, CXCL 14, NF-kB subunit p65 and Wnt 5a. No significant difference was found in the comparative examination of these factors, suggesting that the molecular disorders appeared to occur similarly in CPPCa as well as sporadic PCa. To assess the role of fibrosis in pancreatic carcinogenesis, we investigated the effects of pancreatic stellate cells (PSCs), which are largely responsible for pancreatic fibrogenesis, on duct cells, in vitro and in vivo. Activated PSCs were found surrounding precancerous duct cells in the tissues of a dimethylbenzanthracene mouse model and those of human PCa. Consistently, human pancreatic epithelial duct cells cultured with PSC conditioned media showed increased cell proliferation and colony formation, suggesting that PSCs may promote pancreatic ductal tumorigenesis.
The effectiveness of repeated intravenous injections of labetalol in reducing blood pressure (BP) was evaluated in patients with severe hypertension. The subjects were 10 patients who were 29 to 61 yr old and who had diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 125 mm Hg or higher. Repeated injections titrated from 20 to 80 mg were given at 15-min intervals until there was a reduction in DBP of 30 mm Hg or until 300 mg had been administered. The average reduction of BP ranged from 201 +/- 5/132 +/- 1 to 157 +/- 6/108 +/- 4 mm Hg (mean +/- SEM). Four patients responded with a reduction in DBP of 30 mm Hg or more with total doses of 60 to 220 mg. Of the remaining six who received the full dose, in four there was a 20 to 29 mm Hg reduction in DBP, in one there was a 10 mm Hg fall, and in one there was no reduction. There was a positive correlation between age and response to intravenous labetalol. No severe side effects were encountered. Intravenous labetalol is useful and well tolerated in patients with severe hypertension.
To investigate whether dietary docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a peroxidizable polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids, sensitizes rat mammary tumors to anthracyclines and whether its action interferes with tumor vascularization, a critical determinant of tumor growth.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats were initiated by N-methylnitrosourea to develop mammary tumors and then assigned to a control group (n = 18), receiving a supplementation of palm oil, or to a DHA group (n = 54), supplemented with a microalgae-produced oil (DHASCO, 1.5 g/d). The DHA group was equally subdivided into three subgroups with addition of different amounts of alpha-tocopherol. Epirubicin was injected weekly during 6 weeks after the largest tumor reached 1.5 cm(2), and subsequent changes in the tumor surface were evaluated. Tumor vascularization was assessed by power Doppler sonography before and during chemotherapy.
DHA and alpha-tocopherol were readily absorbed and incorporated into rat tissues. Epirubicin induced a 45% mammary tumor regression in the DHA-supplemented group, whereas no tumor regression was observed in the control group. In the DHA group, before chemotherapy was initiated, tumor vascular density was 43% lower than in the control group and remained lower during chemotherapy. Enhancement of epirubicin efficacy by DHA was abolished in a dose-dependent manner by alpha-tocopherol, and the same trend was observed for DHA-induced reduction in tumor vascular density.
Dietary DHA supplementation led to a reduction in tumor vascularization before the enhancement of any response to anthracyclines, suggesting that DHA chemosensitizes mammary tumors through an inhibition of the host vascular response to the tumor.
The present study aimed to investigate the illicit drug use patterns of long-distance truck drivers. This population is considered to be a special interest group in terms of drug-driving research and policy due to high rates of use, involvement of drugs in truck accidents, and the link between drug use and work-related fatigue.
Qualitative interview data were collected from 35 long-haul truck drivers in Southeast Queensland and analyzed through grounded theory techniques. Interviews were conducted at truck stops and loading facilities in both metropolitan and regional cites throughout Queensland.
High rates of licit and illicit drug use (particularly amphetamines) were reported by the majority of the sample. However, unlike previous studies that focus on fatigue, this research found overlapping and changing motivations for drug use during individual lifetimes. Becker's model of a drug use "career" was utilized to reveal that some drivers begin illicit drug use before they commence truck driving. As well as fatigue, powerful motives such as peer pressure, wanting to fit the trucking "image," socialization, relaxation, and addiction were also reported as contributing factors to self-reported drug driving.
The results indicate that these additional social factors may need to be considered and incorporated with fatigue factors when developing effective drug prevention or cessation policies for truck drivers.
Advanced pancreatic cancer (APC) constitutes a poor-prognosis disease with few and disappointing therapeutic options. In recent years chemotherapy has demonstrated a positive effect on disease-related symptoms with the introduction of a novel pyrimidine analogue, gemcitabine. Moreover there is experimental and clinical evidence that endocrine therapy may play a small but unexplored role in the management of APC. Therefore we performed a phase II study to assess whether the combination of gemcitabine and tamoxifen could be an active and safe schedule for the treatment of APC in terms of response rate and clinical benefits.
Twenty-seven evaluable consecutive patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were treated with gemcitabine (1000 mg/mq given as a short infusion once weekly for 3 consecutive weeks out of every 4 weeks) and tamoxifen (20 mg daily starting the second day after gemcitabine). The treatment was continued until progression or unacceptable toxicity. Evaluation of efficacy included response rate, time to progression, survival and clinical benefit, an integrated measurement of pain parameters, weight and performance status.
A partial response was achieved in 11% of patients while 48% experienced stable disease, lasting at least 8 weeks; disease progression was documented in 41% of patients. The median time of progression was 4.5 months; the median survival-time was 8 months and one-year survival was 31%. Clinical benefit was documented in 59% of patients with a median duration of 13 weeks. No gastrointestinal or haematological grade 4 toxicity was observed. In general the treatment showed a satisfactory safety profile and tamoxifen-related toxicity was not documented.
The combination of gemcitabine and tamoxifen appears to be an innovative therapeutic approach in the management of APC with interesting clinical activity and a good profile of toxicity. This novel schedule of treatment deserves further investigation in large randomized trials to assess if the addition of tamoxifen could improve the therapeutic results of gemcitabine in APC, mostly in term of quality of lfe.
As the incidence of toxoplasma encephalitis (TE) in AIDS patients increases, sulfadiazine/pyrimethamine combination therapy is broadly administered. Two cases of acute and chronic renal sulfadiazine crystallization with acute renal failure and nephrolithiasis are reported. Controlled alkalinization of the urine and high fluid intake are recommended for prophylaxis of crystalluria.
We have previously shown strong pro-atherogenic effects of probucol in apolipoprotein E-knockout (apo E-KO) mice. The aims of the present study were to investigate whether (a) dietary phytosterols reduce probucol-induced atherogenesis and (b) beneficial interactions exist between these agents. Male apo E-KO mice fed with an atherogenic diet supplemented with phytosterols or probucol or their combination for 14 weeks. Single therapy with either phytosterols or probucol resulted in a 25% reduction in plasma total cholesterol (TC) concentrations as compared to the control group. The effects of the combination therapy were more profound (60% reduction). While phytosterols reduced atherogenesis by 60%, probucol caused an increase of 150% in atherogenesis. Addition of phytosterols to probucol substantially reduced pro-atherogenic effects of probucol. This was associated with improved high density lipoprotein (HDL) concentrations. The ratio of TC to HDL cholesterol was markedly reduced in the combination therapy group as compared to the probucol-treated group. A strong positive association between the ratio of TC to HDL cholesterol and the extent of atherosclerotic lesions was observed. The coronary arteries of the probucol-treated group showed various stages of atherogenesis from infiltration of monocytes into intima to complete occlusion of the vessel by atheromatous lesions. Such pathological findings were not observed in the combination therapy group. Approximately 40% of the mice in the probucol-treated group and 10% of the animals in the combination therapy group developed skin lesions. Further studies warrant the investigation of the underlying mechanisms of the observed beneficial interactions between dietary phytosterols and probucol.
Matrix metalloproteinase-8 (MMP-8) is a central mediator in chronic periodontitis. Recently developed MMP-8-deficient mice show an impaired polymorphonuclear neutrophil response and more severe alveolar bone loss in Porphyromonas gingivalis-induced experimental periodontitis. The main mediators involved in neutrophil and monocyte/macrophage recruitment and in bone loss include lipopolysaccharide-induced CXC chemokine (LIX/CXCL5), stromal-derived factor-1/CXC chemokine ligand 12 (SDF1/CXCL12) and RANKL. Therefore, the aim of this study was to characterize the expression of LIX/CXCL5, SDF1/CXCL12 and RANKL in Porphyromonas gingivalis-induced experimental periodontitis in MMP-8⁻/⁻ (knockout) and wild-type mice.
MMP-8 null and WT P. gingivalis-infected and uninfected mice were included. Histopathological changes were assessed and LIX/CXCL5, SDF1/CXCL12 and RANKL were immunodetected and quantified.
Typical histopathological features of chronic periodontitis were seen in P. gingivalis-infected groups. LIX/CXCL5 expression was restricted to the gingival papilla in all four groups. Significantly lower expression of LIX/CXCL5 was seen in the knockout group compared with the wild-type infected group (p < 0.05). SDF1/CXCL12 and RANKL expression was mainly localized to the alveolar crest, including inflammatory leukocytes, vascular endothelium, osteoblasts and osteoclasts. Significant increases of SDF1/CXCL12 and RANKL were seen in both knockout and wild-type P. gingivalis-infected groups compared with uninfected groups (p < 0.05).
RANKL and SDF1/CXCL12 are up-regulated in P. gingivalis-induced periodontitis and they appear to be associated with the pathogenesis of the disease. MMP-8 is associated with a reduced expression of LIX/CXCL5 in the P. gingivalis-induced experimental periodontitis model.
To evaluate the impact of psychopharmacologic treatments on neuropsychological functioning in bipolar youth.
Participants were 173 children (aged 6-17 years) with DSM-IV bipolar disorder. Participants were comprehensively assessed using structured diagnostic interviews (Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children) and neuropsychological measures (eg, subtests of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-III and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III) during the years 2001-2006. Comparisons were made in neuropsychological functioning between medicated and unmedicated youth with bipolar disorder.
Children who were treated with mood stabilizers performed significantly (P < .05) more poorly than untreated children on measures of processing speed and working memory. Treatment with other classes of medication, including second-generation antipsychotics, was not significantly associated with neuropsychological impairments.
Treatment with mood stabilizers may be associated with specific neuropsychological impairments. Cognitive side effects may need to be considered in selecting particular psychopharmacologic treatments for children with bipolar disorder.
Cisplatin is a widely used cancer therapy drug that unfortunately has major side effects in normal tissues, notably nephrotoxicity in kidneys. Despite intensive research, the mechanism of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity remains unclear, and renoprotective approaches during cisplatin-based chemotherapy are lacking. Here we have identified PKCδ as a critical regulator of cisplatin nephrotoxicity, which can be effectively targeted for renoprotection during chemotherapy. We showed that early during cisplatin nephrotoxicity, Src interacted with, phosphorylated, and activated PKCδ in mouse kidney lysates. After activation, PKCδ regulated MAPKs, but not p53, to induce renal cell apoptosis. Thus, inhibition of PKCδ pharmacologically or genetically attenuated kidney cell apoptosis and tissue damage, preserving renal function during cisplatin treatment. Conversely, inhibition of PKCδ enhanced cisplatin-induced cell death in multiple cancer cell lines and, remarkably, enhanced the chemotherapeutic effects of cisplatin in several xenograft and syngeneic mouse tumor models while protecting kidneys from nephrotoxicity. Together these results demonstrate a role of PKCδ in cisplatin nephrotoxicity and support targeting PKCδ as an effective strategy for renoprotection during cisplatin-based cancer therapy.
The anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab has shown promising results in the clinical treatment of patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL). However, its therapeutic effect could still be improved.
This study examined the anti-tumor activity of rituximab combined with histone deacetylase inhibitor suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) in CD20-positive B-NHL cell lines, as well as in primary B-NHL cells and a murine B-NHL model.
The combination treatment sensitized B-NHL cells to apoptosis in a synergistic manner, concomitant with mitochondrial instability and Bcl-2/Bcl-XL downregulation. Particularly in Daudi cells relatively resistant to rituximab, these events were associated with nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) inactivation and c-Myc degradation. SAHA presented functional complementation with rituximab, through decreasing IKKalpha/beta and IkappaBalpha phosphorylation, thus preventing NF-kappaB nuclear translocation. In addition, SAHA induced IkappaBalpha cleavage to a stable inhibitory form and caused NF-kappaB degradation in response to caspase-3 activation. More importantly, rituximab-SAHA combination significantly promoted primary B-NHL cells apoptosis and improved survival time of a severe combined immunodeficient mouse lymphoma model established with intravenous injection of Daudi cells.
These findings emphasized the value of targeting apoptosis signaling pathway in lymphoma therapy. Rituximab in conjunction with histone deacetylase inhibitor may represent a novel strategy in treating patients with B-NHL.
NCX-4016 is an acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) derivative containing a nitric oxide-releasing moiety. Compared with ASA, NCX-4016 has a broader spectrum of antithrombotic and antiinflammatory activities. We hypothesized that NCX-4016 might inhibit in vivo lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced expression of tissue factor (TF).
Rats were administered 90 mg/kg NCX-4016 orally for 5 days. Placebo, 50 mg/kg ASA, and 80 mg/kg isosorbide-5-mononitrate (ISMN) were used in control groups. On day 5, rats were injected intraperitoneally with 100 microg/kg LPS and killed 6 hours later. The expression of TF in monocytes was measured by flow cytometry and Western blot analysis. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was performed to assess expression of TF and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) genes. Plasma concentrations of interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha were measured. Urine samples were collected to evaluate the excretion of the thromboxane metabolite 11-dehydro-thromboxane (TX)B2. Gastric mucosa was inspected. LPS injection was followed by synthesis TF and COX-2 mRNAs in circulating monocytes, which were blunted by NCX-4016 but not by ASA or ISMN. Both NCX-4016 and ISMN reduced TF expression on surface of circulating monocyte. LPS increased the excretion 11-dehydro-TXB2, and this was prevented by NCX-4016 and ASA. Unlike ASA, NCX-4016 reduced plasma interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. In addition, NCX-4016 almost completely prevented mucosal damage, whereas ASA increased the extension of gastric lesions in LPS-injected rats.
NCX-4016 prevents monocyte TF expression; this is accompanied by inhibition of TX and cytokine biosynthesis. These additive effects of nitric oxide release and COX inhibition may help explain efficacy and tolerability of NCX-4016.
A new platelet alloantigen, termed CA, has recently been implicated in a case of neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NATP) in a Filipino family in Canada. Maternal anti-CA serum reacted with glycoprotein (GP) IIIa and maintained its reactivity after removal of high mannose carbohydrate residues from GPIIIa. The monoclonal antibody (MoAb) AP3 partially blocked binding of anti-CA to GPIIIa, suggesting that the CA polymorphism is proximal to the AP3 epitope. Platelet RNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to amplify the region of GPIIIa cDNA that encodes this region of the protein. DNA sequence analysis showed a G<==>A nucleotide substitution at base 1564 that results in an arginine (Arg) (CGG)<==>glutamine (Gln) (CAG) polymorphism in amino acid (AA) 489. Further analysis of PCR-amplified genomic DNA from 27 normal individuals showed that AA 489 is encoded by a mutational "hot spot" of the GPIIIa gene, as three different codons for the wild-type Arg489 of GPIIIa were also found. The codon usage for Arg489 was found to be: CGG (63%), CGA (37%), and CGC (< 1%). These frequency data were valuable in determining the relationship of the CA alloantigen to the serologically defined TU GPIIIa polymorphism that is present in low frequency in the Finish population. Analyses of PCR-amplified genomic DNA showed the CA and TU alloantigens to be identical at the molecular level. Definition of these new molecular variants of the beta 3 integrin chain should prove valuable in the diagnosis of NATP in these two geographically disparate populations, and it may also provide useful genetic markers for examining other pathologic variations of the GPIIb-IIIa complex.
