Circulating progenitor cells (CPCs), including endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs), have a key role in endothelium repair. Cellular NADPH oxidase (Nox) enzymes, including Nox-containing gp91phox, represent a source of reactive oxygen species (ROS); ROS trigger protective signals but may also have detrimental effects. Cellular defenses against ROS include the enzymes manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase type-1 (GPx-1). We investigated the relationships of CPCs with cellular gp91phox, MnSOD, CAT, GPx-1 and ROS levels and with carotid intima-media thickness (cIMT) and stiffness in hypertensives without additional risk factors for cardiovascular disease. CPCs from 53 newly diagnosed, untreated hypertensives and from 29 controls were isolated and identified by flow cytometry. gp91phox, MnSOD, CAT, and GPx-1 mRNA and protein expression and ROS generation were evaluated in enriched samples of CD34(+) cells; cIMT and stiffness were assessed. Hypertensives showed higher arterial stiffness (P < 0.001) but no difference in cIMT with respect to controls. ROS generation was slightly increased (P=0.04), whereas gp91phox, MnSOD, CAT and GPx-1 were significantly higher (P < 0.001) with respect to controls, as was CPC number (P < 0.001), but EPCs were no different. CPC and EPC numbers correlated with gp91phox, ROS and fibrinogen (P < 0.001); moreover, gp91phox, MnSOD, CAT and GPx-1 were correlated with CPC number. In early phases of arterial hypertension, before the development of wall thickening and even in the presence of arterial mechanical impairment, CPC number may be increased to maintain an adequate number of EPCs in peripheral blood.
Flt3 internal tandem duplication (Flt3-ITD) is a prevalent mutation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Flt3-ITD constitutively activates various signaling pathways, including a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. Arsenic trioxide (ATO) and MEK inhibition were recently reported to interact synergistically to induce apoptosis in AML cells. In this study, we aimed to clarify whether ATO and Flt3 inhibition would be a more specific and efficient therapy for Flt3-ITD cells. We demonstrate that the combination of ATO and an Flt3 inhibitor, AG1296, profoundly inhibits the growth of Flt3-ITD cells and induces their apoptosis. We further revealed that this combined treatment potently inhibits the ERK activity that might be responsible for cell growth. Moreover, using the Chou-Talalay method, we observed a synergistic growth-inhibitory effect for ATO and AG1296 in Flt3-ITD cells (BaF3-Flt3-ITD, MV4-11, and PL-21 cells), but not in Flt3 wild-type cells (RS4-11 and NB4 cells), for almost all dose ranges tested. Our results provide an experimental basis for a specific and efficient therapy for Flt3-ITD cells that involves combined treatment with Flt3 inhibitors and ATO.
Recently, it has been reported that atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) reverses or prevents acute renal failure induced by norepinephrine in rats. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that vasoconstrictor doses of arginine vasopressin (VP) can induce renal ischemia and that consequent renal dysfunction is reversed by ANP infusion or bolus injections in rats. Intrarenally infused VP produced a significant decrease of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and an increase of urinary volume and sodium excretion rate. Systemic blood pressure increased significantly during VP administration. In a second experimental period, ANP was also given intrarenally, control rats received isotonic saline solution. ANP infusion revealed a highly significant increment of GFR, urinary volume and sodium excretion. Blood pressure fell down below values of the preperiod. After cessation of ANP infusion, renal function was reduced again. These results indicate that VP induces a nonoliguric acute renal failure which is reversed by ANP infusion but only at the time of its administration.
Nitric oxide (NO), produced by the nitric oxide synthase family of enzymes, mediates multiple signaling functions, and when unchecked, NO causes pathological damage. Exposure of embryos to a variety of teratogens, including carbon monoxide (CO), has been shown to increase reactive intermediates, such as NO, and recent work showed that either the excess or absence of NO caused morphological defects. While endogenous NO is known to regulate many adult tissues, its role during embryonic organogenesis and/or in mediating responses to teratogen exposure has not been explored.
We have examined here the presence of NO during normal chick embryonic organogenesis, and investigated the teratogenicity of NO through the application of sodium nitroprusside (SNP), which mimics NO overproduction, and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), which inhibits endogenous NOS activity.
Topical treatment with SNP or L-NMMA for 18 h resulted in morphological defects, specifically in the neural tube and somites, which corresponded to sites of altered apoptosis. The location of NO was histochemically correlated with the observed morphological defects. Coadministration of SNP or L-NMMA with CO showed functional coregulation and interaction between NO and CO in chick embryonic development.
Our results showed that regulation of NO is essential for normal axial development, that sites of altered NO expression correlate to those of altered apoptosis and dysmorphogenesis, and that CO coadministration resulted in a rectification of normal NO expression. Collectively, these results suggest that alteration in endogenous NO/CO signaling is responsible, at least in part, for the observed NO-induced teratogenesis.
Sexual dysfunction, a frequently reported side effect of many antidepressants, may result in patient dissatisfaction and noncompliance with treatment regimens. This paper describes the results of the first placebo-controlled comparison of the efficacy, safety, and effects on sexual functioning of sustained-release bupropion (bupropion SR) and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline. This randomized, double-masked, double-dummy, parallel-group, multicenter trial enrolled 360 patients with moderate-to-severe recurrent major depression. Patients were treated with bupropion SR 150 to 400 mg/d, sertraline 50 to 200 mg/d, or placebo for up to 8 weeks. Patients' depression and sexual functioning were assessed at weekly or biweekly clinic visits; safety was assessed by regular monitoring of adverse events, vital signs, and body weight. Treatment groups were similar at baseline in terms of age, sex, and race, and most patients had a diagnosis of moderate uncomplicated depression. Patients treated with bupropion SR or sertraline showed similar improvements on all efficacy measures; both active treatments were superior to placebo in improving scores on all rating scales for depression at various time points. Significantly more patients treated with sertraline experienced orgasmic dysfunction throughout the study than did patients treated with bupropion SR or placebo (P < 0.001). Headache was the most frequently reported adverse event in all 3 treatment groups and occurred with similar frequency in each group (30% to 40%). Nausea (31%), diarrhea (26%), insomnia (18%), and somnolence (17%) occurred in significantly more patients in the sertraline group than in the bupropion SR group (18%, 7%, 13%, and 3%, respectively) and the placebo group (10%, 11%, 4%, and 6%, respectively). Dry mouth occurred more frequently with bupropion SR (19%) than with sertraline (14%) or placebo (12%), although the differences were not significant. Changes in vital signs were similar in all groups. Similar (small, but not statistically significant) decreases in mean body weight were seen in both the bupropion SR (-1.06 kg) and sertraline (-0.79 kg) groups, whereas the placebo group experienced a minor increase (0.21 kg). Although bupropion SR and sertraline were similarly well tolerated and effective in the treatment of depression, sertraline treatment was more often associated with sexual dysfunction and certain other adverse events compared with bupropion SR and placebo. Therefore, bupropion SR may be an appropriate choice as an antidepressant for the treatment of sexually active patients.
Bortezomib is a new chemotherapeutic agent approved for the treatment of relapsed/refractory and newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. One of the major side effects of bortezomib is a peripheral length-dependent sensory axonal neuropathy and, less frequently, a small fiber neuropathy. Autonomic symptoms like postural dizziness, syncope, diarrhoea, ileus, impotence and urinary disturbances have been reported, nevertheless, autonomic neuropathy has never been characterized. We describe by means of immunofluorescence, the involvement of autonomic skin nerve fibers in three patients with small fiber neuropathy induced by bortezomib treatment.
The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the potential cardioprotective effect of reduced glutathione (GSH) against the delayed cardiomyopathy induced by doxorubicin (DXR) in a well-documented rat model. DXR was administered i.v. at a weekly dose of 3 mg/kg for a total of 4 doses; 250 or 500 mg/kg of GSH was given i.v. 10 min before and 2 h after each DXR injection, resulting in a total weekly dose of 500 or 1000 mg/kg, respectively. The development of cardiotoxicity was monitored in vivo by means of electrocardiography (QaT duration), and was evaluated by measuring the contractile performance of isolated atria and by light and electron microscopy of left ventricular samples excised 5 weeks after the last DXR administration. DXR was found to impair body weight gain and to produce an irreversible and time-dependent prolongation of QaT, a decrease in myocardial contractility of isolated atria and typical morphologic alterations, including myocyte vacuolization and myofibrillar loss. Pretreatment with GSH at a dose of 500 mg/kg x 2, but not at 250 mg/kg x 2, partially prevented the impairment of body weight gain, QaT prolongation in ECG and the decrease in myocardial contractility of isolated atria induced by DXR. Alterations of the morphologic pattern were also significantly reduced in animals receiving the higher dose of GSH. Determinations of the cardiac non-protein sulfhydryl group content showed that GSH, at doses higher than or equal to 500 mg/kg, significantly increased this parameter, irrespective of the presence of DXR. In conclusion, the present data indirectly support the hypothesis that oxidative damage is involved in DXR cardiotoxicity and indicate that maintenance of the reduced thiol pool could be an important issue in myocardial protection.
Although there are increasing reports of methamphetamine use, studies examining the cognitive consequences of methamphetamine have not been performed on a population currently using the drug. To characterize this population, 65 people currently using MA regularly and 65 non-users were given a battery of cognitive tests. The battery included recall, recognition, Digit Symbol, Trail Making A & B, Stroop, Wisconsin Card Sort, backward digit span, and the FAS test of verbal fluency. The methamphetamine users were significantly more impaired on recall tasks, digit symbol, Stroop color words, and Trail Making B, but scores fell within the normal ranges on the other measures.
In this double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 24 anxiety neurotic patients were randomly assigned equally into the intramuscular placebo, lorazepam or diazepam groups. The results indicated that lorazepam was as effective as diazepam in overall efficacy and was superior to diazepam in certain cluster scores including the Obsessive Compulsive Phobic Cluser of the Wittenborn Psychiatric Rating Scale.
Adverse renal reaction during prolonged indomethacin therapy (1 week) was studied in 15 preterm infants with persistent ductus arteriosus (PDA), which was associated with an ineffective circulatory volume. Following the medication a decrease in diuresis and creatinine clearances together with an increase in urinary osmolality and body weight was observed. Determinations of selected vasoactive hormones, such as plasma renin activity (PRA), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), and renal and systemic prostaglandins, indicated a complex pathophysiological condition of renal hypoperfusion and antidiuretic excess. During the treatment with indomethacin an effective circulatory volume had been restored by closing the ductus, which was followed by hormonal normalization. Subsequently kidney function was recovering despite continued indomethacin therapy. Based on these observations, one may assume that prolonged indomethacin therapy for prevention of PDA relapses is probably of no further harm to kidney function once the ductus has been closed successfully.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)/lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) are often associated. One of their common denominators is hypogonadism. However, testosterone supplementation is limited by concerns for potential prostatic side effects. The objective was to determine whether MetS-associated prostate alterations are prevented by testosterone supplementation. We used a previously described animal model of MetS, obtained by feeding male rabbits a high-fat diet (HFD) for 12 weeks. Subsets of HFD rabbits were treated with testosterone or with the farnesoid X receptor agonist INT-747. Rabbits fed a standard diet were used as controls. HFD-animals develop hypogonadism and all the MetS features: hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and visceral obesity. In addition, HFD-animals show a prostate inflammation. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that HFD-induced prostate fibrosis, hypoxia, and inflammation. The mRNA expression of several proinflammatory (IL8, IL6, IL1β, and TNFα), T lymphocyte (CD4, CD8, Tbet, Gata3, and ROR γt), macrophage (TLR2, TLR4, and STAMP2), neutrophil (lactoferrin), inflammation (COX2 and RAGE), and fibrosis/myofibroblast activation (TGFβ, SM22α, αSMA, RhoA, and ROCK1/ROCK2) markers was significantly increased in HFD prostate. Testosterone, as well as INT-747, treatment prevented some MetS features, although only testosterone normalized all the HFD-induced prostate alterations. Interestingly, the ratio between testosterone and estradiol plasma level retains a significant, negative, association with all the fibrosis and the majority of inflammatory markers analyzed. These data highlight that testosterone protects rabbit prostate from MetS-induced prostatic hypoxia, fibrosis, and inflammation, which can play a role toward the development/progression of BPH/LUTS.
The IL-4, IL-4 receptor (IL4R), and IL-13 genes are crucial immune factors and may influence the course of various diseases. In the present study, we investigated the association between the potential functional polymorphisms in IL-4, IL-4R, and IL-13 and coal workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP) risk in a Chinese population.
Six polymorphisms (C-590T in IL-4, Ile50Val, Ser478Pro, and Gln551Arg in IL-4R, C-1055T and Arg130Gln in IL-13) were genotyped and analyzed in a case-control study of 556 CWP and 541 control subjects.
Our results revealed that the IL-4 CT/CC genotypes were associated with a significantly decreased risk of CWP (odds ratio (OR) = 0.74, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.58-0.95), compared with the TT genotype, particularly among subgroups of age <65 years (OR = 0.68, 95%CI = 0.46-0.99) and dust exposure years ≥26 years (OR = 0.69, 95%CI = 0.50-0.94). Moreover, the polymorphism was significantly associated with risk of CWP patients with stage I. In addition, a combined effect was observed in a dose-dependent manner with increasing numbers of risk variant alleles (P(trend) = 0.023), and individuals with 11-12 risk alleles had a 47% higher risk of CWP than those with 0-8 risk alleles (OR = 1.47, 95% CI = 1.05-2.05).
Our results suggest that the IL-4 C-590T polymorphism is involved in the etiology of CWP and susceptibility to this disease. Larger studies are warranted to validate our findings.
The anti-inflammatory potential of antihistamines has significant clinical utility. Long-term pharmacotherapy of so-called 'safe' antihistamines may be hampered by side effects in the central nervous system. In the present study, the new potential antihistamine SUN-1334H was compared with different antihistamines for anti-inflammatory effects, sedation potential and interaction with alcohol.
Nasal and skin allergy were induced in guinea pig and mice by ovalbumin sensitization and challenge. Neurogenic nasal inflammation was induced by capsaicin. Sedation potential and interaction with alcohol were assessed by i.v. and intracerebroventricular pentobarbital-induced sedation and alcohol-induced ataxia models.
Ovalbumin sensitization and challenge caused rhinitis pathology including inflammatory cell infiltration, IL-4, and protein leakage in the nasal lavage fluid (NLF) and presence of inflammatory cells in nasal epithelium. A 5-day treatment of antihistamines reduced these markers of inflammation. SUN-1334H, cetirizine and hydroxyzine caused comparable inhibition of NLF leukocytes, IL-4 and total protein concentrations. Fexofenadine and desloratadine showed moderate inhibition of NLF leukocytes and had no significant effect on IL-4 concentration. While fexofenadine had no effect on total protein concentration, the effect of desloratadine was comparable with the other antihistamines. In neurogenic nasal inflammation induced by capsaicin, SUN-1334H and fexofenadine caused better inhibition at lower and middle dose levels than the other antihistamines. In skin allergy models, SUN-1334H showed potent reduction of passive and active cutaneous anaphylactic reactions. In central nervous system side effects models, SUN-1334H, desloratadine and fexofenadine were devoid of any significant effects.
The results are suggestive of a high anti-inflammatory to sedation index of SUN-1334H among leading antihistamines.
Congestive heart failure is a relatively uncommon manifestation of thyrotoxic heart disease, and different mechanisms have been proposed. The authors present a possible explanation of congestive heart failure in some cases of thyrotoxicosis. A 39 year-old woman with Graves' disease was hypermetabolic, in atrial fibrillation, and had signs of congestive heart failure. She had a loud murmur of mitral regurgitation, clinical cardiomegaly, accentuated pulmonic sound, and peripheral edema. Propranolol reduced the heart rate to 60 beats per minute, but the loud mitral regurgitation murmur persisted. Echocardiographic and angiographic data were consistent with moderate to severe mitral regurgitation, serious enough to consider mitral valve replacement. As the patient's hyperthyroid state came under control, weight increased and the cardiac murmur resolved. After radioactive iodine treatment and the return to a eumetabolic state, an echocardiogram revealed only trace mitral regurgitation, with near normal left ventricular function and pulmonary arterial systolic pressures. These findings were confirmed by subsequent cardiac catheterization. The authors believe that mitral regurgitation, perhaps secondary to intrinsic papillary muscle dysfunction from hyperthyroidism, was the major cause of reversible congestive heart failure in this case. Valvular disease may play a more substantive role in thyrotoxic heart disease than previously recognized.
A leucine to alanine substitution (L9'A) was introduced in the M2 region of the mouse alpha4 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit. Expressed in Xenopus oocytes, alpha4(L9'A)beta2 nAChRs were > or =30-fold more sensitive than wild type (WT) to both ACh and nicotine. We generated knock-in mice with the L9'A mutation and studied their cellular responses, seizure phenotype, and sleep-wake cycle. Seizure studies on alpha4-mutated animals are relevant to epilepsy research because all known mutations linked to autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) occur in the M2 region of alpha4or beta2 subunits. Thalamic cultures and synaptosomes from L9'A mice were hypersensitive to nicotine-induced ion flux. L9'A mice were approximately 15-fold more sensitive to seizures elicited by nicotine injection than their WT littermates. Seizures in L9'A mice differed qualitatively from those in WT: L9'A seizures started earlier, were prevented by nicotine pretreatment, lacked EEG spike-wave discharges, and consisted of fast repetitive movements. Nicotine-induced seizures in L9'A mice were partial, whereas WT seizures were generalized. When L9'A homozygous mice received a 10 mg/kg nicotine injection, there was temporal and phenomenological separation of mutant and WT-like seizures: an initial seizure approximately 20 s after injection was clonic and showed no EEG changes. A second seizure began 3-4 min after injection, was tonic-clonic, and had EEG spike-wave activity. No spontaneous seizures were detected in L9'A mice during chronic video/EEG recordings, but their sleep-wake cycle was altered. Our findings show that hypersensitive alpha4* nicotinic receptors in mice mediate changes in the sleep-wake cycle and nicotine-induced seizures resembling ADNFLE.
Increased capillary permeability to small and large molecules has been demonstrated in several organs of human diabetics and in animal models of the disease. To assess the effects of diabetic microangiopathy on peritoneal clearances, peritoneal dialysis was performed in normal rats, rats with gentamicin-induced acute renal failure, and rats with mild and severe alloxan-induced diabetes mellitus. Peritoneal clearances of urea, inulin, and albumin were significantly increased in the severely diabetic rats compared with other groups. Microscopic examination revealed abnormally small adipose cells in the peritoneums of the severely diabetic rats, associated with a generally malnourished appearance. Vascular abnormalities attributable to diabetes mellitus, such as capillary basement membrane layering and neovascularization, were demonstrated in the peritoneums+ of both mildly and severely diabetic rats, though not to a greater extent in either group. We conclude that, as in many other parts of the body, peritoneal permeability to small, middle and large molecules is increased in early, severe, untreated diabetes mellitus.
Alpha 2-adrenergic agonists are often used for sedation and, or, analgesia in dogs, but they are often associated with bradycardia and in some animals with atrioventricular heart block. In this study, atropine or glycopyrrolate either helped to maintain the heart rates or were effective in increasing reduced heart rates of dogs treated with medetomidine. In the process, however, cardiac dysrhythmias often developed. These dysrhythmias were predominantly associated with the combined responses to the medetomidine and the anticholinergic agent because there were no significant changes in respiratory function. A reduced blood oxygen content or increased blood carbon dioxide can contribute to cardiac irritability. Atropine and glycopyrrolate were more effective in preventing bradycardia and had less undesirable side effects when they were given before the administration of medetomidine.
We retrospectively characterized major bleeding events and their risk factors among 269 patients with clinically diagnosed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) treated using argatroban (2 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) initially, adjusted to achieve activated partial thromboplastin times (aPTTs) 1.5-3 times the baseline) in a prospective multicenter study. Patients received a median (range) dose of 1.9 (0.2-9.7) microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) for 5.6 (0.1-61) days. Average aPTTs during therapy were 61.6 (37-183) seconds. Major bleeding, most commonly gastrointestinal, occurred in 19 patients (7.1%) during therapy. Another patient suffered from intracranial hemorrhage 4 days after argatroban cessation. Bleeding was fatal in 2 patients (0.7%); each received multiple anticoagulants and thrombolytic therapy. Major bleeding was more likely to occur in patients with HIT-related thrombosis (odds ratio = 2.9, P = 0.039), pulmonary impairment (odds ratio = 20.3, P < 0.001), or an aPTT >100 seconds (odds ratio = 3.7, P = 0.010). Major bleeding rates associated with average aPTTs of <45, 45-67.5, 67.6-90, and >90 seconds, respectively, were 5.0% (1 of 20 patients), 5.6% (9 of 162 patients), 8.7% (6 of 69 patients), and 22% (4 of 18 patients). No significant effect of patient demographics, other baseline illnesses including hepatic or renal impairment, argatroban dose, or treatment duration was detected on major bleeding. Risk factors for major bleeding in argatroban-treated patients with HIT include baseline HIT-related thrombosis and pulmonary impairment. For minimizing bleeding risk during argatroban therapy for HIT, the aPTT should be routinely monitored and maintained at <90 seconds.
Oxidative stress as a result of cigarette smoking is an important etiologic factor in the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a chronic steroid-insensitive inflammatory disease of the airways. Histone deacetylase-2 (HDAC2), a critical component of the corticosteroid anti-inflammatory action, is impaired in lungs of patients with COPD and correlates with disease severity. We demonstrate here that curcumin (diferuloylmethane), a dietary polyphenol, at nanomolar concentrations specifically restores cigarette smoke extract (CSE)- or oxidative stress-impaired HDAC2 activity and corticosteroid efficacy in vitro with an EC(50) of approximately 30 nM and 200 nM, respectively. CSE caused a reduction in HDAC2 protein expression that was restored by curcumin. This decrease in HDAC2 protein expression was reversed by curcumin even in the presence of cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor. The proteasomal inhibitor, MG132, also blocked CSE-induced HDAC2 degradation, increasing the levels of ubiquitinated HDAC2. Biochemical and gene chip analysis indicated that curcumin at concentrations up to 1 muM propagates its effect via antioxidant-independent mechanisms associated with the phosphorylation-ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Thus curcumin acts at a post-translational level by maintaining both HDAC2 activity and expression, thereby reversing steroid insensitivity induced by either CSE or oxidative stress in monocytes. Curcumin may therefore have potential to reverse steroid resistance, which is common in patients with COPD and asthma.
Among the adverse effects of different calcineurin inhibitors (CIs), nephrotoxicity is the most common (incidence: 18.1% at 13 y from liver transplantation) and depends on a variable degree of tubular-interstitial injury accompanied by focal glomerular sclerosis. A new immunosuppressive drug was introduced in solid organ transplant management, Sirolimus (SRL). It is a nonnephrotoxic immunosuppressor.
Twenty-six patients who developed nephrotoxicity owing to CIs, showing an increment of serum creatinine levels (>1.8 mg/dL) were switched to SRL monotherapy, initially at a dosage between 3 and 5 mg/d, and subsequently adapted to achieve trough level between 8 to 10 ng/mL.
Patients were followed-up for a mean period of 40.3 months (range, 8.4 to 76.7) from liver transplantation. Mean follow-up after switch was 27.5 months (range, 2 to 71.2). Immunosuppression therapy was converted after a mean period of 12.8 months (range, 0.2 to 43.4). Serum creatinine, urea, and estimated glomerular filtration rate were significantly improved.
Patients developing renal dysfunction after liver transplantation may be successfully treated by conversion from CI to SRL. Hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia represent the principal side effects from SRL, but are treatable. Furthermore, SRL can significantly improve glucose tolerance.
Multiple signaling pathways involving protein kinase C (PKC) have been implicated in the development of cardiac hypertrophy. We observed that a putative PKC inhibitor, PICOT (PKC-Interacting Cousin Of Thioredoxin) was upregulated in response to hypertrophic stimuli both in vitro and in vivo. This suggested that PICOT may act as an endogenous negative feedback regulator of cardiac hypertrophy through its ability to inhibit PKC activity, which is elevated during cardiac hypertrophy. Adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of PICOT completely blocked the hypertrophic response of neonatal rat cardiomyocytes to enthothelin-1 and phenylephrine, as demonstrated by cell size, sarcomere rearrangement, atrial natriuretic factor expression, and rates of protein synthesis. Transgenic mice with cardiac-specific overexpression of PICOT showed that PICOT is a potent inhibitor of cardiac hypertrophy induced by pressure overload. In addition, PICOT overexpression dramatically increased the ventricular function and cardiomyocyte contractility as measured by ejection fraction and end-systolic pressure of transgenic hearts and peak shortening of isolated cardiomyocytes, respectively. Intracellular Ca(2+) handing analysis revealed that increases in myofilament Ca(2+) responsiveness, together with increased rate of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) reuptake, are associated with the enhanced contractility in PICOT-overexpressing cardiomyocytes. The inhibition of cardiac remodeling by of PICOT with a concomitant increase in ventricular function and cardiomyocyte contractility suggests that PICOT may provide an efficient modality for treatment of cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure.
The Forkhead Box f1 (Foxf1) transcriptional factor (previously known as HFH-8 or Freac-1) is expressed in endothelial and smooth muscle cells in the embryonic and adult lung. To assess effects of Foxf1 during lung injury, we used CCl(4) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) injury models. Foxf1(+/-) mice developed severe airway obstruction and bronchial edema, associated with increased numbers of pulmonary mast cells and increased mast cell degranulation after injury. Pulmonary inflammation in Foxf1(+/-) mice was associated with diminished expression of Foxf1, increased mast cell tryptase, and increased expression of CXCL12, the latter being essential for mast cell migration and chemotaxis. After ovalbumin (OVA) sensitization and OVA challenge, increased lung inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine, and elevated expression of CXCL12 were observed in Foxf1(+/-) mice. During lung development, Foxf1(+/-) embryos displayed a marked increase in pulmonary mast cells before birth, and this was associated with increased CXCL12 levels in the lung. Expression of a doxycycline-inducible Foxf1 dominant-negative transgene in primary cultures of lung endothelial cells increased CXCL12 expression in vitro. Foxf1 haploinsufficiency caused pulmonary mastocytosis and enhanced pulmonary inflammation after chemically induced or allergen-mediated lung injury, indicating an important role for Foxf1 in the pathogenesis of pulmonary inflammatory responses.
The monoterpene β-myrcene has been widely used in cosmetics, food and beverages, and it is normally found in essential oil from citrus fruit. The aim of this study was to investigate the anti-ulcer effects of β-myrcene on experimental models of ulcers that are induced by ethanol, NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), stress, Helicobacter pylori, ischaemia-reperfusion injury (I/R) and cysteamine in order to compare with the essential oil of Citrus aurantium and its major compound limonene. The results indicate that the oral administration of β-myrcene at a dose of 7.50mg/kg has important anti-ulcer activity with significantly decreased gastric and duodenal lesions as well as increased gastric mucus production. The results showed treatment with β-myrcene caused a significant increase in mucosal malondialdehyde level (MDA), an important index of oxidative tissue damage. The β-myrcene was also endowed with marked enhancement of antioxidant enzyme activity from GR system as evidenced by the decreased activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and increased levels of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), and total glutathione in gastric tissue. Our results also shown that treatment with β-myrcene is not involved with thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) activity. Our results reveal, for the first time, the importance of β-myrcene as an inhibitor of gastric and duodenal ulcers and demonstrate that an increase in the levels of gastric mucosa defence factors is involved in the anti-ulcer activity of β-myrcene.
The dysfunction of basal ganglia circuits related to stereotyped motor activity was analysed using the well-established model of cocaine-induced stereotypy in the rat. We examined and compared the neurochemical and electrophysiological effects occurring in medial prefrontal and sensorimotor basal ganglia circuits of the dorsal striatum after cocaine injection in sensitized and non-sensitized rats. Acute injections of cocaine (25 mg/kg), not inducing stereotyped behaviour, affected both medial prefrontal and sensorimotor circuits in a similar way: (i) a mild and delayed increase and decrease of N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked dopamine and acetylcholine release, respectively and (ii) a marked decrease of cortically evoked inhibition of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons revealing an imbalance of information transmission between the direct and indirect trans-striatal pathways. In contrast, following sensitization to cocaine, a challenge injection of the same dose of cocaine, generating strong stereotyped behaviour, provoked neurochemical and electrophysiological effects only in the medial prefrontal but not in the sensorimotor circuits: (i) a strong increase of dopamine and decrease of acetylcholine release in the medial prefrontal territory of the dorsal striatum and (ii) a reduction of all inhibitory and excitatory components of the responses evoked in substantia nigra pars reticulata by medial prefrontal stimulation. Therefore, these data disclose distinct reactivity of the medial prefrontal and sensorimotor circuits of the basal ganglia to repeated cocaine administration leading to stereotyped behaviour induced by subsequent cocaine challenge. Thus, we suggest that stereotyped behaviour is correlated to an imbalance between the medial prefrontal and sensorimotor circuits of the basal ganglia resulting in a loss of control of motor behaviour.
Indapamide, a newly developed antihypertensive agent with modest diuretic properties, reduced mean arterial pressure toward normal in dogs made hypertensive with salt and DOCA, while low-dose furosemide (0.1 mg per day) and hydrochlorothiazide (1 and 50 mg per day) did not result in similar degrees of blood pressure control. Indapamide, low-dose furosemide and hydrochlorothiazide treatment all resulted in similar decreases in body weight suggesting that the antihypertensive effect of indapamide occurs through a mechanism independent of contraction of extracellular fluid volume. Intravenous indapamide at doses of 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg caused progressive increases in sodium, potassium and chloride excretion when urine losses were replaced by isotonic saline to prevent extracellular fluid volume contraction. Only at 3.0 mg/kg did plasma potassium decrease significantly (2.92 +/- 0.03 to 2.69 +/- 0.05 mmol/l; p less than 0.05). Neither glomerular filtration rate (GFR) nor renal blood flow (flowmeter) decreased in a dose-related manner; however, effective renal plasma flow assessed by para-aminohippurate clearance did decrease about 15% at the highest dose (p less than 0.05). Proximal re-collection micropuncture studies demonstrated decreased proximal reabsorption. Cortical diluting segment reabsorption was decreased, but CNa + CH2O/GFR increased from 7% to 11% (p less than 0.05). These results indicate that, at doses up to 3.0 mg/kg, indapamide causes a natriuresis which is modest and similar to that seen with thiazides. No decrease in GFR or renal blood flow was observed. This drug apparently exerts a natriuretic effect through an inhibition of solute reabsorption in both the proximal nephron and the cortical diluting segment.
The influence of the calcium blocker verapamil (VR) on systemic toxicity resulting from the intravesical instillation of Adriamycin (ADM) and thiotepa (THT) was assessed in mice. Eighty per cent of the animals receiving THT + VR developed a generalized alopecia. Data gathered at necroscopy failed to reveal any trauma to the major organs or the presence of a drug-induced myelosuppression. Combination of ADM and VR did not produce an enhancement of systemic toxicity, manifest as myelosuppression. The drug combination did not produce a cardiomyopathy as assessed by histologic examination. The use of VR in combination with antineoplastic agents posed no more of a threat to the animals than did the use of cytotoxin alone.
We tested the hypothesis that cardiac histamine release mediates subacute doxorubicin (DXR) cardiotoxicity in rabbits. New Zealand white rabbits given DXR 20 mg/kg i.v. over 30 min developed myocardial damage 24 h later that was similar to that observed in humans. In isolated heart preparations, DXR produced dose-related cardiac histamine release at DXR concentrations of 1, 5, and 25 micrograms/ml given as 1-min exposures. Prior exposure of isolated hearts to 10 microM cromolyn sodium completely prevented histamine release from 5 micrograms/ml DXR. Pretreatment of animals with cromolyn produced significant protection against DXR-mediated subacute cardiotoxicity. We conclude that the release of cardiac histamine may be involved in the pathogenesis of anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
The onset of climacteric symptoms (hot flashes and night sweats) is the primary reason for perimenopausal women to start hormone therapy. The association of a lower incidence of postmenopausal symptoms with high intake of soybeans in Asian women suggests that phytoestrogens are an alternative to estrogen therapy. The main effective compounds in soybean are isoflavones, which have a higher binding affinity to estrogen receptor beta than to estrogen receptor alpha. The aim of present study was to evaluate the effects of isoflavone treatment in postmenopausal women.
This was a double-blind prospective study. Sixty healthy postmenopausal women were randomly assigned by computer into two groups to receive 60 mg isoflavones or placebo daily for 3 months. Before and after treatment, climacteric symptoms were recorded; serum was collected to measure the levels of lipoprotein lipids, estradiol, and follicle-stimulating hormone; and biopsy specimens from endometrium and breast were analyzed to investigate the expression level of steroid receptors and proliferation. Endometrial thickness was measured by ultrasound.
Fifty-one women finished the 12-week study. In women receiving 60 mg isoflavones daily, hot flashes and night sweats were reduced by 57% and 43%, respectively. The treatment did not change the levels of circulating estradiol or follicle-stimulating hormone. Immunohistochemical staining of endometrial and breast biopsy specimens revealed that isoflavones did not affect expression levels of steroid receptors; estrogen receptors alpha, beta, and betacx; progesterone receptors A and B; or the proliferation marker Ki67. No side effects on body weight or lipoprotein lipids were observed.
This short-term prospective study implies that isoflavones could be used to relieve acute menopausal symptoms.
