Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS; OMIM 182290) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a well-defined pattern of anomalies. The majority of cases are due to a common deletion in chromosome 17p11.2 that includes the RAI1 gene. In children with SMS, autistic-like behaviors and symptoms start to emerge around 18 months of age. This study included 26 individuals (15 females and 11 males), with a confirmed deletion (del 17p11.2). Parents/caregivers were asked to complete the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS) and the Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ) both current and lifetime versions. The results suggest that 90% of the sample had SRS scores consistent with autism spectrum disorders. Moreover, females showed more impairment in total T-scores (P = 0.02), in the social cognition (P = 0.01) and autistic mannerisms (P = 0.002) subscales. The SCQ scores are consistent to show that a majority of individuals may meet criteria for autism spectrum disorders at some point in their lifetime. These results suggest that SMS needs to be considered in the differential diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders but also that therapeutic interventions for autism are likely to benefit individuals with SMS. The mechanisms by which the deletion of RAI1 and contiguous genes cause psychopathology remain unknown but they provide a solid starting point for further studies of gene-brain-behavior interactions in SMS and autism spectrum disorders.
Isolated, hyperpigmented lesions arising on the skin of the head and neck in the elderly rarely prompt consideration of connective tissue diseases. Histologic evaluation, however, may reveal changes compatible with chronic cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CCLE). A retrospective review of cutaneous biopsies compatible with CCLE evaluated by the Vanderbilt University Division of Dermatopathology over a five-year period (1998-2002) was undertaken. Cases with isolated lesions arising on the head and neck in patients 40 years or older were selected and the histopathology was confirmed. Patients were interviewed by phone and their charts were reviewed. A total of 11 cases were found, including nine women and two men. These patients averaged 68 years of age and presented with single, hyperpigmented macular lesions. Photosensitivity was rare and no associated stigmata of lupus erythematosus were noted. Response to topical application of corticosteroid preparations was excellent.
Increased circulating adrenaline produces systemic hypokalaemia by the stimulation of a membrane bound Na/K ATPase. In man, this enzyme appears to be linked to an adrenoceptor of the beta-subtype. We have further studied the subtype of beta-adrenoceptor involved by infusing adrenaline intravenously in normal volunteers after pretreatment with either a selective beta 2 antagonist (ICI 118551) or placebo. During the adrenaline infusion the serum potassium fell from 4.08 +/- 0.21 to 3.32 +/- 0.25 mmol/l (P less than 0.002). This adrenaline induced hypokalaemia was completely blocked by ICI 118551 (3.82 +/- 0.13 to 4.03 +/- 0.22 mmol/l, NS). Adrenaline also caused electrocardiographic changes of T wave flattening (-1.8 +/- 1.5 mm, P less than 0.05) whereas the T wave height increased after ICI 118551 (+ 1.0 +/- 0.9 mm, P less than 0.05). This suggests that adrenaline acts via beta 2 adrenoceptors in man to cause potassium influx and systemic hypokalaemia.
Mouse nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogens phenobarbital (PB) and chlordane induce hepatomegaly characterized by hypertrophy and hyperplasia. Increased cell proliferation is implicated in the mechanism of tumor induction. The relevance of these tumors to human health is unclear. The xenoreceptors, constitutive androstane receptors (CARs), and pregnane X receptor (PXR) play key roles in these processes. Novel "humanized" and knockout models for both receptors were developed to investigate potential species differences in hepatomegaly. The effects of PB (80 mg/kg/4 days) and chlordane (10 mg/kg/4 days) were investigated in double humanized PXR and CAR (huPXR/huCAR), double knockout PXR and CAR (PXRKO/CARKO), and wild-type (WT) C57BL/6J mice. In WT mice, both compounds caused increased liver weight, hepatocellular hypertrophy, and cell proliferation. Both compounds caused alterations to a number of cell cycle genes consistent with induction of cell proliferation in WT mice. However, these gene expression changes did not occur in PXRKO/CARKO or huPXR/huCAR mice. Liver hypertrophy without hyperplasia was demonstrated in the huPXR/huCAR animals in response to both compounds. Induction of the CAR and PXR target genes, Cyp2b10 and Cyp3a11, was observed in both WT and huPXR/huCAR mouse lines following treatment with PB or chlordane. In the PXRKO/CARKO mice, neither liver growth nor induction of Cyp2b10 and Cyp3a11 was seen following PB or chlordane treatment, indicating that these effects are CAR/PXR dependent. These data suggest that the human receptors are able to support the chemically induced hypertrophic responses but not the hyperplastic (cell proliferation) responses. At this time, we cannot be certain that hCAR and hPXR when expressed in the mouse can function exactly as the genes do when they are expressed in human cells. However, all parameters investigated to date suggest that much of their functionality is maintained.
Increased use of ketamine as a recreational drug in rave party has raised lots of social concerns. Although its toxicity on the central nervous system (CNS) and urinary system had been reported, its potential adverse effects on the heart is still not addressed. Using our long term ketamine addiction model in which, 1-month-old ICR mice were given ketamine intraperitoneally (i.p. 30 mg/kg) for different study periods (6 weeks, 16 weeks and 28 weeks). The electrocardiogram (ECG) and the level of troponin as well as the presence of lactate dehydrogenase were used together to determine the cardiac function of mice. ST elevations were observed in 30% of mice from 6 weeks onwards. Concomitant increase in troponin in serum and presence of lactate dehydrogenase positive cardiac cells were taken together to indicate cardiac damages. The potential interactive effects of alcohol (ethanol) and ketamine were also addressed and 0.5 ml of 10% ethanol was administrated additionally to the mice daily and orally for the last 4 weeks in the 28-week long-term ketamine treated animals. The cardiac functions of these mice deteriorated more severely as indicated by further rise in troponin levels. In addition, high number of lactate dehydrogenase positive cardiac cells and abnormal ECGs in both ketamine and ketamine plus alcohol treated models also gave coherent conclusions.
Various studies have shown that stressful manipulations in rats and mice lower the convulsant potency of GABA-related, but also some GABA-unrelated convulsants. The mechanism of this anticonvulsive effect of stress is still unknown.
We tested the possible involvement of alpha2-adrenoceptors in the previously observed anticonvulsive effect of swim stress.
The mice were, prior to exposure to swim stress and the IV infusion of picrotoxin, pre-treated with clonidine (an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist), yohimbine (a non-selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist), idazoxan (a selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist), or niguldipine (an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist), and the latency to the onset of two convulsant signs was registered.
In control unstressed animals clonidine (0.1 and 1 mg/kg IP), yohimbine (2 mg/kg IP) and idazoxan (1 mg/kg IP) failed to affect the doses of picrotoxin needed to produce convulsant signs, while niguldipine (5 mg/kg IP) prolonged the latency, i.e. it enhanced the doses of picrotoxin producing running/bouncing clonus and tonic hindlimb extension. In swim stressed mice clonidine enhanced, while idazoxan decreased doses of picrotoxin needed to produce two convulsive signs. Yohimbine decreased the dose of convulsant needed to produce tonic hindlimb extension, while niguldipine enhanced doses of picrotoxin needed to produce both symptoms.
The results demonstrate the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist-induced potentiation and alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist-induced diminution of the anticonvulsive effect of stress. Additionally, they show the anticonvulsive effect of niguldipine in unstressed and stressed animals. Hence, the results suggest that alpha2-adrenoceptors are involved in the anticonvulsive effect of swim stress in mice.
Traumatic spinal cord injury is characterized by an immediate, irreversible loss of tissue at the lesion site, as well as a secondary expansion of tissue damage over time. Although secondary injury should, in principle, be preventable, no effective treatment options currently exist for patients with acute spinal cord injury (SCI). Excessive release of ATP by the traumatized tissue, followed by activation of high-affinity P2X7 receptors, has previously been implicated in secondary injury, but no clinically relevant strategy by which to antagonize P2X7 receptors has yet, to the best of our knowledge, been reported. Here we have tested the neuroprotective effects of a systemically administered P2X7R antagonist, Brilliant blue G (BBG), in a weight-drop model of thoracic SCI in rats. Administration of BBG 15 min after injury reduced spinal cord anatomic damage and improved motor recovery without evident toxicity. Moreover, BBG treatment directly reduced local activation of astrocytes and microglia, as well as neutrophil infiltration. These observations suggest that BBG not only protected spinal cord neurons from purinergic excitotoxicity, but also reduced local inflammatory responses. Importantly, BBG is a derivative of a commonly used blue food color (FD&C blue No. 1), which crosses the blood-brain barrier. Systemic administration of BBG may thus comprise a readily feasible approach by which to treat traumatic SCI in humans.
The use of fentanyl as a potent analgesic is contradicted by marked respiratory depression among a subpopulation of patients. The commonly used approach of reversing fentanyl-induced respiratory depression with mu-opiate receptor antagonists such as naloxone has the undesirable effect of blocking analgesia. Here, the authors report a clinically feasible pharmacological solution for countering fentanyl-induced respiratory depression via a mechanism that does not interfere with analgesia. Specifically, to determine if the ampakine CX717, which has been proven metabolically stable and safe for human use, can prevent and rescue from severe fentanyl-induced apnea.
Plethsymographic recordings were performed from young and adult rats. Varying doses of fentanyl were administered either intraperitoneally or intravenously to induce moderate to life-threatening apneas. CX717 was administered either before or after fentanyl administration. In addition, phrenic nerve recordings were performed from in situ working heart brainstem preparations from juvenile rats.
Preadministration of CX717 markedly attenuated fentanyl-induced respiratory depression. Postadministration of CX717 rescued animals from a lethal dose of fentanyl. Significantly, CX717 countered fentanyl-induced depression of respiratory frequency without suppressing analgesia. The effective dose of CX717 was in the range deemed safe on the basis of clinical trials examining its efficacy for cognitive disorders. In situ, fentanyl-induced depression in respiratory frequency and amplitude was alleviated by CX717.
CX717 is an agent that enhances the safety of using opiate drugs while preserving the analgesic effects. This advancement could significantly improve pain management in a variety of clinical settings.
Chronic morphine-induced withdrawal syndrome after morphine cessation remains a severe obstacle in the clinical treatment of morphine. Previous studies have shown that nitric oxide synthetase (NOS) inhibitors may have therapeutic potential in morphine withdrawal in humans. The mechanisms that underlie expression of morphine-induced withdrawal syndrome are, however, not yet fully understood. Therefore, this study was designed to determine the mechanism of the expression of morphine-induced withdrawal syndrome in mice. Morphine-dependent mice showed marked body weight loss and several withdrawal signs after naloxone challenge. Pretreatment with a NOS inhibitor, such as N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or 7-nitroindazole, but not aminoguanidine, significantly attenuated the expression of morphine-induced withdrawal syndrome. Furthermore, mepacrine (a phospholipase A2 inhibitor) significantly attenuated the morphine-induced withdrawal syndrome in a manner that was different than that with a NOS inhibitor. These results suggest that nNOS and phospholipase A2, which might increase free radicals, play an important role in the expression of morphine-induced withdrawal syndrome. On the contrary, free radical scavengers (including fullerenes, ascorbate-2-phosphate, and DL-alpha-tocopheryl phosphate) attenuated the expression of the morphine-induced withdrawal syndrome. These results indicate that free radicals play an important role in the expression of physical dependence on morphine, and fullerenes could be a potential clinical tool in the relief of morphine withdrawal syndrome.
Although well-differentiated thyroid carcinomas are usually curable by the combined effects of surgery, radioiodine ablation and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) suppressive therapy, recurrence develops in 20-40% of patients. During tumour progression, cellular de-differentiation occurs in up to 30% of cases and is usually accompanied by more aggressive growth, metastasis spread and loss of iodide uptake. The therapeutic options for de-differentiated thyroid cancer are limited and generally not efficient. Retinoic acids (RA) are biologically active metabolites of vitamin A that regulate growth and differentiation of many cell types, by binding to specific nuclear receptors: the retinoic acid receptors (RAR) and the retinoid X receptors (RXR). Recent studies have shown that RA can induce in vitro re-differentiation of thyroid carcinoma cell lines, as suggested by increased expression of the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS), type I iodothyronine deiodinase, alkaline phosphatase and by the increment of cellular (131)I uptake. In addition to re-differentiating effects, RA also exert anti-proliferative actions, as the inhibition of mitosis and the induction of apoptosis. Previous clinical studies have shown that iodide uptake may be re-stimulated after RA in about 20-50% of patients with radioiodine non-responsive thyroid carcinoma. Longer follow-up of patients demonstrated that, besides iodide uptake increment, RA can induce tumour regression or at least tumour growth stabilisation. The therapy is generally well tolerated and the most frequent side effects are dryness of skin and mucosa, and hypertriglyceridemia. This paper describes the recent advances in the field of thyroid cancer therapy and reviews the use of RA as a promising novel therapeutic tool.
The effects of lithium chloride and other antimanic drugs on locomotor hyperactivity induced by a mixture of methamphetamine (MAMP) and chlordiazepoxide (CDZP) were examined in mice, using an Animex activity meter. CDZP (12.5 mg/kg) given SC in combination with MAMP (1 mg/kg) caused a marked increase in locomotor activity, as compared with that in mice treated with MAMP alone. However, when CDZP (12.5 mg/kg) was administered together with 0.5 or 2.0 mg/kg of MAMP, no significant enhancement was observed. Lithium (2 and 3 mEq/kg, IP) and carbamazepine (4 and 8 mg/kg, IP) inhibited the hyperactivity induced by the MAMP (1 mg/kg)-CDZP (12.5 mg/kg) mixture to the level of activity in animals treated with MAMP (1 mg/kg) alone. Lithium and carbamazepine alone at these doses caused no significant inhibition of locomotor activity in saline- or MAMP-treated mice. Haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg, IP) and chlorpromazine (0.5 mg/kg, IP) decreased the MAMP-CDZP mixture-induced hyperactivity without significantly inhibiting locomotor activity in the saline- or MAMP-treated group. However, haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg) and chlorpromazine (1 mg/kg) alone significantly inhibited locomotor activity in all of the saline-, MAMP- and MAMP-CDZP mixture-treated groups. These results indicate that antimanic drugs selectively inhibit the hyperactivity induced by the MAMP-CDZP mixture, but that neuroleptics are less selective in inhibiting the hyperactivity.
In this article, the authors report two observations of short delusion that occurred after taking Guronsan--a psychostimulant commercialized in France--for a few days, with the intention of maintaining a total deprivation of sleep for three days in both cases. The ensuing clinical picture included a state of depersonalization, a loss of the sense of reality, illusions and even visual hallucinations as well as a delirious feeling of persecution. These disorders altered with the state of vigilance and the patients remembered them clearly. The authors discussed the etiopathogenic role of this psychotrope, as its components--acid ascorbic, glucuronamide and caffein--are not mentioned in literature as causing factors of a psychotic state. Then they compared this psychotrope with other molecules: amphetamines in particular may start a delirium of persecution, but normally they just reveal an underlying psychotic structure, which doesn't seem to be the case here, where the two young adults were only found a little immature. Chloroquine has sometimes been incriminated for disorders similar to those mentioned above, with a difference lying in a greater stability in the duration of these disorders that would persist several days after the end of the treatment. The clinical picture of the two cases was more labile and sedation was complete as soon as the absorption of the psychotrope was interrupted and sleep was restored at the same time. That is why the authors emphasize the importance of the deprivation of sleep as a causing factor of those delusion disorders which have particularly been observed in the case of solitary navigators. The psychiatrist dealing with emergencies shouldn't overlook this clinical and etiological possibility, all the less so as the treatment is simple and the resort to neuroleptics unnecessary.
The gallbladder often is included within the infusion territory during hepatic arterial chemotherapy, because the cystic artery usually originates from the right hepatic artery. Symptomatic cholecystitis associated with hepatic arterial infusion of mitomycin C and floxuridine or 5-fluorouracil was observed in four instances out of over 700 hepatic arterial infusions of chemotherapeutic agents performed over a 3-year period at two institutions. Arterial infusion chemotherapy is generally well tolerated by the gallbladder, and the true incidence of associated cholecystitis is unknown. Occasionally, angiographic features of cholecystitis are observed in asymptomatic patients after hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy.
Two children with leukemia are presented, each demonstrating an unusual aspect of anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy. In the first patient (a 7-month-old female with acute monocytic leukemia) extremely young age and previous chemotherapy with a podophyllotoxin derivative, VP-16, may have prediposed the patient to fatal congestive heart failure at a total Daunorubicin dose of only 225 mg/m2. In the second patient, a delay of 4 1/2 years was not sufficient in preventing congestive heart failure resulting from the administration of additional anthracycline chemotherapy. We conclude that extremely young age and, possibly, prior therapy with VP-16 may be addition risk factors in the development of anthracycline cardiomyopathy. Also, we suggest that once an anthracycline agent has reached a toxic threshold for the myocardium, the heart may always be at risk to injury from additional Adriamycin or Daunorubicin therapy.
The recently identified splice variant of the transient receptor vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) molecule, TRPV1b, produces a negative-dominant effect on the responsiveness of the TRPV1 channel, which is increased by peripheral inflammatory processes. Here, we studied, using real-time polymerase chain reaction, whether cyclophosphamide injection-evoked cystitis is associated with altered TRPV1/TRPV1b expression in the L5-L6 dorsal root ganglia, which innervate the urinary bladder. We found that while TRPV1 mRNA expression was unchanged, the amount of TRPV1b transcript was significantly reduced in L5-L6 dorsal root ganglia during cystitis. These data indicate that peripheral inflammatory events induce changes in TRPV1b expression in primary sensory neurons, which may result in increased responsiveness of the TRPV1 channel.
Combination therapy with interferon-alpha (IFN alpha) plus Ribavirin has been shown to improve the response rate in patients with chronic hepatitis C as compared to IFN alpha alone. However, the mode of anti-viral action of Ribavirin is still unknown. To prove, whether Ribavirin has any additional effect on the decline of hepatitis C viremia during the first weeks of treatment patients with and without combination therapy were compared. Kinetic studies were performed in patients who either responded to IFN alpha alone or IFN alpha plus Ribavirin combination as well as in nonresponders to both forms of therapeutic approaches. 64 IFN alpha naive patients with histologically proven chronic hepatitis C were included in the study. Patients were randomized to receive either IFN alpha-2a (Hoffmann-La Roche) 6 MU thrice weekly or IFN alpha 6 MU tiw plus Ribavirin (Meduna) 14 mg/kg/day for 12 weeks. 37 patients (58%) became HCV RNA-negative (= responders; 17 [46%] with IFN alpha alone, and 20 [54%] with combination therapy). 27 patients remained HCV RNA-positive (= non-responders; 13 [48%] with IFN alpha alone, and 14 [52%] with combination therapy). HCV RNA concentrations were measured in all patients at baseline as well as 1, 2, 4, and 12 weeks after the start of treatment (bDNA assay, Chiron). Using nonradioactive single-stranded conformation (SSCP)-analysis of the HCV hypervariable region 1 we investigated further whether initial viral decline is correlated with changes in viral quasispecies distribution. In primary responders, ribavirin did not influence hepatitis C viremia decline which was of biphasic nature. Also in nonresponders HCV RNA levels decreased after one week of treatment irrespectively of the mode of therapy (mean 10.0 +/- 2.3 to 5.5 +/- 1.1) (phase 1). In the following weeks, however, 2 types of HCV dynamics could be observed (phase 2). In patients with combination therapy, a further reduction of viremia level could be observed, whereas viremia levels in patients with IFN alpha alone slightly increased (week 12: 3.0 +/- 0.5 MEq/mL [combination, n = 15] vs. 7.5 +/- 2.9 MEq/mL [IFN alpha-mono, n = 12]). The individual response of these nonresponder patients showed, however, marked differences (range percentage decline after 4 weeks, 0-98%). Changes in the viral population (quasispecies distribution) as cause of these differences could be excluded by SSCP-analysis of PCR products of the HCV hypervariable region 1. Ribavirin in combination with IFN alpha exerts an additional anti-viral/immunmodulatory effect which manifests itself in phase 2 of hepatitis C viremia decline. The biphasic decline of hepatitis C viremia also observed in IFN alpha-nonresponders can not be explained by the selection of primary IFN alpha-resistant viral variants. The individual differences in the dynamic of hepatitis C viremia observed in the so called "nonresponders" imply that the term "nonresponder" should be redefined, considering our observation that a marked viral decline can occur in these patients.
We identified genes that were differentially expressed between spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) using cDNA microarray analysis, and analyzed the correlation between these genes and hypertension. Twenty four genes were found to be up-regulated and 20 were down-regulated in SHR. We selected 11 genes (6 up-regulated genes: SAH, Hsp70, MCT1, RBP, IDI1, Prion; and 5 down-regulated genes: Thrombin, Dyn, SOD3, Ela1, Gst Y(b)) and subjected them to an F2 cosegregation analysis. One hundred five F2 rats were obtained from the same strains used for microarray analysis, and blood pressure was measured directly with a catheter implanted in the femoral artery. The genotypes of monocarboxylate transporter 1 and glutathione S-transferase Y(b) subunit significantly affected diastolic blood pressure in F2 rats, and these two genes are located near each other on chromosome 2. However, quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis in this region revealed that the QTL for diastolic blood pressure were from these two genes. Antihypertensive treatment with either enalapril or hydralazine only affected the expression level of Hsp70, which was up-regulated by hydralazine, probably through compensatory sympathetic activation. We were unable to associate the other 10 genes with hypertension in SHR. Based on these results, the identification of differentially expressed genes may not be an efficient method for selecting candidate genes for hypertension in the SHR-WKY system.
The risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with COX-2 inhibitors may offset their gastrointestinal (GI) benefit compared with non-selective (NS) non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). We aimed to compare the risks of hospitalization for AMI and GI bleeding among elderly patients using COX-2 inhibitors, NS-NSAIDs and acetaminophen.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study using administrative data of patients > or =65 years of age who filled a prescription for NSAID or acetaminophen during 1999-2002. Outcomes were compared using Cox regression models with time-dependent exposures.
Person-years of exposure among non-users of aspirin were: 75,761 to acetaminophen, 42,671 to rofecoxib 65,860 to celecoxib, and 37,495 to NS-NSAIDs. Among users of aspirin, they were: 14,671 to rofecoxib, 22,875 to celecoxib, 9,832 to NS-NSAIDs and 38,048 to acetaminophen. Among non-users of aspirin, the adjusted hazard ratios (95% confidence interval) of hospitalization for AMI/GI vs the acetaminophen (with no aspirin) group were: rofecoxib 1.27 (1.13, 1.42), celecoxib 0.93 (0.83, 1.03), naproxen 1.59 (1.31, 1.93), diclofenac 1.17 (0.99, 1.38) and ibuprofen 1.05 (0.74, 1.51). Among users of aspirin, they were: rofecoxib 1.73 (1.52, 1.98), celecoxib 1.34 (1.19, 1.52), ibuprofen 1.51 (0.95, 2.41), diclofenac 1.69 (1.35, 2.10), naproxen 1.35 (0.97, 1.88) and acetaminophen 1.29 (1.17, 1.42).
Among non-users of aspirin, naproxen seemed to carry the highest risk for AMI/GI bleeding. The AMI/GI toxicity of celecoxib was similar to that of acetaminophen and seemed to be better than those of rofecoxib and NS-NSAIDs. Among users of aspirin, both celecoxib and naproxen seemed to be the least toxic.
The domestic pig was used to develop a new model for evaluating the emetogenic potential of anticancer drugs and determining the antiemetic activity of drugs. Emesis was characterized by expulsion of solid or liquid material. In each animal, the number of vomits after infusion of the emetogenic drug (infusion in ketamine and xylazine anesthesia) was recorded in 1-hr periods during the first 4 hr and then in a 4- and a 16-hr period. Intravenous infusion of cisplatin caused a concentration-dependent emetic response. Anti-cancer drugs other than cisplatin such as carboplatin, dactinomycin, cyclophosphamide, and ifosfamide, also induced emesis, indicating that the domestic pig is suitable to detect the emetogenic potential of chemotherapeutic agents. A cisplatin dose of 2 mg/kg i.v. proved to be most suitable for studying the effect of potential antiemetic drugs (applied as i.v. injection), because this cisplatin dose caused consistent emetic responses without other toxic signs in the 24 hr following its infusion. Emesis induced by cisplatin was reduced by high doses of metoclopramide (25 mg/pig; approximately 0.8 mg/kg). The more selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, alizapride and domperidone, even at high doses (25-50 mg/pig; approximately 0.8-1.6 mg/kg), did not inhibit cisplatin-induced emesis, nor did haloperidol up to 20 mg/pig (approximately 0.6 mg/kg). Sulpride (50 mg/pig; approximately 1.6 mg/kg) halved the occurrence of vomits in the first 4 hr after cisplatin, but this effect was followed by an increase in the frequency of vomits; thus, no change in the total number of vomits was observed in the 24-hr observation period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Traditionally, research into the neurobiological mechanisms of age-related memory impairments has focused on single neurotransmitter systems. As normal and abnormal age-related declines in memory function probably involve alterations in more than one system, a more effective approach for elucidating underlying neurobiological changes and resulting impairments may be to evaluate the roles of multiple systems simultaneously. This study evaluated the interaction of the cholinergic and nitric oxide systems in rats on acquisition in the 14-unit T-maze. This task requires learning a series of turns to avoid foot shock, and most likely reflects procedural learning. Administration of scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg) or N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (30 mg/kg) alone did not impair acquisition, whereas administration of the same doses in combination increased both the latency to complete the maze and number of errors committed. These data suggest that manipulation of learning and memory processes with multiple compounds potentially offers a clinically relevant paradigm for investigating cognitive function in normal and abnormal aging.
We administered bovine serum albumin (BSA) 1 or 3 mg i.v. into hyper-immune Sprague-Dawley rats weekly for up to 6 months. Animals with free circulating antibody 1 h after BSA developed mesangial deposits of IgG and C-3 without proteinuria. Rats without free antibody at 1 h developed either mesangial or mesangial and glomerular basement membrane (GBM) deposits. Rats given 3 mg BSA tended to have GBM deposits, proteinuria and undetectable antibody at 1 h. By electronmicroscopy, all rats had mesangial and subendothelial dense deposits, while those with GBM lesions had intramembranous and subepithelial deposits with foot process obliteration. Light microscopic evaluation of kidney tissue revealed only mild histological changes similar to those in age-matched control rats. The present studies demonstrate that prolonged i.v. administration of BSA into rats results in the development of a chronic non-inflammatory nephropathy. Despite certain parallels to chronic serum sickness nephropathy in rabbits, species differences appear to modify the nephropathy in rats.
Albino rats of either sex received chronic ethinyl oestradiol (EO) treatment (1.5 mg kg-1 daily, i.m.) for 3 weeks. Untreated control rats received arachis oil vehicle alone. Chronic EO treatment resulted in elevation of blood pressure in both sexes. Female rats exhibited significantly greater elevation in blood pressure than males. In chronic EO-treated rats pressor responses to low doses (0.5 micrograms kg-1) of noradrenaline were significantly increased, while those to angiotensin II, acetylcholine and isoprenaline were unaltered. Chronic EO treatment also sensitized the vascular bed of the rats' hindquarters to noradrenaline. EO-induced hypertension was associated with significant increase in dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activity of adrenal glands. Complete bilateral adrenalectomy or chemical sympathectomy prevented the development of EO-induced hypertension. It is suggested that chronic treatment of rats with EO induces and maintains hypertension. The peripheral sympathetic system plays an important role in this phenomenon.
Lamotrigine is a non-aromatic antiepileptic drug. Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome is a severe idiosyncratic reaction to drugs, especially anti-epileptic drugs. Associated clinical features include cutaneous eruption, fever, multiple peripheral lymphadenopathies, and potentially life-threatening damage of one or more organs. We report a case of DRESS syndrome induced by lamotrigine presenting with a hypersensitivity syndrome and fulminant hepatic failure requiring liver transplant. A 21-year old female patient presented an episode of seizure with loss of conscience. CT and EEG studies performed were normal. Treatment with lamotrigine was prescribed. In the course of 30 days, the patient developed skin lesions, pruritus, cholestatic hepatitis, and systemic symptoms -fever, lymphadenopathies, extensive exfoliative erythematous maculopapular rash, and jaundice. Serologic and laboratory tests showed no other causes responsible for the clinical spectrum. Hematologic tests revealed peripheral eosinophilia. Fulminant hepatic failure was diagnosed and an orthotopic liver transplant was performed. Histologic sections of the explanted liver demonstrated submassive hepatic necrosis, with the remnant portal spaces and lobules showing a mixed inflammatory infiltrate with lymphocytes and eosinophils. Lamotrigine treatment has been associated with multiorgan failure, DRESS syndrome, acute hepatic failure, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. In conclusion, we suggest that these potentially fatal side effects should be considered in any patient with clinical deterioration following administration of this drug.
Electrocardiographic (ECG) findings were studied in four patients with doxorubicin cardiomyopathy. In all patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), the ECGs had a low R-wave and low R/S ratio in lead V1. Our study suggests that increased injury to myocardial cells in the regions of the anterior septum and anterior left ventricular wall may be important in the pathogenesis of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy. Eight years later, cardiac recovery from CHF occurred with a normal ECG and left ventricular ejection fraction in one patient, indicating that CHF may be reversible in certain cases.
The epididymal fat pad was evaluated as a site of islet transplantation in a syngeneic murine model of diabetes by comparing the transplant outcomes to that of islets transplanted intraportal. Mouse islets engrafted on the intra-abdominal epididymal fat pad ameliorated streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia with similar efficacy as grafts implanted intraportally. Mice that received as few as 50 islets, either intraportal or in the epididymal fat pad, displayed similar glucose tolerance curves. Bioluminescence imaging and glucose measurement showed stable luminescence signals and blood glucose levels for over 5 months in both transplant sites using transgenic luciferase-positive islets. Prompt recurrent hyperglycemia occurred in all mice after removal of the epididymal fat pad bearing the islet graft. Histological examination of the grafts showed well-granulated insulin containing cells surrounded by healthy adipocytes. This study indicates that the epididymal fat pad maybe a useful islet transplant site in the mouse model for effective glycemic control.
Amelogenesis imperfecta is an inherited disorder affecting tooth enamel formation. We previously isolated a mouse strain with an amelogenesis imperfecta phenotype (ATE1 mice) from a dominant ethylnitrosourea screen and mapped the disease-causing defect to a 9-cM region of mouse chromosome 5. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that there is a mutation in enamelin (ENAM) or ameloblastin (AMBN), both of which are located within the linkage region, by sequencing these two candidate genes. Analysis of our data shows that the amelogenesis imperfecta phenotype is linked to a C > T transition in exon 8 of the enamelin gene. The mutation predicts a C826T transition, which is present in the enamelin transcript and changes the glutamine (Gln) codon at position 176 into a premature stop codon (Gln176X). Conversely, no mutation could be detected in the ameloblastin gene. These results define the ATE1 mice as a model for local hypoplastic autosomal-dominant amelogenesis imperfecta (AIH2), which is caused by enamelin truncation mutations in humans.
Current treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD) rely on a dopamine replacement strategy and are reasonably effective, particularly in the early stages of the disease. However, chronic dopaminergic therapy is limited by the development of a range of side effects, including dyskinesia. This has led to a search for alternative treatments. Transplantation of foetal nigral dopamine neurons is a rational approach and many studies have shown that it can improve motor functions in parkinsonian rodents, primates and man. Recently, however, two clinical trials have reported an exacerbation of dyskinesias in some transplanted patients, raising concerns about the safety of the transplantation strategy. To study this issue, we have reproduced the l-dopa-induced dyskinesia model developed by Cenci et al. [M.A. Cenci, C.S. Lee, A. Bjorklund, l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the rat is associated with striatal overexpression of prodynorphin- and glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA, Eur. J. Neurosci. 10 (1998) 2694-2706] in the rat. We find that their abnormal involuntary movements rating scale is easy to apply and consistent to use. Moreover, the Schallert forelimb placing test has been used to assess l-dopa-induced recovery of function and we find that the rats continue to show good recovery on this test, even while they are exhibiting abnormal dyskinetic side effects. To further evaluate this model, we have studied the effects of selective dopamine receptor antagonists and agonists for D1, D2 and D3 receptors. Antagonists of all three receptors are able to block the l-dopa-induced dyskinesia without interfering with the beneficial effects of l-dopa on the placing test. This indicates that the effects of chronic l-dopa on recovery of parkinsonian symptoms and on induction of dyskinetic side effects can be dissociated, which may provide the basis for developing novel combination treatments, e.g. using grafts while blocking the unwanted adverse effects of the drugs.
