Dementia can be caused by severe niacin insufficiency, but it is unknown whether variation in intake of niacin in the usual diet is linked to neurodegenerative decline. We examined whether dietary intake of niacin was associated with incident Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cognitive decline in a large, prospective study.
This study was conducted in 1993-2002 in a geographically defined Chicago community of 6158 residents aged 65 years and older. Nutrient intake was determined by food frequency questionnaire. Four cognitive tests were administered to all study participants at 3 year intervals in a 6 year follow up. A total of 3718 participants had dietary data and at least two cognitive assessments for analyses of cognitive change over a median 5.5 years. Clinical evaluations were performed on a stratified random sample of 815 participants initially unaffected by AD, and 131 participants were diagnosed with 4 year incident AD by standardised criteria.
Energy adjusted niacin intake had a protective effect on development of AD and cognitive decline. In a logistic regression model, relative risks (95% confidence intervals) for incident AD from lowest to highest quintiles of total niacin intake were: 1.0 (referent) 0.3 (0.1 to 0.6), 0.3 (0.1 to 0.7), 0.6 (0.3 to 1.3), and 0.3 (0.1 to 0.7) adjusted for age, sex, race, education, and ApoE e4 status. Niacin intake from foods was also inversely associated with AD (p for linear trend = 0.002 in the adjusted model). In an adjusted random effects model, higher food intake of niacin was associated with a slower annual rate of cognitive decline, by 0.019 standardised units (SU) per natural log increase in intake (mg) (p = 0.05). Stronger associations were observed in analyses that excluded participants with a history of cardiovascular disease (beta = 0.028 SU/year; p = 0.008), those with low baseline cognitive scores (beta = 0.023 SU/year; p = 0.02), or those with fewer than 12 years' education (beta = 0.035 SU/year; p = 0.002)
Dietary niacin may protect against AD and age related cognitive decline.
We have examined the activity and distribution of cathepsin D (EC 3.4.23.5), a major renal lysosomal endoproteinase, in the various anatomical and functional areas of normal rat kidney. Cathepsin D-like activities (delta A280/h per mg of protein) in normal rat tissues were: cortex, 0.78 +/- 0.05, n = 37; medulla, 0.62 +/- 0.03, n = 12; papilla, 0.63 +/- 0.04, n = 12; tubules, 0.74 +/- 0.04, n = 28; glomeruli, 0.59 +/- 0.03, n = 28; and liver, 0.41 +/- 0.02, n = 28. Enzyme activity was maximal at pH 3.0-3.5 and inhibited more than 90% by pepstatin (6.7 micrograms/ml), suggesting that the enzyme is cathepsin D. In subsequent experiments we measured cathepsin D-like activity in cortex, tubules and glomeruli isolated from rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrotic syndrome. Treated animals (15 mg of PAN/100g body wt., intraperitoneally) developed proteinuria beginning 4 days after injection and exceeding 900 mg/24h on day 9. In two separate experiments involving 52 animals we observed a significant increase in cathepsin D-like activity in cortex (+82.7%), tubules (+109.6%) and glomeruli (+54.7%) isolated from PAN-treated rats killed during marked proteinuria (day 9, mean total urinary protein excretion: 937 +/- 94 mg/24h). This increase was observed whether the activity was expressed per mg of DNA or per mg of protein. Increased cathepsin D-like activity was first observed in cortex and tubules coincident with the onset of proteinurea (day 4, mean total urinary protein excretion: 112 +/- 23 mg/24h). In contrast with the significant elevation of renal cathepsin D-like activity, the activity (nmol/h per mg of protein) of alpha-L-fucosidase (EC 3.2.1.51), a non-proteolytic enzyme, was markedly decreased in the identical samples used for the measurement of cathepsin D-like activity: cortex (-46.4%); tubules (-46.1%); and glomeruli (-38.5%). In addition to changes in renal enzyme activities, PAN-treated rats excreted large amounts of cathepsin D-like activity in their urine (beginning on day 3) compared with nearly undetectable cathepsin D-like activity in the urine from control rats. The significant increases in glomerular and tubular cathepsin D activity may reflect an important role for this enzyme in the pathophysiology associated with PAN-induced nephrotic syndrome.
The critical observation in the pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD) is that neurodegeneration is largely restricted to dopaminergic neurons that develop cytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies. These aggregations contain the protein alpha-synuclein. Furthermore, it is becoming apparent that alpha-synuclein expression levels are a major factor in PD pathogenesis. Patients with additional copies of the alpha-synuclein gene develop PD with a severity proportional to levels of alpha-synuclein overexpression. Similarly, overexpression of alpha-synuclein in in vitro and in vivo models has been shown to be toxic. However, little is known about the effects of reducing alpha-synuclein expression in human neurons. To investigate this, we have developed a system in which levels of alpha-synuclein can be acutely suppressed by using RNA interference (RNAi) in a physiologically relevant human dopaminergic cellular model. By using small interfering RNA (siRNA) molecules targeted to endogenous alpha-synuclein, we achieved 80% protein knockdown. We show that alpha-synuclein knockdown has no effect on cellular survival either under normal growth conditions over 5 days or in the presence of the mitochondrial inhibitor rotenone. Knockdown does, however, confer resistance to the dopamine transporter (DAT)-dependent neurotoxin N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)). We then demonstrate for the first time that alpha-synuclein suppression decreases dopamine transport in human cells, reducing the maximal uptake velocity (V(max)) of dopamine and the surface density of its transporter by up to 50%. These results show that RNAi-mediated alpha-synuclein knockdown alters cellular dopamine homeostasis in human cells and may suggest a mechanism for the increased survival in the presence of MPP(+), a toxin used extensively to model Parkinson's disease.
This study was aimed to investigate the effect of 5-azacytidine (5-AZA) on XAF1 expression in myeloma cells and efficacy of 5-AZA treatment for myeloma in vitro. XAF1 expression was analyzed by semi-quantitative PCR. Methylation-specific PCR (MSP) was used to detect the methylation status of XAF1 promoter CpG islands. RPMI 8226 and XG-7 cells were treated with 0-5 micromol/L of 5-AZA. Expression of XAF1 mRNA variants was confirmed by gel electrophoresis. The results indicated that the untreated RPMI 8226 cell expressed XAF1 mRNA transcript 1 and transcript 2, untreated XG-7 cells did not express XAF1 mRNA. Hypermethylation of XAF1 promoter CpG islands could be detected in both cell lines. Both cell lines expressed full-length XAF1 transcript after being treated with 2.5 micromol/L of 5-AZA for 72 hours. 5-AZA treatment led XAF1 promoter CpG island to hypomethylation in both cell lines. 5-AZA exerted anti-myeloma activity in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. The IC(50) value of XG-7 cells treated with 5-AZA for 48 hours was 2.6 micromol/L. 1.0, 2.0, 2.5 and 5.0 micromol/L of 5-AZA treatment for 48 hours induced (34.3 +/- 8.0)%, (54.8 +/- 3.1)%, (64.1 +/- 3.4)%, (81.0 +/- 4.1)% apoptosis in XG-7 cell line respectively. The combination of 1.0 - 4.0 micromol/L of 5-AZA with 1.0 - 4.0 micromol/L of arsenic trioxide (ATO) exhibited synergistic toxicity in myeloma cells with all CI values less than 1.0. It is concluded that lack of XAF1 expression and abnormal expression of XAF1 in myeloma cell lines are associated with the hypermethylation of XAF1 gene promoter CpG island. 5-AZA treatment can induce the expression of XAF1 mRNA and protein in myeloma. 5-AZA exerts anti-myeloma activity via apoptosis at clinically achievable concentrations. The findings suggested that 5-AZA and ATO may be an effective combination in the therapy of patients with multiple myeloma.
N-Methyl N-benzyl nitrosamine (MBNA), which requires P450-dependant activation to be mutagenic, has been shown to produce squamous cell carcinoma of rat oesophagus. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of tumour induction on hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) and phase II enzyme activity. Female Wistar rats were given MBNA (2.5 mg/kg) by gavage, twice weekly for 12 weeks. At the end of 12 weeks they were sacrificed; livers and oesophagi were removed. The activity of hepatic CYP and phase II enzymes was determined by incubation of liver microsomes with appropriate CYP substrates. All rats receiving MBNA developed oesophageal lesions. Hepatic CYP1A2 activity (phenacetin 5 microM) in tumour-bearing rats was significantly decreased to 53% of the controls (p <0.05). CYP2E1 (p-nitrophenol hydroxylase), CYP2D (debrisoquine hydroxylase) and CYP3A (quinine hydroxylase) activity was significantly (p <0.05) reduced. Microsomal UDP-glucuronosyl transferase activity was also found to be markedly decreased while glutathione-S-transferase activity remained almost unchanged. Alteration of the activities of drug metabolising enzymes in rats with chemically induced tumours could be an important factor in determining resistance or susceptibility to xenobiotics and antitumour drugs.
Traits of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) such as impaired ventilatory control, craniofacial abnormalities, and concomitant cardiovascular diseases are associated with modified endothelin-1 gene (EDN-1) or endothelin-receptor-subtype-a (EDNRA) gene. The endothelin system regulates the cardiovascular homeostasis. EDN-1 interacts mainly with EDNRA for signal transduction. In our study we investigate associations of EDNRA-polymorphisms (four frequent polymorphisms with an allele frequency >5%) and OSAS severity.
Three hundred ninety-three patients older than 18years, of Caucasian origin and with OSAS (AHI>5/h and daytime sleepiness) were investigated by cardiorespiratory polysomnography. In addition 58 control subjects with healthy sleep were recruited from nearly 300 volunteers. We analysed the EDNRA-polymorphisms E335E, H323H, G-231A and G+70C by polymerase-chain-reaction, restriction-fragment-length-polymorphism and real-time-PCR.
Carrier of the mutant G-231A allele had a significantly lower AHI (p=0.03, OR 0.53, 95% CI 0.3-0.94) when comparing patients and controls. When comparing OSAS severity groups without controls we could not detect significant correlations for the four investigated EDNRA-polymorphisms. Our data confirm that BMI (p<0.001) and male gender (p=0.02) are significantly associated with AHI. The allele frequencies were similar.
The genetic investigation of OSA remains important. Our control group was relatively small and we investigated 4 reasonable candidates out of more than 100 EDNRA-polymorphisms. The detected protective effect of the mutant G-231A allele needs further confirmation. Gene based research in OSAS should use genome wide scan and should still consider the endothelin system.
We carried out a medical and environmental survey to evaluate respiratory disease at two tungsten carbide (TC) production plants. The study population of 290 subjects (19.2 percent of the total work force) was chosen to focus on those with the greatest potential exposures to cobalt, a binding agent which is probably the cause of interstitial fibrosis and airways disease in TC workers. We found peak air concentrations of cobalt exceeding 500 micrograms/m3 during many major steps in TC production. Nine subjects at plant A and two at plant B had interstitial infiltrates. Two of these nine from plant A had restriction (total lung capacity less than 80 percent of predicted). A lung biopsy specimen in one showed interstitial fibrosis. Two nonsmokers at plant A and one nonsmoker at plant B had obstructive defects. These results suggest that interstitial and obstructive lung disease occur in TC workers in association with elevated peak air concentrations of cobalt.
Utilizing a variation of the Fink-Heimer method, we examined the extent and location of axonal and terminal degeneration within the chicken cervical spinal cord, brainstem and cerebellum resulting from a single subcutaneous dose of bis(1-methylethyl)phosphorofluoridate (DFP). The effects of DFP on the activities of whole-brain neuropathy target esterase (NTE) and cholinesterase (ChE) were also assessed as were the development and severity of clinical signs characteristic of organophosphorus-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN). Both whole brain NTE and ChE activities were maximally inhibited during the first 24 h post-exposure, showing gradual recovery over a period of 3 weeks. OPIDN clinical signs were not observed at 7 days post-DFP but progressed to severe ataxia by day 14 and paralysis by day 21. There was a relative absence of degeneration at 7 days, a dramatic increase in degeneration density at 14 days, and high density degeneration at both 21 and 28 days. Cervical spinal and medullary tracts containing axonal degeneration included the fasciculus gracilis, dorsal and ventral spinocerebellar tracts, spinal lemniscus, and the intramedullary portions of the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves. Brainstem nuclei containing terminal degeneration included the lateral cervical, gracile-cuneate, external cuneate, and inferior olivary nuclei, the nucleus tractus solitarius, and the lateral and paragigantocellular lateral reticular nuclei. Mossy fiber degeneration was also present in cerebellar folia I-Vb. These results show that exposure to DFP causes axonal and terminal degeneration in ascending spinal tracts, brainstem nuclei and cerebellar folia associated with the transmission of somatic and visceral sensory information.
A prospective, randomised trial was undertaken in 60 healthy adults to determine the efficacy of intravenously administered phenytoin in doses of 5 mg.kg-1 for the prevention of suxamethonium-induced fasciculations, a rise in serum K+ and myalgia. This was compared with tubocurarine pretreatment and no pretreatment (control group). Phenytoin pretreatment significantly reduced myalgia from 45% (nine patients) in the control group to 10% (two patients) (p less than 0.05). It also decreased the duration and mean intensity of fasciculations. Incidentally, phenytoin was also found to decrease significantly mean serum Na+ levels (p less than 0.001) both at 5 and 20 min after administration. Tubocurarine pretreatment (3 mg) resulted in a significant decrease in fasciculations, but myalgia, which occurred in five patients, remained the same. No significant correlation was found between muscle fasciculations, postoperative myalgia and K+ changes, but patients with myalgia had a significant decrease in mean serum Na+ levels at 5 and 20 min after suxamethonium (p less than 0.01).
To investigate the expression of the novel gene, collectrin, in the remnant kidney of the 5/6 nephrectomized rat.
Thirty-four rats were randomly assigned to three groups: sham-operation group (CON, n = 10), 5/6 nephrectomy group (NX, n = 12), NX + enalapril group (ACEI, since one day before the 5/6 nephrectomy 10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) enalapril was administered). Two weeks, 8 weeks, and 15 weeks after the above-mentioned treatments, 1/3 of the rats in different group were killed and their kidneys were taken out. Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect the expression of collectrin. The collectrin mRNA expression in the kidneys was detected by RT-PCR, and collectrin protein expression was observed by Western blot assay.
In the kidneys of the CON group rats, the expression of collectrin was progressively decreased over time (2 W vs 16 W, 1.69 +/- 0.09 vs 1.21 +/- 0.09, P < 0.05; 8 W vs 16 W, 1.38 +/- 0.04 vs 1.21 +/- 0.09, P < 0.05). However, collectrin was over-expressed in the remnant renal tissues compared with in the kidneys of control rats (NX vs CON, 2 W 2.33 +/- 0.07 vs 1.69 +/- 0.09, P < 0.05; 8 W 1.85 +/- 0.20 vs 1.38 +/- 0.04, P < 0.05; 16 W 1.47 +/- 0.17 vs 1.21 +/- 0.09, P < 0.05); In NX group, collectrin expression was obviously increased 2 weeks after the operation, then decreased along with the progression of renal failure (2 W vs 8 W, 2.33 +/- 0.07 vs 1.85 +/- 0.20, P < 0.05; 2W vs 16 W, 2.33 +/- 0.07 vs 1.47 +/- 0.17, P < 0.05; 8 W vs 16 W, 1.85 +/- 0.20 vs 1.47 +/- 0.17, P < 0.05). In ACEI treated group, collectrin expression was decreased along with the amelioration of renal lesions. The expression of collectrin mRNA was consistent with the expression of collectrin protein.
The expression of collectrin is progressively decreased with aging in normal rat kidney. In 5/6 nephrectomized kidney the expression of collectrin is related with the renal proliferation and hypertrophy.
Between November 1992 and April 1993, 864 coronary angiographies were performed at our institution. In 14 patients (1.6%), no significant coronary disease (> 50% stenosis) was found despite documented myocardial infarction. Of these, 2 patients (0.2%), aged 46 and 33 years, had perfectly smooth coronary arteries at angiography. The most commonly postulated mechanism of myocardial infarction in such patients is coronary spasm with superimposed thrombosis. The same risk factors as those operative in atherosclerotic coronary artery disease are thought to play a role in this setting. The prognosis is good. In one of the patients with < 50% stenosis of coronary vessels, a history of cocaine abuse could be elicited as the possible causal factor of acute myocardial infarction. Cocaine-induced coronary spasm can lead to arrhythmias, myocardial infarction or accelerated coronary atherosclerosis even in patients with normal coronary arteries. Myocarditis must be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in young patients with chest pain, typical electrocardiographic and enzymatic changes but without risk factors.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of metabonomics technology for developing a rapid-throughput toxicity screen using 2 known hepatotoxicants: carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) and alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) and 2 known nephrotoxicants: 2-bromoethylamine (BEA) and 4-aminophenol (PAP). In addition, the diuretic furosemide (FURO) was also studied. Single doses of CCl(4) (0.1 and 0.5 ml/kg), ANIT (10 and 100 mg/kg), BEA (15 and 150 mg/kg), PAP (15 and 150 mg/kg) and FURO (1 and 5 mg) were administered as single IP or oral doses to groups of 4 male Wistar rats/dose. Twenty-four-h urine samples were collected pretest, daily through Day 4, and on Day 10 (high dose CCl(4) and BEA only). Blood samples were taken on Days 1, 2, and 4 or 1, 4, and 10 for clinical chemistry assessment, and the appropriate target organ was examined microscopically. NMR spectra of urine were acquired and the data processed and subjected to principal component analyses (PCA). The results demonstrated that the metabonomic approach could readily distinguish the onset and reversal of toxicity with good agreement between clinical chemistry and PCA data. In at least 2 instances (ANIT and BEA), PCA analysis suggested effects at low doses, which were not as evident by clinical chemistry or microscopic analysis. Furosemide, which had no effect at the doses employed, did not produce any changes in PCA patterns. These data support the contention that the metabonomic approach represents a promising new technology for the development of a rapid throughput in vivo toxicity screen.
Felbamate (2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate) is a novel anticonvulsant substance whose mechanism of action is not clearly understood. The present investigation examined its ability to modulate the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Felbamate decreased the magnitude of glycine (100 microM)-enhanced NMDA (100 microM)-induced intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) transients in mouse cerebellar granule cells which had been loaded with the Ca(2+)-sensitive fluorescent probe indo-1 acetoxymethyl ester (indo-1/AM). This effect of felbamate was concentration dependent, with a maximal effect observed at 300 microM (65 +/- 4% of control). In the Frings audiogenic seizure-susceptible mouse model of reflex epilepsy, the glycine agonist D-serine (150 nmol, i.c.v.) completely blocked the anticonvulsant activity of a maximally effective dose of felbamate (19 mg/kg, i.p.). This effect of D-serine could be reversed by increasing the administered dose of felbamate to 29 mg/kg. Furthermore, administration of D-serine (300 nmol, i.c.v.) to felbamate-treated Frings mice produced a parallel right shift in felbamate's anticonvulsant dose-response curve (ED50s: 9.4 mg/kg for felbamate vs. 17.7 mg/kg for felbamate + D-serine). The results obtained in this investigation suggest that the ability of felbamate to modulate the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor may be physiologically and behaviorally relevant to its anticonvulsant mechanism of action.
The induction of the proto-oncogene c-fos has been used extensively to identify spatially distributed neural systems activated by seizures. The substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNpr) has been implicated as a critical structure in neural networks involved in the modulation of seizure expression, yet the SNpr has not been reported to express Fos following seizures induced in a variety of seizure paradigms. In this study we determined whether (1) the temporal characteristics of Fos induction in the SNpr were different than those of other brain areas following kindled seizures, (2) neurons in the SNpr possess the cellular machinery to express Fos, (3) Fos can be induced in SNpr by direct electrical stimulation, and (4) Fos expression is induced in the SNpr following kainate or pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Results indicate that Fos is not induced in SNpr at any time point (1-12 h) after kindled seizures, and that serum response factor, a constitutively expressed nuclear protein necessary for Fos expression, is present in SNpr neurons. Results further indicate that Fos expression in the SNpr is induced following either direct electrical stimulation or pilocarpine status, but not status elicited by kainate. We conclude that, in so far as the SNpr represents a critical structure for modulating seizure expression, seizure activity does not represent a sufficient stimulus to induce Fos in SNpr neurons. Further, the neural networks defined by Fos expression following seizure may be incomplete, and should be interpreted conservatively.
Exposure to relatively high levels of trichloroethylene has recently been shown to accelerate the development of an autoimmune response in the autoimmune prone MRL+/+ mice. The trichloroethylene-induced autoimmune response was associated with an increase in activated CD4(+) T cells, producing Th(1)-like cytokines. The present study was conducted to determine whether lower, more occupationally relevant doses of trichloroethylene could also promote autoimmunity, in MRL+/+ mice, and if so, to investigate the mechanism of this accelerated autoimmune response. In addition, histological studies were performed to determine if trichloroethylene was capable of producing pathological markers consistent with an autoimmune disease. Trichloroethylene was administered to mice in the drinking water at 0, 0.1, 0.5, and 2.5 mg/ml for 4 and 32 weeks. There was a significant increase above controls in serum antinuclear antibody (ANA) levels following 4 weeks of both 0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg/day of trichloroethylene. After 32 weeks of treatment, ANA levels were elevated and equal in all groups. The kinetics of the ANA response indicated that trichloroethylene accelerated the innate autoimmune response in the MRL+/+ mice. There was a dose-related increase in the percentage of activated CD4(+) T cells in both the spleens and lymph nodes of mice treated for 32 weeks with trichloroethylene when compared to controls. CD4(+) T cells isolated from MRL+/+ mice after either 4 or 32 weeks of treatment with trichloroethylene secreted inflammatory or Th(1)-like cytokines. Following 32 weeks of trichloroethylene treatment, there was a significant increase in hepatic mononuclear infiltration localized to the portal region, a type of hepatic infiltration consistent with autoimmune hepatitis. Taken collectively, these data suggest that exposure to occupationally relevant concentrations of trichloroethylene can accelerate an autoimmune response and can lead to autoimmune disease. The mechanism of this autoimmunity appears to involve, at least in part, activated CD4(+) T cells that then produced inflammatory cytokines.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether activation of the nuclear receptor PPARalpha is needed for protection from acetaminophen (APAP) hepatotoxicity produced by repeated administration of the peroxisome proliferator clofibrate (CFB). Female wild-type and PPARalpha-null mice received corn oil vehicle or 500 mg CFB/kg, ip, daily for 10 days. They were then fasted overnight (18 h) and either killed at 4 or 24 h after challenge with 400 mg APAP/kg. Controls received 50% propylene glycol vehicle only. In this model of CFB hepatoprotection, liver injury was assessed by measuring plasma sorbitol dehydrogenase activity and by histopathology at 24 h after APAP challenge. Significant hepatocellular necrosis was evident in both corn oil-pretreated PPARalpha-null and wild-type mice at 24 h after APAP challenge. In agreement with previous studies, CFB-pretreated wild-type mice showed marked protection against APAP toxicity. In contrast, CFB did not provide protection against APAP hepatotoxicity in the PPARalpha-null mice. Similarly, at 4 h after APAP challenge, hepatic glutathione depletion and selective arylation of cytosolic proteins were reduced significantly in CFB-pretreated wild-type mice, but not in PPARalpha-null mice. The lack of changes in APAP binding and NPSH depletion in CFB-pretreated, PPARalpha-null mice is consistent with the presence of significant liver injury at 24 h in this treatment group. These findings demonstrate that the protection against APAP hepatotoxicity by peroxisome proliferator treatment is mediated by the activation of PPARalpha.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) negatively modulates nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor expression and associated nociceptive phenotype in intact neurons, suggesting a beneficial role in treating aspects of neuropathic pain mediated by NGF. We report that NT-3 is effective at suppressing thermal hyperalgesia associated with chronic constriction injury (CCI); however, NT-3 does not alter the mechanical hypersensitivity that also develops with CCI. Thermal hyperalgesia is critically linked to expression and activation of the capsaicin receptor, transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV1). Thus, its modulation by NT-3 after CCI was examined. CCI results in elevated TRPV1 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels in predominantly small-to-medium neurons, with the percentage of neurons expressing TRPV1 remaining unchanged at approximately 56%. Attenuation of thermal hyperalgesia mediated by NT-3 correlates with decreased TRPV1 expression such that only approximately 26% of neurons ipsilateral to CCI expressed detectable TRPV1 mRNA. NT-3 effected a decrease in expression of the activated component of the signaling pathway linked to regulation of TRPV1 expression, phospho-p38 MAPK (Ji et al., 2002), in neurons ipsilateral to CCI. Exogenous NT-3 could both prevent the onset of thermal hyperalgesia and reverse established thermal hyperalgesia and elevated TRPV1 expression 1 week after CCI. Continuous infusion is required for suppression of both thermal hyperalgesia and TRPV1 expression, because removal of NT-3 resulted in a prompt reestablishment of the hyperalgesic state and corresponding CCI-associated TRPV1 phenotype. In conclusion, although NGF drives inflammation-associated thermal hyperalgesia via its regulation of TRPV1 expression, NT-3 is now identified as a potent negative modulator of this state.
The effects of monotherapy with once-daily ketanserin (40 mg) were compared to those of ketanserin (40 mg) plus hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg) once daily in 21 patients with mild essential hypertension. After a placebo run-in period of 4 weeks, medication was randomly allocated. The study was double-blind and the double-dummy technique was used. The measurements of blood pressure during the 3-month treatment period showed a tendency for progressive decreases of the variable. Supine and erect blood pressure mean values were significantly reduced, between pretreatment and the end of week 12, by 17 and 12 mm Hg with ketanserin therapy and by 19 and 16 mm Hg with combination treatment, respectively. A mathematical model used for studying the evolution of erect diastolic blood pressure over time revealed that the combination lowered blood pressure at a higher rate than did ketanserin alone in the first week of treatment, but that thereafter the velocity of change was higher for ketanserin alone. Both treatments had equally effective antihypertensive effects after 12 weeks, although differences existed in the time courses of blood pressure changes. More prolonged studies are required in order to distinguish further between the medications used.
The antihypertensive effect of the combination of ketanserin, a new antiserotonergic agent, and thiazide has been evaluated in 35 patients with arterial hypertension of mild to moderate degree in the greater than 50-year-old age group. Twenty patients were given ketanserin (20 mg) + hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg) (treatment A) while the others were given ketanserin (40 mg) + hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 mg) (treatment B) once daily, for a period of 6 weeks. Twenty-four-hour blood pressure, measured by an automatic recorder, was significantly reduced by both combinations. In particular, treatment A reduced blood pressure from 169 +/- 15/95 +/- 6 mm Hg before treatment to 146 +/- 11/83 +/- 8, 149 +/- 13/82 +/- 10, 143 +/- 12/81 +/- 9, and 151 +/- 14/84 +/- 7 mm Hg at 2, 6, 8, and 24 h, respectively, after the last dose of drug. With treatment B, blood pressure was reduced from 167 +/- 11/97 +/- 7 mm Hg before treatment to 152 +/- 12/89 +/- 8, 151 +/- 15/85 +/- 8, 150 +/- 16/86 +/- 8, and 158 +/- 13/91 +/- 7 mm Hg at 2, 6, 8, and 24 h, respectively. Heart rate was not affected by both treatments despite the fact that ketanserin has been proved to induce a marked vasodilation. Cardiac workload (systolic blood pressure X heart rate) was slightly reduced by the treatments. Treatment A only induced transient dizziness after the first dose of drug; treatment B, on the other hand, induced drowsiness and more marked dizziness, which in one case was also observed after repeated doses of the drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hypertension is a risk factor for the two leading causes of death in renal transplant recipients: cardiovascular disease (CVD) and graft failure. Despite this, the optimum medication for post-transplant hypertension is unclear.
The Study on Evaluation of Candesartan Cilexetil after Renal Transplantation (SECRET) was an international multicentre, double-blind, randomized investigation of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (ARB) candesartan cilexetil versus placebo in renal allograft recipients originally designed to study 700 patients for 3 years. The candesartan dose was escalated from 4 to 16 mg daily, followed by addition of co-medication, if needed, with the aim of achieving a diastolic blood pressure (BP) <85 mmHg. The primary efficacy variable was a composite of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular morbidity and graft failure.
SECRET was stopped prematurely as the primary event rate was much lower than expected. At that point, 502 patients were enrolled; 255 received candesartan and 247 placebo. Thirteen primary events had occurred in each group. Control of both systolic and diastolic BP was better in the candesartan group. Urinary protein excretion and protein/creatinine ratio decreased on candesartan but increased on placebo. Serum creatinine and potassium were increased in candesartan patients, but these changes were generally small.
SECRET provides insights into the design and conduct of studies in this area and evidence for the utility of candesartan, which showed good safety and tolerability, improved BP control and decreased proteinuria in renal transplant recipients.
Chest pain occurs frequently during dobutamine stress testing and is commonly attributed to ischemia. However, the pathophysiologic significance of dobutamine-induced chest pain is uncertain. The purpose of this study is to explore the correlation between dobutamine-induced chest pain and evidence of ischemia on myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI).
This study included 1608 patients who underwent dobutamine stress MPI at the Mid America Heart Institute (Kansas City, Mo) and were analyzed retrospectively. Patients were divided into those with chest pain during dobutamine infusion versus those without it. Multivariate and chi(2) analyses were conducted to explore the relationship between chest pain and ischemic changes on MPI. Of 1608 patients, 208 (13%) had chest pain with dobutamine whereas 1400 (87%) did not. MPI ischemia was seen in 47% of patients with chest pain and 43% without chest pain (P = .28). Chest pain was not any more predictive of ischemia when analyzed separately by gender (P = .31). Multivariate analysis did not identify chest pain as a predictor of ischemia (P = .19). Significant predictors of scintigraphic ischemic changes were age (P = .001), gender (P < .0001), smoking (P = .0149), and known coronary artery disease (P < .0001).
This large retrospective study suggests that chest pain during dobutamine stress testing is not a predictor of ischemia when analyzed against reversible perfusion defects on SPECT MPI.
Recent studies demonstrate that maternal diet during pregnancy results in long-lasting effects on the progeny. Supplementation of maternal diet with genistein, a phytoestrogen ubiquitous in the daily diet, altered coat color of agouti mice due to epigenetic changes. We studied hematopoiesis of mice prenatally exposed to genistein (270 mg/kg feed) compared with that of mice prenatally exposed to phytoestrogen-poor feed and observed a significant increase in granulopoiesis, erythropoiesis, and mild macrocytosis at the adult age of 12 wk. Genistein exposure was associated with hypermethylation of certain repetitive elements, which coincided with a significant down-regulation of estrogen-responsive genes and genes involved in hematopoiesis in bone marrow cells of genistein-exposed mice, as assessed by microarray technology. Although genistein exposure did not affect global methylation in fetal liver of fetuses at embryonic day 14.5, it accelerated the switch from primitive to definitive erythroid lineage. Taken together, our data demonstrate that prenatal exposure to genistein affects fetal erythropoiesis and exerts lifelong alterations in gene expression and DNA methylation of hematopoietic cells.
Pharmacogenetic markers related to drug metabolism and mechanisms of action could help to better select patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) for treatment. Genetic interaction analysis is used as a rational tool to study the contribution of polygenic variation in relation to drug response.
A selection of 17 polymorphisms in genes encoding drug targets, pathway molecules and detoxification enzymes was analyzed in 279 previously untreated mCRC patients treated with capecitabine, oxaliplatin and bevacizumab (CAPOX-B). Multifactor dimensionality reduction analysis was used to identify a genetic interaction profile for progression-free survival (PFS).
Median PFS was 10.9 [95% confidence interval (CI) 9.4-12.4] months. A genetic interaction profile consisting of the TYMS enhancer region and VEGF +405G>C polymorphisms was significantly associated with PFS. Median PFS was 13.3 (95% CI 11.4-15.3) and 9.7 (95% CI 7.6-11.8) months for the beneficial and unfavorable genetic profiles, respectively, corresponding to a hazards ratio for PFS of 1.58 (95% CI 1.14-2.19). None of the studied polymorphisms were individually associated with PFS.
Our results support a genetic interaction between the TYMS enhancer region and VEGF +405G>C polymorphisms as a predictor of the efficacy of CAPOX-B in mCRC patients.
Central nervous system (CNS) complications during treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remain a challenging clinical problem. Outcome improvement with more intensive chemotherapy has significantly increased the incidence and severity of adverse events. This study analyzed the incidence of neurological complications during ALL treatment in a single pediatric institution, focusing on clinical, radiological, and electrophysiological findings. Exclusion criteria included CNS leukemic infiltration at diagnosis, therapy-related peripheral neuropathy, late-onset encephalopathy, or long-term neurocognitive defects. During a 9-year period, we retrospectively collected 27 neurological events (11%) in as many patients, from 253 children enrolled in the ALL front-line protocol. CNS complications included posterior reversible leukoencephalopathy syndrome (n = 10), stroke (n = 5), temporal lobe epilepsy (n = 2), high-dose methotrexate toxicity (n = 2), syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (n = 1), and other unclassified events (n = 7). In conclusion, CNS complications are frequent events during ALL therapy, and require rapid detection and prompt treatment to limit permanent damage.
Current epidemiological studies suggest that crystalline silica exposure is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular and renal disease; however, the potential pathological damage of the heart and kidney and its underlying mechanisms have not been completely elucidated. This study tried to investigate the silica-induced inflammatory and fibrotic changes in the heart and kidney and evaluate the role of interleukin (IL)-1 beta (β) in silica-induced cardiac and renal damage. In this study, a silica-exposed model was generated by intratracheally instilling silica dust in mice. The anti-IL-1β monoclonal antibody (mAb) was used to neutralise IL-1β in the pulmonary alveolus and serum. The real-time PCR studies showed that (1) inhalational silica induced inflammatory responses in the heart and kidney by elevated mRNA levels of TNF-α, IL-6 and MCP-1; (2) early fibrotic responses in the heart were observed as elevated mRNA levels of collagen I and fibronectin. What is more, fibrosis of the kidney was demonstrated by pathological results and significantly increased mRNA levels of TGF-β, collagen I, collagen III and fibronectin. Further studies showed that usage of anti-IL-1β mAb decreased the inflammatory response of the heart and kidney induced by inhalational silica and also attenuated fibrosis in the mouse kidney. In conclusion, this study found that inhaled silica induced inflammatory and early fibrotic responses in the mouse heart and inflammatory response and fibrosis in the mouse kidney. Neutralisation of IL-1β attenuated the silica-induced inflammatory response of the heart and kidney and decreased fibrosis in the mouse kidney.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is a key enzyme regulating intracellular folate levels, which affects DNA synthesis and methylation. Two MTHFR gene polymorphisms, C677T and A1298C, are linked to altered enzyme activity. Several studies have shown these two polymorphisms to be associated with response to fluorouracil (FU) -based treatment in advanced colon cancer patients, but data are inconsistent and contradictory. Meanwhile, epidemiologic studies demonstrated that these MTHFR polymorphisms were associated with cancer risk in a sex-specific manner. We tested the hypothesis of whether these two polymorphisms are associated with sex-specific clinical outcome in metastatic colon cancer patients treated with FU-based chemotherapy.
This study included 318 patients (177 men and 141 women) with metastatic colon cancer treated between 1992 and 2003 at the University of Southern California/Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center or Los Angeles County/University of Southern California Medical Center. Peripheral blood samples were collected from each patient, and genomic DNA was extracted from WBCs. Two MTHFR gene polymorphisms (C677T and A1298C) were tested by fluorogenic 5'-nuclease assay.
The A1298C polymorphism showed statistically significant differences in overall survival (OS) in female, but not male, patients with metastatic colon cancer (log-rank test, P = .038). Among females, OS was greater for patients with the A/A genotype (n = 67; median OS, 18.4 months) compared with patients with the A/C genotype (n = 50; median OS, 13.9 months) or C/C genotype (n = 10; median OS, 15.6 months).
Although preliminary, these data support the role of the A1298C polymorphism in MTHFR as prognostic marker in female patients with metastatic colon cancer. Further studies are needed to confirm these findings.
