The present study aimed to test whether exposure to benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P] affects spatial learning and short-term memory by modulating the expression of the Gria1 and Grin2a glutamate receptor subunit genes in the hippocampus.
Thirty-six 21-24-day-old, male rats were randomly assigned into high-, medium-, and low-dose toxin exposure groups (6.25, 2.5, and 1 mg/kg, respectively) and a control group, each containing nine rats. The behavioral performance of adult rats exposed to sub-chronic administration of B(a)P was monitored by learning and memory tests (Morris water maze). Real-time PCR assays were used to quantify Gria1 and Grin2a gene expression in the hippocampus.
At medium and high doses, B(a)P impaired spatial learning performance. The crossing-platform-location frequency and the time spent swimming in the platform area, which both relate to short-term memory, were significantly decreased in B(a)P-treated rats compared with controls. The level of Gria1 mRNA increased 2.6-5.9-fold, and the level of Grin2a mRNA increased 10-14.5-fold, with a greater fold increase associated with higher doses of B(a)P.
We demonstrated that sub-chronic administration of B(a)P inhibits spatial learning and short-term memory, and increases Gria1 and Grin2a expression in the hippocampus. This suggests a relationship of B(a)P exposure levels with Gria1 and Grin2a expression and impairment of short-term and spatial memory.
Recent reports suggest that transient neurologic symptoms are common after spinal anesthesia with 5% lidocaine. To determine whether reducing the anesthetic concentration might decrease the incidence of symptoms, 50 ASA class I or II patients undergoing brief gynecologic procedures under spinal anesthesia were randomly allocated to receive 1 mg/kg of either 5% or 2% lidocaine in 7.5% glucose. Patients were evaluated on the first postoperative day by an anesthesiologist who was unaware of the solution administered or the details of the anesthetic procedure. Symptoms suggestive of transient radicular irritation were observed in 8 patients (32%) receiving 5% lidocaine, and in 10 patients (40%) receiving 2% lidocaine (NS). These results confirm our previous findings that transient neurologic symptoms may occur in up to one third of the patients receiving 5% lidocaine, and indicate that a modest reduction in lidocaine concentration does not reduce risk.
A 43-year-old woman with multiple sclerosis (MS) was treated with pulsed methylprednisolone and interferon beta at a hospital. Four weeks after initiating treatment, liver dysfunction occurred and she was referred and admitted to our hospital. Clinical and laboratory findings were consistent with and fulfilled the criteria for drug-induced hepatitis, but not for autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). She was successfully treated with corticosteroids. As ataxia developed after 1 year, she was treated with pulsed methylprednisolone for 3 d, then readmitted to our hospital when liver dysfunction occurred. Clinical and laboratory findings led to the diagnosis of AIH. To the best of our knowledge, this is the second case of AIH developed after pulsed methylprednisolone for MS.
Clomipramine is a potent serotonin reuptake blocker that decreases the symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). To investigate whether clomipramine treatment in OCD affects brain serotonergic responsiveness, metachlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP), a selective serotonin agonist, and placebo were given under double-blind conditions to nine patients with OCD before and after treatment with clomipramine. Unlike our previous observations of a marked transient increase in obsessional symptoms and anxiety following 0.5 mg/kg of mCPP, readministration of mCPP after four months of treatment with clomipramine did not significantly increase obsessional symptoms and anxiety. Similarly, the hyperthermic effect of mCPP observed before treatment was eliminated after treatment with clomipramine. These findings are consistent with the development of adaptive subsensitivity to the serotonergic agonist mCPP during clomipramine treatment. A similar alteration in the response to endogenous serotonin may mediate clomipramine's antiobsessional effects.
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) expression was reported to be associated with tumor growth, progression and resistance to radio-/chemotherapy. Whether HIF-1alpha mRNA or protein expression is associated with histomorphological response or prognosis following neoadjuvant chemoradiation and surgery in resectable, locally-advanced esophageal cancer was analyzed.
Fifty-three patients received neoadjuvant chemoradiation (cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, 36 Gy) followed by transthoracic en bloc esophagectomy. HIF-1alpha mRNA and protein expressions were analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR and immunostaining.
In squamous cell carcinoma, HIF-1alpha mRNA expression was significantly higher than in paired normal epithelium (p < 0.001). Normal squamous epithelium showed significant elevated expression in adenocarcinomas, suggesting a field effect (p < 0.04). HIF-1alpha protein expression showed a significant regulation following chemoradiation. Neither HIF-1alpha mRNA nor protein expression was associated with histomorphological regression or prognosis.
HIF-1alpha mRNA expression is differentially upregulated in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma compared to adenocarcinomas, but does not predict tumor regression or prognosis.
It has been suggested that cyproterone acetate (CPA) has a mutagenic potency. It has been postulated that a threshold dosage of CPA has mutagenic effects, but in the same way data have been published documenting that a continuous low dosage of cyproterone acetate leads to a reduction of mutagenic episodes. Despite published data about higher levels of DNA adduct creations due to CPA an international multicentre study analysing 2,506 patients with 7,971 patient-years that used CPA could not find any liver cell cancers, even if due to epidemiological data 6 liver cell cancers should have occurred upon this study group. The present study deals with the evaluation of 57 women which received CPA in combination with EE2 11-13 years before. The daily dosage was 2 mg CPA in combination with 35 mg or 50 mg EE2. In Germany these drugs were registered under the name of Diane 35 or Diane 50. Long-term follow-up evaluation concerning side effects, especially the appearance of liver cell carcinomas, were the aim of this study. With the records of 32% (18/57) of the above mentioned patient group the following long-term follow-up side effects could be observed: 1) weight gain, 2) headache, 3) migraine, 4) gastrointestinal disorders, 5) mood affections/depressions, 6) oedema of the legs, 7) skin affections, 8) mastodynia. No benign liver tumor or liver cell carcinoma was detected upon our group of investigated patients. In conclusion we can affirm that the use of CPA in a dosage of 2 mg per day does not lead to serious side effects under long-term follow-up observation conditions and that it's use does not correlate with a higher appearance of liver cell carcinomas.
To investigate the content and expression of the urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) in the ornidazole-induced asthenospermia animal model, and to probe the mechanism of ornidazole inducing asthenospermia and the possibility of using uPA for the prevention and treatment of asthenospermia.
Forty-eight male rats were equally randomized into 5 medication groups (1 d, 5 d, 10 d, 15 d and 20 d) and a blank control group, and ornidazole (200 mg/kg) was given intragastrically every day to the former five while 0.5% carboxymethylcellulose Na (CMC-Na) to the latter for 20 successive days. Then the rats were sacrificed by intraperitoneal injection of pentobarbital at 1, 5, 10, 15 and 20 days respectively and the epididymides and testes harvested. The integrity of the sperm cell membrane was detected by hypoosmotic swelling experiments, the uPA expression in the testicular and epididymal tissues dynamically observed by immunohistochemistry and the level of uPA mRNA in the testis determined by RT-PCR.
The integrity of the sperm cell membrane was reduced at 10 days and remained low till the end of the medication, but with no statistic significance. Compared with the blank controls, the uPA expression and mRNA content in the testicular and epididymal tissues showed no conspicuous difference in the 1 d and 5 d groups, decreased insignificantly in the 10 d group, but significantly in the 15 d and 20 d groups (P < 0.05).
The defect of sperm cell membrane and decrease of sperm motility go in parallel with the reduced expression and content of uPA, which may be one of the factors for the development of asthenospermia.
To compare the risk of death and recurrent congestive heart failure in elderly patients prescribed celecoxib, rofecoxib, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and to determine whether there are class differences between celecoxib and rofecoxib.
Population based retrospective cohort study.
Databases of hospital discharge summaries and prescription drug claims in Quebec.
2256 patients aged 66 or more prescribed celecoxib, rofecoxib, or an NSAID after an index admission for congestive heart failure between April 2000 and March 2002.
Time to all cause death and recurrent congestive heart failure, combined and separately.
The risk of death and recurrent congestive heart failure combined was higher in patients prescribed NSAIDs or rofexocib than in those prescribed celecoxib (hazard ratio 1.26, 95% confidence interval 1.00 to 1.57 and 1.27, 1.09 to 1.49, respectively). The findings were similar when the outcomes were assessed separately. In pairwise analysis, the risks of death and recurrent congestive heart failure, combined and separate, were similar between patients prescribed NSAIDs and rofecoxib.
Celecoxib seems safer than rofecoxib and NSAIDs in elderly patients with congestive heart failure. Differences were found among cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors.
Experiments were carried out in mice to investigate the influence of diazepam (DZP) on dexamphetamine, parachloro-N-methylamphetamine (pCMA), cocaine, morphine, trihexyphenidyl or (in MAOIs pretreated) reserpine induced motor hyperactivity. The interaction of DZP with these hyperactivities in which probably different biochemical central mechanisms are involved allows to construct a profile of action of DZP and to approach its mechanism of action. The locomotor hyperactivities induced by dexamphetamine, pCMA, morphine, cocaine were not reduced by DZP even by doses which decrease spontaneous locomotor activity; low doses of DZP enhance the hyperactivity induced by these compounds. Those induced by trihexyphenidyle or by reserpine (after MAOI) were reduced by DZP at doses which produce no decrease in spontaneous motor activity. Inasmuch as DZP at low doses potentiates the effects of 4 different substances, the results can hardly be satisfactorily explained neither by an interference of the benzodiazepine on the metabolism of the drugs or by a depression of the anxiogenic action of dexamphetamine. Even though it may be difficult to relate the antagonism of DZP on trihexyphenidyl- or on reserpine- (after MAOI) induced motor hyperactivity to the suggested anticholinergic and dopaminergic actions of DZP, these effects may partly be involved in the increase in locomotor hyperactivity induced by dexamphetamine, morphine, or cocaine. The observed effect of DZP on pCMA induced locomotor hyperactivity does not support a possible antiserotonine action often suggested to explain the effects of benzodiazepines in conflict situations.
In view of the demonstrated occurrence of myelin figures in renal tubules and urine following gentamicin administration, we compared urinary excretion of myelin figures in dogs given nephrotoxic doses of gentamicin and in those undergoing clamping of renal arteries. Ten dogs weighing 15 to 20 kg were randomly divided into two experimental groups. Group I consisted of five dogs injected daily with 40 mg/kg body weight of gentamicin intramuscularly. Group II consisted of five dogs that were operated on and had their renal arteries clamped for one to two hours. Baseline studies, including body weight, serum creatinine, and analysis of urine sediment by light microscopy and electron microscopy, were obtained. Daily creatinines were obtained in both groups, and urine sediments were examined for epithelial cells and myelin figures at regular intervals and graded from 0 to 4+. The control serum creatinine levels were normal in all ten dogs, and no myelin figures were observed in the baseline examinations. In Group I, two out of five dogs developed frank renal impairment with creatine levels over 2 mg/dl and subsequently died. These two dogs had 1+ or more myelin figures in the urine sediment early in the treatment, and subsequently, a copious amount of myelin figures (4+) was excreted. The remaining dogs did not develop creatinine elevation greater than 2 mg/dl and showed only trace amounts of myelin figures. In Group II, two out of five dogs developed abnormal creatinine levels on the first postoperative day, but did not show myelin figures in their urine. Two other dogs with normal creatinine levels had trace myelin figures. The study shows that conspicuous urinary excretion of myelin figures occurs in gentamicin-induced renal failure in dogs, but myelin figures are absent or slight after renal vascular ischemia of 1 to 2 hours.
The authors compared efficacy of olanzapine versus placebo and risperidone as measured by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory and Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Psychosis scale in patients with dementia-related psychosis.
Patients with moderate-to-severe psychotic symptoms associated with dementia were recruited from outpatient or residential settings and randomly assigned to 10-week, double-blind, flexible-dose treatment with olanzapine (N=204; 2.5 mg-10 mg/day; mean: 5.2 mg/day), risperidone (N=196; 0.5 mg-2 mg/day; mean: 1.0 mg/day) or placebo (N=94).
Most measures of neuropsychiatric functioning improved in all treatment groups, including the placebo group, and no significant treatment differences occurred. Overall discontinuation was lowest in the placebo group, and the olanzapine group had a significantly higher incidence of discontinuation due to adverse events (16.2%) relative to placebo (3.2%) and risperidone (8.7%) groups. Treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms were more numerous for risperidone- than placebo- or olanzapine-treated patients. Abnormally high prolactin levels occurred in 78.0% of risperidone patients, compared with 16.7% for olanzapine and 5.0% for placebo. The incidence of weight gain greater than 7% from baseline was higher in the olanzapine group relative to risperidone, but neither active-treatment group showed a statistical difference from placebo (1.1%). No other statistically significant and clinically relevant differences were seen for any other vital sign, electrocardiographic measure, or laboratory hematology and chemistry, including glucose, except for cholesterol, which decreased from baseline to endpoint in both active-treatment groups.
Patients' neuropsychiatric functioning improved with olanzapine, risperidone, and placebo treatment. There was a substantial response in the placebo group, and no significant differences emerged among treatments.
To investigate the importance of vitamin A deficiency as a cause of childhood blindness and severe visual impairment (SVI) in India.
Cross sectional survey of children with visual acuity less than 6/60 in the better eye (SVI/blindness), attending 22 schools for the blind in nine states of India.
Proportion of children with blindness or SVI from corneal scarring attributable to vitamin A deficiency.
245 of 1318 (18.6%) of children had SVI/blindness attributable to vitamin A deficiency. The proportion of SVI/blindness due to vitamin A deficiency ranged from 7.5% (7/93) in Kerala to 26.7% (27/101) in Madhya Pradesh. In Tamil Nadu, 7.5% (9/120) of children in the capital city blind school had SVI/blindness due to vitamin A deficiency, compared with 30.4% (51/168) in a blind school in a rural area of the same state.
Overall, vitamin A deficiency is the single most important cause of childhood blindness and SVI in India. There are marked variations by state and also between urban and rural locations.
Coffee has been inversely related to the incidence of human liver disease; however, whether caffeine is the component responsible for the beneficial effects of coffee remains controversial. This study evaluated the beneficial effects of coffee or caffeine in a medium-term bioassay for rat liver fibrosis/carcinogenesis induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). One week after the DEN injection, the groups started to receive conventional coffee, instant coffee or 0.1% caffeine ad libitum for 24 weeks. The groups receiving conventional coffee or caffeine presented a significant reduction in collagen content and mRNA expression of collagen I. The groups receiving instant coffee or caffeine had a significant reduction in the size and area of pre-neoplastic lesions and in the mean number of neoplastic lesions. A significant increase in liver bax protein levels was observed in the groups receiving instant coffee or caffeine as compared to the control group. These data indicate that the most pronounced hepatoprotective effect against fibrosis was observed in the groups receiving conventional coffee and 0.1% caffeine, and the greatest effects against liver carcinogenesis were detected in the groups receiving instant coffee and 0.1% caffeine.
Yellow pigments monascin (MS) and ankaflavin (AK) are secondary metabolites derived from Monascus-fermented products. The hypolipidemic and anti-inflammatory effects of MS and AK indicate that they have potential on preventing or curing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Oleic acid (OA) and high-fat diet were used to induce steatosis in FL83B hepatocytes and NAFLD in mice, respectively. We found that both MS and AK prevented fatty acid accumulation in hepatocytes by inhibiting fatty acid uptake, lipogenesis, and promoting fatty acid beta-oxidation mediated by activating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-α and AMP-activated kinase (AMPK). Furthermore, MS and AK significantly attenuated high-fat diet-induced elevation of total cholesterol (TC), triaceylglycerol (TG), free fatty acid (FFA), and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) in plasma. MS and AK promoted AMPK phosphorylation, suppressed the steatosis-related mRNA expression and inflammatory cytokines secretion, as well as upregulated farnesoid X receptor (FXR), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma co-activator (PGC)-1α, and PPARα expression to induce fatty acid oxidation in the liver of mice. We provided evidence that MS and AK act as PPARα agonists to upregulate AMPK activity and attenuate NAFLD. MS and AK may be supplied in food supplements or developed as functional foods to reduce the risk of diabetes and obesity.
The color additive, Allura Red AC, was given in the diet to provide levels of 0.42, 0.84, and 1.68% (control, 0%), from 5 weeks of age of the F0 generation to 9 weeks of age of the F1 generation in mice, and selected reproductive and neurobehavioral parameters were measured. There were few adverse effects of Allura Red AC on either litter size or weight, and ratio of male to female was significantly reduced in the lowest dosed group. Average body weight of offspring during the lactation period was significantly increased in the lower dosed groups of each sex. As regards the neurobehavioral parameters, no adverse effect was observed in the behavioral development during lactation period. There were few adverse effects of Allura Red AC on either movement activity or maze learning in F1 generation mice, compared with controls in each sex. The dose levels of Allura Red AC in the present study (approximately 86-1430 times greater than human ADI) produced few adverse effects in reproductive and neurobehavioral parameters in mice.
Many animal and human studies have shown aspirin to cause gastric mucosal erosions and enhanced spontaneous microbleeding. Chronic use is associated with uncomplicated gastric ulcer (but not clearly with uncomplicated duodenal ulcer) and with presentation with haematemesis and melaena. Sub-group analysis suggests that the risks of bleeding duodenal ulcer as well as bleeding gastric ulcer (and possibly non-ulcer bleeding) are increased. These data imply that an anti-haemostatic as well as an ulcerogenic effect contributes to such presentation and acute data support this proposition. A broken mucosa and inhibition of thromboxane synthesis both appear to be necessary for bleeding to occur. Aspirin enhances the bleeding associated with mucosal biopsy analogous to its prolongation of the skin bleeding time. Anti-haemostatic properties could account for the apparent increase in presentation with haematemesis and melaena in patients taking low doses of aspirin for cardiovascular prophylaxis. However, acute studies also show aspirin 300 mg to cause a level of mucosal injury which is substantial, though significantly less than with aspirin 600 mg q.d.s. The risk attached to aspirin consumption needs to be kept in perspective. It can be calculated that aspirin use is associated with approximately 700 bleeds per annum in the UK. The relative risk for upper gastrointestinal bleeding is roughly similar to that for non-aspirin non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs but those affected are generally younger, in an age group where death from upper gastrointestinal bleeding is very uncommon. In keeping with this and in contrast to non-aspirin non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, no study has shown increased mortality from aspirin-related upper gastrointestinal complications.
Therapy for hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is still unsatisfactory, particularly in patients who are co-infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Lamivudine, a retroviral inhibitor, has been shown to have activity against HBV replication in vitro, in animal models, and in studies of immunocompetent persons.
To assess the efficacy of lamivudine in inhibiting HBV replication during a 12-month period in patients with both HBV and HIV infection.
Prospective, open study.
University hospital.
40 consecutive patients (39 men and 1 woman) infected with both HIV and HBV. All had progressive HIV disease; were refractory to or unable to tolerate therapies other than lamivudine; and received lamlvudine, 600 mg/d or 600 mg/d followed by 300 mg/d, as therapy for HIV disease.
Serum concentrations of HBV DNA were assessed every 2 months by using molecular hybridization. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for HBV DNA was done at baseline and was done at months 2, 6, and 12 only if the HBV DNA concentration was less than 5 pg/mL.
Two groups were retrospectively identified at baseline: patients with high HBV replication (serum HBV DNA concentrations > 5 pg/mL) (n = 30) and patients with low HBV replication (serum HBV DNA concentrations < 5 pg/mL) (n = 10). After 12 months of treatment, 26 of 27 patients (96.3% [95% Cl, 81% to 99.9%]) who had had high HBV replication at baseline had serum HBV DNA concentrations less than 5 pg/mL. However, PCR could still detect HBV DNA in serum in 11.5% (Cl, 2% to 30%) of these patients. Among patients who had had low HBV replication at baseline, the results of PCR for serum HBV DNA became negative in the 6 patients who had had a positive result on PCR at baseline. No serious adverse events occurred during treatment.
Although this study was not a randomized, blinded trial, it suggests that lamivudine is active against.
The estimation of sympathetic nervous activity by measurement of plasma norepinephrine (NE) concentration assumes a constant relation between this and the synaptic cleft concentration. This assumption would be incorrect if the clearance of plasma NE could be varied without affecting its removal from the synaptic cleft, so we compared the clearance of plasma NE in mild hypertensives and normal subjects by measurement of its plasma concentration during a 0.5-hr infusion at 0.07 microgram/kg/min; there were no differences. The simultaneous infusion of isoproterenol, 0.02 microgram/kg/min, led to an increase in heart rate and NE clearance. There was partial inhibition of catechol-O-methyltransferase by a single oral dose of alpha-methyldopa, 250 mg, which reduced the clearance of both catecholamines (CAs) by about 20%. After the end of the infusions containing isoproterenol, the tachycardia persisted for more than 1 hr and declined more slowly in the hypertensives than the normals. In contrast, plasma concentrations of both CAs returned to basal values within a few minutes. The persistent tachycardia may be due to rerelease of isoproterenol into the synaptic cleft, since stimulation of sympathetic activity by assumption of the erect posture was associated with an exaggerated increase in heart rate (by 48/min after infusion and 23/min before infusion). The study therefore suggests that synaptic cleft and plasma CA concentrations can be independently manipulated and the relation between them may be different in hypertensive patients and normal control subjects.
We identified a family with 10 affected members in four generations suffering from adult-onset progressive sinoatrial and atrioventricular conduction disease, sudden death due to ventricular tachyarrhythmia, dilated cardiomyopathy, and a unique type of brachydactyly with mild hand involvement (short distal, middle, proximal phalanges and clinodactyly) and more severe foot involvement (short distal, proximal phalanges and metatarsal bones, short or absent middle phalanges, terminal symphalangism, duplication of the bases of the second metatarsals, extra ossicles, and syndactyly). The phenotype differences from other reported genetic abnormalities and linkage exclusion of Holt-Oram syndrome, ulnar-mammary syndrome, brachydactyly type B or Robinow syndrome, and cardiac conduction disease or Brugada syndrome loci suggest that we report on a new hereditary heart-hand syndrome.
1. Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy is frequently associated with depressed diastolic/systolic function and altered heart rhythm. 2. The effects of insulin treatment on heart rhythm, body temperature and physical activity in STZ-induced diabetic rats were investigated using biotelemetry techniques. 3. Transmitter devices were surgically implanted in the peritoneal cavity of young adult male Wistar rats. Electrodes from the transmitter were arranged in Einthoven bipolar - Lead II configuration. Electrocardiogram, physical activity and body temperature data were recorded with a telemetry system for 10 days before STZ treatment, for 20 days following administration of STZ (60 mg/kg) and thereafter, for 30 days while rats received daily insulin. 4. Heart rate, physical activity and body temperature declined rapidly 3-5 days after administration of STZ. Pre-STZ heart rate was 362 +/- 7 b.p.m., falling to 266 +/- 12 b.p.m. 5-15 days after STZ with significant recovery to 303 +/- 14 b.p.m. 10-20 days after commencement of insulin. Pre-STZ body temperature was 37.5 +/- 0.1C, falling to 37.2 +/- 0.2C 5-15 days after STZ with significant recovery to 37.5 +/- 0.1C 10-20 days after commencement of insulin. Physical activity and heart rate variability were also reduced after STZ but there was no significant recovery during insulin replacement. 5. Defective autonomic regulation and/or mechanisms of control that are intrinsic to the heart may underlie disturbances in heart rhythm in the STZ-induced diabetic rat.
The arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a nuclear transcription factor mediating toxic effects of chemicals such as dioxins. The 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a member of polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons family, exerts a wide-variety of toxic effects in a tissue- and species-specific manner including the reproduction process. Recently, AhR-mediated direct effects of TCDD on a cell-specific interaction with ovarian steroids have been shown. However, information regarding the effects of TCDD on the mouse implantation is limited. We therefore examined the expression and localization of AhR in the pregnant mouse uterus from 4 to 10 days of gestation (day 4 to day 10) using immunohistochemistry to investigate the effect of TCDD on uterine tissue during the peri-implantation period. Intense AhR expression was detected in the uterine vasculature throughout the periods examined. We also found that implanted blastocysts and their surrounding luminal epithelia and decidualized stroma expressed AhR on day 5. On days 6 and 7, persistent AhR expression was found in the transitional zone between the invading embryonic tissue and decidual tissue. On days 9 to 10, placental vasculature and spongiotrophoblasts displayed AhR immunoreactivity. The administration of TCDD on day 4 decreased the number of surviving implanted embryos on day 7 in a dose-dependent manner. This effect of TCDD was inhibited by the simultaneous administration of an AhR antagonist, alpha-naphthoflavone (alpha-NF). The spatio-temporal expression of AhR during the peri-implantation phase of the mouse uterus may indicate functional roles of this orphan receptor in fetomaternal interactions as well as substantiate the risk of exposure to chemicals such as dioxins during the reproductive period.
Rotenone, a potent specific inhibitor of mitochondrial complex-1, appears to reproduce the behavioral features of Parkinson's disease in rats. It destroys dopaminergic neurons selectively, causing deficiency of dopamine in striatum which leads to impaired motor functions. Oxidative stress generated as a result of mitochondrial dysfunction and metabolism of dopamine has been implicated as an important factor in the etiology of Parkinson's disease. Present study explores the potential of centrophenoxine (a well known anti-aging and antioxidant drug) against rotenone induced motor dysfunction. Sprague Dawley male rats were administered with rotenone on a daily basis by subcutaneous injection of dose: 2 mg/kg body weight over a period of 35 days. Data showed impaired motor function, significant increase in catalepsy, decrease in locomotor activity and decrease in muscle activity. Dopamine content of rotenone treated animals was found to decrease significantly and lipid peroxidation was found to increase significantly in rotenone treated animals when compared with co-treated group. Co-treatment with centrophenoxine (100 mg/kg i.p. for 35 days) significantly attenuated the extent of motor dysfunction and changes in the level of dopamine and lipid peroxidation induced by rotenone toxicity. Thus, the present study provides evidence that centrophenoxine co-treatment attenuates rotenone induced motor dysfunction by virtue of its antioxidant action.
