Several authors have investigated the interaction of noise and aspirin in hearing loss, with conflicting results. We studied the combined effects of noise and high doses of aspirin on hearing in rats. Thirty-eight Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into the following five groups: (1) controls; (2) aspirin only; (3) noise only; (4) 8-day per 200 mg of aspirin per noise; and (5) 12-day per 200 mg of aspirin per noise. Auditory brain-stem-evoked responses were measured in each animal prior to, 24 hours after, and 3 weeks after aspirin and noise exposure. The animals were killed and hair cells were counted in 200-micron segments and expressed graphically. Results showed significant differences in permanent threshold shift and hair cell loss between all noise-exposed animals and non-noise-exposed animals. There was also a significantly greater amount of hair cell loss in group 5 when compared with groups 3 or 4. The 12-day per 200 mg of aspirin per noise regimen (group 5) also proved to be fatal for 6 of 15 of these animals, and caused significant weight loss in the survivors. No weight loss or deaths were noted in any other group.
The role of the albumin-carried fatty acids in the induction of tubulointerstitial injury was studied in protein-overload proteinuria. Rats were injected with fatty acid-carrying BSA [FA(+)BSA], fatty acid-depleted BSA [FA(-)BSA], or saline. Macrophage infiltration was measured by immunohistochemical staining, apoptotic cells were detected by in situ end labeling, and proliferating cells were identified by in situ hybridization for histone mRNA. Macrophage infiltration was significantly greater in the FA(+)BSA group than in the FA(-)BSA and saline groups. The infiltrate was largely restricted to the outer cortex. Apoptosis was greater in the FA(+)BSA group than in the FA(-)BSA and saline groups. Compared with the saline group, apoptosis was significantly increased in the FA(+)BSA group but not in the FA(-)BSA group. Cortical cells proliferated significantly more in the FA(+)BSA and FA(-)BSA groups than in the saline group. FA(+)BSA is therefore a more potent inducer of macrophage infiltration and cell death than FA(-)BSA. The fatty acids carried on albumin may be the chief instigators of tubulointerstitial injury in protein-overload proteinuria.
Membrane-bound phosphoinositides are signalling molecules that have a key role in vesicle trafficking in eukaryotic cells. Proteins that bind specific phosphoinositides mediate interactions between membrane-bounded compartments whose identity is partially encoded by cytoplasmic phospholipid tags. Little is known about the localization and regulation of mammalian phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P2), a phospholipid present in small quantities that regulates membrane trafficking in the endosome-lysosome axis in yeast. Here we describe a multi-organ disorder with neuronal degeneration in the central nervous system, peripheral neuronopathy and diluted pigmentation in the 'pale tremor' mouse. Positional cloning identified insertion of ETn2beta (early transposon 2beta) into intron 18 of Fig4 (A530089I17Rik), the homologue of a yeast SAC (suppressor of actin) domain PtdIns(3,5)P2 5-phosphatase located in the vacuolar membrane. The abnormal concentration of PtdIns(3,5)P2 in cultured fibroblasts from pale tremor mice demonstrates the conserved biochemical function of mammalian Fig4. The cytoplasm of fibroblasts from pale tremor mice is filled with large vacuoles that are immunoreactive for LAMP-2 (lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2), consistent with dysfunction of the late endosome-lysosome axis. Neonatal neurodegeneration in sensory and autonomic ganglia is followed by loss of neurons from layers four and five of the cortex, deep cerebellar nuclei and other localized brain regions. The sciatic nerve exhibits reduced numbers of large-diameter myelinated axons, slowed nerve conduction velocity and reduced amplitude of compound muscle action potentials. We identified pathogenic mutations of human FIG4 (KIAA0274) on chromosome 6q21 in four unrelated patients with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy. This novel form of autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disorder is designated CMT4J.
We studied 14 patients to determine whether sustained-release diltiazem is a satisfactory long-term substitute for the combination of propranolol plus hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), control phase, in the treatment of systemic hypertension with coexisting chronic stable angina pectoris. All patients had either one- or two-vessel coronary disease and normal left ventricular systolic function. Measurements were made during the control phase and 4 and 8 weeks after substitution of sustained-release diltiazem. Only the sitting blood pressure was available before the control phase (pretreatment). Blood pressure and heart rate were measured with patients supine, sitting, and 5 minutes after standing. Cardiac output was measured in the supine position using a computerized Doppler system, and stroke volume, mean arterial pressure, and total systemic resistance were calculated. Symptom-limited modified Bruce protocol treadmill tests were performed to determine time to onset of 1 mm ST segment depression, time to termination of exercise, reason for cessation of exercise, and maximum rate-pressure product. The patients were initially receiving 160-240 mg/day of propranolol (40-60 mg q.i.d.) plus 25-50 mg/day of HCTZ and, subsequently, 12 of 14 had substitution with 240 mg/day (120 mg b.i.d.) of sustained-release diltiazem, and two received 360 mg/day with one of these patients also receiving 50 mg/day of HCTZ. These patients are a subset of a larger group of patients in whom the response of blood pressure alone has been previously reported. Diltiazem resulted in reduction of blood pressure equivalent to that with the propranolol plus HCTZ combination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A number of well-documented renal lesions have been associated with intravenous drug use. Recently, investigators reported three cases of granulomatous glomerulonephritis in association with intravenous injection of oxycodone suppositories. We report 2 patients with similar glomerular pathology who presented with chronic renal failure. However, we also highlight the widespread tubulointerstitial involvement in this renal lesion. The fibrillar deposits seen within the glomeruli and extensively within tubular basement membranes on electron microscopy do not have the staining characteristics of amyloid and are not associated with immunoglobulin (Ig) deposition. Is this a new form of non-Ig-associated fibrillary glomerulopathy with its pathogenesis linked to some component of the oxycodone suppositories? One of the patients had a history of narcotic addiction but denied intravenous injection of suppositories. In both patients there was progressive deterioration of renal function with 1 patient requiring dialysis within 3 months of initial presentation.
We report an unusual renal complication of cocaine abuse in a young man who developed loin pain, renal vein thrombosis, and acute renal failure. Cocaine abuse should be considered in the differential diagnosis of renal vein thrombosis in young adults.
Pseudotumor Cerebri (PTC) is an uncommon disorder whose etiology is largely unknown, although its association with steroid withdrawal, hypervitaminosis A, and the use of the tetracycline group of drugs has been well documented. We report here a case in which a patient on chronic divalproex therapy for a seizure disorder developed PTC. Changing his antiepileptic medication from divalproate to topiramate effected a remission of PTC symptoms while maintaining his seizure-free status. It is recommended that physicians treating epilepsy, vascular headaches, or mood disorders with divalproate consider the diagnosis of PTC when their patients complain of new onset of headaches or an increase in frequency or severity of existing headaches--especially those associated with a visual disturbance--to prevent permanent visual loss.
In order to evaluate the heart and liver responses after adriamycin (ADR) toxic aggression, with and without exogenous L-carnitine (CAR) protection, female Sprague-Dawley rats, body weight 40-60 g, were randomized into four groups: CON, ADR, CAR and CAR-ADR. ADR was injected i.v. at a dose of 15-18 mg/kg body wt (0.1 ml). CAR was administered i.v. at a dose of 20 mg (0.1 ml) before each subdose of ADR, and then orally at 180 mg/kg body wt daily for 12 weeks. Long-term cardiac and hepatic subcellular damage were determined by transmission electron microscopic analysis of ultrathin sections. The ADR-induced long-term cardiac subcellular pathology included loss, disruption and disassembly of myofibrils, and mitochondrial swelling and condensation. On the other hand, the ADR-induced subcellular hepatic alterations consisted of polymorphic mitochondria, cytoplasmic vacuolization and accumulation of lipid droplets. Apparently, cardiac tissue was more affected by ADR toxic aggression than hepatic tissue. However, these alterations were of less severity in protected groups, in both heart and liver, suggesting CAR as a possible hepatoprotector agent against ADR toxicity. Because of the liver-L-carnitine-heart relationship, studying ADR-hepatotoxicity could be helpful in the further understanding of severe ADR-cardiotoxicity.
Studies assessing the effect of transdermal nicotine in Parkinson's disease (PD) have generated mixed results regarding its efficacy to treat motor and cognitive deficits. These studies generally reported good tolerability in nonsmoking PD patients. The authors report the tolerability data of an open trial with transdermal nicotine in PD. Twenty-two therapeutically well-controlled nonsmoking PD patients received a transdermal nicotine treatment over 25 days according to the following fixed titration schedule: 7 mg for the first 11 days, 14 mg for the next 11 days, and 21 mg for the last 3 days. Fourteen PD patients (64%) had side effects such as nausea, vomiting, and dizziness, and 10 of them withdrew from the study. Factors such as age, body mass index, disease duration, and motor disability were not related to this intolerance. Transdermal nicotine can produce unpleasant adverse effects in patients with PD. Given that similar doses of nicotine were better tolerated in previous studies, the authors suspect the pharmacokinetic profile of the transdermal delivery system to be a determining factor in the effect of nicotine treatment in PD.
Dicumarol anticoagulation poved very effective in the prevention of thromboembolic complications after aortic valve replacement with the Björk-Shiley tilting disc valve. We have, however, encountered six late deaths because of massive cerebral hemorrhage, which represent 3% of the patients who were maintained on dicumarol medication at that time. This unacceptable mortality prompted us to introduce two programmes, one without anticoagulation and another one with dipyridamole-acetylsalicylic acid. Furthermore, dicumarol was terminated in patients with haemorrhagic episodes, instable anticoagulation, pregnancy, and in those reguiring surgery. The results were disappointing, however, and the majority of the patients involved were therefore put on dicumarol medication. Eleven of the 64 consecutive patients taking dipyridamole - acetylsalicylic acid had thrombo-embolic episodes during a mean follow-up period of 9 months...
To investigate the possible synergism of hydrochlorothiazide and nitrendipine on reducing both blood pressure (BP) and blood pressure variability (BPV) in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR).
Seventy animals were randomly divided into seven groups. The doses were 5 and 10 mg/kg for nitrendipine, 10 and 20 mg/kg for hydrochlorothiazide and 10 + 5, 20 + 10 mg/kg, respectively, for the combination of these two drugs and 0.8% carboxymethylcellulose as control. The drugs were given via a catheter of gastric fistula. BP was then continuously recorded for 5 h from 1 h before drug administration to the end of 4th hour after drug administration, in conscious and freely moving rats.
The effects on both BP and BPV reduction of the combination of hydrochlorothiazide and nitrendipine were greater than the single drug in SHR. The two drugs possessed an obvious synergism on both systolic blood pressure (q = 1.79 with small dose and q = 1.23 with large dose) and systolic blood pressure variability reduction (q = 1.79 with small dose and q = 1.39 with large dose) in SHR.
The present work clearly demonstrated that there was a synergistic effect between hydrochlorothiazide and nitrendipine in lowering and stabilizing BP in SHR.
Seventy Hartley strain guinea pigs (350 g body weight at start of the experiment) were used. BB-K8, gentamicin (GM) and kanamycin (KM) were given to the animals intramuscularly for 28 days at following various doses: (see article) These guinea pigs underwent a differential frequency pinna reflex test in wide frequency range from 20KHz to 0.5 KHz before the administration, during the injection and after the last one. For histopathological examination of the inner ears the guinea pigs were subjected to intravital fixation with Wittmaack's fixative under nembutal general anesthesia. Blocks including the bilateral temporal bones were removed from the skulls and then fixed in the same fixative for 1 similar to 2 weeks. After routine procedure for decalcification, dehydration and celloidin embedding, horizontal serial sections of the inner ears were made and stained with hematoxylin-eosin. The differential frequency pinna relfex test in the 70 guinea pigs indicated positive pinna reflex in 90% at 20KHz and in 100% at 15, 12, 10, 8, 6, 4, 3, 2, 1 and 0.5 KHz before start of the administration. Administration of the antibiotics for 28 days occasionally resulted in the pinna reflex loss which always involved the highest frequency, 20 KHz and then was followed in relatively regular succession by 15, 12, 10, 8, 6, 4, 3, 2, 1 and 0.5 KHz (Tables 1 similar to 8). On the other hand, histopathological examination of the inner ears disclosed that the loss of the outer hair cells in the spiral organ which are the most sensitive to the ototoxic antibiotics, occurred always at the basal end of the spiral organ and then spread from there to upper portion of the spiral organ (Tables 9 similar to 16). Based on the differential frequency pinna reflex test in the wide frequency range and extensive histopathological examination of the inner ears, ototoxicity of BB-K8 is considered to be more mild than GM. However, there was not so remarkable difference in ototoxicity between BB-K8 and KM in the present experiment. The result or examination of the guinea pigs received BB-K8 at 40 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg respectively for 28 days suggests that BB-K8 at expecting clinical dose, 500 mg per day (for 28 days) may be safe from ototoxicosis in the inner ears. In the vestibular organs of the animals received BB-K8 there was no decrease in number of the hair cells.
Introduced over 30 years ago for the treatment of strabismus and blepharospasm, botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) now has established uses for various therapeutic and cosmetic purposes. Although remarkably safe and effective, BTX-A is a potent toxin. Complications can occur, particularly when used by the inexperienced injectors. Through knowledge of its mechanism of action and effect and careful attention to dosing and technique can minimize the risk of more serious adverse events.
Linezolid, an oxazolidinone, is effective in the treatment of adults and children with community-acquired and nosocomial pneumonia and uncomplicated and complicated skin and skin structure infections (SSSIs), including infections caused by Gram-positive resistant pathogens. Because of the increasing use of linezolid, it is important to review the common adverse events (AEs) associated with its use in children with the use of data from clinical trials.
The safety and tolerability of linezolid in pediatric patients with Gram-positive infections were determined in four pediatric clinical studies. Study I included pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia; Study II included otitis media; Study III included SSSIs; and Study IV included complicated SSSIs, nosocomial pneumonia and bacteremia.
Studies I and II had no comparator arm. Study III was randomized and compared linezolid with cefadroxil. Study IV also was randomized and compared linezolid with vancomycin. Patients <12 years of age received linezolid 10 mg/kg; patients age 12 years and older received 600 mg (intravenous/oral). Dosing frequency (two to three times daily) varied depending on age and clinical diagnosis. The primary safety endpoints were AEs, drug-related AEs, serious AEs and selected laboratory tests.
In the 4 studies 958 patients were included in the intent-to-treat analysis. In the linezolid vs. cefadroxil study (Study III), the most common AEs in patients treated with linezolid were diarrhea (7.8%), headache (6.5%) and upper respiratory tract infection (3.7%). In the linezolid vs. vancomycin study (Study IV), the most common AEs in the linezolid group were fever (14.1%), diarrhea (10.8%) and vomiting (9.4%). The most common drug-related AEs for linezolid in all 4 studies were diarrhea, vomiting, loose stools and nausea. None of these common AEs or drug-related AEs occurred more frequently in patients treated with linezolid than in those in the comparator group.
Linezolid was safe and well-tolerated in pediatric patients with community-acquired pneumonia, otitis media, SSSIs and infections caused by Gram-positive resistant pathogens.
Aspirin treatment for primary prevention is safe and useful at an annual coronary event risk > or = 1.5%. Both aspirin and clopidogrel reduce the rate of cardiovascular events in patients with coronary disease. Clopidogrel in addition to aspirin further reduces cardiovascular events, but is associated with and increased bleeding risk. Recent studies in patients with myocardial infarction suggest that treatment with either coumadin or with coumadin and aspirin are both at least as effective than treatment with aspirin alone. Thromboembolism and bleeding during therapeutic anticoagulation are the major chronic risks for patients with native valvular heart disease and mechanical prosthetic valves. The recommendations for the prevention of thromboembolic events and bleeding complications are discussed and recommended intensity of antithrombotic therapy are outlined. Key points of the guidelines for managing patients with atrial fibrillation are summarised.
Linezolid is an effective and well-tolerated antibiotic for the treatment of Gram-positive infections, including hospital and community-acquired pneumonia and complicated and uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections. In adults linezolid treatment for >/=2 weeks has been associated with reversible hematopoietic suppression, primarily thrombocytopenia.
To evaluate the occurrence of hematologic effects in children with Gram-positive infections in an open label study of linezolid vs. vancomycin.
Detailed analyses of hematologic data, including reported hematologic adverse events, complete blood counts, reticulocyte index (RI) and iron studies (serum iron and transferrin saturation), were conducted in both groups at baseline and during and after treatment with the use of an intent-to-treat analysis.
Three hundred sixteen patients (median age, 1.65 yr) randomized 2:1 to linezolid (n = 215) or vancomycin (n = 101) were treated. Total treatment durations were similar in the vancomycin group (12.2 +/- 6.4 days; median, 11.0 days) and the linezolid group (11.3 +/- 5.0 days; median, 11.0 days) (P = 0.20). No significant differences were noted in drug-related hematologic events, such as thrombocytopenia (linezolid, 1.9% vs. vancomycin, 0%; P = 0.170), anemia (linezolid, 1.4% vs. vancomycin, 1.0%; P = 0.771) or neutropenia (linezolid, 0% vs. vancomycin, 0%). Hemoglobin values also were similar between treatment groups when assessed by shifts from baseline to lowest recorded value. Frequency of occurrence of any substantially abnormal value for hemoglobin (15.7% vs. 12.4%), platelets (12.9% vs. 13.4%) and neutrophils (5.9% vs. 4.3%) were similar in the linezolid and vancomycin groups. No clinically relevant changes in RI or iron studies were noted between treatment groups, and parallel increases in RI occurred with both linezolid and vancomycin.
No significant differences in hematologic profiles between linezolid and vancomycin occurred in this pediatric population.
Early life environmental exposure to xenobiotics could represent a critical period for the onset of permanent alterations in the structure and function of different organs. Cardiovascular diseases can be related to various factors including environmental toxicants. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of early life permethrin treatment (1/50 LD(50), from 6th to 21st day of life) on heart of adult rats. Increased DNA damage, decreased heart cell membrane fluidity, increased cholesterol content, protein and lipid oxidation were measured in heart cells from adult rats treated with permethrin during the neonatal period with respect to control rats. Moreover, the same group showed higher levels of cholesterol, IL-1β, IL-2, IFN-γ, rat-Rantes and IL-10 cytokines and decreased albumin content in plasma. Lower cholesterol levels and perturbation in the phospholipid lateral diffusion together with decreased GSH levels and increased GPx activity were measured in heart mitochondria of the treated group. Our findings support the evidence that the neonatal period has a critical role in the development of heart disease in adulthood. We hypothesize that the alterations observed in adult rats could depend on epigenetic changes that occurred during this period which influence gene expression throughout the rat's life, leading to alterations of certain parameters related to cardiac function.
Organophosphate-induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP) is a rare toxicity resulting from exposure to certain organophosphorus (OP) esters. It is characterised by distal degeneration of some axons of both the peripheral and central nervous systems occurring 1-4 weeks after single or short-term exposures. Cramping muscle pain in the lower limbs, distal numbness and paraesthesiae occur, followed by progressive weakness, depression of deep tendon reflexes in the lower limbs and, in severe cases, in the upper limbs. Signs include high-stepping gait associated with bilateral foot drop and, in severe cases, quadriplegia with foot and wrist drop as well as pyramidal signs. In time, there might be significant recovery of the peripheral nerve function but, depending on the degree of pyramidal involvement, spastic ataxia may be a permanent outcome of severe OPIDP. Human and experimental data indicate that recovery is usually complete in the young. At onset, the electrophysiological changes include reduced amplitude of the compound muscle potential, increased distal latencies and normal or slightly reduced nerve conduction velocities. The progression of the disease, usually over a few days, may lead to non-excitability of the nerve with electromyographical signs of denervation. Nerve biopsies have been performed in a few cases and showed axonal degeneration with secondary demyelination. Neuropathy target esterase (NTE) is thought to be the target of OPIDP initiation. The ratio of inhibitory powers for acetylcholinesterase and NTE represents the crucial guideline for the aetiological attribution of OP-induced peripheral neuropathy. In fact, pre-marketing toxicity testing in animals selects OP insecticides with cholinergic toxicity potential much higher than that to result in OPIDP. Therefore, OPIDP may develop only after very large exposures to insecticides, causing severe cholinergic toxicity. However, this was not the case with certain triaryl phosphates that were not used as insecticides but as hydraulic fluids, lubricants and plasticisers and do not result in cholinergic toxicity. Several thousand cases of OPIDP as a result of exposure to tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate have been reported, whereas the number of cases of OPIDP as a result of OP insecticide poisoning is much lower. In this article, we mainly discuss OP pesticide poisoning, particularly when caused by chlorpyrifos, dichlorvos, isofenphos, methamidophos, mipafox, trichlorfon, trichlornat, phosphamidon/mevinphos and by certain carbamates. We also discuss case reports where neuropathies were not convincingly attributed to fenthion, malathion, omethoate/dimethoate, parathion and merphos. Finally, several observational studies on long-term, low-level exposures to OPs that sometimes reported mild, inconsistent and unexplained changes of unclear significance in peripheral nerves are briefly discussed.
S-1 is an oral fluorouracil antitumor drug that combines three pharmacological agents: tegafur, a prodrug of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU); 5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (CDHP), an inhibitor of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD); and potassium oxonate, an agent included to reduce gastrointestinal toxicity. S-1 has a potent antitumor effect on gastric cancer, even in 5-FU-refractory cases. However, there is a lack of basic information to account for this clinical outcome. This study was performed to determine the differences in antitumor effects of combined administration of 5-FU and CDHP between NUGC-3 cells and NUGC-3/5FU/L cells, which are resistant to 5-FU (established by repeated cultures of NUGC-3 with escalating concentrations of 5-FU), and to determine the mechanisms involved.
Both cell lines were incubated with various concentrations of 5-FU and/or CDHP. The antitumor effect was assessed using an MTS assay and cell counts. DPD levels were assayed by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Expression of DPD and thymidylate synthase (TS) mRNA was quantified using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis.
The combination of 5-FU (IC15) with CDHP exerted a synergistic antitumor effect on NUGC-3/5FU/L, but not on NUGC-3, while CDHP by itself did not affect cell growth in either cell line. Expression of DPD was not detected in NUGC-3/5FU/L. In NUGC-3/5FU/L, 5-FU-enhanced expression of TS mRNA was inhibited by the addition of CDHP. In contrast, in NUGC-3, administration of 5-FU with or without CDHP did not alter TS mRNA expression.
The inhibitory mechanism of CDHP, which is independent of DPD, may in part contribute to the antitumor effect of S-1 even in 5-FU-resistant gastric cancer cases.
Following treatment with stimulant medications for symptoms of attention deficit disorder, Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome occurred in 15 patients. Early signs of Tourette's syndrome may be difficult to distinguish from hyperactive and attention disordered symptoms, leading the clinician to consider, treatment with stimulants. In these Tourette's-susceptible patients, stimulants may exacerbate severe motor and phonic tics, requiring discontinuation of administration of stimulants and institution of haloperidol therapy for tic control. Clinical evaluation for tics and Tourette's syndrome in children and their families should precede and dictate use of stimulant medications in children.
There has been considerable interest in the use of small fish models for detecting potential environmental carcinogens. In this study, both guppies (Poecilia reticulata) and medaka (Oryzias latipes) were exposed in the aquaria water to three known rodent carcinogens for up to 16 months. Nitromethane, which caused mammary gland tumors by inhalation exposure in female rats, harderian gland and lung tumors in male and female mice, and liver tumors in female mice by inhalation, failed to increase tumors in either guppies or medaka. Propanediol, which when given in the feed was a multisite carcinogen in both sexes of rats and mice, caused increased liver tumors in male guppies and male medaka. There was reduced survival in female guppies and no increased tumors in female medaka. 1,2,3-Trichloropropane, which when administered by oral gavage was a multisite carcinogen in both sexes of rats and mice, caused an increased incidence of tumors in the liver of both male and female guppies and medaka and in the gallbladder of male and female medaka. The results of this study demonstrate that for these three chemicals, under these specific exposure conditions, the fish appear less sensitive and have a narrower spectrum of tissues affected than rodents. These results suggest that fish models are of limited utility in screening unknown chemicals for potential carcinogenicity.
A 30 year-old male patient with accelerated arterial hypertension relatively resistent to diazoxide received a single oral dose of 100 mg of atenolol, following which hypotension of more than 24 hours duration and acute renal failure ensued. These alterations were reversible and did not recur with subsequent doses of atenolol. Prior therapy with diazoxide might have potentiated the hypotensive action of atenolol. The abnormality could be due to a phenomenon of hyperreactivity to the first dose of atenolol, similar to what has been described following first doses of prazosin or labetalol. This observation suggests that atenolol therapy must be started with caution, especially in patients previously treated with diazoxide.
In hepatic toxicity induced in rats by two injections of thioacetamide (TAA, 350 mg/kg with an interval of 8 hr), the action of quercetin was investigated. After 96 hr, TAA administration resulted in hepatic necrosis, significant increases in serum transaminase activity, and increases in hepatic lipoperoxidation. Thioacetamide-induced hepatotoxicity also showed changes in antioxidant enzymes in the liver of rats, with alterations in p-ERK 1/2 (phosphorylated extracellular-signal related kinase 1/2) as well as an imbalance between proapototic protein Bax and anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 expression. With administration of the flavonoid quercetin (50 mg/Kg i.p.) for four consecutive days following TAA, serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity were close to normal values in rats. Histological findings suggested that quercetin had a preventive effect on TAA-induced hepatic necrosis. Quercetin treatment caused significant decreases in lipid peroxide levels in the TAA-treated rats, with some changes in antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). Quercetin also inhibited the change of the p-ERK1/2 by TAA and significantly prevented the increase in Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, thus preventing apoptosis. Findings indicate that quercetin may have a preventive effect on TAA-induced hepatotoxicity by modulating the oxidative stress parameters and apoptosis pathway.
The purpose of this study was to compare the toxicity of three marketed corticosteroid receptor agonists (mometasone furoate, budesonide, or flunisolide) to the stomach of female CD-1 mice following oral administration via the diet for up to 52 weeks, with a 16-week recovery period (budesonide and flunisolide). A range of tissues was examined by light microscopy, accompanied by clinical pathology measurements to assess anticipated corticosteroid effects as a surrogate marker of systemic drug exposure. Microscopic changes seen in the stomach with each corticosteroid included pyloric hyalinization. This previously unreported finding was investigated using histochemical and immunohistochemical techniques and was found to consist of hyalinized collagen, in association with increased immunohistochemical signal for transglutaminase-2 and osteopontin. The significance of the osteopontin finding is unclear; however, the ability of transglutaminase-2 to facilitate the formation of degradation resistant protein bonds implies this protein may be involved in the pathogenesis of this change. Furthermore, published evidence that transglutaminase-2 may be induced by a corticosteroid agonist raises the possibility that pyloric stomach hyalinization may be a class effect of corticosteroids via the action of this enzyme.
Rhabdomyolysis may develop after various traumatic and nontraumatic circumstances. The use of lipid-lowering statins as well as the abuse of stimulants such as methylendioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy) can lead to fatal rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure. We describe a case of diclofenac-induced rhabdomyolysis after a cumulative dose of 200 mg per os with consecutive critical increase of the creatine kinase and myoglobin. Prescription of diclofenac should therefore be done with caution. In cases of emergent myalgias, immediate testing of creatine kinase and myoglobin is mandatory to exclude fatal rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure.
