Recombinant rat growth hormone (rrGH) and recombinant mouse growth hormone (rmGH) were developed to evaluate the potential carcinogenicity of each biologically active growth hormone (GH) as assessed in the respective species. Biological activities of rrGH and rmGH were demonstrated by showing an increase in body weight gain and serum levels of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in hypophysectomized rats receiving daily sc injections for 6 days. With the exception of pharmacologically mediated weight gain, rrGH and rmGH had no adverse effects in 5-week oral toxicity studies and no production of anti-recombinant GH antibodies. The high doses selected for the carcinogenicity studies provided systemic exposures of GH up to approximately 10-fold over basal levels. In the 105-week mouse carcinogenicity study, daily sc injections of rmGH at 0.1, 0.2, or 0.5 mg/kg/day were well tolerated and had no effects on survival or incidence of tumors. In the 106-week rat carcinogenicity study, daily sc injections of rrGH at 0.2, 0.4, or 0.8 mg/kg/day had a favorable effect on longevity in female rats administered 0.4 or 0.8 mg/kg/day, an increased weight gain in females and males, and no increase in the incidence of tumors. The absence of carcinogenic effects of recombinant GH administered daily for 2 years to rodents was consistent with publications of clinical experience, indicating a lack of convincing evidence for an increased risk of cancer in children receiving human recombinant GH replacement therapy.
Neurotoxicity after subarachnoid infusion of bupivacaine, lignocaine and 2-chloroprocaine was studied in a chronic rat model. Hartmann's solution 100 microliter h-1 was infused as a control, and 0.5% bupivacaine, 1.5% lignocaine and 2.0% 2-chloroprocaine were infused at 100 microliter h-1 for 3, 6 or 24 h, to five rats in each group. No residual paralysis occurred in the control group, but 27 of 45 rats (60%) which received an infusion of local anaesthetic had residual paralysis lasting until sacrifice at 7 days. The incidence of paralysis was dependent on the duration of exposure to the local anaesthetic, but there were no significant differences in incidence between any of the local anaesthetics tested. Abnormal histology, in the form of neuronal vacuolation, was not a sensitive index, being present in control rats, but more intense in those receiving lignocaine and 2-chloroprocaine than in those given bupivacaine; no correlation with clinical findings could be established. The neurotoxic effects of each local anaesthetic tested as a continuous intrathecal infusion were dose related in the rat, which may be a useful model for screening other local anaesthetics.
In the present study, the effects of fluvoxamine on the inhibition of gastrointestinal transit, antinociception and hyperlocomotion induced by morphine were investigated in mice. Treatment with morphine (10 mg/kg, subcutaneously (s.c.)) inhibited gastrointestinal transit and hyperlocomotion. These effects were attenuated by fluvoxamine in a dose-dependent manner. On the other hand, morphine (1 mg/kg, s.c.)-induced antinociception was significantly potentiated by fluvoxamine. These results suggest that fluvoxamine combined with morphine may be useful for the treatment of not only depression but also pain in cancer patients without constipation or activation of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. However, further understanding and clinical studies will be required to confirm this possibility.
We describe a case of a patient with cisplatin-induced hypomagnesemia who suffered brief asystole during an episode of gastroenteritis. Structural heart disease was excluded. The patient achieved complete clinical recovery after short-term administration of intravenous magnesium supplementation. Cisplatin should be considered a cause of hypomagnesemic-related cardiac dysrhythmia. Magnesium deficit may increase myocardial electrical instability and thus, the risk of life-threatening arrhythmias and sudden death. Long-term serum electrolyte measurement and appropriate replacement of magnesium are recommended.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease and its exact cause and pathophysiological process remain unclear. Because the mast cell contains potent mediators, including multifunctional cytokines, its potential contributions to the processes of inflammation and matrix degradation have recently become evident. Gamisopoonghwanghyul-tang (GSPHHT) has been used as a traditional Korean medicine for the treatment of RA. In this study, we investigated the effect of Gamisopoonghwanghyul-tang (GSPHHT) on the production of inflammatory cytokines by activated human mast cell line HMC-1 cells. When GSPHHT (1 mg/ mL) was added, the production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, IL-10 was inhibited by 36.3%, 36.3%, 30.8%, 48.7% respectively in phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate plus calcium ionophore A23187-stimulated HMC-1 cells. However, the production of IL-4 was significantly increased at 0.01 mg/mL. GSPHHT had no effect on TNF-alpha mRNA expression. These results suggest that GSPHHT regulates production of inflammatory cytokines from activated mast cells.
Hangovers are not experienced by all people and whether they contribute to the development of alcoholism is unclear. One population that might provide some insight into the role of hangover in the etiology of alcohol use disorders is that of individuals of Asian heritage. Certain Asians have lower rates of alcohol use and alcoholism, findings associated with a mutation in the aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH2) gene. Asians with ALDH2*2 alleles drink less and are less likely to be alcoholic than Asians without this mutation. Following alcohol ingestion, they exhibit more intense reactions to alcohol and generate higher levels of the metabolite acetaldehyde. This study evaluated hangover symptoms in Asian Americans with variations in the ALDH2 gene.
Men and women of Chinese, Japanese and Korean heritage (N = 140) were asked about their drinking history and a blood sample was collected for genotyping at the ALDH2 locus. Subjects used a Likert-type scale to estimate their severity of hangover and completed a 13-item hangover scale assessing the frequency of hangover symptoms during the previous 6 months.
With abstainers (n = 17) excluded and with the effects of gender and recent drinking history controlled, ALDH2 genotype accounted for a significant amount of additional variability in the estimated severity of hangover score with a similar, but nonsignificant, trend for a five-item subscale score derived from the hangover scale.
These results suggest that Asian Americans with ALDH2*2 alleles may experience more severe hangovers that may contribute, in part, to protection against the development of excessive or problematic drinking in this population.
Genetic, nutrition, and environmental factors have each been implicated as sources of risk for autism. Oxidative stress, including low plasma levels of the antioxidant glutathione, has been reported by numerous autism studies, which can disrupt methylation-dependent epigenetic regulation of gene expression with neurodevelopmental consequences. We investigated the status of redox and methylation metabolites, as well as the level of protein homocysteinylation and hair mercury levels, in autistic and neurotypical control Omani children, who were previously shown to exhibit significant nutritional deficiencies in serum folate and vitamin B₁₂. The serum level of glutathione in autistic subjects was significantly below control levels, while levels of homocysteine and S-adenosylhomocysteine were elevated, indicative of oxidative stress and decreased methionine synthase activity. Autistic males had lower glutathione and higher homocysteine levels than females, while homocysteinylation of serum proteins was increased in autistic males but not females. Mercury levels were markedly elevated in the hair of autistic subjects vs. control subjects, consistent with the importance of glutathione for its elimination. Thus, autism in Oman is associated with decreased antioxidant resources and decreased methylation capacity, in conjunction with elevated hair levels of mercury.
Status epilepticus is a life-threatening condition requiring emergent medical attention. Although initial therapies with antiepileptic drugs generally terminate seizures within 30 to 60 minutes, patients with refractory status epilepticus require additional intervention. High-dose pentobarbital has been the most commonly prescribed agent for the management of refractory status epilepticus in children. The objective of this research was to evaluate the association between the response of pentobarbital coma and neurologic outcomes in refractory status epilepticus. Twenty-three subjects were treated with pentobarbital coma for at least 48 hours. Medical records were reviewed to collect patient demographic information, responses to treatment, and neurologic outcomes. Among the 23 patients reviewed, 12 patients were controlled with pentobarbital (responders), six were unresponsive to pentobarbital (nonresponders), and five patients relapsed after discontinuation or during tapering of pentobarbital (relapser). The mortality rate among the relapser and nonresponder groups combined was 90.9%, but no deaths occurred among the responder group (P < 0.001). The survival rate was greater among toddlers compared with neonates or older children. Failure of seizure control after pentobarbital coma was associated with a poor prognosis. The potential for serious complications of pentobarbital therapy among neonates highlights the need for careful dosing in this age group.
Arthritis and hypertension are frequent comorbidities in the elderly hypertensive population. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are often used to relieve pain in arthritic patients but a side effect is sodium retention and consequent elevation of blood pressure (BP). The effect of dihydropyridine calcium blocking drugs is relatively independent of sodium intake, whereas the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors' effects can be blunted by a high-sodium diet. This study compared the effects of indomethacin with placebo in elderly patients with essential hypertension who had been controlled with amlodipine or enalapril. Indomethacin 50 mg twice daily or placebo was administered for 3 weeks in a double-blind crossover study to patients controlled with amlodipine or enalapril. The response was assessed by ambulatory BP measurement. Indomethacin raised BP and lowered pulse rates in patients taking enalapril but had little effect in patients receiving amlodipine. The difference caused by indomethacin between the two groups was 10.1/4.9 mm Hg increase in BP and a 5.6 beats/min fall in pulse in people taking enalapril. Addition of indomethacin to patients taking either drug caused a rise in weight and a fall in plasma renin. It is postulated that the effect is due to inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which causes sodium retention. In patients taking amlodipine, the fall in plasma renin ameliorates the effect of sodium retention on BP. In patients taking enalapril, plasma renin falls but this is not translated into an effect because of the blockage of converting enzyme. Thus, the full effect of sodium retention on BP is expressed. In patients treated with indomethacin, fewer patients may respond to ACE inhibitors. However, the major problem is the patient who intermittently takes indomethacin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which, if a person is treated by an ACE inhibitor causes BP to go out of control. In such patients amlodipine would appear to be a preferred choice to enalapril.
The magnitude and duration of the antihypertensive effect of nifedipine were studied in 7 cases of moderate essential hypertension. In a double-blind crossover study, nifedipine 10 mg or a placebo were administered sublingually 4 times a day for 2 days, and the results were compared. Each dose of nifedipine reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure by 14% both in the supine and upright positions. The antihypertensive action lasted for about 3 h and it was not cumulative. The reduction in blood pressure was associated with a temporary increase in heart rate. Administration of nifedipine 10 mg did not significantly raise plasma renin activity or plasma aldosterone. The drug was well tolerated and no side effects were detected.
Sixteen patients suffering from bronchial asthma, with or without chronic bronchitis, sufficiently severe to be treated with inhaled corticosteroids, were studied in a single-blind trial (blind observer) of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) given in three randomized dosage regimens: 500, 1000 and 2000 micrograms per day, each for 4 weeks. The beta 2-adrenergic agonist response curve showed a dose-dependent increase in FEV1 which was not affected by different doses of BDP. A small but significant reduction in basal cortisol levels was observed after BDP 500 micrograms/day. There was no significant difference between the various doses of BDP in reducing cortisol level and stimulation with tetracosactide remained unchanged. The study showed a gradual, dose-dependent improvement in lung function, statistically significant for morning peak expiratory flow rate at BDP 2000 micrograms/day. Dyspnoea score and beta 2-agonist use decreased, reflecting the anti-asthmatic effects. An increase in total leukocyte count was observed, together with a decrease in the eosinophil count. Oral candidiasis was seen in 2 out of 16 patients. It is concluded that the clinical anti-asthmatic effects of corticosteroid treatment by inhalation are not due to modulation of beta 2-receptor function in the airways.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the combination of oxaliplatin and ELF (VP16/CF/5-Fu) regimen in the treatment of patients with advanced gastric cancer.
Oxaliplatin was given at a dose of 100 mg/m(2) i.v. 2 hours D1, calcium folinate (CF) 200 mg/m(2) i.v. 1/2 hour D1 approximately D3, 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) 500 mg/m(2) i.v. 2 hours D1 approximately D3 and etoposide 100 mg/m(2) i.v. 3 hours D1 approximately D3. Cycles were repeated every 21 days. Efficacy and safety were evaluated every 2 cycles.
Sixty-nine patients were enrolled into the study. All cases were pathologically confirmed as gastric cancer (adenocarcinoma in 57 cases and signet ring cell carcinoma in 12 cases). 42 patients had newly diagnosed disease, and 27 patients had received previous chemotherapy. 62 patients were analyzed for response (7 complete responses and 25 partial responses) with total response rate 51.61%. The median time to progression was 5.7 months and the median overall survival was 9.2 months. The most common hematologic toxicities were anemia (29.0%), leucopenia (51.2%) and thrombocytopenia (21.2%). No grade 4 and grade 5 hematologic toxicities were observed. The most common non-hematologic toxicities were nausea (46.5%), vomiting (41.1%), peripheral sensory neuropathy (47.1%), and grade 2 alopecia (27.3%).
This oxaliplatin combined with ELF regimen shows good efficacy and acceptable safety in advanced gastric cancer patients. It is worthy to be proved as a suitable alternative regimen in this indication.
The clinical and radiographic features of cerebral deep venous thrombosis in a 21-year-old white woman are presented. This nulliparous patient presented with relatively mild clinical symptoms and progressing mental status changes. The only known risk factor was "low-dose" oral contraceptive pills. The magnetic resonance image (MRI) showed increased signal intensity from the internal cerebral veins, vein of Galen, and straight sinus. The diagnosis was confirmed by arterial angiography.
The outbreaks of cutaneous disease caused by Leishmania tropica in Afghan refugees, visceral disease in Sudanese refugees, and cutaneous disease caused by Leishmania major in American forces in Iraq are examples of the large number of cases of leishmaniasis that can result when naive human populations intrude into regions where transmission is endemic. Injections of pentavalent antimony for 20 to 30 days have been the standard treatment for all forms of leishmaniasis, but resistance is growing and antimonials have moderate toxicity. Two major advances in the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis have been made in the past few years. Liposomal amphotericin B cures virtually all patients, with little side effects. Miltefosine is the first oral agent that is effective. For cutaneous disease, alternatives to antimony have been effective in certain regions but have not yet been generally evaluated.
There is growing evidence that microcystins (MCs) act as hazardous materials and can disrupt the endocrine systems of animals. However, the response of thyroid function and the related energy metabolism following MCs exposure is still unknown. In the present study, mice were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with doses of either 5 or 20 μg/kg MC-LR for 4 weeks. We report, for the first time, that mice exposed to 20 μg/kg MC-LR showed disrupted glucose, triglyceride and cholesterol metabolism with obvious symptoms of hyperphagia, polydipsia, and weight loss. The circulating thyroid hormone (TH) levels in mice following MC-LR exposure were detected. Significantly increased free triiodothyronine (FT3) and decreased free thyroxin (FT4) were largely responsible for the physiological aberrations and metabolic disorders observed in mice after the 20 μg/kg MC-LR exposure. Increased expression of TH receptor (Trα) and mTOR expression in the brain after the 20 μg/kg MC-LR exposure suggests that the increased FT3 enhanced mTOR signaling subsequently led to hyperphagia and elevated energy expenditure in mice. Furthermore, several genes involved in glucose homeostasis and lipid metabolism, which have been identified affected by TH, were also differentially expressed after MC-LR exposure. The above results clearly showed that mice exposed to MC-LR experienced thyroid dysfunction and its downstream functional changes, and are useful to better understand the endocrine toxicity of MC-LR to mammals or even humans.
Chlorine (Cl2) causes tissue damage and a neutrophilic inflammatory response in the airways manifested by pronounced airway hyperreactivity (AHR). The importance of early anti-inflammatory treatment has previously been addressed. In the previous study, both high-dose and low-dose of dexamethasone (DEX) decreased the risk of developing delayed effects, such as persistent lung injuries, while only high-dose treatment could significantly counteract acute-phase effects. One aim of this study was to evaluate whether a low-dose of DEX in combination with the antioxidant N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) and if different treatments (Triptolide, Reparixin and Rolipram) administered 1h after Cl2-exposure could improve protection against acute lung injury in Cl2-exposed mice. BALB/c mice were exposed to 300 ppm Cl2 during 15 min. Assessment of AHR and inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage was analyzed 24h post exposure. Neither of DEX nor NAC reduced the AHR and displayed only minor effects on inflammatory cell influx when given as separate treatments. When given in combination, a protective effect on AHR and a significant reduction in inflammatory cells (neutrophils) was observed. Neither of triptolide, Reparixin nor Rolipram had an effect on AHR but Triptolide had major effect on the inflammatory cell influx. Treatments did not reduce the concentration of either fibrinogen or plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in serum, thereby supporting the theory that the inflammatory response is not solely limited to the lung. These results provide a foundation for future studies aimed at identifying new concepts for treatment of chemical-induced lung injury. Studies addressing combination of anti-inflammatory and antioxidant treatment are highly motivated.
The present study examined whether the inhibition of serotonin transporters (SERT) contributes to cocaine- and other local anesthetics-induced convulsions, and which subtypes of 5-HT receptor are involved in the convulsions. For this purpose, cocaine, meprylcaine and lidocaine, all of which have different effects on SERT, were used as convulsants and the effects of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), specific agonists and antagonists for 5-HT receptor subtypes were evaluated in mice. Administration of SSRI, zimelidine, citalopram and fluoxetine, 5-HT(2A,2C) receptor agonist, R(-)-DOI and the 5-HT2C receptor agonists, mCPP, and MK212 resulted in a marked increase in incidence of convulsions and a reduction in the threshold of lidocaine-induced convulsions, while the 5-HT2B receptor agonist, BW723C86, had little influence. On the other hand, SSRI did not affect the measured parameters in meprylcaine- and cocaine-induced convulsions. R(-)-DOI, mCPP, and MK212 reduced the threshold of meprylcaine or cocaine with less extent than the reduction of lidocaine threshold. Incidence of cocaine- and meprylcaine-induced convulsions was significantly reduced by 5-HT(2A,2B,2C) antagonist, LY-53857, and 5-HT2C antagonist, RS 102221. The threshold of cocaine and meprylcaine was significantly increased by both antagonists. 5-HT2A antagonists MDL 11,939 and ketanserin, and 5-HT2B antagonist SB 204741 except at high doses had little effect on cocaine- and meprylcaine-induced convulsions. None of these antagonists altered the parameters of lidocaine-induced convulsions. Pretreatment with fluoxetine but not citalopram increased the plasma concentration of lidocaine. These results suggest that the increase of serotonergic neuronal activity through 5-HT2C receptor stimulation was responsible for increased activity of local anesthetics-induced convulsions and support the involvement of this mechanism in cocaine- and meprylcaine- but not in lidocaine-induced convulsions through their direct inhibitory action on central SERT.
We describe a new variant of Glanzmann's thrombasthenia (variant Strasbourg I). The patient (M.S.) showed an absence of platelet aggregation to ADP, thrombin, and collagen, and a decreased clot retraction. Platelet fibrinogen was approximately 20% of normal levels. ADP-stimulated platelets bound markedly reduced amounts of soluble fibrinogen and platelet adhesion to surface-bound fibrinogen was defective. Normal to subnormal amounts of glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa (alpha IIb beta 3) complexes, the platelet fibrinogen receptor, were revealed by SDS-PAGE, crossed immunoelectrophoresis, and antibody binding. However, the complexes were unusually sensitive to dissociation with EDTA at room temperature. Furthermore, flow cytometry showed that the platelets failed to bind the activation-dependent monoclonal antibody, PAC-1, after stimulation. In contrast, an RGDS-containing peptide induced significant binding of the anti-ligand-induced binding site antibody, D3GP3, suggesting the presence of a functional RGD binding domain on the patient's GPIIb-IIIa complex. Sequence analysis was performed after polymerase chain reaction amplification of selected patient's GPIIIa exons, and of the patient's platelet GPIIb and GPIIIa mRNAs. A point mutation (C to T) was localized in exon D (iv) of GPIIIa that resulted in an 214Arg to 214Trp amino acid substitution. The defect has been inherited from the parents who are heterozygous for the same mutation. This substitution points to an essential amino acid in a region of GPIIIa involved in the binding of fibrinogen and influencing the Ca(2+)-dependent stability of the GPIIb-IIIa complex.
Clonidine prolongs the duration of sensory and motor block induced by bupivacaine, and this association, in constant infusion by the epidural route, is used for postoperative analgesia. After a near-fatal intravenous bolus of bupivacaine in dogs, clonidine improves ventricular electrophysiologic parameters, but probably worsens bupivacaine-induced bradycardia and depression of the myocardial contractility. The current study, using a rodent animal model, evaluated the influence of clonidine pretreatment on the systemic toxic effects of bupivacaine overdose induced by a constant intravenous infusion.
Twenty Wistar male rats were anesthetized with thiopental, and controlled ventilation was started with an equal mixture of O2 and N2O. Electrocardiogram (ECG), electroencephalogram (EEG), and invasive arterial blood pressure were continuously recorded. Clonidine (5 micrograms/kg) or saline was injected intravenously in a randomized fashion. After 15 min, an intravenous infusion of bupivacaine was started at 2 mg.kg-1 x min-1. The time of occurrence of the bupivacaine-induced toxic events was recorded and the doses were calculated. Ten (five in each group) additional rats, pretreated according to the same protocol, were killed at the time of the first dysrhythmia, for blood sampling and plasma bupivacaine concentration measurement.
Clonidine reduced heart rate and arterial blood pressure before bupivacaine infusion (P < 0.05). The threshold doses at the first QRS modification (11.3 +/- 5.6 vs. 2.1 +/- 0.9 mg/kg) and the first dysrhythmia (40.6 +/- 15.3 vs. 8.48 +/- 3.7 mg/kg), the increase in EEG total spectral power (33.3 +/- 21.9 vs. 8.2 +/- 5.1 mg/kg), the 25 and 50% reduction in baseline mean arterial pressure and heart rate, the isoelectric EEG (58.6 +/- 14 vs. 22 +/- 6.6 mg/kg), and the final systole (99 +/- 16 vs. 51.8 +/- 14.5 mg/kg) were significantly greater in the clonidine group than in the saline group (P < 0.01). The time between the first dysrhythmia and 50% reduction of baseline mean arterial blood pressure was not different between the groups. In the additional series, the first dysrhythmia occurred later (10.9 +/- 4.5 vs. 3.2 +/- 1.0 min, P < 0.01) and plasma bupivacaine levels were greater (18.7 +/- 8.0 vs. 7.8 +/- 3.2 micrograms/ml, P < 0.01) in the clonidine group than in the saline group.
In this model, clonidine given prophylactically delays the toxic manifestations of bupivacaine overdose and does not accentuate the subsequent hypotension.
Hexachlorophene (HCP) is known to induce myelin vacuolation corresponding to intramyelinic edema of nerve fibers in the central and peripheral nervous system in animals. This study investigated the effect of maternal exposure to HCP on hippocampal neurogenesis in rat offspring using pregnant rats supplemented with 0 (controls), 100, or 300 ppm HCP in the diet from gestational day 6 to day 21 after delivery. On postnatal day (PND) 21, the numbers of T box brain 2(+) progenitor cells and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling(+) apoptotic cells in the hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ) decreased in female offspring at 300 ppm, which was accompanied by myelin vacuolation and punctate tubulin beta-3 chain staining of nerve fibers in the hippocampal fimbria. In addition, transcript levels of the cholinergic receptor, nicotinic beta 2 (Chrnb2) and B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 (Bcl2) decreased in the dentate gyrus. HCP-exposure did not alter the numbers of SGZ proliferating cells and reelin- or calcium-binding protein-expressing γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic interneuron subpopulations in the dentate hilus on PND 21 and PND 77. Although some myelin vacuolation remained, all other changes observed in HCP-exposed offspring on PND 21 disappeared on PND 77. These results suggest that maternal HCP exposure reversibly decreases type-2b intermediate-stage progenitor cells via the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway in offspring hippocampal neurogenesis at 300 ppm HCP. Neurogenesis may be affected by dysfunction of cholinergic inputs into granule cell lineages and/or GABAergic interneurons as indicated by decreased transcript levels of Chrnb2 and numbers of Chrnb2(+) interneurons caused by myelin vacuolation in the septal-hippocampal pathway.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) maintain the crucial role in physiological turnover of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins in gastric tissues. However, a little is known about the relationship of MMPs with ECM degradation during gastric ulceration and ECM remodeling during healing. Our objective was to investigate the effect of melatonin (N-acetyl-5 methoxytryptamine) on the regulation of MMP-9 and MMP-2 activity during prevention of gastric ulcer. In the present study, biochemical and zymographic methods were used to analyze the mechanism of melatonin in indomethacin-induced gastric ulcer in a rat model. Our studies reveal that melatonin dose-dependently downregulates the expression and secretion of pro-MMP-9 which is induced (approximately 10-fold) during indomethacin-induced gastric ulceration. Furthermore, melatonin prevents gastric ulceration in a dose-dependent manner through upregulation (approximately two- to threefold) of both pro-MMP-2 and active MMP-2 at the level of induction as well as secretion. It also prevents gastric ulcers by blocking glutathione depletion and lipid peroxidation in cytosolic and microsomal fractions. The novel findings of this study are attributed to the attenuation of the pro-MMP-9 and increase of MMP-2 activity by pretreatment with melatonin. The finding defines one of the MMP-mediated pathways for melatonin's action in gastric ulcer.
Renin-angiotensin and endothelin systems are involved in the cardiovascular effects produced by treatment with ouabain. We recently demonstrated that the contractile response to phenylephrine is decreased in ouabain-treated rats. The present study investigated whether endothelin-1 (ET-1) and angiotensin II (Ang II) contributes to the vascular changes observed in rats chronically treated with ouabain. Wistar rats were treated with ouabain (8.0 microg day(-1), s.c. pellets for 5 weeks) alone or in combination with an endothelin type A receptor (ET(A)) antagonist, BMS182874 (40 mg kg(-1) day(-1), per gavage) or an angiotensin type 1 (AT(1)) receptor antagonist, losartan (15 mg kg(-1) day(-1), p.o.). Treatment with ouabain increased systolic blood pressure and treatment with either losartan or BMS182874 prevented the development of ouabain-induced hypertension. The sensitivity and maximal response for phenylephrine were reduced in aortic rings from ouabain-treated rats. Removal of the endothelium or in vitro exposure to an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 100 microM) increased the responses to phenylephrine, an effect that was more pronounced in aortas from ouabain-treated rats. Endothelial NOS protein (eNOS) expression was increased after ouabain treatment. Treatment with BMS182874, but not with losartan, prevented the effects of ouabain on the reactivity of phenylephrine and in eNOS protein expression. Gene expression of pre-pro-ET-1 and ET(A) receptors was increased in aortic rings from ouabain-treated rats. ET(B) receptor gene expression was not altered by ouabain treatment. In conclusion, our results suggest that endothelin and angiotensin systems play an important role in the development of ouabain-induced hypertension. However, ET-1, by activation of ET(A) receptors, but not Ang II, contributes to changes in vascular reactivity to phenylephrine induced by chronic treatment with ouabain.
The septo-hippocampal cholinergic pathway has been implicated in epileptogenesis, and genetic factors influence the response to cholinergic agents, but limited data are available on cholinergic involvement in alcohol withdrawal severity. Thus, the relationship between cholinergic activity and responsiveness and alcohol withdrawal was investigated in a genetic animal model of ethanol withdrawal severity.
Cholinergic convulsant sensitivity was examined in alcohol-naïve Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) and-Resistant (WSR) mice. Animals were administered nicotine, carbachol, or neostigmine via timed tail vein infusion, and the latencies to onset of tremor and clonus were recorded and converted to threshold dose. We also used microdialysis to measure basal and potassium-stimulated acetylcholine (ACh) release in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Potassium was applied by reverse dialysis twice, separated by 75 min. Hippocampal ACh also was measured during testing for handling-induced convulsions.
Sensitivity to several convulsion endpoints induced by nicotine, carbachol, and neostigmine were significantly greater in WSR versus WSP mice. In microdialysis experiments, the lines did not differ in basal release of ACh, and 50 mM KCl increased ACh output in both lines of mice. However, the increase in release of ACh produced by the first application of KCl was 2-fold higher in WSP versus WSR mice. When hippocampal ACh was measured during testing for handling-induced convulsions, extracellular ACh was significantly elevated (192%) in WSP mice, but was nonsignificantly elevated (59%) in WSR mice.
These results suggest that differences in cholinergic activity and postsynaptic sensitivity to cholinergic convulsants may be associated with ethanol withdrawal severity and implicate cholinergic mechanisms in alcohol withdrawal. Specifically, WSP mice may have lower sensitivity to cholinergic convulsants compared with WSR because of postsynaptic receptor desensitization brought on by higher activity of cholinergic neurons.
