In puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced focal glomerulosclerosis (FGS), the accumulation of type I collagen has been reported to be observed immunohistochemically in the sclerotic area. The present study was designed to identify the cell type involved in the synthesis of type I collagen in glomerulosclerosis. Tissue sections obtained from rat kidneys with PAN-induced FGS were hybridized with digoxigenin-labeled alpha 1(I) collagen anti-sense and sense cRNA probes. Hybridization signals of alpha 1(I) collagen mRNA were mainly detected in adhesive lesions on the glomerular capillary loop, suggesting that alpha 1(I) collagen mRNA-positive cells were visceral or parietal epithelial cells and did not have a mesangial distribution. Signals were also detected in interstitial cells. The alpha 1(I) collagen mRNA expression, however, was not observed in ED-1-positive cells. It is likely that intrinsic glomerular cells and interstitial cells, but not macrophages, synthesize type I collagen in sclerotic glomeruli.
Glucocorticoids may indirectly cause convulsions by the induction of electrolytes abnormalities, severe hypertension, or severe hyperglycemia. These agents may rarely cause convulsions by a direct toxicity to the central nervous system (CNS). We describe a 23-yr-old patient with Crohn's disease in whom generalized convulsions developed on two occasions while receiving intravenous hydrocortisone.
It is now well established that the reduced capacity of tumor cells of undergoing cell death through apoptosis plays a key role both in the pathogenesis of cancer and in therapeutic treatment failure. Indeed, tumor cells frequently display multiple alterations in signal transduction pathways leading to either cell survival or apoptosis. In mammals, the pathway based on phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt conveys survival signals of extreme importance and its downregulation, by means of pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K, considerably lowers resistance to various types of therapy in solid tumors. We recently described an HL60 leukemia cell clone (HL60AR cells) with a constitutively active PI3K/Akt pathway. These cells were resistant to multiple chemotherapeutic drugs, all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL). Treatment with two pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K, wortmannin and Ly294002, restored sensitivity of HL60AR cells to the aforementioned treatments. However, these inhibitors have some drawbacks that may severely limit or impede their clinical use. Here, we have tested whether or not a new selective Akt inhibitor, 1L-6-hydroxymethyl-chiro-inositol 2(R)-2-O-methyl-3-O-octadecylcarbonate (Akt inhibitor), was as effective as Ly294002 in lowering the sensitivity threshold of HL60 cells to chemotherapeutic drugs, TRAIL, ATRA, and ionizing radiation. Our findings demonstrate that, at a concentration which does not affect PI3K activity, the Akt inhibitor markedly reduced resistance of HL60AR cells to etoposide, cytarabine, TRAIL, ATRA, and ionizing radiation. This effect was likely achieved through downregulation of expression of antiapoptotic proteins such as c-IAP1, c-IAP2, cFLIP(L), and of Bad phosphorylation on Ser 136. The Akt inhibitor did not influence PTEN activity. At variance with Ly294002, the Akt inhibitor did not negatively affect phosphorylation of protein kinase C-zeta and it was less effective in downregulating p70S6 kinase (p70S6K) activity. The Akt inhibitor increased sensitivity to apoptotic inducers of K562 and U937, but not of MOLT-4, leukemia cells. Overall, our results indicate that selective Akt pharmacological inhibitors might be used in the future for enhancing the sensitivity of leukemia cells to therapeutic treatments that induce apoptosis or for overcoming resistance to these treatments.
Chest pain with ST-segment elevation is a rare clinical problem during dobutamine stress testing. Although beta-agonists treatment prior to dobutamine stress testing has been shown to reduce the duration and amount of dobutamine infusion and atropine requirement, there is insufficient information about potential complications of this pharmacologic combination.
We present a 67-year-old patient with dobutamine stress testing -induced chest pain and ST elevation who received albuterol for clinical treatment of bronchospastic disease prior to the test. She developed persistent chest pain and ST elevation despite medical management. Urgent cardiac catheterization showed no significant obstructive coronary artery disease. Thus coronary artery spasm was likely responsible for the chest pain and electrocardiogram abnormality in our patient as a result of beta-agonist and dobutamine combination.
Beta-agonists pre-treatment with dobutamine stress testing may induce coronary spasm in association with chest pain and ST elevation. Clinicians and nuclear cardiologist should be aware of this potential side effect of beta-agonists treatment with dobutamine stress testing, particularly since dobutamine stress testing in nuclear cardiology is done in patient with chronic obstructive lung disease.
Congenital heart malformation (CHM) is the most common form of congenital human birth anomaly and is the leading cause of infant mortality. Although some causative genes have been identified, little progress has been made in identifying genes in which low-penetrance susceptibility variants occur in the majority of sporadic CHM cases. To identify common genetic variants associated with sporadic non-syndromic CHM in Han Chinese populations, we performed a multistage genome-wide association study (GWAS) in a total of 4,225 CHM cases and 5,112 non-CHM controls. The GWAS stage included 945 cases and 1,246 controls and was followed by 2-stage validation with 2,160 cases and 3,866 controls. The combined analyses identified significant associations (P < 5.0 × 10⁻⁸) at 1p12 (rs2474937 near TBX15; odds ratio (OR) = 1.40; P = 8.44 × 10⁻¹⁰) and 4q31.1 (rs1531070 in MAML3; OR = 1.40; P = 4.99 × 10⁻¹²). These results extend current knowledge of genetic contributions to CHM in Han Chinese populations.
The following case report shows that life threatening arrhythmias with fatal consequences may occur after treatment with Cordichin a combination of 80 mg verapamil and 160 mg quinidine. A 65-year-old woman was treated with Cordichin due to atrial fibrillation lasting for 3 months. After the first day of treatment the patient suddenly collapsed with loss of consciousness. The patient was resuscitated 15 min later. The emergency physician diagnosed a cardiac arrest. After cardiopulmonary resuscitation and intubation stable circulation was restored. When the patient was admitted in our hospital the ECG showed numerous ventricular extrasystoles, marked prolongation of the QT interval (700 ms) (Figures 1a and b) and nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardias (Figure 2). The arrhythmias could be suppressed by right ventricular stimulation after inserting a pacemaker lead. After a period of 12 h a normal QT interval was restored (Figure 3). Unfortunately the patient died 3 days later due to irreversible cerebral damage. The concept of suppressing proarrhythmic effects of quinidine by calcium antagonists is discussed. Despite theoretical advantages of a combination therapy this case report shows that life threatening dysrhythmias cannot be prevented by additional calcium antagonism.
We have previously demonstrated that the prosaposin-derived 14-mer peptide TX14(A) prevents structural and functional abnormalities associated with peripheral neuropathy in diabetic rats. Unusually, this neuroprotective peptide also exhibited acute anti-hyperalgesic properties in the same model, suggesting a dual action of TX14(A) that could allow therapeutic targeting of both degenerative neuropathy and neuropathic pain. In the present study, we have extended investigation of the anti-allodynic properties of TX14(A) to a range of models in which allodynia is induced using metabolic, physical, neurotoxic or chemical/inflammatory damage to the peripheral nerve. Single systemic doses of TX14(A) rapidly alleviated tactile allodynia in rats in which nerve injury was induced by diabetes, sciatic nerve hemiligation, systemic paclitaxel treatment or paw formalin injection. Further, TX14(A) pre-treatment prevented onset of allodynia in the paclitaxel and formalin injection models. These results indicate that TX14(A) has anti-allodynic properties in diverse models of neuropathic pain and support further exploration of its potential as a therapeutic agent for a wide range of peripheral neuropathies and neuropathic pain states.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is associated with high rates of psychiatric disturbance to include attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), tic disorder, and anxiety disorders. The aim of the present study was to examine the association between a variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) functional polymorphism located in the 3'-untranslated region of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1) and the severity of these symptoms as well as the association between the DAT1 DdeI polymorphism and severity of tics.
Parents (n = 62) and teachers (n = 57) completed a DSM-IV-referenced rating scale for 67 children with ASD.
According to parent ratings, children with the 10-10 repeat allele (versus a combined group of all other genotypes) exhibited less severe symptoms of hyperactivity and impulsivity as well as less severe language deficits. Teacher ratings indicated that social anxiety and tic symptoms were more severe for children with the 10-10 genotype versus all others. Exploratory analyses provided preliminary support for the notion that heterozygosity (9-10 repeat genotype) may be a risk/protective factor. There were no associations of tic severity with the DAT1 DdeI polymorphism.
Collectively, these results suggest that the extraordinary variability in ASD clinical phenotypes may be explained in part by the same genes that are implicated in a host of other psychiatric disorders in non-ASD populations. Nevertheless, replication with independent samples is necessary to confirm this preliminary finding.
2-Bromopropane (2-BP) was used as an alternative for ozone-depleting solvents, which caused reproductive disorders in male workers and laboratory animals. A recent study indicated that 2-BP impaired antioxidant cellular defences and enhanced lipid peroxidation (LPO). Melatonin is a powerful endogenous antioxidant. We hypothesized that reactive oxygen species (ROS) and lipid peroxidation are involved in 2-BP-induced testicular toxicities. To test the hypothesis, we investigated the effects of melatonin on 2-BP-induced testicular toxicities. Rats were intraperitoneally injected with 2-BP (1g/kg) with or without melatonin (5mg/kg), then sacrificed on 7th day after 2-BP injection. Epididymal and testicular tissues were examined for biochemical and histopathological changes. Apoptotic cells in testis were detected by TUNEL staining and immunohistochemistry for active caspase-3. Exposure to 2-BP significantly decreased epididymal sperm count and morphological normal sperms. 2-BP also induced vacuolation and atrophy of the seminiferous tubules, reduction of spermatogonia and apoptosis of germ cells. 2-BP significantly increased TBARS levels in plasma and epididymis, and decreased GSH content in testis and epididymis. Pretreatment with melatonin counteracted 2-BP-induced oxidative stress, ameliorated apoptosis in testis and attenuated histopathological damage in testis. In addition, pretreatment with melatonin significantly attenuated 2-BP-induced sperm morphological changes. We conclude that pretreatment with melatonin attenuates 2-BP-induced testicular toxicity through its ROS scavenging and anti-apoptotic effects.
Epileptic encephalopathies are a devastating group of epilepsies with poor prognosis, of which the majority are of unknown etiology. We perform targeted massively parallel resequencing of 19 known and 46 candidate genes for epileptic encephalopathy in 500 affected individuals (cases) to identify new genes involved and to investigate the phenotypic spectrum associated with mutations in known genes. Overall, we identified pathogenic mutations in 10% of our cohort. Six of the 46 candidate genes had 1 or more pathogenic variants, collectively accounting for 3% of our cohort. We show that de novo CHD2 and SYNGAP1 mutations are new causes of epileptic encephalopathies, accounting for 1.2% and 1% of cases, respectively. We also expand the phenotypic spectra explained by SCN1A, SCN2A and SCN8A mutations. To our knowledge, this is the largest cohort of cases with epileptic encephalopathies to undergo targeted resequencing. Implementation of this rapid and efficient method will change diagnosis and understanding of the molecular etiologies of these disorders.
Sulfur mustard (SM) is a potent vesicant, known for its ability to cause incapacitation and prolonged injuries to the eyes, skin and respiratory system. The toxic ocular events following sulfur mustard exposure are characterized by several stages: photophobia starting a few hours after exposure, an acute injury phase characterized by inflammation of the anterior segment and corneal erosions and a delayed phase appearing following a clinically silent period (years in human). The late injury appeared in part of the exposed eyes, expressed by epithelial defects and corneal neovascularization (NV), that lead to vision deficits and even blindness. During the last years we have characterized the temporal development of ocular lesions following SM vapor exposure in rabbits and have shown the existence of two sub-populations of corneas, those exhibiting delayed ocular lesions (clinically impaired) and those exhibiting only minor injuries if at all (clinically non-impaired). The aim of the present study was to investigate the pathological mechanism underlying the delayed injury by focusing on the unique characteristics of each sub-population and to test the efficacy of potential treatments. Clinically impaired corneas were characterized by chronic inflammation, increased matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity, poor innervation and limbal damage. Moreover, using impression cytology and histology, we identified the delayed lesions as typical for an ocular surface disorder under the category of limbal epithelial stem cell deficiency (LSCD). These results point to therapeutic directions, using anti-inflammatory drugs, MMPs inhibitors, neurotrophic factors and amniotic membrane transplantation. Topical anti-inflammatory drugs, either steroid (Dexamycin, DEX) or non-steroidal anti-infllammatory drug (NSAID, Voltaren Ophtha) were found to be beneficial in ameliorating the initial inflammatory response and in postponing the development of corneal NV, when given during the first week after exposure. When DEX was administered as a symptomatic treatment against NV, a significant regression in the angiogenic process was observed, however, the effect was temporal and blood vessels reappeared after therapy ceased. Chronic administration (8 weeks) of the MMP inhibitor Doxycycline was also effective in attenuation of the acute and delayed injury. Preliminary results, using amniotic membrane transplantation revealed some decrease of corneal edema with no effect on corneal NV. It is suggested that the chronic inflammation and prolonged impairment of corneal innervation are playing a role in the pathogenesis of the delayed LSCD following SM exposure by creating a pathological microenvironment to limbal epithelial stem cells, thus, leading to their slow death and to a second cascade of pathological events eventually resulting in severe long-term injuries. As of today, only topical anti-inflammatory drugs reached the criteria of an applicable efficient post-exposure ocular treatment for SM injuries. Further studies are required to investigate the effects of SM on epithelial stem cells and their involvement in the pathogenesis of the long-term injuries.
Eleven patients with levodopa-related motor fluctuations were scored before and after intranasal apomorphine monotherapy, and the motor responses were compared with those with levodopa/carbidopa in this openlabel study. Oral trimethobenzamide was used to prevent apomorphine-induced nausea. Three measures of motor performance were employed: (a) the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor battery; (b) a timed hand-tapping test; and (c) the Webster's step-seconds test. The magnitude of the motor-score improvement after apomorphine administration was very similar to that after the usual doses of levodopa/carbidopa in the 10 patients completing the study; this was true for all three outcome measures. A major advantage of apomorphine was the rapid onset of clinical response, which typically occurred in < 10 min, as well as the ease of administration. Major side effects, beyond those experienced with levodopa/carbidopa, were limited to nausea and vomiting (three patients) and orthostatic hypotension (one patient); however, only a single patient dropped out of the study as a consequence. These results indicate that intranasal apomorphine is effective in rapidly relieving parkinsonian "off" states and that, for most patients, trimethobenzamide is an effective and well-tolerated antiemetic for use with apomorphine.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, MIM152700) is an autoimmune disease characterized by self-reactive antibodies resulting in systemic inflammation and organ failure. TNFAIP3, encoding the ubiquitin-modifying enzyme A20, is an established susceptibility locus for SLE. By fine mapping and genomic re-sequencing in ethnically diverse populations, we fully characterized the TNFAIP3 risk haplotype and identified a TT>A polymorphic dinucleotide (deletion T followed by a T to A transversion) associated with SLE in subjects of European (P = 1.58 × 10(-8), odds ratio = 1.70) and Korean (P = 8.33 × 10(-10), odds ratio = 2.54) ancestry. This variant, located in a region of high conservation and regulatory potential, bound a nuclear protein complex composed of NF-κB subunits with reduced avidity. Further, compared with the non-risk haplotype, the haplotype carrying this variant resulted in reduced TNFAIP3 mRNA and A20 protein expression. These results establish this TT>A variant as the most likely functional polymorphism responsible for the association between TNFAIP3 and SLE.
Methamphetamine (meth) abuse is increasingly of public health concern and has been associated with neurocognitive dysfunction. Some previous studies have been hampered by background differences between meth users and comparison subjects, as well as unknown HIV and hepatitis C (HCV) status, which can also affect brain functioning. We compared the neurocognitive functioning of 54 meth dependent (METH+) study participants who had been abstinent for an average of 129 days, to that of 46 demographically comparable control subjects (METH-) with similar level of education and reading ability. All participants were free of HIV and HCV infection. The METH+ group exhibited higher rates of neuropsychological impairment in most areas tested. Among meth users, neuropsychologically normal (n=32) and impaired (n=22) subjects did not differ with respect to self-reported age at first use, total years of use, route of consumption, or length of abstinence. Those with motor impairment had significantly greater meth use in the past year, but impairment in cognitive domains was unrelated to meth exposure. The apparent lack of correspondence between substance use parameters and cognitive impairment suggests the need for further study of individual differences in vulnerability to the neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine.
Flecainide is an antiarrhythmic considered safe in patients who have no structural cardiopathy, and frequently used in the prevention of atrial fibrillation. However, in patients with a history of infarction and/or severe conduction disorders, its proarrhythmicity may be lethal. Torsade-de-pointes type tachycardia is not included as one of these proarrhythmic effects, since the drug's scant action on ventricular repolarization makes this adverse effect very unlikely. We present the case of a patient who, shortly after beginning treatment with flecainide, was admitted because of syncope related to bradyarrhythmias, long QT, and torsade-de-pointes. There have been very few published cases in which one finds such an association between flecainide and this infrequent arrhythmia.
Although it is well known that 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) can cause various cardiovascular abnormalities and even sudden death from cardiac arrhythmia, whether it has any effect on myocardial gap junctions, which might be one of the targets mediating MDMA-induced cardiotoxicity, remains unclear.
To test the hypothesis that MDMA may affect the myocardial gap junction protein connexin43 (Cx43) and induce cardiac dysrhythmia.
(1) In vivo study: adult rats were treated with a single dose MDMA administration (20mg/kg, i.p.). Electrocardiogram detection and immunohistochemical analysis were performed to evaluate cardiac function and expression of Cx43, respectively; (2) in vitro study: cultured ventricular myocytes of neonatal rats were treated with MDMA (10, 100, 1000μmol/L) for 1h. Western blotting and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were performed to investigate the total Cx43 mRNA expression. Immunofluorescent analysis was used to evaluate the amount of junctional Cx43. The phosphorylation status of Cx43 at site Ser368 and intracellular Ca(2+) oscillation were also studied.
Obvious changes in electrocardiographic patterns were found in rats following MDMA administration. They were characterized by prolonged QRS duration associated with increased amplitude of QRS complex. The heart rates in treated rats were significantly decreased compared to the rats in the control group. The immunohistochemical findings revealed a significant decrease in Cx43 expression. The in vitro study also showed a marked decline in total Cx43 protein associated with reduction of Cx43 mRNA, whereas the phosphorylated Cx43 at Ser368 was increased. Decrease of junctional Cx43 was found correlated with reduction in N-cadherin induced by high concentration of MDMA. Additionally, confocal microscopy findings revealed alteration of intracellular calcium oscillation patterns characterized by high frequency and increasing influx Ca(2+).
MDMA reduces expression of cardiac gap junction protein Cx43. The increase of phosphorylation status of Cx43 at Ser368 induced by MDMA is attributed, at least in part, to the Ca(2+)-dependent regulation of protein kinase C (PKC) activity. Our findings provide first evidence of MDMA-mediated changes in those cardiac gap junctions that may underlie MDMA-induced cardiac arrhythmia.
Investigated in this study are the effects and mechanisms of exercise and chlorpromazine (CPZ), a widely used conventional antipsychotic drug, on the hepatic insulin sensitivity of 90% pancreatectomized (Px) male Sprague-Dawley rats. The Px diabetic rats were provided with 0, 5, or 50 mg CPZ per kg of body weight (No-CPZ, LCPZ, or HCPZ) for 8 weeks, and half of each group had regular exercise. LCPZ did not exacerbate hepatic insulin sensitivity through insulin and leptin signaling in diabetic rats. However, HCPZ decreased whole-body glucose infusion rates in hyperinsulinemic clamped states, but not whole-body glucose uptake. This was due to the elevated hepatic glucose output in hyperinsulinemic states. The decreased hepatic insulin sensitivity was associated with insulin receptor substrate-2 (IRS2) protein levels in the liver. Decreased IRS2 levels attenuated hepatic insulin and leptin signaling pathways in hyperinsulinemic states, which elevated glucose production by inducing phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase expression. Long-term exercise recovered hepatic insulin sensitivity attenuated by HCPZ to reduce the hepatic glucose output in hyperinsulinemic clamped states. This recovery was related to enhanced insulin and leptin signaling via increased IRS2 gene and protein levels by activating the cAMP responding element-binding protein, but exercise improved only insulin signaling. In conclusion, HCPZ exacerbates hepatic insulin action by attenuating insulin and leptin signaling in type 2 diabetic rats, while regular exercise partially reverses the attenuation of hepatic insulin sensitivity by improving insulin signaling. Enhancement of insulin and leptin signaling through an induction of IRS2 may play an important role in improving hepatic glucose homeostasis.
Allelic variants of CYP1A1 and PON1 have been extensively studied as susceptibility factors in toxic response, although little is known about the role of these variants as risk factors for the plethora of diseases appearing in the human population. In this study we investigated the hypothesis of correlation of CYP1A1 and PON1 enzymes with the incidence of various medical examination findings in a Greek rural population professionally exposed to a variety of pesticides. The medical history of 492 individuals, randomly selected for the total population of 42,000, was acquired by interviews and their genotype determined for the CYP1A1*2A, PON1 M/L and PON1 Q/R polymorphisms. The assessment of exposure to pesticides of the population was verified by analytical methods. Analysis of the genetic data revealed that the allele frequencies of PON1 R, M and CYP1A1*2A alleles were 0.243, 0.39 and 0.107 respectively. The CYP1A1*2A polymorphism was found to have significant association with chronic obstructive pneumonopathy (p=0.045), peripheral circulatory problems (trend p=0.042), arteritis (p=0.022), allergies (trend p=0.046), hemorrhoids (trend p=0.026), allergic dermatitis (p=0.0016) and miscarriages (p=0.012). The PON1 Q/R polymorphism was found to have significant association with hypertension (p=0.046) and chronic constipation (p=0.028) whereas, the L/M polymorphism, with diabetes (p=0.036), arteritis (trend p=0.022) and hemorrhoids (trend p=0.027). Our results demonstrated an association between the CYP1A1/PON1 polymorphisms and several medical examination findings, thus indicating the possible involvement of the human detoxification system to health effects in a rural population exposed professionally to pesticides.
Ankylosing spondylitis is a systemic rheumatic disorder characterized by inflammation of the spine, sacroiliac, and large peripheral joints. Effective management demands both immediate and long-term objectives. The physician must first relieve joint inflammation and discomfort with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, then begin long-range planning with daily exercise and other supportive measures to prevent, delay, or correct deformity. Diclofenac sodium, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that is used worldwide in ankylosing spondylitis, has not yet been marketed in the United States. This article highlights two American studies with diclofenac: (1) a short-term, double-blind comparison with indomethacin, and (2) a 38-week extension with diclofenac for long-term efficacy and safety data. The results of these trials demonstrate diclofenac to be effective and safe for both short- and long-term treatment. When compared with indomethacin, a standard reference drug in trials of ankylosing spondylitis, diclofenac was comparable in efficacy but had a more favorable side-effect profile.
In a group of 15 men with severe hypertension in a double-blind crossover trial, the new calcium antagonist felodipine has been shown to lower blood pressure as effectively as minoxidil when used in combination with a beta-blocker and a loop diuretic. Felodipine was well tolerated and may have a role in the management of severe hypertension.
We have previously reported that troglitazone inhibits proinflammatory cytokine production in chronic pancreatitis. In the present study, we show that troglitazone prevents the progression of chronic pancreatitis by inhibiting the proliferation of pancreatic stellate cells (PSCs) via a PPARgamma-independent mechanism. WBN/Kob rats with spontaneous chronic pancreatitis were fed troglitazone-containing rat chow for 3 or 6 months. Pancreatic fibrosis and expression of alpha-SMA were markedly attenuated by troglitazone. Rat PSCs expressed a higher level of PPARgamma1 mRNA than of PPARgamma2 mRNA. PSCs were transiently cotransfected with a dominant negative mutant PPARgamma1 and a PPAR-driven reporter gene. Troglitazone increased reporter activity and the mutant receptor abrogated wild-type receptor activity in a dose-dependent manner. Troglitazone inhibited cell proliferation by blocking cell-cycle progression beyond the G1 phase. These effects were observed in mutant receptor-transfected cells as well as cells transfected with the control vector. The effect of troglitazone on alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA and MCP-1 mRNA was unaffected by inhibition of endogenous PPARgamma1 receptor activity. These results suggest that troglitazone may serve as novel therapeutic agent for the treatment of chronic pancreatitis. The antifibrotic effect of troglitazone appears to be mediated, in part, via a PPARgamma-independent mechanism.
We examined possible predictors of the recurrence of high blood pressure (BP) in patients who remained normotensive after withdrawal of drug therapy. Thirty untreated male patients with WHO stage I essential hypertension (mean age 43 +/- 6 years) were randomly allocated to oxprenolol or nitrendipine groups. Before therapy, BP at rest, during mental arithmetic (MA) and during the cold pressor (CP) test was assessed. After 6 months of effective monotherapy, all drugs were withdrawn and casual BP was followed up for 5 months. Two weeks after cessation of therapy 26% were hypertensive again, after 4 weeks 28%, after 12 weeks 48% and after 21 weeks 74%. The two therapeutic groups did not differ in their BP increase after discontinuation of therapy. Predictors for the return of high BP were age, pretreatment BP, systolic and diastolic BP increase to the CP test. Analyses of covariance for age and pretreatment BP confirmed that reactivity to the CP test was a predictor of the return of hypertension.
Muscarinic cholinergic receptors modulate dopaminergic function in brain pathways thought to mediate cocaine's abuse-related effects. Here, we sought to confirm and extend in the mouse species findings that nonselective muscarinic receptor antagonists can enhance cocaine's discriminative stimulus. More importantly, we tested the hypothesis that muscarinic receptor agonists with varied receptor subtype selectivity can blunt cocaine's discriminative stimulus and reinforcing effects; we hypothesized a critical role for the M(1) and/or M(4) receptor subtypes in this modulation. Mice were trained to discriminate cocaine from saline, or to self-administer intravenous cocaine chronically. The nonselective muscarinic antagonists scopolamine and methylscopolamine, the nonselective muscarinic agonists oxotremorine and pilocarpine, the M(1)/M(4)-preferring agonist xanomeline, the putative M(1)-selective agonist (4-hydroxy-2-butynyl)-1-trimethylammonium-3-chlorocarbanilate chloride (McN-A-343), and the novel M(1)-selective agonist 1-(1-2-methylbenzyl)-1,4-bipiperidin-4-yl)-1H benzo[d]imidazol-2(3H)-one (TBPB) were tested as substitution and/or pretreatment to cocaine. Both muscarinic antagonists partially substituted for cocaine and enhanced its discriminative stimulus. Conversely, muscarinic agonists blunted cocaine discrimination and abolished cocaine self-administration with varying effects on food-maintained behavior. Specifically, increasing selectivity for the M(1) subtype (oxotremorine < xanomeline < TBPB) conferred lesser nonspecific rate-suppressing effects, with no rate suppression for TBPB. In mutant mice lacking M(1) and M(4) receptors, xanomeline failed to diminish cocaine discrimination while rate-decreasing effects were intact. Our data suggest that central M(1) receptor activation attenuates cocaine's abuse-related effects, whereas non-M(1)/M(4) receptors probably contribute to undesirable effects of muscarinic stimulation. These data provide the first demonstration of anticocaine effects of systemically applied, M(1) receptor agonists and suggest the possibility of a new approach to pharmacotherapy for cocaine addiction.
Ketamine is a phencyclidine derivative acting primarily as a noncompetitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) excitatory glutamate receptors. As a common intravenous anaesthetic in clinic, it is also increasingly abused because of its hallucination and addiction effects. Based on the pharmacological and toxicologic characteristics of ketamine and the acknowledged addiction mechanism of other abused drugs, this article reviews the possible addiction mechanism of the ketamine in the aspects of its enhanced effects and reward systems, the anatomic structures, the related receptors and the individual differences.
With the proliferation of cocaine abuse, increased incidence of catastrophic cardiovascular events such as angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, ventricular arrhythmias, or sudden death are reported. Many of these patients also drink alcohol before and after cocaine use, leading to a high frequency of simultaneous exposure to both the drugs. Cocaine and ethanol's independent effects on cardiodynamics are well documented, but their combined effects on complete cardiovascular hemodynamics remain unknown. Are effects additive, synergistic, or antagonistic?
Sixteen dogs were instrumented to pass cardiac catheters into right and left ventricles. After they recovered from the effects of anesthesia, experiments were performed. In phase I, 18 experiments (6 dogs) established the dose by dose response curve. In phase II and III, another 10 dogs, subjected to 30 experiments, were given i.v. cocaine followed by ethanol and vice versa to study their effects on hemodynamics and coronary flow reserve.
Phase I: doses of cocaine (2 mg/kg) and ethanol (400 mg/kg) were established. Phase II: cocaine increased heart rate, blood pressure and dP/dt but ethanol administered after cocaine attenuated these effects [first derivative of the left ventricular pressure (dP/dt) < 2052 +/- 104 from 2614 +/- 110 mm Hg/sec; P < 0.04)]. Phase III: alcohol mildly increased hemodynamic parameters. Cocaine's administration as the second drug had synergistic excitatory effects (dP/dt > 3300 +/- 160 from 2854 +/- 142 mm Hg/sec; P < 0.004).
Cocaine increased heart rate, blood pressure, and dP/dt but reduced CFR. Alcohol mildly increased the hemodynamic variables and CFR. Combined cocaine and alcohol attenuated the excitatory effects of cocaine significantly. A reversed drug combination (ie, alcohol then cocaine) generated synergistic excitatory effects on the cardiovascular system of the dogs.
In this study, the cardioprotective effects of nitric oxide (NO)-aspirin, the nitroderivative of aspirin, were compared with those of aspirin in an anesthetized rat model of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion. Rats were given aspirin or NO-aspirin orally for 7 consecutive days preceding 25 min of myocardial ischemia followed by 48 h of reperfusion (MI/R). Treatment groups included vehicle (Tween 80), aspirin (30 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)), and NO-aspirin (56 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)). NO-aspirin, compared with aspirin, displayed remarkable cardioprotection in rats subjected to MI/R as determined by the mortality rate and infarct size. Mortality rates for vehicle (n = 23), aspirin (n = 22), and NO-aspirin groups (n = 22) were 34.8, 27.3, and 18.2%, respectively. Infarct size of the vehicle group was 44.5 +/- 2.7% of the left ventricle (LV). In contrast, infarct size of the LV decreased in the aspirin- and NO-aspirin-pretreated groups, 36.7 +/- 1.8 and 22.9 +/- 4.3%, respectively (both P < 0.05 compared with vehicle group; P < 0.05, NO-aspirin vs. aspirin ). Moreover, NO-aspirin also improved ischemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial contractile dysfunction on postischemic LV developed pressure. In addition, NO-aspirin downregulated inducible NO synthase (iNOS; 0.37-fold, P < 0.01) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2; 0.61-fold, P < 0.05) gene expression compared with the vehicle group after 48 h of reperfusion. Treatment with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 20 mg/kg), a nonselective NOS inhibitor, aggravated myocardial damage in terms of mortality and infarct size but attenuated effects when coadministered with NO-aspirin. L-NAME administration did not alter the increase in iNOS and COX-2 expression but did reverse the NO-aspirin-induced inhibition of expression of the two genes. The beneficial effects of NO-aspirin appeared to be derived largely from the NO moiety, which attenuated myocardial injury to limit infarct size and better recovery of LV function following ischemia and reperfusion.
