To inform clinicians of the possibility that seizures due to therapeutic doses of fluvoxamine may not be as rare as previously considered.
A 49-year-old white man with schizoaffective disorder and a past history of seizures secondary to head trauma had been seizure-free for approximately 10 years. Fluvoxamine therapy was begun due to increasing obsessive-compulsive behavior. Despite receiving anticonvulsants for his mood disorder, the patient had a breakthrough seizure. There were no underlying medical conditions that might have induced this seizure. No further seizures occurred after he was placed on a higher dosage of the anticonvulsants. The obsessive-compulsive behavior improved considerably as a result of fluvoxamine treatment.
The patient presented here developed a seizure with a therapeutic dosage of fluvoxamine; seizures associated with this agent have occurred more often with overdose. Multiple factors such as a prior history of seizures, head trauma, and concurrent treatment with other psychotropic agents are considered in this case report.
Despite the relatively safe and benign adverse effect profile of the selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors such as fluvoxamine, clinicians should be cautious about seizures as an adverse effect, especially when the patient has even a remote history of seizure or head trauma.
Levosimendan is a new calcium sensitizer with inotropic and vasodilatory actions mediated by the sensitization of contractile proteins to calcium, opening of potassium channels and inhibition of phosphodiesterase-3. Its alternative mechanisms of action to those of other traditional inotropes provide a new approach in the management of decompensated heart failure. In contrast to dobutamine, levosimendan does not increase myocardial oxygen demand and, therefore, it is thought to have a lower potential to induce increases in myocardial ischemia and cardiac arrhythmias. The commonly used inotropic agent dobutamine increases myocardial contractility at the expense of increased myocardial oxygen consumption and, therefore, it can result in poor outcomes. Although dobutamine may also have favorable hemodynamic and symptomatic effects, levosimendan has been shown to be superior to dobutamine in increasing cardiac output and decreasing pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in patients with decompensated heart failure. In the presence of concomitant beta-blocker therapy, these favorable effects were present or even more pronounced during treatment with levosimendan, but not dobutamine. However, the mortality benefit of levosimendan observed in earlier trials has not been confirmed in recent, larger clinical trials. A distinct advantage of levosimendan over dobutamine is its prolonged hemodynamic effects, which last for up to 7-9 days. There are more data on the safety of levosimendan in ischemic patients than with any other inotropic drug and, therefore, levosimendan seems to be safe and effective in patients with ischemic heart disease when used at the recommended doses. Despite advances in heart failure therapy, many patients experience clinical deterioration, or do not respond to a single inotropic drug. Increasing evidence suggests the use of levosimendan in combination with dobutamine in patients with decompensated heart failure that is refractory to dobutamine alone.
Levodopa-induced onset and end-of-dose dyskinesia are rare but disabling disorders. Although they can be attenuated by increasing and dividing the daily dose of levodopa, this does not constitute a therapeutic approach. In this pilot study, etybenzatropine, an anticholinergic drug, and diazepam, a selective benzodiazepine, were administered in addition to a single dose of levodopa in nine patients with Parkinson's disease. Both drugs tended to decrease the severity and the duration of onset and end-of-dose dyskinesia and to increase the duration of action of levodopa on parkinsonian symptoms.
We studied 21 patients with complex partial seizures during phenobarbital (PB) or primidone withdrawal. Blood levels were measured daily, and seizure frequency was monitored by nursing staff and EEG-video telemetry. Patients were monitored for one week of baseline and for five weeks after PB tapering was initiated (withdrawal). Most were observed for at least one week after levels were undetectable. When ranked seizure counts were averaged, there was a tendency for seizure rates to be highest as PB levels passed through the range 15 to 20 mg/l, compared with rates at higher or lower PB levels. There was little or no relation between the rate of PB withdrawal, other drug therapy, or initial PB level and the ratio of highest seizure frequency to mean seizure frequency. Patients withdrawing from PB may be most likely to experience an increase in seizure frequency when their PB blood level falls below 20 mg/l.
To study the efficacy and tolerability of add-on levetiracetam in children and adolescents with refractory epilepsy.
In this prospective multi-centre, open-label, add-on study, 33 children aged 4-16 years (median 8.5 years) with epilepsy refractory to at least two antiepileptic drugs were treated with levetiracetam in addition to their present treatment regimen with a follow-up of 26 weeks. The starting dose of 10 mg/kg/day was increased with 2-week steps of 10 mg/kg/day, if necessary, up to a maximum dose of 60 mg/kg/day.
Retention rate was 69.7% after 26 weeks on a median levetiracetam dosage of 22 mg/kg/day. Four children dropped-out because levetiracetam was ineffective, four because seizure frequency increased and/or seizures became more severe, and two because they developed aggressive behaviour. Compared to their baseline seizure frequency, 13 children (39.4%) had a >50% seizure reduction 12 weeks after initiation of levetiracetam, and 17 children (51.5%) at 26 weeks. At 26 weeks, nine children (27.3%) had been seizure-free for at least the last 4 weeks, terminal remission ranged from 0 to 187 days (mean 46 days). Levetiracetam was effective in both partial and primary generalized seizures, but had most effect in partial seizures. Most reported side effects were hyperactivity (48.5%), somnolence (36.4%), irritability (33.3%) and aggressive behaviour (27.3%). Severity of most side effects was mild. Five children had a serious adverse event, which all concerned hospital admissions that were not related to levetiracetam use.
Levetiracetam proved to be an effective and well-tolerated add-on treatment in this group of children with refractory epilepsy.
A case of repeated methylergonovine-induced spasm of a saphenous vein bypass graft in a 56-year-old man is presented. Prior to the operation, spasm was induced by methylergonovine in the stenosed right coronary artery. Six months after the operation, coronary angiographic studies showed induced spasm of the right coronary graft but no spasm in native vessels nor in the other graft to the left anterior descending coronary artery.
The risk of urothelial carcinoma (UC) and urinary arsenic speciation have been evaluated in a few case-control studies; however, the association has not been verified in a prospective cohort study. The aim of this study was to examine the association between urinary arsenic speciation and the incidence of UC in a cohort study. A total of 1,078 residents of southwestern Taiwan were followed for an average of 12 years. A high-performance liquid chromatography/hydride generator and an atomic absorption spectrometry were used to measure urinary arsenite, arsenate, monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)). The incidence of UC was estimated by examining the National Cancer Registry of Taiwan between January 1985 and December 2001. There were 37 newly diagnosed cases of UC during a follow-up period of 11,655 person-years. Significantly higher percentages of MMA(V) and lower percentages of DMA(V) existed among the patients with UC than among the healthy residents. After adjustment for age, gender, educational level, and smoking status, the percentage of urinary DMA(V) was shown to have an inverse association with the risk of UC, having a relative risk (RR) of the tertile strata of 1.0, 0.3, and 0.3, respectively (p < 0.05 for the trend test). The RR (95% confidence interval) of residents with a cumulative arsenic exposure (CAE) of >/=20 mg/l-year and a higher percentage of MMA(V) or a CAE of > or =20 mg/l-year and a lower percentage of DMA(V) was 3.7 (1.2-11.6) or 4.2 (1.3-13.4) compared to residents with a CAE of <20 mg/l-year and a lower percentage of MMA(V) or a CAE of <20 mg/l-year and a higher percentage of DMA(V )respectively. There was a significant association between inefficient arsenic methylation and the development of UC in the residents in the high CAE exposure strata in an area of southwestern Taiwan endemic for arseniasis.
Streptokinase is the mainstream therapy for acute myocardial infarction. A fifty-seven-year-old man with acute MI was admitted to the intensive cardiac care unit and received streptokinase and heparin. At the time of admission, he was not receiving any drugs and denied any previous exposure to a hepatotoxic agent. Five hours later he developed a dramatic hypersensitivity reaction including high fever, pulmonary edema, cyanosis, and convulsions. Within twelve hours, his clinical state was stabilized. After forty-eight hours, he developed jaundice and transaminasemia, which subsided by the eighth day. Only a few reports of overt jaundice are associated with streptokinase.
Epomediol is a terpenoid that prevents and reverses cholestasis induced by ethinylestradiol in the rat, apparently by improving liver cell membrane fluidity. Assuming that the pathogenesis of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) is related with increased estrogen levels, we studied the effects of epomediol in this disease. Patients hospitalized due to ICP received epomediol 900 mg/day (n = 7), or 1,200 mg/day (n = 4) orally, during 15 days. Biochemical parameters of liver dysfunction (serum bilirubin, bile salts, aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatases) were not modified during nor after epomediol administration. The severity of pruritus was significantly reduced in comparison to pretreatment status, with both doses of epomediol. A greater amelioration of pruritus was observed in patients treated with epomediol 1,200 mg/day than in patients who received 900 mg/day (to 20.7 +/- 6.2, as percent of pre-treatment severity score, versus 48.8 +/- 7.5 respectively; p < 0.05). After epomediol administration was stopped, pruritus relapsed in 6 patients; 3 of them had received the higher drug dose. After delivery, pruritus vanished and liver function tests returned to normal, in all patients. No adverse effects attributable to the drug were observed in the mothers or in their babies. The beneficial effect of epomediol on pruritus in patients with ICP appeared greater in this study than that observed recently in similar patients who received a placebo.
The bronchodilating effect and side-effects of theophylline and a beta 2-adrenoceptor stimulating drug (terbutaline) alone and in combination were studied in 10 adult asthmatic patients. Initially, each individual's pharmacokinetic parameters for theophylline were determined. On 3 separate days, theophylline was infused to defined steady-state concentrations (0, 7.5, and 15 micrograms/mL, respectively) followed by the administration, at intervals of 1 h, of incremental intravenous doses of terbutaline. Theophylline caused a plasma concentration-dependent increase in the volume of air expelled in the first second of forced expiration (FEV1). Theophylline itself had no significant effect on objectively recorded skeletal muscle tremor or heart rate but enhanced the terbutaline-induced increase in both. At the highest steady-state concentration (15 micrograms/mL), 2 of the patients experienced nausea. Terbutaline caused a plasma concentration-dependent increase in FEV1, heart rate and tremor. The plasma levels of terbutaline at the given doses did not differ significantly between individuals or within individuals at different theophylline levels. The combination of theophylline and terbutaline resulted in an additive effect on bronchodilatation. At comparable levels of bronchodilatation, the combination of theophylline and terbutaline caused a lesser degree of side-effects than either drug alone.
A forty-six year-old premenopausal woman developed headache, nausea and vomiting, left hemiparesis and seizure two days after parenteral use of progesterone and estradiol. Diabetes mellitus (DM) was found during admission. Computed tomography showed a hemorrhagic infarct in the right frontal lobe and increased density in the superior sagittal sinus (SSS). Left carotid angiography found occlusion of the left internal carotid artery (ICA). Right carotid angiograms failed to show the SSS and inferior sagittal sinus, suggestive of venous sinus thrombosis. Coexistence of the cerebral artery and the venous sinus occlusion has been described infrequently. In this case, the authors postulate that the use of estradiol and progesterone and the underlying DM increased vascular thrombogenicity, which provided a common denominator for thrombosis of both the ICA and the venous sinus.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists have been demonstrated to induce schizophrenia-like symptoms and cognitive impairment in humans. The NMDA receptor has been strongly implicated in memory, but research to date on the effects of NMDA antagonists has examined only some aspects of human memory functions. This study used a double-blind, placebo-controlled, independent groups design with 54 healthy volunteers to examine the effects of infusions of two doses (0.4, 0.8 mg/kg) of the NMDA antagonist ketamine upon the five human memory systems, aspects of executive functioning and schizophrenia-like and dissociative symptoms. Ketamine produced a dose-dependent impairment to episodic and working memory and a slowing of semantic processing. Ketamine also impaired recognition memory and procedural learning. Attention, perceptual priming and executive functioning were not affected following the drug. In addition, ketamine induced schizophrenia-like and dissociative symptoms, which were not correlated with the cognitive measures. These data suggest that, in humans, ketamine produces a selective pattern of impairments to working, episodic, and procedural memory but not to perceptual priming, attention or aspects of executive functioning.
Although amisulpride is considered to be a prolactin-raising atypical antipsychotic drug, a limited number of studies have documented the extent of its prolactin-elevating properties. In the present study the effect of amisulpride on plasma levels of prolactin and the reversibility of this untoward side effect were investigated.
17 patients with various diagnoses received amisulpride (50-800 mg/day) or a combination of amisulpride plus other medication as needed. Plasma prolactin was determined 26.7+/-9.4 days (range: 13-50 days) after initiation of treatment and in 3 cases after a much longer period, and 14-51 days following its withdrawal.
All patients on amisulpride had hyperprolactinemia (mean+/-S.D. prolactin levels: 62.5+/-33.0 ng/ml) with females exhibiting considerably higher prolactin levels than males. Following amisulpride discontinuation prolactin levels were significantly (p<000) reduced (mean+/-S.D. prolactin levels: 12.3+/-6.7 ng/ml). No significant correlation was detected between prolactin levels and either amisulpride dosage or duration of administration.
Amisulpride has a pronounced prolactin-elevating effect which appears to be independent of dosage and duration of administration. Hyperprolactinemia rapidly reverses following amisulpride discontinuation.
The problem of aplastic anaemia (AA) in Iraq has not been previously investigated. This paper describes 60 patients evaluated prospectively at the University of Baghdad Teaching Hospital during the period 1975--1978. Criteria for the diagnosis included pancytopenia and hypocellular or acellular bone marrow. A surprising finding at variance with published reports about the disease from other parts of the world was a 3 : 1 preponderance of males over females. A discernible aetiology of drug or chemical exposure was detected in half of the patients. Chloramphenicol, alone or in combination with other antibiotics, was thought to be responsible for marrow injury in 12 patients. The occurrence of AA seems to be on the rise in Iraq, probably as a result of the increased use of potentially toxic therapeutic agents and chemicals, and of the growing environmental pollution.
We evaluated the effect of low doses of systemically administered tetrodotoxin (TTX) on the development and expression of neuropathic pain induced by paclitaxel in mice. Treatment with paclitaxel (2mg/kg, i.p., once daily during 5 days) produced long-lasting (2-4 weeks) heat hyperalgesia (plantar test), mechanical allodynia (electronic Von Frey test) and cold allodynia (acetone drop method), with maximum effects observed on days 7, 10 and 10-14, respectively. Acute subcutaneous treatment with 1 or 3 microg/kg of TTX reduced the expression of mechanical allodynia, whereas higher doses (3 or 6 microg/kg) were required to reduce the expression of cold allodynia and heat hyperalgesia. In contrast, TTX (3 or 6 microg/kg, s.c.) did not affect the response to the same thermal and mechanical stimuli in control animals, which indicates that the antihyperalgesic and antiallodynic effects of TTX were not due to unspecific inhibition of the perception of these stimuli. Administration of TTX (6 microg/kg, s.c.) 30 min before each of the 5 doses of paclitaxel did not modify the development of heat hyperalgesia produced by the antineoplastic, but abolished the development of mechanical and cold allodynia. Coadministration of a lower dose of TTX (3 microg/kg) also prevented the development of mechanical allodynia. No signs of TTX-induced toxicity or motor incoordination were observed. These data suggest that low doses of TTX can be useful to prevent and treat paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain, and that TTX-sensitive subtypes of sodium channels play a role in the pathogenesis of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.
Despite extensive investigation, the cellular mechanisms responsible for neuroleptic actions remain elusive. We have previously shown that neuroleptics modulated the expression of some members of the ligand-activated transcription factors (nuclear receptors) including the nerve-growth factor inducible gene B (NGFI-B or Nur77) and retinoid X receptor (RXR) isoforms. Using genetic and pharmacological approaches, we investigated the role of NGFI-B and retinoids in acute behavioral and biochemical responses to dopamine antagonists. NGFI-B knockout (KO) mice display a profound alteration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy and striatal neuropeptide gene expression. Haloperidol-induced increase of striatal enkephalin mRNA is totally abolished in NGFI-B KO mice whereas the increase of neurotensin mRNA expression is reduced by 50%. Interestingly, catalepsy induced by raclopride, a specific dopamine D(2)/D(3) antagonist is completely abolished in NGFI-B-deficient mice whereas the cataleptic response to SCH 23390, a dopamine D(1) agonist, is preserved. Accordingly, the effects of haloperidol on striatal c-fos, Nor-1, and dynorphin mRNA expression are also preserved in NGFI-B-deficient mice. The cataleptic response and the increase of enkephalin mRNA expression induced by haloperidol can also be suppressed by administration of retinoid ligands 9-cis retinoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid. In addition, we demonstrate that haloperidol enhances colocalization of NGFI-B and RXRgamma1 isoform mRNAs, suggesting that both NGFI-B and a RXR isoform are highly coexpressed after haloperidol administration. Our data demonstrate, for the first time, that NGFI-B and retinoids are actively involved in the molecular cascade induced by neuroleptic drugs.
The effects of all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) on hepato-carcinogenesis induced by N-nitrosomorpholine (NNM) and on the expression of myc p110 proteins were investigated in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Rats received i.m. injections of RA twice a week and, from the beginning of the experiment, were given drinking water containing NNM for 8 weeks. Pre-neoplastic and neoplastic lesions staining positively for gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), glutathione-S-transferase placental type (GST-P) or myc p110 protein were examined histochemically. At week 18, quantitative histological analysis showed that prolonged administration of RA resulted in a significant reduction in the number, size and volume of GGT-positive and GST-P-positive hepatic lesions. Administration of RA also caused a significant increase in the proportion of myc p110-negative lesions to the total pre-neoplastic lesions observed. Myc p110-negative lesions had a significantly lower mitotic index than myc p110-positive lesions. These findings indicate that RA inhibits hepatocarcinogenesis and suggest that this effect may be related to its influence in reducing the expression of myc gene proteins and its subsequent inhibition of cell proliferation in pre-neoplastic lesions.
The present study investigated the mechanisms by which intrathecal (i.t.) apomorphine affects mean aortic pressure and heart rate in anesthetized rats. In saline-pretreated rats, upper thoracic (T2-T4) i.t. administration of apomorphine (48 microg/rat) induced immediate and significant hypotension and bradycardia. These responses were unaffected by intravenous (i.v.) methylatropine (1 mg/kg) or bilateral vagotomy, while they were prevented by i.t. lidocaine (25 microl at 1%) or i.v. hexamethonium (30 mg/kg). However, i.v. atenolol (1.5 mg/kg) suppressed the apomorphine-induced bradycardia without affecting the hypotension in either intact or bivagotomized rats. Bilateral adrenalectomy had no effect upon both maximal hypotensive and bradycardic responses to apomorphine (48 microg/rat at the T9-T10 level). These results suggest that hypotensive and bradycardic responses to i.t. apomorphine are due to an action in the spinal cord, presumably on sympathetic preganglionic neurons. These responses are dissociated and seem to result from withdrawal of sympathetic outflow to the vasculature and to the heart, respectively.
Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorder Not Otherwise Specified are common developmental problems often seen by child neurologists. There are currently no cures for these lifelong and socially impairing conditions that affect core domains of human behavior such as language, social interaction, and social awareness. The etiology may be multifactorial and may include autoimmune, genetic, neuroanatomic, and possibly excessive glutaminergic mechanisms. Because memantine is a moderate affinity antagonist of the N-methylD-aspartic acid (NMDA) glutamate receptor, this drug was hypothesized to potentially modulate learning, block excessive glutamate effects that can include neuroinflammatory activity, and influence neuroglial activity in autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorder Not Otherwise Specified. Open-label add-on therapy was offered to 151 patients with prior diagnoses of autism or Pervasive Developmental Disorder Not Otherwise Specified over a 21-month period. To generate a clinician-derived Clinical Global Impression Improvement score for language, behavior, and self-stimulatory behaviors, the primary author observed the subjects and questioned their caretakers within 4 to 8 weeks of the initiation of therapy. Chronic maintenance therapy with the drug was continued if there were no negative side effects. Results showed significant improvements in open-label use for language function, social behavior, and self-stimulatory behaviors, although self-stimulatory behaviors comparatively improved to a lesser degree. Chronic use so far appears to have no serious side effects.
Prior to anesthesia a 65-year-old patient received 8 mg dexamethasone to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV). Instantly she reported tingling and burning followed by intense pain in the genital region spreading to the whole body. Shortly later she complained about shortness of breath and pre-cordial pain. Acute hypertension could only be lowered by NTG, beta-blockade and induction of anesthesia. The ECG showed ST-segment depressions and troponin-T was elevated (0.3 ng/ml). Coronary angiography revealed no significant stenosis and an abdominal CT scan showed no evidence of a pheochromocytoma. Urine metabolites of catecholamines were negative. Thus, the most likely diagnosis was stimulation of endogenous catecholamines by painful stress after dexamethasone injection with the consequence of myocardial ischemia. As a result we now routinely inject dexamethasone after anesthesia induction as prophylaxis for PONV.
A sixty-year-old woman with advanced breast cancer, previously treated with cisplatin, developed an irreversible lethal renal failure with anuria, the day after 5 g/m2 bolus ifosfamide. Postrenal failure was excluded by echography. A prerenal component could have contributed to renal failure because of a transient hypotension, due to an increasing ascitis, occurring just before anuria. However, correction of the hemodynamic parameters did not improve renal function. Ifosfamide is a known nephrotoxic drug with demonstrated tubulopathies. We strongly suspect that this lethal anuria was mainly due to ifosfamide, occurring in a patient having received previous cisplatin chemotherapy and with poor kidney perfusion due to transient hypotension. We recommend careful use of ifosfamide in patients pretreated with nephrotoxic chemotherapy and inadequate renal perfusion.
Chronic exposure to allyl chloride (AC) is known to produce a central-peripheral distal axonopathy. To access the biomarker of exposure and elucidate the mechanism of neuropathy induced by AC, we performed a longitudinal observational study of malondialdehyde (MDA), anti-reactive oxygen species (anti-ROS), glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in rats serum and sciatic nerve after 0, 3, 6, 9 and 12 weeks of AC administration. AC was administrated to Wistar rats by gavage at a single dosage of 200 mg/kg/per dose (three times per week). Rats were sacrificed after 0, 3, 6, 9 and 12 weeks of AC treatment, serum and sciatic nerves were quickly collected at 4 degrees C. The results showed that MDA levels in serum (115.4 and 126.2%) and sciatic nerve (130.5 and 145.3%) significantly increased (p<0.05) on 3rd week of AC treatment and at gait score of 2, and further changes of MDA levels were observed after 6, 9 and 12 weeks and at gait score of 3 and 4. While a decrease (p<0.05) in the activities of CAT on 6th week of AC intoxication and at gait score of 2 was observed in serum (81.2 and 72.8%) and sciatic nerve (71.7 and 70.7%). The other antioxidants also decreased in serum and sciatic nerve after 3, 6 and 9, 12 weeks' intoxication and at gait score of 2, 3 and 4. Significant (p<0.05) positive correlations were observed between serum and sciatic nerve in MDA levels (r=0.9162 and 0.9551, respectively) and CAT (r=0.9410 and 0.9557, respectively) activities as time went on and symptoms developed. Thus, AC intoxication was associated with elevation of lipid peroxidation and reduction of antioxidative status, and the time dependent changes of these indexes in Wistar rats' serum and sciatic nerve occurred. The misbalance of lipid peroxidation and antioxidation status might be one of mechanisms of toxic neuropathy induced by AC. MDA and CAT could be served as the biomarkers of AC exposure to afford the early diagnosis of AC-induced toxic neuropathy.
Changes in circulating catecholamines and transmyocardial catecholamine balance associated with improved left ventricular function were studied in patients with chronic heart failure after treatment with captopril (10 patients) and hydralazine in combination with isosorbide dinitrate (eight patients). Cardiac performance improved in response to both captopril and hydralazine-nitrate treatment. The systemic haemodynamic effects were also qualitatively similar, but the hydralazine-nitrate combination caused a greater increase in cardiac index and heart rate. Captopril did not change arterial adrenaline concentrations (0.63 to 0.60 nmol/l), arterial noradrenaline (4.2 to 3.9 nmol/l), or net transmyocardial noradrenaline release (390 to 317 pmol/min), while hydralazine-nitrate increased arterial adrenaline (0.91 to 1.47 nmol/l) and transmyocardial noradrenaline release (225 to 554 pmol/min). Although both captopril and hydralazine-nitrate treatment improve left ventricular performance in patients with chronic heart failure, hydralazine-nitrate enhances cardiac sympathetic tone and captopril does not. The clinical relevance of these findings, however, is not known.
Cough-variant asthma (CVA) occurs in a subgroup of asthmatics whose sole or predominant respiratory symptom is cough. Although bronchodilators are often sufficient to treat CVA, refractory cough may require therapy with inhaled or systemic corticosteroids. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, we examined the effect of a 14-day course of the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast on subjective cough score and cough-reflex sensitivity to inhaled capsaicin in eight subjects with CVA refractory to inhaled beta agonists, and in five subjects refractory to inhaled corticosteroids. Seven of eight subjects experienced significant subjective and objective improvement in cough after treatment with zafirlukast. Mean (+/- SEM) cough score improved from 7.75 +/- 0.56 to 3.25 +/- 0.84 (p = 0.0006). Cough sensitivity to capsaicin was suppressed by zafirlukast in all subjects. Patients with CVA may represent a distinct subgroup of asthmatics whose afferent cough receptors within the respiratory epithelium are hypersensitive relative to those of patients with the typical form of asthma. Zafirlukast appears to be particularly effective in treating CVA by inhibiting the sensitivity of these receptors. Leukotriene receptor antagonists may offer an alternative to corticosteroids for the treatment of CVA refractory to inhaled bronchodilators.
In clinical practice, maternal epilepsy is a disabling disease for newborn infants, but current data concerning the effect of epileptic phenomena in pregnant mothers on newborns are still limited. This study was undertaken to investigate the effects of pinealectomy (Px) and melatonin treatments on the morphological changes in the liver tissue of newborn rats following experimental epilepsy during pregnancy.
Female Swiss Albino rats were divided into five groups: intact control group; saline control group; epilepsy group; epilepsy plus Px group; and melatonin-treated epilepsy plus Px group. At one month after Px, an acute grand mal epileptic seizure was induced by penicillin-G during their pregnancy in all animals except the control groups. On the neonatal first day, newborn rats were perfused with intracardiac fixative solution, and then livers were removed and processed for toluidine blue, periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) reactivity.
Normal migration and hepatic maturation were determined in the postnatal rat liver in the control groups, while the morphological structure of the liver in the epilepsy and epilepsy plus Px groups corresponded to the early embryonic period. In the melatonin-treated epilepsy plus Px group, the number of TUNEL positive cells decreased significantly compared to both epilepsy and epilepsy plus Px groups; however, there was no statistically significant difference from the control groups as a result of melatonin activity.
Some histological findings consistent with chronic fetal distress in newborns of mother rats with epilepsy and Px were observed. Melatonin could be a candidate protective drug for the development of liver tissue in pregnant patients with epilepsy.
Tinnitus is an otological symptom that is encountered often, yet its treatment is difficult. If tinnitus is of cochlear origin, a reasonable assumption is that a total depression of the cochlear function will abolish cochlear tinnitus. To achieve this depression, transtympanic infusion of a local anesthetic (4% lidocaine) to anesthetize the inner ear was conducted in a patient suffering from tinnitus. Transtympanic infusion of 4% lidocaine was performed as a treatment for cochlear tinnitus, and its efficacy was investigated. The overall efficacy rate for the 292 patients with 369 affected ears was 81%. In the investigation of the treatment results in cases of different underlying ear diseases, the efficacy rate was high for tinnitus accompanying sudden deafness and labyrinthine vertigo. However, vestibular symptoms, such as vertigo and nausea, developed after lidocaine infusion. No permanent side effects were noted. Lidocaine infusion is thought to be a useful treatment option for tinnitus and should be considered before surgical treatment. Inner ear anesthesia into the tympanic cavity has been carried out in patients who had cochlear tinnitus and in whom conservative methods of therapy, such as oral medication, had proved unsuccessful. This treatment method is useful as a local therapy for cochlear tinnitus.
We conducted an open label pilot study of the effect of bilateral subthalamotomy in 18 patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. In seven patients, the first subthalamotomy pre-dated the second by 12-24 months ('staged surgery'). Subsequently, a second group of 11 patients received bilateral subthalamotomy on the same day ('simultaneous surgery'). Patients were assessed according to the CAPIT (Core Assessment Program for Intracerebral Transplantation) protocol, a battery of timed motor tests and neuropsychological tests. Evaluations were performed in the 'off' and 'on' drug states before surgery and at 1 and 6 months and every year thereafter for a minimum of 3 years after bilateral subthalamotomy. Compared with baseline, bilateral subthalamotomy induced a significant (P < 0.001) reduction in the 'off' (49.5%) and 'on' (35.5%) Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor scores at the last assessment. A blind rating of videotape motor exams in the 'off' and 'on' medication states preoperatively and at 2 years postoperatively also revealed a significant improvement. All of the cardinal features of Parkinson's disease as well as activities of daily living (ADL) scores significantly improved (P < 0.01). Levodopa-induced dyskinesias were reduced by 50% (P < 0.01), and the mean daily levodopa dose was reduced by 47% at the time of the last evaluation compared with baseline (P < 0.0001). Dyskinesias occurred intraoperatively or in the immediate postoperative hours in 13 patients, but were generally mild and short lasting. Three patients developed severe generalized chorea that gradually resolved within the next 3-6 months. Three patients experienced severe and persistent postoperative dysarthria. In two, this coincided with the patients exhibiting large bilateral lesions also suffering from severe dyskinesias. No patient exhibited permanent cognitive impairment. The motor benefit has persisted for a follow-up of 3-6 years. This study indicates that bilateral subthalamotomy may induce a significant and long-lasting improvement of advanced Parkinson's disease, but the clinical outcome was variable. This variability may depend in large part on the precise location and volume of the lesions. Further refinement of the surgical procedure is mandatory.
