To evaluate whether individualized pharmacokinetic dosing of aminoglycosides can reduce nephrotoxicity and improve the outcome of patients with gram-negative sepsis.
We conducted a prospective controlled trial at a tertiary care university hospital. Eighty-one patients with suspected or documented gram-negative infections were enrolled. All were treated with either gentamicin or amikacin, according to clinical judgement. Patients were allocated to one of two groups based on the last digit (odd/even) of their identification number. In the study group (pharmacokinetic dosing) of 43 patients, plasma aminoglycoside levels were determined 1 hour after initiation of drug infusion and 8 to 16 hours later to estimate the elimination half-life and volume of distribution, from which the subsequent dosage schedule was calculated. Target peak plasma levels were 20 microg/mL for gentamicin and 60 microg/mL for amikacin. Target trough levels were <1 microg/mL for both drugs. The control group (fixed once-daily dosing) consisted of 38 patients who were prescribed single daily doses of gentamicin or amikacin. The primary endpoints were renal toxicity (> or = 25% increase in serum creatinine level or a serum creatinine level > or = 1.4 mg/dL) and 28-day mortality.
The two study groups were similar in age, sex, indications for therapy, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score, and clinical assessment at baseline. Although the pharmacokinetic group received significantly greater doses of aminoglycosides than did the once-daily group, the incidence of nephrotoxicity was significantly lower in the pharmacokinetic group (5% [2/43] vs. 21% [8/38], P = 0.03). There was no statistically significant difference in 28-day mortality (27% [12/43] vs. 22% [8/38], P = 0.3).
These results suggest that individualized pharmacokinetic dosing of aminoglycosides reduces the incidence of nephrotoxicity and allows the use of greater doses of aminoglycosides.
Renal plasma flow (RPF), glomerular filtration rate (GFR), renal proximal tubular delivery of sodium and water evaluated by lithium clearance, and hormonal parameters were measured in 12 patients with congestive heart failure NYHA class II-IV before and after captopril treatment for 4 wk and in 13 healthy control subjects. RPF and GFR were significantly decreased in heart failure, whereas the filtration fraction (FF) was increased. Treatment with captopril increased RPF and decreased FF, whereas GFR was unchanged. Total and fractional urinary excretion of sodium were reduced in the patients compared with the controls, but increased after captopril. Fractional excretion of lithium was normal in heart failure and was increased by captopril. Atrial natriuretic peptide, guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate, and aldosterone in plasma were significantly elevated in heart failure and were reduced by treatment with captopril. Plasma renin activity was increased in patients, correlated inversely with RPF, and increased further after captopril treatment. It is concluded that the reduced sodium excretion in heart failure was caused by a combination of diminished glomerular filtration and enhanced tubular reabsorption beyond the proximal tubule and that treatment with captopril increased urinary sodium excretion partly due to an attenuated sodium reabsorption in the proximal tubule. The present data in patients with congestive heart failure are consistent with an increased intrarenal angiotensin II generation and an elevated plasma level of aldosterone being involved in the pathogenesis of the glomerular hemodynamic changes and the enhanced distal tubular reabsorption, respectively.
Benzene, a constituent of cigarette smoke, is a human leukemogen and induces bone marrow toxicity. The mechanism of benzene-induced toxicity is not well-established. We hypothesized that relatively high levels of nitric oxide formed in bone marrow can react with oxygen and/or superoxide anion that is generated during redox cycling of ring-hydroxylated benzene metabolites to yield peroxynitrite as well as other NO-derived intermediates. Peroxynitrite can either directly damage cellular macromolecules or form nitrated toxic metabolites. Toward this end, we investigated whether nitro derivatives of benzene are formed in bone marrow of mice treated with benzene. First, we have characterized products formed during activation of benzene in Fenton's system in the absence or presence of NO-releasing compound in vitro by GC/MS. The result of above experiment prompted us to determine whether similar products can be formed in vivo. Groups of B6C3F1 male mice, eight weeks of age, were given a single intraperitoneal dose of [14C]benzene (400 mg/kg body wt, 9.7 mCi/mmol) or an equal dose of unlabeled benzene in corn oil, and the mice were killed 0.5 or 1 h posttreatment. The control group received only vehicle injections. Organic solvent extractable metabolites from bone marrow, liver, lungs, and blood of mice treated with [14C]benzene were identified by comparison of their respective retention times under two different HPLC conditions with authentic standard samples. These metabolites were further characterized by comparison of their GC/MS properties to those of reference standards. Nitro metabolites, namely, nitrobenzene, nitrobiphenyl, and nitrophenol isomers, were detected in the bone marrow of the mice 1 h after benzene treatment. Formation of nitro derivatives in other tissues was either not observed or was significantly less than that formed in bone marrow. This study clearly demonstrates that nitric oxide is a contributor to benzene metabolism and can form nitrated derivatives that may, in part, account for bone marrow toxicity.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease that affects approximately 1% of the adult population, and to date, genetic factors explain < 50% of the risk. Particulate air pollution, especially of traffic origin, has been linked to systemic inflammation in many studies.
We examined the association of distance to road, a marker of traffic pollution exposure, and incidence of RA in a prospective cohort study.
We studied 90,297 U.S. women in the Nurses' Health Study. We used a geographic information system to determine distance to road at the residence in 2000 as a measure of traffic exposure. Using Cox proportional hazard models, we examined the association of distance to road and incident RA (1976-2004) with adjustment for a large number of potential confounders.
In models adjusted for age, calendar year, race, cigarette smoking, parity, lactation, menopausal status and hormone use, oral contraceptive use, body mass index, physical activity, and census-tract-level median income and house value, we observed an elevated risk of RA [hazard ratio (HR) = 1.31; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.98-1.74] in women living within 50 m of a road, compared with those women living 200 m or farther away. We also observed this association in analyses among nonsmokers (HR = 1.62; 95% CI, 1.04-2.52), nonsmokers with rheumatoid factor (RF)-negative RA (HR = 1.77; 95% CI, 0.93-3.38), and nonsmokers with RF-positive RA (HR = 1.51; 95% CI, 0.82-2.77). We saw no elevations in risk in women living 50-200 m from the road.
The observed association between exposure to traffic pollution and RA suggests that pollution from traffic in adulthood may be a newly identified environmental risk factor for RA.
Progressive myoclonic epilepsy (PME) syndromes are intractable to most antiepileptic drugs (AED). The course of these diseases, results in almost total dependency due to continuous myoclonias, repeated episodes of status epilepticus, ataxia and dementia. The need for new treatment strategies is therefore imperative. Zonisamide has previously been reported to be effective in two patients with PME. Case reports of seven patients (ages 19-42) with Unverricht-Lundborgs disease (ULD) and one Lafora Body Disease are presented. Zonisamide was given at doses of 100-600 mg/day for a period of 2 to 3 years. Concomitant AEDs were usually valproate and a benzodiazepine. Zonisamide dramatically reduced the amount of myoclonias and generalized seizures. In three of the cases, the initial dramatic effect on myoclonias wore off after 2-4 years of treatment but patients still experienced moderate efficacy for generalized tonic-clonic seizures. The dramatic reduction of stimulus sensitivity for light, touch and startle by zonisamide was sustained in all patients with ULD. Zonisamide may be a useful agent in the treatment of PME. Controlled clinical trials are warranted to further investigate the antiepileptic effects of this drug, in difficult to treat epileptic syndromes.
To describe the pharmacology, safety and efficacy, and rationale for use of oral oxymorphone for the management of acute and chronic moderate-to-severe pain.
A PubMed/MEDLINE search (1966-March 2007) was conducted using the following terms: oral oxymorphone, oxymorphone, EN 3202, EN 3203, Opana, and Opana ER. Manufacturer-provided data (package inserts) and abstracts presented at the American Pain Society meetings (2003-2006) were also reviewed.
Human studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of oral oxymorphone in pain management were considered; animal and non-English-language data were excluded.
Oral oxymorphone is a semisynthetic opioid agonist that is specific for the mu-opioid receptor and approved to treat both acute and chronic pain. Unlike other opioids, such as oxycodone, oxymorphone does not bind to the kappa-opioid receptor. Due to extensive liver metabolism, oral oxymorphone is contraindicated in patients with moderate-to-severe hepatic impairment; however, no clinically significant CYP3A4, 2C9, or 2D6 mediated drug-drug interactions have been noted. Elderly patients may experience a 40% increase in plasma concentrations, while renally impaired patients may have a 57-65% increase in bioavailability. Food can increase the rate of absorption by as much as 50%, necessitating dosing either 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal. Oxymorphone's primary adverse effects are similar to those of other opioids: nausea, vomiting, pruritus, pyrexia, and constipation.
Oxymorphone is an oral therapeutic option approved for the treatment of acute and chronic moderate-to-severe pain. Oxymorphone has a safety and efficacy profile similar to that of other commonly used pure opioids (morphine, oxycodone, hydromorphone). Like oxycodone and morphine, oxymorphone also has immediate-release and extended-release formulations. Since cost alone is not yet favorable for oxymorphone over oxycodone or morphine, further studies of comparative efficacy targeting potential advantages of oxymorphone over other opioids are necessary before considering it for addition to a formulary.
Behavioral sensitization of psychostimulants was accompanied by alterations in a variety of biochemical molecules in different brain regions. However, which change is actually related to drug-produced sensitization lacks of accurate clarification. In this study, we investigated the role of integrin-linked kinase (ILK) in both the induction and expression of cocaine sensitization. Conditional inhibition of ILK expression was established in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) core by microinjecting recombinant adeno-associated virus-carrying, tetracycline-on-regulated small interfering RNA which reversed the chronic cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization, as well as the changes in protein kinase B Ser473 phosphorylation, dendritic density, and dendritic spine numbers locally. Importantly, the reversed psychomotor sensitization did not recover after cessation of the silencing for 8 days. We also demonstrated that inhibition of ILK expression pre- and during-chronic cocaine treatments blocked the induction of cocaine psychomotor sensitization and abolished the stimulant effect of cocaine on ILK expression. In contrast, inhibition of ILK expression in the NAc core has no significant effect on cocaine-induced stereotypical behaviors. This concludes that ILK is involved in cocaine sensitization with the earlier induction and later expression functioning as a kinase to regulate protein kinase B Ser473 phosphorylation and a scaffolding protein to regulate the reorganization of the NAc spine morphology.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) affects 71 million American adults and remains the leading cause of death in the United States and Europe. Despite studies that suggest that the development of CVD may be linked to intrauterine growth or early events in childhood, little direct experimental evidence supports the notion.
We investigated whether exposure to cigarette smoke in utero alters the risk of developing CVD later in life.
We exposed B(6)C(3)F(1) mice (via whole-body inhalation) to either filtered air or mainstream cigarette smoke (MCS, at a particle concentration of 15 mg/m(3)) from gestational day 4 to parturition. Adult offspring were fed a normal chow diet or switched to a high-fat diet 2 weeks before sacrifice. We measured dam and offspring body weight, plasma lipid parameters, lipoprotein subclass particle numbers and sizes, and total antioxidant capacities.
Adult female mice prenatally exposed to MCS demonstrated significantly higher body weight and levels of plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and low-density lipoprotein than did their air-exposed counterparts. When fed a high-fat diet for 2 weeks, males, but not females, exposed prenatally to MCS gained substantially more weight and exhibited dramatic alterations in total cholesterol and HDL levels compared with their air-exposed counterparts.
These data provide, for the first time, direct experimental evidence supporting the notion that prenatal exposure to cigarette smoke affects offspring weight gain and induces a lipid profile that could alter the offspring's risk of developing CVD later in life.
In previous studies we demonstrated statistically significant changes in reported symptoms for lifeguards, general beach goers, and persons with asthma, as well as statistically significant changes in pulmonary function tests (PFTs) in asthmatics, after exposure to brevetoxins in Florida red tide (Karenia brevis bloom) aerosols.
In this study we explored the use of different methods of intensive ambient and personal air monitoring to characterize these exposures to predict self-reported health effects in our asthmatic study population.
We evaluated health effects in 87 subjects with asthma before and after 1 hr of exposure to Florida red tide aerosols and assessed for aerosolized brevetoxin exposure using personal and ambient samplers.
After only 1 hr of exposure to Florida red tide aerosols containing brevetoxin concentrations > 57 ng/m(3), asthmatics had statistically significant increases in self-reported respiratory symptoms and total symptom scores. However, we did not see the expected corresponding changes in PFT results. Significant increases in self-reported symptoms were also observed for those not using asthma medication and those living >/= 1 mile from the coast.
These results provide additional evidence of health effects in asthmatics from ambient exposure to aerosols containing very low concentrations of brevetoxins, possibly at the lower threshold for inducing a biologic response (i.e., toxicity). Consistent with the literature describing self-reported symptoms as an accurate measure of asthmatic distress, our results suggest that self-reported symptoms are a valuable measure of the extent of health effects from exposure to aerosolized brevetoxins in asthmatic populations.
Conventionally warfarin therapy is initiated using a loading dose given over several days. Daily international normalised ratio (INR) monitoring is recommended to prevent overdose; however, with a large proportion of patients with deep vein thrombosis now receiving treatment out of hospital daily blood tests are inconvenient. We introduced a low-dose protocol for starting anticoagulant therapy that only required INR testing on days 4 and 6 and audited the results to assess safety and efficacy.
Two-hundred and forty-eight patients with confirmed deep vein thrombosis were started on warfarin therapy at 5 mg daily for 3 days. INR measurements were taken at day 4 and day 6.
Of these patients, 21% had an INR within the therapeutic range on day 4 and 52% had a therapeutic INR on day 6. The risk of overdose was small with only one case with an INR above 4.0 on day 4 and nine cases on day 6. There were no reported cases of bleeding.
The low-dose protocol with infrequent testing is safe and convenient for outpatient management. However, our results suggest that patients on this protocol take between 6-10 days to achieve a stable INR.
Studies have demonstrated ubiquitous human exposure to persistent organic pollutants (POPs) such as p,p'-diphenyldichloroethene (DDE) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Although there is considerable evidence that POP exposures are associated with prevalent diabetes, these studies do not establish causality because the cross-sectional study design does not allow for assessment of temporality of the exposure-disease association. Prospective studies, however, have been lacking.
This study was designed to determine whether POP body burdens are related to incidence of diabetes in a cohort of Great Lakes sport fish consumers.
The cohort was established in the early 1990s and followed through 2005. We tested serum for DDE and PCB congeners and assessed diabetes diagnosis, demographics, and fish consumption. Associations of diabetes with exposures were examined prospectively in participants without diabetes in 1994-1995, followed through 2005. Annual percent changes in DDE and PCB-132/153 from 1994 to 2005 were examined by diabetes status.
DDE exposure was associated with incident diabetes. Incident diabetes was not associated with mono-ortho PCB-118, total PCBs, or years of sport fish consumption. Annual percent change in DDE and PCB-132/153 did not differ significantly by diabetes status.
This study demonstrates an association between DDE exposure and incident diabetes. The findings of an association of DDE with incident diabetes and the lack of effect of diabetes on annual percent change in POPs do not support the hypothesis that associations of POPs with diabetes are attributable to reverse causality. Additional studies should address the biological pathways by which DDE could affect glucose homeostasis.
Endometriosis is a common gynecologic disease characterized by the ectopic growth of endometrial tissue. In industrialized countries, it affects approximately 10% of women of reproductive age. Its etiology is unclear, but a multifactorial origin is considered to be most plausible. Environmental organochlorinated persistent pollutants, in particular dioxins and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), have been hypothesized to play a role in the disease etiopathogenesis. However, results of studies carried out on humans are conflicting.
We evaluated the exposure to organochlorinated persistent pollutants as a risk factor for endometriosis.
We conducted a case-control study in Rome on 158 women comprising 80 cases and 78 controls. In all women, serum concentrations of selected non-dioxin-like PCBs (NDL-PCBs) and dioxin-like PCBs (DL-PCBs), 1,1-dichloro-2,2,-bis(4-chlorophenyl)-ethene (p,p'-DDE), and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) were determined by ion-trap mass spectrometry. DR-CALUX bioassay was employed to assess the 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin toxicity equivalent (TEQ) concentrations of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs), polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs), and DL-PCBs.
We found an increased risk of endometriosis for DL-PCB-118 [odds ratio (OR) = 3.79; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.61-8.91], NDL-PCB-138 (OR = 3.78; 95% CI, 1.60-8.94), NDL-PCB-153 (OR = 4.88; 95% CI, 2.01-11.0), NDL-PCB-170 (OR = 3.52; 95% CI, 1.41-8.79), and the sum of DL-PCBs and NDL-PCBs (OR = 5.63; 95% CI, 2.25-14.10). No significant associations were observed with respect to HCB or to the sum of PCDDs, PCDFs, and DL-PCBs given as total TEQs.
The results of this study show that an association exists between increased PCB and p,p'-DDE serum concentrations and the risk of endometriosis.
Diphenhydramine hydrochloride is a commonly prescribed medicine in hospitalized patients, but its adverse effects on older patients remain unclear.
We enrolled 426 hospitalized medical patients aged 70 years or older in a prospective cohort study in a university hospital. Measurements included baseline and daily assessments including Mini-Mental State Examination scores, Confusion Assessment Method ratings, direct observations for medical devices (urinary catheter or physical restraints), and blinded medical record extractions for diphenhydramine use.
Of the 426 patients, 114 (27%) received diphenhydramine during hospitalization and shared similar baseline characteristics including age, sex, delirium risk, and Mini-Mental State Examination scores compared with nonexposed patients. The diphenhydramine-exposed group was at an increased risk for any delirium symptoms (relative risk [RR], 1.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3-2.3) and for individual delirium symptoms, including inattention (RR, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.5-5.9), disorganized speech (RR, 5.5; 95% CI, 1.0-29.8), and altered consciousness (RR, 3.1; 95% CI, 1.6-6.1). Exposed patients also had increased risk for urinary catheter placement (RR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.0-6.0) and longer median length of stay (7 vs 6 days; P =.009). A dose-response relationship was demonstrated for most adverse outcomes. Overall, 24% of diphenhydramine doses were administered inappropriately.
Diphenhydramine administration in older hospitalized patients is associated with an increased risk of cognitive decline and other adverse effects with a dose-response relationship. Careful review of its use is necessary in this vulnerable population.
There is ample epidemiologic and toxicologic evidence that exposure to fine particulate matter (PM) air pollution [aerodynamic diameter < or = 2.5 microm (PM(2.5))], which derives primarily from combustion processes, can result in increased mortality and morbidity. There is less certainty as to the contribution of coarse PM (PM(2.5-10)), which derives from crustal materials and from mechanical processes, to mortality and morbidity.
To determine whether coarse PM causes cardiopulmonary effects, we exposed 14 healthy young volunteers to coarse concentrated ambient particles (CAPs) and filtered air. Coarse PM concentration averaged 89.0 microg/m(3) (range, 23.7-159.6 microg/m(3)). Volunteers were exposed to coarse CAPs and filtered air for 2 hr while they underwent intermittent exercise in a single-blind, crossover study. We measured pulmonary, cardiac, and hematologic end points before exposure, immediately after exposure, and again 20 hr after exposure.
Compared with filtered air exposure, coarse CAP exposure produced a small increase in polymorphonuclear neutrophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid 20 hr postexposure, indicating mild pulmonary inflammation. We observed no changes in pulmonary function. Blood tissue plasminogen activator, which is involved in fibrinolysis, was decreased 20 hr after exposure. The standard deviation of normal-to-normal intervals (SDNN), a measure of overall heart rate variability, also decreased 20 hr after exposure to CAPs.
Coarse CAP exposure produces a mild physiologic response in healthy young volunteers approximately 20 hr postexposure. These changes are similar in scope and magnitude to changes we and others have previously reported for volunteers exposed to fine CAPs, suggesting that both size fractions are comparable at inducing cardiopulmonary changes in acute exposure settings.
To report a case of acute endophthalmitis following intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection.
A 54-year-old woman with diabetic macular edema developed endophthalmitis after triamcinolone injection. First she was treated with intravitreal antibiotic injections and next with four surgeries--facovitrectomy, revitrectomy, silicone oil removal and revitrectomy.
The initial visual acuity was 0.5. From the vitreous cultured Staphylococcus epidermidis. Depite the intensive medical intervention, the toxic retinal damage occurred and the final visual acuity was hand movement.
intravitreal triamcinolone injections can induce bacterial endophthalmitis, which has a devastating effect on the ocular tissues and results in severe loss of vision. The procedure of injection in diabetic and immunocompromised patients should be performed with great care.
Pretreatment of mice with the peroxisome proliferator clofibrate (CFB) protects against acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity. Previous studies have shown that activation of the nuclear peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) is required for this effect. The present study utilizes gene expression profile analysis to identify potential pathways contributing to PPARalpha-mediated hepatoprotection. Gene expression profiles were compared between wild type and PPARalpha-null mice pretreated with vehicle or CFB (500 mg/kg, i.p., daily for 10 days) and then challenged with APAP (400 mg/kg, p.o.). Total hepatic RNA was isolated 4 h after APAP treatment and hybridized to Affymetrix Mouse Genome MGU74 v2.0 GeneChips. Gene expression analysis was performed utilizing GeneSpring software. Our analysis identified 53 genes of interest including vanin-1, cell cycle regulators, lipid-metabolizing enzymes, and aldehyde dehydrogenase 2, an acetaminophen binding protein. Vanin-1 could be important for CFB-mediated hepatoprotection because this protein is involved in the synthesis of cysteamine and cystamine. These are potent antioxidants capable of ameliorating APAP toxicity in rodents and humans. HPLC-ESI/MS/MS analysis of liver extracts indicates that enhanced vanin-1 gene expression results in elevated cystamine levels, which could be mechanistically associated with CFB-mediated hepatoprotection.
The duration, severity, and cause of hypotension after intravenous amiodarone has not been well characterized in anesthetized cardiac surgical patients. Because amiodarone is tolerated in patients with advanced cardiac disease, we hypothesized that left ventricular systolic performance is preserved despite hypotension during amiodarone loading.
In a prospective double-blind trial, 30 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery were randomly assigned to receive intravenous amiodarone (n = 15) or placebo (n = 15). Cardiac output (CO), mixed venous oxygen saturation (SVO), arterial blood pressure (systolic blood pressure [SBP], diastolic blood pressure [DBP], mean arterial pressure [MAP]), pulmonary artery pressure, and central venous pressure (CVP) were recorded. Transesophageal echocardiographic left ventricular end-diastolic area (EDA), end-systolic area (ESA), fractional area change (FAC), and end-systolic wall stress (ESWS) were measured every 5 minutes.
Mean arterial pressure, SBP, and DBP decreased over time after drug administration in both groups (p < 0.05). At 6 minutes, amiodarone decreased the MAP by 14 mm Hg (p = 0.004) and placebo decreased the MAP by 4 mm Hg. The change in MAP, SBP, and DBP between groups was statistically different for the first 15 minutes after drug administration. Hypotension requiring intervention occurred in 3 of 15 after amiodarone and 0 of 15 after placebo (p = 0.22). The mean heart rate was 11.5 beats per minute less after amiodarone (p < 0.02), but pulmonary artery pressure, CVP, SVO, and FAC were not different between groups.
Intravenous amiodarone decreased heart rate and caused a significant, but transient decrease in arterial pressure in the first 15 minutes after administration. Left ventricular performance was maintained suggesting that selective arterial vasodilation was the primary cause of drug-induced hypotension.
To assess the rate of spinal cord toxicity in adolescents resulting from chemoradiotherapy of parameningeal sarcoma.
Of 152 patients with parameningeal sarcoma treated per the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study Group protocol from 1977 through 1989, eight developed paralyzing ascending myelitis after intrathecal chemotherapy with cytosine arabinoside, methotrexate, and hydrocortisone administered during and after radiation therapy to volumes that included part of the spinal cord. The eight cases include three not previously published.
Of eight patients who developed CNS toxicity after intrathecal chemotherapy and radiotherapy for parameningeal rhabdomyosarcoma, all but one were between 13 and 18 years of age when treated. This severe toxicity occurred in one quarter of 28 adolescents treated with the regimen in comparison with one of 123 children 12 years of age or less (P < 0.0001), a rate that was as much as 30 times higher in the adolescents. Lengthening of the spinal cord during the pubertal growth spurt may account for the apparent increased vulnerability.
Chemoradiotoxicity-associated spinal cord injury appears to be more likely to occur in adolescents than in younger or older ages. This observation appears to reverse a conventional wisdom in which the central nervous system is thought to become more resistant to the neurotoxic effects of chemoradiotherapy as it matures.
Leflunomide is a new drug for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Its mechanism of action is based on lymphocyte inhibition. We report the cases of two patients treated with leflunomide who developed severe sensory-motor axonal polyneuropathy.
Two women (61- and 70-year-old) presented with a sensory-motor axonal polyneuropathy beginning 5 months after onset of leflunomide treatment. Etiologic investigations were negative. The symptoms rapidly improved after withdrawing leflunomide.
The analysis of drug watch data found twelve patients with leflunomide-related neuropathy. Ten of them were more than 60 years old. The mean delay for onset of neuropathy was 9 months. The neuropathy improved after treatment withdrawal in seven patients.
We consider these data strongly suggest that leflunomide is a cause of axonal sensory-motor neuropathy. The prevalence of such adverse events is still unknown.
This study, a 4-month follow-up period of a 12-month treatment study by the present authors, was concerned with the permanent effects of treatment with diphenylhydantoin and phenobarbital in the alumina-gel monkey model. Whereas the 8 drug animals during withdrawal increased their seizure frequency, duration, and severity, those 4 animals having received 120 mg/kg/day DPH in weeks 6-12 had one-half the number of seizures of the 4 placebo monkeys in the follow-up period. The other 4 drug animals who had continued to receive 60 mg/kg/day DPH during those weeks had two to four times the number of seizures of the placebo group during posttreatment. (All drug monkeys received 80 mg/kg/day of DPH from weeks 13-52 and 6 mg/kg/day of phenobarbital throughout the 12-month treatment period). The results reaffirm the problems of drug withdrawal and the importance of altering seizure mechanisms with sufficiently high doses of efficacious anticonvulsants rather than merely treating epileptic manifestations at lower doses.
It has been demonstrated that ambient particulate matter (PM) can act as an adjuvant for allergic sensitization. Redox-active organic chemicals on the particle surface play an important role in PM adverse health effects and may determine the adjuvant effect of different particle types according to their potential to perturb redox equilibrium in the immune system.
We determined whether the adjuvant effect of ambient fine particles versus ultrafine particles (UFPs) is correlated to their prooxidant potential.
We have established an intranasal sensitization model that uses ambient PM as a potential adjuvant for sensitization to ovalbumin (OVA), which enhances the capacity for secondary OVA challenge to induce allergic airway inflammation.
UFPs with a greater polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) content and higher oxidant potential enhanced OVA sensitization more readily than did fine particles. This manifests as enhanced allergic inflammation upon secondary OVA challenge, leading to eosinophilic inflammation and mucoid hyperplasia starting at the nasal turbinates all the way down to the small pulmonary airways. The thiol antioxidant N-acetyl cysteine was able to suppress some of these sensitization events.
The adjuvant effects of ambient UFP is determined by their oxidant potential, which likely plays a role in changing the redox equilibrium in the mucosal immune system.
Utilizing an alumina-gel epileptic monkey model, with instrumentation for continuous monitoring of all overt, spontaneous motor seizures, the efficacy of pharmacologic prophylactic treatment of posttraumatic epilepsy was explored. The alumina-gel model provides a relatively standardized brain trauma from monkey to monkey, resulting in virtually complete assurance that all animals will manifest, in time, electrical and clinical seizures if not treated. Thirteen rhesus monkeys were divided into two groups of 8 drug-treated and 5 placebo animals, respectively. Administration of diphenylhydantoin and phenobarbital in a combined regimen commenced within 48 hr of the alumina-gel injections. After 1 year the monkeys were withdrawn from either their drugs or placebo and followed for a subsequent 4 month period. The data for the first 12-month period indicate that anticonvulsant treatment of potentially epileptic monkeys decreased both the frequency and severity of seizures they would have had without treatment. All animals manifested an electrical focus and overt seizures, but the drug monkeys had only partial seizures whereas the placebo monkeys exhibited secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures. The follow-up, no-treatment data of 4 months are reported in the following paper.
This study tested the hypothesis that testis/reproductive tract abnormalities induced in the rat by neonatal treatment with diethylstilbestrol (DES) result from disturbance of the androgen-estrogen balance. Male rats were treated neonatally with a dose of DES (0.1 micro g) that induced either no or small effects on its own or with a dose (10 micro g) that induced major reproductive tract abnormalities. To allow quantification, the abnormalities chosen for study were distension of the rete testis and efferent ducts and reduction in epithelial cell height in the efferent ducts and vas deferens. To alter the androgen-estrogen balance, other rats were treated with DES (0.1 micro g) in combination with a treatment to suppress either androgen production [GnRH antagonist (GnRHa)] or androgen action (flutamide); other rats were treated with GnRHa or flutamide alone. Testosterone levels were measured to verify the effects of treatment. Combined administration of DES (0.1 micro g) plus GnRHa or flutamide induced significantly greater distension/overgrowth of the rete testis and efferent ducts (ED) and a reduction in epithelial cell height of the ED than did DES (0.1 micro g) administered alone. Neither GnRHa nor flutamide affected rete or ED distension when administered alone, but both significantly reduced ED epithelial cell height. Neonatal treatment with bisphenol-A (100 micro g) with or without GnRHa had no significant effect on any of these parameters. In contrast to the ED, a reduction in cell height of the vas deferens was induced to an equal extent by DES (10 micro g), DES (0.1 micro g) with GnRHa, and GnRHa alone, suggesting greater sensitivity of this tissue to both androgen and estrogen action. The induction of major abnormalities in rats treated with DES (10 micro g) was coincident with loss of androgen receptor immunoexpression in affected tissues. Reduced androgen receptor immunoexpression was also induced by combined treatment with DES (0.1 micro g) plus GnRHa or flutamide, whereas treatment with any of these compounds alone had no or only minor effects. These findings suggest that reduced androgen action sensitizes the reproductive tract to estrogens, demonstrating that the balance in action between androgens and estrogens, rather than their absolute levels, may be of fundamental importance in determining normal or abnormal development of some regions of the male reproductive tract.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a major complication of high-dose cyclophosphamide therapy used in preparation for allogeneic or autologous bone marrow transplantation. Although previous reports had suggested that the sulfhydryl-containing compound mesna might be superior to forced diuresis in preventing hemorrhagic cystitis, there were concerns about the effect of mesna on engraftment in these studies. To address these concerns, 100 patients were randomized to receive mesna or forced saline diuresis while undergoing bone marrow transplant conditioning with regimens that included high-dose cyclophosphamide. To try to minimize the likelihood of graft rejection, patients who were being transplanted with cyclophosphamide as a sole agent were excluded from the study. After randomization and administration of therapy, patients were monitored by microscopic and dip-stick urinalyses; they were also followed for effects of therapy on engraftment. The incidence of consistent or severe hematuria was 33% in the mesna arm and 20% in the hyperhydration arm (P = .31). Severe bleeding occurred in 12.5% of mesna patients and 7.5% of hyperhydration patients (P = .71). No unexpected toxicities were encountered, and engraftment times did not differ. Based on this randomized trial of 100 patients, we conclude that mesna and hyperhydration are equally effective in preventing cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis in bone marrow transplantation patients.
17 alpha-Ethinylestradiol (EE2)-mediated promotion of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated liver tumors was evaluated in distinct hepatocyte subpopulations. Our initiation-promotion regime consisted of a single dose of DEN (200 mg/kg) to ovariectomized rats, followed by chronic exposure to EE2 (90 micrograms/kg/day for 30 weeks). We observed significant increases in liver and uterine organ wts which were associated with liver tumor formation. Isolated hepatocytes were separated by elutriation into seven subpopulations. The early eluting subpopulations consisted of a greater proportion of diploid cells and they exhibited a preferential uptake of acridine orange, which is characteristic of periportal cells. With the increasing order of elutriated fractions, hepatocyte subpopulations of tetraploid and octaploid cells were obtained. Elutriation revealed that EE2 promotion enhanced nuclear estrogen receptor levels (3-fold) and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity (5-fold) to a greater extent in the early eluting diploid subpopulations (1 and 2), even though total estrogen receptor (ER) levels were higher in the later eluting subpopulations. The stimulatory effect of EE2 on ER levels was associated with an increased ER occupancy in all subpopulations, although the effect was greatest in the later eluting fractions. Chronic EE2 exposure induced the emergence of new hepatocyte populations within fractions 6 and 7. Enhanced cell growth was observed in the DEN/EE2-derived hepatocytes by flow cytometric measurements of DNA synthesis. The new populations of altered cells expressed high levels of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), with 90% of the cells positive for EGFR-antibody. In summary, our data demonstrate that many effects of EE2 on hepatocyte pathways involved in growth control occur in nearly all populations of cells, derived by elutriation although some effects such as the emergence of an EGFR-enriched population of hepatocytes are localized in specific populations.
Developmental exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or methylmercury (MeHg) can result in a variety of neurotoxic effects, including long-term auditory deficits. However, little is known about the effects of combined exposure to PCBs and MeHg on auditory function.
We developmentally exposed rats to PCBs and/or MeHg and assessed auditory function in adulthood to determine the effects of exposure to these contaminants individually and in combination.
We exposed female Long-Evans rats to 1 or 3 mg/kg PCB in corn oil, 1.5 or 4.5 ppm MeHg in drinking water, or combined exposure to 1 mg/kg PCB + 1.5 ppm MeHg or 3 mg/kg PCB + 4.5 ppm MeHg. Controls received corn oil vehicle and unadulterated water. Dosing began 28 days before breeding and continued until weaning at postnatal day (PND) 21. Auditory function of the offspring was assessed at approximately PND 200 by measuring distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) and auditory brainstem responses (ABRs).
Groups exposed to PCBs alone had attenuated DPOAE amplitudes, elevated DPOAE thresholds, and elevated ABR thresholds compared with controls. Groups exposed to MeHg alone did not differ from controls. Unexpectedly, the effects of PCB exposure appeared to be attenuated by coexposure to MeHg.
Developmental exposure to PCBs can result in permanent hearing deficits, and the changes in DPOAE amplitudes and thresholds suggest a cochlear site of action. Coexposure to MeHg appeared to attenuate the PCB-related deficits, but the mechanism for this unexpected interaction remains to be determined.
Five fractions (F1-F5) isolated from the methanolic leaf extract of Cissampelos mucronata A. Rich were investigated for antiulcer activity. At the dose of 450 mg/kg, they showed varying degree of protection against ulcer induced by indomethacin; the order of protection being F1>F4>F5>F2>F3. The antiulcer potency of F1 and F2 is comparable with that of cimetidine (100 mg/kg, i.p.). Inhibition of gastric mucosal damage may partly contribute to the antiulcer activity of the fractions.
