We report a new type of drug-induced stone that is caused by overconsumption of preparations containing guaifenesin and ephedrine.
Clinical and stone analysis data from the Molecular Structure Laboratory at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, were reviewed. Stone analysis was performed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, high-resolution X-ray crystallographic powder diffraction, or both. The urine and stone material from one of the subjects were analyzed with high-performance liquid chromatography.
Stone analysis from seven patients demonstrated metabolites of guaifenesin. High-performance liquid chromatography revealed that the stone and urine from one subject had a high content of guaifenesin metabolites and a small amount of ephedrine. Demographic data were available on five patients. Three had a history of alcohol or drug dependency. All were consuming over-the-counter preparations containing ephedrine and guaifenesin. Four admitted to taking excessive quantities of these agents, mainly as a stimulant. Hypocitraturia was identified in two individuals subjected to urinary metabolic testing. These stones are radiolucent on standard X-ray imaging but can be demonstrated on unenhanced CT. Shockwave lithotripsy was performed in two patients, and the calculi fragmented easily.
Individuals consuming large quantities of preparations containing ephedrine and guaifenesin may be at risk to develop stones derived mainly from metabolites of guaifenesin and small quantities of ephedrine. These patients may be prone to drug or alcohol dependency.
Methcathinone (ephedrone) is relatively easily accessible for abuse. Its users develop an extrapyramidal syndrome and it is not known if this is caused by methcathinone itself, by side-ingredients (manganese), or both. In the present study we aimed to clarify molecular mechanisms underlying this condition. We used microarrays to analyze whole-genome gene expression patterns of peripheral blood from 20 methcathinone users and 20 matched controls. Gene expression profile data were analyzed by Bayesian modeling and functional annotation. Of 28,869 genes on the microarrays, 326 showed statistically significant differential expression with FDR adjusted p-values below 0.05. Quantitative real-time PCR confirmed differential expression for the most of the genes selected for validation. Functional annotation and network analysis indicated activation of a gene network that included immunological disease, cellular movement, and cardiovascular disease functions (enrichment score 42). As HIV and HCV infections were confounding factors, we performed additional stratification of subjects. A similar functional activation of the "immunological disease" category was evident when we compared subjects according to injection status (past versus current users, balanced for HIV and HCV infection). However, this difference was not large therefore the major effect was related to the HIV status of the subjects. Mn-methcathinone abusers have blood RNA expression patterns that mostly reflect their HIV and HCV infections.
IL1-RN is an important anti-inflammatory cytokine that modulate the inflammation response by binding to IL1 receptors, and as a consequence inhibits the action of proinflammatory cytokines IL1alpha and IL1beta. In this study, we hypothesise that sequence variants in the IL1-RN gene are associated with prostate cancer risk. The study population, a population-based case-control study in Sweden, consisted of 1383 prostate cancer case patients and 779 control subjects. We first selected 18 sequence variants covering the IL1-RN gene and genotyped these single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 96 control subjects. Gene-specific haplotypes of IL1-RN were constructed and four haplotype-tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (htSNPs) were identified (rs878972, rs315934, rs3087263 and rs315951) that could uniquely describe >95% of the haplotypes. All study subjects were genotyped for the four htSNPs. No significant difference in genotype frequencies between cases and controls were observed for any of the four SNPs based on a multiplicative genetic model. Overall there was no significant difference in haplotype frequencies between cases and controls; however, the prevalence of the most common haplotype (ATGC) was significantly higher among cases (38.7%) compared to controls (33.5%) (haplotype-specific P = 0.009). Evaluation of the prostate cancer risk associated with carrying the 'ATGC' haplotype revealed that homozygous carriers were at significantly increased risk (odds ratio (OR) = 1.6, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.2-2.2), compared to noncarriers, while no significant association was found among subjects heterozygous for the haplotype (OR = 1.0, 95% CI = 0.8-1.2). Restricting analyses to advanced prostate cancer strengthened the association between the 'ATGC' haplotype and disease risk (OR for homozygous carriers vs noncarriers 1.8, 95% CI = 1.3-2.5). In conclusion, the results from this study support the hypothesis that inflammation has a role of in the development of prostate cancer, but further studies are needed to identify the causal variants in this region and to elucidate the biological mechanism for this association.
The pathogenic mechanisms and molecular events involved in the development and progression of diabetic nephropathy (DN) are not completely known. Recent data indicate that diabetes includes an inflammatory component that is related to diabetic complications. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, a cytokine with mainly proinflammatory activity, may be synthesized by renal cells. Our objective was to analyze intrarenal TNF-alpha gene expression and its relationship with urinary albumin excretion (UAE). We also investigated the effect of inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme on TNF-alpha expression and UAE.
Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received either no treatment or an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (enalapril). After eight weeks, renal expression of TNF-alpha was evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction.
Renal cortical messenger RNA levels of TNF-alpha increased significantly and were twice as high in diabetic rats than in nondiabetic control rats. Enalapril administration nearly completely abolished the increase in TNF-alpha messenger RNA expression to the level observed in control rats. UAE was significantly correlated with urinary levels of TNF-alpha (r=0.68, P<0.05) and with renal TNF-alpha expression (r=0.51, P<0.05).
DN was associated with increased renal expression of TNF-alpha and UAE. Enalapril administration prevented this enhanced expression of TNF-alpha and decreased urinary cytokine excretion and albuminuria. These data provide a novel insight into the pathogenic mechanisms of DN, and support the hypothesis that inflammatory mechanisms may play a significant role in the development and progression of renal injury secondary to diabetes mellitus.
Cystatin M (CST6) is a candidate breast cancer tumor suppressor that is expressed in normal and premalignant breast epithelium, but not in metastatic breast cancer cell lines. CST6 is subject to epigenetic silencing in MCF-7 breast cancer cells related to methylation of the CpG island that encompasses the CST6 proximal promoter region and exon 1. In the current study, CST6 CpG island methylation and expression status was examined in a panel of breast cancer cell lines. Seven of 12 (58%) cell lines lack detectable expression of CST6 and treatment of these cells with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine resulted in a significant increase in CST6 expression, suggesting that the loss of expression may be related to methylation-dependent epigenetic silencing. Bisulfite sequencing of CST6 in a subset of breast cancer cell lines revealed CpG island hypermethylation in CST6-negative cells, and an absence of CpG island methylation in cells that express CST6. The extent of regional methylation was strongly associated with the lack of expression of CST6 among these cell lines. In particular, hypermethylation of the proximal promoter was significantly associated with CST6 gene silencing, and methylation of a number of individual CpGs was found to be statistically correlated with extinction of gene expression. These results establish a strong link between CST6 promoter hypermethylation and loss of CST6 expression in breast cancer cell lines, and suggest that methylation-dependent epigenetic silencing of CST6 may represent an important mechanism for loss of CST6 during breast carcinogenesis in vivo.
Myocardial ischemia has traditionally been viewed as an imbalance between energy supply and demand. Within the first few seconds following an acute reduction of myocardial blood flow, energy demand of the hypoperfused myocardium clearly exceeds the reduced energy supply. However, this imbalance between energy supply and demand is an inherently unstable condition since ischemia induces mechanisms which are not yet understood, but reduce contractile function and thus energy demand. In the subsequent steady-state condition, the amount of contractile dysfunction is in proportion to the reduction of myocardial blood flow. A situation of persistent ischemic contractile dysfunction in viable myocardium which normalizes upon reperfusion has been termed myocardial hibernation. The metabolic status of such hibernating myocardium improves over the first few hours as myocardial lactate production is attenuated and creatine phosphate, after an initial reduction, returns towards control values. The hibernating myocardium can respond to an inotropic stimulation by dobutamine with increased contractile function, however, at the expense of a renewed worsening of the metabolic status. This situation of an increased regional contractile function at the expense of metabolic recovery during inotropic stimulation can be used to identify hibernating myocardium. The development of such delicate balance between regional myocardial blood flow and function during early ischemia is disturbed by unfavorable alterations in supply and demand. When after 5 min of ischemia, at a blood flow reduction compatible with the development of myocardial hibernation over 90 min, energy supply is further reduced by a further reduction of myocardial blood flow, necroses develop. Likewise, increasing energy demand by continuous inotropic stimulation with dobutamine induces necroses. Thus, both the further reduction in energy supply by an increasing severity of ischemia and an enhanced energy expenditure by continuous inotropic stimulation impair the development of myocardial hibernation and precipitate myocardial infarction. Hibernation over the first few hours of ischemia (short-term hibernation) is well characterized in animal experiments. Increased release of endogenous adenosine and activation of ATP-dependent potassium channels as the underlying mechanisms have been ruled out. The existence of hibernation over weeks or months (long-term hibernation) can only be inferred from clinical studies. In long-term hibernating myocardium morphological alterations occur. In myocardial biopsies from patients with prolonged contractile dysfunction which was reversible after bypass surgery, myofibrils are reduced in number and disorganized. Myocardial glycogen content as well as the extracellular collagen network are increased. Thus, despite the fact that the myocardium remains viable during persistent ischemia and contractile dysfunction is reversible upon reperfusion, there are severe morphological alterations. Understandably, full functional recovery following reperfusion can therefore require weeks or even months.
MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) induces thermogenesis in a mitochondrial uncoupling protein 3-dependent manner. There is evidence that this hyperthermia is mediated in part by the lipolytic release of free fatty acids, that subsequently activate uncoupling protein 3 in skeletal muscle mitochondria. We hypothesize that atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), a strong lipolytic mediator, may contribute to the induction and maintenance of MDMA-induced thermogenesis. The specific aims of this study were to (1) determine if ANP is released following MDMA administration, and (2) use the ANP receptor antagonist, Anantin, to ascertain the role of ANP in MDMA-induced hyperthermia. ANP levels were measured in plasma at baseline, 10, 20, 30 and 60 min following MDMA (40 mg/kg, sc) administration in 16 male Sprague-Dawley rats. A robust increase in ANP was seen within 10 min of MDMA administration. ANP levels returned to baseline at 20 min and then gradually rose over the 60 min monitoring period. The administration of Anantin (40 mg, ip), 15 min before and after MDMA, significantly attenuated the MDMA-induced hyperthermia. We conclude that ANP signaling contributes to the hyperthermia induced by MDMA.
The NG_016969.1:g.5003A>G promoter polymorphism (rs168924) in the SLC6A2 norepinephrine transporter gene was found to be predictive of the hypertensive status in a Japanese population, but no data are available for Caucasians. Genotyping for rs168924 was performed in 282 young men with normal blood pressure (BP), grade 1 or 2 hypertension. In addition to casual BP, 24-hour ABPM and echocardiography were performed. Multiple regression analysis revealed a significant association of rs168924 genotype with diagnosis of hypertension (P=.044), casual systolic BP (SBP) levels (P=.028), and daytime ambulatory SBP (P=.02). The finding that rs168924 was also significantly associated with diastolic posterior wall thickness (P=.041), an echocardiographic index of hypertensive cardiac target organ damage, further supports the notion that the rs168924 SNP in SLC6A2 in fact might influence BP. Unlike previous findings in a Japanese population, in our Caucasian study cohort the presence of the minor rs168924 G allele was associated with lower prevalence of hypertension.
Nicotine has been reported to potentiate the cataleptic effect of the dopamine receptor antagonist haloperidol in rats. This effect is paradoxical, since nicotine alone tends to increase nigrostriatal dopamine release. In the present experiments, a pro-cataleptic effect of nicotine was confirmed statistically but was small and variable. Three potential mechanisms underlying this effect were investigated. (i) Desensitization of brain nicotinic receptors appears to make little if any contribution to the pro-cataleptic effect of nicotine, insofar as the latter was not mimicked by two centrally active nicotinic antagonists (mecamylamine and chlorisondamine). (ii) Depolarization inactivation resulting from combined treatment with haloperidol and nicotine does not appear to be critical, since the pro-cataleptic effect of nicotine was not enhanced by chronic haloperidol administration, a treatment designed to enhance depolarization inactivation. (iii) The slow emergence and persistence of the acute pro-cataleptic effect of nicotine suggested possible mediation by a nicotine metabolite. However, neither cotinine nor nornicotine, the principal pharmacologically-active metabolites of nicotine, exerted a significant pro-cataleptic effect. In conclusion, the pro-cataleptic effect of nicotine was weak and variable in the present study, and its mechanism remains obscure.
The teratogenicity of copper (Cu) deficiency may result from increased oxidative stress and oxidative damage. Dams were fed either control (8.0 microg Cu/g) or Cu-deficient (0.5 microg Cu/g) diets. Embryos were collected on Gestational Day 12 for in vivo studies or on Gestational Day 10 and cultured for 48 h in Cu-deficient or Cu-adequate media for in vitro studies. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), and glutathione reductase (GR) activities were measured in control and Cu-deficient embryos as markers of the oxidant defense system. Superoxide anions were measured as an index of exposure to reactive oxygen species (ROS). No differences were found in GPX or GR activities among treatment groups. However, SOD activity was lower and superoxide anion concentrations higher in Cu-deficient embryos cultured in Cu-deficient serum compared to control embryos cultured in control serum. Even so, Cu-deficient embryos had similar CuZnSOD protein levels as controls. In the in vitro system, Cu-deficient embryos had a higher frequency of malformations and increased staining for superoxide anions in the forebrain, heart, forelimb, and somites compared to controls. When assessed for lipid and DNA oxidative damage, conjugated diene concentrations were similar among the groups, but a tendency was observed for Cu-deficient embryos to have higher 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine concentrations than controls. Thus, Cu deficiency resulted in embryos with malformations and reduced SOD enzyme activity. Increased ROS concentrations in the Cu-deficient embryo may cause oxidative damage and contribute to the occurrence of developmental defects.
The roots of Cyathula officinalis Kuan are widely used in Chinese medicine for the treatment of inflammatory disorders. Here, the ability of C. officinalis Kuan to downregulate matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-13 was examined since MMP-13 is an important enzyme for the degradation of the cartilage collagen matrix, especially under arthritic conditions. The ethanol extract of C. officinalis Kuan as well as the N-hexane and chloroform soluble fractions were found to potently inhibit MMP-13 induction in IL-1 β-treated SW1353 cells, a human chondrosarcoma cell line, at 50-200 µg/mL. Activity-guided separation led to the isolation of six compounds, palmitic acid (1), β-sitosterol (2), α-spinasterol (3), atractylenolide I (4), 1,3-diacetoxy-tetradeca-6E,12E-dien-8,10-dyn (5), and N-trans-feruloyl-3-methyldopamine (6). Among these, 4 and 5 exhibited MMP-13 downregulating activity in IL-1 β-treated SW1353 cells. And 4 also showed anti-oedematous activity against λ-carageenan-induced paw edema in mice at 20-200 mg/kg, p. o. The results of this study provide information that can help elucidate the action mechanism of C. officinalis Kuan. In addition, the results presented here suggest that C. officinalis Kuan and its constituents may have the potential for chondroprotection against cartilage degrading disorders.
The metabolic consequences of thiazide diuretics are well known. The elderly to whom these agents are widely prescribed may be particularly susceptible. To quantify this metabolic risk, plasma and intracellular electrolytes and plasma glucose were measured in the elderly population of a Somerset village. Highly significant reductions in both plasma and cellular magnesium and potassium were found in the 47 thiazide-treated people. Forty-eight per cent of the thiazide-treated group were hypomagnesaemic and 28% were hypokalaemic. Thus, magnesium and potassium depletion are commonly associated with thiazide therapy in the elderly. These metabolic effects should be considered carefully prior to the use of these agents.
Four antioxidant species, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), ethoxyquin and alpha-tocopherol, and three other compounds, 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (DDPM), acetaminophen and glutathione, were tested for inhibitory effect on hepatocarcinogenesis in male F344 rats. Rats were initially given a single ip injection of diethylnitrosamine (200 mg/kg body weight) and fed basal diet containing 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene from week 2 to week 8. Animals were subjected to partial hepatectomy at the end of week 3. From week 12 to week 36, they were given basal diet containing 2% BHA, 1% BHT, 0.8% ethoxyquin, 1% alpha-tocopherol, 0.1% DDPM, 1% acetaminophen, or 1% glutathione, then killed at week 40, 4 weeks after cessation of treatment with the test chemicals. The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) was significantly decreased in the groups given ethoxyquin or DDPM. Quantitative analysis of the number and area of HCC per unit liver area revealed a significant decrease in the area of HCC in the groups given ethoxyquin, DDPM or acetaminophen. The results suggest that ethoxyquin, DDPM and acetaminophen exerted an inhibitory effect on the development of HCC, while BHA, BHT, alpha-tocopherol and glutathione had no significant effect.
Organophosphate (OP)-nerve agent poisoning may lead to prolonged epileptiform seizure activity, which can result in irreversible neuronal brain damage. A timely and effective control of seizures with pharmacological agents can minimize the secondary and long-term neuropathology that may result from this damage. Diazepam, the current anticonvulsant of choice in the management of OP poisoning, is associated with unwanted effects such as sedation, amnesia, cardio-respiratory depression, anticonvulsant tolerance, and dependence liabilities. In search for an efficacious and safer anticonvulsant benzodiazepine, we studied imidazenil, a potent anticonvulsant that is devoid of sedative action and has a low intrinsic efficacy at alpha1- but is a high efficacy positive allosteric modulator at alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors. We compared the potency of a combination of 2 mg/kg, i.p. atropine with: (a) imidazenil 0.05-0.5 mg/kg i.p. or (b) equipotent anti-bicuculline doses of diazepam (0.5-5 mg/kg, i.p.), against diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP; 1.5 mg/kg, s.c.)-induced status epilepticus and its associated neuronal damage. The severity and frequency of seizure activities were determined by continuous radio telemetry recordings while the extent of neuronal damage and neuronal degeneration were assessed using the TUNEL-based cleaved DNA end-labeling technique or neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN)-immunolabeling and Fluoro-Jade B (FJB) staining, respectively. We report here that the combination of atropine and imidazenil is at least 10-fold more potent and longer lasting than the combination with diazepam at protecting rats from DFP-induced seizures and the associated neuronal damage or ongoing degeneration in the anterior cingulate cortex, CA1 hippocampus, and dentate gyrus. While 0.5 mg/kg imidazenil effectively attenuated DFP-induced neuronal damage and the ongoing neuronal degeneration in the anterior cingulate cortex, dentate gyrus, and CA1 hippocampus, 5 mg/kg or a higher dose of diazepam is required to produce similar protective effects. These finding suggests that imidazenil, a non-sedating anticonvulsant BZ ligand, is a more potent, effective, and safer drug than diazepam in protecting rats from DFP-induced seizures and the associated neuronal damage and/or ongoing neuronal degeneration.
Increased dietary intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) is known to be associated with a decrease in the incidence of peptic ulcer disease possibly due to increase in the synthesis of prostaglandins. But, it is also likely that conversion of PUFAs to PGs may not always be required for gastric mucosal protection. Present study was designed to study the role of PUFAs in pathobiology of steroid induce gastric damage in rats.
Wistar rats were treated with 5 mg/kg bodyweight of dexamethasone to induce gastric mucosal ulcers. Effects of PUFAs was studied by supplementation of Fish oil (rich in n-3 EPA and DHA) and AA rich oil. Famotidine was used as a positive control. Generation of lipid peroxides, nitric oxide and the activity of anti-oxidant enzymes were also studied.
Dexamethasone induced ulceration was associated with changes in the phospholipid fatty acid profile, levels of lipid peroxidation products, nitric oxide and activity of anti-oxidant enzymes. The fatty acid profile showed an increase in LA and a decrease in other PUFAs like GLA, AA, EPA and DHA. When PUFAs were supplemented in the form of Fish oil and AA rich oil or when the animals were treated with H2-blocker, famotidine, there was a decrease in the incidence of ulceration in the animals associated with near normalization of changes in the phospholipid fatty acid profile. The levels of lipid peroxides, nitric oxide, and anti-oxidant activity also reverted to control values.
Dexamethasone induced gastric ulceration was prevented by PUFAs. This is supported by the results of our earlier study where in it was noted that in patients with DU plasma lipid peroxides, nitric oxide and phospholipid fatty acid pattern and red cell antioxidant activity were altered similar to those seen in dexamethasone treated group of the present study. These abnormalities, similar to the PUFA treated groups of the present study, reverted to normalcy following treatment of the patients with lansoprazole, a proton pump inhibitor. Further, PUFAs are known to inhibit the growth of Helicobacter pylori in vitro. Hence, it is concluded that PUFAs, free radicals, nitric oxide and anti-oxidants play a significant role in the pathobiology of peptic ulcer.
Accurate prediction of biophase pharmacokinetics (PK) is essential to optimize pharmacotherapy in epilepsy. Here, we characterized the PK of the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine, 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxy-carbamazepine (MHD) in plasma and in the hippocampus. Simultaneously, the impact of acute seizures and efflux transport mechanisms on brain distribution was quantified.
Rats received subtherapeutic and anticonvulsant doses of MHD in non-epileptic conditions and during focal pilocarpine-induced limbic seizures. To evaluate the effect of efflux transport blockade, a separate group received subtherapeutic doses combined with intrahippocampal perfusion of verapamil. Free plasma and extracellular hippocampal MHD concentrations were determined using microdialysis and liquid chromatography techniques. An integrated PK model describing simultaneously the PK of MHD in plasma and brain was developed using nonlinear mixed effects modelling. A bootstrap procedure and a visual predictive check were performed to assess model performance.
A compartmental model with combined zero- and first-order absorption, including lag time and biophase distribution best described the PK of MHD. A distributional process appeared to underlie the increased brain MHD concentrations observed following seizure activity and efflux transport inhibition, as reflected by changes in the volume of distribution of the biophase compartment. In contrast, no changes were observed in plasma PK.
Simultaneous PK modelling of plasma and brain concentrations has not been used previously in the evaluation of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Characterisation of biophase PK is critical to assess the impact of efflux transport mechanisms and acute seizures on brain disposition and, consequently, on AED effects.
Most patients with ischemic stroke present to the emergency department beyond the approved 3-hour time window for thrombolytic or other revascularization therapies. Clopidogrel and aspirin loading is commonly used to prevent deterioration in other acute vascular occlusive events. This pilot study examined the safety of antiplatelet loading in acute ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack.
Forty patients with stroke or transient ischemic attack symptoms, not eligible for revascularization, received a single dose of 375 mg of clopidogrel and 325 mg of aspirin within 36 hours of stroke onset. All patients were admitted to a comprehensive stroke department and monitored for neurologic deterioration (2-point increase on National Institutes of Health stroke scale [NIHSS] score) and bleeding complications until hospital day 7 or discharge. NIHSS was performed at 24 hours postadmission and on hospital day 7 or discharge, whichever came first.
A total of 40 patients were loaded with 375 mg of clopidogrel and 325 mg of aspirin (mean 12 hours 32 minutes). Mean admission NIHSS score was 6. There were no cases of systemic hemorrhage or mortality. A single symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (2.5%) was detected 43 hours posttreatment. When compared with matched control subjects, loaded patients were no more likely to experience hemorrhage and significantly less likely to experience neurologic deterioration (odds ratio 17.2; P < .002).
Loading with 375 mg of clopidogrel and 325 mg of aspirin appears to be safe when administered up to 36 hours after stroke and transient ischemic attack onset in this pilot study. Neurologic deterioration may be decreased and warrants further study.
MSX2 is a homeodomain transcription factor that has been implicated in craniofacial morphogenesis on the basis of its expression pattern during mouse development and the finding of a missense mutation (P148H) in humans affected with Boston-type craniosynostosis. We have generated transgenic mice carrying a 34 kb DNA fragment encompassing a human MSX2 gene encoding either wild-type or mutant (P148H) MSX2. Inheritance of either transgene resulted in perinatal lethality and multiple craniofacial malformations of varying severity, including mandibular hypoplasia, cleft secondary palate, exencephaly, and median facial cleft, which are among the severe craniofacial malformations observed in humans. Transgenic mice also manifested aplasia of the interparietal bone and decreased ossification of the hyoid. Transgene-induced malformations involved cranial neural-crest derivatives, were characterized by a deficiency of tissue, and were similar to malformations associated with embryonic exposure to ethanol or retinoic acid, teratogens that cause increased cell death. Together with previous observations implicating MSX2 expression in developmentally-programmed cell death, these results suggest that wild-type levels of MSX2 activity may establish a balance between survival and apoptosis of neural crest-derived cells required for proper craniofacial morphogenesis.
All-trans retinoic acid has revolutionized the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia, but this therapy is often complicated by the all-trans retinoic acid syndrome. Here we report a patient with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia who developed acute focal myositis, synovitis, and possible vasculitis, after receiving all-trans retinoic acid therapy. We review the existing literature on this rare clinical entity, all-trans retinoic acid-induced myositis. This condition can manifest as fever, myalgia, arthralgia, and Sweet syndrome, accompanied by distinct magnetic resonance findings involving the lower extremity musculature. Treatment consists of discontinuation of the offending drug and often high dose corticosteroids.
The purpose of this study was to determine the role of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and its metabolites in lower urinary tract function after induction of acute (4 h), intermediate (48 h), or chronic (10 day) cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. Bladders were harvested from euthanized female rats for analyses. Conscious cystometry was used to assess the effects of a COX-2-specific inhibitor, 5,5-dimethyl-3-(3-fluorophenyl)-4-(4-methylsulfonyl)phenyl2(5H)-furanone (DFU, 5 mg/kg sc), a disubstituted furanone, in CYP-induced cystitis. COX-2 mRNA was increased in inflamed bladders after acute (12-fold) and chronic (9-fold) treatment. COX-2 protein expression in inflamed bladders paralleled COX-2 mRNA expression. Prostaglandin D2-methoxime expression in the bladder was significantly (P < or = 0.01) increased in acute (3-fold) and chronic (5.5-fold) cystitis. Prostaglandin E2 was significantly (P < or = 0.01) increased (2-fold) in the bladder with intermediate (1.7-fold) and chronic (2.6-fold) cystitis. COX-2-immunoreactive cell profiles were distributed throughout the inflamed bladder and coexpressed histamine immunoreactivity. Conscious cystometry in rats treated with CYP + DFU showed increased micturition intervals 4 and 48 h after CYP treatment and decreased intravesical pressures during filling and micturition compared with rats treated with CYP + vehicle. These studies suggest an involvement of urinary bladder COX-2 and its metabolites in altered micturition reflexes with CYP-induced cystitis.
The pain enhancing (hyperalgesic) effect of morphine was characterized in relation to pain stimulus (thermal, mechanical), dose, mode of administration (acute, chronic), sex and mechanism. We found that a low (subanalgesic) dose of morphine enhanced the sensitivity to thermal and mechanical noxious stimuli in a dose- and sex-related manner. Morphine hyperalgesia was inversely related to dose (0.002-0.2mg/kg) and was more pronounced in female than male rats. The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, ketamine, antagonized morphine hyperalgesia. Tolerance developed to hyperalgesia following repeated (chronic) dosing with low dose morphine. Several additional findings were noted in rats tolerant to morphine-induced hyperalgesia. The efficacy of an analgesic dose of morphine was increased (female rats). Sex-related differences in morphine's analgesic action (male>female) were attenuated. Development of tolerance to the analgesic effect of morphine was delayed. The present findings may have an implication for the use of mu opioids in the clinical setting.
This article deals with the effect of antiepileptic drugs on mood when applied in epileptic patients. The author points that depressive symptoms occur significantly more frequently in epilepsy and there are more common factor in the mechanism of action of the antiepileptic and antidepressive agents. The relevant literature is surprisingly poor. Primary and large analysis regarding affective disorders coexisting with epilepsy is still lacking. From this aspect some antiepileptic drugs have not been investigated at all. The consequences of the papers originates from indirect sources like adverse events profiles of the study drugs or from psychometric tests performed for avoiding exclusion criteria of psychological nature. On the other hand the paper deals also with the difficulties of such kind of investigations concerning the classification of depressive signs presenting with epilepsy, special considerations of inclusion of appropriate patients and particular limits of the measuring and follow-up of the observed effect. As the result of the detailed analysis of the literature the author recommends lamotrigine, carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine as first choice antiepileptic drug for epileptic patients suffering from depressive disorder, too. On the contrary, phenobarbital, topiramate and vigabatrin are able to worsen the affective symptoms. Aimed, randomized, controlled studies are necessary for recognizing the whole spectrum of psychotropic effects of antiepileptic drugs and for their successful and individually tailored application in patients in their comorbid states. Author calls the attention for the importance of the treatment of depressive states frequently occurring in epileptic patients. These symptoms modify patient compliance and are able to influence even the epileptic process itself.
Asbestos induces DNA and chromosomal damage, but the DNA repair pathways protecting human cells against its genotoxicity are largely unknown. Polymorphisms in XRCC1 have been associated with altered susceptibility to asbestos-related diseases. However, it is unclear whether oxidative DNA damage repaired by XRCC1 contributes to asbestos-induced chromosomal damage.
We sought to examine the importance of XRCC1 in protection against genotoxic effects of crocidolite and Libby amphibole asbestos.
We developed a genetic model of XRCC1 deficiency in human lung epithelial H460 cells and evaluated genotoxic responses to carcinogenic fibers (crocidolite asbestos, Libby amphibole) and nongenotoxic materials (wollastonite, titanium dioxide).
XRCC1 knockdown sensitized cells to the clastogenic and cytotoxic effects of oxidants [hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂), bleomycin] but not to the nonoxidant paclitaxel. XRCC1 knockdown strongly enhanced genotoxicity of amphibole fibers as evidenced by elevated formation of clastogenic micronuclei. Crocidolite induced primarily clastogenic micronuclei, whereas Libby amphibole induced both clastogenic and aneugenic micronuclei. Crocidolite and bleomycin were potent inducers of nuclear buds, which were enhanced by XRCC1 deficiency. Libby amphibole and H₂O₂ did not induce nuclear buds, irrespective of XRCC1 status. Crocidolite and Libby amphibole similarly activated the p53 pathway.
Oxidative DNA damage repaired by XRCC1 (oxidized bases, single-strand breaks) is a major cause of chromosomal breaks induced by crocidolite and Libby amphibole. Nuclear buds are a novel biomarker of genetic damage induced by exposure to crocidolite asbestos, which we suggest are associated with clustered DNA damage. These results provide mechanistic evidence for the epidemiological association between XRCC1 polymorphisms and susceptibility to asbestos-related disease.
Rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) fed diets containing 1 or 3 mg/kg of 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (3,4-TCB), became moribund after 7-14 weeks. In the body of the stomach the mucosa was thick and cystic gastric glands penetrated the muscularis mucosae. The zymogenic and parietal cells were replaced by or converted into mucus-secreting cells. Autoradiographs of animals labelled with [3H]thymidine showed that in control monkeys gastric epithelial cell proliferation was limited to the isthmus and neck regions of the glands throughout the stomach. In the 3,4-TCB-fed animals most DNA synthesis also occurred in these regions, but [3H]thymidine labelled cells were also seen in the bases of the glands. The labelling indices were not elevated, and therefore the submucosal glands and cysts in this lesion may develop by a failure of the newly formed, downward migrating cells to differentiate and lose their proliferative capacity.
This investigation was designed to evaluate echoes of patients who received a course of doxorubicin (225-550 mg/m2) by two sensitive indicators of myocardial fibrosis: (1) M-mode scans of thickening-thinning curves of the left ventricular posterior wall (LVPW), and (2) two-dimensional qualitative evaluation of LVPW contraction at three levels of the LV short axis (leaflet, chordal, and papillary). These were compared to standard M-mode shortening fraction (delta S). Eighteen children with cancer were evaluated; 11 had received doxorubicin and 7 were treated with other agents. Echocardiographers were unaware of the treatment category. All controls and 10 of 11 doxorubicin patients had normal delta S. An M-mode echocardiogram of the expanded LVPW was digitized and wall thickness was evaluated by determining if diastolic relaxation had the normal two phases or only one; six of ten doxorubicin patients and no controls had abnormal relaxation. Qualitative evaluation of LVPW and septal contraction toward the center of the ventricle showed that seven of eleven patients who received doxorubicin and one control (a postthoracotomy patient) had contraction deficits. Six of seven with contraction deficit were the same patients with slowed relaxation. The greatest contraction deficit occurred in the LVPW behind the posterior mitral leaflet. Patients with more extensive involvement had an additional contraction deficit extending to the apex. These tests are more sensitive for detection of doxorubicin toxicity than delta S.
