Oxytocin is a commonly used uterotonic that can cause significant and even fatal hypotension, particularly when given as a bolus. The resulting hypotension can be produced by a decrease in systemic vascular resistance or cardiac output through a decrease in venous return. Parturients with normal volume status, heart valves and pulmonary vasculature most often respond to this hypotension with a compensatory increase in heart rate and stroke volume. Oxytocin-induced hypotension at cesarean delivery may be incorrectly attributed to blood loss. Pulse power analysis (also called "pulse contour analysis") of an arterial pressure wave form allows continuous evaluation of systemic vascular resistance and cardiac output in real time, thereby elucidating the causative factors behind changes in blood pressure. Pulse power analysis was conducted in six cases of cesarean delivery performed under neuraxial anesthesia. Hypotension in response to oxytocin was associated with a decrease in systemic vascular resistance and a compensatory increase in stroke volume, heart rate and cardiac output. Pulse power analysis may be helpful in determining the etiology of and treating hypotension during cesarean delivery under neuraxial anesthesia.
An 80-year-old woman was admitted with anemia, jaundice and a bleeding tendency about 5 weeks after starting omeprazole. On admission, the hemoglobin was 6.4 g/dl, platelets 0.1 x 10(4)/microliter, leukocyte count 7,500/microliter, and reticulocyte count 325/1000. The total bilirubin was 1.9 mg/dl, indirect bilirubin 0.6 mg/dl, lactate dehydrogenase 572 IU/l, and haptoglobin < 10 mg/dl. Both the direct and the indirect Coombs' tests were positive. The platelet-associated IgG (PAIgG) was 1,100.0 ng/10(7) cells. A decrease in the complement value was observed. There was an increase in the number of megakaryocytes and erythroblasts in the marrow film. After omeprazole administration was halted, her hemoglobin and platelet levels gradually returned to normal. On the 27th hospital day, the direct Coombs' test was positive but the indirect Coombs' test became negative. The PAIgG value also returned to normal, and she was discharged on the 59th hospital day. The acute phase of the drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test was negative, however, we detected the IgG antibody to omeprazole. In the recovery phase, the IgG value decreased. Forty days after discharge, the direct Coombs' test had become negative. This is apparently the first report of a patient with acute hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia due to omeprazole through an immune complex mechanism.
Veno-occlusive disease (VOD) following standard chemotherapy has been reported in patients receiving vincristine actinomycin D, and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of Wilms tumor and more rarely rhabdomyosarcoma. The dose and schedule of administration of actinomycin D in patients with Wilms tumor and the increased dose of cyclophosphamide administered to patients with rhabdomyosarcoma have been considered the likely etiology for VOD.
The authors report four cases of VOD in patients with rhabdomyosarcoma treated with vincristine and actinomycin D only. No risk factors for the development of VOD were identified. VOD was diagnosed clinically by the presence of at least two of three findings as defined by McDonald et al. VOD occurred after two to four doses of actinomycin D and approximately 7 to 14 days after the dose. All patients recovered with no evidence of permanent hepatic damage.
VOD can occur in patients with "low-stage" rhabdomyosarcoma treated with vincristine and actinomycin D alone. Although chemotherapy-related VOD is a potentially severe disease, the outcome is good and resumption of chemotherapy is well tolerated.
One-week triple therapy is currently regarded as the reference of anti-Helicobacter pylori treatment. However, antibiotic-associated gastrointestinal side effects are among the major pitfalls of such regimens. Probiotic supplementation may be regarded as a therapeutic tool to prevent or reduce these troublesome drug-related manifestations.
To determine whether the addition of the probiotic Lactobacillus GG to an anti-H. pylori standard triple therapy could help to prevent or minimize the occurrence of gastrointestinal side effects.
One hundred and twenty healthy asymptomatic subjects screened positive for H. pylori infection and deciding to receive eradication therapy were randomized either to 1-week pantoprazole (40 mg b.i.d.), clarithromycin (500 mg b.i.d.), tinidazole (500 mg b.i.d.) or to the same regimen supplemented with Lactobacillus GG for 14 days. Patients filled in validated questionnaires during follow-up to determine the type and severity of side effects and to judge overall tolerability.
Bloating, diarrhea and taste disturbances were the most frequent side effects during the eradication week and were significantly reduced in the Lactobacillus GG-supplemented group (RR = 0.4, CI 0.2-0.8; RR = 0.3, CI 0.1-0.8; RR = 0.3, CI 0.1-0.7, respectively). The same pattern was observed throughout the follow-up period. Overall assessment of treatment tolerability showed a significant trend in favor of the Lactobacillus GG-supplemented group (p = 0.03).
Lactobacillus GG supplementation beneficially affects H. pylori therapy-related side effects and overall treatment tolerance.
In eight studies included in the present Cochrane review the effects of orlistat or sibutramine versus placebo on mortality, cardiovascular mortality and adverse events were investigated in obese people with hypertension. No studies with rimonabant fulfilled the inclusion criteria. The weight loss was larger in the groups treated with orlistat or sibutramine compared with placebo therapy. Orlistat reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure more than placebo, while blood pressure increased during treatment with sibutramine. The studies were too small and of too short duration to allow an evaluation of the effect on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.
Long-term treatment of haloperidol, a neuroleptic, induces neurodegeneration specifically in the striatum (caudate and putamen), which plays an important role in the development of orofacial dyskinesia, a putative model of tardive dyskinesia (TD). This study investigated the protective effects of a concomitant treatment of aqueous fruit extract of Sea buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides L. spp. Turkestanica) (SBT-FE) (40 mg/kg, orally) plus haloperidol (3.0 mg/kg, ip) administration on an animal model of TD and on striatal neuronal alterations.
Rats received daily haloperidol (3.0 mg/kg ip) and saline injections for 15 days. Seven-day posttreatment, aqueous SBT-FE (40 mg/kg) was administered daily via a feeding tube. Hypolocomotive effects (home cage activity, exploratory activity, catalepsy, and vacuous chewing movements) were monitored consecutively in each group. On the last day of the experiments, changes in extracellular levels of striatal dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) were determined by HPLC-EC.
Aqueous SBT-FE attenuated haloperidol-induced VCMs after second week of treatment and locomotor activity was greater in rats treated with SBT-FE compared with the controls. The results indicate that DA and HVA levels in the striatum were significantly (P <.01) altered in rats given SBT-FE before injections of haloperidol.
Hippophae rhamnoides fruit extract has a protective role against haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia. Consequently, use of Hippophae rhamnoides as a possible therapeutic agent for the treatment of tardive dyskinesia should be considered.
Thymidine has been available for clinical research as a rescue agent since 1978 under sponsorship of the Division of Cancer Treatment, National Cancer Institute. Renal insufficiency following administration of high dose methotrexate results in prolonged exposure to toxic concentrations of drug. Thymidine has been used in conjunction with leucovorin and alkaline hydration to protect patients with acute renal dysfunction from life-threatening methotrexate toxicity. The outcome of eight cases in which thymidine was released under the special exception mechanism to treat patients who developed acute renal failure following methotrexate are reported. The clinical trials using thymidine in combination with methotrexate in patients with normal renal function are also reviewed.
Invasion and metastasis of pancreatic cancer (PC) require cell motility and adhesion, which depend on the activity of cytoskeleton. A cytoskeletal component indispensable for these processes is myosin II, the cytoplasmic analogue of smooth and skeletal muscle myosin.
Because the activity of myosin II is accelerated by phosphorylation of myosin II on its regulatory light chain (RLC) by myosin light chain kinase (MLCK), we used two specific MLCK inhibitors, ML-7 and ML-9, for suppression of motility and adhesion of PC cell lines.
Both drugs were potent inhibitors, as measured by in vitro motility assay and adhesion assay. When treated with the same concentration of ML-7, the PC cells were rounded up, and the number of stress fibers was reduced markedly. The in vitro migration and adhesion of PC cells were inhibited by ML-7 and ML-9 in a dose-dependent manner, supporting a specific and competitive inhibition of MLCK by these drugs. The inhibition occurred at nontoxic concentrations.
These results highlight the importance of myosin II in the invasion and metastasis of PC cells and suggest the possibility that blocking of myosin II activity by a specific MLCK inhibitor may be a therapeutic strategy for preventing the invasion and metastasis of PC.
Triazole fungicides associated with a range of reported male reproductive effects in experimental animals were selected to assess potential toxic modes of action. Wistar Han rats were fed myclobutanil (M: 100, 500, or 2000 ppm), propiconazole (P: 100, 500, or 2500 ppm), or triadimefon (T: 100, 500, or 1800 ppm) from gestation day 6 to postnatal day (PND) 120. One male per litter was necropsied on PND1, 22, 50, or 92. Measurements included anogenital distance (AGD) at PND0, body and organ weights, serum hormone levels, age at preputial separation (PPS), sperm morphology and motility, and fertility and fecundity. AGD was increased by the high dose of all three triazoles, indicating hypervirilization. Triadimefon delayed PPS, consistent with delayed puberty, at 1800 ppm. Relative liver weights were increased at PND1, 50, and 92 by all three triazoles. Hepatocellular hypertrophy was present at PND50 from propiconazole and triadimefon and at PND92 from all three high-dose triazole treatments. Relative pituitary weights were decreased at PND92 by middle- and high-dose myclobutanil treatment. Absolute testis weights were increased at PND1 by myclobutanil, at PND22 by myclobutanil and triadimefon, and at PND50 by propiconazole and triadimefon treatment. Relative ventral prostate weights were increased at PND92 by myclobutanil and triadimefon treatment. Serum testosterone was increased at PND50 by triadimefon and at PND92/99 by all three triazole treatments. Insemination and fertility were impaired by myclobutanil and triadimefon treatment. In addition to the reproductive system effects, total serum thyroxine levels were decreased at PND92 by high-dose triadimefon. These reproductive effects are consistent with the disruption of testosterone homeostasis as a key event in the mode of action for triazole-induced reproductive toxicity.
Boron Neutron Capture Therapy (BNCT) involves the selective accumulation of boron carriers in tumor tissue followed by irradiation with a thermal or epithermal neutron beam. This therapy is therefore a cellular irradiation suited to treat tumors that have infiltrated into healthy tissues. BNCT has been used clinically to treat patients with cutaneous melanomas which have a high mortality. Human normal melanocytes and melanoma cells were treated with BNCT at different boronophenylalanine concentrations for signaling pathways analysis. BNCT induced few morphological alterations in normal melanocytes, with a negligible increase in free radical production. Melanoma cells treated with BNCT showed significant extracellular matrix (ECM) changes and a significant cyclin D1 decrease, suggesting cell death by necrosis and apoptosis and cell cycle arrest, respectively. BNCT also induced a significant increase in cleaved caspase-3 and a decrease in the mitochondrial electrical potential with selectivity for melanoma cells. Normal melanocytes had no significant differences due to BNCT treatment, confirming the data from the literature regarding the selectivity of BNCT. The results from this study suggest that some signaling pathways are involved in human melanoma treatment by BNCT, such as cell cycle arrest, ECM changes and intrinsic apoptosis.
In the central nervous system, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) plays a role in synaptic plasticity and remodeling. Our recent study has suggested that tPA participates in the rewarding effects of morphine by regulating dopamine release. In this study, we investigated the role of tPA in methamphetamine (METH)-related reward and sensitization. Repeated METH treatment dose-dependently induced tPA mRNA expression in the frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, striatum and hippocampus, whereas single METH treatment did not affect tPA mRNA expression in these brain areas. The METH-induced increase in tPA mRNA expression in the nucleus accumbens was completely inhibited by pre-treatment with R(+)-SCH23390 and raclopride, dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonists, respectively. In addition, repeated METH treatment increased tPA activity in the nucleus accumbens. There was no difference in METH-induced hyperlocomotion between wild-type and tPA-deficient (tPA-/-) mice. On the other hand, METH-induced conditioned place preference and behavioral sensitization after repeated METH treatment were significantly reduced in tPA-/- mice compared with wild-type mice. The defect of behavioral sensitization in tPA-/- mice was reversed by microinjections of exogenous tPA into the nucleus accumbens. Our findings suggest that tPA is involved in the rewarding effects as well as the sensitization of the locomotor-stimulating effect of METH.
Anorectic agents, such as aminorex and fenfluramine derivatives, have been associated previously with the development of primary pulmonary hypertension. The combination diet drug phentermine-fenfluramine (or "phen-fen") was recently marketed in the United States. We describe a case of a 39-year-old woman with rapidly progressing, fatal pulmonary hypertension following administration of phentermine-fenfluramine. Autopsy was remarkable for complex pulmonary vascular lesions most consistent with thrombotic arteriopathy.
We systematically modified isoproterenol's chemical structure to reduce chronotropic, arrhythmogenic, and vascular side effects. Experiments on dogs showed that the resulting drug, dobutamine, had an inotropic efficacy as great as that of epinephrine due to a direct action on beta1 cardiac receptors. However, unlike epinephrine, dobutamine's effect on alpha and beta2 vascular receptors was slight. At equivalent inotropic doses, dobutamine had less than a fourth of the chronotropic effect of isoproterenol. Desmethylimipramine (DMI), which blocks the sympathetic nerve fiber uptake mechanism, had no effect on dobutamine's actions. In contrast, DMI antagonized dopamine's inotropic effect, and marked chronotropic and pressor responses occurred when we used doses of dopamine large enough to elicit a direct inotropic effect. Dobutamine increased the contractility of isolated cat papillary muscles more but the automaticity less than did isoproterenol. In ischemic dog hearts, dobutamine lacked significant arrhythmic activity, whereas dopamine, norepinephrine, and isoproterenol caused severe ectopic activity. In dogs with experimentally induced low cardiac contractility, low cardiac output, and hypotension, dobutamine produced dose-related increases in cardiac contractility and output, restored arterial blood pressure, and reduced total peripheral resistance slightly. In contrast, isoproterenol failed to restore blood pressure, had only a meager effect on cardiac contractility and output, cuased extreme tachycardia, and lowered peripheral resistance more than did dobutamine. Norepinephrine, which did not increase cardiac contractility or output as much as dobutamine, excessively elevated peripheral resistance and arterial blood pressure.
Our department recently began using paclitaxel in treating patients with breast cancer. Retrospective analysis was conducted to clarify its clinical usefulness. Forty-one patients with metastatic breast cancer were treated with paclitaxel between November 2000 and September 2002. Hospital records of the patients, except for one unsensored patient, were retrospectively reviewed. Characteristics of the patients were as follows: age, 36-81 Y (median, 56); 8 stage IV and 32 recurrent diseases; most frequent dominant site of metastasis was the liver (22 patients, 55%); number with previous chemotherapy was 0-5 (median, 2); anthracycline-based treatment and docetaxel treatment were previously performed in 21 (53%) and 15 (38%) patients, respectively; weekly dose of paclitaxel was 30-150 mg/body (median, 100); and total dose administered was 600-6, 480+ mg/body (median, 1,820). Objective response and clinical benefit rates were 35% and 80%, respectively. Median duration of response, time-to-progression and overall survival were 27+, 33+ and 41.5 weeks, respectively. Common adverse events were sensory neuropathy (45%) and nausea/vomiting (37.5%). Most were graded as 1 or 2. Various agents, such as hormonal agents and trastuzumab, were administered with paclitaxel in 26 patients (65%). No significant difference was observed in efficacy or toxicity among patients treated with paclitaxel alone or paclitaxel plus other agents. Paclitaxel seems to be a feasible, safe and active agent for patients with metastatic breast cancer.
We investigated the frequency of hypertension (sustained diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 90 mmHg) in 112 patients given HLA-identical marrow grafts. Patients were conditioned with 2 X 60 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide and 6 X 2 Gy of total body irradiation and randomized to receive as graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis either the standard methotrexate regimen (n = 61) or cyclosporine (n = 51), starting on day -1 as 12.5 mg/kg/d orally or as 3 mg/kg/d i.v. and later converting to p.o. when oral intake was tolerated. Kaplan-Meier estimates indicate a 60% incidence of hypertension in the first 120 d in patients given cyclosporine (median time to onset: 4 d post transplant) compared to 20% in patients given methotrexate (P less than 0.0001). Multifactorial analysis using a Cox regression model showed that cyclosporine was was the most significant risk factor for developing hypertension (relative risk: 32.1, P less than 0.0001). In addition, glucocorticoids, used for treatment of GVHD, were associated with an increased risk for hypertension (relative risk 7.2, P less than 0.0001). Age, sex, underlying disease, cyclosporine trough levels, and renal function had no significant association with hypertension. Early therapy of hypertension in cyclosporine-treated patients appears to be indicated.
Recent withdrawals of prescription drugs from clinical use because of unexpected side effects on the heart have highlighted the need for more reliable cardiac safety pharmacology assays. Block of the human Ether-a-go go Related Gene (hERG) ion channel in particular is associated with life-threatening arrhythmias, such as Torsade de Pointes (TdP). Here we investigated human cardiomyocytes derived from pluripotent (embryonic) stem cells (hESC) as a renewable, scalable, and reproducible system on which to base cardiac safety pharmacology assays. Analyses of extracellular field potentials in hESC-derived cardiomyocytes (hESC-CM) and generation of derivative field potential duration (FPD) values showed dose-dependent responses for 12 cardiac and noncardiac drugs. Serum levels in patients of drugs with known effects on QT interval overlapped with prolonged FPD values derived from hESC-CM, as predicted. We thus propose hESC-CM FPD prolongation as a safety criterion for preclinical evaluation of new drugs in development. This is the first study in which dose responses of such a wide range of compounds on hESC-CM have been generated and shown to be predictive of clinical effects. We propose that assays based on hESC-CM could complement or potentially replace some of the preclinical cardiac toxicity screening tests currently used for lead optimization and further development of new drugs.
The protective effects of Ginkgo biloba Phytosomes (GBP) in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiotoxicity and the antioxidant activity involved in this protection were investigated in rats. Myocardial infarction was produced in rats with 65, 85, 120 and 200mg/kg of ISO administered subcutaneously (sc) twice at an interval of 24h. An ISO dose of 85mg/kg was selected for the present study as this dose offered significant alteration in biochemical parameters and moderate necrosis in heart. Effect of GBP oral treatment for 21 days at two doses (100mg and 200mg/kg body weight) was evaluated against ISO (85mg/kg, sc)-induced cardiac necrosis. Levels of marker enzymes (AST, LDH and CPK) were assessed in serum and heart, antioxidant parameters viz., reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GR) and malondialdehde (MDA) were assayed in heart homogenate. Significant myocardial necrosis, depletion of endogenous antioxidants and increase in serum levels of marker enzymes were observed in ISO-treated animals when compared with the normal animals. GBP elicited a significant cardioprotective activity by lowering the levels of serum marker enzymes and lipid peroxidation and elevated the levels of GSH, SOD, CAT, GPx and GR. The present findings have demonstrated that the cardioprotective effects of GBP in ISO-induced oxidative damage may be due to an augmentation of the endogenous antioxidants and inhibition of lipid peroxidation of membrane.
The effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on pain from propofol injection are controversial, partially because NSAIDs themselves cause injection pain. We evaluated the effects of flurbiprofen axetil (LFP), a prodrug of an NSAID, on pain induced by intravenous propofol injection, because LFP produces little pain on injection.
A randomized, double-blind, controlled trial was undertaken in patients who were assigned to one of three groups ( n = 50 in each). Patients received either 5 ml of saline followed approximately 10 min later by propofol mixed with 0.4 ml of saline, LFP (50 mg, 5 ml) i.v. followed by propofol mixed with 0.4 ml of saline, or 5 ml of saline followed by propofol mixed with lidocaine (40 mg, 0.4 ml). Verbal rating scores for injection pain were assessed every 10 s during propofol administration at a rate of 0.05 mg.kg(-1).s(-1).
None of the patients complained of pain during injection of LFP or saline. Admixture of lidocaine, but not of LFP, significantly reduced the incidence of pain and the severity of pain scores during propofol injection ( P = 0.0017 and P < 0.001, respectively).
Lidocaine, but not LFP, is effective for controlling pain induced by propofol injection. This result suggests that NSAIDs have little effect on pain from propofol injection.
Trastuzumab (Herceptin(®)) is currently used as a treatment for patients whose breast tumors overexpress HER2/ErbB2. Trastuzumab-DM1 (T-DM1, trastuzumab emtansine) is designed to combine the clinical benefits of trastuzumab with a potent microtubule-disrupting drug, DM1 (a maytansine derivative). Currently T-DM1 is being tested in multiple clinical trials. The mechanisms of action for trastuzumab include inhibition of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, inhibition of HER-2 shedding and Fcγ receptor mediated engagement of immune cells, which may result in antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Here we report that T-DM1 retains the mechanisms of action of unconjugated trastuzumab and is active against lapatinib resistant cell lines and tumors.
Nicotinic acid has, like the Roman God Janus, two faces. One is the vitamin. The other is the broad-spectrum lipid drug. The Canadian pathologist Rudolf Altschul discovered 50 years ago that nicotinic acid in gram doses lowered plasma levels of cholesterol. From the point of view of treatment of the dyslipidaemias that are risk factors for clinical atherosclerosis nicotinic acid is a miracle drug. It lowers the levels of all atherogenic lipoproteins--VLDL and LDL with subclasses as well as Lp(a)--and in addition it raises more than any other drug the levels of the protective HDL lipoproteins. Trials have shown that treatment with nicotinic acid reduces progression of atherosclerosis, and clinical events and mortality from coronary heart disease. The new combination treatment with statin-lowering LDL and nicotinic acid-raising HDL is reviewed. A basic effect of nicotinic acid is the inhibition of fat-mobilizing lipolysis in adipose tissue leading to a lowering of plasma free fatty acids, which has many metabolic implications which are reviewed. The very recent discovery of a nicotinic acid receptor and the finding that the drug stimulates the expression of the ABCA 1 membrane cholesterol transporter have paved the way for exciting and promising new 50 years in the history of nicotinic acid.
Clastogens are potential human carcinogens whose detection by genotoxicity assays is important for safety assessment. Although some endogenous genes are sensitive to the mutagenicity of clastogens, many genes that are used as reporters for in vivo mutation (e.g. transgenes) are not. In this study, we have compared responses in the erythrocyte Pig-a gene mutation assay with responses in a gene mutation assay that is relatively sensitive to clastogens, the lymphocyte Hprt assay, and in the reticulocyte micronucleus (MN) assay, which provides a direct measurement of clastogenicity. Male F344 rats were treated acutely with X-rays, cyclophosphamide (CP) and Cis-platin (Cis-Pt), and the frequency of micronucleated reticulocytes (MN RETs) in peripheral blood was measured 1 or 2 days later. The frequencies of CD59-deficient Pig-a mutant erythrocytes and 6-thioguanine-resistant Hprt mutant T-lymphocytes were measured at several times up to 16 weeks after the exposure. All three clastogens induced strong increases in the frequency of MN RETs, with X-rays and Cis-Pt producing near linear dose responses. The three agents also were positive in the two gene mutation assays although the assays detected them with different efficiencies. The Pig-a assay was more efficient in detecting the effect of Cis-Pt treatment, whereas the Hprt assay was more efficient for X-rays and CP. The results indicate that the erythrocyte Pig-a assay can detect the in vivo mutagenicity of clastogens although its sensitivity is variable in comparison with the lymphocyte Hprt assay.
We report a case of intracranial hemorrhage due to amphetamine abuse in a young adult. A 34-year-old, confused woman was transferred to our emergency room with right hemiparesis and aphasia. CT at admission demonstrated intracerebral hemorrhage in the left frontal and parietal lobes, associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage. MRA shortly after admission revealed no intracerebral vascular anomaly. Cerebral angiography following admission showed irregularity of the vessel wall in the left anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Later, a toxicology screen test for urine was found to be positive for amphetamines and metamphetamines. These findings suggested that cerebral vasculitis and hypertensive surge induced by amphetamines caused intracranial and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Amphetamine abuse should always be considered as a cause of intracranial hemorrhage in young adults.
Amiodarone has been hailed as the most effective single antiarrhythmic drug for treatment of refractory supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias. However, questions continue to arise about its long-term potential toxicity and true efficacy rates. We, therefore, reviewed our experience with 78 patients, mean age 59 +/- 14 years, with drug refractory tachyarrhythmias treated with amiodarone. Sixty-two patients were treated for recurrent ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation, 4 for complex ventricular ectopy and 12 for supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. Patients have been treated for a mean of 9.9 months (range, 1 day to 39.1 months); 34(55%) continued to be successfully treated for ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation, 2 (50%) for complex ventricular ectopy and 5 (42%) for supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. Amiodarone toxicity was frequent, occurring in 57/72 patients (79%) who were treated for more than one week. Adverse effects led to drug discontinuation in 15 (21%), 3 because of pulmonary toxicity (1 in combination with neuropathy and another with drug-induced hepatitis); 2 because of chemical hepatitis; 1, confusion; 6, neuropathy; 2, arrhythmia exacerbation; 2, symptomatic bradycardia; and 1 because of impotence. Of the 62 ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation patients who were treated with amiodarone, 8 (13%) expired: 4 died suddenly and 4 from documented ventricular tachycardia during treatment. In contrast, of 16 patients who had discontinued amiodarone because of initial adverse effects or drug failure and were treated with alternative antiarrhythmic medications, 5 (31%) died suddenly. In conclusion, amiodarone appears to be fairly effective in high risk patients with refractory cardiac tachyarrhythmias but results in a rather high incidence of adverse effects in long-term follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tobacco addiction is a chronic disorder that is characterized by a negative affective state upon smoking cessation and relapse after periods of abstinence. Previous research has shown that an increased central release of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) at least partly mediates the deficit in brain reward function associated with nicotine withdrawal in rats. The aim of these studies was to investigate the role of CRF in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and the nucleus accumbens shell (Nacc shell) in the deficit in brain reward function associated with precipitated nicotine withdrawal. The intracranial self-stimulation procedure was used to assess the negative affective aspects of nicotine withdrawal. Elevations in brain reward thresholds are indicative of a deficit in brain reward function. In all experiments, the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine (3 mg/kg) elevated the brain reward thresholds of the nicotine-dependent rats (9 mg/kg per day of nicotine salt) and did not affect the brain reward thresholds of the saline-treated control rats. The administration of the nonspecific CRF1/2 receptor antagonist D-Phe CRF((12-41)) into the CeA and the Nacc shell prevented the mecamylamine-induced elevations in brain reward thresholds in the nicotine-dependent rats. Blockade of CRF1/2 receptors in the lateral BNST did not prevent the mecamylamine-induced elevations in brain reward thresholds in the nicotine-dependent rats. These studies indicate that the negative emotional state associated with precipitated nicotine withdrawal is at least partly mediated by an increased release of CRF in the CeA and the Nacc shell.
In CA1 area and the hilus of the dentate gyrus of the mouse hippocampus, drastic reduction of NeuN, calbindin, calretinin, or parvalbumin immunopositive neurons was shown at 3, 7 and 60 days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. In gliotic CA1 area at 60 days, few dendritic branches of calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons could be found suggesting reorganization of the afferents of surviving calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons. Calbindin, calretinin, or parvalbumin and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) double labeling showed that calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons in gliotic CA1 area at 60 days were surviving instead of newly generated neurons. Iontophoretic injection of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the medial septum and the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca or the lateral entorhinal cortex showed contacts between Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin immunopositive en passant and terminal boutons and surviving calcium binding protein immunopositive neurons in the hippocampus. The presence in the gliotic hippocampus of enlarged and/or aggregated bouton-like structures 60 days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus is indicative for the reorganization of connections between the hippocampal afferents and surviving hippocampal neurons. This reconstruction could be a factor in the ongoing epileptic activity in this model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy.
Ligand activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma) results in growth inhibition and differentiation of various cancer cells.
We determined whether the PPAR gamma ligand, troglitazone, inhibits the growth of pancreatic cancer cells and clarified the underlying mechanisms with a special focus on restriction point control of the late G1 phase of the cell cycle.
Nine pancreatic cancer cell lines were used to study a variety of troglitazone effects on cell growth by MTT assay, on cell cycle by flow cytometry, on cell cycle regulating factors of late G1 phase by Western and Northern blotting and CDK2 kinase assay, and on morphology by collagen gel culture and electron-microscopy.
Troglitazone showed a potent dose-response effect on the growth inhibition of six pancreatic cancer cell lines, which were suppressed to less than 50% of control at the concentration of 10 microM. The growth inhibition was linked to the G1 phase cell cycle arrest through the upregulation of p21 mRNA and protein expression simultaneously with the inhibition of CDK2 kinase activity and the hypophosphorylation of Rb protein. The upregulation of expression of p21 mRNA was mainly due to stabilization of mRNA. Troglitazone induced significant morphologic changes of duct structure with apoptotic cells in the lumen.
Troglitazone had growth inhibitory and differentiation induction effects on the pancreatic cancer cell lines through the upregulation of p21 expression, suggesting that ligand activation of PPAR gamma is a new molecular target for effective therapy against pancreatic cancer.
