Sildenafil is the first commercially available selective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) and is widely used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. In recent years, investigations of the role of sildenafil in cardioprotection in animal models have received considerable interest. We evaluated whether sildenafil can attenuate cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in a rat experimental model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups: control rats, sildenafil-control rats, cisplatin-injected rats (5 mg kg(-1) IP, single dose), sildenafil-treated cisplatin-injected rats (0.4 mg kg(-1), daily), and sildenafil+NG-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (l-NAME)-treated rats. The molecular, functional, and structural parameters of the kidney were measured. At 96 h after cisplatin injection, serum levels of creatinine were lower in rats treated with both sildenafil+cisplatin compared with rats treated with cisplatin alone, and renal iNOS and eNOS expression was significantly higher in sildenafil+cisplatin-treated rats compared with rats treated with cisplatin alone (all P<0.05). Renal Bax gene and protein expression was significantly higher in cisplatin-treated rats compared with control rats, and sildenafil treatment significantly reduced the levels of Bax and increased the renal Bax/Bcl-2 ratio (P<0.05). Sildenafil treatment also reduced renal caspase-3 activation and TUNEL-positive apoptotic cells. These data suggest that sildenafil attenuates experimental cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity by preventing apoptosis.
The cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9 catalyses the metabolism of numerous therapeutic agents, including the anti-epileptic drug phenytoin. CYP2C9 is genetically polymorphic: two allelic variants are known, CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3, differing from the wild-type CYP2C9*1 by a single point mutation. Both mutant alleles are associated with markedly impaired metabolic capacity for many CYP2C9 substrates compared to the wild-type, resulting in raised serum drug levels upon a given dose. Because this may be relevant in treatment with phenytoin, we studied the effect of CYP2C9 genotype on phenytoin dose requirement in a group of 60 epileptic patients on long-term phenytoin therapy. CYP2C9 genotyping was performed by polymerase chain reaction analysis, phenytoin serum concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography analysis and related to the maintenance doses. For patients carrying at least one mutant CYP2C9 allele (n = 17), the mean phenytoin dose required to achieve a therapeutic serum concentration was about 37% lower than the mean dose required by wild-type individuals (199 mg/day versus 314 mg/day; P < 0.01). A low maintenance dose (< 200 mg/day) sufficed for 47% of carriers, while 58% of normals required a high dose (> 300 mg/day) for an effective serum level. The results show that there is a strong association between CYP2C9 allelic variants and phenytoin dose requirement. Since phenytoin has a narrow therapeutic index and genotyping may be carried out rapidly and at low cost, dosage adjustment based on CYP2C9 genotype, especially at the induction of therapy, would be of value in order to lower the risk of concentration dependent drug intoxications in carriers.
The risk for atrial fibrillation-associated stroke increases at low anticoagulation intensities. However, higher intensities increase hemorrhage risk. Optimal use of warfarin for atrial fibrillation requires precise information on the risk for intracranial hemorrhage as a function of patient age and anticoagulation intensity.
To examine the relationship of age, anticoagulation intensity, and risk for intracranial hemorrhage.
Case-control study.
Academic medical center.
170 case-patients who developed intracranial hemorrhage during warfarin therapy and 1020 matched controls who did not; both case-patients and controls were taking warfarin for atrial fibrillation.
The authors performed multivariable conditional logistic regression to determine the odds of intracranial hemorrhage with regard to age and international normalized ratio (INR), controlling for comorbid conditions and aspirin use.
Case-patients were older than controls (median age, 78 years vs. 75 years; P < 0.001) and had higher median INRs (2.7 vs. 2.3; P < 0.001). The risk for intracranial hemorrhage increased at 85 years of age or older (adjusted odds ratio, 2.5 [95% CI, 1.3 to 4.7]; referent age, 70 to 74 years) and at an INR range of 3.5 to 3.9 (adjusted odds ratio, 4.6 [CI, 2.3 to 9.4]; referent INR, 2.0 to 3.0). The risk for intracranial hemorrhage at INRs less than 2.0 did not differ statistically from the risk at INRs of 2.0 to 3.0 (adjusted odds ratio, 1.3 [CI, 0.8 to 2.2]).
Although duration of anticoagulation has been associated with hemorrhage in other studies, the current study could not control for this potential confounder.
The risk for intracranial hemorrhage increases at age 85 years. International normalized ratios less than 2.0 were not associated with lower risk for intracranial hemorrhage compared with INRs between 2.0 and 3.0. Therefore, anticoagulation management should focus on maintaining INRs in the 2.0 to 3.0 range, even in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation, rather than targeting INRs less than 2.0. Similarly, INRs of 3.5 or greater should be avoided.
We hypothesized that the degree and spatial extent of blood flow mismatch in beds supplied by stenoses that are not flow-limiting at rest can be quantified with myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) using left atrial (LA) and right atrial (RA) injections of contrast during pharmacologically induced coronary hyperemia.
In 12 open-chest dogs, MCE was performed and myocardial blood flow (MBF) was measured by use of radiolabeled microspheres at baseline and during phenylephrine-induced coronary hyperemia. In the presence of this drug, stenoses were placed during different stages on the left anterior descending (LAD) and left circumflex (LCx) coronary arteries, and MCE and MBF assessments were performed. LA injections of 2 mL of 0.5 billion/mL microbubbles (mean diameter, 4.3 microns) were performed at each stage in all 12 dogs, and RA injections of 10 mL of 6 billion/mL microbubbles (mean diameter, 3.7 to 5.3 microns) were administered in 7 dogs. MCE images in which the contrast disparity between the LAD and LCx beds was maximal were digitally subtracted from precontrast images, and mean videointensities in these beds were measured after the dynamic range of gray-scale intensities was increased in the subtracted image and the image was color coded. The region showing hypoperfusion during LAD stenosis was planimetered and expressed as a percentage of the myocardial area in the short-axis slice. There was an excellent correlation between the LAD/LCx bed videointensity ratio and LAD/LCx bed MBF ratio (y = 0.5x + 0.44, r = .91, P < .001) during 57 LA injections. There was also an excellent correlation between the hypoperfused bed size on MCE during LA injection of contrast in the presence of LAD stenosis and the hypoperfused myocardium as determined by radiolabeled microspheres (y = 0.8x + 4.2, r = .90, P < .001, SEE = 2.4, n = 11). The anterior myocardium was opacified in 6 dogs receiving RA injections of contrast, and the hypoperfused area during LAD stenosis correlated closely with that determined by radiolabeled microspheres (y = 0.86x + 3.4, r = .93, P < .01).
Coronary stenoses, which are not flow limiting at rest, can be detected and the degree and spatial extent of blood flow mismatch during pharmacologically induced coronary hyperemia can be quantified with MCE using LA and RA injections of contrast. Thus, it is possible that the severity of coronary stenoses and the quantum of myocardium in jeopardy could be quantified in the future with MCE using venous injection of contrast.
Environmental cadmium and lead exposures are widespread, and both metals are nephrotoxic at high exposure levels. Few studies have evaluated the associations between low-level cadmium and clinical renal outcomes, particularly with respect to joint cadmium and lead exposure. The geometric mean levels of blood cadmium and lead were 0.41 microg/L (3.65 nmol/L) and 1.58 microg/dL (0.076 micromol/L), respectively, in 14,778 adults aged >or=20 years who participated in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (1999-2006). After adjustment for survey year, sociodemographic factors, chronic kidney disease risk factors, and blood lead, the odds ratios for albuminuria (>or=30 mg/g creatinine), reduced estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (<60 mL/minute/1.73 m(2)), and both albuminuria and reduced eGFR were 1.92 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.53, 2.43), 1.32 (95% CI: 1.04, 1.68), and 2.91 (95% CI: 1.76, 4.81), respectively, comparing the highest with the lowest blood cadmium quartiles. The odds ratios comparing participants in the highest with the lowest quartiles of both cadmium and lead were 2.34 (95% CI: 1.72, 3.18) for albuminuria, 1.98 (95% CI: 1.27, 3.10) for reduced eGFR, and 4.10 (95% CI: 1.58, 10.65) for both outcomes. These findings support consideration of cadmium and lead as chronic kidney disease risk factors in the general population and provide novel evidence of risk with environmental exposure to both metals.
Our previous studies revealed that activation of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels exerted protective effects on rotenone-treated rats and cultured cells. The aim of the present study is to examine the potential therapeutic effects of iptakalim, an ATP-sensitive potassium-channel opener, and diazoxide, a selective mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium-channel opener, on Parkinsonian symptoms in rats induced by rotenone. Rats were treated with rotenone (2.5 mg/kg s.c.) daily for 4 wk. This treatment caused a depletion of dopamine in the striatum and substantia nigra. Behaviourally, rotenone-infused rats exhibit Parkinsonian symptoms. Catalepsy was estimated by a 9-cm bar test. Treatment with L-dopa (10 mg/kg.d p.o.), iptakalim (0.75, 1.5, 3.0 mg/kg.d p.o.) and diazoxide (3.0 mg/kg.d p.o.) for 2 wk improved behavioural dysfunction and elevated dopamine contents in the striatum and substantia nigra of rotenone-treated rats. Studies also found that iptakalim and diazoxide could reduce the enzymic activities and mRNA levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase elicited by chronic administration of rotenone. All neurorestorative effects by both iptakalim and diazoxide were abolished by 5-hydroxydecanoate, a selective mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium-channel blocker. Collectively, the data suggested that mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels play a key role in improving both Parkinsonian symptoms and neurochemistry alterations of rotenone model rats, and selective activation of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels may provide a new therapeutic strategy for treatment of early Parkinson's disease.
The authors analyzed the incidence of sexual dysfunction (SD) with different selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs; fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, and sertraline) and hence the qualitative and quantitative changes in SD throughout time in a prospective and multicenter study. Outpatients (192 women and 152 men; age = 39.6 +/- 11.4 years) under treatment with SSRIs were interviewed with an SD questionnaire designed for this purpose by the authors and that included questions about the following: decreased libido, delayed orgasm or anorgasmia, delayed ejaculation, inability to ejaculate, impotence, and general sexual satisfaction. Patients with the following criteria were included: normal sexual function before SSRI intake, exclusive treatment with SSRIs or treatment associated with benzodiazepines, previous heterosexual or self-erotic current sexual practices. Excluded were patients with previous sexual dysfunction, association of SSRIs with neuroleptics, recent hormone intake, and significant medical illnesses. There was a significant increase in the incidence of SD when physicians asked the patients direct questions (58%) versus when SD was spontaneously reported (14%). There were some significant differences among different SSRIs: paroxetine provoked more delay of orgasm or ejaculation and more impotence than fluvoxamine, fluoxetine and sertraline (chi 2, p < .05). Only 24.5% of the patients had a good tolerance of their sexual dysfunction. Twelve male patients who suffered from premature ejaculation before the treatment preferred to maintain delayed ejaculation, and their sexual satisfaction, and that of their partners, clearly improved. Sexual dysfunction was positively correlated with dose. Patients experienced substantial improvement in sexual function when the dose was diminished or the drug was withdrawn. Men showed more incidence of sexual dysfunction than women, but women's sexual dysfunction was more intense than men's. In only 5.8% of patients, the dysfunction disappeared completely within 6 months, but 81.4% showed no improvement at all by the end of this period. Twelve of 15 patients experienced total improvement when the treatment was changed to moclobemide (450-600 mg/day), and 3 of 5 patients improved when treatment was changed to amineptine (200 mg/day).
Extremely high flow through arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) may limit the safety and effectiveness of endovascular glue therapy. To achieve a more controlled deposition of glue, we used transient but profound systemic hypotension afforded by an intravenously administered bolus of adenosine to induce rapidly reversible high-degree atrioventricular block.
A patient with a large high-flow occipital AVM fed primarily by the posterior cerebral artery underwent n-butyl cyanoacrylate glue embolization. Nitroprusside-induced systemic hypotension did not adequately reduce flow through the nidus, as determined by contrast injection in the feeding artery. In a dose-escalation fashion, boluses of adenosine were administered to optimize the dose and verify that there was no flow reversal in the AVM and no other unexpected hemodynamic abnormalities by arterial pressure measurements and transcranial Doppler monitoring of the posterior cerebral artery feeding the AVM. Thereafter, 64 mg of adenosine was rapidly injected as a bolus to provide 10 to 15 seconds of systemic hypotension (approximately 20 mm Hg). Although there were conducted beats and some residual forward flow through the AVM during this time, the mean systemic and feeding artery pressures were roughly similar and remained relatively constant. A slow controlled injection of n-butyl cyanoacrylate glue was then performed, with excellent filling of the nidus.
Adenosine-induced cardiac pause may be a viable method of partial flow arrest in the treatment of cerebral AVMs. Safe, deep, and complete embolization with a permanent agent may increase the likelihood of endovascular therapy's being curative or may further improve the safety of microsurgical resection.
Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a mycotoxin produced by Aspergillus ochraceus as well as other moulds. This mycotoxin contaminates animal feed and food. OTA is immunosuppressive, genotoxic, teratogenic, carcinogenic and is nephrotoxic in all animal species studied so far. OTA inhibits protein synthesis and induces lipid peroxidation. Since it seems impossible to avoid completely contamination of foodstuffs by toxigenic fungi, it is necessary to investigate the possible ways of limiting such toxicity. An attempt to prevent OTA-induced nephrotoxic and genotoxic effects, mainly the karyomegaly, has been made in vivo using aspartame (L-aspartyl-L-phenylalanine methyl ester), a structural analogue of both OTA and phenylalanine. Aspartame (25 mg/kg body weight) prevented most of the nephrotoxic effects induced by OTA (289 microg/kg body weight). It also showed some utility in preventing morphological and histological damage, mainly the karyomegaly. The protective effects of aspartame on OTA-induced nephrotoxicity could be based on several mechanisms related to competitive binding to plasma proteins, to transport or tissue distribution in the kidney or to the elimination of the toxin in the urine.
Previous research indicates increased prostate cancer risk for pesticide applicators and pesticide manufacturing workers. Although underlying mechanisms are unknown, evidence suggests a role of oxidative DNA damage.
Because base excision repair (BER) is the predominant pathway involved in repairing oxidative damage, we evaluated interactions between 39 pesticides and 394 tag single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for 31 BER genes among 776 prostate cancer cases and 1,444 male controls in a nested case-control study of white Agricultural Health Study (AHS) pesticide applicators.
We used likelihood ratio tests from logistic regression models to determine p-values for interactions between three-level pesticide exposure variables (none/low/high) and SNPs (assuming a dominant model), and the false discovery rate (FDR) multiple comparison adjustment approach.
The interaction between fonofos and rs1983132 in NEIL3 [nei endonuclease VIII-like 3 (Escherichia coli)], which encodes a glycosylase that can initiate BER, was the most significant overall [interaction p-value (pinteract) = 9.3 × 10-6; FDR-adjusted p-value = 0.01]. Fonofos exposure was associated with a monotonic increase in prostate cancer risk among men with CT/TT genotypes for rs1983132 [odds ratios (95% confidence intervals) for low and high use compared with no use were 1.65 (0.91, 3.01) and 3.25 (1.78, 5.92), respectively], whereas fonofos was not associated with prostate cancer risk among men with the CC genotype. Carbofuran and S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate (EPTC) interacted similarly with rs1983132; however, these interactions did not meet an FDR < 0.2.
Our significant finding regarding fonofos is consistent with previous AHS findings of increased prostate cancer risk with fonofos exposure among those with a family history of prostate cancer. Although requiring replication, our findings suggest a role of BER genetic variation in pesticide-associated prostate cancer risk.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a potentially life-threatening complication in patients receiving cancer therapy. This urologic emergency is commonly associated with the chemotherapeutic use of oxazaphosphorine alkylating agents. This report describes a case of hemorrhagic cystitis associated with dacarbazine treatment.
A 63-year-old man with asymptomatic metastatic malignant melanoma received 3 cycles of dacarbazine (600-850 mg/m2) monochemotherapy, each 3 weeks apart. Two weeks after the third cycle, he presented with gross hematuria and mild dysuria. Physical examination revealed no significant finding. Hematuria was confirmed by urinalysis, and urinary infection was excluded by repeated urine cultures. Ultrasonography revealed diffuse bladder wall thickening with no discrete mass or ulceration. Cystoscopy findings revealed generalized inflammation and edema of the mucosa of the bladder, confirming the diagnosis of hemorrhagic cystitis. The patient's gross hematuria continued for 2 weeks and then completely resolved with supportive care. Two weeks after complete resolution, the patient experienced 2 transient episodes of gross hematuria that lasted a few hours and subsided spontaneously.
Dacarbazine is currently considered the standard first-line treatment in patients with advanced malignant melanoma. At standard prescribed doses (a single dose of 850-1000 mg/m2 or 250 mg/m2 for 5 days per cycle), dacarbazine is a reasonably well tolerated chemotherapeutic drug; nausea, vomiting, and myelosuppression are the most common adverse effects. Association of dacarbazine with hemorrhagic cystitis has not been reported previously (in a PubMed literature search from 1950-2006), and only 1 case report associates temozolomide (an analog of dacarbazine) with hemorrhagic cystitis. Based on the Naranjo adverse drug reactions probability scale, an objective assessment revealed dacarbazine to be a probable cause of hemorrhagic cystitis in this case.
This case report suggests that dacarbazine at conventional doses was a probable cause of hemorrhagic cystitis. Regular urinalysis and early intervention are recommended, as a means of detecting early hematuria and subsequently reducing or discontinuing dacarbazine treatment. Adequate hydration before, during, and after dacarbazine administration may be useful in preventing this complication.
Two cases of disabling parkinsonism have been previously reported in association with lithium treatment and only one occurred without other signs of lithium toxicity. We report a case of an elderly female who suddenly developed disabling parkinsonism, apparently as a side effect from treatment with lithium carbonate without other signs of lithium toxicity. All neurologic symptoms completely resolved on discontinuation of lithium. Resuming lithium at serum levels below 0.7 mmol/L resulted in no further neurologic side effects, but serum levels of 0.7 to 0.9 mmol/L resulted in the return of mild Parkinson's symptoms. Older age, longer duration of lithium treatment, and high therapeutic levels of lithium may be risk factors for this side effect. Implications for clinicians are discussed.
Preimplantation embryo loss during oviduct transit has been observed in adult mice after a 5-day neonatal exposure to the phytoestrogen genistein (Gen; 50 mg/kg/day).
We investigated the mechanisms underlying the contribution of the oviduct to infertility.
Female mice were treated on postnatal days 1-5 with corn oil or Gen (50 mg/kg/day). We compared morphology, gene expression, and protein expression in different regions of the reproductive tracts of Gen-treated mice with those of control littermates at several time points.
Neonatal Gen treatment resulted in substantial changes in expression of genes that modulate neonatal oviduct morphogenesis, including Hoxa (homeobox A cluster), Wnt (wingless-related MMTV integration site), and hedgehog signaling genes. An estrogen receptor antagonist blocked these effects, indicating that they were induced by the estrogenic activity of Gen. Oviducts of adults treated neonatally with Gen had abnormal morphology and were stably "posteriorized," as indicated by altered Hoxa gene patterning during the time of treatment and dramatic, permanent up-regulation of homeobox genes (e.g., Pitx1, Six1) normally expressed only in the cervix and vagina.
Neonatal exposure to estrogenic environmental chemicals permanently disrupts oviduct morphogenesis and adult gene expression patterns, and these changes likely contribute to the infertility phenotype.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD), a widespread environmental contaminant, disrupts multiple endocrine pathways. The International Agency for Research on Cancer classified TCDD as a known human carcinogen, based on predominantly male occupational studies of increased mortality from all cancers combined.
After a chemical explosion on 10 July 1976 in Seveso, Italy, residents experienced some of the highest levels of TCDD exposure in a human population. In 1996, we initiated the Seveso Women's Health Study (SWHS), a retrospective cohort study of the reproductive health of the women. We previously reported a significant increased risk for breast cancer and a nonsignificant increased risk for all cancers combined with individual serum TCDD, but the cohort averaged only 40 years of age in 1996. Herein we report results for risk of cancer from a subsequent follow-up of the cohort in 2008.
In 1996, we enrolled 981 women who were 0-40 years of age in 1976, lived in the most contaminated areas, and had archived sera collected near the explosion. Individual TCDD concentration was measured in archived serum by high-resolution mass spectrometry. A total of 833 women participated in the 2008 follow-up study. We examined the relation of serum TCDD with cancer incidence using Cox proportional hazards models.
In total, 66 (6.7%) women had been diagnosed with cancer. The adjusted hazard ratio (HR) associated with a 10-fold increase in serum TCDD for all cancers combined was significantly increased [adjusted HR = 1.80; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.29, 2.52]. For breast cancer, the HR was increased, but not significantly (adjusted HR = 1.44; 95% CI: 0.89, 2.33).
Individual serum TCDD is significantly positively related with all cancer incidence in the SWHS cohort, more than 30 years later. This all-female study adds to the epidemiologic evidence that TCDD is a multisite carcinogen.
Over the course of 1 year, four patients in a single institution developed acute kidney injury most likely secondary to nafcillin-associated acute interstitial nephritis, indicating that this complication might not be as rare as is commonly believed. The main case presented here is that of a 73-year-old man with a history of chronic low back pain who presented with worsening back pain, as well as nausea, vomiting and volume depletion. Imaging studies revealed a soft tissue abscess in the left psoas major muscle.
Physical examination, complete urine analysis, blood and urine cultures, measurement of peripheral eosinophil and plasma creatinine levels, and renal ultrasound.
Nafcillin-associated acute interstitial nephritis.
Discontinuation of nafcillin and provision of supportive care.
Juvenile-onset dystonia that improves after levodopa may occur in both dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) and juvenile parkinsonism (JP), clinically similar conditions with different prognoses and management goals. The authors show normal striatal uptake of the dopamine transporter ligand FP-CIT with SPECT in a clinically atypical case of DRD, in contrast to the reduced uptake observed in JP.
Certain chemical pollutants can exacerbate lower respiratory tract infections (LRIs), a common childhood ailment. Although formaldehyde (FA) is one of the most common air pollutants found in indoor environments, its impact on infant health is uncertain.
Our aim was to determine the impact of FA exposure on the LRI incidence during the first year of life of infants from the Pollution and Asthma Risk: an Infant Study (PARIS) birth cohort.
FA was measured in a random sample of 196 infants' dwellings, and exposure to this pollutant was estimated for 2,940 infants using predictive models based on measurements and data about potential determinants of FA levels. Health data were collected from parents by regular self-administered questionnaires. We used multivariate logistic regressions to estimate associations between FA exposure and the occurrence of LRI and wheezy LRI (wLRI), adjusting for potential confounders/risk factors.
During the first year of life, 45.8% of infants had at least one LRI, and LRI occurred simultaneously with wheezing in 48.7% of cases. The FA predictive models correctly classified 70% of dwellings as having high or low exposure, and we estimated that 43.3% of infants were exposed throughout the first year to levels of FA > 19.5 µg/m3. FA exposure was significantly associated with LRI and wLRI before and after adjustment for known LRI risk factors/confounders. For an interquartile increase in FA levels (12.4 μg/m3), we estimated a 32% [95% confidence interval (CI): 11, 55] and 41% (95% CI: 14, 74) increase in the incidence of LRI and wLRI, respectively.
The findings of this study suggest that infants exposed to FA at an early age have an increased incidence of LRI.
The goal of this investigation was to determine whether more aggressive vancomycin dosing is associated with greater risk for renal toxicity in patients with health care-associated pneumonia (HCAP) attributed to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
This was a retrospective, single-center, observational cohort study. The following information was obtained for all study patients from automated hospital, microbiology, and pharmacy databases: age, sex, weight, serial serum creatinine (SCr), age- and sex-adjusted creatinine clearance (CrCl) during receipt of vancomycin, vancomycin serum trough concentrations, duration of vancomycin therapy, and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II scores. Renal toxicity was defined as either a 0.5-mg/dL increase from baseline in SCr or a >or=50% increase in SCr based on serial SCr measurements. Data for patients who met the definition of renal toxicity were compared with data for those who did not.
Ninety-four patients (mean [SD]age, 59.0 [15.6] years; 59 [62.8%] men; 73 (77.7%) white; mean baseline CrCl, 70.3 [23.0] mL/min) were identified as having MRSA HCAP. Forty (42.6%) patients developed renal toxicity. Patients who developed renal toxicity were significantly more likely than patients who did not develop renal toxicity to have greater mean vancomycin serum trough concentrations (20.8 [9.9] g/mL vs 14.3 [6.7] g/mL, respectively; P < 0.001), vancomycin serum trough concentrations >or=15 g/mL (67.5% vs 40.7%; P = 0.01), and a prolonged duration (>or=14 days) of vancomycin treatment (45.0% vs 20.4%; P = 0.011). Logistic regression analysis identified a maximum vancomycin serum trough concentration of >or=15 g/mL as being independently associated with renal toxicity (adjusted odds ratio = 2.82; 95% CI, 1.02-7.74; P = 0.045). The overall mean change in CrCl for the study population was -13.5 (-16.0) mL/min (range, 0.0 to -62.6 mL/min). Patients with maximum measured vancomycin serum trough concentrations >or=15 g/mL (n = 49) had significantly greater absolute changes in CrCl compared with patients with maximum measured vancomycin serum trough concentrations <15 g/mL (n = 45) (-18.9 [-17.0] vs -7.6 [-12.5] mL/min, respectively; P < 0.001).
The results suggest that aggressive vancomycin dosing and prolonged vancomycin administration may be associated with greater risk for renal toxicity in patients with MRSA HCAP. However, this retrospective study cannot establish causation, and a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial is needed.
During hospitalization a patient with acute pulmonary oedema caused by myocardial dilation and chronic kidney failure presented high blood pressure and repeated episodes of supraventricular tachycardia. The complication was attributed to the withdrawal of clonidine and was treated by reintroduction of the drug combined with nifedipine, nitroderivates and antiarrhythmic drugs.
Although worldwide concerns have emerged about environmental factors that display carcinogenic and reprotoxic effects, little is known about the mechanism(s) by which these chemicals alter testicular function. Using the 42GPA9 Sertoli cell line, we recently reported that one widely used lipid-soluble pesticide, Lindane impairs gap junctional intercellular communication by promoting the intracellular localization of Connexin 43 (Cx43), a tumor suppressor. We showed here that this chemical triggered the accumulation of Cx43 within Rab5 positive endosomes. Interestingly, evidence is provided that Lindane-induced Cx43 endocytosis did not stem on alteration of Cx43 partition in lipid rafts. Lindane induced concomitantly Cx43 phosphorylation and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK) but not of JNK and p38 mitogen- activated protein kinases. Inhibition of ERK pathway by PD98059, a MEK1-specific inhibitor, prevented Lindane-induced Cx43 phosphorylation, restored Cx43 membranous localization and gap junction coupling. Altogether, these findings provide the first evidence that Lindane-altered Cx43 endocytosis requires ERK activation. Such inappropriate activation of the mitogenic MAPK pathway and inactivation of the tumor suppressor Cx43 by Lindane may participate in the promotion of neoplastic cell growth.
The etiology of secondary cancer in childhood cancer survivors is largely unclear. Exposure of normal somatic cells to radiation and/or chemotherapy can damage DNA and if not all DNA lesions are properly fixed, the mis-repair may lead to pathological consequences. It is plausible to assume that genetic differences, i.e. in the pathways responsible for cell cycle control and DNA repair, play a critical role in the development of secondary cancer.
To identify factors that may influence the susceptibility for second cancer formation, we recruited 20 individuals who survived a childhood malignancy and then developed a second cancer as well as 20 carefully matched control individuals with childhood malignancy but without a second cancer. By antibody microarrays, we screened primary fibroblasts of matched patients for differences in the amount of representative DNA repair-associated proteins. We found constitutively decreased levels of RAD9A and several other DNA repair proteins in two-cancer patients, compared to one-cancer patients. The RAD9A protein level increased in response to DNA damage, however to a lesser extent in the two-cancer patients. Quantification of mRNA expression by real-time RT PCR revealed lower RAD9A mRNA levels in both untreated and 1 Gy γ-irradiated cells of two-cancer patients.
Collectively, our results support the idea that modulation of RAD9A and other cell cycle arrest and DNA repair proteins contribute to the risk of developing a second malignancy in childhood cancer patients.
Endocrinological aspects of male infertility are reviewed, beginning with the physiological interrelationship between the testis and the hypothalamo-hypophysical unit. The failure of the pituitary to secrete follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) results in disruption of testicular function and infertility. However, in men presenting with infertility, gonadotropin deficiency accounts for less than .5% of the causative factors. If deficiencies in FSH or LH are proved, a hypothalmic or pituitary lesion should be sought. Nevertheless, mreasurements of FSH, LH, and prolactin are useful tests in the management of male infertility. Of greatest importance is measurement of serum FSH, which provides a useful index of the state of the seminiferous epithelium when the concentration is related to sperm density: high concentration associated with severe oligospermia or azoospermia usually denotes untreatable infertility. Elevated LH and low testosterone levels have been found in about 30% of men with severe degrees of testicular damage and are indicative of interstitial cell failure. Prolactin measurements are mainly associated with impotency rather than infertility. Hormonal treatment of male infertility is often indicated. For example, replacement therapy for gonadotropin deficiency is successful. Androgen injections of testosterone esters will suppress spermatogenesis, so when treatment is stopped, sperm counts will rebound to concentrations greater than pretreatment levels. That endocrine factors can potentiate testicular damage is postulated based on the measurement of FSH as an indicator of seminifirous tubule disruption resulting in disruption of spermatogenesis.
Human Mental Retardation (MR) is a common and highly heterogeneous pediatric disorder affecting around 3% of the general population; at least 215 X-linked MR (XLMR) conditions have been described, and mutations have been identified in 83 different genes, encoding proteins with a variety of function, such as chromatin remodeling, synaptic function, and intracellular trafficking. The small GTPases of the RAB family, which play an essential role in intracellular vesicular trafficking, have been shown to be involved in MR. We report here the identification of mutations in the small GTPase RAB39B gene in two male patients. One mutation in family X (D-23) introduced a stop codon seven amino acids after the start codon (c.21C > A; p.Y7X). A second mutation, in the MRX72 family, altered the 5' splice site (c.215+1G > A) and normal splicing. Neither instance produced a protein. Mutations segregate with the disease in the families, and in some family members intellectual disabilities were associated with autism spectrum disorder, epileptic seizures, and macrocephaly. We show that RAB39B, a novel RAB GTPase of unknown function, is a neuronal-specific protein that is localized to the Golgi compartment. Its downregulation leads to an alteration in the number and morphology of neurite growth cones and a significant reduction in presynaptic buttons, suggesting that RAB39B is required for synapse formation and maintenance. Our results demonstrate developmental and functional neuronal alteration as a consequence of downregulation of RAB39B and emphasize the critical role of vesicular trafficking in the development of neurons and human intellectual abilities.
A primary hepatic tumour occurred in a 36-year-old woman who had been taking oral contraceptives for 6 years; she was treated by partial hepatectomy. The neoplasm had the characteristics of a well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma and the regional lymph nodes contained similar tumour.
The case of a 36-year-old women found to have a hepatic tumor is reported. The patient complained a malaise, weakness, dyspnea, and ankle edema and had been aware of a slowly growing abdominal swelling for 3 years. She had been taking Gynovlar 21 (3 mg norethinsterone acetate with 50 mcg ethinyl estradiol) for 6 years. Laparotomy revealed a solid, vascularized tumor arising from the left lobe of the liver and from part of the right lobe. A 2800 gm mass was excised along with a 40 gm mass from the celiac axis that involved lymphatic tissue. This is the 1st case report of a hepatic malignancy associated with an oral contraceptive that showed histological evidence of secondary spread.
Continuous production of nitric oxide (NO) from endothelial cells permanently inhibits the synthesis and the vasoconstrictor effects of endothelin. Thus, inhibition of NO synthesis might unmask a vasopressor response to endothelin. To assess whether endothelin contributes to the pressor response induced by inhibition of NO synthesis, we tested whether bosentan, a nonpeptide antagonist of ETA and ETB endothelin receptors, affected the hypertensive response induced by the NO synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME).
Anesthetized rats received increasing doses of L-NAME (0.1 to 3 mg.kg-1) in the absence or the presence of bosentan (3 mg.kg-1 IV 15 minutes before L-NAME). Bosentan itself did not affect blood pressure. L-NAME induced a dose-dependent increase in mean arterial pressure (percent increase from baseline after 3 mg.kg-1, 25 +/- 5%), and this was reduced by bosentan (13 +/- 3%; P < .05) or by the selective ETA antagonist BQ-123 (3 mg.kg-1: controls, 25 +/- 4%; BQ-123, 14 +/- 5%; P < .01). In contrast, bosentan did not affect the pressor response to phenylephrine (1 to 100 micrograms.kg-1). The response to L-NAME (3 mg.kg-1) was also reduced by bosentan in ganglion-blocked (chlorisondamine 2.5 mg.kg-1: controls, 89 +/- 10%; bosentan, 45 +/- 7%) or pithed rats (controls, 165 +/- 9%; bosentan, 85 +/- 12%; P < .01). Bosentan also inhibited the pressor response to another inhibitor of NO synthesis, NG-nitro L-arginine (3 mg.kg-1) in normal (controls, 24 +/- 5%; bosentan, 10 +/- 3%; P < .01) or ganglion-blocked (controls, 86 +/- 13%; bosentan, 25 +/- 8%; P < .01) rats. Finally, L-NAME induced a modest increase in plasma levels of endothelin-1 (controls, 26.8 +/- 4.1 pg.mL-1; L-NAME, 38.5 +/- 3.3 pg.mL-1; P < .05).
These experiments demonstrate that inhibition of NO synthesis unmasks a tonic pressor influence of endothelin, suggesting that this peptide could play a major role in pathophysiological situations associated with an impaired formation of NO.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can induce a persistent inflammatory response, histopathological changes, and apoptosis in the gut. Progesterone given after TBI has been shown to reduce the cerebral inflammation and neuronal apoptosis in the brain. However, the effects of progesterone on the inflammatory response, structure alterations, and apoptosis in the intestinal mucosa following TBI has not been investigated.
Right parietal cortical contusion in male rats was made by using the weight-dropping method. Rats were given 0 or 16 mg/kg injections of progesterone at postinjury at 1 and 6 hours and on days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Gut samples were extracted at 5 days after trauma. We measured the concentrations of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and interleukin-6 (IL-6) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression by immunohistochemistry; intestinal mucosal morphological changes by histopathological study and electron microscopy; and apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling staining.
Administration of progesterone following TBI could decrease the intestinal concentrations of IL-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, but not IL-6. The level of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression in the gut was down-regulated by progesterone. TBI-induced damages of gut structure and apoptosis were attenuated after progesterone injections.
The results of the present study suggest that post-TBI progesterone administration could suppress the intestinal inflammation, protect the intestinal mucosal structure, and reduce the mucosa apoptosis.
Amphetamine (AMPH) sensitization in monkeys produces long-lasting behavioral changes that model positive (hallucinatory-like behaviors) and negative (psychomotor depression) symptoms of schizophrenia. The extent to which this model produces the core deficit in schizophrenia--working memory impairment--is unknown.
Two groups of rhesus monkeys were sensitized to AMPH over 6 weeks. In one group, acquisition of cognitive tasks (delayed response, visual discrimination, delayed nonmatch-to-sample) was examined beginning 6+ months postsensitization. The second group was pretrained to stability on delayed response before sensitization. Regional postmortem concentrations of dopamine and its metabolites were examined in tissue from age-matched AMPH-naive and AMPH-sensitized monkeys using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD).
The AMPH-sensitized monkeys were profoundly impaired in their ability to acquire cognitive tasks compared with AMPH-naïve monkeys. Pretrained monkeys showed impaired delayed response performance for several months following sensitization. Analysis by HPLC revealed that AMPH sensitization significantly reduced dopamine turnover in prefrontal cortex and striatum.
Impairments in the acquisition and performance of spatial delayed response in association with reduced dopamine turnover in prefrontal cortex following AMPH sensitization provide further support for the relevance of this model to both the etiology and the treatment of cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia.
