Aminoglycoside antibiotics have been found to suppress nonsense mutations located in the defective dystophin gene in mdx mice, suggesting a possible treatment for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). However, it is very difficult to find patients that are applicable for this therapy, because: (1) only 5-13% of DMD patients have nonsense mutations in the dystrophin gene, (2) it is challenging to find nonsense mutations in the gene because dystrophin cDNA is very long (14 kb), and (3) the efficiency of aminoglycoside-induced read-through is dependent on the kind of nonsense mutation. In order to develop a system for identifying candidates that qualify for aminoglycoside therapy, fibroblasts from nine DMD patients with nonsense mutation of dystrophin gene were isolated, induced to differentiate to myogenic lineage by AdMyoD, and exposed with gentamicin. The dystrophin expression in gentamicin-exposed myotubes was monitored by in vitro dystrophin staining and western blotting analysis. The results showed that gentamicin was able to induce dystrophin expression in the differentiated myotubes by the read-through of the nonsense mutation TGA in the gene; a read-through of the nonsense mutations TAA and TAG did not occur and consequently did not lead to dystrophin expression. Therefore, it is speculated that the aminoglycoside treatment is far more effective for DMD patients that have nonsense mutation TGA than for patients that have nonsense mutation TAA and TAG. In this study, we introduce an easy system to identify patients for this therapy and report for the first time, that dystrophin expression was detected in myotubes of DMD patients using gentamicin.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent organic pollutants that accumulate in the food chain and are present in human blood and milk. Children born to mothers exposed to PCBs show cognitive deficits, which are reproduced in rats perinatally exposed to PCBs. It has been proposed that PCB-induced cognitive impairment is due to impairment of the glutamate-nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway. The aim of the present work was to assess whether chronic exposure to the nondioxin-like PCB52, PCB138, or PCB180 alters the function of this pathway in primary cultures of rat cerebellar neurons and to assess whether different PCBs have similar or different mechanisms of action. PCB180 and PCB138 impair the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway at nanomolar concentrations, and PCB52 impairs the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway at micromolar concentrations. The mechanisms by which different PCBs impair the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway are different. Each PCB affects the pathway at more than one step but with different potency and, for some steps, in opposite ways. Exposure to the PCBs alters the basal concentrations of intracellular calcium, NO, and cGMP. The three PCBs increase NO; however, PCB52 and PCB138 increase basal cGMP, while PCB180 decreases it. PCB52 and PCB138 decrease the activation of soluble guanylate cyclase by NO, and PCB180 increases it. Long-term exposure to PCB52, PCB180, or PCB138 reduces the activation of NO synthase and the whole glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in response to activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. The EC(50) was 300 nM for PCB52 and 2 nM for PCB138 or PCB180. These results show that chronic exposure to nondioxin like PCBs impairs the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in cerebellar neurons by different mechanisms and with different potencies. Impaired function of this pathway would contribute to the cognitive alterations induced by perinatal exposure to PCBs in humans.
The potential of cinnamic acid as an anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer agent has been studied previously. In our investigation, novel bio-isosters of cinnamyl sulfonamide hydroxamate were synthesized, characterized and confirmed for their structure and evaluated for cytotoxicity. Three NCEs namely, NMJ-1, -2 and -3 showed cell-growth inhibition in 6 human cancer cell lines with IC50 at the range of 3.3±0.15-44.9±2.6μM. The hydroxamate derivatives of cinnamyl sulfonamide are reported inhibitors of HDAC enzyme. Thus, the effectiveness of these molecules was determined by whole cell HDAC assay in HCT 116 cell line. NMJ-2 (0.41±0.01μM) exhibited better enzyme inhibition (IC50) compared to SAHA (2.63±0.07). In order to evaluate induction of apoptosis by treatment, Hoechst 33342 and AO/EB nuclear staining methods were used. Further, cell cycle analysis, Annexin V binding and caspase 3/7 activation assays were performed by flow cytometry where NMJ-2 significantly arrested the cell cycle at G2/M phase, increased Annexin V binding to the cell surface and activation of caspase-3/7. Bax/Bcl-2 ratio was observed by Western blot and showed an increase with NMJ-2 treatment. This was comparable to standard SAHA. The acute toxicity study (OECD-425) showed that NMJ-2 was safe up to 2000mg/kg in rats. 1,2-Dimethyl hydrazine (DMH) was used to produce experimental colon adenocarcinoma in Wistar rats. 5-FU and NMJ-2 (100mg/kg p.o. and 10mg/kg i.p. once daily for 21days, respectively) were administered to the respective groups. Both treatments significantly reduced ACFs, adenocarcinoma count, TNF-α, IL-6, nitrite and nitrate levels in colonic tissue. Our findings indicate that NMJ-2 has potent anti-cancer activity against colon cancer, by acting through HDAC enzyme inhibition and activation of intrinsic mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, with additional anti-inflammatory activity.
Twenty-one consecutive patients with refractory or relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphomas were treated with a novel combination chemotherapy (MINE-BOP), comprising myelosuppressive (ifosfamide, mitoxantrone, etoposide) and non-myelosuppressive (bleomycin, vincristine and prednisone) drugs. Median age of the patients was 42 years and all had intermediate or high-grade lymphoma. Fifteen patients had refractory disease. All patients had previously been treated with one or two regimens, containing anthracyclines. In all cases the duration between the last chemotherapy and the MINE-BOP regimen was shorter than 12 months. Response rate was 57% with 33% complete remission (CR). Median disease-free and overall survivals were 7 and 10 months respectively. The serum LDH level was the only significant prognostic factor in this study. The toxicity of this regimen was moderate with 24% of febrile neutropenia and 9% of microscopic hematuria. Toxic death due to febrile neutropenia was observed in one patient who had bone marrow involvement. To conclude, the addition of non-myelosuppressive drugs to the chemotherapy regimen and shortening the interval between the application of cytotoxic drugs as used in the present study did not show any improvement of response and survival in this group of patients.
A 55-year-old white woman had severe hepatocellular damage after taking disopyramide. Simultaneously, disseminated intravascular coagulation developed with thrombocytopenia, prolonged prothrombin time, and elevated fibrin split products. Both problems gradually subsided 14 days after cessation of disopyramide therapy. This case report shows that disopyramide can have the serious side effect of hepatocellular toxicity and provides evidence of the association of hepatocellular damage and disseminated intravascular coagulation.
The aim of this study was to investigate the Dextromethorphan (DXM) abuse side effects. Subjects were 53 volunteers who had consumed DXM with mean age 23.4 years. The mean of side effects during first day was 12.49 and during first week was 5.57. The causes of repeated DXM abuse were psychological dependency 46.5%, recreational abuse in 32.6%. Neurological and psychological symptoms were the most common of side effects in DXM abusers.
Recent studies suggest the involvement of the adenosine monophosphate-activated serine/threonine protein kinase (AMPK) pathway in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy (DN). Resveratrol, an agent that activates AMPK, may have the potential to protect against the development of DN. This study was designed to investigate the therapeutic effects of resveratrol on renal hypertrophy in early-stage diabetes and the underlying mechanisms.
Molecular and structural changes involved in the pathogenesis of DN were tested in a rat model of early-stage diabetes. Renal mesangial cells (RMCs) were cultured in media containing different concentrations of glucose with or without resveratrol. Cellular DNA synthesis was assayed by measuring (3)H-thymidine incorporation. The phosphorylation status of AMPK, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1 (4E-BP1), and phospho- ribosomal protein S6 (S6) was analyzed by Western blot.
Resveratrol reduced plasma creatinine and urinary albumin excretion and attenuated renal hypertrophy without affecting blood glucose levels. Moreover, resveratrol activated AMPK and inhibited phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 and S6 in diabetic rat kidneys. In vitro, resveratrol blocked high glucose-induced dephosphorylation of AMPK and phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 and S6 and strongly inhibited both the DNA synthesis and proliferation of RMCs.
These findings suggest the possibility that resveratrol exerts antiproliferative, antihypertrophic effects by activating AMPK and reducing 4E-BP1 and S6 phosphorylation, thus suppressing the development and progression of DN.
We have described a man with classic rheumatoid arthritis who had membranous nephropathy associated with nephrotic syndrome not related to gold or penicillamine therapy. Complete remission of the nephrosis occurred after discontinuation of hydroxychloroquine therapy. Further study is needed to determine the incidence of subclinical membranous nephropathy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the effect of drugs in triggering clinical manifestations of this condition.
Pulmonary embolism is a quite frequent event (incidence 1/10000/year), and blood stasis, endothelial lesions and coagulation disorders are predisposable factors. Elective treatment is heparin, but the use of this medication is associated with a possible ipercoagulative rebound effect. The case presented is a patient with unstable angina treated with heparin infusion, who developed pulmonary embolism after discontinuation of heparin treatment; the patient didn't present a genetic coagulopathy. Others risk factors have been analyzed and it was observed that discontinuation of heparin infusion could have a predominant role in the development of thrombosis. A MedLine research on the rebound effect of heparin and how to reduce it has been carried out.
Oleoyl-estrone (OE) decreases energy intake while maintaining glucose homeostasis, and energy expenditure at the expense of body fat. White adipose tissue (WAT) depots behave differently under starvation, postprandial state and pharmacologically induced lipolysis.
To understand the mechanism of massive lipid loss from WAT elicited by OE treatment.
We used overweight male rats. Rats receiving OE (10 nmol/g) gavages were compared with controls and a pair-fed group. Whole fat pads from the mesenteric, retroperitoneal, epididymal and inguinal subcutaneous sites were excised and analyzed for lipid, DNA, mRNA and the expression of lipogenic, fatty acid transporters and lipase genes.
In OE and pair-fed rats, WAT weights decreased, with the limited loss of cells. Patterns of gene expression in most WAT sites were similar for OE and PF, suggesting a shared mechanism of fat mobilization, but in mesenteric WAT, PF increased lipogenic and fatty acid transporter gene expressions. However, OE inhibited lipogenic expressions more deeply than PF.
White adipose tissue sites showed different expression patterns, hinting at relatively specialized functions in fat storage; thus, single site analyses cannot be extrapolated to whole WAT. Differences between mesenteric and the other sites suggest that 'visceral fat' should be reserved for this site only, and not applied to other abdominal fat depots (epididymal, retroperitoneal).
Fat1 is a member of the cadherin superfamily characterized by its 34 cadherin repeats in the extracellular domain. Fat1 was originally found as a component of the slit diaphragm of podocytes, but its function in podocytes remains obscure. To gain insight into its role in podocytes, we expanded our study of Fat1 expression to puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis, the neonatal kidney, and the primary podocyte culture, where slit diaphragms are absent or disappear.
Expression of Fat1 was examined in isolated glomeruli of PAN nephrosis by the ribonuclease protection assay and Western blot analysis and in the neonatal kidney by in situ hybridization. Fat1 localization in glomeruli and in the primary culture was confirmed by immunofluorescence or immunoelectron microscopy.
In PAN nephrotic rats, glomerular expression of Fat1 increased rather than decreased at both transcript and protein levels in comparison with normal rats. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed distinct staining for Fat1 along the glomerular capillary wall, where nephrin staining was weakened or disappeared. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated significant accumulation of immunogold particles for Fat1 at intercellular junctions newly formed between podocytes in the nephrosis. In the primary culture of podocytes, Fat1 was mainly localized at cell-cell contact sites and in tips of cellular processes. In the neonatal kidney, immature podocytes expressed Fat1 more intensely than mature podocytes as shown by in situ hybridization. Double-labeled immunostaining using anti-pan cadherin antibody revealed that Fat1 in podocytes colocalized with cadherin in immature glomeruli, indicating that junctional complexes of developing podocytes contain Fat1.
These findings suggest that Fat1 may be a fundamental component of intercellular junctions of podocytes, and may be involved in the initial step of cell contacts of podocytes.
Lisinopril has been compared with slow-release nifedipine in a 16-week double-blind, randomized, parallel-group study involving 102 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Sitting systolic and diastolic blood pressures were reduced 6 and 5 mmHg more by lisinopril than by nifedipine over 12 weeks monotherapy. After 12 weeks a greater proportion of patients taking lisinopril was controlled (sitting diastolic blood pressure below 95 mm Hg) than in those taking nifedipine. As a result, 17% of those taking lisinopril and 38% of those taking nifedipine required additional therapy with hydrochlorothiazide. The addition of hydrochlorothiazide resulted in similar response rates in the lisinopril and nifedipine groups (89% and 75% respectively). The rate of reporting of adverse events considered to be drug-related and the rate of withdrawals were similar for both treatments. Cough was more often reported with lisinopril and headache, sweating, and hot flushes with nifedipine. We conclude that once-daily titrated doses of lisinopril produced better control of blood pressure than twice-daily titrated doses of nifedipine.
Fetal zinc (Zn) deficiency arising from ethanol-induction of the Zn-binding protein metallothionein (MT) in the mother's liver has been proposed as a mechanism of teratogenicity. Here, we determine the ontogeny of MT and Zn homeostasis in rats and mice and then examine the effect of acute ethanol exposure in early embryonic development on this relationship. The protective effect of Zn against ethanol-mediated fetal dysmorphology is also examined.
Study 1: Maternal liver MT and Zn homeostasis was determined in Sprague-Dawley rats and C57BL/6J mice throughout gestation. Study 2: Rats were administered ethanol (25% in saline, intraperitoneal 0.015 ml/g) or vehicle alone on gestational day (GD) 9. Maternal liver MT and Zn, and plasma Zn was determined over the ensuing 24 hours. Study 3: Pregnant rats were treated with ethanol and Zn (s.c. 2.5 microg Zn/g) on GD9 and fetal dysmorphology was assessed on GD 19.
Study 1: Maternal liver MT began to rise around GD 9 peaking on GD 15 before falling to nonpregnant levels around term. The pregnancy-related increase in MT was associated with a fall in plasma Zn which was significantly lower on GD 15 thereafter returning to nonpregnant levels by parturition. Study 2: Ethanol administered to pregnant rats on GD 9 resulted in a 10-fold induction of MT in the maternal liver and was associated with a 33% rise in liver Zn and a 30% fall in plasma Zn, 16 hours after treatment. Study 3: Ethanol treatment on GD 9 resulted in a significant increase in craniofacial malformations which were prevented by concurrent Zn treatment.
The findings indicate that maternal liver MT levels are lowest in early gestation (before GD 10) making this a sensitive period where ethanol-induction of MT can affect fetal Zn homeostasis and cause fetal dysmorphology. The study further provides evidence of a protective role for Zn against ethanol-mediated teratogenicity.
Treatment of cancer patients with anthracycline antibiotic doxorubicin (DOX) may be complicated by development of acute and chronic congestive heart failure (CHF), malignant arrhythmias and death. The aim of this study was to test whether an aqueous low molecular weight (LMW) extract from cod muscle decreases acute mortality in the mouse model of acute CHF caused by DOX.
A LMW fraction (<500 Da) of the aqueous phase of cod light muscle (AOX) was used for treatment of male BALB/c mice (approximately 25 g, n = 70). The animals were divided into four groups, DOX + AOX (n = 20), DOX + saline (NaCl) (n = 30), NaCl + AOX (n = 10) and NaCl only (n = 10). Echocardiography was performed in the separate subgroups (DOX treated n = 6 and controls n = 6) to verify the presence and the grade of acute CHF. The cod extract was delivered by subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipumps over the period of 2 weeks. High-dose injection of DOX was administered to randomly selected animals. The animals received single intraperitoneal injection of DOX (25 mg/kg) and were followed over two weeks for mortality.
Mortality rate was 68% lower (p < 0.05) in the mice treated with the extract. The analyses of cod extract have shown strong antioxidative effect in vitro.
The aqueous LMW cod muscles extract decreases mortality in the mouse model of DOX induced acute CHF. This effect may be mediated by cardioprotection through antioxidative mechanisms.
The relation of various structural parameters to hepatotoxic potential was investigated by using six dinitrotoluene (DNT) isomers and isolated rat hepatocyte suspensions as the biological test system. DNT-induced hepatotoxicity was found to correlate with an inhibition of protein synthesis and an increase in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release but not with lipid peroxidation. With each isomer, protein synthesis inhibition was the most sensitive indicator of cytotoxicity. Regardless of the indicator, ortho- and para-substituted isomers were more hepatotoxic at the same concentration than meta-substituted isomers. High-performance liquid chromatograms (HPLC) on samples at 4 h revealed significant quantities of reduced metabolites in the medium. However, increased lipid peroxidation (formation of thiobarbituric acid reactants or evolution of ethane) in the cells was not consistently demonstrated. log EC50 for protein synthesis inhibition and log EC20 for LDH release were linearly correlated with the C atomic charge on the ring carbons bearing the nitro substituents by using molecular orbital (MNDO calculations) theory. The relation was used to predict the hepatotoxic potentials of untested nitrotoluenes, and the predictions were verified to a first approximation by using three trinitrotoluene isomers.
A 31-year-old primiparous, healthy woman presented for emergency caesarean section. Following the siting of a spinal anaesthetic, seconds after starting a phenylephrine infusion, she developed ventricular bigeminy. She reverted to sinus rhythm spontaneously when the phenylephrine infusion was stopped at delivery. The possible proarrhythmic and antiarrhythmic effects of phenylephrine are discussed. We suggest that this was most probably a stretch-induced ventricular arrhythmia due to increased ventricular afterload.
The Smith-Lemli-Opitz (SLO) syndrome is a multiple congenital anomaly with mental retardation due to a decreased or lack of activity of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase as a consequence of mutations of the DHCR7 gene. This paper describes a special patient with SLO syndrome. Laboratory examination showed low cholesterol (2.77 mmol/L) and increased 7-dehydrocholesterol level (102 mg/L). Molecular genetic analysis revealed a compound heterozygosity c.964-1G>C/p.G366V (c.G1370T) of the proband. The p.G366V is a novel mutation of the DHCR7 gene with guanine by thymine nucleotide exchange resulting in glycin by valin amino acid exchange in the dehydrocholesterol reductase enzyme. Simvastatin (0.2 mg/kg/day) and cholesterol replacement therapy (150-250 mg/kg/day) led to significant improvement in the patient's laboratory findings (7-dehydrocholesterol, cholesterol) as well as in his behavior and gross motor function.
Our patient demonstrates that the c.964-1G>C/p.G366V (c.G1370T) genotype of combined heterozygosity is associated with a typical form of SLO syndrome along with moderately altered laboratory findings and a favorable biochemical response to cholesterol and simvastatin treatment.
Upper aerodigestive tract (UADT) cancer, including oral and esophageal cancer, is an important cause of cancer deaths worldwide. Patients with UADT cancer are frequently zinc deficient (ZD) and show a loss of function of the pivotal tumor suppressor gene p53. The present study examined whether zinc deficiency in collaboration with p53 insufficiency (p53+/-) promotes lingual and esophageal tumorigenesis in mice exposed to low doses of the carcinogen 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide. In wild-type mice, ZD significantly increased the incidence of lingual and esophageal tumors from 0% in zinc sufficient (ZS) ZS:p53+/+ mice to approximately 40%. On the p53+/- background, ZD:p53+/- mice had significantly greater tumor incidence and multiplicity than ZS:p53+/- and ZD:p53+/+ mice, with a high frequency of progression to malignancy. Sixty-nine and 31% of ZD:p53+/- lingual and esophageal tumors, respectively, were squamous cell carcinoma versus 19 and 0% of ZS:p53+/- tumors (tongue, P = 0.003; esophagus, P = 0.005). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the increased cellular proliferation observed in preneoplastic lingual and esophageal lesions, as well as invasive carcinomas, was accompanied by overexpression of cytokeratin 14, cyclooxygenase-2 and metallothionein. In summary, a new UADT cancer model is developed in ZD:p53+/- mouse that recapitulates aspects of the human cancer and provides opportunities to probe the genetic changes intrinsic to UADT carcinogenesis and to test strategies for prevention and reversal of this deadly cancer.
Serum levels of amphiregulin and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), which were identified previously to be expressed at high levels in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with poor response to gefitinib, were examined by ELISA using blood samples taken from 50 patients with advanced NSCLCs. Of 14 cases that revealed above the cutoff line for amphiregulin in serum, 12 responded poorly to gefitinib, whereas 18 of the 36 cases showing below the cutoff revealed partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD; P = 0.026). Thirteen of 15 patients who were positive for TGF-alpha responded poorly to gefitinib, whereas 18 of the 35 patients with negative TGF-alpha levels turned out to be relatively good responders (P = 0.014). Of 22 patients with positive values for either or both markers, 19 were poor responders. On the other hand, among 28 patients negative for both markers, 17 were classified into the PR or SD groups (P = 0.001). Gefitinib-treated NSCLC patients whose serum amphiregulin or TGF-alpha was positive showed a poorer tumor-specific survival (P = 0.037 and 0.002, respectively, by univariate analysis) compared with those whose serum amphiregulin or TGF-alpha concentrations were negative. Multivariate analysis showed an independent association between positivity for TGF-alpha and shorter survival times among NSCLC patients treated with gefitinib (P = 0.034). Amphiregulin or TGF-alpha positivity in NSCLC tissues was significantly higher in male, nonadenocarcinomas, and smokers. Our data suggest that the status of amphiregulin and TGF-alpha in serum can be an important predictor of the resistance to gefitinib among patients with advanced NSCLC.
To estimate whether 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate treatment in pregnancy increases the frequency of abnormal glucose screening and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM).
This is a retrospective cohort study of women treated with weekly 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate. Women with pregestational diabetes and multiple gestations were excluded. 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate-exposed women were randomly matched with three unexposed controls by maternal age and prepregnancy body mass index (BMI). The main outcomes were an abnormal 1-hour 50-g glucose screen (at least 135 mg/dL) and GDM (a 1-hour 50-g glucose screen of at least 200 mg/dL or two or more abnormal values on a 3-hour 100-g oral glucose tolerance test).
A total of 110 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate-exposed women were matched with 330 controls. Maternal race between exposed women and controls was similar (46% compared with 39% African American, 17% compared with 18% Hispanic, 36% compared with 40% white, P=.57). Abnormal 1-hour glucose screens were more frequent in the 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone group (23.6% compared with 11.2%, P<.001), as was the diagnosis of GDM (10.9% compared with 3.6%, P=.003). 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate remained independently associated with the diagnosis of GDM (odds ratio 3.3, 95% confidence interval 1.3-8.1) in a conditional multiple logistic regression analysis controlling for maternal race, age, BMI, and parity.
Women receiving weekly intramuscular 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate have more frequent abnormal glucose testing and gestational diabetes compared with unexposed controls. These results are consistent with published data regarding the effect of progesterone on insulin resistance.
II.
Our previous studies have shown that x-radiation produces cardiac lesions. Likewise, adriamycin, a useful antineoplastic agent, is known to be cardiotoxic. Maximal "safe" doses have been established for each of these forms of therapy. Since combined therapy with adriamycin and radiation is being used for malignancies involving the mediastinum, it is important to know whether the combination of both agents is more cardiotoxic than either agent alone. In this study young New Zealand White rabbits were divided into five groups and given: (1) a single dose of x-radiation of 1600 rads in the cardiac area; (2) 167 mg. per sq. m. of adriamycin; (3) both raddiation and adriamycin at the same doses; (4) 255 mg. per sq. m. of adriamycin; (5) no treatment. Animals in the third (combined) group developed radiation and adriamycin lesions, the frequency and severity of which were greater than those in the single therapy groups at the same (low) doses. These observations suggest a synergistic effect of the two agents. If so, patients receiving combined treatment are at risk of developing severe carditis from doses of adriamycin and cardiac x-radiation today regarded as safe. Although neither one is specific, the light and electron microscopic lesions caused by x-radiation (myocardial capillary damage, pericarditis) were easily distinguished from those caused by adriamycin (myocyte damage). Both agents led to diffuse myocardial fibrosis. These morphologic characteristics may have clinical applications.
Encephalopathies from 5 fluorouracil (5FU) are rare and generally resolve favorably.
Six days after her first course of chemotherapy combining 5FU and cisplatin, a 45-year-old woman developed acute encephalopathy with altered consciousness and convulsions. MRI showed hyperintense signals of the white matter, mainly ventricular. Despite symptomatic treatment and thiamine perfusion in intensive care, the patient deteriorated and resuscitation failed. Blood tests confirmed 5FU toxicity.
5FU encephalopathies are rare and most often resolve favorably after treatment is stopped. Two pathophysiologic mechanisms may explain these encephalopathies: a deficit of dihydropyridine dehydrogenase, leading to an increased level of serum uracil with digestive and mucosal toxicity, or interaction of 5FU catabolites with various intracerebral metabolic pathways.
Current evidence suggests a role of neuroinflammation in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) and in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of basal ganglia injury. Reportedly, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) mitigate DAergic neurotoxicity in rodent models of PD. Consistent with these findings, epidemiological analysis indicated that certain NSAIDs may prevent or delay the progression of PD. However, a serious impediment of chronic NSAID therapy, particularly in the elderly, is gastric, renal and cardiac toxicity. Nitric oxide (NO)-donating NSAIDs, have a safer profile while maintaining anti-inflammatory activity of parent compounds. We have investigated the oral activity of the NO-donating derivative of flurbiprofen, [2-fluoro-α-methyl (1,1'-biphenyl)-4-acetic-4-(nitrooxy)butyl ester], HCT1026 (30 mg kg(-1) daily in rodent chow) in mice exposed to the parkinsonian neurotoxin MPTP.
Ageing mice were fed with a control, flurbiprofen, or HCT1026 diet starting ten days before MPTP administration and continuing for all the experimental period. Striatal high affinity synaptosomal dopamine up-take, motor coordination assessed with the rotarod, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)- and dopamine transporter (DAT) fiber staining, stereological cell counts, immunoblotting and gene expression analyses were used to assess MPTP-induced nigrostriatal DAergic toxicity and glial activation 1-40 days post-MPTP.
HCT1026 was well tolerated and did not cause any measurable toxic effect, whereas flurbiprofen fed mice showed severe gastrointestinal side-effects. HCT1026 efficiently counteracted motor impairment and reversed MPTP-induced decreased synaptosomal [3H]dopamine uptake, TH- and DAT-stained fibers in striatum and TH+ neuron loss in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), as opposed to age-matched mice fed with a control diet. These effects were associated to a significant decrease in reactive macrophage antigen-1 (Mac-1)-positive microglial cells within the striatum and ventral midbrain, decreased expression of iNOS, Mac-1 and NADPH oxidase (PHOX), and downregulation of 3-Nitrotyrosine, a peroxynitrite finger print, in SNpc DAergic neurons.
Oral treatment with HCT1026 has a safe profile and a significant efficacy in counteracting MPTP-induced dopaminergic (DAergic) neurotoxicity, motor impairment and microglia activation in ageing mice. HCT1026 provides a novel promising approach towards the development of effective pharmacological neuroprotective strategies against PD.
We studied the effect of transdermally applied scopolamine (scopolamine-TTS) on autonomic nervous activity during sleep. The double-blind, randomized, crossover study was carried out in six healthy male volunteers by applying 1.5 mg scopolamine-TTS or placebo patch on the retroauricular skin and by monitoring heart rate, cardiac ballistogram, respiration and body movements by using electrocardiogram and static charge sensitive bed. Scopolamine did not decrease the time the subjects desired to sleep (516 min after TTS, 511 min after placebo) or the number of body movements of 3-5 s duration the subjects spontaneously performed during sleep (47 after TTS, 58 after placebo). No adverse effects of scopolamine were reported spontaneously. Scopolamine-TTS slowed the mean heart rate during quiet sleep from 53.2 to 44.9 beats.min-1, and increased the duration of bradycardia in response to body movements (MIB-reflex) from 12.5 to 14.7 s with a significant difference between scopolamine and placebo effects. The bradycardias were not associated with disturbances in cardiorespiratory or central nervous system functions. The cardiac vagomimetic action of scopolamine-TTS could be explained by low plasma drug concentrations (175 pg/ml) primarily blocking only neuronal inhibitory prejunctional muscarinic receptors which regulate acetylcholine release from the autonomic ganglia and parasympathetic nerve-endings. Because of the central role of acetylcholine in the physiological regulation of sleep, the effect of scopolamine-TTS on sleep merits further investigations.
