Homozygous Gunn rats, mutant Wistars genetically lacking glucuronyl transferase, develop renal papillary necrosis after single oral doses of aspirin and of phenacetin. The lesion appears significantly more frequently with aspirin than phenacetin, and at lower doses. The model is a convenient one with which to study analgesic nephrotoxicity.
For more than five years, a patient suffered recurrent episodes of abdominal pain accompanied by diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting. An angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor causing visceral oedema was eventually implicated.
One hundred seventy-six patients (ASA physical status I or II) presenting for elective surgery were randomly allocated into six study groups to compare the incidence of propofol-induced pain after pretreatment with different doses of ephedrine as compared with lidocaine. Patients in Group P (n = 30) received saline placebo; patients in Group L (n = 30) received 2% lidocaine 40 mg; patients received ephedrine 30 microg/kg (Group E30, n = 28), 70 microg/kg (Group E70, n = 30), 110 microg/kg (Group E110, n = 30), and 150 microg/kg (Group E150, n = 28), respectively, followed 30 s later by propofol 2.5 mg/kg. A blinded anesthesiologist asked the patient to evaluate the pain score (verbal rating scale and face pain scale). The incidence and intensity of pain was less in the lidocaine and ephedrine groups than in the placebo group (P < 0.01). Before tracheal intubation, the arterial blood pressure was decreased in the P and L groups, and after intubation, hemodynamics were increased in the E110 and E150 groups, respectively (P < 0.05). We concluded that pretreatment with a small dose of ephedrine (30 and 70 microg/kg) reduced the incidence and intensity of propofol-induced pain with a lesser decrease in arterial blood pressure than from propofol alone in lidocaine pretreatment.
Propofol is a widely used IV anesthetic for the induction of anesthesia, but it often causes local pain when administered into peripheral veins. A small dose of ephedrine reduces the incidence and intensity of the pain without significant adverse hemodynamic effects during induction.
We compared the ability of metoclopramide with IV lidocaine pretreatment to abolish pain from a diazepam injection. In a randomized, prospective, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial, 159 patients (ASA physical status I and II), aged 20-70 yr old, were allocated to one of three groups. Placebo and study drugs were injected IV immediately before 0.1 mg/kg of diazepam into a dorsal hand vein. Patients in Groups 1, 2, and 3 received 2 mL of placebo, 2 mL of lidocaine 1%, and 2 mL of metoclopramide (10 mg), respectively. The patient's response was graded using a 4-point scale. Any score other than 0 represented pain on injection. We observed that the incidence of pain on diazepam injection was 83% in the placebo group, which was decreased to 70% and 39% in patients pretreated with metoclopramide and lidocaine, respectively. Although there was no significant difference in the incidence of pain in Groups 1 and 3 (P > 0.05), Group 3 showed significantly less patients with severe pain scores than Group 1 as diazepam was injected (P < 0.000). Group 2 showed a significantly less frequent incidence of pain than the saline (P < 0.000) and the metoclopramide (P < 0.002) groups as diazepam was injected. The intensity of pain in Group 2 was significantly less than Group 3 (P = 0.012). The intensity of diazepam injection pain was intense with placebo as compared with other groups (P < 0.000). Metoclopramide, rather than lidocaine pretreatment, may be a reasonable analgesic alternative for painful injections.
Metoclopramide, rather than lidocaine pretreatment, may be a reasonable analgesic alternative to decrease pain from a diazepam injection, especially when there is a medical condition in which lidocaine should be used very cautiously.
Survivors of childhood cancer who received anthracycline treatment have a high incidence of abnormal cardiac function. Cardiac decompensation and death can appear many years after completion of chemotherapy. These survivors require periodic evaluation of cardiac function and rhythm.
The exogenous administration of Insulin-like Growth Factor-I (IGF-I) induces hepatoprotective and antifibrogenic actions in experimental liver cirrhosis. To better understand the possible pathways behind the beneficial effect of IGF-I, the aim of this work was to investigate severe parameters involved in oxidative damage in hepatic tissue from cirrhotic animals treated with IGF-I (2 microg x 100 g(-1) x day(-1)). Iron and copper play an important role in oxidative mechanisms, producing the deleterious hydroxyl radical (*OH) that peroxides lipid membranes and damages DNA. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) and nitric oxide (NO) are known sources of free radicals and induce reduction of ferritin-Fe3+ into free Fe2+, contributing to oxidative damage.
Liver cirrhosis was induced by CCl4 inhalation in Wistar male rats for 30 weeks. Healthy controls were studied in parallel (n = 10). Fe and Cu were assessed by atomic absoption spectrometry and iron content was also evaluated by Perls' staining. MPO was measured by ELISA and transferrin and ferritin by immunoturbidimetry. iNOS expression was studied by immuno-histochemistry.
Liver cirrhosis was histologically proven and ascites was observed in all cirrhotic rats. Compared to controls untreated cirrhotic rats showed increased hepatic levels of iron, ferritin, transferrin (p < 0.01), copper, MPO and iNOS expression (p < 0.01). However, IGF-treatment induced a significant reduction of all these parameters (p < 0.05).
the hepatoprotective and antifibrogenic effects of IGF-I in cirrhosis are associated with a diminution of the hepatic contents of several factors all of them involved in oxidative damage.
Sequential phase I and phase II trials of paclitaxel using an extended weekly schedule were performed to explore its effect on tolerance, limits of dose intensity, and activity at maximum dose intensity in disseminated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Patients with stage IIIB/IV NSCLC were eligible if they had a performance status of 0 to 2, no previous chemotherapy, and normal organ function. Paclitaxel was administered as a 3-h infusion weekly for 6 weeks of an 8-week cycle. Doses were modified for toxicity observed on the day of treatment.
Paclitaxel, 100 to 200 mg/m(2)/wk, was administered in the phase I trial. Dose escalation was limited primarily by neutropenia, and a relationship between dose and response was noted. A phase II trial of paclitaxel, 175 mg/m(2)/wk, the maximum tolerated dose, was initiated; data are available for the first 25 patients. Eighty-three, 75, 58, and 50% of intended doses were delivered during cycles one to four, respectively. Grade 2 or 3 neuropathy occurred in nine patients, but improved in all following dose reduction. Platelet counts rose by 17,000/microL/wk. Partial responses occurred in 14 of 25 patients (56%; confidence interval, 46 to 66%). The duration of response was 6 months, and 1-and 2-year survival rates were 53% and 18%, respectively.
Paclitaxel administered on a weekly schedule allows enhanced dose intensity, has a protective or stimulatory effect on platelets, and is active in NSCLC.
On the basis of previous findings at this institution, VM-26 and Cytosine Arabinoside (ara-C) were used in combination to treat 33 children with refractory acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Chemotherapy was given by vein twice a week for four weeks at dosage of 300 mg/m2 for ara-C and 50, 75, 110, 165, or 200 mg/m2 for VM-26. Ten marrow remissions (nine complete and one partial) were induced, with hypotension (2/33) and bone marrow hypoplasia (20/33) the most significant side effects observed. Therapeutic responses were obtained with each dosage of VM-26 except 75 mg/m2; myelosuppression developed at all dosages, being most prolonged at 200 mg/m2. Ten of the 23 non-responders did not complete their planned courses of therapy. The significance of this information is that combinations of VM-26 and ara-C were effective in patients who were either in late stages of their leukemia or had never achieved an initial remission. All had been previously treated with prednisone, vincristine, daunomycin and L-asparaginase. In addition, seven of the 10 responders had previously received ara-C in other drug combinations. The use of VM-26 and ara-C in combination may be warranted for newly diagnosed patients who are at high risk for treatment failure with first-line drugs.
This phase I, open-label, first-in-human study determined dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PD 0332991, an oral cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitor with potent anti-proliferative activity in vitro/vivo.
A total of 33 patients with retinoblastoma protein-positive advanced solid tumours or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma refractory to standard therapy or for which no therapy was available received PD 0332991 once daily (QD) for 14 days followed by 7 days off treatment (21-day cycles; Schedule 2/1).
Six patients had DLTs (18%; four receiving 200 mg QD; two receiving 225 mg QD); the MTD was 200 mg QD. Treatment-related, non-haematological adverse events occurred in 29 patients (88%) during cycle 1 and 27 patients (82%) thereafter. Adverse events were generally mild-moderate. Of 31 evaluable patients, one with testicular cancer achieved a partial response; nine had stable disease (≥10 cycles in three cases). PD 0332991 was slowly absorbed (mean T(max) 4.2 h) and eliminated (mean half-life 26.7 h). Volume of distribution was large (mean 3241 l) with dose-proportional exposure. Using a maximum effective concentration model, neutropenia was proportional to exposure.
PD 0332991 was generally well tolerated, with DLTs related mainly to myelosuppression. The MTD, 200 mg QD, is recommended for phase II study.
Successful bilateral renal revascularization was performed 24 days after the development of angiotensin converting enzyme-inhibitor-induced bilateral renal artery thrombosis and anuric acute renal failure in a patient with Takayasu's arteritis. Excellent results were obtained after an unusually long ischemic time for a patient with active-phase disease. The outcome suggests that aggressive surgical revascularization can benefit patients with renal failure caused by renal arterial occlusion during the active phase of Takayasu's arteritis.
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity is the most frequently relied upon reference standard for monitoring liver injury in humans and nonclinical species. However, limitations of ALT include a lack of specificity for diagnosing liver injury (e.g., present in muscle and the gastrointestinal tract), its inability to monitor certain types of hepatic injury (e.g., biliary injury), and ambiguity with respect to interpretation of modest or transient elevations (< 3× upper limit of normal). As an initial step to both understand and qualify additional biomarkers of hepatotoxicity that may add value to ALT, three novel candidates have been evaluated in 34 acute toxicity rat studies: (1) alpha-glutathione S-transferase (GSTA), (2) arginase 1 (ARG1), and (3) 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPD). The performance of each biomarker was assessed for its diagnostic ability to accurately detect hepatocellular injury (i.e., microscopic histopathology), singularly or in combination with ALT. All three biomarkers, either alone or in combination with ALT, improved specificity when compared with ALT alone. Hepatocellular necrosis and/or degeneration were detected by all three biomarkers in the majority of animals. ARG1 and HPD were also sensitive in detecting single-cell necrosis in the absence of more extensive hepatocellular necrosis/degeneration. ARG1 showed the best sensitivity for detecting biliary injury with or without ALT. All the biomarkers were able to detect biliary injury with single-cell necrosis. Taken together, these novel liver toxicity biomarkers, GSTA, ARG1, and HPD, add value (both enhanced specificity and sensitivity) to the measurement of ALT alone for monitoring drug-induced liver injury in rat.
To identify the genetic contribution to the variation in blood pressure (BP) response to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the angiotensinogen (AGT), angiotensin receptor 1 (AGTR1), and angiotensin receptor 2 (AGTR2) genes were evaluated for their association with BP response to ACEI in Chinese patients with hypertension in a 2-stage design.
We selected 1447 hypertensive patients from a 3-year benazepril postmarket surveillance trial and genotyped them for 14 SNPs in the AGT, AGTR1, and AGTR2 genes. The AGT rs7079 (C/T) SNP (3'-untranslated region) was significantly associated with the response of diastolic BP to benazepril (diastolic BP response: -7.4 mm Hg for subjects with the CC genotype, -8.9 mm Hg for CA, and -10.1 mm Hg for AA; P=0.001). Although there was no association of individual SNPs in the AGTR1 gene, there was a graded response between common haplotypes and systolic BP reduction in the order of haplotype 2 (H2)/lack of haplotype 3 (non-H3) (-13.6 mm Hg) > non-H2/non-H3 (-10.9 mm Hg) > H3/non-H2 (-6.6 mm Hg) (P=0.004). The total variations in response to ACEI therapy that were explained by the AGT SNP and AGTR1 haplotype groups were 13% for systolic and 9% to 9.6% for diastolic BP, respectively.
AGT SNP rs7079 and AGTR1 haplotypes were associated with BP reduction in response to ACEI therapy in hypertensive Chinese patients. This will be useful in future studies, providing genetic markers to predict the hypertensive response to ACEI therapy.
Dobutamine-induced hypotension has been disregarded as a marker of more severe functional abnormalities in patients with suspected coronary artery disease. However, its functional significance in patients with myocardial infarction has not been studied. The aim of this study was to define the predictors of systolic blood pressure (SBP) response to dobutamine in patients with previous myocardial infarction. Dobutamine stress (up to 40 microg/kg per minute) echocardiography was performed in 326 patients with prior myocardial infarction referred for evaluation of myocardial ischemia. A 16-segment, four-grade score model was used to assess left ventricular function. Wall motion score index was derived by summation of wall motion score divided by 16. SBP and heart rate increased from rest to peak dobutamine stress (127 +/- 22 vs 134 +/- 27 mm Hg and 72 +/- 14 vs 122 +/- 24 bpm, p < 0.00001 in both). An increase of SBP > or = 30 mm Hg occurred in 50 patients (15%). By multivariate analysis, independent predictors of failure of SBP increase were higher peak wall motion score index (p < 0.001), higher resting SBP (p < 0.01), and medication with calcium channel blockers (p < 0.05). SBP drop > or = 20 mm Hg occurred in 54 patients (17%). Independent predictors of SBP drop were higher resting wall motion score index (p < 0.001), higher resting SBP (p < 0.0001), and older age (p < 0.05). In patients with myocardial infarction, left ventricular function and baseline systolic blood pressure are powerful predictors of SBP response to dobutamine stress testing.
Many cancer-associated genes remain to be identified to clarify the underlying molecular mechanisms of cancer susceptibility and progression. Better understanding is also required of how mutations in cancer genes affect their products in the context of complex cellular networks. Here we have used a network modeling strategy to identify genes potentially associated with higher risk of breast cancer. Starting with four known genes encoding tumor suppressors of breast cancer, we combined gene expression profiling with functional genomic and proteomic (or 'omic') data from various species to generate a network containing 118 genes linked by 866 potential functional associations. This network shows higher connectivity than expected by chance, suggesting that its components function in biologically related pathways. One of the components of the network is HMMR, encoding a centrosome subunit, for which we demonstrate previously unknown functional associations with the breast cancer-associated gene BRCA1. Two case-control studies of incident breast cancer indicate that the HMMR locus is associated with higher risk of breast cancer in humans. Our network modeling strategy should be useful for the discovery of additional cancer-associated genes.
Plasma aldosterone levels correlate positively with obesity, suggesting a link between the hypertension associated with obesity and increased mineralocorticoid levels. We tested the hypothesis that aldosterone is involved in the BP response to angiotensin II (AngII) in obese rats.
Lean (LZR) and obese (OZR) Zucker rats were treated with AngII (9 µg·h(-1) ; 4 weeks), and BP and plasma AngII and aldosterone were determined.
Chronic AngII increased the BP in OZR markedly more so than in LZR. Plasma AngII levels in LZR and OZR were similar after AngII treatment. The AngII stimulated a rise in plasma aldosterone that was sixfold more in OZR than in LZR. The thickness of the zona glomerulosa of the adrenal glands was selectively increased by AngII in OZR. Adrenal mRNA levels of CYP11B2 aldosterone synthase and the AT(1B) receptor were selectively increased in AngII-treated OZR. The BP response to chronic AngII stimulation was diminished in OZR after adrenalectomy when plasma aldosterone was absent. Acute bolus injections of AngII did not increase the BP response or aldosterone release in OZR.
The AngII-induced BP response is enhanced in obesity and this is associated with a specific increase in circulating aldosterone. Due to the AngII-induced growth of the zona glomerulosa in OZR, the AT(1B) receptors and aldosterone synthase may be selectively enhanced in obesity under concomitant AngII stimulation, increasing the adrenal synthesis of aldosterone. Our results confirm functionally that aldosterone plays a major role in obesity-related hypertension.
Perinatal anoxia, or postnatal hypoxemia, as seen during respiratory distress syndrome, profoundly affects renal function. Hypoxemic neonates present with decreased water excretion, impaired diluting ability, urine acidification, glomerular filtration rate and renal perfusion. Stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system may explain, at least in part, the pathogenesis of the hypoxemia-induced renal changes. The renal defects are reversible upon restoring normoxemia, extracellular fluid volume and cardiac output. The neonatal kidney can also be affected by iatrogenic manipulations. Drugs acting efficiently on several target-organs can profoundly impair renal function. Tolazoline, sometimes used as a pulmonary vasodilator in persistent pulmonary hypertension of the premature infant, can increase renal vascular resistance with consequent renal failure. Indomethacin, a prostaglandin-synthetase inhibitor used to medically close a patent ductus arteriosus, can depress glomerular filtration and water excretion in the newborn infant. Aminoglycosides are widely used in neonatology. They can easily accumulate in neonates whose GFR is low. Their nephrotoxicity may be lower in neonates than in adults, but is certainly not negligible. Experimental studies and a clinical observation have shown that captopril, a competitive inhibitor of the angiotensin-converting enzyme can produce renal damage in the fetus. Recent progress in pharmacology has provided the neonatologist with effective drugs which are of great value in the neonatal ward. They should however always be used with caution if detrimental side-effects are to be avoided.
We described course of disease of a 12 year old boy with epilepsy, treated with vigabatrin. Pathological changes in visual field in both eyes are reported after 2 years of treatment.
To determine whether pregnant women with amphetamine abuse developed more obstetric complications than non-drug abuser pregnant women.
A retrospective case control study was undertaken. Pregnant women with amphetamine abuse who delivered between January 2002 and December 2003 were compared to control pregnant women.
Pregnant women who abused amphetamine were more likely to develop anemia, preterm delivery, thick meconium stained amniotic fluid, and delivered small for gestational age neonates. However, cephalopelvic disproportion was less frequently found in the amphetamine abuse group.
Pregnant women who abuse amphetamine experience more obstetric complications than the non-drug abuser. This information may be useful to medical personnel who are caregivers of these pregnant women to provide adequate perinatal care.
Inhibition of cardiac sympathetic tone represents an important strategy for treatment of cardiovascular disease, including arrhythmia, coronary heart disease, and chronic heart failure. Activation of presynaptic alpha2-adrenoceptors is the most widely accepted mechanism of action of the antisympathetic drug clonidine; however, other target proteins have been postulated to contribute to the in vivo actions of clonidine.
To test whether clonidine elicits pharmacological effects independent of alpha2-adrenoceptors, we have generated mice with a targeted deletion of all 3 alpha2-adrenoceptor subtypes (alpha2ABC-/-). Alpha2ABC-/- mice were completely unresponsive to the analgesic and hypnotic effects of clonidine; however, clonidine significantly lowered heart rate in alpha2ABC-/- mice by up to 150 bpm. Clonidine-induced bradycardia in conscious alpha2ABC-/- mice was 32.3% (10 microg/kg) and 26.6% (100 microg/kg) of the effect in wild-type mice. A similar bradycardic effect of clonidine was observed in isolated spontaneously beating right atria from alpha2ABC-knockout and wild-type mice. Clonidine inhibited the native pacemaker current (I(f)) in isolated sinoatrial node pacemaker cells and the I(f)-generating hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) 2 and HCN4 channels in transfected HEK293 cells. As a consequence of blocking I(f), clonidine reduced the slope of the diastolic depolarization and the frequency of pacemaker potentials in sinoatrial node cells from wild-type and alpha2ABC-knockout mice.
Direct inhibition of cardiac HCN pacemaker channels contributes to the bradycardic effects of clonidine gene-targeted mice in vivo, and thus, clonidine-like drugs represent novel structures for future HCN channel inhibitors.
Chronic treatment with the immunosuppressive drug rapamycin leads to hypertension; however, the mechanisms are unknown. Rapamycin binds FK506 binding protein 12 and its related isoform 12.6 (FKBP12/12.6) and displaces them from intracellular Ca2+ release channels (ryanodine receptors) eliciting a Ca2+ leak from the endoplasmic/sarcoplasmic reticulum. We tested whether this Ca2+ leak promotes conventional protein kinase C-mediated endothelial NO synthase phosphorylation at Thr495, which reduces production of the vasodilator NO. Rapamycin treatment of control mice for 7 days, as well as genetic deletion of FKBP12.6, increased systolic arterial pressure significantly compared with controls. Untreated aortas from FKBP12.6-/- mice and in vitro rapamycin-treated control aortas had similarly decreased endothelium-dependent relaxation responses and NO production and increased endothelial NO synthase Thr495 phosphorylation and protein kinase C activity. Inhibition of either conventional protein kinase C or ryanodine receptor restored endothelial NO synthase Thr495 phosphorylation and endothelial function to control levels. Rapamycin induced a small increase in basal intracellular Ca2+ levels in isolated endothelial cells, and rapamycin or FKBP12.6 gene deletion decreased acetylcholine-induced intracellular Ca2+ release, all of which were reversed by ryanodine. These data demonstrate that displacement of FKBP12/12.6 from ryanodine receptors induces an endothelial intracellular Ca2+ leak and increases conventional protein kinase C-mediated endothelial NO synthase Thr495 phosphorylation leading to decreased NO production and endothelial dysfunction. This molecular mechanism may, in part, explain rapamycin-induced hypertension.
Naringin, the primary active compound of the traditional Chinese medicine Rhizoma drynariae, possesses many pharmacological activities. The present study is an effort to explore the anti-osteoporosis potential of naringin in vivo and in vitro. In vivo, we used ovariectomized rats to clarify the mechanisms by which naringin anti-osteoporosis. In vitro, we used osteoclasts to investigate naringin promotes osteoclasts apoptosis. Naringin was effective at enhancing BMD, trabecular thickness, bone mineralization, and mechanical strength in a dose-dependent manner. The result of RT-PCR analysis revealed that naringin down-regulated the mRNA expression levels of BCL-2 and up-regulated BAX, caspase-3 and cytochrome C. In addition, naringin significantly reduced the bone resorption area in vitro. These findings suggest that naringin promotes the apoptosis of osteoclasts by regulating the activity of the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway and prevents OVX-induced osteoporosis in rats.
The present study investigated the effect of orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N), the endogenous ligand of the opioid receptor-like 1 (ORL-1) receptor on the expression of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. To extend this study, the new non-peptidic compound Ro 65-6570 (8-acenaphthen-1-yl-1-phenyl-1,3,8-triaza-spiro[4,5]decan-4-one), with agonist activity at ORL-1 receptors, was examined. The influence of both compounds on cocaine-induced hyperactivity was also studied. Our experiments indicated that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of OFQ/N, at doses of 10 and 20 microg/rat, significantly suppressed the expression of cocaine-induced place preference. Ro 65-6570 (3 and 6 mg/kg, i.p.) did not change the effect of cocaine, although its acute injection in control rats significantly increased the time spent in the drug-associated compartment of the CPP apparatus. The substances exhibited opposite effects on cocaine-induced hyperactivity (OFQ/N suppressed it but Ro 65-6570 increased it). Our results suggest that the effect of OFQ/N on the expression of cocaine-induced CPP may be a result of its influence on dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in mesolimbic structures. Ro 65-6570 does not share this effect with OFQ/N.
Peliosis hepatis is a recognized, but rare, complication of androgen replacement therapy. We herein report such a complication with necropsy study of the liver so involved.
We have shown that inhalation of leukotriene (LT) E 4 contributes to specific recruitment of eosinophils to the airway mucosa in patients with asthma at the time of maximal decrease in airway-specific conductance.
We examined the ability of the cysteinyl LT 1 receptor antagonist, zafirlukast, to improve or prevent LT-mediated eosinophilia and airway obstruction in asthma.
Bronchial biopsies were taken and pulmonary function was measured before and 4 to 6 hours after the dose of inhaled LTE 4 causing a > or =15% fall in FEV 1 at baseline both at week 0 and after 6-week randomly assigned treatment with a high dose of zafirlukast, 80 mg twice daily.
Leukotriene E 4 inhalation at week 0 doubled the number of eosinophils in the airway mucosa in 21 of 25 patients with mild asthma, increased the numbers of neutrophils and lymphocytes, and decreased FEV 1 (-17%). Zafirlukast reduced both airway eosinophilia and obstruction in FEV 1 , whereas with a double-blind placebo treatment, the effect of LTE 4 on both parameters persisted for 6 weeks. On repeat LTE 4 inhalation challenge after 6 weeks, zafirlukast treatment prevented further airway eosinophilia and decrease in FEV 1 seen in the placebo group.
Persistent LTE 4 -induced airway eosinophilia may form the basis of an amplification mechanism for further eosinophil recruitment. Zafirlukast prevents LTE 4 -induced eosinophilic airway inflammation in mild asthma.
We report the simultaneous development of fulminant hepatic failure, thrombocytopenia and erythroid hypoplasia in a child treated with sulphasalazine. A 12-year-old girl with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis developed fulminant hepatic failure, thrombocytopenia and erythroid hypoplasia, which was confirmed by liver histology and bone marrow examination, 2 weeks after initiation of sulphasalazine therapy. The patient recovered after administration of high doses of intravenous immunoglobulin. This is the first reported case of the concurrent development of these complications associated with sulphasalazine hypersensitivity. The use of intravenous immunoglobulin may have helped in the treatment of this rare adverse effect of sulphasalazine.
We report a case of primary amelanotic malignant melanoma of the esophagus, an extremely rare disease. A 58-year-old man was diagnosed as having middle esophageal cancer with lymph node metastasis, which was classified as esophageal cancer, Stage III:T3N1M0, by International Union Against Cancer (UICC) criteria. Preoperative chemotherapy was performed, but the response assessment was no change (NC). The patient underwent a subtotal esophagectomy via right thoracotomy and laparotomy. Reconstruction was performed by pulling up the stomach via the retrosternal route; the site of anastomosis was the neck. Adjuvant chemotherapy consisted of five courses of dacarbazine (DITC), nimustine (ACNU), vincristine (VCR), and interferon-beta. Eleven months after the surgery, computed tomography (CT) demonstrated recurrence in the upper mediastinum. The patient received chemoendocrine therapy, consisting of the first planned course of DITC, ACNU, and cisplatin (CDDP), given intravenously; and tamoxifen (TAM), given orally. Subsequently with a modified regimen of this therapy he attained a complete response (CR). In general, the prognosis of esophageal malignant melanoma is very poor. Although our patient had a recurrence, he is alive 4 years and 5 months after the surgery and 3 years and 6 months after the recurrence. The chemoendocrine therapy probably contributed to this outcome.
