Investigation of the effect of various doses of phenobarbital (PB) in Experiment I (PB dose levels: 0, 38, 75, 150, 300 or 600 ppm) and Experiment II (PB dose levels: 0, 1, 4 or 16 ppm) given to male F344 rats (20 animals/group) in drinking water for 39 weeks after a single intraperitoneal injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) was performed using incidence of hepatic tumors and number or area of enzyme-altered foci as end-point lesions. There were no significant differences in the final body weight changes between DEN-initiated PB treatment (DEN+PB) and DEN-initiated (DEN) groups. Dose-dependent increases in the absolute and relative liver weights and in the incidence of hepatic carcinoma were found in the DEN+PB groups treated with 38 ppm PB or above 75 ppm PB or above, respectively. The numbers or areas of gamma-GTP or GST-P positive foci of the liver were increased in the DEN+PB groups treated with 38 ppm PB or above. Additional investigation of 7-ethoxycoumarin o-deethylase (7-ECDE) induction in Experiment III, 7 groups consisting of 3 animals/group being fed water containing PB (0, 1, 4, 16, 75, 300 or 1200 ppm) for 1 week after the initiation of DEN and a further 7 groups (5 rats/group) receiving the same drinking water without DEN treatment, revealed dose-dependent increases of 7-ECDE in the DEN+PB groups and PB groups treated with 16 ppm PB or above. The present studies indicate that the threshold for promotion by PB is 38 ppm.
Chronic exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has been shown to lead to the development of hepatotoxicity and carcinogenicity in the liver of female rats. In this study, we investigated hepatic gene downregulation in response to acute and subchronic TCDD exposure. We identified 61 probes which exhibited a downregulation of twofold or greater following subchronic (13 weeks) exposure to TCDD. Comparative analysis of the hepatic expression of these 61 probes was conducted with rats subchronically exposed to PeCDF, PCB126, PCB153, and a mixture of PCB126 and PCB153. PCB153 produced little or no alteration in these probes, while the binary mixture mimicked most closely the downregulation observed with TCDD. To discern if the repression of genes within this probe set occur as a primary response to TCDD exposure, we analyzed the early responsiveness of 11 genes at 6, 24, and 72 h following a single exposure to TCDD. We observed early repression of the 11 genes within this early time course, indicating that the repression of this subset of genes occurs as a primary response to TCDD exposure and not as a secondary response to 13 weeks of subchronic treatment. In addition, the gender, species, and AhR dependence of these responses were also investigated. Gender- and species-dependent repression was observed within this subset of genes. Furthermore, utilizing AhR knockout mice, we were able to determine the AhR-dependent downregulation of seven of 11 genes. Together these results assist efforts to understand the multitude of effects imposed by TCDD and AhR ligands on gene expression.
Frataxin, a highly conserved protein found in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, is required for efficient regulation of cellular iron homeostasis. Humans with a frataxin deficiency have the cardio- and neurodegenerative disorder Friedreich's ataxia, commonly resulting from a GAA trinucleotide repeat expansion in the frataxin gene. While frataxin's specific function remains a point of controversy, the general consensus is that the protein assists in controlling cellular iron homeostasis by directly binding iron. This review focuses on the structural and biochemical aspects of iron binding by the frataxin orthologs and outlines molecular attributes that may help explain the protein's role in different cellular pathways.
Acute renal failure (ARF) remains a major problem in clinical nephrology characterized by sudden loss of the kidney function due to ischemia, trauma, and/or nephrotoxic drugs. The current therapy of ARF is symptomatic with mortality rates exceeding 50%. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of an intravenous infusion of S3226 (3-[2-(3-guanidino-2-methyl-3-oxopropenyl)-5-methyl-phenyl]-N-isopropylidene-2-methyl-acrylamide dihydrochloride), a selective Na+/H+ exchange subtype 3 (NHE3) blocker, in ischemia-induced ARF in rats. In a second series of experiments cytosolic pH (pHi) changes in the kidney during ARF were continuously measured by means of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS).
ARF was induced by bilateral occlusion of renal arteries for 40 minutes in three groups of anaesthetized Wistar rats. Control rats (N = 12) were infused with saline (6.25 mL/kg over 30 min) before occlusion and the compound groups (each N = 12) were infused with S3226 at a dose of 20 mg/kg over 30 minutes either before initiation of ischemia or immediately after release of clamps. Plasma creatinine (PCr), creatinine clearance (CCr), urine volume, sodium, and potassium excretion were determined up to seven days after release of clamps. In the second series of experiments in anaesthetized rats the left kidney was exposed by flank incision and fixed in a non-magnetic device. An inflatable cuff was positioned around the pedicle to induce ischemia without removing animals from the magnet. A double-tuned 1H-31P home-built surface coil was placed above the exposed kidney for the detection of pHi.
At day 1 after ischemia CCr in the control group was significantly lower as compared to S3226-treated animals (control 0.30 +/- 0.05 vs. before 0.90 +/- 0.26 and reperfusion 0.83 +/- 0.15 mL/min/kg, respectively). PCr increased from 18 +/- 0.1 micromol/L before occlusion to 245 +/- 7 micromol/L in the control. The increase in PCr was significantly lower in the S3226 treated groups on days 1, 2, and 3 post-infusion. Fractional sodium excretion decreased significantly from 8.17% in the control to 1.42% and 1.88% in the treated groups. Renal pHi was significantly decreased by 0.15 units versus control during reperfusion. Histological examination of the kidneys on day 7 revealed pronounced reduction of tubular necrosis, dilatation, protein casts and cellular infiltration.
These results demonstrate that an intravenous administration of S3226 acutely improves GFR and kidney function and structure in both treated groups. In addition, in a separate set of studies S3226 significantly decreased post-occlusion renal pHi values. Thus, the inhibition of NHE3 with S3226 may be beneficial in treatment of ischemic ARF.
Cerebral vasospasm remains a significant cause of mortality and morbidity after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Use of either intra-arterial or intracisternal papaverine as an alternative treatment of refractory cerebral vasospasm has been associated with various complications including haemodynamic instabilities. However, our search in literature did not reveal association of bradycardia and hypotension with the use of papaverine by either of these routes. Here, we describe a case of anterior communicating artery aneurysm with hydrocephalus. The patient underwent craniotomy and clipping of the aneurysm followed by third ventriculostomy. Instillation of papaverine at the surgical site caused significant haemodynamic changes possibly because of stimulation of hypothalamus in the third ventricle or vagal nuclei in the fourth ventricle, or even both. We recommend cautious use of intracisternal papaverine in such scenario especially when third ventriculostomy has been performed as an adjunct surgical procedure.
In 2 patients receiving bone marrow transplantation sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate has proved efficacious in preventing the serious problem of cyclophosphamide cystitis by regional detoxification of acrolein. We detail the first use of sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate in the United States. We are cautiously enthusiastic and optimistic that the simultaneous administration of sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate and cyclophosphamide will decrease if not eliminate cyclophosphamide-induced carcinoma.
A strategy for preventing or delaying the peripheral neuropathy induced by 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) therapy in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome was suggested by findings, in two laboratories, that cultured avian and mammalian cells devoid of mitochondrial DNA continue to replicate at virtually normal rates, provided that the medium is supplemented with uridine and pyruvate. Inasmuch as it is likely that a depletion of mitochondrial DNA also takes place in neuronal cells exposed to ddC, we used PC12 cells, the neuronal model we have reported on previously, in an attempt to rescue these cells from the deleterious effects of ddC. We first show, using undifferentiated PC12 cells, that DNA replication is impaired in mitochondria isolated from cells grown in the presence of ddC. Then, using growth rate as a criterion of the well-being of the cells, we show that the addition of uridine and pyruvate to uninduced cells growing in the presence of ddC results in an average rescue efficiency of 51%, based on the uridine/pyruvate-treated control. This value increases considerably at substantially higher concentrations of uridine alone. Rescue efficiencies of differentiated cells, which do not proliferate, were assessed using neurite outgrowth and neurite survival as criteria. Here the rescue efficiency is 56%, based on the uridine/pyruvate-treated control. In addition, uridine and pyruvate prolong the viability of ddC-treated cells and maintain their healthy appearance; without these compounds, the ddC-treated cells have an abnormal morphology and die off quite rapidly.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a state of heightened oxidative stress characterized by lipid and protein oxidation in vascular walls. Oxidative stress-induced vascular endothelial cell (VEC) injury is a major factor in the pathogenesis of AS. Myricitrin, a natural flavonoid isolated from the root bark of Myrica cerifera, was recently found to have a strong antioxidative effect. However, its use for treating cardiovascular diseases, especially AS is still unreported. Consequently, we evaluated the cytoprotective effect of myricitrin on AS by assessing oxidative stress-induced VEC damage. The in vivo study using an ApoE-/-mouse model of AS demonstrated that myricitrin treatment protects against VEC damage and inhibits early AS plaque formation. This effect is associated with the antioxidative effect of myricitrin, as observed in a hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced rat model of artery endothelial injury and primary cultured human VECs. Myricitrin treatment also prevents and attenuates H2O2-induced endothelial injury. Further investigation of the cytoprotective effects of myricitrin demonstrated that myricitrin exerts its function by scavenging for reactive oxygen species, as well as reducing lipid peroxidation, blocking NO release, and maintaining mitochondrial transmembrane potential. Myricitrin treatment also significantly decreased H2O2-induced apoptosis in VECs, which was associated with significant inhibition of p53 gene expression, activation of caspase-3 and the MAPK signaling pathway, and alteration of the patterns of pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic gene expression. The resulting significantly increased bcl-2/bax ratio indicates that myricitrin may prevent the apoptosis induced by oxidative stress injury.
1,25(OH)2D3 inhibits the growth of prostate cancer cells; previous reports suggest that 1,25(OH)2D3 actions in LNCaP prostate cancer cells are androgen dependent. This is due in part to the observation that the androgen receptor (AR) antagonist, Casodex, modestly inhibits LNCaP cell growth, but reduces the greater growth inhibition induced by 1,25(OH)2D3 to the level of Casodex alone. Because androgen ablation therapy is used for metastatic prostate cancer, we sought to better characterize this androgen dependence.
We have assessed the requirement for endogenous androgens in 1,25(OH)2D3 mediated growth inhibition of AR+ prostate cancer cell lines. We have also sought the mechanism for anti-androgen mediated reversal of 1,25(OH)2D3 dependent growth inhibition in LNCaP cells.
Although 1,25(OH)2D3 does not inhibit the growth of LNCaP cells grown in medium lacking androgens, we find that growth of androgen independent derivatives of LNCaP cells is inhibited by 1,25(OH)2D3. Despite this independence, Casodex treatment reduced the response of these cells to 1,25(OH)2D3 suggesting a unique function for Casodex-bound AR. Because Casodex does not directly inhibit the transcriptional activity of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) we sought a common primary target of VDR and AR action whose VDR dependent transcription could be repressed by Casodex. We report that AS3 (APRIN), a novel gene required for androgen dependent growth arrest, is a primary target for 1,25(OH)2D3 and androgens. Moreover, Casodex reduces induction of AS3 by 1,25(OH)2D3 suggesting that it is a candidate for the Casodex effect. Analysis of functional interactions between AR and VDR in other AR containing prostate cancer cells lines (PC-3 AR, LAPC-4, and 22Rv1) revealed that Casodex reversal was unique to LNCaP derived cells.
Anti-androgen mediated reversal of 1,25(OH)2D3 dependent growth inhibition is limited to LNCaP derived prostate cancer cell lines. Moreover, the growth of androgen independent derivatives of LNCaP cells in medium depleted of androgens is strongly inhibited by 1,25D. Therefore, most forms of androgen ablation should not eliminate the utility of VDR agonist treatment in most prostate cancers.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) has antiproliferative and anti-inflammatory effects and is currently used in the treatment of leukemia and dermatologic diseases. We tested the therapeutic potential of ATRA on anti-glomerular basement membrane (GBM) glomerulonephritis rats.
Glomerulonephritis was induced in male Wistar-Kyoto rats on day 0 by an intravenous injection of antirat GBM antibody. On day 14 after the induction of anti-GBM glomerulonephritis, some rats were sacrificed (N = 5). Another 10 rats were divided into two groups: the vehicle group (N = 5) and the ATRA treated group (N = 5). ATRA was orally administrated from day 14 to day 27 after disease induction. Blood pressure, body weight, urinary protein excretion, and blood chemistry was determined on days 1, 14, 21, and 27. Kidney samples were obtained on day 28. The kidneys were examined with periodic acid-Schiff staining (PAS) and immunohistochemistry using antibodies against the proliferative cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), rat monocyte and macrophage (ED-1), and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA). Glomerular RNA was extracted from isolated glomeruli, and reverse transcription (RT) followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed.
ATRA administration produced a 55% reduction of proteinuria in glomerulonephritis rats. Light microscopic analysis revealed severe necrosis/crescent formation (>50% of the glomerulus) affecting 34% of glomeruli in vehicle rats, whereas ATRA treatment reduced the glomeruli showing severe change to 14%. ATRA also significantly reduced PCNA-positive cells, ED-1-positive cells and alpha-SMA-positive area in the glomeruli. RT-PCR analyses revealed that a wide variety of genes including inflammation related [tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and CCAAT enhancer-binding protein delta (C/EBPdelta)], cell proliferation-related [platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)] and fibrosis-related [transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), type I collagen, and alpha-SMA) genes were suppressed in the glomeruli of ATRA-treated rats.
ATRA administration significantly reduced severe necrosis/crescent formation and urinary protein excretion in glomerulonephritis rats. Suppression of a wide variety of gene expression may partly explain the mechanism of ATRA's antiproliferative and anti-inflammatory effects. These data suggest a novel therapeutic application of ATRA toward glomerulonephritis.
To gain a deeper insight into the potential interactions between individual aromatic hydrocarbons in a mixture, several benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) and 7H-dibenzo[c,g]carbazole (DBC) binary mixtures were studied. The biological activity of the binary mixtures was investigated in the HepG2 and WB-F344 liver cell lines and the Chinese hamster V79 cell line that stably expresses the human cytochrome P4501A1 (hCYP1A1). In the V79 cells, binary mixtures, in contrast to individual carcinogens, caused a significant decrease in the levels of micronuclei, DNA adducts and gene mutations, but not in cell survival. Similarly, a lower frequency of micronuclei and levels of DNA adducts were found in rat liver WB-F344 cells treated with a binary mixture, regardless of the exposure time. The observed antagonism between B[a]P and DBC may be due to an inhibition of Cyp1a1 expression because cells exposed to B[a]P:DBC showed a decrease in Cyp1a1 mRNA levels. In human liver HepG2 cells exposed to binary mixtures for 2h, a reduction in micronuclei frequency was also found. However, after a 24h treatment, synergism between B[a]P and DBC was determined based on DNA adduct formation. Accordingly, the up-regulation of CYP1A1 expression was detected in HepG2 cells exposed to B[a]P:DBC. Our results show significant differences in the response of human and rat cells to B[a]P:DBC mixtures and stress the need to use multiple experimental systems when evaluating the potential risk of environmental pollutants. Our data also indicate that an increased expression of CYP1A1 results in a synergistic effect of B[a]P and DBC in human cells. As humans are exposed to a plethora of noxious chemicals, our results have important implications for human carcinogenesis.
Mechanisms of digitoxin-inhibited cell growth and induced apoptosis in human non-small cell lung cancer (NCI-H460) cells remain unclear. Understanding how digitoxin or derivate analogs induce their cytotoxic effect below therapeutically relevant concentrations will help in designing and developing novel, safer and more effective anti-cancer drugs. In this study, NCI-H460 cells were treated with digitoxin and a synthetic analog D6-MA to determine their anti-cancer activity. Different concentrations of digitoxin and D6-MA were used and the subsequent changes in cell morphology, viability, cell cycle, and protein expressions were determined. Digitoxin and D6-MA induced dose-dependent apoptotic morphologic changes in NCI-H460 cells via caspase-9 cleavage, with D6-MA possessing 5-fold greater potency than digitoxin. In comparison, non-tumorigenic immortalized bronchial and small airway epithelial cells displayed significantly less apoptotic sensitivity compared to NCI-H460 cells suggesting that both digitoxin and D6-MA were selective for NSCLC. Furthermore, NCI-H460 cells arrested in G(2)/M phase following digitoxin and D6-MA treatment. Post-treatment evaluation of key G2/M checkpoint regulatory proteins identified down-regulation of cyclin B1/cdc2 complex and survivin. Additionally, Chk1/2 and p53 related proteins experienced down-regulation suggesting a p53-independent cell cycle arrest mechanism. In summary, digitoxin and D6-MA exert anti-cancer effects on NCI-H460 cells through apoptosis or cell cycle arrest, with D6-MA showing at least 5-fold greater potency relative to digitoxin.
The article focuses on adverse drug reactions (ADR) to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) concerning libido and sexual behaviour: cases of disinhibition of libido observed at the Psychiatric Hospital of Kilchberg near Zurich are described.
Within the scope of a drug safety program, the physicians of the hospital are regularly asked about severe and unexpected events under drug treatment.
During remission of depression, five outpatients noticed an increase of libido experienced as strange to them, i.e. preoccupation with sexual thoughts, first appearance of promiscuity, of unsafe sexual intercourse, and of excessive pursuit of pornography, respectively, during administration, change in dose or discontinuation of SSRI.
The case studies suggest that SSRI treatment might be associated with increase and disinhibition of libido. The phenomena are discussed as a "selective switch" into partly manic symptomatology or an induction of mixed states with prevailing sexual symptoms.
The DNA repair protein O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is a key player in tumor cell resistance. Promoter methylation, MGMT activity and immunohistochemistry are used for determining the MGMT status. However, it is unclear whether MGMT promoter methylation correlates with MGMT activity and whether MGMT promoter methylation of the pretreatment tumor predicts the MGMT status of recurrences. To address these questions, we determined MGMT activity promoter methylation and immunoreactivity in pretreatment and recurrent glioblastomas (GB, WHO Grade IV), and in astrocytomas (WHO Grade III). We show that GB that were promoter methylated display a range of 0-62 fmol/mg MGMT and tumors that were nonmethylated 0-423 fmol/mg protein. For astrocytomas, promoter-methylated samples displayed 0-28 fmol/mg and, nonmethylated samples, 23-107 fmol/mg. No correlation was found between the intensity of promoter methylation and MGMT activity. Given a threshold level of 30 fmol/mg of protein, we found a correlation between promoter methylation and no/low MGMT activity in 82.4% of the tumors. This high correlation level was only observed when tumors were excluded showing a hemimethylated promoter (20%). Therefore, classification of hemimethylated tumors remains questionable. Further, we show that 39.1% of pretreatment GB and 5.3% of recurrences were promoter methylated, which is in line with the observed increase of MGMT activity in recurrences. Although individual exceptions were found, the data show an overall correlation between promoter methylation and lack/low MGMT activity in GB and astrocytomas. We also show that promoter methylation assay is superior over immunohistochemistry in determining the MGMT status defined by a given MGMT activity level.
The opening of potassium (K+) channels during regional ischaemia may, by inducing rapid contractile arrest, be an intrinsic energy sparing mechanism. Thus K+ channel openers (for example, lemakalim) exert significant anti-ischaemic effects, whereas glibenclamide exacerbates ischaemic contracture and limits postischaemic functional recovery. The aim of the study was to investigate the ability of these compounds to influence ischaemic injury when used either alone or in combination with rapid arrest induced by a high K+ cardioplegic solution.
Contractile function of isolated Langendorff perfused rat hearts was assessed using an intraventricular balloon. Hearts were subjected to normothermic global ischaemia (20 min) or cardioplegic arrest (35 min) with and without glibenclamide or lemakalim. Lemakalim (10 mumol.litre-1) or glibenclamide (10 mumol.litre-1) was given, in the presence or absence of cardioplegia, for 2 min immediately prior to the onset of ischaemia. The rate of ischaemia induced contractile failure, the severity of ischaemic contracture, and the degree of postischaemic functional recovery were all measured.
In the absence of cardioplegia, the time to contractile arrest in control hearts was 133 (SEM 4) s. This was increased by glibenclamide, to 145(6) s, and decreased by lemakalim, to 112(6) s. The time to onset of ischaemic contracture [8(1) min] was accelerated by glibenclamide [4(1) min] and delayed by lemakalim [14(1) min]. Lemakalim significantly improved the recovery of left ventricular developed pressure from 49(7)% in control hearts to 65(3)%, and left ventricular end diastolic pressure from 41(3) to 21(4) mm Hg. Hearts pretreated with glibenclamide showed similar recoveries to control hearts. During reperfusion, lemakalim exerted a transient vasodilator effect whereas glibenclamide caused a transient vasoconstriction. When either glibenclamide or lemakalim was added to a high K+ cardioplegic solution and hearts rendered ischaemic for 35 min, the ability of both compounds to influence ischaemic contracture and postischaemic functional recovery was lost. In additional studies the effect of lemakalim on the relative times to ischaemia induced mechanical failure and electrical arrest was assessed. In control hearts the time to contractile failure was 128(5) s and the time to electrical arrest was 241(30) s, while in the lemakalim treated hearts the values were 103(2) s and 509(161) s, respectively. In the lemakalim group all the hearts showed sustained ventricular arrhythmias; in the control group there were no arrhythmias.
Lemakalim can exert a significant anti-ischaemic effect when given alone. This effect is lost when it is used in combination with high K+ cardioplegia. The anti-ischaemic properties of lemakalim may thus be limited to its ability to accelerate contractile arrest.
A double-blind multicentre study of 349 hypertensive patients was performed to compare the side-effects of the two beta-blockers atenolol (selective beta 1-blocker) and pindolol (beta 1- and beta 2-blocker with Intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA] in equipotential doses (100 mg atenolol vs. 15 mg pindolol). Male and female patients aged 20-65 years with essential hypertension WHO stages I and II were included. Patients were examined 1 and 6 months after the start of treatment, and side-effects were recorded. The antihypertensive effect was similar for the two drugs. After 1 month there was significantly less bradycardia (P less than 0.01), cold hands and feet (P less than 0.05) and tiredness (P less than 0.02) in the pindolol group, and less sleep disturbance (P less than 0.02) in the atenolol group. After 6 months there was no significant difference in sleep disturbance, but the differences in the other side-effects remained significant.
The effect of intravenous magnesium sulfate infusion on corrected serum calcium level and parathyroid function assessed by determination of nephrogenous cAMP (NcAMP) excretion were studied in normal human subjects. Significant hypermagnesemia induced by the magnesium sulfate infusion for 120 minutes was accompanied by a gradual and progressive decrease in the corrected serum calcium level. NcAMP excretion fell rapidly, reaching a nadir between 60 and 120 minutes after the infusion began, and after that rose above the baseline excretion. Urinary calcium excretion gradually increased, reaching a peak between 120 and 180 minutes after the infusion began and then gradually decreased. Since magnesium was given as the sulfate, it is not clear whether these changes were attributable to magnesium or sulfate or both. As a control study, we performed intravenous sodium sulfate infusion. The sodium sulfate infusion caused slight hypocalcemia, slight hypercalciuria, and a significant increase in NcAMP excretion. These findings indicate that the hypocalcemia and the hypercalciuria caused by the magnesium sulfate infusion is mainly due to the effect of magnesium, and that the decrease in NcAMP excretion during the infusion is due to the effect of magnesium alone. We conclude that the hypocalcemia caused by the magnesium sulfate infusion is mainly due to the renal calcium loss, and that the inhibition of parathyroid function caused by hypermagnesemia may be only partially involved in the early phase of this hypocalcemia.
Although a protective role for mesalamine against colon cancer in ulcerative colitis has been shown epidemiologically, its molecular mechanism is unknown. We cloned and sequenced a novel human tropomyosin (hTM) isoform, TC22, which is an alternatively spliced variant of normal epithelial hTM isoform 5 (hTM5), identical apart from 25 C-terminal amino acids. TC22 is expressed in 100% of colorectal carcinoma but is not expressed in normal colon epithelial cells. To explore a molecular mechanism of chemoprevention, we examined the effect of mesalamine on TC22 expression using LS180 colon cancer cells. Expression of hTM5 and TC22 was investigated at the protein and gene levels by fluorescence-activated cell sorting and real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Small interference RNA (siRNA) against the TC22 variant were transfected into LS180 colon cancer cells, reducing protein and transcript levels by 45 to 50%. Mesalamine or sulfasalazine (2 mM), but not sulfapyridine, significantly (p < 0.02-0.006) reduced the expression of the TC22 transcript and significantly (p < 0.05 to <0.0002) reduced the expression of TC22 protein in a dose-dependent and reversible manner. Rosiglitazone, a specific peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonist, similarly and significantly (p < 0.002) reduced TC22 protein expression. A polymerase chain reaction array of 84 cancer-related genes performed on TC22 siRNA-transfected cells demonstrated a significant (more than two times) change in targets involved in apoptosis, adhesion, angiogenesis, and tissue remodeling. We conclude that mesalamine, sulfasalazine, and rosiglitazone significantly reduced the cellular expression of TC22, implicating PPARgamma in this modulation. Similar suppression of TC22 by siRNA produced gene level changes on several critical carcinogenic pathways. These findings suggest a novel antineoplastic molecular effect of mesalamine.
Oral contraceptives increase the levels of coagulation Factors II (prothrombin), VII (proconvertin), IX (plasma thromboplastin component), and X (Stewart factor) which form the prothrombin complex or vitamin-K-dependent factors. These factors occur in the progressive clotting process initiated by ruptured endothelium (intrinsic mechanism) or by tissue thromboplastin (extrinsic). Although Factors I (fibrinogen), VII, VIII (antihemophilic), IX, X, and platelets are increased in pregnancy, thromboembolism is more likely to occur in the postpartum period. During 1966-1967, 51 deaths and 183 nonfatal cases of thromboembolism among pill users were reported to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Several women known to have experienced a thromboembolism while using oral contraception had a second thromboembolic episode when the pill was resumed. In one of these women, coagulation factors were observed to rise during the second course of steroids when the second thromboembolism occurred. Further evidence associating thromboembolism and oral contraceptives comes from British case-controlled retrospective data and from studies with oral estrogens and progestins for menstrual indications. Research on animal models and screening tests is underway.
The effects of fetal cocaine exposure on newborn cry characteristics were studied in 80 cocaine-exposed and 80 control infants. The groups were stratified to be similar on maternal demographic characteristics and maternal use of other illegal substances and alcohol during pregnancy. The hypothesis was that excitable cry characteristics were related to the direct effects of cocaine, while depressed cry characteristics were related to the indirect effects of cocaine secondary to low birthweight. Structural equation modeling (EQS) showed direct effects of cocaine on cries with a longer duration, higher fundamental frequency, and a higher and more variable first formant frequency. Indirect effects of cocaine secondary to low birthweight resulted in cries with a longer latency, fewer utterances, lower amplitude, and more dysphonation. Cocaine-exposed infants had a lower birthweight, shorter length, and smaller head circumference than the unexposed controls. Findings were consistent with the notion that 2 neurobehavioral syndromes, excitable and depressed, can be described in cocaine-exposed infants, and that these 2 syndromes are due, respectively, to direct neurotoxic effects and indirect effects secondary to intrauterine growth retardation.
A mutation in the factor XIII gene (FXIII Val34Leu) gene was recently reported to confer protection against myocardial infarction, but its relationship with venous thrombosis is unknown. In addition, a mutation in the 5'-untranslated region of the FXII gene (46 C->T) was identified which is associated with low plasma levels of the protein. Its prevalence in patients with venous thrombosis is also unknown. We investigated the frequency of the FXIII Val34Leu and FXII 46 C->T mutations in 189 patients with deep venous thrombosis and in 187 age-, gender- and race-matched controls. FXIII Val34Leu was detected in 38.6% of the patients and in 41.2% of the controls. Interestingly, homozygosity for the FXIII mutation was found in 1.6% of the patients and in 9.6% of the controls, yielding an odds ratio (OR) for venous thrombosis of 0.16 (95% CI: 0.05-0.5). The OR for heterozygotes was 1.1 (95% CI: 0.7-1.7). The FXII 46 C->T mutation was detected in 46.0% of the patients and in 48.6% of the controls. The OR for heterozygotes was 0.9 (95% CI: 0.6-1.4) and for homozygotes the OR was 0.8 (95% CI: 0.3-1.9). Our data indicate that the FXII 46 C->T mutation is unlikely to be a major risk factor for venous thrombotic disease. In contrast, the homozygous state for FXIII Val34Leu is a strong protective factor against venous thrombosis, which emerges as a novel genetic factor involved in the aetiology of thrombophilia.
The vesicant agents of the unitary chemical munitions stockpile include various formulations of sulfur mustard [bis-(2-chloroethyl) sulfide; agents H, HD, and HT] and small quantities of the organic arsenical Lewisite [dichloro(2-chlorovinyl) arsine; agent L]. These agents can be dispersed in liquid, aerosol, or vapor form and are capable of producing severe chemical burns upon direct contact with tissue. Moist tissues such as the eyes, respiratory tract, and axillary areas are particularly affected. Available data summarizing acute dose response in humans and laboratory animals are summarized. Vesicant agents are also capable of generating delayed effects such as chronic bronchitis, carcinogenesis, or keratitis/keratopathy of the eye under appropriate conditions of exposure and dose. These effects may not become manifest until years following exposure. Risk analysis derived from carcinogenesis data indicates that sulfur mustard possesses a carcinogenic potency similar to that of benzo[a]pyrene. Because mustard agents are alkylating compounds, they destroy individual cells by reaction with cellular proteins, enzymes, RNA, and DNA. Once begun, tissue reaction is irreversible. Mustard agents are mutagenic; data for cellular and laboratory animal assays are presented. Reproductive effects have not been demonstrated in the offspring of laboratory rats. Acute Lewisite exposure has been implicated in cases of Bowen's disease, an intraepidermal squamous cell carcinoma. Lewisite is not known to generate reproductive or teratogenic effects.
We previously demonstrated that the CNYYSNS peptide derived from tumstatin inhibited in vivo tumor progression. The YSNS motif formed a beta-turn crucial for biological activity. More recently, a YSNSG cyclopeptide with a constrained beta-turn on the YSNS residues was designed. Intraperitoneal administration of the YSNSG cyclopeptide inhibited in vivo melanoma progression more efficiently than the native linear peptide. In the present article, we showed that the YSNSG cyclopeptide also triggered an inhibition of in vivo tumor neovascularization and we further analyzed its in vitroantiangiogenic effect. The YSNSG cyclopeptide did not alter endothelial cell proliferation but inhibited cell migration by 83% in an in vitro wound healing model. The inhibition was mediated by a decrease in active MT1-MMP at the migration front as well as a decrease in u-PA and u-PAR expression. The cyclopeptide also altered beta1-integrin distribution in endothelial cell lamellipodia, induced a strong decrease in the phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (p125(FAK)), disorganized F-actin stress fibers and decreased the number of lamellipodia, resulting in a non migratory phenotype. Our results confirm the YSNSG cyclopeptide as a potent antitumor agent, through both the inhibition of invasive properties of tumor cells and the antiangiogenic activity.
Deficiency of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3 (17beta-HSD3), due to mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme, results in a rare autosomal recessive form of male-to-female sex reversal. Mutated genes encode an abnormal enzyme with absent or reduced ability to convert Delta4-androstenedione to testosterone in the testis. Affected individuals are genetically males who developed internal male Wolffian structures but female external genitalia. Such individuals are usually raised as females and diagnosis is made at puberty, when they show virilization. Correct diagnosis is mandatory to optimize treatment and follow-up. In the present paper we report the clinical history, endocrine evaluation and molecular genetics of a prepubertal girl affected by 17beta-HSD3 deficiency, in whom an erroneous diagnosis of androgen insensitivity syndrome was made. The clinical, endocrine and genetic features of 17beta-HSD3 deficiency are also reviewed.
The congestive heart failure (CHF) associated with Adriamycin cardiotoxicity is frequently fatal. To investigate the course of Adriamycin-induced congestive heart failure, all Adriamycin-treated children who developed congestive heart failure at the Children's Hospital Medical Center and Sidney Farber Cancer Institute were studied. Criteria for Adriamycin-induced congestive heart failure included clinical evidence of left ventricular (LV) failure and echocardiographic evidence of abnormal left ventricular function. Fifteen children fulfilled these criteria. Eleven patients received between 400 and 500 mg/m2 of Adriamycin; four patients received cumulative doses over 500 mg/m2. Twelve of 15 (80%) children survived their acute episode of congestive heart failure. At follow-up, three patients had normalized their echocardiographic parameters of left ventricular function, three had died of their malignancies with compensated cardiac function until death, and six were clinically asymptomatic despite persistence of abnormal LV function on echocardiogram. Only three patients died of Adriamycin cardiomyopathy. In children treated with aggressive medical therapy, congestive heart failure secondary to Adriamycin cardiotoxicity may be reversible in certain cases.
Statins show antiproliferative activity in various cancer cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of rosuvastatin treatment on papillary thyroid carcinoma. The papillary thyroid carcinoma (B-CPAP) and normal (Nthy-ori 3-1) thyroid cell lines were treated with rosuvastatin at 12.5, 18.5, 25, 50, 100, and 200 μM concentrations. After 48 and 72 h of rosuvastatin treatment, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide, Ki-67 immunolabeling, FACS analysis, electron microscopy, caspase-3, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) analysis were performed. Decreased cell viability and G1 phase arrest were detected in papillary thyroid cell line treated with rosuvastatin. Positive immunoreactivity of Ki-67 and dose-dependent increase in S phase on Nthy-ori 3-1 cells were also detected. B-CPAP cells showed intense vacuolisation and autophagosomes with low concentrations and 48 h incubations, while Nthy-ori 3-1 cells showed these changes at higher concentrations. A decrease in the percentage of cells showing autophagy was determined with increasing concentrations of rosuvastatin in B-CPAP cells. Rosuvastatin treatment also caused a dose- and time-dependent increase in caspase-3 activity and apoptotic index by TUNEL assay in B-CPAP cells compared with the Nthy-ori 3-1 cells. Apoptotic cells with nuclear condensation and fragmentation were observed in B-CPAP cell line. Rosuvastatin induced autophagic changes in B-CPAP papillary thyroid cancer cells in lower doses and caused a shift from autophagy to apoptosis. Rosuvastatin may be an alternative treatment for refractory papillary thyroid cancer. Further in vivo studies are necessary to clarify the effects of rosuvastatin in papillary thyroid carcinoma and the clinical implications of rosuvastatin treatment.
