We performed a randomized, double-blind prospective study comparing pain experienced during peripheral and aortic angiography with two different contrast agents. Sixty patients, receiving a total of 107 injections, were randomized to receive either ioxaglate (Hexabrix) or sodium-meglumine diatrizoate (Renografin-76). Subjects scored the pain they experienced on a 10-point visual analog scale, and the physician also scored their discomfort on a five point scale. Hemodynamic parameters were monitored during the procedure in all patients, and subsequent hematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis were performed in 19 of the 60 patients. There was a significant reduction in the degree of pain experienced by the Ioxaglate group compared to the reference group (p less than 0.001). The patients in the Hexabrix group had a mean pain score of 1.3 compared to the patients in the Renografin-76 group who had a mean pain score of 6.1. The two groups did not differ in their hemodynamic responses to the contrast agents, and no significant differences were noted in the subsequent laboratory measures.
In order to evaluate the antihypertensive effect and the tolerability of combination therapy with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril) and a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist (nifedipine) compared with monotherapy and placebo, we studied 32 uncomplicated essential hypertensives. At the end of a 1-month placebo washout period, their diastolic blood pressure was greater than 105 and less than 120 mmHg. The subjects then received, according to a double-blind randomized crossover design, captopril (50 mg twice daily), nifedipine (20 mg twice daily), captopril plus nifedipine at the same doses and the corresponding placebo, each treatment being given for 1 month. Both captopril and nifedipine significantly reduced mean blood pressure, which was further and significantly reduced by the combination of the two drugs. The decreases in mean blood pressure induced by nifedipine were significantly greater than those induced by captopril, and those induced by the combined therapy were significantly greater than those induced by either drug on monotherapy. The heart rate was significantly increased only by nifedipine, and to a similar, but not significant, extent by the combination therapy. Plasma renin activity was similarly and significantly increased and urinary aldosterone tended to decrease to a similar extent under the three active treatments. Adverse effects were mild to moderate in intensity; their incidence under captopril was lower than that under placebo, while the incidence under nifedipine and combined therapy was greater than under placebo. Ankle oedema disappeared under the combined therapy in three out of four patients who developed this side effect under nifedipine, although one additional patient developed ankle oedema under combination therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To describe the mechanisms of severe hepatocellular injury with apoptosis in 2 patients receiving hepatitis C virus (HCV)-796.
HCV-796 is a hepatitis C polymerase inhibitor approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for a phase 2 study of the treatment of hepatitis C in combination with PEG-Interferon and ribavirin.
The injury occurred after more than 12 weeks of treatment, with a >20-fold increase in serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase, and a marked increase in total (and direct) bilirubin in the absence of cholestasis. There was no evidence of autoimmune or viral hepatitis. Involvement of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway was demonstrated by (1) release of cytochrome C into the cytosol; (2) association of cytochrome C with apoptotic protease activating factor-1 in the cytosol; (3) activation of initiator caspase 9; (4) activation of effector caspase 3; (5) increased serum caspase-3 cleaved cytokeratin-18 peptide; (6) nuclear fragmentation; (7) mitochondrial structural abnormalities; (8) expression of light chain 3 B, an indicator of autophagy; (9) probable autophagy of mitochondria by autophagosomes; and (10) probable phagocytosis of apoptotic hepatocytes by activated macrophages. Immunoglobulin G immune complexes were identified in the hepatocytes and localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi of these patients after the drug-induced liver disease, reflecting a primary or secondary target. Hepatitis C treatment was discontinued at weeks 15 and 19 in patients 1 and 2, respectively. After more than 6 months off the medication, both patients normalized the serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and total bilirubin with undetectable HCV RNA.
HCV-796 may cause severe hepatocellular injury and apoptosis, with a marked immune reaction in susceptible patients.
Contingency management (CM) is an efficacious intervention for cocaine abusing methadone patients, but typically only about half of patients respond. By investigating time to onset of cocaine abstinence and factors associated with abstinence, we may be able to more efficiently direct CM approaches to patients most likely to benefit. Onset of cocaine abstinence was evaluated in cocaine abusing methadone maintenance patients (N = 193) enrolled in one of three randomized clinical trials of CM. Participants received standard treatment with frequent urine toxicology monitoring or standard treatment plus CM during the trials. Slightly more than half the sample obtained at least 1 week of cocaine abstinence, and approximately a third of the sample obtained at least 4 weeks of cocaine abstinence. Discrete-time survival and hazard analyses found Weeks 1 and 2 of the intervention period had the greatest probability for the initiation of abstinence, and few participants initiated any period of abstinence after Week 4. Patients randomized to CM, those with more years of cocaine use, and those with less recent cocaine use were more likely to achieve abstinence. Overall, these results indicate onset of cocaine abstinence is likely to occur early in treatment and in individuals with less severe cocaine use. Practical implications of these results for designing and implementing CM interventions in methadone maintenance clinics are discussed.
A genuine peripheral antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effect of Botulinum neurotoxin type A (BoNT/A) has been proposed but could not be demonstrated in humans so far. Therefore, 100 mouse units of Botulinum toxin A (Dysport) and placebo were injected in a double blind paradigm in defined skin areas of 50 subjects. At baseline and after 4 and 8 weeks allodynia was induced in the skin areas with capsaicin ointment. Heat and cold pain threshold temperatures were measured with quantitative sensory testing, and threshold intensities upon electrical stimulation with a pain specific surface electrode were determined. No BoNT/A related differences in pain perception were found at any quality. There is neither a direct peripheral antinociceptive effect nor a significant effect against neurogenic inflammation of BoNT/A in humans.
Carvedilol is a nonselective beta-blocker with alpha(1)-adrenergic blocking activity. It has been shown to decrease portal pressure in cirrhotic patients. The current study was undertaken to evaluate the possible mechanism of carvedilol on hemodynamics in cirrhotic rats with portal hypertension produced by common bile duct ligation.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats received either a sham operation or common bile duct ligation. Three weeks after surgery, both sham-operated and cirrhotic rats were randomly assigned to receive vehicle or carvedilol 5 mg.kg(-1).12 h(-1) by gastric gavage for 1 week. Hemodynamic measurements, serum biochemistry, serum nitrate/nitrite and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) levels, and aortic mRNA expression of eNOS and COX-1 were performed on the eighth day after drug administration.
Carvedilol treatment did not affect serum biochemistry in either sham-operated or cirrhotic rats. In sham-operated rats, administration of carvedilol significantly decreased the heart rate without affecting other hemodynamic values. In contrast, in cirrhotic rats, administration of carvedilol significantly decreased the cardiac index, portal pressure, heart rate, and portal territory blood flow, and it significantly increased systemic and portal territory vascular resistances. The hepatocollateral resistance was significantly decreased, but the hepatic arterial blood showed no significant changes. In sham-operated rats treated with carvedilol, serum nitrate/nitrite and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) levels were not affected. In contrast, cirrhotic rats receiving carvedilol showed a significant decrease in serum nitrate/nitrite and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) levels, associated with a decrease in aortic mRNA expression of eNOS and COX-1 compared with those receiving vehicle.
Carvedilol decreased portal pressure through a reduction of splanchnic blood flow associated with a decrease in hepatocollateral resistance. Additionally, administration of carvedilol decreased endothelial-related vasodilatory activities.
A case of hepatitis is reported in a 38-year-old alcoholic woman taking disulfiram to aid in maintaining sobriety. She presented with anorexia, vomiting, fatigue, right upper-quadrant pain, pruritus, darkened urine, and jaundice after about two weeks of disulfiram 500 mg/d. The patient also had been taking enalapril 10 mg/d for one year. Hepatocellular enzymes, total bilirubin, and eosinophils were significantly elevated. Hepatitis B core antibody, hepatitis A antibody, hepatitis B surface antibody, and antinuclear antibody were negative. After discontinuation of disulfiram, the clinical and biochemical manifestations of hepatitis began to resolve and the patient was discharged in a much improved condition. Seventeen previous cases of disulfiram-induced hepatitis are reviewed. It has been suggested that the mechanism of hepatotoxicity is an allergic or hypersensitivity reaction. The findings in this case are consistent with the earlier descriptions of hypersensitivity hepatitis, and lend further support to the possibility that disulfiram may cause hepatitis.
Hypotension, bronchospasm, and facial flushing associated with an intravenous infusion of etoposide occurred in a 38-year-old man with advanced testicular cancer. The reaction began within three minutes after the initiation of the infusion and was reversed with intravenous fluids and diphenhydramine. He was successfully retreated with four additional doses of etoposide after pretreatment with diphenhydramine and dexamethasone. The literature concerning similar anaphylactoid reactions to intravenous etoposide is reviewed.
Symptomatic respiratory disturbance as a consequence of levodopa (L-dopa) therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD) has been described only rarely and may be underrecognized in clinical practice. We report on two patients with PD in whom the introduction or augmentation of L-dopa therapy was associated with the development of irregular and rapid breathing. Analysis of breathing patterns before and after L-dopa demonstrated a striking change in respiratory rate after administration of L-dopa, with the emergence of irregular tachypnea alternating with brief periods of apnea, in a pattern consistent with a central origin. In both cases, the temporal relationship of the respiratory disturbance to the administration of L-dopa suggested a peak-dose drug effect. Previous reports of L-dopa-induced respiratory dyskinesia are reviewed, and the potential mechanisms whereby L-dopa might influence the central control of respiration to produce irregular breathing patterns are discussed.
Although several studies have indicated that neurotensin administered acutely has several pharmacological properties common with those of antipsychotic drugs, the effects of repeated exposure to neurotensin receptor agonism have been less well characterised. Here, we investigated the effect of the novel neurotensin-(8-13) analogue NT69L [(N-methyl-Arg), Lys, Pro, L-neo-Trp, tert-Leu, Leu] in animal models sensitive to central neurotensin receptor stimulation as well as in predictive models for antipsychotic activity and motor side-effect liability. Acute injection of NT69L (0.19-6.1 micromol/kg, s.c./i.p.) caused hypothermia (>2.5 degrees C) and reduction in spontaneous locomotor activity but failed to induce catalepsy. Furthermore, NT69L (0.10 micromol/kg, s.c.) counteracted the hyperlocomotion elicited by amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). However, repeated injections of NT69L (0.19 micromol/kg, s.c. for 6 days, twice daily) significantly reduced its effect on spontaneous locomotor activity and completely abolished its effect on amphetamine-elicited hyperactivity. Our data obtained after single injections of NT69L indicate that this drug stimulates central neurotensin receptors after peripheral administration and collectively support the notion that neurotensin receptor agonism is associated with an attractive pre-clinical profile as regards both antipsychotic activity and motor side-effect liability. However, the present results also indicate that repeated neurotensin receptor stimulation may cause a desensitisation of neurotensin receptor mediated effects.
Propofol is a widely used intravenous anesthetic although its injection pain is a common and unpleasant problem. Long-/medium-chain triglyceride (LCT/MCT) propofol has been introduced, as its low free propofol content is expected to reduce injection pain compared with LCT propofol. Target controlled infusion (TCI) differs from conventional induction in the initial infusion pattern. During induction using TCI, we investigated injection pain caused by two propofol solutions with different triglyceride compositions.
Fifty patients, ASA I-II, with adequate communicative ability, were randomly assigned to two groups. TCI was conducted with Diprifusor for LCT and with BeComSim (custom-made software) for LCT/MCT. The target blood concentration was set at 4 microg/ml for both groups. At 30, 60, and 120 s after the infusion, patients were asked questions regarding the severity of pain on a 0-10 pain score. The total dose of propofol and the time required to induce anesthesia were also investigated.
The LCT/MCT propofol group had a larger number of pain-free patients and showed lower severity of pain than the LCT group [the number of pain-free patients being 11 and 3, respectively (P < 0.05), and median maximum pain being 0 and 4.5, respectively (P < 0.01)]. The dose and time required for induction were not significantly different between the groups (dose of 84 +/- 27 and 80 +/- 24 mg, respectively, and time of 119 +/- 60 and 107 +/- 55 s, respectively).
Our study showed that the frequency and severity of pain during TCI induction with propofol could be significantly reduced using LCT/MCT propofol rather than LCT propofol.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-inhibiting drugs have antitumor activity in canine and rodent models of urinary bladder cancer. Two isoenzymes of COX have been identified, COX-1 and COX-2. The purpose of this study was to characterize COX-1 and COX-2 expression in human invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. COX-2 was not expressed in normal urinary bladder samples but was detected in 25 of 29 (86%) invasive transitional cell carcinomas of the urinary bladder and in 6 of 8 (75%) cases of carcinoma in situ. These results indicate that COX-2 may play a role in bladder cancer in humans and support further study of COX-2 inhibitors as potential antitumor agents in human bladder cancer.
We report the case of a 58-year-old man with multiple myeloma stage III A who received tandem autologous stem cell transplantation after induction by two courses of VAD and three cycles of bortezomib-dexamethasone, due to progression under chemotherapy. The second transplantation was complicated by severe hepatic veno-occlusive disease (HVOD). The patient received defibrotide with total recovery. The occurence of HVOD after conditioning by melphalan is uncommon and the role of bortezomib was questioned.
Morphine (M) is the opioid analgesic of choice for severe cancer pain. The IV to PO M equipotent switch ratio (CR) is controversial. We designed this prospective observational cohort to confirm the efficacy and safety of M IV to PO CR of 1:3. Consecutive cancer patients admitted to an inpatient palliative medicine unit were screened for inclusion. Pain was managed by palliative medicine specialists. They were blinded to the patient data collected, and the calculated CR. The switch was considered successful if the following criteria were met: (1) Pain adequately controlled: pain rated as none or mild (2) Number of RD less than 4 (for non incident pain) per 24 hours (3) No limiting side effects. We used Day 3 ATC M dose for CR calculations. The major outcome measures were the IV : PO CR ratio, morphine doses (mg/day), pain severity, number of PRN doses, and day 1 and day 3side effects. Descriptive statistics were used to report mean, median, standard deviation and range of different variables. Two hundred and fifty six consecutive admissions were screened, and 106 were eligible for the study. Sixty two underwent a successful M route switch and were included in this analysis. A ratio of 1:3 was safely implemented over a wide M dose range. About 80% were successfully switched with a calculated CR of 1:3. 20% required an oral M dose adjustment after route switch either to better pain control or reduce side effects with a resultant higher (e.g. 1:4) or lower (e.g. 1:2) calculated potency ratios respectively. A potency ratio of 1:3 was safe as evaluated by common M side-effects, the dose also easy to calculate. The 1: 3 M IV to PO relative milligram potency ratio appears correct and practical for most patients over a wide M dose range.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a debilitating autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that develops in genetically susceptible individuals who are exposed to undefined environmental risk factors. Epidemiological, genetic, and biological evidence suggests that insufficient vitamin D may be an MS risk factor. However, little is known about how vitamin D might be protective in MS. We hypothesized that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3] might regulate gene expression patterns in a manner that would resolve inflammation. To test this hypothesis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was induced in mice, 1,25-(OH)2D3 or a placebo was administered, and 6 h later, DNA microarray hybridization was performed with spinal cord RNA to analyze the gene expression patterns. At this time, clinical, histopathological, and biological studies showed that the two groups did not differ in EAE disease, but changes in several 1,25-(OH)2D3-responsive genes indicated that the 1,25-(OH)2D3 had reached the CNS. Compared with normal mice, placebo-treated mice with EAE showed increased expression of many immune system genes, confirming the acute inflammation. When 1,25-(OH)2D3 was administered, several genes like glial fibrillary acidic protein and eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha kinase 4, whose expression increased or decreased with EAE, returned to homeostatic levels. Also, two genes with pro-apoptotic functions, calpain-2 and caspase-8-associated protein, increased significantly. A terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nicked end labeling study detected increased nuclear fragmentation in the 1,25-(OH)2D3-treated samples, confirming increased apoptosis. Together, these results suggest that sensitization of inflammatory cells to apoptotic signals may be one mechanism by which the 1,25-(OH)2D3 resolved EAE.
The phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) enzyme is a promising therapeutic target for several diseases. Our previous studies found resveratrol and moracin M to be natural PDE4 inhibitors. In the present study, three natural resveratrol analogs [pterostilbene, (E)-2',3,5',5-tetrahydroxystilbene (THSB), and oxyresveratrol] are structurally related to resveratrol and moracin M, but their inhibition and mechanism against PDE4 are still unclear. A combined method consisting of molecular docking, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, binding free energy, and bioassay was performed to better understand their inhibitory mechanism. The binding pattern of pterostilbene demonstrates that it involves hydrophobic/aromatic interactions with Phe340 and Phe372, and forms hydrogen bond(s) with His160 and Gln369 in the active site pocket. The present work also reveals that oxyresveratrol and THSB can bind to PDE4D and exhibits less negative predicted binding free energies than pterostilbene, which was qualitatively validated by bioassay (IC50=96.6, 36.1, and 27.0μM, respectively). Additionally, a linear correlation (R(2)=0.953) is achieved for five PDE4D/ligand complexes between the predicted binding free energies and the experimental counterparts approximately estimated from their IC50 values (≈RT ln IC50). Our results imply that hydrophobic/aromatic forces are the primary factors in explaining the mechanism of inhibition by the three products. Results of the study help to understand the inhibitory mechanism of the three natural products, and thus help the discovery of novel PDE4 inhibitors from resveratrol, moracin M, and other natural products.
Connexin 43 (Cx43) is the most prominent connexin in the mammalian ventricular myocardium and forms gap junctions that are essential for normal conduction of action potential. Carvedilol, a nonselective beta-blocker, is widely used to prevent ventricular arrhythmias after myocardial infarction (MI). Here, we examined the effect of carvedilol on the expression of Cx43 protein and ventricular fibrillation threshold (VFT) using a rat MI model. VFT is defined as the lowest voltage, at which ventricular fibrillation is induced by electrical stimulation. Adult male Wister rats were divided into sham-operated group (n = 20) and MI groups treated with intragastric administration of saline (control, n = 30) or carvedilol (2.5 mg/kg, n = 30) twice a day for 7 days immediately after ligation of the left coronary artery. Compared with sham group (100%), total Cx43 protein and phosphorylated Cx43 protein were decreased in the MI rats to 60 +/- 21% and 52 +/- 19% (both P < 0.05), respectively. Treatment with carvedilol prevented the MI-induced decrease in total and phosphorylated Cx43 levels (91 +/- 17% and 80 +/- 20%, both P < 0.05), respectively, which were similar to the levels of sham animals. Moreover, the MI rats exhibited a marked decrease in VFT compared with the sham group (7.2 +/- 1.30 vs. 13.0 +/- 2.12 V, P < 0.05), but the decrease was abolished by carvedilol (11.0 +/- 2.65 V). In conclusion, carvedilol might prevent the ischemia-induced ventricular arrhythmias by restoring Cx43 protein and VFT to the basal levels.
An increasing body of evidence indicates that impairment of endothelial function is crucially involved in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. Injury to the endothelium precipitates atherosclerosis by causing smooth-muscle cell migration and proliferation, induction of expression of growth factors, and impairment of plasma coagulation and endogenous fibrinolysis. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and calcium antagonists are widely used in patients with cardiovascular disease and have beneficial vascular effects beyond blood pressure control alone. Both exhibit a synergistic hemodynamic profile. Whereas calcium antagonists dilate large conduit and resistance arteries, ACE inhibitors inhibit the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and reduce sympathetic outflow. Certain calcium antagonists, such as verapamil and diltiazem, reduce heart rate, whereas dihydropyridines tend to increase it. In the blood vessel wall, the local vascular effects of ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists are complementary. ACE inhibitors diminish transformation of angiotensin I (Ang I) into angiotensin II (Ang II) and prevent degradation of bradykinin [which stimulates nitric oxide (NO) and prostacyclin formation]. Calcium antagonists inhibit the effects of Ang I and endothelin-1 (ET-1) at the level of vascular smooth muscle by reducing Ca2+ inflow and facilitating the vasodilator effects of NO. The resistance circulation is particularly dependent on extracellular Ca2+, thereby explaining why nifedipine and verapamil effectively inhibit ET-induced vasoconstriction in vitro and in vivo. In hypertension, ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists markedly improve structural changes and increase the media/lumen ratio in resistance arteries. Long-term combination therapy with verapamil and trandolapril is particularly effective in reversing endothelial dysfunction in hypertensive animals. ACE inhibitors substantially reduce morbidity and mortality in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction (MI). There is a strong trend indicating benefit with verapamil as well, but this is confined to patients with a normal left ventricular ejection fraction. Clinical studies have confirmed that calcium antagonists exhibit antiatherogenic properties. However, the clinical relevance of these findings has recently been disputed because short-acting dihydropyridines are reported to increase risk for MI. Because ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists exhibit synergistic hemodynamic, antiproliferative, antithrombotic, and antiatherogenic properties, combination therapy provides a promising concept in patients with cardiovascular and renal disease.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) has been postulated to be a hepatocarcinogen in humans, possibly by causing p53 mutations at codon 249. AFB1 is metabolized via the phase I and II detoxification pathways; hence, genetic variation at those loci may predict susceptibility to the effects of AFB1. To test this hypothesis, genetic variation in two AFB1 detoxification genes, epoxide hydrolase (EPHX) and glutathione S-transferase M1 (GSTM1), was contrasted with the presence of serum AFB1-albumin adducts, the presence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and with p53 codon 249 mutations. Mutant alleles at both loci were significantly overrepresented in individuals with serum AFB1-albumin adducts in a cross-sectional study. Mutant alleles of EPHX were significantly overrepresented in persons with HCC, also in a case-control study. The relationship of EPHX to HCC varied by hepatitis B surface antigen status and indicated that a synergistic effect may exist. p53 codon 249 mutations were observed only among HCC patients with one or both high-risk genotypes. These results indicate that individuals with mutant genotypes at EPHX and GSTM1 may be at greater risk of developing AFB1 adducts, p53 mutations, and HCC when exposed to AFB1. Hepatitis B carriers with the high-risk genotypes may be an even greater risk than carriers with low-risk genotypes. These findings support the existence of genetic susceptibility in humans to the environmental carcinogen AFB1 and indicate that there is a synergistic increase in risk of HCC with the combination of hepatitis B virus infection and susceptible genotype.
Experimental data on the influence of repeated administration of doxorubicin in a dose of 2.24 mg/kg on the glutathione exchange in heart tissues and erythrocytes of white outbred rats are presented. It was shown that disorders in the natural cytoprotection system caused by the introduction of this cardiotropic agent, can be corrected using a combined preparation of cytoflavin.
Capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves that contain calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) contribute significantly to cardioprotective mechanisms. In this study, the possible role of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves in the development of congestive heart failure was examined in an established model of adriamycin-induced experimental cardiomyopathy in rats. Systemic treatment with capsaicin was utilized to deplete sensory neuropeptides from cardiac afferent nerves. Echocardiography was applied to assess the cardiac function in adriamycin-treated rats pretreated with capsaicin or its vehicle. In control rats, adriamycin treatment produced a reduction in the fractional shortening of the left ventricle and an increase in the ratio of the left atrial diameter and the aortic diameter, indicative of a decreased myocardial contractility and heart failure only at 3-4 weeks post-treatment. In contrast, in capsaicin-pretreated rats, a deterioration of the cardiac function was already evident 1 week after the cessation of adriamycin administration, while the clinical signs associated with cardiomyopathy were more severe and displayed a significantly more rapid progression. Immunohistochemistry revealed a complete depletion of calcitonin gene-related peptide from cardiac sensory nerves after systemic capsaicin treatment. This study has demonstrated that elimination of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves promotes the development and progression of adriamycin-induced myocardial dysfunction. The results suggest that interfering with capsaicin/vanilloid receptor function and/or perturbation of the myocardial CGRP metabolism may open up new perspectives concerning prevention and/or alleviation of the pathological changes that follow adriamycin treatment.
When the tumour suppressor p53 is activated by DNA damage, it stimulates the transcription of its target genes, which then induce cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. Here, we examined the role p53 plays in the antitumour effect of combination treatment with pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN)-alpha and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), which has been shown to effectively treat advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Nude mice were injected subcutaneously with cultured HepG2 cells, in which p53 is functional. They were treated a week later with PEG-IFN and/or 5-FU for 7 weeks, after which we measured and examined their tumours. Combination groups showed significantly lower tumour volumes and higher tumour cell apoptosis than the other groups. Combination treatment and PEG-IFN monotherapy also significantly elevated the p53 protein and mRNA levels in the tumour but only combination treatment increased the degree of p53 phosphorylation at serine46 and induced p53-regulated apoptosis-inducing protein 1 (p53AIP1) expression. The antitumour effects of combination treatment is due in part to the elevation by PEG-IFN of p53 protein and mRNA expression and in part to the DNA damage that is generated by 5-FU, which induces p53 serine46 phosphorylation, which in turn upregulates p53AIP1 expression.
To describe the prevalence of diet drug-related valvular disease among our referral population and the association of valvular disease with duration of exposure to fenfluramine and phentermine in combination and to dexfenfluramine alone.
In this retrospective review of clinical and echocardiographic data, charts of patients referred for treatment of toxic effects of diet drugs were reviewed, and telephone interviews were conducted.
Between June and December 1997, 191 patients (164 women, 27 men; mean age, 47 years) were referred for possible diet drug-related valvular disease. Twenty-eight (28%) of the 99 asymptomatic patients and 40 (43%) of the 92 symptomatic patients had abnormal echocardiographic findings. Valvular lesions among the 68 patients with abnormal echocardiographic findings included mild (or greater) aortic regurgitation in 55 patients (81%), moderate (or greater) mitral regurgitation in 12 (18%), and moderate (or greater) tricuspid regurgitation in 7 (10%). The Food and Drug Administration case definition of diet drug-related valvulopathy was noted in 31 % of this referral population. Of patients with valvulopathy, mean duration of therapy with fenfluramine and phentermine in combination and dexfenfluramine alone was 9 months and 5 months, respectively. Duration of therapy was not associated with presence or absence of disease. Five patients had surgical intervention for severe valvulopathy: 3 had mitral valve repair, 1 had mitral valve replacement, and 1 had aortic valve replacement. Pulmonary hypertension (>40 mm Hg) was found in 24 patients (13%), and 17 (71 %) had pulmonary hypertension in association with valvulopathy.
This study demonstrated a 31% (60/191) prevalence of valvulopathy in patients with a history of diet drug exposure who were referred for echocardiographic evaluation. The most common finding was mild aortic regurgitation. Twenty-eight percent of asymptomatic patients had abnormal echocardiographic findings. This study emphasizes the spectrum of diet drug-related cardiac disease and the potential for valvulopathy in asymptomatic patients.
A novel pyridine derivative, 8-{4-[(6-methoxy-2,3-dihydro-[1,4]dioxino[2,3-b]pyridine-3-ylmethyl)-amino]-butyl}-8-aza-spiro[4.5]decane-7,9-dione hydrochloride, termed JB-788, was designed to selectively target 5-HT(1A) receptors. In the present study, the pharmacological profile of JB-788 was characterized in vitro using radioligands binding tests and in vivo using neurochemical and behavioural experiments. JB-788 bound tightly to human 5-HT(1A) receptor expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK-293) cells with a K(i) value of 0.8 nM. Its binding affinity is in the same range as that observed for the (+/-)8-OH-DPAT, a reference 5HT(1A) agonist compound. Notably, JB-788 only bound weakly to 5-HT(1B) or 5-HT(2A) receptors and moreover the drug displayed only weak or indetectable binding to muscarinic, alpha(2), beta(1) and beta(2) adrenergic receptors, or dopaminergic D(1) receptors. JB-788 was found to display substantial binding affinity for dopaminergic D(2) receptors and, to a lesser extend to alpha(1) adrenoreceptors. JB-788 dose-dependently decreased forskolin-induced cAMP accumulation in HEK cells expressing human 5-HT(1A), thus acting as a potent 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (E(max.) 75%, EC(50) 3.5 nM). JB-788 did not exhibit any D(2) receptor agonism but progressively inhibited the effects of quinpirole, a D(2) receptor agonist, in the cAMP accumulation test with a K(i) value of 250 nM. JB-788 induced a weak change in cAMP levels in mouse brain but, like some antipsychotics, transiently increased glycogen contents in various brain regions. Behavioral effects were investigated in mice using the elevated plus-maze. JB-788 was found to increase the time duration spent by animals in anxiogenic situations. Locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine in mouse, a model of antipsychotic activity, was dose-dependently inhibited by JB-788. Altogether, these results suggest that JB-788 displays pharmacological properties, which could be of interest in the area of anxiolytic and antipsychotic drugs.
To determine whether the immune Fab fragment of digoxin antibody (digibind) attenuates established corticotropin (ACTH) hypertension, rats were given ACTH sham control (0.1 mL normal saline, twice daily, subcutaneously, n = 18) or ACTH treatment (2.5 microg/kg in 0.1 mL normal saline, twice daily, subcutaneously; n = 27) for 10 days. Acute hemodynamic effects of digibind (30 mg/kg, intravenous bolus injection) were examined after 10 days of sham control or ACTH treatment. Rats were divided into 7 groups: digibind (30 mg/kg, in 1 mL 0.9% NaCl intravenous bolus injection) plus sham (n = 6) or ACTH (n = 8), sham digibind (1 mL 0.9% NaCl intravenous bolus) plus ACTH (n = 7), digibind vehicle (sorbitol 1.8 mg in 1 mL 0.9% NaCl, intravenous bolus) plus sham (n = 6), preimmune sheep IgG (30 mg/kg in 1 mL 0.9% NaCl intravenous bolus) plus sham (n = 6) or ACTH (n = 6) and preimmune sheep IgG (Fab)2 fragment (30 mg/kg in 1 mL 0.9% NaCl intravenous bolus) plus ACTH (n = 6). ACTH increased systolic blood pressure (SBP) from 118 +/- 2 to 132 +/- 3 mm Hg on treatment day 10. BP was unchanged in sham treated rats. The acute administration of digibind decreased MAP (-14 +/- 3 mm Hg, P <.001) in ACTH hypertensive rats, but not in ACTH sham control normotensive rats (+2 +/- 3 mm Hg). Blood pressure reached a minimum after 14 +/- 3 min and the effect lasted more than 30 min. No significant change of blood pressure was found in ACTH treated rats receiving sham (0.9% NaCl) digibind injection (+2 +/- 2 mm Hg). However, both preimmune sheep IgG and IgG (Fab)2 fragment caused a decrease of blood pressure in both sham or ACTH treated rats. Although these data that digibind decreases BP in ACTH but not sham treated rats are consistent with the notion that digitalis-like substances may play a role in ACTH induced hypertension, the evidence that both preimmune sheep IgG and IgG (Fab)2 fragments also decreased blood pressure in rats suggests caution in interpretation of studies that employ digibind preparations.
Triclosan (5-chloro-2-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)-phenol) is a chlorinated phenolic antibacterial compound found in consumer products. In vitro human pregnane X receptor activation, hepatic phase I enzyme induction, and decreased in vivo total thyroxine (T4) suggest adverse effects on thyroid hormone homeostasis. Current research tested the hypothesis that triclosan decreases circulating T4 via upregulation of hepatic catabolism and transport. Weanling female Long-Evans rats received triclosan (0-1000 mg/kg/day) by gavage for 4 days. Whole blood and liver were collected 24 h later. Total serum T4, triiodothyronine (T3), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) were measured by radioimmunoassay. Hepatic microsomal assays measured ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, pentoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (PROD), and uridine diphosphate glucuronyltransferase enzyme activities. The messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of cytochrome P450s 1a1, 2b1/2, and 3a1/23; UGTs 1a1, 1a6, and 2b5; sulfotransferases 1c1 and 1b1; and hepatic transporters Oatp1a1, Oatp1a4, Mrp2, and Mdr1b was measured by quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR. Total T4 decreased dose responsively, down to 43% of control at 1000 mg/kg/day. Total T3 was decreased to 89 and 75% of control at 300 and 1000 mg/kg/day. TSH did not change. Triclosan dose dependently increased PROD activity up to 900% of control at 1000 mg/kg/day. T4 glucuronidation increased nearly twofold at 1000 mg/kg/day. Cyp2b1/2 and Cyp3a1/23 mRNA expression levels were induced twofold and fourfold at 300 mg/kg/day. Ugt1a1 and Sult1c1 mRNA expression levels increased 2.2-fold and 2.6-fold at 300 mg/kg/day. Transporter mRNA expression levels were unchanged. These data denote important key events in the mode of action for triclosan-induced hypothyroxinemia in rats and suggest that this effect may be partially due to upregulation of hepatic catabolism but not due to mRNA expression changes in the tested hepatic transporters.
The relation of the risk of venous thromboembolism to the use of oral contraceptives was assessed in a hospital-based study of 61 women suffering from a first episode of idiopathic deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism (cases) and 1278 women admitted for trauma or respiratory infections (controls). Twenty (33%) of the cases and 121 (9%) of the controls had used oral contraceptives within the previous month, yielding an age-adjusted relative risk estimate of 8.1 (95% confidence interval 3.7 to 18) for recent users relative to never-users. For women using oral contraceptives containing less than 50 micrograms estrogen, the relative risk estimate was 11 (3.7 to 22); for preparations with 50 micrograms estrogen, it was 5.5 (2.1 to 15); and for preparations with more than 50 micrograms estrogen, it was 11 (3.9 to 30). Past use of oral contraceptives was not associated with an increased risk. The data suggest that the risk of venous thromboembolism is increased for recent oral contraceptive users relative to nonusers, even if women use oral contraceptives containing low doses of estrogen. Confidence intervals were wide, however, so that a reduction in the risk for users of lower dose formulations relative to users of higher dose formulations cannot be ruled out. Selection bias, if present, would have resulted in overestimation of the relative risk, but should not have distorted the comparisons according to dosage.
