We carried out a multistage genome-wide association study of type 2 diabetes mellitus in Japanese individuals, with a total of 1,612 cases and 1,424 controls and 100,000 SNPs. The most significant association was obtained with SNPs in KCNQ1, and dense mapping within the gene revealed that rs2237892 in intron 15 showed the lowest Pvalue (6.7 x 10(-13), odds ratio (OR) = 1.49). The association of KCNQ1 with type 2 diabetes was replicated in populations of Korean, Chinese and European ancestry as well as in two independent Japanese populations, and meta-analysis with a total of 19,930 individuals (9,569 cases and 10,361 controls) yielded a P value of 1.7 x 10(-42) (OR = 1.40; 95% CI = 1.34-1.47) for rs2237892. Among control subjects, the risk allele of this polymorphism was associated with impairment of insulin secretion according to the homeostasis model assessment of beta-cell function or the corrected insulin response. Our data thus implicate KCNQ1 as a diabetes susceptibility gene in groups of different ancestries.
Pontocerebellar hypoplasias (PCH) represent a group of neurodegenerative autosomal recessive disorders with prenatal onset, atrophy or hypoplasia of the cerebellum, hypoplasia of the ventral pons, microcephaly, variable neocortical atrophy and severe mental and motor impairments. In two subtypes, PCH2 and PCH4, we identified mutations in three of the four different subunits of the tRNA-splicing endonuclease complex. Our findings point to RNA processing as a new basic cellular impairment in neurological disorders.
Metrizamide (non-ionic, Nyegaard Co., Oslo, Norway), diatrizoate (ionic) and metrizoate (ionic) were selectively injected into the right or the left canine coronary artery. ECG was recorded and external defibrillation was performed whenever ventricular fibrillation occurred. During left coronary injections metrizamide prolonged the PQ and QT intervals less than did the diatrizoate. During right coronary injections metrizamide affected the QT interval less than either diatrizoate and metrizoate. During right coronary infusions metrizamide caused significantly fewer incidences of ventricular fibrillation than diatrizoate. In clinical coronary arteriography it is assumed that metrizamide would generate fewer AV blocks than diatrizoate and fewer incidences of ventricular fibrillation after right coronary injections than diatrizoate. Changes in the PQ and QT intervals during coronary arteriography can be used as tests to predict the safety of new contrast media.
The changes in myocardial blood flow and systemic hemodynamics during hypotensive anesthesia with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) or ATP with dipyridamole (0.5 mg.kg-1) were studied in 20 mongrel dogs anesthetized with 0.7% halothane in 100% oxygen. In both groups, mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) was reduced to 60 mmHg by intravenous administration of ATP. During hypotensive anesthesia, coronary blood flow, myocardial blood flow and cardiac index increased significantly in both groups. Lactic acid and uric acid increased significantly during hypotensive anesthesia in the group 1. Heart rate, MAP, systemic vascular resistance and coronary vascular resistance decreased significantly during hypotensive anesthesia in both groups. Mean pulmonary arterial pressure, pulmonary arterial wedge pressure and central venous pressure showed no significant changes in both groups. Base excess in the group 1 increased markedly compared with the group 2. We conclude that pretreatment with dipyridamole can prevent metabolic acidosis that occurs during hypotensive anesthesia induced by ATP.
We examined the effects of hydroxyl radicals (OH.) on human myocardial contractility and on sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) activity and the effects of the beta-receptor antagonists metoprolol, carvedilol, and its metabolite BM-910228.
Isometric force of contraction was determined in isolated human myocardium. H(2)O(2) 1 mmol/L and Fe(3+)-nitrilotriacetic acid (Fe(3+)-NTA) 0.1 mmol/L used for generation of OH. induced a decrease in basal force of contraction and an increase in diastolic tension in atrial and left ventricular myocardial preparations. After challenge with OH., the maximum positive inotropic response to Ca(2+) 1.8 to 15 mmol/L was decreased by 60% and by 39%, respectively. The effects of OH. could be blocked by catalase. Carvedilol and its metabolite BM-910228 attenuated the OH.-induced impairment of the inotropic response to Ca(2+) in atrial myocardial preparations. Metoprolol had no significant effect. The stimulation frequency (0.5 to 3.0 Hz)-dependent increase in force of contraction and decrease in diastolic tension were abolished after exposure of atrial trabeculae to OH. In parallel, SERCA activity was decreased by OH. concentration-dependently, as determined in myocardial membrane preparations. BM-910228 partially restored the force-frequency relationship and preserved SERCA activity.
OH. radicals induce an impairment of contraction and relaxation and an attenuation of the force-frequency relationship in human myocardium accompanied by an inhibition of SERCA. Carvedilol and BM-910228 partly prevented OH.-induced contractile dysfunction. These observations could explain the improvement of ejection fraction in heart failure trials with carvedilol without a restoration of beta-adrenergic receptor density.
To clarify the role and mechanism of the 5-HT1A receptor in modulating extrapyramidal motor disorders, we studied the actions of 5-HT1A agonists in the mouse pole test, a valid model of parkinsonian bradykinesia. Haloperidol markedly delayed pole-descending behavior of mice in the pole test, and this effect was alleviated by the antiparkinsonian agent trihexyphenidyl (a muscarinic antagonist). The selective 5-HT1A agonists, 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetraline (8-OH-DPAT) and tandospirone, significantly attenuated haloperidol-induced bradykinesia in a dose-dependent manner. The alleviation of haloperidol-induced bradykinesia by 8-OH-DPAT was completely antagonized by WAY-100135 (a selective 5-HT1A antagonist), but was unaffected by cerebral 5-HT depletion with p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) treatment (300 mg/kg, i.p. for 3 days). These results suggest that 5-HT1A agonists improve extrapyramidal motor disorders associated with antipsychotic treatments by stimulating the postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor.
To identify molecular changes that occur during prostate tumor progression, we have characterized a series of prostate cancer cell lines isolated at different stages of tumorigenesis from C3(1)/Tag transgenic mice. Cell lines derived from low- and high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, invasive carcinoma, and a lung metastasis exhibited significant differences in cell growth, tumorigenicity, invasiveness, and angiogenesis. cDNA microarray analysis of 8700 features revealed correlations between the tumorigenicity of the C3(1)/Tag-Pr cells and changes in the expression levels of genes regulating cell growth, angiogenesis, and invasion. Many changes observed in transcriptional regulation in this in vitro system are similar to those reported for human prostate cancer, as well as other types of human tumors. This analysis of expression patterns has also identified novel genes that may be involved in mechanisms of prostate oncogenesis or serve as potential biomarkers or therapeutic targets for prostate cancer. Examples include the L1-cell adhesion molecule, metastasis-associated gene (MTA-2), Rab-25, tumor-associated signal transducer-2 (Trop-2), and Selenoprotein-P, a gene that binds selenium and prevents oxidative stress. Many genes identified in the Pr-cell line model have been shown to be altered in human prostate cancer. The comprehensive microarray data provides a rational basis for using this model system for studies where alterations of specific genes or pathways are of particular interest. Quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR for Selenoprotein-P demonstrated a similar down-regulation of the transcript of this gene in a subset of human prostate tumors, mouse tumors, and prostate carcinoma cell lines. This work demonstrates that expression profiling in animal models may lead to the identification of novel genes involved in human prostate cancer biology.
To report a case of severe dilated cardiomyopathy (DCMP) in a patient on bromocriptine therapy for a microprolactinoma.
A 31-year-old African American female, who had been receiving bromocriptine 5 mg orally daily for a microprolactinoma during the preceding month, developed severe DCMP. An echocardiogram showed a markedly dilated left ventricle with severe reduction in the left-ventricular ejection fraction in the absence of any other identifiable causes of DCMP such as a peripartum state, ethanol use, preceding systemic viral illness, chronic hypocalcemia, chronic hypophosphatemia, or chronic uncontrolled tachycardia. She improved substantially (both symptomatically and echocardiographically) after cessation of bromocriptine therapy and initiation of supportive treatment of congestive heart failure (CHF). She showed no recurrence of CHF at a follow-up visit 2 months after withdrawal of the supportive care. The patient was not rechallenged with bromocriptine due to the clinical/ethical gravity of this probable adverse effect.
Although cardiopulmonary adverse effects have been reported with the use of cabergoline (another dopamine agonist), to the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of severe life-threatening DCMP associated with bromocriptine therapy. Causality assessment using the Naranjo probability scale revealed that the adverse drug event was probable.
Bromocriptine was probably associated with DCMP in a patient being treated for a microprolactinoma. Severe DCMP needs to be considered a potentially life-threatening but reversible adverse effect of bromocriptine therapy for microprolactinoma of the pituitary gland.
A case of drug-associated cholelithiasis (sulindac chlecystohepatolithiasis) in a 63-yr-old woman is reported. The patient was admitted to our hospital to undergo treatment for rheumatoid arthritis of 20 yr duration. She was treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID: sulindac). Two months later, she presented with right upper quadrant pain. Diagnostic studies including ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERC), led to the diagnosis of cholecystohepatolithiasis. She underwent cholecystectomy and choledochotomy with an extraction of intrahepatic stones. The intrahepatic stones were light yellow in color with a claylike appearance. Unexpectedly, an infrared spectroscopic analysis of the stone showed it to consist of sulindac metabolites. In addition, the dilated segment of the intrahepatic bile duct naturally returned to its normal size after the discontinuation of the drug administration. This is the first reported case of sulindac stone formation in the bile duct. No similar problems with other NSAIDs have been reported previously.
The current standard of care for malignant gliomas is surgical resection and radiotherapy followed by extended adjuvant treatment with the alkylating agent temozolomide. Temozolomide causes DNA damage, which induces cell death. Through changes in the DNA-repair machinery, glioma cells develop resistance to temozolomide, compromising the therapeutic effect of the drug. Oncolytic viruses, such as herpes simplex viruses and adenoviruses, are being introduced into clinical trials as a new treatment for this malignancy. Biological studies have revealed that these viruses use mechanisms to either inactivate (adenovirus) or take advantage of (herpes simplex virus) the cellular DNA-repair machinery to achieve productive replication. Adenoviruses express proteins from the early genes to either downregulate the damage-repair enzyme, O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase, or degrade poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase or the Mre11-Rad50-NBS1 complex, which detects DNA strand breaks. Temozolomide enhances herpes simplex virus oncolysis by upregulating the DNA repair-related genes growth arrest DNA damage 34 and ribonucleotide reductase. The interactions between viruses and the DNA-repair machinery suggest that a combined temozolomide and viral therapy will overcome the limitations of a single therapy by diminishing chemoresistance or enhancing oncolysis. This hypothesis has been supported by promising findings from preclinical and clinical studies.
The assessment of the skin sensitising capacity of chemicals is up to now investigated using in vivo animal tests. However there has been an increasing public and governmental concern regarding the use of animals for chemical screening. This has raised the need for the development of validated in vitro alternatives. Langerhans cells are potent antigen-presenting cells that play a crucial role in the development of allergic contact dermatitis. We used CD34(+) progenitor-derived dendritic cells from cord blood as an in vitro alternative for Langerhans cells. The cells were exposed to four contact allergens (nickel sulphate, dinitrochlorobenzene, oxazolone and eugenol) and two irritants (sodium dodecyl sulphate and benzalkonium chloride) for 3, 6, 12 and 24h. Using microarray analyses we revealed a set of 25 genes with an altered gene expression pattern after exposure to allergens and not to irritants. Five out of these 25 genes were selected and their gene expression changes were confirmed with real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The list of 25 genes represent valuable candidates to be further evaluated for their capacity to predict the sensitizing potential of different classes of chemicals in studies using a more extended set of (non) allergic substances.
Exposure of developing fish to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (HAHs) results in a suite of defects including cardiac malformation, pericardial and yolk sac edema, craniofacial defects, and hemorrhaging. Several populations of Atlantic killifish or mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus) on the Atlantic coast of the United States are resistant to the developmental and acute toxicity caused by PAHs and HAHs; this has made Fundulus a valuable model for studying aryl hydrocarbon sensitivity and adaptation. In order to further increase the utility of Fundulus, better understanding of the components of the molecular pathways governing aryl hydrocarbon response in Fundulus is required. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is known to mediate many of the toxic responses to PAHs and HAHs. A single AHR has been identified in mammals, but Fundulus has two AHRs and their relative roles are not clear. In the current study, translation-blocking and splice-junction morpholino gene knockdown was used to determine the roles of AHR1 and AHR2 in mediating cardiac teratogenesis induced by beta-naphthoflavone (BNF), benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF), and 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB-126). Here we report that AHR2 and not AHR1 knockdown resulted in rescue of teratogenicity induced by BNF, BkF, and PCB-126. These data demonstrate that AHR2 is the primary mediator of cardiac teratogenesis caused by multiple aryl hydrocarbons in Fundulus and suggest that suppression of the AHR pathway through modulation of AHR2 is a plausible mechanism for PAH resistance in adapted fish. Additionally, this is the first reported use of splice-junction morpholinos in Fundulus.
Treatment with inhibitors of 3-hydroxyl-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins) reduces the incidence of cardiovascular events, but it is unclear whether the beneficial effects are mediated solely by their lipid-lowering properties. We therefore investigated whether atorvastatin reduces inflammation and oxidative stress independently of its lipid-lowering effects. The subjects comprised 71 hyperlipidemic patients (64+/-9 years old, mean+/-SD) who were not receiving medical treatment. Serum lipid and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, and urine 8-isoprostane level (an index of oxidative stress) were measured before and after 4 weeks of treatment with atorvastatin at 10 mg/day. In 38 patients, these biochemical variables and carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) were also measured after 6 months of treatment with atorvastatin. Atorvastatin markedly reduced CRP (from 0.69+/-0.36 to 0.42+/-0.20 and 0.35+/-0.19 mg/l, median+/-median absolute deviation, P<0.0001), 8-isoprostane (from 225+/-99 to 178+/-75 and 179+/-60 ng/g creatinine, P<0.05), and low density-lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC; from 165+/-21 to 106+/-18 and 112+/-17 mg/dl, P<0.0001) after 4 weeks and 6 months of treatment, respectively. However, the reductions in CRP and 8-isoprostane were not correlated with those of LDLC. After 6 months of treatment, IMT was significantly decreased compared with the baseline value (from 0.94+/-0.26 to 0.90+/-0.20 mm, P<0.05), but this was not correlated with the reduction in LDLC. These results suggest that atorvastatin has beneficial effects on inflammation, oxidative stress, and the lipid profile in patients with hyperlipidemia. The extra-lipid effects are not attributable to the lipid-lowering effect of the statin, suggesting that the pleiotropic effects of atorvastatin are independent of its effects on the lipid profile.
During inspiration the lung is exposed to numerous oxidants and therefore has developed a system of antioxidant defense. This organ, besides the liver, is the major source of glutathione (GSH) metabolism, from which type II pneumocytes are metabolically the most active cells.
To analyze oxidative stress, rats were exposed to air (control) or to 10 ppm nitrogen dioxide (NO2) for 3 and 20 days to induce acute and chronic lung injury. As measure of oxidative stress, GSH/GSSG ratios in blood, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and type II pneumocytes were determined. Lipid peroxidation (LPO) was also measured in type II cells. To investigate the basis of these observations, GSH metabolism in type II pneumocytes was studied, analyzing mRNA expression of gamma-glutamyl-cysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS), glutathione synthetase (GS), gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gamma-GT), glutathione peroxidases (GPXs) and glutathione reductase (GR). Furthermore, enzyme activities of GPX and GR were determined.
In acute and chronic lung injury the GSH/GSSG ratio was reduced in blood and BAL, but there was no change in type II pneumocytes. LPO in type II cells was only reduced in acute lung injury. In both kinds of lung injury mRNA expression of gamma-GCS, GS and GPX3 decreased, while expression of gamma-GT and GR increased. GPX4 mRNA expression decreased in acute lung injury and increased in the chronic state. Enzyme activity of GPX and GR was generally increased in lung injury.
In NO2 induced acute and chronic lung injury, GSH metabolism is imbalanced.
To investigate whether an endogenous prostaglandin (PG) D2 metabolite, 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-PGJ2 (15d-PGJ2), can attenuate cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis in the rat.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of CYP (200 mg/kg). In a separate group of animals, 15d-PGJ2 (10 and 100 microg/kg intraperitoneal bolus 10 minutes before and 24 hours after CYP injection) or a selective inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) inhibitor, N-(3-(aminomethyl)benzyl)acetamidine ([1400W] 10 mg/kg intraperitoneal bolus 10 minutes before and 12 and 24 hours after CYP injection), was administered. At 48 hours after CYP injection, the rats were killed, and tissues were removed for evaluation of cystitis.
CYP injection resulted in severe cystitis. 15d-PGJ2, as well as 1400W, significantly reduced the increase in plasma protein extravasation (Evans blue dye method), iNOS enzymatic activity, urinary excretion of nitric oxide metabolites, and myeloperoxidase activity in the bladder caused by CYP. Moreover, 15d-PGJ2 significantly decreased the cytokine interleukin-1beta in the bladder. In addition, 15d-PGJ2 significantly reduced the degree of CYP-induced bladder tissue damage and increase in immunohistochemical staining for iNOS in the bladder.
These results indicate that 15d-PGJ2 can attenuate the development of CYP-induced cystitis by suppression of cytokine production and iNOS induction. Thus, treatment with cyclopentenone prostaglandins such as 15d-PGJ2 may be effective against CYP-induced cystitis.
The use of the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir (RTV) is frequently associated with hypertriglyceridemia and lipodystrophy. The aim of our study was to determine the mechanism underlying the observed hypertriglyceridemia.
Feeding female APOE*3-Leiden transgenic mice a Western-type diet supplemented with RTV (35 mg/kg per day) for 2 weeks resulted in a 2-fold increase in fasting plasma triglyceride (TG) levels, which was specific for very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). RTV did not change the hepatic VLDL-TG production. Instead, RTV did increase the postprandial TG response to an oral fat load (area under the curve, 25.5+/-12.1 versus 13.8+/-6.8 mmol/L per hour in controls; P<0.05). Likewise, RTV hampered the plasma clearance of intravenously injected glycerol tri[3H]oleate-labeled VLDL-like emulsion particles (half time, 19.3+/-10.5 versus 5.0+/-1.3 minutes in controls; P<0.05) associated with a decrease of 44% in plasma lipoprotein lipase activity. Accordingly, RTV decreased the uptake of TG-derived fatty acids (FAs) into adipose tissue, as well as the uptake of albumin-bound FA.
We conclude that RTV causes hypertriglyceridemia via decreased lipoprotein lipase-mediated clearance of VLDL-TG. In addition, RTV specifically impairs the uptake of FA in adipose tissue, which may contribute to the lipodystrophy that is frequently observed in HIV-infected subjects on antiretroviral therapy.
The effect of injections of norepinephrine (NE)-depleting toxin DSP-4 into the central amygdala (AMY) on apomorphine-induced fighting (AIF) was studied. In addition, the influence of such treatment on related parameters such as spontaneous activity, pain sensitivity and changes in locomotion after (+)3-PPP or apomorphine (1 mg/kg SC each) were verified. Finally, injections of NE or phenylephrine into the AMY five min before AIF were performed. DSP-4 induced marked (-71%) and selective fall in NE within the AMY accompanied by significant increase in aggressive response to 5 mg/kg of apomorphine. DSP-4-treated animals were less active in the open field and more sensitive to pain in a hot plate test. They were also more responsive to locomotor-augmenting action of apomorphine. Significant suppression of AIF was seen after injections of NE and phenylephrine into the AMY. The results suggest that NE input to the AMY plays an inhibitory role in dopamine-related locomotion and aggressivity. Moreover, amygdalar NE appears to be involved in general activity and pain perception modulation.
The possibility that some of the cardiovascular, sedative or neurohormonal effects of clonidine are mediated by opiate receptors was investigated in normotensive and hypertensive subjects. In normal subjects intravenous (i.v.) clonidine lowered blood pressure, increased sedation and raised levels of plasma renin activity and growth hormone. Levels of other anterior pituitary hormones (prolactin, luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone) and of arginine vasopressin were unchanged. The effects of clonidine were similar after the administration of naloxone. In patients with essential hypertension clonidine lowered blood pressure, increased sedation and reduced plasma noradrenaline levels. There was an insignificant fall in levels of plasma renin activity. Prior administration of naloxone did not influence the effects of clonidine. It is concluded that the cardiovascular, sedative and neurohormonal effects of acutely administered clonidine are not dependent on opiate receptor activation in either normal or hypertensive man.
Familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS)-linked mutations in copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause motor neuron death through one or more acquired toxic properties. We analyzed the molecular mechanism underlying motor neuron degeneration in the transgenic mouse model expressing the SOD1 gene with G93A mutation. Using cDNA microarray, the differentially expressed genes were identified in the spinal cords of G93A mice, 30 being elevated and seven decreased. cDNA microarray analysis to monitor gene expression during neurodegeneration revealed an up-regulation of genes related to an inflammatory process, such as the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) gene, resulting from glial cell activation, together with the change in apoptosis-related gene expression, such as caspase-1. The increased expression of the inflammation- and apoptosis-related genes occurred at 11 weeks of age in the presymptomatic stage prior to motor neuron death. These results suggest a mechanism of neurodegeneration that includes an inflammatory response as an important component. Thus, ALS has paralleled other neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's and prion diseases, in which the inflammatory process is believed to participate directly in neuronal death.
Forty currently using methamphetamine (MA) abusers, 40 currently using cocaine (COC) abusers, and 80 comparison participants who did not use psychostimulants received a cognitive battery and questionnaires covering medical history and stimulant use patterns. Forty comparison participants were matched to the 40 MA users on age, education, ethnicity, and gender. The other 40 comparison participants were matched to the cocaine users on the same variables. This design was chosen because there were significant differences in age and ethnicity between COC and MA users that precluded a direct comparison between the groups. The COC group was older and predominantly African American compared to the predominantly Caucasian MA group. When compared to their matched non-using control groups, both MA and COC abusers were impaired on cognitive measures, but the type and degree of impairments were somewhat different.
1. Acetaminophen toxicity, as measured by leakage of intracellular enzymes, was increased by chlordecone and mirex with mirex having the greater effect. 2. These effects were confirmed by histological examination and by studies of enzyme leakage from isolated hepatocytes.
Understanding the association between attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and substance abuse, specifically methamphetamine (MA) abuse, is challenging, partly because little is known about the specific constellation of cognitive impairments produced by MA. The present investigation serves to address this relationship by comparing the cognitive performance of MA abusers with ADHD symptomatology (n = 28) and MA abusers without ADHD symptomatology (n = 41) on tests of attention, memory and general intellectual functioning, executive functioning, problem solving, verbal fluency, and abstract thinking. Both MA samples had deficiencies in measures of memory and learning function, psychomotor speed and abstract thinking when compared to a control group (n = 40). Additional deficits were noted on tasks involving executive functioning, attention, and general intellectual functioning in MA abusers with ADHD symptomatology. The preliminary data suggests that executive function deficits and some of the symptoms associated with long-term MA use may be due to the fact that a large proportion of MA addicts had ADHD symptomatology as children.
Consumers are exposed to a mixture of pesticides through their food intake. These compounds are considered risk factors for human health, and the impact of dietary exposure to low doses of pesticide mixtures remains poorly understood. For this study we developed a mouse model to mimic consumer exposure in order to compare the effect of pesticides both alone or combined at doses corresponding to their Acceptable Daily Intake value. Female mice were exposed to pesticides throughout gestation and lactation. After weaning pups were fed the same pesticide-enriched diet their mothers had received for an additional 11 weeks. A metabonomic approach using (1)H NMR-based analysis of plasma showed that exposure to each pesticide produced a specific metabolic fingerprint in adult offspring. Discriminant metabolites between groups were glucose or lactate, choline, glycerophosphocholine and phosphocholine. Interestingly, metabolite differences were observed as early as weaned animals that had not yet been directly exposed themselves. Studies of the hematopoietic system revealed that dietary exposure to one particular pesticide, endosulfan, produced a significant decrease in red blood cell and hemoglobin levels, consistent with hemolytic anemia. Moreover, cell signaling profiles of bone marrow progenitors were also clearly affected. Expression of cell signaling proteins such as P35, CDC27, FAK, P38 MAP kinase, calcineurin and caspase as well as proteins involved in the stability or structure of the cytoskeleton (vinculin, MAP2) was changed upon dietary exposure to pesticides. Finally, we found that dietary exposure to a mixture of pesticides had effects that differed and were often lesser or equal to that of the most efficient pesticide (endosulfan), suggesting that the effect of pesticide mixtures cannot always be predicted from the combined effects of their constituent compounds.
Our laboratory has used a rodent model of human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma to identify putative chemopreventive agents for this disease and to determine their mechanisms of action. In the present study, we treated F344 rats with the esophageal carcinogen, N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA), thrice per week for 5 weeks. Beginning 1 week later, they were fed a synthetic diet containing 5% black raspberries (BRB) for the duration of the bioassay (25 weeks). Rats were sacrificed at weeks 9, 15, and 25. Esophageal tissues were collected, and tumor data were recorded. The expression and enzymatic activities of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) as well as the expression of c-Jun in the esophagi, were evaluated to investigate the mechanism(s) by which black raspberries modulate tumorigenesis. At week 25, BRB inhibited tumor multiplicity, the standard end point in this tumor model, from 3.78 +/- 0.41 tumors per rat in NMBA-treated animals to 2.23 +/- 0.21 tumors per rat in animals treated with NMBA plus BRB (P < 0.005). BRB reduced mRNA and protein expression levels of COX-2, iNOS, and c-Jun as well as the level of prostaglandin E(2) in preneoplastic lesions of the esophagus at week 25. The berries inhibited mRNA expression of iNOS and c-Jun, but not COX-2, in papillomatous lesions of the esophagus. Prostaglandin E(2) and total nitrite levels were also decreased by BRB in papillomas. These results suggest a novel tumor suppressive role of BRB through inhibition of COX-2, iNOS, and c-Jun.
Angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), erythropoietin, and angiopoietin play important roles in the pathophysiology of diabetic retinopathy. Increased amounts of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are also known to associated with diabetic retinopathy and VEGF expression. This study evaluated the effect of a simvastatin on ROS generation and the changes in various angiogenic factors in the retinas of diabetic rats.
The rats were divided into normal, diabetes mellitus (DM), and simvastatin-treated groups (each group, n = 10). Diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin into 20 Sprague-Dawley rats. After diabetic induction, simvastatin (5mg/kg) was administered orally to ten rats. The expression levels of VEGF, erythropoietin, angiopoietin 1 and 2, and NADPH oxidase were examined in rat retinas by RT-PCR and Western blot. Superoxide formation was examined by dihydroethidium (DHE) staining.
DHE analysis revealed increased superoxide formation in the retinas of the diabetic group, which was decreased in the group treated with simvastatin. Western blot analysis showed that NADPH oxidase levels were decreased in the diabetic group and remained normal in the simvastatin-treated group. Simvastatin treatment blocked hyperglycemia-induced increases in VEGF, angiopoietin 2 and erythropoietin levels, as demonstrated by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis.
Simvastatin treatment led to suppression of superoxide formation and decreased expression of VEGF, angiopoietin 2 and erythropoietin in diabetic rat retinas.
To analyze a cluster of 30 industrial coworkers with Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism subjected to long-term (8-33 years) chronic exposure to trichloroethylene.
Neurological evaluations were conducted on the 30 coworkers, including a general physical and neurological examination and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. In addition, fine motor speed was quantified and an occupational history survey was administered. Next, animal studies were conducted to determine whether trichloroethylene exposure is neurotoxic to the nigrostriatal dopamine system that degenerates in Parkinson's disease. The experiments specifically analyzed complex 1 mitochondrial neurotoxicity because this is a mechanism of action of other known environmental dopaminergic neurotoxins.
The three workers with workstations adjacent to the trichloroethylene source and subjected to chronic inhalation and dermal exposure from handling trichloroethylene-soaked metal parts had Parkinson's disease. Coworkers more distant from the trichloroethylene source, receiving chronic respiratory exposure, displayed many features of parkinsonism, including significant motor slowing. Neurotoxic actions of trichloroethylene were demonstrated in accompanying animal studies showing that oral administration of trichloroethylene for 6 weeks instigated selective complex 1 mitochondrial impairment in the midbrain with concomitant striatonigral fiber degeneration and loss of dopamine neurons.
Trichloroethylene, used extensively in industry and the military and a common environmental contaminant, joins other mitochondrial neurotoxins, MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) and some pesticides, as a risk factor for parkinsonism.
Thioacetamide is widely used in industry and is known to be one of the most potent hepatotoxicants in experimental animals. We investigated the involvement of flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO)-dependent hepatic-neutrophil activation and the release of proinflammatory mediators in thioacetamide-induced hepatic injury in rats. Thioacetamide (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) increased, within 12 h, hepatic serum aspartate transferase and alanine transferase levels, tumor necrosis factor-α production, interleukin-1β and nitrite levels, and myeloperoxidase activity. Rabbit anti-neutrophil serum markedly inhibited all thioacetamide-altered parameters. In addition, FMO-competitive inhibitor methimazole reduced thioacetamide-induced myeloperoxidase activity, hepatic tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, nitrite, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and hepatic damage in thioacetamide-treated rats. Thus, we conclude that FMO-dependent hepatic neutrophil activation initiates the release of proinflammatory mediators in thioacetamide-treated rats.
