Neonatal exposure to synthetic estrogen causes delayed reproductive dysfunction in female rats. Exposure to 17α-ethynyl estradiol (EE, low: 20 and high: 2000 μg/kg) induced an abnormal estrous cycle during PND171-190 in low-dose and PND126-145 in high-dose group. At PND90 within normal estrous cycle, high-dose animals showed lack of LH surge and low of ovarian hormones in serum level. Gene expression analysis demonstrated that level of mRNA encoding luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor (LHCGR) was higher in EE-treated ovaries than in control ovaries, and LHCGR protein colocalized with apoptosis-related proteins in the interstitial area of the ovary. At PND1, ovarian LHCGR mRNA levels were higher in EE-treated rats than in control rats, and direct induction of LHCGR expression by EE was observed in vitro. Our results indicate that neonatal exposure to EE induces irregular LHCGR expression in the immature ovary, which may influence the occurrence of delayed reproductive dysfunction in adult animals.
Percutaneous nephrolithotomy presents a therapeutic challenge in children because of the disproportion between the sizes of the instruments and the kidneys. A technique for pediatric nephrolithotomy used on a 2-year-old female child is presented. The patient was born prematurely and developed kidney stones as a complication of furosemide therapy. She failed medical management with hydrochlorothiazide, and the stone did not disintegrate following extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL). A Chiba needle was used to access the renal collecting system percutaneously. Using a guidewire, sequential dilatation was performed to 16F. A 15F Hickman catheter introduction kit was then used, and the sheath was partially peeled away. A 10F pediatric cystoscope and grasper were inserted through the sheath to remove the stones. A 12F catheter was then placed through the sheath; the sheath was peeled away, and the catheter was left indwelling for 48 hours. No complications ensued. A postoperative nephrostogram showed free drainage and absence of residual stones. Utilization of the Hickman peel-away sheath constitutes an excellent alternative nephrolithotomy technique for children with stones unresponsive to more conservative treatment.
Benzene exposure in occupational settings often occurs with concurrent exposure to toluene, the methyl-substituted derivative of benzene. Toluene is also readily metabolized by CYP450 isozymes although oxidation primarily occurs in the methyl group. While earlier mouse studies addressing co-exposure to benzene and toluene at high concentrations demonstrated a reduction in benzene-induced genotoxicity, we have previously found, using an intermittent exposure regimen with lower concentrations of benzene (50 ppm) and toluene (100 ppm), that toluene enhances benzene-induced clastogenic or aneugenic bone marrow injury in male CD-1 mice with significantly increased CYP2E1, and depleted GSH and GSSG levels. The follow-up study reported here also used the same daily and total co-exposures but over consecutive days and compared the effects of co-exposure on genotoxicity and metabolism in CD-1 mice both with and without buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) treatment to deplete GSH. In this study the toluene co-exposure doubled the genotoxic response (as determined by the erythrocyte micronucleus test) to benzene alone. Further, GSH depletion caused a reduction in this genotoxicity in both benzene exposed and benzene/toluene co-exposed mice. The results are discussed in terms of the analyses of urinary metabolites from this consecutive day study and the intermittent exposure study as well as levels of CYP2E1, epoxide hydrolase, quinone reductase, alcohol dehydrogenase, and aldehyde dehydrogenase activities. The results suggest that the presence of glutathione is necessary for benzene genotoxicity either as a metabolite conjugate or through an indirect mechanism such as TNF-induced apoptosis.
In the present study, we evaluated patients who were admitted to our emergency department with a diagnosis of organophosphate poisoning and discussed clinical, social and demographic features.
A retrospective study was conducted with organophosphate poisoning patients admitted to our emergency department between January 1995 and December 2004. Data regarding the age, sex, occupation, type of agent, route of poisoning, clinical effects of cholinergic overactivity, laboratory findings, and mortality rate were obtained from the patient files.
During the study period, 220 patients who had organophosphate poisoning with a known agent were admitted to the ED. The estimated mean admission time to the ED after the exposure was 3.9 +/- 3.1 (1-14) hours. There were 131 (59.5%) female and 89 (40.5%) male patients. The most affected age group was 15-24 years (40.5%), in both sexes. Oral ingestion (86.5%) was found to be the most common route of poisoning. The most frequent reason for poisoning was attempted suicide (75.9%). The most common organophosphate compounds exposed were dichlorvos, diazinon and parathion-methyl. The most frequent clinical signs were miosis, respiratory system findings, tachycardia, loss of consciousness, and hypertension. Twenty patients (9.1%) died due to sudden respiratory and cardiac arrest (45%), respiratory failure (25%), CNS depression (5%) and septic shock (25%).
We think that the appropriate use of these compounds, instruction of the public about their harmful effects and restriction of their uncontrolled sales by legal regulations can reduce the incidence of organophosphate poisoning.
A neonate with reversible, nonobstructive common hepatic duct enlargement secondary to intravenous morphine administration is presented.
After treatment with valproic acid a 19-year-old female patient with Friedreich's ataxia and generalised epilepsy died following acute hepatic failure with massive lactacidosis. The clinical symptoms were characterised by hyperventilation, increasing loss of consciousness and shock, leading to treatment-resistant hepatic coma. Morbid anatomy showed extensive confluent lytic necroses of liver acini with accentuation of centrolobular and intermediary structures as well as small and medium-sized fatty degeneration increasing from the periphery towards the centre. The disease picture is quite characteristic for being caused by valproic acid. As a safety measure liver function tests should be done should prodromal symptoms such as anorexia, weakness and apathy arise. If necessary the dosage has to be reduced or medication stopped. Serum valproic acid levels should remain in the lower half of the therapeutic range.
We performed a prospective, placebo-controlled, cross-over study in 20 young healthy female volunteers. We evaluated both the cardiovascular and IOP effects of both timolol maleate and apraclonidine hydrochloride. In addition, we evaluated the plasma levels of various apraclonidine concentrations. We utilized 0.5% timolol and both the 0.25% and 0.50% concentrations of apraclonidine. Both timolol and apraclonidine lowered IOP comparably. Timolol lowered the resting pulse rate and blunted exercise-induced tachycardia. Apraclonidine did not affect blood pressure or heart rate any differently than placebo. We detected plasma levels of apraclonidine in many individuals for up to 8 hours. These serum levels were variable and did not appear to relate to the quantity of IOP lowering.
The inhibitory effects of exogenous melatonin (MEL) on colon oncogenesis were investigated using an azoxymethane (AOM)/dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) rat model. Male F344 rats initiated with a single intraperitoneal injection of AOM (20mg/kg bw) were promoted by 1% (w/v) DSS in drinking water for 7 days. They were then given 0.4, 2 or 10ppm MEL in drinking water for 17 weeks. At week 20, the development of colonic adenocarcinoma was significantly inhibited by the administration with MEL dose-dependently. MEL exposure modulated the mitotic and apoptotic indices in the colonic adenocarcinomas that developed and lowered the immunohistochemical expression of nuclear factor kappa B, tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-1beta and STAT3 in the epithelial malignancies. These results may indicate the beneficial effects of MEL on colitis-related colon carcinogenesis and a potential application for inhibiting colorectal cancer development in the inflamed colon.
Eosinophils are major effector cells in allergic diseases including asthma. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) is a nuclear receptor that regulates immune reaction. We have previously demonstrated that human eosinophils express PPARgamma and that stimulation with a synthetic agonist for PPARgamma attenuated the factor-induced eosinophil survival and chemotaxis. However, the modulator of the eosinophil PPARgamma expression has not yet been studied. In this study, we investigated the effect of theophylline and dexamethasone (widely used drugs in the treatment of asthma) on PPARgamma expression in eosinophils. Purified human peripheral blood eosinophils were cultured, and therapeutic concentrations of theophylline and dexamethasone were added. Subsequently, PPARgamma was measured using quantitative real-time RT-PCR and flow cytometry. Theophylline and dexamethasone markedly enhanced both mRNA and protein levels of PPARgamma. These findings suggest that the increase in PPARgamma expression on eosinophils may play a role in the anti-inflammatory effects of theophylline and dexamethasone.
In a multicentre trial of adjuvant chemotherapy in gastric adenocarcinoma, a number of patients developed chronic haemolysis and renal failure following long-term treatment with 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin-C. This was exacerbated by blood transfusion, leading to an acute intravascular haemolytic state accompanied by rapid decline in renal function. One patient investigated extensively was treated with antiplatelet drugs, steroids, and fresh frozen plasma without success. At necropsy this patient and another had renal changes typical of the haemolytic-uraemic syndrome and no evidence of tumour recurrence. Long-term treatment with this drug combination is potentially dangerous, and routine monitoring of renal function is recommended.
Cocaine use in North America has reached epidemic proportions becoming one of the top causes of drug-related visits to US emergency rooms. The number of users has increased due to the popularity and accessibility of crack cocaine. The pharmacokinetic properties and effects of cocaine on the cardiovascular system can lead to serious complications. Cocaine is known to induce angina and precipitate myocardial infarction. Cocaine use has been associated with the development of dilated cardiomyopathy, left ventricular dysfunction, and can also predispose a patient to a variety of cardiac arrhythmias including sudden cardiac death. Additionally, cocaine use has been associated with spontaneous aortic and coronary dissection, mesenteric ischemia, stroke, venous thrombosis, and a variety of pulmonary complications. This review article focuses on the effects and complications of cocaine upon the cardiovascular system.
We report a case of carbamazepine-induced aplastic anemia. After an initial treatment period of 10 days (600 mg/day), moderate, persisting pancytopenia was observed. Three years later, carbamazepine treatment was resumed at 400 mg/day for 120 days. Subsequently, more severe, irreversible pancytopenia due to bone marrow aplasia was diagnosed. History, course, bone marrow findings and the extensive, negative work-up for other causes of aplastic anemia strongly indicate that carbamazepine was etiologically responsible. Aplastic anemia secondary to carbamazepine treatment is rarely reported. Information on the dose and time of exposure are only available from anecdotal case reports. Based on a literature survey we analyze the risk of this potentially lethal hematological side-effect and make recommendations for routine blood checks.
Rifampicin (RIF) and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) therapies have beneficial effects in chronic cholestatic diseases. These may result in part from the induction of multidrug-resistance protein 2 (MRP2/ABCC2) expression in the liver and kidney. However, the precise mechanisms by which RIF and UDCA act in cholestasis remain unclear. In the present study, we report the effects of chronic administration of both drugs in a patient with Dubin-Johnson syndrome (DJS), an inherited autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the absence of functional MRP2 protein at the canalicular hepatocyte membrane. A novel 974C-->G nonsense mutation was identified in the MRP2 gene sequence from this patient. RIF induced further increase in conjugated bilirubinemia, whereas concomitant administration of RIF and UDCA led to a dramatic rise in serum bile acid concentrations. These biochemical effects, which are in marked contrast to those observed in cholestatic settings, were concomitant with an increased MRP3, but not MRP4, expression on basolateral hepatocyte membrane. Such findings highlight the key role of MRP2 in the pharmacological properties of RIF and UDCA and suggest that both drugs should be used with caution in pathologic settings in which MRP2 expression may be downregulated, as in advanced stage of cholestatic diseases.
The treatment of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis has been difficult, with overall poor results using intensive and costly therapy. The authors evaluated the treatment of this problem in four patients with prostaglandin intravesical therapy. Each patient had failed to respond to conservative management. Carboprost tromethamine (Hemabate) was instilled into the bladder, with dwell times ranging from 45 to 60 minutes, three to four times a day for 4 to 5 days. Two of the patients required a second course with carboprost tromethamine at an increased concentration. A third patient's treatment was stopped after the first 5-day course because of intractable bladder spasms and persistent hematuria. In the three patients who completed the full course of therapy the hematuria resolved completely. The only side effect noted was bladder spasms, which were controlled in three of the four patients with oxybutynin chloride. This preliminary evaluation suggests that carboprost tromethamine may be a safe and effective bedside treatment of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
Acute manifestations of various psychopathological symptoms require detailed differential diagnostic procedure, since their cause is found to be somatic in several cases. These adverse events during the treatment are often the side effects of the prescribed drugs or drug-drug interactions. In the presented case report, the patient had complex visual-auditory hallucinations two days after the initiation of tramadol-clarithromycin coadministration and these transient symptoms were repeated for two days. After the interruption of the administration of these drugs, the symptoms disappeared in two days, without the administration of any kind of psychotropics. These two drugs by themselves may cause hallucinations, and because both of them are metabolized by the same enzyme (CYP 3A4) in the liver, symptoms were worsened by the drug-drug interaction. The reason of this effect is that tramadol is the substrate and clarithromycin is the inhibitor of the CYP 3A4 enzyme. Medical examination results (physical examination, ECG, blood samples, CT scan, EEG) could not be causally related to the symptoms. Suspected risk factors were the old age of the patient, the condition of his brain and the interactions with other previously prescribed drugs. This case report calls the attention of clinicians to the fact that in vitro drug-drug interactions in vivo can produce clinical manifestations more often then taken into account.
Synthetic estrogens induce hypospadias, an anomaly of genital tubercle/urethral development. Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), which is estrogen-responsive in vitro, is upregulated in hypospadiac human tissue. We used a mouse model of steroid-dependent genital tubercle development to elucidate the ontogeny of ATF3 expression and the developmental response of ATF3 in vivo to estrogen exposure.
We used quantitative RT-PCR to assess ontogenic expression of ATF3 and its response to estrogen treatment in utero. Immunohistochemistry was used to localize the protein.
Quantitative RT-PCR showed that ATF3 mRNA is upregulated in all estrogen-exposed fetal genital tubercles compared to controls (p = 0.024), including specifically in males exposed in utero (p = 0.049). Additionally, its expression increases significantly during the period of sexual differentiation in both sexes and significantly correlates with female development (p = 0.004), a phenomenon that appears to be attributable to higher levels at birth in females. The protein localizes in the nucleus, as expected.
ATF3 is estrogen-responsive in vivo. The response of ATF3 to estrogenic stimulation in utero at an earlier stage may contribute to urethral abnormalities observed in estrogen-exposed male fetuses, although it is likely not the only gene involved, which supports the general understanding that hypospadias is subject to multifactorial influences. ATF3 may therefore be an appropriate gene for further investigations in an endocrine context.
Prior research suggests that childhood brain tumors (CBTs) may be associated with exposure to pesticides. Organophosphorus insecticides (OPs) target the developing nervous system, and until recently, the most common residential insecticides were chlorpyrifos and diazinon, two OPs metabolized in the body through the cytochrome P450/paraoxonase 1 (PON1) pathway. To investigate whether two common PON1 polymorphisms, C-108T and Q192R, are associated with CBT occurrence, we conducted a population-based study of 66 cases and 236 controls using DNA from neonatal screening archive specimens in Washington State, linked to interview data. The risk of CBT was nonsignificantly increased in relation to the inefficient PON1 promoter allele [per PON1(-108T) allele, relative to PON1(-108CC): odds ratio (OR) = 1.4; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.0-2.2; p-value for trend = 0.07]. Notably, this association was strongest and statistically significant among children whose mothers reported chemical treatment of the home for pests during pregnancy or childhood (per PON1(-108T) allele: among exposed, OR = 2.6; 95% CI, 1.2-5.5; among unexposed, OR = 0.9; 95% CI, 0.5-1.6) and for primitive neuroectodermal tumors (per PON1(-108T) allele: OR = 2.4; 95% CI, 1.1-5.4). The Q192R polymorphism, which alters the structure of PON1 and influences enzyme activity in a substrate-dependent manner, was not associated with CBT risk, nor was the PON1(C-108T/Q192R) haplotype. These results are consistent with an inverse association between PON1 levels and CBT occurrence, perhaps because of PON1's ability to detoxify OPs common in children's environments. Larger studies that measure plasma PON1 levels and incorporate more accurate estimates of pesticide exposure will be required to confirm these observations.
Meningitis is usually produced by an infectious agent, but there are multiple noninfectious causes. Medications may produce both acute and recurrent meningitis. We present a patient with 3 episodes of aseptic meningitis due to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and then review the topic of drug-induced meningitis.
Over the counter (OTC) medicines are commonly used in the United States despite a lack of scientific evidence for clinical utility and toxicity associated with their use. A case of jaundice and IgA nephropathy as a consequence of use of a muscle enhancing OTC supplement that was advertised as innocuous with no hormonal activity is described. IgA nephropathy has not been described previously in association with the use of testosterone. The case highlights that, besides adulteration, the misrepresentation of chemicals present in OTC medications and supplements can create confusion and a false sense of security with their use.
Recent studies suggest that alpha(2) adrenoceptor blockade may improve the antipsychotic-like effects of neuroleptics and attenuate dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist-induced catalepsy. However, several alpha(2) adrenergic antagonists also display serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist activity, which may contribute to anticataleptic actions.
In this study, we examined a series of alpha(2) adrenergic antagonists to determine the role of activity at serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptors in their anticataleptic effects.
Catalepsy in rats induced by the antipsychotic haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg, SC) was measured using the cross-legged position (CLP) and bar tests. The compounds examined in this study, in decreasing rank order of alpha(2) adrenergic versus 5-HT(1A) receptor selectivity, were atipamezole, methoxy-idazoxan (RX821002), efaroxan, idazoxan, and yohimbine. Antagonism studies were conducted using the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide dihydrochloride (WAY100635).
Idazoxan, efaroxan, and yohimbine significantly attenuated the cataleptic effects of haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg, SC) in the CLP test and the actions of their highest doses were significantly blocked by pre-treatment with WAY100635 (0.63 mg/kg, SC). In contrast to the other compounds, methoxy-idazoxan was ineffective in the CLP test. Atipamezole exhibited anticataleptic effects in the bar and CLP tests which were not blocked by WAY100635. Similarly, the anticataleptic effects of methoxy-idazoxan and idazoxan in the bar test were not blocked by WAY100635.
Serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptors play a prominent role in anticataleptic effects of certain alpha(2) adrenergic antagonists in the CLP test, whereas alpha(2)-adrenergic mechanisms are likely to be primarily responsible for the anticataleptic effects of these ligands in the bar test.
To evaluate the efficacy of EBVD combination chemotherapy followed by low dose (LD) involved field (IF) radiation therapy (RT) in patients with clinical stage (CS) I-IIA Hodgkin's disease (HD), we analyzed 148 patients treated in our Unit from March 1988 to November 1995. EBVD consisted of Epirubicine 40 mg/m2, Bleomycin 10 mg/m2, Vinblastine 6 mg/m2 and Dacarbazine 300 mg. All drugs were administered i.v. at days 1 and 15, every 4 weeks, for a total of 4-6 cycles. LDIF RT (24-32 Gy) was scheduled for patients with complete response (CR) or >90% reduction of tumor load, after EBVD. Patients with stable or progressive disease (SD, PD) after EBVDx3 or poor compliance to the regimen received mantle or inverted Y RT at standard dose. The median follow-up of patients currently alive was 71.5 months. 129 patients achieved a CR after EBVD and 10 a >90% reduction of tumor load, for a post-CT response rate of 94%. Eight patients had SD after EBVDx3 and one had a partial response with poor compliance. All 9 patients received mantle or inverted Y RT and 8/9 achieved a CR. Nine patients relapsed at a median of 7 months from the end of treatment. At 10 years, FFS was 90% and overall survival 95%. Six patients have died so far; 5 of HD and one of stroke. One patient developed a diffuse large cell lymphoma 48 months after the diagnosis of HD. We conclude that EBVD followed by LDIF RT is a highly effective regimen for patients with CS I-IIA HD. Longer follow up is required to assess the risk of secondary malignancies, especially solid tumors.
Cerebrovascular reactivity during hypocapnia was tested in 20 migraineurs (8 with aura, 12 without aura) and 30 sex- and age-matched healthy subjects, and during nitroglycerin-induced headache in 12 healthy subjects. Before and during hyperventilation, mean blood-flow velocity (Vmean) in the middle cerebral artery was measured with transcranial Doppler. In each subject a pCO2 reactivity index (RI) was calculated as (delta Vmean/baseline Vmean)/delta pCO2. Interictally, patients with migraine with aura showed higher RI (p < 0.05 ANOVA and multiple range test) than controls, whereas migraineurs without aura did not differ from healthy subjects. Ictal and interictal RIs were similar in 9 patients suffering from migraine without aura. No side-to-side differences were detected in RI. During nitroglycerin-induced headache, the RIs were no different from those recorded during migraine attacks and in non-nitroglycerin-provoked healthy controls (p > 0.05, ANOVA and multiple range test). The exaggerated response in migraine with aura might predispose for the characteristic changes in rCBF seen during attacks.
Devising therapies that might prevent the onset or progression of pulmonary hypertension in newborns has received little attention. Our major objective was to determine whether sildenafil, a selective phosphodiesterase inhibitor, prevents the development of an early stage of chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension in newborn pigs. Another objective was to determine whether sildenafil causes pulmonary vasodilation without systemic vasodilation in piglets with chronic pulmonary hypertension. Piglets were raised in room air (control, n = 5) or 10-11% O(2) (hypoxic, n = 17) for 3 days. Some piglets (n = 4) received oral sildenafil, 12 mg/kg/day, throughout exposure to hypoxia. All piglets were anesthetized and catheterized, and pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa), pulmonary wedge pressure (Pw), aortic pressure (Ao), and cardiac output (CO) were measured. Then for some piglets raised in hypoxia for 3 days, a single oral sildenafil dose (3 mg/kg, n = 6) or placebo (n = 5) was given, and hemodynamic measurements were repeated. For piglets raised in hypoxia for 3 days, mean Ppa and calculated PVR were elevated above respective values in control piglets. Mean Ppa and PVR did not differ between piglets that received sildenafil throughout exposure to hypoxia and those that did not. For piglets with chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension that received a single oral dose of sildenafil, mean Ppa and PVR decreased, while mean Pw, CO, mean Ao, and systemic vascular resistance remained the same. All hemodynamic measurements were unchanged after placebo. Oral sildenafil did not influence the early stage of chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension in newborn piglets. However, a single oral dose of sildenafil caused pulmonary vasodilation, without systemic vasodilation, in piglets with chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension, which may have therapeutic implications.
Serum paraoxonase/arylesterase (PONA) is associated with high-density lipoprotein and may prevent oxidation of low-density lipoprotein by hydrolyzing lipid peroxides. A recent report suggested an association of glutamine (A type)/arginine (B type) polymorphism at position 192 of PONA gene with coronary heart disease (CHD) among Caucasian patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). However, conflicting results have also been reported. To investigate the significance of this polymorphism in the pathogenesis of CHD, we performed an association study of this polymorphism with CHD in Japanese NIDDM patients. We genotyped 164 patients with NIDDM, 42 with CHD, and 122 without CHD. Other known risk factors for CHD were matched between the 2 groups. AB+BB isoforms were detected in 41 of 42 diabetic patients with CHD. The proportion of B allele carriers (AB+BB) was significantly higher than that of AA carriers among diabetic patients with CHD compared with those without CHD (chi 2 = 7.68, P = 0.003). Multivariate logistic regression analyses showed a markedly increased odds ratio (OR: 8.823, CI, 1.13-68.7) in B allele carriers, while ORs of other risk factors remained between 1.01 and 1.92. Carriers of the B allele of the Gln192Arg polymorphism in the PONA gene proved to be at increased risk for developing CHD in Japanese NIDDM patients. This association was independent of other known risk factors for CHD, suggesting an important role of the paraoxonase B isoform in the pathogenesis of CHD.
The efficacy and safety of fluoxetine, a new antidepressant agent, were assessed in a double-blind, parallel, randomized study of 44 outpatients with major depressive disorder. Following a 1-week placebo period, patients were randomly assigned to either fluoxetine or amitriptyline for a period of 5 weeks. The mean maintenance dosages were 55 mg/day for fluoxetine and 159 mg/day for amitriptyline. Both drugs were effective in relieving the symptoms of depression. The most frequently reported side effects were nausea and nervousness for fluoxetine, and dry mouth, dizziness, and drowsiness for amitriptyline.
The authors compared and characterized several new classes of camptothecin (CPT) analogs (a total of 22 drugs) directed against human and murine glioma cell lines in vitro, trying to identify CPT analogs that can be used for local therapy in future clinical trials. Camptothecin is a naturally occurring alkaloid that inhibits the DNA-replicating enzyme topoisomerase I. Moreover, CPT and its analogs have shown promising antitumor activity against both systemic and intracranial neoplasms. Because the CPTs have poor bioavailability and are unable to cross the blood-brain barrier, they may best be delivered to the central nervous system by polymers. The authors have previously shown that local delivery of Na-CPT by implantable polymers prolongs survival in a rat intracranial glioma model. In recent years, a number of newly synthesized CPT analogs have been developed that exhibit more potency and stability than Na-CPT.
Cytotoxicities of the drugs were tested using modified clonogenic and monotetrazolium assays in three glioma cell lines. A potassium chloride-sodium dodecyl sulfate coprecipitation assay was used to determine the frequency of drug-stabilized cleavable complexes. Of the CPT analogs analyzed, the 10,11-methylenedioxy (MD) class consistently demonstrated the greatest cytotoxicity. Three of these analogs, 10,11-MD-20(RS)-CPT, 10,11-MD-20(S)-CPT-glycinate ester (Gly).HCl, and 9-amino-10,11-MD-20(S)-CPT-Gly, exhibit significantly greater antiproliferative activities than CPT, Na-CPT, or 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) against all three glioma cell lines. In addition, the 10,11-MD-20(RS)-CPT analog induces more cleavable complexes than Na-CPT at every concentration.
The increased potency and greater stability of CPT analogs hold promise for more effective local antitumor treatments against malignant intracranial brain tumors. The greater cytotoxicity of 10,11-MD CPTs in comparison with other CPT analogs as well as CPT, BCNU, or Na-CPT, may present an ideal candidate drug class for development against both primary and metastatic brain tumors.
We describe 2 patients who developed reversible decompensated liver disease while taking pulse dosed methotrexate (MTX) for rheumatoid arthritis. One of the patients was available for biopsy and had chronic active hepatitis--a lesion not previously described with MTX. This appears to be a unique and unusual manifestation of MTX hepatotoxicity.
