The US is currently experiencing a grave epidemic of methamphetamine use as a recreational drug, and the risk for HIV-1 infection attributable to methamphetamine use continues to increase. Recent studies show a high prevalence of HIV infection among methamphetamine users. Dendritic cells (DCs) are potent antigen presenting cells that are the initial line of defense against HIV-1 infection. In addition, DCs also serve as reservoirs for HIV-1 and function at the interface between the adaptive and the innate immune systems, which recognize and internalize pathogens and subsequently activate T cells. Exposure to methamphetamine results in modulation of immune functional parameters that are necessary for host defense. Chronic methamphetamine use can cause psychiatric co-morbidity, neurological complications, and can alter normal biological processes and immune functions. Limited information is available on the mechanisms by which methamphetamine may influence immune function. This study explores the effect of methamphetamine on a specific array of genes that may modulate immune function. We hypothesize that methamphetamine treatment results in the immunomodulation of DC functions, leading to dysregulation of the immune system of the infected host. This suggests that methamphetamine has a role as a cofactor in the pathogenesis of HIV-1.
We used the high-throughput technology of gene microarray analysis to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the genomic changes that alter normal biological processes when DCs are treated with methamphetamine. Additionally, we validated the results obtained from microarray experiments using a combination of quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot analysis.
These data are the first evidence that methamphetamine modulates DC expression of several genes. Methamphetamine treatment alters categories of genes that are associated with chemokine regulation, cytokinesis, signal transduction mechanisms, apoptosis, and cell cycle regulation. This report focuses on a selected group of genes that are significantly modulated by methamphetamine treatment and that have been associated with HIV-1 pathogenesis.
The purpose of this study was to identify genes that are unique and/or specific to the complex immunomodulatory mechanisms that are altered as a result of methamphetamine abuse in HIV-1-infected patients. These studies will help to identify the molecular mechanisms that underlie methamphetamine toxicity, and several functionally important classes of genes have emerged as targets in methamphetamine-mediated immunopathogenesis of HIV-1. Identification of novel DC-specific and methamphetamine-responsive genes that modulate several biological, molecular, and signal transduction functions may serve as methamphetamine- and/or HIV-1-specific drug targets.
This prospective study compared intraocular pressure (IOP) control, cardiorespiratory function, and adverse effects in 50 patients with glaucoma and ocular hypertension. Patients on topical combination timolol-latanoprost therapy were recruited. After they had used this combination for at least 2 months, they were switched to bimatoprost monotherapy. Full ocular examination and spirometric testing were performed; a questionnaire concerned with ocular symptoms was completed, and pulse rate was recorded. Two months later, mean IOP was similar with the combination (17.2 mm Hg) and with bimatoprost (16.4 mm Hg), but mean peak expiratory flow rate, ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital capacity, and heart rate had increased significantly after the switch was made to bimatoprost. Adverse effects generally were similar with these regimens; however, the incidence of hyperemia doubled after the switch had been made. Bimatoprost and the timolol-latanoprost combination were equally efficacious in lowering IOP; bimatoprost had less of an effect on cardiorespiratory function.
In a plural and multidisciplinary process of care, it would be fruitful to ally complementary, pharmacologic and psychodynamic approaches. We have done a review of the literature on the effectiveness and the cautions for prescription of risperidone, a second generation antipsychotic drug. Risperidone has proved helpful in treating children and adolescents with autism spectrum, conduct and bipolar disorders, Tourette's syndrome, and schizophrenia. The principal side effects are sedation, weight gain, and metabolic disturbances. Extrapyramidal symptoms, QTc prolongation, and hyperprolactemia with clinical signs are infrequent and not clinically significant. The benefit/risk is clearly in favor of the prescription when it is accompanied with the precautions and with the adequate monitoring.
Leucine-rich repeat-containing 3B (LRRC3B) is an evolutionarily highly conserved leucine-rich repeat-containing protein, but its biological significance is unknown. Using restriction landmark genomic scanning and pyrosequencing, we found that the promoter region of LRRC3B was aberrantly methylated in gastric cancer. Gastric cancer cell lines displayed epigenetic silencing of LRRC3B, but treatment with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and/or the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A increased LRRC3B expression in gastric cancer cell lines. Real-time reverse transcription-PCR analysis of 96 paired primary gastric tumors and normal adjacent tissues showed that LRRC3B expression was reduced in 88.5% of gastric tumors compared with normal adjacent tissues. Pyrosequencing analysis of the promoter region revealed that LRRC3B was significantly hypermethylated in gastric tumors. Stable transfection of LRRC3B in SNU-601 cells, a gastric cancer cell line, inhibited anchorage-dependent and anchorage-independent colony formation, and LRRC3B expression suppressed tumorigenesis in nude mice. Microarray analysis of LRRC3B-expressing xenograft tumors showed induction of immune response-related genes and IFN signaling genes. H&E-stained sections of LRRC3B-expressing xenograft tumors showed lymphocyte infiltration in the region. We suggest that LRRC3B is a putative tumor suppressor gene that is silenced in gastric cancers by epigenetic mechanisms and that LRRC3B silencing in cancer may play an important role in tumor escape from immune surveillance.
(1) To prospectively evaluate the incidence of increased intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients suffering from chronic uveitis. (2) To identify the main factors responsible for an increase in the IOP among these patients.
Two hundred and one patients suffering from chronic uveitis were included. Enrolled patients had an initial IOP of 8-18 mmHg. The patients were treated and clinically monitored during a period of 4 years. The IOP was measured at each visit and its changes followed prospectively. All patients were followed up for at least 12 months after enrollment.
Twenty-four (12%) of the 201 patients had IOP higher than 24 mmHg at two or more consecutive visits. Of these 24 patients, 19 suffered from bilateral uveitis and 5 had unilateral disease. Four of the 19 patients with bilateral uveitis developed a constant IOP higher than 24 mmHg in both eyes, while in 15 patients an IOP higher than 24 mmHg persisted only in one eye. A close association between the increased IOP and the use of corticosteroids was found in 18 of the 24 cases (75%). This association was ascertained in 16 of these patients by the decrease in IOP levels on discontinuation of the corticosteroid regimen and the renewed increase IOP was due to pupillary block in three cases (12.5%), to iris and angle neovascularization in two (8.3%), and to the inflammatory process per se in one case only (4.2%).
This study demonstrates that a persistent elevation of the IOP in patients suffering from chronic uveitis is, in the majority of cases, associated with the use of corticosteroids.
The use of beta-adrenergic antagonists for primary prevention of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients with cirrhosis and esophageal varices is discussed. In five controlled trials, patients with cirrhosis and endoscopically proven esophageal varices were treated with either propranolol or nadolol in doses to reduce heart rate by 20-25% or in doses to decrease hepatic vein pressure by 25% of basal levels or to a level of less than 12 mm Hg. In two of three studies, investigators found that propranolol significantly reduced frequency of initial bleeding in patients with esophageal varices. In one of two studies, nadolol significantly decreased the risk of variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis; in the other study, a significant difference in the frequency of initial bleeding was found only among patients who were compliant with therapy. Only one of the five studies showed a significant difference in survival between the treatment group and the placebo group. Adverse effects of therapy included dizziness, fatigue, cardiac insufficiency, Raynaud's phenomenon, and risk of bleeding associated with propranolol withdrawal. Therapy with a nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonist should be considered for primary prevention of gastrointestinal hemorrhage in patients with cirrhosis and suspected or documented large varices; however, abrupt discontinuation of the medication is associated with risk of bleeding.
The effects of nicotine on intestinal and tracheal mucosa and epithelial cells were studied in vivo and in vitro. Rats received 108 microM nicotine in their drinking water for 10 days. Intestine and trachea were removed and prepared for X-ray microanalysis, transmission electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry. X-ray microanalysis of freeze-dried cryosections of intestine and trachea showed an increase in Na and Cl, and a decrease in K in the lamina propria of the intestine and the epithelial cells and the submucosal compartment of the trachea. Analysis of frozen-hydrated trachea, in order to determine ionic changes in the airway-surface liquid (ASL), indicated that the Na and Cl content in the ASL decreased after nicotine treatment. Immunocytochemistry showed upregulation of ICAM-1 in the submucosal connective tissue of the trachea and the lamina propria of the intestine. Transmission electron microscopy showed a somewhat increased number of eosinophils in the lamina propria of nicotine-treated rats, increased edema in the submucosal connective tissue, and a somewhat increased number of damaged basal cells in the trachea of nicotine-treated rats, compared to the controls. These data indicate that nicotine may evoke an inflammatory reaction, in particular in the trachea, that could cause cell damage and with that changes in the ionic relations of the epithelial cells. The in vitro experiments showed that nicotine could directly affect ion transport by inhibiting cAMP-stimulated (but not ATP-stimulated) chloride efflux from cultured respiratory epithelial cells. This indicates that apart from indirect effects via inflammation, nicotine can directly affect the ionic homeostasis of the cells and the composition of the airway-surface liquid.
A 61 year old male patient was studied who manifested dehydration, azotemia, acidosis and hyperkalemia six weeks after exposure to methicillin. Thyroid and adrenal glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid function were normal. The dehydration was found to be caused by a profound sodium-losing nephropathy; urinary sodium ranged from 78 to 101 meq/day during a salt restricted diet. A distal renal tubular acidosis and a quantitively impaired ability to excrete potassium were also found. These defects were relatively unresponsive to mineralocorticoid or prednisone therapy. A renal biopsy specimen showed an interstitial nephritis which selectively affected distal tubules and was thought to be secondary to methicillin. The data suggest functional impairment specific for the distal tubule, but with only a modest decrease in the glomerular filtration rate.
The modifying effects of caffeine ingestion on glandular stomach carcinogenesis induced by N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) and sodium chloride (NaCl) were investigated in male Wistar rats. Animals were given a MNNG solution (100 ppm) as their drinking water and simultaneously fed a diet supplemented with 5% NaCl for 8 wk. They then received 0.25% caffeine solution (groups 1 and 3) or tap water (groups 2 and 4) as the drinking water, and were fed the NaCl diet (groups 1 and 2) or basal diet (groups 3 and 4) for the following 32 wk. Both caffeine and NaCl treatments exerted growth retardation effects, the suppression being stronger with caffeine than NaCl, and animals in group 1 (NaCl plus caffeine) showing the lowest body weight. The incidence of adenocarcinomas in the pylorus was significantly decreased in group 1 compared with the group 2 (NaCl) value (P < 0.05). The incidence of atypical hyperplasias in the fundus was also lower in group 1 than in group 2, although in both cases significantly higher (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01) than in group 4 (no treatment). These results were in good agreement with short-term assay findings whereby lipid peroxidation in the glandular stomach mucosa induced by 4% NaCl ingestion was inhibited by caffeine treatment. In group 3 (caffeine), caffeine intake by itself did not modulate glandular stomach tumour development. The results thus suggest that caffeine inhibits the gastric tumour promotion activity of NaCl in rats.
The potential carcinogenicity of coffee and related compounds was examined using a medium-term liver bioassay based on the induction of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci in F344 rats. A total of 230 males were initially injected with diethylnitrosamine (200 mg/kg body weight, ip) or saline as controls and 2 wk later were fed on diet or drinking water supplemented as follows for 6 wk: 5% regular instant coffee; 5% decaffeinated instant coffee; freshly brewed coffee, 8 g in 140 ml water; 0.1% caffeine, 0.2% methylglyoxal, 0.2% glyoxal; or 0.3% theophylline in the drinking water (w/v); and 0.4% theobromine in the diet (w/w). All rats were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy at wk 3 and killed at wk 8. The resultant values for GST-P-positive hepatic focus induction were slightly increased with methylglyoxal and decreased with glyoxal and theobromine compared with the corresponding controls. Although the increase in number of foci for methylglyoxal was statistically significant at P < 0.05, the value was within the historical control levels. Regular and decaffeinated instant coffee as well as fresh-brewed coffee, caffeine and theophylline exerted no effects on focus development. Thus, the coffee-related compounds examined demonstrated no obvious enhancing potential, and it is therefore concluded that coffee and its main constituents are not carcinogenic for the rat liver.
The aim of the study was to compare the incidence of anaemia in patients treated with zidovudine (ZDV) with that in patients treated with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) not including ZDV.
Using HIV Insight, a database of abstracted US HIV care centre medical charts, ZDV-naïve patients starting ZDV-containing HAART were compared with those starting non-ZDV, nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-containing HAART. Cohorts were divided as follows: group 1: without baseline anaemia [haemoglobin (Hb) >or=11 g/dL]; group 2: with baseline anaemia (Hb <11 g/dL). The incidence of anaemia (anaemia diagnosis, Hb <11 g/dL, erythropoietic therapy or blood transfusion) was computed for group 1. The anaemia hazard ratio (HR) was adjusted using Cox regression. The rate of worsening anaemia (Hb decrease >or=1.0 g/dL) was computed for group 2.
In group 1, the incidence of anaemia was 24.3 and 8.1 per 100 person-years in the ZDV and non-ZDV cohorts, respectively, after 6 months of follow-up, and 12.5 and 5.3 per 100 person-years after 24 months. Significant predictors of anaemia were ZDV, low initial Hb, injecting drug use, CD4 count <200 cells/microL and AIDS. The adjusted HR for ZDV was 1.6 (P=0.005). In group 2, the ZDV/non-ZDV risk ratio for worsening anaemia was 2.2 (95% confidence interval 1.1-4.3).
Patients initiating ZDV-containing HAART are at greater risk of developing new anaemia or worsening anaemia than patients initiating non-ZDV-containing HAART.
Acute inflammatory muscular syndromes secondary to clofibrate therapy are rare. They usually present with muscular pain in all four limbs with biochemical signs of rhabdomyolysis. The outcome is favourable as a rule with rapid regression of the clinical and biochemical changes after stopping the responsible drug. The authors report an atypical case of this syndrome with chest pains suggestive of angina.
The effects of prior experience with fighting and prior experience with both apomorphine and fighting were evaluated as possible sensitizing factors in rat intraspecific aggression induced by apomorphine. Results revealed that prior experience with the drug alone, or with fighting alone, had no effect on apomorphine-induced aggression. However, animals that had previously fought under the influence of apomorphine showed even higher levels of aggression suggesting that repeated experience with both the drug and fighting induces a type of sensitization.
Proton pump inhibitors are superior to H2-receptor antagonists in the prevention of relapse of oesophagitis, but few data directly compare the relative efficacies of lansoprazole and omeprazole in preventing oesophagitis relapse over a prolonged period.
Patients with healed Grade II, III or IV oesophagitis were treated with lansoprazole 30 mg o.d. or omeprazole 20 mg o.d. for 48 weeks. Endoscopy and symptom assessment were performed after 12. 24 and 48 weeks of treatment and an additional symptom assessment 36 weeks after starting treatment.
Intention-to-treat analysis included 248 patients (lansoprazole n = 126, omeprazole n = 122). Comparison of time to endoscopic and/or symptomatic relapse revealed no difference between the treatments. There was no significant difference between treatments with respect to the proportion of patients in whom endoscopic and/or symptomatic relapse was reported (lansoprazole 12/126 (9.5%), omeprazole 11/122 (9.0%)). No difference between the treatments in either the number or severity of adverse events was reported.
Continuous treatment with either lansoprazole 30 mg or omeprazole 20 mg is effective in preventing the relapse of oesophagitis over a 48-week period in a majority of patients. Both treatments exhibit a similar side-effect profile.
Multiple endpoints of spermatotoxicity in short duration tests (1-5 days exposure; 2.5-week assay interval) were investigated in a number of chemicals reported to produce minimal to severe reproductive effects when administered subchronically. Six of these chemicals (boric acid, dinoseb, 2,5-hexanedione, methoxychlor, metronidazole, ornidazole) produced substantial spermatotoxicity after 1 to 5 doses. Spermatotoxic effects of chlordimeform were equivocal while p,p'-DDT, n-hexane, and sodium chlorite were judged negative. Four chemicals with known acute effects (benomyl, busulfan, ethylene glycol monomethyl ether, nitrobenzene) elicited expected histopathologic responses after a single dose. Testicular histology, testicular sperm head counts, cauda sperm counts, sperm morphology, and sperm velocity proved to be the most toxicologically sensitive endpoints in one or more of the studies, but histopathology of the testis and epididymis was the most consistent indicator of reproductive damage. The percentage of motile sperm and sperm concentration in the epididymal fluid were the least sensitive measurements. The data suggested that most chemicals with the potential to produce moderate to severe sperm damage are detectable with a short duration test. Complementary multiple endpoints enhanced the interpretation of results, often identified cellular targets, and provided insight on possible mechanisms. Specific responses were often similar to specific effects reported for subchronic exposures. A short duration test could be of value as a screen in structure-activity studies or to set priorities for chemicals requiring further evaluation. As a supplement to breeding studies, the data generated in the short test could also be used to enhance the design and interpretation of the longer tests.
The muscarinic cholinergic agonist pilocarpine induces in rats seizures and status epilepticus followed by widespread damage to the forebrain. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of 5 non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, sodium salicylate, phenylbutazone, indomethacin, ibuprofen and mefenamic acid, on seizures produced by pilocarpine. Pretreatment of rats with sodium salicylate, ED50 103 mg/kg (60-174), and phenylbutazone, 59 mg/kg (50-70) converted the non-convulsant dose of pilocarpine, 200 mg/kg, to a convulsant one. Indomethacin, 1-10 mg/kg, and ibuprofen, 10-100 mg/kg, failed to modulate seizures produced by pilocarpine. Mefenamic acid, 26 (22-30) mg/kg, prevented seizures and protected rats from seizure-related brain damage induced by pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg. These results indicate that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs differentially modulate the threshold for pilocarpine-induced seizures.
To investigate the mRNA expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) receptor subunits alpha(1), beta(1), gamma(2) in different parts of the brain of rats with hepatic encephalopathy.
Twelve adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into two groups: (1) hepatic encephalopathy model group (n = 6), which was induced by intraperitoneal injection of thioacetamide (TAA, 350 mg/kg) for three consecutive days; (2) control group (n = 6), in which the rats were treated with same dose of normal saline solution. After the freeze slice of cerebrum was made, in situ hybridization was used to detect the mRNA of GABAA receptor subunits alpha(1), beta(1), and gamma(2) in rat cerebral cortex, basal nuclei, substantia nigra and hippocampi. Image data were collected and analyzed quantitatively by QWin550CW model image signal gather and analysis system.
In rats with hepatic encephalopathy, mRNA expression levels of GABA(A) receptor subunits alpha(1), beta(1) increased significantly in basal nuclei, substantia nigra pars compacta, substantia nigra pars reticularis and hippocampi (144.7+/-15.67/184.14+/-4.41, 60.61+/-33.66/113.07+/-32.44, 87.71+/- 21.25/128.40+/-18.85, 122.34+/-5.56/161.60+/-4.56, 123.29+/-5.21/140.65+/-4.15, 123.40+/-4.42/140.09+/-4.52, 124.76+/-4.18/140.09+/-4.12, 141.62+/-15.09/182.80 +/-5.20, 69.13+/-30.74/134.21+/-43.76, 87.87+/-25.16/151.01+/-19.49, 122.14+/-6.30 /162.33+/-3.92, 122.81+/-5.09/137.19+/-7.12, 123.00+/-4.63/138.11+/-5.92, 125.75 +/-2.43/138.81+/-6.10, P<0.01), but did not change in the cerebral cortex compared to the control group. Similar changes were found in the mRNA expression levels of GABA(A) receptor subunit gamma(2), which increased significantly in basal nuclei, substantia nigra pars compacta, substantia nigra pars reticularis (136.81+/-26.41/167.97+/-16.23, 51.00+/-36.14/113.18+/-36.52, 86.35+/-20.30/ 126.90+/-19.74, P<0.01), CA1 of hippocampal (162.15+/-9.05/178.62+/-6.45, P<0.05), and no changes were found in the cerebral cortex and CA2, CA3, CA4 of hippocampi.
In rats with hepatic encephalopathy, mRNA expression levels of GABA(A) receptor subunits alpha(1), beta(1), gamma(2) increase significantly in basal nuclei, substantia nigra and hippocampi, suggesting that the changes of mRNA expression levels in GABA(A) receptor subunits may contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy.
Tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) is one of the major components in the matrix proteolytic network whose role in the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis remains unknown. The aim of this study is to investigate the role of tPA in carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver fibrosis.
Wild-type and tPA knockout mice (8 mice per group) were injected interperitoneumly with 25% CCl(4) 2 ml/kg twice per week as CCl(4) administration groups and olive oil 2 ml/kg as controls. After 4 weeks, the livers of mice were removed under deep anesthesia and prepared for further studies such as histology, immunostaining, hydroxyproline assay, zymography and western blot analysis.
Mice lacking tPA developed more severe morphological injury and displayed an increased deposition of collagen in the liver after CCl(4) administration compared with wild-type counterparts. Deficiency of tPA increased alpha-smooth muscle actin expression in the mice livers. On the other hand, the decrease of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activities, metalloproteinase-13 (MMP-13) expression and a marked increase of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) expression were found in the liver of CCl(4) administrated tPA(-/-) mice compared with wild-type counterparts.
Deficiency of tPA aggravated liver fibrosis through promoting hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) activation and inhibiting ECM degradation by decreasing MMP-2, MMP-9 activities and disrupting the balance between MMP-13 and TIMP-1.
Sumatriptan-induced changes in plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) concentration and headache intensity were investigated in 19 female migraineurs during nitroglycerin-induced migraine attack. Sumatriptan nasal spray was administered 120 min after the onset of the attack. Blood samples were obtained immediately before and 60 min after sumatriptan administration. In those subjects whose migraine attack improved considerably 60 min after the treatment the plasma CGRP concentration decreased significantly (P<0.05). In contrast, plasma CGRP concentration failed to change in patients whose headache did not improve. In addition, plasma CGRP concentrations showed significant positive correlations with the headache scores both 60 and 120 min after sumatriptan administration (P<0.05). According to our results plasma CGRP concentration decreases parallel to headache intensity during sumatriptan treatment and this decrease in CGRP predicts effectiveness of antimigraine drug therapy. This supports that one of the main effects of triptans is to decrease CGRP release.
Since preventive treatments for prion disease require early identification of subjects at risk, we searched for surrogate peripheral markers characterizing the asymptomatic phases of such conditions. To this effect, we subjected blood mRNA from E200K PrP CJD patients and corresponding family members to global arrays and found that the expression of Snord3A, a non-coding RNA transcript, was elevated several times in CJD patients as compared to controls, while asymptomatic carriers presented intermediate Snord3A levels. In the brains of TgMHu2ME199K mice, a mouse model mimicking for E200K CJD, Snord 3A levels were elevated in an age and disease severity dependent manner, as was the case for brains of these mice in which disease was exacerbated by copper administration. Snord3A expression was also elevated in scrapie infected mice, but not in PrP(0/0) mice, indicating that while the expression levels of this transcript may reflect diverse prion etiologies, they are not related to the loss of PrP(C)'s function. Elevation of Snord3A was consistent with the activation of ATF6, representing one of the arms of the unfolded protein response system. Indeed, SnoRNAs were associated with reduced resistance to oxidative stress, and with ER stress in general, factors playing a significant role in this and other neurodegenerative conditions. We hypothesize that in addition to its function as a disease marker, Snord3A may play an important role in the mechanism of prion disease manifestation and progression.
We hypothesized that the induction of heme oxygenase (HO)-1 and increased HO activity, which induces arterial antioxidative enzymes and vasoprotection in a mouse and a rat model of diabetes, would ameliorate insulin resistance, obesity, and diabetes in the ob mouse model of type 2 diabetes.
Lean and ob mice were intraperitoneally administered the HO-1 inducer cobalt protoporphyrin (3 mg/kg CoPP) with and without the HO inhibitor stannous mesoporphyrin (2 mg/100 g SnMP) once a week for 6 weeks. Body weight, blood glucose, and serum cytokines and adiponectin were measured. Aorta, adipose tissue, bone marrow, and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were isolated and assessed for HO expression and adipogenesis.
HO activity was reduced in ob mice compared with age-matched lean mice. Administration of CoPP caused a sustained increase in HO-1 protein, prevented weight gain, decreased visceral and subcutaneous fat content (P < 0.03 and 0.01, respectively, compared with vehicle animals), increased serum adiponectin, and decreased plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1beta levels (P < 0.05). HO-1 induction improved insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance and decreased insulin levels. Upregulation of HO-1 decreased adipogenesis in bone marrow in vivo and in cultured MSCs and increased adiponectin levels in the culture media. Inhibition of HO activity decreased adiponectin and increased secretion of TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-1beta levels in ob mice.
This study provides strong evidence for the existence of an HO-1-adiponectin regulatory axis that can be manipulated to ameliorate the deleterious effects of obesity and the metabolic syndrome associated with cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
Induced hypotensive anesthesia is a well established technique in adult patients. We examined retrospectively the effect of sodium nitroprusside pediatric patients undergoing pelvic osteotomy with simultaneous femoral osteotomy.
Twenty-three patients received sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotensive anesthesia (group N) and 14 patients received standard anesthesia (group C). In patients of Group N, a target mean arterial blood pressure of 50-60 mmHg was achieved by intravenous administration of sodium nitroprusside.
Significant differences were observed between the two groups in the amounts of intra-operative blood loss and fluid infusion. Group N had less intra-operative blood loss than Group C (Group N: 7.3 +/- 4.1 ml x kg(-1) vs. Group C: 10.9 +/- 4.0 ml x kg(-1), P<0.05). Group N had less intra-operative fluid infusion than Group C (Group N: 37.7 +/- 11.2 ml x kg(-1) vs. Group C: 53.9 +/- 15.0 ml x kg(-1), P<0.05). Urine output was not significantly different (Group N: 6.0 +/- 6.2 ml x kg(-1) vs. Group C: 7.0 +/- 5.7 ml x kg(-1), P=0.60). There were no side effects of sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension.
These results suggest that sodium nitroprusside is a safe and effective drug for induced hypotension in pediatric patients.
The anti-inflammatory effects of pranlukast, an antagonist of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor 1, may be rendered not only by antileukotriene activity but also by other pharmacological activities. Previous studies indicate that pranlukast reduces ischemic tissue injury partially through decreasing vascular permeability, but its effect on ischemic injury in endothelial cells is not known. Thus, in this study, we investigated the effect of pranlukast on ischemia-like injury induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in EA.hy926 cells, a human endothelial cell line, and the possible mechanisms. We found that cell viability was reduced, lactate dehydrogenase release was increased 4-8 hours after OGD, and necrosis was induced 8 hours after OGD. Production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) increased by 211%, 176%, and 128%, respectively, 0.5, 1, and 2 hours after OGD. Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) was translocated to the nuclei 4-8 hours after OGD. Pranlukast ameliorated the reduced viability, the increased lactate dehydrogenase release, and necrosis after OGD. It also reduced ROS production and inhibited NF-kappaB nuclear translocation after OGD. The ROS scavenger, edaravone, inhibited OGD-induced nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB as well. Edaravone and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (a specific NF-kappaB inhibitor) protected endothelial cells from the OGD-induced injury. However, zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, did not affect the cell injury, ROS production, and NF-kappaB nuclear translocation after OGD. The exogenous leukotriene D4 did not induce cell injury, ROS production, and NF-kappaB translocation. Thus, we conclude that pranlukast protects endothelial cells from ischemia-like injury via decreasing ROS production and inhibiting NF-kappaB activation, which is leukotriene independent.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the epidemiology of cutaneous leishmaniasis in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. In addition, the clinical spectrum of the disease was evaluated.
This is a retrospective study of cutaneous leishmania cases from 1956 to 2002.
In the study period, there were 1862 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis in the Saudi Aramco health care system. The disease is more prevalent in the Al-Hasa Oasis (Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia) and affects males and females equally. Cutaneous leishmaniasis follows a seasonal distribution in parallel with the known activity of the sandfly. The majority (76%) of cases occurred in patients < 15 years of age and the disease affected the extremities more frequently than the face. Seventy-one percent of patients presented with a single lesion and 27% presented with two lesions. Ulcerative cutaneous leishmaniasis was the predominant morphology (89%).
Cutaneous leishmaniasis attained epidemic proportions in 1973 and subsequently declined and reached a plateau in the mid-1980s. Skin involvement is the major clinical picture, with no evidence of dissemination or viscerotropic syndrome.
Polymorphous ventricular tachycardia occurred in 1.3% of patients (5 of 391) who received intracoronary papaverine over a 47 month period. The arrhythmia lasted less than 1 min in all five patients, converting spontaneously in four and requiring electrical cardioversion in one. Ventricular tachycardia occurred in 4.4% of women (4 of 90) and 0.3% of men (1 of 301) (p less than 0.0025). Only one of the patients with ventricular tachycardia had coronary artery disease. To determine whether other clinical or procedural factors predispose patients to this side effect of papaverine, these 5 patients were compared with 25 control patients who were matched for gender and extent of coronary artery disease. The following variables were analyzed: age, baseline serum potassium and calcium levels, left ventricular ejection fraction, baseline heart rate, mean arterial pressure, corrected QT interval, the change in corrected QT interval produced by papaverine and the maximal dose of the drug per kilogram of body weight. Of these variables, only baseline heart rate differed significantly in the two groups of patients. Thus, polymorphous ventricular tachycardia is an infrequent, but important, side effect of papaverine that is usually self-limited. Women with a relatively slow heart rate appear to be predisposed to this side effect.
To examine the effects of suplatast tosilate (IPD-1151T), a Th2 cytokine inhibitor recently recognized to improve the symptoms in patients with interstitial cystitis (IC), in a rat model of HCl-induced chronic cystitis, to elucidate the possible mechanisms by which the drug improves the symptoms of IC.
Chronic cystitis was induced by intravesical instillation of 0.2 mL of 0.4 m HCl in female adult rats. After a once-daily oral administration of IPD-1151T (0.1-100 mg/kg) or prednisolone (5 mg/kg) for 7 days, cystometry was performed under urethane anaesthesia. The bladder from HCl-induced cystitis rats was also assessed histopathologically.
On cystometrography there was frequent voiding in cystitis rats. Administration of IPD-1151T for 7 days after intravesical HCl instillation dose-dependently increased the micturition volume and intercontraction intervals. Treatment with prednisolone had similar therapeutic effects. Histological analyses in the bladder from cystitis rats revealed oedema and infiltration of inflammatory cells such as mast cells and eosinophils in the lamina propria and the transitional epithelial thickening. These histological changes and the number of mast cells and eosinophils were reduced by administration of IPD-1151T or prednisolone.
The present results indicate that IPD-1151T improves bladder function and pathological changes in HCl-induced cystitis rats, as previously observed in patients with IC. The rat cystitis model induced by HCl could provide useful information for studying proposed therapies for IC which might involve T cell-dependent inflammatory responses as one of its potential pathophysiologies.
