The nuclear xenobiotic receptor CAR is a phenobarbital (PB)-activated transcription factor. Using a mouse model of two-step liver tumorigenesis, in which tumor growth was initiated by diethyl nitrosamine (DEN) and promoted by chronic treatment with PB, we previously demonstrated that tumors developed only in the presence of CAR. Here, we have identified the FAM84A (family with sequence similarity 84, member A) gene as a CAR-regulated gene that is over-expressed during development of phenobarbital-promoted mouse liver tumors. FAM84A mRNA was induced in the liver of DEN/PB-treated mice prior to the development of liver tumors and this induction continued in the non-tumor as well as tumor tissues of a tumor-bearing liver. Western blotting demonstated that FAM84A protein expression increased in mouse liver after PB treatment; however, the FAM84A protein in liver and liver tumors was not phosphorylated at the serine 38 residue, which has been reported to correlate with morphological changes in cells. Immunohistochemistry analysis revealed the cytoplasmic localization of FAM84A protein and its expression during tumor development in normal tissues (especially in hepatocytes around the central vein), eosinophilic foci, adenomas and carcinomas. HepG2 cell-based reporter assays indicated that CAR activated the FAM84A promoter. Exogenous over-expression of FAM84A in HepG2 cells resulted in increased cell migration. The physiological function of FAM84A remains unknown, but our results suggest that FAM84A is up-regulated by CAR during the development of liver tumors, and may play an important role in the progression of liver cancer by increasing cell migration.
Hypotension occurs commonly among preterm neonates, but its cause and consequences remain unclear. Secondary data analyses from the NEOPAIN trial identified the clinical factors associated with hypotension and examined the contributions of morphine treatment or hypotension to severe intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) (grades 3 and 4), any IVH (grades 1-4), or death.
In the NEOPAIN trial, 898 ventilated neonates between 23 and 32 weeks of gestation were enrolled, with equal numbers randomized to receive masked morphine or placebo infusions. Additional doses of open-label morphine were administered as necessary by medical staff members. IVH was diagnosed with centralized readings of early and late cranial ultrasonograms. Hypotension was assessed before study drug infusion, during the loading dose, and at 24 and 72 hours during study drug infusion. Logistic regression analyses with stepdown elimination identified the predictor factors associated with the hypotension, severe IVH, any IVH, or death outcomes at each time point.
Hypotension was associated with 23 to 26 weeks of gestation, morphine infusions, severity of illness, additional morphine doses, and prior hypotension. Severe IVH was associated with shorter gestation, higher Clinical Risk Index for Babies scores, no prenatal steroids, pulmonary hemorrhage, hypotension before the loading dose, and morphine doses before intubation and at 25 to 72 hours. Neonatal deaths were associated with 23 to 26 weeks of gestation, higher Clinical Risk Index for Babies scores, pulmonary hemorrhage, patent ductus arteriosus, thrombocytopenia, and hypotension before the loading dose. Morphine infusions were not a significant factor in logistic models for severe IVH, any IVH, or death.
Preemptive morphine infusions, additional morphine, and lower gestational age were associated with hypotension among preterm neonates. Severe IVH, any IVH, and death were associated with preexisting hypotension, but morphine therapy did not contribute to these outcomes. Morphine infusions, although they cause hypotension, can be used safely for most preterm neonates but should be used cautiously for 23- to 26-week neonates and those with preexisting hypotension.
Alpha-2-macroglobulin (alpha-2M; encoded by the gene A2M) is a serum pan-protease inhibitor that has been implicated in Alzheimer disease (AD) based on its ability to mediate the clearance and degradation of A beta, the major component of beta-amyloid deposits. Analysis of a deletion in the A2M gene at the 5' splice site of 'exon II' of the bait region (exon 18) revealed that inheritance of the deletion (A2M-2) confers increased risk for AD (Mantel-Haenzel odds ratio=3.56, P=0.001). The sibship disequilibrium test (SDT) also revealed a significant association between A2M and AD (P=0.00009). These values were comparable to those obtained for the APOE-epsilon4 allele in the same sample, but in contrast to APOE-epsilon4, A2M-2 did not affect age of onset. The observed association of A2M with AD did not appear to account for the previously published linkage of AD to chromosome 12, which we were unable to confirm in this sample. A2M, LRP1 (encoding the alpha-2M receptor) and the genes for two other LRP ligands, APOE and APP (encoding the amyloid beta-protein precursor), have now all been genetically linked to AD, suggesting that these proteins may participate in a common neuropathogenic pathway leading to AD.
To study the modulatory effects of phosphatidylinositol (PI) turnover on nicotinic receptors in CNS, and to study the relationship between brain nicotinic receptors and PI turnover.
Effects of inositol phosphatase inhibitor lithium chloride (LiCl) and muscarinic receptor agonist oxotremorine (Oxo) on nicotine-induced convulsions were investigated in mice.
The effects of nicotine for producing convulsions were modified by LiCl 2.5-10 mmol.kg-1, revealing the convulsive effects of nicotine > 0.8 mg.kg-1 were increased by acute pretreatment with LiCl rather than oxotremorine. Mice were given LiCl 5.0 mmol.kg-1 once a day for 7 d, the ED50 value of nicotine for producing convulsions was increased from 0.58 to 0.97 mg.kg-1, suggesting that the sensitivity of central nicotinic receptors for mediating convulsions was decreased by chronic treatment with LiCl.
The functions of central nicotinic receptors were modulated by PI turnover.
Tibolone is used to prevent osteoporosis and to treat climacteric symptoms. The objectives of these studies were to measure and compare the effects of tibolone with hormone replacement therapy on coronary artery vascular reactivity and myocardial function and to relate these outcomes to treatment-induced plasma lipid/lipoprotein concentrations and atherosclerosis.
One hundred forty-eight adult ovariectomized cynomolgus monkeys were fed an atherogenic diet for 24 months while receiving one of five oral treatments: no treatment (control, n = 31); conjugated equine estrogens (CEE), given at the equivalent of 0.625 mg/day ( n = 27); CEE (same dose) plus medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), given at the equivalent of 2.5 mg/day ( n = 29); low-dose tibolone (LoTib; 0.625 mg/day equivalent, n = 30); or high-dose tibolone (HiTib; 2.5 mg/day equivalent, n = 31).
Quantitative coronary angiography showed that endothelium-mediated dilation was enhanced (17.5 +/- 5%, p = 0.002) in the CEE-treated group (but not other treatment groups) compared with the control. Both doses of tibolone and CEE reduced the incidence of dobutamine-induced ST-segment depression (LoTib: 33%, HiTib 25%, and CEE: 23%) compared to the control (79%) ( p = <0.05). Neither vascular reactivity nor dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia were associated with treatment-induced changes in atherosclerosis or plasma lipid/lipoprotein concentrations.
Tibolone, unlike CEE, has no benefit for endothelium-mediated dilation. Despite these differences, both tibolone and CEE reduced the incidence of myocardial ischemia, whereas CEE+MPA had no effect. It is speculated that tibolone may have direct effects on the myocardium that protect against myocardial ischemia.
Amphetamine hyperactivity, apomorphine stereotypy and haloperidol catalepsy were studied in rats following selective damage to cell bodies within the globus pallidus (GP). Ibotenic acid-induced bilateral lesions of GP attenuated the spontaneous locomotion of rats, but they did not influence the locomotor response to amphetamine. Apomorphine-induced gnawing and licking but not sniffing were attenuated in rats with GP lesions. The effect of haloperidol on catalepsy was enhanced following the GP lesion. It is concluded that the normal expression of some dopamine-related functions depends to a great degree on the integrity of cells within the GP region.
We performed a prospective cohort study to gain more insight into risk factors for neuropsychiatric effects of mefloquine among tourists travelling to tropical areas.
We enrolled all patients who consulted the Travel Clinic of the Havenziekenhuis & Institute for Tropical Diseases Rotterdam for mefloquine prophylaxis during the period between 1 May 1999 and 7 March 2000. Each patient was followed from baseline (prior to starting mefloquine) up to 3 weeks after starting weekly intake of 250 mg mefloquine. We compared the intraindividual change in scores between baseline and follow-up visit on the Dutch shortened Profile of Mood States, and on the Continuous Performance Test (CPT) which measures sustained attention.
The final cohort consisted of 151 subjects with a mean age of 38 years. In this population, a significant impairment of mood state was observed in those with a body mass index (BMI) < or = 20 kg m(-2). Stratification for gender showed that the total mood disturbance in females in the lowest BMI category significantly increased by 8.42 points [95% confidence interval (CI) 3.33, 13.50], whereas BMI did not affect the risk in males. Stratification for history of use of mefloquine showed that the risks were highest in first-time users. Analyses of the CPT showed that reaction time in women with a BMI < or = 20 kg m(-2) increased significantly by 22.5 ms (95% CI 7.80, 37.20), whereas reaction time in men showed a slight and nonsignificant decrease.
Risk factors for mefloquine-associated neuropsychiatric adverse events and concentration impairment are female gender, low BMI, and first-time use. The frequency of neuropsychiatric effects is highest in women with a BMI < or = 20 kg m(-2).
The effects of alpha1-acid glycoprotein (2 intraperitoneal injections in a total dose of 300 mg/kg) on free radical oxidation during liver failure were studied in 53 outbred rats. On day 3 of liver failure, glycoprotein reduced plasma concentrations of free radical oxidation products, elevated the antioxidant potential of the plasma and liver and kidney homogenates, and restored functional reserve and capacity of leukocytes to generation of oxygen radicals.
The present study examined the effects of riluzole, a Food and Drug Administration-approved drug for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, on VEGF-stimulated endothelial cell proliferation in culture, and on neovascularization in a rat model of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP).
Human umbilical vein endothelial cell and bovine retinal endothelial cell cultures were treated with VEGF to induce endothelial cell proliferation in the presence or absence of riluzole. Activation of PKC betaII was examined by quantifying its phosphorylated form on immunoblots. ROP was induced in 5-day-old rat pups by raising them in hyperoxic conditions for 7 days and in normoxic conditions for the next 5 days. Dextran fluorescence retinal angiography was used to quantitatively assess ROP.
Riluzole inhibited VEGF-stimulated PKC betaII activation and cell proliferation in bovine retinal endothelial cell and human umbilical vein endothelial cell cultures. In addition, systemic administration of riluzole substantially ameliorated abnormal new vessel formation in the rat ROP model.
The present results suggest that riluzole is a potent inhibitor of VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation both in vivo and in vitro. Since long-term use of riluzole has already been proven safe in humans, the present data indicate that clinical trials of riluzole for proliferative retinopathies should be implemented expeditiously.
Studies have shown various cardiotoxic effects of high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) used for conditioning before autologous bone marrow transplant (ABMT) including arrhythmias but only a transient small decrease in left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF). To our knowledge, an acute dramatic decrease in LVEF after HDC preconditioning has never been reported. We report a patient presenting with an acutely symptomatic heart failure within 2 weeks of receiving HDC conditioning for ABMT with an LVEF drop from normal to <30%. With stringent management and follow-up with regular echocardiograms for medication reconciliation, 5 months later she regained her LVEF of 50%.
The efficacy and safety of haloperidol, lithium carbonate, and placebo were critically assessed in 61 treatment-resistant, hospitalized children aged 5.2 to 12.9 years with diagnoses of conduct disorder, aggressive type. In this double-blind and well-controlled study, the optimal dosages of haloperidol ranged from 1.0 to 6.0 mg/day and those of lithium carbonate from 500 to 2,000 mg/day. For the assessment of behavioral changes and untoward effects, various rating scales were used in different settings. Both haloperidol and lithium carbonate were found to be significantly superior to placebo in decreasing behavioral symptoms. Although both medications were clinically effective, haloperidol was associated more often with untoward effects than was lithium carbonate.
Cisplatin is a commonly used chemotherapeutic drug, the clinical use of which is limited by the development of dose-dependent nephrotoxicity. Enhanced inflammatory response, oxidative stress, and cell death have been implicated in the development of cisplatin-induced nephropathy; however, the precise mechanisms are elusive. Overactivation of the nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) by oxidative DNA damage under various pathological conditions promotes cell death and up-regulation of key proinflammatory pathways. In this study, using a well-established model of nephropathy, we have explored the role of PARP-1 in cisplatin-induced kidney injury. Genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of PARP-1 markedly attenuated the cisplatin-induced histopathological damage, impaired renal function (elevated serum BUN and creatinine levels), and enhanced inflammatory response (leukocyte infiltration; TNF-α, IL-1β, F4/80, adhesion molecules ICAM-1/VCAM-1 expression) and consequent oxidative/nitrative stress (4-HNE, 8-OHdG, and nitrotyrosine content; NOX2/NOX4 expression). PARP inhibition also facilitated the cisplatin-induced death of cancer cells. Thus, PARP activation plays an important role in cisplatin-induced kidney injury, and its pharmacological inhibition may represent a promising approach to preventing the cisplatin-induced nephropathy. This is particularly exciting because several PARP inhibitors alone or in combination with DNA-damaging anticancer agents show considerable promise in clinical trials for treatment of various malignancies (e.g., triple-negative breast cancer).
1. In basal conditions, plasma arterial prostaglandin (PG) E2 was significantly increased in borderline hypertensive patients (BH) (28.5 +/- 6.7 pg/ml) in comparison with sustained essential hypertensive patients (EH) (11.6 +/- 3.2 pg/ml) and in comparison with control normotensive subjects (NTS) (5.8 +/- 1.4 pg/ml). 2. Plasma arterial PGE2 was positively significantly correlated with cardiac index and negatively significantly correlated with total peripheral resistance in basal conditions. 3. Indomethacin induced more pronounced haemodynamic changes in borderline than in sustained hypertensive patients, with a significant increase in arterial blood pressure and total peripheral resistance and a significant decrease in stroke volume and cardiac index. 4. Indomethacin significantly decreased arterial PGE2 in borderline hypertensive patients. The decrease was less important in sustained hypertensive patients. 5. In the overall population, a significant positive correlation between arterial PGE2 concentration and cardiac index was observed before and after indomethacin treatment. 6. The study suggests an important role of PGE2 in the regulation of cardiac output (positive inotropic effect) and blood pressure of essential hypertensive patients.
We report the cases of 3 patients with medically intractable seizures in whom withdrawal of treatment with a long-acting benzodiazepine (clorazepate dipotassium, 2 patients; clonazepam, 1 patient) was followed by delirium with catatoniclike features. While an increase in seizure frequency occurred during withdrawal and prior to the onset of behavioral changes, electroencephalograms did not show epileptiform activity during the delirium. We compared these 3 patients with 10 others with intractable seizures in whom antiepileptic therapy was withdrawn without subsequent behavior changes. High-dose benzodiazepine therapy and a history of viral encephalitis may be risk factors for withdrawal delirium.
The renal papillary toxin, propyleneimine (PI), was administered at 20 or 30 microliters/kg i.p. to male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats (n = 5), Fischer 344 (F344) rats (n = 4), and to multimammate desert mice (Mastomys natalensis, n = 4). Urine was collected at time points up to 4 days p.d. and the toxicological response of the different animal models to PI compared using 1H NMR spectroscopy of urine, renal histopathology, and urinary assays for alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma GT). The renal papillae of both F344 and SD rats showed extensive necrotic lesions 4 days post-dosing and in some cases sloughing of the papilla. However, only slight renal papillary necrosis (RPN) was observed in Mastomys treated with 20 microliters/kg PI and, although slight to moderate damage was observed at 30 microliters/kg, PI-treated Mastomys showed substantially less RPN than either group of PI-treated rats. 1H NMR urinalysis showed that PI treatment caused a decrease in the urinary concentrations of succinate (0-24 hr p.d.) and citrate (24-48 hr p.d.) and an increase in creatine (0-48 hr p.d.) in all animal models. Trimethylamine-N-oxide (24-48 hr) and 2-oxoglutarate concentrations decreased initially following the administration of PI and then rose above control levels. The 1H NMR-detected urinary biochemical effects of PI in all three models were similar. However, taurine concentrations were elevated in the urine of Mastomys following PI treatment, perhaps indicating a degree of liver damage, whereas taurinuria was not seen in either SD or F344 rats. These observations are discussed in relation to the potential mechanism of PI-toxicity.
Endothelin (ET)-1 and norepinephrine (NE) are involved in myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury. We investigated the role of ET-1 in ischemia/reperfusion-induced NE overflow and cardiac dysfunction using a selective ET(A) receptor antagonist (ABT-627), a selective ET(B) receptor antagonist (A-192621), and the spotting lethal (sl) rat, which carries a naturally occurring deletion in the ET(B) receptor gene.
According to the Langendorff technique, isolated hearts were subjected to 40-minute global ischemia followed by 30-minute reperfusion. In Sprague-Dawley rat hearts, ischemia/reperfusion-induced cardiac dysfunctions such as decreased left ventricular developed pressure and coronary flow and increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure were worsened by treatment with A-192621. This agent enhanced excessive NE overflow in the coronary effluent from the postischemic heart. In contrast, treatment with ABT-627, in the absence or presence of A-192621, significantly improved postischemic cardiac dysfunction and markedly suppressed NE overflow to the same extent. Postischemic cardiac dysfunction and NE overflow in the heart of ET(B) receptor-deficient homozygous (sl/sl) rats were highly observed compared with cases in wild-type rats, and exaggerated responses to ischemia/reperfusion in sl/sl rats were abolished by ABT-627 treatment. Exogenously applied ET-1 produced severe cardiac dysfunction and a significant increase in NE overflow in a dose-dependent manner, but these responses were markedly suppressed in the presence of 5-N-ethyl-N-isopropyl-amiloride, an inhibitor of the Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE).
Pharmacological blockade or genetic deficiency of ET(B) receptors is detrimental to the postischemic heart, and exaggerated cardiac pathology under the above conditions is mediated by ET(A) receptor activation. ET(A)/NHE-mediated excessive NE overflow is contributive, at least in part, to postischemic cardiac dysfunction in rats.
Increased growth and contraction of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) are major abnormalities in many vascular disorders. To investigate the signaling pathways that mediate these processes, we studied the expression of smooth muscle myosin light chain kinase (smMLCK) in VSMCs.
Primary cultured VSMCs isolated from normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were treated with angiotensin II (Ang II). smMLCK expression was examined in the cells using western blot analysis. In vivo, a specific inhibitor of smMLCK or MAP kinase kinase (MEK) was delivered to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) using an osmotic pump, and their blood pressures were measured using tail-cuff sphygmomanometry.
Expression of smMLCK protein is rapidly increased by Ang II, an important agonist responsible for increased vasoconstriction and vascular remodeling, in concert with increased myosin light chain phosphorylation. Inhibiting Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptor, Ras, or MEK blocked the Ang II-induced increase in smMLCK expression. In vivo, inhibiting MEK decreased smMLCK expression, blood pressure, and vascular thickening in SHRs. Moreover, inhibiting smMLCK activity decreased blood pressure and smooth muscle mass in arteries in SHRs.
The regulation of smMLCK expression by Ang II via Ras signaling is important in the regulation of vascular remodeling and blood pressure. Targeting this pathway could be an effective strategy for developing novel therapeutics to treat hypertension.
To investigate the activation level of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in liver injury caused by severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) and the protective role of melatonin against liver injury.
Ninety-six Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into 3 equal groups: SAP group undergoing injection of sodium taurocholate to establish SAP models, melatonin (Mel) treatment group undergoing intraperitoneal injection 50 mg/kg 30 minutes before the establishment of SAP models, and sham operation group (Sham group). 4, 12, 24, and 48 hours after the onset of operation, blood samples were collected from the inferior vena casa of 8 rats from each group to measure the serum level of amylase (AMY) and alanine transaminase (ALT) by iodine colorimetry, and to detect the serum level of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) by ELISA. The livers were taken out to undergo pathological examination. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the percentage of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB in the hepatocytes. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) was used to determine the extent of hepatic apoptosis.
The AMY and ALT levels at different time points of the SAP and Mel subgroups were all significantly higher than those of the sham operation subgroups (all P<0.05), and the AMY and ALT levels at different time points of the Mel subgroup were all significantly lower than those of the SAP subgroups (all P<0.05). The liver NF-kappaB activation level and hepatocellular apoptosis index of the SAP group increased since the fourth hour after the operation, and peaked at the time point of 24 hour, all significantly higher than those of the sham operation group (all P<0.05), and then declined. The TNF-alpha level at the time points of 12, 24, and 48 h in the SAP group were all significantly higher than those of the other 2 groups (all P<0.05). The levels of TNF-alpha, AMY, and ALT, the activity of NF-kappaB, and the extent of hepatocellular apoptosis at any time points of the Mel group were all significantly lower than those of the SAP group, but significantly higher than those of the sham operation group. Microscopy showed that the liver pathological damages of the Mel group were milder than those of the SAP group.
SAP with liver injury is associated with the hepatic NF-kappaB activation leading to the production of NF-kappaB dependent cytokines and chemokines such as TNF-alpha. Melatonin reduces the apoptosis and necrosis in liver by inhibiting the activity of NF-kappaB and decreasing the expression of TNF-alpha.
A hypertensive reaction is described in a 28-year-old woman with renal failure who took 30-70 clonidine tablets (150 micrograms each) with suicidal intent. She became increasingly drowsy. Her blood pressure on admission was 210/150 mmHg and gradually fell to 140/100 mmHg during the next 16 hours, at which time her plasma clonidine concentration was 4.7 ng/ml. This interesting hypertensive reaction was probably due to excessive stimulation of peripheral postsynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors.
Buprenorphine (Bup) is the most commonly used analgesic in mice, yet few objective assessments address its superiority for postsurgical recovery. In mice, IP implantation of a radiotelemetry device induces decreases in body weight (BW), food and water intake (FI, WI), core temperature (Tc), and activity levels that persist approximately 14 d in the absence of analgesia. To compare the efficacy of Bup with that of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug indomethacin (Indo) for postsurgical recovery, male C57BL/6J mice were treated on the day of radiotelemetry implantation with Bup (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) or Indo (1 mg/kg s.c.) followed by treatment with Indo (1 mg/kg p.o.) on the next day (Bup-Indo versus Indo-Indo). Responses were compared between treatments in mice implanted with a radiotelemetry device and those that did not undergo surgery. Changes in BW, FI, WI, Tc, and activity were examined throughout 14 d of recovery. Indo-Indo was more efficacious in inhibiting postsurgical BW, FI, and WI reductions, compared with Bup-Indo. Bup also reduced BW and FI in the absence of surgery, indicating a nonspecific effect of this drug on these variables. Indo-Indo treatment was associated with higher activity levels during lights-on-to-lights-off transition periods compared with that observed with Bup-Indo. According to 5 objective measures of surgical recovery, our data suggest that Indo-Indo treatment is more efficacious than is Bup-Indo for postsurgical recovery of radiotelemetry-implanted mice.
The aminoglycosides butirosin and bekanamycin (Kanendomycin) were tested for their nephrotoxicity in female albino Wistar rats (n = 110). The antibiotics were administered i.m. over a course of 5 days; dosage interval 12 h, dosage 2,5, 5, 10, 20, 100 and 500 mg/kg per day, respectively. For comparative evaluation of nephrotoxicity the urinary excretion of tubular cells and enzymes (MDH, GOT, LDH) were taken. Additionally, serum urea and urine protein (qualitatively) were determined, and the kidneys were investigated histologically. The experiments revealed that both aminoglycosides had tubulotoxic and glomerulotoxic effects. The lowest doses that induced pathologic cell excretion (tubulotoxic threshold doses) were 5 mg/kg per day for either drug. It may be concluded that nephrotoxicity of butirosin and bekanamycin does not differ within the range of dosages which are used in human therapy. Compared with other established aminoglycosides advantages with respect to nephrotoxicity could not be found.
The mesolimbic dopamine system is considered to play a pivotal role in the locomotor activation produced by psychostimulants and in the augmentation of this effect observed upon repeated drug administration, a process denominated behavioral sensitization. The selective breeding of Roman high- (RHA) and low-avoidance (RLA) rats, respectively, for rapid versus poor active avoidance acquisition has resulted in two phenotypes that differ in the functional properties of the mesolimbic dopamine system and in their behavioral and neurochemical responses to addictive drugs, including psychostimulants and opiates. Hence, the present study was designed to compare the ability of these lines to develop behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants. To this aim, the acute effects of amphetamine (0.125 or 0.25 mg/kg, s.c.) on locomotion were assessed in RHA and RLA rats prior to and subsequent to 10 daily doses of either amphetamine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline (1 ml/kg, s.c.). In the RHA line, the locomotor activation produced by either challenge dose of amphetamine was more pronounced in rats that had been repeatedly treated with amphetamine versus the respective saline treated controls. In contrast, no significant change in locomotor activity was observed in RLA rats. Likewise, repeated amphetamine caused an increased frequency of sniffing, rearing, licking/gnawing, and grooming versus the control, repeated saline, group only in the RHA line. The results show that the repeated treatment regimen used in this study induced behavioral sensitization to amphetamine in RHA rats, but not in their RLA counterparts, and underscore the utility of these lines for studying the influence of neural substrates and genetic make up on the individual vulnerability to addiction.
Azathioprine vascular hepatotoxicity has been described mainly after renal transplantation. We report a new case in a patient who developed veno-occlusive disease of the liver 3 weeks after liver transplantation; regression of lesions were observed after discontinuation of azathioprine therapy. In this case, azathioprine hepatotoxicity may have been enhanced by a previous episode of severe, acute rejection prevailing in the hepatic veins. After liver transplantation, the diagnosis of azathioprine hepatotoxicity is difficult but should be suspected in the presence of non-inflammatory small hepatic veins lesions. Early withdrawal of the drug is mandatory for complete recovery.
