We tested for an association between autism and genes coding for enzymes involved in monoaminergic metabolism and for a linked marker, c-Harvey-Ras-1 (HRAS 1), using restriction fragment length polymorphisms. We did not find evidence of an association between autism and genes coding for tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), and tryptophan hydroxylase. However, we report a positive association between autism and the locus containing the gene for HRAS-1.
The use of beta blockers for glaucoma treatment may cause serious bronchoconstriction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The synthetic prostaglandin (PG) F2 alpha-analogue latanoprost (13,14,dihydro-17-phenyl-18,19,20-trinor-PGF-2-alpha-iso propylester) represents a new class of drugs for glaucoma treatment. In this study the pulmonary tolerability to latanoprost in 12 healthy volunteers and 11 (one withdrawal due to a sty before latanoprost treatment) subjects with moderate but stable steroid-treated intrinsic asthma was examined. Asthmatic subjects received 30 microliters of vehicle (placebo) at the scheduled administration times on baseline day. On a second day, a minimum of one week later, increasing concentrations (0.35, 115 and 350 micrograms/ml) of latanoprost were added to the vehicle and given topically to both eyes. Healthy volunteers were given latanoprost only. ECG, blood pressure, heart rate, forced expiratory volume (FEV1), peak expiratory outflow (PEF) and forced vital capacity (FVC) were recorded immediately prior to and 15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes after latanoprost. Asthmatic patients inhaled salbutamol (0.2 mg) at 60 minutes after the highest latanoprost dose. There were no significant differences in pulmonary function, blood pressure or heart rate after latanoprost in the healthy volunteers. Moreover, all parameters were unaffected in asthmatic patients on the day latanoprost was given compared to the baseline day. Latanoprost did not dampen the bronchodilator response to beta-2-adrenergic stimulation. It is concluded that latanoprost did not affect lung function in healthy subjects or in asthmatics after a total accumulated dose 10 times that clinically recommended for glaucoma treatment. Therefore, latanoprost appears to be safe for glaucoma treatment in patients with steroid-treated stable moderate intrinsic asthma.
Halogenated volatile anesthetics have been associated with liver injury. Most reported cases have been linked to halothane and enflurane. Cross-sensitization between the latter agents has also been documented. Isoflurane hepatitis is extremely rare, and only a few convincing cases have been published. Moreover, clinical cases of cross-sensitization of isoflurance with other haloalkanes have not been reported. We describe a case of hepatic dysfunction 2 weeks after isoflurance anesthesia in a 35-year-old obese woman with a previous history of halothane hepatitis. The diagnosis was made on the basis of exposure to isoflurance, the delay between the time of exposure and the onset of jaundice, and the exclusion of other causes of liver dysfunction. This case reiterates the recommendation that patients who sustain liver injury from one haloalkane should not be exposed to another.
To characterize the changes in osteoprotegerin-deficient (OPG-/-) mice mandibles and the possible mandibular bone loss prevention by zoledronate. This preventive effect in the mandible differed from that in the proximal tibia and was independent of the OPG pathway.
The study aimed to characterize both the changes in the mandible in osteoprotegerin-deficient (OPG-/-) mice and possible mandibular bone loss prevention by zoledronate.
Twenty-eight 6-week-old female mice (C57BL/6J), including OPG-/- (n = 21) and wild-type (WT) (n = 7) mice, were assigned to four groups after 2 weeks of acclimatization to local vivarium conditions: wild mice with vehicle (WT group); OPG-/- mice with vehicle (OPG-/- group); and OPG-/- mice that were subcutaneously injected with either 50 or 150 microg/kg zoledronate (Zol-50 and Zol-150 groups, respectively). Mice were sacrificed at 4 weeks after these treatments and after fasting for 12 h. Sera were harvested for biochemical analyses. The right mandible and tibia of each mouse were selected for microCT analysis. Student's t-test was performed for comparisons of bone parameters at different sites in the WT group. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to compare the biomarkers and bone parameters in the different treatment groups.
Serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (B-ALP) and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 5b (TRACP-5b) were significantly decreased in WT mice as compared to the levels in the OPG-/- mice (P < 0.05). Zoledronate treatment decreased the high serum B-ALP activity observed in OPG-/- mice to the levels seen in WT mice, while serum TRACP-5b concentrations were decreased to levels even lower than those in WT mice. There were substantial variations in BMD and microstructure of the mandibular and proximal tibial trabeculae. Mandibular bone loss was less affected by OPG gene deprivation than the proximal tibia was. Both zoledronate groups showed greater BMD, trabecular BV/TV, Tb.Th, Tb.N, and Conn.D and a significant decrease in Tb.Sp and SMI as compared to the findings in OPG-/- mice (P < 0.05). However, higher apparent BMD and more compact plate-like trabeculae were observed in the mandible after treatment with zoledronate as compared to the findings in the proximal tibia. No significant differences were found in any parameter in both zoledronate groups.
The present study showed that zoledronate could reverse the significant bone loss in mice mandibles that was induced by OPG gene deficiency. This preventive effect, which was accompanied with considerable inhibition of bone turnover, differed in the mandible and in the proximal tibia and was independent of the OPG pathway.
Heartburn is the most typical gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) symptom. The transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV(1)) is a candidate mediator of heartburn. Exposure of TRPV(1) to capsaicin is characterized by activation, followed by desensitization. Our aim was to investigate the effect of intra-oesophageal capsaicin instillation on oesophageal symptom perception (activation) and on sensitivity to oesophageal acid perfusion and oesophageal balloon distention (desensitization). In a first protocol (n = 10), saline or capsaicin solution were instilled in the mid-oesophagus and symptoms were rated at 5-min intervals for 60 min. In a second study (n = 10), oesophageal 0.1 N hydrochloric acid perfusion was performed 60 min after pretreatment with saline, low or high dose capsaicin. In a third study (n = 10), sensitivity to oesophageal balloon distention was determined before and at 30-min intervals up to 90 min after pretreatment with saline, low or high dose capsaicin. Areas under the curve (AUC) for symptom intensities under different conditions were calculated and compared with Kruskal-Wallis test. Oesophageal capsaicin instillation induced transient symptoms of retrosternal and epigastric burning in a dose-dependent fashion. After oesophageal capsaicin or saline instillation, there was no difference in symptom pattern and intensities induced by oesophageal acid perfusion. After oesophageal capsaicin or saline instillation, sensitivity to oesophageal balloon distention and oesophageal compliance were not significantly altered. Oesophageal instillation of the TRPV(1) receptor agonist capsaicin induces symptoms of retrosternal and epigastric burning in a dose-dependent fashion. Pretreatment with capsaicin does not desensitize the oesophagus to acid perfusion or to balloon distention.
The objective of this prospective study was the evaluation of the analgesia provided by an epidural infusion of bupivacaine and fentanyl after different types of surgery in children.
Data were collected from 348 epidural analgesia in 87 children below 2 years of age, in 80 children between 2 and 6 years and 181 above 6 years of age, for a median duration of 43 postoperative hours. Bupivacaine (mean concentration 0.185%) and fentanyl (5 microg.kg-1.day-1) were administered on the surgical ward.
Pain control was considered excellent in 86% of the 11 072 pain hourly assessments. Analgesia was found to be better for children older than 2 years, and the overall quality of their night's sleep was better than that of older children. Higher pain scores were noted for Nissen fundoplication surgery and club foot repairs. Early discontinuation rarely occurred, and only because of technical problems with the epidural catheter (4%) or insufficient analgesia (6%). Complications were minor (nausea/vomiting 14%, pruritus 0.6%, urinary retention 17%) and easily reversed.
This combination of bupivacaine-fentanyl provides safe analgesia after major surgery in children with frequent clinical monitoring. Regular pain assessments of intensity and duration are useful to improve the quality of postoperative analgesia.
Endocrine breast cancer treatment relies on estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) assessment, which does not predict response in all cases. We investigated whether ESR1 promoter C driven (ESR1_C) gene expression may shed light on endocrine responsiveness. We investigated archived tumor tissues of 211 patients. Transcript levels of ESR1_C and ESR1_exon3 (all transcripts) were quantified by real-time PCR. mRNA stability was assessed in actinomycin D treated MCF-7 cells. ERalpha protein was quantified using transiently transfected breast cancer cells. Low ESR1_C transcript levels were associated with better overall survival (P = 0.017). High levels of ESR1_C transcript were associated with non-favorable response in tamoxifen treated patients (HR = 2.48; CI 95% 1.24-4.99), an effect that was more pronounced in patients with ERalpha/PgR double-positive tumors (HR = 3.41; CI 95% 1.45-8.04). The ESR1_C isoform had a prolonged mRNA half-life and a more relaxed 5'-UTR structure compared to ESR1_A isoform. ESR1_C levels may aid in the discrimination of patients' endocrine responsiveness.
1 The mode of Ca(2+) channel blocking by gabapentin [1-(aminomethyl)cyclohexane acetic acid] was compared to those of other Ca(2+) channel blockers, and the potential role of Ca(2+) channel antagonists in providing protection against hypoxic injury was subsequently investigated in rat cerebrocortical slices. 2 mRNA for the alpha(2)delta subunits of Ca(2+) channels was found in rat cerebral cortex. 3 Nitric oxide (NO) synthesis estimated from cGMP formation was enhanced by KCl stimulation, which was mediated primarily by the activation of N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels. Gabapentin blocked both types of Ca(2+) channels, and preferentially reversed the response to 30 mM K(+) stimulation compared with 50 mM K(+) stimulation. In contrast, verapamil preferentially inhibited the response to depolarization by the higher concentration (50 mM) of K(+). 4 Gabapentin inhibited KCl-induced elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) in primary neuronal culture. 5 Hypoxic injury was induced in cerebrocortical slices by oxygen deprivation in the absence (severe injury) or presence of 3 mM glucose (mild injury). Gabapentin preferentially inhibited mild injury, while verapamil suppressed only severe injury. omega-Conotoxin GVIA (omega-CTX) and omega-agatoxin IVA (omega-Aga) were effective in both models. 6 NO synthesis was enhanced in a manner dependent on the severity of hypoxic insults. Gabapentin reversed the NO synthesis induced by mild insults, while verapamil inhibited that elicited by severe insults. omega-CTX and omega-Aga were effective in both the cases. 7 Therefore, the data suggest that gabapentin and verapamil cause activity-dependent Ca(2+) channel blocking by different mechanisms, which are associated with their cerebroprotective actions and are dependent on the severity of hypoxic insults.
Arsenic is a naturally occurring element, but anthropogenic activities can lead to a substantial contamination of the environment. Exposure to arsenic has been associated with a significant number of adverse health effects in humans including: cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hearing loss, developmental abnormalities, anemia, neurologic and neurobehavioral disorder, leukopenia, eosinophilia, fibrosis of the liver and the kidney and various neoplasms. However, the cellular and molecular events associated with arsenic toxicity are poorly understood. Also, the precise mechanisms by which arsenic acts as a carcinogen in humans remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we used human liver carcinoma (HepG2) cells as a model to study the molecular mechanisms of arsenic-induced toxicity and carcinogenesis. We hypothesized that arsenic-induced expression of stress genes and related proteins may play a role in the cellular and molecular events leading to toxicity and tumorigenesis in liver cells. To test this hypothesis, we performed the MTT-assay for cell viability, the CAT-Tox (L) assay for gene induction, and the Western Blot analysis to assess the expression of cellular proteins including c-fos, HMTIIA, HSP70 and p53. Data obtained from the MTT assay indicated a strong dose-response relationship with respect to arsenic trioxide toxicity. Upon 48 hr of exposure, the chemical dose required to cause 50% reduction in cell viability (LD50) was computed to be 8.55 +/- 0.58 microg/ml. The CAT-Tox (L) assay showed statistically significant inductions (p<0.05) of c-fos, HMTIIA, and HSP70. Western blot analysis also demonstrated a dose-response relationship with regard to expression of specific cellular proteins. The p53 protein was expressed in arsenic trioxide-treated cells, however, the densitometric analysis did not show any significant differences (p<0.05) between treated and control cells. The lack of a significant induction of p53 may be due to the potential mitogenic effect of arsenic at low levels of arsenic exposure.
Technical grade dinitrotoluene (TDNT), composed principally of 2,4-DNT (76%) and 2,6-DNT (20%), is a potent hepatocarcinogen when fed to male F-344 rats for 1 year (100% incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma) while 2,4-DNT is only weakly hepatocarcinogenic. The present investigation was designed to determine the relative initiating potential of DNT isomers compared with the initiating potential of TDNT. A single administration of either TDNT or 2,6-dinitrotoluene (75 mg/kg, p.o.), in combination with partial hepatectomy, initiated hepatocytes in rats when assayed using hepatic initiation-promotion protocols. Five other DNT isomers (2,3; 2,4; 2,5; 3,4, and 3,5-DNT) evaluated similarly exhibited no such potential. Although 2,6-DNT was a relatively weak initiator, its activity was comparable to the initiating activity detected in TDNT. These data begin to provide an explanation for the marked differences in the hepatocarcinogenic potency of TDNT and 2,4-DNT observed in independent 2 year bioassays.
Mercury is nephrotoxic and dental amalgam is a source of mercury exposure.
Children 6-10 years of age (n = 534) with two or more posterior teeth with caries but no prior amalgam restorations, were randomized to one of two treatments--amalgam or resin composite (white fillings)--used for caries treatment during 5 years of follow-up. The primary outcome was change in IQ, but important secondary outcomes were effects on markers of glomerular and tubular kidney function: urinary excretion of albumin, alpha-1-microglobulin (A1M), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT), and N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (NAG). These markers were measured on several occasions during the trial, together with urinary mercury and covariates. We evaluated the results using repeated-measures analyses.
There were no significant differences between treatment groups in average levels of renal biomarkers, nor significant effects of number of dental amalgams on these markers. There was, however, a significantly increased prevalence of microalbuminuria (MA) among children in the amalgam group in years 3-5 (adjusted odds ratio 1.8; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-2.9). Most of these cases are likely to be temporary MA, but 10 children in the amalgam group had MA in both years 3 and 5, versus 2 children in the composite group (p = 0.04). There were no differences in the occurrence of high levels of renal tubular markers (A1M, gamma-GT, or NAG).
The increase in MA may be a random finding, but should be tested further. The results did not support recent findings in an observational study of an effect of low-level mercury on tubular biomarkers in children.
Previous studies have demonstrated that knockout or inhibition of Platelet/Endothelial Cell Adhesion Molecule (PECAM, CD31) in a number of murine strains results in impaired inflammatory responses, but that no such phenotype is seen in the C57BL/6 (B6) murine background.
We have undertaken a quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping effort between FVB/n (FVB) and B6 mice deficient for PECAM to identify the gene or genes responsible for this unique feature of B6 mice. We have identified a locus on murine chromosome 2 at approximately 35.8 Mb that is strongly associated (LOD score = 9.0) with inflammatory responses in the absence of PECAM.
These data potentiate further study of the diapedesis machinery, as well as potential identification of new components of this machinery. As such, this study is an important step to better understanding the processes of inflammation.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) is a second messenger that regulates intracellular Ca(2+) release through IP(3) receptors located in the sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum of cardiac myocytes. Many prohypertrophic G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling events lead to IP(3) liberation, although its importance in transducing the hypertrophic response has not been established in vivo.
Here, we generated conditional, heart-specific transgenic mice with both gain- and loss-of-function for IP(3) receptor signaling to examine its hypertrophic growth effects following pathological and physiological stimulation.
Overexpression of the mouse type-2 IP(3) receptor (IP(3)R2) in the heart generated mild baseline cardiac hypertrophy at 3 months of age. Isolated myocytes from overexpressing lines showed increased Ca(2+) transients and arrhythmias in response to endothelin-1 stimulation. Although low levels of IP(3)R2 overexpression failed to augment/synergize cardiac hypertrophy following 2 weeks of pressure-overload stimulation, such levels did enhance hypertrophy following 2 weeks of isoproterenol infusion, in response to Galphaq overexpression, and/or in response to exercise stimulation. To inhibit IP(3) signaling in vivo, we generated transgenic mice expressing an IP(3) chelating protein (IP(3)-sponge). IP(3)-sponge transgenic mice abrogated cardiac hypertrophy in response to isoproterenol and angiotensin II infusion but not pressure-overload stimulation. Mechanistically, IP(3)R2-enhanced cardiac hypertrophy following isoproterenol infusion was significantly reduced in the calcineurin-Abeta-null background.
These results indicate that IP(3)-mediated Ca(2+) release plays a central role in regulating cardiac hypertrophy downstream of GPCR signaling, in part, through a calcineurin-dependent mechanism.
Germline mutations in STK11 (also known as LKB1) are found in individuals with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) manifesting with gastrointestinal polyps that contain a prominent stromal component. Epithelia in polyps of Stk11(+/-) mice can retain a functional copy of Stk11 (refs. 2,3), and loss of heterozygosity is not an obligate feature of human polyps, raising the possibility of non-epithelial origins in tumorigenesis. Here we show that either monoallelic or biallelic loss of murine Stk11 limited to Tagln-expressing mesenchymal cells results in premature postnatal death as a result of gastrointestinal polyps indistinguishable from those in PJS. Stk11-deficient mesenchymal cells produced less TGFbeta, and defective TGFbeta signaling to epithelial cells coincided with epithelial proliferation. We also noted TGFbeta signaling defects in polyps of individuals with PJS, suggesting that the identified stromal-derived mechanism of tumor suppression is also relevant in PJS.
Benzene is a human carcinogen. Exposure to benzene occurs in occupational and environmental settings.
I evaluated variation in benzene-related leukemia with age at exposure and time since exposure.
I evaluated data from a cohort of 1,845 rubber hydrochloride workers. Benzene exposure-leukemia mortality trends were estimated by applying proportional hazards regression methods. Temporal variation in the impact of benzene on leukemia rates was assessed via exposure time windows and fitting of a multistage cancer model.
The association between leukemia mortality and benzene exposures was of greatest magnitude in the 10 years immediately after exposure [relative rate (RR) at 10 ppm-years = 1.19; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.10-1.29]; the association was of smaller magnitude in the period 10 to < 20 years after exposure (RR at 10 ppm-years = 1.05; 95% CI, 0.97-1.13); and there was no evidence of association > or = 20 years after exposure. Leukemia was more strongly associated with benzene exposures accrued at > or = 45 years of age (RR at 10 ppm-years = 1.11; 95% CI, 1.04-1.17) than with exposures accrued at younger ages (RR at 10 ppm-years = 1.01; 95% CI, 0.92-1.09). Jointly, these temporal effects can be efficiently modeled as a multistage process in which benzene exposure affects the penultimate stage in disease induction.
Further attention should be given to evaluating the susceptibility of older workers to benzene-induced leukemia.
Butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) were evaluated for possible promoting activity for urinary bladder carcinogenesis in male F344 rats initiated by N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN). The rats were treated with 0.01 or 0.05% BBN in the drinking water for 4 weeks and then administered 2% BHA or 1% BHT in the diet for 32 weeks. Surviving rats were killed at the end of week 36 of the experiment. The incidences of cancer and papilloma and the average number of cancers, papillomas and papillary or nodular hyperplasias (PN hyperplasias) per 10 cm of basement membrane were significantly increased in the group receiving BHA following initiation by 0.05% BBN compared with the group given BBN only. BHT also significantly increased these lesions of the bladder, but not the average number of cancers, in rats treated with 0.05% BBN. The ability of four antioxidants, BHA, BHT, sodium L-ascorbate (ascorbate) and ethoxyquin, to promote the induction of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gamma-GT)-positive foci initiated by diethylnitrosamine (DENA) in the liver of F344 rats was tested. Rats were given a single i.p. injection of 200 mg/kg body weight of DENA, and 2 weeks later the animals were exposed to 2% BHA, 1% BHT, 5% ascorbate or 1% ethoxyquin, respectively, in the diet for 6 weeks. All animals were subjected to partial hepatectomy at the end of week 3. The number of gamma-GT-positive foci in the groups fed either BHA, BHT or ethoxyquin after DENA were significantly decreased compared with the control group. These findings show that BHA and BHT are promoters for the urinary bladder carcinogenesis initiated by BBN, but that these and other antioxidants significantly inhibit the induction of gamma-GT-positive foci in the liver.
Chemoresistance of malignant melanoma has been linked to expression of the proto-oncogene BCL2. Antisense oligonucleotides (ASO) targeted against BCL2 mRNA decreased BCL2 protein concentrations, increased tumour-cell apoptosis, and led to tumour responses in a mouse xenotransplantation model when combined with systemic dacarbazine. This phase I-II clinical study investigated the combination of BCL2 ASO (augmerosen, Genasense, G3139) and dacarbazine in patients with advanced malignant melanoma expressing BCL2.
In a within-patient dose-escalation protocol, 14 patients with advanced malignant melanoma were given augmerosen intravenously or subcutaneously in daily doses of 0.6-6.5 mg/kg plus standard dacarbazine treatment (total doses up to 1000 mg/m2 per cycle). Toxicity was scored by common toxicity criteria. Plasma augmerosen concentrations were assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography. In serial tumour biopsy samples, BCL2 protein concentrations were measured by western blotting and tumour-cell apoptosis was assessed.
The combination regimen was well tolerated, with no dose-limiting toxicity. Haematological abnormalities were mild to moderate. Lymphopenia was common, but no febrile neutropenia occurred. Higher doses of augmerosen were associated with transient fever. Four patients had liver-function abnormalities that resolved within 1 week. Steady-state plasma concentrations of augmerosen were attained within 24 h, and increased with administered dose. By day 5, daily doses of 1.7 mg/kg and higher led to a median 40% decrease in BCL2 protein in melanoma samples compared with baseline, concomitantly with increased tumour-cell apoptosis, which was greatly increased after dacarbazine treatment. Six patients have shown antitumour responses (one complete, two partial, three minor). The estimated median survival of all patients now exceeds 12 months.
Systemic administration of augmerosen downregulated the target BCL2 protein in metastatic cancer. Such downregulation of BCL2, combined with standard anticancer therapy, offers a new approach to the treatment of patients with resistant neoplasms.
Nine infants with an underlying static encephalopathy (confirmed as cerebral palsy in a later follow-up examination) and newly diagnosed infantile spasms were entered in an open study with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and vigabatrin as the initial therapy regimen. The ACTH was discontinued after 4-6 weeks and the infants were maintained on vigabatrin alone. Following an initial response with complete suppression of spasms in all patients, a long term response maintained for a mean of 19.2 months was confirmed in all but one child. Tolerability appeared excellent with 7 of 9 patients reporting no side effects; vigabatrin related hypotonia presented in all patients and turned out to be a 'positive' side-effect on the abnormally increased muscle tone of these infants. Given the very poor prognosis of infantile spasms especially in such conditions as cerebral palsy, the combination of ACTH and vigabatrin appears to be an interesting therapy advance with very few side effects.
The potential mechanism of the chemotherapy resistance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the multidrug resistance (MDR-1) gene product P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is often overexpressed in myeloblasts from acute myeloid leukemia. In a multicenter clinical trial, 38 patients with poor risk forms of AML were treated with tetrandrine (TET), a potent inhibitor of the MDR-1 efflux pump, combined with daunorubicin (DNR), etoposide and cytarabine (TET-DEC). Overall, post-chemotherapy marrow hypoplasia was achieved in 36 patients. Sixteen patients (42%) achieved complete remission or restored chronic phase, 9 achieved partial remission (PR) and 13 failed therapy. Toxicities included infection, myelosuppression, stomatitis, mucositis, cerebellar toxicity and reversible cardiotoxicity. There was no significant difference in response for P-gp-positive and -negative patients. P-gp function was assessed in 26 patients by flow cytometric analysis, TET-contained plasma-augmented DNR accumulation relative to pretreatment plasma in K562/A02 cells by a median value of 88+/-101% (range, 11-501%). However, there was no difference in DNR uptake between responding and non-responding patients. Our data showed that TET-DEC was relatively well tolerated in these patients with poor risk AML, and had encouraging antileukemic effects.
DNA damage to cochlear hair cells caused by 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) is essential for the development of noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). Human 8-oxoG DNA glycosylase1 (hOGG1) is a key enzyme in the base excision repair (BER) pathway that eliminates 8-oxoG. Many epidemiological and functional studies have suggested that the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism (rs1052133) is associated with many diseases. The purpose of this investigation was to investigate whether the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism in the human BER pathway is associated with genetic susceptibility to NIHL in a Chinese population. This polymorphism was genotyped among 612 workers with NIHL and 615 workers with normal hearing. We found that individuals with the hOGG1 Cys/Cys genotype had a statistically significantly increased risk of NIHL compared with those who carried the hOGG1 Ser/Ser genotype (adjusted OR=1.59, 95% CI=1.13-2.25) and this increased risk was more pronounced among the workers in the 15- to 25- and >25-year noise exposure time, 85-92 dB(A) noise exposure level, ever smoking, and ever drinking groups, similar effects were also observed in a recessive model. In summary, our data suggested that the hOGG1 Cys/Cys genotype may be a genetic susceptibility marker for NIHL in the Chinese Han population.
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 7B1 is involved in many metabolic processes including androgen metabolism. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 7B1 is expressed within the prostate and may determine the levels of the natural estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) ligand 5alpha-androstane-3beta,17beta-diol (3betaAdiol) available and hence affect the regulation of prostate proliferation. We hypothesized that CYP7B1 expression is increased in prostate tumors and that promoter methylation contributes to the regulation of CYP7B1 expression in human prostate tissue.
Expression of the CYP7B1 gene and protein in clinical prostate tissues and prostate cancer cell lines were investigated using real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. The methylation status of the CYP7B1 gene was analyzed using methylation-specific PCR (MSP).
The immunohistochemical results demonstrate that high expression of CYP7B1 protein occurs in high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) and adenocarcinomas. The ERbeta/CYP7B1 mRNA ratio was significantly lower in tumor compared to the non-tumor area. The MSP analysis indicate that local methylation of CYP7B1 promoter region is an important mechanism involved in down-regulation of CYP7B1 in human prostate tissue.
This is the first report showing that CYP7B1 is overexpressed in high-grade PIN and in prostate cancer and that local methylation of CYP7B1 promoter region may have significant effect on gene transcription.
Repeated exposure to psychomotor stimulants can lead to sensitization to their effects, and sensitization has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and drug abuse. These disorders are characterized by cognitive deficits, particularly in prefrontally mediated executive function.
The present experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of sensitizing regimens of amphetamine and phencyclidine (PCP) on attentional set shifting.
Rats received injections of amphetamine, PCP or saline three times per week for 5 weeks. Four weeks later, rats were trained to dig for food in one of two bowls, each bowl having an odour and a texture. Only one dimension (odour or texture) correctly predicted which bowl was baited. Rats were then tested on a series of discriminations including those requiring an intra-dimensional shift (IDS), an extra-dimensional shift (EDS) or a reversal of previously relevant and irrelevant stimuli.
Rats sensitized to amphetamine performed normally on the IDS, but were impaired on the EDS, as well as on reversal discriminations. PCP-sensitized rats were unaffected on any of the discriminations. In amphetamine-sensitized rats the deficit at the EDS stage was reversed by infusion of the D(1) receptor agonist SKF38393 into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC).
Results show that the amphetamine-sensitized state impairs prefrontally mediated attentional set shifting. This is consistent with cognitive deficits in schizophrenia and addiction, and with the evidence that amphetamine sensitization is accompanied by functional changes in the mPFC. These results further add to a growing literature showing that activating D(1) receptors in the mPFC improves aspects of cognition.
Products of several phase I and II genes transcriptionally activated by ligands of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) were quantitated in cutaneous samples isolated from non-tumor-bearing SENCAR or SSIN mice, and animals bearing skin tumors generated in initiation-promotion protocols. The constitutive 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activities in papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas were less than or equal to 37% of the values measured in the adjacent normal cutaneoustissue. Dermal and epidermal EROD specific activities in microsomal samples prepared from both tumor-bearing and non-tumor-bearing mice were elevated 9- to 14- and 43- to 77-fold, respectively, above constitutive levels 16-20 h after a single topical application of 100 nmol of dibenz[a,c]anthracene (DB[a,c]A). EROD specific activities in tumors were maximally elevated two-fold after topical application of DB[a,c]A. Western blot, northern blot, and reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses confirmed that the EROD measurements reflected cutaneous cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A1 protein, mature mRNA, and heterogeneous nuclear RNA contents, respectively. Analyses of CYP1A1, CYP1B1, cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase class 3, and NAD(P)H:menadione oxidoreductase (NMO1) mRNA content by RT-PCR revealed significant increases in all four mRNAs in the normal tissue adjacent to papillomas after exposure to 4 nmol of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) but no increases in the tumors. NMO1 mRNA content in acetone-treated papillomas approached the levels detected in TCDD-treated normal skin. RT-PCR analyses also demonstrated elevated constitutive aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator mRNA content (an approximately two-fold increase) in skin tumors. In contrast, AHR mRNA content in the tumors was about 20% of that measured in adjacent normal tissue. Collectively, these studies demonstrated that ligand-induced, AHR-mediated processes are absent in murine skin tumors that develop in initiation-promotion protocols.
Neurologic injury is a rare yet devastating outcome of coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. Mechanisms producing both focal and global neurologic injuries include embolization, cerebral hypoperfusion, and hypotension. In this present study, we report an association between variations in the treatment of the internal mammary artery with the detection of cerebral embolic signals.
An intensive intraoperative neurologic and physiologic monitoring approach was implemented to associate discrete processes of clinical care with the concurrent detection of cerebral embolic signals, cerebral hypoperfusion, and hypotension. The method of treating the left internal mammary artery was tracked among 68 patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting. Cerebral embolic signals were counted within 3 minutes of the treatment of the left internal mammary artery.
Among a series of 68 patients undergoing isolated coronary artery bypass grafting, 22 were not treated with papaverine. Of those treated, 12 received injection intraluminally and 28 had a topical application. Embolic signals were noted concurrently among 7 patients receiving injection of papaverine. No embolic signals were noted among patients who were treated topically.
We report an association between the injection of papaverine hydrochloride and cerebral embolic signals. Our findings suggest that adoption of topical applications of papaverine hydrochloride may offer opportunities to reduce a portion of cerebral embolic signals in the setting of coronary artery bypass grafting.
Drug induced renal failure is a serious, potentially, fatal illness that is preventable. Hypersensitivity reactions involving the kidneys can occur with any of the penicillin groups. However, there are few reports in the literature of ampicillin as a cause of acute interstitial nephritis. In the following case report, a patient developed acute interstitial nephritis with renal failure and exfoliative dermatitis following ampicillin therapy. The diagnosis was based on the rapid onset of renal failure, presence of eosinophilia, skin rash, and characteristic renal biopsy finding, following the administration of ampicillin. Renal function returned to normal eventually, but she continued to have relapses of exfoliative dermatitis up to a year later.
