Hyperamylasemia and acute pancreatitis represent the most frequent major complication after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), developing in 1-30% of cases.
To determine the incidence of hyperamylasemia and acute pancreatitis after ERCP, and to assess the utility of rectal indomethacin to prevent these events.
A randomized clinical trial. During a 12-month period 150 patients were included. They were divided up into a study group (n = 75), where 100 mg of rectal indomethacin were administered 2 hours prior to the procedure, and a control group (n = 75), which received rectal glycerin. Two hours after ERCP serum amylase levels were measured and classified as follows: 0<or=150 IU/L, 1 = 151-599 IU/L, 2>or=600 IU/L. Clinical pancreatitis episodes were quantified and classified according to Ranson's criteria.
Gender distribution: 100 women and 50 men. Mean age: 55.37 +/- 18.0 for the study group, and 51.1 +/- 17.0 for the control group. A diagnosis of benign pathology was present in 56 (74.7%) cases in the study group, and 59 (78.7%) controls. After ERCP 13 (17.3%) patients in the study group and 28 (37.3%) in the control group developed hyperamylasemia (p (2) 0.05). Hyperamylasemia > 600 IU/L was found in 3 patients in the study group, and in 10 in the control group (p = 0.001). Mild pancreatitis was detected in 4 (5.3%) patients in the study group, and in 12 (16%) patients in the control group (p = 0.034). There were no deaths or adverse drug reactions.
Rectal indomethacin before ERCP decreases the risk of hyperamylasemia and pancreatitis. Indomethacine is a feasible, low-cost drug with minimal or nil side effects.
The core binding factor beta gene (CBFB), essential to bone morphogenesis, is located at 16q22.1. Homozygous deficiency of CBFB leads to ossification defects in mice. CBFB forms a heterodimer with RUNX2 (CBFA1) during embryonic bone development. RUNX2 mutations lead to cleidocranial dysplasia in humans. We describe an infant boy with an interstitial deletion of 16q21q22, delayed skull ossification, cleft palate, and heart anomalies who had a difficult course in infancy but eventually improved and is healthy. He was found to have CBFB haploinsufficiency, but did not have mutations in RUNX2. We suggest that 16q21q22 deletion be considered when there are antenatal or postnatal findings of enlarged cranial sutures with or without cleft palate. The finding of CBFB haploinsufficiency in our case and the similarity of cranial ossification defects with a mouse model of CBFB deletion suggest a role for CBFB in cranial bone development in humans.
The authors reports a case of a 33-year-old woman who had a relapse and worsening of panic disorder following a single injection of methamphetamine after a long period of remission. Her first panic attack had occurred when she was a 14-year-old high school student, but the course had persisted only for 1 month. Soon after an intravenous injection of methamphetamine, she had a relapse of panic disorder, and depression and agoraphobia developed. Psychotropic medication was not fully effective.
Intradermal injection of platelet-activating factor (PAF) causes wheal and flare reactions, which are inhibited by antihistamines. However, PAF does not release histamine from human dispersed skin mast cells in vitro. The purpose of this study was to investigate the extent and possible mechanisms of PAF-induced histamine release in human skin in vivo with the use of dermal microdialysis.
Hollow dialysis fibers were inserted into the upper dermis in forearm skin and each fiber was perfused with Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate solution at a rate of 3.0 microliters/min. PAF (4.5 to 36 mumol/L), lyso-PAF (36 mumol/L), vehicle (negative control), and codeine 750 or 250 mumol/L (positive control) were injected intradermally above separate fibers. Dialysate was collected in 2-minute fractions for 20 minutes and histamine analyzed spectrofluorometrically.
PAF, but not lyso-PAF, caused statistically significant dose-related histamine release and wheal and flare reactions. Intradermal mepivacaine administration significantly abrogated flare reactions by PAF and codeine and inhibited histamine release and wheal reactions by PAF but not by codeine. Long-term topical capsaicin administration inhibited histamine release and wheal reactions by PAF but not by codeine. It inhibited flare reactions induced by both compounds. PAF did not release histamine from blood basophils.
These data suggest that PAF induced histamine release from mast cells in intact human skin indirectly via neurogenic activation. Further, on the intradermal injection of PAF histamine release and the skin responses, the wheal and the flare, are differentially regulated by neurogenic components.
The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug aspirin and the spice curcumin retard adenoma formation when administered long-term to Apc(Min/+) mice, a model of human familial adenomatous polyposis coli. Both agents interfere with cyclooxygenase activity. When aspirin is administered to Apc(Min/+) mice only postweaning, but not before, it is inefficacious, while curcumin given postweaning is active. Here the hypothesis was tested that dietary aspirin (0.05%) or curcumin (0.2%) prevent or delay adenoma formation in offsprings when administered to Apc(Min/+) mothers and up to the end of weaning, but not afterwards. Whereas curcumin was without effect when administered in this way, aspirin reduced numbers of intestinal adenomas by 21%. When aspirin given up to the end of weaning was combined with curcumin administered from the end of weaning for the rest of the animals' lifetime, intestinal adenoma numbers were reduced by 38%. The combination was not superior to intervention postweaning with curcumin alone. These results show that aspirin exerts chemopreventive activity in the Apc(Min/+) mouse during tumour initiation/early promotion, while curcumin is efficacious when given at a later stage of carcinogenic progression. Thus, the results suggest that in this mouse model aspirin and curcumin act during different 'windows' of neoplastic development.
Using a sensitive potentiometric method the effect of isoproterenol upon the activity of Na, K-ATPase in cardiomyocytes has been studied. The activity of the enzyme in rat sarcolemma at isoproterenol-induced myocarditis decreases by 42%. A direct action of isoproterenol on the Na, K-ATPase activity in sarcolemma in vitro has been investigated. In the concentration range 10(-9)-10(-3) M (from receptor-binding up to cardiotoxic) a gradual decrease of the activity reaching the complete inhibition at 10(-3) M is revealed. Antagonist of beta-adrenoreceptors propranolol in concentrations required for displacing the agonist (10(-9) M) provides for the recovery of the Na, K-ATPase activity up to 76% of its normal activity. This action transforms into nonspecific inhibition at rising concentration of the antagonist. Possible mechanisms of the beta-adrenergic regulation effect in cardiomyocytes on Na, K-ATPase of the sarcolemma are discussed.
Further characterizations of 20beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (20beta-HSD) present in liver microsomes of male rats were examined. A significant relationship was observed between 20beta-HSD and acetohexamide reductase (AHR) activities in liver microsomes of male rats. The hepatic microsomal 20beta-HSD and AHR preferentially required NADPH as a cofactor. When NADPH was replaced by NADH, NADP or NAD at the same concentration, these reductase activities were little detected. The hepatic microsomal 20beta-HSD and AHR activities in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were much lower than those in the corresponding controls. The hepatic microsomal 20beta-HSD and AHR activities appeared as one main peak, respectively, on DEAE-Sephacel column chromatography, and the peak of 20beta-HSD activity was in good agreement with that of AHR activity. Based on these results, we conclude that 20beta-HSD present in liver microsomes of male rats functions as AHR, and exhibits a carbonyl reductase-like activity.
Individual groups of nephrologists - in their responsibility for their patients - initiated a most controversial discussion whether or not caffeine - coformulated to analgesics - might initiate or sustain analgesic overdosing. The original sources (data) of such suspicion have got lost during the debate of the last two decades. Therefore, it seemed to be appropriate to investigate the original data background and the reasons why nephrologists started to suspect caffeine as a stimulant of analgesic overdosing by employing a systematic and exhaustive review of primary nephrological publications. Their selection followed a precise selection plan, including all epidemiological studies on analgesic-associated nephropathy, the original papers of all groups having been involved in those studies, further originals from the mainly involved countries (academically, politically), and any literature thereof cited as a proof. The following results emerged from the investigation: (i) The epidemiological studies warranted no conclusion about a role of caffeine in prompting excessive analgesic use. (ii) The identified groups of nephrologists provided not substantial data to advocate the said suspicion, except for the observation of a preferential choice of phenacetin-containing combinations, especially powder preparations. (iii) Only two cited original data sources revealed drug-seeking behaviour with phenacetin-containing preparations which subsided, after phenacetin was banned from the respective markets. Conclusively, it appears that there is no substantial data to support a pivotal role of caffeine in initiating or sustaining analgesic overdosing. However, there is strong data that phenacetin, by its psychotropic properties, may have caused drug-seeking behaviour and thus led to analgesic overdosing. This conclusion is convincingly supported by thorough pharmacokinetic investigations. Note: All caffeine-related statements within the reviewed literature have been collected in tables (referred to as Table SX) which are provided in full text for check on the following website: http://www.blackwellpublishing.com/products/journals/suppmat/FCP/FCP174/FCP174sm.htm
Dysfunction of the enzyme aromatase (CYP19) is associated with endocrine pathologies such as osteoporosis, impaired fertility and development of hormone-dependent cancers. Certain endocrine disrupting chemicals affect aromatase expression and activity in vitro, but little is known about their ability to do so in vivo. We evaluated a bioluminescent mouse model (LPTA®)CD-1-Tg(Cyp19-luc)-Xen) expressing luciferase under control of the gonadal aromatase pII promoter as an in vivo screening tool for chemicals that may affect aromatase expression. We studied the effects of forskolin, pregnant mare serum gonadotropin and atrazine in this model (atrazine was previously shown to induced pII-promoter-driven aromatase expression in H295R human adrenocortical carcinoma cells). About 2-4 out of every group of 10 male or female Cyp19-luc mice injected i.p. with 10 mg/kg forskolin had increased gonadal bioluminescence after 3-5 days compared to controls; the others appeared non-responsive. Similarly, about 4 per group of 9 individual females injected with pregnant mare serum gonadotropin had increased ovarian bioluminescence after 24 h. There was a statistically significant correlation between ovarian bioluminescence and plasma estradiol concentrations (n=14; p=0.022). Males exposed to a single dose of 100 mg/kg or males and females exposed to 5 daily injections of 30 mg/kg atrazine showed no change in gonadal bioluminescence over a 7 day period, but a significant interaction was found between atrazine (100 mg/kg) and time in female mice (p<0.05; two-way ANOVA). Ex vivo luciferase activity in dissected organs was increased by forskolin in testis, epididymis and ovaries. Atrazine (30 mg/kg/day) increased (30%) luciferase activity significantly in epididymis only. In conclusion, certain individual Cyp19-luc mice are highly responsive to aromatase inducers, suggesting this model, with further optimization, may have potential as an in vivo screening tool for environmental contaminants.
Zonisamide (ZNS) and acetazolamide (AZM) are two antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) that differ in clinical efficacy. To elucidate the mechanisms of action of these compounds, we investigated their therapeutic and prophylactic effects in rats by using a kindling model of partial epilepsy.
Electrodes were implanted into the left amygdala of adult male Wistar rats. The animals were stimulated at the afterdischarge threshold until five stage 5 seizures were induced. The generalized seizure threshold was then determined. Therapeutic effects were examined in rats manifesting successive convulsions with near-threshold stimulation. To test prophylactic effects, drugs were administered intraperitoneally before daily kindling stimulation until the animal had a stage 5 seizure or reached day 18.
ZNS (10-40 mg/kg; n=6) suppressed kindled seizures in a dose-dependent manner. Repeated administration for 7 days produced tolerance to anticonvulsive effects. AZM (25-200 mg/kg; n=7) showed limited therapeutic effect, alleviating only the clonic convulsion in stage 5 seizures and reducing afterdischarge duration. Secondary generalization was not significantly suppressed during repeated treatment (50-200 mg/kg; n=6). ZNS, 25 or 40 mg/kg (n=8), significantly retarded seizure development; 15.0 or 17.0 daily stimulations were required to produce a stage 5 seizure. AZM, 50-200 mg/kg (n=6), also retarded seizure development, with 14.0-14.8 stimulations required.
ZNS exhibited modest therapeutic and prophylactic effects, whereas AZM showed mainly prophylactic effects. Hypotheses are presented that may explain the mechanisms of action of these drugs.
Monotherapy has been the gold standard in epilepsy treatment for the last 20 years, partly because of the reputation for increased toxicity of polytherapy. However, monotherapy and polytherapy have not been compared in a double-blind clinical trial. Open trials that compared the two treatments were not optimally designed and compared the two at unequal drug loads (i.e., at nonequivalent dosages). We report on a double-blind clinical trial in which a combination of carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproate (VPA) was compared with CBZ monotherapy. Patients started with equal drug loads, and neurotoxicity was the primary outcome measure.
The 130 adult patients with untreated generalized tonic-clonic and/or partial seizures were randomized to equal drug loads of either monotherapy (400 mg CBZ per day) or polytherapy (200 mg CBZ plus 300 mg VPA per day). Outcome was measured by seizure counts, clinimetric epilepsy scales, and neuropsychological tests at baseline, at 2 and 12 months, and irregularly between 2 and 12 months.
No statistical differences were found between the two treatments in the reduction of seizure frequencies, in overall neurotoxicity, or in overall systemic toxicity. The frequencies and clinimetric scores of certain adverse effects did differ (e.g., more monotherapy patients remained sedated, and more polytherapy patients gained weight). Fewer polytherapy patients withdrew because of adverse effects (14 vs. 22%), although this did not reach statistical significance (p=0.15). Neuropsychological assessment did not show significant differences.
No differences were found in overall neurotoxicity between monotherapy and polytherapy.
The value of the dipyridamole test (0.75 mg/kg i.v.) in the diagnosis of angina pectoris was studied in 54 patients with angina pectoris (35 with angina on effort associated or not associated with rest angina and 19 with angina only at rest) and in 12 control subjects. The test induced electrocardiographic signs of ischemia (positive test) in 74% of patients with angina on effort, while it was negative in all cases with angina only at rest and in control subjects. All anginal patients with normal coronary arteries or less than 50% stenosis had a negative test; a positive response was observed in 36, 79 and 60% of cases with one-, two-or three-vessel disease, respectively. Hemodynamic changes with a marked arteriolar vasodilatation were observed both in the negative and in the positive tests. In the positive tests no significant change of double product, blood pressure and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure occurred before ischemia appeared. The results of the study show that dipyridamole as a diagnostic test in angina pectoris has a high specificity but a lower sensitivity than exercise test. The hemodynamic and eletrocardiographic findings in the positive tests suggest that dipyridamole-induced ischemia is due to a flow maldistribution with selective subendocardial ischemia secondary to the coronary arteriolar dilatation caused by the drug.
The T-cell-dependent antibody response is suppressed in mice exposed to 3.75, 7.5, 15, and 30 mg PFOA (perfluorooctanoic acid)/kg body weight (bw). Reduced bw accompanied immunosuppression at 15 and 30 mg/kg. We investigated the hypothesis that the observed immunosuppression is secondary to elevated serum corticosterone levels by assessing immune function in adrenalectomized (adx) or sham-operated C57BL/6N female mice exposed to 0, 7.5, or 15 mg PFOA/kg bw in drinking water for 10 days. Bw, primary antibody responses to a T-dependent antigen, clinical serum chemistries related to liver health, and serum corticosterone levels were evaluated. Exposure to 15 mg/kg decreased bw by approximately 10% after 8 days of dosing and until 2 days postdosing in both adx and sham animals; bw of adx animals were still reduced 5 days postdosing. IgM antibody titers were statistically reduced by 15% in sham animals and 18% in adx animals exposed to 15 mg/kg and by 11.8% in adx animals exposed to 7.5 mg/kg. Corticosterone concentrations were elevated by 157% in dosed sham animals relative to control animals and were reduced by 27% in dosed adx animals relative to control animals (neither changes were statistically significant). Clinical serum chemistries related to liver health were not statistically altered by either dose or adrenalectomy. The failure of adrenalectomy to protect mice from the immunosuppressive effects of PFOA indicates that suppression of antibody synthesis is not the result of liver toxicity or stress-related corticosterone production.
A 46-year-old woman had an episode of atrial fibrillation during infusion of docetaxel as adjuvant chemotherapy for an infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast. All cardiological tests performed before treatment were normal and there was no evidence of thyroid dysfunction nor any objective or anamnestic data indicating acute or chronic cardiovascular disease. None of the drugs administered has ever shown any proarrhythmic activity. In controlled clinical trials docetaxel was found to have a very low cardiotoxicity.
We describe a 20-year-old patient with cystic fibrosis who developed acute nonoliguric renal failure associated with inhaled tobramycin. Clinical evaluation and renal biopsy findings were consistent with aminoglycoside-induced changes. Renal failure due to inhaled aminoglycosides has not been previously reported. The incidence may rise, however, with the increased use of this treatment modality. Measurable tobramycin levels due to inhalational therapy with conventional dosing in the reported patient indicate that the drug can be systemically absorbed, and renal tubular toxicity may occur.
In this study, we determined in vivo interactions between hemopoietic growth factors and etoposide (VP-16) to assess whether normal blood cell production could be maintained during chemotherapy if hemopoietic growth factors were simultaneously administered. Groups of mice were treated for 7 consecutive days with four different doses of VP-16 in combination with three different doses of erythropoietin (EPO) or granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). In total, 12 combinations of VP-16 plus EPO and 12 combinations of VP-16 plus G-CSF were thus evaluated. Intricate dose-response surfaces of the effects of the different treatments on colony-forming units-erythroid, reticulocytes, hematocrit, colony-forming units-granulocyte/macrophage, and absolute neutrophil count were obtained, which revealed that: (a) simultaneous EPO administration was able to maintain reticulocyte production and to protect mice from VP-16 induced anemia; (b) simultaneous G-CSF administration was able to maintain granulocyte production and to protect mice from VP-16 induced neutropenia; (c) VP-16 dose escalation was feasible when EPO or G-CSF were simultaneously administered; and (d) no increased myelotoxicity on erythroid or granuloid progenitors was observed when EPO or G-CSF was simultaneously administered with VP-16. These results suggest that in vivo either individual hemopoietic progenitors can become resistant against VP-16-induced cell death by appropriate simultaneous growth factor administration or that the loss of overall cell amplification, induced by VP-16, can be compensated by extra amplification of surviving progenitors. Furthermore, these data indicate that a strict separation in time of cytostatic drug and growth factor treatment is not necessarily the optimal schedule with respect to the reduction of hemotoxicity.
Cardamonin, a flavone compound isolated from Alpinia katsumadai Heyata seeds, has been reported to possess anti-inflammatory and anticoagulative activities, and it might be beneficial for management of sepsis. This study was conducted to examine the protective effects of cardamonin on experimental sepsis and resultant acute lung injury (ALI). Cardamonin (30 and 100 mg/kg) significantly elevated the survival rate of septic mice, alleviated ALI and lung microvascular leak, and lowered the serum levels of proinflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6. In vitro, it (25 and 50 µM) concentration dependently inhibited endothelium permeability and downregulated phosphorylation of P38 in rat lung microvascular endothelial cells induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). P38 inhibitor inhibited the endothelium permeability. In RAW 264.7 macrophage cells, cardamonin also showed selective inhibition of P38 phosphorylation induced by LPS. These results indicate that cardamonin can protect septic mice from ALI by preventing endothelium barrier dysfunction via selectively inhibiting P38 activation.
To explore the reversal effect and potential mechanism of resveratrol on multidrug resistance of human oral epidermoid carcinoma KBv200 cells.
MTT assay was used to investigate reversal index of resveratrol to vincristine, adriamycin and paclitaxel. Cell apoptosis were measured by flow cytometry. RT-PCR and Western blot were used to detect mRNA and protein expression of multidrug resistant 1 (MDR1) and B cell lymphoma leukemia-2 (Bcl-2).
Resveratrol produced a synergistic effect with chemotherapeutics and obviously reversed the multidrug resistant phenotype of KBv200 cells. The reversal fold (RF) of 200 micromol/L resveratrol to vincristine, paclitaxel and adriamycin were 77.1, 61.3 and 5.9, respectively. The gene array results showed that resveratrol greatly downregulated expression levels of Bcl-2 and MDR1. After treated with 100 micromol/L, 200 micromol/L resveratrol, the expression level of Bcl-2 and MDR1 in KBv200 cells were markedly decreased in comparison with those untreated (t were 2.98, 3.51 and 3.12, 4.56, P < 0.05).
Resveratrol can efficiently reverse multidrug resistance in KBv200 cells. The potential mechanism may be via inhibiting the multidrug resistant gene expressions and/or promoting cell apoptosis.
Glucocorticoids are an effective treatment of ulcerative colitis. The occurrence of steroid side effects depends on dosage and duration of steroid treatment. It may be a high as 80%. A rare side effect of glucocorticoid therapy is steroid induced myopathia. There exists an acute and a chronic form of steroid induced myopathia. Chronic steroid myopathia affects mainly the proximal musculature of the lower and upper extremities and leads to proximal muscle weakness. Histologically, an atrophy of type IIb-muscle fibers can be found. Chronic steroid myopathia occurs after prolonged treatment with higher doses of glucocorticoids.
The case report describes a 25 year old male patient with left-sided ulcerative colitis who developed chronic steroid myopathia after several months of glucocorticoid treatment. After switching from systemic steroids to budesonide the symptoms of myopathia disappeared. Left-sided ulcerative colitis remained in remission.
The case documents the disappearance of a severe steroid side effect after switching from a systemic steroid to budesonide.
Metronidazole in high cumulative doses has been associated with convulsions. A case is presented in which this relationship is clear. In all reported cases of metronidazole-associated seizures, the cumulative dose of metronidazole has been high (greater than 40 g). The cumulative dose rather than the serum level is important in the pathogenesis of this complication.
The effect of calcium channel blockers on the development of convulsive and anxiogenic actions of corasole and caffeine was studied on mice. Verapamil, nifedipine, cinnarizine, and fendilin attenuated corasole-induced convulsions were attenuated by convulsions. Nifedipine also weakened while fendilin increased the course of convulsions induced by caffeine. All calcium antagonists did not change the effects of corasole and caffeine in the dark-light chamber test and the test in an elevated plus maze (anxiogens shortened the time that the mice stayed in the open sections of the maze). It is concluded that there are no relations between the anticonvulsive and anxiolytic effects of calcium antagonists.
Star anise oil in 2 and 1% concentrations produced active sensitization in 5% of test subjects, and positive patch tests in 36 and 34%, respectively, of consecutive patients with dermatitis. A comparison of the results of tests with balsams and other essential oils showed that star anise oil does not give cross-reactions and pseudo cross-sensitivity. Patients positive to this oil are frequently positive to anethole and to other constituents of this oil: alpha-pinene, limonene and safrole. In tests with star anise oil it is noteworthy that a 1% concentration is strongly irritant, and 0.5% reveals sensitivity in only one fifth of the actively sensitized subjects. It is possible that the cause of false negative patch tests might be similar in the case of some other allergens.
The persistence of the kindled seizure state produced during exposure to 5 mg/kg/day lindane was compared to that produced in nonexposed subjects. Persistence was evaluated at intervals of 2 weeks and 2 months. Rats were kindled on corn oil alone or corn oil + lindane until each rat exhibited a fully kindled seizure. Two weeks later subjects were tested for persistence using a crossover design where half the lindane-kindled rats were retested under lindane and the other half under oil. Two months later, subjects were retested again, without further exposure. The results demonstrate that the kindled state during lindane exposure was equally as stable and persistent as that produced under control conditions. This was true even though kindling required about 40% fewer trials with lindane exposure than without. The equivalence of the control and lindane kindled state is an important finding. It suggests that the proconvulsant action of lindane on kindling is not simply an additive one. Rather, lindane appears to directly increase the rte at which the permanent alterations in neuronal connectivity occur which are responsible for kindling expression.
Inorganic fluoride (F-) production and renal function were assessed in six groups of Fischer 344 rats administered either methoxyflurane (MOF) or deuterated methoxyflurane (d4-MOF). One untreated and one phenobarbital (PB)-treated group were exposed for two hours to either air, 0.5 per cent (V/v) MOF, or 0.5 per cent (v/v) d4-MOF. Serum and urinary F- and serum urea nitrogen and creatinine were measured. Urine volume and urinary F- excretion were only slightly greater among MOF than among d4-MOF exposed animals. Pretreatment with PB, however, greatly enhanced F- production in MOF-exposed animals leading to marked renal impairment but only slightly enhanced F- production in d4-MOF animals leading to mild renal impairment. Thus, only in PB-pretreated animals could a biologically significant difference in nephrotoxicity be demonstrated for MOF and d4-MOF.
Treatment of women with uterine myomas with GnRH agonists results in symptoms of hypoestrogenism which can be prevented by concurrent "add-back" estrogen administration. We took advantage of these induced endocrine changes to investigate their effects on cognitive functioning in young women with myomas. Nineteen women with uterine myomas were tested before treatment. They all received the GnRH agonist, leuprolide acetate depot (LAD), every 4 weeks for 12 weeks and were then randomized to receive LAD plus estrogen or LAD plus placebo every 4 weeks for 8 additional weeks. Levels of all sex hormones decreased after 12 weeks of LAD treatment (P < 0.01), and only estradiol (E2) levels increased (P < 0.01) following 8 weeks of subsequent treatment in the group that received LAD plus E2. Scores on neuropsychological tests of verbal memory decreased from pretreatment to 12 weeks posttreatment with LAD (P < 0.05). These memory deficits were reversed in the group that received LAD plus E2 for 8 weeks coincident with an increase in plasma E2, whereas memory scores remained depressed in the group that received LAD plus placebo. These findings are consistent with those from studies on surgically menopausal women and strongly suggest that estrogen serves to maintain verbal memory in women. These results provide support for the efficacy of add-back estrogen regimens in women treated with GnRH agonists and also imply that estrogen may be important for maintaining memory in the postmenopause.
Daily exposure to lindane, 5 mg/kg, produced a number of consistent changes in rats undergoing amygdaloid kindling. Lindane decreased the number of afterdischarge-evoking stimulations required to produce the fully kindled state, increased the length of each successive afterdischarge during kindling and increased the severity of each convulsive response during kindling. However, lindane exposure did not change the total seconds of afterdischarge activity required to create the fully kindled state. In this study the enhancement of kindling rates by lindane stemmed primarily from an increase in the duration of epileptiform activity following each amygdaloid stimulation. These proconvulsant effects cannot be attributed to a lowering of seizure thresholds by lindane. Thresholds evaluated at different times during and after completion of kindling were either unaffected or actually elevated by lindane exposure. The length and severity of seizures evoked in fully kindled subjects by amygdaloid stimulation were much less affected by lindane exposure. This indicates that the most useful period for demonstrating proconvulsant activity with the kindling seizure model is during the dynamic phase of seizure development. Once the process has reached completion, seizures are maximally expressed, and their duration is controlled by processes not as susceptible to lindane exposures.
