Acute macular neuroretinopathy is a rare disorder characterized by the sudden onset of unilateral or bilateral paracentral scotomas with relative sparing of the central vision that occurs mostly in young women. It is often characterized by wedge-like macular lesions. The cause of acute macular neuroretinopathy is unknown but viral, immunological, and vascular etiologies have been proposed. There is no current treatment and the visual prognosis is variable. We describe a young woman in whom this disorder was associated with the administration of epinephrine.
Acute nonoliguric renal failure developed in a 13-year-old girl, 1 month after the institution of isoniazid therapy because of a positive tuberculin test at school screening. A renal biopsy demonstrated severe crescentic glomerulonephritis with focal interstitial changes. Discontinuation of isoniazid and a short course of steroids and cyclophosphamide therapy were followed by complete recovery. Whereas isoniazid has been shown to induce a lupus-like syndrome and antihistone antinuclear antibodies, our patient displayed none of the clinical or immunological features that are characteristic of drug-induced lupus. Furthermore, none of the identifiable causes for crescentic glomerulonephritis was evident in this girl. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report suggesting a possible association of crescentic glomerulonephritis to isoniazid treatment.
Thirty-five cases of renal medullary crest necrosis morphologically similar to the renal papillary necrosis of analgesic nephropathy as described in man and rats are reported in horses receiving maintenance dosages of phenylbutazone. The primary lesion is a well-demarcated focal medullary necrosis resulting in sequestration of fragments of the renal crest. Renal cortical lesions are considered secondary to the medullary necrosis and consist of segmental pallor as a result of tubular dilatation, filtrate retention, and interstitial edema. Ischemia in concert with phenylbutazone is suggested as the etiology. Renal medullary crest necrosis is presented as more appropriate morphological terminology for this lesion in the equine species than renal papillary necrosis as is used in man and rats.
5-HT7 receptors have been linked to a number of psychiatric disorders including anxiety and depression. The localization of 5-HT7 receptors in the thalamus, a key sensory processing center, and the high affinity of many atypical antipsychotic compounds for these receptors have led to the speculation of the utility of 5-HT7 antagonists in schizophrenia. The goal of these studies was to examine the effects of pharmacologic blockade and genetic ablation of 5-HT7 receptors in animal models predictive of antipsychotic-like activity. We evaluated the effects of SB-269970, a selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist, on amphetamine and ketamine-induced hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits. In addition, sensorimotor gating function and locomotor activity were evaluated in 5-HT7 knockout mice. Locomotor activity was measured for up to 180 min using an automated infrared photobeam system, and PPI was evaluated in startle chambers. SB-269970 (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) significantly blocked amphetamine [3 mg/kg, subcutaneously (s.c.)] and ketamine (30 mg/kg, s.c.)-induced hyperactivity and reversed amphetamine (10 mg/kg, s.c.)-induced but not ketamine (30 mg/kg, s.c.)-induced PPI deficits, without changing spontaneous locomotor activity and startle amplitude. The largest dose of SB-269970 did not block the effects of amphetamine in 5-HT7 knockout mice. Collectively, these results indicate that blockade of 5-HT7 receptors partially modulates glutamatergic and dopaminergic function and could be clinically useful for the treatment of positive symptoms of schizophrenia.
Alterations of electrocardiogram results and cases of sudden cardiac death have been reported since the beginning of neuroleptic treatment. In particular, a temporal association exists between some antipsychotics and prolongation of the heart rate-corrected QT interval (QTc), an event that may increase the risk for developing a potentially fatal ventricular tachycardia arrhythmia known as torsades de pointes if it significantly exceeds normal intraindividual and interindividual variation. Although the incidence of serious adverse cardiac events in response to antipsychotic medications is relatively low, any possibility for the occurrence of cardiotoxicity warrants continued study. The present article reviews important differences among antipsychotic drugs in the potential for, and occurrence of, serious adverse cardiac outcomes and suggests that olanzapine, as therapeutically administered to patients with schizophrenia and related psychoses, does not contribute significantly to a QTc prolongation that could result in potentially fatal ventricular arrhythmias.
1. Chronic antihypertensive treatment lowers cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The beneficial effect on the blood vessel wall may be due to the lowering of blood pressure (BP) and, hence, wall stress (WS), or to a treatment-induced change in wall structure. 2. We have previously shown that, when evaluated at the same level of BP and WS, the stiffness of the aortic wall of old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) is higher than that of young and adult SHR and that of age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the intrinsic changes in wall composition and mechanics in old SHR can be modulated by long-term treatment with an angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril; 40 mg/kg per day) combined with a diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide; 20 mg/kg per day) and that treatment withdrawal would reveal whether such changes are maintained when BP and WS return to pretreatment levels. 3. We evaluated aortic structure and mechanics in SHR following 1 week withdrawal of oral antihypertensive treatment from 3 to 15 months of age (n = 8). Results were compared with age-matched SHR that were maintained on treatment (n = 12) or were not treated (n = 13) and with WKY rats (no treatment n = 11; maintained n = 11; withdrawn n = 10). 4. Isobaric aortic wall stiffness was estimated from the ratio of baseline aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) to BP and the slope relating aortic PWV to BP following sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension. Relative wall stiffening was estimated as the ratio of elastic modulus (EM) to WS. We argued that if treatment produced a change in wall elastin or collagen content, with a subsequent decrease in isobaric wall stiffness, then this would be maintained when BP increased following withdrawal of treatment. 5. In old SHR, treatment lowered isobaric wall stiffness (baseline PWV/BP 4.6 +/- 0.3 cm/s per mmHg; slope relating PWV to BP 6.7 +/- 0.4 x 10-3 cm/s per mmHg and EM/WS 4.1 +/- 0.4 vs 6.1 +/- 0.4 cm/s per mmHg, 9.7 +/- 0.9 x 10-3 cm/s per mmHg and 8.9 +/- 1.1, respectively, without treatment; all P < 0.05). After 1 weeks treatment withdrawal, the indices (5.7 +/- 0.2 cm/s per mmHg, 9.1 +/- 0.2 x 10-3 cm/s per mmHg and 7.2 +/- 0.6) increased in parallel with the increase in WS to levels similar to those observed in untreated SHR. There were no significant differences among the WKY rat groups. 6. Treatment increased the elastin and collagen contents of the aortic wall in both SHR (196 +/- 13 and 128 +/- 5 vs 111 +/- 9 and 86 +/- 4 mg/g wet weight, respectively, in untreated; P < 0.05) and WKY rats (190 +/- 19 and 135 +/- 4 vs 115 +/- 7 and 114 +/- 5 mg/g wet weight, respectively, in untreated; P < 0.05). This increase remained following withdrawal (213 +/- 26 and 118 +/- 4 vs 161 +/- 14 and 127 +/- 4 mg/g wet weight in SHR and WKY rats, respectively). 7. In summary, 1 year of treatment with captopril plus hydrochlorothiazide increases wall elastin content and reduces WS and stiffness in old SHR. Following withdrawal, elastin content remains high, but wall stiffness parallels WS in a manner similar to that in untreated SHR.
To evaluate the potential value of nifedipine treatment for primary pulmonary hypertension, hemodynamic and scintigraphic measurements were made before and 15 to 30 minutes after nifedipine, 10 to 20 mg, was given sublingually to nine patients. Nifedipine treatment increased cardiac output (mean +/- SD, 3.6 +/- 1.7 to 5.3 +/- 2.8 L/min, p less than 0.001) and decreased mean aortic pressure (99 +/- 19 to 85 +/- 12 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) and total pulmonary and total systemic resistances (1605 +/- 787 to 1025 +/- 540 dyn X s X cm-5 and 2761 +/- 1557 to 1591 +/- 823 dyn X s X cm-5, respectively; p less than 0.005). Heart rate and mean pulmonary arterial pressure did not change significantly. Right ventricular end-diastolic volume decreased 10% (p = 0.01), end-systolic volume decreased 15% (p less than 0.01), and right ventricular ejection fraction increased 18% (p less than 0.05) in eight patients. After 4 to 14 months (mean, 7.3 +/- 3.8) of treatment with nifedipine, 40 to 120 mg/d, in six patients, cardiac output increased (3.6 +/- 2.0 to 5.0 +/- 1.8 L/min, p less than 0.01) and total pulmonary resistance decreased (1572 +/- 730 to 987 +/- 586 dyn X s X cm-5, p = 0.025), whereas pulmonary arterial pressure remained unchanged (59 +/- 23.2 to 55 +/- 28.6 mm Hg, p greater than 0.05) compared with baseline values. We conclude that nifedipine therapy may be useful in the chronic management of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension.
Lipid peroxidation is believed to be involved in the pathophysiology of a number of diseases and in the process of aging. This study investigates the effects of dietary supplementation with vitamin E (20 g/kg diet of all-rac-alpha-tocopheryl succinate for 3 weeks) on both non-enzymatic and enzymatic lipid peroxidation in experimental rats with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced hepatotoxicity (2.5 mL/kg body).
Plasma, urine and liver samples from control rats (n = 6), CCl4-treated rats (n = 6), and rats supplemented with vitamin E prior to CCl4 treatment (n = 8) were collected. Non-enzymatic lipid peroxidation induced by free radicals was investigated by measurement of a major F2-iso-prostane, 8-iso-prostaglandin F2 alpha (8-iso-PGF2 alpha). Cyclooxygenase-catalyzed enzymatic lipid peroxidation was measured with a major PGF2 alpha metabolite, 15-keto-13,14-dihydro-prostaglandin F2 alpha (15-K-DH-PGF2 alpha). Malondialdehyde and antioxidants in plasma were also quantified.
CCl4 treatment alone resulted in significantly higher levels of plasma, urinary and liver 8-iso-PGF2 alpha, and of plasma and urinary 15-K-DH-PGF2 alpha compared to controls. Rats supplemented with vitamin E prior to CCl4 treatment had significantly lower levels of urinary and liver 8-iso-PGF2 alpha, urinary 15-K-DH-PGF2 alpha, and plasma malondialdehyde than rats treated with CCl4 alone. However, plasma 8-iso-PGF2 alpha and plasma 15-K-DH-PGF2 alpha were not affected by vitamin E supplementation.
Thus, both non-enzymatic and enzymatic lipid peroxidation during experimental hepatic oxidative injury were suppressed by dietary vitamin E supplementation in rats.
Methamphetamine (METH) is an illicit and potent psychostimulant, which acts as an indirect dopamine agonist. In the striatum, METH has been shown to cause long lasting neurotoxic damage to dopaminergic nerve terminals and recently, the degeneration and death of striatal cells. The present study was undertaken to identify the type of striatal neurons that undergo apoptosis after METH. Male mice received a single high dose of METH (30 mg/kg, i.p.) and were killed 24 h later. To demonstrate that METH induces apoptosis in neurons, we combined terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining with immunohistofluorescence for the neuronal marker neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN). Staining for TUNEL and NeuN was colocalized throughout the striatum. METH induces apoptosis in approximately 25% of striatal neurons. Cell counts of TUNEL-positive neurons in the dorsomedial, ventromedial, dorsolateral and ventrolateral quadrants of the striatum did not reveal anatomical preference. The type of striatal neuron undergoing cell death was determined by combining TUNEL with immunohistofluorescence for selective markers of striatal neurons: dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, of apparent Mr 32,000, parvalbumin, choline acetyltransferase and somatostatin (SST). METH induces apoptosis in approximately 21% of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, of apparent Mr 32,000-positive neurons (projection neurons), 45% of GABA-parvalbumin-positive neurons in the dorsal striatum, and 29% of cholinergic neurons in the dorsal-medial striatum. In contrast, the SST-positive interneurons were refractory to METH-induced apoptosis. Finally, the amount of cell loss determined with Nissl staining correlated with the amount of TUNEL staining in the striatum of METH-treated animals. In conclusion, some of the striatal projection neurons and the GABA-parvalbumin and cholinergic interneurons were removed by apoptosis in the aftermath of METH. This imbalance in the populations of striatal neurons may lead to functional abnormalities in the output and processing of neural information in this part of the brain.
A 48-year-old female carrier of Duchenne muscular dystrophy had developed congestive heart failure but had no skeletal muscle symptoms. She was admitted to our hospital complaining of palpitation in December 1998. Her three sons had Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Neurological examination was unremarkable with no evidence of muscle weakness. Serum creatine kinase level was slightly increased. Echocardiography showed severe left ventricular dysfunction. Coronary angiography showed no abnormalities. Left ventriculography showed generalized hypokinesis and left ventricular ejection fraction was 28%. Dystrophin immunostaining of the skeletal muscle biopsy specimen showed a mosaic pattern. The dystrophin negative fibers were scattered among positive fibers. Cardiomyopathy is the only clinical manifestation of dystrophin gene mutation in carriers. Beta-blocker therapy(carvedilol 5 mg/day) was effective in this patient.
Amikacin is an aminoglycoside commonly used to provide empirical double gram-negative treatment for febrile neutropenia and other suspected infections. Strategies of extended-interval and conventional dosing have been utilized extensively in the general medical population; however, data are lacking to support a dosing strategy in the hematology/oncology population. To evaluate amikacin-associated nephrotoxicity in an adult hematology/oncology population, a prospective, randomized, open-label trial was conducted at a university-affiliated medical center. Forty patients with a diagnosis consistent with a hematologic/oncologic disorder that required treatment with an aminoglycoside were randomized to either conventional or extended-interval amikacin. The occurrence of nephrotoxicity by means of an increase in serum creatinine and evaluation of efficacy via amikacin serum concentrations with respective pathogens were assessed. The occurrence of nephrotoxicity was similar between the conventional and extended-interval groups, at 10% and 5%, respectively (P = 1.00). Six patients in the conventional group had a positive culture, compared with none in the extended-interval group (P = 0.002). The occurrence of nephrotoxicity was similar between the two dosing regimens, but the distribution of risk factors was variable between the two groups. Efficacy could not be assessed.
The toxic environmental pollutant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a potent immunomodulatory chemical. TCDD activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and suppresses peripheral humoral and cellular adaptive immune responses. Though the major route of uptake is via food, little is known until now on the immunotoxic effects of TCDD on the gut-associated lymphoid tissue. We show here that AhR is strongly expressed along the small intestine, especially in intestinal epithelial cells (IEC). The AhR marker gene cyp1a1 is induced in IEC by oral TCDD exposure. We asked how TCDD affects oral tolerance, a unique function of mucosal immunity. C57BL/6 mice were injected with 10 μg/kg body weight TCDD and fed with ovalbumin (OVA) in a high-dose tolerization protocol. Mice were immunized and boosted with OVA on days 12, 23, and 55 after tolerization. Five of 14, 6 of 15, and 13 of 14 TCDD-treated mice generated OVA-specific immunoglobulin (Ig)G1 antibodies after the first, second, and third immunization with OVA, respectively. Only one mouse harbored anti-OVA IgG1 antibodies in the control group even after the third immunization with OVA. OVA-specific IgA in fecal samples of tolerized and TCDD-exposed mice could be detected at the levels of nontolerized mice, whereas completely absent in tolerant control mice. Correlated to this, we found in TCDD-treated mice an increase in interleukin-6 producing CD103+ dendritic cells (DC) present in the gut-draining mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) and a small increase in the frequency of Th17 cells. Neither the frequencies nor the absolute numbers of immune cells in the lamina propria (LP) or in intraepithelial lymphocytes were changed by TCDD treatment. Our data not only have implications for food allergies in settings of environmental exposure but also raise concerns regarding the harmlessness of overdosing potential AhR agonist in food, which needs to be studied further.
N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is an effective antidote to treat acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver failure (ALF). NAC is hepatoprotective and prevents the neurological complications of ALF, namely hepatic encephalopathy and brain edema. The protective effect of NAC and its mechanisms of action in ALF due to other toxins, however, are still controversial. In the present study, we investigated the effects of NAC in relation to liver pathology, hepatic and cerebral glutathione, plasma ammonia concentrations, progression of encephalopathy, cerebral edema, and plasma proinflammatory cytokines in mice with ALF resulting from azoxymethane (AOM) hepatotoxicity, a well characterized model of toxic liver injury. Male C57BL/6 mice were treated with AOM (100 microg/g; i.p.) or saline and sacrificed at coma stage of encephalopathy in parallel with AOM mice administered NAC (1.2 g/kg; i.p.). AOM administration led to hepatic damage, significant increase in plasma transaminase activity, decreased hepatic glutathione levels and brain GSH/GSSG ratios as well as increased expression of plasma proinflammatory cytokines. NAC treatment of AOM mice led to reduced hepatic damage and improvement in neurological function, normalization of brain and hepatic glutathione levels as well as selective attenuation in expression of plasma proinflammatory cytokines. These findings demonstrate that the beneficial effects of NAC in experimental non-APAP-induced ALF involves both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanisms.
Severity of opioid dependence, and performance on two successive runs of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), were assessed in 39 right-handed male and female methadone patients who had been randomly assigned to either a recently dosed (n=21) or 24 hr abstinent (n=18) condition. Results indicated that severity of opioid dependence was positively correlated with perseverative responses and errors on the second run of the WCST, p<.05. Further, controlling for the effect of dependence severity, patients in early methadone withdrawal made selectively more perseverative responses and errors than did recently dosed patients, p<.05, with no difference on nonperseverative errors. Findings were consistent with the hypothesis that opioid dependence, like alcoholism and cocaine addiction, is associated with disruption of executive cognitive functions mediated by the prefrontal cortex.
Methotrexate leukoencephalopathy is a chronic syndrome of ataxia and confusion which may progress to seizures, coma, and death. We report a fatal case of this syndrome in a patient who displayed no evidence of the typical prodrome of neurologic symptoms or signs. This patient suffered brain death after receiving 11 doses of intrathecal methotrexate for leukemic meningitis. Since leukoencephalopathy was not clinically suspected, this case underscores the need for a test that would reliably monitor central nervous system toxicity due to intrathecal therapy.
This study of a cohort of drug addicts receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment in a district in western France focused on changes in their drug use and their social and work lives. It also looked at the health consequences of their drug use before and after maintenance treatment (mean: four years).
From the files of an agency providing services to drug addicts, we randomly selected 180 of the 236 patients receiving buprenorphine maintenance treatment (BMT). Usable questionnaires were returned by 118 subjects (66% response rate). This self-administered questionnaire included 32 items.
The respondents accounted for half the population receiving drug maintenance treatment and were representative of the population for age and sex. The mean age was 30 +/- 5 years, mean BMT dose 6,5 mg/day, and mean duration of drug maintenance treatment 47 +/- 27 months. Other drug use diminished during the four years of maintenance treatment: three of every four heroin users had stopped, opiate users dropped from 31% to 5% of the population, and cocaine use followed a similar trend. Benzodiazepine use also fell, but remained relatively frequent (27%, compared with 68% four years earlier). Drinking patterns changed from strongly alcoholic beverages to lower-proof drinks. Arrest rates dropped from 70% to 25%. The percentage of persons seropositive for HIV (4%) and HCV (33%) remained low, but too many subjects had not been screened (35%). Roughly 10% of these subjects had returned to work, mainly those who had cut their drug use most.
While our survey reveals some positive points, especially a reduction in illegal drug use, several negative observations appeared, including combined use of cannabis and benzodiazepines, inadequate screening, and misuse of BMD. These results underline how important it is for care providers to focus simultaneously on medical treatment and identification of co-morbidities and to provide social work when necessary. The employment rate remains too low.
A case is reported of a 57-year-old man who was found to have a right vocal cord paralysis that most likely followed prolonged treatment with the anti-arrythmic medication Amiodaron-HCl (Cordarex). Phoniatric treatment was given for 5 1/2 months, during which time microlaryngoscopy and stroboscopy were performed. With the help of speech therapy, mobility of the paralyzed cord was seen to begin to return 3 1/2 months after discontinuing the Amiodaron-HCl. Full cord mobility has not returned to date.
An imbalance between excitation and inhibition in the cerebral cortex has been suggested as a possible etiology of autism. The DLX genes encode homeodomain-containing transcription factors controlling the generation of GABAergic cortical interneurons. The DLX1 and DLX2 genes lie head-to-head in 2q32, a region associated with autism susceptibility. We investigated 6 Tag SNPs within the DLX1/2 genes in two cohorts of multiplex (MPX) and one of simplex (SPX) families for association with autism. Family-based association tests showed strong association with five of the SNPs. The common alleles of rs743605 and rs4519482 were significantly associated with autism (P<0.012) in the first sample of 138 MPX families, with the latter remaining significant after correction for multiple testing (P(cor)=0.0046). Findings in a second sample of 169 MPX families not only confirmed the association at rs4519482 (P=0.034) but also showed strong allelic association of the common alleles at rs788172, rs788173 and rs813720 (P(cor)=0.0003-0.04). In the combined MPX families, the common alleles were all significantly associated with autism (P(cor)=0.0005-0.016). The GGGTG haplotype was over transmitted in the two MPX cohorts and the combined samples [P(cor)<0.05: P(cor)=0.00007 for the combined MPX families, Odds Ratio: 1.75 (95% CI: 1.33-2.30)]. Further testing in 306 SPX families replicated the association at rs4519482 (P=0.033) and the over transmission of the haplotype GGGTG (P=0.012) although P-values were not significant after correction for multiple testing. The findings support the presence of two functional polymorphisms, one in or near each of the DLX genes that increase susceptibility to, or cause, autism in MPX families where there is a greater genetic component for these conditions.
When injected into adult or nymphal Locusta that have been deprived of food for 2h, immunogens such as laminarin and bacterial LPS can induce an almost immediate dose-dependent state of anorexia for at least 1h. Such anorexia is a component of a medley of physiological and behavioural changes called collectively 'sickness behaviour' that occurs in a wide range of animals in response to infection or immune challenge. Sub-optimal amounts of injected laminarin allow some locusts to feed, but with a longer latency than in controls, although the length of the first meal is unaffected. The feeding behaviour of fifth instar nymphs is more sensitive to laminarin than that of adults, but both stages respond to amounts of immunogen that are lower than those required to activate the phenoloxidase cascade. Injection of adipokinetic hormone (AKH) before the period of food deprivation prevents the anorexigenic action of the laminarin in adults but not in nymphs. It is argued that the effect of the AKH may be indirect, through its lipid-mobilising action. The insecticide pymetrozine increases the latency to feed but also reduces the length of the first meal, and its anorexigenic activity is not affected by injection of AKH. The present data support the concept that laminarin-induced anorexia involves a central lack of motivation to eat, rather than a 'stop eating' signal. Others have shown that the mechanism of action of pymetrozine involves the serotonergic system and can be blocked by mianserin, so it is intriguing that in the present study injection of mianserin prior to that of laminarin modulates the anorexigenic effect of the immunogen. This suggests that biogenic amines are involved in the control of appetitive behaviour in locusts, as they are in vertebrates. The possible usefulness of the locust model in studying sickness-induced anorexia is discussed briefly.
The use of methamphetamine (METH) leads to neurotoxic effects in mammals. These neurotoxic effects appear to be related to the production of free radicals. To assess the role of peroxynitrite in METH-induced dopaminergic, we investigated the production of 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) in the mouse striatum. The levels of 3-NT increased in the striatum of wild-type mice treated with multiple doses of METH (4 x 10 mg/kg, 2 h interval) as compared with the controls. However, no significant production of 3-NT was observed either in the striata of neuronal nitric oxide synthase knockout mice (nNOS -/-) or copper-zinc superoxide dismutase overexpressed transgenic mice (SOD-Tg) treated with similar doses of METH. The dopaminergic damage induced by METH treatment was also attenuated in nNOS-/- or SOD-Tg mice. These data further confirm that METH causes its neurotoxic effects via the production of peroxynitrite.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of low doses of haloperidol on the open-field behavior of mice. A three-phase effect of haloperidol on the motor activity of mice was observed (depression, no effect, depression). This three-phase action was clear-cut in three experimental approaches (amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, and apomorphine- and bromocriptine-induced hypoactivity). A differential action of haloperidol on dopamine receptors mediating motor stimulation and motor depression was proposed. The present data indicate that considerably more attention should be paid to the novel behavioral and biochemical actions of neuroleptic drugs in the microgram dose range.
Zymosan-induced non-septic shock is a multi-factorial pathology that involves several organs including the kidneys, liver and lungs. Its complexity and diversity presents a continuing therapeutic challenge. Given their pleiotropic effect, statins could be beneficial in non-septic shock. One of the molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-inflammatory effect of statins involves the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α. We used a zymosan-induced non-septic shock experimental model to investigate the role of PPARα in the anti-inflammatory effects of simvastatin.
Effects of simvastatin (5 or 10 mg·kg(-1) i.p.) were analysed in PPARα knock-out (KO) and PPARα wild type (WT) mice after zymosan or vehicle administration. Organ injury in lung, liver, kidney and intestine was evaluated by immunohistology. PPARα mRNA expression and nuclear factor-κB activation were evaluated in all experimental groups, 18 h after study onset. Cytokine levels were measured in plasma, and nitrite/nitrate in plasma and peritoneal exudate. Nitric oxide synthase, nitrotyrosine and poly ADP-ribose were localized by immunohistochemical methods.
Simvastatin significantly and dose-dependently increased the zymosan-induced expression of PPARα levels in all tissues analysed. It also dose-dependently reduced systemic inflammation and the organ injury induced by zymosan in lung, liver, intestine and kidney. These effects were observed in PPARαWT mice and in PPARαKO mice.
Simvastatin protected against the molecular and cellular damage caused by systemic inflammation in our experimental model. Our results also provide new information regarding the role of PPARα in the anti-inflammatory effects of statins.
In a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, 12 patients with congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association class II) were successively treated for 1 week each with placebo, 40 mg famotidine, and 1000 mg quinidine. On the seventh treatment day, heart rate, blood pressure, systolic time intervals, impedance cardiography, and Doppler ultrasound were measured. Heart rate and blood pressure were not markedly altered by either drug. By contrast, quinidine and famotidine significantly decreased stroke volume and cardiac output in impedance cardiography and Doppler ultrasound (p less than 0.05). A high correlation between both noninvasive methods was found for cardiac output and stroke volume (r = 0.93 and r = 0.97 for stroke volume 1 1/2 hours after quinidine and placebo administration, respectively). In addition, the mechanocardiographic ratio of the preejection period to the left ventricular ejection time in systolic time intervals increased significantly 1 1/2 and 3 hours after administration of quinidine and famotidine (p less than 0.05). In conclusion, both quinidine and famotidine exert similar negative effects on cardiac performance, with no significant differences in hemodynamic parameters emerging between the antiarrhythmic agent and the H2-receptor antagonist.
Case report.
We report a patient who developed Pisa syndrome (drug-induced pleurothotonus) after treatment with tricyclic antidepressant.
Pisa syndrome is familiar to neuropsychiatrists, but not to orthopedic surgeons and spinal surgery specialists, both of whom have reported few cases of this syndrome.
A 56-year-old woman had experienced feelings of depression and saw a local doctor, where the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine hydrochloride (9x25 mg tablets daily) was prescribed. From about 2 months after starting medication, she developed flexion of the trunk to the left.
Pisa syndrome was suspected, and then, the daily dose of clomipramine hydrochloride was decreased from 9x to 3x25 mg tablets. Approximately 2 weeks after reducing the dose, abnormal postures gradually improved, and after 1 month, flexion of the trunk resolved.
We reported a case of Pisa syndrome in which pleurothotonus occurred after treatment with a tricyclic antidepressant and improved after dose reduction. When middle-aged or elderly patients who see orthopedic surgeons display abnormal postures of the trunk, physicians need to ask the patient whether they have received a drug that can cause Pisa syndrome, such as an antipsychotic or antiemetic.
A 53-year-old male with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh class A5) and mixed cryoglobulinaemia (cryocrit: 2.0%), both hepatitis C virus-related, was treated with pegylated interferon-alpha 2b and ribavirin. After three months of therapy, he developed segmental jejunal vasculitis requiring emergency resection of an ischaemic intestinal loop 60cm long. Pathological examination of the surgical specimen revealed signs of ischaemic injury with haemorrhagic infarction due to arteritis and arterial occlusion. The postoperative course was complicated by progressive liver and renal failure that led to the patient's death six months after surgery. To our knowledge, ischaemic jejunal vasculitis has never been reported during interferon therapy, but the latter treatment may have played causative roles.
A 24-year-old male patient who had been received Fansidar developed exudative erythema multiforme major with massive involvement of the skin, mucous membranes, and both eyes. The chronic inflammation led to proliferation of the conjunctiva, with keratinization of the ocular surface and corneal vascularization. The final result was comparable to cicatricial pemphigoid, with blindness of both eyes. In histological sections, massive lympho-plasma-cellular infiltration with circumscribed perivasculitis was seen. The lymphocyte transformation test was still positive 18 months after onset of the disease. Class II antigens were evident in some of the conjunctival biopsies.
The possibility that diazepam will influence spinal cord evoked potentials (SCEP), edema formation and cell changes following spinal cord injury (SCI) was examined in a rat model. The SCI was produced in equithesin anaesthetised animals by making a longitudinal incision (about 2 mm deep and 5 mm long) in the right dorsal horn of the T10-11 segments. The SCEP were recorded from the epidural space of the T9 segment after stimulation of the right tibial and sural nerves. The SCEP consisted of a small positive peak followed by a broad and high negative peak. Infliction of trauma to the rats resulted in an immediate and pronounced decrease of the maximal negative peak (MNP) amplitude. The spinal cord edema and cell changes were markedly pronounced 5 h after injury. Pretreatment with diazepam attenuated the early SCEP changes induced by the trauma and reduced the later development of edema and cell injury. These results suggest that benzodiazepine receptors are involved in trauma induced alterations in SCEP changes, edema formation and cell injury, not reported earlier.
