A 46-year-old patient with left-side low back pain developed symptoms of dysphonia and throat irritation 24 hours after receiving a fluoroscopically guided steroid injection into the epidural space. A direct laryngoscopy performed before a second injection detected no abnormalities. When dysphonia reappeared 48 hours after that injection, laryngoscopy revealed edema in the anterior vocal cord with thick surrounding mucous. Full clinical resolution of the dysphonia was apparent by laryngoscopy 15 days after the second injection. The mechanism of dysphonia after epidural steroid injection is unknown, but it may result from a systemic steroid effect.
The authors studied 31 liver transplant patients to compare neuropsychiatric side effects of a newer immunosuppressant, FK506, to cyclosporine A (CYA). Patients were randomly assigned to either FK506 or CYA. At the 1-week postoperative stage, cognitive status was assessed with the Mini-Mental State Exam, Trailmaking Tests (TMT) A and B, Delirium Rating Scale, and a neuropsychiatric symptom checklist. No statistically significant differences were found on any outcome variable between these two drugs, though scores on the TMTs were impaired as compared with published norms. The FK506 patients had moderately impaired TMT scores, whereas the CYA patients had only mild impairment. The patients demonstrate good cognitive recovery at 1 week post-transplantation, with only mild evidence of cognitive impairment.
High doses of calcitriol were used prospectively for 11 to 29 months to raise serum calcium levels in an effort to control renal osteodystrophy in 16 children undergoing CAPD. Serum Ca, P, iPTH and alkaline phosphatase were measured monthly; hand radiographs were obtained every six months, and a semiquantitative score of bone abnormalities was evaluated by two independent observers. During the study, serum Ca increased from 9.9 +/- 0.9 to 11.0 +/- 0.6 mg/dl (P less than 0.001); serum iPTH decreased by 113 +/- 131 microliter Eq/ml (P less than 0.005); serum P was unchanged; and serum alkaline phosphatase fell by 33 +/- 46% (P less than 0.02), 530 +/- 397 to 204 +/- 551 IU/liter. The radiographic score fell from 4.8 +/- 4.6 to 0.9 +/- 1.2 (P less than 0.005). The average and maximal doses of calcitriol were 0.61 +/- 0.37 and 0.95 +/- 0.56 microgram/day or 28 +/- 18 and 46 +/- 28 ng/kg body wt/day, respectively. Transient and asymptomatic hypercalcemia occurred in nine patients and two patients had reversible conjunctivitis in association with the hypercalcemia. Thus, "high dose" calcitriol prevented or controlled progression of hyperparathyroid bone disease in most pediatric CAPD patients. The failure to suppress PTH or reverse secondary hyperparathyroidism until the serum Ca rose to 10.5 to 11.0 mg/dl could reflect an increase in the "set point" for PTH suppression by serum calcium in many uremic children.
Prenatal exposure to nicotine tartrate (0.25 mg/kg/pregnant female, gestation days 3 through 21.2x daily IP) markedly decreases ambulatory activity and the number of stop and go movements in 15 day old neonatal rats. Postnatal nicotine tartrate administration alone (0.05 mg/kg SC daily from birth) does not affect these movements nor does it further the motor depression induced by prenatal nicotine treatment. Thus the critical period of neural susceptibility to nicotine appears to be during prenatal life. However, when nicotine is given both pre- and postnatally, horizontal movements are increased in the 15 day old animals, an increase that may be due to inhibition of other types of movement. These alterations in motor behavior are correlated with sharp increases in plasma ACTH levels. As our previous studies [1,25] have shown ACTH to affect neonatal motor behavior, it is suggested that nicotine-evoked ACTH release may mediate some of the motor responses attributed to the drug.
The effects of new and potent NOS inhibitors, S-methyl-L-thiocitrulline (S-Me-TC), 3-bromo 7-nitro indazole (3-Br-7-NI), and 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl) imidazole (TRIM), were examined on the pilocarpine-induced seizures in mice. 3-Br-7-NI and TRIM decreased the frequency of status epilepticus and mortality, while TRIM. In addition, significantly reduced the incidence of seizures. The latencies to onsets of seizures, status epilepticus, and mortality were significantly prolonged by all three NOS inhibitors, while duration of seizures was reduced by 3-Br-7-NI and TRIM. These data suggest an excitatory effect of NO in the neuronal structure involved in the pilocarpine-induced seizures.
We conducted imputation to the 1000 Genomes Project of four genome-wide association studies of lung cancer in populations of European ancestry (11,348 cases and 15,861 controls) and genotyped an additional 10,246 cases and 38,295 controls for follow-up. We identified large-effect genome-wide associations for squamous lung cancer with the rare variants BRCA2 p.Lys3326X (rs11571833, odds ratio (OR) = 2.47, P = 4.74 × 10(-20)) and CHEK2 p.Ile157Thr (rs17879961, OR = 0.38, P = 1.27 × 10(-13)). We also showed an association between common variation at 3q28 (TP63, rs13314271, OR = 1.13, P = 7.22 × 10(-10)) and lung adenocarcinoma that had been previously reported only in Asians. These findings provide further evidence for inherited genetic susceptibility to lung cancer and its biological basis. Additionally, our analysis demonstrates that imputation can identify rare disease-causing variants with substantive effects on cancer risk from preexisting genome-wide association study data.
Our purpose was to reassess the effectiveness of phenol 4% in aqueous solution for neurolysis in patients with severe chronic nonmalignant pain syndromes who did not achieve adequate pain control (visual analog scale [VAS] <or=3) with conventional pain treatment.
Forty-two patients with severe nonmalignant pain persisting for 6 months or longer were followed for more than 6 months after phenol neurolysis in this prospective observational study. All patients had previously received narcotic drugs, with or without nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents or adjuvants, without adequate pain relief. An aqueous solution of phenol 4% was used for chemical neurolysis. A fluoroscopically guided technique was used for chemical lumbar sympathectomy, medial branch destruction, and sacroiliac injections. Anatomic-landmarks technique was used for intercostal neurolysis, greater occipital nerve destruction, genitofemoral neuroablation, and paracoccygeal infiltration.
Good pain relief (VAS <or=3) was achieved in 35 patients after neurolysis with phenol, and the mean VAS decreased from 8.74 +/- 1.08 (range 7-10) before treatment to 1.93 +/- 2.41 after treatment (P<0.0001). The mean VAS for assessment of the quality of pain relief after phenol neurolysis was 8.4 +/- 2.39, ranging from 0 (no relief at all) to 10 (complete relief ). No major complications were seen.
The use of phenol 4% in aqueous solution is an effective and safe technique for neurolysis. Because of the potential risk of flaccid paralysis, this technique should be used in selected cases, far removed from motor nerves and the spinal cord.
Gliomas arising in the brainstem and thalamus are devastating tumors that are difficult to surgically resect. To determine the genetic and epigenetic landscape of these tumors, we performed exomic sequencing of 14 brainstem gliomas (BSGs) and 12 thalamic gliomas. We also performed targeted mutational analysis of an additional 24 such tumors and genome-wide methylation profiling of 45 gliomas. This study led to the discovery of tumor-specific mutations in PPM1D, encoding wild-type p53-induced protein phosphatase 1D (WIP1), in 37.5% of the BSGs that harbored hallmark H3F3A mutations encoding p.Lys27Met substitutions. PPM1D mutations were mutually exclusive with TP53 mutations in BSG and attenuated p53 activation in vitro. PPM1D mutations were truncating alterations in exon 6 that enhanced the ability of PPM1D to suppress the activation of the DNA damage response checkpoint protein CHK2. These results define PPM1D as a frequent target of somatic mutation and as a potential therapeutic target in brainstem gliomas.
Structural studies have shown that chronic regimens of psychostimulants increase dendritic spine number in the rat striatum. The present study used Western blotting and radioimmunocytochemistry to examine psychostimulant-induced changes in the levels of spinophilin, a protein found abundantly in dendritic spines. Spinophilin determinations were conducted in striatum as well as several other subcortical regions implicated in psychostimulant-induced neuroplasticity. Rats received an escalating (1-8 mg/kg) dosing regimen of d-amphetamine (twice daily, i.p.) for 5 weeks, were tested for locomotor sensitization, and were killed 28 days later. This amphetamine dosing regimen was found to induce a significant sensitization of locomotor activity in these animals. Using both Western blotting and radioimmunocytochemistry, spinophilin protein was found to be upregulated in the striatum of amphetamine-treated rats. In addition, radioimmunocytochemistry revealed that spinophilin was increased in the septum, hippocampus, amygdala and the cingulate cortex, and was unchanged in sensorimotor cortices. Because it binds to F-actin and protein phosphatase-1, spinophilin has been proposed as a protein linking synaptic transmission to changes in spine morphology. Radioimmunocytochemistry for spinophilin provides a novel approach to identification of brain regions whose neurons undergo dendritic change after chronic exposure to drugs of abuse.
Amplification of fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) occurs in approximately 10% of breast cancers and is associated with poor prognosis. However, it is uncertain whether overexpression of FGFR1 is causally linked to the poor prognosis of amplified cancers. Here, we show that FGFR1 overexpression is robustly associated with FGFR1 amplification in two independent series of breast cancers. Breast cancer cell lines with FGFR1 overexpression and amplification show enhanced ligand-dependent signaling, with increased activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase and phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT signaling pathways in response to FGF2, but also show basal ligand-independent signaling, and are dependent on FGFR signaling for anchorage-independent growth. FGFR1-amplified cell lines show resistance to 4-hydroxytamoxifen, which is reversed by small interfering RNA silencing of FGFR1, suggesting that FGFR1 overexpression also promotes endocrine therapy resistance. FGFR1 signaling suppresses progesterone receptor (PR) expression in vitro, and likewise, amplified cancers are frequently PR negative, identifying a potential biomarker for FGFR1 activity. Furthermore, we show that amplified cancers have a high proliferative rate assessed by Ki67 staining and that FGFR1 amplification is found in 16% to 27% of luminal B-type breast cancers. Our data suggest that amplification and overexpression of FGFR1 may be a major contributor to poor prognosis in luminal-type breast cancers, driving anchorage-independent proliferation and endocrine therapy resistance.
The elevation of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) is regarded as an indicator of liver damage based on the presumption that ALT protein is specifically and abundantly expressed in the liver. However, ALT elevation is also observed in non-liver injury conditions (for example, muscle injury) and in apparently healthy people. Conversely, serum ALT activity is normal in many patients with confirmed liver diseases (for example, cirrhosis and hepatitis C infection). To improve the diagnostic value of the ALT assay and to understand the molecular basis for serum ALT changes in various pathophysiological conditions, we have cloned rat ALT isoenzyme ALT1 and ALT2 complementary DNAs (cDNAs), examined their tissue expressions at the messenger RNA and protein levels, and determined ALT1 and ALT 2 serum levels in response to liver damage in rodents. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis shows that ALT1 messenger RNA is widely distributed and mainly expressed in intestine, liver, fat tissues, colon, muscle, and heart, in the order of high to low expression level, whereas ALT2 gene expression is more restricted, mainly in liver, muscle, brain, and white adipose tissue. The tissue distribution pattern of ALT1 and ALT2 proteins largely agrees with their messenger RNA expression. Interestingly, hepatic ALT2 protein is approximately four times higher in male rats than in female rats. In addition, ALT isoenzymes distribute differentially at the subcellular level in that ALT1 is a cytoplasmic protein and ALT2 a mitochondrial protein, supporting bioinformatic prediction of mitochondrial localization of ALT2.
Using animal models of hepatoxicity induced by carbon tetrachloride and acetaminophen, we found that both serum ALT1 and ALT2 protein levels were significantly elevated and correlated with ALT activity, providing, for the first time, the molecular basis for the elevated total serum ALT activity.
Repeated exposure to cocaine during sensitive periods of forebrain development produces specific, long-lasting changes in the structure and function of maturing neural circuits. Similar regimens of drug exposure in adult animals with mature, homeostatically regulated nervous systems produce neuroadaptations that appear to be quite different in nature and magnitude. We studied the ability of cocaine to induce behavioral sensitization and/or tolerance following repeated administration of i.v. cocaine (3 mg/kg, twice daily) to pregnant rabbits during the period of peak differentiation within the rabbit cerebral cortex (embryonic day [E] 16-E25). Offspring and the adult mothers were behaviorally tested following acute administration of amphetamine 2 months after the litters were born. The offspring, having received cocaine during the prenatal sensitive period, showed profound behavioral tolerance to the amphetamine challenge. In contrast, the mothers of these offspring, who received cocaine at the same dose and duration, and experienced the same period of withdrawal, exhibited robust behavioral sensitization. These data indicate that specific adaptive changes in neural signaling and/or circuitry that occur in response to repeated exposure to psychostimulants are highly dependent upon the maturational state of the brain during which the exposure occurs.
This study examined in mice whether limaprost, a prostaglandin E(1) analog, would relieve allodynia induced by chemotherapeutic agents. Single intraperitoneal injections of paclitaxel, oxaliplatin, and vincristine sulfate induced and gradually increased mechanical allodynia. Repeated administration of limaprost alfadex inhibited the late, but not early, phase of mechanical allodynia induced by paclitaxel and oxaliplatin, but not vincristine. Paclitaxel and oxaliplatin, but not vincristine, gradually decreased peripheral blood flow, which was prevented by limaprost. These results suggest that limaprost is effective against mechanical allodynia induced by paclitaxel and oxaliplatin, which may be due to inhibition of the decrease in peripheral blood flow.
The metabolism of ethanol gives rise to the generation of excess amounts of reactive oxygen species and is also associated with immune dysfunction. We examined the efficacy of resveratrol and vitamin E on the immunomodulatory activity and vascular function in mice with liver abnormalities induced by chronic ethanol consumption by measuring the protein, liver-specific transaminase enzymes, antioxidant enzymes and non-enzymes such as reduced glutathione (GSH) content, thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) level, nitrite level, and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, gamma interferon (IFN-gamma), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 in mice blood. Ethanol (1.6 g/kg body wt/day) exposure for 12 wks significantly increased TBARS and nitrite levels and GST activity, and significantly decreased GSH content and the activities of SOD, CAT, GR and GPx in whole blood hemolyzate of 8-10 wks-old male BALB/c mice (weighing 20-30 g). Ethanol exposure also elevated the activities of transaminase enzymes (AST and ALT), IL-10, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, VEGF-A and TGF-beta1, while decreasing the albumin concentration and IL-4 activity in the serum. Both resveratrol (5 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) and vitamin E (80 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) treatment significantly reduced AST, ALT, GST, IL-10, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, VEGF-A and TGF-beta1 activities and levels of TBARS and nitrite, and elevated albumin content, GSH level and activities of SOD, CAT, GR and GPx, compared to ethanol-treated group. Thus, results from the study demonstrated that both resveratrol (5 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) and vitamin E (80 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) can effectively ameliorate ethanol (1.6 g kg(-1) day(-1))-induced oxidative challenges, immunomodulatory activity and angiogenesis processes.
A 6-year-old male diagnosed with extensive neuroblastoma was treated with chemotherapy, surgery, autotransplantation, and radiotherapy. He was then enrolled on a study to assess the monoclonal antibody Ch14.18 (anti-GD2) with 13 cis-retinoic acid. 13-cis-retinoic acid therapy caused severe bone pain and hypercalcemia. Bone scans showed multiple osteoblastic lesions suggesting recurrent disease however MIBG scans were negative. Serum markers of bone turnover were increased and the patient required pamidronate therapy to treat persistent hypercalcemia. Retinoic acid toxicity needs to be considered in the differential of painful osteoblastic lesions and/or hypercalcemia. MIBG scans can assist in differentiating from recurrent disease.
We report on four elderly women in whom carbamazepine was suspected of inducing sinus node dysfunction (3 patients) and atrioventricular block (1 patient). Patients were treated with carbamazepine, 200 to 600 mg a day, for trigeminal neuralgia (n = 3) or epilepsy (n = 1). After 1 to 16 months of carbamazepine therapy, these patients were admitted to our emergency room because of bradyarrhythmia. Their conduction disturbances on electrocardiographic monitoring disappeared immediately after the cessation of carbamazepine intake. Provocation tests were performed on three patients. Because of renal insufficiency, one patient could not undergo the provocation test. Her carbamazepine clearance was markedly decreased. Carbamazepine induced sinus arrest in two patients within 48 hours after intake, but did not induce atrioventricular block in the remaining patient. In two patients, computer simulation of carbamazepine pharmacokinetics was performed and disclosed a clear-cut relationship between the plasma concentration of carbamazepine and the frequency of sinus arrest. During the test, the maximum plasma carbamazepine concentration in these two patients did not exceed the therapeutic range. However, it did exceed the range in the one with a negative test. Our results suggest that careful monitoring of ECG and plasma drug concentration is required with carbamazepine therapy, especially in elderly women.
Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is an antioxidant-activated transcription factor that recently emerged as a critical regulator of cellular defense against oxidative and inflammatory lesions. Resveratrol (Res) is a natural phytoalexin that exhibits multiple therapeutic potentials, including antioxidative and anti-inflammatory effects in animals. Paraquat (PQ) is the second most widely used herbicide worldwide, but it selectively accumulates in human lungs to cause oxidative injury and fibrosis with high mortality. Here, we analyzed the molecular mechanism of the fibrogenic response to PQ and its inhibition by Res and Nrf2. PQ dose-dependently caused toxicity in normal human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B), resulting in mitochondrial damage, oxidative stress, and cell death. Res at 10 μM markedly inhibited PQ toxicity. PQ at 10 μM stimulated production of inflammatory and profibrogenic factors (tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin 6, and transforming growth factor β1) and induced the transformation of normal human lung fibroblasts (WI38-VA13) to myofibroblasts; both effects were inhibited by Res. Res strongly activated the Nrf2 signaling pathway and induced antioxidant response element-dependent cytoprotective genes. On the other hand, knockout or knockdown of Nrf2 markedly increased PQ-induced cytotoxicity, cytokine production, and myofibroblast transformation and abolished protection by Res. The findings demonstrate that Res attenuates PQ-induced reactive oxygen species production, inflammation, and fibrotic reactions by activating Nrf2 signaling. The study reveals a new pathway for molecular intervention against pulmonary oxidative injury and fibrosis.
In a double-blind crossover study, the effectiveness of furosemide, 40 mg twice daily, was compared with hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg twice daily, in hypertensive patients. Both hydrochlorothiazide and furosemide significantly reduced blood pressure (BP) during three months of therapy. However, the fall in BP was consistently greater with hydrochlorothiazide than with furosemide, although the difference was significant only with respect to systolic BP. The somewhat greater antihypertensive effectiveness of hydrochlorothiazide may be related to its longer action permitting a more continuous diuretic effect and, hence, maintenance of reduced extracellular fluid volume throughout the 24-hour period.
Cancer cell resistance to anoikis driven by aberrant signaling sustained by the tumor microenvironment confers high invasive potential and therapeutic resistance. We recently generated a novel lead quinazoline-based Doxazosin® derivative, DZ-50, which impairs tumor growth and metastasis via anoikis. Genome-wide analysis in the human prostate cancer cell line DU-145 identified primary downregulated targets of DZ-50, including genes involved in focal adhesion integrity (fibronectin, integrin-α6 and talin), tight junction formation (claudin-11) as well as insulin growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) and the angiogenesis modulator thrombospondin 1 (TSP-1). Confocal microscopy demonstrated structural disruption of both focal adhesions and tight junctions by the downregulation of these gene targets, resulting in decreased cell survival, migration and adhesion to extracellular matrix (ECM) components in two androgen-independent human prostate cancer cell lines, PC-3 and DU-145. Stabilization of cell-ECM interactions by overexpression of talin-1 and/or exposing cells to a fibronectin-rich environment mitigated the effect of DZ-50. Loss of expression of the intracellular focal adhesion signaling effectors talin-1 and integrin linked kinase (ILK) sensitized human prostate cancer to anoikis. Our findings suggest that DZ-50 exerts its antitumor effect by targeting the key functional intercellular interactions, focal adhesions and tight junctions, supporting the therapeutic significance of this agent for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer.
The United Kingdom Parkinson's Disease Research Group (UKPDRG) trial found an increased mortality in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) randomized to receive 10 mg selegiline per day and L-dopa compared with those taking L-dopa alone. Recently, we found that therapy with selegiline and L-dopa was associated with selective systolic orthostatic hypotension which was abolished by withdrawal of selegiline. This unwanted effect on postural blood pressure was not the result of underlying autonomic failure. The aims of this study were to confirm our previous findings in a separate cohort of patients and to determine the time course of the cardiovascular consequences of stopping selegiline in the expectation that this might shed light on the mechanisms by which the drug causes orthostatic hypotension.
The cardiovascular responses to standing and head-up tilt were studied repeatedly in PD patients receiving selegiline and as the drug was withdrawn.
Head-up tilt caused systolic orthostatic hypotension which was marked in six of 20 PD patients on selegiline, one of whom lost consciousness with unrecordable blood pressures. A lesser degree of orthostatic hypotension occurred with standing. Orthostatic hypotension was ameliorated 4 days after withdrawal of selegiline and totally abolished 7 days after discontinuation of the drug. Stopping selegiline also significantly reduced the supine systolic and diastolic blood pressures consistent with a previously undescribed supine pressor action.
This study confirms our previous finding that selegiline in combination with L-dopa is associated with selective orthostatic hypotension. The possibilities that these cardiovascular findings might be the result of non-selective inhibition of monoamine oxidase or of amphetamine and metamphetamine are discussed.
Ten patients who had Parkinson's disease with disabling dyskinesia were included in this study to evaluate the role of mental (mental calculation) and motor (flexion/extension of right fingers, flexion/extension of left fingers, flexion/extension of the neck, speaking aloud) tasks on the worsening of peak-dose dyskinesia following administration of an effective single dose of apomorphine. Compared with the score at rest (1.3+/-0.3), a significant aggravation of the dyskinesia score was observed during speaking aloud (5.2+/-1.1, p<0.05), movements of right (4.5+/-1.0, p<0.05) and left (3.7+/-0.8, p<0.05) fingers, movements of the neck (5.1+/-1.0, p<0.05), and mental calculation (3.1+/-1.0, p<0.05). These results suggest that activation tasks such as "speaking aloud" could be used for objective assessment of dyskinesia severity.
The reversal of anticonvulsant effect of ethanol against chemoconvulsions by RO15-4513 was investigated in rats as this novel imidazobenzodiazepine (ethyl-8 azido-5, 6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-Oxo-4H-imidazo [1,5a] [1,4] benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate) is reported to antagonize the acute behavioral and biochemical effects of ethanol in animals. Reversal of ethanol effects on onset of myoclonic jerks, tonic extensor phase, mortality time and percent protection against mortality were compared with not only other anticonvulsant pentobarbital but also with another inverse agonist FG-7142. Pretreatment with RO15-4513 (4 mg/kg) reversed the protective effect of ethanol against bicuculline-induced tonic extensor phase and mortality (87%). This response was sensitive to reversal by RO15-1788 (10 mg/kg). However, onset of myoclonic jerks and duration of clonus were not significantly altered. It also reversed the effect against picrotoxin but the reversal against mortality was up to 50%. As compared to ethanol, RO15-4513 reversed partially the protective effect of pentobarbital against bicuculline- and picrotoxin-induced convulsions. FG-7142 failed to reverse the protective effect of ethanol and pentobarbital against bicuculline-induced tonic extensor phase although it reversed the effect against onset and mortality. It had no effect on the protective effect against picrotoxin-induced convulsions. Both RO15-4513 and FG-7142 possessed proconvulsant effects against bicuculline but not against picrotoxin. These observations suggest that RO15-4513 has a more preferential action against ethanol effects as compared to the other inverse agonist.
Involuntary movements, or dyskinesia, represent a debilitating complication of levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease. Although changes affecting D(1) and D(2) dopamine receptors have been studied in association with this condition, no causal relationship has yet been established. Taking advantage of a monkey brain bank constituted to study levodopa-induced dyskinesia, we report changes affecting D(1) and D(2) dopamine receptors within the striatum of normal, parkinsonian, nondyskinetic levodopa-treated parkinsonian, and dyskinetic levodopa-treated parkinsonian animals. Whereas D(1) receptor expression itself is not related to dyskinesia, D(1) sensitivity per D(1) receptor measured by D(1) agonist-induced [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding is linearly related to dyskinesia. Moreover, the striata of dyskinetic animals show higher levels of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) and of the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa (DARPP-32). Our data suggest that levodopa-induced dyskinesia results from increased dopamine D(1) receptor-mediated transmission at the level of the direct pathway.
The usefulness of the lymphocyte transformation test (LTT) for the analysis of adverse reactions to antituberculous drugs was evaluated. - The LTT was performed with isoniazid and rifampicin in 15 tuberculosis and 2 MOTT (Mycobacteria other than tuberculosis)-infection patients who suffered drug reactions, in 23 patients without any adverse reactions, in 7 controls previously exposed to antituberculous drugs, and in 14 controls who had never been exposed. 4/15 of the hepatotoxic reactions only showed a positive LTT with rifampicin, 3/15 only with isoniazid, and in 8/15 the LTT was negative. In an anaphylactoid shock reaction the LTT was extremely exaggerated for both rifampicin and isoniazid. In patients without any side effects only one slightly increased LTT due to isoniazid was observed. Two healthy controls with previous contact to these drugs showed a positive LTT for isoniazid, one of those with both rifampicin and isoniazid. The LTT was negative in all control persons without any former contact to antituberculous medications. In most cases hepatotoxicity seems to be a pure toxic reaction without the participation of cellular immune mechanisms. LTT can be useful for identifying the drug responsible for immunological side effects.
This paper attempts to examine and compare prevalence rates and symptom patterns of DSM substance-induced and other mood disorders. 243 cocaine-dependent outpatients with cocaine-induced mood disorder (CIMD), other mood disorders, or no mood disorder were compared on measures of psychiatric symptoms. The prevalence rate for CIMD was 12% at baseline. Introduction of the DSM-IV diagnosis of CIMD did not substantially affect rates of the other depressive disorders. Patients with CIMD had symptom severity levels between those of patients with and without a mood disorder. These findings suggest some validity for the new DSM-IV diagnosis of CIMD, but also suggest that it requires further specification and replication.
