In a previous analysis, we showed that MAGE-As were the most frequently expressed cancer-testis antigens in human bladder tumours. Here, we further characterized by RT-PCR the expression of this family of genes by analyzing specifically MAGE-A3, -A4, -A8 and -A9 mRNAs in 46 bladder tumours and 10 normal urothelia. We found that they were expressed in 30, 33, 56 and 54% of tumours, respectively. Although MAGE-A8 was the most frequent, its expression was low and was also found in most normal urothelia. The other MAGE-A mRNAs were all tumour-specific but MAGE-A9 mRNA was expressed at a higher level and was two times more frequent in superficial than in invasive tumours. To study the expression of the protein, we produced 2 MAGE-A9-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) presenting no cross-reactivity with other MAGE-A proteins. MAb 14A11, was used to analyse the expression of the antigen in testis and tumour samples by immunohistochemistry. In testis, MAGE-A9 expression was restricted to primary spermatocytes. Most bladder tumours that expressed the MAGE-A9 transcript were positive with mAb 14A11. Staining was heterogeneous but half of the tumours showed over 75% positive cells. Finally, we showed that treatment of bladder cancer cells with the methylation inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, alone or in combination with the histone deacetylase inhibitors MS-275 and 4-phenylbutyrate could strongly induce the expression of MAGE-A9. These results show that MAGE-A9 is frequently expressed in superficial bladder cancer and could be a relevant target for immunotherapy or chemoimmunotherapy because its expression can be induced by chemotherapeutic drugs.
This study evaluates the efficacy and side effects of a low dose of epidural morphine combined with clonidine for postoperative pain relief after lumbar disc surgery. In 36 of 51 patients who accepted the procedure, an epidural catheter was inserted (L1-L2 level). General anesthesia was induced with propofol and sufentanil, and maintained with sevoflurane in O2/N2O. After emergence from anesthesia, epidural analgesia was initiated according to two randomly assigned protocols: 1 mg of morphine with 75 microg of clonidine (Group M) or 12.5 mg of bupivacaine with 75 microg of clonidine (Group B), in 10 mL saline. Piritramide was administered during the first postoperative 24 hours using a patient-controlled analgesia device (PCA). The following parameters were recorded: piritramide consumption during the first 24 hours; pain at rest during the first postoperative hours (D0), during the first night (D1), and during the first mobilization; [visual analogue scale (VAS)]; and the occurrence of drowsiness, motor blockade, respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting, itching, micturition problems, and bladder catheterization during D0 and D1. Epidural administration of morphine-clonidine significantly improved postoperative pain relief and reduced piritramide consumption as compared to epidural bupivacaine-clonidine. Side effects did not differ between groups except for a higher incidence of micturition problems in Group M during D1. The occurrence of bladder catheterization was not significantly higher in that group. We conclude that a low dose of epidural morphine combined with clonidine offers a better postoperative analgesia than does bupivacaine-clonidine. The excellent analgesic conditions were obtained at the expense of a higher incidence of difficulties in initiating micturition.
A pesticide series of 36 substances was patch tested in 652 subjects to establish the optimal test concentration, and the frequency of irritant and allergic reactions. Allergic reactions to fungicides were found in 46: thiophthalimides (captan, folpet and difolatan) were the most common. Irritant and allergic reactions to other pesticides (insecticides, herbicides, etc.) were rare. Sensitivity to pesticides was significant in patients who work, or have worked on the land. Cross sensitivity to bisdithiocarbamates or thiophthalimides is possible.
This study investigated whether the specific alpha-antagonist, prazosin, stimulated basal plasma renin levels and heart rate. Furthermore the beta-adrenergic nervous system was also investigated to ascertain whether it was involved in this effect. Prazosin (0.1 or 1 mg/kg) was injected subcutaneously (s.c.) to conscious normotensive rats, either alone or in combination with the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, DL-propranolol (1 or 3 mg/kg). Rats bore chronically implanted dorsal aorta cannula for measurement of blood pressure and heart rate and blood sampling for renin determinations. Acute administration of prazosin (1 mg/kg, s.c.) produced a fall in mean arterial pressure accompanied by renin release and tachycardia. A tenfold lower dose of prazosin did not alter blood pressure or heart rate but did stimulate renin release. Acute administration of DL-propranolol, (1 or 3 mg/kg, s.c.) produced falls in blood pressure and heart rate but did not affect plasma renin level. Combinations of prazosin with propranolol gave falls in blood pressure similar to those predicted on the basis of a simple addition of the effects of the two drugs given separately. Prazosin-induced tachycardia and renin release were attenuated by propranolol. It appears that prazosin produces renin release and tachycardia via stimulation of the beta-adrenergic adrenoceptor.
Chloramphenicol-induced aplastic anemia is well described in the literature following oral use of the drug. Here we describe the first case we are aware of in which chloramphenicol eye ointment resulted in severe aplastic anemia and, subsequently, death. At least two cases of marrow hypoplasia following use of chloramphenicol eyedrops have been described previously in the literature. The absorption route, its possible relation to the pathogenesis of aplastic anemia, and the two types of marrow toxicity associated with chloramphenicol are reviewed. This case emphasizes the necessity for the same careful consideration for the use of topical preparations that one affords the use of parenterally and orally administered medications.
Pellagra is a rare clinical syndrome caused by niacin deficiency, and although most commonly nutritional in origin, may be secondary to carcinoid syndrome.
A premenopausal nulliparous woman with metastatic carcinoid tumor developed isolated vulvovaginal manifestations characterized by well-demarcated symmetrical vulvar erythema, mild scaling, ulcerations, and dyspareunia. Tryptophan levels were low. Treatment with nicotinamide resulted in dramatic improvement; however, after 2 years of effective treatment, she developed lichen sclerosus.
Patients with carcinoid tumor presenting chronic vulvar lesions should be evaluated for pellagra. Subsequent development of lichen sclerosus at the site of vulvar dermatosis may be a feature of the "Koebner phenomenon," which describes appearance of lichen sclerosus in scarred areas or sites prone to friction.
Administration of the antihistamine terfenadine (Seldane) to patients may result in acquired long QT syndrome and ventricular arrhythmias. One human cardiac target is Kv1.5, which expresses the ultrarapid outward K+ current (Ikur) in atrium but may play only a minor role in ventricle. Another possible target is HERG, the human ether-a-go-go-related gene that expresses a delayed rectifier current (IKr) in human ventricle and produces hereditary long QT syndrome when defective.
We therefore heterologously expressed Kv1.5 and HERG in Xenopus oocytes to compare the sensitivity of each to terfenadine. We found that HERG was 10 times more sensitive than Kv1.5 to terfenadine block. The apparent Kd values for HERG and Kv1.5 currents were 350 nmol/L and 2.7 mumol/L, respectively. These Kd values compare well with values reported for terfenadine block of IKr and IKur currents in human atrial myocytes. The Kd value for HERG block is relevant to the toxicity of the antihistamine, since the clinical terfenadine concentrations in human plasma may reach the 100 nmol/L range.
Terfenadine carboxylate, the major metabolite of terfenadine, does not block either HERG or Kv1.5, which agrees with the hypothesis that the buildup of parent terfenadine is the likely explanation for its cardiotoxicity. We propose that the blocking of HERG by terfenadine explains the acquired long QT syndrome. HERG is likely to be the primary target for the known cardiotoxic effects of other, related antihistamines.
The estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) knockout mouse (alphaERKO) lacks ERalpha throughout development; therefore, an adult model for the study of estrogen effects in male mice was recently developed using the antiestrogen ICI 182,780. However, differences between species have been noted during immunostaining for ERalpha in the male tract as well as in response to treatments with antiestrogens. Therefore, we developed the antiestrogen model in the adult male rat to test, in another species, the hypothesis that estrogen regulates fluid reabsorption in efferent ductules. Estrogen receptor in the rat was blocked using ICI 182,780 for 100-150 days. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated weekly with s.c. injections of ICI 182,780 (10 mg) or castor oil (as control). The effects of ICI included testicular atrophy and infertility, similar to terminal effects in the alphaERKO male. Additionally, ICI induced dilations of the rete testis and efferent ductules and a reduction in the height of the ductule epithelium, which are changes similar to those in both alphaERKO and ICI-treated mice. One difference between species was a large variation in effects on the rat efferent ductule epithelium, including a transient increase in the number of periodic acid-Schiff-positive, lysosomal-like granules. These data confirm that estrogen is required for normal function of the efferent ductules and is essential for long-term fertility in the male rodent.
As susceptibility to carcinogens varies considerably among different strains of experimental animals, evaluation of dose-response relationships for genotoxic carcinogen in different strains is indispensable for risk assessment. Potassium bromate (KBrO(3)) is a genotoxic carcinogen inducing kidney cancers at high doses in male F344 rats, but little is known about its carcinogenic effects in other strains of rats. The purpose of the present study was to determine dose-response relationships for carcinogenic effects of KBrO(3) on N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN)-induced kidney carcinogenesis in male Wistar rats. We found that KBrO(3) showed significant enhancement effects on EHEN-induced kidney carcinogenesis at above 250 ppm but not at doses of 125 ppm and below when evaluated in terms of induction of either preneoplastic lesions or tumors in male Wistar rats. Furthermore, KBrO(3) significantly increased the formation of oxidative DNA damage at doses of 125 and above but not at doses of 30 ppm and below in kidneys. These results demonstrated that low doses of KBrO(3) exert no effects on development of EHEN-initiated kidney lesions and induction of oxidative DNA damage. Taking account of previous similar findings in male F344 rats, it is strongly suggested that a threshold dose exists for enhancement effects of KBrO(3) on kidney carcinogenesis in rats.
This report describes the clinical course of pituitary apoplexy induced by a single dose of bromocriptine in a 50-year-old woman with acromegaly. The patient suddenly complained of diminished vision and headache 2 hours after the oral administration of 2.5 mg of bromocriptine. Her visual symptoms and headache persisted for several days. The basal plasma GH concentration decreased from 76.2 ng/ml to 37.2 ng/ml the day after the attack of apoplexy and to 3.0 ng/ml on the 9th day. The authors assess the changes in endocrine findings related to pituitary apoplexy and also emphasize the necessity to view with caution any symptomatic change during bromocriptine therapy.
Tranylcypromine (TCP) is a monoamine oxidase inhibitor used extensively in the treatment of patients with reactive depression. Hypertensive crisis can complicate drug therapy, but the mechanism through which TCP causes high blood pressure is unknown. The present study was undertaken because recent investigations have shown that TCP can inhibit production of a potent vasodilator hormone, prostacyclin (PGI2), by blood vessels, possibly explaining the mechanism of pressor effects by the drug. Heart rate, left atrial, pulmonary artery and aortic pressures were monitored in dogs under control conditions and continuously following the IV infusion of TCP at the rate of 1 mg/kg over a period of one minute. Right femoral and the left internal mammary arteries were obtained during the control period and the left femoral and right internal mammary arteries resected between 6 and 30 minutes following drug infusion for PGI2 studies. Concentrations of the drug that caused significant elevation of the mean systemic pressure to 203 +/- 8 mmHg had no inhibitory effect on PGI2 production. Therefore, the influence of TCP on the hemodynamic parameters does not appear to be mediated through the inhibition of vascular PGI2 synthesis.
This double-blind, randomized study evaluated the efficacy of dual and triple therapies including ranitidine for treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection.
Dyspeptic patients (n = 105) with a positive rapid urease test formed the intention-to-treat population (ITT). All patients were assigned to 14 days treatment with ranitidine 300 mg b.i.d and clarithromycin 750 mg b.i.d. Group A (n = 53) also received a placebo twice daily, while group B (n = 52) received lymecycline 300 mg b.i.d. Treatment with ranitidine, 150 mg b.i.d, was continued for an additional 30 days. H. pylori infection was verified by culture. Twelve weeks after antibiotic treatment, H. pylori status was investigated by culture and 14C-urea breath test (UBT). The per-protocol (PP) group consisted of 73 patients (A, n = 38; B, n = 35).
Cure rates were 87% (95% C.I. = 72% to 94%) vs. 72% (95% C.I. = 58% to 83%) in the ITT-group and 89% (95% C.I. = 73% to 97%) vs. 87% (95% C.I. = 72% to 96%) in the PP-population (culture and UBT) when triple and dual therapies were compared. In all patients who were not cured, clarithromycin resistance of H. pylori was acquired. Side effects were experienced by 54% of patients.
The difference in efficacy between the two treatment regimens was not significant. However, the cure rates in this study are comparable to combination treatments with omeprazole. Treatment failures were due to acquired clarithromycin resistance.
Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) supplementation during isoniazid (INH) therapy is necessary in some patients to prevent the development of peripheral neuropathy. In vivo pyridoxine is converted into coenzymes which play an essential role in the metabolism of protein, carbohydrates, fatty acids, and several other substances, including brain amines, INH apparently competitively inhibits the action of pyridoxine in these metabolic functions. The reported frequency of INH-induced neuropathy in various studies is reviewed and population groups at relatively high risk of developing this complication are identified. The routine use of pyridoxine supplementation to prevent peripheral neuropathy in high risk populations is recommended.
Eleven cats with signs of cerebellar dysfunction, developed on recovery from a brief and uneventful general anesthesia, were examined at the Koret School of Veterinary Medicine Teaching Hospital (KSVMTH) between 1998 and 2002. Neurological signs included mild to severe ataxia of all 4 limbs, intentional tremor, lack of menace response, and delayed hopping. The cats were of different ages when anesthetized and none had shown any prior signs of neural disease. They were examined 1 day to 4 years after onset of clinical signs, and the neurological deficits remained unchanged in a follow-up period of 6 months to 8 years. Medical and anesthetic records showed that all were Persian cross cats, 7 of them originating in the same city in Israel. Ketamine was the only anesthetic drug that had been used with all cats. It might be that a genetic component predisposes Persian cross cats to nonreversible cerebellar damage after exposure to an anesthetic dose of ketamine.
A case of methotrexate-induced brain damage is presented. Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a high-density mass lesion with a low-density area in the white matter which pathologically represented a large area of acute necrotizing cerebritis. CT appearance was indistinguishable from brain abscess.
(+/-)3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, "ecstasy") is a recreational drug and brain serotonin (5-HT) neurotoxin. Under certain conditions, MDMA can also damage brain dopamine (DA) neurons, at least in rodents. Human MDMA users have been found to have reduced brain 5-HT transporter (SERT) density and cognitive deficits, although it is not known whether these are related. This study sought to determine whether MDMA users who take closely spaced sequential doses, which engender high plasma MDMA concentrations, develop DA transporter (DAT) deficits, in addition to SERT deficits, and whether there is a relationship between transporter binding and cognitive performance.
Sixteen abstinent MDMA users with a history of using sequential MDMA doses (two or more doses over a 3- to 12-h period) and 16 age-, gender-, and education-matched controls participated. Subjects underwent positron emission tomography with the DAT and SERT radioligands, [11C]WIN 35,428 and [11C]DASB, respectively. Subjects also underwent formal neuropsychiatric testing.
MDMA users had reductions in SERT binding in multiple brain regions but no reductions in striatal DAT binding. Memory performance in the aggregate subject population was correlated with SERT binding in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, and parietal cortex, brain regions implicated in memory function. Prior exposure to MDMA significantly diminished the strength of this relationship.
Use of sequential MDMA doses is associated with lasting decreases in brain SERT, but not DAT. Memory performance is associated with SERT binding in brain regions involved in memory function. Prior MDMA exposure appears to disrupt this relationship. These data are the first to directly relate memory performance to brain SERT density.
An association between ergot-derived dopamine agonists and asymptomatic valvular heart disease in Parkinson's disease has been established. For safe use of these agonists, it is important to specify those at high risk for valvular heart disease among patients with Parkinson's disease. We performed a nested case-control study of 223 patients with Parkinson's disease. In results of multivariable logistic analyses, use of pergolide, use of cabergoline, age, male sex, and hypertension were independent significant risk factors for left-sided valvular regurgitation. In patients receiving cabergoline or pergolide, elderly (>or=70 years) hypertensive patients had a markedly high risk for valvular regurgitation (odds ratio 94.5) as compared to non-elderly (<70 years) patients without hypertension. The risk of valvular regurgitation caused by pergolide or cabergoline was found to be highly enhanced by comorbid hypertension or aging, suggesting that special attention should be paid when prescribing cabergoline or pergolide for those patients.
Uterine glands and their secretions are hypothesized to be essential for blastocyst implantation and decidualization in the uterus of rodents and humans. One factor solely expressed by uterine glands in mice is leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), and Lif null mice are infertile because of defective blastocyst attachment to the uterine luminal epithelium (LE). Progesterone treatment of neonatal mice permanently ablates differentiation of uterine glands, resulting in an aglandular uterus in the adult. Progesterone-induced uterine gland knockout (PUGKO) mice were used to investigate the biological role of uterine glands in blastocyst implantation and stromal cell decidualization. As compared to controls, PUGKO mice cycled normally but were infertile. Histological assessment of PUGKO uteri on Days 5.5 and 8.5 postmating found a hatched blastocyst apposed to an intact LE without evidence of implantation or stromal cell decidualization. Expression of several implantation-related factors, including Lif and PTGS2, were altered in the PUGKO uterus, whereas expression of steroid hormone receptors and their regulated genes was not different. Artificial decidualization was observed in the uteri of control but not PUGKO mice. Further, intrauterine administration of LIF failed to promote artificial decidualization in the uterus of PUGKO mice. Thus, uterine glands and their secretions have important biological roles in blastocyst implantation and stromal cell decidualization in the uterus.
A 38-year-old male patient with chronic myelocytic leukemia in the first chronic phase underwent bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from an HLA identical sibling. He developed chronic graft-versus-host disease and his condition gradually deteriorated. Fourteen months after BMT, acute progressive anemia, thrombocytopenia, reticulocytosis, increased serum lactic dehydrogenase and increased serum bilirubin were revealed following treatment with cyclosporine A (240 mg/day i.v.), prednisolone (60 mg/day i.v.) and azathioprine (100 mg/day p.o.). Red blood cell fragmentations were also found microscopically. At that time, the serum cyclosporine A trough level was 1,300 ng/ml by the polyclonal antibody RIA method. These symptoms were resolved by discontinuation of cyclosporine A and administrations of aspirin, cilostazol, and dipyridamole as anti-platelet agents. We consider this phenomenon to be micro-angiopathic hemolytic anemia due to a serum high cyclosporine A level which resulted from the concomitant use of cyclosporine A with prednisolone.
Clarithromycin, a new acid stable macrolide antibiotic with proven efficacy against Helicobacter pylori, has been widely incorporated into eradication regimens but its optimal dosage schedule remains controversial. The standard dose of clarithromycin is 250 mg twice daily.
In a prospective study designed to evaluate the helicobactericidal efficacy, patient acceptability, and ulcer healing efficacy of a triple therapy regimen incorporating high dose clarithromycin, 100 consecutive patients with H. pylori-positive peptic ulcer received omeprazole 20 mg twice daily in combination with metronidazole 400 mg twice daily and clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for seven days. H. pylori status was assessed before and at least 4 weeks after therapy by rapid urease test and histology. Adverse events and compliance were assessed by direct questioning.
Only two patients failed to attend for repeat endoscopy, leaving 98 evaluable patients. Of these, 94 were H. pylori-negative after therapy, giving an intention-to-treat eradication rate of 94% (95% confidence interval, 89%-99%). The ulcer healing rate was 92% (86%-98%), and ulcer healing was significantly associated with H. pylori eradication (p < 0.01). Adverse events were reported by 33% of patients of which nausea was the commonest (14%). Noncompliance with therapy was significantly associated with H. pylori treatment failure (p < 0.001).
Seven day triple therapy incorporating high dose clarithromycin effectively eradicates H. pylori and heals ulcers, but it is disadvantaged by a relatively high rate of adverse events. In view of these findings and the fact that no direct comparison to date has shown increased efficacy from high dose clarithromycin, we would recommend continued use of low dose clarithromycin when combined with omeprazole and a nitroimidazole.
The nutritional status of children in whom cardiomyopathy resulted from anthracycline chemotherapy was compared to that of a matched control group of patients who were treated similarly but who had no evidence of cardiac toxicity. Those with cardiotoxic reactions were found to be more often malnourished than were their matched controls. Once clinical manifestations of cardiotoxocity developed, the course was relentless and resistant to treatment and ended in death in 75% of the patients.
We report results of a hospital-based case control study of 137 consecutive patients diagnosed with aplastic anemia (AA) in participating hospitals over a 4-year period. Diagnoses were made by a single laboratory, subjects were age- and gender-matched to two controls and interviewed concerning previous disease, work histories and exposures to potential etiologic agents. Analysis was conducted on two distinct subgroups: severe aplastic anemia (SAA) and moderate aplastic anemia (MAA). In univariate regression models, the strongest associations were observed for exposure to benzene and SAA (OR=3.12, 95% CI=1.12-8.65) and life on a farm and MAA (OR=3.08, 95% CI=1.44-6.56). Benzene exposure did not show a strong dose-response relationship with either subtype. When accounting for all of the potential confounders we considered in conditional regression models, the previous relationships persisted. Other explanatory variables included hair-dye use for MAA and farm exposures, such as livestock for SAA, although most of these additional variables fell just short of statistical significance. Adjusted R-squared values were only 10% for each subtype, leaving 90% of AA occurrence unexplained. Our results suggest that: (a) benzene exposure is more strongly related to SAA than MAA, (b) farm and livestock exposures are related to both forms of AA, confirming some previous results, and (c) a large percentage of AA remains unexplained, which may indicate that individual susceptibility has a major influence on AA occurrence.
Secondary sclerosing cholangitis is a rare complication of acute bacterial cholangitis. The natural course of the disease is a slow progression over years. Here we report about a patient in whom sclerosing cholangitis evolved much faster as a consequence of a persistent biliary infection with vancomycin-resistant enterococci. The infection could be treated successfully with prolonged therapy with linezolid and teicoplanin. This is the first report of sclerosing cholangitis caused by vancomycin-resistant enterococci. It illustrates the rapidity with which this disease can evolve as a fulminant and ultimately fatal complication of acute bacterial cholangitis.
In vitro studies on the effect of alcoholic extracts of turmeric (TE), turmeric oil (TO) and turmeric oleoresin (TOR), on the incidence of micronuclei (Mn) in lymphocytes from normal healthy subjects showed that the test compounds did not cause any increase in the number of Mn as compared with those found in untreated controls. Further it was observed that all three compounds offered protection against benzo[a]pyrene induced increase in Mn in circulating lymphocytes. In subsequent studies, patients suffering from submucous fibrosis were given a total oral dose of TO (600 mg TO mixed with 3 g TE/day). TOR (600 mg + 3 g TE/day) and 3 g TE/day as a control for 3 months. It was observed that all three treatment modalities decreased the number of micronucleated cells both in exfoliated oral mucosal cells and in circulating lymphocytes. TOR was found to be more effective in reducing the number of Mn in oral mucosal cells (P < 0.001), but in circulating lymphocytes the decrease in Mn was comparable in all three groups.
Clodinafop-propargyl, an aryloxyphenoxypropionate herbicide, is widely used for the control of annual grasses. However, research focusing on the ecotoxicity of this herbicide is limited. The present study employed zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model to investigate its developmental toxicity. Embryos were exposed to a range of concentrations from 0.2 µM to 5 µM starting at late cleavage stage (2 h postfertilization, [hpf]) or late gastrulation stage (10 hpf). The results showed that the two exposure strategies had the same minimum teratogenic concentration of 0.6 µM but caused different groups of morphogenetic malformations. When exposure was initiated at 2 hpf, clodinafop-propargyl caused various embryonic phenotypes, including embryos with a fin gap in the ventral tail and embryos with coiled tail. When exposure was initiated at 10 hpf, clodinafop-propargyl resulted in failure of the tail to detach, in which the ventral tissues failed to grow out but instead adhered to the yolk extension, and the defect differed to various degrees among embryos. Similar effects were observed for embryos exposed to clodinafop, the metabolite of clodinafop-propargyl. Because these defects were mainly confined to the posterior and ventral region that derived from ventral blastoderm cells, we have evaluated the expression of the ventral mesoderm marker gene gata-1 and ventral ectoderm marker gene gata-3. No significant alteration was seen in gata-1 expression except for the expanded blood islands, whereas the expression of gata-3 was significantly reduced. Our findings showed that clodinafop-propargyl exposure disturbed embryonic patterning and fate specification of ventrally derived gastrula ectoderm cells.
How higher organisms respond to elevated oxidative stress in vivo is poorly understood. Therefore, we measured oxidative stress parameters and gene expression alterations (Affymetrix arrays) in the liver caused by elevated reactive oxygen species induced in vivo by diquat or by genetic ablation of the major antioxidant enzymes CuZn-superoxide dismutase (Sod1) and glutathione peroxidase-1 (Gpx1). Diquat (50 mg/kg) treatment resulted in a significant increase in oxidative damage within 3-6 h in wild-type mice without any lethality. In contrast, treatment of Sod1(-/-) or Gpx1(-/-) mice with a similar concentration of diquat resulted in a significant increase in oxidative damage within an hour of treatment and was lethal, i.e., these mice are extremely sensitive to the oxidative stress generated by diquat. The expression response to elevated oxidative stress in vivo does not involve an upregulation of classic antioxidant genes, although long-term oxidative stress in Sod1(-/-) mice leads to a significant upregulation of thiol antioxidants (e.g., Mt1, Srxn1, Gclc, Txnrd1), which appears to be mediated by the redox-sensitive transcription factor Nrf2. The main finding of our study is that the common response to elevated oxidative stress with diquat treatment in wild-type, Gpx1(-/-), and Sod1(-/-) mice and in untreated Sod1(-/-) mice is an upregulation of p53 target genes (p21, Gdf15, Plk3, Atf3, Trp53inp1, Ddit4, Gadd45a, Btg2, Ndrg1). A retrospective comparison with previous studies shows that induction of these p53 target genes is a conserved expression response to oxidative stress, in vivo and in vitro, in different species and different cells/organs.
In all, 19 research subjects, with current histories of frequent cocaine use, were exposed to cocaine-related cues to elicit drug craving. We measured the change of occupancy of dopamine at D2-like receptors with positron emission tomography (PET) and inferred a change of intrasynaptic dopamine (endogenous dopamine release), based on the displacement of radiotracer [(11)C]raclopride. Receptor occupancy by dopamine increased significantly in putamen of participants who reported cue-elicited craving compared to those who did not. Further, the intensity of craving was positively correlated with the increase in dopamine receptor occupancy in the putamen. These results provide direct evidence that occupancy of dopamine receptors in human dorsal striatum increased in proportion to subjective craving, presumably because of increased release of intrasynaptic dopamine.
In this study, we investigate the protective effects of eugenosedin-A on p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), inflammatory nitric oxide (NO) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) pathways in a rat model of endotoxin shock. Rats were pretreated with eugenosedin-A, trazodone, yohimbine (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.), aminoguanidine or ascorbic acid (15 mg kg(-1), i.v.) 30 min before endotoxin challenge. Endotoxaemia was induced by a single i.v. injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 10 mg kg(-1)). In rats not treated with eugenosedin-A, LPS increased plasma concentrations of NO and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), and levels of p38 MAPK, inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and COX-2 proteins in the liver, lung, aorta and lymphocytes. In the pre-treated rats, eugenosedin-A not only inhibited the LPS-induced NO and PGE(2) levels but also attenuated the LPS-induced increase in p38 MAPK and iNOS levels in the liver, aorta and lymphocytes. Eugenosedin-A also reduced LPS-induced COX-2 proteins in the aorta and lymphocytes. Likewise, aminoguanidine, ascorbic acid, yohimbine and trazodone were also found to decrease NO and PGE(2) concentrations after endotoxin challenge. While aminoguanidine and ascorbic acid also attenuated the LPS-induced increase in p38 MAPK, iNOS and COX-2 proteins in the aorta and lymphocytes, trazodone and yohimbine inhibited only the increase in p38 MAPK, iNOS and COX-2 proteins in lymphocytes. Finally, eugenosedin-A (10(-10)-10(-8) M) significantly inhibited the biphasic response induced by hydrogen peroxide (10(-6)-3 x 10(-5) M) in rat denudated aorta. Taken together, the results of this study indicate that eugenosedin-A, as well as ascorbic acid, can attenuate free-radical-mediated aortic contraction and relaxation. It may therefore be able to reduce the damage caused by septic shock by inhibiting formation of p38 MAPK, iNOS, COX-2 and free radicals.
