This triple-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial was performed to determine the effects of the anti-oxidant vitamin E on blood pressure and heart rate in patients with mild hypertension. A total of 70 new mild hypertensive subjects (systolic blood pressure, SBP: 140-160 mmHg; diastolic blood pressure, DBP: 90-100 mmHg) without secondary hypertension were selected from among people referred to the Hypertension Unit of Isfahan Cardiovascular Research Center and divided randomly into two groups of drug (DG) and placebo (PG). All subjects were aged from 20 to 60 years old, without any other cardiovascular risk factors. The drug group received vitamin E tablets (200 IU/day) and the placebo group received placebo only for 27 weeks. At the beginning and the end of the study, the blood vitamin E level was measured fluorimetrically in all subjects according to the Hansen and Warwick method [14, 15]. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured at the beginning, during, and at the end of the study. Blood pressure was measured by a physician using one random zero mercury sphygmomanometer. Personal information and dietary habits of subjects were collected by separate questionnaire. At the end of the study, it was found that the vitamin E supplement had caused a remarkable decrease in SBP (-24% in DG versus -1.6% in PG) and a less remarkable decrease in DBP (-12.5% in DG versus -6.2% in PG) (p < 0.05). The change in heart rate was -4.3% in DG, and -14.0% in PG (p < 0.05). It is concluded that a vitamin E supplement of 200 IU/day can be effective in mild hypertensive patients in the long term, probably due to nitric oxide, and improve their blood pressure status. Therefore, vitamin E supplement could be recommended to such patients.
Chronic treatment with isoproterenol (ISO) (30 mug/100 g body wt/day for 21 days) causes a hypertrophy of the heart (approximately 40%). Protein determination made on homogenates of the heart show similar percentages of protein in the control and treated animals. Thus, ISO presumably stimulates protein synthesis in the heart, as its total protein content is increased by chronic treatment. Studies of the stimulation of protein synthesis during a 9-day treatment with ISO have been carried out by following the incorporation of 14C-labeled amino acids in vivo into heart protein. This stimulation attained a maximum after 5 days of treatment and then declined. In other experiments, groups of rats received a single injection of ISO and were killed at various times (from 0 to 48 hr) after the injection. Stimulation of protein synthesis was maximal 3 hr after the injection, and it slowly decreased until the 36th hr. After that time the rate of protein synthesis was equal to that of control animals. Other groups of rats received daily injections of ISO for 9 days and were killed at various times after the ninth injection. Protein synthesis was still stimulated by ISO; however, the stimulation was observed only during the first 12 hr following the injection of the 9th day. There was an apparent inhibition of protein synthesis which lasted from the 30th to the 48th hr following the ninth injection. The rate of protein degradation did not seem to be affected by a chronic treatment with ISO. Thus, the increased rate of protein synthesis seems to be the sole factor responsible for the increase of the total protein content of the heart, even if the stimulation of the incorporation of labeled amino acids decreased after a few days of treatment.
The endogenous opioid beta-endorphin is a known indicator of stress and pain. Opioid anesthesia during operation may prevent postoperative beta-endorphin hypersecretion. We examine the effect on serum beta-endorphin of both preoperative stress and stress of operation under opioids in neonates, infants and preschool children. In order to eliminate the effect of hospitalization anxiety we compared with inpatients of similar age with non-surgical disease.
We included 74 surgical patients (25 neonates, 24 infants, 25 preschool children), and 44 non-surgical inpatients (14 neonates, 12 infants, 18 preschool children). Anesthesia comprised propofol and fentanyl. In presence of pain after extubation, supplementary morphine was administered. Sera were taken preoperatively and 2 h postoperatively in surgical patients, and once in non-surgical patients. Beta-endorphin was tested using ELISA (ng/ml).
In all surgical patients beta-endorphin did not increase significantly after surgery. Neonates showed significantly elevated beta-endorphin preoperatively (mean+/-SD: 2.02+/-0.76) and postoperatively (2.07+/-0.90) compared to neonates with a non-surgical disease (1.05+/-0.34; p<0.005). In contrast, infants (preoperative values: 1.75+/-1.32, postoperative values: 2.00+/-1.83) did not differ from respective non-surgical inpatients (1.49+/-0.70). Before and after surgery, beta-endorphin was significantly elevated in preschool children (7.19+/-1.85, 6.42+/-1.31), as compared with neonates and infants (p<0.0005), and with preschool children with non-surgical disease (1.01+/-0.27; p<0.0005).
Fentanyl/propofol anesthesia, supplemented by postoperative morphine where necessary, protects from surgical stress and postoperative pain, as denoted by no postoperative increase of beta-endorphin in all age groups. Preschool children, who exhibit increased emotional perception, have explicitly high serum beta-endorphin before and after surgery. Preoperative preparation programs might be worthy in this age group. Neonates show a moderate but still significantly high response of beta-endorphin to stress, retained after operation. In contrast, infants tolerated stress better (not increased beta-endorphin pre- and post-operatively).
Sodium nitroprusside is commonly used for the induction of hypotension during neurosurgical procedures. Its toxicity stems from hemodynamic compromise as well as from its metabolites, especially the formation of cyanide. A patient is described who underwent craniotomy for hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage. He gradually recovered following the operation, but needed continued administration of sodium nitroprusside for control of hypertension. On the 7th postoperative day, he deteriorated into coma with evidence of severe edema and herniation on the computerized tomography scan. Cessation of sodium nitroprusside and treatment for cyanide poisoning resulted in resolution of his symptoms within hours. The potential toxicity of sodium nitroprusside, measures to prevent toxicity, and therapeutic steps are discussed.
To investigate the feasibility and safety of a combined intravenous (IV) and intra-arterial (IA) approach to recanalization in patients with ischemic stroke.
Subjects ages 18 to 80 with an NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS) > or =10 at baseline had IV recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) started (0.6 mg/kg, 60 mg maximum over 30 minutes) within 3 hours of onset. Additional rt-PA was then administered via microcatheter at the site of the thrombus up to a total dose of 22 mg over 2 hours of infusion or until thrombolysis. Primary comparisons were with similar subsets of placebo and rt-PA-treated subjects from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial.
The 80 subjects had a median baseline NIHSS score of 18. The median time to initiation of IV rt-PA was 140 minutes as compared with 108 minutes for placebo and 90 minutes for rt-PA-treated subjects in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. The 3-month mortality in Interventional Management Study (IMS) subjects (16%) was numerically lower but not statistically different than the mortality of placebo (24%) and rt-PA-treated subjects (21%) in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. The rate of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (6.3%) in IMS subjects was similar to that of rt-PA-treated subjects (6.6%) but higher than the rate in placebo-treated subjects (1.0%, P=0.018) in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. IMS subjects had a significantly better outcome at 3 months than NINDS placebo-treated subjects for all outcome measures (odds ratios > or =2).
A randomized trial of standard IV rt-PA as compared with a combined IV and IA approach is needed.
We previously reported that mRNA levels for extracellular matrix (ECM) components and endothelin (ET)-1 are upregulated in glomeruli of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are effective in experimental models of renal injury, including PAN nephrosis. This study was designed to assess whether the glomerular expression of mRNA for ECM components, ET-1, metalloproteinases (MMP), and a tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP) is modulated by a specific endothelin receptor A antagonist (FR139317) or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (enalapril) in PAN-injected rats.
Animals were divided into six groups. Group 1 consisted of PAN-injected rats given no treatment. In group 2, PAN-injected rats were given enalapril 35 mg/l. In group 3, PAN-injected rats were given an intraperitoneal injection of FR139317. Group 4 consisted of saline-injected rats given no treatment. In group 5, saline-injected rats were given enalapril. In group 6, saline-injected rats were given FR139317. We prepared glomerular RNA and performed Northern blot analysis in all groups.
In PAN nephrosis, glomerular mRNA levels for alpha 1 (IV) collagen chain, laminin B1 and B2 chains, ET-1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 increased at the peak of proteinuria on day 8 and then decreased to the control level by day 20, whereas those for alpha 1 (I) and alpha 1 (III) collagen chains, MMP-1, MMP-3 and GAPDH showed little change in PAN nephrosis throughout the experimental periods. In contrast, mRNA levels for heparan sulphate proteoglycan (HSPG) decreased on day 8 and then increased to the control level by day 20. Both enalapril and FR139317 attenuated the increases in mRNA levels for alpha 1 (IV) collagen chain (P < 0.01), laminin chains (P < 0.01), and ET-1 (P < 0.01), and attenuated the decreases in mRNA levels for HSPG (P < 0.01) in glomeruli of PAN-injected rats. Enalapril had little effect on increased glomerular mRNA levels for MMP-2 and TIMP-1 in PAN nephrosis, whereas FR139317 attenuated the increases in glomerular mRNA levels for MMP-2 (P < 0.01) and TIMP-1 (P < 0.01).
These data suggest that the beneficial effects of enalapril and FR139317 may be related to modulation of glomerular mRNA expression of ECM components and ET-1 and that these agents may follow a different mechanism in regulating the glomerular mRNA expression for MMP-2 and TIMP-1 in PAN nephrosis.
The effects of amlodipine on ambulatory blood pressure were investigated in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Ambulatory recordings showed that amlodipine maintained diastolic and systolic blood pressure below baseline levels for a full 24-h period without altering the normal circadian rhythm. No reflex tachycardia occurred and side effects were rare.
Three hundred and twenty hypertensive out-patients were recruited to this multicentre general practice study of the efficacy and safety of amlodipine. Patients with baseline sitting diastolic blood pressure in the range 95-115 mmHg at two consecutive visits went on to a 12-week active treatment phase of the study. In this study, patients received open-label amlodipine at a starting dose of 5 mg/day, which could be adjusted after 4 weeks to 10 mg/day if necessary to achieve a sitting diastolic blood pressure of less than or equal to 90 mmHg. Amlodipine produced significant (P less than 0.05) blood pressure reductions throughout the study without significant changes in heart rate. The exposure to amlodipine in this study was 873 patient months. Most adverse events were mild or moderate and the investigators' overall evaluation of tolerability was excellent or good for 91% of patients. The most frequently reported adverse events were oedema (13.8%), headache (7.8%) and rashes (3.8%). Analysis of data for subgroups of patients confirmed that there were no important differences in the efficacy and tolerability of amlodipine in elderly or young patients and in patients taking amlodipine as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents. This uniformity of response is clearly an important factor in consideration of antihypertensive therapy use in general practice.
The results of combined interferon alfacon-1 and ribavirin therapy of 94 patients with chronic hepatitis C were analyzed. Complete data, including sustained viral response (SVR), were obtained in 88 patients. 46.8% of them achieved SVR. The most important factor influencing SVR, was the presence of HCV RNA in serum at weeks 12 and 24 of therapy. SVR in these cases was achieved in 14.3% and 0%, respectively. Eight patients discontinued therapy due to adverse events. Most frequent were depressive reactions due to interferon (3 cases), and severe anemia due to ribavirin (2 cases). 37% of patients developed thyroiditis, significantly more frequent in women (27 versus 9).
Amlodipine is a long-acting dihydropyridine calcium antagonist with vascular selectivity. Although structurally related to nifedipine, amlodipine differs in several important respects, including its slow rate of onset and slow recovery. These effects probably reflect the relatively slow rate of association and dissociation of amlodipine with its binding site. The interaction of amlodipine with the calcium antagonist binding site associated with the slow Ca2+ channels differs from that of other dihydropyridines in that it involves the binding domains for the phenylalkylamine- and benzothiazepine-based antagonists, as well as for the dihydropyridines. The prolonged duration of action of amlodipine makes it suitable for use in conditions where calcium channel blockade is required on a 24-h basis. To determine whether amlodipine has a vascular protective effect, amlodipine was given orally to either cholesterol-fed rabbits or stroke-prone hypertensive rats. In the cholesterol-fed rabbits amlodipine (1 or 5 mg/kg/day) produced a significant, dose-dependent reduction in the incidence of atheromatous lesions in the thoracic aorta over an 8-week period. In stroke-prone rats the administration of amlodipine at a dose of 5 mg/kg/day reduced the incidence of mortality over a 30-week treatment period. In spontaneously hypertensive rats amlodipine (5 mg/kg/day) caused a fall in systolic blood pressure, accompanied by a significant (P less than 0.01) reduction in cardiac hypertrophy. When administered intravenously (0.25 mg/kg) 5 h before hearts were excised and made globally ischaemic for short periods (the 'stunned' heart) amlodipine pretreatment improved functional recovery associated with reperfusion.
To examine objectively the clinical effects of subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) in advanced PD.
Our initial seven consecutive patients with medication-refractory motor fluctuations and levodopa-induced dyskinesias undergoing chronic STN DBS underwent a standardized preoperative evaluation followed by a 2-day double-blind evaluation of efficacy 6 to 12 months after electrode implantation. Diaries documenting motor fluctuations and dyskinesias were also completed preoperatively and postoperatively.
In the medication-off state, turning the stimulators on resulted in improvement in mean total Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor score by 58% including the following improvements in composite scores: akinesia 57%, rigidity 52%, tremor 82%, and gait and postural stability 49%. Additionally, the medication-off state improved 17% without stimulation, possibly as a result of electrode insertion alone or carry-over of chronic stimulation. In the medication-on, stimulation-on state, all major features of parkinsonism improved and total UPDRS motor score improved 41% compared with before surgery. Activities of daily living were improved while off medication 30%, and levodopa-induced dyskinesias were reduced 83% while total drug dosage was decreased 40%. With chronic stimulation, patients reported that the percentage of time spent in the "on" state (without dyskinesias) increased from 26% to 52% and "off" time decreased from 30% to 6%. Operative complications including cognitive worsening were not uncommon.
STN DBS is a promising new surgical option for the treatment of advanced PD. The marked clinical benefits obtained in these severely disabled patients outweighed the adverse effects.
A 51-year-old woman was brought to the emergency department unresponsive, hyponatremic, and diaphoretic, with muscle rigidity. Her condition improved dramatically after supportive treatment and dantrolene. The patient had received nefazodone for 6 months, but the drug had been discontinued 2 days before admission after a tapering period. One day before admission, paroxetine 20 mg/day was started. A repeat challenge with paroxetine 7 days after discontinuation of nefazodone did not result in recurrence of the patient's symptoms. We believe this to be the first report of serotonin syndrome associated with nefazodone and paroxetine.
Bohring-Opitz syndrome is characterized by severe intellectual disability, distinctive facial features and multiple congenital malformations. We sequenced the exomes of three individuals with Bohring-Opitz syndrome and in each identified heterozygous de novo nonsense mutations in ASXL1, which is required for maintenance of both activation and silencing of Hox genes. In total, 7 out of 13 subjects with a Bohring-Opitz phenotype had de novo ASXL1 mutations, suggesting that the syndrome is genetically heterogeneous.
Use of opiates/opioids is associated with hypoactive sexual desire, erectile and orgasmic dysfunction.
To determine prevalence and investigate etiology of sexual dysfunction in men on methadone or buprenorphine maintenance treatment (MMT, BMT).
International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), hormone assays, Beck Depression Inventory.
A total of 103 men (mean age 37.6 +/- 7.9) on MMT (N = 84) or BMT (N = 19) were evaluated using the IIEF, hormone assays, Beck Depression Inventory, body mass index (BMI), demographic, and other substance use measures.
Mean total IIEF scores for partnered men were lower for MMT (50.4 +/- 18.2; N = 53) than reference groups (61.4 +/- 16.8; N = 415; P < 0.0001) or BMT (61.4 +/- 7.0; N = 14; P = 0.048). Among partnered men on MMT, 53% had erectile dysfunction (ED) compared with 24% of reference groups; 26% had moderate to severe ED, 12.1% in under 40s and 40.0% among those 40+ years. On multiple regression, depression, older age, and lower total testosterone were associated with lower IIEF and EF domain; on multivariate analysis, there were no significant associations between IIEF or EF and free testosterone, opioid dose, cannabis or other substance use, viral hepatitis, or BMI. Total testosterone accounted for 16% of IIEF and 15% of EF variance. Men without sexual partners had lower Desire and Erection Confidence scores and less recent sexual activity, suggesting potentially higher prevalence of sexual dysfunction in this group.
Men on MMT, but not BMT, have high prevalence of ED, related to hypogonadism and depression. Practitioners should screen for sexual dysfunction in men receiving opioid replacement treatment. Future studies of sexual dysfunction in opioid-treated men should examine the potential benefits of dose reduction, androgen replacement, treatment of depression, and choice of opioid.
IgA nephropathy (IgAN) is a polygenic disorder. Increasing evidence has implicated that aberrant glycosylation of IgA1 molecules, including alpha2,6 sialic acid defects, are involved in the pathogenesis of IgAN. In the present study, we designed an association study to investigate polymorphisms of two important genes, ST6GALNAC2 and NEU1, which are involved in the sialylation of the IgA1 molecule, in the susceptibility to IgAN. A total of 670 patients with histologically proven IgAN and 494 healthy controls were enrolled. Screening of SNPs in the coding and promoter regions of the ST6GALNAC2 and NEU1 genes was performed by sequencing. ST6-SNP1 (c.-988A>G), ST6-SNP2 [rs3840858:D>I(CGGC), c.-450_-449insCGGC], ST6-SNP3 (rs1867561:C>G, c.-135C>G), and ST6-SNP7 (rs2304921:G>A, c.186+12G>A) in the ST6GALNAC2 gene were selected as tagging SNPs. Functional evaluations of targets were assayed by luciferase activity. The alpha2,6 sialic acid contents of serum IgA1 in 497 patients were analyzed. Our results demonstrated that the frequency of haplotype ADG in the promoter region of ST6GALNAC2 was significantly higher in IgAN patients than that in controls (p=0.0069; odds ratio [OR]=1.36; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.08-1.72). Furthermore, the ADG haplotype was associated with the deficient degrees of alpha2,6 sialic acid of IgA1 molecules in IgAN patients (r=0.408, p=0.0035). The ADG haplotype conferred significantly reduced promoter activity compared with the most common haplotype GDG in vitro (196.43+/-21.55 vs. 258.41+/-46.25; p=0.002). In the present study, we identified for the first time the ADG haplotype in the ST6GALNAC2 gene as a functional regulatory variant that may contribute to the genetic susceptibility in a subset of patients in whom the desialylation of IgA1 molecules was the main causative pathogenesis of IgAN.
There is emerging evidence that people with successfully treated HIV infection age prematurely, leading to progressive multi-organ disease, but the reasons for this are not known. Here we show that patients treated with commonly used nucleoside analog anti-retroviral drugs progressively accumulate somatic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations, mirroring those seen much later in life caused by normal aging. Ultra-deep re-sequencing by synthesis, combined with single-cell analyses, suggests that the increase in somatic mutation is not caused by increased mutagenesis but might instead be caused by accelerated mtDNA turnover. This leads to the clonal expansion of preexisting age-related somatic mtDNA mutations and a biochemical defect that can affect up to 10% of cells. These observations add weight to the role of somatic mtDNA mutations in the aging process and raise the specter of progressive iatrogenic mitochondrial genetic disease emerging over the next decade.
To establish whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (Asp299Gly and Thr399Ile) of the toll-like receptor 4 have an association with late diabetic complications.
The study was conducted in 246 type 1 and 530 type 2 diabetic patients. The alleles of both polymorphisms were detected using PCR and subsequent cleavage by NcoI and HinfI restriction endonucleases.
No difference was found between type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients in the prevalence of alleles of the Asp299Gly and Thr399Ile polymorphisms. In most cases, the alleles Gly299 and Ile399 occurred in a co-segregatory manner. The prevalence of the Gly299/Ile399 haplotype was 10.6 and 12.1% in type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients, respectively (P = 0.63). No association with diabetic nephropathy or diabetic neuropathy was found in type 1 diabetic patients. In type 2 diabetic patients, however, heterozygote carriers of the Asp299Gly and Thr399Ile genotypes had a significantly reduced prevalence of diabetic neuropathy (odds ratio 0.35 [95% CI 0.19-0.61]; P = 0.0002); no association with diabetic nephropathy was found.
Our data indicate that Asp299Gly and Thr399Ile genotypes of the TLR4 gene are associated with reduced prevalence of diabetic neuropathy in type 2, but not in type 1, diabetes. Thus different mechanisms may be involved in the pathophysiology of diabetic neuropathy in type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
To report that arsenical pastes are still employed in endodontics and to highlight the potentially serious consequences of their use.
Chemotherapeutic agents such as arsenic trioxide and paraformaldehyde were once commonly employed as pulp-necrotizing agents. Their cytotoxic effects are well recognized, and leakage from teeth has been associated with widespread necrosis of periodontal tissues and bone. This report describes two cases of severe bone necrosis affecting the mandible following the use of an arsenical paste.
Pulp-necrotizing agents such as arsenic trioxide can cause severe bone necrosis. Arsenical pastes have no place in contemporary dental practice. Dentists should employ appropriate local anaesthetic techniques for pulp extirpation instead of relying on toxic necrotizing agents.
Flupirtine is an established clinical analgesic for mild to moderate musculoskeletal pain states. It has recently been shown to be a KCNQ2-3 potassium channel opener. These experiments were performed to see if this property could be useful in treating pain states characterized by central sensitization with the drug either given alone or in combination with morphine.
Experiments were performed in rats in an observer-blinded fashion with vehicle controls. Nonsedating doses of flupirtine, morphine, and combinations containing both drugs were defined using the rotarod test and open-field activity monitoring. Dose-response relationships were determined for nonsedating doses of both drugs given alone and together in combination in causing antinociception in two nociception paradigms: carrageenan paw inflammation and streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy.
Flupirtine and morphine, when given alone at the highest nonsedating doses, caused slight to moderate antinociception in both paradigms. Flupirtine also caused significant increases in morphine antinociception in both models. In carrageenan paw inflammation, complete reversal of carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia was caused by 10 mg/kg flupirtine in combination with 0.4 mg/kg morphine. These doses of the two drugs were ineffective when given alone, but the combination caused complete antinociception in this model of inflammatory pain. In the diabetic neuropathy model, morphine 3.2 mg/kg given alone caused no significant antinociception. However, a lower dose of morphine (1.6 mg/kg shown to be ineffective when it was given alone) given in combination with flupirtine 10 mg/kg caused highly significant antinociceptive effects causing complete reversal of hyperalgesia caused by diabetic neuropathy (P < 0.001, one-way analysis of variance). This combination of drugs was not sedating.
Flupirtine increases morphine antinociception without causing an increase in sedation. Flupirtine should be investigated as an adjunct analgesic with opioids for the management of patients with pain states involving central sensitization.
5 Fluorouracil (5 FU), the most effective systemic chemotherapeutic agent in the management of advanced colorectal carcinoma acts by inducing apoptosis. Response rates, approximately 20% is improved by folinic acid. This study investigates similar modulation of 5 FU-induced apoptosis by oxidant quenching. A five-fold reduction of intracellular oxidant levels by antioxidants N-acetylcysteine and vitamin E did not induce apoptosis, it however augmented pro-apoptotic bax protein expression, and apoptotic response to a non-toxic dose of 5 FU in the colorectal cancer cell lines colo 201 and colo 205. This suggests that reduction of intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species enhance susceptibility to 5 FU (apoptotic stimuli) by augmentation of bax expression.
To characterize patients who develop hallucinations early in the course of dopaminergic therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD) and contrast them with patients developing hallucinations after chronic drug treatment.
Parkinsonian patients who met diagnostic criteria for PD, experienced hallucinations, had a detailed hallucination interview at the onset time of their first hallucination, and had a 5-year clinical follow-up or an autopsy in those 5 years were identified and divided into two groups for comparison: 12 patients who developed early hallucinations within 3 months of starting levodopa therapy and 58 PD patients who developed hallucinations after 1 year of dopaminergic therapy. We contrasted the quality, content, diurnal nature, and emotional elements of the hallucinations, as well as the 5-year follow-up data on diagnosis, disease course, community home or nursing home outcome, and mortality.
Both groups experienced a predominance of visual hallucinations, visions of people and animals, and vivid colors and definition. Features distinctive to the early onset hallucinating patients included visions that persisted in daytime as well as nighttime, frightening content with paranoia, and accompanying nonvisual hallucinations, either auditory, olfactory, tactile, or combinations thereof. At the 5-year follow-up, none of the early onset hallucinators had PD as their sole disorder. Four of the 12 had an underlying psychiatric illness that included hallucinations or psychosis preceding their parkinsonism by several years. In the other eight patients at the 5-year follow-up, their parkinsonism evolved to include additional signs that were no longer consistent with PD. The primary diagnoses were diffuse Lewy body disease and Alzheimer's disease (AD) with extrapyramidal signs. Patients with early drug-induced hallucinations had significantly greater placement to nursing homes and greater mortality.
Early onset drug-related hallucinations are not typical of PD. Their presence should signal an investigation of two alternative diagnoses, either a comorbid psychotic illness (often unrevealed by the patient initially) or an evolving parkinsonism-plus syndrome.
It is well established that the risk of developing type 2 diabetes is closely linked to the presence and duration of overweight and obesity. A reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes with lifestyle changes has previously been demonstrated. We hypothesized that adding a weight-reducing agent to lifestyle changes may lead to an even greater decrease in body weight, and thus the incidence of type 2 diabetes, in obese patients.
In a 4-year, double-blind, prospective study, we randomized 3,305 patients to lifestyle changes plus either orlistat 120 mg or placebo, three times daily. Participants had a BMI >/=30 kg/m2 and normal (79%) or impaired (21%) glucose tolerance (IGT). Primary endpoints were time to onset of type 2 diabetes and change in body weight. Analyses were by intention to treat.
Of orlistat-treated patients, 52% completed treatment compared with 34% of placebo recipients (P < 0.0001). After 4 years' treatment, the cumulative incidence of diabetes was 9.0% with placebo and 6.2% with orlistat, corresponding to a risk reduction of 37.3% (P = 0.0032). Exploratory analyses indicated that the preventive effect was explained by the difference in subjects with IGT. Mean weight loss after 4 years was significantly greater with orlistat (5.8 vs. 3.0 kg with placebo; P < 0.001) and similar between orlistat recipients with impaired (5.7 kg) or normal glucose tolerance (NGT) (5.8 kg) at baseline. A second analysis in which the baseline weights of subjects who dropped out of the study was carried forward also demonstrated greater weight loss in the orlistat group (3.6 vs. 1.4 kg; P < 0.001).
Compared with lifestyle changes alone, orlistat plus lifestyle changes resulted in a greater reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes over 4 years and produced greater weight loss in a clinically representative obese population. Difference in diabetes incidence was detectable only in the IGT subgroup; weight loss was similar in subjects with IGT or NGT [correction].
The value of physical examination in detecting involved neck muscles in cervical dystonia (CD) is uncertain and little is known about changes in electromyographic (EMG) features after botulinum toxin type A (BTA) treatment.
In a double-blind, randomized study we recorded the EMG activities of 420 neck muscles in 42 patients with CD before and after treatment with BTA or trihexyphenidyl. We regarded any needle EMG activity higher than 100 microV as the gold standard for involuntary involvement of a muscle in the dystonic posture and compared this with the results of physical examination. We calculated EMG total scores by adding the scores of the individual muscles.
Physical examination had a low predictive value in the detection of involved muscles. There was a significant correlation between changes in EMG total scores and changes in clinical measurements. We observed increased EMG activity in 20% of noninjected muscles after BTA treatment and in 27% of noninjected muscles after trihexyphenidyl treatment. A switch from one most active muscle to another was seen equally in both groups and had no influence on clinical response.
Physical examination alone is not sufficient to detect involved muscles, and repeated, simultaneous EMG-guided application of BTA may be helpful. In addition to clinical measurements, changes in EMG activity due to treatment can be used as a physiologic measure in evaluating treatment response. Increased activity of noninjected muscles and a switch from one most active muscle to another are not related to BTA treatment, but are probably pathophysiologic phenomena of CD itself.
Prion diseases are characterized by the conversion of the normal cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) into a pathogenic isoform (PrP(Sc)). PrP(C) binds copper, has superoxide dismutase (SOD)-like activity in vitro, and its expression aids in the cellular response to oxidative stress. However, the interplay between PrPs (PrP(C), PrP(Sc) and possibly other abnormal species), copper, anti-oxidation activity and pathogenesis of prion diseases remain unclear. In this study, we reported dramatic depression of SOD-like activity by the affinity-purified PrPs from scrapie-infected brains, and together with significant reduction of Cu/Zn-SOD activity, correlates with significant perturbations in the divalent metals contents. We also detected elevated levels of nitric oxide and superoxide in the infected brains, which could be escalating the oxidative modification of cellular proteins, reducing gluathione peroxidase activity and increasing the levels of lipid peroxidation markers. Taken together, our results suggest that brain metal imbalances, especially copper, in scrapie infection is likely to affect the anti-oxidation functions of PrP and SODs, which, together with other cellular dysfunctions, predispose the brains to oxidative impairment and eventual degeneration. To our knowledge, this is the first study documenting a physiological connection between brain metals imbalances, the anti-oxidation function of PrP, and aberrations in the cellular responses to oxidative stress, in scrapie infection.
The anti-proliferative and anti-angiogenic properties of the endogenous oestrogen metabolite, 2-methoxyoestradiol (2-MeOE2), are enhanced in a series of sulphamoylated derivatives of 2-MeOE2. To investigate possible mechanisms of resistance to these compounds, a cell line, A2780.140, eightfold less sensitive to the 3,17-O,O-bis-sulphamoylated derivative, STX140, was derived from the A2780 ovarian cancer cell line by dose escalation. Other cell lines tested did not develop STX140 resistance. RT-PCR and immunoblot analysis demonstrated that breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) expression is dramatically increased in A2780.140 cells. The cells are cross-resistant to the most structurally similar bis-sulphamates, and to BCRP substrates, mitoxantrone and doxorubicin; but they remain sensitive to taxol, an MDR1 substrate, and to all other sulphamates tested. Sensitivity can be restored using a BCRP inhibitor, and this pattern of resistance is also seen in a BCRP-expressing MCF-7-derived cell line, MCF-7.MR. In mice bearing wild-type (wt) and BCRP-expressing tumours on either flank, both STX140 and mitoxantrone inhibited the growth of the MCF-7wt xenografts, but only STX140 inhibited growth of the MCF-7.MR tumours. In conclusion, STX140, a promising orally bioavailable anti-cancer agent in pre-clinical development, is highly efficacious in BCRP-expressing xenografts. This is despite an increase in BCRP expression in A2780 cells in vitro after chronic dosing with STX140.
To investigate the effects of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) on proliferation and apoptosis of colorectal cancer cell line SW480 and its mechanism.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 negative colorectal cancer cell line SW480 was treated with aspirin at concentrations of 2.5 mmol/L, 5.0 mmol/L, 10.0 mmol/L for different periods in vitro. Anti-proliferation effect of aspirin on SW480 was detected by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Cell cycle and apoptosis were observed by flow cytometry (FCM). Transmission electron microscope (TEM) was used for morphological study. Apoptosis-associated genes were detected by immunohistochemical staining and Western blotting.
Aspirin inhibited SW480 proliferation and induced apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Treatment with different concentrations of aspirin significantly increased the proportions of cells at the G(0)/G(1)phase and decreased the proportions of cells at the S- and G(2)/M phases in a concentration-dependent manner. Aspirin not only induced apoptosis but also caused cell necrosis at a high concentration as well. After treatment with aspirin, SW480 cells displayed typically morphological features of apoptosis and necrosis under TEM, and increased the Bcl-2 expression in cells, but the expression of Bax was down regulated.
Aspirin inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of SW480 cells. Its anti-tumor mechanism may arrest cell cycle and shift Bax/Bcl-2 balance in cells.
