Microcystin-LR (MCLR) is an acute hepatotoxicant and suspected carcinogen. Previous chronic studies have individually described hepatic morphologic changes, or alterations in the cytoskeleton, cell signaling or redox pathways. The objective of this study was to characterize chronic effects of MCLR in wild-type mice utilizing gene array analysis, morphology, and plasma chemistries. MCLR was given daily for up to 28 days. RNA from the 28-day study was hybridized onto mouse genechip arrays. RNA from 4 hours, 24 hours, 4 days, 1 day, and 28 days for selected genes was processed for quantitative-PCR. Increases in plasma hepatic enzyme activities and decreases in total protein, albumin and glucose concentrations were identified in MCLR-treated groups at 14 and 28 days. Histologically, marked hepatokaryomegaly was identified in the 14-day MCLR group with the addition of giant cells at 28 days. Major gene transcript changes were identified in the actin organization, cell cycle, apoptotic, cellular redox, cell signaling, albumin metabolism, and glucose homeostasis pathways, and the organic anion transport polypeptide system. Using toxicogenomics, we have identified key molecular pathways involved in chronic sublethal MCLR exposure in wild-type mice, genes participating in those critical pathways and related them to cellular and morphologic alterations seen in this and other studies.
As part of a substantial effort to curtail the adverse health effects posed by hepatoma, studies have been conducted to elucidate the possible mechanism for the anticarcinogenic action of sodium selenite against N-nitrosodiethylamine induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Sodium selenite administered through drinking water at a dose of 4 ppm before initiation, or during initiation and/or during the promotion period of carcinogenesis exerted an in vivo stabilizing effect on cell membranes in rat hepatoma. This was demonstrated in normal rats and in animals whose biomembranes were rendered fragile by induction of hepatoma with N-nitrosodiethylamine and subsequent treatment with sodium selenite. The obtained results have shown a significant decrease in the activities of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPases, Mg(2+)-ATPases and Ca(2+)-ATPases (P < 0.001) in erythrocyte membrane; hepatoma and surrounding liver tissue and also erythrocyte membrane are more susceptible to lysis in cancer-bearing animals. The selenite administration reversed these adverse changes to near normal in selenite-treated animals. Such stabilization of biomembranes by selenite has a beneficial effect in the treatment of hepatoma and other cancers involving abnormal fragility of cell membrane. Previous evidence from this laboratory with respect to the anticancer potency of selenite against N-nitrosodiethylamine-induced hepatoma together with the present results suggests that potentially effective therapeutic protection can be achieved by pre-supplementation of selenite.
The case of a 66-year-old male with heart failure and cardiorenal syndrome is presented. The patient had normal renal function before intensive treatment with diuretics and ACE inhibitor. Shortly after the ACE inhibitor was stopped and diuretics were either stopped or reduced in dosage, his renal function normalized. Suggestions are presented for follow-up after initiation of ACE inhibitor treatment.
The investigations aimed to evaluate the usefulness of cardiac troponins as biomarkers of acute myocardial injury in the rat. Serum from female Hanover Wistar rats treated with a single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of isoproterenol (ISO) was assayed for cardiac troponin I (cTnI) (ACS: 180SE, Bayer), cTnI (Immulite 2000, Diagnostic Products Corporation) and cardiac troponin T (cTnT) (Elecsys 2010, Roche). In a time-course study (50.0 mg/kg ISO), serum cTnI (ACS:180SE) and cTnT increased above control levels at 1 hour postdosing, peaking at 2 hours (cTnI, 4.30 microg/L; cTnT, 1.79 microg/L), and declined to baseline by 48 hours, with histologic cardiac lesions first seen at 4 hours postdosing. The Immulite 2000 assay gave minimal cTnI signals, indicating poor immunoreactivity towards rat cTnI. In a dose-response study (0.25 to 20.0 mg/kg ISO), there was a trend for increasing cTnI (ACS:180SE) values with increasing ISO dose levels at 2 hours postdosing. By 24 hours, cTnI levels returned to baseline although chronic cardiac myodegeneration was present. We conclude that serum cTnI and cTnT levels are sensitive and specific biomarkers for detecting ISO induced myocardial injury in the rat. Serum troponin values reflect the development of histopathologic lesions; however peak troponin levels precede maximal lesion severity.
Use of the specific-locus test to measure the frequency of transmitted gene mutations induced in mouse spermatogonia has shown ethylnitrosourea to be by far the most potent mutagen yet discovered in the mouse. The dose used, 250 mg/kg, gave a mutation rate 5 times as high as had been obtained with 600 R, the most effective acute dose of x-rays. Compared to procarbazine, heretofore the most mutagenic chemical known in the mouse, ethylnitrosourea proved to be 15 times more mutagenic than the peak effect obtained with the most effective dose of procarbazine. Because of its high mutagenicity, ethylnitrosourea can serve as a model compound in exploring the effect of such factors as dose response, dose fractionation, sex, and cell stage on the mutagenic action of a chemical. Ethylnitrosourea is clearly the mutagen of choice for the production of any kind of desired new gene mutations in the mouse.
Chronic pancreatitis is a common inflammatory disease of the pancreas. Mutations in the genes encoding cationic trypsinogen (PRSS1) and the pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (SPINK1) are associated with chronic pancreatitis. Because increased proteolytic activity owing to mutated PRSS1 enhances the risk for chronic pancreatitis, mutations in the gene encoding anionic trypsinogen (PRSS2) may also predispose to disease. Here we analyzed PRSS2 in individuals with chronic pancreatitis and controls and found, to our surprise, that a variant of codon 191 (G191R) is overrepresented in control subjects: G191R was present in 220/6,459 (3.4%) controls but in only 32/2,466 (1.3%) affected individuals (odds ratio 0.37; P = 1.1 x 10(-8)). Upon activation by enterokinase or trypsin, purified recombinant G191R protein showed a complete loss of trypsin activity owing to the introduction of a new tryptic cleavage site that renders the enzyme hypersensitive to autocatalytic proteolysis. In conclusion, the G191R variant of PRSS2 mitigates intrapancreatic trypsin activity and thereby protects against chronic pancreatitis.
To investigate the late and persistent effects of cadmium (Cd) at low doses on the liver and its potential mechanisms, male Wistar rats were given i.p. injection of Cd as CdCl2 at 20 nmol kg(-1) body weight every other day for 4 weeks. At weeks 20, 44 and 52, the livers from Cd-treated and age-matched control rats were examined pathologically and biochemically. Chronic exposure of rats to Cd at low doses induced mild pathological changes and persistent oxidative damage as well as cell proliferation. Hepatic proteins were analyzed with two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry. More than 1000 protein spots were detected by 2-DE. Ten proteins were distinguishable between Cd-treated and age-matched control groups at week 52 week after Cd treatment. Two of them were significantly down-regulated: prohibitin (PHB) and d-dopachrome tautomerase (DDT). By western blotting the down-regulated expression of PHB and DDT in the livers of Cd-treated rats was confirmed in both early (week 20) and late (week 52) time points. To further examine the down-regulation of antioxidant status in the Cd-treated livers, other common antioxidants, including superoxide dismutase and glutathione and one metal detoxification specific protein metallothionein, were also detected and found to be decreased, particularly at the late stage. These results suggest that mild histopathological changes, persistent oxidative damage and cell proliferation remained at the late stages (weeks 44-52) after rats were exposed to low-dose Cd. These persistent changes may be associated with the persistent down-regulation of cellular antioxidant systems.
Oxidative stress has been shown to play a pivotal role in the onset of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and carcinogenesis. We evaluated the effects of two dietary anti-oxidants, rutin and its aglycone quercetin, on dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced experimental colitis in mice. Female ICR mice were fed a diet containing 0.1% rutin or 0.1% quercetin for 2 weeks, and given 5% DSS in drinking water during the second week to induce colitis. We also examined the dose-dependency of rutin and quercetin (0.01% and 0.001% each) as well as their therapeutic efficacy, which was evaluated following DSS administration, on DSS-induced colitis. The protein level of interleukin (IL)-1 beta in both colonic mucosa and peritoneal macrophages was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Further, mRNA expression levels of IL-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-6, granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2 in colonic mucosa were determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. A diet containing 0.1% rutin, but not quercetin, attenuated DSS-induced body weight loss and shortening of the colorectum (P<0.01 and <0.05, respectively), and dramatically improved colitis histological scores. Further, DSS-induced increases in colonic mucosal IL-1 beta levels were blunted significantly in rutin-, but not quercetin-, fed mice (P<0.01), while dietary rutin attenuated the expressions of IL-1 beta and IL-6 mRNA in colonic mucosa (each, P<0.01). As for dose dependency, 0.01%, but not 0.001%, dietary rutin significantly reduced mucosal IL-1 beta levels (P<0.01). Notably, a 0.1% rutin diet given 3 days after DSS treatment significantly suppressed both colorectal shortening and IL-1 beta production (P<0.05 and <0.01, respectively). Dietary rutin ameliorates DSS-induced colitis, presumably by suppressing the induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our results suggest that rutin may be useful for the prevention and treatment of IBD and colorectal carcinogenesis via attenuation of pro-inflammatory cytokine production.
CD38 is a multifunctional protein involving in a number of signalling pathways. Given that the lack of CD38 is considered as a dedifferentiation marker of lymphocytes and other cells, we hypothesized that CD38 and its signalling pathway may participate in the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process of podocytes and thereby regulates the integrity of glomerular structure and function. Western blot analysis and RT-PCR demonstrated that renal tissue CD38 expression was lacking in CD38(-/-) mice or substantially reduced in renal CD38 shRNA-transfected WT (CD38-shRNA) mice compared to CD38(+/+) littermates. Confocal fluorescent microscopy demonstrated the reduced expression of epithelial markers (P-Cadherin, ZO-1 and podocin) and increased expression of mesenchymal markers (FSP-1, α-SMA and desmin) in the glomeruli of CD38(-/-) and CD38-shRNA mice compared to CD38(+/+) mice. Morphological examinations showed profound injury in the glomeruli of CD38(-/-) or CD38-shRNA mice compared to CD38(+/+) mice. This enhanced glomerular injury in CD38(-/-) or CD38-shRNA mice was accompanied by increased albuminuria and proteinuria. DOCA/high salt treatment further decreased the expression of epithelial markers and increased the abundance of mesenchymal markers, which were accompanied by more increased glomerular damage index and mean arterial pressure in CD38(-/-) and CD38-shRNA mice than CD38(+/+) mice. In vitro studies showed that inhibition of CD38 enhances the EMT in podocytes. In conclusion, our observations reveal that the normal expression of CD38 importantly contributes to the differentiation and function of podocytes and the defect of this gene expression may be a critical mechanism inducing EMT and consequently resulting in glomerular injury and sclerosis.
Sleep EEG and respiratory measures were examined in a 38-year-old man with a long-standing history of insomnia and daytime sleepiness. He was found to have seven to 18 primarily obstructive apneas per night on four baseline recordings, a finding not generally considered to be indicative of pathology. On the first two nights on which he received 30 mg of the benzodiazepine hypnotic flurazepam, there were 22 and 100 apneas, and during the daytime he became extremely sleepy. Upon cessation of medication, his clinical condition improved, and the number of apneas decreased to 11 and 6 on withdrawal nights 4 and 6. Although respiratory depression is neither invariable nor unique to flurazepam, this case suggests that it may be a clinically significant problem with recommended oral doses in some individuals.
Clinical use of arsenic trioxide (As₂O₃), which can induce the remission of relapsed or refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia, is often limited because of its cardiotoxicity. Symptoms of cardiotoxicity include acute cardiac conduction disturbances, such as QT prolongation. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of α-lipoic acid (LA) on acute As₂O₃-induced ECG abnormalities (QTc interval prolongation) in anesthetized guinea pigs. Intravenous injection of As₂O₃ in guinea pigs caused QTc interval prolongation, which was significantly attenuated by co-treatment with LA (0.35, 3.5 and 35 mg/kg) in a dose-dependent manner. In isolated guinea pig cardiomyocytes, the decrease in IKs current induced by As₂O3 (1 μM) was rapidly restored to the basal level by the addition of LA (10 μM). Consistent with this finding, the As₂O₃-induced QTc interval prolongation was also improved rapidly by post-treatment with LA in guinea pigs. Electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry analysis detected an expected peak of arsenic-LA complex in vitro, indicating that LA and As₂O3 form a new compound in vivo. In addition, pre-treatment with a chelating agent, British anti-Lewisite (BAL, 3.5 or 35 mg/kg), also attenuated the As₂O₃-induced QTc interval prolongation. In this study, co- and post-treatments with LA and pre-treatment with BAL ameliorated As₂O₃-induced acute QT prolongation in anesthetized guinea pigs. Because LA and probably BAL may bind to As₂O₃, these agents may exert protective effects through their chelating activity. Further studies are needed to determine whether LA is beneficial as a prophylactic or rescue agent for acute promyelocytic leukemia patients treated with As₂O₃.
Overexpression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) is associated with cancer metastasis. We assessed mRNA expression of MMPs in six human colorectal cancer cell lines and found a considerable level of MMP-7 expression in HT-29 cells. Next, we searched for natural and synthetic compounds that cause a reduction in the production of proMMP-7 protein, and found that nobiletin (NOB), quercetin, valeryl salicylate, and sulindac sulfone demonstrated marked inhibition. Importantly, NOB attenuated proMMP-7 protein and its mRNA expression both concentration- and time-dependently via a reduction of activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA binding activity, suggesting it as a promising agent for suppression of cancer cell invasion and metastasis through MMP-7 gene repression.
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that cocaine intoxication induces distinctive alterations in sinus rhythm heart rate dynamics. Time-series and spectral analysis techniques were used to examine the effects of lethal doses of cocaine on heart rate variability in conscious, restrained ferrets. In all animals (n = 5), cocaine administration resulted in a marked decrease in sinus rhythm heart rate variability prior to sudden death. Heart rate variability (coefficient of variation of heart rate) just prior to death (0.018 +/- 0.005) was significantly (p less than 0.02) decreased compared to that at baseline prior to cocaine administration (0.061 +/- 0.022). There was also a significant (p less than 0.02) decrease in total spectral power prior to death compared to baseline. Transient low-frequency (0.04-0.10 Hz) oscillations in heart rate were also noted in three of the five animals following cocaine administration. There were, however, no significant changes in mean heart rate in response to cocaine. Alterations in heart rate dynamics were not seen in three saline-treated controls. Lethal effects of cocaine included ventricular arrhythmias (n = 2) and seizures (n = 3). One animal developed transient ST segment elevations that were consistent with coronary vasospasm. In conclusion, lethal doses of cocaine in the conscious ferret induce characteristic alterations in heart rate dynamics. These abnormalities (loss of heart rate variability and the appearance of low-frequency heart rate oscillations) are similar to those reported previously in certain patients at high risk of sudden cardiac death due to organic heart disease.
High levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are associated with deficits in learning and memory with age as well as in Alzheimer's disease. Using DNA microarray, we demonstrated the overexpression of quinone reductase 2 (QR2) in the hippocampus in two models of learning deficits, namely the aged memory impaired rats and the scopolamine-induced amnesia model. QR2 is a cytosolic flavoprotein that catalyzes the reduction of its substrate and enhances the production of damaging activated quinone and ROS. QR2-like immunostaining is enriched in cerebral structures associated with learning behaviors, such as the hippocampal formation and the temporofrontal cortex of rat, mouse, and human brains. In cultured rat embryonic hippocampal neurons, selective inhibitors of QR2, namely S26695 and S29434, protected against menadione-induced cell death by reversing its proapoptotic action. S26695 (8 mg/kg) also significantly inhibited scopolamine-induced amnesia. Interestingly, adult QR2 knock-out mice demonstrated enhanced learning abilities in various tasks, including Morris water maze, object recognition, and rotarod performance test. Other behaviors related to anxiety (elevated plus maze), depression (forced swim), and schizophrenia (prepulse inhibition) were not affected in QR2-deficient mice. Together, these data suggest a role for QR2 in cognitive behaviors with QR2 inhibitors possibly representing a novel therapeutic strategy toward the treatment of learning deficits especially observed in the aged brain.
To unfold specific-mutational patterns in TP53 gene due to exposures to war environmental hazards and to detect the association of TP53 gene alteration with the depth of bladder cancer.
Twenty-nine bladder carcinomas were analyzed for TP53 alterations. PCR-single strand conformational polymorphism analysis, DNA sequencing and immunohistochemical analysis using monoclonal mouse anti-human p53 antibody (Clone DO-7) were employed.
TP53 gene mutations occurred in 37.9% of the cases while TP53 overexpression occurred in 58.6%. Both of them were associated with deep invasive-tumors. Single mutations were seen in 63.6%, whereas only 27.3% have shown double mutations. Four mutations were frameshifted (30.8%); two of them showed insertion A after codon 244. There was no significant association between TP53 mutations and protein overexpression (P>0.05), while a significant association was observed between TP53 alterations and tumors progression (P ≤ 0.01).
The infrequent TP53mutations, especially insertion A and 196 hotspot codon, may represent the specific-mutational patterns in bladder carcinoma among the Iraqi patients who were exposed to war environmental hazards. TP53 alteration associated with bladder cancer progression should be analyzed by both mutational and protein expression analysis.
A 12-year-old boy with a history of severe attention deficit disorder (ADD) and stimulant-induced Tourette's syndrome was treated with imipramine 50 mg/day. Substantial improvement was seen in his ADD, with no negative effect on Tourette's symptomatology.
Technical grade dinitrotoluene (TDNT) was shown to be a potent hepatocarcinogen in rats; however, ambiguous results were obtained from bioassays which evaluated 2,4-DNT, the principal isomer in the technical mixture. The present studies were designed to determine the relative hepatocyte foci promoting activity of TDNT and the primary isomers present in the technical mixture, 2,4- and 2,6-DNT. A rat hepatic initiation-promotion protocol was used in which male Fischer-344 rats were initiated with a single dose of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) (150 mg/kg, i.p.) and permitted to recover for 2 weeks. Following the recovery period, the animals were fed diets containing TDNT,2,4-DNT,2,6-DNT or phenobarbital (PB). The TDNT animals were killed after 3 or 6 weeks of feeding and the 2,4-DNT-,2,6-DNT-and PB-treated animals were killed after 6 or 12 weeks of feeding. Appropriate DEN and DNT controls were also killed at each time point. Sections from three liver lobes of each animal were stained for gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) and the number of GGT+ foci per cm3 (Nv) was calculated using stereological methods. TDNT feeding produced a dose-dependent increase in GGT+ foci (Nv) at 3 and 6 weeks relative to both DEN and TDNT controls. Administration of 2,4-DNT and PB produced time-dependent increases in GGT+ foci (Nv), while 2,6-DNT produced dose- and time-dependent increases. Unlike 2,4-DNT and PB, the high dose (14 mg/kg) of 2,6-dNT produced an increase in GGT+ foci in the control groups and in mean foci volume relative to the DEN control. These results establish that TDNT, 2,4-DNT and 2,6-DNT have hepatocyte foci promoting activity and that 2,6-DNT is approximately 10 times more potent than 2,4-DNT. In addition, TDNT administration neither alters hepatocyte replication following partial hepatectomy nor acts as a 'growth selection' agent in the Solt-Farber 'growth selection' model suggesting that differential effects on hepatocyte replication are not responsible for the promoting activity of TDNT. Based on previous initiation study results from our laboratory and the present data, 2,6-DNT appears to be a complete hepatocarcinogen while under the conditions of these studies 2,4-DNT is an apparent 'pure promoter'. These results provide an explanation for the conflicting DNT bioassay results.
A case of acute renal failure in a chronic acetaminophen abuser receiving concurrent zomepirac therapy is reported. Zomepirac may have enhanced the negative effects of acetaminophen on renal medullary blood flow, so that the two drugs together were more likely to cause renal failure than either drug alone.
The mouse antithrombotic assay represents a model of fatal pulmonary thromboembolism induced by intravenous injection of collagen and epinephrine. Mice were protected by low doses of two disintegrins, albolabrin (10 micrograms/mouse) and eristostatin (0.6 micrograms/mouse), whereas high doses of a thrombin inhibitor and an inhibitor of von Willebrand Factor binding to glycoprotein Ib were not effective. Injection of collagen and epinephrine resulted in the drop of platelet count and accumulation of platelet aggregates in the lung that appears to be the immediate cause of death. Albolabrin or eristostatin administration did not prevent the decrease of platelet count. Injection of albolabrin resulted in the formation of smaller and reversible platelet aggregates in the lungs and decreased accumulation of 51Cr-labeled platelets in the lung suggesting that this disintegrin decreases formation of platelet aggregates in vivo. We compared the effects of albolabrin and erisostatin on platelet aggregation, tail bleeding time, and survival of challenged animals. Eristostatin was about 5 times more potent in inhibiting platelet aggregation in vitro than albolabrin and 38 times more potent than albolabrin in protecting animals from sudden death. Both disintegrins, at the same doses (0.6-5 micrograms/mouse), caused similar dose-dependent prolongation of the bleeding time; however, only eristostatin exerted a protective effect. In conclusion, a) the mouse antithrombotic assay is a suitable model to screen and to evaluate the potency of platelet fibrinogen receptor antagonists in vivo; b) the results of the antithrombotic assay correlate better with the inhibition of platelet aggregation in vitro than with the prolongation of bleeding time.
The strong tumor suppressor p53 shows loss of function in large portion of human cancer. In addition to genetic mutation, biological function of p53 is suppressed by signaling distortion or elevated expression of p53 inhibitors (such as overexpression of MDM2 or deletion of p14/ARF). In this study, we demonstrate that K-Ras, a frequently altered oncogene in human cancers including pancreatic cancer (about 80%), colon cancer (45%) and lung cancer (45%), suppresses p53. Based on this fact, we perform Western blot analysis-based chemical screening to isolate a K-Ras-specific activator of p53. From 117 kinds of chemicals (34 kinds of natural compounds that are obtained from herbal plants, 53 kinds of flavonoid, and 31 kinds of phenolic compounds), we find that quercetin works as an activator of p53 in K-Ras mutated cells but not in wild-type cells. Treatment with quercetin can induce p53 target genes such as PUMA and p21. These results suggest that although quercetin has limitations for use as a therapeutic drug due to its broad effects, specific function of it on K-Ras-p53 may be useful for K-Ras-induced cancer prevention and therapy through further development.
Sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide (NTCP) is an entry receptor for hepatitis B virus (HBV) and is regarded as one of the determinants that confer HBV permissiveness to host cells. However, how host factors regulate the ability of NTCP to support HBV infection is largely unknown. We aimed to identify the host signaling that regulated NTCP expression and thereby permissiveness to HBV. Here, a cell-based chemical screening method identified that Ro41-5253 decreased host susceptibility to HBV infection. Pretreatment with Ro41-5253 inhibited the viral entry process without affecting HBV replication. Intriguingly, Ro41-5253 reduced expression of both NTCP mRNA and protein. We found that retinoic acid receptor (RAR) regulated the promoter activity of the human NTCP (hNTCP) gene and that Ro41-5253 repressed the hNTCP promoter by antagonizing RAR. RAR recruited to the hNTCP promoter region, and nucleotides -112 to -96 of the hNTCP was suggested to be critical for RAR-mediated transcriptional activation. HBV susceptibility was decreased in pharmacologically RAR-inactivated cells. CD2665 showed a stronger anti-HBV potential and disrupted the spread of HBV infection that was achieved by continuous reproduction of the whole HBV life cycle. In addition, this mechanism was significant for drug development, as antagonization of RAR blocked infection of multiple HBV genotypes and also a clinically relevant HBV mutant that was resistant to nucleoside analogs. Thus, RAR is crucial for regulating NTCP expression that determines permissiveness to HBV infection. This is the first demonstration showing host regulation of NTCP to support HBV infection.
We describe a dramatic case of severe liver injury and hematological disorders following the injection of non-ionic contrast medium in a 49-year-old woman with endometrial cancer. This case developed into a fulminant hepatitis-like picture that required repeated plasmapheresis and hemodialysis.
Pectin-induced changes in microflora have been shown to elevate the covalent binding of 2,6-dinitrotoluene (2,6-DNT)-related materials to total rat hepatic macromolecules. Therefore, the effect of diets varying in pectin content on the induction of foci and hepatic tumors induced by 2,6-DNT was studied in male F344 rats. 2,6-DNT (3.0-3.5 and 0.6-0.7 mg/kg/day) was incorporated into NIH-07 (NIH), an open formula cereal-based diet high in pectin content, AIN-76A (AIN), a purified pectin-free diet, or AIN-76A supplemented with 5% pectin (AP). Hepatic foci were scored after histochemical staining for gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), canalicular adenosine triphosphatase or glucose-6-phosphatase following administration of test diets for 3, 6 and 12 months. The number of foci per cm3 of liver increased in a dose- and time-department manner following incorporation of 2,6-DNT into test diets with NIH greater than AP greater than AIN. In the NIH diet, 2,6-DNT did not alter the phenotypic distribution of foci. Animals fed control or 2,6-DNT-containing AIN and AP diets had few or no GGT foci throughout the study. Hepatocellular carcinomas and neoplastic nodules were observed only in rats fed NIH containing 2,6-DNT. The concentrations of 2,6-DNT-related material covalently bound to hepatic macromolecules after a single oral dose of radiolabeled 2,6-DNT given after 12 months on the diets increased in control rats and in rats receiving low dose 2,6-DNT in the diet with AIN less than AP less than NIH. These studies show that the carcinogenicity of 2,6-DNT differs depending on whether rats are fed an NIH or AIN (+/- pectin) diet. The results suggest that diet-induced alterations in the covalent binding of 2,6-DNT are not the sole factor in determining the carcinogenic response to 2,6-DNT. Furthermore, unidentified contaminants in cereal-based diets may influence foci and tumor production in rat liver during carcinogen treatment.
Seventy-one previously untreated patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) received a combination of VP-16, vincristine, doxorubicin (Adriamycin), and cyclophosphamide (EVAC) repeated every three weeks. Limited-disease (LD) patients and extensive-disease (ED) patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) after four to six cycles of EVAC received 4,000 rads over four weeks whole-brain radiotherapy (RT) and 5,000 rads over five weeks RT to the original pulmonary primary and mediastinum. ED patients with persisting disease outside the chest after six cycles of EVAC continued chemotherapy and did not receive RT. After RT was completed, EVAC was continued for a total treatment duration of 24 months. Of 65 patients evaluable for response 76% (25 of 33) of LD patients and 34% (11 of 32) of ED patients achieved a CR prior to RT; two additional ED patients achieved a CR after RT. Median survival for all 71 patients was 48 weeks (range, one to 207 weeks); median survival for 33 LD patients was 92 weeks and for 38 ED patients it was 36 weeks. Nine of 25 LD patients and 10 of 13 ED patients have relapsed from CR. The EVAC-RT protocol is promising in view of the high CR rate and long remission duration achieved, especially among patients with LD.
S-2-(3-Aminopropylamino)-ethylphosphorothioic acid (WR-2721) is reported to protect normal tissues from the effects of ionizing radiation and possibly alkylating agents as well. The present trial assessed the ability of this compound to modify the clinical toxicity of cyclophosphamide. Patients with advanced cancer first received a dose of 1000 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide intravenously and were observed for toxicity, principally myelosuppression. After the nadir in white blood cell counts and/or platelets had been documented and adequate recovery had occurred, a second course of cyclophosphamide was given, this time preceded by WR-2721 30 min earlier. In this fashion, each patient served as his own control. Doses of WR-2721 ranging from 250 to 1000 mg/m2 were tested. A total of 13 evaluable courses of WR-2721 were given with cyclophosphamide. In no instance did the prior administration of WR-2721 diminish the bone marrow toxicity of cyclophosphamide alone. At the end of the trial two additional patients received the WR-2721 in a split dose, one-half prior to the cyclophosphamide and one-half 6 hr later; again there was no protection. The side effects of WR-2721 included nausea, vomiting, hypotension, sneezing, and swelling of the tongue. We conclude that WR-2721 is a potentially toxic compound that produces no amelioration of cyclophosphamide toxicity in the doses used. Because of the severity of the side effects of WR-2721, principally hypotension, the trial was terminated after 1000 mg/m2 WR-2721 failed to protect against the toxicity of 1000 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide.
