The details of worsening of ventricular tachycardia in 8 (4.1%) of 194 patients receiving treatment with amiodarone are reported. Two forms of amiodarone-induced tachycardia were recognized: first, the development of new tachycardias (three patients) and second, a change in the pattern of recurrence of clinical tachycardia (five patients). In retrospect, the time from the initiation of amiodarone to the initial documentation of worsening ranged from 1 to 23 days (mean +/- SD, 9.4 +/- 8.2 days) and the time from the initiation of therapy to the recognition of worsening ranged from 6 to 26 days (14.6 +/- 10.1 days). Seven patients survived the worsening of tachycardia and one died. The total dose of amiodarone received and the duration of administration did not correlate with time to manifestation or time to resolution of worsening. This report emphasizes that worsening of ventricular tachycardia as a result of amiodarone is often difficult to differentiate from inadequate drug loading or early recurrence of 2 patient's clinical tachycardia. Further, because of the pharmacokinetics of the drug, the manifestations of worsening may be prolonged. In the cases reported, it ranged from 2 to 26 days (7.9 +/- 8.3 days), which is longer than previously reported. Because of the potential for amiodarone to cause life-threatening worsening of ventricular tachycardia and in accordance with current results, a period of in-hospital monitoring of at least 10 days at the start of therapy with amiodarone is recommended.
Nalbuphine (Nubain) is a mixed action mu-kappa agonist used clinically for the management of pain. Nalbuphine and other mu-kappa agonists decreased cocaine self-administration in preclinical models. Cocaine stimulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, but the effects of nalbuphine on the HPA axis are unknown. Analgesic doses (5 and 10 mg/70 kg) of IV nalbuphine were administered to healthy male cocaine abusers, and plasma levels of PRL, ACTH and cortisol were measured before and at 10, 17, 19, 23, 27, 31, 35, 40, 45, 60, 75, 105, and 135 min after nalbuphine administration. Subjective effects were measured on a Visual Analog Scale (VAS). Prolactin (PRL) increased significantly within 17 min (P=.04) and reached peak levels of 22.1+/-7.1 ng/ml and 54.1+/-11.3 at 60 min after low and high dose nalbuphine administration, respectively. VAS reports of "Sick," "Bad" and "Dizzy" were significantly higher after 10 mg/70 kg than after 5 mg/70 kg nalbuphine (P=.05-.0001), and were significantly correlated with increases in PRL (P=.05-.0003). However, sedation and emesis were observed only after a 10 mg/70 kg dose of nalbuphine. Interestingly, ACTH and cortisol levels did not change significantly after administration of either dose of nalbuphine. Taken together, these data suggest that nalbuphine had both mu- and kappa-like effects on PRL (PRL increase) but did not increase ACTH and cortisol.
The facultative intracellular bacterium Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) may cause severe infection in humans and livestock. Control of acute listeriosis is primarily dependent on innate immune responses, which are strongly regulated by NF-κB, and tissue protective factors including fibrin. However, molecular pathways connecting NF-κB and fibrin production are poorly described. Here, we investigated whether the deubiquitinating enzyme CYLD, which is an inhibitor of NF-κB-dependent immune responses, regulated these protective host responses in murine listeriosis. Upon high dose systemic infection, all C57BL/6 Cyld(-/-) mice survived, whereas 100% of wildtype mice succumbed due to severe liver pathology with impaired pathogen control and hemorrhage within 6 days. Upon in vitro infection with Lm, CYLD reduced NF-κB-dependent production of reactive oxygen species, interleukin (IL)-6 secretion, and control of bacteria in macrophages. Furthermore, Western blot analyses showed that CYLD impaired STAT3-dependent fibrin production in cultivated hepatocytes. Immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that CYLD interacted with STAT3 in the cytoplasm and strongly reduced K63-ubiquitination of STAT3 in IL-6 stimulated hepatocytes. In addition, CYLD diminished IL-6-induced STAT3 activity by reducing nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated STAT3. In vivo, CYLD also reduced hepatic STAT3 K63-ubiquitination and activation, NF-κB activation, IL-6 and NOX2 mRNA production as well as fibrin production in murine listeriosis. In vivo neutralization of IL-6 by anti-IL-6 antibody, STAT3 by siRNA, and fibrin by warfarin treatment, respectively, demonstrated that IL-6-induced, STAT3-mediated fibrin production significantly contributed to protection in Cyld(-/-) mice. In addition, in vivo Cyld siRNA treatment increased STAT3 phosphorylation, fibrin production, pathogen control and survival of Lm-infected WT mice illustrating that therapeutic inhibition of CYLD augments the protective NF-κB/IL-6/STAT3 pathway and fibrin production.
Streptozotocin (STZ) is commonly used to induce diabetes in experimental animal models, but not without accompanying cytotoxic effects. This study was undertaken to (1) determine an optimal dose and administration route of STZ to induce diabetic nephropathy in wild-type mice but without the concurrent acute renal injury resulting from cytotoxic effects of STZ and (2) evaluate the pattern of tubular injury and interstitial inflammation in this model.
Male Balb/c mice received either (1) STZ (225 mg/kg by intraperitoneal injection.); or (2) two doses of STZ 5 days apart (150 mg/150 mg/kg; 75 mg/150 mg/kg; 75 mg/75 mg/kg; and 100 mg/100 mg/kg by intravenous injection). Another strain of mice, C57BL/6J, also received STZ (200 mg/kg intravenously or intraperitoneally). Renal function and histology were examined at weeks 1, 2, 4, and 8 after induction of diabetes. In initial optimization studies, animals were sacrificed at week 1 or week 2 and histology examined for acute renal injury.
Following a single intraperitoneal injection of 225 mg/kg of STZ, only two thirds of animals developed hyperglycemia, yet the model was associated with focal areas of acute tubular necrosis (ATN) at week 2. ATN was also observed in C57BL/6J mice given a single intravenous or intraperitoneal dose of STZ (200 mg/kg), at week 2 post-diabetes. At an optimal diabetogenic dose and route (75 mg/150 mg/kg by intravenous injection 5 days apart), all mice developed diabetes and no ATN was observed histologically. However, even with this regimen, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was significantly impaired from week 2. This regimen was accompanied by progressive histologic changes, including tubular and glomerular hypertrophy, mesangial area expansion, as well as interstitial macrophage, CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell accumulation.
By careful optimization of STZ dose, a stable and reproducible diabetic murine model was established. However, even in this optimized model, renal functional impairment was observed. The frequency of ATN and functional impairment casts doubt on conclusions about experimental diabetic nephropathy drawn from reports in which ATN has not been excluded rigorously.
Deficits in sustained attention and impulsivity have previously been demonstrated in preschoolers prenatally exposed to cocaine. We assessed an additional component of attention, selective attention, in a large, poly-substance cocaine-exposed cohort of 4 year olds and their at-risk comparison group. Employing postpartum maternal report and biological assay, we assigned children to overlapping exposed and complementary control groups for maternal use of cocaine, alcohol, marijuana, and cigarettes. Maternal pregnancy use of cocaine and use of cigarettes were both associated with increased commission errors, indicative of inferior selective attention. Severity of maternal use of marijuana during pregnancy was positively correlated with omission errors, suggesting impaired sustained attention. Substance exposure effects were independent of maternal postpartum psychological distress, birth mother cognitive functioning, current caregiver functioning, other substance exposures and child concurrent verbal IQ.
Polyfunctional aziridine (PFA) is increasingly used as a water-based cross-linker in 2-component paints, paint primers, lacquers, topcoats and other protective coatings. The cross-linker (PFA hardener) is made by reacting multifunctional acrylic monomer with a highly reactive aziridine compound. During 1992-1993, we came across 2 patients with allergic patch test reactions provoked by PFA hardener. One of the patients was a parquet layer, and the other a printer. Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) was diagnosed by positive allergic patch test reactions to PFA hardener in a dilution series in pet.:0.3%-1% gave ++ to allergic reactions in both patients, whereas 0.1% gave a weak (+) or questionable reaction (?+), respectively. The methacrylate patch test series was negative in both patients, although gas chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis showed that PFA hardener contained 0.3% of trimethylolpropane triacrylate (TMPTA), a multifunctional acrylic monomer. One of the patients also had symptoms of contact urticaria, and a prick test with PFA hardener (1% aq.) induced a histamine-sized prick test reaction. The positive reactions with the PFA hardener and the negative reactions with the starting chemicals and additives in PFA, namely acrylates, propyleneimine and dimethylethanolamine, indicate that PFA caused ACD. This is in accordance with our previous observations, but differs from the reports of others, whose patients had been sensitized to acrylates present as remnants in the PFA hardener. As test substance, 0.5% PFA hardener in pet. is recommended for patch testing. Testing should be performed in patients with contact dermatitis if exposure to PFA has occurred. Skin prick tests may be of help to detect contact urticaria.
Chromium has gained popularity as a nutritional supplement for diabetic and insulin-resistant subjects. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of chronic administration of a novel chromium complex of d-phenylalanine [Cr(D-phe)(3)] in insulin-resistant, sucrose-fed mice. Whole-body insulin resistance was generated in FVB mice by 9 wk of sucrose feeding, following which they were randomly assigned to be unsupplemented (S group) or to receive oral Cr(D-phe)(3) in drinking water (SCr group) at a dose of 45 mug.kg(-1).d(-1) ( approximately 3.8 mug of elemental chromium.kg(-1).d(-1)). A control group (C) did not consume sucrose and was not supplemented. Sucrose-fed mice had an elevated serum insulin concentration compared with controls and this was significantly lower in sucrose-fed mice that received Cr(D-phe)(3), which did not differ from controls. Impaired glucose tolerance in sucrose-fed mice, evidenced by the poor glucose disposal rate following an intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test, was significantly improved in mice receiving Cr(D-phe)(3). Chromium supplementation significantly enhanced insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation and membrane-associated glucose transporter-4 in skeletal muscles of sucrose-fed mice. In cultured adipocytes rendered insulin resistant by chronic exposure to high concentrations of glucose and insulin, Cr(D-phe)(3) augmented Akt phosphorylation and glucose uptake. These results indicate that dietary supplementation with Cr(D-phe)(3) may have potential beneficial effects in insulin-resistant, prediabetic conditions.
In ten of 30 schizophrenic patients treated with pimozide for five weeks, 20 mg of dextroamphetamine sulfate induced an increase in psychosis. The number of patients becoming more psychotic with the dextroamphetamine challenge was not significantly different from the number who worsened after dextroamphetamine challenge when pretreated with placebo. Half of the patients who showed a psychotic response to dextroamphetamine during placebo pretreatment responded to dextroamphetamine with an increase in psychosis after pimozide treatment. Dextroamphetamine induced a worsening in patients who had improved with pimozide. The stability of the preinfusion condition is more important to the type of response to dextroamphetamine than long-term pretreatment with a dopamine receptor blocker. The activation-euphoria response to dextroamphetamine was unaffected by pimozide pretreatment, which suggests that the changes in psychosis and activation may be regulated by different mechanisms. These findings question the postulated relationship between the antipsychotic drug response and dopamine receptor blockade.
In order to examine differential strain susceptibility to neurotoxic effects of amphetamine and to assess the potential role of superoxide radicals in amphetamine-induced dopaminergic damage, the drug was injected to mice with different levels of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn SOD) enzyme. Administration of amphetamine (10 mg/kg, i.p., given every 2 h, a total of four times) to wild-type CD-1 and C57BL/6J mice caused significant decreases in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels, in [(125)I]RTI-121-labeled dopamine transporters as well as a significant depletion in the concentration of dopamine transporter and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 proteins. The amphetamine-induced toxic effects were less prominent in CD-1 mice, which have much higher levels of Cu/Zn SOD activity (0.69 units/mg of protein) in their striata than C57BL/6J animals (0.007 units/mg of protein). Transgenic mice on CD-1 and C57BL/6J background, which had striatal levels of Cu/Zn SOD 2.57 and 1.67 units/mg of protein, respectively, showed significant protection against all the toxic effects of amphetamine. The attenuation of toxicity observed in transgenic mice was not caused by differences in amphetamine accumulation in wild-type and mutant animals. However, CD-1-SOD transgenic mice showed marked hypothermia to amphetamine whereas C57-SOD transgenic mice did not show a consistent thermic response to the drug. The data obtained demonstrate distinctions in the neurotoxic profile of amphetamine in CD-1 and C57BL/6J mice, which show some differences in Cu/Zn SOD activity and in their thermic responses to amphetamine administration. Thus, these observations provide evidence for possible complex interactions between thermoregulation and free radical load in the long-term neurotoxic effects of this illicit drug of abuse.
The effects of single or repeated electroconvulsive shock (ECS) (once daily for 7 days) on rat behavior and on the level, utilization and uptake of biogenic amines in rat brain were studied between one and ten days after the last ECS. It has been found that a single ECS caused catalepsy and analgesia, depressed locomotor activity and locomotor hypermotility produced by amphetamine and nomifensine (but not by apomorphine) and decreased the frequency of head twitch response evoked by LiCl. Repeated ECS also induced catalepsy and analgesia but enhanced both the spontaneous locomotor activity and amphetamine, nomifensine and apomorphine-induced hypermotility, and increased the frequency of head twitch response produced by LiCl, 5-HTP and 5-methoksytryptamine. Single and repeated ECS did not change exploratory motility or stereotyped behavior induced by apomorphine, but enhanced haloperidol-induced catalepsy and altered dopamine and serotonin levels in the rat brain. The utilization of NA and DA was not changed by repeated ECS, whereas the uptake of these amines was slightly reduced. The present results provide evidence that a single ECS depresses but repeated ECS augments some behavioral responses to dopaminergic and serotonergic agonists. The possible biochemical mechanisms involved in these effects of ECS are discussed.
We evaluated the effect of rebamipide (2-(4-chlorobenzoylamino)-3-[2(1H)-quinolinon-4-yl] propionic acid), a novel anti-ulcer drug, on indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions in rats.
The animals were administered indomethacin (10 mg/kg, s.c.), and they were killed 24 h later. Rebamipide (30-300 mg/kg) was administered p.o. twice, 30 min before, and 6 h after indomethacin.
Indomethacin caused hemorrhagic lesions in the rat small intestine, accompanied by an increase in enterobacterial translocation, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities, as well as thiobarbituric acid (TBA) reactants, and these changes were significantly prevented by the supplementation with 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 (dmPGE2; 10 microg/kg, i.v.) or the pretreatment of animals with the antibiotic ampicillin. Treatment of the animals with rebamipide dose-dependently prevented the development of intestinal lesions, and this effect was mimicked by i.v. administration of superoxide dismutase (SOD: 3000 U/kg) + catalase (CAT: 5000 U/kg). The protection by rebamipide was accompanied by a significant suppression of the increase in both MPO and iNOS activities, and a complete inhibition of the increase in TBA reactants, while SOD + CAT significantly inhibited the increase of MPO activity and TBA reactants, but not iNOS activity. The bacterial translocation following indomethacin was also significantly decreased by either rebamipide or SOD + CAT.
These results confirmed the importance of enterobacteria and iNOS/NO in the pathogenesis of indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions, and suggested that rebamipide prevents the development of these lesions, probably by its radical scavenging action.
Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is the most common gastrointestinal emergency in newborn premature infants. Clinical studies show increased incidence of NEC in premature infants with enteral formula feeding; however, pathogenesis remains unclear. To identify the NEC-related proteins for molecular mechanisms, we applied proteomics analysis to characterize changes in the protein expression profile of newborn premature piglet intestines with NEC developed after enteral formula feeding for 24 h. Changes in protein expression were identified using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis and peptide mass fingerprinting with MS as well as western blotting analysis. Nineteen differentially expressed proteins were identified and these have roles in oxidative stress, chaperone, signal transduction, protein folding and degradation, oxygen transport, signal transduction, and energy metabolism. Proteins with increased levels include manganese-containing superoxide dismutase and hemoglobin subunit and proteins with decreased expression include sorbitol dehydrogenase, mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase 2, glucose-regulated protein 75, CRY protein, snail homolog 3, thyroid hormone-binding protein precursor, and DJ1 (Parkinson's disease 7) etc. The data provided novel mechanistic insights into the pathogenesis of NEC and the insults of a formulated diet to the premature gut.
A 52-year-old male chemical worker was admitted to the hospital with a history of paroxysmal microscopic hematuria for about 2 years and nocturia with gross hematuria about five times per night for 2 months. He was a nonsmoker and denied a history of any other bladder carcinogen exposure except for occasional pesticide application during agricultural work. Intravenous urogram imaging showed a mass occupying half of the bladder capacity. Cystoscopy revealed a mass over the left dome of the bladder. Cystoscopic biopsy revealed a grade 3 invasive transitional cell carcinoma with marked necrosis. From 1987 until hospital admission in 2001, the patient had worked in a company that produced the 4,4 -methylenebis(2-chloroaniline) (MBOCA) curing agent. He did not wear any personal protective equipment during work. Ambient air MBOCA levels in the purification process area (0.23-0.41 mg/m3) exceeded the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration's permissible exposure level. Urinary MBOCA levels (267.9-15701.1 microg/g creatinine) far exceeded the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration's reference value of 100 microg/L. This patient worked in the purification process with occupational exposure to MBOCA for 14 years. According to the environmental and biologic monitoring data and latency period, and excluding other potential bladder carcinogen exposure, this worker was diagnosed as having occupational bladder cancer due to high exposure to MBOCA through inhalation or dermal absorption in the purification area. This case finding supports that MBOCA is a potential human carcinogen. Safe use of skin-protective equipment and respirators is required to prevent workers from MBOCA exposure.
A 70-year-old man, who had sustained ventricular tachycardias following a previous anterior myocardial infarction, suffered from skin eruptions and abnormal blood tests after 10 days following the oral administration of 1500 mg/day of procainamide. These abnormalities disappeared early after the discontinuation of oral procainamide. However, similar skin eruptions exhibited again when the procainamide was resumed. These results suggest that oral procainamide therapy induces skin eruptions and serious abnormal blood tests in the patient. No reports have suggested such a serious early complication by procainamide therapy. Careful follow-up is needed after the administration of oral procainamide therapy.
We present a case of amantadine intoxication that developed unexpectedly in a hospitalized patient with craniocerebral trauma. The intoxication confused the clinical situation and contributed to the patient's deterioration and death. After excluding overdosage as the cause of the intoxication, we concluded that the excessive blood drug levels (39 mg/L) resulted from tubulointerstitial nephritis--induced renal failure. This case represents an example of an adverse drug reaction that resulted in an unusual drug intoxication and illustrates why toxicological analyses are important for investigation of deaths in hospitalized patients.
The use of cocaine as a recreational drug is rapidly escalating in this country. Because of this, an increase in cocaine-related morbidity and mortality is occurring. Cocaine toxicity has been recognized for several years and was thought to be related to high doses or repeated use. Now several researchers have reported that even recreational use of cocaine may cause serious injury and even death by precipitating an acute myocardial infarction (MI). This paper explores the relationship between cocaine abuse and acute MI as well as the care of the patient with a cocaine-induced MI.
To evaluate the effectiveness and tolerability of escitalopram (10-20 mg/day) in adult outpatients suffering from major depressive disorder in naturalistic settings.
An open-label, 3-month, surveillance study was conducted in 434 investigative sites in Greece enrolling 5175 patients. Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) scale and patient-rated Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) were used as efficacy measurements and treatment discontinuation rates due to adverse events was used to assess tolerability.
Clinically significant improvement in CGI-S scores was recorded after 3 months. At baseline, patients reported marked or extreme disability for work (38%), social life (41%) and family life (37%), whereas after 3 months of treatment, 80.6%, 79.5% and 83.5% of patients indicated either no or mild disability, respectively. Escitalopram had good tolerability, demonstrated by a very low rate of discontinuations due to adverse events.
In this large naturalistic study, escitalopram was well tolerated and improved both depressive symptoms and function.
In the urethane-anaesthetized rat, increasing 5-hydroxytryptaminergic receptor activity or functional 5-HT in brain with either the specific inhibitors of 5-HT reuptake (e.g. fluoxetine and chlorimipramine) or the 5-HT itself greatly reduced the reflex bradycardia induced by the systemically administered adrenaline. The data indicate that activation of central 5-HT-ergic receptors tends to inhibit reflex bradycardia.
A 31 year old woman who developed an atypical ventricular tachycardia after administration of intravenous verapamil for control of a recurrent supraventricular tachycardia is presented. Possible explanations for the observed arrhythmia, polymorphous ventricular tachycardia, are discussed. Verapamil must be considered one of the pharmacologic agents that can cause this arrhythmia.
This study investigated the effect of short curcumin treatment, a natural antioxidant on 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-induced aberrant crypt foci (ACF) in mice. The incidence of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) was 100%, with 54 ± 6 per colon, 10 weeks after the first DMH injection and reached 67 ± 12 per colon after 12 weeks. A high level of undifferentiated goblet cells and a weak apoptotic activity were shown in dysplastic ACF. The morphological alterations of colonic mucosa were associated to severe oxidative stress ratio with 43% increase in malondialdehyde vs. 36% decrease in GSH. DMH also increased inducible nitric synthase (iNOS) mRNA transcripts (250%), nitrites level (240%) and arginase activity (296%), leading to nitrosative stress and cell proliferation. Curcumin treatment, starting at week 10 post-DMH injection for 14 days, reduced the number of ACF (40%), iNOS expression (25%) and arginase activity (73%), and improved redox status by approximately 46%, compared to DMH-treated mice. Moreover, curcumin induced apoptosis of dysplastic ACF cells without restoring goblet cells differentiation. Interestingly, curcumin induced a parallel increase in TGF-β1 and HES-1 transcripts (42% and 26%, respectively). In conclusion, the protective effect of curcumin was driven by the reduction of arginase activity and nitrosative stress. The up regulation of TGF-β1 and HES-1 expression by curcumin suggests for the first time, a potential interplay between these signalling pathways in the chemoprotective mechanism of curcumin.
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate is one of the most effective and widely used drugs for the treatment of uterine bleeding and threatened miscarriage in women. Hydroxyprogesterone caproate was administered to pregnant rats in order to assess the effect of intraperitoneal exposure to supranormal levels of hydroxyprogesterone caproate on the male reproductive potential in the first generation. The cauda epididymal sperm count and motility decreased significantly in rats exposed to hydroxyprogesterone caproate during embryonic development, when compared with control rats. The levels of serum testosterone decreased with an increase in follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone in adult rats exposed to hydroxyprogesterone caproate during the embryonic stage. It was suggested that the impairment of male reproductive performance could be mediated through the inhibition of testosterone production.
Addiction-associated behaviors such as drug craving and relapse are hypothesized to result from synaptic changes that persist long after withdrawal and are renormalized by drug reinstatement, although such chronic synaptic effects have not been identified. We report that exposure to the dopamine releaser methamphetamine for 10 days elicits a long-lasting (>4 month) depression at corticostriatal terminals that is reversed by methamphetamine readministration. Both methamphetamine-induced chronic presynaptic depression and the drug's selective renormalization in drug-experienced animals are independent of corresponding long-term changes in synaptic dopamine release but are due to alterations in D1 dopamine and cholinergic receptor systems. These mechanisms might provide a synaptic basis that underlies addiction and habit learning and their long-term maintenance.
Imiquimod (imidazoquinoline 5%) is a topical immune response modifier agent that inhibits angiogenesis, the growth of new blood vessels. In addition to its stimulation of cell-mediated immunity, imiquimod's antiangiogenic activity contributes to its clinical efficacy by interfering with pathological neovascularization that promotes disease progression. The antiangiogenic mechanisms of imiquimod are due to its: 1) induction of cytokines that themselves inhibit angiogenesis (interferons, IL-10, IL-12); 2) local up-regulation of endogenous angiogenesis inhibitors (TIMP, TSP-1); 3) local down-regulation of pro-angiogenic factors (bFGF, MMP-9); and 4) promotion of endothelial cell apoptosis. This report discusses these mechanisms and the rationale for imiquimod's use as an antiangiogenic agent. Key principles of antiangiogenic therapy are presented to describe how imiquimod may be applied in a well-tolerated fashion to treat a broad range of angiogenesis-dependent dermatological conditions, including actinic keratosis (AK), basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), lentigo maligna, hemangiomas, Kaposi's sarcoma, pyogenic granuloma, and external genital warts.
Inflammatory bowel disease is rarely associated with pericarditis but both sulfasalazine and the aminosalicylates have been known to cause this complication. To the author's knowledge this is the first reported case of acute pericarditis caused by azathioprine. It is believed that pericarditis is yet another potential manifestation of hypersensitivity to this drug.
A 21 year old female treated for recurring gastric troubles with dopamine-antagonists (domperidone, metoclopramide) developed a clinically manifest hyperprolactinemia (3055 microU/l; normal value < 650 microU/l) with galactorrhea only two days after a new two day course of metoclopramide. The drug was withdrawn and within days mastodynia and galactorrhea subsided. A control of plasmatic prolactin two weeks later yielded a normal value (358 microU/l). After administration of metoclopramide or domperidone hyperprolactinemia is regularly observed and galactorrhea has been described earlier. It is unclear why this patient inspite of repeated administration of one dopamine antagonist remained asymptomatic whereas the other after a short time and only a few doses led to galactorrhea. It is conceivable that differences in passage into the cerebrospinal fluid or the better penetration of the blood-brain barrier favored the development of galactorrhea under metoclopramide. This case served to discuss the pathophysiologic background of drug-induced hyperprolactinemia.
The threshold dose of ouabain necessary to induce ventricular fibrillation is decreased in sensitized guinea-pigs signalizing an enhanced arrhythmogenicity. Esculetine or WEB 2170 antagonists of histamine and PAF, respectively and especially a combination of both can increase the threshold dose of ouabain-induced fibrillation demonstrating an antiarrhythmic effect. BN 52256 a substance with multi-antagonistic properties shows antiarrhythmic effect in this method, too. WEB 2170 and BN 52256 decrease the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after coronary ligation in rats.
In the present study, we investigated the ability of NMDA receptor antagonists to inhibit catalepsy induced by haloperidol, or SCH23390 and clebopride, selective dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonists respectively. Catalepsy was measured by recording the time the animal remained with its forepaws placed over a rod 6 cm above the bench. Pretreatment with either the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.25-0.5 mg/kg i.p.) or the competitive antagonist, LY274614 (10-20 mg/kg i.p.) reduced the cataleptic response produced by haloperidol (10 mg/kg), SCH23390 (2.5-10 mg/kp i.p.) or clebopride (5-20 mg/kg i.p.). This demonstrates that NMDA receptor antagonists will reduce both dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonist-induced catalepsy. Muscle relaxant doses of chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg i.p.) failed to reduce the catalepsy induced by haloperidol, suggesting that the anticataleptic effect of the NMDA receptor antagonists was not due to a non-specific action. These results support the hypothesis that NMDA receptor antagonists may have beneficial effects in disorders involving reduced dopaminergic function, such as Parkinson's disease.
A 77-year-old woman with suspected coronary artery disease underwent an oral dipyridamole/thallium-201 myocardial imaging study. Approximately 75 minutes after ingestion of dipyridamole 300 mg suspension, the patient developed chest pain, hypotension, nausea, and diaphoresis. An electrocardiogram revealed ST-T wave changes suggestive of inferior ischemia. Appropriate therapeutic measures, including aminophylline and nitroglycerin, were instituted. Delayed thallium images revealed reversible ischemia in the anteroseptal and posterobasal regions with a fixed defect in the inferobasal region. Cardiac enzyme studies were also indicative of acute myocardial injury. The patient subsequently underwent coronary arteriography and four-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting and was discharged without further complication. This report raises concerns about the potential danger of dipyridamole in patients with severe coronary artery stenosis and collateral circulation. Prophylactic aminophylline should be considered in these patients.
