Intraoperative hypotension is a common and potentially deleterious event in elderly patients undergoing spinal anaesthesia for repair of hip fractures. The synergism between intrathecal opioids and local anaesthetics may allow a reduction in the dose of local anaesthetic and cause less sympathetic block and hypotension, while still maintaining adequate anaesthesia. We studied 40 elderly patients having either an insertion of a dynamic hip screw or a hemiarthroplasty and compared 9.0 mg glucose-free bupivacaine with added fentanyl 20 microg (group BF) with 11.0 m glucose-free bupivacaine alone (group B). Hypotension was defined as a fall in systolic blood pressure to less than 75% baseline or less than 90 mmHg. The incidence and frequency of hypotension in group BF were less than in group B. Similarly, falls in systolic, diastolic and mean blood pressures were all less in group BF than in group B. However, there were four failed blocks in group BF and one in group B.
Chronic ANG II infusions lead to increases in intrarenal ANG II levels, hypertension, and tissue injury. Increased blood pressure also elicits increases in renal interstitial fluid (RIF) ATP concentrations that stimulate cell proliferation. We evaluated the contribution of purinergic receptor activation to ANG II-induced renal injury in rats by treating with clopidogrel, a P2Y12 receptor blocker, or with PPADS, a nonselective P2 receptor blocker. alpha-Actin expression in mesangial cells, afferent arteriolar wall thickness (AAWT), cortical cell proliferation, and macrophage infiltration were used as early markers of renal injury. Clopidogrel and PPADS did not alter blood pressure, renin or kidney ANG II content. alpha-Actin expression increased from control of 0.6 +/- 0.4% of mesangial area to 6.3 +/- 1.9% in ANG II-infused rats and this response was prevented by clopidogrel (0.4 +/- 0.2%) and PPADS. The increase in AAWT from 4.7 +/- 0.1 to 6.0 +/- 0.1 mm in ANG II rats was also prevented by clopidogrel (4.8 +/- 0.1 mm) and PPADS. ANG II infusion led to interstitial macrophage infiltration (105 +/- 16 vs. 62 +/- 4 cell/mm(2)) and tubular proliferation (71 +/- 15 vs. 20 +/- 4 cell/mm(2)) and these effects were prevented by clopidogrel (52 +/- 4 and 36 +/- 3 cell/mm(2)) and PPADS. RIF ATP levels were higher in ANG II-infused rats than in control rats (11.8 +/- 1.9 vs. 5.6 +/- 0.6 nmol/l, P < 0.05). The results suggest that activation of vascular and glomerular purinergic P2 receptors may contribute to the mesangial cell transformation, renal inflammation, and vascular hypertrophy observed in ANG II-dependent hypertension.
In vitro assays for neurotoxicity with the aid of cultured mouse fetal neurons and glial cells were applied to investigate neurotoxicity of recombinant murine interferon-beta (rMuIFN-beta). These data were compared with those for MTX, ADR, and ACNU. The range of concentrations of the drugs used in these experiments spanned their clinically achievable concentrations in patient serum (IFN-beta: 1 x 10(4) IU/ml, MTX: 100 micrograms/ml, ADR: 20 micrograms/ml, ACNU: 20 micrograms/ml). rMuIFN- beta damaged both neurons and glial cells at concentrations of more than 1 x 10(5) IU/ml but did not damage them at 1 x 10(4) IU/ml or less. Microtubule-associated protein 1A (MAP1A) staining was decreased in rMuIFN-beta-treated (more than 1 x 10(5) IU/ml) neutrons. In conclusion, since IFN-beta may have some neurotoxic effects at concentrations higher than 1 x 10(5) IU/ml, it should be administered carefully, as should other antitumor agents, into the tumor cavity in the CNS following surgery.
Chronic rejection is the major hurdle to long-term survival after lung transplantation. Endobronchial infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa is common in patients with chronic rejection and this may further contribute to deterioration of the allograft. Inhaled tobramycin is commonly used to treat P aeruginosa airways infection in patients with cystic fibrosis. The safety of inhaled tobramycin in transplant recipients, however, has not been established. We describe the first report of a lung transplant recipient who developed renal failure and vestibular injury after receiving inhaled tobramycin. We review the literature regarding the safety of inhaled tobramycin and discuss potential mechanisms that may promote systemic toxicity in transplant recipients.
Approximately 30% to 40% of all patients with osteosarcomas ultimately experience recurrence. The study investigated the hypothesis that the resistance of osteosarcoma to chemotherapy may be related to the expression of a pregnane xenobiotic receptor (PXR) variant protein and its role as the major inducer of P450 3A4 in these tumors.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blot analysis were used to determine PXR mRNA and protein expression, respectively. Real-time PCR and CYP3A catalytic activity using 7-benzyl-trifluoromethyl coumarin (BFC) as the probe substrate were used to measure the induction of P450 3A4 or MDR1. siRNA transfections were performed for PXR and cytotoxicity determined by a colorimetric based assay or Annexin v-Fitc staining.
Differences were observed in the molecular size of the PXR protein expressed in sarcoma cell lines when compared with the wildtype PXR expressed in normal liver, kidney, or small intestine. A polyclonal PXR antibody raised against the N-terminus of the wildtype PXR did not detect PXR expressed in these sarcoma cell lines. In the osteosarcoma cell lines, etoposide and doxorubicin were better inducers of P450 3A4 and MDR1 than rifampin. siRNA against PXR down-regulated P450 3A4 expression only in the osteosarcoma cell line. Cytotoxicity assays showed that the resistance of the osteosarcoma cell lines to etoposide correlated with PXR protein expression levels and activation of P450 3A4 and could be prevented by ketoconazole.
The results suggest that PXR plays a critical role in the regulation of P450 3A4 expression in osteosarcoma and that its expression and activation in these tumors may influence the effect of chemotherapeutic agents on the induction of target genes implicated in drug resistance.
A case of hypotensive shock associated with bradycardia that occurred after injection of nonionic monomeric contrast medium is described. Whether the pathogenesis of this type of reaction is solely vasovagal or is directly caused by the contrast medium is not known. The number of occurrences after administration of nonionic monomeric versus conventional contrast agents should be compared to solve this problem.
We aimed at developing a more detailed understanding of cyclin D1 in early stage human breast cancer and defining the biologic profiles with different prognostic value correlating cyclin D1 gene amplification and chromosome 11 aneusomy with bio-pathologic variables of known clinical importance. Cyclin D1 gene amplification and chromosome 11 aneusomy were investigated using fluorescence in situ hybridization whereas cyclin D1, PgR, HER-2, Bcl2, p53, and Ki-67 expressions were analyzed by immunohistochemistry in 121 stage I or II breast cancer patients uniformly treated with cyclophosphamide/metotrexate/5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy. Cyclin D1 was amplified in 6.6% and overexpressed in 32.2% of cases. Amplification was not associated with any selected bio-pathologic variables, whereas the chromosome 11 aneusomy level significantly increased in tumors with higher histologic grade (P < 0.01), higher tumor size (P < 0.003), p53 nuclear accumulation (P < 0.04), and ERalpha negativity (P < 0.049). Multiple correspondence analysis showed 4 different biologic tumor profiles. The first, characterized by high Ki-67 score, p53+, cyclin D1+, HER-2+, aneusomy level > 30%, ratio (cyclin D1 gene/CEP11) > 2, was associated with tumor relapse defining the most unfavorable biologic profile. Kaplan-Meier's method showed significantly shorter disease-free survival in patients with at least 3 variables positive out of the 6 detected by multiple correspondence analysis. In multivariate analysis, the identified biologic profile emerged as the only significant prognostic indicator. Our findings are of particular clinical interest for early stage breast cancer patients, because the assessment of biologic factors predictive of tumor aggressiveness may influence postoperative therapeutic strategies.
Electron microscopy and light microscopy have been used to evaluate the cardiotoxicity of bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane (CEM) in F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice. Rats received vehicle control or CEM at 50 mg/kg/day, and mice, vehicle control or CEM at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day, by oral gavage for up to sixteen days. Cardiotoxicity in rats at 50 mg/kg consisted of myocardial degeneration, including myocardial inflammation, myofiber vacuolation, and/or myofiber necrosis. There was no light microscopic evidence for cardiotoxicity in mice even at doses twice that of rats, but cardiotoxic damage was seen after electron microscopic evaluations including mitochondrial disintegration and vacuolation. Mice with mitochondrial damage may be more susceptible to subsequent cardiotoxic events and have a reduced capacity to respond when energy demands increase. Oral treatment of rats with CEM caused cardiotoxic lesions similar to those reported after dermal administration (Dunnick, Johnson, et al. 2004). The F344/N rat is more sensitive than the B6C3F1 mouse to the cardiotoxic effects of CEM.
The mucin 1 (MUC1) oncoprotein is aberrantly overexpressed in human breast cancers. Although MUC1 modulates the activity of estrogen receptor alpha (ER), there is no information regarding the effects of MUC1 on global gene expression patterns and the potential role of MUC1-induced genes in predicting outcome for breast cancer patients. We have developed an experimental model of MUC1-induced transformation that has identified the activation of genes involved in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism. A 38-gene set of experimentally derived MUC1-induced genes associated with lipid metabolism was applied to the analysis of ER(+) breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen. The results obtained from 2 independent databases demonstrate that patients overexpressing MUC1 and the lipid metabolic pathways are at significantly higher risk for death and recurrence/distant metastasis. By contrast, these genes were not predictive in untreated patients. Furthermore, a positive correlation was found between expression of the 38-gene set and the ER signaling pathway. These findings indicate that (i) MUC1 regulates cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism, and (ii) activation of these pathways in ER(+) breast cancers predicts failure to tamoxifen treatment.
Hypermethylation of CpG islands has been associated with silencing of various tumor suppressor genes, and the retinoid acid receptor beta (RARbeta), cellular retinol-binding protein 1 (CRBP1), and tazarotene-induced gene 1 (TIG1) genes have been associated with retinoic acid signaling. To the authors' knowledge, little is known regarding the involvement of these three genes in gastric carcinoma (GC). In this study, the authors investigated the methylation status of these genes and analyzed the role of their DNA methylation in GC.
DNA methylation of 3 retinoic acid-associated genes was analyzed in 42 samples of GC from 42 patients and in 8 GC cell lines by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. The mRNA expression levels for these three genes were measured by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR.
In 7 of 8 GC cell lines, the CRBP1 gene was hypermethylated, and CRBP1 transcription was inactive. In 6 of 8 GC cell lines, the TIG1 gene was hypermethylated, and TIG1 transcription was inactive. Treatment with demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine restored both CRBP1 and TIG1 transcription. DNA methylation of the RARbeta, CRBP1, and TIG1 genes was detected in 15 of 42 GC samples (36%), 14 of 42 GC samples (33%), and 4 of 42 GC samples (10%), respectively, and in 6 of 30 samples (20%), 0 of 30 samples (0%), and 1 of 30 samples (3%) of corresponding nonneoplastic mucosa. None of the 10 normal gastric mucosa samples from young, healthy individuals demonstrated hypermethylation of any of these genes. DNA methylation of each gene was associated significantly with low mRNA expression of the respective gene. Twenty-four of 42 GC samples (57%) demonstrated hypermethylation of at least 1 of the 3 genes. However, no significant, concordant hypermethylation of these genes was observed.
The results suggested that gastric carcinogenesis involves transcriptional inactivation by aberrant DNA methylation of genes related to retinoid signaling.
In epileptic patients cyproheptadine is frequently prescribed as an appetite stimulant for the treatment of anorexia associated with anti-epileptic drugs and for the management of 'serotonin syndrome' in depressed epileptic patients. However, the study of serotonergic and histaminergic pathway shows that the decreased neurotransmission of serotonin and histamine in the brain reduces seizures threshold. Since, cyproheptadine interferes with these pathways via antagonizing subtypes of 5-HT(1/2) receptors and H(1) receptor, therefore the present study was undertaken to investigate its effect on seizures threshold, so as to substantiate its use in epileptics. In the present study convulsions were induced in mice by, maximum electroshock (MES), picrotoxin, and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ). Cyproheptadine (4 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered per se and along with clinically used anti-epileptic drugs (phenytoin 25 mg/kg, i.p. and diazepam 5 mg/kg, i.p.) in different groups of mice, onset and extent of convulsions in these groups were compared with that of vehicle control and anti-epileptics per se treated groups. Percentage mortality in all groups was also determined. Results depicted a significant increase in duration of tonic hind limb extension in MES and decrease in latency to clonic convulsions induced by PTZ and picrotoxin in cyproheptadine treated groups (per se and along with anti-epileptics), as compared to vehicle control and anti-epileptics per se treated groups respectively. Percentage mortality was also increased with cyproheptadine treatment. Therefore it is concluded that cyproheptadine pretreatment reduces threshold, increases severity of seizures and decreases the efficacy of clinically used anti-epileptic drugs in experimental animal models of convulsions.
A 70-year-old woman with a history of undifferentiated connective tissue disease was admitted for work-up of shortness of breath and progressive weakness over the course of 1 year. She had been treated with hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for last 5 years. Her evaluation revealed diffuse muscle weakness and hyperpigmentation of the skin consistent with HCQ deposition, although this did not entirely explain the patient's dyspnea. The patient underwent cardiac evaluation because of occasional substernal chest pain and persistent elevation in serum troponin I, but her ECG and adenosine thallium study did not show any signs of ischemic heart disease. The diagnosis of HCQ-induced myopathy was made with electromyography and muscle biopsy. HCQ was discontinued, with improvement of the patient's signs and symptoms over the course of the next 18 months.We propose that this patient was experiencing myocardial toxicity as a consequence of HCQ deposition disease with her clinical picture of skeletal muscle myopathy and HCQ deposition in the skin. A Medline search yielded several case reports as well as a case series of patients with antimalarial-induced myopathy. HCQ-induced myopathy may be less recognized because of its presentation with signs, symptoms, and laboratory results which suggest other critical diseases. Moreover, this medication is often prescribed to treat illnesses whose clinical manifestations may include myopathy.
Mexiletine, an oral lidocaine-like drug, was initially thought to be effective treatment for recurring ventricular arrhythmias. Recent work has cast doubt on its efficacy. We administered mexiletine to 32 patients with chronically recurring ventricular arrhythmias. In 22 patients with no history of syncope or documented sustained ventricular arrhythmia (group 1), mexiletine was effective in only 27% (six patients) as assessed by 24-hour ambulatory ECG recordings before and during mexiletine treatment. Ten other patients had a history of syncope or documented sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Only 10% (one patient) responded to mexiletine based on sequential electrophysiologic studies with programmed ventricular stimulation. Four of the seven patients responding to mexiletine had not received prior antiarrhythmic therapy. We conclude that mexiletine has limited efficacy in the treatment of recurring drug-refractory ventricular arrhythmias.
Tricyclic analogues were rationally designed as the high affinity niacin receptor G-protein-coupled receptor 109A (GPR109A) agonists by overlapping three lead structures. Various tricyclic anthranilide and cycloalkene carboxylic acid full agonists were discovered with excellent in vitro activity. Compound 2g displayed a good therapeutic index regarding free fatty acids (FFA) reduction and vasodilation effects in rats, with very weak cytochrome P450 2C8 (CYP2C8) and cytochrome P450 2C9 (CYP2C9) inhibition, and a good mouse pharmacokinetics (PK) profile.
We studied the influence of phenylephrine-induced hypertension on the area of ischemia during brief middle cerebral artery occlusion. Rats were anesthetized with 1.2 minimal alveolar concentration (MAC) isoflurane, and the middle cerebral artery was occluded via a subtemporal craniectomy. Immediately thereafter, in one group (n = 9) arterial blood pressure was increased 30-35 mm Hg above the preocclusion level by intravenous infusion of phenylephrine. In a second, control, group (n = 10) there was no manipulation of blood pressure. Local cerebral blood flow was determined autoradiographically 15 minutes after occlusion. The areas (expressed as a percentage of the total coronal cross-sectional area) in which local cerebral blood flow decreased to three ranges (0-6 ml/100 g/min [rapid neuronal death probable], 6-15 ml/100 g/min [delayed neuronal death probable], and 15-23 ml/100 g/min [electrophysiologic dysfunction with prolonged survival probable]) were measured. The areas in which local cerebral blood flow decreased to the two more severely ischemic ranges were smaller in the phenylephrine group than in the control group. For example, in the coronal section in the center of the middle cerebral artery distribution, local cerebral blood flow was 0-6 ml/100 g/min in 6.7 +/- 1.4% of the section in normotensive rats but was in that range in only 1.7 +/- 0.6% of the section during phenylephrine-induced hypertension (p less than 0.05). For the 6-15 ml/100 g/min range, the areas were 6.8 +/- 0.8% and 3.8 +/- 0.7%, respectively (p less than 0.05). For the 15-23 ml/100 g/min range, there were no differences between groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two rheumatoid patients with typical D-penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis, both resistant to anticholinesterase therapy, were treated with intensive plasma exchange. With this therapy, both patients quickly regained normal muscle power. Plasma exchange therapy may benefit penicillamine-induced myasthenic patients who develop life-threatening weakness despite withdrawal of D-penicillamine and the use of anticholinesterase medication.
Increased angiotensin II (Ang II) sensitivity predisposes to hypertension and plaque instability. Raised low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) may increase Ang II sensitivity, but evidence in humans for this effect of LDL-c is limited. In 28, healthy, nonsmoking subjects, aged 30+/-8 years, with familial hypercholesterolemia, we determined the difference in infusion rate of Ang II and norepinephrine required to increase systolic blood pressure by 20 mm Hg (Pd-20) after 4 weeks of placebo and fluvastatin 80 mg daily in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Before infusions were started, fasting blood samples were taken to measure lipids. After 4 weeks of placebo, the mean LDL-c concentration was 6.3+/-1.4 mmol/L. The average decrease of LDL-c was 1.7+/-0.7 mmol/L after 4 weeks of fluvastatin (P<0.001). The mean Pd-20 for Ang II increased by 1.28 ng/kg per minute (95% CI, 2.05 to 0.50; P=0.002) on fluvastatin, corresponding with a 26% decrease in Ang II sensitivity. Ang II sensitivity, however, remained increased compared with normocholesterolemic controls. The Pd-20 values for norepinephrine were unaffected by fluvastatin. The present study in healthy, young subjects with isolated hypercholesterolemia shows an increased sensitivity to Ang II that partly can be restored by LDL-c-lowering therapy. These findings indicate that LDL-c levels directly influence Ang II sensitivity.
Two reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide (NO(.)) and superoxide ((.)O2), contribute to persistent pain. Using three different animal models where ROS mediate pain, this study examined whether NO(.) and (.)O2 converge to peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) or whether each has an independent signaling pathway to produce hyperalgesia. The hyperalgesia after spinal nerve ligation was attenuated by removing (.)O2 by TEMPOL or inhibiting NO(.) production by L-NAME, but not by removing peroxynitrite with FeTMPyP. Nitric oxide-induced hyperalgesia was not affected by removing (.)O2 but was reduced by a guanyl cyclase inhibitor. Superoxide-induced hyperalgesia was not affected by inhibiting NO(.) production but was suppressed by a protein kinase C inhibitor. The data suggest that NO(.) and (.)O2 operate independently to generate pain.
Nonsense mutations promote premature translational termination and represent the underlying cause of a large number of human genetic diseases. The aminoglycoside antibiotic gentamicin has the ability to allow the mammalian ribosome to read past a false-stop signal and generate full-length functional proteins. However, severe toxic side effects along with the reduced suppression efficiency at subtoxic doses limit the use of gentamicin for suppression therapy. We describe here the first systematic development of the novel aminoglycoside 2 (NB54) exhibiting superior in vitro readthrough efficiency to that of gentamicin in seven different DNA fragments derived from mutant genes carrying nonsense mutations representing the genetic diseases Usher syndrome, cystic fibrosis, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, and Hurler syndrome. Comparative acute lethal toxicity in mice, cell toxicity, and the assessment of hair cell toxicity in cochlear explants further indicated that 2 exhibits far lower toxicity than that of gentamicin.
The effects of ethinyl estradiol (EE) on 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB)-induced carcinogenesis were examined in Syrian golden hamsters. DMAB was subcutaneously injected in corn oil at a concentration of 100 mg/kg once a week for 20 weeks and EE was administered in the diet at a dose of 0.75 ppm throughout the experiment. Some animals were killed at week 20 and all surviving ones were killed at week 50. Gallbladder tumors (adenomas and carcinomas) were induced in 6 of 15 hamsters (40%) in the DMAB + EE group and 5 of 14 (36%) in the DMAB alone group in males, and in 6 of 13 (46%) in the DMAB + EE group and 1 of 8 (13%) in the DMAB alone group in females at week 50. A clearer enhancing effect of EE on DMAB gallbladder carcinogenesis was observed for tumor multiplicity (No./animal) for both sexes; from 0.36 to 0.67 in males and from 0.14 to 0.62 in females. Thus, DMAB was demonstrated to be carcinogenic in the gallbladder of hamsters and EE enhanced this DMAB-induced gallbladder tumorigenesis.
In two groups of volunteers pharmacological parameters of the antihypotensive drug midodrine have been investigated. The first group of 12 male healthy volunteers received 2.5 mg midodrine hydrochloride intravenously, as drinking solution or as tablet according to a randomized cross-over design. Plasma and urine samples were analyzed for midodrine and its main metabolite ST 1059 by high-performance liquid chromatography. The mean maximum concentration in plasma for midodrine was 10 ng/ml 20-30 min after oral administration, for ST 1059 5 ng/ml after 1 h. Midodrine was eliminated with a terminal half-life of 0.5 h, ST 1059 with a half-life of 3 hrs. The mean area under the plasma-level vs. time curve (AUC) of ST 1059 after administration of 2.5 mg midodrine i.v. was 28.7 ng x h/ml, and similar for the other formulations which are considered to be bioequivalent. In a second group of 15 volunteers with postural hypotension midodrine (M) as alpha-sympathomimetic drug and oxilofrine (O) as beta-sympathomimetic drug was given i.v. in a randomized double blind study against placebo (P). Blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR) and circulating catecholamines (CA) were determined before and after injections of the drugs as well as before and during 10 min of tilting. Echocardiographic parameters were obtained at rest before and after the administration of the drugs. Blood pressure remained unchanged at rest and during orthostasis after all agents injected. After oral administration of midodrine heart rate was decreased and systolic blood pressure increased significantly and dose-dependently. M lowered circulating noradrenaline.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Arsenite is a well known metalloid human carcinogen, and epidemiological evidence has demonstrated its association with the increased incidence of lung cancer. However, the mechanism involved in its lung carcinogenic effect remains obscure. The current study demonstrated that exposure of human bronchial epithelial cells (Beas-2B) to arsenite resulted in a marked induction of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, an important mediator for inflammation and tumor promotion. Exposure of the Beas-2B cells to arsenite also led to significant transactivation of nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFAT), but not activator protein-1 (AP-1) and NFkappaB, suggesting that NFAT, rather than AP-1 or NFkappaB, is implicated in the responses of Beas-2B cells to arsenite exposure. Furthermore, we found that inhibition of the NFAT pathway by either chemical inhibitors, dominant negative mutants of NFAT, or NFAT3 small interference RNA resulted in the impairment of COX-2 induction and caused cell apoptosis in Beas-2B cells exposed to arsenite. Site-directed mutation of two putative NFAT binding sites between-111 to +65 in the COX-2 promoter region eliminated the COX-2 transcriptional activity induced by arsenite, confirming that those two NFAT binding sites in the COX-2 promoter region are critical for COX-2 induction by arsenite. Moreover, knockdown of COX-2 expression by COX-2-specific small interference RNA also led to an increased cell apoptosis in Beas-2B cells upon arsenite exposure. Together, our results demonstrate that COX-2 induction by arsenite is through NFAT3-dependent and AP-1- or NFkappaB-independent pathways and plays a crucial role in antagonizing arsenite-induced cell apoptosis in human bronchial epithelial Beas-2B cells.
This international postmarketing observational study of flunarizine was designed to evaluate, in routine clinical practice, the risk/benefit ratio of flunarizine in its approved indications, namely prophylaxis of migraine and treatment of vertigo. Comparator drugs were propranolol in migraine and betahistine in vertigo. The study was carried out by 498 general practitioners in Belgium, The Netherlands and Germany, whose participation had been requested by mail. In total 3186 patients were entered: 1601 in the two migraine cohorts and 1585 in the two vertigo cohorts.
In the migraine study, treatment results with propranolol tended to be somewhat better than those with flunarizine, but a selection bias cannot be excluded. There was no clear difference regarding efficacy between flunarizine and betahistine in the vertigo study. The safety evaluation focused on extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and depression. Overall, EPS were noted in only four patients, two in the vertigo-betahistine and two in the migraine-flunarizine cohort. A total of 70 patients developed depressive symptoms (34 in the flunarizine and 24 in the propranolol migraine cohorts, but only 7 in the flunarizine and 5 in the betahistine vertigo cohorts). Patients with migraine were clearly more prone to depression than patients with vertigo, regardless of their treatment. Additional risk factors for depression were a history of depression, and, in the migraine flunarizine cohort, a high number of previous migraine treatments.
The present study tested analgesia produced by a new controlled release formulation of tramadol. The investigation employed an experimental pain model based on chemo-somatosensory event-related potentials (CSSERP) in response to painful chemical stimuli applied to the nasal mucosa.
Twenty healthy volunteers participated in the experiments, which followed a controlled, randomised, double-blind, 3-way cross-over design. Each of the three medications (tramadol 100 mg [T100], tramadol controlled release 100 mg [TCR100] and tramadol controlled release 150 mg [TCR150]) was administered orally to fasting subjects. There was at least a 6 day washout period between tests. Each experiment was divided into five sessions, which took place before and 2, 4, 6, and 12 h after drug administration. In addition to the assessment of CSSERP, subjects rated the intensity of both the tonic and phasic painful stimuli. Nonspecific drug effects were also monitored by means of frequency analysis of the spontaneous EEG, ratings of adverse effects, and the subjects' performance in a tracking task.
The significant reduction of amplitude N1 at central recording positions indicated that TCR 150 was the most effective analgesic 12 h after administration. Both 6 and 12 h after administration TCR 100 was more effective in terms of analgesia compared to T100. In addition, TCR100 appeared to produce fewer adverse effects than the standard formulation of tramadol.
The controlled release formulation can be expected to become a valuable tool in peroral therapeutic regimens for chronic pain.
