Hemorrhagic cystitis and ureteritis, and interstitial nephritis developed in a patient receiving penicillin G and streptomycin as therapy for bacterial endocarditis. After therapy was changed to vancomycin there was prompt resolution of these abnormalities.
Phthalates, phthalic acid esters, are widely used as plasticizers to produce polymeric materials in industrial production of plastics and daily consumable products. Animal studies have shown that di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) may cause toxic effects in the rat brain. In the present study, chronic exposure to DEHP (0.1-100μM) caused dose-dependent cell death via the activation of caspase-3 in neuroblastoma cells. Intriguingly, this harmful effect was prevented by the pan-histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor trichostatin A, by the class II HDAC inhibitor MC-1568, but not by the class I HDAC inhibitor MS-275. Furthermore, DEHP reduced specificity protein 3 (Sp3) gene expression, but not Sp3 mRNA, after 24 and 48h exposures. However, Sp3 protein reduction was prevented by pre-treatment with MC-1568, suggesting the involvement of class II HDACs in causing this effect. Then, we investigated the possible relationship between DEHP-induced neuronal death and the post-translational mechanisms responsible for the down-regulation of Sp3. Interestingly, DEHP-induced Sp3 reduction was associated to its deacetylation and polyubiquitination. Co-immunoprecipitation studies showed that Sp3 physically interacted with HDAC4 after DEHP exposure, while HDAC4 inhibition by antisense oligodeoxynucleotide reverted the DEHP-induced degradation of Sp3. Notably, Sp3 overexpression was able to counteract the detrimental effect induced by DEHP. Taken together, these results suggest that DEHP exerts its toxic effect by inducing deacetylation of Sp3 via HDAC4, and afterwards, Sp3-polyubiquitination.
This study is performed to detect changes of gene expression in substantia nigra (SN) and striatum in manganese (Mn)-exposed mice brain. The cDNA array is a recently developed molecular biological method that can detect the differential expression of several hundreds of genes simultaneously and is therefore advantageous in the study of trace metal intoxication effect at the genetic level. Using this technology, we discovered 5 genes in the mouse striatum and 9 genes in SN changed by more than 50% following Mn exposure. Depression were observed in two genes (neural cell adhesion protein BIG2, heavy neurofilament subunit genes) in striatum and three genes (light neurofilament subunit, brain acyl-CoA synthetase II, heavy neurofilament subunit genes) in the SN. However three genes (N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I, S100beta, and synaptonemal complex protein I genes) in striatum and six genes (noggin, striatin, Ost oncogene, S100beta, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase beta, and N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase I genes) in SN were elevated following Mn exposure. Immunohistochemical study revealed that protein levels of S100beta also increased following Mn treatment. Activated astrocytes overexpressing S100beta are invariably and intimately associated with decreased expression of heavy and light neurofilament subunits which is a distinguishing feature of neurodegeneration by Mn exposure. All our findings suggested that neuronal degenerations occur in SN as well as striatum of mice exposed to Mn.
Six cases of acute renal failure associated with mefenamic acid therapy are described. Five patients were non-oliguric and five patients had clinical features of salt and water depletion. In these patients the presenting symptoms were abdominal pain, diarrhoea and vomiting. Renal biopsy in five patients showed interstitial nephritis and mesangial proliferation. All patients recovered without specific therapy after withdrawal of the drug, but in four patients mild renal impairment persisted. These findings indicate that both interstitial and mesangial changes are common features of acute renal failure due to mefenamic acid therapy.
We investigated the effect of captopril, an orally active angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, on urinary protein excretion in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrotic rats. The administration of captopril (10 mg/100 g body weight) decreased proteinuria on days 10-14 following the administration of puromycin aminonucleoside (73.0 versus 125.0 mg, p less than 0.01), without affecting glomerular filtration rate. The beneficial effect of captopril was not abolished by the continuous intravenous infusion of angiotensin II (10 micrograms/kg/h for 9 days) or subcutaneous injections of aprotinin (50,000 KIU/day for 3 days). Indomethacin, in moderate (5 mg/kg/day for 3 days) or high (10 mg/kg/day) doses, abolished the captopril attenuation in urinary protein excretion. The salutory effect of captopril was characterized by a reduction in the fractional excretion of protein without compromising the glomerular filtration rate. No difference in renal ultrastructure was noted in captopril-treated versus control animals. Captopril was ineffective in reducing urinary protein excretion in rats with adriamycin-induced glomerulopathy. We conclude that captopril acts to reduce proteinuria in renal disease states arising from depletion of the glomerular basement membrane polyanion. The mechanism of action is postulated to be an alteration in renal hemodynamics, namely increased blood flow and a decrease in the ultrafiltration coefficient, that are the consequence of increased intrarenal prostaglandin production.
Most studies that investigated the next-day residual effects of hypnotic drugs on daytime driving performances were performed on healthy subjects and after a single drug administration.
In the present study, we further examine whether the results of these studies could be generalised to insomniac patients and after repeated drug administration.
Single and repeated (7 day) doses of zolpidem (10 mg), zopiclone (7.5 mg), lormetazepam (1 mg) or placebo were administered at bedtime in a crossover design to 23 patients (9 men and 14 women aged 38.8+/-2.0 years) with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) primary insomnia. Driving tests were performed 9-11 h post-dose.
Results showed that treatment effects were evidenced for subjective sleep, for driving abilities, and for electroencephalogram (EEG) recorded before (resting EEG) and during the driving simulation test (driving EEG). Compared to placebo, zopiclone increased the number of collisions and lormetazepam increased deviation from speed limit and deviation from absolute speed, whereas zolpidem did not differentiate from placebo on these analyses. EEG recordings showed that in contrast to zolpidem, lormetazepam and zopiclone induced typical benzodiazepine-like alterations, suggesting that next-day poor driving performance could relate to a prolonged central nervous system effect of these two hypnotics.
The present results corroborate studies on healthy volunteers showing that residual effects of hypnotics increase with their half-lives. The results further suggest that drugs preserving physiological EEG rhythms before and during the driving simulation test 9-11 h post-dose, such as zolpidem, do not influence next-day driving abilities.
Both the mortality and morbidity associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) are mainly caused by pulmonary hypoplasia and persistent pulmonary hypertension. A previous study revealed that insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) play important roles in fetal lung development. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of IGF-1 and IGF-2 on tissue cultures of fetal hypoplastic lungs obtained from nitrofen-induced CDH model rats.
Pregnant rats were exposed to nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Fetuses were harvested on D18 by caesarian section. Lung specimens of the CDH (+) fetus were divided into three groups; control, IGF-1, and IGF-2. The specimens from the control group were cultured in culture medium without IGFs. The IGF-1 group specimens were cultured with IGF-1 (500 ng/ml), and those in the IGF-2 group were cultured with IGF-2 (500 ng/ml). The mRNA expression of TTF-1, T1α and α-SMA were analyzed in each group using real-time RT-PCR after 24 and 48 h of incubation. Immunohistochemical staining of these markers was also assessed for each of the cultured specimens.
There was a significant increase in the expression of both TTF-1 and T1α mRNA in the IGF-2 group, in comparison to the control group after 48 h of culture. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that the cell morphology was changed from cuboidal to squamous type in the IGF-2 group.
An increased mRNA expression of the markers related to type 1 and 2 alveolar epithelial cells, and morphological changes in the epithelial cells were observed in the IGF-2 group. The administration of IGF-2 to nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs might lead to alveolar maturation, which thus results in their improved development.
Bone marrow derived endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) improve endothelial function and neoangiogenesis. Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) is used for the treatment of patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD). However, the molecular effects are only partially understood. Treatment of C57/Bl6 mice with PGE1, 10 microg/kg BW increased the number of circulating Sca-1/VEGFR-2 positive EPC in the blood compared to vehicle (122+/-7% and 119+/-6% after 10 and 20 days). EPC in the bone marrow were upregulated to 125+/-11% (10 days) and 142+/-15% (20 days). PGE1 increased DiLDL/Lectin positive spleen-derived EPC to 170+/-20% and 174+/-14% after 10 and 20 days. Treatment with PGE1 enhanced in-vivo neoangiogenesis by 2-fold (disk assay, 218+/-27%). PGE1 enhanced the SDF-1 induced migratory capacity per number of EPC to 140+/-11%, 146+/-22% and 160+/-16% after 10, 14 and 20 days. Greater migratory capacity was associated with upregulation of expression of telomere repeat-binding factor (TRF2). EPC of PGE1-treated mice were characterized by reduced apoptosis. Similarly, PGE1 prevented H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis in cultured human EPC. The effect is mediated by PI3-kinase. The effects of PGE1 on EPC were completely prevented by co-treatment with the NO-inhibitor L-NAME, 50 mg kg(-1) p.o. Treatment with the prostaglandin I2 derivative iloprost (10 microg/kg BW, 20 days) did not alter EPC numbers or function. Physical exercise is the basis of the treatment of patients with PAD. Voluntary running increased EPC numbers in mice. Treatment with PGE1 resulted in an additional increase of Sca-1/VEGFR-2- and DiLDL/lectin positive EPC as well as migration. n=10-24 for all groups, all effects p<0.05. In summary, prostaglandin E1 increases the number of EPC in the blood and the bone marrow in mice. The effect is additive to physical exercise, depends on nitric oxide and is characterized by reduction of PI3-kinase mediated apoptosis. PGE1-mediated upregulation of EPC is associated with improved EPC function and enhanced angiogenesis.
Teicoplanin has been suggested for use in patients suffering complications from vancomycin. We describe two patients who developed a vasculitic rash whilst on vancomycin with recrudescence of the rash with subsequent teicoplanin therapy.
A library of more than 200 novel uncharged oxime reactivators was used to select and refine lead reactivators of human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) covalently conjugated with sarin, cyclosarin, VX, paraoxon and tabun. N-substituted 2-hydroxyiminoacetamido alkylamines were identified as best reactivators and reactivation kinetics of the lead oximes, RS41A and RS194B, were analyzed in detail. Compared to reference pyridinium reactivators, 2PAM and MMB4, molecular recognition of RS41A reflected in its Kox constant was compromised by an order of magnitude on average for different OP-hAChE conjugates, without significant differences in the first order maximal phosphorylation rate constant k(2). Systematic structural modifications of the RS41A lead resulted in several-fold improvement with reactivator, RS194B. Kinetic analysis indicated K(ox) reduction for RS194B as the main kinetic constant leading to efficient reactivation. Subtle structural modifications of RS194B were used to identify essential determinants for efficient reactivation. Computational molecular modeling of RS41A and RS194B interactions with VX inhibited hAChE, bound reversibly in Michaelis type complex and covalently in the pentacoordinate reaction intermediate suggests that the faster reactivation reaction is a consequence of a tighter RS194B interactions with hAChE peripheral site (PAS) residues, in particular with D74, resulting in lower interaction energies for formation of both the binding and reactivation states. Desirable in vitro reactivation properties of RS194B, when coupled with its in vivo pharmacokinetics and disposition in the body, reveal the potential of this oxime design as promising centrally and peripherally active antidotes for OP toxicity.
The most serious side effect of ketoconazole is hepatitis, which has proved fatal in seven reported cases. We present a case of fulminant hepatic failure in a 45-year-old Oriental woman that probably would have been fatal except for a successful liver transplant. A review of the literature of fatalities associated with ketoconazole is presented.
The cardioprotective effect of the ethanol extract of Picrorrhiza kurroa rhizomes and roots (PK) on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats with respect to lipid metabolism in serum and heart tissue has been investigated. Oral pre-treatment with PK (80 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 15 days) significantly prevented the isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction and maintained the rats at near normal status.
The present study has been designed to explore the beneficial effect of rosiglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma agonist, in hyperhomocysteinemia-induced cardiac hypertrophy in rats. The hyperhomocysteinemia was induced in rats by feeding L-methionine (1.7 g/kg per day orally) for 8 weeks. The development of cardiac hypertrophy was assessed by measuring ratio of left ventricular weight to body weight, left ventricular wall thickness, cardiomyocyte diameter, and mean arterial blood pressure. The extent of fibrosis was checked by biochemical and histological assessment of collagen deposition. Moreover, the oxidative stress in heart was measured in terms of an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, superoxide anion generation, and decrease in reduced glutathione levels. The treatment with rosiglitazone (5 and 10 mg/kg per day orally) started from the first day of administration of L-methionine significantly abolished hyperhomocysteinemia-induced increase in left ventricular weight to body weight ratio, left ventricular wall thickness, cardiomyocyte diameter, collagen deposition, and oxidative stress without affecting serum homocysteine levels in rats. At high dose, rosiglitazone markedly reduced mean arterial blood pressure but at low dose, a significant reduction in mean arterial blood pressure was not observed in hyperhomocysteinemic rats. Hence, our results suggest that rosiglitazone provides benefit in hyperhomocysteinemia-induced cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis in a dose-dependent manner and its protective action is independent of change in mean arterial blood pressure and serum homocysteine levels in rats.
Thalidomide, an immunomodulatory and antiangiogenic agent, is useful in the treatment of some hematologic and oncologic diseases. Up to 6.8% of thalidomide-treated patients present bradycardia. Herein the incidence of thalidomide-associated bradycardia in patients with hematologic diseases treated in a single institution is reported. In a 34-month period, 33 patients with different hematologic diseases (multiple myeloma [MM], 20; myelodysplastic syndrome, eight; Waldenström macroglobulinemia, two; non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, two; malignant histiocytosis, one) were treated with thalidomide. Of them, five (15.1%) had bradycardia, all with MM. Bradycardia was detected with a daily thalidomide dose ranging from 100 to 300 mg and the time patients received thalidomide before cardiac event went from one to 18 months. In all affected cases the electrocardiogram showed sinus bradycardia with cardiac frequency between 32 to 48 beats per minute. Time to normal cardiac beat recovery ranged from 12 to 21 days after thalidomide discontinuation. There were no fatalities due to thalidomide-associated bradycardia. It is concluded that: a) thalidomide-associated bradycardia was detected only in patients with MM, b) herein the incidence of bradycardia was higher as compared with other series, and c) in patients with MM thalidomide therapy must be prescribed with caution particularly in those with cardiovascular diseases of any etiology.
Antiarrhythmic drugs are known to cause AV-blockade. In animals and healthy humans the alcaloid of the gorse sparteine sulphate has been reported not to cause those side effects. We have studied in 10 patients with predamaged conduction system the grade of AV-blockade, the AV-interval and the intraventricular excitation spread by e.c.g. after i.v. injection of 200 mg sparteine sulphate (ajmalin, 50 mg i.v. as control). In 6 out of 10 patients no side effects have been observed. In 4 patients both sparteine and ajmalin injection caused higher graded AV-blockade. Our results suggest that sparteine sulphate like other antiarrhythmic drugs should not be administered to patients with a predamaged conduction system.
Repeated cocaine treatment and withdrawal produces changes in brain function thought to be involved in relapse to drug use. Withdrawal from repeated cocaine reduced in vivo extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens of rats by decreasing the exchange of extracellular cystine for intracellular glutamate. In vivo restoration of cystine/glutamate exchange by intracranial perfusion of cystine or systemically administered N-acetylcysteine normalized the levels of glutamate in cocaine-treated subjects. To determine if the reduction in nonvesicular glutamate release is a mediator of relapse, we examined cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug seeking after cocaine self-administration was stopped. Reinstatement was prevented by stimulating cystine/glutamate exchange with N-acetylcysteine and restoring extracellular glutamate. Thus, withdrawal from repeated cocaine increases susceptibility to relapse in part by reducing cystine/glutamate exchange, and restoring exchanger activity prevents cocaine-primed drug seeking.
Disulfiram in generally accepted maintenance doses in alcoholism may produce a rather severe polyneuropathy. In addition to the 39 literature cases, 5 personal patients were examined. Detailed clinical findings are given and the frequent permanent sequelae are emphasized. In 2 patients sural nerve biopsies were studied (including electromicroscopical examination) revealing a primary axonal lesion. In the treatment of alcohol addiction one should be aware of this complication.
To investigate the effect of phosphate binding on the progress of chronic renal disease, aluminium hydroxide was administered to rats with focal glomerular sclerosis experimentally induced by adriamycin over a period of 28 weeks (group ADR-AH). The clinical data were examined every 4 weeks and the renal histology at week 28 were compared to those in adriamycin-injected rats without aluminium hydroxide treatment (group ADR). Urinary protein excretion was less marked in group ADR-AH than in group ADR at weeks 8 and 12. Serum creatinine in group ADR started to increase at week 20 and continued to rise until week 28, while in group ADR-AH it increased less, the difference being significant. Serum phosphate was lower in group ADR-AH than in group ADR at weeks 8, 12, 24, and 28. Focal glomerular sclerosis and tubulointerstitial changes were observed in both adriamycin-injected groups regardless of aluminium hydroxide treatment at week 28, although these changes were much less severe in group ADR-AH. There were no differences in body weight and serum albumin between the two groups. We conclude that aluminium hydroxide could prevent the renal deterioration in focal glomerular sclerosis induced by adriamycin without affecting the nutritional state.
We report the results of an association study of melanoma that is based on the genome-wide imputation of the genotypes of 1,353 cases and 3,566 controls of European origin conducted by the GenoMEL consortium. This revealed an association between several SNPs in intron 8 of the FTO gene, including rs16953002, which replicated using 12,313 cases and 55,667 controls of European ancestry from Europe, the USA and Australia (combined P = 3.6 × 10(-12), per-allele odds ratio for allele A = 1.16). In addition to identifying a new melanoma-susceptibility locus, this is to our knowledge the first study to identify and replicate an association with SNPs in FTO not related to body mass index (BMI). These SNPs are not in intron 1 (the BMI-related region) and exhibit no association with BMI. This suggests FTO's function may be broader than the existing paradigm that FTO variants influence multiple traits only through their associations with BMI and obesity.
Studies have been demonstrating Pfaffia paniculata root (Brazilian ginseng) anticarcinogenic activities. We evaluated its chemopreventive effects on preneoplastic hepatic lesions. BALB/c aged-15 days received 10mug/g of diethylnitrosamine carcinogen, i.p. They were fed with the powdered root added to the diet: 0.5, 2 or 10% during 27 weeks. After being sacrificed, the macroscopic lesions in the livers were examined. Preneoplastic or neoplastic lesions were measured, quantified and classified morphologically. The treatment reduced the incidence, mean area and number of lesions, indicating an inhibitory effect of these roots on hepatocarcinogenesis promotion or progression steps.
Tacrolimus (FK506) has recently become available clinically as an alternative to cyclosporine-based immunosuppression. This study reports the middle-term results of a prospective, randomized trial that compared FK506 with cyclosporine-based immunosuppression in heart transplant recipients.
Twenty-five consecutive patients were randomized at a 2:1 ratio into two groups, one of which received FK506 (15 patients), the other cyclosporine (10 patients). Both groups received similar concomitant immunosuppression. The patients were followed up for 12 months. The following outcome parameters were analyzed: survival, rejection and infection rate, lymphocyte subsets, new-onset diabetes, renal and hepatic function, hypertension, right-sided heart catheterization data, graft coronary artery disease, and neurologic side effects.
The mortality rate (two patients) in the FK506 group was 13% versus 0% in the cyclosporine group (p = NS). The two deaths were the consequences of early infections and higher doses of FK506. From the outset, the FK506 group presented a lower prevalence of acute rejection, a lower requirement for rejection treatments and a higher incidence of infections. Accordingly, we reduced overall immunosuppression for the last seven patients in the FK506 group; the decrease in FK506 and prednisone dosage led to a decrease in the early infection rate without an increase in the rejection rate. There was no difference between the two groups in diabetes incidence, renal and hepatic function, right-sided heart catheterization data, or coronary angiograms. Hypertension was less frequent and milder in the FK506 group.
This experience suggests that FK506 can be safely used in heart transplantation. It can decrease the frequency of rejection episodes. Low-dose administration allows a lower infection rate without an increase in rejection. With a protocol of delayed starting and low dosing, side effects such as renal toxicity, hypertension, and neurologic toxicity seem to be unlikely. Further studies are needed to establish the exact dosage and therapeutic levels of the drug.
Chronic manganese exposure causes selective toxicity to the dopaminergic system, resulting in a parkisonian-like neurological condition known as manganism. Manganese causes a typical apoptosis, which includes activation of the caspase cascade and DNA fragmentation in PC12 cells. Caspase-3 is a major contributor to the execution of neuronal apoptosis. In a previous study, we demonstrated that caspase-3 cleavage and expression of pro-caspase-3 mRNA and protein increased in PC12 cells treated with manganese, but this response was not observed with other apoptosis inducers. To understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate expression of caspase-3 in manganese-treated PC12 cells, we characterized the 5'-flanking region of the rat caspase-3 gene and identified both a core promoter and a manganese-responsive region that contains three putative Sp1 binding sites. Furthermore, manganese treatment induced robust Sp1 phosphorylation and increased its DNA binding activity. Overexpression of mutant Sp1 lacking phosphorylation sites attenuated Sp1's ability to stimulate manganese-induced caspase-3 promoter activity. In conclusion, our results indicate that Sp1 phosphorylation is required for manganese-induced transactivation of caspase-3.
Orange B, a pyrazolone dye used to color frankfurter and sausage casings, was given in distilled drinking water to pregnant Osborne-Mendel rats throughout gestation. Assessed on the basis of fluid consumption, the dose levels of 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4% corresponded to daily Orange B consumption of 0, 67.5, 129.6, 266.6, and 532.3 mg/kg body weight, respectively. On gestation day 20, the females were euthanized and cesarean sections were performed. Throughout gestation, the treated animals consumed less fluid than did the controls, but the decreases were not dose-related. Feed consumption and maternal weight gain were not affected. No dose-related changes were seen in maternal clinical findings, implantations, fetal viability, or fetal size (weight and length). No compound-related effects were seen in sternebral development. Ossification of the interparietal bones was reduced at some dose levels, but the decreases were considered random because of absence of dose response. No dose-related effect was seen in the incidence of skeletal variations in fetuses or in the number of litters containing fetuses with skeletal variations. Skeletal development, as measured by the average number of ossified vertebrae, was similar in all groups. Soft-tissue development was not affected by dose levels of 0.05 to 0.2%. In animals treated with 0.4% Orange B, significant increases were seen in the incidence of hydroureters (severe and moderate), in the average numbers of fetuses with at least one and at least two soft-tissue variations per litter, and in the percentage of litters containing fetuses with at least two soft-tissue variations.
3-nitro-L-tyrosine is formed by nitric oxide following different pathways such as NADPH oxidase, xanthine oxidase or glutamate NMDA receptor activation and is involved in the pathology of different neurological disorders. Unlike estradiol, a neuroprotective role of androgens against oxidative cell injury has not been fully investigated. This work targets the possible effects of testosterone on neuroblastoma cells exposed to 3-nitro-L-tyrosine. C1300 mouse undifferentiated neuroblastoma cells exposed to 3-nitro-L-tyrosine were cultured in the presence of testosterone. Morphological examination, proliferation and nuclear viability assays were performed. The expression of tyrosinated alpha-tubulin and incorporation of 3-nitro-L-tyrosine into protein were also estimated. Cells exposed to 3-nitro-L-tyrosine showed globular shape, reduced cytoplasmic processes and growth inhibition in comparison with controls. When testosterone was added to the medium, these changes were not evident. In addition, testosterone induced an upregulation of tyrosinated alpha-tubulin, a marker of neuronal plasticity, and a decrease in 3-nitro-L-tyrosine incorporation into tubulin. Our results suggest that testosterone exposure can diminish 3-nitro-L-tyrosine toxic effects on the morphology and growth rate of neuroblastoma cells. The upregulation of tyrosinated alpha-tubulin in testosterone-exposed cells would be consistent with concurrent plasticity events. Failure in alpha-tubulin nitration detected in cells exposed to both 3-nitro-L-tyrosine and testosterone, may support the idea that testosterone interferes with 3-nitro-L-tyrosine protein incorporation. Moreover, testosterone-induced neuroprotection likely entails a linkage with the androgen receptor as is suggested by the flutamide-induced inhibition of the hormone activity. Finally, the neuroprotective effects of testosterone in neuroblastoma cells could deal with the cellular antioxidant defence system, as shown by testosterone-induced increase in catalase activity.
