We present two children with acute lymphocytic leukemia who developed leukoencephalopathy following administration of a combination of intravenous ara = C and methotrexate during the consolidation phase of chemotherapy. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed widespread, abnormally high signal intensity in the deep white matter in both patients, though one patient had normal cranial computed tomographic scan. Treatment was modified, symptoms resolved in 1 to 2 weeks, and the white-matter changes resolved over 6 to 12 months. Intravenous cytarabine and methotrexate appear to act synergistically to enhance the potential for central nervous system toxicity. Awareness of this potentially serious complication of chemotherapy can facilitate timely recognition of leukoencephalopathy with the use of magnetic resonance imaging.
This article presents a patient affected with epidermoid carcinoma of the soft palate who developed a dilated myocardiopathy with aortic embolism and fatal left cardiac failure after treatment with cisplatin (100 mg/m2, day 1) and 5-fluorouracil (1 g/m2/day i.v. days 2-6). The postmortem necropsy study showed diffuse interstitial edema and intracytoplasmic vacuolization of myocytes, without inflammatory changes. These findings were interpreted as acute toxic myocardiopathy, probably due to 5-fluorouracil treatment. Although the patient also received cisplatin, metoclopramide, allopurinol, thiethylperazine, and amitriptyline, before the onset of clinical symptoms, these drugs were not considered to play an important role in the production of this cardiopathy because of the dosage, necropsy findings, and lack of previous report.
Ligand activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-β/δ (PPARβ/δ) and inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) activity by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) can both attenuate skin tumorigenesis. The present study examined the hypothesis that combining ligand activation of PPARβ/δ with inhibition of COX2 activity will increase the efficacy of chemoprevention of chemically induced skin tumorigenesis over that observed with either approach alone. To test this hypothesis, wild-type and Pparβ/δ-null mice were initiated with 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA), topically treated with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate to promote tumorigenesis, and then immediately treated with topical application of the PPARβ/δ ligand GW0742, dietary administration of the COX2 inhibitor nimesulide, or both GW0742 and nimesulide. Ligand activation of PPARβ/δ with GW0742 caused a PPARβ/δ-dependent delay in the onset of tumor formation. Nimesulide also delayed the onset of tumor formation and caused inhibition of tumor multiplicity (46%) in wild-type mice but not in Pparβ/δ-null mice. Combining ligand activation of PPARβ/δ with dietary nimesulide resulted in a further decrease of tumor multiplicity (58%) in wild-type mice but not in Pparβ/δ-null mice. Biochemical and molecular analysis of skin and tumor samples show that these effects were due to the modulation of terminal differentiation, attenuation of inflammatory signaling, and induction of apoptosis through both PPARβ/δ-dependent and PPARβ/δ-independent mechanisms. Increased levels and activity of PPARβ/δ by nimesulide were also observed. These studies support the hypothesis that combining ligand activation of PPARβ/δ with inhibition of COX2 activity increases the efficacy of preventing chemically induced skin tumorigenesis as compared with either approach alone.
Treatment advances, including central nervous system (CNS) treatment with methotrexate, have led to significant gains in disease-free survival from childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, methotrexate has been associated with neurological problems such as declines in cognitive and academic abilities. The purpose of this study was to investigate methotrexate-induced changes in beta-oxidation in children with ALL receiving methotrexate for CNS treatment. Specific aims were to investigate effects of methotrexate on beta-oxidation of the two most prevalent fatty acids (palmitic acid and stearic acid) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples and correlate the ratio of monounsaturation to saturation of these fatty acids with cognitive and academic abilities. The sample included 12 females and 14 males with low-risk (n = 7), standard-risk ( n = 13), or high-risk (n = 6) ALL. Mean age at diagnosis was 94.1 months (SD = 34.4). CSF samples were obtained in conjunction with diagnostic lumbar punctures; subsequent samples were obtained prior to intrathecal methotrexate administration during the induction, consolidation, and continuation phases of treatment. Fatty acids were analyzed by gas chromatography. Results showed a significant increase in the ratio of monounsaturation to saturation of both fatty acids, which was greatest during the most intensive phase of treatment. Ratios of monounsaturated to saturated fatty acids were negatively correlated with full-scale IQ, verbal IQ, and math calculations. Findings suggest that methotrexate alters beta-oxidation and that the resulting increase in fatty acid monounsaturation is related to declines in some domains of cognitive ability.
Summary Forty (40) HIV positive patients with CD4 cell counts between 100 - 500 cellh/mm3 were recruited from 8 different centres in Nigeria including a research centre and specialist and teaching hospitaLs They were enrolled into an open, non-comparative study of a triple combination regimen containing the Protease Inhibitor (PI), Nelfinavir and two Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (RTIs), Zakitabine (Hivid) and Zidovudine for a period of 24 weeks. Thirty-one (31) patients completed the study. Nine (9) patients withdrew from the study. Two of these because of Adverse Events (AE), 2 others because they developed tuberculosis and had to withdraw because of rifampicin therapy. The remaining five (5), withdrew voluntarily. Efficacy of the PI containing triple regimen was evaluated using viral load and absolute CD4 changes, weight gain and clinical response during the course of the triaL Twenty-two (22) patients had plasma viral loads measured at the beginning and at the end of the trial (24 weeks). Seventeen (17) out of the 22 patients (77%), experienced a significant reduction in their plasma viral loads (p<0.05 There was 1 log reduction in plasma viral load in 6 patients (25%), 2 log in 4 patients (17%). In 2 patients (8%), plasma viral load was reduced below the level of detection. The viral load increased over the treatment period in five patients (21%). Similarly 22 out of the 26 patients (85%) experienced increase in the level of their CD4 lymphocyte counts at the end of the study. The average CD4 counts of all 26 patients rose from 272.94 +/- 137.71/dl to 414 +/- 243.71/ul over 24 weeks (p<0.05). There was monthly rise of 27 CD4 cells/microl. Four (4) patients (15%) had a fall in their CD4 lymphocyte counts. Twenty (20) out of the 26 patients (77%), who completed the study were observed to have weight gains ranging from 1.5 to 31 kilograms over the 24 week study period. In 4 patients, there was no weight gain during the study period. Two patients (5%) were withdrawn due to adverse events from the viracept combination. One of these was because of life threatening diarrhoea while the other patient had severe peripheral neuropathy and severe weakness in the lower limbs. Eight (8) other patients had diarrhoea but not severe enough to stop them from continuing with the triaL Other adverse events seen include anaemia (1 patient), pancytopenia (1 patient), and transient elevation of serum urea and creatinine (1 patient). None of these adverse events was severe enough to warrant withdrawal from therapy. The study has therefore demonstrated the significant efficacy and tolerability of (Nelfinavir/Zalcitabine/ Zidovudine combination in suppressing viral replication, increasing the CD4 cell counts and improving the quality of life in Nigeria patients with HIV.
The activation of the c-Ha-ras gene and its carcinogen specificity were examined in squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) induced by the mutagenic heterocyclic amines 2-amino-3-methylimidazo [4,5-f]quinoline (IQ),2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx), and 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ) in the Zymbal gland in rats. DNA fragments of the c-Ha-ras gene were amplified from formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissues by polymerase chain reaction and analyzed for activating mutations involving codons 12, 13, and 61 by oligonucleotide differential hybridization and sequencing. c-Ha-ras mutations were found in four of seven and two of six Zymbal gland SCCs induced by IQ and MeIQx, respectively. These mutations were located in either codon 13 or 61. In the case of MeIQ, point mutations at the second nucleotide of codon 13 were found in nine of the total 14 Zymbal gland SCCs and in one papilloma. Of the nine SCCs that had mutations in codon 13, two possessed mutations at the second nucleotide of codon 12 as well. Most reported mutations in c-Ha-ras are located at codon 12 or 61, but the heterocyclic amines in this study induced mutations not only at codons 12 and 61 but also in codon 13. Transversions were the dominant mutation induced by these heterocyclic amines.
The biocompatibility of Fe₃O₄-poly(L-lactide)-poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(L-lactide) magnetic microspheres (Fe₃O₄-PLLA-PEG-PLLA MMPs) prepared in a process of suspension-enhanced dispersion by supercritical CO₂ (SpEDS) was evaluated at various levels: cellular, molecular, and integrated. At the cellular level, the investigations of cytotoxicity and intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation indicate that the polymer-coated MMPs (2.0 mg/mL) had a higher toxicity than uncoated Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles, which led to about 20% loss of cell viability and an increase (0.2 fold) in ROS generation; the differences were not statistically significant (p > 0.05). However, an opposite phenomenon was observed in tests of hemolysis, which showed that the MMPs displayed the weakest hemolytic activity, namely only about 6% at the highest concentration (20 mg/mL). This phenomenon reveals that polymer-coated MMPs created less toxicity in red blood cells than uncoated Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles. At the molecular level, the MMPs were shown to be less genotoxic than Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles by measuring the micronucleus (MN) frequency in CHO-K1 cells. Furthermore, the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines demonstrates that polymer-coated MMPs elicited a less intense secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines than uncoated Fe₃O₄ nanoparticles. Acute toxicity tests of MMPs show quite a low toxicity, with an LD₅₀ > 1575.00 mg/kg. The evidence of low toxicity presented in the results indicates that the Fe₃O₄-PLLA-PEG-PLLA MMPs from the SpEDS process have great potential for use in biomedical applications.
Systemic hypoxia (SHx) produces microvascular inflammation in mesenteric, cremasteric, and pial microcirculations. In anesthetized rats, SHx lowers arterial blood pressure (MABP), which may alter microvascular blood flow and microvascular Po(2) (Pm(O(2))) and influence SHx-induced leukocyte-endothelial adherence (LEA). These experiments attempted to determine the individual contributions of the decreases in Pm(O(2)), venular blood flow and shear rate, and MABP to the hypoxia-induced increase in LEA. Cremaster microcirculation of anesthetized rats was visualized by intravital microscopy. Pm(O(2)) was measured by a phosphorescence-quenching method. SHx [inspired Po(2) of 70 Torr for 10 min, MABP of 65 +/- 3 mmHg, arterial Po(2) (Pa(O(2))) of 33 +/- 1 Torr] and cremaster ischemia (MABP of 111 +/- 7 mmHg, Pa(O(2)) of 86 +/- 3 Torr) produced similar Pm(O(2)): 7 +/- 2 and 6 +/- 2 Torr, respectively. However, LEA increased only in SHx (1.9 +/- 0.9 vs. 11.2 +/- 1.1 leukocytes/100 microm, control vs. SHx, P < 0.05). Phentolamine-induced hypotension (MABP of 55 +/- 4 mmHg) in normoxia lowered Pm(O(2)) to 26 +/- 6 Torr but did not increase LEA. Cremaster equilibration with 95% N(2)-5% CO(2) during air breathing (Pa(O(2)) of 80 +/- 1 Torr) lowered Pm(O(2)) to 6 +/- 1 Torr but did not increase LEA. On the other hand, when cremaster Pm(O(2)) was maintained at 60-70 Torr during SHx (Pa(O(2)) of 35 +/- 1 Torr), LEA increased from 2.1 +/- 1.1 to 11.1 +/- 1.5 leukocytes/100 microm (P < 0.05). The results show a dissociation between Pm(O(2)) and LEA and support the idea that SHx results in the release of a mediator responsible for the inflammatory response.
Chemotherapy-associated mucositis often prevents completion of an entire chemotherapy cycle. The underlying pathophysiology of chemotherapy-associated mucositis has not been well established. The individual immunologic predisposition of patients seems to play an important role.
One hundred fifty-six patients with locally advanced or metastatic esophageal adenocarcinoma received neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and leucovorin followed by resection. Before the neoadjuvant therapy, monocytes were isolated from blood samples and were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide and interferon. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to measure interleukin (IL)-10 and -12 levels and correlated with patients' clinical course.
Twenty-two patients (14,1%) developed grade III to IV mucositis (according to the NCI-Common toxicity criteria scales) within the neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Pretherapeutic low IL-10 (<24.1 pg/ml) and high IL-12 (>5500 pg/ml) levels were significantly associated with mucositis causing a therapy interruption or even cessation. Patients with high IL-10 (>43.6 pg/ml) and low IL-12 (<4408.5 pg/ml) levels had an uneventful neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Pretherapeutic individual monocyte function is correlated with the development and the grade of chemotherapy induced mucositis. This knowledge might help us in predicting the grade of mucositis and in understanding the genesis regarding the association to pro- and anti-inflammatory effects of monocyte cytokines.
Sodium saccharin has been shown to be a promoting substance for urinary bladder carcinogenesis in the rat following initiation with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT), or N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine. It has been shown to have many of the properties of promoting substances in other animal models, such as the mouse skin; it lacks mutagenic activity, induces hyperplasia in the target tissue, and does not bind DNA. It has recently been demonstrated to be co-carcinogenic for the rat bladder. It has also been shown that the administration of sodium saccharin during the regenerative hyperplasia observed after freeze ulceration or cyclophosphamide administration resulted in the induction of bladder tumours, even without pre-initiation with FANFT or other known initiating substances. This model appears to be analogous to the administration of sodium saccharin to animals with a rapidly proliferating bladder mucosa as occurs in utero during the two-generation carcinogenesis experiments and in the pellet-insertion experiments in which a cholesterol pellet containing sodium saccharin is inserted into the bladder. To enhance our understanding of the complex interaction of the many variables involved in two-stage bladder carcinogenesis, a stochastic model has been formulated based on long-term carcinogenicity and in vivo tissue kinetic studies. This model indicates the importance of cell proliferation and the development of hyperplasia in carcinogenesis.
A myocardial MIBG-SPECT examination was conducted 2 wk after doxorubicin chemotherapy on a 52-yr-old woman without cardiac symptoms. Despite normal 201TI scintigraphy, reduced MIBG uptake was detected in the apical anterior, inferior and lateral segments of the left ventricle. The patient died of congestive heart failure due to doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy 10 mo later. At necropsy, the left ventricle was markedly dilated and the apical anterior, inferior and lateral walls were thin, stiff and whitish. Nerve fibers in the apical inferior wall were atrophic and markedly fibrotic where MIBG uptake was most reduced. Nerve fibers in the septum were normal where MIBG uptake had remained normal. The histologic findings correspond with the findings on the MIBG image. MIBG imaging may detect cardiac sympathetic denervation in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy before cardiac symptoms are manifest and cardiac function deteriorates.
The optimal therapy for pure membranous lupus nephritis (MLN) with nephrotic syndrome remains controversial. While the risk of progressive renal deterioration may be small, persistent heavy proteinuria leads to the complications of oedema, hypoalbuminaemia, hyperlipidaemia, hypercoagulability, and venous thrombosis. We examined prospectively the efficacy and tolerability of a sequential immunosuppressive regimen in a cohort of 20 patients with nephrotic syndrome due to pure MLN (WHO Class Va and Vb). Initial therapy comprised prednisolone (0.8 mg/kg/d p.o.) and cyclophosphamide (2-2. 5 mg/kg/d p.o.). Prednisolone dosage was gradually tapered to 10 mg/d at 6 months, when cyclophosphamide was replaced by azathioprine (2 mg/kg/d p.o.) as maintenance therapy. Within 12 months of therapy 11(55%) patients had complete remission (CR), 7(35%) patients achieved partial remission (PR) (proteinuria reduced from 6.2+/-4.0 to 2.0+/-1.7 g/24 h, P<0.01), and 2 patients failed to respond. Improvements in proteinuria and serum albumin level were observed after 3-6 months of treatment. Non-responders had lower baseline serum albumin compared to complete responders. Renal function remained stable during follow-up for 73.5+/-48.9 months. 8 patients had disease relapse at 47+/-15 months. Early complications (</=12 months) included herpes zoster (40%), minor respiratory or urinary tract infections (25%), mild leukopenia (15%), and transient amenorrhea (14.3%). 4 of the 20 patients developed pulmonary tuberculosis during follow-up, at 35+/-24 months after the diagnosis of MLN. 8 patients had hyperlipidaemia. Haemorrhagic cystitis, permanent amenorrhea, vascular complications, and mortality were not observed. We conclude that this sequential immunosuppressive regimen is effective in 90% of patients with MLN and heavy proteinuria. Prudent consideration of the benefits and potential side-effects is required to determine the optimal management for individual patients.
Twenty children with severe renal hypertension caused by renovacular lesions or chronic renal failure were treated with verapamil. The application of the drug as a single intravenous injection (0.1 mg/kg) during hypertensive crisis was followed by a drop of the systolic blood pressure which was highest 30 min after injection (--25% of the original value). In order to normalize the blood pressure during prolonged hypertensive crisis verapamil was used successfully as an intravenous infusion. For the long-term treatment of renal hypertension verapamil was given orally with success, alone or combined with other antihypertensive drugs. Verapamil has a lowering effect on the blood pressure even in the presence of advanced renal failure. Prolongation of atrioventricular conduction time is the most important side effect of the drug when given in high doses and, especially, when combined with digitalis.
Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) ointment (0 small middle dot2 per cent) has an efficacy of up to 68 per cent in healing chronic anal fissure, but with headache as a major side-effect. Diltiazem hydrochloride (DTZ) cream (2 per cent) is expected to have fewer side-effects.
A prospective double-blind randomized two-centre trial requiring at least 26 patients in each group (alpha = 0.05, beta = 0.9) was instituted after approval of the local ethics committee, to compare the incidence of side-effects (primary endpoint) with 0.2 per cent GTN ointment and 2 per cent DTZ cream in the treatment of chronic anal fissure. Treatments were applied perianally, twice daily for 6-8 weeks. All patients gave written informed consent.
Both groups were comparable in patient demographics and clinical characteristics. Twelve patients violated the protocol, withdrew or did not attend follow-up. There were more side-effects with GTN (21 of 29 patients) than with DTZ (13 of 31) (relative risk (RR) 1.84 (95 per cent confidence interval (c.i.) 1.11 to 3.04), P = 0.01). In particular, more headaches occurred with GTN (17 of 29 patients) than with DTZ (eight of 31) (RR 2.06 (95 per cent c.i. 1.18 to 3.59), P = 0.01). There were no significant differences in healing and symptomatic improvement rates between patients receiving GTN (25 of 29) and DTZ (24 of 31).
DTZ cream caused substantially fewer headaches than GTN ointment. There was no significant difference in the healing or improvement of chronic anal fissure between the treatments. DTZ may be the preferred first-line treatment for chronic anal fissure.
Recent studies show that resveratrol exerts beneficial effects on prevention of pulmonary hypertension. This study is performed to explore the effects of trimethoxystilbene, a novel resveratrol analog, on rat pulmonary vascular remodeling and right ventricular hypertrophy in hypoxia-induced pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and the underlying mechanisms. Sprague-Dawley rats were placed in a chamber and exposed to 10% O(2) continuously for 4 weeks to induce PAH. The effects of trimethoxystilbene (5 or 10 mg/kg per day, intragastric [i.g.]) and resveratrol (as a positive control, 25 mg/kg per day, i.g.) on hypoxia-induced PAH vascular remodeling and right ventricle hypertrophy were evaluated. At the end of experiments, the index for pulmonary vascular remodeling and right ventricle hypertrophy, inflammatory cell infiltration in lung tissue, the plasma levels and lung tissue contents of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), the mRNA and protein levels for NADPH oxidases (NOX2, NOX4) and vascular peroxidase 1 (VPO1) in pulmonary artery or right ventricle were measured. The results showed that trimethoxystilbene treatment significantly attenuated hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling (such as decrease in the ratio of wall thickness to vessel external diameter) and right ventricle hypertrophy (such as decrease in the ratio of right ventricle weight to the length of the tibia), accompanied by downregulation of NOX2, NOX4, and VPO1 expression in pulmonary artery or right ventricle, decrease in H(2)O(2) production and inflammatory cell infiltration in lung tissue. Trimethoxystilbene is able to prevent pulmonary vascular remodeling and right ventricle hypertrophy in hypoxia-induced rat model of PAH, which is related to inhibition of the NOX/VPO1 pathway-mediated oxidative stress and the inflammatory reaction.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and methamphetamine (METH) are illicit drugs that are increasingly used in combination. The acute and long-term effects of MDMA/METH combinations are largely uncharacterised.
The current study investigated the behavioural, thermal and neurotoxic effects of MDMA and METH when given alone or in combined low doses.
Male rats received four injections, one every 2 h, of vehicle, MDMA (2.5 or 5 mg/kg per injection), METH (2.5 or 5 mg/kg per injection) or combined MDMA/METH (1.25+1.25 mg/kg per injection or 2+2 mg/kg per injection). Drugs were given at an ambient temperature of 28 degrees C to simulate hot nightclub conditions. Body temperature, locomotor activity and head-weaving were assessed during acute drug administration while social interaction, anxiety-related behavior on the emergence test and neurochemical parameters were assessed 4-7 weeks later.
All treatments acutely increased locomotor activity, while pronounced head-weaving was seen with both MDMA/METH treatments and the higher dose METH treatment. Acute hyperthermia was greatest with the higher dose MDMA/METH treatment and was also seen with MDMA but not METH treatment. Several weeks after drug administration, both MDMA/METH groups, both METH groups and the higher dose MDMA group showed decreased social interaction relative to controls, while both MDMA/METH groups and the lower dose MDMA group showed increased anxiety-like behaviour on the emergence test. MDMA treatment caused 5-HT and 5-HIAA depletion in several brain regions, while METH treatment reduced dopamine in the prefrontal cortex. Combined MDMA/METH treatment caused 5-HT and 5-HIAA depletion in several brain regions and a unique depletion of dopamine and DOPAC in the striatum.
These results suggest that MDMA and METH in combination may have greater adverse acute effects (head-weaving, body temperature) and long-term effects (decreased social interaction, increased emergence anxiety, dopamine depletion) than equivalent doses of either drug alone.
The tetracyclines are antimicrobials that also inhibit expression of certain matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). We conducted a series of experiments to determine if minocycline could inhibit MMP expression and limit human aortic smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation and migration. Analysis of SMC proliferation was performed after cells were grown in minocycline-incubated media. SMC migration activity was assayed in a micro-Boyden chamber. Western blotting revealed that minocycline reduced SMC production of MMP-2 in a dose dependent manner. Increasing doses of minocycline progressively reduced SMC proliferation to 49% of control values and limited SMC migration to 15% of control. When administered to rats with balloon injured carotid arteries, intraperitoneal doses of minocycline (70-100 mg/kg) reduced neointima formation by 76%, but were associated with liver toxicity. Higher doses were lethal and lower doses were ineffective. Minocycline, applied to injured arteries in a pluronic gel with a low pH, was also ineffective. In summary, minocycline lowers MMP-2 expression, reduces SMC proliferation and migration, and inhibits neointimal hyperplasia, but its efficacy is limited by systemic toxicity.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the analgesic efficacy and side effects of intrathecal morphine in the dose range 0.2-0.5 mg. One-hundred patients scheduled for elective lower limb orthopedic operation under spinal anesthesia using hyperbaric or isobaric bupivacaine 0.5% with morphine in dose from 0.2 to 0.5 mg. Pain score, duration of analgesia and the incidence of adverse effects like nausea, vomiting, pruritus, urinary retention and respiratory depression were assessed for 48 hr postoperatively. There were significant differences in the duration and efficacy analgesia and the incidence of pruritus the morphine dose-related. We did not observe the increased frequency of nausea and vomiting with increased dose. The respiratory depression not observed in connection with intrathecal morphine. The evidence from this current study suggests that spinal anesthesia with combination of local anesthetic and morphine can be employed to provide safe and efficacious analgesia in patients undergoing orthopedic operations. The adverse effects which developed due to intrathecal morphine were able to treat with success.
dopamine D3 receptor is preferentially localized to the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system and has been hypothesized to play a role in cocaine addiction. To study the involvement of the D3 receptor in brain mechanisms and behaviors commonly assumed to be involved in the addicting properties of cocaine, the potent and selective D3 receptor antagonist trans-N-[4-[2-(6-cyano-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)ethyl] cyclohexyl]-4-quinolininecarboxamide (SB-277011-A) was administered to laboratory rats, and the following measures were assessed: (1) cocaine-enhanced electrical brain-stimulation reward, (2) cocaine-induced conditioned place preference, and (3) cocaine-triggered reinstatement of cocaine seeking behavior. Systemic injections of SB-277011-A were found to (1) block enhancement of electrical brain stimulation reward by cocaine, (2) dose-dependently attenuate cocaine-induced conditioned place preference, and (3) dose-dependently attenuate cocaine-triggered reinstatement of cocaine seeking behavior. Thus, D3 receptor blockade attenuates both the rewarding effects of cocaine and cocaine-induced drug-seeking behavior. These data suggest an important role for D3 receptors in mediating the addictive properties of cocaine and suggest that blockade of dopamine D3 receptors may constitute a new and useful target for prospective pharmacotherapies for cocaine addiction.
O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) protects from the mutagenic and toxic lesions induced by 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), and in many tumors, AGT overexpression provides a means of resistance. To circumvent this, O6-benzylguanine, an inactivator of AGT, has been developed and is currently in clinical development with BCNU; however, the potential long-term toxicities associated with this treatment are unknown. With the inactivation of AGT by O6-benzylguanine, a higher number of toxic and mutagenic O6-alkylguanine lesions introduced by methylating or chloroethylating agents would be expected. In this study, cohorts of mice were treated with vehicle, O6-benzylguanine (30 mg/kg), BCNU alone (low dose of 15 mg/kg or high dose of 50 mg/kg), or O6-benzylguanine (30 mg/kg) plus BCNU (15 mg/kg) and followed for 12 months post-treatment. Mice treated with O6-benzylguanine plus BCNU or high-dose BCNU died significantly earlier (p < 0.0001) than mice in the other three cohorts with a median survival of 8.3 (O6-benzylguanine plus BCNU) and 7.9 months (high-dose BCNU). Histopathologic sections of tissues revealed that the most common morphological diagnosis in animals treated with O6-benzylguanine plus BCNU (15 mg/kg) or BCNU (50 mg/kg) was cytomegaly in the lung with greater severity observed in mice receiving the combination O6-benzylguanine plus BCNU. Four of five mice analyzed in this cohort had alveolar histiocytosis, with one also having alveolar edema. In contrast, liver and kidney toxicity was only observed in mice treated with BCNU (50 mg/kg). These results suggest that O6-benzylguanine enhances long-term pulmonary toxicity associated with BCNU in mice.
Baclofen (Lioresal) is a derivative of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). It is used to treat spasticity particularly for the relief of flexor spasms, pain, clonus, and muscular rigidity. There have been many rare neurologic side effects reported with its use. These side effects, in particular, hallucinations and seizures, have been observed predominantly following precipitous withdrawal of the drug. We present a case demonstrating a muscular dyskinetic side effect when baclofen treatment was first initiated. The mechanism by which baclofen affects spasticity and how the resulting side effect of dyskinesia developed in our patient is not known. They are, however, most probably related to dopamine receptor hypersensitivity and the resulting imbalance of the dopaminergic/cholinergic systems. Clinicians should be aware of this additional adverse effect of muscular dyskinesia, with the use of baclofen, and its reversibility when baclofen is discontinued.
We report about a patient in whom transient tetraplegia with intact proprioception occurred immediately after infiltration of a facet joint at the C6 level guided by anatomical landmarks. After positioning the patient supine and applying atropine and oxygen, respiration and circulation were stable and all symptoms resolved within the next 30 min. The type of neurological pattern and the course of disease suggest an inadvertent injection into a cervical radicular artery that reinforces the anterior spinal artery. This complication is potentially serious and may be permanently disabling or life threatening. It should be considered by any clinician performing "blind" zygapophysial joint injections in the cervical spine. Using imaging guidance should help prevent this type of complication.
