First developed in 1950, parenterally administered phenytoin offered substantial advantages over parenterally administered phenobarbital and paraldehyde, which were the treatments for status epilepticus until the 1960s. During the 1950s, clinical research established the pediatric dosage of parenteral phenytoin for the treatment of seizures, which was based on the adult dosage adjusted to each child's weight. Studies in the late 1970s and early 1980s established more appropriate dosing for neonates and children on a milligram-per-kilogram basis. Scientifically derived dosing guidelines have been available only for the past 12 years. Side effects associated with parenteral phenytoin, caused primarily by its high pH level and the propylene glycol content needed to increase its solubility, were frequently reported during the 1970s and 1980s, after 25 years of clinical use. Intravenous administration of phenytoin caused burning at the infusion site and was associated with severe local cutaneous reactions following infiltration into surrounding tissue, leading to a recommendation that intravenous phenytoin be avoided in young children and the elderly. The propylene glycol solvent was linked to seizures, arrhythmia, asystole, and hepatic and renal damage. When administered intramuscularly, phenytoin is poorly absorbed and can cause hemorrhagic necrosis of the soft tissues at the injection site. Many of these side effects can be avoided in children with the use of fosphenytoin.
The gene mfh1, encoding a winged helix/forkhead domain transcription factor, is expressed in a dynamic pattern in paraxial and presomitic mesoderm and developing somites during mouse embryogenesis. Expression later becomes restricted to condensing mesenchyme of the vertebrae, head, limbs, and kidney. A targeted disruption of the gene was generated by homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells. Most homozygous mfh1 null embryos die prenatally but some survive to birth, with multiple craniofacial and vertebral column defects. Using molecular markers, we show that the initial formation and patterning of somites occurs normally in mutants. Differentiation of sclerotome-derived cells also appears unaffected, although a reduction of the level of some markers [e.g., mtwist, mf1, scleraxis, and alpha1(II) collagen] is seen in the anterior of homozygous mutants. The most significant difference, however, is a marked reduction in the proliferation of sclerotome-derived cells, as judged by BrdU incorporation. This proliferation defect was also seen in micromass cultures of somite-derived cells treated with transforming growth factor beta1 and fibroblast growth factors. Our findings establish a requirement for a winged helix/forkhead domain transcription factor in the development of the paraxial mesoderm. A model is proposed for the role of mfh1 in regulating the proliferation and differentiation of cell lineages giving rise to the axial skeleton and skull.
Bupropion hydrochloride is a phenylaminoketone antidepressant whose clinical pharmacology is poorly understood. Part of bupropion's action may be attributed to inhibition of dopamine reuptake that may induce organic mental disorders in certain susceptible patients. We report three cases of organic mental disorders in patients receiving bupropion hydrochloride for treatment of the depressed phase of their bipolar-type mood instability. The organic mental disorders that occurred in these patients were characterized largely by visual disturbances--visual hallucinations and visual illusions--although one patient also experienced auditory hallucinations. The patients' use of concomitant medications and potential drug interactions are carefully evaluated and the literature on bupropion's ability to induce organic mental disorders is reviewed. We suggest a number of possible mediating mechanisms for these syndromes including dose-related dopaminergic augmentation, accumulation of toxic metabolites, predisposition to psychosis, and drug interactions.
Methadone, a long-acting mu-opioid agonist, is an effective treatment for heroin addiction. Our previous data show that 6 of 10 methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) patients had central sleep apnea (CSA). This study aims to confirm these results and to investigate the pathogenesis of the CSA.
Twenty-five male and 25 female MMT patients and 20 age-, sex-, and body mass index (BMI)-matched normal subjects were tested with polysomnography, blood toxicology, and ventilatory responses to hypoxia and hypercapnia. Resting cardiorespiratory tests were performed in the MMT group
MMT patients and normal subjects were 35 +/- 9 years old (mean +/- SD), and BMI values were 27 +/- 6 kg/m2 and 27 +/- 5 kg/m2, respectively. Thirty percent of MMT patients had a central apnea index (CAI) > 5, and 20% had a CAI > 10. All normal subjects had a CAI < 1, and no difference was found in obstructive apnea-hypopnea index between the two groups. Methadone blood concentration was the only significant variable (t = 2.33, p = 0.025) associated with CAI and explains 12% of the variance. Awake Pa(CO2), antidepressant use, reduced ventilatory response to hypercapnia, and widened awake alveolar-arterial oxygen pressure gradient together explain a further 17% of the CAI variance.
Thirty percent of stable MMT patients have CSA, a minority of which can be explained by blood methadone concentration. Other physiologic variables may also play a role in the pathogenesis of CSA in MMT patients, and further research is indicated in this area.
Inbred strains of mice were found to differ significantly in their susceptibility to liver tumor promotion by PB. The susceptibility to promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis by this drug was a dominant trait in crosses between the sensitive DBA and resistant C57 mice. The reciprocal F1 hybrids responded similarly to tumor promotion by PB. PB promoted the development of hepatoblastomas in D2B6F1 males but not in B6D2F1 mice. Female mice of the D2B6F1 cross, similarly exposed to PB, failed to develop hepatoblastomas. These results suggested a sex-linked differential response to the development of hepatoblastomas in reciprocal F1 hybrids that are genetically identical except for the reverse origin of their X and Y chromosomes. Differences in the promoting effects of PB between C57 and DBA mice appeared to correlate with differences in the metabolism/detoxification of this drug. In conclusion, mouse strains that differ in susceptibility to two-stage liver carcinogenesis provide excellent opportunities to investigate the genetic and/or biochemical mechanisms responsible for these differences. Understanding these mechanisms may lead to the identification of factors that affect liver tumor development not only in mice but in other species as well.
To define the effects of chronic spinal exposure to a highly selective partial differential opioid agonist c[DPen(2),DPen(5)]enkephalin (DPDPE), adult beagles were prepared with chronic lumbar intrathecal catheters. Groups of dogs received intrathecal infusions (100 micro l/h) of saline (vehicle), DPDPE 3 mg/ml or 6 mg/ml for 28 days. Over the 28-day period, saline or 3 mg/ml showed minimal changes in neurological function, whereas in the 6 mg/ml animals, prominent hind limb dysfunction evolved over the 28-day interval. Histopathology in control animals displayed a modest pericatheter reaction considered normal for this model. Dogs receiving DPDPE (three of four at 6 mg/ml and one of four at 3 mg/ml) but not saline (zero of four) developed large inflammatory masses (granulomas) in the intrathecal space located proximal to the catheter tip. In these masses, severe chronic inflammatory changes in combination with necrosis and fibrosis was detected. Occasional focal destruction of neuropil was detected also in the adjacent spinal cord parenchyma. These masses contained extensive accumulation of mouse antihuman macrophages (MAC)-positive inflammatory cells expressing tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), revealing infiltration of macrophages, granulocytes, and monocytes. In separate animals, prepared with dual intrathecal catheters, lumbar CSF was sampled at specified time points following intrathecal bolus (3 mg/ml) and 24 h DPDPE infusion (3 mg/ml and 6 mg/ml). Steady-state cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) DPDPE levels were 18.6 +/- 1.0 and 22.6 +/- 4.0 micro g/ml for 3 mg/ml and 6 mg/ml infusions respectively. These results indicate that this partial differential opioid agonist DPDPE produces a concentration and time-dependent formation of an intrathecal inflammatory mass.
Twenty-two normal undergraduate men were administered either d-amphetamine (0.2 mg/kg or 0.4 mg/kg) or placebo in a double-blind, counterbalanced design. The test sessions were exactly three weeks apart and included, among other measures, the Rorschach test. Rorschach anxiety and thought disorder variables were measured under drug and placebo conditions. The results suggest that amphetamine causes an increase in Rorschach anxiety indices but does not elevate Rorschach indices of thought disorder. The observed dissociation of anxiety and thought disorder on the Rorschach has implications for the role of the Rorschach in studying anxiety disorders and schizophrenic disorders.
Although it has been demonstrated that maternal epilepsy has some harmful effects on newborn individuals, current data concerning the effects of epileptic phenomena in pregnant mothers on newborn pups are still limited. This study was undertaken to investigate the changes in the cerebellum of newborns of pinealectomized rats subjected to experimental epilepsy during pregnancy. In our study, the rats were randomly divided into six groups: intact control group, anesthesia control group, epilepsy group, melatonin-treated epileptic group, surgical pinealectomy group, and group of melatonin treatment following pinealectomy procedure. At 1 month after pinealectomy, an acute grand mal epileptic seizure was induced by 400 IU penicillin-G administration into their intrahippocampal CA3 region during the 13th day of their pregnancy in all animals except intact control group. On the neonatal first day, pups were perfused transcardially and the cerebellums removed were processed for light microscopic and immunohistochemical studies. Normal migration and maturation were determined in the postnatal rat cerebellum in both intact control and anesthesia (ketamine-xylazine) control groups, but the morphological structure of cerebellum in the epilepsy control group corresponded to the early embryonal period. It was found that experimental epilepsy or pinealectomy procedure enhanced nestin immunoreactivity, but exogenous melatonin treatment (30 microg/100 g body weight, i.p.) following pinealectomy inhibited increased nestin expression induced by melatonin deprival in vermis region of newborn rat cerebellum (P < 0.001). Our results confirm that epileptic seizures during pregnancy may impair neurogenesis and neuronal maturation in newborns, which are more dramatic in the presence of melatonin deficiency during pregnancy, explaining more harmful effects of epileptic seizures to embryos of aged mothers. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study reporting the effects of maternal epilepsy during pregnancy in pinealectomized rats on nestin immunoexpression in the newborn rat cerebellum.
The effects of concomitant amiodarone and haloperidol on Q-Tc interval prolongation were studied.
All adult patients admitted to a 618-bed tertiary referral teaching hospital between January 1, 2005, and December 31, 2006, who received amiodarone and haloperidol concomitantly were included in this retrospective descriptive analysis. Data collected to assess patients' risk of developing Q-T interval prolongation included age, sex, past medical history, and number of days of concomitant exposure. Data relevant for the assessment of cardiac effects were collected for the time period between 24 hours before and after the administration of haloperidol and included laboratory test values, use of other Q-T interval-prolonging drugs, heart rate, Q-Tc intervals, and clinical documentation of arrhythmia. To determine change in the Q-Tc interval, Q-T and R-R values were recorded using cardiac rhythm strips or electrocardiogram. Nurses' and physicians' records were reviewed to determine if an arrhythmia occurred. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze baseline patient information and Q-Tc interval data.
A total of 49 patients met inclusion criteria, yielding 381 distinct amiodarone-haloperidol exposures. During 138 (36.2%) of 381 haloperidol-amiodarone exposures, patients received at least one additional Q-T interval-prolonging drug. When amiodarone-haloperidol exposures were grouped by the number of concomitant Q-T prolonging drugs, no apparent association was detected between longer Q-Tc intervals and an increased number of concomitant Q-T interval-prolonging drugs.
A small, potentially significant Q-Tc interval prolongation, but not ventricular arrhythmia, was observed in adult patients who received a concomitant administration of amiodarone and haloperidol at a tertiary referral teaching hospital.
Itraconazole (ITZ) is an approved antifungal agent that carries a "black box warning" in its label regarding a risk of negative cardiac inotropy based on clinical findings. Since the mechanism of the negative inotropic effect is unknown, we performed a variety of preclinical and mechanistic studies to explore the pharmacological profile of ITZ and understand the negative inotropic mechanism. ITZ was evaluated in: (1) an isolated rabbit heart (IRH) preparation using Langendorff retrograde perfusion; (2) ion channel studies; (3) a rat heart mitochondrial function profiling screen; (4) a mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) assay; (5) in vitro pharmacology profiling assays (148 receptors, ion channels, transporters, and enzymes); and (6) a kinase selectivity panel (451 kinases). In the IRH, ITZ decreased cardiac contractility (>30%) at 0.3μM, with increasing effect at higher concentrations, which indicated a direct negative inotropic effect upon the heart. It also decreased heart rate and coronary flow (≥1μM) and prolonged PR/QRS intervals (3μM). In mechanistic studies, ITZ inhibited the cardiac NaV channel (IC50: 4.2μM) and was devoid of any functional inhibitory effect at the remaining pharmacological targets. Lastly, ITZ did not affect MMP, nor interfere with mitochondrial enzymes or processes involved with fuel substrate utilization or energy formation. Overall, the cardiovascular and mechanistic data suggest that ITZ-induced negative inotropy is a direct effect on the heart, in addition, the potential involvement of mitochondria function and L-type Ca(2+) channels are eliminated. The exact mechanism underlying the negative inotropy is uncertain, and requires further study.
A number of studies have reported the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) in lung carcinoma. Interestingly, its detection rate appears to differ histologically and geographically. The present study examined 30 adenocarcinomas and 27 squamous cell carcinomas of the lung in a southern area of Japan, and detected high-risk HPV genome in 9 (30%) adenocarcinomas and 2 (7%) squamous cell carcinomas, using PCR with SPF10 primers and INNO-LiPA HPV genotyping assay. The difference of HPV detection rates in adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas was statistically significant (P=0.044, Fisher's exact test). HPV-16 was the most prevalent HPV genotype, and was detected in 27% (8/30) of adenocarcinomas and in 7% (2/27) of squamous cell carcinomas. High-risk-HPV positive carcinomas had decreased proportions of pRb (P=0.107) and significantly increased proportions of p16INK4a expressing cells (P=0.031) when compared to HPV-negative lung carcinomas. All HPV-16-positive cases were considered to have an integrated form of HPV-16 but its viral load was low (geometric mean = 0.02 copy per cell). In 20 additional adenocarcinomas treated with gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor specific for epidermal growth factor receptor, the presence of HPV was examined. Note that East Asian ethnicity is a predictive factor of gefitinib response. High-risk HPV genome was found in 75% (6/8) of adenocarcinomas with complete or partial response to gefitinib but was not found in the remaining 12, which did not respond to gefitinib. In conclusion, the present study suggests that high-risk HPV may be more strongly related to adenocarcinomas, particularly gefitinib-responsive adenocarcinomas, when compared to squamous cell carcinomas. However, its low viral load makes it difficult to determine the etiological significance of these findings.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia, a highly lethal condition, displays at term the pulmonary biochemical and morphologic immaturity characteristic of premature delivery. We hypothesized that antenatal glucocorticoid, now the standard treatment to prevent hyaline membrane disease in premature human beings, might correct the parameters of the pulmonary biochemical and morphologic immaturity in severe congenital diaphragmatic hernia. A total of 112 fetal rats with or without nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernias from 34 pregnancies were treated antenatally with either saline or dexamethasone. Antenatal dexamethasone increased the lung disaturated phosphatidylcholine content, reduced the lung glycogen concentration, reduced the saccular septal thickness, and increased the mean saccular size and volume fraction of saccules in the lungs of rats with large congenital diaphragmatic hernia in comparison with similar rats not so treated. All differences were statistically significant. Antenatal glucocorticoid therapy was efficacious in treating rats with nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia. This encouraging finding warrants further investigation in a large animal model with surgically created congenital diaphragmatic hernia.
Forest, grass, and peat fires release approximately 2 petagrams of carbon into the atmosphere each year, influencing weather, climate, and air quality.
We estimated the annual global mortality attributable to landscape fire smoke (LFS).
Daily and annual exposure to particulate matter ≤ 2.5 μm in aerodynamic diameter (PM(2.5)) from fire emissions was estimated globally for 1997 through 2006 by combining outputs from a chemical transport model with satellite-based observations of aerosol optical depth. In World Health Organization (WHO) subregions classified as sporadically affected, the daily burden of mortality was estimated using previously published concentration-response coefficients for the association between short-term elevations in PM(2.5) from LFS (contrasted with 0 μg/m3 from LFS) and all-cause mortality. In subregions classified as chronically affected, the annual burden of mortality was estimated using the American Cancer Society study coefficient for the association between long-term PM(2.5) exposure and all-cause mortality. The annual average PM(2.5) estimates were contrasted with theoretical minimum (counterfactual) concentrations in each chronically affected subregion. Sensitivity of mortality estimates to different exposure assessments, counterfactual estimates, and concentration-response functions was evaluated. Strong La Niña and El Niño years were compared to assess the influence of interannual climatic variability.
Our principal estimate for the average mortality attributable to LFS exposure was 339,000 deaths annually. In sensitivity analyses the interquartile range of all tested estimates was 260,000-600,000. The regions most affected were sub-Saharan Africa (157,000) and Southeast Asia (110,000). Estimated annual mortality during La Niña was 262,000, compared with 532,000 during El Niño.
Fire emissions are an important contributor to global mortality. Adverse health outcomes associated with LFS could be substantially reduced by curtailing burning of tropical rainforests, which rarely burn naturally. The large estimated influence of El Niño suggests a relationship between climate and the burden of mortality attributable to LFS.
To examine clinical and molecular changes after topical fluorouracil treatment of photodamaged human facial skin for actinic keratoses.
Nonrandomized, open-label 2-week treatment with fluorouracil cream, 5%, followed by clinical and molecular evaluation.
Academic referral center.
Twenty-one healthy volunteers, 56 to 85 years old, with actinic keratoses and photodamage. Interventions Twice-daily application of fluorouracil cream for 2 weeks and biopsies and clinical evaluation at baseline and periodically after treatment.
Gene and protein expression of molecular effectors of epidermal injury, inflammation, and extracellular matrix remodeling 24 hours after fluorouracil treatment; clinical improvement measured by evaluators, photography, and patient questionnaires.
One day after the final fluorouracil treatment, gene expression of the effectors of epidermal injury (keratin 16), inflammation (interleukin 1beta), and extracellular matrix degradation (matrix metalloproteinases 1 and 3) was significantly increased. Types I and III procollagen messenger RNA were induced at week 4 (7-fold and 3-fold, respectively). Type I procollagen protein levels were increased 2-fold at week 24. Actinic keratoses and photoaging were statistically significantly improved. Most patients rated photoaging as improved and were willing to undergo the therapy again.
Topical fluorouracil causes epidermal injury, which stimulates wound healing and dermal remodeling resulting in improved appearance. The mechanism of topical fluorouracil in photoaged skin follows a predictable wound healing pattern of events reminiscent of that seen with laser treatment of photoaging.
Three experiments were performed in order to develop a murine model of the postnatal functional defects recently described in humans as the fetal anticonvulsant syndromes. In the first experiment, the lower end of the malformation dose-response curves for diphenylhydantoin (DPH), trimethadione (TMD) and phenobarbital (PB) were established. Using this information, doses of each drug were selected for the postnatal behavioral teratology experiments that did not significantly increase the malformation rate. In experiment 2, all three drugs produced some evidence of postnatal dysfunction at the highest nonmalforming doses tested (DPH at 200, TMD at 250 and PB at 80 mg/kg, administered on days 7-18 of gestation). No effects were seen at substantially lower doses. DPH produced reduced maternal and offspring weight gain and increased offspring mortality. DPH also produced increased pivoting locomotion, delayed auditory startle and swimming development, increased adult ambulation along with decreased rearing, increased water maze errors and increased rotational behavior. TMD produced a small increase in offspring mortality, but no effects on maternal or offspring weight. TMD also produced increased adult ambulation, reduced spontaneous alternation frequency and increased water maze errors. PB increased offspring mortality, but did not affect maternal or offspring weight. PB also delayed one aspect of swimming development, and showed suggestive trends toward delayed startle and reduced alternation behavior. In experiment 3, the highest dose of each drug was administered at one of three discrete periods during gestation, days 7 to 10, 11 to 14 or 15 to 18. DPH increased pivoting and delayed swimming in those exposed on days 11 to 14 or 15 to 18 of gestation. For the 11 to 14-day exposure group, DPH also increased figure 8 ambulation and water maze errors and impaired passive avoidance retention. TMD increased offspring mortality in those exposed on days 11 to 14 and 15 to 18, delayed swimming in those exposed on days 7 to 10 and impaired water maze performance in those exposed on days 15 to 18. PB increased offspring mortality in all exposure groups, but impaired growth only in those exposed on days 11 to 14. PB also delayed swimming in those exposed on days 7 to 10 and 11 to 14. DPH produced virtually the same pattern of effects in experiment 3 as in experiment 2, but the effects were less severe with the shorter exposures used in experiment 3. The effects were most pronounced during midorganogenesis (days 11-14) with fewer effects later (days 15-18) and the fewest effects earlier (days 7-10). Overall, the present data are consistent with clinical findings regarding the fetal hydantoin, TMD and barbital syndromes.
Recently, deletions encompassing the nuclear receptor binding SET-Domain 1 (NSD1) gene have been described as the major cause of Japanese patients with the Sotos syndrome, whereas point mutations have been identified in the majority of European Sotos syndrome patients. In order to investigate a possible phenotype-genotype correlation and to further define the predictive value of NSD1 mutations, we performed mutational analysis of the NSD1 gene in 20 patients and one familial case with Sotos syndrome, five patients with Weaver syndrome, six patients with unclassified overgrowth/mental retardation, and six patients with macrocephaly/mental retardation. We were able to identify mutations within the NSD1 gene in 18 patients and the familial case with Sotos syndrome (90%). The mutations (six nonsense, eight frame shifts, three splice site, one missense, one in-frame deletion) are expected to result in an impairment of NSD1 function. The best correlation between clinical assessment and molecular results was obtained for the Sotos facial gestalt in conjunction with overgrowth, macrocephaly, and developmental delay. In contrast to the high mutation detection rate in Sotos syndrome, none of the patients with Weaver syndrome, unclassified overgrowth/mental retardation and macrocephaly/mental retardation, harbored NSD1 mutations. We tested for large deletions by FISH analysis but were not able to identify any deletion cases. The results indicate that the great majority of patients with Sotos syndrome are caused by mutations in NSD1. Deletions covering the NSD1 locus were not found in the patients analyzed here.
To examine the predisposing factors, clinical and laboratory characteristics, management, course, and outcome of consecutive cases of theophylline toxicity in an outpatient setting.
Toxicology records and hospital charts of consecutive patients with a serum theophylline concentration (STC) greater than 30 mg/L (167 mumol/L) identified in the emergency departments (EDS) of a University Medical Center and a Veterans Administration Medical Center were reviewed.
Ten percent and 2.8% of 5,557 consecutive STCs measured in the EDs over 2 years were greater than 20 mg/L (111 mumol/L) and greater than 30 mg/L (167 mumol/L), respectively. One hundred sixteen cases with STC greater than 30 mg/L were identified. Fourteen (12%) and 102 (88%) were due to acute overdose and chronic overmedication, respectively. Principal predisposing factors included patient and/or physician dosing errors and conditions or medications that reduce theophylline clearance. One or more toxic manifestations were present in 109 (94%) cases. Fifty percent of patients had mild toxicity, 38% had moderate toxicity, and 7% had severe or life-threatening toxicity. Seven (6%) patients died when STC was still in the toxic range and/or as a result of toxicity. Acute overdose was associated with higher peak STC (p less than 0.001), younger age (p less than 0.01), and greater mortality (p less than 0.05) than chronic overmedication. Peak STC correlated significantly with the severity of toxicity for patients with acute overdose (p less than 0.01) but not for patients with chronic overmedication. All three patients with acute overdose and fatal toxicity had peak STCs greater than 100 mg/L (555 mumol/L) and fulminant toxicity, whereas the four patients with chronic overmedication who died during toxicity had peak STCs in the 40 to 60 mg/L (222 to 333 mumol/L) range and most died of respiratory failure rather than directly from toxicity. Patients with acute overdose who had the delayed onset of severe or life-threatening toxicity and/or died from toxicity were accurately identified using previously published criteria for prophylactic charcoal hemoperfusion. In contrast, the predictive value of the criteria applied to patients with chronic overmedication was poor. Two patients with acute overdose underwent charcoal hemoperfusion, but died. No patient with chronic overmedication received charcoal hemoperfusion.
Toxic-range STCs are relatively common in the ED population, occur primarily as a result of patient and physician dosing errors, and cause a broad range of toxic manifestations of varying severity. Peak STC correlates with the severity of toxicity and outcome for acute overdose but not chronic overmedication intoxication. Previously published criteria for prophylactic charcoal hemoperfusion accurately identify patients with acute overdose but not patients with chronic overmedication at risk for serious complications and death.
A case of paclitaxel-induced painful crisis in a patient with breast cancer and hemoglobin sickle cell disease (SCD) is reported.
A 55-year-old postmenopausal African-American woman had stage IIB invasive ductal carcinoma of the left breast. She was not taking any medications and did not report a history of cancer or other diseases. She had mild microcytic anemia, but the rest of her blood counts and liver function test values were normal. Bone scans and computed tomography scans of her chest and abdomen did not reveal any metastatic disease. She underwent a routine left segmental mastectomy and axillary lymph node dissection that revealed a 4-cm invasive cancer with 1 of 10 axillary lymph nodes positive for metastatic disease. Her treatment plan included chemotherapy with weekly paclitaxel, followed by fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide and radiation. The first cycle of paclitaxel was well tolerated until one week after initiation when the patient woke up in the middle of the night with a sudden onset of excruciating back pain and muscle spasms. Other symptoms that developed included fatigue, left-sided rib pain, and shortness of breath. The patient recalled being told that she had sickle cell trait but said that she never had a sickle cell crisis. Laboratory tests during her 13-day hospitalization revealed hemolysis. The patient was diagnosed with hemoglobin SCD and later discharged with as-needed, low-dose oxycodone and baclofen, antibiotics, and folic acid.
A patient with breast cancer and SCD had a painful crisis after receiving paclitaxel as part of her chemotherapy regimen.
RDX (hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine) is a synthetic, high-impact, relatively stable explosive that has been in use since WWII. Exposure to RDX can occur in occupational settings (e.g., during manufacture) or through the inadvertent ingestion of contaminated environmental media such as groundwater. The toxicology of RDX is dominated by acute clonic-tonic seizures at high doses, which remit when exposure is removed and internal RDX levels decrease. Subchronic studies have revealed few other measurable toxic effects. The objective of this study was to examine the acute effects of RDX on the mammalian brain and liver using global gene expression analysis based on a predetermined maximum internal dose. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given a single, oral, nonseizure-inducing dose of either 3 or 18 mg/kg RDX in a gel capsule. Effects on gene expression in the cerebral cortex and liver were assessed using Affymetrix Rat Genome 230 2.0 whole genome arrays at 0, 3.5, 24, and 48 h postexposure. RDX blood and brain tissue concentrations rapidly increased between 0 and 3.5 h, followed by decreases at 24 h to below the detection limit at 48 h. Pairwise comparison of high and low doses at each time point showed dramatic differential changes in gene expression at 3.5 h, the time of peak RDX in brain and blood. Using Gene Ontology, biological processes that affected neurotransmission were shown to be primarily down-regulated in the brain, the target organ of toxicity, while those that affected metabolism were up-regulated in the liver, the site of metabolism. Overall, these results demonstrate that a single oral dose of RDX is quickly absorbed and transported into the brain where processes related to neurotransmission are negatively affected, consistent with a potential excitotoxic response, whereas in the liver there was a positive effect on biological processes potentially associated with RDX metabolism.
Bupropion hydrochloride is currently available in three formulations: immediate-release, sustained-release, and extended-release (ER). Several published reports exist concerning bupropion's history of inducing seizures in both the immediate- and sustained-release formulations. Although the potential of the ER formulation for causing seizures is noted in the drug's prescribing information, there is no previously published report of bupropion ER inducing seizures. In the case reported, a 27-year-old woman who was prescribed bupropion ER as well as clonazepam and lamotrigine (anticonvulsants), hydrocodone bitartrate (for irritable bowel syndrome), and zolipidem tartrate (for depression and associated anxiety and insomnia) experienced a grand mal seizure 6 months after beginning bupropion ER therapy. The patient was taken to the emergency department, where she had a second grand mal seizure 8 hours after the first one. Extended-release bupropion was discontinued, and the patient had not had additional seizures at 8 months follow-up.
The immunosuppressive agent FK 506 is widely used in liver transplant patients. Neurotoxicity is a major complication of its use. We report progressive and irreversible neurologic complications occurring in a 39-year-old woman who underwent liver transplantation and was treated with FK 506. Neuropathologic examination revealed multiple vasculitic lesions. The possibility of an FK 506-mediated toxic effect on the cerebral vessels is suggested.
Recent findings implicate the calcium-permeable transient receptor potential (TRP) melastatin subtype 2 (TRPM2) and canonical subtype 3 (TRPC3) channels in the pathogenesis of bipolar disorder (BD). As both channels are involved in calcium and oxidative stress signaling, thought to be disrupted in BD, we sought to determine the effects of elevated oxidative stress on their expression and function. Primary rat cortical neurons and astrocytes were treated with oxidative stressors for 1 (acute) and 4 days (chronic). Expression of TRPC3 and TRPM2 were determined by immunoblotting and real-time PCR. Channel functionality was assessed using a TRPC3 activator, 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG), and live cell, ratiometric fluorometry with the calcium sensitive dye, Fura-2. Neurons treated with rotenone (15-30nM) for 4 days but not 24h showed significant dose-dependent decreases in TRPC3 mRNA (31%, p<0.001) and protein levels (60%, p<0.001). Similar dose-dependent attenuation of TRPC3-mediated calcium fluxes was demonstrated upon chronic rotenone exposure relative to vehicle controls. In contrast, TRPM2 mRNA but not protein levels increased (47%, p=0.017) after acute and chronic rotenone treatment. Chronic exposure of neurons to paraquat (1-2µM), an alternate oxidative stressor, similarly decreased TRPC3 expression (mRNA: 41%; protein: 61%). Unlike neurons, rotenone treatment incurred no changes in astrocyte TRPC3 levels. These findings demonstrate that TRPC3 and TRPM2 channel expression and/or function is sensitive to the redox status of rat primary neurons and that these changes are time dependent. This provides a critical mechanistic link between altered oxidative stress markers, dysfunction of these TRP channels and calcium dyshomeostasis in BD.
Mazindol is a catecholamine reuptake inhibitor that blocks binding of cocaine at the dopamine reuptake site. This study was conducted to determine whether the acute administration of mazindol modulates the pharmacological effects of intravenous cocaine in humans. In a crossover study, twelve acute drug conditions were tested in randomized order under double-blind, double-dummy conditions in eight cocaine abusers. Cocaine (0, 12.5, 25 and 50 mg, i.v.) was administered in combination with mazindol (0, 1 and 2 mg given orally 2 hr before the cocaine injection). Physiological and subject- and observer-rated responses were measured. Cocaine and mazindol alone both significantly increased heart rate and blood pressure. Cocaine increased ratings on stimulant-like subjective effect measures, including desire for cocaine; mazindol had mild, stimulant-like subjective effects. There were significant interactions between the effects of cocaine and mazindol on heart rate and blood pressure, with combinations producing significantly large and more sustained increases compared with cocaine alone. There was no evidence that mazindol substantially altered the magnitude or profile of the subjective effects of cocaine, including cocaine-induced craving for cocaine. These results do not support the utility of acute administration of mazindol in the treatment of cocaine abusers through a mechanism of modulation of cocaine's subjective effects. Furthermore, mazindol treatment may increase the cardiovascular risks of cocaine.
Postpartum cerebral angiopathy is a recognized but infrequent complication of ergot alkaloid derivatives. We describe a patient who experienced reversible cerebral vasoconstriction with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) after ingesting lisuride in the postpartum period. Lisuride is likely to cause postpartum cerebral angiopathy, and ICH must now be considered a possible cerebrovascular complication of postpartum cerebral angiopathy. Our observation calls for further study to verify these findings.
Nitrotoluenes are high-production-volume chemicals used in the synthesis of agricultural chemicals and in various dyes. Because of differences in the metabolism of the three isomers and their capabilities to bind to DNA, comparative toxicity studies of o-, m-, and p-nitrotoluene were conducted in F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. o-, m-, or p-Nitrotoluene was administered in the feed to male and female rats and mice at doses ranging from 625 to 10,000 ppm for 13 weeks. These doses delivered approximately 40 to 700 mg/kg body wt/day for rats and 100 to 1700 mg/kg/day for mice. There were no treatment-related effects on survival in any of the studies. Decreased body weights relative to controls occurred in dosed rats and mice in all studies at the higher dose levels and were most pronounced in rats receiving o-nitrotoluene. Mesotheliomas of the tunica vaginalis were observed in 3 of 10 male rats receiving o-nitrotoluene at 5000 ppm, and mesothelial cell hyperplasia was observed in 2 of 10 male rats receiving o-nitrotoluene at 10,000 ppm. Kidney toxicity was observed in male rats receiving o-, m-, or p-nitrotoluene and included hyaline droplet nephropathy and an associated increase in the renal concentration of alpha 2U-globulin. Evidence of liver toxicity in the male rats receiving o-nitrotoluene included hepatocyte vacuolization, oval cell hyperplasia, and increased serum bile acids, sorbitol dehydrogenase, and alanine aminotransferase. Although there was no histopathologic evidence of hepatic toxicity in male or female rats given the m- or p-isomers or in female rats given the o-isomer, treatment-related hepatic effects were detected in these groups, as measured by an increase in the relative liver weights and by elevations in serum bile acids and liver-specific enzymes. The spleens of treated male and female rats had a mild increase in hematopoiesis, hemosiderin deposition, and/or congestion. These splenic changes were slightly more prominent in rats administered the o- and p-isomers. Administration of o-, m-, or p-nitrotoluene impaired testicular function in the rat, as shown by testicular degeneration and reduction in the density, motility, and number of sperm cells. Administration of each isomer to rats caused increases in the length of the estrus cycle. The only histopathologic evidence for treatment-related toxicity in mice in the 13-week studies occurred in animals receiving the o-nitrotoluene isomer where the chemical caused degeneration and metaplasia of the olfactory epithelium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
