Alexithymia means a reduced capacity to identify and describe one's own feelings. Both stress and an alexithymic response to stress can contribute to relapse into drug abuse, but to our knowledge the neural processing of an alexithymic response to stress in cocaine-dependent individuals has not been examined.
In a functional magnetic resonance imaging session,17 male and 10 female abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects participated in script-guided imagery of neutral or stressful situations. Spatial preprocessing and statistical analysis of brain images were performed using Statistical Parametric Mapping Software (SPM2). Blood oxygen level-dependent contrasts between stress and neutral imagery were correlated voxelwise with scores on the 26-item Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS).
Male cocaine users demonstrated a positive correlation between TAS scores and activation in the right putamen and middle frontal cortex during stressful, compared with neutral, imagery. In contrast, no brain regions showed a negative correlation with TAS scores. Female subjects demonstrated a negative correlation between TAS scores and activation in the right amygdala, thalamus, putamen, and left frontal and bilateral temporal cortices, and no positive correlations with TAS scores during stressful, compared with neutral, imagery.
Women with greater alexithymic features showed reduced left-hemispheric cortical and right-hemispheric subcortical activation during processing of stress. However, men showed an opposite correlation in the right frontal cortex and putamen, suggesting that responses to stress in the putamen (activation v. deactivation) and frontal cortex (activation v. deactivation, as well as right v. left correlations) are critically different in association with alexithymia between male and female cocaine-dependent patients.
The objective of this study was to determine the effects of allergen exposure on leukotriene generation and inflammation within the airways of allergic asthmatics and evaluate the effects of the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton on these responses. We measured leukotriene-B(4) (LTB(4)) and LTC(4)/D(4)/E(4), inflammatory cytokine mediators, and cellular responses in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) before and 24 h after segmental ragweed antigen challenge in 18 asthmatic subjects at baseline. Before initiating therapy with the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor or placebo, only nine of 18 asthmatic subjects had a significant increase (234 +/- 102-fold, mean +/- SE) in BALF LTC(4)/D(4)/E(4) levels 24 h after segmental antigen challenge, whereas leukotriene levels were essentially unchanged (1.14 +/- 0.22-fold) in the other nine subjects. The high LT producers also had higher postantigen BALF levels of LTB(4), total protein, IL-5, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and recovery of more eosinophils than the low LT producers. Treatment with the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton reduced postantigen BALF eosinophil count by 68% in the high LT producers, but had no detectable effect on BALF composition in the low LT producers. These data suggest that leukotriene inhibition may be more effective in a subset of asthmatics in whom leukotrienes are a major contributory factor in causing allergic inflammation.
A 54-year-old woman who had been treated with D-penicillamine (a daily dose of 100-200 mg for 299 days, total 51.8 g) for eosinophilic fasciitis developed myasthenia gravis associated with an elevated titre of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody. The patient fully recovered in 6 months after withdrawal of D-penicillamine.
Tight junctions rarely exist in podocytes of the normal renal glomerulus, whereas they are the main intercellular junctions of podocytes in nephrosis and in the early stage of development. Claudins have been identified as tight junction-specific integral membrane proteins. Those of podocytes, however, remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we investigated the expression and localization of claudin-6 in the rat kidney, especially in podocytes. Western blot analysis and RT-PCR revealed that the neonatal kidney expressed much higher levels of claudin-6 than the adult kidney. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed intense claudin-6 staining in most of the tubules and glomeruli in neonates. The staining in tubules declined distinctly in adults, whereas staining in glomeruli was well preserved during development. Claudin-6 in glomeruli was distributed along the glomerular capillary wall and colocalized with zonula occludens-1. The staining became conspicuous after kidney perfusion with protamine sulfate (PS) to increase tight junctions in podocytes. Immunoelectron microscopy showed that immunogold particles for claudin-6 were accumulated at close cell-cell contact sites of podocytes in PS-perfused kidneys, whereas a very limited number of immunogold particles were detected, mainly on the basal cell membrane and occasionally at the slit diaphragm and close cell-cell contact sites in normal control kidneys. In puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis, immunogold particles were also found mainly at cell-contact sites of podocytes. These findings indicate that claudin-6 is a transmembrane protein of tight junctions in podocytes during development and under pathological conditions.
Granule cells in the dentate gyrus are born throughout life, and various stimuli can affect their development in the adult brain. Following seizures, for instance, neurogenesis increases greatly, and some new cells migrate to abnormal (ectopic) locations, such as the hilus. Previous electrophysiological studies of this population have shown that they have intrinsic properties that are similar to normal granule cells, but differ in other characteristics, consistent with abnormal integration into host circuitry. To characterize the response of ectopic hilar granule cells to perforant path stimulation, intracellular recordings were made in hippocampal slices from rats that had pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus and subsequent spontaneous recurrent seizures. Comparisons were made with granule cells located in the granule cell layer of both pilocarpine- and saline-treated animals. In addition, a few ectopic hilar granule cells were sampled from saline-treated rats. Remarkably, hilar granule cells displayed robust responses, even when their dendrites were not present within the molecular layer, where perforant path axons normally terminate. The evoked responses of hilar granule cells were similar in several ways to those of normally positioned granule cells, but there were some differences. For example, there was an unusually long latency to onset of responses evoked in many hilar granule cells, especially those without molecular layer dendrites. Presumably this is due to polysynaptic activation by the perforant path. These results indicate that synaptic reorganization after seizures can lead to robust activation of newly born hilar granule cells by the perforant path, even when their dendrites are not in the terminal field of the perforant path. Additionally, the fact that these cells can be found in normal tissue and develop similar synaptic responses, suggests that seizures, while not necessary for their formation, strongly promote their generation and the development of associated circuits, potentially contributing to a lowered seizure threshold.
We describe a 14-year-old Japanese girl with beta-thalassemia intermedia who developed moyamoya syndrome after splenectomy. This patient had compound heterozygous mutations of the beta-globin gene and received occasional transfusions. After splenectomy at 12 years of age, she transiently required partial exchange transfusions for leukoerythroblastosis but attained transfusion independence. Two years after the splenectomy, transient ischemic attacks occurred repeatedly with right hemiparesis or left paresthesia. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed bilateral stenosis of the internal carotid arteries and dilatation of the perforating branches with the formation of moyamoya vessels but not infarctions. The strict adherence to aspirin and dipyridamole has led to no stroke or progression of the vasculopathy for 8 years. Moyamoya disease has been reported in a patient with beta-thalassemia major. Cerebral vasculopathy can be a rare but grave consequence of the thromboembolic complications in beta-thalassemia major/intermedia. (J Child Neurol 2006;21:75-77).
We examined whether adrenomedullin (AM), a vasoactive peptide with significant expression and binding sites in the heart, modulates the hypertrophic response in cultured neonatal rat ventricular myocytes. Myocyte hypertrophy was induced by treating the cells with angiotensin II (Ang II), endothelin-1 (ET-1) or alpha-adrenergic agonist, L-phenylephrine (PHE). All treatments resulted in a hypertrophic response as reflected by increased protein synthesis and expression of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) genes. AM treatment resulted in a complete inhibition of the Ang II-induced increase in ANP and BNP gene expression and secretion. In contrast, no inhibitory effect was seen in either ET-1-induced natriuretic peptide gene expression or PHE-induced ANP and BNP gene expression and secretion. AM had only a modest effect on basal levels of natriuretic peptide secretion and gene expression. When AM mRNA levels in isolated neonatal rat myocytes treated for 48 h with Ang II, ET-1 or PHE were measured, only Ang II induced a consistent increase in AM gene expression. These results indicate that AM is not invariably associated with attenuation of the hypertrophic response but its effect is dependent on the stimulus activating myocyte hypertrophy. AM may form an important autocrine/paracrine growth-inhibitory loop in Ang II-induced myocyte hypertrophy.
Six types of human 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases catalyzing the conversion of estrogens and androgens at position C17 have been identified so far. The peroxisomal 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 4 (17beta-HSD 4, gene name HSD17B4) catalyzes the oxidation of estradiol with high preference over the reduction of estrone. The highest levels of 17beta-HSD 4 mRNA transcription and specific activity are found in liver and kidney followed by ovary and testes. A 3 kb mRNA codes for an 80 kDa (737 amino acids) protein featuring domains which are not present in the other 17beta-HSDs. The N-terminal domain of 17beta-HSD 4 reveals only 25% amino acid similarity with the other types of 17beta-HSDs. The 80 kDa protein is N-terminally cleaved to a 32 kDa enzymatically active fragment. Both the 80 kDa and the N-terminal 32 kDa (amino acids 1-323) protein are able to perform the dehydrogenase reaction not only with steroids at the C17 position but also with D-3-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A (CoA). The enzyme is not active with L-stereoisomers. The central part of the 80 kDa protein (amino acids 324-596) catalyzes the 2-enoyl-acyl-CoA hydratase reaction with high efficiency. The C-terminal part of the 80 kDa protein (amino acids 597-737) facilitates the transfer of 7-dehydrocholesterol and phosphatidylcholine between membranes in vitro. The HSD17B4 gene is stimulated by progesterone, and ligands of PPARalpha (peroxisomal proliferator activated receptor alpha) such as clofibrate, and is down-regulated by phorbol esters. Mutations in the HSD17B4 lead to a fatal form of Zellweger syndrome.
Chronic daily headaches can be a difficult problem in children as well as adults. Over half of the cases of chronic daily headaches in adults are thought to be due to medication-overuse headache, and treatment consists of discontinuation of these analgesics. Since many patients are also treated with preventive agents at the time of analgesic withdrawal, it is difficult to determine whether discontinuation alone is the most effective treatment. A retrospective study was performed to evaluate the outcomes of 43 children (ages 6-17 years) with medication-overuse headache 1 month after withdrawal of analgesics: 20 children received daily doses of a preventive medication, and 23 received no preventive medication. Headache reduction was assessed 1 month later. There was no difference in the percentage, with 90% or greater headache reduction at 1 month between children treated by withdrawal of analgesic drugs only and those receiving preventive medications (57% vs 50%, respectively). There was no influence of age, gender, use of triptans as rescue agents, or caffeine use on outcomes. A previous duration of headaches over 2 years was negatively correlated with overall outcome. We advise discontinuation of analgesics in all children with medication-overuse headache, without the necessity for starting daily preventive agents concurrently. Should headaches persist after 1 month, such agents can be added. (J Child Neurol 2006;21:45-48).
Tiazofurin is an experimental chemotherapeutic agent currently undergoing clinical evaluation. We report our results with magnetic resonance (MR) in demonstrating reversible cerebral abnormalities concurrent with the use of this drug. The abnormalities on MR were correlated with findings on CT as well as with cerebral angiography. The utility of MR in the evaluation of patients receiving this new agent is illustrated.
Chlamydia trachomatis is among the most common sexually transmitted bacteria worldwide. With excellent activity against C. trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae and prolonged elimination half-life allowing once-daily dosage, the fluoroquinolone trovafloxacin has potential advantages in the treatment of uncomplicated chlamydial infection.
This study compared the efficacy of trovafloxacin with that of doxycycline for the treatment of uncomplicated chlamydial infection.
In a double-blind, multicenter trial, trovafloxacin 200 mg was administered once daily for 5 days and doxycycline 100 mg was administered twice daily for 7 days to patients with uncomplicated chlamydial urethritis or cervicitis. Follow-up visits were conducted 10, 21, and 35 days after enrollment.
Of the 970 patients (403 men, 567 women) observed, 511 were microbiologically evaluable and 360 were clinically evaluable. C. trachomatis eradication rates in the trovafloxacin and doxycycline groups were equivalent in women (95% and 97%, respectively), but not in men (89% and 99%). Similarly, rates of clinical success (cure plus improvement) demonstrated equivalence of trovafloxacin and doxycycline in women (96% and 94%), but not in men (94% and 100%). The most frequent treatment-related adverse events were dizziness, nausea, and headache in patients given trovafloxacin, and nausea, vomiting, and headache in patients given doxycycline. Treatment-related discontinuations were comparable between the drug groups.
Trovafloxacin given once daily for 5 days was clinically and bacteriologically equivalent to doxycycline given twice daily for 7 days in women with uncomplicated chlamydial cervicitis. This equivalence was not demonstrated in men with uncomplicated chlamydial urethritis.
To examine the evidence regarding the therapeutic effectiveness of lamivudine in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in immunocompetent patients.
Using chronic hepatitis B and lamivudine as MeSH headings, MEDLINE was searched from 1966 to September 1998 for all published randomized controlled trials evaluating lamivudine in chronic HBV infection. Relevant articles from selected bibliographies were also retrieved.
Only randomized, single- and double-blind trials in human HBV carriers published in the English language were included.
Evidence from the controlled trials suggests that lamivudine has a therapeutic effect in suppressing HBV replication in immunocompetent patients. Lamivudine 100 mg/d appears to suppress HBV replication in as many as 97% of patients within two weeks after the initiation of therapy and is capable of suppressing histologic damages. However, viral suppression is effective only during the therapy; on discontinuation of lamivudine therapy, most patients return to the pretreatment condition. Viral resistance to lamivudine has been observed. Most patients with chronic HBV infection appear to tolerate 100 mg/d of lamivudine therapy.
Evidence has shown that oral lamivudine 100 mg/d will produce rapid and significant suppression of viral replication in immunocompetent patients with chronic HBV infections. Treatment periods up to one year have been effective and well tolerated. The suppression of viral replication may not be sustained after cessation of lamivudine therapy, and very few patients have complete elimination of HBV during therapy. Therefore, long treatment periods may be necessary. Efficacy and tolerability of treatment beyond one year need to be investigated. Resistance to lamivudine has been reported in patients receiving therapy. A combination anti-HBV regimen using lamivudine and other agents with different mechanisms of action should be investigated to maximize the elimination of the viral infection while minimizing or preventing damage to the liver cells and tissues and the development of viral resistance.
This study tested whether a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist could reverse the signs of precipitated opioid withdrawal. Rats were treated with either saline or morphine for 4 days. After the four days, half of the rats in each group received naloxone and half received saline. Each animal also received one of four doses of ondansetron (0, 1, 2 and 4 mg/kg i.p.). Administration of ondansetron to rats receiving naloxone after chronic morphine decreased the intensity of withdrawal signs such as increased defecation, jumping and wet-dog shakes, elevated the nociceptive threshold values which were decreased by precipitated withdrawal, but produced no change in urination, rectal temperature or salivation. The effects exhibited by ondansetron administration may be explained through interference of its 5-HT3 receptor antagonist activity with serotoninergic mechanisms involved in the regulation of these withdrawal symptoms. The use of this drug is thus suggested as a possible treatment of opioid withdrawal signs in heroin addicts.
A bladder carcinoma developed in a 40-year-old man who was being treated with trofosfamide (Ixoten), a cyclophosphamide derivative, for Hodgkin's disease. The case suggests the need for differentiated replacement of this group of cytostatics.
We evaluated the efficacy of lansoprazole, clarithromycin, and metronidazole (LCM) administered twice daily for 7 days. Because there is growing concern about the development of metronidazole-resistant H. pylori (HP) strains, we also tested a novel regimen consisting of lansoprazole, clarithromycin, and bismuth subsalicylate (LCB).
Patients with active HP infection and peptic ulcer, a history of peptic ulcer, or nonulcer dyspepsia were randomized to either lansoprazole 30 mg b.i.d., clarithromycin 500 mg b.i.d., and metronidazole 500 mg b.i.d. or lansoprazole 30 mg b.i.d., clarithromycin 500 mg b.i.d., and bismuth subsalicylate 524 mg b.i.d. (LCB) for 7 days. Compliance and side effects were recorded by using a diary.
"Per protocol" eradication with LCM was achieved in 41 of 47 (87%). By using "intention to treat" analysis, LCM eradicated HP infection in 43 of 53 patients (81%). By using "per protocol" analysis, LCB eradicated HP infection in 40 of 47 patients (85%). On an "intention to treat" basis, LCB led to HP eradication in 42 of 52 (81%). The most common significant side effects observed with LCM were altered taste (39%) and abdominal pain (19%). With LCB, the most common significant side effects were altered taste (23%) and dark stools (23%).
LCB for 7 days was as effective in eradicating HP infection as a 7-day course of LCM. Further studies evaluating the role of bismuth compounds in proton-pump inhibitor based triple therapy are warranted. Such therapy may have particular importance in areas where high metronidazole resistance is a concern.
To improve the predictability of the zebrafish embryotoxicity test (ZET) for developmental (neuro)toxicity screening, we used a multiple-endpoints strategy, including morphology, motor activity (MA), histopathology and kinetics. The model compounds used were antiepileptic drugs (AEDs): valproic acid (VPA), carbamazepine (CBZ), ethosuximide (ETH) and levetiracetam (LEV). For VPA, histopathology was the most sensitive parameter, showing effects already at 60μM. For CBZ, morphology and MA were the most sensitive parameters, showing effects at 180μM. For ETH, all endpoints showed similar sensitivity (6.6mM), whereas MA was the most sensitive parameter for LEV (40mM). Inclusion of kinetics did not alter the absolute ranking of the compounds, but the relative potency was changed considerably. Taking all together, this demo-case study showed that inclusion of multiple-endpoints in ZET may increase the sensitivity of the assay, contribute to the elucidation of the mode of toxic action and to a better definition of the applicability domain of ZET.
The amygdala is instrumental to a set of brain processes that lead to cocaine consumption, including those that mediate reward and drug craving. This study examined the volumes of the amygdala and hippocampus in cocaine-addicted subjects and matched healthy controls and determined that the amygdala but not the hippocampus was significantly reduced in volume. The right-left amygdala asymmetry in control subjects was absent in the cocaine addicts. Topological analysis of amygdala isosurfaces (population averages) revealed that the isosurface of the cocaine-dependent group undercut the anterior and superior surfaces of the control group, implicating a difference in the corticomedial and basolateral nuclei. In cocaine addicts, amygdala volume did not correlate with any measure of cocaine use. The amygdala symmetry coefficient did correlate with baseline but not cocaine-primed craving. These findings argue for a condition that predisposes the individual to cocaine dependence by affecting the amygdala, or a primary event early in the course of cocaine use.
Cocaine abuse occurs in 40% to 60% of patients entering opioid maintenance treatment, and effective pharmacotherapies are needed for this combined dependence.
This 13-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial evaluated the efficacy of desipramine hydrochloride (0 or 150 mg/d) plus buprenorphine hydrochloride (12 mg/d) or methadone hydrochloride (65 mg/d) in 180 opioid-dependent cocaine abusers (124 men, 56 women). Supervised urine samples were obtained thrice weekly, and self-reported cocaine and heroin use was reported once weekly. Desipramine plasma levels were determined at weeks 4 and 10.
In men, opioid abstinence was increased more rapidly over time when treated with methadone than with buprenorphine, whereas cocaine abstinence was increased more with buprenorphine than with methadone. In women, opioid abstinence was increased the least rapidly when treated with buprenorphine plus placebo, while cocaine abstinence was increased more rapidly over time when treated with methadone than with buprenorphine. Regardless of sex or opioid medication, desipramine increased opioid and cocaine abstinence more rapidly over time than placebo. Self-reported opioid use confirmed these findings. Desipramine plasma levels were higher in women than in men, particularly those on buprenorphine maintenance. Higher desipramine plasma levels were associated with greater opioid, but not cocaine, abstinence.
Desipramine may be a useful adjunctive medication in facilitating opioid and cocaine abstinence in opioid-maintained patients. The efficacy of opioid medications to treat opioid or cocaine dependence may differ by sex. These findings highlight the importance of including sex as a factor when examining treatment outcome in these types of trials.
To determine the impact of high-dose cytarabine (ARA-C) (HDAC) dose modification, based on renal function, on the incidence of neurotoxicity (NT).
We retrospectively analyzed the records of 256 patients treated with HDAC (> or = 2.0 g/m2 per dose) for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF). From 1985 to 1994, a total of 358 cycles of HDAC were administered, using either a twice-daily schedule (n = 208) or a once-daily regimen (n = 48). In 1989, a dose-modification algorithm was initiated at our institution, which reduced ARA-C doses in the setting of renal insufficiency (RI). For patients with a serum creatinine (Cr) level of 1.5 to 1.9 mg/dL during treatment, or an increase in Cr during treatment (deltaCr) of 0.5 to 1.2 mg/dL, ARA-C was decreased to 1 g/m2 per dose. For patients with a Cr > or = 2.0 mg/dL or a deltaCr greater 1.2 mg/dL, the dose was reduced to 0.1 g/m2/d.
Overall, the incidence of NT was 16% (34 of 208) for patients treated with twice-daily HDAC and 0% (none of 48) for patients treated with daily HDAC (P = .003). NT occurred more often in patients treated on a twice-daily schedule with 3 g/m2 per dose compared with 2 g/m2 per dose (25% v 8%; P = .009). NT occurred in 55% of the twice-daily-treated patients with RI, compared with 7% of those with normal renal function (P = .00001). In patients with RI, NT occurred in none of 11 dose-modified cycles versus five of 11 (45%) total unmodified cycles (P = .01). None of 14 patients treated with once-daily HDAC given during RI developed NT, compared to 55% of patients (23 of 42) receiving twice-daily HDAC during RI (P = .009). By univariate analysis, NT was not associated with patient age or serum alkaline phosphatase, but NT was significantly increased in patients treated with twice-daily HDAC when the serum bilirubin was > or = 2.0 mg/dL compared with twice-daily HDAC given when the total bilirubin was less than 2.0 mg/dL (33% v 14%; P = .017). Multivariate analysis confirmed that RI was the most significant risk factor associated with the development of NT.
HDAC NT is strongly associated with RI. The risk of HDAC NT can be reduced by the following: (1) routinely reducing the ARA-C dose from 3 to 2 g/m2 per dose; (2) modifying the ARA-C dose based on daily Cr values; and (3) administering HDAC on a once-daily rather than twice-daily schedule.
Side effect and health status changes were measured in 3 studies in which outpatients experiencing suboptimal efficacy or tolerability with their current antipsychotic were switched to 6 weeks of open-label ziprasidone. The studies differed only in the patient's prior antipsychotic; 1 study group was on olanzapine (n = 104), a second on risperidone (n = 58), and third on a conventional antipsychotic (n = 108). Baseline and end point health status measures included weight and height, nonfasting cholesterol, and triglyceride levels, prolactin levels, and extrapyramidal side effects. Improvements in health indices and side effects were seen among all 3 groups, but the specific benefits depended on the preswitch antipsychotic. For example, patients switched from olanzapine experienced a mean weight loss of 1.76 kg (P < 0.0001), those switched from risperidone had a lesser reduction in weight (-0.86 kg; P = 0.015), and those switched from conventionals had a nonsignificant increase (+0.27 kg; P = 0.3). Prolactin levels decreased among those switched from risperidone (P < 0.0001) or conventionals (P = 0.05), but not for patients switched from olanzapine. EPS improved among those switched from conventionals (P < 0.0001) and to a lesser extent among those switched from risperidone (P < 0.01), but not in those changed from olanzapine (NS). Thus, in these studies, switching to ziprasidone in patients with continuing symptoms or side effects on their current medication was often associated with improved health status indices, lowered prolactin levels, or less EPS, with the magnitude benefit consistent with the known side-effect profile of the preswitch antipsychotic.
A previously healthy 63-yr-old female died following an anaphylactoid response to anaesthesia with thiopentone and suxamethonium. Postmortem findings strongly suggested that disseminated intravascular coagulation played a significant role in her death. The local mechanism behind the reaction is unknown, but the formation of thiopentone-suxamethonium colloid aggregates during induction, may have led to "aggregate anaphylaxis".
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is characterized by aggressive behavior with a propensity for metastasis and recurrence. Here we report a comprehensive analysis of the molecular and clinical features of HNSCC that govern patient survival. We find that TP53 mutation is frequently accompanied by loss of chromosome 3p and that the combination of these events is associated with a surprising decrease in survival time (1.9 years versus >5 years for TP53 mutation alone). The TP53-3p interaction is specific to chromosome 3p and validates in HNSCC and pan-cancer cohorts. In human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive tumors, in which HPV inactivates TP53, 3p deletion is also common and is associated with poor outcomes. The TP53-3p event is modified by mir-548k expression, which decreases survival further, and is mutually exclusive with mutations affecting RAS signaling. Together, the identified markers underscore the molecular heterogeneity of HNSCC and enable a new multi-tiered classification of this disease.
We performed a multistage genome-wide association study including 7,683 individuals with pancreatic cancer and 14,397 controls of European descent. Four new loci reached genome-wide significance: rs6971499 at 7q32.3 (LINC-PINT, per-allele odds ratio (OR) = 0.79, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.74-0.84, P = 3.0 × 10(-12)), rs7190458 at 16q23.1 (BCAR1/CTRB1/CTRB2, OR = 1.46, 95% CI 1.30-1.65, P = 1.1 × 10(-10)), rs9581943 at 13q12.2 (PDX1, OR = 1.15, 95% CI 1.10-1.20, P = 2.4 × 10(-9)) and rs16986825 at 22q12.1 (ZNRF3, OR = 1.18, 95% CI 1.12-1.25, P = 1.2 × 10(-8)). We identified an independent signal in exon 2 of TERT at the established region 5p15.33 (rs2736098, OR = 0.80, 95% CI 0.76-0.85, P = 9.8 × 10(-14)). We also identified a locus at 8q24.21 (rs1561927, P = 1.3 × 10(-7)) that approached genome-wide significance located 455 kb telomeric of PVT1. Our study identified multiple new susceptibility alleles for pancreatic cancer that are worthy of follow-up studies.
