The occurrence of renal insufficiency associated with heavy glomerular proteinuria during the course of continuous rifampin therapy in a patient with pulmonary tuberculosis is reported. Renal biopsy demonstrated acute interstitial nephritis, normal glomerular histology, effacement of glomerular epithelial cell foot processes, and electron-dense deposits in mesangial matrix and subendothelial and paramesangial sites. Discontinuation of rifampin was followed by improvement in renal function and abatement of proteinuria. We call attention to the broad clinical and morphologic spectrum of nephrotoxicity which may be induced by rifampin and a variety of other drugs.
We observed a young patient with slight mental retardation, suffering from drug-resistant tonic-clonic seizures, who presented a status epilepticus (SE), in two separate periods when valproic acid (VPA) was added to the phenobarbital (PB) already being used in the patient's therapy. The VPA-induced SE was characterized by normal plasma levels of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), normal ammonemia and normal liver function. The case we studied represents the first report on a VPA-induced SE. Furthermore the case confirms that VPA, as well as causing encephalopathy secondary to hyperammonemia, may also provoke a primary involvement of the central nervous system (CNS), specially when used in young epileptic, mentally retarded subjects. In an attempt to explain the paradoxical effect of VPA we hypothesise that the SE could be due to an increase in excitatory activity producing a consequent epileptogenic effect in those subjects with a predisposition for toxic reaction to VPA therapy due to congenital anomalies of neural networks.
Propafenone is a class Ic anti-arrhythmic agent with mild beta-blocking properties which has recently become available in South Africa. We have used the drug in 3 patients with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia not due to ischaemic heart disease. All had normal left ventricular function; 1 had Wegener's granulomatosis and 2 had arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia. In the latter 2, propafenone provoked incessant monomorphic ventricular tachycardia which persisted for more than 24 hours despite repeated efforts at termination. The morphology was similar to the patients' spontaneous ventricular tachycardia, but the rate was slower and the QRS complexes broader, consistent with propafenone's marked ability to slow intraventricular conduction. It is postulated that incessant tachycardia results from perpetuation of re-entry due to marked conduction slowing produced by the drug. Previous reports have suggested that this is most likely to occur in patients with poor left ventricular function, but our experience indicates that those with normal left ventricular function are also at risk, particularly if the substrate for re-entry is present. Propafenone, like all other powerful anti-arrhythmic agents, may provoke life-threatening arrhythmias and should be used with great caution after due consideration of the indications, even in patients with normal left ventricular function.
Prostate carcinogenesis involves transformation of zinc-accumulating normal epithelial cells to malignant cells, which do not accumulate zinc. In this study, we demonstrate by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry that physiological levels of zinc inhibit activation of nuclear factor (NF)-kappa B transcription factor in PC-3 and DU-145 human prostate cancer cells, reduce expression of NF-kappa B-controlled antiapoptotic protein c-IAP2, and activate c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinases. Preincubation of PC-3 cells with physiological concentrations of zinc sensitized tumor cells to tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and paclitaxel mediated cell death as defined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling assay. These results suggest one possible mechanism for the inhibitory effect of zinc on the development and progression of prostate malignancy and might have important consequences for the prevention and treatment of prostate cancer.
Several cases have been reported, in which a rather large dose of streptomycin given intraperitoneally at operation has produced respiratory paralysis. In these cases the treatment has usually consisted of respirator ventilation and administration of atropine and neostigmine. In animal experiments, in which a cessation of breathing has been produced, calcium salts have produced quick recovery. The authors present a case, in which appendicetomy was performed on a 10-year-old girl for a perforated appendix at the end of which, an overdose of intraperitoneal streptomycin was given, followed 10 minutes later by complete cessation of breathing. The patient had to be intubated again and put into a respirator. Neostigmine and atropine were used without noticeable effect. One and a half hours after the breathing had stopped 0.6 g calcium chloride was given intravenously and the girl recovered immediately and completely.
Intravenous (IV) phenytoin sodium in small volumes of normal saline was administered in a municipal hospital emergency department for treatment of convulsions in 200 patients. A total of 72 complications developed in 51 patients. Twenty-nine complications were burning pain at the IV site, and 36 were related to excessive total dose of phenytoin and resultant drug intoxication. Seven other patients had cardiovascular complications, including hypotension and arrhythmias. These seven complications were related to high concentrations of drug administered at a rapid rate. Both the IV and cardiovascular complications promptly resolved when the IV rate was slowed or temporarily stopped. No patient died, and none was hospitalized because of a complication. The authors propose specific guidelines for the safe administration of IV phenytoin.
We report the case of a woman with gefitinib-sensitive lung adenocarcinoma, who was successfully re-treated with gefitinib for carcinomatous meningitis as the disease recurrence. The good response to gefitinib treatment was supported in part by the existence of epidermal growth factor receptor mutation in carcinoma cells in the specimen obtained from transbronchial lung biopsy, in which E709G in exon 18 and L858R in exon 21 were shown. Although carcinomatous meningitis had been well controlled by the treatment with gefitinib, serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level increased with re-growth of primary tumor and development of lymphangitic carcinomatosis. Immunohistochemical findings revealed de novo emergence of CEA-producing carcinoma cells in the biopsy specimen taken after recurrence of pulmonary lesion during re-treatment of gefitinib, but revealed little or no CEA expression in the specimen obtained at first presentation. These facts may suggest the possibility of oligo clonality of carcinoma cells in this case.
2,2',4,4',5-Pentabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-99) is a brominated flame retardant congener that has pervaded global food chains, being reported in avian egg and tissue samples throughout the world. Its effects on birds are not well known, but there is evidence in exposed mammals that it directly mediates and causes neurotoxicity, alters thyroid hormone homeostasis, and lowers sex steroid hormone concentrations. In birds, those processes could disrupt the song-control system and male mating behavior. In this study, the effects of nestling exposure to environmentally relevant levels of BDE-99 were assessed in a model songbird species, the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata). A tissue residue study in which zebra finch nestlings were orally exposed to 0, 2.5, 15.8, or 50.7 ng BDE-99/g body weight (bw) per day over the 21-day nesting period validated dosing methods and confirmed dose levels were environmentally relevant (332.7 ± 141.0 to 4450.2 ± 1396.2 ng/g plasma lipid). A full-scale study exposing nestlings to 0, 2.5, 15.8, 50.7, or 173.8 ng BDE-99/g bw/day was carried out to investigate long-term effects of BDE-99 on the adult song-control nuclei volumes, song quality, and male mating behavior. Early exposure to BDE-99 had significant effects on male mating behavior and the response of clean experienced females to exposed males. There was no effect on male song-control nuclei or song quality, and there were nondose-dependent effects on female song-control nuclei. The results demonstrate that early exposure to environmentally relevant levels of BDE-99 affects the behavior of zebra finches.
The effect of hydrochlorothiazide, propranolol, and enalapril on cognitive and motor function and quality of life (QOL) in hypertensive patients was studied. Patients > or = 55 years of age with asymptomatic essential hypertension were included in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Subjects discontinued their previous antihypertensive agents and started hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg, extended-release propranolol hydrochloride 120 mg, enalapril maleate 10 mg, or placebo. One capsule was taken for three days and then the dosage was doubled for the remainder of a four-week period. Subsequent crossover treatments were begun without a washout period. In each treatment phase, a battery of psychometric tests was used to assess cognitive and motor function and quality of life; all tests but one were self-administered via computer terminal. Pulse rate and blood pressure were recorded, and compliance was monitored by capsule count. Sixteen of 30 patients interviewed completed the trials; one additional patient was evaluated after receiving all treatments except hydrochlorothiazide. Mean +/- S.D. age of the subjects was 66 +/- 6.1 years; 10 were black and 7 white; 9 were men. Except for the hydrochlorothiazide group, blood pressure in the active treatment groups did not differ significantly from placebo; hydrochlorothiazide significantly reduced systolic but not diastolic blood pressure compared with placebo. Compared with placebo, hydrochlorothiazide was associated with fewer incorrect responses in a test of complex reaction time and with greater discriminant reaction time response rates; otherwise, no difference between groups was noted in cognitive or motor performance. There were no significant differences between active treatments and placebo on individual QOL measures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We investigated the relationship between left ventricular diastolic function and interstitial collagen content in the endocardium, mesocardium and epicardium of transverse sections of the heart, using an image analysis system in normotensive and hypertensive long-term streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic rats. STZ-induced diabetes was characterised by elevated blood glucose, polyuria, polydypsia and loss of body weight. In vivo systolic blood pressure was 165 +/- 4, 136 +/- 3 and 129 +/- 7 mmHg in hypertensive and normotensive diabetic rats and age-matched controls, respectively. Heart rate was significantly lower (P < 0.01) in diabetic rats (283 +/- 8 and 280 +/- 10 beats min-1 in normotensive and hypertensive rats, respectively) than controls (393 +/- 18 beats min-1). Pressure-volume (P-V) curves were studied in isolated Langendorff perfused hearts at rest and after 20 min global ischaemia and 30 min reperfusion 6 months after induction of diabetes. Left ventricular volumes were significantly smaller in diabetic rats than age-matched controls, but volumes normalised for heart weight were higher in normotensive (by 28%) and hypertensive (by 10%) diabetic rats. Slopes of end-diastolic P-V curves were similar between groups in basal conditions, but left ventricular systolic P-V curves were steeper in normotensive and flatter in hypertensive diabetic hearts. Post-ischaemic left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly higher than the pre-ischaemic value at comparable increments of volume in each group. Collagen content significantly increased in the heart of rats with STZ-diabetes both in the free left ventricular wall and septum, and suggested this may play a role in the cardiac defects in contractility and relaxation in our experimental conditions. These results indicate that diabetes, irrespective of associated hypertension, can cause major changes in cardiac performance and susceptibility to ischaemia and reperfusion.
We studied the effect of various amino acid mixtures on nasal allergy induced by the intranasal application of toluene diisocyanate (TDI) in mice. In Experiment 1 (Exp. 1), mice were fed a 25% casein, soy protein isolate (SPI), egg white protein (EW) or gluten diet. In Experiment 2 (Exp. 2), mice were fed a 25% amino acid mixture diets patterned after casein (AA-casein), SPI (AA-SPI), EW protein (AA-EW) or gluten (AA-gluten). In Experiment 3 3 (Exp. 3) we modified the glutamine/glutamic acid (Gln/Glu) concentrations in the amino acid mixtures. Mice were fed a 25% AA-SPI, low Gln/Glu AA-SPI (LG-AA-SPI), AA-EW or high Gln/Glu AA-EW (HG-AA-EW) diet. At the 5th week, mice were divided into sensitized (sen-) and non-sensitized (ns-) groups. The mice in sensitized groups were treated with two courses of intranasal application of toluene diisocyanate (TDI) in ethyl acetate for 5 consecutive days, separated by 9 days rest. The non-sensitized groups of mice were treated with a vehicle. Nine days after the second sensitization, all mice were provoked by TDI. Nasal responses and serum IgE concentration were studied. The findings of Exp. 1 showed that the sen-EW group exhibited a lower body weight gain, higher nasal symptom score and higher IgE concentration than the other sensitized groups. The findings dings of Exp. 2 showed that the sen-EW group had a lower body weight gain, higher nasal symptom score and higher IgE concentration than the other sensitized groups. In Exp. 3, the AA-EW group showed a higher total nasal score and IgE concentration than the HG-AA-EW group, however, the findings of LG-AA-SPI and AA-SPI were similar. These findings demonstrated that amino acid mixtures affect nasal allergy induced by the intranasal application of TDI in mice.
Barbiturate coma is employed in brain-injured patients whenever increases in intracranial pressure remain unresponsive to less aggressive therapeutic regimens. Barbiturate-mediated neuroprotection, however, is weakened by an increased infection rate related to barbiturate-induced immunosuppression. Co-administration of barbiturates with antibiotics known to induce bone marrow suppression could, in turn, potentiate barbiturate-mediated immunosuppression. Adverse drug reactions and interactions of thiopental with antibiotics in terms of leukopenia, infection rate, and bone marrow suppression were investigated.
White blood cells were measured daily, tracheobronchial secretion and urine were examined for bacterial growth twice a week or if an infection was suspected.
A total of 52 patients with severe isolated head injury were consecutively investigated. Due to increased intracranial pressure (ICP), which did not respond to analgosedation, barbiturate coma was performed in 23 cases. The other 29 patients remained analgosedated. Leukocytes and neutrophils were reversibly and significantly decreased in all patients, mostly sustained under thiopental. The pulmonary infection rate due to gram-negative organisms was nearly doubled during barbiturate coma. Reversible agranulocytosis and bone marrow suppression attributed to antibiotics developed in six patients after thiopental administration. Mortality rate, however, was not increased by these adverse effects.
Barbiturate coma may cause reversible leukopenia and an increased infection rate. Long-term administration of thiopental may also promote reversible antibiotic-induced bone marrow suppression. The mechanisms and site of interaction between thiopental and antibiotics cannot be assessed by the present study and remain to be clarified. However, during and after barbiturate coma, close monitoring of leukocytes and infections and careful selection of antibiotics is required.
Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitors, candidate therapeutic agents for a number of diseases, are known to be associated with acute fibrosis-type adverse effects in a number of species, including humans. The broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor, AZM551248, has previously been shown to cause these effects in the dog. Changes were characterized by the abnormal and extensive proliferation of fibroblasts and the deposition of collagen particularly in the subcutaneous connective tissues (subcutis) and were termed fibrodysplasia (FD). We performed a time-course study in dogs using AZM551248 and sampled skin, subcutis, and plasma before and during the development of FD. Detailed histopathological analysis and global gene expression profiling were performed on the subcutaneous tissues. The gene expression analysis of the subcutis indicated that extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling was initiated asymptomatically at or before the earliest time point, day 4, and this was associated with dysregulation of expression of a number of MMPs and proteolytic enzymes. At later time points, the FD became progressively more extensive and severe, and this was associated with gene expression changes characteristic of tissue fibrosis, for example those associated with procollagen synthesis and processing. We postulate that AZM551248 inhibition of MMP action within the subcutis modulates the activity of several transcription factors and this in turn upregulates expression of specific proteases which initiate ECM remodeling. Persistent MMP inhibition results in the progression of ECM remodeling, culminating in collagen deposition and overt fibrosis. Our data indicate that inhibition of MMPs 1, 2, 3, and 9 is a key early event in AZM551248-induced FD in dog subcutis.
Within 3 weeks of beginning continuous daily isoniazid and rifampin therapy for pulmonary tuberculosis, a patient developed acute renal failure. Renal biopsy demonstrated lesions characteristic of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with minor interstitial changes. Prior reports have emphasized the tubular and interstitial lesions associated with intermittent or discontinuous rifampin therapy for tuberculosis. This report documents the occurrence of severe glomerular pathology associated with continuous, daily antituberculous therapy. The spectrum of renal lesions occurring during antituberculous therapy, particularly in association with rifampin, may be wider than previously suspected.
Dopamine seems to play a very important role in aggressive behavior observed in morphine withdrawal. The effect of SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg), raclopride (0.3 mg/kg), and haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) on morphine withdrawal-induced aggression has been studied in this work. Mice were rendered dependent by a daily injection of morphine (2.5 mg/kg) for 14 days. Three different experiments were carried out with the objective to evaluate the antiaggressive effect of the dopamine antagonists on: first, spontaneous morphine withdrawal; second, naloxone-induced withdrawal; and third, naloxone-induced withdrawal after previous administration of the neuroleptics. Thirty minutes after injection of the dopamine antagonists, experimental animals were confronted in a neutral area with anosmic, group-housed conspecifics (standard opponents), and aggression was evaluated by estimation of times allocated to 11 different behavioral categories. Morphine withdrawal produced an increase in aggressive behavior and a decrease in social and nonsocial behaviors. The three neuroleptics counteracted this aggression, but when SCH 23390 (selective D1 antagonist) and haloperidol (mixed D1/D2 antagonist) were administered in naloxone-induced withdrawal, the effect was greater in comparison to the spontaneous withdrawal. However, no changes were observed after raclopride administration (selective D2 antagonist). In conclusion, the alterations in the dopaminergic system produced by opiate withdrawal depend on the type of withdrawal produced, and this produces a change in the antiaggressive potency of the dopamine antagonists.
Pain from bone metastases limits mobility and may cause pathological fractures that can seriously impair the patient's quality of life. Conservative treatments such as orthopedic fixation, radiotherapy, and opioids sometimes fail to give satisfactory pain relief. Bisphosphonates have been reported to reduce the severity of pain from bone metastasis due to breast cancer, prostate cancer, and multiple myeloma. Recent clinical reports demonstrated the effectiveness of bisphosphonates in reducing pain from bone metastases in various malignancies. This study presents 3 cases of refractory pain from bone metastases due to thyroid, colorectal and hepatocellular carcinoma. Primary treatment included orthopedic fixation, radiotherapy, and/or parenteral opioids that failed to reduce bone pain. Bisphosphonate therapy was considered at the start of pain control treatment using opioids. All 3 cases showed gradual reduction in pain after i.v. pamidronate administration and allowed physicians to control further pain with opioids. In 1 case, the patient was successfully withdrawn from opioids. The role of bisphosphonates in painful bone metastases remains unclear. However, recent encouraging reports have indicated that bisphosphonate may become one of the adjuvant treatments available to control refractory bone pain from various malignancies.
A case of droperidol-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome during anaesthesia is presented. An 86-year-old man underwent spinal anaesthesia for open reduction and internal fixation of a trochanteric hip fracture. He received droperidol 5 mg intravenously for sedation towards the end of surgery. He subsequently became very drowsy and experienced marked muscle rigidity and autonomic instability. He became febrile postoperatively. The clinical syndrome resolved after 12 hours. When using droperidol in anaesthesia or intensive care--especially when large doses are given--the development of neuroleptic malignant syndrome should be suspected if the patient becomes febrile and has muscle rigidity and autonomic instability.
The nocturnal and day-time activity of rats was monitored continuously after the induction of seizures by a single systemic injection of lithium followed 4 hr. later by the muscarinic agent pilocarpine. Although there was a transient increase in activity during the day cycle shortly after the seizure induction, this behavior returned to baseline levels; however, nocturnal activity increased and remained elevated two or three times above the baseline levels. Implications for the enhancement of nocturnal melatonin levels within the brains of these chronically epileptic rats are discussed.
The effect of the selective dopamine DA1 receptor agonist fenoldopam (1 microgram/kg/min i.v.) on the acute nephrotoxic response to amphotericin B (2 mg/kg i.v.) has been studied in the anesthetized dog. Animals were prepared for the measurement of blood pressure, renal blood flow, urine flow, glomerular filtration rate and sodium and potassium excretion. Amphotericin B was given over 20 min and the animals were followed for an additional 160 min. The fenoldopam infusion was started 20 min before amphotericin B and was continued for the duration of the experiment. In control animals, amphotericin B markedly increased renal vascular resistance without affecting blood pressure and thus produced a significant reduction in renal blood flow. The renal vasoconstrictor response to amphotericin B was not attenuated by fenoldopam. Concomitant with the renal vasoconstriction produced by amphotericin B was a marked reduction in glomerular filtration rate, sodium excretion and urine flow rate, which lasted for at least 160 min after amphotericin B treatment. Fenoldopam did not have any effect on the initial reductions in glomerular filtration rate, sodium excretion and urine flow rate but did produce a significant return of these parameters toward control levels by 160 min, despite the continued renal vasoconstriction. The effect of fenoldopam (0.5 microgram/kg/min) given continuously by i.v. infusion on the subacute nephrotoxic response produced by amphotericin B given every other day for 8 days was also investigated. One day after the start of the fenoldopam infusion, venous samples were drawn for the analysis of serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Increased atherosclerosis risk in hyperlipidemic patients may be a result of the enhanced oxidizability of their plasma lipoproteins. We have previously shown that hypocholesterolemic drug therapy, including the 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl CoenzymeA (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, and the hypotriglyceridemic drug bezafibrate, significantly reduced the enhanced susceptibility to oxidation of low density lipoprotein (LDL) isolated from hyperlipidemic patients. Although this antioxidative effect could not be obtained in vitro with all of these drugs, the active drug metabolites, which are formed in vivo, could affect lipoprotein oxidizability. We thus sought to analyze the effect of atorvastatin and gemfibrozil, as well as specific hydroxylated metabolites, on the susceptibility of LDL, very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), and high density lipoprotein (HDL) to oxidation. LDL oxidation induced by either copper ions (10 microM CuSO4), by the free radical generator system 2'-2'-azobis 2-amidino propane hydrochloride (5 mM AAPH), or by the J-774A.1 macrophage-like cell line, was not inhibited by the parent forms of atorvastatin or gemfibrozil, but was substantially inhibited (57-97%), in a concentration-dependent manner, by pharmacological concentrations of the o-hydroxy and the p-hydroxy metabolites of atorvastatin, as well as by the p-hydroxy metabolite (metabolite I) of gemfibrozil. On using the atorvastatin o-hydroxy metabolite and gemfibrozil metabolite I in combination an additive inhibitory effect on LDL oxidizability was found. Similar inhibitory effects (37-96%) of the above metabolites were obtained for the susceptibility of VLDL and HDL to oxidation in the oxidation systems outlined above. The inhibitory effects of these metabolites on LDL, VLDL, and HDL oxidation could be related to their free radical scavenging activity, as well as (mainly for the gemfibrozil metabolite I) to their metal ion chelation capacities. In addition, inhibition of HDL oxidation was associated with the preservation of HDL-associated paraoxonase activity. We conclude that atorvastatin hydroxy metabolites, and gemfibrozil metabolite I possess potent antioxidative potential, and as a result protect LDL, VLDL, and HDL from oxidation. We hypothesize that in addition to their beneficial lipid regulating activity, specific metabolites of both drugs may also reduce the atherogenic potential of lipoproteins through their antioxidant properties.
Normal age-related testosterone depletion in men is a recently identified risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), but how androgen loss affects the development of AD is unclear. To investigate the relationship between androgen depletion and AD, we compared how androgen status affects the progression of neuropathology in the triple transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTg-AD). Adult male 3xTg-AD mice were sham gonadectomized (GDX) or GDX to deplete endogenous androgens and then exposed for 4 months to either the androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or to placebo. In comparison to gonadally intact 3xTg-AD mice, GDX mice exhibited robust increases in the accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta), the protein implicated as the primary causal factor in AD pathogenesis, in both hippocampus and amygdala. In parallel to elevated levels of Abeta, GDX mice exhibited significantly impaired spontaneous alternation behavior, indicating deficits in hippocampal function. Importantly, DHT treatment of GDX 3xTg-AD mice attenuated both Abeta accumulation and behavioral deficits. These data demonstrate that androgen depletion accelerates the development of AD-like neuropathology, suggesting that a similar mechanism may underlie the increased risk for AD in men with low testosterone. In addition, our finding that DHT protects against acceleration of AD-like neuropathology predicts that androgen-based hormone therapy may be a useful strategy for the prevention and treatment of AD in aging men.
In order to prevent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection of infants of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive mothers, a nation-wide immunization programme was initiated in Italy in January 1984. During the first 3 years (1984-86), 651,667 out of 1726,000 pregnant women (37.8%) were screened for HBsAg; the percentage of mothers screened increased from 32% in 1984 to 51% in 1986 in 15 of the 21 Italian regions, where data by year were available. HBsAg was present in 15,640 mothers (2.4% of those screened); range by region 0.3-6.4%. All newborns of HBsAg-positive women, regardless of the mother's status of hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAg), were given a single dose (0.5 ml Kg-1) of a hepatitis B immune globulin within 24 h after birth and the first dose of plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine within 7 days after birth. The immunization coverage rate was 80% in the 3-year period. Protective antibodies were found in greater than 97% of a sample of 1071 infants, immunized from different regions. No serious reactions were observed. On the basis of this field experience, it may be concluded that a nation-wide hepatitis B vaccination programme for infants of HBsAg-carrier mothers would be highly immunogenic and safe. Its implementation, however, requires continuous public education and cooperation from physicians.
Five patients with nonseptic cerebral embolism of cardiac origin are reported in whom early anticoagulant therapy resulted in clinical deterioration or death from frank hemorrhage into the acute infarct. In each patient an initial CT scan excluded the presence of intracerebral hemorrhage and a second CT scan, after clinical deterioration had occurred, documented frank hemorrhage into the infarcted zone. All five patients had large infarctions in the right middle cerebral artery territory and three patients were mildly hypertensive. Four patients received heparin within 36 hours of their stroke and one was on warfarin at time of the embolism. Clinical deterioration occurred after intervals of several hours (2 cases), 5-6 days (2 cases) and 30 days (1 case). In only 2 patients was anticoagulant activity excessive at time of clinical deterioration. This report illustrates the danger of early anticoagulant therapy of acute nonseptic cerebral embolism, particularly in the setting of large infarction.
