Almotriptan (3-[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-5-(pyrrolidin-1-ylsulfonylmethyl )-1H-indo le) has been studied in several models predictive of activity and selectivity at 5-HT receptors. Almotriptan showed low nanomolar affinity for the 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1D) receptors in several species, including the human, while affinity for 5-HT receptors other than 5-HT(1B/1D) was clearly less. Affinity for 5-HT(7) and 5-HT(1A) receptors was approximately 40 and 60 times lower than that for 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors, respectively. Almotriptan did not exhibit significant affinity for several non-5-HT receptors studied up to 100 microM. Almotriptan inhibited forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in HeLa cells transfected with 5-HT(1B) or 5-HT(1D) human receptors. In this model, almotriptan had the same efficacy as serotonin and an affinity in the low nanomolar range. It induced vasoconstriction in several vessels in which it was compared with sumatriptan. In isolated dog saphenous veins, almotriptan elicited concentration-dependent contractions with an EC(50) of 394 nM. In both these systems, almotriptan behaved as a full agonist. Infusion of almotriptan into the porcine meningeal vasculature induced vasoconstriction. In contrast, in the pig renal and rabbit mesenteric arteries, it had a very low maximal efficacy even at 100 microM, with similar results obtained in the rabbit renal artery. The results suggest that almotriptan is a potent and selective 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist, with selectivity for the cranial vasculature as compared with peripheral vessels.
The role of vasopressin as a pressor agent to the hypertensive process was examined. Vasopressin plays a major role in the pathogenesis of DOCA-salt hypertension, since the elevation of blood pressure was not substantial in the rats with lithium-treated diabetes insipidus after DOCA-salt treatment. Administration of DDAVP which has antidiuretic action but minimal vasopressor effect failed to increase blood pressure to the levels observed after administration of AVP. Furthermore, the pressor action of vasopressin appears to be important in the development of this model of hypertension, since the enhanced pressor responsiveness to the hormone was observed in the initial stage of hypertension. Increased secretion of vasopressin from neurohypophysis also promotes the function of the hormone as a pathogenetic factor in hypertension. An unproportional release of vasopressin compared to plasma osmolality may be induced by the absence of an adjusting control of angiotensin II forming and receptor binding capacity for sodium balance in the brain. However, the role of vasopressin remains to be determined in human essential hypertension.
The mechanisms underlying the disruption of glutamate-glutamine cycle (Glu-Gln cycle) in manganism are still unknown. To approach the concrete mechanisms, the rats were i.p. injected with different doses of MnCl(2) (0, 8, 40, and 200 micromol/kg), and the levels of Mn, Glu, and Gln, the morphological and ultrastructural changes, activities of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, GS, and PAG, mRNA and protein expression of GS, GLAST, and GLT-1 in the striatum were investigated. In addition, the effect of 21.35 micromol/kg riluzole (Na(+) channel blocker) was studied at 200 micromol/kg MnCl(2). It was observed that (1) Mn and Glu levels and PAG activity increased; (2) many pathological changes occurred; (3) Gln levels, Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase and GS activities, and GS, GLAST, and GLT-1 mRNA and protein expression inhibited, does dependently. Furthermore, the research indicated that pretreatment of riluzole reversed toxic effects of MnCl(2) significantly. These results suggested that Glu-Gln cycle was disrupted by Mn exposure dose dependently; riluzole might antagonize Mn neurotoxicity.
We have recently reported that the administration of AM404, an inhibitor of the endocannabinoid re-uptake process, which also has affinity for the vanilloid VR1 receptors, is able to reduce hyperkinesia, and causes recovery from neurochemical deficits, in a rat model of Huntington's disease (HD) generated by bilateral intrastriatal injections of 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP). In the present study, we wanted to explore the mechanism(s) by which AM404 produces its antihyperkinetic effect in 3NP-lesioned rats by employing several experimental approaches. First, we tried to block the effects of AM404 with selective antagonists for the CB1 or VR1 receptors, i.e. SR141716A and capsazepine, respectively. We found that the reduction caused by AM404 of the increased ambulation exhibited by 3NP-lesioned rats in the open-field test was reversed when the animals had been pre-treated with capsazepine but not with SR141716A, thus suggesting a major role of VR1 receptors in the antihyperkinetic effects of AM404. However, despite the lack of behavioral effects of the CB1 receptor antagonist, the pretreatment with this compound abolished the recovery of neurochemical [gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and dopamine] deficits in the caudate- putamen caused by AM404, as also did capsazepine. In a second group of studies, we wanted to explore the potential antihyperkinetic effects of various compounds which, compared to AM404, exhibit more selectivity for either the endovanilloid or the endocannabinoid systems. First, we tested VDM11 or AM374, two selective inhibitors or the endocannabinoid re-uptake or hydrolysis, respectively. Both compounds were mostly unable to reduce hyperkinesia in 3NP-lesioned rats, although VDM11 produced a certain motor depression, and AM374 exhibited a trend to stimulate ambulation, in control rats. We also tested the effects of selective direct agonists for VR1 (capsaicin) or CB1 (CP55,940) receptors. Capsaicin exhibited a strong antihyperkinetic activity and, moreover, was able to attenuate the reductions in dopamine and GABA transmission provoked by the 3NP lesion, whereas CP55,940 had also antihyperkinetic activity but was unable to cause recovery of either dopamine or GABA deficits in the basal ganglia. In summary, our data indicate a major role for VR1 receptors, as compared to CB1 receptors, in the antihyperkinetic effects and the recovery of neurochemical deficits caused in 3NP-lesioned rats by compounds that activate both CB1 and VR1 receptors, either directly or via manipulation of the levels of endogenous agonists.
Thromboembolic disease is a common medical condition which, if untreated, carries a significant risk of morbidity and mortality. Treatment with anticoagulant therapy, while clearly beneficial, may expose patients to potentially serious side effects. A thoughtful risk-benefit assessment is therefore crucial before initiating therapy. Thromboembolic disease involves syndromes of both the venous and arterial circulation, and its pathogenesis is best understood by considering the elements of Virchow's Triad. This model defines the risk factors for venous thromboembolism and allows us to classify surgical and medical patients into low, moderate and high risk groups. Similar analysis allows risk assessment for patients prone to cardiogenic embolism resulting from nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, ischaemic heart disease, rheumatic heart disease and valvular prostheses. All anticoagulant therapy is prophylactic. Primary prophylaxis involves instituting anticoagulant therapy in patients at risk, before thromboembolism occurs, while secondary prophylaxis involves treating patients with established disease. The 2 major anticoagulants, heparin and warfarin, differ in their mechanism of action, mode of administration and methods of monitoring. Either may be used as primary or secondary prophylaxis. Heparin, because it acts immediately, is the drug of choice for the short term treatment of thromboembolic disease. Warfarin is the drug of choice for long term oral maintenance therapy. The principal complication of heparin therapy is haemorrhage, although thrombocytopenia and osteoporosis may also occur; the complications of warfarin include haemorrhage and skin necrosis. The risks of complications vary with the underlying thromboembolic disease. After the benefits of treatment are weighed against the risks of complications, recommendations for therapy can be established. The use of anticoagulants in pregnancy is especially complex. Here heparin is probably the preferred agent since, unlike warfarin, it does not cross the placenta and is nonteratogenic.
We describe a patient who was treated with high-dose intravenous and intrathecal methotrexate for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and who manifested a false photosensitivity reaction with no prior evidence of sun exposure. This patient later experienced delayed transient hemiparesis following methotrexate administration, although without long-term sequelae. The etiology of these events is obscure, but suggestive of a vasculitic or immune-mediated reaction to methotrexate.
The niacin skin test reflects a flush and oedema owing to the production of prostaglandin D2 from arachidonic acid. A diminished response may indicate abnormalities in the phospholipid metabolism, which has been shown in schizophrenia. There is evidence that dyslexia might also involve phospholipid abnormalities, therefore we examined the skin response in 51 dyslexics and 45 controls. Four concentrations of aqueous methyl nicotinate were applied topically to the forearm. Flushing was rated using a seven-point scale at 3 min intervals over 21 min. Repeated measures ANOVA for the four concentrations across all seven time-points showed no significant effect of subject group, but when analyses were confined to the first 9 min, flushing was reduced in dyslexics. Significant group differences were also found for the lowest niacin concentration (0.0001M) across six out of seven time-points. The results indicate a slightly reduced and delayed response to niacin in dyslexia.
Toxic leukoencephalopathy has been described with inhalation and intravenous consumption of heroin and cocaine. The clinical picture varies widely but the imaging and histological features are characteristic. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) typically reveals diffuse bihemispheric white matter lesions. Histologically there is extensive spongiform degeneration of the cerebral white matter.
To report two cases of fatal toxin associated leukoencephalopathy, along with detailed imaging and neuropathological studies.
MRI revealed diffuse white matter changes. Histologically there was widespread confluent vacuolar degeneration of the deep white matter. In both cases, there was sparing of the brain stem and cerebellar white matter. There was evidence of severe and extensive axonal injury.
This pattern of radiological involvement and histological findings has not previously been reported and may reflect the presence of a yet unidentified impurity.
Heme oxygenase catalyzes the metabolism of heme to biliverdine, free iron, and carbon monoxide. The current study was designed to determine if treatment with the heme oxygenase substrates heme-L-arginate or heme-L-lysinate, to stimulate formation of heme oxygenase products, can lower blood pressure in the rat. Heme-L-arginate (45 mumol/kg ip) and heme-L-lysinate (45 mumol/kg ip) acutely lowered blood pressure in awake spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) by approximately 35 mmHg. For both heme oxygenase substrates, this effect was blunted by pretreatment with an inhibitor of heme oxygenase, zinc deuteroporphyrin 2,4-bis glycol. Heme-L-lysinate also lowered arterial pressure in deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertensive rats and in rats with phenylephrine-induced hypertension, indicating that the vasodepressive actions of heme may be extended to other hypertensive models. However, neither heme-L-arginate nor heme-L-lysinate decreased blood pressure in normotensive controls. The heme oxygenase product biliverdine did not lower blood pressure in SHR, and the vasodepressive actions of heme-L-lysinate were unaffected by pretreatment with deferoxamine to chelate free iron. Carbon monoxide (12 ml/kg ip) lowered blood pressure in SHR and in rats made hypertensive by phenylephrine infusion, had no effect on blood pressure in Wistar-Kyoto rats, and elicited only a modest vasodepressive response in normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats. We conclude that heme-bearing preparations can lower blood pressure in hypertensive rats, presumably via heme oxygenase-mediated formation of carbon monoxide.
To investigate the auditory impairment induced by the administration of aminoglycosides in the newborn, the shuttle box method was employed to measure the auditory threshold of rats. Five groups of newborn rats were administered kanamycin sulfate, 250 and 500 mg/kg, streptomycin sulfate, 250 and 500 mg/kg, or 1 ml/kg saline, subcutaneously, from the 10th to the 15th day of birth. The auditory threshold of the control group could be measured by the shuttle box method at the age of 100 days. The auditory threshold of the control group was 52.1 +/- 1.0 dB (N = 14). The auditory thresholds of the animals treated with kanamycin 250 mg/kg and streptomycin 250 mg/kg groups were measured in only 1 (61.0 dB) and 4 (64.8 +/- 4.6 dB), respectively, since the auditory toxicity of these drugs in newborn rats was stronger than adult rats. Auditory threshold of the 250 mg/kg streptomycin group was significantly higher than that of the control group. The animals which could not be measured for the auditory threshold had the ability to acquire conditioned avoidance response when both conditioned stimuli (tone and light) were presented. However, after differentiation of the stimuli, the percent avoidance to tone in these animals was significantly decreased and did not recover by the following trainings, while the percent avoidance to light was similar to that before the differentiation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this paper is to discuss the role of n-6 and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in coronary heart disease (CHD). The level of n-6 and n-3 fatty acids in plasma and cardiac phospholipids was examined in relation to CHD in man. The fatty acid profile of cardiac phospholipids was also examined in relation to various risk factors of CHD, such as the composition of dietary fat, aging and stress. Life expectancy in Iceland is higher than in other Nordic countries, and the cardiovascular diseases mortality is lower in Iceland in the older age groups. There is a positive correlation between the level of arachidonic acid (AA) in plasma phospholipids (PL) in the normal population and cardiovascular disease mortality in Nordic countries. The level of AA in plasma PL is significantly higher in patients with CHD than in normal subjects. Dietary intake of fish or fish oil lowers cellular levels of AA and favorably influences eicosanoid metabolism in platelets and leukocytes. The roles of n-6 and n-3 fatty acids in heart muscle are less well understood. Rats fed diets containing either 10% butter, corn oil or cod liver oil showed markedly different fatty acid composition of individual phospholipids in sarcolemma. Dietary cod liver oil lowered the AA level in sarcolemmal phosphatidyl choline (PC) and phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE) by 50% compared to butter or corn oil fed rats, replacing AA with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Adaptation to moderate to severe stress induced by repeated administration of catecholamines for 15 days resulted in marked but reversible alterations in the fatty acid profile of cardiac phospholipids. During severe stress the level of AA increased by 50% in PC replacing linoleic acid (LA), whereas in PE the DHA increased markedly replacing LA. Aging was accompanied by similar alterations in cardiac phospholipids, increased levels of AA in PC and increased DHA in PE. The incidence of ventricular fibrillation (VF) and sudden cardiac death induced by isoproterenol in adult rats fed different dietary fat was lowest in rats fed cod liver oil, with a low ratio of AA/DHA in cardiac phospholipids. Mortality due to VF was highest in rats fed corn oil with the highest ratio of AA/DHA. Sudden cardiac death in man was frequently associated with a higher ratio of AA/DHA than observed in people of the same age who died in accidents. The balance between n-6 and n-3 fatty acids in cellular phospholipids seems to play an important role in stress tolerance and survival.
The expressions of E2F1 and retinoblastoma protein (pRB) were analyzed in 165 lymph node-positive breast cancers. All patients underwent adjuvant chemotherapy with fluorouracil, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (FAC). E2F1 was expressed in 43.6% and pRB was expressed in 46.1%. E2F1 expression was significantly increased in pRB-expressing tumors and was associated with an S-phase fraction. By univariate survival analyses, E2F1 expression and ER were identified as significant prognostic factors for disease recurrence and patient survival. E2F1 was the only significant prognostic factor of patient outcome after FAC chemotherapy by multivariate analysis.
Arsenic can induce apoptosis and is an efficient drug for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia. Currently, clinical studies are investigating arsenic as a therapeutic agent for a variety of malignancies. In this study, Hodgkin/Reed-Sternberg (HRS) cell lines served as model systems to characterize the role of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in arsenic-induced apoptosis. Arsenic rapidly down-regulated constitutive IkappaB kinase (IKK) as well as NF-kappaB activity and induced apoptosis in HRS cell lines containing functional IkappaB proteins. In these cell lines, apoptosis was blocked by inhibition of caspase-8 and caspase-3-like activity. Furthermore, arsenic treatment down-regulated NF-kappaB target genes, including tumor necrosis factor-alphareceptor-associated factor 1 (TRAF1), c-IAP2, interleukin-13 (IL-13), and CCR7. In contrast, cell lines with mutated, functionally inactive IkappaB proteins or with a weak constitutive IKK/NF-kappaB activity showed no alteration of the NF-kappaB activity and were resistant to arsenic-induced apoptosis. A direct role of the NF-kappaB pathway in arsenic-induced apoptosis is shown by transient overexpression of NF-kappaB-p65 in L540Cy HRS cells, which protected the cells from arsenic-induced apoptosis. In addition, treatment of NOD/SCID mice with arsenic trioxide induced a dramatic reduction of xenotransplanted L540Cy Hodgkin tumors concomitant with NF-kappaB inhibition. We conclude that inhibition of NF-kappaB contributes to arsenic-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, pharmacologic inhibition of the IKK/NF-kappaB activity might be a powerful treatment option for Hodgkin lymphoma.
Curcumin and quercetin are antioxidant molecules with anti-proliferative, anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive activities. The objective of this study was to investigate the inhibitory activity of these agents using four assays of inflammatory aspects of arthritis.
Crystal-induced neutrophil activation was measured by luminol-dependent chemiluminescence. Synoviocyte proliferation was measured by an MTS assay using HIG-82 rabbit synoviocytes in cell culture. Chondrocyte (cultured primary cells) expression of the matrix metalloproteinases collagenase and stromelysin was measured by Northern Blot analysis. Angiogenesis was measured using the chorioallantoic membrane of the chick embryo.
Both agents inhibited neutrophil activation, synoviocyte proliferation and angiogenesis. Curcumin strongly inhibited collagenase and stromelysin expression at micromolar concentrations whereas quercetin had no effect in this assay.
These studies suggest that curcumin and to a lesser extent quercetin may offer therapeutic potential for the treatment of crystal-induced arthritis or rheumatoid arthritis.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a widespread endocrine-disrupting chemical used as the base compound in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics. In humans, epidemiological evidence has associated BPA exposure in adults with higher risk of type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
We examined the action of environmentally relevant doses of BPA on glucose metabolism in mice during pregnancy and the impact of BPA exposure on these females later in life. We also investigated the consequences of in utero exposure to BPA on metabolic parameters and pancreatic function in offspring.
Pregnant mice were treated with either vehicle or BPA (10 or 100 microg/kg/day) during days 9-16 of gestation. Glucose metabolism experiments were performed on pregnant mice and their offspring.
BPA exposure aggravated the insulin resistance produced during pregnancy and was associated with decreased glucose tolerance and increased plasma insulin, triglyceride, and leptin concentrations relative to controls. Insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation was reduced in skeletal muscle and liver of BPA-treated pregnant mice relative to controls. BPA exposure during gestation had long-term consequences for mothers: 4 months post-partum, treated females weighed more than untreated females and had higher plasma insulin, leptin, triglyceride, and glycerol levels and greater insulin resistance. At 6 months of age, male offspring exposed in utero had reduced glucose tolerance, increased insulin resistance, and altered blood parameters compared with offspring of untreated mothers. The islets of Langerhans from male offspring presented altered Ca2+ signaling and insulin secretion. BrdU (bromodeoxyuridine) incorporation into insulin-producing cells was reduced in the male progeny, yet beta-cell mass was unchanged.
Our findings suggest that BPA may contribute to metabolic disorders relevant to glucose homeostasis and that BPA may be a risk factor for diabetes.
Fish are important dietary items that provide essential nutrients. Fish however, bioaccumulate monomethyl mercury (MMHg) and organo-halogenated pollutants (OHP) that are persistent bioaccumulative and toxic substances (PBTS). Unlike man-made OHP, MMHg is mainly of natural origin but background concentrations of aquatic systems are determined by the environmental Hg-methylating potential. Industrial activities can modulate environmental discharges and fish bioaccumulation of PBTS. Fish and seafood consumption are associated with human body load of PBTS, but farming practices that utilize fishmeal increase the terrestrial food chain resulting in farm-animal accumulation of PBTS. These substances are neurotoxic and endocrine active that can impact humans and wild life, but chemical characteristics of MMHg and OHP modulate interactions with animal tissues. MMHg is protein reactive with a faster metabolism (months) than OHP that are stored and slowly (years) metabolized in fat tissues. Except for brain-Hg, neither Hg nor OHP in tissues are markers of toxic effects; however, deficits in neurobehavioral test-scores of children have been shown in some fish-eating populations. These deficits are transient and within normal range, and are not prodromes of neurological diseases. Although population studies show that consumption of fish at current levels of contamination do not explain neurological disorders, endocrine activity remains controversial. Understanding risk of hazard caused by fish-PBTS consumption requires a wide range of expertise. We discuss chemical, toxic, metabolic, and ecological characteristics associated with PBTS in fish. There are proven health outcome derived from fish consumption, while risk of exposure to avoidable PBTS is a chance that can be minimized by societal actions.
We have investigated dopamine (DA) receptors in estradiol-induced PRL-secreting pituitary tumors and intact pituitary tissue. Female rats were injected at 3-week intervals with 2 mg estradiol valerate (EV) or with diluent. After 21 weeks, adenomatous changes in the pituitary gland of EV-treated rats were seen and plasma PRL concentrations reached 2 micrograms/ml. Bromocriptine (2.5 mg/kg) was then administered for 1 month to half of the control rats and half of the rats bearing tumors. Anterior pituitary weight was increased in EV-treated rats compared to controls while the affinity and the density of DA receptors as assessed by [3H]spiperone binding remained unchanged. Bromocriptine (CB-154) induced a 70% decrease in the density of DA receptors without any change in affinity both in normal pituitaries and in tumors. Concurrently, the elevated plasma concentrations of PRL in the tumor bearing rats were decreased to control values following the CB-154 treatment. Our data suggest that rats with primary estrogen-induced PRL secreting tumors have normal pituitary DA receptors.
A rare complication of oral contraceptive therapy is the induction of chorea. We describe the case-history of a young woman who developed generalized chorea while receiving a low-dose estrogen-containing contraceptive. Dyskinesia resolved upon discontinuing the medication and after a brief treatment with an antidopaminergic agent. The literature of chorea associated with oral contraceptives and the different hypotheses about its pathogenesis are reviewed.
To study the effect of troglitazone on autophagy and programmed cell death of HeLa cells.
Fluorescence microscopy, electron microscopy, western-blotting and flow cytometry were used.
Troglitazone increased the autophagosome formation of HeLa cell as observed by fluorescence and electron microscopy. Immunoblotting further confirmed cell morphology observation upon the reagent stimulating by detecting an enhanced expression of LC3, an autophagic related gene. Besides apoptosis, troglitazone triggered a necrotic cell death in flow cytometry analysis.
Troglitazone induced mixed type of cell death in HeLa cells.
The effect of various regimens of treatment with melatonin on the development of mammary tumors in HER2/neu transgenic mice was investigated. Female HER-2/neu mice starting from the age of 2 months were kept under standard light/dark regimen and as given melatonin with tap water (20 mg/l) during the night time 5 times monthly (interrupted treatments) or constantly to natural death. Intact mice served as controls. Treatment with melatonin slowed down age-related disturbances in estrous function most in the group exposed to interrupted treatment with the hormone. Constant treatment with melatonin decreased incidence and size of mammary adenocarcinomas, and incidence of lung metastases, compared to controls. The number of mice bearing 4 and more tumors was reduced in the group with constant melatonin treatment. Interrupted treatment with melatonin promote mammary carcinogenesis in HER-2/neu transgenic mice. The data demonstrate the regimen-dependent inhibitory effect of melatonin on the development of spontaneous mammary tumors in HER-2/neu mice but not on overall survival with implication about the likely cause of the effect. Polycystic kidney disease is common in this transgenic line. Adverse effect of melatonin on the life span in our study may be unique to the transgenic model used and may not be relevant to the suppressive effect of melatonin in delay of mammary cancer.
The cocaine abstinence syndrome has been associated with a range of symptoms, including apathy and depression. Although initial studies reported high prevalence rates of 'apathy/amotivation' and depression, validated rating scales of apathy were not then available. Using a validated measure of apathy, we hypothesized that newly abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects would report increased apathy compared with non-cocaine-using control subjects. Furthermore, because apathy and depression are dissociable in other neuropsychiatric syndromes, we examined whether they were dissociable in recently abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects. Following 4 days of monitored abstinence, cocaine-dependent subjects (n=11) and non-drug-using control subjects (n=19) were administered standardized tests of apathy and depression. Cocaine-dependent subjects had elevated scores on the apathy rating scale compared with the control group, but the groups did not differ in ratings of depression. These data suggest that apathy is present during the initial phases of abstinence for a subset of cocaine-dependent individuals. This group may benefit from targeted pharmacological intervention.
Multidrug resistance is a major problem in successful cancer chemotherapy. Various mechanisms of resistance, such as ABC transporter-mediated drug efflux, have been discovered using established model cancer cell lines. While characterizing a drug-resistant breast cancer cell line, MCF7/AdVp3000, we found that fatty acid synthase (FASN) is overexpressed. In this study, we showed that ectopic overexpression of FASN indeed causes drug resistance and that reducing the FASN expression increased the drug sensitivity in breast cancer cell lines MCF7 and MDA-MB-468 but not in the normal mammary epithelial cell line MCF10A1. Use of FASN inhibitor, Orlistat, at low concentrations also sensitized cells with FASN overexpression to anticancer drugs. The FASN-mediated drug resistance appears to be due to a decrease in drug-induced apoptosis from an overproduction of palmitic acid by FASN. Together with previous findings of FASN as a poor prognosis marker for breast cancer patients, our results suggest that FASN overexpression is a new mechanism of drug resistance and may be an ideal target for chemosensitization in breast cancer chemotherapy.
The rat is the most extensively studied model organism and is broadly used in biomedical research. Current rat disease models are selected from existing strains and their number is thereby limited by the degree of naturally occurring variation or spontaneous mutations. We have used ENU mutagenesis to increase genetic variation in laboratory rats and identified a recessive mutant, named tornado, showing aberrant circling behavior, hyperactivity, and stereotypic head shaking. More detailed analysis revealed profound deafness due to disorganization and degeneration of the organ of Corti that already manifests at the onset of hearing. We set up a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-based mapping strategy to identify the affected gene, revealing strong linkage to the central region of chromosome 1. Candidate gene resequencing identified a point mutation that introduces a premature stopcodon in Myo7a. Mutations in human MYO7A result in Usher syndrome type 1B, a severe autosomal inherited recessive disease that involves deafness and vestibular dysfunction. Here, we present the first characterized rat model for this disease. In addition, we demonstrate proof of principle for the generation and cloning of human disease models in rat using ENU mutagenesis, providing good perspectives for systematic phenotypic screens in the rat.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) is a major complication of the pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's Disease. A model of LID has recently been described in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions. In the present study, the model was used in order to compare the efficacies of some clinically available compounds that have shown antidyskinetic effects in nonhuman primate models of LID and/or in patients, namely, amantadine (20 and 40 mg/kg), buspirone (1, 2 and 4 mg/kg), clonidine (0.01, 0.1 and 1 mg/kg), clozapine (4 and 8 mg/kg), fluoxetine (2.5 and 5 mg/kg), propranolol (5, 10 and 20mg/kg), riluzole (2 and 4 mg/kg), and yohimbine (2 and 10 mg/kg). Rats were treated for 3 weeks with L-DOPA for an induction and monitoring of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) prior to the drug screening experiments. The antidyskinetic drugs or their vehicles were administered together with L-DOPA, and their effects were evaluated according to a randomized cross-over design both on the AIM rating scale and on the rotarod test. Most of the compounds under investigation attenuated the L-DOPA-induced axial, limb and orolingual AIM scores. However, the highest doses of many of these substances (but for amantadine and riluzole) had also detrimental motor effects, producing a reduction in rotarod performance and locomotor scores. Since the present results correspond well to existing clinical and experimental data, this study indicates that axial, limb and orolingual AIMs possess predictive validity for the preclinical screening of novel antidyskinetic treatments. Combining tests of general motor performance with AIMs ratings in the same experiment allows for selecting drugs that specifically reduce dyskinesia without diminishing the anti-akinetic effect of L-DOPA.
The insulin-like growth factor binding protein 7 (IGFBP7) gene is regulated by DNA methylation in colon cancer, which was identified in our previous study. In this study, we examined the effects of DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) on IGFBP7 reactivation and cell biological behaviors in vitro to investigate a potential role for 5-aza-dC in treating colorectal cancer.
5-aza-dC treatment showed induction of IGFBP7 transcription in these cancer cells. It consequently led to inhibition of cell growth, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, suppression of cell migration and invasion in colon cancer cell lines.
We examined the effects of 5-aza-dC on reexpression of previously silenced IGFBP7 and its global effects on cell cycle, apoptosis, migration and invasion in three colon cancer cell lines, SW620, HT29 and COLO205.
Our findings indicate that 5-aza-dC may have anticancer function for colon cancer and restoration of IGFBP7 may involve in the biological effects induced by 5-aza-dC in colon cancer cell lines. These data suggest that 5-aza-dC has clinical potential in the treatment of colorectal cancer.
Classical conditioning principles offer a nondrug way to treat cocaine dependence. Eleven male subjects with the primary diagnosis of cocaine dependence were placed into one of two groups. The experimental group was asked to handle $500 cash in a mock budgetary task. The control group was asked to just imagine handling and budgeting the money. The subjects rated their craving-related feelings before and after each task. The experimental group showed significantly more craving after the money-handling task as compared to the control group, and the scores improved with time and as more tasks were completed. These data show that craving induced by handling cash is powerful and can be attenuated, at least on a short-term basis, using classical extinction procedures.
