The effects of GABA agonists and antagonists on penile erection (PE) induced by apomorphine were investigated in rats. Subcutaneous (SC) administration of apomorphine (0.01-0.1 mg/kg) induces a dose-dependent PE in rats. The maximum effect was obtained with 0.1 mg/kg of the drug. The response was decreased with increasing doses of apomorphine from 0.1 to 0.5 mg/kg. The response induced by apomorphine (0.1-0.5 mg/kg) was decreased in animals pretreated with either the GABA-A agonist muscimol or the GABA-B agonist baclofen. Combination of muscimol with baclofen caused a stronger inhibitory effect on apomorphine-induced PE. Bicuculline or picrotoxin but not phaclofen reduced the inhibitory effect of muscimol on PE induced by apomorphine, whereas phaclofen but not GABA-A antagonists decreased the inhibitory action of baclofen on apomorphine-induced PE. Pretreatment of animals with higher doses of the GABA-A antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin or the GABA-B antagonist phaclofen elicited inhibition of apomorphine-induced PE. However, the inhibitory effects of GABA-A and GABA-B antagonists are lost on combination. Administration of GABA-A and GABA-B receptor stimulation inhibit PE induced by dopaminergic mechanism(s).
Apomorphine (Apo), a D1/D2 Dopamine (DA) agonist, at high doses (500 micrograms/kg) induces a short-lasting insomnia, antagonized by a secondary injection of corticotropin-like intermediate lobe peptide (CLIP, 10 ng); these effects are also observed with hypophysectomized (hypoX) rats. The administration of the serotonin (5-HT) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-di-n-propylamino-tetralin (8-OHDPAT, 0.3 mg/kg) induces also an insomnia which, unlike Apo, is followed by a significant PS rebound. CLIP, again, antagonizes the 8-OHDPAT-induced insomnia. Finally, Bromocriptine (5 mg/kg), an agonist for both DA and 5-HT, induces first an insomnia (antagonized by CLIP), followed by a PS rebound; these effects persist in hypoX rats.
Pregnant mice were injected once with cyclophosphamide (20 mg/kg) or Th-R (N-mustard, 2 mg/kg) at one of four different day-times (07.00, 13.00, 19.00, 01.00) on the 12th day of gestation. In a therapeutic dose both alkylating neoplastic agents induced teratogenic effects relative to the maternal circadian cycle. The highest incidence of malformations due to maternal treatment with cyclophosphamide was found to be associated with the dark to light transition (07.00), whereas the lowest occurred at 01.00. In contrast, the teratogenic action of Th-R was strongest at the onset of darkness (19.00) and lowest at 07.00. The mean embryotoxicity of both compounds was subjected to seasonal modifications, being highest during spring and summer and lowest during winter. - The observations indicate that for the evaluation of the teratogenic potentialities of drugs, rhythms cannot be neglected.
To study the effect of gallium nitrate in the treatment of flare hypercalcemia in rats, bearing mammary tumor with bone metastasis.
Female Sprague-Dawley albino rats were used in the study. Animals were divided into 5 groups: normal control; hypercalcemic rats bearing DMBA-induced mammary tumors; flare hypercalcemic animals bearing DMBA-induced mammary tumors (hypercalcemic rats, treated with tamoxifen at the dose of 10 mg/kg); flare hypercalcemic rat bearing DMBA-induced mammary tumors, treated with gallium nitrate at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg; control rats, treated with gallium nitrate at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg. Eligibility criteria - serum calcium levels were 11.0 mg% or above. Biochemical parameters were measured, using standard methods. Urinary excretion of calcium, creatinine ratio, urinary bone marker were also evaluated by using standard method.
All flare hypercalcemic rats were treated with gallium nitrate and developed normocalcemia. Biochemical parameters were measured in hypercalcemic and flare hypercalcemic animals. Calcium level in blood serum, alkaline phosphatase were significantly higher in flare hypercalcemia than in hypercalcemic rats. Urinary pyridinoline, deoxypyridinoline and hydroxyproline were also elevated in flare hypercalcemic rats. In contrast, intact parathyroid hormone and albumin levels were lowered in flare as well as hypercalcemic groups when compared with normal control groups. After gallium nitrate treatment all the above parameters returned to normal level.
Administration of gallium nitrate in vivo is highly effective in treatment of flare hypercalcemia.
Rats received an ip injection of 0.2 microgram/kg of ACTH-(1-39) 1 min after step-down inhibitory avoidance training and/or 5 min prior to retention testing. Experiments were carried out either in the morning or in the afternoon using either a 3- or a 24-h training-test interval. Post-training ACTH induced memory facilitation in the morning and amnesia in the afternoon at both training-test intervals. Pretest ACTH reversed the afternoon amnesic effect, also at both training-test intervals. In addition, pretest ACTH induced a naloxone-reversible memory enhancement, both on its own and in animals treated with a facilitatory post-training dose of ACTH in the morning; this effect was seen only at the 24-h training-test interval. Naloxone had no effect of its own and did not influence the reversal of ACTH-induced amnesia caused by pretest ACTH in the afternoon. The results point to the variety of memory modulatory influences of ACTH, and to some of the factors involved in the elicitation of one or other effect, namely, the presumable basal rate of secretion of endogenous ACTH, and the previous pharmacological history of the animal.
A prospective study of 261 patients undergoing lumbar radiculography using 12 ml iopamidol (200 mgI/ml) was undertaken to determine whether the procedure could be performed safely on an outpatient basis. No statistically significant differences in the incidence and severity of side-effects were found between the 132 outpatients and 129 inpatient controls. Nine outpatients had to be kept in hospital at the end of a 4-h observation period and a further two outpatients were re-admitted to hospital because of severe side-effects. The current study was compared with a preceding study of identical design, already published, in which 200 patients underwent lumbar radiculography with 10 ml iohexol (240 mgI/ml). No statistically significant differences in the incidence and severity of side-effects between the two contrast media were evident up to 24 h after the examination. In the period between 24 h and 7 days, the incidence and severity of headache, nausea and dizziness were all significantly greater in the iopamidol group. Although outpatient radiculography can be performed safely with both contrast media, the higher incidence of delayed side-effects in the iopamidol patients prompts the authors to express a preference for iohexol for intrathecal use. The increased incidence of adverse reactions in female patients and the literature comparing iopamidol and iohexol for myelography are discussed.
To observe the anti-liver fibrosis effect of Astragalus complanatus flavonoids (ACF) in rats.
The liver fibrosis model in rats was established by injecting interperitoneally 0.2 mL/100 g 0.5% dimethylnitrosamine, thrice a week. Meanwhile, the rats were administered ACF (30, 60, 120 mg/kg) or colchicine (0.1 mg/kg) once a day for 1 mo. Serum N-propeptide of type I procollagen (PINP) and type III procollagen (PIIINP) were measured using ELISA. Malondialdehyde (MDA) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in hepatic tissue were evaluated. Matrix metal protease-1 (MMP-1) mRNA expression was assayed by RT-PCR and the protein expression of tissue inhibitor of metal protease-1 (TIMP-1) was analyzed by immunohistochemistry.
In the ACF groups, SOD activity increased and MDA content decreased in comparison to the liver fibrosis model group. The serum PINP and PIIINP contents in ACF-2 and -3 group decreased compared to those in model group. In ACF-2 and -3 group, the expression of MMP-1 mRNA increased significantly and the protein expression of TIMP-1 decreased compared to that in model group.
The antifibrotic mechanisms of ACF are associated with its influence on lipid peroxidation and collagen synthesis and degradation.
The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that blockade of angiotensin II type-1 receptors reduces oxidative stress and inflammation in patients with essential hypertension. The study population comprised 132 hypertensive patients, some receiving and others not receiving medical treatment. At enrollment their systolic and/or diastolic blood pressures were > or = 140 and/or > or = 90 mmHg, respectively. The serum concentration of C-reactive protein, and the urine concentrations of 8-epi-prostaglandin F2alpha and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine were measured at baseline and after 12 weeks of treatment either with an angiotensin II type-1 receptor blocker, candesartan (8 mg daily) (age 64 +/- 12 years; male/female 28/39; n = 67), or other antihypertensive agents that do not block the renin-angiotensin system (age 65 +/- 10 years, male/female 25/40, n = 65). Candesartan reduced the levels of C-reactive protein (from 0.07 +/- 0.04 [median value +/- median absolute deviation] to 0.06 +/- 0.03 mg/dl, p < 0.0001), 8-epi-prostaglandin F2alpha (from 210 +/- 92 to 148 +/- 59 pg/mg creatinine, p < 0.0001), and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (from 5.7 +/- 1.9 to 4.0 +/- 1.3 ng/mg creatinine, p < 0.0001), while the levels of these markers were not altered after the treatment with other antihypertensive agents. Blood pressure decreased by a similar amount in both groups, and the reductions in the levels of the markers did not correlate with that of blood pressure. These results suggest that candesartan reduces oxidative stress and inflammation in hypertensive patients independently of its effects on blood pressure. This may provide useful information for determining therapeutic strategies to minimize tissue injury by inflammation and oxidative stress in hypertensive patients.
The acute toxicity of the ubiquitous environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) varies widely among species and strains. Previous studies in rats have established that females are approximately 2-fold more sensitive to TCDD lethality than males. However, there is a surprising gap in the literature regarding possible gender-related sensitivity differences in mice. In the present study, by using three substrains of TCDD-sensitive C57BL/6 mice and transgenic mice on this background, we demonstrated that: 1) in contrast to the situation in rats, female mice are the more resistant gender; 2) the magnitude of the divergence between male and female mice depends on the substrain, but can amount to over 10-fold; 3) AH receptor protein expression levels or mutations in the primary structure of this receptor are not involved in the resistance of female mice of a C57BL/6 substrain, despite their acute LD₅₀ for TCDD being over 5000 μg/kg; 4) transgenic mice that globally express the rat wildtype AH receptor follow the mouse type of gender difference; 5) in gonadectomized mice, ovarian estrogens appear to enhance TCDD resistance, whereas testicular androgens seem to augment TCDD susceptibility; and 6) the gender difference correlates best with the severity of liver damage, which is also reflected in hepatic histopathology and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, especially IL-6. Hence, the two closely related rodent species most often employed in toxicological risk characterization studies, rat and mouse, represent opposite examples of the influence of gender on dioxin sensitivity, further complicating the risk assessment of halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons.
A series of quinolinecarboxylic acid derivatives has been previously described as a new class of 5-HT3 receptor antagonists due to deviation of a carbonyl moiety from the place of an aromatic ring in their minimum-energy conformations. These derivatives were evaluated in a wrap-restraint stress-induced defecation model in rats. Reference compounds, ondansetron (1), granisetron (2), and YM060 (4), potently inhibited a stress-induced increase in stools excreted from fed rats (ID50 = 0.27, 0.12, and 0.0052 mg/kg, po, respectively). However, quinoline derivatives exhibited different activities depending on structural class. 4-Hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylic acid derivatives 5 and 6a possess high affinity for the 5-HT3 receptor (Ki = 6.1 and 1.5 nM, respectively) and exhibit potent activity in the Bezold-Jarisch (B-J) reflex test (ED50 = 0.0017 and 0.000 10 mg/kg, i.v., respectively), but they did not effectively inhibit the increase in fecal pellet output at the dose of 1 mg/kg, po. On the other hand, most of 1-substituted 2-oxoquinoline-4-carboxylates 10 showed less potent activity in the B-J reflex test than 1 or 2 but inhibited restraint stress-induced defecation more potently than 1 or 2. The ID50 value of endo-8-methyl-8- azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-yl 1-isobutyl-2-oxo-1,2-dihydro-4- quinolinecarboxylate 10e was 0.013 mg/kg, po. With respect to the selected compounds 6a and 10e, effects of 5-HT- and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-induced defecation, castor oil-induced diarrhea and wrap-restraint stress-induced colonic propulsion in rats were examined. These 5-HT3 receptor antagonists did not effectively inhibit castor oil-induced diarrhea, which has been reported not to be mediated via the 5-HT3 receptor. Although 10e showed 800-fold decreased potency compared with 4 in the B-J reflex test, 10e exhibited activity as potent as 4 in 5-HT- and TRH-induced defecation assays; 10e exhibited 7-fold increased potency compared with 4 in wrap-restraint stress-induced colonic propulsions. From these results, 10e appears to interact selectively with 5-HT3 receptors in the gastrointestinal system and might be effective in the therapy of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
To investigate the effect of N-(4-hydrophenyl) retinamide (4-HPR), the derivative of retinoic acid, on inhibition of migration, invasion, cell growth, and induction of apoptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCCs) and malignant melanoma cells.
4-HPR was chemically synthesized. Cellular migration and invasion were assayed by Borden chamber experiment. Cell growth was assayed by MTT chromometry. Apoptosis effect was measured using Hoechst 32258 staining and flow cytometry. Gene transfection was performed with lipofectamine.
We observed that the migration of HCC and melanoma cells was significantly suppressed by 4-HPR and the migration cells were reduced to 58+/-5.03 (control 201+/-27.2, P<0.05, n = 4) in SMMC 7721-k3 HCC, and to 254+/-25.04 (control 302+/-30.1, P<0.05, n = 4) in melanoma cells after 6-h incubation with 4-HPR. The invasion through reconstituted basement membrane was also significantly reduced by 4-HPR treatment to 11.2+/-3.3 in SMMC 7721-k3 HCC (control 27+/-13.1), and to 24.3+/-3.2 in melanoma cells (control 67.5+/-10.1, P<0.05, n = 3). Cell growth, especially in melanoma cells, was also significantly inhibited. Furthermore, 3 micromol/L of 4-HPR induced apoptosis in B16 melanoma cells (37.11+/-0.94%) more significantly than all-trans retinoic acid (P<0.05), but it failed to induce apoptosis in SMMC 7721-k3 HCC. The mechanism for 4-HPR-induced apoptosis was not clear, but we observed that 4-HPR could regulate p27(kip1), and overexpression of cerebroside sulfotransferase (CST) diminished the apoptosis induced by 4-HPR in melanoma cells.
4-HPR is a potent inhibitor of HCC migration and inducer of melanoma cell apoptosis. CST and p27(kip1) expression might be associated with 4-HPR-induced apoptosis.
We modelled exposure to traffic particles using a latent variable approach and investigated whether long-term exposure to traffic particles is associated with an increase in the occurrence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) using data from a population-based coronary disease registry.
Cases of individually validated AMI were identified between 1995 and 2003 as part of the Worcester Heart Attack Study. Population controls were selected from Massachusetts, USA, resident lists. NO(2) and PM(2.5) filter absorbance were measured at 36 locations throughout the study area. The air pollution data were used to estimate exposure to traffic particles using a semiparametric latent variable regression model. Conditional logistic models were used to estimate the association between exposure to traffic particles and occurrence of AMI.
Modelled exposure to traffic particles was highest near the city of Worcester. Cases of AMI were more exposed to traffic and traffic particles compared to controls. An interquartile range increase in modelled traffic particles was associated with a 10% (95% CI 4% to 16%) increase in the odds of AMI. Accounting for spatial dependence at the census tract, but not block group, scale substantially attenuated this association.
These results provide some support for an association between long-term exposure to traffic particles and risk of AMI. The results were sensitive to the scale selected for the analysis of spatial dependence, an issue that requires further investigation. The latent variable model captured variation in exposure, although on a relatively large spatial scale.
The development of autoimmune diseases in some patients treated with D-penicillamine (DPA) suggests that the reported occurrence of a conduction disorder at the neuromuscular junction and the development of a reversible myasthenia gravis in rheumatoid disease, progressive systemic sclerosis or Wilson's disease after the use of DPA are part of a general predisposition for autoimmune disease related to DPA therapy. The case reported is an example. The DPA- induced myasthenia gravis (MG) is similar to the spontaneous MG clinically and electrophysiologically, though ocular signs prevail in the former. Antibodies to acetylcholine receptor have been demonstrated and thymic hyperplasia also has been formed. Regarding the onset of myasthenic manifestations the duration of the treatment with DPA varies from 6 to 10 months. The action of DPA on the neuromuscular junction is different from that occurring in spontaneous MG. The pathogenesis of the DPA induced MG is still obscure. The chemical properties of DPA permit it to react with many proteins and some alteration of proteins may appear, with structural changes in the composition and antigenicity of the collagen fibers. In vitro DPA causes disorder of acetylcholine receptor bridges to alpha, beta, gamma sub-units with reduction of the S-S bridges in the gamma-subunit. This decreases the linkage of high affinity and abolishes its positive cooperative system, reducing the S-S connection in the alpha-unit near the acetylcholine linkage. The interaction between DPA and receptor may induce antigenic alteration in this latter, starting the autoimmune phenomena. The other possibility is the stimulation of prostaglandin E-1 synthesis by DPA may fill the allosteric place of ACh receptor, interfering on the neuromuscular junction.
Postmarketing drug surveillance revealed the occurrence of hypoglycemia associated with the use of disopyramide phosphate (Norpace) for the control of ventricular arrhythmias. The data obtained suggest that elderly patients or those with impaired hepatic or renal function may be more at risk of developing hypoglycemia while taking disopyramide. In a clinical study, nine healthy male volunteers were dosed with disopyramide to steady-state concentration. Comparison of the glucose levels during periods of fast, when the presence of food did not present a confounding factor, suggested that disopyramide may have a glucoregulatory effect in humans. A placebo-controlled clinical study, conducted in 11 healthy, male subjects, demonstrated that disopyramide evoked a small, but statistically significant, decrease in glucose levels during both the fed and fasted state. None of the classical signs or symptoms associated with hypoglycemia were noted during either of these clinical studies.
As reactive oxygen has been demonstrated to participate in immune genes transcription, the aim of this study was to examine the relationship between systemic concentrations of several antioxidants and markers of inflammatory and immune activation in patients with Crohn's disease (CD).
In 26 CD patients and 15 controls we compared plasma selenium and zinc concentrations, erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) and superoxide dismutase activities, as well as erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, blood neopterin and soluble receptors of interleukin-2 (sIL-2R), and examined the link between these parameters.
Selenium concentration and GSHPx activity were decreased in CD patients (54.5 +/- 3.2 vs 79 &plusmn 2.2 microg/l, P< 0.05; 28 +/- 1.6 vs 38 +/- 2.6 IU/g Hb, P< 0.05) and positively correlated to each other's (r= 0.59, P< 0.01). TNF-alpha was significantly increased in patients (18 +/- 2.6 vs 5 +/- 0.6 pg/ml;P< 0.001), negatively correlated to GSHPx activity (r= -0.56, P< 0.05) and selenium concentration (r= -0.72, P< 0.001), and positively to neopterin and sIL-2R concentrations. Selenium showed negative correlation with sIL-2R (r= -0.83, P< 0.0001) and ESR.
In CD patients low selenium concentration may participate in reduced GSHPx activity facilitating inflammatory and immune activation. In these patients, selenium monitoring and, if needed, supplementation may be of therapeutical interest.
Although anterograde conduction through a Kent bundle with a short refractory period was suppressed by 300 mg of flecainide acetate, the infusion of small amounts of isoproterenol caused the reappearance of WPW and permitted the induction of an atrial tachycardia with 1/1 conduction through the accessory pathway at a rate of 260 beats min-1. This case shows that the effect of isoproterenol may be maintained after apparently successful flecainide therapy.
A significant effect of prenatal exposure to the pesticide Mirex is a fetal edema, which is responsible for many of the toxic effects of this agent. Pregnant rats were given 6 mg/kg mirex on d 8 1/2-15 1/2, a moderate dose that does not cause maternal mortality. The blood of 18 1/2- and 20 1/2-d rat fetuses was tested to determine a possible cause of the edema. There were no significant differences between fetal and maternal plasma or between control and treated fetal plasma with respect to sodium and potassium concentrations or total osmolality. The protein concentration of plasma of treated fetuses was lower than that of controls. This effect was proportional to the degree of edema. The concentration in 20 1/2-d controls was 25.2 mg/ml, that in mildly swollen treated fetuses 18.1 mg/ml, and that in severely swollen ones 13.5 mg/ml. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed quantitative and qualitative changes in plasma of affected fetuses. The colloid osmotic pressure was also reduced fron 8.0 mm in controls and unaffected treated fetuses to 4.8 mm in swollen fetuses. Since lowered plasma protein and colloid osmotic pressure cause tissue edema in adults, they are the probably cause of mirex-induced fetal edema.
Molecular and behavioural evidence points to an association between sex-steroid hormones and autism spectrum conditions (ASC) and/or autistic traits. Prenatal androgen levels are associated with autistic traits, and several genes involved in steroidogenesis are associated with autism, Asperger Syndrome and/or autistic traits. Furthermore, higher rates of androgen-related conditions (such as Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, hirsutism, acne and hormone-related cancers) are reported in women with autism spectrum conditions. A key question therefore is if serum levels of gonadal and adrenal sex-steroids (particularly testosterone, estradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and androstenedione) are elevated in individuals with ASC. This was tested in a total sample of n=166 participants. The final eligible sample for hormone analysis comprised n=128 participants, n=58 of whom had a diagnosis of Asperger Syndrome or high functioning autism (33 males and 25 females) and n=70 of whom were age- and IQ-matched typical controls (39 males and 31 females). ASC diagnosis (without any interaction with sex) strongly predicted androstenedione levels (p<0.01), and serum androstenedione levels were significantly elevated in the ASC group (Mann-Whitney W=2677, p=0.002), a result confirmed by permutation testing in females (permutation-corrected p=0.02). This result is discussed in terms of androstenedione being the immediate precursor of, and being converted into, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, or estrogens in hormone-sensitive tissues and organs.
Cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C), a pyrimidine analogue induces cerebellar dysfunction and behavioral abnormalities. Although many in vitro experiments have been conducted in the past demonstrating the lethal potential of Ara-C to cerebellar neurons, there is a paucity of literature available regarding the effects of Ara-C on the cellular and genetic material of cerebellum and its subsequent influence on the neurobehavioral performance in vivo. Rats were treated with Ara-C at the dose levels 50, 100 and 200mg/kg/day for 5 and 14 days by intraperitoneal (i.p.) route. Endpoints of the evaluation included food and water intake, body and organ weight, behavioral parameters, histopathology, oxidative stress, DNA damage, apoptosis, expression of p53, caspase-3 and calbindin D-28K (calbindin) as well as histone acetylation and methylation. Ara-C treatment for 14 days significantly decreased the food and water intake, body weight gain and brain weight in rat as compared to the control. Alterations in various behavioral parameters were observed, indicating the impaired cerebellar function. Further, cellular abnormalities in the cerebellum such as Purkinje cell misalignment and granule cell cytotoxicity were observed. Positive correlation was observed between Ara-C induced disturbance in the motor performance and the Purkinje cell loss in rat cerebellum. Moreover, Ara-C treatment significantly increased the oxidative stress, DNA damage, TUNEL positive cells, p53 and caspase-3 positive cells in the rat cerebellum. Unlike short-term treatment, long-term Ara-C treatment significantly reduced calbindin expression in the cerebellum. Apart from this, 14 days Ara-C treatment led to significant alterations in the histone acetylation and methylation in the cerebellum, while in 5 days treatment no such alterations were observed. Present results indicated that Ara-C, by inducing oxidative stress mediated DNA damage, executes neuronal apoptosis which is accompanied by an increase in the p53 and caspase-3, but decrease in the calbindin expression.
Developmental effects of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) have been suspected due to their structural similarities to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). This study evaluated neurobehavioral, hormonal, and reproductive effects in rat offspring perinatally exposed to a widely used pentabrominated commercial mixture, DE-71. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were exposed to 0, 1.7, 10.2, or 30.6 mg/kg/day DE-71 in corn oil by oral gavage from gestational day 6 to weaning. DE-71 did not alter maternal or male offspring body weights. However, female offspring were smaller compared with controls from postnatal days (PNDs) 35-60. Although several neurobehavioral endpoints were assessed, the only statistically significant behavioral finding was a dose-by-age interaction in the number of rears in an open-field test. Developmental exposure to DE-71 caused severe hypothyroxinemia in the dams and early postnatal offspring. DE-71 also affected anogenital distance and preputial separation in male pups. Body weight gain over time, reproductive tissue weights, and serum testosterone concentrations at PND 60 were not altered. Mammary gland development of female offspring was significantly affected at PND 21. Congener-specific analysis of PBDEs indicated accumulation in all tissues examined. Highest PBDE concentrations were found in fat including milk, whereas blood had the lowest concentrations on a wet weight basis. PBDE concentrations were comparable among various brain regions. Thus, perinatal exposure to DE-71 leads to accumulation of PBDE congeners in various tissues crossing blood-placenta and blood-brain barriers, causing subtle changes in some parameters of neurobehavior and dramatic changes in circulating thyroid hormone levels, as well as changes in both male and female reproductive endpoints. Some of these effects are similar to those seen with PCBs, and the persistence of these changes requires further investigation.
Clinical trials have demonstrated a prophylactic role for aspirin in myocardial infarction and in unstable angina pectoris. The Swedish Angina Pectoris Aspirin Trial (SAPAT) is the first prospective study of aspirin in stable angina. 2035 patients were randomised double-blind to treatment with aspirin 75 mg daily or placebo. All patients were treated with sotalol for control of symptoms. The median duration of follow-up was 50 months. Compared with the placebo+sotalol group, the aspirin+sotalol group had a 34% (81 vs 124 patients) reduction in primary outcome events (myocardial infarction and sudden death; 95% confidence interval 24-49%; p = 0.003) and the reduction observed in secondary outcome events (vascular events, vascular death, all cause mortality, stroke) ranged from 22% to 32%. Treatment withdrawal caused by adverse events occurred in 109 patients in the aspirin+sotalol group and 100 in patients in the placebo+sotalol group; major bleeds, including haemorrhagic stroke, occurred in 20 and 13 patients, respectively (not significant). The addition of a low dose of aspirin to sotalol treatment showed significant benefit in terms of cardiovascular events, including a significant reduction in the incidence of first myocardial infarction in patients with symptoms of stable angina pectoris.
It has been suggested that withdrawal from several subclasses of central nervous system (CNS) depressants involves common underlying mechanisms. For example, mice genetically selected for severe ethanol withdrawal convulsions (Withdrawal Seizure Prone or WSP) have also been found to express severe withdrawal following treatment with barbiturates and benzodiazepines. Corticosteroids appear to modulate severity of withdrawal from CNS depressants. Therefore, it was hypothesized that corticosterone would enhance withdrawal convulsions following acute ethanol, pentobarbital, and diazepam in WSP mice. Corticosterone (20 mg/kg) administered following each of these drugs significantly increased severity of handling-induced convulsions during withdrawal. Corticosterone did not affect pre-withdrawal convulsion scores or handling-induced convulsions of drug-naive mice. These results suggest that withdrawal convulsions following acute ethanol, pentobarbital, and diazepam are sensitive to modulation by corticosterone and they support the hypothesis that stress may increase drug withdrawal severity.
The mechanisms that underlie the development of vincristine-induced painful neuropathy are poorly understood. The nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway has been reported to be involved in the spinal transmission of nociceptive information. In the present study, we examined whether alterations in spinal nociceptive processing via the NO-cGMP pathway contribute to vincristine-induced painful neuropathy in mice. Mice were intraperitoneally treated with vincristine at a dose of 0.05 mg/kg 1 day after the measurement of pre-drug latency in the tail-flick test, and then treated with a dose of 0.125 mg/kg twice a week for 6 weeks. In vincristine-treated mice, a significant decrease in tail-flick latencies developed at 4 weeks after treatment. Pretreatment with L-arginine (30-300 mg/kg, s.c.), a substrate of NO synthase (NOS), dose-dependently increased the tail-flick latencies in vincristine-treated mice. The L-arginine-induced increase in tail-flick latencies in vincristine-treated mice was completely reversed by i.t. pretreatment with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 3-30 nmol), a NOS inhibitor. Furthermore, i.t. pretreatment with 8-bromoguanosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cGMP, 0.3-3.0 nmol), a membrane-permeable cGMP analog, dose-dependently increased the tail-flick latencies in vincristine-treated mice. The contents of NO metabolites, cGMP and protein levels of neuronal NOS in the spinal cord in vincristine-treated mice were significantly reduced compared to those in vehicle-treated naive mice. These results indicate that dysfunction of the L-arginine/NO/cGMP cascade in the spinal cord may trigger vincristine-induced thermal hyperalgesia in mice.
