Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a life-threatening disease. Traditional treatment with pentavalent antimony injections has become ineffective in the area with the world's highest prevalence of disease (North Bihar, India) and is becoming less effective elsewhere as well. A replacement is needed, best if it can be given to more patients outside the hospital. Miltefosine is the first oral drug registered for VL. Given daily under medical supervision for 4 weeks, it cures 94% of patients (both children and adults) and is reasonably safe. Miltefosine has great potential for improving access to treatment and overall control of VL and will be critical in the VL elimination campaign in the Indian subcontinent, but must be safeguarded or will be lost if misused. Its main limitations are adherence (and hence potential for selection of drug resistant parasites) and teratogenicity (pregnancy must be avoided during treatment and the following two months). This calls for responsible deployment, setting in place mechanisms to protect female patients in child-bearing age, monitoring effects and optimizing adherence in real-life conditions through directly observed therapy. One option to protect the useful life-span of miltefosine consists in shortening treatment duration by combining it with another drug.
Anisomeles indica popularly known in Taiwan as 'yu-chen-tsao' has been traditionally used as an anticancer and anti-inflammatory agent; however, little is known about its anti-metastatic potential. Therefore, we attempted in this study to examine the anti-metastatic potential of A. indica aqueous extract (AI), its isolated compounds apigenin, ovatodiolide, β-sitosterol and acteoside in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced human breast adenocarcinoma MCF-7 cells. Among the test agents, crude extract AI and pure compound apigenin potently suppressed the TPA-induced MCF-7 cells migration and invasion. In addition, AI and apigenin time- and dose-dependently down regulated the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 enzymatic activities and its mRNA expression. Furthermore, AI and apigenin also down regulated the nuclear factor (NF)-κB subunit p65, and activator protein (AP)-1 subunit c-Fos proteins expression in nucleus and, transcriptional activity of NF-κB and AP-1. This is the first report on the anti-metastatic potential of A. indica that suppressed the cancer cell invasion through the inhibition of MMP-9 enzyme via NF-κB/AP-1 signaling. Taken together, our data indicate that A. indica can be considered as a source of new anti-metastatic agent for food and pharmaceutical industries.
Taxol is a novel antineoplastic agent that has demonstrated impressive clinical activity in breast, ovarian, lung, and head and neck cancers. This broad antitumor activity of taxol in cisplatin-sensitive tumors suggests that the combination of taxol and cisplatin may become one of the most commonly used taxol-based chemotherapeutic regimen in the treatment of solid tumors. Both taxol and cisplatin, however, are neurotoxic. To study the neurotoxic effects of these two agents when used in combination, we prospectively evaluated neurological function at baseline, during, and following treatment, in 21 cancer patients treated with taxol (135-350 mg/m2), cisplatin (75-100 mg/m2), and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (5 micrograms/kg). Twenty of the 21 patients (95%) developed a sensory-motor neuropathy 1 to 21 weeks after the initiation of therapy, that was progressive with each additional course of chemotherapy. The neuropathy was symmetrical, length dependent, axonal in nature by physiological studies, and more pronounced in those patients who received higher doses of taxol. The neuropathy appeared earlier and at lower taxol doses in those patients with preexisting neuropathies. We conclude that sensory-motor neuropathy is a frequent dose-dependent toxicity of combined cisplatin and taxol use. Peripheral neuropathy is likely to become the major dose-limiting toxicity of taxol-cisplatin combination chemotherapy when higher doses of these agents are administered with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor.
Dilated cardiomyopathy and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy arise from mutations in many genes. TTN, the gene encoding the sarcomere protein titin, has been insufficiently analyzed for cardiomyopathy mutations because of its enormous size.
We analyzed TTN in 312 subjects with dilated cardiomyopathy, 231 subjects with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and 249 controls by using next-generation or dideoxy sequencing. We evaluated deleterious variants for cosegregation in families and assessed clinical characteristics.
We identified 72 unique mutations (25 nonsense, 23 frameshift, 23 splicing, and 1 large tandem insertion) that altered full-length titin. Among subjects studied by means of next-generation sequencing, the frequency of TTN mutations was significantly higher among subjects with dilated cardiomyopathy (54 of 203 [27%]) than among subjects with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (3 of 231 [1%], P=3×10(-16)) or controls (7 of 249 [3%], P=9×10(-14)). TTN mutations cosegregated with dilated cardiomyopathy in families (combined lod score, 11.1) with high (>95%) observed penetrance after the age of 40 years. Mutations associated with dilated cardiomyopathy were overrepresented in the titin A-band but were absent from the Z-disk and M-band regions of titin (P≤0.01 for all comparisons). Overall, the rates of cardiac outcomes were similar in subjects with and those without TTN mutations, but adverse events occurred earlier in male mutation carriers than in female carriers (P=4×10(-5)).
TTN truncating mutations are a common cause of dilated cardiomyopathy, occurring in approximately 25% of familial cases of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and in 18% of sporadic cases. Incorporation of sequencing approaches that detect TTN truncations into genetic testing for dilated cardiomyopathy should substantially increase test sensitivity, thereby allowing earlier diagnosis and therapeutic intervention for many patients with dilated cardiomyopathy. Defining the functional effects of TTN truncating mutations should improve our understanding of the pathophysiology of dilated cardiomyopathy. (Funded by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and others.).
An increase homocysteine values, which is an independent risk factor for atherotrombotic disease, can be produced with antiepileptic treatment. The aims of this study were: 1) to assess the frequency and determinant factors of hyperhomocysteinemia in adult patients receiving antiepileptic drugs, and 2) to know the effect of different doses of folic acid.
Ninety eight patients and 100 healthy controls similar in age and gender were studied. Eighty six patients were treated with hepatic enzyme inductors (diphenylhydantoine and/or phenobarbital and/or primidone and/or carbamazepine), 5 received non inductors (valproate) and 7 were treated with both in combination. Thirty eight patients were randomized to receive in an open and concurrent way folic acid, 0.2 mg (n = 18) or 5.2 mg (n = 20) daily for 3 months.
Homocysteine values were increased in patients in relation with controls (mean [SD]12.2 [6.7] 95% confidence interval [CI],10.0-13.5 vs 8.8[2.2] 95% CI, 8.3-9.2 micromol/l; p < 0.001). Hyperhomocysteinemia was found in 28 patients and 4 controls (28.6% vs 4.0%; p < 0.001). In a multivariate analysis hyperhomocysteinemia was positively associated with treatment with antiepileptic inductors and negatively with folate values and female gender. Homocysteine values decreased after treatment with folic acid at high and low doses (p < 0.001 for both groups), and the values observed in the latter group were similar to those in healthy controls.
Hyperhomocysteinemia is frequent in patients treated with antiepileptic drugs. Treatment with hepatic enzyme inductors and low folate values are predictors of hyperhomocysteinemia. Administration of folic acid, even at very low doses, produces a significant decrease of homocysteinemia in these patients.
A 7-month-old infant developed acute fatal hepatic failure owing to inadvertent duplication of paracetamol prescriptions. Paracetamol toxicity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of infants presenting with acute hepatic failure.
The liver produces plasma sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), which transports sex steroids and regulates their access to tissues. In overweight children and adults, low plasma SHBG levels are a biomarker of the metabolic syndrome and its associated pathologies. Here, we showed in transgenic mice and HepG2 hepatoblastoma cells that monosaccharides (glucose and fructose) reduce human SHBG production by hepatocytes. This occurred via a downregulation of hepatocyte nuclear factor-4alpha (HNF-4alpha) and replacement of HNF-4alpha by the chicken OVA upstream promoter-transcription factor 1 at a cis-element within the human SHBG promoter, coincident with repression of its transcriptional activity. The dose-dependent reduction of HNF-4alpha levels in HepG2 cells after treatment with glucose or fructose occurred in concert with parallel increases in cellular palmitate levels and could be mimicked by treatment with palmitoyl-CoA. Moreover, inhibition of lipogenesis prevented monosaccharide-induced downregulation of HNF-4alpha and reduced SHBG expression in HepG2 cells. Thus, monosaccharide-induced lipogenesis reduced hepatic HNF-4alpha levels, which in turn attenuated SHBG expression. This provides a biological explanation for why SHBG is a sensitive biomarker of the metabolic syndrome and the metabolic disturbances associated with increased fructose consumption.
Chronic systemic complex I inhibition caused by rotenone exposure induces features of Parkinson's disease (PD) in rats, including selective nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration and formation of ubiquitin- and alpha-synuclein-positive inclusions (Betarbet et al., 2000). To determine underlying mechanisms of rotenone-induced cell death, we developed a chronic in vitro model based on treating human neuroblastoma cells with 5 nm rotenone for 1-4 weeks. For up to 4 weeks, cells grown in the presence of rotenone had normal morphology and growth kinetics, but at this time point, approximately 5% of cells began to undergo apoptosis. Short-term rotenone treatment (1 week) elevated soluble alpha-synuclein protein levels without changing message levels, suggesting that alpha-synuclein degradation was retarded. Chronic rotenone exposure (4 weeks) increased levels of SDS-insoluble alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin. After a latency of >2 weeks, rotenone-treated cells showed evidence of oxidative stress, including loss of glutathione and increased oxidative DNA and protein damage. Chronic rotenone treatment (4 weeks) caused a slight elevation in basal apoptosis and markedly sensitized cells to further oxidative challenge. In response to H2O2, there was cytochrome c release from mitochondria, caspase-3 activation, and apoptosis, all of which occurred earlier and to a much greater extent in rotenone-treated cells; caspase inhibition provided substantial protection. These studies indicate that chronic low-grade complex I inhibition caused by rotenone exposure induces accumulation and aggregation of alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin, progressive oxidative damage, and caspase-dependent death, mechanisms that may be central to PD pathogenesis.
In order to determine the fate of the superfluous neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) formed during the course of botulinum toxin (BoTx)-induced paralysis, we have quantified the change in the total length of the nerve muscle contact area(s) following BoTx injection into rat calf muscles. The results indicate that: (1) at least some of the superfluous NMJs are eliminated following muscle recovery; (2) synapse elimination is a slow process, as 4 months after recovery it was not yet complete; (3) muscles with different content of type I and II fibers follow a different time course during synapse formation and elimination. We further investigated the possibility that the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) would be the element whose loss from the NMJ might play a role in synapse elimination. Using immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy we show that NCAM is exclusively localized between nerve terminals and Schwann cells and not between nerve terminals and muscle. This localization was maintained throughout paralysis and following recovery, suggesting that NCAM does not play a role in synapse elimination.
Repeated daily injections of the somatostatin analogue, octreotide (SMS201-995, Sandostatin) are an effective treatment for acromegaly, but lead to gall stone formation in about 50% of cases during longterm treatment. This is probably because of impaired gall bladder contraction. This study examined whether the timing of intermittent injections in relation to meals, or alternatively, continuous 24 hour subcutaneous octreotide infusion (CSOI) might avert adverse effects on gall bladder contraction. In six patients with active acromegaly, gall bladder volume, plasma cholecystokinin (CCK), and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) were measured in the fasting state and after consumption of a fatty meal. Measurements were made on five separate days: (a) without treatment, (b) 45 minutes after 100 micrograms octreotide given subcutaneously, (c) four hours after 100 micrograms octreotide given subcutaneously, (d) eight hours after 100 micrograms octreotide given subcutaneously, and (e) during CSOI of 300 micrograms/24 h for two weeks. Without treatment, postprandial gall bladder contraction was 86.2 (2.1%). Fasting gall bladder volume increased after octreotide injection and was almost doubled during CSOI. Octreotide injections impaired postprandial gall bladder contraction as well as CCK and PP release for at least four hours. Eight hours after injection and during CSOI, postprandial gall bladder contraction was partly restored (43.4% and 50.8% respectively). Postprandial CCK release was normal at eight hours after injection but very low during CSOI. PP release was suppressed by each mode of octreotide treatment. This study indicates that octreotide injections impair postprandial gall bladder contraction for at least four hours. Eight hours after injection and during CSOI, gall bladder contraction is partly restored.
Environmental stimuli that set the occasion wherein drugs are acquired can "trigger" drug-related behavior. Investigating the stimulus control of drug self-administration in laboratory animals should help us better understand this aspect of human drug abuse. Stimulus control of cocaine self-administration was generated here for the first time using multiple and chained schedules with short, frequently-alternating components--like those typically used to study food-maintained responding. The procedures and results are presented along with case histories to illustrate the strategies used to produce this stimulus control. All these multicomponent schedules contained variable-interval (VI) components as well as differential-reinforcement-of-other-behavior (DRO) or extinction components. Schedule parameters and unit dose were adjusted for each rat to produce stable, moderate rates in VI components, with minimal postreinforcement (infusion) pausing, and response cessation in extinction and DRO components. Whole-body drug levels on terminal baselines calculated retrospectively revealed that all rats maintained fairly stable drug levels (mean, 2.3 to 3.4 mg/kg) and molar rates of intake (approximately 6.0 mg/kg/hr). Within this range, no relation between local VI response rates and drug level was found. The stimulus control revealed in cumulative records was indistinguishable from that achieved with food under these schedules, suggesting that common mechanisms may underlie the control of cocaine- and food-maintained behavior.
Organophosphorus (OP) used as pesticides and hydraulic fluids can produce acute poisoning known as OP-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN), whose effects take long time to recover. Thus a secure therapeutic strategy to prevent the most serious effects of this poisoning would be welcome. In this study, tri-o-cresyl phosphate (TOCP, 500 mg/kg p.o.) was given to hens, followed or not by nimodipine (1mg/kg i.m.) and calcium gluconate (Ca-glu 5mg/kg i.v.). Six hours after TOCP intoxication, neuropathy target esterase (NTE) activity inhibition was observed, peaking after 24h exceeding 80% inhibition. A fall in the plasmatic calcium levels was noted 12h after TOCP was given and, in the sciatic nerve, Ca(2+) fell 56.4% 24h later; at the same time calcium activated neutral protease (CANP) activity increased 308.7%, an effect that lasted 14 days. Any bird that received therapeutic treatment after TOCP intoxication presented significant signs of OPIDN. These results suggest that NTE may be implicated in the regulation of calcium entrance into cells being responsible for the maintenance of normal function of calcium channels, and that increasing CANP activity is responsible to triggering OPIDN. Thus, with one suitably adjusted dose of nimodipine as well as Ca-glu, we believe that this treatment strategy may be used in humans with acute poisoning by neuropathic OP.
We examined whether the concentration of hyperbaric lidocaine affected the regression of motor block when the dose of lidocaine was kept constant at 30 mg. We also examined the spread, duration, and regression of sensory block. Sixty-five patients (ASA physical status I or II), scheduled for elective perineum or lower limb surgery, were enrolled in this study. Patients received spinal anesthesia with 1 mL of 3% lidocaine or 3 mL of 1% lidocaine. Adequate level of block was obtained for surgery in 63 of 65 patients. Whereas the administration of 3 mL of hyperbaric 1% lidocaine solution produced a level of sensory block similar to that produced by the administration of 1 mL of hyperbaric 3% lidocaine solution in spinal anesthesia, the administration of 3 mL of hyperbaric 1% lidocaine solution resulted in shorter times to full motor recovery and to urination and produced less motor block compared with 1 mL of hyperbaric 3% lidocaine solution. Two patients receiving 1% lidocaine and four patients receiving 3% lidocaine required IV ephedrine because of hypotension. Our results showed the clinical advantages of hyperbaric 1% lidocaine spinal anesthesia compared with hyperbaric 3% lidocaine spinal anesthesia for surgery of short duration.
When the dose of lidocaine was kept constant at 30 mg, hyperbaric 1% lidocaine solution resulted in shorter times for recovery from motor block and to urination than did hyperbaric 3% lidocaine solution. Levels of sensory block were similar. Therefore, the more dilute lidocaine for spinal anesthesia may be suitable for day-care surgery and short duration surgery.
There is scarce information on the possible effects of chronic exposure to mercury on skeletal muscle. Dental personnel are frequently exposed to inhalation of metallic mercury vapours. The skeletal muscle of five technicians and one dentist (females, age 36-55) was studied. All of them presented symptoms of chronic mercury poisoning. Needle biopsy was taken from the quadriceps femoris muscle and samples were prepared for light microscope histochemistry and for transmission electron microscopy. Selective atrophy of type IIB muscle fibres was found in patients, and in one of them there was fibre grouping. Most of the muscles showed increased fibre area per capillary. Atrophy was confirmed by the ultrastructural study, demonstrating increase of intermyofibrillar spaces, loss of myofibrils or complete disappearance in some fibres, and sarcolemmal foldings. Splitting of the fibres was also found. Some capillaries were altered, showing endothelial infoldings into the lumen, thickened basement membrane and partial or total occlusion. The alterations found in muscle may be secondary to nerve damage, to ischemia caused by capillary lesion and/or to a direct effect of mercury on muscle fibre proteins.
Spinal anesthesia has numerous advantages over general anesthesia for patients undergoing lumbar laminectomy and microdisk surgery. In this study, we evaluated the addition of epidural clonidine and/or bupivacaine, injected at the incision site, on postoperative outcome variables in patients undergoing lower spine procedures using spinal anesthesia. One hundred twenty patients having lumbar spine surgery received bupivacaine spinal anesthesia supplemented by 150 microg of epidural clonidine with or without incisional bupivacaine, epidural placebo plus incisional bupivacaine, or placebo with incisional saline. Demographic data, intraoperative hemodynamics, blood loss, pain, nausea, urinary retention, hospital discharge, and other variables were compared by using either analysis of variance or chi(2) analysis. Demographics were similar. IV fluids, blood loss, incidence of intraoperative bradycardia, and hypotension were not different among groups. Postanesthesia care unit pain scores were lower and demand for analgesics was less in patients who received both the clonidine and subcutaneous bupivacaine. Patients who received epidural clonidine also had improved postoperative hemodynamics. Hospital discharge, urinary retention, and other variables were not different. We conclude that epidural clonidine as a supplement to spinal anesthesia produced no perioperative complications and improved postoperative pain and hemodynamic stability in patients undergoing lower spine procedures.
Spinal anesthesia with supplemental epidural clonidine in combination with incision site subcutaneous bupivacaine was evaluated both intra- and postoperatively and compared with spinal anesthesia alone for lower lumbar spine procedures. Both epidural clonidine and subcutaneous incisional bupivacaine, added to spinal anesthesia for lumbar spine surgery, improves pain relief and reduces the need for postoperative opioids with their associated side effects.
Previously, we established the in vivo lung metastasis model of rat HCC induced by two hepatocarcinogens, diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and N-nitrosomorpholine (NMOR) at a dose of 120 ppm. This model allows us to investigate modifying factors leading to the inhibition of metastasis formation. However, low survival rates made the evaluation of metastasis formation difficult. The current experiments were conducted to modify the experimental protocol to improve survival and to establish a better animal metastasis model. Lower doses of NMOR (80 or 40 ppm in drinking water) were given to F344 rats for 14 weeks after DEN treatment. Survival rates in the 80 ppm group and in the 40 ppm group were 57% and 81%, respectively and these values were significantly higher than that in 120 ppm. Incidences of lung metastasis in the 40 ppm group steadily increased up to 67% by week 36 while that in the 80 ppm increased sharply up to 86% by week 24. Severity of lung metastases in the 40 ppm group at week 36 was mild compared with the 80 ppm group at week 24. In the second experiment, in order to characterize HCC development and lung metastasis in the 40 ppm group, rats given DEN and then followed with 40 ppm NMOR were killed sequentially. Development of HCC was observed at week 14 and reached 100% incidence at week 20. First lung metastatic lesions were evident at week 22, and incidence of lung metastasis reached 100%. Tumor cells were identified in the blood at week 20 by RT-PCR. The current study revealed that 40 ppm NMOR for 14 weeks after DEN treatment developed HCC without lung metastases at week 22, then HCC with a frequent lung metastasis at week 40. Thus, it can be said that this system is a more appropriate model for elucidation of mechanisms of metastasis and also for analysis of factors to inhibit natural metastasis.
The values of serum aminotransferase activity (AST) in untreated rats and rats with acute hepatic failure at 24h after an oral administration of CCl(4) (0.5 ml/kg) were 85+/-9 IU/l and 4260+/-620 IU/l (mean+/-S.D., n=6), respectively. The values of total clearance (CL(tot)) after intravenous administration of caffeine, tolbutamide, chlorzoxazone or lidocaine (as probe drugs for various CYP isoforms) to CCl(4)-treated rats were decreased to about 1/8, 1/3, 1/3 or 1/2 compared with those in untreated rats. Good correlations were observed between mRNA expression and enzyme activity of CYP2C11, CYP2E1, CYP3A2 and CYP1A2 in livers of rats given various doses of CCl(4). There was also a good negative correlation between serum AST activity and hepatic enzyme activity of each CYP. The serum AST activities corresponding to a 50% decrease of CYP2C 11, CYP2E1, CYP3A2 and CYP1A2 activities were about 710, 780, 1030 and 1300 IU/l, respectively. In conclusion, when the serum AST value in CCl(4)-treated rats reached about 4000 IU/l, the hepatic CYP activities were one-tenth or less of the control, although the degree of decrease of the CL(tot) values varied markedly. Nevertheless, the AST value appears to be a promising candidate for an indicator to predict appropriate dose modification of drugs for patients with acute hepatic failure.
The present study describes the delayed development of a severe bladder pathology in a susceptible strain of mice (DBA/2) but not in a resistant strain (C57BL/6) when both were treated with a single 300 mg/kg dose of cyclophosphamide (CY). Inbred DBA/2 and C57BL/6 female mice were injected with CY, and the effect of the drug on the bladder was assessed during 100 days by light microscopy using different staining procedures, and after 30 days by conventional electron microscopy. Early CY toxicity caused a typical haemorrhagic cystitis in both strains that was completely repaired in about 7-10 days. After 30 days of CY injection ulcerous and non-ulcerous forms of chronic cystitis appeared in 86% of DBA/2 mice but only in 4% of C57BL/6 mice. Delayed cystitis was characterized by infiltration and transepithelial passage into the lumen of inflammatory cells and by frequent exfoliation of the urothelium. Mast cells appeared in the connective and muscular layers of the bladder at a much higher number in DBA/2 mice than in C57BL/6 mice or untreated controls. Electron microscopy disclosed the absence of the typical discoidal vesicles normally present in the cytoplasm of surface cells. Instead, numerous abnormal vesicles containing one or several dark granules were observed in the cytoplasm of cells from all the epithelial layers. Delayed cystitis still persisted in DBA/2 mice 100 days after treatment. These results indicate that delayed toxicity of CY in female DBA/2 mice causes a bladder pathology that is not observed in C57BL/6 mice. This pathology resembles interstitial cystitis in humans and could perhaps be used as an animal model for studies on the disease.
The promoting effects of various chemicals on urinary bladder carcinogenesis in rats initiated with N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) were studied. Male Fischer 344 rats were given BBN at 0.01% or 0.05% in their drinking-water for four weeks. One of the following chemicals was then administered in the diet for 32 or 34 weeks: acetazolamide, allopurinol, phenobarbital, phenacetin, ortho-phenylphenol, sodium ortho-phenylphenate, diphenyl, sodium L-ascorbate, butylated hydroxyanisole, butylated hydroxytoluene, sodium saccharin, aspartame, sodium cyclamate, stevioside, DL-tryptophan, quercetin, caffeine, nicotine and hippuric acid. Phenacetin, sodium ortho-phenylphenate, sodium L-ascorbate and butylated hydroxyanisole were significant promoters of urinary bladder neoplasia in rats initiated with BBN. Sodium saccharin, diphenyl, butylated hydroxytoluene, allopurinol, and DL-tryptophan caused moderate or slight promotion of neoplastic changes in the experimental animals. No change in tumour yield was observed after administration of the other chemicals.
This study aimed to monitor the accumulation of endogenous protoporphyrin-IX (PpIX) in rat Leydig cells (R(2)C) under the effect of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and various concentrations of tramadol, an analgesic drug.
Pain during photodynamic treatment with ALA is one of the adverse effects of this new treatment to eradicate tumor cells. ALA is utilized in photodynamic diagnosis and therapy (PDT) as a compound capable of augmenting the intracellular pool of PpIX, which exhibits properties of a photosensitizer.
Cellular content of PpIX was determined following incubation of the cells for 1 and 2 h in culture medium that contained ALA and different concentrations of tramadol. The amount of PpIX was determined using fluorescent technique under a confocal microscope (laser wavelength 458 nm and filter LP 585 nm), and evaluated using CytFlu 1.2 software.
After 1 h of incubation, no significant alterations were noted in the cellular PpIX concentration. However, 2 h of incubation resulted in a significant increase (p < 0.05) in PpIX fluorescence inside the cells, when the medium contained ALA and tramadol in concentrations ranging from 1-2 mg/1 mL.
The results suggested that in R(2)C cells, exogenous ALA and tramadol induced protoporphyrin accumulation. This information is useful for two reasons. First, it may help to diminish pain after ALA-PDT treatment; and second, it allows the use of lower concentrations of ALA during therapy.
In patients receiving valproate (VPA) treatment, valproate induced-encephalopathy (VIE) is among the most serious adverse side-effects and hyperammonaemia is a frequent and well-recognized event. This report evaluates adult patients receiving VPA for several years.
This study was conducted in adult patients receiving VPA for several years. Many studies have evaluated blood ammonia levels and VPA-related encephalopathy in patients whose treatment was initiated for a few months. Most studies were conducted in children.
This study looked at retrospectively occurrences of VIE in 63 patients who were receiving VPA for a minimum duration of at least 2 years. At the beginning of the study basal ammonaemia was measured for all patients.
This study reports a rather frequent onset of VIE. Long duration of VPA treatment was not correlated with encephalopathy onset. In seven cases temporary administration of lactulose alone was effective and VPA was continued.
This study confirms that, under VPA treatment, hyperammonaemia is a current event; 25.4% patients presented isolated elevated ammonaemia when receiving VPA for very long durations. VPA therapy should be monitored closely and clinicians must be warned of VPA encephalopathy signs.
To find out in a prospective study whether beta 1 blocker treatment causes selective beta 2 adrenoreceptor sensitisation, and to find whether such sensitisation is confined to the heart.
A placebo controlled cross over study of two weeks of selective beta 1 blocker treatment with 10 mg of bisoprolol daily.
Six healthy volunteers.
Three days after stopping the 10 mg of bisoprolol or placebo, subjects underwent treadmill exercise (to measure cardiac beta 1 receptor responsiveness) and were given salbutamol injections (to measure cardiac beta 2 receptor responsiveness). Secondary end points were the responses of serum potassium, glucose, and insulin to beta 2 stimulation.
There was no difference in exercise induced increases in heart rate, but after treatment with bisoprolol the dose of salbutamol required to increase heart rate by 40 beats/min was 1.9 micrograms/kg compared with 2.9 micrograms/kg after placebo (p < 0.005). The fall in diastolic blood pressure was not significantly different on the two occasions. Hypokalaemia induced by salbutamol, but not hyperglycaemia or hyperinsulinaemia, was enhanced after bisoprolol.
This study shows that treatment with a beta 1 blocker in vivo leads to sensitisation of cardiac beta 2 adrenoreceptors but not cardiac beta 1 adrenoreceptors or vascular beta 2 receptors. This previously unrecognised form of receptor cross sensitisation in the heart may noticeably diminish the efficacy of selective beta 1 blockade in preventing arrhythmias in patients with ischaemic heart disease. These findings reopen the question of which type of beta blocker is more appropriate for such patients.
To report a case of myalgia with eosinophilia related to lansoprazole administration.
A 50-year-old white woman developed severe myalgia 1 week after starting lansoprazole. During the treatment course, the patient was also found to have eosinophilia. The myalgia and eosinophilia resolved 40 days after lansoprazole was stopped and 18 days after prednisone therapy was begun. The patient was not rechallenged with lansoprazole.
To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of lansoprazole-induced eosinophilic syndrome. Clinically, it is difficult to distinguish between eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome and eosinophilic fasciitis, which are probably part of a continuum of eosinophilic disorders. This patient presented with symptoms of both syndromes. Although other causes cannot be completely ruled out, the time course strongly suggests that lansoprazole was the causative agent.
It is important to consider medications when diagnosing patients with hypereosinophilia and/or myalgia.
Potassium conductance in vascular smooth muscle (VSM) is known to be altered in arterial hypertension. High level of protein kinase C (PKC) activity is a common feature for hypertension of different genesis. The main goal of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the RNA interference (RNAi) technique targeting PKC delta-isoform gene as a possible pharmacological tool to restore vasodilator potential in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Experimental design of the study comprised RNAi and patch-clamp techniques, RT-PCR analysis and standard acetylcholine test. Total outward currents and acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxant responses were blunted in SHR. BKCa alpha subunit mRNA expression in SHR was unchanged whereas KV and KATP mRNA expression appeared significantly increased. PKC inhibitor, chelerythrine (100 nM), restored potassium channels activity in SHR. PKC-delta-isoform protein expression and PKC-delta-isoform mRNA expression are 2.5-4 fold increased in VSM from SHR. PKC gene silencing with the short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs)-plasmid delivery system administered intravenously led to an increment in maximal amplitude of acetylcholine-relaxation, restored outward K(+) currents and PKC-delta-isoform mRNA and protein expression. Arterial blood pressure in SHR was normalized following shRNAs administration. We conclude that BKCa channels are likely to be the most PKC-dependent member of K(+) channels family responsible for vascular hypercontractility in SHR while Kv and KATP channels may constitute a reserve mechanism for the maintenance of vasodilator potential under BKCa channelopathy. It is likely that RNAi technique is a good therapeutic approach to inactivate PKC gene and to normalize vascular functions and high arterial blood pressure in SHR.
We report on somatic mosaicism of a TGFBR2 missense mutation, c.1336G>A (D446N). The affected son with the heterozygous mutation was previously reported [Sakai et al. (2006); Am J Med Genet A 140A:1719-1725]. Further evaluation indicates his clinical condition is Loeys-Dietz syndrome. Parental blood samples were studied to confirm whether the propositus' mutation was a de novo change, and suggested a trace of the mutation in the father. DNAs extracted from blood leukocytes, buccal cells, hair root cells, and nails in the father indicated 52%, 25%, 0%, and 35% of cells harbored the mutation, respectively. This is the first detailed report of somatic mosaicism of a TGFBR2 mutation.
Alaproclate (10-60 mg/kg) injected i.p. into male mice potentiated and prolonged the oxotremorine and physostigmine-induced tremor in a dose-dependent manner. Atropine completely blocked the tremor caused by oxotremorine or physostigmine both in the presence and absence of alaproclate. Pretreatment with the 5-HT receptor antagonist metitepine completely blocked the enhancement of oxotremorine-induced tremor caused by alaproclate. Biochemical studies indicated that the above effects cannot be explained by assuming that alaproclate a) acts as a cholinergic agonist, b) inhibits the acetylcholine esterase, c) interferes with choline uptake or acetylcholine synthesis, or d) directly potentiates the release of acetylcholine. In ligand binding studies alaproclate was found to be a weak competitive inhibitor of muscarinic antagonist binding to membranes from the rat cerebral cortex, rat striatum, human cerebral cortex and human striatum. (Ki approximately 28-40 microM in all four tissues). The present results suggest that alaproclate may potentiate muscarinic responses by a mechanism involving serotonergic receptor mechanisms rather than by a direct interaction with the muscarinic cholinergic receptors.
