The effect of antihypertensive treatment with lisinopril (10 to 20 mg) on left ventricular mass and diastolic function was studied in 35 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. At baseline 6 and 12 months after treatment responders to lisinopril were examined by complete echo Doppler in order to measure left ventricular mass, diastolic and systolic function. Only 30 patients concluded the study follow-up. Lisinopril successfully reduced mean blood pressure (from 122 +/- 10 to 110 +/- 11 mmHg), without modification in heart rate, and left ventricular mass index (from 145 +/- 57 to 116 +/- 42 g.m-2) at month 6, with mild additional reduction at month 12. Isovolumic relaxation time was reduced but still abnormal at months 6 and 12, whereas deceleration time significantly changed only (from 230 +/- 40 to 195 +/- 35 msec) at month 12. Our results indicate that lisinopril is more successful in reducing left ventricular mass than in improving diastolic filling.
Withdrawal of urate-lowering therapy (ULT) is associated with recurrence of acute gouty arthritis and tophi, but no data are available about factors associated with recurrence of gouty symptoms. Therefore, life-long therapy prescription is usually advised, but the prospect of life-long therapy may contribute to very low compliance rates. Our objective was to ascertain the outcome of ULT withdrawal after long-term, documented control of serum urate levels.
We conducted a prospective, long-term, followup study of patients treated with ULT during a 5-year period. Both diagnosis and recurrence of gout were determined based on monosodium urate crystal identification in synovial fluid or material aspirated from tophi.
Low average serum urate levels while receiving ULT and during the followup period after ULT withdrawal were statistically associated with the longest period in which patients were free of gouty symptoms, suggesting that depletion and formation of the body's urate pool is dependent on both time and serum urate levels. Patients whose average serum urate levels were <5.05 mg/dl while receiving ULT and <8.75 mg/dl after ULT withdrawal had the longest (>4 years) time to recurrence.
Proper and long-term reduction of serum urate level is associated with long-term periods in which patients are free of gouty symptoms, probably due to the reduction of the urate pool. These results suggest that 5-year intermittent, instead of life-long, ULT could be offered to patients with good serum urate control during ULT.
To investigate the mechanism of ventricular arrhythmias induced by epinephrine in dogs with hypokalemia, 30 adult mongrel dogs were separated into a control group (n = 13) and a hypokalemia group (n = 17). In the hypokalemia group, sodium polystyrene sulfonate (5 g/kg body weight) was infused into the colon. In both groups, the serum concentrations of sodium, potassium and calcium were measured every 15 minutes for 60 minutes. The mean (+/- standard deviation) serum potassium level of the hypokalemia group decreased significantly from 3.81 +/- 0.21 to 2.92 +/- 0.36 mEq/liter; there were no significant changes in other electrolytes. After 60 minutes, epinephrine (10 micrograms/kg) was injected intravenously in the hypokalemia and control groups, and the arrhythmia ratio (the number of ventricular ectopic beats divided by the total heart rate) was calculated for 5 minutes. Each group was further classified into subgroups of dogs with an arrhythmia ratio higher or lower than 10%. An arrhythmia ratio over 10% was observed in 7.7% of the control group and 53% of the hypokalemia group. Immediately after 5 minutes of epinephrine injection, myocardial mitochondria and plasma membrane fraction were prepared from each group. Mitochondrial calcium content and phospholipase activity of plasma membrane fraction were determined. Significant increases in both mitochondrial calcium content and phospholipase activity were observed in the dogs with hypokalemia and an arrhythmia ratio greater than 10%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To report a case of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX)-induced aseptic meningitis.
An 18-year-old woman diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia was admitted for a bone marrow transplant. She had already attained remission with daunorubicin, thioguanine, and high-dose cytarabine. A routine lumbar puncture performed on admission revealed an abnormally elevated leukocyte count, and meningitis was suspected. The patient had been taking TMP/SMX (trimethoprim 120 mg) twice daily on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday for the past 3 months; no other medication was being used. Upon examination, the patient mentioned having had headaches for the past few weeks. Since viral, bacterial, and fungal cultures were negative, a diagnosis of aseptic meningitis was made. According to the Naranjo probability scale, TMP/SMX was a possible cause of the aseptic meningitis. Eleven days after discontinuation of TMP/SMX, lumbar puncture results had returned to normal.
Many drugs have been associated with aseptic meningitis. Antibiotics are often linked with aseptic meningitis, with TMP/SMX being the most frequently associated antibiotic. Many cases of TMP/SMX-induced aseptic meningitis have been reported, while few cases have been reported with trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole given separately.
Despite the widespread use of TMP/SMX and the years of experience we have had with the drug, it is important to remain vigilant regarding possible adverse effects, particularly aseptic meningitis.
To report a case of muscle pain without pronounced creatine kinase (CK) elevation in a patient receiving daptomycin.
A 26-year-old African American woman had antibiotic intolerance to vancomycin and quinupristin/dalfopristin. She presented with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis that was treated with intravenous daptomycin 6 mg/kg daily for 14 days. The patient developed muscle aches and pains with only a minor elevation (492 U/L) of CK; both resolved after daptomycin was discontinued.
Daptomycin is a newly approved lipopeptide antibiotic derived from Streptomyces roseosporus with rapid bactericidal activity. Daptomycin has excellent coverage against gram-positive bacteria. The adverse effect profile has included rare reports of myopathy and elevated CK levels. Daptomycin is a promising agent with many potential applications. Once-daily dosing has diminished the preclinical incidence of myopathy. The current package labeling recommends discontinuation of daptomycin with significant myopathy symptoms in association with a CK elevation >1000 U/L or in patients without muscle pain and a CK >10 times normal.
An objective causality assessment revealed that the myopathy was possibly related to daptomycin. Clinicians should recognize that significant myopathy with daptomycin can occur without pronounced CK elevation.
The effect of Botulinum Toxin type A (BoNT/A) on pain and neurogenic vasodilatation induced by application to the human skin of thermal stimuli and capsaicin was evaluated in a double blind study. A capsaicin cream (0.5 ml of a 0.075%) was applied to the skin of both forearms of eighteen subjects randomly pretreated with either BoNT/A (Botox) or 0.9% saline (NS). Capsaicin was applied to a skin area either inside (protocol A) or adjacent to the BoNT/A treated area (protocol B). Pre-treatment with BoNT/A did not affect thermal-specific and thermal-pain thresholds (by quantitative sensory testing). However, capsaicin-induced pain sensation (by a visual analogue scale), flare area (by acetate sheet) and changes in cutaneous blood flow (CBF, by laser Doppler flowmetry) were reduced when capsaicin was administered inside (protocol A) the BoNT/A treated area. In Protocol B, capsaicin-induced pain was unchanged, and capsaicin-induced flare/increase in CBF were reduced only in the area treated with BoNT/A, but not in the BoNT/A untreated area. Results indicate that (i) BoNT/A reduces capsaicin-induced pain and neurogenic vasodilatation without affecting the transmission of thermal and thermal-pain modalities; (ii) reduction in capsaicin-induced pain occurs only if capsaicin is administered into the BoNT/A pretreated area; (iii) reduction in neurogenic vasodilatation by BoNT/A does not contribute to its analgesic action. BoNT/A could be tested for the treatment of conditions characterised by neurogenic inflammation and inflammatory pain.
While the role of trefoil factors (TFF) in the maintenance of epithelial integrity in the gastrointestinal tract is well known, their involvement in wound healing in the conducting airway is less well understood. We defined the pattern of expression of TFF1, TFF2, and TFF3 in the airways of mice during repair of both severe (300 mg/kg) and moderate (200 mg/kg) naphthalene-induced Clara cell injury. Quantitative real-time PCR for tff messenger RNA expression and immunohistochemistry for protein expression were applied to airway samples obtained by microdissection of airway trees or to fixed lung tissue from mice at 6 and 24 h and 4 and 7 days after exposure to either naphthalene or an oil (vehicle) control. All three TFF were expressed in normal whole lung and airways. TFF2 was the most abundant and was enriched in airways. Injury of the airway epithelium by 300 mg/kg naphthalene caused a significant induction of tff1 gene expression at 24 h, 4 days, and 7 days. In contrast, tff2 was decreased in the high-dose group at 24 h and 4 days but returned to baseline levels by 7 days. tff3 gene expression was not significantly changed at any time point. Protein localization via immunohistochemistry did not directly correlate with the gene expression measurements. TFF1 and TFF2 expression was most intense in the degenerating Clara cells in the injury target zone at 6 and 24 h. Following the acute injury phase, TFF1 and TFF2 were localized to the luminal apices of repairing epithelial cells and to the adjacent mesenchyme in focal regions that correlated with bifurcations and the bronchoalveolar duct junction. The temporal pattern of increases in TFF1, TFF2, and TFF3 indicate a role in cell death as well as proliferation, migration, and differentiation phases of airway epithelial repair.
Chromosomal instability is a characteristic feature of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) but its origin and role in liver carcinogenesis are undefined. We tested whether a defect in the nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) DNA repair gene Ku70 was associated with chromosomal abnormalities and enhanced liver carcinogenesis. Male Ku70 NHEJ-deficient (Ku70-/-), heterozygote (Ku70 +/-), and wild-type (WT) mice were injected with diethylnitrosamine (DEN), a liver carcinogen, at age 15 days. Animals were killed at 3, 6, and 9 months for assessment of tumorigenesis and hepatocellular proliferation. For karyotype analysis, primary liver tumor cell cultures were prepared from HCCs arising in Ku70 mice of all genotypes. Compared to WT littermates, Ku70-/- mice injected with DEN displayed accelerated HCC development. Ku70-/- HCCs harbored clonal increases in numerical and structural aberrations of chromosomes 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 14, and 19, many of which recapitulated the spectrum of equivalent chromosomal abnormalities observed in human HCC. Ku70-/- HCCs showed high proliferative activity with increased cyclin D1 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression, Aurora A kinase activity, enhanced ataxia telangiectasia mutated kinase and ubiquitination, and loss of p53 via proteasomal degradation, features which closely resemble those of human HCC.
These findings demonstrate that defects in the NHEJ DNA repair pathway may participate in the disruption of cell cycle checkpoints leading to chromosomal instability and accelerated development of HCC.
Phenytoin (Dilantin) is the drug of choice for most of the convulsive disorders. However, even when given orally it causes many adverse reactions, mainly affecting the nervous system, both central and peripheral. When administered intravenously, severe cardiovascular reactions may occur, including conduction disorders, sinus arrest, atrioventricular block or hypotension. Medline screening did not reveal previous reports of arrhythmias induced by oral phenytoin. We present a case in which oral phenytoin administered chronically for a convulsive disorder caused atrioventricular junctional arrhythmia.
We are interested in understanding the pathogenesis of the cutaneous IgE-mediated late phase reaction. A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized cross-over study with 10 subjects of the effect of the non-sedating antihistamine, terfenadine (Selddane), on the cutaneous reaction to antigen (ragweed or mixed grass) administered intradermally and over denuded blister bases was performed. The activity of terfenadine on anti-IgE-induced mediator release from the skin mast cell, lung mast cell and basophil was also examined in vitro. Terfenadine significantly inhibited the size of the cutaneous reaction at every hour between hours 1 and 9 (hr 9, control 2250 +/- 500 mm2 vs drug 1250 +/- 250 mm2, P < 0.01, n = 10) and showed some inhibitory effect at hours 10-12. While terfenadine blocks histamine release after nasal antigen challenge the release of mediators at skin blister sites was unaffected. The infiltration of leucocytes into the blister supernatant was unaffected by terfenadine although previous studies have shown significant inhibition with another antihistamine, cetirizine. In vitro, terfenadine, like other antihistamines, was found to have inhibitory activity on anti-IgE-induced mediator release at concentrations of 10(-4)-10(-5) M in lung and skin mast cells and basophils. We conclude that the effects of the newer antihistamines on cellular movement into the skin may be diverse, that terfenadine may show organ specificity in vivo and that terfenadine significantly decreases both the early and late gross inflammatory response of the skin to antigen. We cannot, as yet, explain the mechanism(s) by which this occurs.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) in Egypt is mainly attributed to an environmental origin i.e exposure to asbestos, with a high incidence in women and young adults. Immunohistochemistry and ultrastructural features aid in the diagnosis. The p27Kip1 is a kinase inhibitor protein acting as a cell cycle regulator and a putative tumor suppressor gene playing a critical role in the pathogenesis of several human neoplasms.
A clinicopathologic, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of mesothelioma in Egyptian patients, with identification of different prognostic factors.
Sixty-one cases of MPM were collected from the department of pathology at the NCI, Cairo. Cases were stained by monoclonal antibodies against CK5/6, calretinin, vimentin, CD15, CEA and p27.
More than half (57.4%) of the patients were residents in endemic areas; 50.8% were of epithelioid type. CK5/6 was positive in 45 (73.8%) cases, 39 (63.9%) cases were positive for vimentin, 49 (80.3%) cases were positive for calretinin. One case showed a focal weak positive reaction to CD15. None of the cases stained for CEA. There was a statistically significant relation between p27 expression and the histopathologic type (p=0.02) between overall survival and age (p=0.01), histopathologic type (p=0.02) and stage (p=0.006).
MPM is an increasing disaster in Egypt which is underestimated and neglected. A panel of immunohistochemical markers should be used for proper evaluation. p27 has proven to be a potential biologic prognostic marker for mesothelioma and more studies as regard its significance are recommended on a larger number.
The authors present their experience with thrombolytic treatment of "acute" portal thrombosis.
Since 1980, portal thrombosis has been diagnosed in 305 patients treated in our Department. Portal thrombosis, mostly chronic, was associated with liver cirrhosis, Budd-Chiari syndrome, inflammatory and malignant liver tumors, as well as hypercoagulation conditions. In half of the patients the etiology of portal thrombosis remained obscure. Herewith, the authors present a retrospective review of 33 cases of rapidly developing portal thrombosis. Abdominal pain, ascites and jaundice were the most frequent initial symptoms. Time interval from the first symptoms appearance to hospitalization ranged from 8 to 60 days. The acute form of portal thrombosis was confirmed by Doppler sonography, spiral computed tomography and angiography. Sixteen female patients were regularly using oral contraceptives, in 8--portal thrombosis coexisted with the Budd-Chiari syndrome, in another 8--with polycythemia or myeloproliferative disorders and in 1 was observed during acute liver failure following paracetamol ingestion.
Conservative treatment was unsuccessful in the first 5 cases: all of them died from esophageal variceal bleeding and liver failure. The next 28 patients received fibrinolytic treatment with streptokinase (3 cases) or recombinated tissue plasminogen activator. The results of therapy were evaluated on the basis of clinical picture and Doppler sonography monitoring. Rapid improvement of general condition, with Doppler sonography signs of the portal vein recanalization was noted in 10 patients, in all of whom the history of the disease did not exceed 14 days. In 13 patients with the longer history, partial portal vein occlusion persisted, but restored hepatopetal flow was sufficient to assure normal liver function. In the remaining 5 patients, with the history of the disease lasting longer than 30-40 days, the treatment failed and no clinical or Doppler sonography evidence of restoring of the portal flow were demonstrated. Four patients died: 2 from portal rethrombosis, 1 from liver failure and 1 from cerebral stroke (12, 16 months, 3 months and 4 years after therapy, respectively). Twenty-four patients are alive, the time of follow-up ranging from 9 months to 6 years. In 8 cases, five years after portal system recanalization the first symptoms of portal hypertension occurred.
Thrombolytic treatment of acute portal thrombosis, if administered promptly, appears to be the only way to improve, or even restore, the portal system patency.
Six cases of toxic myopathy and/or neuropathy with chloroquine and/or hydroxychloroquine therapy are described. Two patients had unique clinical and pathologic evidence of cardiomyopathy secondary to chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine therapy. One patient had polyneuropathy secondary to chloroquine toxicity. This may be the first documentation of several features of chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine toxicity: morphologic changes in human peripheral nerve in chloroquine toxicity; chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine cardiomyopathy diagnosed by endomyocardial biopsy; and hydroxychloroquine myotoxicity. Chloroquine is a neuromyotoxin that affects nerves and cardiac and skeletal muscles. Discontinuation of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine resulted in marked improvement in most cases. The reversibility of the symptoms emphasizes the importance of recognizing potential signs of nerve, muscle, and cardiac toxicity in patients being treated with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine.
Cresols, monomethyl derivatives of phenol, are high production chemicals with potential for human exposure. The three isomeric forms of cresol are used individually or in mixtures as disinfectants, preservatives, and solvents or as intermediates in the production of antioxidants, fragrances, herbicides, insecticides, dyes, and explosives. Carcinogenesis studies were conducted in groups of 50 male F344/N rats and 50 female B6C3F1 mice exposed to a 60:40 mixture of m- and p-cresols (m-/p-cresol) in feed. Rats and mice were fed diets containing 0, 1500, 5000, or 15,000 ppm and 0, 1000, 3000, or 10,000 ppm, respectively. Survival of each exposed group was similar to that of their respective control group. Mean body weight gains were depressed in rats exposed to 15,000 ppm and in mice exposed to 3000 ppm and higher. A decrease of 25% over that of controls for the final mean body weight in mice exposed to 10,000 ppm appeared to be associated with lack of palatability of the feed. A marginally increased incidence of renal tubule adenoma was observed in the 15,000-ppm-exposed rats. The increased incidence was not statistically significant, but did exceed the range of historical controls. No increased incidence of hyperplasia of the renal tubules was observed; however, a significantly increased incidence of hyperplasia of the transitional epithelium associated with an increased incidence of nephropathy was observed at the high exposure concentration. The only significantly increased incidence of a neoplastic lesion related to cresol exposure observed in these studies was that of squamous cell papilloma in the forestomach of 10,000-ppm-exposed mice. A definitive association with irritation at the site-of-contact could not be made because of limited evidence of injury to the gastric mucosa at the time of necropsy. However, given the minimal chemical-related neoplastic response in these studies, it was concluded that there was no clear evidence of carcinogenicity in male rats or female mice exposed to the cresol mixture.
Prenatal exposure to diazepam, a prototype sedative drug that belongs to Benzodiazepines, can lead to orofacial clefting in human newborns. By using real-time PCR, in the present study we investigated whether diazepam elicits gene expression alterations in extracellular matrix (ECM) components, growth factors and gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor (GABRB3), implicated in the coordinate regulation of palate development. Palate fibroblasts were treated with diazepam (Dz-N fibroblasts) and compared to cleft lip-palate (CLP) fibroblasts obtained from patients with no known exposure to diazepam or other teratogens. Untreated fibroblasts from non-CLP patients were used as control. The results showed significant convergences in gene expression pattern of collagens, fibromodulin, vitronectin, tenascin C, integrins and metalloprotease MMP13 between Dz-N and CLP fibroblasts. Among the growth factors, constitutive Fibroblast Growth Factor 2 (FGF2) was greatly enhanced in Dz-N and CLP fibroblasts and associated with a higher reduction of FGF receptor. Transforming Growth Factor beta 3 (TGFbeta(3)) resulted up-regulated in CLP fibroblasts and decreased in Dz-N fibroblasts. We found phenotypic differences exhibited by Dz-N and CLP fibroblasts in GABRB3 gene regulation, so further studies are necessary to determine whether GABAergic system could be involved in the development of diazepam mediated CLP phenotype. Taken together the results elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying possible toxicology effects induced by diazepam. Counselling of women on the safety of diazepam exposure is clinically important, also for the forensic consequences.
A major focus of prostate cancer research has been to identify genes that are deregulated during tumor progression, potentially providing diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.
We have employed serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) and microarray hybridization to identify alterations that occur during malignant transformation in the Transgenic Adenocarcinoma of the Mouse Prostate (TRAMP) model. Many of these alterations were validated by real-time PCR (rtPCR).
We identified several hundred mRNAs that were deregulated. Cluster analysis of microarray profiles with samples from various stages of the disease demonstrated that androgen-independent (AI) primary tumors are similar to metastases; 180 transcripts have expression patterns suggesting an involvement in the genesis of late-stage tumors, and our data support a role for phospholipase A2 group IIA in the acquisition of their highly aggressive characteristics.
Our analyses identified well-characterized genes that were previously known to be involved in prostate cancer, validating our study, and also uncovered transcripts that had not previously been implicated in prostate cancer progression.
We report a case of acute tubular necrosis in a patient with Crohn's disease treated by 5-amino-salicylate (Pentasa(R)) since one month. Normalization of renal biological parameters occurred rapidly after treatment withdrawal. This case raises the question of the optimal modalities of monitoring of renal function during treatment with 5-amino-salicylate.
and aims: Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a Th1 cytokine driven disease with a poor clinical responsiveness to glucocorticoid therapy. We have previously documented elevated circulating glucocorticoid levels in cholestatic rats and in addition have noted increased hepatic expression of the Th1 cytokine interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) in a rat model of cholangitis. Therefore, we examined the relationship between circulating glucocorticoid levels, hepatic IFN-gamma expression, and hepatic T cell glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression in a rat model of cholangitis to provide insight into the possible mechanism underlying hepatic T cell glucocorticoid resistance in cholangitic diseases.
Cholangitis was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by oral administration of low dose alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT). On day 14, ANIT fed and control rats were sacrificed, serum collected, and hepatic, splenic, and peripheral blood T lymphocytes isolated for GR expression, as determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blotting.
Circulating glucocorticoid levels were markedly elevated in ANIT fed rats. Hepatic T lymphocyte GR mRNA and protein levels were significantly reduced in ANIT treated rats compared with controls. In contrast, GR mRNA and protein expression in splenic and circulating T lymphocytes was similar in both groups. Furthermore, reduced hepatic T cell GR expression in ANIT fed rats was associated with reduced hepatic CD4(+) T cell sensitivity to dexamethasone inhibitory effects (that is, inhibition of interleukin 2 receptor expression).
We conclude that hepatic T lymphocyte resistance to elevated endogenous glucocorticoid levels in rats with experimental cholangitis appears, in part, to be mediated by decreased GR expression.
Feeding bile acids (BAs) to rodents has been used to study BA signaling and toxicity in vivo. However, little is known about the effect of feeding BAs on the concentrations of BAs in serum and liver as well as the dose of the fed BAs that causes liver toxicity. The present study was designed to investigate the relative hepatotoxicity of individual BAs by feeding mice cholic acid (CA), chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), deoxycholic acid (DCA), lithocholic acid (LCA), or ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) at concentrations of 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, or 3% in their diet for 7 days. The data demonstrate that (1) the ability of the fed BAs to produce hepatotoxicity is UDCA<CA<CDCA<DCA<LCA; (2) the lowest concentration of each BA in the feed that causes hepatotoxicity in mice is CA and CDCA at 0.3%, DCA at 0.1%, and LCA at 0.03%; (3) BA feeding results in a dose-dependent increase in the total serum BA concentrations but had little effect on liver total BA concentrations; (4) hepatotoxicity of the fed BAs does not simply depend on the concentration or hydrophobicity of total BAs in the liver; and (5) liver BA-conjugation enzymes are saturated by feeding UDCA at concentrations higher than 0.3%. In conclusion, the findings of the present study provide guidance for choosing the feeding concentrations of BAs in mice and will aid in interpreting BA hepatotoxicity as well as BA-mediated gene regulation.
Diabetes mellitus is the most common cause of end-stage renal disease in the United States, accounting for about 50% of all new cases. Although we previously established the renoprotective benefits of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in patients with coexisting hypertension and type 1 diabetes, evidence of the renoprotective effect of ACE inhibitors in patients with type 2 diabetes is less clear. We conducted the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT) to determine whether the angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) irbesartan slows the progression of nephropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes independently of its blood pressure (BP)-lowering effect. In this randomized, controlled trial, we found that irbesartan was associated with a 20% reduction in the risk for the primary composite end point (doubling of the baseline serum creatinine concentration, development of end-stage renal disease, or death from any cause) compared with placebo (P =.02) and a 23% reduction compared with amlodipine therapy (P =.006). These results were not explained by differences in the BP that was achieved. In a separate study, losartan was shown to reduce the risk for progression of renal disease in patients with type 2 diabetic nephropathy. Angiotensin II receptor blocker therapy has also been demonstrated to slow the progression to overt nephropathy when initiated early in the course of type 2 diabetic renal disease (ie, in patients with microalbuminuria). Based on these studies, ARBs are clearly effective in protecting against the progression of nephropathy due to type 2 diabetes. This protection is independent of their BP-lowering effect. Preclinical studies with the newest ARB, olmesartan medoxomil, suggest that this agent may provide renoprotective benefits as well.
A case of mesenteric vascular occlusion is detailed. The 30-year-old female had abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and small bowel changes seen on x-ray. She had begun taking the oral contraceptive Ovral (.5 mg norgestrel, .05 mg ethinyl estradiol) 3 years prior to hospital admission. Symptoms began to disappear when her oral contraception was discontinued on the ninth hospital day. Over the next 5 days abdominal signs and symptons subsided progressively. A follow-up small bowel series showed complete disappearance of previous abnormalities. In the differential diagnosis of acute abdominal pain progressing to bloody diarrhea, especially in young women or oral therapy, acute vascular insult with small bowel ischemia must be considered.
In addition to major neurologic injury, local anesthesia toxicity may also include less severe but more common neurologic side effects. The authors recently observed symptoms suggestive of transient radicular irritation in one third of patients after spinal anesthesia with hyperbaric 5% lidocaine, whereas evidence of neurologic symptoms was lacking with hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine. The purpose of this prospective double-blinded study was to evaluate if the high osmolarity of hyperbaric 5% lidocaine solution might contribute to the development of transient radicular irritation.
Forty-four patients undergoing brief gynecologic procedures under spinal anesthesia were randomly allocated to receive 1.5 mL of one of three study drugs: 5% lidocaine in 7.5% dextrose (drug A), 0.5% bupivacaine in 8.25% dextrose (drug B), or 5% lidocaine in 2.7% dextrose (drug C). Drug C was prepared by the pharmacy (University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland) with an osmolarity similar to that of drug B. Drugs A and B were commercially available. Patients were evaluated on postoperative day 1 for symptoms of transient radicular irritation by an anesthesiologist who was unaware of the drug given or details of the anesthetic technique.
Symptoms suggestive of transient radicular irritation were observed with a similar high incidence in patients receiving both lidocaine preparations, but in no patient receiving hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine (P < .01).
The results suggest that transient radicular irritation did not result from the marked hyperosmolarity of the hyperbaric 5% lidocaine. However, because lidocaine and bupivacaine were not administered at equipotent dosages, the relative potential for both drugs to induce transient radicular irritation remains to be determined.
Silymarin has been shown to be a potent anticarcinogenic agent. Here, we investigated the modifying effects of dietary feeding with a naturally occurring polyphenolic antioxidant flavonoid silymarin on 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB)-induced prostatic carcinogenesis in male F344 rats.
Male F344 rats were given s.c. injections of DMAB (25 mg/kg body weight) every other week for 20 weeks. They also received the experimental diet containing 100 or 500 ppm silymarin for 40 weeks, starting 1 week after the last dosing of DMAB. All of the rats were sacrificed 60 weeks after the start of the experiment. Histopathology and immunohistochemistry for proliferative cell nuclear antigen, cyclin D1, and apoptotic indices were done in the prostatic lesions, including invasive adenocarcinomas, intraepithelial neoplasms, and nonlesional glands.
Dietary feeding with 500 ppm silymarin significantly inhibited the incidence of prostatic adenocarcinoma when compared with the DMAB-alone group (17.6% versus 50.0%, P < 0.05). The proliferative cell nuclear antigen- and cyclin D1-positive indices in adenocarcinomas, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasm, and nonlesional glands in rats treated with DMAB and silymarin were slightly lower than that of the DMAB-alone group. Also, dietary administration of silymarin increased apoptotic index in prostatic adenocarcinoma by measuring immunohistochemically positive nuclei for ssDNA.
Our results indicate that silymarin exerts chemopreventive ability against chemically induced prostatic carcinogenesis through apoptosis induction and modification of cell proliferation.
Anticonvulsant properties of compounds that enhance GABA-mediated inhibition through modulatory sites on the GABAA receptor [phenobarbital (PB), clonazepam (CZP), alpha-ethyl-alpha-methyl-gamma-thiobutyrolactone (alpha-EMTBL)] were compared with anticonvulsant effects of compounds believed to be antagonists at these modulatory sites (Ro15-1788 and alpha-isopropyl-alpha-methyl-gamma-butyrolactone gamma-IMGBL)] and to 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo-[4,5-c]-pyridin-3-ol (THIP, GABAA receptor agonist), (+/-) baclofen (GABAB receptor agonist), and gamma-vinyl GABA, a compound that increases endogenous GABA. The compounds were tested for their ability to block experimental seizures caused by maximal electroshock, pentylenetetrazol, picrotoxin, methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM), bicuculline (BIC), aminophylline, strychnine, and t-butyl-bicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) in mice. CZP blocked all but strychnine seizures. PB was also highly effective, blocking all but TBPS seizures. alpha-EMTBL, representing a new class of experimental anticonvulsant drugs, prevented all seizures except strychnine (STR)- and aminophylline-induced seizures. The antagonists are effective only against one convulsant stimulus. Ro15-1788 and alpha-IMGBL prevented only DMCM- and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizures, respectively. THIP and gamma-vinyl GABA both blocked only BIC and picrotoxin seizures. Baclofen had no anticonvulsant activity. These data demonstrate that compounds that increase neuronal inhibition by potentiating the action of GABA have a broader spectrum of anticonvulsant action than either antagonists or GABAmimetic agents or compounds that increase endogenous GABA.
One-hundred and ten patients treated with lithium for more than six months were studied in order to determine the prevalence of lithium induced nephropathy. Eighteen of 69 patients (26 per cent) who had been treated for more than two years presented a chronic interstitial nephropathy characterized by a marked decrease in renal concentrating ability with a disproportionate preservation of glomerular filtration rate. Histologically, increased amounts of fibrotic tissue in the medulla and the cortex were found together with tubular atrophy. In 40 per cent of the patients who underwent renal biopsy, cystic formations in the cortex were found. The impairment of renal concentrating ability could be related to the duration of lithium treatment and the degree of tubular damage correlated with the degree of impairment of renal concentrating ability. Lithium induced, chronic nephropathy is a rather common complication of long-term lithium treatment and reduces the patients capacity to regulate water and electrolyte metabolism. As water and electrolyte loss appears to precede the slowly progressing lithium intoxication, the main hazard of lithium induced nephropathy is lithium intoxication.
Steroids are traditionally used in liver transplantation as a part of a triple or quadruple immunosuppressive regimen. Steroids act non-specifically and cause multiple side-effects. Most liver transplantation centers reduce the dosage of steroids and eventually withdraw them after various time intervals. A few steroid-free trials have been recently conducted after liver transplantation but long-term data are not yet available. In addition, in these trials steroids were usually given during surgery. We report the long-term (median = 40 months) follow-up data of a prospective pilot study designed to determine whether liver transplantation could be performed with no steroids at all (neither during nor after surgery).
Twenty-one consecutive liver transplantations in 20 adult patients between August 1998 and July 1999 were prospectively included in an ab initio steroid-free immunosuppressive protocol. Mean age was 54 yr (40-67 yr). Tacrolimus (through levels, 8-10 ng/mL) and azathioprine (1-2 mg/kg) were started after liver transplantation. Patients were not given steroids during or after liver transplantation except in the event of rejection or in case of tacrolimus or azathioprine toxicity requiring significant dose reduction and/or withdrawal.
There has been no case of primary graft dysfunction or non-function. Eleven of 21 liver transplantations (52%) received no steroids throughout the whole study. Rejection developed in five of 21 liver transplantations (23.5%). These rejections responded to standard i.v. steroids (plus ATG in one patient), followed by an oral steroid taper stopped 3 months after rejection. Steroids were transiently given in six liver transplantations for non-immune reasons: two with tacrolimus-induced neurotoxicity, three cases where azathioprine was discontinued, and one for an allergic reaction; four of these six patients are off steroids at last follow-up. The 3-yr graft and patient survival is 95 and 100%, respectively.
Steroids are not necessary in more than 50% of liver transplantations. Steroids were transiently needed to treat acute rejection in 23.5% liver transplantations and for toxicity of calcineurin inhibitors or azathioprine or other reason in 28%. Of the patients who received steroids, the majority (70%) was eventually taken off steroids. This prospective single-center pilot study shows that liver transplantation without steroids is feasible and yields no penalty in terms of acute and chronic rejection, immune graft loss, graft function, patient and graft survival.
Naproxen is a commonly used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) whose side effects include tinnitus and transient hearing loss. Sudden sensorineural hearing loss has rarely been reported as a result of NSAID use. This usually occurs in patients taking other ototoxic medications, with poor renal function, or with autoimmune disease. This article reports the case of an otherwise healthy patient who experienced permanent sensorineural hearing loss after a brief course of naproxen and reviews the literature on NSAID-related permanent sensorineural hearing loss.
The effect of serum calcium on the myocardial damages produced by isoproterenol was studied in the dog. Hemodialysis for 80 min in the absence of calcium was used to alter serum calcium concentration in seven experimental animals. The same number of animals were dialysed in the presence of calcium and were used as controls. After hemodialysis all animals were infused with isoproterenol 2.0 micrograms/kg/min for 4 hours. The myocardial damage was assessed by comparing serial measurements of the serum cardiac enzyme activities CK and CK-MB and the electrocardiographic findings of the two groups, before, during and after isoproterenol infusion. Serum calcium decreased significantly after dialysis only in the experimental group (1.15 vs 2.19 mmol X L-1). Total CK activities of the experimental group during and after isoproterenol infusion were 2 to 3 times lower than in the controls (190-360 vs 410-1370 IU X L-1). Changes of the CK-MB isoenzyme activities were more profound, these were detectable and measured only in 4 of the experimental animals and in much lower activities than in the controls (25-61 vs 45-445 IU X L-1). A positive correlation was found (r = 0.673, p less than 0.05) between the highest value of CK-MB of both groups and the serum calcium concentration after hemodialysis. In accordance to the differences of the biochemical estimates the effect of serum calcium on the cardiotoxic effect of isoproterenol has been further emphasized by the electrocardiographic findings. Thus arrhythmias, negative T-waves and significant ST segment depression were observed only in one experimental animal. In contrast these electrocardiographic disturbances were common and marked findings in all but one of the control animals. In both groups these electrocardiographic findings were reversed one to three hours after the termination of the isoproterenol infusion. Myocardial calcium at the end of the experiment was lower in the experimentals compared to the controls (0.23 vs 0.30 mmol X kg-1 wet weight). On the contrary magnesium concentration increased respectively. It is concluded that low serum calcium has a protective effect against the cardiotoxic action of isoproterenol. This protective action may be relevant to the decreased calcium and increased magnesium of the heart of the animals hemodialysed in the absence of calcium.
