A prospective study with 161 patients was performed to investigate the effects of intravenous local anaesthetics on the pain of injection following etomidate injection. After placebo injection 56.6% of the patients reported on pain after etomidate, but only 29% after 20 mg lidocaine i.v. Lidocaine combined with venous congestives significantly reduced the incidence of pain to 3.35%. A dilution of etomidate with water (ratio 1:1) had a lower effect (17.6% incidence of pain). The rate of postoperative thrombophlebitis was lowest in the group with combined lidocaine with venous congestives at 7.4%, in opposition to a rate of 18% in the remaining groups. In comparison to a second contralateral venous cannula without applied etomidate the venous sequelae did not increase significantly.
Phaeochromocytomas are rare neuroendocrine tumours secreting high levels of catecholamines, able to exert serious metabolic and cardiovascular effects. The serious and potentially lethal cardiovascular complications of these tumours are due to the potent effects of secreted catecholamines, especially noradrenaline, the main transmitter released from sympathetic nerve terminals. Hypertension, tachycardia, pallor, headache and anxiety, usually dominate the clinical presentation. Occasionally, patients with predominantly epinephrine-secreting tumours present hypotension or even shock. Other cardiovascular complications of pheochromocytoma include ischaemic heart disease, acute myocardial infarction, cardiac arrhythmias, heart failure due to toxic cardiomyopathy, or pulmonary edema. Catecholamines have been shown to influence the extracellular matrix with collagen deposition and subsequent fibrosis in the arterial wall and in the myocardium. These morphofunctional changes of the myocardium and of arterial wall can be emphasized by ultrasound imaging. Indeed, ultrasound imaging of the myocardium and arterial wall not only identifies wall thickness but also contains information on texture that may be revealed by acoustic tissue characterization. The latter can be quantified through videodensitometric analysis of echographic images or through ultrasonic integrated backscatter signal analysis. This paper reviews cardiovascular complications in patients with pheochromocytoma and utility of the new ultrasound technique as backscatter signal. It is useful for evaluating preclinical pathological morphofunctional changes of the myocardium and arterial wall, characterized by increased collagen content in pheochromocytoma patients. The recognition of early catecholamine-induced alterations in patients with pheochromocytoma, is important to prevent at least morbidity and mortality, before surgical treatment.
Extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) are clinically relevant side effects of metoclopramide which are often not anticipated.
Two patients who received metoclopramide developed an acute dystonic reaction. Symptoms disappeared after biperiden or trihexyphenidyl were given. Molecular analysis of the CYP2D6 gene was performed using a PCR-based method.
Both patients were homozygous for inactive CYP2D6 alleles (CYP2D6*4/*4 and CYP2D6*4/*5), which are associated with slow drug metabolism.
Metoclopramide-induced acute dystonic reactions may occur in patients carrying a CYP2D6 genetic polymorphism.
Interferon (IFN)-alpha treatment is a common therapy for chronic viral hepatitis and contributes to preventing hepatocarcinogenesis. However, it is not clear whether IFN-alpha directly inhibits the clonal expansion of pre-neoplastic hepatocytes. To clarify the mechanism by which IFN-alpha prevents hepatocarcinogenesis, we examined the effect of IFN-alpha in a chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis model initiated by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and promoted by 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) and partial hepatectomy, in which hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) arises through pre-neoplastic foci without inflammation or fibrosis. The protocols of IFN-alpha administration were started simultaneously with chemical initiation and lasted for either 4 or 40 weeks. The pre-neoplastic foci and neoplastic HCC were evaluated at 4 or 40 weeks after chemical initiation, respectively. The effects of IFN-alpha were assessed by the expression of tumor-related genes and cell cycle-related genes in the pre-neoplastic foci, using immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). As a result of IFN-alpha treatment, the numbers and average volume of pre-neoplastic foci were reduced. The proliferating cell nuclear antigen index and the expression of G(1) cyclins were also reduced in the pre-neoplastic foci in the IFN-treated group. The expression of p21, which is an inhibitor of cyclin-kinase complexes was higher in the foci of the IFN-treated group, while p53 expression was not altered in this group, compared with the control group. IFN-alpha also suppressed the tumor development at 40 weeks after initiation. And in the long-term IFN-alpha-treated group, both the tumor numbers and average tumor size were markedly more reduced than those in the short-term-treated group. Therefore, it was demonstrated that longer treatment with IFN-alpha was more effective, compared with shorter treatment. In conclusion, it was shown that IFN-alpha directly prevented and delayed hepatocarcinogenesis through the suppression of pre-neoplastic cell proliferation and that it may partially depend on p21 induction through a p53-independent pathway.
This placebo-controlled study examined the analgesic efficacy, safety, and clinical benefit of Tramadol Contramid OAD, a once-daily formulation with both immediate- and extended-release components. Five hundred and fifty-two patients with moderate to severe pain due to osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee were randomized into this multicenter, double-blind, parallel arm study. After randomization to Tramadol Contramid OAD 100, 200, or 300 mg, or to placebo, patients' dose was titrated to the fixed randomized dose and maintained for 12 weeks. Efficacy was evaluated with the Patients' Global Rating of Pain Relief (median ratings at maintenance visits), and the Western Ontario and McMaster University (WOMAC) Pain and Physical Function subscales (percent difference, baseline to end of study) as coprimary endpoints. A responder analysis was conducted (percentage of patients who achieved a 30 percent improvement on their baseline WOMAC pain score). The difference from placebo on the median Patient Global Rating of Pain Relief at the four maintenance visits was statistically significant (200 and 300 mg: p < or = 0.001). Treatment was rated effective or very effective by 75 percent and 80 percent of patients randomized to Tramadol Contramid OAD 200 mg and 300 mg, respectively. There was a 46 percent (300-mg dose; p = 0.016) and 43 percent (200-mg dose; p = 0.05) improvement on the WOMAC pain score (baseline to the end of the study) with Tramadol Contramid OAD compared with 32percent for placebo. The responder analysis demonstrated a statistically significant difference in the percentage of patients who achieved a 30 percent improvement in their baseline WOMAC pain score for both Tramadol Contramid OAD 200 mg (65 percent; p = 0.0095) and 300 mg (65 percent; p = 0.0104) compared with placebo (50 percent). The type and incidence of adverse events were typical of tramadol (nausea, dizziness/vertigo, vomiting, somnolence, and constipation) and the intensity was mild to moderate in 87percent of patients who experienced them regardless of dose. This study shows the efficacy and safety of Tramadol Contramid OAD 200 mg and 300 mg in patients with moderate or severe pain of the knee due to OA.
The antihypertensive effects of intravenous nifedipine, given by bolus and 2 hour infusion, were studied at two dose levels in seven hypertensive (mean BP 178/114 mmHg) and five age-matched normotensive controls (mean BP 128/81 mmHg). Nifedipine significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the hypertensive patients by approximately 20%, but not in the normotensive controls. Similar changes in heart rate and forearm blood flow were seen after bolus injection in both groups, but these were not sustained during infusion. Intravenous nifedipine may be a useful acute treatment for hypertensive emergencies.
Environmental sodium arsenite is a toxin that is associated with male infertility due to decreased and abnormal sperm production. Arsenic trioxide (ATO), another inorganic trivalent semimetal, is an effective therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia, and there is investigation of its possible efficacy in prostate cancer. However, the mechanism of arsenic action in male urogenital tract tissues is not clear. Because the androgen receptor (AR) plays an important role in spermatogenesis and prostate cancer, we explored the possibility that trivalent arsenic regulates AR function. We found that arsenic inhibited AR transcriptional activity in prostate cancer and Sertoli cells using reporter gene assays testing several androgen response element-containing regions and by assessing native target gene expression. Arsenic inhibition of AR activity was not due to down-regulation of AR protein levels, decreased hormone binding to AR, disruption of AR nuclear translocation, or interference with AR-DNA binding in vitro. However, chromatin immunoprecipitation studies revealed that arsenic inhibited AR recruitment to an AR target gene enhancer in vivo. Consistent with a deficiency in AR-chromatin binding, arsenic disrupted AR amino and carboxyl termini interaction. Furthermore, ATO caused a significant decrease in prostate cancer cell proliferation that was more pronounced in cells expressing AR compared with cells depleted of AR. In addition, inhibition of AR activity by ATO and by the AR antagonist, bicalutamide, was additive. Thus, arsenic-induced male infertility may be due to inhibition of AR activity. Further, because AR is an important target in prostate cancer therapy, arsenic may serve as an effective therapeutic option.
Iron deficiency anemia in early childhood is associated with developmental delays and perhaps, irreversible alterations in neurological functioning. The goals were to determine if dietary induced gestational and lactational iron deficiency alters brain monoamine metabolism and behaviors dependent on that neurotransmitter system. Young pregnant rats were provided iron deficient or control diets from early in gestation through to weaning of pups and brain iron concentration, regional monoamine variables and achievement of specific developmental milestones were determined throughout lactation. Despite anemia during lactation, most brain iron concentrations did not fall significantly until P25, and well after significant changes in monoamine levels, transporter levels, and D2R density changed in terminal fields. The changes in D2R density were far smaller than previously observed models that utilized severe dietary restriction during lactation or after weaning. Iron deficient pups had normal birth weight, but were delayed in the attainment of a number of milestones (bar holding, vibrissae-evoked forelimb placing). This approach of iron deficiency in utero and during lactation sufficient to cause moderate anemia but not stunt growth demonstrates that monaminergic metabolism changes occur prior to profound declines in brain iron concentration and is associated with developmental delays. Similar developmental delays in iron deficient human infants suggest to us that alterations in iron status during this developmental period likely affects developing brain monaminergic systems in these infants.
Two previous mesocosm studies showed changes in glucosephosphate isomerase-2 (Gpi-2) allele frequencies in mosquitofish populations exposed to mercury for 111 d or two years. A previous selection component analysis of single-generation populations exposed for 111 d to 18 microg/L Hg suggested that female sexual selection and fecundity selection could contribute to changes in Gpi-2 allele frequencies. The present multigeneration study was conducted to determine the stability of Gpi-2 allele frequencies over four years of mercury exposure, measure the reproductive fitness of Gpi-2 genotypes inhabiting control and mercury-contaminated mesocosms to determine a mechanism explaining changes in Gpi-2 allele frequencies, investigate differences in the demographic characteristics of mercury-exposed and control populations, and investigate the water quality of the mesocosms to determine if variables other than mercury show concordant patterns among mesocosms. Differences in Gpi-2 allele frequencies between control and mercury-exposed populations were stable over four years (approximately eight generations) of mercury exposure. Mercury-exposed female mosquitofish had a lower probability of being gravid than control females (p = 0.001). Mercury-exposed females also had lower fecundity (total number of eggs and embryos) than control females (p = 0.036). Unlike the results of the more intense mercury exposures in the single generation study, no strong evidence was found that Gpi-2 genotype influenced fecundity or the probability of being gravid in both control and mercury-exposed females. The quantification of fitness components is difficult but has the potential to enhance our understanding of how toxicants alter allele frequencies in exposed populations.
Stress contributes to the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in abstinent subjects. Kappa-opioid receptor antagonists attenuate the behavioral effects of stress, potentially providing therapeutic value in treating cocaine abuse. Presently, the peptide arodyn produced long-lasting kappa-opioid receptor antagonism, suppressing kappa-opioid receptor agonist-induced antinociception at least 3 days after intracerebroventricular administration of 0.3 nmol. C57Bl/6J mice demonstrated cocaine-conditioned place preference, extinction over 3 weeks, and a subsequent reinstatement of place preference. Arodyn pretreatment suppressed stress-induced, but not cocaine-exposed, reinstatement of cocaine place preference. These results verify that arodyn and other kappa-opioid receptor antagonists may be useful therapeutics for cocaine abuse.
The risk of hemorrhagic complications with anticoagulation therapy in patients following intracranial surgery has prevented investigation of the potential use of heparin in the early postoperative period. The authors have evaluated the safety of anticoagulation therapy following experimental craniotomy in male Holtzman rats. The dose and schedule of heparin administration, which elevated and maintained the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) within the therapeutic range of 1 1/2 to 3 X control APTT, was alternating doses of 400 and 500 IU/kg injected subcutaneously every 6 hours. This schedule was initiated 2, 4, 7, 10, and 14 days after craniotomy and was continued for 72 hours thereafter. The results demonstrated that the incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage declined as the postoperative interval prior to initiation of anticoagulation increased. If anticoagulation therapy was initiated during the first 7 postoperative days, the risk of intracerebral hemorrhage was high (mean 14.7%): however, if an additional 3 to 7 days elapsed prior to initiation of anticoagulation, the incidence of intracerebral hemorrhage dropped significantly (mean 0%) (p less than 0.05). These results suggest that anticoagulation therapy can be safely initiated 10 to 14 days after craniotomy.
In April 1984, the US FDA was notified of an unusual clinical syndrome consisting of ascites, liver and renal failure, thrombocytopenia, and death among low birth weight infants exposed to an intravenous vitamin E preparation, E-Ferol. The product, which had not been tested for safety prior to marketing, was voluntarily withdrawn from the market in early April. To further investigate the reported associations, the FDA conducted a retrospective cohort study among seven neonatal intensive care units where the product had been used. Standardized abstraction forms were completed for infants admitted to a unit between Nov 1, 1983, and April 30, 1984. Included in the study were 379 infants weighing 2,000 g or less and surviving at least two days; 148 (39%) had been exposed to E-Ferol. Compared with the unexposed infants, the exposed infants were more likely to die and to have ascites, hepatomegaly, thrombocytopenia, and a combination of clinical events similar to the syndrome initially reported. We conclude that the use of E-Ferol in these neonatal intensive care units was associated with increased morbidity and mortality among exposed infants.
Forty patients affected by severe Parkinson's disease (PD) were treated with tolcapone as an adjunctive therapy to L-DOPA, for 3-7 months, until this drug was discontinued because of side-effects (2 diarrhoea, one of them with orthostatic hypotension, 2 increments of liver enzymes) or because of mandatory indications of the European drugs authority. All patients, after 3-6 months of L-DOPA therapy adjustments, received entacapone for 3 months again followed by withdrawal. L-DOPA daily dosage was significantly reduced by tolcapone and entacapone (p = 0.01 and 0.05). "On" time was increased by 15% during tolcapone treatment (p < 0.05), and by 8% during entacapone treatment. "Off" time was decreased by 16% during tolcapone and by 7% during entacapone treatment. Entacapone was withdrawn in the same patient who experienced diarrhoea and orthostatic hypotension during tolcapone because of recurrence of side-effects, in 6 patients because of increment of dyskinesias (with hallucinations) and in 1 patients because of rhythmic, jerking myoclonus.
Fatty acid synthase (FAS) is necessary for growth and survival of tumor cells and is a promising drug target for oncology. Here, we report on the syntheses and activity of novel inhibitors of the thioesterase domain of FAS. Using the structure of orlistat as a starting point, which contains a beta-lactone as the central pharmacophore, 28 novel congeners were synthesized and examined. Structural features such as the length of the alpha- and beta-alkyl chains, their chemical composition, and amino ester substitutions were altered and the resulting compounds explored for inhibitory activity toward the thioesterase domain of FAS. Nineteen congeners show improved potency for FAS in biochemical assays relative to orlistat. Three of that subset, including the natural product valilactone, also display an increased potency in inducing tumor cell death and improved solubility compared to orlistat. These findings support the idea that an orlistat congener can be optimized for use in a preclinical drug design and for clinical drug development.
Hematotoxicity following chronic benzene exposure has been recognized for over a century, although the mechanism remains unknown. We describe a novel form of bone marrow dysplasia in 23 workers exposed to high concentrations of benzene. Distinguishing features of benzene-induced dysplasia include: marked dyserythropoiesis, eosinophilic dysplasia and abnormal cytoplasmic granulation of neutrophilic precursors. Hematophagocytosis, stromal degeneration and bone marrow hypoplasia are also seen. Severe bone marrow dysplasia is frequently accompanied by clonal T cell expansion and alterations in T lymphocyte subsets. No clonal cytogenetic abnormalities were observed. These results suggest that autoimmune-mediated bone marrow injury is an early or predisposing event in the pathogenesis of benzene-induced persistent hematopoietic disease.
Furosemide is a loop diuretic agent that has been used to treat hypercalcemia because it increases renal calcium excretion. The effect of furosemide on calcium transport molecules in distal tubules has yet to be investigated. We conducted studies to examine the effects of furosemide on renal calcium excretion and expression of calcium transport molecules in mice. Mice were administered with a single dose of furosemide (15 mg/kg) and examined 4 h later or were given twice-daily furosemide injections for 3 days. To evaluate the effects of volume depletion, drinking water was supplemented with salt. Our results showed that, in acute experiments, furosemide enhanced urinary calcium excretion, which was associated with a significant increase in mRNA levels of TRPV5, TRPV6, and calbindin-D28k but not calbindin-D9k as measured by real-time PCR (TRPV5 and TRPV6 are transient receptor potential vanilloid 5 and 6). Chronic furosemide administration induced three- to fourfold increases in urinary calcium excretion and elevated mRNA levels of TRPV5, TRPV6, calbindin-D28k, and calbindin-D9k without or with salt supplement. Similar upregulation of calcium transport molecules was observed in mice with gentamicin-induced hypercalciuria. Coadministration of chlorothiazide decreased furosemide-induced calciuria, either acutely or chronically, although still accompanied by upregulation of these transport molecules. Immunofluorescent staining studies revealed comparably increased protein abundance in TRPV5 and calbindin-D28k. We conclude that furosemide treatment enhances urinary calcium excretion. Increased abundance of calcium transport molecules in the distal convoluted tubule represents a solute load-dependent effect in response to increased calcium delivery and serves as a compensatory adaptation in the downstream segment.
The steroidal treatment used to prevent bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BD) in the preterm babies may be the cause of several complications, one of them being hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
Four infants developed hypertrophic cardiomyopathy during glucocorticoid (dexamethasone and/or betamethasone) treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia. In one of them, septal hypertrophy led to left ventricular outflow tract obstruction and congestive heart failure. All four were premature infants born after 2 weeks of gestation and weighing 780 to 1,080 g. The first echocardiographic changes appeared between the 4th and 15th day of the glucocorticoid course when the cumulated dose was respectively 1.82-1.87-3.51 and 3.86 mg/kg. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy resolved completely between 2 and 4 weeks after cessation of the treatment.
The glucocorticoid dosage to prevent BD should be reduced to 0.3 mg/kg/j and the myocardial function should be monitored by repeated echocardiograms during the first 15 days of treatment.
To investigate the influence of the insertion/deletion polymorphism of the ACE gene on the progression of early diabetic glomerulopathy in patients with and without antihypertensive treatment (AHT).
There were 30 microalbuminuric patients with >5 years of type 1 diabetes who had renal biopsies taken at baseline and after 26-48 months of follow-up. Of the 30 patients, 13 (4 with II genotype and 9 with ID and DD genotypes) were randomized to AHT (enalapril or metoprolol) during the study. The ACE genotype was determined by a polymerase chain reaction. Glomerular structural changes were measured by stereological methods.
Of the patients, 8 had the II genotype, 19 had ID genotype, and 3 had DD genotype. During the study, basement membrane thickness, matrix star volume, and the overall diabetic glomerulopathy index were increased in patients with ID and DD genotypes only (P < 0.001, P = 0.01, P < 0.001, respectively). Among those with ID and DD genotypes, progression of basement membrane thickening and diabetic glomerulopathy index were increased in those without AHT, as compared with the antihypertensive treated patients (P < 0.001, P = 0.02, respectively). In multivariate analysis, the ACE genotype had an independent influence on the progression of basement membrane thickening (P = 0.01), when AHT (P < 0.001) and the mean HbAlc during the study (P < 0.001) were also taken into account. ACE genotype tended to be independently associated with the diabetic glomerulopathy index (P = 0.05).
Microalbuminuric type 1 diabetic patients carrying the D-allele have an increased progression of diabetic glomerulopathy. Presence of this allele and no AHT seems to enhance this process. Larger studies are needed to confirm the clinical significance of our findings.
Previous studies of medical abortion with mifepristone and a prostaglandin have reported percentages of subjects who experience cramping and/or bleeding relative to prostaglandin use. This is the first analysis of cramping and bleeding onset patterns in subjects treated with low-dose (200 mg) mifepristone and 800 microg vaginal misoprostol at 24, 48, or 72 h after mifepristone. We analyzed the cramping and bleeding onset patterns in subjects up to 8 weeks pregnant who used 800 microg vaginal misoprostol at 24, 48, or 72 h after 200 mg of oral mifepristone. We collected data from subjects' symptom diaries and divided symptom onset into 3 categories: before misoprostol use, 0--12 h following misoprostol, and more than 12 h after misoprostol. Of the 2,302 subjects, cramping and bleeding onset data were available for 2,030 (88%) and 2,123 (92%), respectively. Across all groups, 230 (11%) experienced cramping and 445 (21%) experienced bleeding before misoprostol use. There was a significantly higher percentage of subjects who experienced early cramping and/or early bleeding between the three treatment groups, and this was related to the interval between mifepristone and misoprostol. In the 12 h following misoprostol administration, cramping and bleeding patterns were similar in the three groups. The longer subjects waited to insert misoprostol, the more likely they were to experience early cramping and/or bleeding. After misoprostol insertion, cramping and bleeding patterns are similar regardless of treatment group. Patients and providers cannot rely on symptom onset to predict treatment success.
We describe a patient with very late recurring leishmaniasis recidivans from whom lesional biopsy samples were obtained during and after topical steroid treatment that demonstrated the ability of the host to contain the parasite in the absence of therapy. Combination therapy with intralesional sodium stibogluconate and oral itraconazole was successful and immunologic data suggest that both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell subsets had roles in this disease process.
The protective effects of heat-shock protein (hsp) in rat small intestinal warm ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury are poorly understood.
Hsp-73 expression was induced in rat small intestine with use of sodium arsenite injected (6 mg/kg) through a catheter cannulated into the left common carotid artery 24 hours before ischemia (group 1). In the control group an equal volume of phosphate-buffered saline solution was injected (group 2). To block the induction of hsp-73 expression, sodium arsenate and quercetin (5 mg/kg) were injected (group 3).
The mean peak plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant after reperfusion were lower in group 1 than in group 2. The tissue myeloperoxidase activity after reperfusion was lower in group 1 than in group 2. The mean peak plasma level of interleukin-10 after reperfusion was higher in group 1 than in group 2. The induction of hsp-73 expression reduced the synthesis of nitric oxide and the magnitude of the small intestinal warm I/R injury. The results in group 3 were similar to those in group 2.
Hsp-73 protects against small intestinal warm I/R injury by inhibiting the synthesis of inflammatory cytokines and the activation of neutrophils and by accelerating the synthesis of anti-inflammatory cytokines.
Studies in our laboratory on the role of P-glycoprotein (Pgp, coded by mdr1 gene) have led to the hypothesis that over-expression of Pgp is closely associated with the development of cancer. It was conceived therefore that inhibitors of Pgp should inhibit the development of cancer. We have reported that PSC833 (PSC), a potent inhibitor of Pgp, inhibits the development of liver cancer in rats. Similarly, based on the intrinsic over-expression of Pgp in experimental mammary carcinogenesis, we studied the effect of PSC on N-methyl-N-nitrosourea induced mammary cancer in female Sprague-Dawley rats. The study indicates that PSC at daily dietary doses of 15 (PSC15) and 30 mg/kg (PSC30) body wt resulted in dose-dependent inhibition of the incidence as well as the growth of mammary tumors. Compared with controls, PSC15 and PSC30 inhibited: (i) mean tumor multiplicity by 32 and 67%, (ii) median tumor burden by 46 and 93% and (iii) incidence of ulcerated tumors by 40 and 82%, respectively. Most remarkably, PSC delayed median tumor incidence by 8 weeks, and exerted a 100% inhibitory effect on the incidence of large tumors, 4 cm(3) and greater. In all the cases, although the inhibitory effect of PSC was evident at both doses, only PSC30 exhibited statistical significance. A possible compounding effect that was also observed in PSC30-treated rats was a decrease in body weight gain not attributed to diminished food consumption. All in all, consistent with recent reports, which have demonstrated inhibition of cancer development by compromising Pgp function, this study introduces a novel role for Pgp in breast cancer and potentially an unexplored therapeutic approach in treating the disease.
Twenty-one patients with heart failure (New York Heart Association [NYHA] class II to IV) received a 24-hour infusion of enoximone followed by a 12-hour washout period. Patients were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. Groups I to III received an 0.5 mg/kg bolus, followed by a maintenance infusion of 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 micrograms/kg/min. Group IV patients received a maintenance infusion of 5.0 micrograms/kg/min without a loading dose. Serial assessment of hemodynamics, plasma levels of enoximone and enoximone sulfoxide, and ventricular ectopy were performed. Enoximone produced a clinically significant increase in cardiac index, and a decrease in mean pulmonary artery wedge pressure and systemic vascular resistance in all groups. Enoximone mildly increased heart rate, and had a minimal effect on mean arterial pressure. There was no statistically significant change in ventricular ectopy during the infusion. Significant hemodynamic improvement was noted at even the lowest infusion rate, and did not increase in linear fashion at higher infusion rates. In patients who did not receive an initial loading bolus of 0.5 mg/kg, the increase in cardiac index was delayed by approximately 1 hour. Plasma concentrations of both enoximone and its major metabolite continued to rise throughout the 24-hour infusion in group III (10.0 micrograms/kg/min), rather than reaching steady state as predicted by the terminal exponential half-lives of these compounds. This is suggestive of nonlinear pharmacokinetics and indicates a potential for excessive accumulation of enoximone and its metabolite during prolonged infusion. These findings may have important implications in guiding the intravenous administration of enoximone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Iron overload caused by blood transfusion-dependent anaemia usually results in lethal cardiac toxicity unless treated by iron-chelation therapy. Chelation therapy with desferrioxamine (DFO) is well established and widely used to remove excess iron. Unfortunately, visual disorders have been recorded after DFO infusion. In this investigation, a 61-year-old Caucasian female received DFO for her autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. Prior to starting with the DFO treatment, her baseline ophthalmic screening and electrooculogram (EOG) were completely normal. Two years later she noticed a grey scotoma in her right eye. Visual acuity in this eye was reduced from 6/5 to 6/9 and funduscopy revealed evidence of non-specific mottling of the retinal pigment epithelium of both retinae. The EOG was flat (106%) in the right eye and subnormal in the left (155%). The lower limit of our EOG Arden Ratio for normal subjects is 180%. After her DFO treatment was stopped, her right visual acuity returned to 6/5, her field tests showed progressive improvement bilaterally and the EOG went back to the normal range. While waiting for splenectomy, the patient was restarted on a lower dose of DFO and EOG measurements were carried out every two (or three) weeks to monitor for DFO toxicity. The EOG varied during this period indicating some deterioration of function in the retinal pigment epithelium. However, normalisation of the EOG values (right = 217%, left = 217%) occurred after splenectomy and cessation of DFO therapy. Her visual function was normal and her visual acuity 6/4 bilateral when she was discharged from our outpatient clinic. On reviewing her history it was apparent that the EOG was the most sensitive indicator of DFO toxicity.
Isotretinoin is indicated for the treatment of severe, recalcitrant nodular acne. Spontaneous reports have suggested a possible association between isotretinoin and depression that has not been supported by prior studies. Depression has been reported in patients with acne and is common among adolescents.
The objective of this study was to investigate whether there is an association between isotretinoin use and onset of depression.
A large retrospective database study was performed through a review of pharmacy claims to evaluate the order of first-recorded isotretinoin and antidepressant dispensings in incident users. The study included 2821 patients, aged 12 to 49 years, who filled isotretinoin prescriptions between June 1, 1999, and March 31, 2000. The ratio of the number of patients who filled isotretinoin prescription first versus second was computed, with adjustment for variations in physician prescribing patterns; a ratio significantly greater than 1.0 indicates a depression-invoking relationship. Similar analyses of minocycline were performed.
Adjusted ratios for all antidepressants and by class were not significantly greater than 1.0. Similar results were found for minocycline.
The results do not support an association between the use of isotretinoin and the onset of depression.
The investigation of expression and functional relevance of G-protein coupled receptors in primary aldosteronism (PA) by molecular and clinical studies.
Tissues of 14 aldosterone-producing adenomas (APA), of one unilateral adrenal hyperplasia and of six healthy adult adrenal glands; 12 patients with confirmed PA due to APA; (n=5), idiopathic hyperaldosteronism (n=7) and 8 control subjects (C). The tissues were subjected to a quantitative PCR for determination of mRNA expression levels of AT2R1, GIPR, MC2R, GnRHR, LHR, TRHR, TSHR, glucagon-R, V1aR, V2R, and 5-HT4R. The patients and controls were enrolled in a test protocol consisting of stimulation by posture, mixed meal, ACTH, GnRH, TRH, glucagon, vasopressin, and metoclopramide (MCP). Three patients could be analyzed by both studies. A positive response was defined as an aldosterone increase of more than 50% following stimulation.
All the tissues revealed AT2R1, MC2R, AVPR, and 5-HT4R mRNA expression. LHR mRNA was found in normal adrenals and 13 adrenal tumors. By contrast with normal adrenals tumorous adrenal tissue expressed GnRHR mRNA (4/15) and TSHR mRNA (1/15). Both the patients and controls responded to posture, ACTH, glucagon, AVP, and MCP. Specific responses were seen in one patient following TRH and three patients following GnRH stimulation.
We provide evidence for peptide hormone responsiveness to various peptide hormones in patients with PA, including GnRH and TRH. A good correlation between clinical and molecular testing could be observed, making an involvement of the receptor expressed in PA possible.
Cardiovascular regulation is tightly controlled by signaling through G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). beta-Adrenergic receptors (ARs) are GPCRs that regulate inotropy and chronotropy in the heart and mediate vasodilation, which critically influences systemic vascular resistance. GPCR kinases (GRKs), including GRK2 (or betaARK1), phosphorylate and desensitize agonist-activated betaARs. Myocardial GRK2 levels are increased in heart failure and data suggest that vascular levels may also be elevated in hypertension. Therefore, we generated transgenic mice with vascular smooth muscle (VSM) targeted overexpression of GRK2, using a portion of the SM22alpha promoter, to determine its impact on vascular betaAR regulation. VSM betaAR signaling, as determined by adenylyl cyclase and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation assays, was attenuated when GRK2 was overexpressed 2- to 3-fold. In vivo vasodilation in response to betaAR stimulation using isoproterenol was attenuated and conscious resting mean arterial blood pressure was elevated from 96 +/- 2 mm Hg in nontransgenic littermate control (NLC) mice (n = 9) to 112 +/- 3 mm Hg and 117 +/- 2 mm Hg in two different lines of SM22alpha-GRK2 transgenic mice (n = 7 and n = 5, respectively; p < 0.05). Interestingly, medial VSM thickness was increased 30% from 29.8 +/- 1.6 microm in NLC mice (n = 6) to 39.4 +/- 1.6 microm in SM22alpha-GRK2 mice (n = 7) (p < 0.05) and vascular GRK2 overexpression was sufficient to cause cardiac hypertrophy. These data indicate that we have developed a unique mouse model of hypertension, providing insight into the contribution that vascular betaAR signaling makes toward resting blood pressure and overall cardiovascular regulation. Moreover, they suggest that GRK2 plays an important role in vascular control and may represent a novel therapeutic target for hypertension.
