Recurrent respiratory papillomas, caused by human papillomaviruses, are premalignant tumors that overexpress the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). The goals of this study were as follows: (a) to evaluate the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in papillomas, (b) to investigate the role of EGFR signaling in COX-2 expression, and (c) to determine whether COX-2 activity is important for the growth of papilloma cells.
Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and real-time PCR were used to determine levels of COX-2 in papilloma and normal laryngeal tissue. Explant cultures of both normal laryngeal and papilloma cells were used to define the signaling pathways that regulate COX-2 expression and investigate the potential of targeting COX-2 as a strategy to suppress papilloma growth.
COX-2 levels were markedly increased in papillomas. In vitro studies suggested that overexpression in papillomas reflected activation of EGFR-->phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling. Treatment with prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) induced COX-2, whereas celecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, suppressed levels of COX-2, suggesting a positive feedback loop. Moreover, treatment with PGE2 stimulated papilloma cell growth, whereas celecoxib suppressed proliferation and induced apoptosis.
Overexpression of COX-2 in papillomas seems to be a consequence of enhanced EGFR-->phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling. We propose a positive feedback loop for COX-2 expression, with induction of COX-2 resulting in enhanced PGE2 synthesis and further expression of COX-2 that contributes to the growth of papillomas in vivo. These data strengthen the rationale for evaluating whether nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, prototypic COX inhibitors, will be useful in the management of respiratory papillomas.
Anethole is known to possess anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor activities and to be a main constituent of fennel, anise, and camphor. In the present study, we evaluated anti-metastatic and apoptotic effects of anethole on highly-metastatic HT-1080 human fibrosarcoma tumor cells. Despite weak cytotoxicity against HT-1080 cells, anethole inhibited the adhesion to Matrigel and invasion of HT-1080 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Anethole was also able to down-regulate the expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -9 and up-regulate the gene expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1. The similar inhibitory effect of anethole on MMP-2 and -9 activities was confirmed by zymography assay. Furthermore, anethole significantly decreased mRNA expression of urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA), but not uPA receptor (uPAR). In addition, anethole suppressed the phosphorylation of AKT, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38 and nuclear transcription factor kappa B (NF-κB) in HT-1080 cells. Taken together, our findings indicate that anethole is a potent anti-metastatic drug that functions through inhibiting MMP-2/9 and AKT/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/NF-κB signal transducers.
An 88-year-old man was admitted to the intensive care unit after the ingestion of 150 mg of dehydrocodeine. The ECG showed severe brodycardia and he was diagnosed as sick sinus syndrome. The recovering of sinus node function took 5 days after the ingestion. The complication observed suggests that transient hypoxia induced by ingestion of high dose DHC had affected sinus node.
Acetaminophen, a popular analgesic and antipyretic, has been found to be effective against neuronal cell death in in vivo and in vitro models of neurological disorders. Acute neuronal death has been attributed to loss of mitochondrial permeability transition coupled with mitochondrial dysfunction. The potential impact of acetaminophen on acute injury from cerebral ischemia-reperfusion has not been studied. We investigated the effects of acetaminophen on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion-induced injury using a transient global forebrain ischemia model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received 15mg/kg of acetaminophen intravenously during ischemia induced by hypovolemic hypotension and bilateral common carotid arterial occlusion, which was followed by reperfusion. Acetaminophen reduced tissue damage, degree of mitochondrial swelling, and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Acetaminophen maintained mitochondrial cytochrome c content and reduced activation of caspase-9 and incidence of apoptosis. Our data show that acetaminophen reduces apoptosis via a mitochondrial-mediated mechanism in an in vivo model of cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. These findings suggest a novel role for acetaminophen as a potential stroke therapeutic.
Many studies have reported the occurrence of oxidative stress in different models of sepsis, but no measurements in real time and in non-invasive manner in an acute model of endotoxemia were done, being its mechanism still under debate. In the present work, we have used in situ surface chemiluminescence to evaluate the reactive oxygen species steady-state concentrations and to identify the main chemical species involved in this phenomenon. Experimental endotoxemia provoked a twofold increase in skeletal muscle chemiluminescence (control value: 31+/-4cps/cm(2)). The use of cutoff filters and D(2)O and biacetyl as specific enhancers, indicates that singlet oxygen is the main emitting species in this model. This result closely correlates with elevated TBARS levels, an index of oxidative damage to lipids. Increased NO production and NADPH oxidase activity may support the formation of ONOO(-), which in turn may originate HO, an initiator of the lipid oxidation chain. In summary, our data show for the first time that (1)O(2) is the main chemical and emitting species involved in the mechanism of oxidative stress present in an acute model of endotoxemia. This work provides new insights necessary to understand free radical mechanisms behind endotoxemic syndrome.
We have described a patient with community-acquired, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis endocarditis that occurred on a prolapsing mitral valve. The patient was successfully treated with vancomycin and rifampin for six weeks and had no signs of relapse four months later.
A 35 year-old asymptomatic Caucasian female with a family history of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) was referred for cardiologic evaluation. The electrocardiogram and transthoracic echocardiogram were normal. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) was performed for further assessment of myocardial function and presence of myocardial scar. CMR showed normal left ventricular systolic size, measurements and function. However, there was extensive, diffuse late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) throughout the left ventricle. This finding was consistent with extensive myocardial scarring and was highly suggestive of advanced, non-ischemic cardiomyopathy. Genotyping showed a heterozygous mis-sense mutation (275G>A) in the cardiac troponin T (TNNT2) gene, which is causally associated with HCM. There have been no previous reports of such extensive, atypical pattern of myocardial scarring despite an otherwise structurally and functionally normal left ventricle in an asymptomatic individual with HCM. This finding has important implications for phenotype screening in HCM.
A 66-year-old woman had tinnitus while receiving a conventional dose of doxepin. The tinnitus disappeared when the doxepin was discontinued, and returned when the patient was rechallenged with the drug.
Renal damage was assessed by histopathology and urinalysis in male Wistar rats treated with either hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (HCBD; a single 170-mg/kg ip dose that caused proximal tubule necrosis), adriamycin (ADR; a single 5-mg/kg ip dose that caused minimal glomerular changes up to 35 days), or HCBD given 2 wk after ADR and compared with age-matched control rats for 21 days. Urinalysis values in ADR-treated rats showed minimal renal changes. HCBD significantly elevated urine volume (10-fold), protein (5-fold), glucose (175-fold), and brush border enzymes (10-600-fold), indicating severe proximal tubular damage, but most parameters returned to pretreatment levels 6 days after treatment. In ADR-pretreated rats subsequently given HCBD, both the urinary alkaline phosphatase and the ratio of kidney: body weight were significantly higher for longer periods. Histopathology demonstrated that the HCBD-induced proximal tubular lesion was confined to the outer stripe of the outer medulla. Advanced regeneration and repair was evident 21 days after HCBD treatment. In the ADR-pretreated rats the HCBD-induced lesion was more severe and affected the entire cortex and was characterized by marked tubular epithelial calcification, with little evidence of repair and tubular restitution 21 days after treatment. Enzyme histochemistry showed gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase localized to the proximal tubules. After HCBD treatment the enzyme staining was lost and subsequently returned in parallel with histological recovery up to 21 days. The distribution and intensity of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase was unchanged in ADR-treated rats. The distribution and intensity of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase in kidneys of ADR-pretreated rats given HCBD had not returned to normal by day 21. The results of this study indicate that pretreatment with ADR increases HCBD-induced nephrotoxic damage and decreases renal cortical repair capacity.
The direct glutamatergic projection from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) to the nucleus accumbens plays a critical role in mediating the reinstatement of cocaine seeking behavior. The mPFC also sends glutamatergic projections to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg) and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT), which in turn send glutamatergic and cholinergic efferents to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) where they synapse on dopaminergic cells that innervate limbic structures including the nucleus accumbens. The goal of these experiments was to examine a potential role for the PPTg/LDT in the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. All rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.25 mg, i.v.) on a fixed-ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement. Cocaine self-administration behavior was extinguished and a series of subsequent pharmacological experiments were performed to assess the potential role of the mPFC, PPTg/LDT and VTA in the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Administration of the D1-like dopamine receptor agonist SKF-81297 (1.0 microg) directly into the mPFC produced a small, but statistically significant, increase in cocaine seeking behavior. Furthermore, microinjection of the ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonist CNQX (0.3 microg) into the PPTg/LDT attenuated the reinstatement of drug seeking induced by a priming injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Intra-VTA administration of CNQX, the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine (10.0 microg) or the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (24.0 microg) also blocked cocaine seeking. Taken together, these results suggest that cocaine priming-induced reinstatement of drug seeking is mediated in part by a serial polysynaptic limbic subcircuit encompassing the mPFC, PPTg/LDT and VTA.
Rac small GTPases play important roles in cytoskeleton and many cell functions including cell cycle, cell growth, cell adhesion and gene transcription. Here, we investigated the roles of Rac including Rac1 and Rac2 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced pulmonary injury.
After LPS was intratracheally instilled to lungs in mice, Rac, CDC42 and RhoA activation assay by pull-down and West blot, inflammatory cell infiltration assay by counting cell numbers and lung histological examination, pro-inflammatory mediator mRNA expression assay by quantitative RT-PCR, measurement of myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, Evans Blue and albumin accumulation by spectrophotometry were performed to evaluate the roles of Rac in pulmonary injury by using its specific inhibitor, NSC23766.
LPS challenge led to increases of both Rac1 and Rac2, but not CDC42 or RhoA activities in lungs, and intraperitoneal administration with NSC23766 inhibited both Rac1 and Rac2, but not CDC42 or RhoA activities. Treatment with NSC23766 at 1 or 3mg/kg not only reduced the inflammatory cells infiltration and MPO activities, but also inhibited pro-inflammatory mediators, tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β, mRNA expression. Moreover, in vitro neutrophil migration assay and in vivo microvascular permeability assay indicated that NSC23766 not only inhibited neutrophil transwell migration toward a chemoattractant, fMLP, but also reduced Evans Blue and albumin accumulation in LPS-challenged lungs. LPS activated both Rac1 and Rac2, but not CDC42 or RhoA activities in lungs, and specific inhibition of Rac activities by NSC23766 effectively alleviated LPS-induced injury.
Rac could be a potential target for therapeutic intervention of pulmonary inflammation.
Cyclophosphamide-induced urothelium cancer of the bladder is a well-known entity. The risk for inducing such cancer grows with duration and dosage of cyclophosphamide therapy. The lag time between termination of treatment and development of urothelial cancer has been observed to be between 9 months and 11 years. Single cases have been reported 14, 16, 17, and 21 years after cyclophosphamide treatment.
We report a case of a bladder cancer occurring after a lag time of 20 years after oral therapy with cyclophosphamide for ovarian cancer. The bladder cancer was detected due to gross hematuria.
It is of great importance for gynecologists to continue to care for patients who have received long-term cyclophosphamide treatment, even if the treatment was completed decades ago. One possible early symptom of cyclophosphamide-induced bladder cancer is painless hematuria. This can easily be used to detect bladder cancer in women at risk, even after a very long latency period.
Oral administration of low doses (0.0625, 0.125, or 0.25 mg/kg body weight, po, corresponding to 1/1400th, 1/700th, or 1/350th of LD(50), respectively) of lindane, an organochlorine insecticide, to pregnant dams from gestation day 5-21 was found to produce dose-dependent alterations in the ontogenic profile of xenobiotic-metabolizing cytochrome P450s (CYPs) in the brain and liver of offspring. The increase in the cerebral and hepatic mRNA expression of CYP1A1, 1A2, 2B1, 2B2, and 2E1 was also found to be associated with an increase in the catalytic activity of these CYP isoenzymes in the brain and liver of the offspring at different stages during postnatal development. Interestingly, though the levels of CYPs were severalfold lower in brain when compared to the liver, almost equal magnitude of induction in these CYPs in brain have suggested that like in the liver, brain CYPs are responsive to the transplacental induction by environmental chemicals and that the increase is transcriptionally regulated. Moreover, due to its lipophilic nature, lindane may partition in mother's milk leading to further exposure of the offspring during the critical period of neurodevelopment which may explain the increase in CYP mRNA expression and associated catalytic activity especially during the early postnatal period. Interestingly, the increase in mRNA expression of these CYP isoforms was found to persist up to adulthood, suggesting that the low doses of lindane administered to the dams might program the brain and liver of the offspring to persistently express the xenobiotic-metabolizing CYP isoforms. As CYP-dependent metabolism of lindane is involved in its neurobehavioral toxicity, the potential of lindane to imprint the expression of cerebral and hepatic CYPs may help in identifying the role of these enzymes in the developmental neurotoxicity of the pesticide.
Microcystin-leucine arginine (MC-LR), a cyclic heptapeptide produced by cyanobacteria, has strong reproductive toxicity. The present study was designed to elucidate the mechanism of declines in sperm quality as a result of exposure to MC-LR by using spermatogenic cells as a model system. MC-LR was intraperitoneally administered to male rats daily at 0, 50 and 100 µg/kg body weight for one week. Results showed that changes occurred in the structural of testis, the tubular diameter and the relative weight of the testes was significantly decreased following treatment with 100 μg/kg. Major differences in apoptosis and proliferation of testicular cells were observed at the100 μg/kg MC-LR. The gene expression levels of testis-specific histone 2B (TH2B) and transition protein 2 (TP2) were both significantly decreased. Meanwhile, the stem cell factor receptor (c-kit) was increased after exposure to 50 or 100 μg/kg MC-LR. This study demonstrated that MC-LR can alter the apoptosis, proliferation and differentiation of spermatogenic cells in vivo.
Exposure to excessive manganese (Mn) levels results in neurotoxicity to the extrapyramidal system and the development of Parkinson's disease (PD)-like movement disorder, referred to as manganism. Although the mechanisms by which Mn induces neuronal damage are not well defined, its neurotoxicity appears to be regulated by a number of factors, including oxidative injury, mitochondrial dysfunction and neuroinflammation. To investigate the mechanisms underlying Mn neurotoxicity, we studied the effects of Mn on reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, changes in high-energy phosphates (HEP), neuroinflammation mediators and associated neuronal dysfunctions both in vitro and in vivo. Primary cortical neuronal cultures showed concentration-dependent alterations in biomarkers of oxidative damage, F2-isoprostanes (F2-IsoPs) and mitochondrial dysfunction (ATP), as early as 2 h following Mn exposure. Treatment of neurons with 500 microM Mn also resulted in time-dependent increases in the levels of the inflammatory biomarker, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). In vivo analyses corroborated these findings, establishing that either a single or three (100 mg/kg, s.c.) Mn injections (days 1, 4 and 7) induced significant increases in F2-IsoPs and PGE2 in adult mouse brain 24 h following the last injection. Quantitative morphometric analyses of Golgi-impregnated striatal sections from mice exposed to single or three Mn injections revealed progressive spine degeneration and dendritic damage of medium spiny neurons (MSNs). These findings suggest that oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and neuroinflammation are underlying mechanisms in Mn-induced neurodegeneration.
We studied a patient affected with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Fatal hyperpyrexia followed simultaneous levodopa withdrawal and a decrease in the dosage of diphenhydramine. The clinical features were those of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. The rapid decrease in dopaminergic activity may have been important in causing the syndrome.
LH activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor/RAS/ERK1/2 pathway is essential for ovulation and luteinization because granulosa cell (GC) depletion of ERK1/2 (ERK1/2(gc)(-/-) mice) renders mice infertile. As mediators of ERK1/2-dependent GC differentiation, the CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins, (C/EBP)α and C/EBPβ, were also disrupted. Female Cebpb(gc)(-/-) mutant mice, but not Cebpa(gc)(-/-) mice, were subfertile whereas Cebpa/b(gc)(-/-) double-mutant females were sterile. Follicles failed to ovulate, ovaries were devoid of corpora lutea, luteal cell marker genes (Lhcgr, Prlr, Ptgfr, Cyp11a1, and Star) were absent, and serum progesterone levels were low. Microarray analyses identified numerous C/EBPα/β target genes in equine chorionic gonadotropin (eCG)-human (h)CG-treated mice. At 4 h post-hCG, a subset (19%) of genes altered in the Cebpa/b-depleted cells was also altered in ERK1/2-depleted cells; hence they are common effectors of ERK1/2. Additional genes down-regulated in the Cebpa/b-depleted cells at 8 and 24 h post-hCG include known (Akr1b7, Runx2, Star, Saa3) and novel (Abcb1b, Apln, Igfbp4, Prlr, Ptgfr Timp4) C/EBP targets and effectors of luteal and vascular cell development. Bhmt, a gene controlling methionine metabolism and thought to be expressed exclusively in liver and kidney, was high in wild-type luteal cells but totally absent in Cebpa/b mutant cells. Because numerous genes potentially associated with vascular development were suppressed in the mutant cells, C/EBPα/β appear to dictate the luteinization process by also controlling genes that regulate the formation of the extensive vascular network required to sustain luteal cells. Thus, C/EBPα/β mediate the terminal differentiation of GCs during the complex process of luteinization.
Phenobarbital (PB) is a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2B inducer, and piperonyl butoxide (PBO) is a CYP1A/2B inducer. These inducers have liver tumor-promoting effects in rats. In this study, we performed a rat two-stage liver carcinogenesis bioassay to examine the tumor-promoting effect of PB and PBO co-administration. Male rats received an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) for initiation. Two weeks after DEN administration, rats were given PB (60 or 120 ppm in drinking water), PBO (1,250 or 2,500 ppm in diet) or 60 ppm PB+1,250 ppm PBO for 6 weeks. One week after the PB/PBO treatment, all rats were subjected to a two-thirds partial hepatectomy. To evaluate the effect of the combined administration, we used two statistical additive models. In the isoadditive model, the average values of the area of GST-P positive foci in the PB+PBO group were significantly lower than those in the High PB or High PBO groups. In the heteroadditive model, the net values of Cyp1a1 mRNA level and microsomal reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in the PB+PBO group were significantly lower than the sum of those in the Low PB or Low PBO groups. On the contrary, there was no interactive effect in the PCNA-positive hepatocyte ratio, mRNA levels of Cyp2b1/2, Gstm3, Gpx2 and Nqo1, and the level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances in the PB+PBO group. These results suggest that PB and PBO co-administration causes suppressive effects in liver tumor-promoting activity in rats resulting from inhibited microsomal ROS production because of suppression of CYP1A induction.
Congenital aneurysms or diverticula of the left ventricle are rare findings that can be detected by both echocardiography and/or left ventricular angiography. We investigated 16 adult patients presenting either with left ventricular aneurysms (n = 8, mean age 33 +/- 12 years) or diverticula (n = 8, mean age 53 +/- 15 years). In 6 patients the first manifestation of the disease were ventricular arrhythmias, while in the remaining 10 patients the diagnosis was established after echocardiographic examination or cardiac catheterization in search of embolic events, valvular disease or atypical chest pain. In all patients ischaemic heart disease, dilated or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy could be ruled out. Most of the aneurysms and diverticula were localized below the mitral valve. Patients underwent surgery (n = 1), implantation of cardioverter-defibrillator ICD (n = 2), radiofrequency catheter ablation (n = 1) or drug therapy with class III antiarrhythmics or beta-adrenergic blocking agents (n = 8). Four patients are receiving long-term anticoagulation. With this individually tailored therapy a favourable outcome can be expected in most cases, although during follow-up of 61 (9-121) months one patient died from left heart failure due to amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism; there were no cerebrovascular complications.
Differential diagnosis of symptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmias or embolic events of unknown origin should include congenital ventricular aneurysms or diverticula.
Successful fluid resuscitation after severe hemorrhage may be limited by activation of the Bezold-Jarisch reflex. We postulated that pharmacologic inhibition of this reflex would restore cardiovascular hemodynamics more effectively than would volume repletion alone during resuscitation for hemorrhagic shock.
We measured mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and cardiac output (CO) during fluid resuscitation after hemorrhaging laboratory rats until their CO had decreased by 90% to 95%. To block distinct components of the Bezold-Jarisch reflex, animals received capsazepine, yohimbine, or propranolol before iso-osmotic volume repletion.
Hemorrhage decreased MAP and CO; despite an initial tachycardia, HR fell significantly in response to this large volume blood loss. The degree of hemorrhage-induced bradycardia mediated by the Bezold-Jarisch reflex predicted resuscitation MAP. Capsazepine-treated animals had greater resuscitation-induced increases in MAP (values in mm Hg +/- SEM), 130 +/- 12, when compared with the saline-only animals, 90 +/- 7 (p = 0.004). The capsazepine group also had a greater increase in systemic vascular resistance over baseline values during resuscitation (86% +/- 19%) compared with vehicle-treated animals (26% +/- 14%, p = 0.02). Capsazepine had no effect on cardiac dynamics. On the other hand, yohimbine increased HR and diminished CO, and propranolol dramatically increased stroke volume by 30%.
Inhibition of the Bezold-Jarisch reflex may aid fluid resuscitation after hemorrhage only if stroke volume is restored. Beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists such as propranolol may prove the most salutary of these agents in enhancing fluid resuscitation in patients with severe hemorrhage.
The aim of this study was to estimate the long-term effectiveness of olanzapine as adjunctive therapy in patients with bipolar disorder who exhibited an inadequate response to mood stabilizers. Twenty-three Research Diagnostic Criteria (RDC) patients with bipolar I and II were assessed by means of the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia and entered if they gave their consent to participate. All of them had experienced frequent relapses, residual subsyndromal symptoms, and inadequate responses to other drugs, such as lithium, valproate, or carbamazepine. While maintaining other drugs, they all received open-label, increasing doses of olanzapine, until achieving clinical response. Other drugs were maintained. The patients were assessed several consecutive times from baseline to the endpoint with the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale for use in bipolar illness. Records of recurrences, hospitalizations, and side effects were also collected. The last-observation-carried-forward analysis showed that there was a significant reduction of CGI scores after the introduction of olanzapine, either in manic symptoms (p = 0.0015), depressive symptoms (p = 0.0063), or global symptoms (p = 0.0003). The most frequent adverse events were somnolence (17%) and weight gain (13%). The mean dose of olanzapine at the end of the 43-week follow-up was 8.1 mg/day. Olanzapine may be a useful medication for the long-term adjunctive treatment of patients with bipolar disorder who exhibit a poor response to mood stabilizers, such as lithium, valproate, or carbamazepine. These results suggest mood-stablizing properties of olanzapine.
Acute fatty liver is a rare but fatal complication of pregnancy. Here we describe a patient presenting with stupor and jaundice after aspirin intake at 35 weeks of gestation. Supportive management and delivery resulted in uneventful discharge of the patient and the newborn. Differential diagnosis and management of this condition are discussed.
The aim of the study was to assess the relationships between environmental risk factors and the risk of congenital heart malformations.
An epidemiological case-control study was conducted. We investigated the effect of 43 potential risk factors for congenital heart malformations and calculated their crude and adjusted odds ratios.
The analysis revealed that maternal age at delivery (< 19 or > or = 35 years), marital status, chronic diseases, reproductive history, maternal and paternal smoking, occupational and residential hazards were associated with increased risk of congenital heart malformations. Residential exposure to ambient formaldehyde (>2.42 microg/m3) tended to increase the risk of congenital heart malformations by 24% (OR=1.24; 95% CI 0.81-2.07).
Stratified analysis of effects of exposure to occupational and residential hazards together showed that the risk of congenital heart malformations has increased significantly.
Non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) are known to produce gastro-intestinal lesions. In the present work we found that aspirin, indomethacin and oxyphenbutazone caused gastric mucosal damage in 90.9%, 100% and 100% respectively, while ibuprofen and paracetamol caused damage in 33.3% and 37.5% of cases respectively. Thus the latter two drugs were much safer NSAIDs. Furthermore we demonstrated that endoscopic monitoring of patients on NSAIDs is a sensitive method for early detection of gastric mucosal damage. This monitoring may be particularly valuable in high risk subjects on NSAIDs.
A number of symmetrical as well as asymmetrical bis-arenoxypropanolamines have been synthesized and evaluated for their beta-adrenolytic properties. The pharmacological characterization of these compounds was performed in vitro by direct studies (3H-dihydroalprenolol was used as the specific ligand for beta-receptors), and by determining the beta-blocking capacity on isoproterenol (ISO)-induced increased heart rate (isolated guinea-pig atrium); and in vivo by evaluating the antagonism on ISO-induced hypotension and tachycardia, as well as the intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) on reserpinized and vagotomized rats. The best result was observed with the simplest derivative, i.e. the bis-phenoxypropanolamine compound, which shows in vitro and in vivo potencies almost comparable to propranolol and, moreover, significant bronchodilating activity.
The lack of a suitable animal model for the peripheral neuropathy that often follows the systemic administration of the chemotherapeutic agent vincristine sulfate (VCR) has hampered the correlation between experimental and clinical patterns of this neuropathy. New Zealand rabbits have been recently found to develop, after iv injection of a VCR total dosage similar to that used in humans, a peripheral polyneuropathy characterized by electrophysiological changes that overlap those observed in the clinical setting. The present study was aimed at investigating the ultrastructural features of 3 different nerves (sural, peroneal, and medial gastrocnemius) in rabbits treated with 3 VCR doses that fall within the range (0.2-0.3 mg/kg i.v.) known to be efficacious chemotherapeutically and active neurotoxicologically. Regardless of the dose and the nerve under examination, histopathologic alterations appeared in the form of an overall loss of myelinated fibers, accompanied by successful attempts of regeneration and remyelination. Fibers undergoing Wallerian degeneration were characterized by an axoplasm, which was either watery-flocculent or divided in 2 or more regions as a consequence of ingrowing Schwann cell processes from the adaxonal surface. These ingrowths tended to isolate axoplasmic areas, retaining a fairly normal structure from other areas already crowded with altered organelles and cytoskeletal elements. In any event, neurofibrillary accumulations were rarely seen. These patterns are discussed with reference to those reported in the ultrastructural studies of human cases and confirm the suitability of rabbit as an animal model for VCR-induced peripheral neuropathy.
