Chondrosarcoma, a primary malignant bone cancer, has a potent capacity to invade locally and cause distant metastasis, especially to the lungs. Patients diagnosed with it have poor prognosis. Naringin, polymethoxylated flavonoid commonly found in citrus fruits, has anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor activity; whether naringin regulates migration of chondrosarcoma is largely unknown. Here we report that naringin does not expedite apoptosis in human chondrosarcoma. By contrast, at noncytotoxic concentrations, naringin suppressed migration and invasion of chondrosarcoma cells. Vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) of the immunoglobulin superfamily is linked with metastasis; we found incubation of chondrosarcoma cells with naringin reducing mRNA transcription for, and cell surface expression of, VCAM-1. We also observed that naringin enhancing miR-126 expression, and miR-126 inhibitor reversed the naringin-inhibited cell motility and VCAM-1 expression. Therefore, naringin inhibits migration and invasion of human chondrosarcoma via down-regulation of VCAM-1 by increasing miR-126. Thus, naringin may be a novel anti-migration agent for the treatment of migration in chondrosarcoma.
A patient was admitted to the hospital with acute chest pain. After acute myocardial infarction was ruled out, he underwent a stress thallium 201 scintigraphy using oral dipyridamole and developed persistent angina with ST-segment elevation. This complication has not been reported previously. It is recommended that appropriate intervention be available if severe ischemia develops following administration of dipyridamole for diagnostic imaging.
Curcumin (diferuloylmethane), a pigment derived from turmeric, has anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Accumulating evidence points to a biochemical link between increased oxidative stress and reduced bone density. Osteoclast formation was evaluated in co-cultures of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) and whole bone marrow cells (BMC). Expression of receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL) was analyzed at the mRNA and protein levels. Exposure to curcumin led to dose-dependent suppression of osteoclastogenesis in the coculture system, and to reduced expression of RANKL in IL-1alpha-stimulated BMSCs. Addition of RANKL abolished the inhibition of osteoclastogenesis by curcumin, whereas the addition of prostaglandin E2(PGE2) did not. The decreased osteoclastogenesis induced by curcumin may reduce bone loss and be of potential benefit in preventing and/or attenuating osteoporosis.
Trivalent inorganic arsenic (arsenite, arsenic trioxide, As(III)) is a primary contaminant of groundwater supplies worldwide. As(III), marketed as trisenox, is also an FDA-approved agent to treat cancer It has been previously shown by our laboratory that As(III) administered at doses lower than a therapeutic anticancer dose results in an increase in tumor formation and blood vessel density of tumors. In this work it was found that chronic administration of As(III) approaching the EPA action level of 10 ppb, given in the drinking water of mice 5 weeks prior to B16-F10 melanoma implantation, increased the growth rate of primary tumors and the number of metastases to the lung. Further, levels of arsenic in the tumor and lung were found to be much greater than those in the blood and similar to pro-angiogenic As(III) doses. Levels of hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) surrounding the blood vessels in the tumors of the As(III)-treated mice were also found to be increased. Exposure of isolated B16-F10 tumor cells to chronic (3 or 7 day) but not acute (4 h) low-dose As(III) was found to increase HIF-1alpha expression and secretion of VEGF. Finally, coadministration of an inhibitor of HIF (YC-1) or a VEGFR-2 kinase inhibitor (SU5416) was found to antagonize the pro-angiogenic effects of low-dose As(III). Together, these results suggest that chronic exposure to low-dose As(III) could stimulate growth of tumors through a HIF-dependent stimulation of angiogenesis.
A clinical trial was initiated to evaluate the recommended dose of cyclophosphamide in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone as induction treatment before stem cell transplantation for younger patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM). Thirty patients were treated with three 21-day cycles of bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 plus dexamethasone 40 mg on the day of bortezomib injection and the day after plus cyclophosphamide at 900, 1,200, or 1,500 mg/m(2) on day 1. The maximum tolerated dose of cyclophosphamide was defined as 900 mg/m(2). At this dose level, 92% of patients achieved at least a partial response. The overall response rate [complete response (CR) plus partial response (PR)] across all dose levels was 77%, with a 10% CR rate. No patient experienced progressive disease. The most frequent adverse events were hematological and gastrointestinal toxicities as well as neuropathy. The results suggest that bortezomib in combination with cyclophosphamide at 900 mg/m(2) and dexamethasone is an effective induction treatment for patients with newly diagnosed MM that warrants further investigation.
A case of intravenous amiodarone induced QT-interval prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia of the torsade de pointes type is described: the arrhythmia developed in the presence of hypokalemia. The efficacy of lidocaine in suppressing this type of arrhythmia is reported. The electrophysiologic effects of intravenous and oral amiodarone administration are compared.
The heated lidocaine/tetracaine patch (Synera; ZARS Pharma, Inc, Salt Lake City, UT) is among the local topical anesthetic formulations used to prevent procedural pain. This study was conducted to determine the depth and duration of anesthesia provided by the patch and to evaluate safety and tolerability.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-period crossover study was conducted in healthy subjects. Subjects were randomized to receive either the heated lidocaine/tetracaine patch (active patch) in period 1 and placebo patch in period 2 or vice versa. Patches were applied for 30 mins to the volar aspect of the forearm. Pain and sensory depths were measured at baseline and at 30, 60, 90, and 150 mins after patch application. Duration of anesthesia was measured at 40, 70, 110, and 130 mins after patch application by evaluating thermal and mechanical sensation.
A total of 25 subjects were enrolled in the study. Twenty-four subjects completed the study. Pain and sensory depths with the active patch were greater than with placebo (P < 0.001) at all postdose time points. Maximum mean pain depth achieved with the active patch was 8.22 mm; anesthesia lasted at least 100 mins after patch removal. Cool and warm sensations and hot pain thresholds were increased compared with placebo (P < 0.001). Light touch and pinprick were detectable by most subjects.
The heated lidocaine/tetracaine patch is well tolerated, and it provides favorable depth and duration of anesthesia without significant sensory loss for superficial venous access and minor dermatological procedures after a 30-min application.
From 1976 to 1985, a total of 58 infants and children with the hemolytic-uremic syndrome were randomly assigned to treatment either with heparin and dipyridamole or with supportive management only. In the treatment group, two patients died in the early weeks of the disease. Analysis of clinical and laboratory data showed no significant difference between either group of patients as to the evolution of their illness except for a significantly higher incidence of anuria and a significantly faster recovery from hypertension in the treated group. Renal biopsy studies showed no differences between the two groups in terms of incidence and severity of the histologic lesions. The long-term data on blood pressure and creatinine clearance values in the survivors were similar in both groups. This study indicates that treatment with heparin and dipyridamole has no benefit over symptomatic therapy alone in the typical form of childhood hemolytic-uremic syndrome.
An automated tracking system which converted an animal's path between quadrants of a circular open field into a series of trips was used to analyse stereotyped locomotion in amphetamine treated rats. Amphetamine (3.5 mg/kg) increased the horizontal distance moved and the number and proportion of thigmotaxic trips around the perimeter of the apparatus (length 4 trips). To investigate the hypothesis that classic antipsychotics, but not atypical antipsychotics, would antagonise the repetitive boundary patrolling associated with amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, animals were pretreated with haloperidol (0.01, 0.025, 0.05, 0.075 mg/kg), clozapine (5, 10, 20 mg/kg) or (+/-)sulpiride (10, 20, 50 mg/kg) 30 min before 3.5 mg/kg amphetamine. The results showed that the classic antipsychotic haloperidol antagonised both hyperactivity and the increased proportion of length 4 trips. In marked contrast, the atypical antipsychotics clozapine and sulpiride antagonised hyperactivity but did not reduce the proportion of length 4 trips. The inability of atypical antipsychotics to reduce the repetitive boundary patrolling associated with amphetamine-induced hyperactivity is consistent with the action of these drugs on other forms of amphetamine-induced stereotyped behaviour, and indicates that locomotor routes under amphetamine are stereotyped. The measurement of trip lengths provides a sensitive tool for examining drug action on the spatial distribution of open field locomotion.
We compared the effects of amlodipine (5-10 mg, n=94) and losartan (50-100 mg, n=94) on the lowering of blood pressure (BP) at steady state and after two missed doses, as well as on tolerability. This was a randomized, double-blind study of 12 weeks of active treatment followed by 2 days of placebo treatment. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and office BP measurements were performed at baseline, week 12 and after the 2-day drug holiday. After 12 weeks, amlodipine was significantly more effective than losartan in reducing both 24-h systolic blood pressure (SBP) (-18.0 versus -10.8 mmHg) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (-10.6 versus -8.0 mmHg). While mean SBP and DBP for both treatments increased comparably during the drug holiday, BP values remained significantly lower than baseline for both treatments. The superior BP-lowering effect of amlodipine compared with losartan was maintained during the drug holiday.
We investigated the effect of sequential administration of intrathecal (IT) hyperbaric bupivacaine (after the initial administration of IT hypobaric fentanyl) on the duration of spinal analgesia. Thirty-seven nulliparous parturients with a cervical dilation >/= 5 cm were randomized to receive either IT fentanyl 25 micro g and plain bupivacaine 2.5 mg (group P; n = 19) or IT fentanyl 25 micro g and hyperbaric (with 8% glucose) bupivacaine 2.5 mg (group H; n = 18). The two components of the IT injectate were administered sequentially (fentanyl 25 micro g diluted in 2 mL of normal saline, immediately followed by 0.5 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine). Patients were then positioned with their torso elevated at 30 degrees for 30 min. Pain scores using 0-100 visual analog scales were collected before combined spinal/epidural analgesia and at 5, 15, and 30 min after the block. Patients in Group H had a longer median duration of analgesia (122 min; range, 80-210 min) than Group P (95 min; range, 75-125 min) (P < 0.01). Group H also had a more limited dermatomal spread (median highest sensory level of T8 versus T4 in group P; P < 0.05). The side-effect profile was similar. Under these circumstances, hyperbaric bupivacaine conferred an increased duration of IT analgesia compared with plain bupivacaine.
Attainment of blood pressure (BP) goals in patients with diabetes is critical both to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events and to delay the progression of renal disease. While therapeutic guidelines advise initial therapy with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker, monotherapy with these agents may not be sufficient to attain target BP.
The ADHT (Amlodipine Diabetic Hypertension Efficacy Response Evaluation Trial) evaluated the efficacy and safety of adding amlodipine to the treatment regimen of patients with hypertension and diabetes who were already receiving either quinapril or losartan as monotherapy.
ADHT was a double-blind, double-dummy, 22-week trial conducted in the US. After a washout period of 7-13 days, patients (aged 30-75 y) with hypertension and diabetes were randomized to receive quinapril 20 mg/day plus placebo or losartan 50 mg/day plus placebo for 4 weeks, titrated to 40 mg or 100 mg (if required), respectively, for an additional 4 weeks to achieve their BP goals (<130/80 mm Hg). At week 8, either amlodipine 5 mg/day or placebo was added for an additional 12 weeks, with titration to 10 mg at week 14 if the BP goal was not achieved.
Efficacy of add-on therapy was evaluated in 411 patients (amlodipine 211, placebo 200). BP goal was reached by 27.5% of patients when amlodipine was added to quinapril or losartan monotherapy, compared with 12.5% when placebo was added (OR 2.73; 95% CI 1.61 to 4.64; p < 0.001). When added to quinapril or losartan monotherapy, amlodipine reduced BP by 8.1/5.4 mm Hg, compared with a 1.6/0.7 mm Hg decrease with add-on placebo (p < 0.001). Amlodipine, quinapril, and losartan were well tolerated.
Amlodipine is safe and effective when added to quinapril or losartan monotherapy to help lower BP toward therapeutic targets in patients with hypertension and diabetes.
Our work has shown that TNF alpha is produced by cultured mononuclear cells from rheumatoid arthritis joints and appears to regulate the production of IL-1. Immunohistochemical examination has shown the presence of TNF alpha in the synovium, e.g. in the lining layer, some endothelial cells and most importantly, in the cells in the cartilage pannus junction. TNF receptors (both p55 and p75) have a similar distribution, thereby suggesting that TNF has the potential for autocrine and paracrine activity in the joint. The concept that TNF alpha is pathogenic in inflammatory arthritis has been validated by showing that neutralizing monoclonal anti-TNF antibodies significantly attenuate collagen-induced arthritis in mice. In preliminary trials in rheumatoid patients anti-TNF appears to have an impressive effect on indices of disease activity including C-reactive production and serum amyloid-A production. TNF alpha appears to be a relevant therapeutic target in rheumatoid disease.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is associated with high neonatal mortality and morbidity due to pulmonary hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension. Antenatal interventions have been developed in an attempt to reduce the unacceptable mortality rate of CDH. The pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia is not fully understood. It is not clear whether the increase of lung growth would be necessary for diaphragmatic closure. Vitamin A is important for various aspects of lung development. Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine whether antenatal treatment with vitamin A can increase lung growth and reduce the incidence of CDH in a nitrofen-treated rat model. The animals were randomly assigned to four groups: control, vitamin A, nitrofen, and nitrofen/vitamin A (NIP/Vit A). The incidence of CDH in the NIP/Vit A group (54%) was markedly lower than that in the nitrofen-treated group (85%). Although lung weight was decreased in the nitrofen-treated and NIP/vitamin A groups, the fetal lung weight-to-body weight ratio was slightly increased in the NIP/vitamin A group, compared to the nitrofen-treated group. The mRNA levels of lung surfactant proteins were decreased in the NIP/vitamin A group. We conclude that antenatal treatment with vitamin A reduced the incidence of CDH without lung maturation in the nitrofen-induced rat model.
Two patients treated with high dose methotrexate otrexate with citrovorum rescue (HDMTX-CF) for osteogenic sarcoma developed the acute onset of neurologic deficits. Prior to the onset of symptoms, one child suffered brief episodes of altered consciousness. Both patients developed hemiparesis and then steadily improved over 72 hours. Laboratory evaluations disclosed normal coagulation parameters and nontoxic serum methotrexate levels at onset of symptoms. Computed tomography in one child disclosed a large low absorption abnormality. This patient represents the first reported case of positive radiologic findings associated with this syndrome. The two patients recovered completely and received further HDMTX-CF without sequelae. This condition may result from transient demyelination or embolic cerebrovascular disease.
Drug-induced acute liver failure (ALF) is a devastating and often fatal disease mainly caused by poisoning by acetaminophen (APAP). The toxic metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone-imine (NAPQI), that leads to gluthatione depletion has been suspected to be the main effector of hepatocyte apoptosis during APAP-induced ALF. We have investigated whether reactive oxygen species (ROS) also play a role in APAP-induced ALF, and whether manganese III tetrakis (5,10,15,20 benzoic acid) (MnTBAP), a mimic of superoxide dismutase (SOD) with catalase-like activity, can treat the disease in mice. The effects of MnTBAP were tested on APAP-intoxicated mice and on isolated hepatocytes incubated with APAP. MnTBAP preventively and curatively administered significantly improved survival times, and dramatically reduced serum transaminase activity levels and parenchymal lesions in APAP-intoxicated mice. Whereas pretreatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) prevented ALF in a dose-dependent manner, the molecule was ineffective when curatively administered. The significant increase in glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) activity following APAP administration, and the beneficial effects of MnTBAP suggested that ROS were produced during APAP-induced ALF. A direct evidence of ROS generation was provided by flow cytometry of isolated hepatocytes incubated with APAP. In vitro, ROS production was associated with mitochondrial damage characterized by the collapse of transmembrane potential and the loss of cardiolipin content. In livers of intoxicated mice, ALF was associated with cytochrome c release that led to the activation of caspases-9 and -3. The capacity of MnTBAP to abrogate all those alterations suggests that ROS play a role in APAP-induced apoptosis of hepatocytes, and explains the beneficial effects of MnTBAP, which could be of interest in APAP-induced ALF in humans.
Blood cytopenia is a common feature in HIV infection, occurring in up to 70% of patients with AIDS. Since at present it is not clear to what extent this is intrinsic to HIV infection or due to opportunistic infections and antiretroviral agents we have investigated the long-term effects of conventional and new antiviral drugs on the bone marrow of normal and immunodeficient mice. The results show that azidothymidine (AZT), dideoxycytidine (DDC) and dideoxycytidine 5'-triphosphate (DDCTP) alone or in combination are all effective in inhibiting the expression of the retroviral protein Pr60gag in bone marrow cells. However, DDCTP was the most effective in preventing bone marrow cytopenia. Combined treatments of AZT plus DDCTP result in a reduction in erythroid precursors compared to that resulting from DDCTP administration, while DDC plus DDCTP results in a differential cell count similar to that found in uninfected mice. Thus, the bone marrow in murine AIDS may prove useful as a model for therapy of retroviral infections and for treating blood cytopenias.
Both arsenic trioxide (ATO) and bortezomib show separate antileukemic activity. With the purpose of evaluating whether the combination of ATO and bortezomib would be an option for patients with acute leukemia, we incubated HL60 leukemic cells with ATO alone and in combination with bortezomib. ATO and bortezomib cooperated to induce cell death and to inhibit proliferation and apoptosis in a synergistic way. The combined treatment resulted in a stronger activation of caspase 8 and 9, moderate activation of caspase 3, and increased expression of Fas and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-DR5 receptors. When bortezomib was added, some proapoptotic genes (CARD9, TRAIL) were upregulated, and some antiapoptotic genes (BCL2, BCL3, FLICE) were downregulated. When coincubated, approximately 80% of cells showed altered mitochondrial membrane permeability. Moreover, ATO alone and in combination with bortezomib abrogated DNA-binding activity of nuclear factor kappa beta (NF-kappaB). Gene expression assays showed that more deregulated genes were related to proliferation of leukocytes, tumorigenesis, control of cell cycle, hypoxia and oxidative stress, cytokines, PI3K-AKT, ERK-MAPK, EGF pathways, and ubiquitination. Finally, in three cases of acute myeloid leukemia, the addition of bortezomib to ATO significantly increased cytotoxicity. We conclude that the combination of bortezomib and ATO may be efficacious in the treatment of myeloid disorders.
Green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) is a strong antioxidant that has previously been shown to reduce the number of plaques in HIV-infected cultured cells. Modified EGCG, palmitoyl-EGCG (p-EGCG), is of interest as a topical antiviral agent for herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) infections. This study evaluated the effect of p-EGCG on HSV-infected Vero cells. Results of cell viability and cell proliferation assays indicate that p-EGCG is not toxic to cultured Vero cells and show that modification of the green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) with palmitate increases the effectiveness of EGCG as an antiviral agent. Furthermore, p-EGCG is a more potent inhibitor of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) than EGCG and can be topically applied to skin, one of the primary tissues infected by HSV. Viral binding assay, plaque forming assay, PCR, real-time PCR, and fluorescence microscopy were used to demonstrate that p-EGCG concentrations of 50 μM and higher block the production of infectious HSV-1 particles. p-EGCG was found to inhibit HSV-1 adsorption to Vero cells. Thus, p-EGCG may provide a novel treatment for HSV-1 infections.
Methyl iodide is a monohalomethane used as an analytic and organic chemistry reagent, as a methylating agent in organic chemical synthesis, and as a fumigant. In an acute exposure, methyl iodide is a pulmonary and dermal irritant. Chronic neurotoxicity has been reported in survivors of acute exposure.
A review of the 11 case reports of methyl iodide poisoning in the medical literature of the 20th century found that six of the patients experienced a chronic neurological syndrome characterized primarily by delayed psychiatric, behavioral, and cognitive sequelae.
The case patient experienced a massive exposure to methyl iodide with resulting life-threatening burns. During convalescence, various cognitive and behavioral deficits became apparent. The results of a comprehensive evaluation at our occupational toxicology clinic, which included sequential neuropsychometric testing, are described.
The findings in the case patient may advance our understanding of the mechanisms and clinical manifestations of chronic neurotoxicity after exposure to methyl iodide.
Sodium arsenite exposure at concentration >5 μM may induce embryotoxic and teratogenic effects in animal models. Long-term health effects of sodium arsenite from contaminated drinking water may result in different forms of cancer and neurological abnormalities. As cancer development processes seem to be originated in stem cells, we have chosen to examine the effects of sodium arsenite on signaling pathways and the corresponding transcription factors that regulate cell viability and self-renewal in mouse embryonic stem cells (ESC) and mouse neural stem/precursor cells. We demonstrated that the crucial signaling pathway, which was substantially suppressed by sodium arsenite exposure (4 μM) in ESC, was the PI3K-AKT pathway linked with numerous downstream targets that control cell survival and apoptosis. Furthermore, the whole core transcription factor circuitry that control self-renewal of mouse ESC (Stat3-P-Tyr705, Oct4, Sox2 and Nanog) was strongly down-regulated by sodium arsenite (4 μM) exposure. This was followed by G2/M arrest and induction of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway that might be suppressed by caspase-9 and caspase-3 inhibitors. In contrast to mouse ESC with very low endogenous IL6, mouse neural stem/precursor cells (C17.2 clone immortalized by v-myc) with high endogenous production of IL6 exhibited a strong resistance to cytotoxic effects of sodium arsenite that could be decreased by inhibitory anti-IL6 antibody or Stat3 inhibition. In summary, our data demonstrated suppression of self-renewal and induction of apoptosis in mouse ESC by sodium arsenite exposure, which was further accelerated due to simultaneous inhibition of the protective PI3K-AKT and Stat3-dependent pathways.
Individual differences in susceptibility to trichloroethylene-induced nephrocarcinogenicity may be conferred by genetic polymorphisms of glutathione S-transferases (GST), because enzymes of this group are pivotal for the metabolic activation of trichloroethylene. Because of a potential involvement of N-acetylation in the detoxication of reactive trichloroethylene metabolite(s) to N-acetyl-cysteine derivatives, polymorphisms of the NAT2 gene may also be relevant.
The primary collective used for a re-investigation of these questions was that of a hospital-based case-control study by Brüning et al. (Am J Ind Med 43:274-285, 2003) of 134 renal cell cancer cases (20 cases exposed to trichloroethylene) and 401 matched controls. Genetic polymorphisms of GSTT1, GSTM1, GSTP1 and NAT2 were studied. Additional control collectives of non-diseased persons were used for comparison of allele frequencies.
No genetic influences on the development of renal cancer due to trichloroethylene were apparent, related to the deletion polymorphisms of GSTT1 and GSTM1, as well as to the NAT2 rapid/slow acetylator states. However, renal cell cancer cases displayed a somewhat higher proportion of the homozygous GSTP1 313A wild type (GSTP1*A), although this was not statistically significant (chi(2) test: P=0.1071, when using only the original controls of Brüning et al. (2003); P=0.0781 with inclusion of the additional controls).
The re-investigation does not confirm the working hypothesis of an influence of the deletion polymorphisms of the glutathione S-transferases GSTT1 and GSTM1 on renal cell cancer development due to high occupational exposures to trichloroethylene.
This study examined the effects of Y-27632, a selective Rho-kinase inhibitor, on organophosphate-induced acute toxicity in rats. Rats were randomly divided into four groups as control (corn oil), dichlorvos (30 mg kg(-1) i.p.), 1 and 10 mg kg(-1) Y-27632 + dichlorvos groups. Cholinergic signs (fatigue, tremor, cyanosis, hyper-secretion, fasciculations) were observed in all the rats in the dichlorvos group and the mortality rate was 50%. No cholinergic findings and deaths were observed in the control and Y-27632 groups. Plasma cholinesterase activities were suppressed with dichlorvos and these reductions were attenuated with Y-27632 pretreatment. There was a marked increase in plasma malondialdehyde level in the dichlorvos group, but Y-27632 pretreatment abolished this elevation. Dichlorvos markedly depressed cardiac paraoxonase activity, but these changes were not markedly modified with Y-27632. Total antioxidant capacities, total oxidant status, oxidative stress index, total free sulfhydryl groups and catalase activities in plasma and cardiac tissues were not markedly different between the groups. No significant changes were observed with cardiac myeloperoxidase activities or plasma arylesterase and ceruloplasmin activities. In conclusion, our results suggest that Rho-kinase pathway is involved in organophosphate intoxication, and a decrease in cardiac paraoxonase activities may play a role in the pathogenesis of acute organophosphate poisoning in rats.
Impaired lung function is the primary contributor to most deaths associated with severe acute pancreatitis. It is widely accepted that oxidative stress plays a central role in the pathogenesis of pancreatitis and associated complications. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated whether therapeutic treatment with the free radical scavenger edaravone could protect rats against acute pancreatitis and the associated lung injury. Acute pancreatitis was induced by infusion of 1ml/kg of sodium taurocholate (3% solution) into the biliopancreatic duct. Edaravone (8mg/kg) was administered 1h and 13h after inducing pancreatitis, the severity of pancreatic and pulmonary injuries was evaluated 24h after inducing pancreatitis. Edaravone treatment significantly reduced the elevated malondialdehyde levels in rat lungs after acute pancreatitis, suggesting an important role for free radicals in acute pancreatitis-associated lung injury. In addition, edaravone showed significant protective effects against neutrophil infiltration and tissue injury in both pancreas and lung, as demonstrated by serum amylase levels, myeloperoxidase activity and histopathological analysis. Edaravone treatment also attenuated the elevated mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in rat lungs after acute pancreatitis. In conclusion, edaravone protects rats against acute pancreatitis-associated lung injury, probably through its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. Thus, edaravone shows promise as a treatment for lung injury in patients with acute pancreatitis.
