Seizure-related emergencies caused by stimulants of abuse have been increasing. To better understand the nature of these drug-induced convulsions, we characterized the seizure patterns associated with high doses of cocaine, and the amphetamine analogs, methamphetamine, methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and 4-methylaminorex. The features of the stimulant-induced seizures were distinct and included the following: (1) the duration of convulsive activity was shortest for cocaine and longest for methamphetamine, (2) only MDMA produced a secondary clonic phase after the initial ictal event, and (3) 4-methylaminorex manifested a very steep dose-response curve. Differential preventive profiles of anticonvulsant agents on the stimulant-induced seizures also were observed. For example, cocaine-related seizures were most effectively prevented by, while methamphetamine-induced seizures were completely refractory to, phenytoin pretreatment. The only anticonvulsants which appeared to influence methamphetamine-related convulsions were diazepam and valproate. A unique feature of 4-methylaminorex was that related seizures were almost completely blocked by the calcium channel blocker, flunarizine.
Potential risks of cyclohexanol (CH) and cyclohexanediol (CHD) isomers, which are the metabolites derived from cilexetil ester side-chain of several prodrugs such as antibiotics (e.g. cefotiam hexetil) and an antihypertensive agent (candesartan cilexetil), were examined in beagles that were made congestive heart failure (CHF) by rapid ventricular pacing. The following three experiments tested the cardiac effects of i.v. doses of: (1) the metabolites alone, (2) the metabolites under the digoxin-induced bradycardia, and (3) the metabolites given concomitantly with digoxin (0.02 mg kg(-1)). Experiment 1: t-1,2- or 1,4-CHD alone (0.1-12 mg kg(-1)) exerted transient yet reproducible supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmia dose-dependently, whereas CH and 1,3-CHD at 12 mg kg(-1) showed no cardiac effect at all. Experiment 2: t-1,2-CHD (0.1-4 mg kg(-1)), but not CH or 1,3-CHD, induced the additive arrhythmia dose-dependently; t-1,2-CHD (12 mg kg(-1)) caused frequent premature supraventricular contractions and/or irreversible paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Experiment 3: t-1,2-CHD, not CH or 1,3-CHD, caused fatal arrhythmia: one dog showed torsade de pointes followed by ventricular fibrillation, while another showed 3rd degree atrioventricular block and eventually cardiac arrest. In both Experiments 2 and 3, saline vehicle added onto digoxin never caused the irreversible, fatal arrhythmia. In a separate study using healthy dogs without CHF, none of these metabolites did produce cardiac effect. Given the potential risk of generating cardiotoxic metabolites from cilexetil-bearing prodrugs, the use of such prodrugs should be avoided from the patients with CHF, particularly from those who are receiving cardiac glycosides.
. To compare the gastrointestinal (GI) tolerability, safety, and efficacy of etoricoxib and diclofenac in patients with osteoarthritis (OA).
In total, 7111 patients (mean age 64 yrs) diagnosed with OA were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind trial. Patients received etoricoxib 90 mg qd (n = 3593) or diclofenac sodium 50 mg tid (n = 3518). Gastroprotective agents and low-dose aspirin were prescribed per treatment guidelines. The primary endpoint was the cumulative rate of discontinuations due to clinical and laboratory GI adverse experiences (AE). General safety was assessed, including adjudication of thrombotic cardiovascular (CV) safety data. Efficacy was evaluated using the least-square (LS) mean change from baseline patient global assessment of disease status (PGADS; 0-4 point scale).
Mean (SD, maximum) duration of treatment was 9.3 (4.4, 16.5) and 8.9 (4.5, 16.6) months in the etoricoxib and diclofenac groups, respectively. The cumulative discontinuation rate due to GI AE was significantly lower with etoricoxib than diclofenac [9.4 vs 19.2 events per 100 patient-years (PY), respectively; hazard ratio (HR) 0.50 (95% CI 0.43, 0.58; p < 0.001). Rates of thrombotic CV events were similar with etoricoxib and diclofenac [1.25 vs 1.15 events per 100 PY, respectively; HR 1.07 (95% CI 0.65, 1.74)]. The incidence of patients who discontinued due to hypertension-related AE was significantly higher with etoricoxib compared to diclofenac (2.3% vs 0.7%; p < 0.001), although few AE were severe (3 etoricoxib, 1 diclofenac). Etoricoxib and diclofenac treatment resulted in similar improvements in PGADS from baseline of -0.78 (95% CI -0.80, -0.75) and -0.75 (95% CI -0.77, -0.72), respectively.
Treatment with etoricoxib 90 mg was associated with significantly better GI tolerability compared to diclofenac in this population of patients with OA. Etoricoxib 90 mg, a dose 50% higher than indicated for OA, resulted in more discontinuations due to hypertension-related AE.
Levofloxacin (LVFX) is a broad spectrum third generation fluoroquinolone antibiotic, used in the treatment of severe or life-threatening bacterial infections. Photosensitizing mechanism of LVFX was investigated under the ambient environmental intensities of UV-A, UV-B and sunlight exposure. Phototoxic effects of LVFX were assessed on NIH-3T3 and HaCaT cell lines. Results identified first time three photoproducts of LVFX at ambient levels of UV-R by LC-MS/MS. The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was investigated photochemically as well as intracellularly in HaCaT cell line. ROS were significantly quenched by specific quenchers like DABCO, NaN(3), D-mannitol and NAC. Photosensitized LVFX caused lipid peroxidation at different concentrations. Quenching study with superoxide dismutase confirms the LVFX-induced lipid photoperoxidation. Further, photocytotoxicity of LVFX showed significant reduction in cell viability by MTT and neutral red uptake assays. LVFX caused cell arrest in G2/M phases as well as induced apoptosis through ROS-dependent pathway. In addition, photosensitized LVFX also induced upregulation of p21 and Bax/Bcl-2 genes ratio. India is a tropical country and most of the human activities such as agriculture, commerce, sports, etc. take place in bright sunlight; therefore, photosensitive LVFX may lead to skin/ocular disorders and immune suppression. Information is needed regarding the phototoxicity of LVFX for human safety.
This study was performed to study the role of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the brain of pilocarpine-induced chronic epileptic rats.
ATP-mediated changes in intracellular calcium were studied by the fura-2 method. Immunohistochemistry and Western blotting methods were used to localize and quantify P2X7 receptors in these animals.
The fluorimetric study in chronic rats revealed a biphasic response indicating the presence of P2X7 receptors. The Western blotting study showed an increase of 80% of P2X7 expression in chronic rats compared with the control group. P2X7 immunoreactivity resembled mossy fiber sprouting at the dentate gyrus of epileptic animals.
These results suggest that purinergic receptors may participate in the pathophysiology of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Corticosteroids exert dual enhancing or impairing effects on cognitive functions. While their memory-enhancing effects have been well investigated, the mechanisms involved in their amnestic effects are not completely understood. Thus, we examined the role of alpha-adrenoceptors on dexamethasone-induced amnesia using step-through passive avoidance test in rat. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of dexamethasone (5 and 10 microg per rat) decreased the retention latencies. Likewise, intraperitoneal administration of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine (0.1-0.3 mg kg(-1)) but not alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (0.5-2 mg kg(-1)) decreased the retention latency. Yohimbine pre-treatment decreased the amnestic effects of dexamethasone or dexamethasone plus clonidine. On the other hand, intraperitoneal administration of alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine (0.5-2 mg kg(-1)) per se increased, while prazosin at 2 mg kg(-1) decreased the retention latency. Administration of phenylephrine before dexamethasone completely reversed the amnestic effect of the latter, while prozosin did not affect dexamethasone-induced amnesia. These data suggest that dexamethasone may induce its amnestic effect through activation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, leading to decreased alpha(1)-adrenergic activity.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is the endogenous peptide for the NOP receptors. Depending on the doses, intrathecal administration of N/OFQ has dual actions (ie, hyperalgesia and antinociception) in rodents. However, the pharmacological profile of intrathecal N/OFQ is not fully known in primates. The aim of this study was to investigate behavioral effects of intrathecal N/OFQ over a wide dose range and to compare its effects with ligands known to produce hyperalgesia or antinociception in monkeys. Intrathecal N/OFQ from 1 fmol to 1 nmol did not produce any hyperalgesic or scratching responses. In contrast, intrathecal substance P 100 nmol produced hyperalgesia, and intrathecal DAMGO 10 nmol produced antinociception. At the dose range between 10 nmol and 1 micromol, intrathecal N/OFQ dose-dependently produced thermal antinociception against a noxious stimulus in 2 intensities. More importantly, N/OFQ in combined with intrathecal morphine dose-dependently potentiated morphine-induced antinociception without inhibiting morphine-induced itch/scratching. Taken together, this study is the first to provide a unique functional profile of intrathecal N/OFQ over a wide dose range in primates. Intrathecal N/OFQ produces thermal antinociception without anti-morphine actions or scratching responses, indicating that N/OFQ or NOP receptor agonists represent a promising target as spinal analgesics.
Intrathecal administration of N/OFQ only produced thermal antinociception, not hyperalgesia, in monkeys. In addition, intrathecal N/OFQ does not have anti-morphine actions or itch/scratching responses. This study strongly supports the therapeutic potential of N/OFQ or NOP receptor agonists as spinal analgesics for clinical trials.
Incidence of orthostatic hypertension is estimated at 5% but is even more prevalent in borderline hypertension and autonomic neuropathies. The aim of this study was to develop a potential model to investigate orthostatic hypertension. We used normotensive and hypertensive Wistar rats to analyze responses and diurnal variations of arterial blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and locomotor activity by telemetry. Orthostatic tests were carried out during 45 degrees head-up tilt (R, repeated 3 times for 5 minutes; or S, sustained for 120 minutes). Hypertension was induced by blockade of nitric oxide synthesis. In normotensives, horizontal control blood pressure was R115.4 +/- 1.4/S113.7 +/- 1.6 mm Hg and heart rate R386.4 +/- 7.0/S377.9 +/- 8.8 bpm. Head-up tilt increased blood pressure by R4.5/S8.4 mm Hg, including a 3.8 mm Hg hydrostatic component. The sustained hypertensive response was prevented by prazosin (10 mg/kgbw) and augmented by a subanesthetic dose of chloralose (26 mg/kgbw). In NO-deprived hypertension, horizontal control blood pressure and heart rate were R138.4 +/- 2.6/S140.3 +/- 2.7 mm Hg and R342.1 +/- 12.0/S346.0 +/- 8.3 bpm, respectively. Tilt increased blood pressure further by R4.2/S9.4 mm Hg. In both normo- and hypertensives, variables exhibited similar diurnal rhythms except for nighttime locomotor activity, reduced from 3.7 +/- 0.4 to 2.8 +/- 0.3 counts/s. These data demonstrate that conscious rats respond to sustained orthostasis with hypertension, probably as a result of increased sympathetic output. Decreasing stress using a subanesthetic dose of chloralose increased this response, reducing the inhibitory effect on hypertensive responses.
The expression of NDRG1 gene is induced by nickel, a transition metal sharing similar physical properties to cobalt. Nickel may create hypoxia-like conditions in cells and induce hypoxia-responsive genes, as does cobalt. Therefore NDRG1 is likely to be another gene induced by hypoxia. HIF-1 is a transcription factor which has a major role in the regulation of hypoxia-responsive genes, and thus it could be involved in the transcriptional regulation of NDRG1 gene. Hypoxia is such a common feature of solid tumours that it is of interest to investigate the expression of Ndrg1 protein in human cancers.
Hypoxia and its mimetics induce in vitro expression of NDRG1 gene and cause the accumulation of Ndrg1 protein. Protein levels remain high even after cells revert to normoxia. Although HIF-1 is involved in the regulation of NDRG1, long term hypoxia induces the gene to some extent in HIF-1 knock-out cells. In the majority of human tissues studied, Ndrg1 protein is overexpressed in cancers compared to normal tissues and also reflects tumour hypoxia better than HIF-1 protein.
Hypoxia is an inducer of the NDRG1 gene, and nickel probably causes the induction of the gene by interacting with the oxygen sensory pathway. Hypoxic induction of NDRG1 is mostly dependent on the HIF-1 transcription factor, but HIF-1 independent pathways are also involved in the regulation of the gene during chronic hypoxia. The determination of Ndrg1 protein levels in cancers may aid the diagnosis of the disease.
A patient is described with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and severe laryngeal stridor. Other than urinary frequency and urgency, not uncommon in this condition, and postoperative levodopa-sensitive postural hypotension, there were no features of generalized autonomic failure. The laryngeal stridor responded to levodopa therapy, and we are not aware that this has been reported previously.
Oroxylin A is a flavonoid and was originally isolated from the root of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi., one of the most important medicinal herbs in traditional Chinese medicine. The aim of this study was to investigate the ameliorating effects of oroxylin A on memory impairment using the passive avoidance test, the Y-maze test, and the Morris water maze test in mice. Drug-induced amnesia was induced by administering scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) or diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Oroxylin A (5 mg/kg) significantly reversed cognitive impairments in mice by passive avoidance and the Y-maze testing (P<.05). Oroxylin A also improved escape latencies in training trials and increased swimming times and distances within the target zone of the Morris water maze (P<.05). Moreover, the ameliorating effects of oroxylin A were antagonized by both muscimol and diazepam (0.25 mg/kg, i.p., respectively), which are GABA(A) receptor agonists. Furthermore, oroxylin A (100 microM) was found to inhibit GABA-induced inward Cl(-) current in a single cortical neuron. These results suggest that oroxylin A may be useful for the treatment of cognitive impairments induced by cholinergic dysfunction via the GABAergic nervous system.
As it was reported earlier that isradipine, a Ca superset 2+ antagonist of dihydropyridine derivative class, caused regression of nifedipine-induced hyperplasia of human gingiva, experiments were performed to examine whether or not isradipine would solely inhibit the proliferation of cultured gingival fibroblasts. Normal human gingival fibroblast Gin-1 cells were used to test the impact of this medication. Fibroblast proliferation in the presence of isradipine (10 microM) was examined by using the reagent water-soluble tetrazolium-1 (WST-1). The level of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in the cell-free supernatant of each well was determined by using an enzyme-linked immunosorvent assay (ELISA) kit. The production of type I collagen was assayed by ELISA. Isradipine significantly enhanced the cell proliferation from the second day of the culture period. Also, isradipine raised the level of bFGF in the culture medium. The same concentration, also significantly enhanced the production of type I collagen. In conclusion, we were able to prove that isradipine causes the proliferation of cultured gingival fibroblasts as well as other dihydropyridine-derivative Ca superset 2+ antagonists do. In order to prevent the gingival overgrowth, it is advisable to be very careful in the use of isradipine as a therapy for hypertension and other indications.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) is a nuclear receptor whose activation regulates metabolism and inflammation. Recent data indicate that the zinc finger transcription factor early growth response gene-1 (Egr-1) acts as a master switch for the inflammatory response in ischemic vessels. Experiments tested the hypothesis that activation of endogenous PPAR-gamma inhibits induction of Egr-1. Egr-1 is rapidly induced in murine lungs after ischemia-reperfusion, as well as in alveolar mononuclear phagocytes deprived of oxygen as an ischemic model. In vitro, the natural PPAR-gamma ligand (15-deoxy-Delta12,14-prostaglandin J2) and a PPAR-gamma activator (troglitazone), but not a PPAR-alpha activator (bezafibrate), strikingly diminished Egr-1 mRNA and protein expression and nuclear DNA binding activity corresponding to Egr-1. In vivo, treatment with troglitazone before ischemia prevented induction of Egr-1 and its target genes such as interleukin-1beta, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, and macrophage inflammatory protein-2. As a consequence of PPAR-gamma activation, pulmonary leukostasis was decreased and oxygenation and overall survival were improved. Activation of PPAR-gamma suppresses activation of Egr-1 and its inflammatory gene targets and provides potent protection against ischemic pulmonary injury. These data reveal a new mechanism whereby PPAR-gamma activation may decrease tissue inflammation in response to an ischemic insult.
Dopaminergic therapies remain the most efficacious symptomatic treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD) but are associated with motor complications, including dyskinesia, and nonmotor complications, such as psychosis, impulse control disorders (ICD), and dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS). Nondopaminergic neurotransmitter systems, including the endocannabinoid system, are probably critical to the development of these complications. The role of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) in mediating l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced behaviors was explored in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset model of PD. Pharmacodynamic and locomotor effects of the selective FAAH inhibitor [3-(3-carbamoylphenyl)phenyl] N-cyclohexylcarbamate (URB597) were assessed via bioanalytical (liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry) and behavioral observation approaches. URB597 (3, 10, 30, or 60 mg/kg p.o.) increased plasma levels of the FAAH substrates N-arachidonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide), N-oleoyl ethanolamide, and N-palmitoyl ethanolamide by 10.3 ± 0.3-, 7.8 ± 0.2-, and 1.8 ± 0.1-fold (mean of URB597 groups ± S.E.M.), respectively, compared with vehicle (all p < 0.001) 4 h after administration. Treatment with L-DOPA (20 mg/kg s.c.) alleviated parkinsonism but elicited dyskinesia, psychosis-like-behaviors and hyperactivity, a potential correlate of ICD and DDS. During the 2 to 4 h after L-DOPA, corresponding to 4 to 6 h after URB597 administration, URB597 reduced total L-DOPA-induced activity and the magnitude of hyperactivity by 32 and 52%, respectively, to levels equivalent to those seen in normal animals. Treatment with URB597 (10 mg/kg p.o.) did not modify the antiparkinsonian actions of L-DOPA or L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and psychosis. URB597 did not alter plasma L-DOPA levels and was without behavioral effects when administered alone. Inhibition of FAAH may represent a novel approach to reducing L-DOPA-induced side effects, such as ICD and DDS, while maintaining the antiparkinsonian benefits of L-DOPA treatment.
Numerous case reports of hyponatraemia followed increasing use of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) but this adverse effect was only rarely observed in relation to citalopram. We report a case of severe hyponatraemia associated with deep coma, seizure, atrial fibrillation and muscle damage in a 92-year-old woman after only two doses of citalopram, and review 14 cases previously published in the literature and 28 cases spontaneously reported to Australian Drug Reaction Advisory Committee (ADRAC). The data presented suggest that citalopram, as well as SSRIs may cause hyponatraemia secondary to syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). The majority of symptomatic cases occurred in elderly patients (79% were older than 70 years) and in women (74%). Polymedication and concomitant use of another psychotropic drug or thiazide diuretic may precipitate and/or augment the development of hyponatraemia/SIADH. In 84% of cases, the hyponatraemia associated with citalopram was detected during the first month of treatment. High level of suspicion, close and careful monitoring of serum sodium concentration particularly in elderly patients and especially in the first month of therapy with citalopram may reduce the incidence of this serious and likely not rare adverse effect.
In a 3-month, double-masked, randomized clinical trial, the ocular hypotensive efficacy and systemic safety of 0.5% levobunolol and 2% carteolol were compared in 59 patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The overall mean decrease in intraocular pressure was 7.3 mm Hg (27.4%) in the 0.5% levobunolol group and 4.1 mm Hg (14.8%) in the carteolol group. This difference was statistically significant (p = 0.0004). Changes in visual field and cup-disk ratios were few and similar between the groups. Effects on mean heart rate were noted in both treatment groups. The mean decrease in heart rate in the carteolol group was greater (-8.4 beats/min) than in the levobunolol group (-3.1 beats/min). This difference had marginal statistical significance (p = 0.059). We conclude that 0.5% levobunolol and 2% carteolol administered twice daily differ in lowering intraocular pressure as well as in their effects on heart rate.
Candida arthritis is an uncommon cause of infectious arthritis that may occur in seriously ill or immunosuppressed patients. This report describes two patients, one who developed Candida tropicalis arthritis and another patient who developed C. parapsilosis arthritis. One patient developed nephrogenic diabetes insipidus secondary to amphotericin B therapy and was successfully treated with intravenous miconazole. The other was unsuccessfully treated with both intraarticular and intravenous amphotericin B.
Oxidative stress in the conceptus is characterized by an increased oxidized to reduced glutathione (GSSG:GSH) ratio and the induction of fos and jun mRNAs, transcripts for components of the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor. We investigated the role of glutathione homeostasis in the rat conceptus in the regulation of: (1) AP-1 expression and activity, and (2) the activities of glutathione-dependent cytoprotective enzymes. Glutathione content was enhanced with the addition of l-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate (OTC), a precursor of cysteine, a rate-limiting substrate in glutathione biosynthesis. Day 10 rat conceptuses were cultured for 44 hr with 0, 5, 10, or 20 mM OTC. High concentrations (10 and 20 mM) of OTC were embryotoxic. Incubation of the conceptus in 5 mM OTC caused mild (not statistically significant) embryotoxicity, increased significantly the embryonic glutathione content, prevented culture-induced oxidative stress, and inhibited the induction of AP-1 transcripts and DNA binding activity in the embryo. In contrast, in the yolk sac, 5 mM OTC failed to increase glutathione content or to prevent oxidative stress or AP-1 induction. Thus, regulation of glutathione status in the conceptus is tissue-specific. Glutathione S-transferase and glutathione peroxidase activities were increased approximately 50% in cultured embryos and yolk sacs. OTC treatment (5 mM) prevented this induction in the embryo, but not in the yolk sac, suggesting a role for glutathione homeostasis in the regulation of these enzymes. Tissue-specific regulation of glutathione status and of cytoprotective enzymes in the conceptus during organogenesis may impact on the consequences of insult with oxidative stress.
Overexpression of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and EGF receptor has been associated with progression and invasive phenotype in pancreatic cancer. However, the underlying molecular mechanism by which EGF worked in pancreatic cancer cells has been poorly understood. In this study, we determined the effect of EGF on the invasiveness and the related regulatory mechanism in two pancreatic cancer cell lines NOR-P1 and KP4.
Invasion assay was performed to examine the invasiveness of tumor cells induced by EGF, and the expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, MMP-2, and plasminogen activator (uPA) was determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Gelatin zymography was used to detect the activities of MMP-9 and MMP-2, and the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) binding activity was determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA).
EGF significantly increased the invasiveness of both cell lines but did not affect cell proliferation or adhesion. Increased invasiveness was associated with the induction of MMP-9 and uPA at both mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, EGF stimulated NF-kappaB binding activity. Moreover, pretreatment of cells with NF-kappaB inhibitors, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate or ibuprofen, markedly attenuated EGF-induced NF-kappaB activation. Subsequently, the EGF-induced MMP-9 and uPA expression and MMP-9 activity, as well as cell invasiveness, were also inhibited by these NF-kappaB inhibitors.
Our findings indicated that NF-kappaB-mediated MMP-9 and uPA induction was responsible for EGF-induced invasiveness in these pancreatic cancer cell lines and implicate that such anti-NF-kappaB therapy as the use of NF-kappaB inhibitors may contribute to the reduction of invasiveness of pancreatic cancer.
A 37-year-old woman took 2.5 g of amantadine hydrochloride in a suicide attempt. Subsequently, cardiopulmonary arrest developed and was treated successfully. During the arrest and over the subsequent 48 hours, malignant tachyarrhythmias were manifested by torsade de pointe and repeated episodes of ventricular fibrillation. Therapy with adrenergic agents such as isoproterenol and particularly dopamine seemed to exacerbate the ventricular tachyarrhythmias. The patient subsequently died of aspiration pneumonia and respiratory distress, and postmortem examination revealed a normal cardiovascular system. It appears that the dopaminergic activity of amantadine has potential for induction of malignant arrhythmias, particularly in the face of adrenergic agents such as dopamine and isoproterenol. This previously unreported observation needs to be considered in critically ill patients with amantadine toxicity.
1. The effects of acute oral administration of carbaryl (10-80 mg/kg), a carbamate insecticide, on some experimental models for detecting dopaminergic activity were examined in rats. Also, serum biochemical variables following carbaryl treatments were determined. 2. Carbaryl (20 and 40 mg/kg) significantly increased the number of apomorphine-induced yawns and at dose of 80 mg/kg it prolonged the duration time of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Pretreatment with carbaryl failed to affect apomorphine-induced stereotypes. 3. Carbaryl significantly reduced blood cholinesterase activity and elevated blood glucose levels and SGOT and SGPT activities. 4. These results indicate that low oral doses of carbaryl can cause behavioral and toxicological effects in rats.
1. The effects of some GABAergic and dopaminergic agents on pyrimethamine-induced tonic seizures were investigated in mice. 2. Pyrimethamine dose dependently induced seizures in mice. 3. Muscimol, AOAA and DABA significantly protected mice against pyrimethamine-induced seizures. 4. Bicuculline and picrotoxin effectively potentiated seizures elicited by pyrimethamine and significantly antagonized the protective effect of muscimol against the seizures. 5. Diazepam and phenobarbitone effectively protected mice against seizures elicited by pyrimethamine. 6. L-Dopa significantly potentiated pyrimethamine-induced seizures. 7. Apomorphine and pargyline significantly reduced the latency of seizures induced by pyrimethamine. 8. Haloperidol and pimozide effectively protected mice against pyrimethamine-elicited seizures and also significantly antagonized the potentiating effects of apomorphine and L-dopa on the seizures. 9. Disulfiram significantly potentiated seizures induced by pyrimethamine and also significantly enhanced the seizure-potentiating effect of L-dopa. 10. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine effectively protected against seizures induced by pyrimethamine. However, L-dopa significantly potentiated the seizures in alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-pretreated animals. 11. Muscimol significantly attenuated the potentiating effect of L-dopa on pyrimethamine-induced seizures while bicuculline significantly enhanced the effect of L-dopa. Furthermore, haloperidol significantly potentiated the protective effect of muscimol against pyrimethamine-induced seizures. 12. These results suggest that both GABA and dopamine might be involved in the mechanism(s) of pyrimethamine seizures in mice.
Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) causes selective pulmonary vasodilation by increasing pulmonary vascular levels of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Dipyridamole, a drug with several putative vasodilator mechanisms, is an inhibitor of cGMP-specific phosphodiesterases (PDE5); it therefore has the potential to increase pulmonary vascular cGMP levels, lower pulmonary vascular resistance, augment iNO-induced pulmonary vasodilation, and attenuate excessive pulmonary vasoreactivity. To test dipyridamole in the pulmonary circulation, we studied pediatric patients undergoing cardiac catheterization who had severe resting pulmonary hypertension (Group 1; n = 11) or exaggerated acute hypoxia-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction (Group 2; n = 4). In Group 1, we compared the effects of iNO (20 ppm), dipyridamole (0.6 mg/kg), and combined treatments (iNO + dipyridamole) on pulmonary and systemic hemodynamics. In Group 2 we measured the pulmonary and systemic effects of dipyridamole while the patients were breathing room air and hypoxic gas mixtures (FIO2 = 0.16). One patient in Group 1 had a hypotensive response to dipyridamole and was exluded from study. In the remaining 12 studies done on 10 patients, iNO caused a selective decrease in mean pulmonary artery pressure (Ppa) and indexed pulmonary vascular resistance (PVRI) without affecting mean aortic pressure (Pao) or indexed systemic vascular resistance (SVRI). Dipyridamole decreased PVRI to similar values as did iNO, but this effect was primarily due to an increase in cardiac index (CI), and was not associated with any change in Ppa, and was associated with a decrease in Pao and SVRI. In comparison with individual treatments, combined therapy (iNO + dipyridamole) did not augment pulmonary vasodilation in the group as a whole; however, in 50% of patients, combined therapy decreased PVRI by 20% more than did iNO or dipyridamole alone. In Group 2, Ppa and the pulmonary-to-systemic resistance ratio (Rp/Rs) increased to suprasystemic levels during acute hypoxia. Pretreatment with dipyridamole blunted the increase in Ppa and Rp/Rs during repeat hypoxia, keeping Ppa at a subsystemic level and Rp/Rs < 1. We conclude that: (1) dipyridamole nonselectively reduces PVRI, primarily through an increase in CI; (2) in combination with iNO, dipyridamole augments the decrease in PVRI in some patients; and (3) dipyridamole blunts the severity of acute hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in children with exaggerated hypoxic pressor responses.
The HIV protease inhibitor nelfinavir is currently under investigation as a new anti-cancer drug. Several studies have shown that nelfinavir induces cell cycle arrest, endoplasmic reticulum stress, autophagy, and apoptosis in cancer cells. In the present article, the effect of nelfinavir on human breast cancer cells is examined and potential combination treatments are investigated.
The effects of nelfinavir and tamoxifen on the human breast cancer cell lines MCF7, T47 D, MDA-MB-453, and MDA-MB-435 were tested by analysing their influence on cell viability (via 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay), apoptosis (annexin binding, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage), autophagy (autophagy marker light chain 3B expression), endoplasmic reticulum stress (binding protein and activating transcription factor 3 expression), and the occurrence of oxidative stress (intracellular glutathione level).
Nelfinavir induced apoptosis in all four breast cancer cell lines tested, although the extent of autophagy and endoplasmic reticulum stress varied among the cell lines. The concentration of nelfinavir needed for an efficient induction of apoptosis in breast cancer cells could be reduced from 15 μg/ml to 6 μg/ml when combined with tamoxifen. At a concentration of 6 μg/ml, tamoxifen substantially enhanced the endoplasmic reticulum stress reaction in those cell lines that responded to nelfinavir with binding protein (BiP) upregulation (MCF7, T47D), and enhanced autophagy in cell lines that responded to nelfinavir treatment with autophagy marker light chain 3B upregulation (MDA-MB-453). Although tamoxifen has been described to be able to induce oxidative stress at concentrations similar to those applied in this study (6 μg/ml), we observed that nelfinavir but not tamoxifen reduced the intracellular glutathione level of breast cancer cells within hours of application by up to 32%, suggesting the induction of oxidative stress was an early event and an additional cause of the apoptosis induced by nelfinavir.
The results demonstrate that nelfinavir may be an effective drug against breast cancer and could be combined with tamoxifen to enhance its efficacy against breast cancer cells. Moreover, the cytotoxic effect of a tamoxifen and nelfinavir combination was independent of the oestrogen receptor status of the analysed breast cancer cells, suggesting a potential benefit of a combination of these two drugs even in patients with no hormone-responsive tumours. We therefore recommend that clinical studies on nelfinavir with breast cancer patients should include this drug combination to analyse the therapeutic efficacy as well as the safety and tolerability of this potential treatment option.
The patient was a 73-year-old female with sigmoid colon cancer, who underwent resection of sigmoid colon cancer and liver metastasis. She was treated with 5-fluorouracil and levofolinate calcium(sLV5FU2)plus bevacizumab(BV) for advanced colorectal cancer. She was treated with angiotensin II receptor blocker(ARB)because hersystolic blood pressure was 200 mmHg and her diastolic blood pressure 100 mmHg after five courses of BV therapy. As a result, her blood pressure was controlled. It was possible to administer BV. Therefore, ARB may be the preferred antihypertensive agent in the management of BV-induced hypertension.
ABSTRUCT: Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with progressive degeneration of melanin-containing dopamine neuron cell bodies arising in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and projecting terminals to the striatum. The disease is best characterized biochemically as a deficiency of striatal dopamine. The mechanism of neurodegeneration remains an enigma despite a large body of investigation and several hypotheses (1-5). In the past decade much has been learned about the chemical pathology of the disease. This progress has been helped by elucidation of the mechanism of the neurotoxic actions of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), which are used to induce animal models of this disease. Thus, the most valid current hypothesis concerning the pathogenesis of idiopathic PD is progressive oxidative stress (OS), which can generate excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) selectively in the SNpc (1-9), and subsequent biochemical abnormalities (Table 1). In addition, the ROS scavenging system may also diminish, which would exaggerate the condition leading to accumulation of ROS. In PD, it is thought that both these events occur; Table 1 gives a summary of the biochemical changes identified to date in the SNpc of PD patients. Iron, monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-SOD), and heme oxygenase (radical producing) are increased; reduced glutathione (GSH) and vitamin C (radical scavenging) are decreased. Whether OS is a primary or secondary event in PD has not been established, but when it does occur, OS can lead to a cascade of events resulting in the demise of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. One approach toward protection of such neurons is the use of radical scavengers or iron chelators as neuroprotective drugs (10). Table 1 Biochemical Alterations in Substantia Nigra of Parkinson's Disease Indicating Oxidative Stress Elevated Decreased Iron (in microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and melanized dopamine neurons and mitochondria) GSH (GSSG unchanged); GSH/GSSG ratio decreased Mitochondrial complex I Ferritin Calcium binding protein (calbindin 28) Mitochondrial monoamine oxidase B Transferrin and transferrin receptor Lipofuscin Vitamins E and C Ubiquitin Copper Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase Cytotoxic cytokines (TNF-a, IL-1, IL-6) Inflammatory transcription factor NFKB Heme oxygenase-1 Ratio of oxidized to reduced glutathione (GSSG/GSH) Nitric oxide Neuromelanin.
