To investigate the effects of simvastatin on the expression of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in the lung tissue of rats with lung injury induced by ischemia-reperfusion (IR) of the hind limbs.
Forty-eight male adult SD rats were randomized into 6 equal groups, including a sham-operated group, an IR group, 3 IR+simvastatin groups with intragastric administration of 1, 5, or 10 mg·kg(-1)·d(-1) for 3 days, and a simvastatin control group treated with 10 mg·kg(-1)·d(-1) simvastatin. IR of the hind limbs was induced in the 4 IR groups by occlusion of bilateral femoral arteries for 2 h followed by a 3-h reperfusion. The rats were sacrificed at the end of reperfusion and the arterial blood was taken for blood gas analysis. The lungs were immediately removed for pathological examination and determination of the lung Wet/dry weight ratio (W/D), myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) counting. The expression of NF-κB p65 mRNA and ICAM-1 protein in the lungs was detected using RT-PCR and Western blotting.
Alveolar edema, localized pulmonary atelectasis and large amount of PMN infiltration were found in IR group, and these changes were ameliorated in the 3 simvastatin groups (S(1), S(5), S(10)). Lung W/D, MPO activity and PMN counting were significantly increased in IR group as compared with the sham-operated group (P<0.01). Lung W/D, MPO activity and PMN counting were significantly lowered in the 3 simvastatin groups as compared with IR group (P<0.01). IR-induced decrease in PaO(2) was significantly increased in the 3 simvastatin groups (P<0.01), which also showed significantly lowered expressions of NF-κB p65mRNA and ICAM-1 protein in a dose-dependent manner (P<0.01).
Simvastatin attenuates lung injury induced by IR of the hind limbs in rats by suppressing the activation of NF-κB and subsequent accumulation of neutrophils mediated by ICAM-1.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) was induced in female rats and a comparison of the effects of melengestrol acetate (MGA) and hydrocortisone acetate (HCA) was made. A dose response relation was observed. 2-4 mg MGA/kg/day delayed onset of the disease and 16 mg/kg/d ay for 19 days completely inhibited the disease. 20 mg HCA was comparable to 2-4 mg MCA in effectiveness. To determine if MCA or HCA could arrest or reverse the established disease, 25 mg MCA/kg or 125 mg HCA/kg were administered weekly beginning between 7 and 24 days postsensitization. When dosing was started up to 16 days postsensitizat ion, MGA was more effective than HCA, however when started at 24 days, little difference between the 2 was noted. Some reversal of disease was noted when a single dose of MCA (100 mg/kg) or HCA (500 mg/kg) was given 16, 20 or 24 days postsensitization. It was concluded that both MGA and HCA prevented the development of EAE and reversed the established disease. MCA was considered superior to HCA in both prophylactic and therapeutic treatment.
Antiviral treatment with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) is associated with several acute psychiatric side effects. Little is known about long-term effects on mental health after treatment independent from viral response and the influence of pre-existing psychiatric risk-factors.
To evaluate long-term effects of antiviral treatment with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) on mental health in patients with psychiatric risk factors.
We prospectively investigated long-term mental health changes in 81 hepatitis C virus-infected patients. Psychiatric outcome was measured with the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Scale (MADRS), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, the Global Social Functioning Scale and the Global Clinical Impression Scale 6 months after the end of antiviral treatment with IFN-alpha and ribavirin.
Six months after antiviral therapy, 49% of the patients showed a worsening and 27.2% an improvement of depression scores. The most important predictor for a long-term improvement of depression scores was a pre-treatment MADRS score > or =5 (OR 14.21, 95% CI: 2.51-81.30). Patients with pre-existing psychiatric disorders (OR = 0.117, 95% CI: 0.024-0.558), methadone substitution (OR = 0.20, 95% CI: 0.045-0.887) or genotype 2/3 (OR = 0.341, 95% CI: 0.138-0.845) were significantly less likely to show a long-term worsening of depressive symptoms.
Pre-existing psychiatric risk factors increase the chance for a long-term improvement and reduce the risk for a long-term worsening of mental health after antiviral treatment of chronic hepatitis C with IFN-alpha.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST, EC 2.5.1.18) is an enzyme responsible for inactivation of a large variety of toxic, electrophilic compounds and organic peroxides. GST activity and GST pi expression were studied in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Studies were conducted on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained from 40 ALS patients. CSF from 30 subjects without neurological diseases and blood from 40 healthy blood donors were used as controls. GST activity assayed with 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (substrate for transferase activity) and cumene peroxide (substrate for peroxidase activity) was significantly decreased in PBMC of ALS patients, as well as the GST pi expression on both mRNA and protein level. The mean peroxidase activity was however significantly increased in CSF and serum of ALS patients with the specificity of 80% and 73%, and the sensitivity of 78% and 85%, respectively. It can thus be concluded that the protective barrier formed by GST is originally affected in peripheral blood of ALS patients, and may increase their vulnerability to toxic effects of electrophilic compounds and organic peroxides. Studies on a larger group are needed to answer the question whether GSH-Px determination may be implicated in the diagnosis of ALS.
This study involved cluster analysis of Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory-II (MCMI-II) records of 304 cocaine dependent males and examined differences among personality-based clusters in medical, legal, employment, drug, alcohol, family, and psychiatric problem severity at treatment intake and in outcome status during the 12 months after completion of residential drug treatment. A hierarchical cluster analysis (Ward's method) was used to identify 4 cluster subgroups: antisocial, subclinical, neurotic, and high psychopathology. MANOVA revealed that membership in Neurotic and High Psychopathology Cluster subgroups was linked with more severe family and psychiatric problems at treatment intake than found in the Subclinical Cluster Subgroup (all ps < .05). The High Psychopathology Cluster Subgroup also had more severe drug problems at intake than did the Subclinical Subgroup (p < .05). Logistic regression analysis revealed that membership in the High Psychopathology Subgroup predicted relapse/loss to follow-up status after controlling for age, education, ethnicity, treatment program attended, and pretreatment cocaine use frequency (X(2) = 21.25, df = 3, p < .001).
The sedative or excitatory effects of drugs are difficult to evaluate in patients with depression, where sleep disturbances and tiredness in the daytime belong to the clinical manifestations of the psychiatric disorder. A refined method of vigilance measurement, based on the EEG spectra, together with proper statistical analysis of the data, is helpful for correct interpretation of the data. In two groups of patients with depression, the intensity of sleep disturbances was considered as a background variable in partial correlations, reflecting the relationships between vigilance and drug concentration in a more specific way. It was shown that the sedative effect of maprotiline interferes with the increased vigilance in the patients, with improved night sleep after treatment. As a result, the patients do not experience decreased vigilance although maprotiline has a sedative action. The results obtained in the patients treated with beta-blockers suggest that the drug itself has no sedative effect but the patients suffer from decreased vigilance in the daytime, caused by the sleep disturbances and depression.
Towards a systems toxicology-based risk assessment, we investigated molecular perturbations accompanying histopathological changes in a 28-day rat inhalation study combining transcriptomics with classical histopathology. We demonstrated reduced biological activity of a prototypic modified risk tobacco product (pMRTP) compared with the reference research cigarette 3R4F. Rats were exposed to filtered air or to three concentrations of mainstream smoke (MS) from 3R4F, or to a high concentration of MS from a pMRTP. Histopathology revealed concentration-dependent changes in response to 3R4F that were irritative stress-related in nasal and bronchial epithelium, and inflammation-related in the lung parenchyma. For pMRTP, significant changes were seen in the nasal epithelium only. Transcriptomics data were obtained from nasal and bronchial epithelium and lung parenchyma. Concentration-dependent gene expression changes were observed following 3R4F exposure, with much smaller changes for pMRTP. A computational-modeling approach based on causal models of tissue-specific biological networks identified cell stress, inflammation, proliferation, and senescence as the most perturbed molecular mechanisms. These perturbations correlated with histopathological observations. Only weak perturbations were observed for pMRTP. In conclusion, a correlative evaluation of classical histopathology together with gene expression-based computational network models may facilitate a systems toxicology-based risk assessment, as shown for a pMRTP.
In previous studies, we reported that the blood glucose levels of mice with type I diabetes mellitus (TIDM) was reduced with orally administered silk gland powder from silkworms transgenic for human insulin-like growth factor-I (hIGF-I). However, potential safety hazards could not be eliminated because the transgenic silk gland powder contained heterologous DNA, including the green fluorescent protein (gfp) and neomycin resistance (neo) genes. These shortcomings might be overcome if the recombinant hIGF-I were secreted into the sericin layer of the cocoon. In this study, silkworm eggs were transfected with a novel piggyBac transposon vector, pigA3GFP-serHS-hIGF-I-neo, containing the neo, gfp, and hIGF-I genes controlled by the sericin-1 (ser-1) promoter with the signal peptide DNA sequence of the fibrin heavy chain (Fib-H) and a helper plasmid containing the piggyBac transposase sequence under the control of the Bombyx mori actin 3 (A3) promoter, using sperm-mediated gene transfer to generate the transformed silkworms. The hIGF-I content estimated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was approximately 162.7 ng/g. To estimate the biological activity of the expressed hIGF-I, streptozotocin-induced TIDM mice were orally administered sericin from the transgenic silkworm. The blood glucose levels of the mice were significantly reduced, suggesting that the extract from the transgenic hIGF-I silkworm cocoons can be used as an orally administered drug.
The aim of this study was to examine the influence of transient exercise- and dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia on time domain parameters of signal-averaged ECG (SAECG) and presence of late potentials (LP) in patients after myocardial infarction (MI). The investigation covered 85 patients after healing of MI, divided into two groups. Group I (24 males and 2 females, mean age 56.8 +/- 6.4 yrs) had exercise-induced ischemia and group II consisted of 59 patients (51 males and 8 females, mean age 58.3 +/- 8.5 years) with ischemia provoked by the intravenous dobutamine stress-testing. In each patient 2-D echocardiography, 24-h ambulatory Holter ECG, coronary arteriography were performed before stress testing. The ischemia was proven by using Tc-99m. MIBI myocardial perfusion and standard 12-lead ECG monitoring. Recordings of SAECG were registered at rest and during ischemia under influence of stress-testing. The following time-domain parameters of SAECG were analysed: the root-mean-square voltage of the last 40 and 50 ms of the filters QRS complex (RMS40, 50), total time duration of filtered QRS (t-QRS) and duration of signals lower than 40 microV (LPD). LP were detected when two or three of following criterias had been registered: RMS 40 < 20 microV, t-QRS > 114 ms, LPD > 38 s. There was no statistically significant differences in all time domain parameters of SAECG between records at the baseline and during ischemia in each study group. At the baseline LP have been registered in 11.5% and in 15% patients, respectively of group I and group II. On the top of ischemia during treadmill exercise stress-testing LP have been recorded in 27% subjects. Under influence of dobutamine-provoked ischemia LP have been registers in 25% patients.
Exercise- and dobutamine-induced ischemia triggers development of LP in small grade in post-infarction patients.
Spina bifida (SB) is a common congenital malformation in Southeast Mexico. Parents of children with SB reside in areas with frequent pesticide spraying or have agriculture activities, suggesting potential exposure to pesticides. Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is the responsible enzyme for deactivation of organophosphates (OP) in the central nervous system. Polymorphisms of PON1 genes influence the catalytic activity and plasma protein level of the enzyme, therefore, genotypic characterization of PON1 gene represents a potential predictor for susceptibility to OP-related effects.
The frequency of PON1 haplotypes and polymorphisms (-108CT, L55M, and Q192R) were determined in this study. A case-control study was performed to evaluate the risk for having offspring affected by SB in 152 cases and 160 control parents. Polymorphisms were determined by PCR amplification and restriction fragment length polymorphism and Real Time-PCR. Odds ratios and confidence interval 95% were estimated.
Genotype frequencies for the three PON1 polymorphisms were distributed according to Hardy-Weinberg expectations (p > 0.05) and were significantly different between cases and controls (p < 0.05). The heterozygous CT genotype of -108CT polymorphism, the RR genotype of Q192R polymorphism, both LM and MM genotypes of L55M polymorphism, and the haplotypes 221 and 222 (for -108CT, L55M, and Q192R) were associated with the risk for having a child affected by SB (p < 0.02). The heterozygous -108CT genotype was associated only maternally, whereas the heterozygous L55M genotype was relevant only in the fathers. The RR homozygous genotype was relevant both in mothers and fathers, suggesting the importance of this substrate-specific polymorphism.
Results suggest that PON1 polymorphisms are relevant risk factors for having offspring affected with SB in this population from Southeast Mexico.
Ras signaling regulates a number of important processes in the heart, including cell growth and hypertrophy. Although it is known that defective Ras signaling is associated with Noonan, Costello, and other syndromes that are characterized by tumor formation and cardiac hypertrophy, little is known about factors that may control it. Here we investigate the role of Ras effector Ras-association domain family 1 isoform A (RASSF1A) in regulating myocardial hypertrophy.
A significant downregulation of RASSF1A expression was observed in hypertrophic mouse hearts, as well as in failing human hearts. To further investigate the role of RASSF1A in cardiac (patho)physiology, we used RASSF1A knock-out (RASSF1A(-)(/)(-)) mice and neonatal rat cardiomyocytes with adenoviral overexpression of RASSF1A. Ablation of RASSF1A in mice significantly enhanced the hypertrophic response to transverse aortic constriction (64.2% increase in heart weight/body weight ratio in RASSF1A(-)(/)(-) mice compared with 32.4% in wild type). Consistent with the in vivo data, overexpression of RASSF1A in cardiomyocytes markedly reduced the cellular hypertrophic response to phenylephrine stimulation. Analysis of molecular signaling events in isolated cardiomyocytes indicated that RASSF1A inhibited extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 activation, likely by blocking the binding of Raf1 to active Ras.
Our data establish RASSF1A as a novel inhibitor of cardiac hypertrophy by modulating the extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 pathway.
To analyze the differences between ondansetron and palonosetron in healthcare resource use (i.e., inpatient/ outpatient encounters) among patients receiving intraperitoneal cisplatin.
A medical record review was performed. Intraperitoneal cisplatin administrations for gynecological cancers from January through June 2006 and from October 2007 through June 2008 were divided into two groups based on the serotonin-receptor antagonist used. The occurrence of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV)-related hospital readmissions, emergency department visits, and outpatient encounters occurring within 7 days after cisplatin administration was compared. CINV-related resource use was defined as events associated with dehydration, hypovolemia, nausea/vomiting, hypokalemia, constipation, shortness of breath, or syncope/collapse.
Ondansetron or palonosetron was used in 39 and 89 cisplatin administrations, respectively. The baseline characteristics were similar between the groups with mean age of 59 years and ovarian cancer being the most common cancer. Length of stay was approximately 2 days. Palonosetron was always administered as a single-day therapy while one- or multi-day ondansetron therapy was administered in 27% and 73% of cycles, respectively. A trend towards more CINV-related hospitalizations with ondansetron versus palonosetron was observed (5.1% vs. 0%, p = 0.09) with no significant difference in other CINV-related encounters.
Palonosetron was associated with a trend to a lower risk of CINV-related hospital readmission than ondansetron in patients receiving intraperitoneal cisplatin for gynecological cancers, although not statistically significant. The duration of ondansetron therapy might be suboptimal with 27% of patients receiving only 1 day of therapy during hospital stay. These findings need to be confirmed in future studies.
Regulatory T cells (Treg) play a role in suppression of immune response, including anti-tumor immunity. We have recently reported that treatment of naïve CD4 T cells with adenosine A(2B) receptor antagonist PSB603 under Treg-skewing conditions inhibits expression of Foxp3, a marker of differentiation to Treg, without blocking IL-2 production or CD25 expression, which are activation markers, in CD4 T cells. We hypothesized that PSB603 suppresses cancer growth and metastasis by inhibiting induction of Treg, thereby facilitating anti-tumor immunity. In this study, we first examined the effect of PSB603 on tumor growth in B16 melanoma-bearing C57BL/6 mice. Administration of PSB603 significantly suppressed the increase of tumor volume as well as the increase of Treg population in these mice. The populations of CD4 and CD8 T cells were higher and splenic lymphocyte-mediated cytotoxicity towards B16 melanoma was significantly increased in PSB603-treated mice. We confirmed that PSB603 did not reduce the viability of B16 melanoma cells in vitro. Moreover, we also examined the effect of PSB603 on tumor metastasis in pulmonary metastasis model mice intravenously injected with B16 melanoma cells. The metastasis was also suppressed in PSB603-treated mice, in which the population of Treg was significantly lower. Overall, our results suggest that A(2B) receptor antagonist PSB603 enhances anti-tumor immunity by inhibiting differentiation to Treg, resulting in a delay of tumor growth and a suppression of metastasis.
The aim of the present study was to investigate several neuropharmacological effects of the methanol extract of the aerial parts in blossom of Hypericum canariense, H. glandulosum, H. grandifolium and H. reflexum (Hypericaceae). These extracts did not alter significantly the locomotor activity, body temperature or the pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, with the exception of H. reflexum which significantly potentiated pentobarbital-induced sleeping time at both doses assayed (500 and 1000 mg/kg p.o.). Additionally, neither muscle relaxant nor anticholinergic activity was observed. These extracts antagonized the ptosis and/or motor depression induced by tetrabenazine and also shortened the immobility time in the forced swimming test. Moreover, the H. glandulosum and H. grandifolium extracts at 1000 mg/kg p.o. potentiated the head twitches induced by 5-HTP. These observations suggest that the methanol extract of the Hypericum species in doses of 500-1000 mg/kg p.o. possess antidepressant activity in mice, without inducing significant muscle relaxation, anticholinergic and sedative properties.
We describe a 22-year-old woman with cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa in whom dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome (DHS) developed 5 weeks after initiation of dapsone therapy. She had fever and cervical lymphadenopathy, and later a widespread erythematous eruption studded with pustules developed. She also had liver involvement with mixed hepatocellular and cholestatic features. The patient was treated with prednisone 60 mg daily. Once the patient's liver function normalized, prednisone dosage was reduced by 5 mg weekly. The clinical features and treatment of DHS are reviewed. We encourage immediate discontinuation of the drug in a patient in whom a fever or flu-like illness develops, especially 4 or more weeks after the treatment is started. We also suggest routine thyroid function testing 3 months after recovery because of the possible risk of hypothyroidism.
Experimental interleukin-1 receptor antagonist gene overexpression has shown that interleukin-1 receptor antagonist is cardioprotective during global cardiac ischemia. The aim of the present study was to test the impact of an exogenous recombinant human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (anakinra) in experimental acute myocardial infarction.
Two animal studies were conducted: one of immediate anakinra administration during ischemia in the mouse and one of delayed anakinra administration 24 hours after ischemia in the rat. Seventy-eight Institute of Cancer Research mice and 20 Wistar rats underwent surgical coronary artery ligation (or sham operation) and were treated with either anakinra 1 mg/kg or NaCl 0.9% (saline). Treatment was administered during surgery and then daily for 6 doses in the mice and starting on day 2 daily for 5 doses in the rats. Twenty-eight mice underwent infarct size assessment 24 hours after surgery, 6 saline-treated mice and 22 mice treated with increasing doses of anakinra (1 mg/kg [n=6], 10 mg/kg [n=6], and 100 mg/kg [n=10]); 6 mice were euthanized at 7 days for protein expression analysis. The remaining animals underwent transthoracic echocardiography before surgery and 7 days later just before death. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis was measured in the peri-infarct regions. The antiapoptotic effect of anakinra was tested in a primary rat cardiomyocyte culture during simulated ischemia and in vitro on caspase-1 and -9 activities. At 7 days, 15 of the 16 mice (94%) treated with anakinra were alive versus 11 of the 20 mice (55%) treated with saline (P=0.013). No differences in infarct size at 24 hours compared with saline were observed with the 1- and 10-mg/kg doses, whereas a 13% reduction in infarct size was found with the 100-mg/kg dose (P=0.015). Treatment with anakinra was associated with a significant reduction in cardiomyocyte apoptosis in both the immediate and delayed treatment groups (3.1+/-0.2% versus 0.5+/-0.3% [P<0.001] and 4.2+/-0.4% versus 1.1+/-0.2% [P<0.001], respectively). Compared with saline-treated animals, anakinra-treated mice and rats showed signs of more favorable ventricular remodeling. In vitro, anakinra significantly prevented apoptosis induced by simulated ischemia and inhibited caspase-1 and -9 activities.
Administration of anakinra within 24 hours of acute myocardial infarction significantly ameliorates the remodeling process by inhibiting cardiomyocyte apoptosis in 2 different experimental animal models of AMI. This may open the door for using anakinra to prevent postischemic cardiac remodeling and heart failure.
Dyskinesias are a major complication of dopaminergic therapy in the long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease. In the CALM-PD trial, subjects were initially randomized to levodopa or pramipexole and could later add levodopa if needed. After adjusting for disease duration and daily levodopa dosage, the incidence of dyskinesias after initiating levodopa was not significantly different among subjects initially randomized to levodopa and those initially randomized to pramipexole.
This study compares ropivacaine and levobupivacaine when administered for cervical plexus block. The authors therefore compared the arterial pressure profile and the incidence of hypotension between drugs.
Forty-eight patients scheduled for carotid artery surgery (American Society of Anesthesiologists [ASA] 2-3) were randomly assigned to receive levobupivacaine or ropivacaine (24 patients each). Neurological status, arterial pressure profile and control of postoperative pain were the main observed parameters. All patients had severe carotid stenosis (>80%) and/or had suffered transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) or preoperative strokes. The same team performed anesthesia and surgery for carotid endarterectomy; the cervical block was performed according to Moore's technique.Arterial pressure, heart rate and S(a)O(2p) were monitored continuously with particular regard to T0 (baseline), T1 (immediately before carotid clamping), T2 (immediately before declamping) and T3 (at the end of the procedure). Hypotension was defined as the fall of arterial systolic pressure 30% below baseline or less than 100 mmHg.
Arterial pressure fell significantly in both groups at T1 with respect to T0 (P<0.0001). Levobupivacaine patients showed higher mean arterial pressure on T0 (112+/-12 mmHg versus 103+/-7 mmHg; P<0.05), thus suggesting a more pronounced vasodilator effect, as confirmed by the larger drop of arterial diastolic pressure (P=0.007). An absolute 6% difference of hypotension-related drug was recorded with levobupivacaine (19%) as compared with ropivacaine (13%) (P=0.28).
Levobupivacaine has a greater vasodilatory effect than ropivacaine. Its higher incidence of hypotension, although not statistically significant, suggests ropivacaine as the drug of choice for cervical plexus block.
To review the data on pharmacology, pathophysiology and treatment of cocaine toxicity, with particular relevance to the heart and cardiovascular system.
Published epidemiology, laboratory and clinical studies on the pharmacology, electrophysiology and pathophysiology of cocaine toxicity and its treatment.
Cocaine toxicity-related morbidity and mortality are frequent due to the potent pharmacological effects of the drug as an indirect-acting sympathomimetic agent and its class I antiarrhythmic property paradoxically inducing pro-arrhythmia. The cardiac and cardiovascular toxic effects of cocaine include various degrees of myocardial ischemia, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiotoxicity, hypertensive effects, cerebrovascular effects and a hypercoagulable state. Treatment of cocaine toxicity must be based on the multiple factors leading to the toxicity. Sodium bicarbonate appears to have an important role in the acute setting with conduction abnormalities, seizures or acidosis. Unopposed alpha-stimulation provided by beta-blockade should be avoided. Central nervous system hyperexcitability should be treated with diazepam. The use of calcium antagonists appears logical.
Cocaine is an alkaloid with widespread illicit use. The rationale for treating acute cocaine intoxication has become clearer and more logical with increased knowledge of its mechanisms of action.
Congenital cataracts are an important cause of bilateral visual impairment in infants. In a four-generation family of English descent, we mapped dominant congenital posterior polar cataract to chromosome 11q22-q22.3. The maximum LOD score, 3.92 at recombination fraction 0, was obtained for marker D11S898, near the gene that encodes crystallin alpha-B protein (CRYAB). By sequencing the coding regions of CRYAB, we found in exon 3 a deletion mutation, 450delA, that is associated with cataract in this family. The mutation resulted in a frameshift in codon 150 and produced an aberrant protein consisting of 184 residues. This is the first report of a mutation, in this gene, resulting in isolated congenital cataract.
Female Wistar strain rats injected intraperitoneally with 1 g of BSA per day for 5 days, a total of 5 g of BSA, developed heavy proteinuria. Characteristic morphological abnormalities were seen by both TEM and SEM in the large majority of glomeruli from these animals and were similar overall, but not identical to, those seen in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. The heterologous protein overload model seems to present considerable opportunity for study of the basic mechanisms of glomerular visceral epithelial cell handling of protein.
To discover the role of the kidney in tryptophan degradation, especially tryptophan to niacin, rat kidneys were injured by feeding a diet containing a large amount of adenine. The kidney contains very high activity of aminocarboxymuconate-semialdehyde decarboxylase (ACMSD), which leads tryptophan into the glutaric acid pathway and then the TCA cycle, but not to the niacin pathway. On the other hand, kidneys contain significant activity of quinolinate phosphoribosyltransferase (QPRT), which leads tryptophan into the niacin pathway. The ACMSD activity in kidneys were significantly lower in the adenine group than in the control group, while the QPRT activity was almost the same, however, the formations of niacin and its compounds such as N1-methylnicotinamide and its pyridones did not increase, and therefore, the conversion ratio of tryptophan to niacin was lower in the adenine group than in the control group. The contents of NAD and NADP in liver, kidney, and blood were also lower in the adenine group. The decreased levels of niacin and the related compounds were consistent with the changes in the enzyme activities involved in the tryptophan-niacin metabolism in liver. It was concluded from these results that the conversion of tryptophan to niacin is due to only the liver enzymes and that the role of the kidney would be extremely low.
Torsade de pointes is a rare but potentially fatal ventricular arrhythmia that is often triggered by drugs that prolong the rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval. This arrhythmia has been attributed to levacetylmethadol and methadone, synthetic opioids used to treat heroin addiction. Levacetylmethadol, a derivative of methadone, is being withdrawn from the United States market because its use waned after a black box warning was issued to require electrocardiographic monitoring. Therefore, methadone and buprenorphine are the only opioids available for the treatment of heroin addiction. To our knowledge, the cardiac safety of buprenorphine in patients with methadone-related QTc prolongation has not been described. We report a patient who developed torsade de pointes while receiving high-dose methadone and was successfully inducted onto buprenorphine under close medical supervision. No clinically important QTc prolongation was observed in the acute setting or during follow-up. This observation suggests that buprenorphine may be a safe alternative to oral methadone in patients with opioid addiction who develop torsade de pointes.
By exome sequencing, we found de novo SMARCB1 mutations in two of five individuals with typical Coffin-Siris syndrome (CSS), a rare autosomal dominant anomaly syndrome. As SMARCB1 encodes a subunit of the SWItch/Sucrose NonFermenting (SWI/SNF) complex, we screened 15 other genes encoding subunits of this complex in 23 individuals with CSS. Twenty affected individuals (87%) each had a germline mutation in one of six SWI/SNF subunit genes, including SMARCB1, SMARCA4, SMARCA2, SMARCE1, ARID1A and ARID1B.
We identified de novo truncating mutations in ARID1B in three individuals with Coffin-Siris syndrome (CSS) by exome sequencing. Array-based copy-number variation (CNV) analysis in 2,000 individuals with intellectual disability revealed deletions encompassing ARID1B in 3 subjects with phenotypes partially overlapping that of CSS. Taken together with published data, these results indicate that haploinsufficiency of the ARID1B gene, which encodes an epigenetic modifier of chromatin structure, is an important cause of CSS and is potentially a common cause of intellectual disability and speech impairment.
To investigate the effects of telmisartan on endoplasm reticulum (ER) stress signal pathways and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in abdominal aortic banded rats.
Male SD rats were randomly divided into sham-operated group, abdominal aortic banding group (AAB) and AAB + telmisartan (5 mgxkg(-1)xd(-1) per gavage, beginning at 1 week before AAB for 8 weeks, n = 10 each). Ten weeks post AAB, hemodynamic measurements were performed, whole heart and left ventricular weights were obtained, cardiomyocyte apoptosis was measured by TUNEL method. Myocardial GRP78 and CHOP protein expressions were detected by Western blot and immunohistochemistry.
The ratio of left ventricular weight to body weight, the ratio of heart weight to body weight, left ventricular end diastolic pressure and the apoptosis index were significantly increased while left ventricular end systolic pressure and +/- dp/dt(max) were significantly decreased in AAB group than those in sham-operated group (all P < 0.01), these changes could be significantly attenuated by telmisartan (all P < 0.01). Moreover, myocardial GRP78 and CHOP expressions were significantly upregulated in AAB group than those in sham-operated group and telmisartan could significantly downregulate the increased GRP78, CHOP expressions (all P < 0.01).
Increased ER stress might be responsible for enhanced cardiomyocyte apoptosis in AAB rats. Telmisartan effectively attenuated the cardiomyocyte apoptosis and cardiac hypertrophy in AAB rats possibly through reducing ER stress.
Na(+), K(+)-ATPase (NKA) is involved, through its role as a major driving force for electrochemical gradients, in a range of transmembrane transport processes. Maintenance of homeostasis in anadromous salmonids requires modulation of several gill ion secretory proteins as part of the preparatory adaptation and acclimation to marine life. Atlantic salmon smolts were exposed to combinations of low pH and inorganic aluminum (acid/Al(i)) in freshwater (FW) and were then transferred to seawater (SW) for studies of post-smolt performance. Gill mRNA levels of four NKA-alpha isoforms (alpha1a, alpha1b, alpha1c and alpha3) of the catalytic NKA subunit and NKA enzyme activity were measured. Moderate acid/Al treatment (MOD, pH 5.9+/-0.3, 15+/-9microgl(-1)Al(i)) prevented the FW preparatory increase in NKA activity observed in control (CON, pH 6.9+/-0.1, 8+/-3microgl(-1)Al(i)) smolts, while high acid/Al treatment (SEV, pH 5.6+/-0.2, 30+/-7microgl(-1)Al(i)) caused a rapid and persistent reduction in NKA activity. Correspondingly, a 3.3-fold increase in plasma glucose levels in the SEV groups concurrent with a decrease in plasma chloride levels suggest that acid/Al exposed fish were stressed and experienced problems maintaining ion homeostasis. Gill NKA activities in acid/Al exposed groups were re-established after 28 days in SW. Both long (9 days) and short-term (2.5 days) treatments had significant impact on isoform-specific Na(+), K(+)-ATPase alpha-subunit mRNA abundance in the FW period. Acid/Al exposed groups lacked the preparatory increases in all NKA-alpha isoform mRNA levels seen in the CON group, except for alpha1a. In contrast to the other isoforms measured, alpha1a mRNA abundance decreased sharply upon SW transfer, supporting the hypothesis of isozyme shifting as a mechanism of altering the gill from an ion absorbing to an ion excreting tissue during smoltification and SW exposure. Adult return rates to the Imsa river were significantly reduced both in short-term (78% of controls) and long-term (55% of controls) acid/Al exposures, emphasising the physiological and ecological consequences of acid/Al exposure during smoltification.
