Imatinib is one of the most recent medications used for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). It is an orally administered protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor, an enzyme which is produced by BCR-ABL fusion which results from translocation of 9:22 chromosome (Philadelphia chromosome). Imatinib blocks proliferation and induces apoptosis of BCR-ABL-expression in CML. Many side effects produced by imatinib have been documented but its induction of hepatotoxcity has been rarely reported. Only a few cases so far have been reported in the literature and almost all were in females. We describe another case of hepatotoxicity due to imatinib in a 17-year old female with clinical, laboratory and histopathological changes. The case described here suggests that imatinib may also induce immune hepatitis, in some patients.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonist rosiglitazone increases insulin sensitivity, which, in animal models, is comparable to the effect of a reduction in 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD1) activity. We therefore investigated whether rosiglitazone-induced insulin sensitivity is associated with changes in 11beta-HSD1 activity in different tissues.
An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and a euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp were performed in seven male volunteers [age 59.3 +/- 3.0 years, body mass index (BMI) 29.3 +/- 4.1 kg/m(2)] with impaired glucose tolerance before and after 8 weeks of rosiglitazone treatment. To assess hepatic 11beta-HSD1 activity, serum cortisol levels were measured after oral administration of cortisone acetate. 11beta-HSD1 activity and mRNA expression were assessed in abdominal subcutaneous fat biopsies. Total-body 11beta-HSD activities were estimated by calculating the urinary ratios of glucocorticoid metabolites.
As expected, rosiglitazone improved insulin resistance and postprandial hyperglycaemia. In parallel, 11beta-HSD1 mRNA expression [100 +/- 0% (reference) vs. 68.5 +/- 9.3%, P < 0.01] and activity [0.18 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.13 +/- 0.02 pmol/min/mg, P < 0.05] decreased in abdominal subcutaneous fat, while an increase in hepatic 11beta-HSD1 activity was detected [the area under the curve (AUC) for the cortisol/cortisone ratio was 1319 +/- 76 vs. 955 +/- 59; P < 0.05]. No changes in BMI, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and whole-body 11beta-HSD1 activity were found.
Part of the beneficial effects of rosiglitazone may be mediated by a reduction in the 11beta-HSD1 mRNA expression and activity in subcutaneous abdominal fat.
A 19-year-old man presented with left aggressive painless scrotal swelling. On the diagnosis of left intrascrotal tumor, left high orchiectomy with partial scrotal skin resection was performed. Pathological examination of the specimen and systemic metastasis survey revealed embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma of left spermatic cord with multiple lung metastasis (Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study Group IV). Systemic chemotherapy with etoposide (VP-16), cisplatin (CDDP), and ifosfamide (IFO) (VIP therapy) was started. Although epilepsy-like symptoms occurred at the first course of VIP therapy, these symptoms immediately improved by diazepam administration. These symptoms were thought to be due to the adverse effects of IFO. To our knowledge, there were little reports on epilepsy-like symptoms caused by IFO in Japan. On the other hand, his multiple lung metastasis disappeared after the second course of VIP therapy. Although IFO may be effective in rhabdomyosarcoma, the toxicity of various nervous systems may be discovered.
In this work are reported two clinical cases of cocaine abusers with destructive lesions of nasal-paranasal cavities. The clinical presentation and the absence of a positive history of drug addiction led to a differential diagnosis between lymphoma, idiopathic median line granuloma and Wegener granulomatosis. Biochemical and serological examinations did not prove conclusive. The diagnosis was finally formulated on the basis of the documented presence of cocaine in the biological fluids. Emphasis is placed in the difficulty of obtaining a reliable case history in this type of patients. Moreover, the Authors point out that it is advisable to test for drugs in the biological fluids prior to undertaking time-consuming diagnostic procedures for pathologies which are extremely rare in the West countries.
Drug-induced alterations in arterial blood pressure are reflected in the extracellular fluid neurotransmitter levels of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Urethane-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and Wistar-Kyoto normotensive (WKY) rats were used in this study. The extracellular neurochemical profile of the NTS was quantified using the in vivo microdialysis technique. In SHR, phenylephrine-induced hypertension produced no significant changes in the extracellular norepinephrine (NE) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations, whereas a significant increase in the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) concentration was observed. Wistar normotensive rats, in response to phenylephrine-induced hypertension, showed a significant increase in extracellular NE and 5-HIAA concentrations. Hypotension produced by the intravenous infusion of nitroprusside failed to show significant changes in the extracellular neurotransmitters in both SHR and WKY rats. However, there was a significant increase in 5-HIAA concentration in SHRs during the rebound hypertension, which followed the nitroprusside-infused hypotension. No such change was observed in the case of the WKY rats. These results suggest the possible involvement of the serotonergic mechanisms of NTS in the regulation of normal arterial blood pressure in these two rat strains.
1-Nitropyrene, a direct-acting mutagenic component of extracts of diesel exhaust and ambient air particulates, is one of the major nitroarenes found in products of incomplete combustion. Injection of this compound into newborn Sprague-Dawley-derived CD rats at 100 mumol/kg body weight s.c. once a week for 8 weeks induced 32 and 28% sarcomas, primarily malignant fibrous histiocytomas, at the site of injection in male and female animals, respectively. Mammary tumors, most of which were adenocarcinomas, developed distant from the site of injection in 47% of the females. Similar but lesser responses were observed in animals given one-half this dose. This carcinogenic response is consistent with the systemic effects of structurally related aromatic amines. 4-Nitrobiphenyl, given at equimolar doses, was not tumorigenic in this study.
Breast cancer is a common malignancy with current biological therapies tailored to steroid hormone (ER, PR) and HER2 receptor status. Understanding the biological basis of resistance to current targeted therapies and the identification of new potential therapeutic targets is an ongoing challenge. The PI3K pathway is altered in a high proportion of breast cancers and may contribute to therapeutic resistance. We undertook an integrative study of mutational, copy number and expression analyses of key regulators of the PI3K pathway in a cohort of 292 invasive breast cancer patients with known treatment outcomes. The alterations identified in this cohort included PIK3CA mutations (12/168, i.e. 7%), PIK3CA copy number gain (28/209, i.e. 14%), PTEN loss (73/258, i.e. 28%) and AKT activation (62/258, i.e. 24%). Overall at least 1 parameter was altered in 72% (139/193) of primary breast cancers. PI3K pathway activation was significantly associated with ER negative (p = 0.0008) and PR negative (p = 0.006) status, high tumor grade (p = 0.032) and a "basal-like" phenotype (p = 0.01), where 92% (25/27) of tumors had an altered pathway. In univariate analysis, PI3K pathway aberrations were associated with death from breast cancer; however, this relationship was not maintained in multivariate analysis. No association was identified between an activated pathway and outcome in tamoxifen- or chemotherapy-treated patients. We concluded that >70% of breast cancers have an alteration in at least 1 component of the PI3K pathway and this might be exploited to therapeutic advantage especially in "basal-like" cancers.
Torsades de pointes is a potentially life-threatening form of polymorphic ventricular tachyarrhythmia typically seen in the presence of repolarization-prolonging agents. We investigated this particular form of tachyarrhythmia in the isolated, perfused rabbit heart. The experimental model was designed to reproduce conditions that are clinically known to be associated with an increased propensity to the development of torsades de pointes. The class III agent clofilium (1 microM) and d,l-sotalol (10 microM), as well as the antibiotic erythromycin (30-150 microM) were infused in the presence of either normal (5.88 mM) or low (1.5 mM) potassium concentration in sinus-driven or atrioventricular (AV)-blocked hearts. Ventricular tachyarrhythmias spontaneously emerged in the clofilium-, d,l-sotalol-, and erythromycin-treated AV-blocked hearts. The episodes showed typical features of torsades de pointes found in humans. They developed within 4-12 min after the onset of infusion, were normally nonsustained, and only rarely degenerated into ventricular fibrillation. Electrical stimulation at cycle lengths <600 ms and perfusion with MgSO4 suppressed arrhythmic activity. In the d,l-sotalol- and erythromycin-treated hearts, torsades de pointes occurred only in the presence of hypokalemia and bradycardia, whereas, in the presence of clofilium, bradycardia alone caused torsades de pointes. Monophasic action-potential recordings demonstrated early afterdepolarizations in endocardial and epicardial recordings. Thus the isolated AV-blocked rabbit heart represents a model for studying drug-related torsades de pointes and its mechanism.
Nitrate tolerance has been reported to be reversed by certain types of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. We examined whether alacepril, a new long-acting oral ACE inhibitor, has beneficial effects against exercise-induced angina in patients with stable effort angina after substantial isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN) treatment. Thirteen men with stable effort angina were treated with oral ISDN (80 mg/d) for >3 weeks. After this period, efficacy of single oral administration of either alacepril (50 mg) or its placebo on exercise-induced angina and electrocardiographic changes was examined by treadmill exercise test in a double-blind crossover design. Alacepril significantly improved the exercise duration by 9.1% (p=0.03), the time to 1 mm ST-segment depression by 19% (p<0.01), and the maximal ST-segment depression by 33% (p=0.015) compared with placebo. Alacepril did not significantly alter the rate-pressure product, a marker of myocardial oxygen demand, during exercise test compared with placebo. Plasma renin activity was significantly increased (p<0.05) after administration of alacepril, indicating that alacepril significantly blocked ACE activity in our patients. In conclusion, a single oral administration of the ACE inhibitor alacepril (50mg) elicited beneficial effects against exercise-induced myocardial ischemia in patients with stable effort angina during chronic nitrate treatment. These effects may be mediated by increased coronary blood flow.
We examined whether a new positive inotropic agent with Ca(2+)-sensitizing activity, MCI-154, 6-[4-(4-pyridylamino)phenyl]-4, 5-dihydro-3-(2H)-pyridazinone hydrochloride trihydrate, had deleterious effects on ventricular arrhythmias, since several phosphodiesterase III inhibitors have been shown to aggravate arrhythmias in our earlier studies. Continuous infusion of MCI-154 (1 microgram/kg/min for 15 min) did not suppress or aggravate the arrhythmias generated in the two-stage coronary ligation-, digitalis- and adrenaline-induced canine arrhythmia models studied. Also in the case of a bolus injection of 30 micrograms/kg, MCI-154 did not aggravate the adrenaline-induced arrhythmias. To explain these results in vivo, a whole-cell voltage-clamp experiment on guinea-pig ventricular cells was performed. MCI-154 (10-100 microM) did not increase the inward Ca2+ current under the condition where these currents were increased by isoprenaline. These results indicate that MCI-154 does not aggravate ventricular arrhythmias and does not act on membrane currents associated with arrhythmogenesis. Thus, MCI-154 may become a useful positive inotropic agent with little arrhythmogenic effect.
Calcitriol [1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3] is the natural ligand of the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Using cultured prostate cancer (PC) cell lines, LN-CaP and ALVA-31, we studied the effects of 1alpha,25(OH)2-Vitamin D3 (VD3) on expression of several apoptosis-regulating proteins including: (a) Bcl-2 family proteins (Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), Mcl-1, Bax, and Bak); (b) the heat shock protein 70-binding protein BAG1L; and (c) IAP family proteins (XIAP, cIAP1, and cIAP2). VD3 induced decreases in levels of antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L), and Mcl-1, BAG1L, XIAP, cIAP1, and cIAP2 (without altering proapoptotic Bax and Bak) in association with increases in apoptosis. In contrast to VDR-expressing LN-CaP and ALVA-31 cells, VDR-deficient prostate cancer line Du-145 demonstrated no changes in apoptosis protein expression after treatment with VD3. In sensitive PC cell lines, VD3 activates downstream effector protease, caspase-3, and upstream initiator protease caspase-9, the apical protease in the mitochondrial ("intrinsic") pathway for apoptosis, but not caspase-8, an initiator caspase linked to an alternative ("extrinsic") apoptosis pathway triggered by cytokine receptors. VD3 induced declines in antiapoptotic proteins and also stimulated cytochrome c release from mitochondria by a caspase-independent mechanism. Moreover, apoptosis induction by VD3 was suppressed by overexpressing Bcl-2, a known blocker of cytochrome c release, whereas the caspase-8 suppressor CrmA afforded little protection. Thus, VD3 is capable of inhibiting expression of multiple antiapoptotic proteins in VDR-expressing prostate cancer cells, leading to activation of the mitochondrial pathway for apoptosis.
Acute spinal cord lesions result in dramatic changes in neuronal function. Studies have shown that the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ agonist, rosiglitazone, has neuroprotective properties. The effect of rosiglitazone after acute spinal cord injury was examined in the present study. Rats were subjected to laminectomy only; laminectomy with spinal cord contusion injury; laminectomy with contusion injury plus 30 mg/kg body weight methylprednisolone administered 5 min after surgery; or laminectomy with contusion injury plus 2 mg/kg body weight rosiglitazone administered intraperitoneally 5 min, 6 h and 24 h after surgery. Both drugs increased neurotrophin gene and protein expression 24 h after injury compared with injured rats without drug treatment. Rosiglitazone increased neurotrophin expression at 7 days to a greater extent than methylprednisolone. Early functional recovery was observed in rats treated with rosiglitazone. The greater increase in rosiglitazone-induced nerve growth factor expression soon after injury could explain, at least in part, the improved recovery of motor function compared with methylprednisolone or saline.
We report 12 adults with seizures associated with serum theophylline levels between 14 and 35 mg/l. The seizures were frequently prolonged, and outcome was generally poor with eight deaths. Although we did not identify comparable control groups, possible risk factors for serious outcome in theophylline-associated seizures were age, previous brain injury or disease, severe pulmonary disease, and possibly low serum albumin level. In patients with these risk factors, serum theophylline levels should be maintained below 10 to 15 mg/l.
We investigated the effect of exposure to nanoparticle-rich diesel exhaust (NRDE) on hippocampal-dependent spatial learning and memory function-related gene expressions in female mice. Female BALB/c mice were exposed to clean air, middle-dose NRDE (M-NRDE), high-dose NRDE (H-NRDE) or filtered diesel exhaust (F-DE) for three months. A Morris water maze apparatus was used to examine spatial learning. The expression levels of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit, proinflammatory cytokines and neurotrophin mRNAs in the hippocampus were then investigated using real-time RT-PCR. Mice exposed to H-NRDE required a longer time to reach the hidden platform and showed higher mRNA expression levels of the NMDA receptor subunit NR2A, the proinflammatory cytokine CCL3, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus, compared with the findings in the control group. These results indicate that three months of exposure to NRDE affected spatial learning and memory function-related gene expressions in the female mouse hippocampus.
Obturator nerve block is used for transurethral resection of lateral bladder wall tumors to prevent adductor muscle spasm and associated complications. Therefore, the local anesthetic applied should provide an adequate motor blockade. Ropivacaine 0.75 % was compared to prilocaine 1 % and motor blockade assessment performed by the Medical Research Council (MRC)-scale.
40 patients (20 per group) scheduled for transurethral resection were randomized to either receiving 10 ml ropivacaine 0.75 % or prilocaine 1 % for direct obturator nerve block in a controlled user-blinded study. Motor block was assessed with the MRC-scale 5 and 10 minutes after local anesthetic injection followed by an assessment 120 and 180 minutes after surgery. Surgery was performed in equally distributed spinal or general anesthesia, intraoperative adductor spasm intensity was evaluated by surgeon's ranking.
Motor blockade intensity was significantly higher with ropivacaine 0.75 % at all time points of assessment. Intraoperatively, severe spasm only occurred in the prilocaine 1 %-group.
Ropivacaine 0.75 % is a more appropriate agent for direct obturator nerve block than prilocaine 1 %, providing a faster onset and a more intense and longer-lasting motor blockade. This may reduce surgical complications and facilitate early surgical re-intervention. In this study, MRC-scale was appropriate for motor blockade assessment in a peripheral nerve block.
The Seveso accident in 1976 caused a large, populated area north of Milan, Italy, to be contaminated by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). In this study, the authors followed up the exposed population for chronic effects; this paper reports the results of the mortality follow-up extension for 1997-2001. The study cohort includes 278,108 subjects resident at the time of the accident or immigrating/born in the 10 years thereafter in three contaminated zones with decreasing TCDD soil levels (zone A, very high; zone B, high; zone R, low) and in a reference territory comprising surrounding, noncontaminated municipalities. Vital status and cause-of-death ascertainment were 99% complete. Adjusted rate ratios and 95% confidence intervals were calculated by using Poisson regression. Results confirmed previous findings of excesses of lymphatic and hematopoietic tissue neoplasms in zones A (six deaths; rate ratio = 2.23, 95% confidence interval: 1.00, 4.97) and B (28 deaths; rate ratio = 1.59, 95% confidence interval: 1.09, 2.33). These zones also showed increased mortality from circulatory diseases in the first years after the accident, from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and from diabetes mellitus among females. A toxic and carcinogenic risk to humans after high TCDD exposure is supported by the results of this study.
Even though there are many drugs for the treatment of gastric ulcers, these drugs sometimes cannot succeed. Since the 1950s, antidepressant drugs have been used for several non-psychiatric indications. A lot of antidepressant drugs have been shown experimentally to produce antiulcer activity in various ulcer models. This study aimed to investigate the antiulcer effects of mirtazapine and to determine its relationship with antioxidant mechanisms. The antiulcer activities of 15, 30, and 60 mg/kg mirtazapine have been investigated on indomethacin-induced ulcers in rats, and the results have been compared with that of the control group. Mirtazapine decreased the indomethacin-induced ulcers significantly at all doses used. Mirtazapine significantly increased the glutathione (GSH) level, which decreased in the control group given only indomethacin. All doses of mirtazapine significantly decreased the catalase (CAT) level in stomach tissue compared to the control. Additionally, all doses of mirtazapine reversed the decrease in the superoxide dismutase (SOD) level in the stomach tissue of control rats. And finally, all doses of mirtazapine decreased malondialdehyde (MDA) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) levels significantly compared to the control. In conclusion, the activation of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant mechanisms and the inhibition of some toxic oxidant mechanisms play a role in the antiulcer effect mechanism of mirtazapine. This new indication of mirtazapine will make it the first-choice drug in depressive patients with gastric ulcers.
Although insulin-like growth factor I increases renal function, the renal haemodynamic abnormality underlying the glomerular hyperfiltration in acromegaly is unknown. In normal subjects, amino acids and low doses of dopamine increase the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF), presumably by a predominant vasodilation of the afferent and efferent glomerular arterioles, respectively. We studied baseline GFR and ERPF (determined with 125I-iothalamate and 131I-hippuran, respectively), the renal stimulatory effects of amino acid and dopamine infusion, and albuminuria before and after 3 months octreotide treatment in seven acromegalic patients with metabolically active disease. Octreotide reduced growth hormone concentrations from 14.7 +/- 3.0 to 5.5 +/- 1.0 micrograms l-1 (mean +/- SEM, n = 7; P less than 0.001) and insulin-like growth factor I levels from 4.12 +/- 1.31 to 2.44 +/- 0.68 kU l-1 (P less than 0.02). Glucagon concentrations did not change. Baseline GFR and ERPF declined from 132 +/- 5 to 117 +/- 6 and from 547 +/- 32 to 478 +/- 31 ml min-1 1.73 m-2, respectively (P less than 0.05 for both). Initially the response to amino acids was impaired (increment in GFR: 4.8 +/- 6.0%, NS; ERPF: -1.5 +/- 6.8%, NS), whereas the response to dopamine was normal (GFR: 10.6 +/- 1.1%, P less than 0.05: ERPF: 33.2 +/- 3.1%, P less than 0.01). After octreotide, amino acid infusion increased GFR by 15.0 +/- 6.8% (P less than 0.02) and ERPF by 11.3 +/- 5.6% (P less than 0.02), while the dopamine response was unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Arsenic is the first metal to be identified as a human carcinogen. Arsenite, one inorganic form of arsenic, has been found to induce sister chromatid exchange, chromosome aberrations, and gene amplification in a variety of in vitro systems. In this study of arsenite-induced genotoxicity represented a micronuclei production in Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO-K1), we found that the calcium channel blocker, verapamil, can potentiate arsenite-induced micronuclei. And after arsenite treatment, the elevation of intracellular calcium was observed. When extracellular calcium was depleted during arsenite treatment, the arsenite-induced micronuclei formation was significantly suppressed. These data indicated that a calcium ion plays an essential role in arsenite-induced genotoxicity. Further, it was found that the cotreatment of arsenite and a calcium ionophore, A23187, can increase the micronuclei induction. In contrast, pretreatment of the intracellular calcium chelator, quin 2, significantly inhibited micronuclei production of arsenite administration. In addition, we measured the activity of calcium- and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C (PKC) and found that arsenite can activate PKC activity in a dose-dependent manner. Subsequently, some PKC activators and inhibitors were applied to investigate the involvement of PKC on arsenite-induced micronuclei formation. It was found that H7, a PKC inhibitor, can depress but TPA, a PKC activator, can enhance arsenite-induced micronuclei significantly. These data indicated that arsenite exposure perturbs intracellular calcium homeostasis and activates PKC activity. As a result, the activation of PKC activity may play an important role in arsenite-induced genotoxicity.
The multikinase inhibitor sorafenib (SRF) is approved for the treatment of renal and hepatic carcinomas and is also undergoing evaluation in therapeutic combinations with other anticancer agents. SRF is generally well tolerated but produces severe toxicities in a significant proportion of patients by mechanisms that are largely unknown. It has been shown that cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 has a major role in SRF biotransformation to the pharmacologically active N-oxide (SRF-Nox) and two other metabolites. In this study, we prepared the major metabolites of SRF and evaluated their further biotransformation by CYPs in relation to their capacity to produce cellular toxicity. CYP3A4 was also found to be the principal enzyme that mediated the secondary oxidation of SRF metabolites. However, the reduction of SRF-Nox to SRF was also found to be a significant reaction mediated by several CYPs, especially CYPs 2B6 and 1A1. In human liver-derived HepG2 cells, SRF effectively decreased ATP production to an extent greater than that of its metabolites. SRF also markedly altered the cell cycle distribution in HepG2 cells by decreasing the proportion in G0/G1 phase and increasing that in S and G2/M phases. In comparison, SRF metabolites minimally affected HepG2 cell cycle progression. These findings suggest that SRF, but not its metabolites, prevents cells from entering the cell cycle and also inhibits cycling cells from completing mitosis. Reduction of the major metabolite SRF-Nox back to SRF may mediate decreased cellular viability and contribute to adverse reactions in some individuals.
