No published data exist on the incidence of liver fibrosis in patients with dermatomyositis treated with methotrexate.
Our purpose was to examine the efficacy, steroid-sparing potential, and side effects of methotrexate in patients with dermatomyositis and to report liver biopsy results in four patients.
A retrospective review of all cases of dermatomyositis treated with methotrexate in a dermatology and rheumatology referral practice was conducted.
Of the 10 cases reviewed, seven were of dermatomyositis whereas three were of amyopathic dermatomyositis (ADM). Nine patients received oral methotrexate. One patient received intravenous methotrexate. Improvement of cutaneous disease occurred in seven (100%) of the patients with dermatomyositis and in two (66%) of those with ADM; myositis improved in four (57%) of the patients with dermatomyositis. The initial prednisone dose was halved after an average of 18 weeks of methotrexate therapy in the patients with dermatomyositis and 13 weeks in the patients with ADM. Methotrexate-related side effects occurred in six (86%) of the patients with dermatomyositis and in one (33%) of the patients with ADM. Of the four patients who had liver biopsies, two (50%) showed mild hepatic fibrosis, resulting in discontinuation of the drug. Both patients in whom fibrosis developed had preexisting steroid-induced diabetes mellitus.
Although methotrexate is an effective treatment for dermatomyositis, side effects are common. Patients with diabetes mellitus should be closely monitored for toxic effects on the liver.
The case of inflammatory vasculopathy and encephalopathy caused by treatment with tacrolimus is reported. This 49-year-old woman developed progressive gait ataxia and right-sided hemiparesis after 7 years of tacrolimus therapy for focal sclerosing glomerulonephritis. MRI presented multifocal cerebral lesions with contrast enhancement. Oligoclonal banding was positive. When the treatment with tacrolimus was stopped, the clinical symptoms resolved completely and the MRI findings improved with corticoid monotherapy.
Brugada syndrome is a genetic disorder associated with an increased risk of sudden cardiac death that has typical electrocardiographic (ECG) patterns. Recently, there have been reports of Brugada ECG patterns seen in critically ill patients who received propofol,(1) and this pattern was associated with a very high imminent mortality. We report a case in which a critically ill patient developed a Brugada ECG pattern following high-dose propofol infusion. Once the ECG pattern was recognized, the propofol was discontinued and the ECG pattern resolved, and the patient was discharged home with no arrhythmic sequelae.
Chronic low dose treatment of male rats with cyclophosphamide, an anticancer alkylating agent, damages male germ cells, resulting in greater than 80% peri-implantation progeny loss. Little transcription or repair takes place in the DNA of post-meiotic male germ cells. The spermatozoal genome regains its transcriptional capacity in the fertilized oocyte. We hypothesized that as a consequence of exposure of male rats to cyclophosphamide DNA damage to the male genome is transmitted to the conceptus; furthermore, this damage leads to alterations in the expression profiles of DNA repair genes during preimplantation development. Male rats were treated with either saline or cyclophosphamide (6mg/kg/day, 4-6 weeks) and mated to control females; 1-8 cell stage embryos were collected. The alkaline comet assay was used to assess DNA damage in 1-cell embryos. A significantly higher percentage (68%) of the embryos fertilized by cyclophosphamide-exposed spermatozoa displayed a comet indicative of DNA damage, compared to those sired by control males (18%). The in situ transcription/antisense RNA approach was used to determine if DNA damage alters the expression of DNA repair genes in early embryos. Dramatic increases in the transcripts for selected members of the nucleotide excision repair family (XPC, XPE and PCNA), mismatch repair family (PMS1), and recombination repair family (RAD50) were found in 1-cell stage embryos sired by cyclophosphamide-treated males compared to controls, while decreases in the expression of base excision repair family members (UNG1, UNG2, and XRCC1) and in recombination repair transcripts (RAD54) were observed. By the 8-cell stage, transcripts for specific members of the nucleotide excision repair family (XPC) and mismatch repair family (MSH2, PMS2) were elevated greatly in control embryos compared to embryos sired by drug-treated males; in contrast, transcripts for other members of the nucleotide excision repair family (XPE, PCNA), as well as some of the base excision repair family (UNG1), were elevated in embryos sired by drug-treated males. Therefore, DNA damage incurred in spermatozoa, following cyclophosphamide exposure is associated with alterations in the expression profiles of DNA repair genes in preimplantation embryos as early as the 1-cell stage. Genotoxic stress may disturb the nuclear remodeling and reprogramming events that follow fertilization and precede zygotic genome activation.
Pyrazinamide can have adverse effects such as hepatic toxicity, hyperuricemia or digestive disorders. In rare cases, alterations in taste and smell function have been reported for pyrazinamide when combined with other drugs. We report a case of reversible olfactory disorder related to pyrazinamide in a woman, with a positive rechallenge. The patient presented every day a sensation of smelling something burning 15 min after drug intake. Dysosmia disappeared completely after pyrazinamide withdrawal and recurred after its rechallenge. The case was reported to the Tunisian Centre of Pharmacovigilance.
We performed a retrospective review to investigate the safety of prehospital naloxone administration by paramedics as part of a protocol for all patients presenting with an acutely depressed level of consciousness (LOC). The prevalence of naloxone-induced vomiting, seizures, hypotension, hypertension, and cardiac arrest was sought from the prehospital records of 813 patients treated during a 12-month period. The mean age of the treated patients was 42.4 +/- 9.7 years. The initial dose of naloxone was 0.4 to 0.8 mg, and the mean total dose was 0.9 +/- 0.6 mg. No patients lost a pulse within ten minutes of receiving naloxone. Two patients (0.2%) experienced a significant drop in systolic blood pressure, and one patient (0.1%) demonstrated a significant rise in systolic blood pressure within five minutes of naloxone administration. Vomiting occurred in two patients (0.2%), and one patient (0.1%) suffered a tonic-clonic seizure within five minutes of naloxone administration. Of the 813 patients treated, 60 patients (7.4%: mean age, 32.3 +/- 6.7 years) were judged to have an improved LOC after naloxone, with 27 (3.3%) regaining a normal LOC. We conclude that in the above doses, naloxone is safe as part of prehospital protocols for paramedics treating patients with an acutely depressed LOC. However, the vast majority of patients treated empirically with naloxone in the field demonstrated no benefit.
in addition to intracameral anaesthesia, drop anaesthesia with tetracaine drops has been established for topical anaesthesia in cataract surgery. Anaesthesia with lidocaine gel is less established. We compared pain sensitivity of patients undergoing surgery with drop anaesthesia to patients who underwent surgery with gel anaesthesia.
In a questionnaire-based survey in which patients assessed their sensitivity to pain during cataract surgery, we compared the sensitivity to pain of 49 patients during surgery with gel anaesthesia to 62 patients who consecutively underwent surgery with drop anaesthesia. Patients assessed pain intensity postoperatively by checking off a 10-graduation pain scale. Lidocaine gel (2 %) was applied once while tetracaine drops (1 %) were applied three times. All interventions were carried out by two surgeons as phako emulsifications with implantation of a posterior chamber lens via posterior-limbal access. In addition to pain sensitivity we also considered the patients' age, duration of surgery and surgical complications. The data for the patients' age, the duration of surgery and the assessment of intensity were not normally distributed so that a Mann-Whitney-rank-sum test was performed.
No differences were observed between tho two groups, neither regarding age (P = 0.63) nor the duration of the surgical intervention (p = 0.43). However, in patients treated with tetracaine drops pain sensitivity was reported as being significantly less (mean 1,77) than in patients treated with lidocaine gel (mean 2.22; P < 0.043). 73.5 % of patients with gel anaesthesia and 83.9 % of those with drop anaesthesia reported "negligible" pains. There were no intra-operative complications.
Both gel anaesthesia and drop anaesthesia are suitable methods for cataract surgery under local anaesthesia. According to patients' assessment, drop anaesthesia with tetracaine is better suited for pain elimination.
Reversible acute polyuric renal failure was observed in a patient after the ingestion of an unusually large toxic (125 g) dose of aspirin. Renal dysfunction occurred in the absence of volume depletion or underlying renal impairment. These observations emphasize the need for careful monitoring of renal function in all patients with aspirin intoxication.
1. The hypothesis was tested that the renal xanthine oxidase system provides a source of oxygen free radicals in puromycin aminonucleoside and adriamycin experimental nephrosis by generating uric acid from hypoxanthine and xanthine. 2. The concentrations in renal tissue of the putative intermediary products of puromycin aminonucleoside metabolism, hypoxanthine and xanthine, and of their precursors, adenosine and inosine, were lower in rats treated with puromycin aminonucleoside than in normal controls, whereas concentrations of the metabolites were normal after adriamycin intoxication. Their daily urinary excretion was lower in the 24 h after puromycin aminonucleoside administration compared with the baseline values and returned to near normal levels within 5 days. After adriamycin the 24 h urinary excretion of xanthine and uric acid was double the baseline levels (P less than 0.001). 3. When equimolar amounts of hypoxanthine were injected instead of puromycin aminonucleoside, the concentration of all bases increased slightly in renal tissue and their urinary efflux was double the baseline level: allantoin, uric acid, the unmodified nucleotide and xanthine were the most represented compounds in urine. 4. The enzymatic activities relative to xanthine oxidase (EC 1.1.3.22) and xanthine dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.204) in renal tissues were unchanged 1 day after puromycin aminonucleoside or hypoxanthine intoxication and only moderately increased in both groups at 13 days (the time of appearance of heavy proteinuria in the puromycin aminonucleoside-treated group). In contrast, xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase activities were higher in adriamycin-treated rats at 1 and 15 days after the treatment (P less than 0.001). 5. Feeding rats with normoprotein diets containing tungsten induced a marked and constant decrease of renal xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase activities to 20% of the baseline values in both puromycin aminonucleoside- and adriamycin-treated rats. Inhibition of renal xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase activities by tungsten was associated with a marked reduction (P less than 0.001) of proteinuria in adriamycin-treated rats and the same occurred with allopurinol, a specific inhibitor of xanthine oxidase activity. In contrast, tungsten treatment did not reduce the proteinuria associated with puromycin aminonucleoside, which reached a maximum 13 days after puromycin aminonucleoside intoxication. Hypoxanthine-treated rats were normoproteinuric after 2 months of observation. 6. These data demonstrate an activation of renal xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase after adriamycin intoxication which is relevant to the induction of proteinuria. They also argue against the involvement of the renal xanthine oxidase system as a source of free radicals in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis and suggest that the nucleotide cycle is not a normal route for puromycin aminonucleoside degradation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To report a case of a 33-year-old white woman in whom retinal venous thromboses developed secondary to heparin-induced antiheparin-platelet antibodies.
Interventional case report.
The patient underwent complete ophthalmic and medical examinations. Laser Doppler measurement of retinal blood circulation also was performed.
Prolonged anticoagulation with thrombin inhibitors and warfarin.
Visual symptoms, retinal appearance on clinical examination, and measurement of retinal blood flow by laser Doppler technique.
The patient experienced a scotoma in the visual field of the left eye, left retinal venous thrombosis, decreased venous blood flow in the left eye, and heparin-induced antiheparin-platelet antibodies in serum. After intervention, the visual symptoms and retinal appearance improved, and retinal blood flow normalized.
Heparin-induced antiheparin-platelet antibody can lead to thrombosis of the ocular circulation. This index case, which is the first one ever reported in association with antiheparin-platelet antibodies, further illustrates the potential side effects of heparin and widens the spectrum of complications of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and HIT thrombosis syndrome (HITTS).
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease induces alterations both motor and cognitive. Levodopa, the treatment of choice, offers initial improvement, but causes long term important complications. It is ignored if it provokes or not a similar situation in cognitive function.
Two groups of idiopathic parkinsonian patients were studied. One of them was using levodopa as a regular treatment, the other had de novo patients. A group of healthy controls was also studied. The levodopa group was evaluated when levodopa plasma concentration was maximum and when it was minimum. A cognitive battery was used in order to assess the cognitive status of all subjects.
Significant differences between the two groups of patients and the healthy controls were found when the treated group had a maximum plasmatic concentration of levodopa. There were also significant differences when they had a minimum concentration in comparison with the healthy controls. The performances of the patients taking levodopa varied between both conditions.
Parkinson's disease provokes a wide variety of cognitive alterations, therefore basal ganglia can be related to a more general function as learning and storing cognitive and motor programs. Levodopa influences in a different way different cognitive functions differently and its influence varies between highest and lowest plasmatic concentrations periods. These results allow us to draw important conclusions about the cognitive alterations caused by the natural course of Parkinson's disease, the introduction of treatment with levodopa and the relationship between basal ganglia and human cognition.
Serum concentrations of soluble receptors for tumor necrosis factor (sTNFRs) were measured before and after antimony therapy in 25 Sudanese patients with active visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Both sTNFR types I and II were significantly elevated in patients with VL compared with healthy controls from the same region and from the Netherlands (P < .01). In all 23 patients who initially responded to therapy, both sTNFR types decreased sharply, reaching and remaining at levels similar to those found in normal controls; 2 relapsed after an initial response to therapy, and their sTNFR concentrations had increased at the time of relapse. The 2 patients who did not respond to therapy had persistently elevated sTNFR levels. Tumor necrosis factor was detectable in only 16% of patients with VL. Hence, the serum concentrations of sTNFRs may be useful for monitoring therapeutic efficacy in patients with VL.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines displaying microsatellite instability (MSI) are resistant to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in vitro, which can be overcome by restoring DNA mismatch repair (MMR) competence. Thymidylate synthase (TS) is inhibited by 5-FU, being another potential mediator of therapeutic resistance to 5-FU. The clinical relevance of these observations remains unclear.
We examined the expression of TS and two MMR proteins (hMLH1 and hMSH2) in advanced CRC patients, to determine a) their mutual relationship, b) association to therapeutic response and c) impact on disease outcome.
Tumour samples from 73 patients CRC who were treated in advanced stage with either irinotecan alone or in combination with 5-FU/leucovorin, were analysed for expression of TS, hMLH1 and hMSH2 using immunohistochemistry (IHC).
TS expression was closely correlated with hMLH1 expression (negative-weak/moderate-strong) (p=0.0001). TS-MMR expression was significantly (p=0.029 for whole series; p=0.004 for the 5-FU treated cases) related to response to treatment; tumours with low levels of both TS and MMR responded better (n=14/27, 51.8%) than those with high TS and MMR (n=3/18, 16.6%). Patients with high TS-MMR expression had a significantly longer DFS (47 months vs. 9 months, n=26) than those with low TS-MMR index (p=0.015), while the reverse was true concerning survival with metastases (WMS) (p=0.018) in all the patients (n=73).
The present data suggest that MSI patients with low TS and deficient MMR demonstrate a significantly shorter DFS and longer WMS than patients with high expression of both markers, and they are also more likely to obtain the greatest benefit from 5-FU based chemotherapy.
5'AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) are two serine/threonine protein kinases responsible for cellular energy homeostasis and translational control, respectively. Evidence suggests that these two kniases are potential targets for cancer chemotherapy against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Antroquinonol that is isolated from Antrodia camphorate, a well-known Traditional Chinese Medicine for treatment of liver diseases, displayed effective anticancer activity against both HBV DNA-positive and -negative HCC cell lines. The rank order of potency against HCCs is HepG2>HepG2.2.15>Mahlavu>PLC/PRF/5>SK-Hep1>Hep3B. Antroquinonol completely abolished cell-cycle progression released from double-thymidine-block synchronization and caused a subsequent apoptosis. The data were supported by down-regulation and reduced nuclear translocation of G1-regulator proteins, including cyclin D1, cyclin E, Cdk4 and Cdk2. Further analysis showed that the mRNA expressions of the G1-regulator proteins were not modified by antroquinonol, indicating an inhibition of translational but not transcriptional levels. Antroquinonol induced the assembly of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC)-1/TSC2, leading to the blockade of cellular protein synthesis through inhibition of protein phosphorylation including mTOR (Ser(2448)), p70(S6K) (Thr(421)/Ser(424) and Thr(389)) and 4E-BP1 (Thr(37)/Thr(46) and Thr(70)). Furthermore, the AMPK activity was elevated by antroquinonol. Compound C, a selective AMPK inhibitor, significantly reversed antroquinonol-mediated effects suggesting the crucial role of AMPK. Besides, the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and depletion of mitochondrial content indicated the mitochondrial stress caused by antroquinonol. In summary, the data suggest that antroquinonol displays anticancer activity against HCCs through AMPK activation and inhibition of mTOR translational pathway, leading to G1 arrest of the cell-cycle and subsequent cell apoptosis.
Anticoagulation factor II (ACF II) isolated from the venom of Agkistrodon acutus is a member of the coagulation factor IX/coagulation factor X-binding protein (IX/X-bp) family. ACF II forms a 1:1 complex with activated coagulation factor X in a Ca(2+)-dependent fashion and thereby blocks the amplification of the coagulation cascade. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of ACF II on the mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) and heart rate (HR) in anaesthetized rats. The results indicate that ACF II induces a dose-dependent response in rats with a short fast drop of MABP followed by an increase and then a longer lasting slight decrease in MABP, but does not obviously affect HR. ACF II-induced hypotension is significantly blocked by the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor N-omega-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). ACF II produces a concentration-dependent relaxation of rat aortic rings with functional-endothelium. The ACF II-induced vasodilatation is completely inhibited by removal of endothelium and significantly inhibited by pretreatment with L-NAME. These observations demonstrate that ACF II induces hypotension through an endothelium-dependent vasodilation, which is strongly mediated by the release of NO from endothelium. ACF II exhibits high anticoagulation activity in vivo based on activated partial thromboplastin time assay. Therefore, ACF II is so far identified as the first unique bifunctional protein in the IX/X-bp family that has both anticoagulant and hypotensive effects on the blood of rats through different pathways.
The study evaluated the relationship between age and frontal and temporal lobe volumes in young cohorts of cocaine-dependent (CD), amphetamine-dependent (Am), and normal control subjects. Ten CD, nine Am, and 16 age- and gender-matched control subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The volume of the frontal and temporal lobes was measured from an identically positioned slab of seven contiguous 3-mm-thick coronal images. Follow-up measures of the gray and white matter subcomponents of these volumes were also obtained. Both CD and Am groups had a significantly smaller temporal lobe volumes, but only the CD group demonstrated a significantly greater decline in temporal lobe volume with age (intracranial volume, education, and race were controlled for in all statistical analyses). Segmenting the brain regions into gray and white matter revealed that the negative correlation between age and temporal lobe volume of CD patients was mostly due to a significant age-related decline in the gray matter subcomponent. Negative trends between age and gray matter volumes were also observed in the Am and normal groups. In the frontal lobes, age was negatively correlated with gray matter volume in the control, CD, and Am groups. Unlike the consistent decreases in gray matter volumes, white matter showed non-significant increases in volume with age. The data suggest that CD patients may have an accelerated age-related decline in temporal lobe gray matter volume and a smaller temporal lobe volume compared to normal controls. In the frontal lobe, age-related gray matter volume reductions occur in all three groups. These age-related cortical gray matter volume reductions may be a biological marker for the risk of addictive behavior, which also decreases with age.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (RSH/SLOS) is an autosomal recessive, malformation syndrome caused by mutations in the 3beta-hydroxysterol delta7-reductase gene (DHCR7). DHCR7 catalyzes the reduction of 7-dehydrocholesterol (7DHC) to cholesterol. We report the mutation analysis and determination of residual cholesterol synthesis in 47 SLOS patients, and the effects of treatment of SLOS skin fibroblasts with simvastatin. Using deuterium labeling we have quantified the amount of synthesized cholesterol and 7DHC in homozygote, heterozygote, and control fibroblast cell lines. In SLOS fibroblasts, the fraction of synthesized cholesterol to total sterol synthesis ranged from undetectable to over 50%. This establishes that different mutant alleles encode enzymes with varying degrees of residual activity. There was a correlation between increased phenotypic severity and decreased residual cholesterol synthesis (r(2)=0.45, p<0.0001). Simvastatin treatment of SLOS fibroblasts with residual DHCR7 enzymatic activity decreased 7DHC levels and increased cholesterol synthesis. This increase in cholesterol synthesis is due to increased expression of a mutant allele with residual function. Determination of residual enzymatic activity for specific DHCR7 mutant alleles will help in understanding the processes underlying the broad phenotypic spectrum found in this disorder and will be useful in identifying patients who may benefit from simvastatin therapy.
Dipyrone blocked carrageenin-induced oedema and hyperalgesia in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast with indomethacin, paracetamol and acetyl salicylic acid, much lower doses of dipyrone were necessary for blocking hyperalgesia (ED50 = 19 mg/kg, i.p.) than oedema (180 mg/kg, i.p.) Dipyrone administered intraperitonially or intraplantarly was able to antagonise PGE2-, isoprenaline- and calcium chloride-induced hyperalgesia, effects which are not observed with non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs. Systemic or local administration of dipyrone had no effect upon Db-cAMP-induced hyperalgesia while a centrally acting analgesic, morphine, given systemically, was highly effective. These results support our suggestion that the mechanism of action of dipyrone is different from that of classical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Although the site of action is peripheral its analgesic effect does not derive from inhibition of the synthesis of prostaglandins but is exerted via direct blockade of the inflammatory hyperalgesia.
TS-1 is an oral anticancer agent containing two biochemical modulators for 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and tegafur (FT), a metabolically activated prodrug of 5-FU. TS-1 has been recognized as an effective anticancer drug using standard therapies for patients with advanced pancreatic cancer along with gemcitabine. However, a high level of inherent and acquired tumor resistance to TS-1 induces difficulty in the treatment. To identify proteins linked to the TS-1-resistance of pancreatic cancer, we profiled protein expression levels in samples of TS-1-resistant and -sensitive pancreatic cancer cell lines by using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The cytotoxicity of a 5-FU/5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (CDHP) combination towards pancreatic cancer cell lines was evaluated by MTS assay. Panc-1, BxPC-3, MiaPaCa-2 and PK59 showed high sensitivity to the 5-FU/CDHP combination (TS-1-sensitive), whereas PK45p and KLM-1 were much less sensitive (TS-1-resistant). Proteomic analysis showed that eleven spots, including T-complex protein 1 subunit beta, ribonuclease inhibitor, elongation factor 1-delta, peroxiredoxin-2 and superoxide dismutase (Cu-Zn), appeared to be down-regulated, and 29 spots, including hypoxia up-regulated protein 1, lamin-A/C, endoplasmin, fascin and annexin A1, appeared to be up-regulated in TS-1-resistant cells compared with -sensitive cells. These results suggest that the identified proteins showing different expression between TS-1-sensitive and -resistant pancreatic cancer cells possibly relate to TS-1-sensitivity. These findings could be useful to overcome the TS-1-resistance of pancreatic cancer cells.
In 2011, the French National Cancer Institute recommended ALK-fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) testing in all EGFR/KRAS-negative adenocarcinomas by all the hospital molecular genetics platforms of cancers; however, this technique remains time and cost consuming and not suitable for a large-scale screening, in contrast to immunohistochemistry (IHC).
To evaluate IHC as a prescreening tool, 441 specimens, including small biopsies and surgical specimens, were analyzed prospectively on the Grenoble molecular genetics platform. EGFR and KRAS mutation analyses and ALK IHC, using the 5A4 mAb on an automated staining module, were performed on all specimens; 100 were tested by both ALK IHC and FISH (break-apart probe).
Twenty-seven cases out of 441 were strongly positive (3+ intensity in more than 60% of cells) with ALK mAb, two additional cases exhibited a faint staining (1+) in less than 30% of the cells. Among the 100 cases analyzed by IHC and FISH, 19 were not interpretable by FISH, but 21 were positive with both techniques. Sensitivity and specificity of IHC when compared with FISH were 95 and 100%, respectively. Eleven patients were included in crizotinib trials. Among the 352 analyzable specimens for mutations, 7% were EGFR and 29% were KRAS mutated.
Our IHC protocol, using a commercially available antibody and an amplification step on an automated staining module, led to intense cytoplasmic staining in 6.5% of the adenocarcinomas screened. Our results favor ALK IHC prescreening on a daily routine on surgical specimens and on small biopsies before FISH testing.
There is an extensive literature describing a central serotonin deficit in alcoholic, impulsive, violent offenders and fire setters. In the present study, we investigated biochemical concomitants of impulsivity and aggressiveness, and the physiological consequences of reduced central serotonin turnover.
Forty-three impulsive and 15 nonimpulsive alcoholic offenders and 21 healthy volunteers were studied in the forensic psychiatry ward of a university psychiatric department. The subjects underwent lumbar punctures and oral glucose and aspartame challenges, and their diurnal activity rhythm was measured with physical activity monitors. Discriminant function analyses were used to investigate psychophysiological and biochemical concomitants of aggressive and impulsive behaviors.
Alcoholic, impulsive offenders with antisocial personality disorder had low mean cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and corticotropin levels and high mean CSF testosterone concentrations. Compared with healthy volunteers, they showed increased physical activity during the daytime. Alcoholic, impulsive offenders with intermittent explosive disorder had a low mean CSF 5-HIAA concentration and blood glucose nadir after an oral glucose challenge, and desynchronized diurnal activity rhythm. Healthy volunteers had mean CSF 5-HIAA concentrations that were intermediate between those of alcoholic, impulsive and nonimpulsive offenders. Alcoholic, nonimpulsive offenders had a significantly higher mean CSF 5-HIAA concentration than all the other groups, including healthy volunteers.
In the present sample, a low CSF 5-HIAA concentration was primarily associated with impulsivity and high CSF testosterone concentration, with aggressiveness or interpersonal violence.
