Assessment of serum concentration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-binding protein (LBP) has been suggested as a useful biomarker to indicate activation of innate immune responses to microbial products. We investigated LBP concentrations and associations with demographics, lifestyle factors, and common metabolic abnormalities in adults. We also examined if LBP concentrations were associated with common polymorphisms in genes coding for LBP (rs2232618), CD14 (rs2569190), and TLR4 (rs4986790), the molecules responsible for the innate immune response to LPS, or serum levels of soluble CD14 (sCD14) and proinflammatory cytokines.
Serum LBP was measured with a commercial immunoassay in a random sample of the adult population (n = 420, 45% males, age 18-92 years) from a single municipality.
Serum LBP concentrations increased with age (P<0.001) and were higher in individuals who were overweight or obese than in normal-weight individuals (P<0.001). Similarly, LBP concentrations were higher in individuals with metabolic syndrome than in individuals without it (P<0.001). Among metabolic syndrome components, LBP concentrations were independently associated with abdominal obesity (P = 0.002) and low concentrations of HDL-cholesterol (P<0.001). Serum LBP concentrations tended to be independently associated with smoking (P = 0.05), but not with alcohol consumption. Likewise, there was not significant association between LBP concentrations and gene polymorphisms. Concentrations of LBP significantly correlated with serum levels of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and IL-8), sCD14, and with liver enzymes.
Serum LBP concentrations increased with age. Overweight, obesity, and having metabolic syndrome (particularly, low HDL cholesterol levels) were associated with higher LBP concentrations. These findings are consistent with microbial exposure playing a role in these inflammatory, metabolic abnormalities.
Drinking water can be contaminated with pharmaceuticals. However, it is uncertain whether this contamination can be harmful for the liver, especially during obesity. Hence, the goal of our study was to determine whether chronic exposure to low doses of pharmaceuticals could have deleterious effects on livers of lean and obese mice. To this end, lean and ob/ob male mice were treated for 4 months with a mixture of 11 drugs provided in drinking water at concentrations ranging from 10 to 10⁶ ng/l. At the end of the treatment, some liver and plasma abnormalities were observed in ob/ob mice treated with the cocktail containing 10⁶ ng/l of each drug. For this dosage, a gene expression analysis by microarray showed altered expression of circadian genes (e.g. Bmal1, Dbp, Cry1) in lean and obese mice. RT-qPCR analyses carried out in all groups of animals confirmed that expression of 8 different circadian genes was modified in a dose-dependent manner. For some genes, a significant modification was observed for dosages as low as 10²-10³ ng/l. Drug mixture and obesity presented an additive effect on circadian gene expression. These data were validated in an independent study performed in female mice. Thus, our study showed that chronic exposure to trace pharmaceuticals disturbed hepatic expression of circadian genes, particularly in obese mice. Because some of the 11 drugs can be found in drinking water at such concentrations (e.g. acetaminophen, carbamazepine, ibuprofen) our data could be relevant in environmental toxicology, especially for obese individuals exposed to these contaminants.
Clopidogrel is a thienopyridine derivative with a relatively low occurrence of adverse side effects. Increasing evidence, however, suggests that clopidogrel may cause severe liver injury. Until now, five cases of clopidogrel-induced acute hepatitis have been reported. We describe the case of an 80-year-old man who developed symptomatic liver disease 6 weeks after 1x75 mg/day clopidogrel intake as adjunctive antiplatelet therapy for a renal artery stent implantation. Histological examination revealed severe acute hepatitis with extensive hepatocanalicular cholestasis and focal cell necrosis with a preferential zone-3 distribution of hepatic damage. In the present paper, we describe the clinico-histopathological characteristics of a case of clopidogrel-induced acute hepatitis and discuss the current literature.
A new dosage form was designed whereby a polymeric silicone elastomer provided sustained delivery of morphine to mice over 11 days. These pellets, which can be made easily and inexpensively with a standard tablet mold, gradually released morphine sulfate into the implanted mice. Maximal morphine-induced physical dependence, measured by jumping during naloxone-induced withdrawal, was observed 3--5 days after implantation. At this time, slightly less than 50% of the morphine sulfate had been released. Drug release continued through Day 11 and was accompanied by a physical dependence of decreased magnitude compared to that observed on Day 3 or 5.
The aim of the studies was to examine the cardioprotective effect of melatonin during the anthracycline administration (daunorubicin, doxorubicin) in rats. Application of these drugs in chemotherapy is limited because of their cardiotoxicity. Rats of Buffalo strain were divided into groups according to the cytostatic drug used, its dose and sequence of administration (single intravenous [i.v.] dose of 10 mg/kg b.w., i.e., acute intoxication; 3 mg/kg b.w. weekly for 3 weeks, subchronic intoxication). Melatonin was administered subcutaneously before and after every injection of a cytostatic drug at a dose of 10 mg/kg b.w. The degree of cardiac muscle cell alterations was examined either histologically (Mean Total Score technique and the Billingham scale), or biochemically (levels of lipid peroxidation markers, malonyldialdehyde, and 4-hydroxyalkenals). Statistically significant decrease in cardiac muscle cell damage was noted with an aid of the Billingham scale after melatonin administration in acutely intoxicated doxorubicin-treated rats (p < 0.001). The similar phenomenon was observed using the Mean Total Score technique in case of acute daunorubicin or doxorubicin (p < 0.01 and p < 0.001, respectively) intoxications. A significant reduction in cardiac muscle cell lesions was detected either by the Billingham scale or by the Mean Total Score technique during subchronic intoxication with either of the anthracyclines when melatonin was given. Biochemical assays revealed significant decreases in malonyldialdehyde and 4-hydroxyalkenals levels following application of melatonin during either acute doxorubicin (p < 0.05) or subchronic daunorubicin (p < 0.01) intoxication. In summary, melatonin was found to exert a protective effect on the cardiac muscle cells, which was particularly evident after acute doxorubicin or subchronic daunorubicin intoxication, using either histological or biochemical methods.
Dithiocarbamates (DTCs) have a wide variety of applications in diverse fields ranging from agriculture to medicine. DTCs are teratogenic to vertebrates but the mechanisms by which they exert these effects are poorly understood. Here, we show that low nanomolar exposure to three DTCs, tetraethylthiuram (thiram), tetramethylthiuram (disulfiram), and sodium metam (metam), leads to craniofacial abnormalities in developing zebrafish embryos that are reminiscent of DTC-induced abnormalities found in higher vertebrates. In order to better understand the molecular events underlying DTC teratogenesis, we exposed embryonic zebrafish (PAC2) cells to thiram and disulfiram and measured changes in gene expression with microarrays. We found differential expression of 166 genes that were specific for exposure to DTCs and identified a network of genes related to connective tissue development and function. Additionally, we found eight downregulated genes related to transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta1) signaling, including an essential transcription factor for zebrafish craniofacial development, SRY-box-containing gene 9a (sox9a). Finally, we show that sox9a expression is perturbed in the ceratobranchial arches of DTC-exposed zebrafish, suggesting that this is an important event in the development of DTC-induced craniofacial abnormalities. Together, we provide evidence for a novel teratogenic endpoint and a molecular basis for a better understanding of DTC-induced teratogenesis in vertebrates.
The purpose of this study was to examine the clinical and radiologic response to carboplatin by children with progressive optic/thalamic gliomas.
Between July 1997 and July 1999, 12 consecutive children were treated with monthly carboplatin for progressive optic/thalamic gliomas.
Five children have completed 12 cycles of carboplatin and five children are currently receiving treatment. Two children had progressive disease noted both clinically and radiologically. Nine children have stable radiologic disease and one child has had a partial radiologic response to chemotherapy. Eight children have had regular visual assessments. Four children (three with stable radiology and one with a partial radiologic response) have had improvement in their vision. Three children with radiologically stable disease have had no change in vision. One child has had deterioration in vision despite radiologically stable disease.
The results suggest that the clinical response of optic/thalamic gliomas to carboplatin, as measured by visual acuity and visual fields, may be better than predicted by radiologic assessment. These data suggest that a prospective clinical study is warranted of the role of carboplatin in children with progressive optic/thalamic gliomas and visual impairment.
To clarify whether growth hormone possesses the counteracting effect on steroid myopathy, we examined the influence of simultaneous administration of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) with glucocorticoid on the diameter of muscle fibers in rats. Female Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 120-140 g were divided into four groups. A group treated with glucocorticoid alone was subcutaneously injected with 5 mg/kg/day triamcinolone, a GH-treated group with 10 IU/kg/day rhGH alone, a steroid-GH-group with the same doses of glucocorticoid and rhGH. The control rats were injected with the vehicle alone. After 14 days of treatment, each rat was anesthetized with ether and subjected to muscle biopsy of extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and soleus. Administration of rhGH alone failed to affect the diameter of muscle fibers in either EDL or soleus. Glucocorticoid treatment caused a significant reduction in the diameter of muscle fibers in the EDL, compared with the control. In the type II muscle fibers of the EDL, simultaneous administration of rhGH attenuated glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy significantly. We concluded that GH administration would at least partially prevents steroid myopathy.
The aim of this study was to determine whether an antiarrhythmic, Ajmaline, could have proarrhythmic effects on the atrium and to compare the results with those of other antiarrhythmic drugs. A total of 1950 patients without cardiac failure or recent (less than 6 weeks) myocardial infarction were given 1 mg/kg of Ajmaline intravenously during electrophysiological investigation. A proarrhythmic effect was defined as the occurrence of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) in a patient without this arrhythmia before the test or the facilitation of its induction. Fifty five patients developed SVT (mainly atrial tachyarrhythmias: 48 cases, and some junctional tachycardia: 7 cases) which occurred spontaneously in 22 patients and during fixed atrial pacing in 33 patients. Fifteen patients developed ventricular tachycardia (VT). The predisposing factors for the development of SVT were: a previous history suggesting spontaneous SVT (28 patients; 51 p. 100); sinoatrial block (14 patients--the only abnormality in 10 cases). Seventeen patients had none of these factors but 8 had known cardiac pathology and the other 9 were relatively elderly patients (79 years). Twelve of the patients developing VT had known cardiac disease, bundle branch block in 12 cases and previous VT in 6 cases. In conclusion, proarrhythmic effects of Ajmaline are infrequent if its contraindications are respected, but they do exist at both atrial (2.8 p. 100) and ventricular levels (0.8 p. 100): the risk factors are comparable: previous spontaneous arrhythmias or ECG changes (SA block at the atrial and bundle branch block at the ventricular level).
We report a congenital anomalous fetus with holoprosencephaly, prenatally diagnosed by sonography and MR scan at the twenty-sixth week during the gestational period. Chromosome analysis by amniocentesis revealed trisomy 13 (47,XY,+13). The diagnosis was confirmed by autopsy. After induction, external examination showed a proboscis-like nose on the normal nose position. The right foot showed polydactylia with wide separation of the fifth and sixth toes. We found that the mother was an abuser of amphetamine at an early gestational age. The teratogenic effect of D-amphetamine on animals has been noted, but no previous clinical case of a congenital anomalous fetus and maternal abuse of amphetamine has been reported. This case report is the first to reveal holoprosencephaly and trisomy 13, with maternal early gestational abuse of amphetamine.
We endeavored here to shed light on the supply of glutathione (GSH) precursors from glial cells to neurons and on the interference of ammonia with this process. Administration of ammonium chloride (ammonia) via a microdialysis probe to the rat prefrontal cortex rapidly increased GSH content in the microdialysates. The increase was abrogated by the inhibitor of astrocytic energy metabolism fluoroacetate and the inhibitor of glutathione synthesis buthionine sulfoximine. GSH in the microdialysates was significantly elevated in rats with simple hyperammonemia (HA) or hepatic encephalopathy (HE) (three ip administrations of ammonium acetate or thioacetamide, respectively, at 24-h intervals), only when microdialysis was carried out in the presence of a gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gammaGT) inhibitor acivicin. Extracellular GSH increased in cultured rat cortical astrocytes treated with 5mM ammonia for 1 h, but not for 3-72 h, which was the period of increased gammaGT activity. GSH remained increased during the whole 72-h incubation with 5 or 10mM ammonia in C6 glioma cells, where gammaGT activity is intrinsically low and was not increased by ammonia. Collectively, the results suggest that in rats with HA or HE ammonia specifically promote GSH synthesis and export from astrocytes and increase its extracellular degradation, which may improve the availability of precursors for GSH synthesis in neurons and their resistance to ammonia toxicity.
Influenza A virus infection is a major global health concern causing significant mortality, morbidity, and economic loss. Antiviral chemotherapeutics that target influenza A virus are available; however, rapid emergence of drug-resistant strains has been reported. Consequently, there is a burgeoning need to identify novel anti-influenza A drugs, particularly those that target host gene products required for virus replication, to reduce the likelihood of drug resistance. In this study, a small interfering RNA (siRNA) screen was performed to identify host druggable gene targets for anti-influenza A virus therapy. The host organic anion transporter-3 gene (OAT3), a member of the SLC22 family of transporters, was validated as being required to support influenza A virus replication. Probenecid, a prototypical uricosuric agent and chemical inhibitor of organic anion transporters known to target OAT3, was shown to be effective in limiting influenza A virus infection in vitro (50% inhibitory concentration [IC(50)] of 5.0 × 10(-5) to 5.0 × 10(-4) μM; P < 0.005) and in vivo (P < 0.05). Probenecid is widely used for treatment of gout and related hyperuricemic disorders, has been extensively studied for pharmacokinetics and safety, and represents an excellent candidate for drug repositioning as a novel anti-influenza A chemotherapeutic.
Diethylene glycol (DEG) is an industrial chemical, the misuse of which has led to numerous epidemic poisonings worldwide. The mechanism of its toxicity has not been defined as to the precise relationship between the metabolism of DEG and target organ toxicity. The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanism for the acute toxicity of DEG, and the effect of the alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor 4-methylpyrazole (fomepizole), by determining the relationship between accumulation of DEG or its metabolites and the resulting kidney and liver toxicity. Rats were treated by oral gavage with water, 2 g/kg DEG (low dose), 10 g/kg DEG (high dose), or 10 g/kg DEG + fomepizole, and blood and urine were collected over 48 h. Rats treated with high-dose DEG had metabolic acidosis, increased BUN and creatinine, and marked kidney necrosis, noted by histopathology. A minor degree of liver damage was noted at the high dose. After low and high doses of DEG, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA) was the primary metabolite in the urine, with only minor amounts of urinary diglycolic acid (DGA). Small amounts of ethylene glycol (EG), but not oxalate or glycolate, were observed in the urine. Treatment with fomepizole blocked the formation of HEAA and DGA and the development of metabolic acidosis and the kidney and liver toxicity. These results indicate that the mechanism for the target organ toxicity results from metabolites of DEG, and not DEG itself nor formation of EG from DEG, and that fomepizole may be a useful antidote for treating DEG poisoning.
A pregnant patient developed fulminant polymyositis with myoglobinuria after terbutaline and magnesium sulfate tocolysis. Her response to prednisone was dramatic. Rapid relapse occurred after inadvertent postcesarean dose reduction. Our patient again responded to increased prednisone. She and her twin babies are well.
Diabetes insipidus renalis has only occasionally been reported in ifosfamide-induced renal Fanconi's syndrome, but in two studies on subclinical renal impairment, low morning urine osmolarity was found in high frequencies. This study was performed to assess the frequency of defective concentrating capacity in patients with ifosfamide-induced renal Fanconi's syndrome or severe impairment of proximal tubular function.
Seven patients with overt Fanconi's syndrome and 5 with a generalized but subclinical tubulopathy were examined. Beside proximal tubular solute reabsorption and estimation of glomerular filtration rate, urinary osmolarity was measured after overnight fast and DDAVP (1-D-amino-8-D-arginine vasopressin) testing.
Five out of 7 patients with overt Fanconi's syndrome, but no patient with only subclinical tubular damage, had decreased osmolarities by at least one test. Increased sodium excretion was additionally found in 4 of these patients.
Impaired renal concentrating capacity is a rare event in ifosfamide-induced renal dysfunction and confined to patients with overt Fanconi's syndrome. These patients should, however, undergo evaluation of concentrating capacity and renal sodium handling as decreased concentrating capacity and increased sodium excretion would render a patient at risk for dehydration episodes.
Malaria is a deadly infectious disease in many tropical and subtropical countries. Previous efforts to eradicate malaria have failed, largely due to the emergence of drug-resistant parasites, insecticide-resistant mosquitoes and, in particular, the lack of drugs or vaccines to block parasite transmission. ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters are known to play a role in drug transport, metabolism, and resistance in many organisms, including malaria parasites. To investigate whether a Plasmodium falciparum ABC transporter (Pf14_0244 or PfABCG2) modulates parasite susceptibility to chemical compounds or plays a role in drug resistance, we disrupted the gene encoding PfABCG2, screened the recombinant and the wild-type 3D7 parasites against a library containing 2,816 drugs approved for human or animal use, and identified an antihistamine (ketotifen) that became less active against the PfABCG2-disrupted parasite in culture. In addition to some activity against asexual stages and gametocytes, ketotifen was highly potent in blocking oocyst development of P. falciparum and the rodent parasite Plasmodium yoelii in mosquitoes. Tests of structurally related tricyclic compounds identified additional compounds with similar activities in inhibiting transmission. Additionally, ketotifen appeared to have some activity against relapse of Plasmodium cynomolgi infection in rhesus monkeys. Further clinical evaluation of ketotifen and related compounds, including synthetic new derivatives, in blocking malaria transmission may provide new weapons for the current effort of malaria eradication.
A severe hypersensitivity-like illness with acute renal failure, lymphadenopathy and skin rash is reported following minocycline treatment in a 16 year old male. Following haemodialysis and steroid therapy his illness remitted, only to recur on withdrawal of the steroids. With further steroid treatment he recovered completely. Lymphocyte function tests, performed in an attempt to positively incriminate minocycline, were inconclusive due to a general suppression of the patient's lymphocytes to in vitro stimulation. Hypersensitivity reactions attributed to minocycline include skin rashes, lymphadenopathy and one previous case of acute interstitial nephritis.
Different adverse effects induced by vancomycin bolus infusion are described, but cardiac arrest seems rare, in children as in adults.
Two infants, 5 and 12 months old, were admitted after cardiac arrest, following vancomycin bolus infusion in excessive dose. They recovered after prompt resuscitation and their short term follow-up was normal.
Two mechanisms are invoked: anaphylactic shock and direct cardiovascular toxicity. Both are dose- and infusion rate-dependent, and probably intersubject dependent. Usually, cardiac arrest is promptly reversed by adequate resuscitation. The rules of prescription are: adequate dilution and slow rate of infusion. If any adverse effect occurred, preventive antihistaminic drug therapy should be advised.
Immune hemolytic anemia due to a drug-adsorption mechanism has been described primarily in patients receiving penicillins and first-generation cephalosporins. We describe a patient who developed anemia while receiving intravenous cefotetan. Cefotetan-dependent antibodies were detected in the patient's serum and in an eluate prepared from his red blood cells. The eluate also reacted weakly with red blood cells in the absence of cefotetan, suggesting the concomitant formation of warm-reactive autoantibodies. These observations, in conjunction with clinical and laboratory evidence of extravascular hemolysis, are consistent with drug-induced hemolytic anemia, possibly involving both drug-adsorption and autoantibody formation mechanisms. This case emphasizes the need for increased awareness of hemolytic reactions to all cephalosporins.
The recent identification and differential localization in brain of three binding sites for corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-like peptides (CRF1 and CRF2 receptors as well as CRF-binding protein) suggest the existence of functionally distinct neurobiological systems which mediate CRF activation. For instance, evidence from receptor knockdown and pharmacological studies suggest involvement of the CRF1 receptor in anxiogenic-like behavior and the CRF-binding protein in learning and memory processes. The present studies examined the potential functional significance of the CRF2 receptor in relation to the CRF1 receptor using two animal models of anxiety and endocrine reactivity to a stressor. CRF1 and CRF2 receptor knockdown was achieved and confirmed autoradiographically within brain regions relevant to behavioral reactivity to stressors by chronic, central administration of antisense oligonucleotides. CRF1 but not CRF2, know down produced a significant anxiolytic-like effect in the Defensive Withdrawal relative to vehicle-treated and two missense oligonucleotide negative control groups. In contrast, neither antisense treatment altered endocrine or behavioral reactivity to a swim stressor. Thus, the present data support the reported role of CRF1 receptors in the mediation of anxiogenic-like behavior and suggest a functionally distinct for role for CRF2 receptors in brain.
Systemic administration of mice with folic acid (FA) has been used for studying the pathogenesis of acute renal failure. However, the molecular mechanisms by which FA induces acute renal failure remain poorly understood. We found that CD-1 mice treated with FA developed acute renal failure characterized by increased blood urea nitrogen, necrosis, and apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells. Compared to control mice, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was markedly elevated in blood and kidneys of these FA-treated mice, accompanied by markedly reduced expression of anti-apoptotic protein BclxL in their kidneys. In vivo administration of FA-treated CD-1 mice with neutralizing anti-TNF-alpha antibody restored the expression of BclxL in kidneys and inhibited the necrosis and apoptosis of renal tubular epithelial cells, leading to the amelioration of acute renal failure. In ex vivo cultures, we found that FA enhanced production of TNF-alpha, decreased expression of BclxL protein, and induced apoptosis of mouse cortical tubule (MCT) cells. Addition of neutralizing anti-TNF-alpha antibody, but not control IgG, in the cultures markedly blocked the apoptotic death of FA-treated MCT cells and restored expression of BclxL to the same levels as those MCT cells cultured in the absence of FA. All these results suggest that TNF-alpha is a critical inflammatory cytokine responsible for FA-mediated acute renal failure. Furthermore, in vivo administration of anti-TNF-alpha antibody may be proved as an effective approach for acute renal failure prevention and treatment.
Methotrexate (MTX) is the most commonly used disease-modifying antirheumatoid drug used in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. It is usually given on a weekly schedule, but as the half-life of its active compound, the polyglutamate MTX, is 3 days, we did a pilot study to see if MTX twice weekly is superior to MTX once weekly. Eighty patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) fulfilling the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria were enrolled into a double-blind, controlled trial of 16-week duration. Patients achieving ACR scores of 20 and 50 were determined at 8 and 16 weeks. In addition, the incidence of hepatotoxicity was also studied. Of the 80 patients, 66 completed 8 weeks of study, whereas 53 completed 16 weeks of study. Most withdrawals were because of inefficacy. At 8 weeks, ACR 20 response (24/34 in once weekly and 22/32 in twice weekly) and ACR 50 response (16/34 in once weekly and 16/32 in twice weekly) in both groups were similar. Even at 16 weeks, there was no significant difference in ACR 20 and ACR 50 responses. Intent-to-treat analysis also yielded similar results. Five patients in each group had a mild reversible rise in transaminases. Our study suggests that MTX twice weekly has no advantage over once weekly regarding efficacy, and thus the currently used once weekly regimen is good enough till alternate dosing schedules are evaluated in a large multicentric trial.
The transcriptional coactivator with a PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) cooperates with various transcriptional factors and plays various roles. Immortalized human mammalian epithelial MCF10A cells form spheres when TAZ is overexpressed and activated. We developed a cell-based assay using sphere formation by TAZ-expressing MCF10A cells as a readout to screen 18,458 chemical compounds for TAZ activators. Fifty compounds were obtained, and 47 were confirmed to activate the TAZ-dependent TEAD-responsive reporter activity in HEK293 cells. We used the derived subset of compounds as a TAZ activator candidate minilibrary and searched for compounds that promote myogenesis in mouse C2C12 myoblast cells. In this study, we focused on one compound, IBS008738. IBS008738 stabilizes TAZ, increases the unphosphorylated TAZ level, enhances the association of MyoD with the myogenin promoter, upregulates MyoD-dependent gene transcription, and competes with myostatin in C2C12 cells. TAZ knockdown verifies that the effect of IBS008738 depends on endogenous TAZ in C2C12 cells. IBS008738 facilitates muscle repair in cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury and prevents dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy. Thus, this cell-based assay is useful to identify TAZ activators with a variety of cellular outputs. Our findings also support the idea that TAZ is a potential therapeutic target for muscle atrophy.
Early recognition of trimethoprim and sulfonamide-induced aseptic meningitis is important because drug cessation leads to rapid clinical improvement. We present clinical and laboratory findings in two typical cases. In both cases, MRI revealed previously undescribed diffuse white matter abnormalities that resolved within a few months. These MRI findings are important because they may aid in early diagnosis of this condition in the appropriate clinical setting. In addition, the white matter abnormalities suggest an encephalitic component in addition to the meningitis.
Over-expression of thymidylate synthase (TS) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) in tumor tissue is associated with insensitivity to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Over-expression of ERCC1 correlates with insensitivity to oxaliplatin (OX) therapy, while high thymidine phosphorylase (TP) levels predict for increased sensitivity to capecitabine (Xel).
Biopsies of metastatic tumor were taken before OX (130 mg/m2 day 1) given with Xel (1200-3000 mg/m2 in two divided doses days 1-5 and 8-12) every 3-weeks. Micro-dissected metastatic and primary tumors were analyzed for relative gene expression by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The clinical protocol prospectively identified the molecular targets of interest that would be tested. Endpoints for the molecular analyses were correlation of median, first and third quartiles for relative gene expression of each target with response, time to treatment failure (TTF), and survival.
Among 91 patients participating in this trial; 97% had colorectal cancer. The median number of prior chemotherapy regimens was 2, and most had prior 5-FU and irinotecan. In paired samples, median mRNA levels were significantly higher in metastatic versus primary tumor (-fold): TS (1.9), DPD (3.8), ERCC1 (2.1) and TP (1.6). A strong positive correlation was noted between DPD and TP mRNA levels in both primary (r = 0.693, p < 0.0005) and metastatic tissue (r = 0.697, p < 0.00001). There was an association between TS gene expression and responsive and stable disease: patients whose intratumoral TS mRNA levels were above the median value had significantly greater risk of early disease progression (43% vs 17%), but this did not translate into a significant difference in TTF. ERCC1 gene expression above the third quartile was associated with a shorter TTF (median 85 vs 162 days, p = 0.046). Patients whose TS mRNA levels in metastatic tumor tissue were below the median had a longer overall survival (median 417 vs 294 days, p = 0.042).
Target gene expression in primary tumor was significantly lower than that in paired metastatic tissue. High ERCC1 mRNA levels in metastatic tumor was associated with a shorter TTF. Lower expression of TS mRNA correlated with a lower chance of early PD with XelOX therapy and improved overall survival.
Acquired Long QT syndrome is a disorder caused by medications, electrolyte imbalances, and drug interactions. This syndrome is associated with an increased risk of a characteristic life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia, known as torsade de pointes (TdP). In the setting of Long QT syndrome (LQTS), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) can precipitate TdP. We report the first case of LQTS and TdP induced by citalopram in the United States. After discontinuation of citalopram, the QT/QTc interval normalized after 3 days and resolved further episodes of TdP. Patients on citalopram should be monitored closely for QT/QTc interval to prevent torsade de pointes.
Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) is a rare precocious aging syndrome caused by mutations in LMNA that lead to synthesis of a mutant form of prelamin A, generally called progerin, that cannot be processed to mature lamin A. Most HGPS patients have a recurrent heterozygous de novo mutation in exon 11 of LMNA, c.1824C>T/p.G608G; this synonymous mutation activates a nearby cryptic splice donor site, resulting in synthesis of the mutant prelamin A, progerin, which lacks 50 amino acids within the carboxyl-terminal domain. Abnormal splicing is incomplete, so the mutant allele produces some normally-spliced transcripts. Nevertheless, the synthesis of progerin is sufficient to cause misshapen nuclei in cultured cells and severe disease phenotypes in affected patients. Here we present two patients with extraordinarily severe forms of progeria caused by unusual mutations in LMNA. One had a splice site mutation (c.1968+1G>A; or IVS11+1G>A), and the other had a novel synonymous coding region mutation (c.1821G>A/p.V607V). Both mutations caused very frequent use of the same exon 11 splice donor site that is activated in typical HGPS patients. As a consequence, the ratios of progerin mRNA and protein to wild-type were higher than in typical HGPS patients. Fibroblasts from both patients exhibited nuclear shape abnormalities typical of HGPS, and cells treated with a protein farnesyltransferase inhibitor exhibited fewer misshapen nuclei. Thus, farnesyltransferase inhibitors may prove to be useful even when progerin expression levels are higher than those in typical HGPS patients.
Glutamate-mediated mechanisms are related to the motor complications of L-DOPA therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD). In striatal postsynaptic densities (PSD), the dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) is part of an oligomeric complex with the glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), determining the strength of corticostriatal transmission. We studied D1R/NMDAR complex alterations induced by L-DOPA in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model of PD. L-DOPA-treated hemiparkinsonian rats were determined to be dyskinetic or nondyskinetic based on behavioral testing. D1R/NMDAR assemblies containing NR1-C2 and NR2B subunits were decreased in the PSD of lesioned striatum. Short-term L-DOPA administration improved akinesia and restored the synaptic abundance of D1R, NR1-C2 and NR2B. Prolonged L-DOPA treatment also normalized synaptic D1R/NMDAR complexes in nondyskinetic rats, but remarkably reduced them in the dyskinetic group without changing their interaction. This decrease involved NR1-C2, NR1-C2', NR2A, and NR2B subunits. The composition of residual synaptic D1R/NMDAR complexes in dyskinetic rats may thus be different from that observed in lesioned rats, suggesting that expression of different motor dysfunctions might be related to the receptor profile at corticostriatal synapses. The levels of D1R/NMDAR complexes were unchanged in total striatal membrane proteins, suggesting that the decrease of these species in the PSD is likely to reflect an altered receptor trafficking. In human embryonic kidney 293 cells expressing the D1R/NMDAR, complex costimulation of both D1R and NMDAR, but not individual receptor activation, promoted internalization, suggesting that development of dyskinesias might be related to agonist-mediated down-regulation of the D1R/NMDAR complex at corticostriatal synapses.
Hydrocortisole, parathyroid hormone (PTH), and calcitonin were radioimmunoassayed in the blood of patients with chronic pyelonephritis. Hydrocortisone content decreased at the early stages of nephrosclerosis before renal failure, and hypercalcitoninemia was developing. In chronic renal insufficiency hydrocortisone level normalized, hypercalcitoninemia augmented, and PTH level in the blood plasma increased. Disorders of these substances metabolism are believed to be one factor in the pathogenesis of pyelonephritic nephrosclerosis. Measurements of blood hydrocortisone and calcitonin in patients with chronic pyelonephritis can be used for early diagnosis of nephrosclerosis before its clinical manifestation as chronic pyelonephritis. Such measurements will help objectively assess the activity of the sclerotic process, timely begin proper treatment, and predict the disease course and outcome.
