The respiratory system is directly exposed to low levels of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), present as a contaminant on airborne particles. In cystic fibrosis, the prevailing data identify structural changes of the airway epithelium, as well as tight junction dilatation. This study was aimed at determining the contribution of myosin light chain kinase to maintaining airway epithelium barrier integrity in the lung inflammatory response to LPS in rats. The effects of the selective myosin light chain kinase inhibitor, 5-iodonaphthalene-1-sulphonyl-homopiperazine (ML-7), were evaluated: 1) on pulmonary inflammation and airway epithelium barrier permeability alterations induced by intra-tracheal LPS from Pseudomonas aeruginosa; and 2) on levels of the phosphorylated form of the myosin light chain, which is increased in a human airway epithelial cell line (NCI-H292) and tracheal tissue after LPS exposure. The results show that LPS increased airway epithelium barrier paracellular permeability and lung inflammation, and that pre-treatment with ML-7 inhibited both effects. This effect of ML-7 was associated with the inhibition of phosphorylated myosin light chain in both NCI-H292 cells and tracheal tissue. The data, obtained using in vivo and in vitro approaches, demonstrate a key role for myosin light chain kinase in lung inflammation, and suggest that myosin light chain kinase could be a potential target for novel drugs intended for relief of lung injury.
The antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) may produce NTDs because of interference with folate metabolism. Therefore, the possible interactions of VPA with the dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor trimethoprim (TM) was investigated. The combination of TM with sulfamethoxazol is used for treatment of urinary infections, the most common complications of pregnancy. TM (80 and 160 mg/kg) was given i.p. and orally, 0.5 and 1 h, respectively, prior to valproic acid (VPA, 300 and 400 mg/kg, s.c.) in day 8 pregnant NMRI mice. Fetuses were examined for exencephaly, resorptions, and fetal weight retardation on day 18 of gestation. TM (160 mg/kg, i.p.) produced no exencephaly or embryolethality, but increased fetal weight. Administration of TM (80 mg/kg, i.p.) increased VPA-induced exencephaly and fetal weight retardation but not embryolethality. Exencephaly rates induced by VPA (300 and 400 mg/kg) were 4% and 12.9% and were increased by coadministration of TM to 22.7% and 42.5%, respectively (P < 0.01). Oral TM also increased VPA-induced exencephaly and fetal weight retardation but with lower potency than i.p. injection. The observed effects were not due to altered VPA pharmacokinetics. These results support the view that VPA-induced neural tube defects may be mediated via an interaction with folate metabolism, and advise against TM-use in VPA-treated epileptics during pregnancy.
Nerve biopsies were performed in four patients with suspected chloroquine induced neuromyopathy. Three of the patients were treated with high doses of chloroquine for connective tissue disease, while one patient was taking this drug as malaria prophylaxis. Morphological studies demonstrated the presence of segmental demyelination and remyelination in all cases. Cytoplasmic inclusions were observed in Schwann cells, in perineurial and endothelial cells, and in some interstitial cells. They were never observed within axons. Occasional curvilinear profiles were seen in perineurial and Schwann cells. Perineurial calcifications were observed in two cases. The results of this morphological study suggest that chloroquine neuropathy is essentially due primary involvement of Schwann cells.
Endometriosis is a chronic gynecological disease characterized by the growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterine cavity. Exposure to endocrine disruptors during critical period of development causes long-lasting effects, being the genital system one of the targets. This study describes the effects on female genital system caused by developmental exposure to the endocrine-disrupting chemical bisphenol A (BPA) during pre- and peri-natal development in mice. To this end, timed pregnant Balb-C mice were treated from day 1 of gestation to 7 days after delivery with BPA (100, or 1000 microg/kg/day). After delivery, pups were held for 3 months; then, pelvic organs were analyzed in their entirety and livers of both pups and moms were studied for the presence of BPA. We found in the adipose tissue surrounding the genital tracts of a consistent number of treated animals, endometriosis-like structure with the presence of both glands and stroma and expressing both estrogen receptor and HOXA-10. Moreover, cystic ovaries, adenomatous hyperplasia with cystic endometrial hyperplasia and atypical hyperplasia were significantly more frequent in treated animals respect to the controls. Finally, BPA was found in the livers of exposed moms and female offspring. In conclusion, we describe for the first time an endometriosis-like phenotype in mice, elicited by pre-natal exposition to BPA. This observation may induce to thoroughly reconsider the pathogenesis and treatment of endometriosis, considering the high incidence of endometriosis and the problems caused by associated infertility.
Several studies have reported the efficacy of combination therapy of interferon (IFN) alpha and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the mechanism underlying the clinical anti-tumor effects of this treatment is not well understood. The aim of this study was to determine the role of Fas/FasL signaling in the anti-tumor effect of this combination therapy.
We used six human hepatoma cell lines, three of which are known Fas-expressing cells. Growth of Fas-positive hepatoma cell lines was inhibited by an agonistic anti-Fas antibody in a dose-dependent manner, and these effects were enhanced by IFNalpha or 5-FU alone, but even more so by combination therapy using both agents. Annexin-V assay implicated apoptosis as the main mechanism underlying these growth inhibitory effects, although changes in Fas expression regulated by IFNalpha and/or 5-FU did not correlate with increased apoptosis. Caspase-3 activation was exclusively increased by IFNalpha/5-FU combination treatment, which was compatible with enhancement of the synergistic apoptotic effect, and other caspases and apoptotic factors (FLIP, BCL-xl, and Bax) were also regulated by IFNalpha/5-FU. 51Cr-release assay revealed that pretreatment with IFN activated cytotoxicity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) against HCC cells. The largest interaction was observed when both PBMC and HCC cells were pretreated with the combination of IFNalpha/5-FU. These cytotoxicities were markedly inhibited by a neutralizing anti-Fas antibody.
Our results indicated that IFNalpha/5-FU combination treatment enhances the induction of apoptosis and the cytotoxic effect of PBMCs via the Fas/FasL pathway. The Fas/FasL pathway seems, at least in part, to contribute to the anti-tumor effects of IFNalpha/5-FU against HCCs.
Cynomolgus monkeys, rhesus monkeys and baboons were administered 10 to 40 times the human dose equivalent of Bendectin throughout the major period of organogenesis (22(+/-3)-50 days of gestation). In animals examined prenatally (100 +/- 2 days gestation) the total incidence of ventricular septal defects (VSD) was 40% in cynomolgus monkeys, 18% in rhesus monkeys, and 23% in baboons. The majority of VSD involved the muscular portion of the septum. No dose response was evident and there were no other cardiac or extracardiac defects found except for one baboon fetus with multiple defects. No defects were observed in cynomolgus monkeys administered Bendectin for 4-day periods between 22 and 41 days of gestation. There was no association of Bendectin treatment with any noncardiac defect. In cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys examined at term there was one mitral valve defect and no incidence of VSD. The increased incidence of VSD observed prenatally in all three species and the absence of defects in macaques at term suggests a delay in closure of the ventricular septum in treated animals. The Bendectin-treated monkey may be a suitable model for the study of the pathogenesis of VSD and the mechanism of spontaneous closure of the defect.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the Pro12Ala polymorphism of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma2 gene on the response to rosiglitazone in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
A total of 198 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were treated with rosiglitazone (4 mg/d) for 12 weeks without a change in previous medications. All patients were genotyped for the PPARgamma2 Pro12Ala polymorphism.
The Ala12 allele frequency was 0.04. Of the 198 patients, 183 had the Pro12Pro genotype and 15 had the Pro12Ala genotype. The Ala12Ala genotype was not observed. The decrease in fasting plasma glucose level was significantly greater in subjects with the Ala12 allele than in those without the allele (50.6 +/- 27.8 mg/dL versus 24.3 +/- 41.9 mg/dL, P = .026). In addition, the decrease in hemoglobin A(1c) level was significantly greater in subjects with the Ala12 allele than in those without the allele (1.41% +/- 1.47% versus 0.57% +/- 1.16%, P = .015). There was a significant difference in the response rate to rosiglitazone treatment between the Pro12Pro group and the Pro12Ala variant group (43.72% versus 86.67%, P = .002).
Patients with the Pro12Ala genotype in the PPARgamma2 gene had a better therapeutic response to rosiglitazone than did patients with the Pro12Pro genotype. The genetic variations in the PPARgamma2 gene can affect the response to rosiglitazone treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
This study was designed to determine whether patients maintained on a regimen of lithium on a once-per-day schedule have lower urine volumes than do patients receiving multiple doses per day.
This was a cross-sectional study of 85 patients from a lithium clinic who received different dose schedules. Patients were admitted to the hospital for measurement of lithium level, creatinine clearance, urine volume, and maximum osmolality.
Multiple daily doses of lithium were associated with higher urine volumes. The dosing schedule, duration of lithium treatment, and daily dose of lithium did not affect maximum osmolality or creatinine clearance.
Urine volume can be reduced by giving lithium once daily and/or by lowering the total daily dose. Lithium-induced polyuria seems to be related to extrarenal as well as to renal effects.
To evaluate serum angiotensin converting enzyme activity (S-ACE) in sepsis, its association with haemodynamics and pulmonary function, and the influence of intrapulmonary corticosteroid on its activity in serum.
Randomised, blind, placebo controlled experiment.
Trauma research laboratory.
Sixteen juvenile pigs.
Mechanical ventilation and continuous light anaesthesia. Brief infusion of live Staphylococcus aureus (4 x 10(10) colony forming units) followed by inhalation of nebulised beclomethasone dipropionate 50 micrograms/kg (n = 8) or placebo (n = 7) 30 and 360 minutes after the start of the septic challenge.
S-ACE activity, vascular pressures, lung mechanics, arterial oxygen tension, and global oxygen extraction were measured and calculated at regular intervals. One animal was withdrawn because of pulmonary arterial hypertension at the start of the experiment. The 15 remaining pigs were studied for 12 hours. The septic challenge induced a significant but transient increase in S-ACE activity in 13 animals (mean (SEM) +0.19 (0.06) mu kat/l). There were no significant differences in S-ACE between the groups. Terminal S-ACE correlated with oxygen extraction (r = -0.76, p < 0.01), mean arterial pressure (r = 0.69, p < 0.01), arterial oxygen tension (r = 0.59, p < 0.05) and change in lung/thorax compliance (r = 0.63, p < 0.02).
S-ACE activity increases in response to a Gram positive septic challenge. This is followed by a gradual decline which reflects to some extent the degree of septic lung injury. S-ACE activity is not influenced by intrapulmonarily administered corticosteroid.
Extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) presents benefits against chronic liver injury induced by hepatotoxins such as carbon tetrachloride (CCl4); however, the protective mechanisms remain unclear. In the present study, a two-dimensional gel based proteomic approach was constructed to explore the mechanisms. Rats are injected with CCl4 twice a week for 4 weeks to induce liver fibrosis, and were fed laboratory chow plus 20% (w/w) of either corn oil or EVOO over the entire experimental period. Histological staining, MDA assay and fibrogenesis marker gene analysis illustrate that the CCl4-treated animals fed EVOO have a lower fibrosis and lipid peroxidation level in the liver than the corn oil fed group. The proteomic study indicates that the protein expression of thioredoxin domain-containing protein 12, peroxiredoxin-1, thiosulphate sulphurtransferase, calcium-binding protein 1, Annexin A2 and heat shock cognate 71 kDa protein are higher in livers from EVOO-fed rats with the CCl4 treatment compared with those from rats fed with corn oil, whereas the expression of COQ9, cAMP-dependent protein kinase type I-alpha regulatory subunit, phenylalanine hydroxylase and glycerate kinase are lower. Our findings confirmed the benefits of EVOO against chronic liver injury, which may be attributable to the antioxidant effects, hepatocellular function regulation and hepatic metabolism modification effects of EVOO.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) has been linked to a number of extra-esophageal symptoms and disorders, primarily in the respiratory tract. Current animal models of reflux esophagitis are adapted to diseases of the digestive system, rather than to reflux-associated respiratory symptoms. The aim of this study was to evaluate a novel external esophageal perfusion model to induce esophageal, tracheal and pneumonic histological injury similar to that associated with GERD.
Twenty guinea pigs were randomized to the acid-treated or PBS-treated group. Esophageal catheters were used to perfuse the esophageal lumen of guinea pigs with hydrochloric acid containing 1 g/l pepsin or PBS for 14 days. The total cell number and cell differential counts in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were determined 24 h after the last perfusion. Histological changes in the esophageal, tracheal and pneumonic tissues were observed by hematoxylin-eosin staining.
The numbers of lymphocytes, eosinophils and total inflammatory cells in the BALF were significantly higher in acid-perfused than PBS-perfused animals. Histological evidence suggested esophageal and pneumonic inflammations were prominent in acid-treated animals.
Repetitive, acid-perfused, esophageal events copied the animal models of reflux esophagitis, and elicited inflammatory responses in the airways and lungs of guinea pigs.
The impact of outdoor air pollution on infant mortality has not been quantified.
Based on exposure-response functions from a U.S. cohort study, we assessed the attributable risk of postneonatal infant mortality in 23 U.S. metropolitan areas related to particulate matter <10 microm in diameter (PM10) as a surrogate of total air pollution.
The estimated proportion of all cause mortality, sudden infant death syndrome (normal birth weight infants only) and respiratory disease mortality (normal birth weight) attributable to PM10 above a chosen reference value of 12.0 microg/m3 PM10 was 6% (95% confidence interval 3-11%), 16% (95% confidence interval 9-23%) and 24% (95% confidence interval 7-44%), respectively. The expected number of infant deaths per year in the selected areas was 106 (95% confidence interval 53-185), 79 (95% confidence interval 46-111) and 15 (95% confidence interval 5-27), respectively. Approximately 75% of cases were from areas where the current levels are at or below the new U.S. PM2.5 standard of 15 microg/m3 (equivalent to 25 microg/m3 PM10). In a country where infant mortality rates and air pollution levels are relatively low, ambient air pollution as measured by particulate matter contributes to a substantial fraction of infant death, especially for those due to sudden infant death syndrome and respiratory disease. Even if all counties would comply to the new PM2.5 standard, the majority of the estimated burden would remain.
Given the inherent limitations of risk assessments, further studies are needed to support and quantify the relationship between infant mortality and air pollution.
Cocaine-dependence has been shown to affect the amplitudes of the P50 mid-latency auditory evoked response (MLAER) as well as P50 sensory gating. The effects on subsequent MLAERs (N100 and P200) have not been examined. The objective of the current study was to further assess the effects of chronic cocaine use on the P50, N100, and P200 components. Thirty-four, at least three weeks abstinent, cocaine-dependent individuals and 34 age and gender matched healthy controls were examined. The amplitudes, latencies and gating measures were calculated and compared between the groups. The N100 and P200 were significantly smaller in patients as compared to control subjects. Sensory gating of the P50, the N100, and the P200 were deficient in cocaine-dependent subjects. Latencies of all measured components were prolonged in subjects who reported developing paranoia while intoxicated. Finally, a positive correlation was found between length of abstinence and evoked response amplitudes. We conclude that the effects of cocaine on sensory gating extend beyond the P50 to the N100 and the P200 components. The data also suggest that prolonged latency of the evoked potentials may be a correlate of cocaine-induced psychosis. Finally, the data suggest that some recovery of amplitude and gating occurs with abstinence.
Propranolol may reduce symptoms of autonomic arousal associated with early cocaine abstinence and improve treatment outcome. This trial was an 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of propranolol in 108 cocaine dependent subjects. The primary outcome measure was quantitative urinary benzoylecgonine levels. Secondary outcome measures included treatment retention, addiction severity index results, cocaine craving, mood and anxiety symptoms, cocaine withdrawal symptoms, and adverse events. Propranolol treated subjects had lower cocaine withdrawal symptom severity but otherwise did not differ from placebo treated subjects in any outcome measure. However, in a secondary, exploratory analysis, subjects with more severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms responded better to propranolol in comparison to placebo. In these subjects, propranolol treatment was associated with better treatment retention and lower urinary benzoylecgonine levels as compared with the placebo treatment. Propranolol may be useful only for the treatment of cocaine dependent patients with severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms.
1. The effects of the calcium channel blocking agent, nitrendipine, were studied on seizures in mice produced during withdrawal from chronic benzodiazepine treatment and on the development of tolerance to benzodiazepines. 2. Nitrendipine produced a dose-dependent decrease in seizure incidence, when seizures were produced by the partial inverse agonist FG7142 during withdrawal from seven days treatment with flurazepam. 3. Nitrendipine did not raise the seizure thresholds in naïve mice to the full inverse agonist methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM), or to the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist, bicuculline. 4. When given concurrently with flurazepam for seven days, nitrendipine did not affect the incidence of seizures during flurazepam withdrawal. 5. When given concurrently with the benzodiazepines, nitrendipine did not prevent the development of tolerance to midazolam general anaesthesia or tolerance to the ataxic actions of flurazepam or midazolam. 6. Chronic treatment with flurazepam for seven days did not affect the Kd or Bmax of [3H]-nimodipine binding in mouse whole brain or cerebral cortex. 7. These results with benzodiazepines are partially in contrast with those for ethanol, where nitrendipine not only decreased ethanol withdrawal seizures when given acutely, but also prevented the development of tolerance and withdrawal signs when given concurrently with ethanol. However, they do confirm the selectivity of nitrendipine for withdrawal-induced seizures.
To determine if levels of the glial-derived proteins S100beta and glial acidic fibrillary protein (GFAP) and the pro- and antiapoptotic proteins p53 and Bcl-2 were altered in the cortex of subjects with schizophrenia or bipolar 1 disorder.
Levels of S100beta, GFAP, p53 and Bcl-2 were measured in cortex (Brodmann's Areas (BAs) 9, 10, 46 and 40) of control subjects and subjects with schizophrenia, bipolar 1 disorder and in the cortex of rats treated with haloperidol or lithium using protein-specific antibodies and western blot analysis.
Levels of S100beta were decreased in BA 9 and increased in BA 40 from subjects with bipolar 1 disorder. Levels of this protein were not altered in other CNS regions, in schizophrenia or in the cortex of rats treated with haloperidol or lithium. No changes in levels of the other three proteins were detected across diagnoses.
Regionally selective changes in cortical S100beta may be associated with the pathology of bipolar 1 disorder and may reflect derangements in neuronal death or survival.
Primary dystonia is usually of adult onset, can be familial, and frequently involves the cervical musculature. Our goal was to identify the causal mutation in a family with adult onset, primary cervical dystonia.
Linkage and haplotype analyses were combined with solution-based whole-exome capture and massively parallel sequencing in a large Caucasian pedigree with adult onset, primary cervical dystonia to identify a cosegregating mutation. High-throughput screening and Sanger sequencing were completed in 308 Caucasians with familial or sporadic adult onset cervical dystonia and matching controls for sequence variants in this mutant gene.
Exome sequencing led to the identification of an exonic splicing enhancer mutation in exon 7 of CIZ1 (c.790A>G, p.S264G), which encodes CIZ1, Cip1-interacting zinc finger protein 1. CIZ1 is a p21(Cip1/Waf1) -interacting zinc finger protein expressed in brain and involved in DNA synthesis and cell-cycle control. Using a minigene assay, we showed that c.790A>G altered CIZ1 splicing patterns. The p.S264G mutation also altered the nuclear localization of CIZ1. Screening in subjects with adult-onset cervical dystonia identified 2 additional CIZ1 missense mutations (p.P47S and p.R672M).
Mutations in CIZ1 may cause adult onset, primary cervical dystonia, possibly by precipitating neurodevelopmental abnormalities that manifest in adults and/or G1/S cell-cycle dysregulation in the mature central nervous system.
We present the case of a 52-year-old man with steroid-dependent ulcerative colitis, needing immunosuppressive therapy with azathioprine. The drug had been started 3 years earlier, but stopped after a few months because the patient reported palpitations, lipothymia, nausea and vomiting. Given the continued steroid-dependent ulcerative colitis and the lack of clinical documentation about a reaction with a dubious relationship to azathioprine, we decided to rechallenge the patient with the drug under clinical monitoring and after informed consent. After starting 50 mg of azathioprine, the patient showed general malaise, nausea and vomiting. An ECG showed atrial fibrillation, and the patient reported that the symptoms were similar to those previously experienced.
We have found two other cases of similar onset of atrial fibrillation after azathioprine use, although some confounding elements in these episodes make the possible causal relationship between the drug and this adverse event uncertain.
To observe the effects of resveratrol on proliferation of human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line SMMC-7721 cells and expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in vitro.
SMMC-7721 cells were treated with different concentrations of resveratrol for 24, 48 and 72 h, respectively. The effect of resveratrol on proliferation of SMMC-7721 cells was assessed with methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT). The expression of MMP-9 mRNA was determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). MMP-9 protein was identified by Western blot analysis.
Resveratrol could inhibit the proliferation of SMMC-7721 cells with dose- and time-dependent effects. Moreover, both MMP-9 mRNA expression and MMP-9 protein production were markedly reduced after resveratrol treatment.
Resveratrol can inhibit the proliferation of SMMC-7721 cells and down-regulate MMP-9 expression. It is presumed that resveratrol may suppress the invasion and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Expression of ERG is of prognostic significance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and T-lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) pointing to its role in leukemogenesis. To unravel its transcriptional regulation we analyzed the expression of ERG specific isoforms. Expression of the two main isoforms ERG2 and ERG3 was found in AML and normal CD34+ cells, whereas T-ALL blasts only expressed ERG isoforms harboring exon 5 (ERG3) lacking expression of ERG2. Bisulfite sequencing revealed hypermethylation of a CpG island within the ERG2 promoter region in T-ALL. Treatment of the T-lymphoblastic cell line BE13 with decitabine led to re-expression of ERG2 and pyrosequencing showed concordant DNA hypomethylation, thus confirming a methylation regulated expression of ERG2. Moreover, the identification of a new ERG isoform (ERG3Deltaex12) suggests the association with different interaction partners and adds to the complexity of downstream pathways mediated by the expression of specific ERG transcripts in acute leukemia.
Poststroke hypotension may be related to early neurological deterioration and infarct progression by decrease of cerebral perfusion, particularly in patients with ischemic penumbra. However, optimal management guideline of blood pressure in the setting of acute stroke is absent, and remains a matter of debate. We report here a patient who had early neurological deterioration accompanied by systemic hypotension. Phenylephrine-induced hypertensive therapy by imaging-based decision making successfully restored neurologic dysfunction in this patient.
Chemo-resistance to anti-cancer drugs is a major obstacle in efforts to develop a successful treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In this study, we investigate whether resveratrol, a common ingredient in a broad variety of fruits and vegetables, can reverse drug resistance in AML cells. Three doxorubicin-resistant AML cell lines (AML-2/DX30, AML-2/DX100, AML-2/DX300) were prepared via long-term exposure to doxorubicin for more than 3 months. DNA microarray analysis demonstrated that many genes were differentially expressed in the resistant cells, as compared with the wild type AML-2/WT cells. In particular, the expression level of the MRP1 gene was significantly increased in the AML-2/DX300 cells, as compared to that detected in AML-2 cells. Importantly, the resveratrol was shown not only to induce cell growth arrest and apoptotic death in doxorubicin-resistant AML cells, but was also shown to downregulate the expression of an MRP1 gene. Furthermore, resveratrol treatment induced a significant increase in the uptake of 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein diacetate, a MRP1 substrate, into the doxorubicin-resistant AML-2/DX300 cells. The results of this study show that resveratrol may facilitate the cellular uptake of doxorubicin via an induced downregulation of MRP1 expression, and also suggest that it may prove useful in overcoming doxorubicin resistance, or in sensitizing doxorubicin-resistant AML cells to anti-leukemic agents.
The prognosis of pancreatic cancer is poor, and current medical treatment is mostly ineffective. The aim of this study was to design a new treatment modality in an animal model system. We describe here a novel treatment strategy employing a mouse model system for pancreatic carcinoma. Embryonal kidney epithelial cells were genetically modified to express the cytochrome P450 subenzyme 2B1 under the control of a cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate early promoter. This CYP2B1 gene converts ifosfamide to its active cytotoxic compounds, phosphoramide mustard, which alkylates DNA, and acrolein, which alkylates proteins. The cells were then encapsulated in a cellulose sulphate formulation and implanted into preestablished tumors derived from a human pancreatic tumor cell line. Intraperitoneal administration of low-dose ifosfamide to tumor bearing mice that received the encapsulated cells results in partial or even complete tumor ablation. Such an in situ chemotherapy strategy utilizing genetically modified cells in an immunoprotected environment may prove useful for solid tumor therapy in man.
Deficits in social behaviour is a characteristic of numerous mental disorders including autism, schizophrenia, depression and Alzheimer's disease. For the assessment of pharmacological and genetic experimental disease models, conventional social interaction tasks bear the uncertainty that any drug-induced abnormality of the investigator may feed back to the drug-free companion modifying its reactions. A considerable technical improvement was recently reported by Moy et al. [Moy SS, Nadler JJ, Perez A, Barbaro RP, Johns JM, Magnuson T, et al. Sociability and preference for social novelty in five inbred strains: an approach to assess autistic-like behaviours in mice. Genes Brain Behav 2004;3:287-302] in which the drug free partner is confined to a small cage and social contacts of the investigator are recorded uncontaminated of any social reactions of the stranger. Using this novel behavioural paradigm, we here show in C57Bl/6 female mice that sociability (social interaction with a stranger mouse) is not impaired after administration of the anxiolytic diazepam (0.1-1 mg/kg) or the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine hydrobromide (0.1-1 mg/kg). However, social memory tested after a short time interval was impaired by both drugs in a dose-dependent manner (diazepam: > or = 0.5mg/kg; scopolamine: > or = 0.3mg/kg). The scopolamine-induced short-term memory deficit was reversed to normal by the choline esterase inhibitor donepezil (1 mg/kg). Given this dependence of social recognition on the cholinergic system, combined with the clinical observation of reduced social contacts in dementia patients, sociability may offer a novel endpoint biomarker with translational value in experimental models of cognitive dysfunction.
(R)-(+)-2-Amino-4-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-[1-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-oxobutyl]+ ++pyrrolidin-3-yl]thiazole (NRA0045), a novel thiazole derivative, has high affinities for the human cloned dopamine D4.2, D4.4 and D4.7 receptors, with Ki values of 2.54, 0.55 and 0.54 nM, respectively. NRA0045 is approximately 91-fold more potent at the dopamine D4.2 receptor, compared with human cloned dopamine D2L receptor. NRA0045 also has high affinities for the serotonin (5-HT)2A receptor (Ki = 1.92 nM) and alpha-1 adrenoceptor (Ki = 1.40 nM) but weak affinities (IC50 values are approximately 1 microM) for six other neurotransmitter receptors (adenosine1, 5-HT1A, 5-HT1C, dopamine transporter, alpha2A and alpha2A) and negligible affinities (IC50 values are over 10(-5) M) for 42 other receptors, including neurotransmitters and hormones, ion channels and second messenger systems. Locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) in mice was dose-dependently antagonized by NRA0045 (ED50 = 0.5 mg/kg i.p. and 1.9 mg/kg p.o., respectively). Methamphetamine (10 mg/kg i.p.)-induced stereotyped behavior in mice was dose-dependently antagonized by NRA0045, whereas NRA0045 did not exceed 50% inhibition even at the highest dose given (30 mg/kg i.p.). Catalepsy was dose-dependently and significantly induced by NRA0045 in rats, whereas NRA0045 did not exceed 50% induction even at the highest dose given (30 mg/kg i.p.). Thus NRA0045 blocks behaviors associated with activation of the mesolimbic/mesocortical dopaminergic neurons more selectively than behaviors associated with nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. In rats, tryptamine-induced clonic seizure, a 5-HT2 receptor-mediated behavior, was also dose-dependently inhibited by NRA0045 (ED50 = 1.7 mg/kg i.p.). Norepinephrine-induced lethality is regarded as being induced through the alpha-1 adrenoceptor. NRA0045 dose-dependently antagonized norepinephrine-induced lethality in rats (ED50 = 0.2 mg/kg i.p.). Thus NRA0045 may have a unique antipsychotic activity with regard to dopamine D4 and 5-HT2A receptors and alpha-1 adrenoceptor antagonistic activities, without producing the extrapyramidal side effects.
Intravenous iron (Fe) and recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) are routine treatments in the management of anemia in patients with chronic renal failure. We investigated the oxidative stress acutely induced by these therapies and whether pretreatment with oral melatonin (MEL) would have a beneficial effect. Nine patients (four women) were studied within 1 month of entering a chronic hemodialysis program in the interdialytic period. Plasma malondialdehyde (MDA), red blood cell glutathione (GSH), and catalase (CAT) activity were measured in blood samples obtained before (baseline) and 1, 3, and 24 hours after the administration of Fe (100 mg of Fe saccharate intravenously over 1 hour) or rHuEPO (4,000 U intravenously). One hour before these treatments, patients were administered a single oral dose of MEL (0.3 mg/kg) or placebo. Each patient was studied on four occasions, corresponding to studies performed using either placebo or MEL in association with intravenous Fe and rHuEPO administration. Baseline data showed increased oxidative stress in patients with end-stage renal failure. Increments in oxidative stress induced by Fe were more pronounced at the end of the administration: MDA, baseline, 0.74 +/- 0.09 nmol/mL; 1 hour, 1.50 +/- 0.28 nmol/mL (P: < 0.001); GSH, baseline, 2.51 +/- 0.34 nmol/mg of hemoglobin (Hb); 1 hour, 1.66 +/- 0.01 nmol/mg Hb (P: < 0.001); and CAT activity, baseline, 27.0 +/- 5.7 kappa/mg Hb; 1 hour, 23.3 +/- 4.2 kappa/mg Hb (P: < 0.001). rHuEPO-induced increments in oxidative stress were more pronounced (P: < 0.001) at 3 hours (MDA, 1.24 +/- 0.34 nmol/mL; GSH, 1.52 +/- 0.23 nmol/mg Hb; CAT activity, 18.0 +/- 3.1 kappa/mg Hb). MEL administration prevented the changes induced by Fe and rHuEPO and had no adverse side effects. These studies show that intravenous Fe and rHuEPO in doses commonly used to treat anemia in chronic hemodialysis patients acutely generate significant oxidative stress. Oral MEL prevents such oxidative stress and may be of clinical use.
Troglitazone, which improves peripheral insulin resistance of experimental diabetic animals and diabetic patients, affects ob gene expression in the adipose tissue of rodents. The present study was undertaken to examine a hypothesis that clinical administration of troglitazone may reduce circulating leptin levels and affect eating behavior in NIDDM patients.
Troglitazone was administered at a dosage of 200 mg twice daily for 12 weeks in 20 poorly controlled NIDDM patients. Chronological changes in glycemic control, serum lipids, immunoreactive leptin (IRL) levels, and BMI were measured. Body fat weight was also assessed by bioelectric impedance.
Troglitazone significantly decreased fasting plasma glucose, serum immunoreactive insulin, and HbA1c levels. Serum levels of IRL and triglyceride were significantly reduced by troglitazone administered for 4, 8, and 12 weeks. Troglitazone administration significantly increased the BMI in NIDDM patients, and two-thirds of the patients complained of increased hunger after the start of troglitazone administration.
Troglitazone significantly reduces circulating leptin levels at clinical doses. It may affect the eating behavior of poorly controlled NIDDM patients through the improvement of glycemic control and/or the reduction of circulating leptin.
Obesity-associated inflammation is of critical importance in the development of insulin resistance and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Since the cannabinoid receptor CB2 regulates innate immunity, the aim of the present study was to investigate its role in obesity-induced inflammation, insulin resistance and fatty liver.
Murine obesity models included genetically leptin-deficient ob/ob mice and wild type (WT) mice fed a high fat diet (HFD), that were compared to their lean counterparts. Animals were treated with pharmacological modulators of CB2 receptors. Experiments were also performed in mice knock-out for CB2 receptors (Cnr2 -/-).
In both HFD-fed WT mice and ob/ob mice, Cnr2 expression underwent a marked induction in the stromal vascular fraction of epididymal adipose tissue that correlated with increased fat inflammation. Treatment with the CB2 agonist JWH-133 potentiated adipose tissue inflammation in HFD-fed WT mice. Moreover, cultured fat pads isolated from ob/ob mice displayed increased Tnf and Ccl2 expression upon exposure to JWH-133. In keeping, genetic or pharmacological inactivation of CB2 receptors decreased adipose tissue macrophage infiltration associated with obesity, and reduced inductions of Tnf and Ccl2 expressions. In the liver of obese mice, Cnr2 mRNA was only weakly induced, and CB2 receptors moderately contributed to liver inflammation. HFD-induced insulin resistance increased in response to JWH-133 and reduced in Cnr2 -/- mice. Finally, HFD-induced hepatic steatosis was enhanced in WT mice treated with JWH-133 and blunted in Cnr2 -/- mice.
These data unravel a previously unrecognized contribution of CB2 receptors to obesity-associated inflammation, insulin resistance and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and suggest that CB2 receptor antagonists may open a new therapeutic approach for the management of obesity-associated metabolic disorders.
