We investigated the effects of zerumbone, a natural cyclic sesquiterpene of Zingiber zerumbet Smith, on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced hyperlipidemic hamsters. After being fed HFD for 2 weeks, Syrian golden hamsters were dosed orally with zerumbone (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg) once daily for 8 weeks. Decreased plasma levels of TC, TG and LDL-C, as well as the concentrations of hepatic lipids, with a simultaneous increase in fecal lipids were found. The ratios of LDL-C/HDL-C and TC/HDL-C were elevated by zerumbone. Zerumbone exhibited the ability to decreased hepatic mRNA levels of fatty acid synthase, malic enzyme, sterol-regulatory element binding protein and 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-CoA reductase reductase. The hepatic mRNA expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α, together with its target gene carnitine palmitoyl transferase and acyl-CoA oxidase were also upregulated by zerumbone. Zerumbone is effective to improve dyslipidemia by modulating the genes expression involving in the lipolytic and lipogenic pathways of lipids metabolism.
We determine whether droperidol, midazolam, or the combination is more effective for intramuscular sedation in violent and acute behavioral disturbance in the emergency department (ED).
We conducted a blinded randomized controlled trial of intramuscular sedation for violent and acute behavioral disturbance, comparing droperidol (10 mg), midazolam (10 mg), and droperidol (5 mg)/midazolam (5 mg). Inclusion criteria were patients requiring physical restraint and parenteral sedation. The primary outcome was the duration of the violent and acute behavioral disturbance, defined as the time security staff were required. Secondary outcomes included time until additional sedation was administered, staff and patient injuries, further episodes of violent and acute behavioral disturbance, and drug-related adverse effects.
From 223 ED patients with violent and acute behavioral disturbance, 91 patients were included; 33 received droperidol, 29 received midazolam, and 29 received the combination. There was no difference in the median duration of the violent and acute behavioral disturbance: 20 minutes (interquartile range [IQR] 11 to 37 min) for droperidol, 24 minutes (IQR 13 to 35 minutes) for midazolam, and 25 minutes (IQR 15 to 38 minutes) for the combination. Additional sedation was required in 11 (33%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 19% to 52%) droperidol patients, 18 (62%; 95% CI 42% to 79%) midazolam patients, and 12 (41%; 95% CI 24% to 61%) in the combination group. The hazard ratio for additional sedation in the midazolam versus droperidol group was 2.31 (95% credible interval 1.01 to 4.71); for the combination versus droperidol, 1.18 (95% credible interval 0.46 to 2.50). Patient and staff injuries and number of further episodes of violent and acute behavioral disturbance did not differ between groups. There were two adverse effects for droperidol (6%; 95% CI 1% to 22%), 8 for midazolam (28%; 95% CI 13% to 47%), and 2 for the combination (7%; 95% CI 1% to 24%). An abnormal QT occurred in 2 of 31 (6%; 95% CI 1% to 23%) droperidol patients, which was not different from the other groups.
Intramuscular droperidol and midazolam resulted in a similar duration of violent and acute behavioral disturbance, but more additional sedation was required with midazolam. Midazolam caused more adverse effects because of oversedation, and there was no evidence of QT prolongation associated with droperidol compared with midazolam.
We describe a patient in whom cutaneous vasculitis appeared after 4 days of ciprofloxacin administration. On clinical examination, papular and purpuric lesions were limited to the left axillary zone of the thorax. Skin biopsy did not show the classic leukocytoclastic image but rather a mononuclear infiltrate of the vessel walls. Except a mild increase in inflammatory parameters, there were neither autoantibodies nor biological abnormalities, and the complement level was normal. These findings suggest that ciprofloxacin-induced vasculitis displays histopathological and serologic heterogeneity.
ortho-Phenylphenol has been employed in post-harvest treatment of citrus fruits. Although o-phenylphenol has been reported to cause carcinomas in the urinary tract in rats, toxicity to the immune organs is still unknown. Herein, we report that administration of o-phenylphenol induces thymic atrophy and loss of thymocytes in female BALB/c mice. The influence seems to result from inhibition of the thymocyte development, because increased and decreased populations of the CD4⁻ CD8⁻ double-negative and CD4⁺ CD8⁺ double-positive thymocytes were observed in the o-phenylphenol-administered mice, respectively. ortho-Phenylphenol is metabolized to phenylhydroquinone by cytochrome P450 monooxygenases. Phenylhydroquinone made cell cycle of thymocytes to be arrested through reduced expression of the genes associated with G₂/M phase and through phosphorylation of p53 at Ser15. Phosphorylation of p53 at Ser15 was upregulated by activation of not only ATR but also Erk1/2 and p38, leading to increase of apoptosis. Gene expression of cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) was promoted in thymocytes from the o-phenylphenol-administered mice. Overall, our results suggest that o-phenylphenol induces CYP1A1 expression and is metabolized into phenylhydroquinone by the expressed CYP1A1 in thymocytes. The produced phenylhydroquinone in turn induces inhibition of thymocyte development through cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in the p53-dependent pathway.
Biological molecules are predominantly enantioselective. Yet currently two nucleoside analogue prodrugs (3TC and FTC) with opposite chirality compared to physiological nucleosides are clinically approved for the treatment of HIV infections. These prodrugs require conversion to their triphosphorylated forms to achieve pharmacological activity. The first step in the activation of these agents is catalyzed by human deoxycytidine kinase (dCK). This enzyme possesses the ability to phosphorylate nucleosides of the unnatural L-chirality. To understand the molecular basis for the nonenantioselectivity of dCK, we solved the crystal structures of the enzyme in complex with the L-enantiomer and of its physiological substrate deoxycytidine and with the L-nucleoside analogue FTC. These were compared to a structure solved with D-dC. Our results highlight structural adjustments imposed on the L-nucleosides and properties of the enzyme endowing it with the ability to phosphorylate substrates with nonphysiological chirality. This work reveals the molecular basis for the activation of L-nucleosides by dCK.
The administration of a sodium cholate-supplemented high-fat (CAHF) diet in mice induced the predominant accumulation of cholesterol esters (CE) in the liver and biochemical and histological features of liver injury. Cholesteryl oleate was the most abundant CE found in the liver of the mice fed the CAHF diet. We examined the effect of ethyl eicosapentaenoate (EPA) on hepatic CE accumulation and liver injury in the mice fed the CAHF diet. The EPA supplementation suppressed the elevation in the level of cholesteryl oleate in the liver. The expression levels of sterol O-acyltransferase-2 and stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 mRNA in the liver were elevated in the mice fed the CAHF diet, but they were normalized by the EPA supplementation. However, the elevation in serum transaminase activity, the sign of inflammatory cell exudation and inflammatory gene responses in the liver of the mice fed the EPA-supplemented diet were enhanced compared with those of the mice fed the CAHF diet. We demonstrated that EPA supplementation attenuated CE accumulation but aggravated liver injury and liver inflammation in the mice fed the CAHF diet.
Gene expression profiles in the amygdala of juvenile rats were compared between the two autistic rat models for mechanistic insights into impaired social behavior and enhanced anxiety in autism. The rats exposed to VPA by intraperitoneal administration to their dams at embryonic day (E) 12 were used as a model for autism (E2IP), and those by subcutaneous administration at postnatal day (P) 14 (P14SC) were used as a model for regressive autism; both of the models show impaired social behavior and enhanced anxiety as symptoms. Gene expression profiles in the amygdala of the rats (E12IP and P14SC) were analyzed by microarray and compared to each other. Only two genes, Neu2 and Mt2a, showed significant changes in the same direction in both of the rat models, and there were little similarities in the overall gene expression profiles between them. It was considered that gene expression changes per se in the amygdala might be an important cause for impaired social behavior and enhanced anxiety, rather than expression changes of particular genes.
Expression of protein kinase C (PKC) isoenzymes was determined in paired samples of normal mucosa and colorectal cancer tissue from 13 patients. Total PKC activity in cancer tissue was significantly decreased compared to that in normal mucosa. Western blotting, using PKC isoenzyme-specific antibodies, showed that two PKC isoenzymes, PKC beta and PKC epsilon, were significantly decreased in cancer tissue. The level of PKC delta was increased in cancer tissue and the expression of PKC alpha and zeta was not altered significantly. Primary bile acids--cholic acid (CA) and chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA)--and the principal secondary bile acids--deoxycholic acid (DCA), lithocholic acid (LCA) and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA)--were found to be potent and selective activators of partially purified PKC isoenzymes. PKC beta 1 was the isoenzyme most effectively activated by secondary bile acids. Our data provide a model for the involvement of secondary bile acids in colorectal carcinogenesis through specific PKC isoenzyme modulation in colorectal mucosa.
This study examined the relationship between the personality profile of a sample of cocaine users and the presence of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) diagnoses and the severity of substance use. A total of 120 participants (46 women, mean age: 23.8 years) from nonclinical settings in Barcelona, Spain, 2003-2006, were assessed using the Psychiatric Research Interview for Substance and Mental Disorders (PRISM) and the Temperament and Character Inventory-Revised version (TCI-R). Most of the participants had completed more than primary education, nearly half of them were employed, one third lived with parents, and near a quarter had some criminal record. Snorting was the main route of cocaine administration. They were using a mean of 1.82 substances. Cocaine users with low Self-Directedness, low Cooperativeness, and high Self-Transcendence scores in the TCI-R, with high severity of substance use and psychiatric comorbidity, would be suggestive of a possible specific phenotype. The limitations and implications of the study are discussed.
We have been performing protocol biopsies since 1995 to predict the outcome of renal allograft. However, histopathological findings in renal allograft with stable function remain unclear. For this reason, we performed non-episode biopsy on long-surviving renal allograft and investigated the histopathological changes. Among the several diseases seen in non-episode biopsies, arteriolopathy, such as drug-induced nephropathy, is one of the most frequent diseases. However, it is unrelated to the dosage and the concentration of cyclosporine or tacrolimus. Consequently, we evaluated the clinicopathological findings of arteriolopathy in this study in order to clarify whether cyclosporine (CsA) or tacrolimus (FK506) is responsible for these findings.
We defined non-episode biopsy as a case with a serum creatinine level less than 2.0 mg/dL and containing less than 500 mg/dL of urinary protein. Final results showed that 71 cases were identified as non-episode biopsy. We then evaluated the histopathological findings and the clinical characteristics of these cases.
Thirty-two of the 71 non-episode biopsy specimens showed findings of arteriolopathy. The frequency and the severity of arteriolopathy are not concerned with dosage and concentration of CsA or FK506. The arteriolopathy seen in non-episode biopsy was related to the time of the biopsy and the kidney age. Arteriolopathy in nonepisode biopsy also had a relationship with hypertension, suggesting that it is important to strictly control blood pressure for graft survival.
To assess weight loss, as well as the prevalence of valvular heart disease, in 21 obese women who completed 2 years of treatment by fenfluramine and phentermine (fen-phen) in June 1997.
Patients were 21 of 22 women who had completed a 1-year, open-label trial of fen-phen combined with lifestyle modification. This study describes the results of a second year of treatment. The presence of valvular heart disease, defined as aortic regurgitation of mild or greater severity and/or mitral regurgitation of moderate or greater severity, was assessed using two-dimensional, color Doppler and pulsed- and continuous-wave Doppler examinations.
At 2 years, the 21 patients had a mean reduction in initial weight of 13.9 + 10.0%, which was significantly (p<0.001) smaller than their 1-year loss of 17.1 +/- 8.7%. Nine of 21 patients reported that they took fen-phen irregularly during the last 4 months of the study because of fears of developing health complications. These nine patients had a 2-year weight loss of 8.7 +/- 7.5%, compared with a significantly (p<0.04) larger loss of 17.6 +/- 10.5% for participants who reported taking medication regularly. Six of 20 (30%) patients met criteria for valvular heart disease. None of the six had signs or symptoms of this condition.
Fenfluramine was withdrawn from the market on September 15, 1997 because of concerns that it was associated with valvular heart disease. The present findings are discussed in terms of the potentially favorable long-term benefits of combining lifestyle modification with weight loss medications that are both safe and effective.
Propylthiouracil (PTU) could induce antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) associated vasculitis. This study aimed to investigate the inhibitory effects on MPO oxidation activity by PTU and MPO-ANCA from patients with primary microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) and PTU-induced vasculitis. IgG preparations were purified from MPO-ANCA-positive sera from seven patients with PTU-induced vasculitis and ten patients with primary MPA. The oxidation activity of MPO was measured in the presence of PTU and MPO-ANCA-positive IgG preparations from patients with PTU-induced vasculitis and primary MPA respectively. PTU could competitively inhibit the oxidation activity of MPO dose dependently. MPO-ANCA-positive IgG preparations from 6/7 patients with PTU-induced vasculitis and only 3/10 from patients with primary MPA could inhibit the MPO activity in a dose-dependent manner. In conclusions, the oxidation activity of MPO could be inhibited by PTU and PTU-induced MPO-ANCA in a dose-dependent manner, which might be involved in the pathogenesis PTU-induced vasculitis.
NSO/1 (P3x63Ay 8Ut) and SP20 myeloma cells were inoculated to BALB/c OlaHsd mice. NSO/1 cells allowed adequate stage-by-stage monitoring of tumor development. The adequacy of this model was confirmed in experiments with conventional cytostatics: prospidium and cytarabine caused necrosis of tumor cells and reduced animal mortality.
A placebo-controlled, double-blind multicenter trial was conducted in 123 patients with severe hypertension to examine the efficacy and safety of intravenously administered nicardipine hydrochloride in controlling blood pressure. Seventy-three patients were initially randomized to receive nicardipine treatment. This group had an initial blood pressure of 213 +/- 3/126 +/- 2 mm Hg. Sixty-seven patients achieved the therapeutic goal (diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 95 mm Hg; systolic blood pressure less than or equal to 160 mm Hg). Fifty patients were randomized to receive placebo solution. Blood pressure in these patients was 216 +/- 3/125 +/- 2 mm Hg. No patient in this group achieved the therapeutic goal during the "blinded" portion of the study. Forty-four of 49 patients who did not respond to placebo administration responded to subsequent treatment with nicardipine. Patients with end-organ damage were included in the study. These included patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, retinopathy, and renal insufficiency. Patients with and without end-organ damage responded equally well to nicardipine treatment. Serious adverse experiences were infrequent, the most common adverse reaction being headache in 24% of the patients studied.
Valproic acid (VPA) is used worldwide to treat epilepsy, migraine headaches, and bipolar disorder. However, VPA is teratogenic and in utero exposure can lead to congenital malformations. Using inbred C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) mice, we asked whether genetic variation could play a role in susceptibility to VPA teratogenesis. Whereas B6 fetuses were more susceptible than D2 fetuses to digit and vertebral malformations, D2 fetuses were more susceptible to rib malformations. In a reciprocal cross between B6 and D2, genetically identical F1 mice carried in a B6 mother had a greater percentage of vertebral malformations following prenatal VPA exposure than F1 mice carried in a D2 mother. This reciprocal F1 difference is known as a maternal effect and shows that maternal genotype/uterine environment is an important mediator of VPA teratogenecity. VPA is a histone deacetylase inhibitor, and it is possible that the differential teratogenesis in B6 and D2 is because of strain differences in histone acetylation. We observed strain differences in acetylation of histones H3 and H4 in both embryo and placenta following in utero VPA exposure, but additional studies are needed to determine the significance of these changes in mediating teratogenesis. Our results provide additional support that genetic factors, both maternal and fetal, play a role in VPA teratogenesis. Lines of mice derived from B6 and D2 will be a useful model for elucidating the genetic architecture underlying susceptibility to VPA teratogenesis.
A case of clozapine-induced toxic hepatitis in a 49-year old woman with schizophrenia is described. The daily clozapine dose was clinically titrated to 300 mg. Subsequently, the patient experienced lethargy and anorexia, and fever, eosinophilia, leucocytosis and abnormal liver parameters were found. The serum concentration of clozapine was 8595 nmol/l, and treatment was discontinued. After eight days, the condition stabilised, and low-dose clozapine treatment was successfully reinstituted with serum monitoring (TDM).
Cigarette smoking is strongly correlated with the onset of lung cancer. Nicotine, a major component in cigarette smoke, has been found to promote tumor growth and angiogenesis, as well as protect cancer cells from apoptosis. Among all lung cancer cases, small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is found almost exclusively in smokers; metastasis and chemoresistance are the main reasons for the high mortality rates associated with SCLC. Retrospective studies have shown that patients with tobacco-related cancers who continue to smoke after their diagnosis display lower response rates and a shorter median survival compared with those who stop smoking. In the current work, we examined the effects of acute and repetitive exposure to nicotine, in the concentrations found in the lungs of active smokers, on the malignant properties of N417 SCLC cells in vitro. We observed that repetitive nicotine exposure induced a neuronal-like appearance in N417 cells along with increased adhesion to the extracellular matrix and chemoresistance. These changes were accompanied by enhanced migration through collagen matrices and adhesion to and transmigration across lymphatic endothelial cell monolayers. SCLC differentiation reverted after cessation of nicotine exposure. Here, we provide evidence for the leading role of the CXCR4/CXCL12 axis in these phenomena. Finally, we show how nicotine-differentiated N417 cells produced bigger and more vascularized tumors in mice, with lower apoptotic rates, than their nondifferentiated counterparts. In short, these findings identify the mechanisms through which nicotine increases SCLC malignancy and provide further evidence that CXCR4 is a potential anticancer target for nicotine-associated SCLC.
We have examined the effects of sulpiride, oxypertine and haloperidol on the behavioral and biochemical dopamine receptor function in the rat striatum. Although acute treatment with haloperidol or oxypertine induced catalepsy, tolerance to catalepsy developed following chronic treatment with haloperidol but not with oxypertine. Rats treated with acute or chronic sulpiride did not show signs of catalepsy. Intracerebroventricular administration of sulpiride, however, induced catalepsy and tolerance developed after chronic treatment. After chronic treatment with either of these three drugs, dopamine D2 receptors were up-regulated in the striatum. While acute administration of haloperidol, sulpiride or oxypertine increased the concentration of homovanillic acid in the striatum, the rate of increases was attenuated following chronic treatment with haloperidol or sulpiride, but not with oxypertine. While acute administration of sulpiride or oxypertine decreased dopamine, the decrease was attenuated following repeated administration of sulpiride but not of oxypertine. These results suggest that the unique pharmacological profile of oxypertine may be related to its therapeutic effect of activating apathetic patients, and that both sulpiride and oxypertine may cause tardive dyskinesia, as haloperidol does.
Long-term intragastric administration of the antiepileptic drug sodium valproate (Vuprol Polfa) to rats for 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months, once daily at the effective dose of 200 mg/kg body weight showed morphological evidence of encephalopathy, manifested by numerous nonspecific changes within Purkinje cell perikarya and their dendritic processes. The first ultrastructural abnormalities appeared after 3 months. They became more severe in animals with longer survival and were most pronounced after 12 months. The changes were maintained both 1 and 3 months after drug withdrawal. Mitochondria of Purkinje cell perikarya were most severely affected. Damage to mitochondria was accompanied by disintegration and fragmentation of granular endoplasmic reticulum, dilation of channels and cisterns of Golgi apparatus, enlargement of smooth endoplasmic reticulum elements including submembranous cisterns, and accumulation of profuse lipofuscin deposits. Frequently, Purkinje cells appeared as dark ischemic neurones, with focally damaged cellular membrane and features of disintegration. Swollen Bergmann's astrocytes were seen among damaged Purkinje cells or at the site of their loss. The general pattern of submicroscopic alterations of Purkinje cell perikarya suggested severe disorders in several intercellular biochemical extents, including inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation and abnormal protein synthesis, both of which could lead to lethal damage. Ultrastructural abnormalities within dendrites were characterized by damage to elements of smooth endoplasmic reticulum, which was considerably enlarged, with formation of large vacuolar structures situated deep in the dendroplasm. Mitochondrial lesions and alterations in cytoskeletal elements--disintegration of microtubules or even their complete loss--were also observed. The general pattern of abnormalities within the organelles and cytoskeletal elements of dendritic processes in Purkinje cells in the VPA chronic experimental model imply that there are disturbances in detoxication processes. Furthermore these changes were irreversible, as they were maintained after drug withdrawal.
The development of regenerative and plastic myocardial insufficiency induced by anthracycline antibiotic rubomycin is accompanied by a decrease in cardiomyocyte sensitivity to damage produced by synthetic catecholamine isoproterenol. The incidence and the size of coagulation necrosis foci of cardiomyocytes developed 6 h after isoproterenol injection significantly decreased with increasing in the interval between rubomycin injection and subsequent administration of isoproterenol. In Wistar rats receiving rubomycin 3-5 days prior to isoproterenol and exhibiting signs of regenerative and plastic insufficiency, no cardiomyocyte contracture, intracellular myocytolysis, or lump degradation characteristic of cardiac insufficiency induced by endo- and exogenous catecholamines were found.
Phenobarbital (PB) and orphenadrine (ORPH) are cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2B inducers and have liver tumor-promoting effects in rats. In this study, we performed a rat two-stage liver carcinogenesis bioassay to examine the tumor-promoting effect of PB and ORPH co-administration. Twelve male rats per group were given an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) for initiation. Two-week after DEN administration, rats were given PB (60 or 120 ppm in drinking water), ORPH (750 or 1,500 ppm in diet) or 60 ppm PB+750 ppm ORPH for 6-week. One-week after the PB/ORPH treatment, all rats were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy. To evaluate the effect of the combined administration, we used two statistical models: a heteroadditive model and an isoadditive model. In the heteroadditive model, the net values of the number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci, Cyp2b1/2, Gstm3 and Gpx2 mRNA levels, microsomal reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances level in the PB+ORPH group were significantly higher than the sum of the net values of those in the Low PB and Low ORPH groups. In the isoadditive model, the average values of the area of GST-P positive foci and PCNA positive hepatocyte ratio and Gstm3 mRNA level in the PB+ORPH group were significantly higher than the average values of those in the High PB and High ORPH groups. These results suggest that PB and ORPH co-administration causes synergistic effects in liver tumor-promoting activity in rats resulting from oxidative stress due to enhanced microsomal ROS production.
We have investigated the effects of two fibric acid derivatives, bezafibrate mono (400 mg daily) and gemfibrozil (600 mg b.d.), in 29 patients with type IIb hyperlipoproteinaemia. All patients received placebo and each drug for 8 weeks in randomised order in a double-blind, cross-over study designed to evaluate any different effects of the drugs on serum lipoproteins, cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), cholesteryl ester transfer activity (CETA), plasma fibrinogen, plasminogen activator inhibitor-I (PAI-1) or paraoxonase. Serum cholesterol decreased (P < 0.05) with gemfibrozil, but the effect of bezafibrate on serum cholesterol did not achieve statistical significance (placebo 8.34 +/- 1.05 (mean +/- S.D.), gemfibrozil 7.70 +/- 1.23 and bezafibrate 7.8 +/- 1.37 mmol/l). Both drugs decreased the serum triglyceride concentration (both P < 0.001) (placebo 4.39 (3.13-5.75) (median (interquartile range)), bezafibrate 2.26 (1.89-3.89) and gemfibrozil 2.00 (1.30-3.30) mmol/l) and very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol (both P < 0.001) (placebo 1.18 (0.74-2.30), bezafibrate 0.59 (0.34-0.85) and gemfibrozil 0.48 (0.34-0.68) mmol/l). Discontinuous gradient ultracentrifugation (DGU) revealed that Sf 60-400 (large VLDL) decreased by more than 50% and Sf 20-60 (small VLDL) by more than 30% with each of the drugs (both P < 0.001), neither of which affected the composition of these lipoproteins. Gemfibrozil decreased the concentration of Sf 12-20 lipoprotein (intermediate density lipoprotein; IDL) by 23% (P < 0.01), whereas the effect of bezafibrate on this lipoprotein did not achieve statistical significance. Neither drug altered the concentration of apolipoprotein B or of total Sf 0-12 lipoproteins (low density lipoprotein, (LDL)). Both, however, significantly increased the quantity of free cholesterol in Sf 0-12 lipoproteins (P < 0.05). Overall the concentration of triglycerides decreased significantly in all lipoproteins isolated by DGU (Sf 0-12, Sf 12-20, Sf 20-60, Sf 60-400) on gemfibrozil treatment, but only in Sf 20-60 and Sf 60-400 on bezafibrate (all P < 0.05). Both drugs also increased serum high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (placebo 1.15 +/- 0.29, bezafibrate 1.27 +/- 0.38 (P < 0.01) and gemfibrozil 1.26 +/- 0.49 (P < 0.05) mmol/l) and HDL3 cholesterol concentration (placebo 0.59 +/- 0.12, bezafibrate 0.72 +/- 0.23 (P < 0.001) and gemfibrozil 0.70 +/- 0.24 (P < 0.01) mmol/l). Serum apolipoprotein A1 (apo A1) was increased (P < 0.05) by bezafibrate compared to gemfibrozil (placebo 103 +/- 26, bezafibrate 111 +/- 28 and gemfibrozil 102 +/- 25 mg/dl) and CETA from HDL to VLDL and LDL was decreased (P < 0.05) by bezafibrate compared to placebo, but the apparent decrease with gemfibrozil did not achieve statistical significance (placebo 39.6 +/- 17.7, bezafibrate 32.3 +/- 14.7 and gemfibrozil 33.8 +/- 15.0 nmol/ml/h). Neither drug affected the circulating concentration of CETP. Plasma fibrinogen was increased (P < 0.05) by gemfibrozil (placebo 4.16 (3.38-4.71) and gemfibrozil 4.65 (4.05-5.77) g/l) and was significantly lower (P < 0.001) on bezafibrate (3.60 (3.18-4.54) g/l) than on gemfibrozil treatment. There was a significant (P < 0.05) increase in PAI-1 activity with bezafibrate and a similar trend with gemfibrozil (placebo 41.2 (25.6-64.5), bezafibrate 50.5 (35.1-73.9) and gemfibrozil 48.5 (31.5-5.4 U/l). Neither fibrate influenced plasma concentrations of PAI-1 nor were the activities of lecithin:cholesterol acyl transferase or paraoxonase affected. The major difference in the action of the two drugs on lipoprotein metabolism was the greater effect of gemfibrozil in decreasing the overall serum concentration of Sf 12-20 lipoproteins and the triglycerides in Sf 12-20 and 0-12 lipoproteins. Bezafibrate, however, increased serum apo A1 concentration and significantly decreased CETA. The two drugs also had different effects on the plasma fibrinogen levels, which increased with gemfibrozil and tended to decrea
Dopamine signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) plays an important role in regulating drug-taking and drug-seeking behaviors, but the role of D(1)- and D(2)-like receptors in this regulation remains unclear.
Our objective was to study the role of NAc D(1)- and D(2)-like receptors in the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior and the regulation of stabilized cocaine intake in rats.
Using a within-session reinstatement procedure, whereby animals self-administer cocaine (90 min) and extinguish responding (150 min) in a single session, we assessed the ability of NAc microinfusions of the D(1) agonist SKF 81297 and the D(2) agonist 7-OH-DPAT to reinstate extinguished cocaine seeking. The effects of the D(1) antagonist SCH 23390 and the D(2) antagonist eticlopride pretreatment on agonist- and cocaine-primed reinstatement were also measured. Similar agonist and antagonist treatments were tested for their ability to modulate stabilized cocaine and sucrose self-administration.
Intra-NAc infusions of either SKF 81297 (0.3-3.0 microg) or 7-OH-DPAT (1.0-10.0 microg) dose-dependently reinstated cocaine seeking with greater efficacy in the medial core than in the shell subregion and at doses that also stimulated locomotor behavior. Intra-NAc shell infusions of SCH 23390 (1.0 microg) and eticlopride (3.0-10.0 microg) blocked cocaine-primed reinstatement (2.0 mg/kg, i.v.) and indiscriminately blocked reinstatement induced by either intra-NAc D(1) or D(2) agonists. Doses of agonists that triggered reinstatement failed to alter stabilized cocaine intake, whereas doses of antagonists that blocked reinstatement increased cocaine intake in the shell.
Both D(1) and D(2) receptors in the NAc play a prominent, and perhaps cooperative, role in regulating cocaine-taking and cocaine-seeking behaviors.
Iloprost is a chemically stable derivative of carbaprostacyclin. We studied its hemodynamic effects in 10 patients in an intensive care unit. Iloprost was infused intravenously for 3 days for the treatment of advanced obliterative arterial disease of the lower extremities. Clinically significant hemodynamic responses were obtained with an infusion rate of 0.5 ng/kg/min. All subjects tolerated the dose of 4 ng/kg/min, which increased heart rate an average of 11% and cardiac index an average of 26%. This infusion rate decreased mean arterial pressure by 15%, total peripheral resistance by 31%, and pulmonary vascular resistance by 34%. Mean pulmonary arterial pressure, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, left and right ventricular stroke work indices, and rate pressure product did not change. At higher doses of up to 8 ng/kg/min, responses were augmented only slightly, but side effects such as headache, nausea, and abdominal colics became more prominent. The data show iloprost to be a potent vasodilator that reduces both pre- and afterload and presumably induces a compensatory increase in cardiac output and heart rate, but does not increase the work load or oxygen demand of the heart.
Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS, MIM 175700) is a rare autosomal dominant developmental disorder characterized by craniofacial abnormalities and post-axial and pre-axial polydactyly as well as syndactyly of hands and feet. Human GLI3, located on chromosome 7p13, is a candidate gene for the syndrome because it is interrupted by translocation breakpoints associated with GCPS. Since hemizygosity of 7p13 resulting in complete loss of one copy of GLI3 causes GCPS as well, haploinsufficiency of this gene was implicated as a mechanism to cause this developmental malformation. To determine if point mutations within GLI3 could be responsible for GCPS we describe the genomic sequences at the boundaries of the 15 exons and primer pair sequences for mutation analysis with polymerase chain reaction-based assays of the entire GLI3 coding sequences. In two GCPS cases, both of which did not exhibit obvious cytogenetic rearrangements, point mutations were identified in different domains of the protein, showing for the first time that Greig syndrome can be caused by GLI3 point mutations. In one case a nonsense mutation in exon X generates a stop codon truncating the protein in the C-H link of the first zinc finger. In the second case a missense mutation in exon XIV causes a Pro-->Ser replacement at a position that is conserved among GLI genes from several species altering a potential phosphorylation site.
Engineered nanoscale ceria is used as a diesel fuel catalyst. Little is known about its mammalian central nervous system effects. The objective of this paper is to characterize the biodistribution of a 5-nm citrate-stabilized ceria dispersion from blood into brain and its pro- or antioxidant effects. An approximately 4% aqueous ceria dispersion was iv infused into rats (0, 100, and up to 250 mg/kg), which were terminated after 1 or 20 h. Ceria concentration, localization, and chemical speciation in the brain were assessed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, light and electron microscopy (EM), and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS). Pro- or antioxidative stress effects were assessed as protein carbonyls, 3-nitrotyrosine, and protein-bound 4-hydroxy-2-trans-nonenal in hippocampus, cortex, and cerebellum. Glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase, manganese superoxide dismutase, and catalase levels and activities were measured in hippocampus. Catalase levels and activities were also measured in cortex and cerebellum. Na fluorescein and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) were given iv as blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity markers. Mortality was seen after administration of 175-250 mg ceria/kg. Twenty hours after infusion of 100 mg ceria/kg, brain HRP was marginally elevated. EM and EELS revealed mixed Ce(III) and Ce(IV) valence in the freshly synthesized ceria in vitro and in ceria agglomerates in the brain vascular compartment. Ceria was not seen in microvascular endothelial or brain cells. Ceria elevated catalase levels at 1 h and increased catalase activity at 20 h in hippocampus and decreased catalase activity at 1 h in cerebellum. Compared with a previously studied approximately 30-nm ceria, this ceria was more toxic, was not seen in the brain, and produced little oxidative stress effect to the hippocampus and cerebellum. The results are contrary to the hypothesis that a smaller engineered nanomaterial would more readily permeate the BBB.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome is an idiosyncratic reaction to neuroleptic therapy which sometimes can be fatal because of the various associated complications. We describe a schizophrenic patient who, after commencement of haloperidol, developed this reaction which was complicated by acute oliguric renal failure and aspiration pneumonia. It is mandatory that the patient is treated in a medical intensive care unit once the syndrome is recognised. The management of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome and its complications is discussed.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) comprises a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of diseases that afflicts approximately 1.5 million people worldwide. Affected individuals suffer from a progressive degeneration of the photoreceptors, eventually resulting in severe visual impairment. To isolate candidate genes for chorioretinal diseases, we cloned cDNAs specifically or preferentially expressed in the human retina and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) through a novel suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) method. One of these cDNAs (RET3C11) mapped to chromosome 1q31-q32.1, a region harbouring a gene involved in a severe form of autosomal recessive RP characterized by a typical preservation of the para-arteriolar RPE (RP12; ref. 3). The full-length cDNA encodes an extracellular protein with 19 EGF-like domains, 3 laminin A G-like domains and a C-type lectin domain. This protein is homologous to the Drosophila melanogaster protein crumbs (CRB), and denoted CRB1 (crumbs homologue 1). In ten unrelated RP patients with preserved para-arteriolar RPE, we identified a homozygous AluY insertion disrupting the ORF, five homozygous missense mutations and four compound heterozygous mutations in CRB1. The similarity to CRB suggests a role for CRB1 in cell-cell interaction and possibly in the maintenance of cell polarity in the retina. The distinct RPE abnormalities observed in RP12 patients suggest that CRB1 mutations trigger a novel mechanism of photoreceptor degeneration.
