Morphine, a mu-opiate agonist, and ethylketazocine, a kappa-opiate agonist, produce distinct behavioral, pharmacologic, and biochemical effects. In the mouse, large doses of morphine produce convulsions that are usually lethal and that cannot be blocked by naltrexone, whereas ethylketazocine produces nonlethal clonic convulsions that can be blocked by naltrexone. Moreover, mice made tolerant to morphine failed to show cross-tolerance to ethylketazocine, suggesting that the convulsions induced by these drugs are not mediated via a common opioid mechanism. Following a series of electroconvulsive shocks, both morphine and ethylketazocine produced clonic convulsions that were not lethal and that could be blocked by naltrexone. Furthermore, electroconvulsive shock-treated animals made tolerant to morphine-induced convulsions showed cross-tolerance to ethylketazocine. These data suggest that electroconvulsive shock may alter kappa-opioid systems in such a way as to allow mu-agonists to be functional at these sites.
A 1 year carcinogenicity bioassay was conducted in rats treated with three short cycles of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)/high-fat (HF) diet, followed by 2% white tea (wt/vol), 0.05% epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) or 0.065% caffeine as sole source of fluid intake. Thirty-two percent of the PhIP/HF controls survived to 1 year, compared with 50, 48.7 and 18.2% in groups given white tea, EGCG and caffeine, respectively. After 1 year, PhIP/HF controls had tumors in the colon, skin, small intestine, Zymbal's gland, salivary gland and pancreas. For all sites combined, excluding the colon, tumor incidence data were as follows: PhIP/HF 69.5%, PhIP/HF + EGCG 48.7%, PhIP/HF + white tea 46.9% and PhIP/HF + caffeine 13.3%. Unexpectedly, a higher incidence of colon tumors was detected in rats post-treated with white tea (69%) and caffeine (73%) compared with the 42% incidence in PhIP/HF controls. In the colon tumors, beta-catenin mutations were detected at a higher frequency after caffeine posttreatment, and there was a shift toward more tumors harboring substitutions of Gly34 with correspondingly high protein and messenger RNA expression seen for both beta-catenin and c-Myc. c-Myc expression exhibited concordance with tumor promotion, and there was a concomitant increase in cell proliferation versus apoptosis in colonic crypts. A prior report described suppression of PhIP-induced colonic aberrant crypts by the same test agents, but did not incorporate a HF diet. These findings are discussed in the context of epidemiological data which do not support an adverse effect of tea and coffee on colon tumor outcome-indeed, some such studies suggest a protective role for caffeinated beverages.
Leukemia is the most common childhood cancer. Trisenox, the active ingredient of which is trivalent arsenic, is the first line of treatment for acute promyelocytic leukemia. Since drug action usually requires uptake of the drug, it is of importance to determine the transport system responsible for Trisenox uptake. Recently, human aquaglyceroporin 9 (AQP9) has been shown to transport As(III) in Xenopus oocytes. In this study we report to show that AQP9 expression modulates the drug sensitivity of leukemic cells. AQP9 was transfected into the chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line K562. The transfectants became hypersensitive to Trisenox and Sb(III). The promyelocytic leukemia cell line HL60 treated with vitamin D showed higher expression of AQP9 and hypersensitivity to Trisenox and Sb(III). This sensitivity was due to higher rates of uptake of the trivalent metalloids by the cell lines overexpressing AQP9. Trisenox hypersensitivity results from increased expression of AQP9 drug uptake system. The possibility of using pharmacological agents to increase expression of AQP9 gene delivers the promise of new therapies for the treatment of leukemia. Thus, drug hypersensitivity can be correlated with increased expression of the drug uptake system. This is the first demonstration that AQP9 can modulate drug sensitivity in cancer.
The development of school phobia has been reported in some patients with Tourette syndrome treated with haloperidol. The author reports on a patient who developed school phobia on each of three trials with pimozide, a neuroleptic chemically similar to haloperidol, and proposes the term "neuroleptic separation anxiety syndrome." The syndrome is clinically indistinguishable from DSM-III criteria for school phobia (separation anxiety disorder). Tricyclic antidepressants may have a therapeutic or prophylactic effect. It is not known whether this neuroleptic side effect occurs in patients other than those with Tourette syndrome.
After a plastic reprocessing factory began to operate in August 2004, the residents around the factory in Neyagawa, Osaka, Japan, began to complain of symptoms. Therefore, we conducted an exposure assessment and a population-based epidemiological study in 2006.
To assess exposure, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and total VOCs were measured at two locations in the vicinity of the factory. In the population-based study, a total of 3,950 residents were targeted. A self-administered questionnaire was used to collect information about subjects' mucocutaneous or respiratory symptoms. Using logistic regression models, we compared the prevalence of symptoms in July 2006 by employing the farthest area from the factory as a reference, and prevalence odds ratios (PORs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated.
The concentration of total VOCs was higher in the vicinity of the factory. The prevalence of mucocutaneous and respiratory symptoms was the highest among the residents in the closest area to the factory. Some symptoms were significantly increased among the residents within 500 m of the factory compared with residents of an area 2800 m from the factory: e.g., sore throat (POR=3.2, 95% CI: 1.3-8.0), eye itch (POR=3.0, 95% CI: 1.5-6.0), eye discharge (POR=6.0, 95% CI: 2.3-15.9), eczema (POR=3.0, 95% CI: 1.1-7.9) and sputum (POR=2.4, 95% CI: 1.1-5.1).
Despite of the limitations of this study, these results imply a possible association of open-air VOCs with mucocutaneous and respiratory symptoms. Because this kind of plasticre cycling factory only recently came into operation, more attention should be paid to the operation of plastic recycling factories in the environment.
Under normoxia, non-malignant cells rely on oxidative phosphorylation for their ATP production, whereas cancer cells rely on Glycolysis; a phenomenon known as the Warburg effect. We aimed to elucidate the mechanisms contributing to the Warburg effect in human breast cancer.
Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzymes were profiled using zymography. LDH-B subunit expression was assessed by reverse transcription PCR in cells, and by Immunohistochemistry in breast tissues. LDH-B promoter methylation was assessed by sequencing bisulfite modified DNA.
Absent or decreased expression of LDH isoenzymes 1-4, were seen in T-47D and MCF7 cells. Absence of LDH-B mRNA was seen in T-47D cells, and its expression was restored following treatment with the demethylating agent 5'Azacytadine. LDH-B promoter methylation was identified in T-47D and MCF7 cells, and in 25/25 cases of breast cancer tissues, but not in 5/5 cases of normal breast tissues. Absent immuno-expression of LDH-B protein (<10% cells stained), was seen in 23/26 (88%) breast cancer cases, and in 4/8 cases of adjacent ductal carcinoma in situ lesions. Exposure of breast cancer cells to hypoxia (1% O(2)), for 48 hours resulted in significant increases in lactate levels in both MCF7 (14.0 fold, p = 0.002), and T-47D cells (2.9 fold, p = 0.009), but not in MDA-MB-436 (-0.9 fold, p = 0.229), or MCF10AT (1.2 fold, p = 0.09) cells.
Loss of LDH-B expression is an early and frequent event in human breast cancer occurring due to promoter methylation, and is likely to contribute to an enhanced glycolysis of cancer cells under hypoxia.
Gill histopathology and hematological primary indices, including blood delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (deltaALA-D) activity and nucleocytoplasmic ratio of erythrocytes, were assessed in three tropical marine fish species, Scarus ghobban, Epinephelus merra, and Siganus sutor, from the presumably contaminated lagoon of Bain des Dames, Mauritius. Concurrently, the nonpolluted region of Blue Bay/Pt d'Esny was used as a reference site for comparison of fish physiological responses and seawater quality. Bain des Dames showed high seawater mercury content (6.4+/-0.5 microg/L), traces of iron (70+/-40 microg/L), and fluctuating biochemical oxygen demand values (0.488+/-0.171 mg/L day(-1)). Gill histopathological analysis revealed lesions such as epithelial hyperplasia and inflammation. Similarly, a generalized increase in blood deltaALA-D activity (131.27-355.76 nmol PBG/ml RBC.h) was recorded. Fish from Bain des Dames showed species-specific hematological responses including normocytic macrocytic blood cells (S. ghobban), macrocytic anemia (S. sutor), and active erythropoiesis (E. merra). Though the species displayed impaired health, attributed to changes in water quality, the blood responses seemingly indicate adaptation to hypoxic conditions arising from both gill degradation and perhaps oxygen-level fluctuations.
The case of an 18-year-old woman who experienced prominent, episodic cognitive dysfunction and affective symptoms, which coincided with a brief administration of dexamethasone, has been presented. Because her symptoms were subtle and intermittent, and because she was no longer taking corticosteroids when she sought medical attention, the diagnosis of a corticosteroid-induced mental disorder was delayed. This case demonstrates the need for heightened awareness, among all practitioners, of the effects of corticosteroids on mental functions. Because it is not possible to predict who will experience mental disturbances with even small doses of corticosteroids, all patients (and their families, if possible) should be informed about the possibility of adverse reactions. Dentists and physicians need to weigh the risks and benefits of corticosteroid therapy carefully. Clinicians also should be suspicious of psychiatric disturbances in proximity to corticosteroid use (i.e., even in a patient who is not taking corticosteroids, but who has a history of corticosteroid treatment).
The agricultural fungicide N-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)succinimide (NDPS) induces acute nephrotoxicity characterized as polyuric renal failure with proximal tubular necrosis. Phenobarbital pretreatment potentiates NDPS and N-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-2-hydroxysuccinimide (NDHS, a nephrotoxic metabolite of NDPS) nephrotoxicity in male rats. The purpose of this study was to determine the ability of phenobarbital pretreatment to potentiate (1) NDHS nephrotoxicity in female rats and (2) N-(3,5-dichlorophenyl)-2-hydroxysuccinamic acid (2-NDHSA, a nephrotoxic metabolite of NDHS) nephrotoxicity in male and female rats. Age-matched male and female Fischer 344 rats (4/group) were pretreated intraperitoneally (ip) with phenobarbital (75 mg/d, 3 d). At 24 h after the last injection of phenobarbital, an ip injection of NDHS (0.025 mmol/kg), 2-NDHSA (0.025 mmol/kg, females; 0.05 mmol/kg, males), or vehicle was given and renal function was monitored at 24 and 48 h post NDPS metabolite or vehicle. Additional groups received the NDPS metabolite or vehicle only and were also monitored for 48 h. In a separate experiment, male Fischer 344 rats were pretreated with piperonyl butoxide (PIBX, 1360 mg/kg) or the PIBX vehicle. 2-NDHSA (0.1 mmol/kg) or vehicle was administered (ip) 30 min after PIBX, and renal function was monitored for 24 h. Phenobarbital markedly potentiated 2-NDHSA nephrotoxicity in male rats as evidenced by increased kidney weight, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration, and decreased tetraethylammonium (TEA) accumulation by renal cortical slices. PIBX had no effect on 2-NDHSA nephrotoxicity. Phenobarbital pretreatment did not markedly enhance the nephrotoxic potential of NDHS or 2-NDHSA in female rats. These results indicate that phenobarbital exhibits differential potentiation of NDPS metabolite nephrotoxicity in male and female rats and that the potentiation of 2-NDHSA nephrotoxicity observed in males is not due to cytochrome P-450-mediated oxidative biotransformation.
FK506 is an important immunosuppressant that has shown great promise in the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Approximately 5% of patients receiving FK506 develop major central nervous system toxicity, but the peripheral nerves are usually spared. During 1990-1991, some 1000 patients received liver transplants under FK506 immunosuppression. Of these, 3 patients developed severe multifocal demyelinating sensorimotor polyneuropathy 2-10 weeks after initiation of FK506 therapy. Improvement followed plasmapheresis or intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), suggesting an immune-mediated cause. Although autoimmune neuropathy has been previously reported in immune-deficient states such as Hodgkin's disease and AIDS, it is not an expected complication of immunosuppressive therapy. However, others have shown that this phenomenon can be produced in rats with cyclosporine A (CsA), whose effects on T-cell subsets are similar to those seen with FK506. These T-cell subset changes may have precipitated this dysimmune neuropathy in our patients.
The literature concerning possible cardiotoxic effects of lithium therapy in man is reviewed. Reports indicate a high frequency of electrocardiographic T wave morphology changes with lithium therapy. Therapeutic and toxic levels of lithium have infrequently been associated with serious cardiac dysfunction. Of particular concern are cases of sinus mode dysfunction or sinoatrial block and the appearance or aggravation of ventricular irritability. The incidence of cardiac complications may increase with age. The necessity or cardiac screening and monitoring of patients receiving lithium is discussed.
To investigate the effect of chlorhexidine gluconate in urethral local anesthetic gel on patients undergoing outpatient flexible cystoscopy. We postulated that chlorhexidine was contributing to the pain and urgency that occurs during and after cystoscopy.
A prospective randomized single-blinded study was conducted. A total of 141 patients undergoing outpatient flexible cystoscopy participated in the study. They were randomized to receive 10 mL of 2% lignocaine gel with 0.05% chlorhexidine gluconate (group 1, n = 72) or 10 mL of 2% lignocaine and aqueous gel mixture (group 2, n = 69). Pain scores were recorded on a numerical visual analog scale from 0 to 10.
The groups were well matched for the purposes of comparison. The mean pain scores were not significantly different between groups 1 and 2 at the insertion of the scope (2.1 versus 2.2, P = 0.7), during cystoscopy (1.8 versus 1.9, P = 0.759), and immediately after cystoscopy (1.4 versus 0.8, P = 0.06). However, a significant difference was found in the mean pain scores between groups 1 and 2 during the first void (1.8 versus 1.0, P = 0.031) and after the first void (2.4 versus 1.2, P = 0.007). A significant increase occurred in the reported levels of urgency after cystoscopy in group 1 (P = 0.018). No difference was found in the level of culture-proven symptomatic infection.
Chlorhexidine appears to contribute to significant levels of pain and urgency after outpatient flexible cystoscopy.
Two patients, one Jewish and the other Nigerian, were investigated for pain in the urethra. They were both fully treated along the usual lines without any change in the pain. The Jewish patient was later found to be sensitive to chloroquine. When ingestion of this drug was discontinued, his urethral pain disappeared after about four months. The Nigerian patient was advised along the same lines when it was found that he too took chloroquine for malarial attacks regularly. He had total symptomatic relief. The probable relationship between chloroquine and urethral pain is discussed.
Data collected from the Public Health Service Main Study of Reye's Syndrome and Medications were analyzed to assess the relationship between the development of Reye's syndrome and the dose of aspirin received during the antecedent respiratory or chickenpox illness. Among those exposed to aspirin, case-patients were found to have received greater average daily and maximum daily doses of aspirin and greater doses of aspirin on the first four days of the antecedent illness (median, 25.1 mg/kg; 33.0 mg/kg; and 65.4 mg/kg; respectively) than did controls (median, 14.5 mg/kg; 19.0 mg/kg; and 27.0 mg/kg; respectively). The excess risk associated with increasing aspirin doses was due primarily to intermediate levels of dose (eg, 15 to 27 mg/kg per day) rather than higher levels (greater than 27 mg/kg per day). The dose difference between exposed case-patients and controls was greatest on days 3 and 4 of the antecedent illness.
Two patients with epidermoid carcinoma treated with mitomycin-C (Mit-C) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) developed microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA), renal failure, and altered mental status. Patient 1 was free of metastatic disease, on maintenance Mit-C and 5-FU when MAHA changes appeared. Patient 2 had recurrent carcinoma in the pelvic area when MAHA changes appeared. In both patients, MAHA changes and neurologic function improved after exchange plasmapheresis. This is the first report of epidermoid carcinoma manifesting MAHA changes after chemotherapy. Speculation as to pathogenesis and appropriate therapy are discussed.
Cutaneous hypersensitivity vasculitis is often idiopathic, but may be the result of therapeutic drugs. It is important to be aware of previously unreported drugs that may be associated with this complication. We report a case of cutaneous hypersensitivity vasculitis due to famciclovir therapy. To our knowledge, this is the first report of this interaction in the medical literature in English.
We withdrew phenytoin from 17 inpatients maintained on combination therapy with carbamazepine for complex partial seizures and analyzed seizure occurrence in relation to plasma levels and time from initiation of withdrawal. The ratio of maximum to mean weekly seizure frequency did not vary with initial level or rate of withdrawal. The week with most frequent seizures began a median of 10 days after phenytoin levels became undetectable, and mean daily seizure frequency was higher at undetectable than at falling levels for the entire 2- to 10-week study period. Four patients had a total of 6 clusters of generalized tonic-clonic seizures; only 2 occurred while levels were falling and the other 4 at 3, 9, 28, and 42 days after reaching undetectable levels. Our data argue against the occurrence of withdrawal seizures in these patients and suggest that worsening of seizures following phenytoin discontinuation more likely reflects loss of therapeutic drug effect than a true abstinence phenomenon.
The aim of this phase II study was to evaluate the tumour response of neuroendocrine tumours to targeted irradiation with the radiolabelled somatostatin analogue 90Y-DOTATOC. In addition, the palliative effect of 90Y-DOTATOC treatment on the malignant carcinoid syndrome and tumour-associated pain was investigated.
Forty-one patients (mean age 53 years) with neuroendocrine gastroenteropancreatic and bronchial tumours were included. Eighty-two percent of the patients had therapy resistant and progressive disease. The treatment consisted of four intravenous injections of a total of 6000 MBq/m2 90Y-DOTATOC, administered at intervals of six weeks.
The overall response rate was 24%. For endocrine pancreatic tumours it was 36%. Complete remissions (CR) were found in 2% (1 of 41), partial remissions (PR) in 22% (9 of 41), minor response in 12% (5 of 41), stable disease (SD) in 49% (20 of 41) and progressive disease (PD) in 15% (6 of 41). The median follow up was 15 months (range 1 month to 36 months). The median duration of response has not been reached at 26 months. The two-year survival time was 76 +/- 16%. Eighty-three percent of the patients suffering from the malignant carcinoid syndrome achieved a significant reduction of symptoms. The treatment was well tolerated. A reduction of pain score was observed in all patients (5 of 41) with morphine dependent tumour-associated pain. Side effects included grade III (NCIGC) pancytopenia in 5%, and vomiting shortly after injection in 23%. No grade III-IV renal toxicity was observed.
Targeted radiotherapy with 90Y-DOTATOC is a novel, well-tolerated treatment for neuroendocrine tumours with a remarkable objective response rate, survival time, and symptomatic response.
A double-blind, crossover study was performed in 21 out-patients with osteoarthrosis of the hip or knee to compare the efficacy and tolerability of a new slow-release formulation (multiple units dose preparation) of indomethacin (50 mg) with those of naproxen (250 mg). After a wash-out period of 1 week, the patients were randomized to receive 2 tablets daily of one or other preparation for 3 weeks. This was followed by another wash-out period of 1 week, whereafter the patients were crossed over to the alternative drug for another 3 weeks. Subjective assessments of pain and objective assessment of joint mobility and the use of acetylsalicylic acid as rescue analgesic were used to evaluate the efficacy of the treatment. Analysis of results from 19 patients showed that both drugs effectively alleviated pain, and there was no difference between indomethacin and naproxen in this respect. There were 2 withdrawals, 1 on naproxen due to inefficacy and 1 on indomethacin due to gastro-intestinal side-effects. Otherwise, the drugs were well tolerated and side-effects occurred to the same extent on both drugs. This study confirms the good efficacy and tolerability of the new slow-release indomethacin preparation.
The intranephron distribution of two major cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyases was determined in order to clarify the role of these enzymes in promoting the nephrotoxicity associated with certain halogenated xenobiotics. Various nephron segments [i.e., glomerulus, early, middle, and terminal portions of the proximal tubule (S1, S2, and S3 respectively), the thick ascending limb, the distal tubule, and the collecting tubule] were isolated by microdissection from collagenase-treated rat kidneys. Each segment was dissected in Hanks' solution, solubilized with Triton X-100, and applied to a micropolyacrylamide gel constructed with a continuous gradient. The gels were subjected to electrophoresis and then incubated in the dark in a solution containing S-(1,2 dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), a sodium alpha-keto-gamma-methiolbutyrate, phenazine methosulfate, and nitro-blue tetrazolium. The position of cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase- and L-amino acid oxidase activities in the gels was revealed by the presence of blue formazen dye bands. The relative intensities of the bands were determined by optical scanning with a microdensitometer. Three bands were detected: band I (M(r) approximately 330,000) corresponds to a recently described high M(r) cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase whereas band III (M(r) approximately 90,000) corresponds to a lower M(r) cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase (identical to cytosolic glutamine transaminase K). Band II (M(r) approximately 240,000) corresponds to L-amino acid oxidase (a unique activity of the B isoform of rat kidney L-hydroxy acid oxidase). beta-lyase activity with DCVC as substrates was detected in the S1, S2, and S3 segments of the nephron but not in other regions of the kidney. The activity was in the order: S2 = S3 > S1. In another series of experiments, rats were killed 24 h after treatment with hexachloro- 1,3-butadiene (HCBD). In whole kidney homogenates the relative intensity of band III (per 22.2 micrograms tissue wet weight) after a 30 min incubation was induced significantly (by 50%), but the relative intensities of the other two bands were unchanged. On the other hand, in proximal tubules isolated from HCBD-treated rats the relative intensities (per 5 mm of nephron) of peak I of S2, peak II of S3, and peak III of S3 were significantly reduced by 28, 33, and 72%, respectively. These findings suggest that the low M(r) beta-lyase is induced by HCBD and that impaired cell function in the segments (especially S3) results in proteins leaking out of the target cells. To examine the relationship between the nephrotoxic effect of HCBD and cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase activity, the intracellular ATP:protein ratio was quantitated in each nephron segment and in whole kidney homogenates. In HCBD-treated rats the ATP:protein ratio of the S1, S2, and S3 segments was unchanged, decreased by approximately 50%, and increased by approximately 30% respectively. In the kidney homogenates of HCBD-treated rats the ATP content was decreased by 32%. However, the loss of ATP was significantly less when the rats were pretreated with aminooxyacetate (a general inhibitor of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes, including beta-lyase) 1 h before HCBD administration. The results strongly suggest that HCBD is converted to toxic metabolites within the kidney and that this process leads to metabolic derangement and reduction of ATP in susceptible kidney cells.
To examine if the choice of volatile agents influences cardiac outcome in coronary artery surgery, 1178 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting without additional operations received enflurane (608) or isoflurane (570) as their primary anesthetics. The inspired concentration of volatile agent (administered with 50% nitrous oxide) was adjusted depending on the level of blood pressure at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. In addition to the volatile agent assigned, each patient received small doses of fentanyl at induction and before sternotomy (total 0.006-0.008 mg/kg). The groups did not differ in preoperative and surgical characteristics except for a more frequent history of renal dysfunction in patients given isoflurane. The rates of postoperative myocardial infarction, administration of positive inotropic agents at the time of weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, and in-hospital deaths in the enflurane and isoflurane groups were 1.8% and 4.0% (P less than 0.05), 4.9% and 8.1% (P less than 0.05%), and 0.3% and 2.1% (P less than 0.01), respectively. Although the mechanism of the adverse effects of isoflurane could not be clarified in this study, these results demonstrate that the use of isoflurane could be inappropriate in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
Cortical dysplasia is a malformation characterized by defects in proliferation, migration and maturation. This study was designed to evaluate the alterations in offspring rat cerebellum induced by maternal exposure to carmustine-[1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosoure] (BCNU) and to investigate the effects of exogenous melatonin upon cerebellar BCNU-induced cortical dysplasia, using histological and biochemical analyses. Pregnant Wistar rats were assigned to five groups: intact-control, saline-control, melatonin-treated, BCNU-exposed and BCNU-exposed plus melatonin. Rats were exposed to BCNU on embryonic day 15 and melatonin was given until delivery. Immuno/histochemistry and electron microscopy were carried out on the offspring cerebellum, and levels of malondialdehyde and superoxide dismutase were determined. Histopathologically, typical findings were observed in the cerebella from the control groups, but the findings consistent with early embryonic development were noted in BCNU-exposed cortical dysplasia group. There was a marked increase in the number of TUNEL positive cells and nestin positive cells in BCNU-exposed group, but a decreased immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein, synaptophysin and transforming growth factor beta1 was observed, indicating a delayed maturation, and melatonin significantly reversed these changes. Malondialdehyde level in BCNU-exposed group was higher than those in control groups and melatonin decreased malondialdehyde levels in BCNU group (P<0.01), while there were no significant differences in the superoxide dismutase levels between these groups. These data suggest that exposure of animals to BCNU during pregnancy leads to delayed maturation of offspring cerebellum and melatonin protects the cerebellum against the effects of BCNU.
Idarubicin, a new analogue of daunorubicin, was administered i.v. at a dose of 15 mg/m2 to 31 previously treated patients with unfavorable non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Clinical characteristics included median age, 69 years; performance status, 1; and prior chemotherapeutic regimens, 1. Twenty of the patients were relapsing after prior therapy and 11 were refractory; 29 had received prior anthracycline or anthracenedione. Responses were observed in 43% of patient (3 complete remission and 10 partial remission) with a median duration of 10+ months (2-29+ months). Idarubicin was well tolerated with nonhematological toxicities (nausea/vomiting, mucositis, and anorexia) seen in less than 50% of patients. Median hematological values during the first cycle for this dosage included WBC, 1,300/mm3; platelets, 129,000/mm3; and hemoglobin, 10.9 mg/dl. With dose escalation, hematological toxicity was dose limiting. Symptomatic cardiac toxicity was observed in one patient who had received maximum dose doxorubicin and radiotherapy. Median values for the cardiac ejection fraction during the full course of therapy for the entire group of patients were 0.62 (initial) and 0.60 (final). Idarubicin in i.v. form is an active drug in previously treated patients with unfavorable non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
We sought to test the response of the coronary microcirculation to alpha-adrenoceptor blockade in patients with syndrome X (angina, ischemia-like stress electrocardiogram, and a normal coronary arteriogram). The response of the microcirculation was assessed by quantification of coronary vasodilator reserve (the ratio of hyperemic to resting myocardial blood flow). We investigated 28 patients with syndrome X [18 women, age 54.4 (7.6) years]. Myocardial blood flow was measured at rest and after dipyridamole by using positron emission tomography with H(2)15O. The measurements were made before and after treatment for 10 days with doxazosin (1 mg o.d. for 3 days, followed by 2 mg o.d. for 7 days) or a matched placebo, similarly administered. Patients were randomized to alpha1-blockade or to placebo in double-blind fashion. No significant differences were demonstrable between syndrome X patients treated with doxazosin and those receiving placebo, with respect to resting myocardial blood flow, myocardial blood flow after dipyridamole, or coronary vasodilator reserve (the ratio of the latter two). In addition, no relations were demonstrable among myocardial blood flow, coronary vasodilator reserve, development of chest pain after dipyridamole, or development of ischemia-like ECG changes. Doxazosin had no effect on the perception of chest pain after dipyridamole. No differences were found between the effects of alpha1-blockade with doxazosin or those of placebo with respect to myocardial blood flow in syndrome X. The values obtained for myocardial blood flow and coronary vasodilator reserve for the patients were within the normal range. The data do not support the case for alpha1-mediated vasoconstriction having an etiologic role in the chest pain of syndrome X.
Cytochrome P450 17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase (CYP17) is critical in determining cortisol and sex steroid biosynthesis. To investigate how CYP17 functions in vivo, we generated mice with a targeted deletion of CYP17. Although in chimeric mice Leydig cell CYP17 mRNA and intratesticular and circulating testosterone levels were dramatically reduced (80%), the remaining testosterone was sufficient to support spermatogenesis as evidenced by the generation of phenotypical black C57BL/6 mice. However, male chimeras consistently failed to generate heterozygous CYP17 mice and after five matings chimeric mice stopped mating indicating a change in sexual behavior. These results suggested that CYP17 deletion caused a primary phenotype (infertility), probably not due to the anticipated androgen imbalance and a secondary phenotype (change in sexual behavior) due to the androgen imbalance. Surprisingly, CYP17 mRNA was found in mature sperm, and serial analysis of gene expression identified CYP17 mRNA in other testicular germ cells. CYP17 mRNA levels were directly related to percent chimerism. Moreover, more than 50% of the sperm from high-percentage chimeric mice were morphologically abnormal, and half of them failed the swim test. Furthermore, 60% of swimming abnormal sperm was devoid of CYP17. These results suggest that CYP17, in addition to its role in steroidogenesis and androgen formation, is present in germ cells where it is essential for sperm function, and deletion of one allele prevents genetic transmission of mutant and wild-type alleles causing infertility followed by change in sexual behavior due to androgen imbalance.
