In the present study, we investigated how the neurosteroid, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) affects the development of morphine dependence and tolerance in mice. Mice administered morphine (10 mg/kg) twice a day for 5 days developed tolerance to the analgesic effect and dependence as shown by a severe withdrawal syndrome induced by naloxone. Co-administration of DHEAS (10 mg/kg) with morphine significantly inhibited the development, but not the expression, of tolerance to morphine-induced analgesia and the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. The expression of c-fos mRNA was observed in the frontal cortex and thalamus of mice showing signs of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal, while the expression of c-fos mRNA was significantly diminished by co-administration of DHEAS with morphine. On the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal, mice showed a significant elevation of cyclic AMP (cAMP) levels in the thalamus, whereas chronic administration of DHEAS with morphine did not affect the increase in cAMP. Interestingly, repeated co-administration of DHEAS with morphine prevented the withdrawal-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) 2 in the frontal cortex. These results showed that DHEAS prevented the development of morphine tolerance and dependence and suggested that the attenuating effects of DHEAS might result from the regulation of c-fos mRNA expression, which is possibly involved the signaling activation of ERK, but not of cAMP pathway.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is an uncommon complication of chemotherapy that contributes to the morbidity of oncology and bone marrow transplant patients. The pathogenesis is not well understood and no established clinical animal model exists. We studied four rhesus monkeys (RM) that developed fatal HUS following high-dose chemotherapy. Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (pre-Hct 40% and day 5-8 Hct 31% (P < .05), increased BUN (168 mg/dl), creatinine (8.2 mg/dl), and lactate dehydrogenase (1458 IU/L) (mean day 5-8 measurements) were observed. Platelets counts decreased to 39 +/- 15 x 10(9)/l from a mean of 397 +/- 31 x 10(9)/L (P < .0001). vWF, ATIII, thrombin:anti-thrombin complex (T:AT) and prothrombin fragment F1.2 levels were not different from a control group (N = 2). The data presented describe chemotherapy-induced HUS with typical clinical and laboratory features which may provide an animal model for the study of this important syndrome.
Type 1 Gaucher disease (GD), the most prevalent lysosomal storage disease, results from the deficient activity of acid beta-glucosidase. Molecular analysis of 12 unrelated Portuguese patients with type 1 GD identified three novel acid beta-glucosidase mutations (F109V, W184R and R395P), as well as three previously reported, but uncharacterized, lesions (R359Q, G377S and N396T). The type 1 probands were either heteroallelic for the well-characterized common lesion, N370S, and the F109V, W184R, R359Q or N396T lesions or homoallelic for the G377S or N396T mutations. Expression of the W184R, R359Q and R395P mutations revealed very low specific activities based on cross-reacting immunologic material (CRIM SAs of 0.0004, 0.016 and 0.045, respectively), consistent with their being found only in type 1 patients who had a neuroprotective N370S allele. In contrast, the F109V, G377S and N396T alleles had significant acid beta-glucosidase activity (CRIM specific activities of 0.15, 0.17, 0.14, respectively), in agreement with their being mild type 1 alleles. Thus, these studies identified additional acid beta-glucosidase mutations in the Portuguese population and demonstrated that the G377S and N396T mutations were neuroprotective, consistent with the mild clinical phenotypes of the type 1 patients who were homoallelic for the G377S and N396T lesions.
Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is the primary serine-threonine phosphatase of eukaryotic cells, and changes in its activity have been linked to neoplastic and neurodegenerative diseases. However, the role of PP2A in noncancerous lung diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has not been previously examined. This study determined that PP2A activity was significantly increased in the lungs of advanced emphysema subjects compared with age-matched controls. Furthermore, we found that cigarette smoke exposure increases PP2A activity in mouse lung in vivo and in primary human small airway epithelial (SAE) cells in vitro. In mice, intratracheal transfection of PP2A protein prior to cigarette smoke exposure prevented acute smoke-induced lung inflammation. Conversely, inhibiting PP2A activity during smoke exposure exacerbated inflammatory responses in the lung. To further determine how PP2A modulates the responses to cigarette smoke in the lung, enzyme levels were manipulated in SAE cells using protein transfection and short hairpin RNA (shRNA) techniques. Increasing PP2A activity in SAE cells via PP2A protein transfection downregulated cytokine expression and prevented the induction of proteases following cigarette smoke extract (CSE) treatment. Conversely, decreasing enzymatic activity by stably transfecting SAE cells with shRNA for the A subunit of PP2A exacerbated these smoke-mediated responses. This study establishes that PP2A induction by cigarette smoke modulates immune and proteolytic responses to cigarette smoke exposure. Together, these findings suggest that manipulation of PP2A activity may be a plausible means to treat COPD and other inflammatory diseases.
Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSC) hold great promise for providing various differentiated cell models for in vitro toxigenicity testing. For Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) detection and mechanistic studies, several cell models currently exist, but none examine toxin function with species-specific relevance while exhibiting high sensitivity. The most sensitive cell models to date are mouse or rat primary cells and neurons derived from mouse embryonic stem cells, both of which require significant technical expertise for culture preparation. This study describes for the first time the use of hiPSC-derived neurons for BoNT detection. The neurons used in this study were differentiated and cryopreserved by Cellular Dynamics International (Madison, WI) and consist of an almost pure pan-neuronal population of predominantly gamma aminoisobutyric acidergic and glutamatergic neurons. Western blot and quantitative PCR data show that these neurons express all the necessary receptors and substrates for BoNT intoxication. BoNT/A intoxication studies demonstrate that the hiPSC-derived neurons reproducibly and quantitatively detect biologically active BoNT/A with high sensitivity (EC(50) ∼0.3 U). Additionally, the quantitative detection of BoNT serotypes B, C, E, and BoNT/A complex was demonstrated, and BoNT/A specificity was confirmed through antibody protection studies. A direct comparison of BoNT detection using primary rat spinal cord cells and hiPSC-derived neurons showed equal or increased sensitivity, a steeper dose-response curve and a more complete SNARE protein target cleavage for hiPSC-derived neurons. In summary, these data suggest that neurons derived from hiPSCs provide an ideal and highly sensitive platform for BoNT potency determination, neutralizing antibody detection and for mechanistic studies.
Peripheral neuropathy frequently limits the duration of treatment with thalidomide for patients with multiple myeloma. We assessed the time course of occurrence, possible predictive factors, and the utility of serial nerve electrophysiological studies (NES) for detecting onset of neuropathy.
Seventy-five patients with relapsed/refractory myeloma were enrolled onto a multicenter trial of dose-escalating thalidomide with or without interferon. Patients underwent clinical assessment plus NES at baseline and every 3 months. Time to development of neuropathy according to clinical or NES criteria was compared. Patient and treatment-related factors were compared as predictors of neuropathy.
Thirty-nine percent had some NES abnormalities at baseline. Patients received thalidomide at a median dose-intensity of 373 mg/d. Thirty-one of 75 patients (41%) developed neuropathy during thalidomide treatment; 11 patients (15%) discontinued treatment with thalidomide due to neuropathy. The actuarial incidence of neuropathy increased from 38% at 6 months to 73% at 12 months, with 81% of responding patients developing this complication. Serial NES did not reliably predict the imminent development of clinical neuropathy requiring thalidomide cessation, nor were patient age, sex, or prior therapy predictive. Patients who developed neuropathy had a longer duration of thalidomide exposure (median, 268 v 89 days; P = .0001). Cumulative dose or dose-intensity received was not predictive.
The majority of patients will develop peripheral neuropathy given sufficient length of treatment with thalidomide. To minimize the risk of neurotoxicity, therapy should be limited to less than 6 months. Electrophysiologic monitoring provides no clear benefit versus careful clinical evaluation for the development of clinically significant neuropathy.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a highly neurotoxic environmental pollutant that has a high appetency to the central nervous system. The underlying mechanisms of MeHg-induced neurotoxicity have not been elucidated clearly until now. Therefore, to explore the mechanisms contribute to MeHg-induced neurotoxicity, rats were exposed to different dosage of methylmercury chloride (CH3 ClHg) (0, 4, and 12 μmol kg(-1)) for 4 weeks to evaluate the neurotoxic effects of MeHg. In addition, considering the antioxidative properties of tea polyphenols (TP), 1 mmol kg(-1) TP was pretreated to observe the possible protective effects on MeHg-induced neurotoxicity. Then Hg, glutamate (Glu) and glutamine (Gln) levels, glutamine synthetase (GS), phosphate-activated glutaminase (PAG), Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, and Ca(2+)-ATPase activities, intracellular Ca(2+) level were examined, glutathione (GSH), malondialdehyde (MDA), protein sulfhydryl, carbonyl, 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) mRNA and protein expressions, apoptosis level and morphological changes in the cerebral cortex were also investigated. Study results showed that compared with those in control, exposure to CH3 ClHg resulted in excitotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner, which was shown by the Glu-Gln cycle disruption and intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis disturbance. On the other hand, CH3 ClHg exposure resulted in oxidative damages of brain, which were supported by the significant changes on GSH, MDA, sulfhydryl, carbonyl, 8-OHdG, and ROS levels. Moreover, apoptosis rate increased obviously and many morphological changes were found after CH3 ClHg exposure. Furthermore, this research indicated that TP pretreatment significantly mitigated the toxic effects of MeHg. In conclusion, findings from this study indicated that exposure to MeHg could induce excitotoxicity and oxidative damage in cerebral cortex while TP might antagonize the MeHg-induced neurotoxicity.
Neuropathic pain (NP) remains difficult to control for a significant number of patients with cancer. Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) has been postulated as an initial stage in the development of NP. To assess whether CIPN (defined as National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria grade 2 or higher) was associated with NP, we conducted a survey of breast cancer patients who had participated in clinical trials of paclitaxel. Of the 430 potential respondents, 240 responded to the survey. Results showed that 64% experienced CIPN during paclitaxel treatment. Follow-up survey data revealed that 27% of those with CIPN were subsequently diagnosed with NP. Logistic regression analyses showed that those who had experienced CIPN were 3 times more likely to develop NP (95% confidence interval = 1.2-7.2; P < .001), which persisted in the multivariate logistic model. In addition, NP patients reported twice as many visits to their health care provider (P = .02) and had taken more prescription (50% vs 19%; P = .001) and over-the-counter medications (62.5% versus 45%; P = .08) for pain than those without NP. The results of this study confirm that CIPN is a predictor of NP, suggesting that survivors treated with paclitaxel should be regularly monitored for NP beyond treatment.
The survival rates of breast cancer patients have steadily improved over recent years; thus, research into symptoms that persist after treatment is important. We found CIPN as a predictor of NP. Understanding the epidemiology of NP in breast cancer patients has high clinical and public health significance.
A subgroup of patients with idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) will have steroid-dependent symptoms which can be confirmed using pure-tone audiometry. Long-term treatment with high-dose corticosteroids exposes patients to potentially serious adverse effects. Immunosuppression with ciclosporin can be an effective and well-tolerated treatment for steroid-responsive sudden SNHL.
To highlight ciclosporin as a therapeutic option in the treatment of steroid-responsive sudden SNHL.
A 39-year-old male with idiopathic sudden SNHL that was responsive to corticosteroids was treated with ciclosporin for 18 months.
Steroid-dependent SNHL was confirmed on audiological evaluation. Ciclosporin was administered, allowing corticosteroid therapy to be discontinued. Ciclosporin was effective at controlling all symptoms of SNHL. Remission was confirmed objectively with pure-tone audiometry.
The aim was to present clinical findings and imaging criteria for patients with aortic ulcers of the thoracic aorta.
From 1993 to 1996 computed tomography of patients suffering from acute thoracic pain and suspected pathologies of the aorta were reviewed for penetrating aortic ulcers. Pathoanatomical correlation was done by autopsy in three cases and with intraoperative inspection in two cases. MRI was available in three patients and angiography in 5 patients.
9 patients with aortic ulcers could be identified. The imaging criteria in CT were: 1. Hyperdense wall thickening on unenhanced CT scans (medial haematoma). 2. Displaced intimal calcifications outlining the lumen. 3. Small contrast-filled ulcer. 4. Absence of a contrast-filled false lumen. In 4 of the 9 cases the aorta ascendens was affected. The clinical presentation is that of an elderly patient with acute onset of thoracic pain and generalised atherosclerosis due to hypertension and nicotine abuse.
Penetrating ulcers with haematoma of the media are a special case of aortic dissection, with different features on unenhanced and enhanced CT scans.
Congenital cataracts are a common major abnormality of the eye that frequently cause blindness in infants. At least a third of all cases are familial; autosomal dominant congenital cataract (ADCC) appears to be the most common familial form in the Western world. We have mapped an ADCC gene in family ADCC-2 to chromosome 21q22.3 near the alpha-crystallin gene CRYAA. By sequencing the coding regions of CRYAA, we found that a missense mutation, R116C, is associated with ADCC in this family.
We report on a 4-year 8-month-old boy with Panayiotopoulos syndrome who showed atypical evolution with newly developed absence seizures and EEG exacerbation induced by carbamazepine. Soon after the introduction of carbamazepine, EEGs began to worsen, and finally absence seizures and myoclonic seizures appeared. Immediately after we discontinued carbamazepine, the seizures disappeared and the EEG improved. Carbamazepine may induce unusual electroclinical features, electrophysiologically explained by bilateral synchrony. This case provides more evidence of the close links between Panayiotopoulos syndrome and benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes.
The expanding prevalence of Parascaris equorum populations that are resistant to macrocyclic lactone (ML) anthelmintics makes it desirable to identify dewormers which remain effective. The objective was to evaluate the efficacy of pyrantel pamoate in 14 suckling foals that had been infected orally with approximately 600 larvated eggs of a P. equorum isolate selected for ML resistance (ML-R). Seventy days after inoculation, foals were weaned, housed individually, and fecal samples were examined frequently to detect the onset of patency. Between 73 and 80 days post-inoculation, all 14 foals developed P. equorum egg counts>or=150 eggs per gram (EPG). An initial cohort of eight foals was treated orally with ivermectin paste (200 microg/kg) 84-91 days post-inoculation. Egg counts were reduced by only 47% at 2 weeks after ivermectin treatment, confirming the ML-R status of the isolate. A second cohort of six foals was not treated with ivermectin. Within each cohort, eligible foals were allocated randomly to treated (pyrantel pamoate; n=7) or untreated control (n=7) groups. Treated foals were dosed orally on Day 0 with a paste formulation of pyrantel pamoate at 13.2mg/kg. Mean ascarid egg counts of treated foals were reduced by 96.0% and 98.8% at 1 and 2 weeks post-treatment, respectively. On Day 14, foals were euthanatized and specimens of P. equorum were recovered from the gut contents, preserved in 10% formalin, and counted. Mean numbers of P. equorum adults recovered postmortem were significantly lower (P=0.0031) in foals treated with pyrantel pamoate (X=1.7; range 0-16) compared to control foals (X=63.0; range 0-320). A paste formulation of pyrantel pamoate, at a dosage of 13.2 mg/kg, was 97.3% effective against a ML-R isolate of P. equorum.
Dizziness and ataxia are among the most common adverse events associated with antiepileptic medications. Despite this, few studies have attempted to quantitatively assess the effects of antiepileptic therapies on equilibrium. This study was undertaken to prospectively compare quantitative measures of balance in older people taking carbamazepine, gabapentin and lamotrigine.
Thirty patients on monotherapy for idiopathic partial or generalized epilepsy were enrolled after giving informed consent. Patients had to be at least 50 years old, able to give consent, and on a stable dose of carbamazepine, gabapentin or lamotrigine for at least 30 days. Since this was a study of asymptomatic patients, all patients had to be without complaint of dizziness or imbalance. Patients with a history of alcohol or drug abuse or any medical or neurological condition expected to adversely affect equilibrium were excluded. Each patient underwent a history and examination, computerized dynamic posturography, the activities-specific balance confidence (ABC) scale, Fregly ataxia battery, and the Berg balance scale. Serum drug levels of carbamazepine were obtained to eliminate patients with toxic levels upon enrollment. Two-tailed paired t-tests were used to determined statistical significance among those on each antiepileptic medication.
Thirty patients were enrolled: 10 on gabapentin, 10 on lamotrigine and 10 on carbamazepine monotherapy for epilepsy. There were no differences in age or sex among those in each treatment group. The average dosages were 1,120 mg/day for those on gabapentin, 335 mg for lamotrigine, and 640 mg for carbamazepine. There were no differences in the activities-specific balance confidence (ABC) or the Berg balance scale scores. All patients had normal vestibular function by quantitative testing. Posturography showed no statistically significant differences. The Fregly ataxia battery includes the sum of timed trials in the sharpened Romberg (SR) position, standing on one leg with eyes closed (SOLEC), and when walking in tandem with eyes closed (WITEC). The patients on lamotrigine exhibited ability to maintain balance in these positions significantly longer than did those on carbamazepine: SR (P<0.05), SOLEC (P<0.05) and WITEC (P<0.05).
The effects of antiepileptic medications on equilibrium in asymptomatic older people may require more dynamic and challenging measures of equilibrium than are commonly employed in physical therapy to monitor risk of falls. Although the sample size is small, this study suggests that lamotrigine may induce less disequilibrium than does carbamazepine in older people on monotherapy for epilepsy. Further study in this area is needed, particularly given the risks of falling from imbalance in the elderly.
Use of the antiepileptic drug (AED) vigabatrin is severely limited by irreversible visual field constriction, an adverse reaction to the drug reported in approximately 40% of patients. Given the evidence suggesting an idiosyncratic drug response, we set out to detect genetic variation of strong, clinically relevant effect that might guide clinicians in the safe, controlled prescribing of this otherwise usefuldrug.
Patients with a history of at least 1-year exposure to vigabatrin were enrolled at two independent referral centers. Using Goldmann perimetry, visual fields and the extent of constriction were calculated for each patient. We examined the correlation between the extent of vigabatrin induced visual field constriction and genetic variation across six candidate genes (SLC6A1, SLC6A13, SCL6A11, ABAT, GABRR1 and GABRR2). We availed of HapMap data and used a tagging SNP technique in an effort to efficiently capture all common variation within these genes. We attempted to replicate any positive associations before drawing conclusions from our results.
The degree of visual field constriction correlated with three SNPs and one haplotype in a cohort of 73 patients. However we were unable to replicate these findings in a second independent cohort consisting of 58 patients, suggesting the initial results were possibly false positives, or variants of weak effect.
Common variants of strong, clinically relevant effect do not appear to reside in the candidate genes studied here. This does not rule out the presence of genetic variants of weak effect in these genes, nor of variants of strong effect in other genes.
The 1990 "package insert" for Norpramin, the Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc., brand of desipramine, was changed to include the following statement in the Adverse Reactions section, "There has been a report of an 'acute collapse' and 'sudden death' in an eight-year-old (18 kg) male, treated for two years for hyperactivity. There have been additional reports of sudden death in children." The purpose of this commentary is to review what is known about the three reported cases of sudden death and to discuss the implications of these tragedies for children receiving treatment with tricyclic drugs.
Electrocardiograms were evaluated in 39 children and adolescents before and after the clinical use of imipramine and desipramine. The average increase in PR interval was 0.01 seconds. The PR interval increased by 0.02 seconds in 11 subjects, and a new first-degree atrioventricular block developed in two subjects. These changes were not related to the choice between imipramine and desipramine, the dose, or the method of administration. An increase in PR interval by 0.02 seconds or more did correlate with having an abnormality disclosed on a pretreatment electrocardiogram. The average increase in PR interval was 0.007 seconds for subjects with normal baseline electrocardiograms and 0.019 seconds for subjects with conduction and nonconduction abnormalities disclosed in baseline tracings. None of the electrocardiogram changes resulted in adverse clinical consequences.
A sigmoid curve was found to closely describe the relationship between the incidence of amikacin ototoxicity (greater than or equal to 15 dB hearing loss at a given frequency) and either (1) total dose, or (2) the area under the curve (AUC) describing plasma drug concentration v time over the total period of amikacin administration (total AUC) in continuously infused guinea pigs. Total dose or total AUC estimates of the drug exposure required to produce ototoxicity in 50% of the animals (ED50s) were not significantly different over an eight-fold range of dosing rates or plasma concentrations. A theoretical explanation for this result is that ototoxicity occurs only when a critical amount of drug is accumulated at the ototoxic site by an essentially unidirectional process with a rate that is slow and linearly related to the extracellular drug concentration. The sigmoid relationships for pooled data were parallel in slope for all hearing frequencies from 2 to 32 kHz, and the ED50s showed a strong negative linear relationship to the log of the hearing frequency over this range. The magnitude of ototoxicity expressed as the number of octaves (frequency ratios of 2) for which hearing loss damage was continuous from 32 kHz downward, was correlated to both total dose (r = .605) and total AUC (r = 0.703). No relationship between ototoxicity and plasma level or dosing rate was found. The extreme steepness of the dose-effect curve for the incidence of ototoxicity greatly amplified the variability between individuals and offers an explanation for the unpredictability of aminoglycoside ototoxicity in human patients. The results indicate that either total dose or total AUC (in cases of highly unpredictable blood levels), and not peak or trough serum levels, should be used as an index of ototoxic risk and that the safety limits of drug exposure should be set conservatively.
The experiments characterized the dose- and time-dependence of parkinsonian motor signs induced by reserpine in rats and a standardized system of manipulation of animals, evaluation of symptoms and analysis of data was devised. The assay procedure yielded no more than 0.5, 4.5 and 0.0% false positives with the evaluation of tremor, rigidity and hypokinesia, respectively. A dose-dependent and often complete blockade of all three signs was obtained with L-DOPA plus carbidopa (10:1) as well as with other classes of pharmacological agents that are used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, i.e. direct or indirect dopamine (DA) agonists (amantadine, pergolide, lisuride) and inhibitors of monoamine oxidase (MAO) (clorgyline, pargyline, deprenyl, tranylcypromine). The inhibitor of the uptake of DA, nomifensine, and anticholinergics, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) antagonists, histamine antagonists and tricyclic antidepressants exerted little or no effect. The effects of putative agonists and antagonists at alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors were also examined. Yohimbine blocked tremor and rigidity, but not hypokinesia, at 0.66 and 0.28 mg/kg, respectively. It is suggested that alpha-adrenergic mechanisms and, in particular, alpha 2-adrenoceptors, may be involved in reserpine-induced tremor and rigidity. Noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems can conceivably interact to progressively generate these different motor signs.
We carried out a genome-wide association study of schizophrenia (479 cases, 2,937 controls) and tested loci with P < 10(-5) in up to 16,726 additional subjects. Of 12 loci followed up, 3 had strong independent support (P < 5 x 10(-4)), and the overall pattern of replication was unlikely to occur by chance (P = 9 x 10(-8)). Meta-analysis provided strongest evidence for association around ZNF804A (P = 1.61 x 10(-7)) and this strengthened when the affected phenotype included bipolar disorder (P = 9.96 x 10(-9)).
Geleophysic dysplasia is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by short stature, brachydactyly, thick skin and cardiac valvular anomalies often responsible for an early death. Studying six geleophysic dysplasia families, we first mapped the underlying gene to chromosome 9q34.2 and identified five distinct nonsense and missense mutations in ADAMTSL2 (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin repeats-like 2), which encodes a secreted glycoprotein of unknown function. Functional studies in HEK293 cells showed that ADAMTSL2 mutations lead to reduced secretion of the mutated proteins, possibly owing to the misfolding of ADAMTSL2. A yeast two-hybrid screen showed that ADAMTSL2 interacts with latent TGF-beta-binding protein 1. In addition, we observed a significant increase in total and active TGF-beta in the culture medium as well as nuclear localization of phosphorylated SMAD2 in fibroblasts from individuals with geleophysic dysplasia. These data suggest that ADAMTSL2 mutations may lead to a dysregulation of TGF-beta signaling and may be the underlying mechanism of geleophysic dysplasia.
Nine of 14 asthmatic patients who presented with persistent dysphonia while taking inhaled corticosteroids had a bilateral adductor vocal cord deformity with bowing of the cords on phonation. This causes the dysphonia and usually occurs without candidiasis. It was seen with beclomethasone dipropionate (in both pressurised aerosol and dry powder preparations), betamethasone valerate, and budesonide. It was related to the dose and potency of inhaled steroid and may represent a local steroid myopathy. It was reversed when the inhaled steroid was stopped, although resolution sometimes took weeks. Laryngeal candidiasis may have contributed to the vocal cord abnormality in two of these nine patients. Of the five patients without vocal cord deformity, laryngeal candidiasis was the sole cause of dysphonia in three. In the remaining two dysphonia was thought to be psychogenic. The vocal cord deformity may exist subclinically. Of nine patients who started to take aerosol steroid and who were examined monthly for one year, three developed vocal cord deformity but only one had persistent dysphonia. Vocal abuse did not appear to contribute to dysphonia.
Microcystin-LR (MCLR) is a commonly encountered blue-green algal hepatotoxin and a known inhibitor of cellular protein phosphatase. However, little is known about its neurotoxicity. By using Morris water maze, histopathological and biochemical analysis, we investigated MCLR-induced neurotoxicity on the hippocampus of rat brain. After rats were intrahippocampally injected with MCLR (1 and 10 μg/L), their learning and memory function was greatly impaired, suggesting the neurotoxic potential of MCLR. Meanwhile, obvious histological and ultrastructural injuries and serious oxidative damage were also observed in the hippocampus. These results suggested that oxidative stress might be involved in the MCLR-induced pathological damage in hippocampus, subsequently leading to the spatial learning and memory deficit of rat. Taken together, our results highlighted the MCLR-induced neurotoxicity in the rat, as well as the importance of oxidative stress and pathological impairment in this procedure.
The unusual observation of a withdrawal syndrome due to guanfacine in a hypertensive patient with chronic renal failure led to a study of the kinetics of the drug in this patient. The principal pharmacokinetic parameters of guanfacine were greatly altered, with extended biotransformation and a decrease in the half-life compared to the values observed in other cases of severe renal insufficiency. Associated treatment with phenobarbital had had a considerable effect, as shown by the results of a further kinetic study 2 months after withdrawal of the phenobarbital. The findings then were in good agreement with reference values which strongly suggests a consequence of the enzyme inducing effect of phenobarbital. Advice about the dosage regimen in such cases is given.
Particulate Matter (PM) exposure is critical in Beijing due to high population density and rapid increase in vehicular traffic. PM effects on blood pressure (BP) have been investigated as a mechanism mediating cardiovascular risks, but results are still inconsistent. The purpose of our study is to determine the effects of ambient and personal PM exposure on BP.
Before the 2008 Olympic Games (June 15-July 27), we examined 60 truck drivers and 60 office workers on two days, 1-2 weeks apart (n = 240). We obtained standardized measures of post-work BP. Exposure assessment included personal PM(2.5) and Elemental Carbon (EC, a tracer of traffic particles) measured using portable monitors during work hours; and ambient PM(10) averaged over 1-8 days pre-examination. We examined associations of exposures (exposure group, personal PM(2.5)/EC, ambient PM(10)) with BP controlling for multiple covariates.
Mean personal PM(2.5) was 94.6 μg/m(3) (SD = 64.9) in office workers and 126.8 (SD = 68.8) in truck drivers (p-value < 0.001). In all participants combined, a 10 μg/m(3) increase in 8-day ambient PM(10) was associated with BP increments of 0.98 (95%CI 0.34; 1.61; p-value = 0.003), 0.71 (95%CI 0.18; 1.24; p-value = 0.01), and 0.81 (95%CI 0.31; 1.30; p-value = 0.002) mmHg for systolic, diastolic, and mean BP, respectively. BP was not significantly different between the two groups (p-value > 0.14). Personal PM(2.5) and EC during work hours were not associated with increased BP.
Our results indicate delayed effects of ambient PM(10) on BP. Lack of associations with exposure groups and personal PM(2.5)/EC indicates that PM effects are related to background levels of pollution in Beijing, and not specifically to work-related exposure.
A case of basilar invagination which is thought to have arisen from the patient's intrauterine exposure to phenytoin is presented. The patient was treated surgically by foramen magnum decompression and occipito-cervical fusion, and by transoral resection of the clivus. His symptoms of brain stem compression were alleviated and the role of phenytoin in the production of his craniocervical abnormality is discussed.
