No agent is yet available to reverse respiratory paralysis produced by CNS depressants, such as general anesthetics. In this study naloxone reversed respiratory paralysis induced by thiopental in rats. 25 mg/kg, i.v. thiopental produced anesthesia without altering respiratory rate, increased GABA, decreased glutamate, and had no effect on aspartate or glycine levels compared to controls in rat cortex and brain stem. Pretreatment of rats with thiosemicarbazide for 30 minutes abolished the anesthetic action as well as the respiratory depressant action of thiopental. 50 mg/kg, i.v. thiopental produced respiratory arrest with further increase in GABA and decrease in glutamate again in cortex and brain stem without affecting any of the amino acids studied in four regions of rat brain. Naloxone (2.5 mg/kg, i.v.) reversed respiratory paralysis, glutamate and GABA levels to control values in brain stem and cortex with no changes in caudate or cerebellum. These data suggest naloxone reverses respiratory paralysis produced by thiopental and involves GABA in its action.
Experimental studies suggest that 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors play a role in epileptogenesis and seizure propagation. Ondansetron, a 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, has been reported to have proconvulsant and anticonvulsant effects in animals. We describe three patients who developed seizures after receiving ondansetron. There were two females and one male. Ages ranged from 38-56 years. None had a previous or family history of seizures. Four milligrams (mg) of ondansetron was given intravenously for severe nausea and vomiting in association with migraine, gastritis, and diabetic ketoacidosis. A generalized tonic-clonic seizure occurred in each patient--12, 15, and 22 min after injection. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) were normal in all patients. Although no antiepileptic drugs were given, none had seizure recurrence subsequently. The temporal relationship between ondansetron administration and seizures, lack of EEG or MRI abnormalities, and absence of seizure recurrence suggest that the seizures were causally related to ondansetron in our patients.
Mechanical heart valves are associated with a risk of thromboembolism and anticoagulation is generally recommended. However, this is inevitably associated with a risk of intracranial bleeding. The case of a patient who sustained an intracranial bleed while taking warfarin for a prosthetic aortic valve and a further two intracranial bleeds while on heparin as an inpatient is discussed and the literature on the management of intracranial haemorrhage in patients on warfarin with prosthetic valves is reviewed.
Multiform ventricular tachycardia (torsade de pointes) is a recognised proarrhythmic effect of drugs which prolong the QT interval. A case is now described for the first time where torsade de pointes occurred with the administration of the anti-anginal agent perhexiline maleate.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) is a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily of ligand-activated transcription factors and a crucial regulator of cellular differentiation. PPAR-gamma ligands have been demonstrated to inhibit growth of several cancer cells. In this study, two human lung cancer cells (NCI-H23 and CRL-2066) and one human lung normal cell (CRL-202) were used for the experiments. The results showed that in consistence with the loss of viability, troglitazone (TGZ) induced apoptosis of CRL-2066 and NCI-H23 cells but not CCL-202 cells. TGZ upregulated PPAR-gamma expression in all the three lung cell lines, especially in the cancer cells. In association of the time-dependent inhibition of the cell proliferation, TGZ downregulated the expression of Bcl-w and Bcl-2 but activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 and p38, suggesting that the growth-inhibitory effect of TGZ is associated with the reduction of Bcl-w and Bcl-2 and the increase of ERK1/2 and p38 activation. SAPK/JNK activation assay showed a decreased activity in all the three cell lines tested after TGZ treatment. It was also demonstrated that TGZ could activate PPAR-gamma transcriptionally. We conclude that TGZ inhibits growth of human lung cancer cells via the induction of apoptosis and the inhibition of cell growth, at least in part, in a PPAR-gamma-relevant manner. The mechanism of TGZ is associated with the activation of ERK and p38, the reduction of SAPK/JNK activity, and the alteration of Bcl-w and Bcl-2.
Bepridil is a calcium antagonist that prolongs the duration of ventricular repolarization, whereas CERM 4205, another calcium antagonist, seems to be devoid of any effect on QT interval. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of bepridil and CERM 4205 on the QT-RR relation at different heart rates during rest and exercise and the results of pharmacologic tests designed to vary neurovegetative tone. Twelve healthy men (21 to 37 years) participated in a placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover, double-blind study and received either bepridil (200 mg/day twice daily) or CERM 4205 (200 mg/day twice daily), or matching placebo during three 14-day treatment periods at 2-week intervals. Bepridil, but not CERM 4205, caused a significant prolongation of resting QT interval. The RR-QT relation was monoexponential for all subjects during resting and exercising physiologic conditions and remained unchanged after 14 days with placebo or CERM 4205. Bepridil significantly shifted the relation upward, resulting in a rate-dependent QT prolongation that predominated during bradycardia. After isoprenaline, QT no longer adapted to changes in heart rate, whereas atropine resulted in a rate-dependent shortening in QT. These results suggest that bepridil and CERM 4205 exert different effects on ventricular repolarization, since only bepridil significantly prolonged QT duration. Bepridil-induced prolongation of QT increased at slow heart rates, which could explain the greater incidence of torsades de pointes in bradycardia.
Mechanism of neointimal hyperplasia after vascular injury includes activation of signaling pathways and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) that are involved in cell proliferation and migration. Rosiglitazone, a synthetic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonist, was reported to inhibit neointimal hyperplasia in diabetic animals and humans. But the underlying mechanism has not been clarified. In this study, we examined how rosiglitazone inhibited neointimal hyperplasia.
The proliferation and survival of cultured rat VSMCs were reduced by rosiglitazone, which was mediated by inhibition of ERK and activation GSK-3beta, without change of Akt. The antiproliferative effect of rosiglitazone was reversed by GSK-3beta inactivation. The migration of VSMCs was also suppressed by rosiglitazone that inhibited the expression and activity MMP-9 through GSK-3beta activation. Thus migration of MMP-9(-/-) VSMCs from MMP-9 knockout mice was not affected by rosiglitazone. The underlying mechanism of MMP-9 suppression by rosiglitazone was that it inhibited NF-kappaB DNA binding activity, which was also dependent on GSK-3beta. In rat carotid artery, balloon injury significantly inactivated GSK-3beta with induction of MMP-9, which was effectively prevented by rosiglitazone. Thus, rosiglitazone significantly decreased the ratio of intima to media by reducing proliferation and inducing apoptosis of VSMCs at neointima, which was reversed by inactivation of GSK-3beta with adenoviral transfer of catalytically-inactive GSK-KM gene.
Rosiglitazone activates GSK-3beta, which inhibits not only proliferation of VSMCs but also migration of VSMCs through blocking NF-kappaB-dependent MMP-9 activation.
The incidence and pattern of postoperative muscle pains was studied in 155 healthy women undergoing outpatient laparoscopic surgery who were assigned randomly to one of five treatment groups. Group 1 (control) received thiopental and succinylcholine, 1 mg/kg, followed by enflurane and nitrous oxide. Group 2 received d-tubocurarine, 3 mg, followed by succinylcholine, 1.5 mg/kg, but was otherwise similar to Group 1. Groups 3 and 4 were similar to Group 1, but received propofol instead of thiopental, and Group 4 also received a variable-rate propofol infusion instead of enflurane. Finally, Group 5 was similar to Group 3, but received atracurium instead of succinylcholine. Muscle fasciculations were often observed in Groups 1, 3, and 4, but were attenuated in Group 2 and absent in Group 5. Overall, postoperative shoulder pain occurred in 81%, 72%, and 29% of patients on the first, second, and third postoperative days, respectively. The incidence of this symptom did not differ among the five groups. Neck pain occurred less frequently than shoulder pain in each group, and also occurred less often in Group 5 than in Group 1. Muscle stiffness occurred less often than muscle pain, and also occurred less frequently in Group 5 than in Group 1. In conclusion, succinylcholine contributes to neck pain and muscle stiffness after laparoscopic procedures. Compared to thiopental and enflurane, the use of propofol for induction and/or maintenance of anesthesia failed to alter the incidence of postlaparoscopic muscle pain or stiffness.
As part of a search for causative genes of familial pancreatic carcinoma, the p16 genes were sequenced in members of 21 families with a phenotype of familial pancreatic carcinoma (2 or more first degree relatives affected). One family was found in which members carried a novel p16 allele with a G to T transversion at position 451, creating a missense amino acid change at codon 145 (Asp to Cys) and possibly disrupting the donor splice site of the exon 2/3 boundary. This coding change is not a known polymorphism, and occurs at a codon position in which another missese/splicing change has been shown to be linked to familial melanoma/pancreas cancer.
Phospholipidosis (PLD) is a topic of concern in drug development because it may be associated with toxicological consequences. The aim of the study was to determine the best method to screen proprietary compounds with regard to their potential to induce PLD. Two in vitro approaches, a genomic method previously evaluated in our laboratory and a fluorescent cell based approach to detect PLD were compared using HepG2 cells. The same set of reference compounds (15 PLD inducing, 7 non-PLD inducing and 4 additional compounds) were used to compare both approaches. The same sensitivity (15/15) and similar specificity (7/7 versus, 6/7 for the genomic approach) were obtained. In addition, 11 proprietary compounds were tested in 4-day exploratory rat toxicity studies as well as in both in vitro approaches. Two of the 11 compounds induced alveolar foamy macrophages and lung vacuolization in vivo and were considered as PLD inducers. Sensitivity (2/2) and specificity (7/9) were better with the fluorescent method than with the genomic approach (1/2 and 3/9, respectively). In conclusion, compared to the genomic approach, the fluorescent method is the test of choice for screening compounds at an early stage of drug development. Indeed, the fluorescent method is more adapted to medium throughput, detects the positive reference compounds at lower (8/15) or equal (7/15) concentrations, allows multiplexing and is associated with higher sensitivity and specificity to predict lung foamy macrophages and vacuolization in vivo. Nevertheless, to confirm our conclusion, it would be necessary to compare the predictivity of both in vitro approaches by using a wide range of reference and proprietary compounds, with information on their potential to induce PLD under in vivo conditions.
It has been proposed that modest changes in plasma potassium can alter the tendency towards cardiac arrhythmias. If this were so, patients with coronary artery disease might be especially susceptible. Thus, myocardial electrical excitability was measured in patients with mild essential hypertension and known coronary artery disease after 8 weeks of treatment with a potassium-conserving diuretic (amiloride) and a similar period on a potassium-losing diuretic (chlorthalidone) in a randomised study. Plasma potassium concentrations were on average 1 mmol/L lower during the chlorthalidone phase compared to amiloride therapy. Blood pressure and volume states as assessed by bodyweight, plasma renin and noradrenaline (norepinephrine) concentrations were similar on the 2 regimens. Compared to amiloride treatment, the chlorthalidone phase was associated with an increased frequency of ventricular ectopic beats (24-hour Holter monitoring) and a higher Lown grading, increased upslope and duration of the monophasic action potential, prolonged ventricular effective refractory period, and increased electrical instability during programmed ventricular stimulation. The above results indicate that because potassium-losing diuretic therapy can increase myocardial electrical excitability in patients with ischaemic heart disease, even minor falls in plasma potassium concentrations are probably best avoided in such patients.
Studies investigating effects of periodontal treatment (PT) on markers of inflammation in healthy subjects show conflicting results. Few studies have investigated the effects of PT among subjects with coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors.
To report the results of a pilot prospective study on the effects of periodontal treatment on markers of inflammation among subjects with CHD risk factors.
Seventy three patients aged 53+/-6 years (25% males) with chronic periodontitis, dyslipidemia and other CHD risk factors were subjected to PT consisting on root planning and oral metronidazol and amoxicillin for 7 days. Periodontal clinical parameters, serum C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen levels and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) were assessed before and at 6 weeks after PT. Polymorphisms at the ILlA-889 and IL1B+3954 genes were also genotyped.
After the treatment period, CRP levels significantly increased from 3.6+/-3.7 mg/ L to 5.4+/-5.7 mg/L (p =0.001). No significant changes were observed in fibrinogen levels and ESR. Higher post-treatment CRP levels were significantly associated with the composite polymorphic genotype at the ILlA-889 and IL1B+3954 genes (p =0.0001), and extensive periodontitis (p =0.005). Moderate alcohol consumption appeared as a protective factor for CRP elevation (p =0.029).
The increase of the CRP levels after PT in patients with CVD risk factors appeared associated with IL-1 gene polymorphisms and extensive periodontitis.
Gout is a common co-morbidity in patients with chronic heart failure and its treatment is complex. We report the case of a 58-year-old man with chronic severe heart failure who developed rhabdomyolisis after short-term intake of colchicine. Although colchicine is a highly effective therapy for acute gouty arthritis, the dosage should be carefully titrated in patients with chronic heart failure, especially if renal or liver disease are also present.
McLeod syndrome is an X-linked multisystem disorder characterized by abnormalities in the neuromuscular and hematopoietic systems. We have assembled a cosmid contig of 360 kb that encompasses the McLeod gene locus. A 50 kb deletion was detected by screening DNA from patients with radiolabeled whole cosmids, and two transcription units were identified within this deletion. The mRNA expression pattern of one of them, designated as XK, correlates closely to the McLeod phenotype. XK encodes a novel protein with structural characteristics of prokaryotic and eukaryotic membrane transport proteins. Nucleotide sequence analysis of XK from two unrelated McLeod patients has identified point mutations at conserved splice donor and acceptor sites. These findings provide direct evidence that XK is responsible for McLeod syndrome.
Ambroxol theophylline-7-acetate (ACE) is the salt obtained by reaction of equimolar amounts of ambroxol (AMB), a drug showing mucolytic and expectorant properties, and theophylline-7-acetic acid (TAA), a xanthine derivative with specific bronchodilator activity. ACE is used for the treatment of bronchial and pulmonary diseases (bronchitis, asthma, emphysema, chronic obstructive disease). Recrystallization experiments of ACE resulted in the isolation of two polymorphs (monotropically related) and four solvated forms. X-ray diffractometry, DSC, TGA, and HSM techniques were used to investigate the forms that are obtained by thermal desolvation of the solvates. The phase diagram of the TAA-AMB binary system was constructed by performing thermal analyses on mixtures of TAA-AMB and of each component plus the interaction compound (TAA-ACE and ACE-AMB). The Schroeder-Van Laar equation proved to be a very useful tool for checking the consistency between the experimental data and the theoretical model related to the general system, showing complete miscibility in the liquid phase and complete immiscibility in the solid phase.
Several genetic diseases, such as velocardiofacial syndrome Del(22q11) and Down syndrome, are associated with hearing impairment.
Case reports.
The authors reported two cases of hearing-impaired children, one with Del (22q11) and one with Down syndrome, both with bilateral nonevolutive profound sensorineural deafness. Because of unusual features of their deafness and familial history, genetic evaluation was proposed. A homozygous 35delG mutation on the Connexin 26 gene was found in both children (DFNB1 phenotype).
A review of the reported otological features of Del (22q11) and Down syndrome showed that sensorineural deafness is rare and seldom profound. The authors found no evidence for a genetic link between Del(22q11) or Down syndrome and 35delG mutation on the Connexin 26 gene.
The case reports reveal a coincidental association between DFNB1 and a multiple congenital anomaly syndrome. The clinician must be aware of this type of association to manage genetic counseling, appropriate otological care, and suitable treatment.
Inbred and congenic strains of mice have been studied for susceptibility to phenytoin-induced cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CLP) and isolated cleft palate (CP). The role of genes linked to the H-2 complex on chromosome 17 has been confirmed. Congenic strains with the A background have identical levels of spontaneous CLP, whereas those strains having the A background with the H-2a haplotype have significantly higher rates of induced CLP than their congenic partners with the H-2b or H-2s haplotype. No such significant difference in the degree of CLP produced by phenytoin is demonstrable in strains with the B background. Rates of isolated CP produced by phenytoin are significantly higher in strains with H-2a than in their congenic partner strains with either H-2b or H-2s, whether the background is A or B.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is a common genetic disorder that frequently results in renal failure due to progressive cyst development. The major locus, PKD1, maps to 16p13.3. We identified a chromosome translocation associated with ADPKD that disrupts a gene (PBP) encoding a 14 kb transcript in the PKD1 candidate region. Further mutations of the PBP gene were found in PKD1 patients, two deletions (one a de novo event) and a splicing defect, confirming that PBP is the PKD1 gene. This gene is located adjacent to the TSC2 locus in a genomic region that is reiterated more proximally on 16p. The duplicate area encodes three transcripts substantially homologous to the PKD1 transcript. Partial sequence analysis of the PKD1 transcript shows that it encodes a novel protein whose function is at present unknown.
The long QT syndrome (LQT) is an inherited cardiac disorder that can cause sudden cardiac death among apparently healthy young individuals due to malignant ventricular arrhythmias. LQT was found to be caused by mutations in four genes LTQ1, LQT2, LQT3 and LQT5, and linkage was reported for an additional locus, LQT4, on chromosome 4q25-27. We have studied a large (n=131) LQT-affected Jewish kindred and identified tight linkage between the LQT-affected status and LQT3 (lod score 6.13, with an estimated recombination fraction of zero). We identified a new point-mutation, A to G substitution at nucleotide 5519 of the SCN5A gene, changing the aspartate 1840 to glycine, D1840G. This is a non-conservative change of an amino acid completely conserved in sodium channels from Molusca to human. The mutation was identified in all affected individuals (n=23), and not identified in all the unaffected family members (n=40), and not in 200 chromosomes of healthy control individuals. The mutation was identified in 3/12 individuals with equivocal phenotype, thus, providing an accurate dignostic tool for all family members. This mutation is currently being used in a cellular electrophysiological model, to characterize the function of the mutated sodium channel in this syndrome.
This is the first report of the use of cyproheptadine to treat anorgasmia induced by citalopram, a highly selective serotonine reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Total anorgasmia of a 47 year-old man who suffered from severe unipolar major depression was successfully treated without adverse effects. This case strengthens the impression that anorgasmia associated with SSRIs is related primarily to the serotonine reuptake inhibition and not to various receptor bindings of different compounds.
Endocannabinoid and serotonin systems are implicated in mechanisms underlying depression-like symptoms. Involvement of serotonin in mood disorders occurring after smoking cessation has been observed. We studied the interactions between endocannabinoid and serotonergic systems in mood and behavioral disorders caused by nicotine cessation. The effects of the endocannabinoid transport inhibitor AM404 and the cannabinoid receptor 1 antagonist AM251 in a nicotine-dependent rodent model were investigated.
Dependence was induced by subcutaneous injections of nicotine (2 mg/kg, 4 injections daily) for 15 consecutive days in mice. Animals treated with AM404 or AM251 were tested for locomotor activity and abstinence signs 24 hr after nicotine withdrawal and in forced swimming test (FST) at different times: immediately after last nicotine injection (t = 0) and 15 and 30 days after nicotine withdrawal. In nicotine-dependent mice treated with AM404 or AM251, expression of diencephalic serotonin receptor 1(A) (5-HT1(A)) was also measured. Effects of AM404, AM251, and WAY 100635 (5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist) in mice subjected to FST were evaluated.
A decrease in diencephalic 5-HT(1A) levels was observed in mice previously injected with nicotine. In the same animals, AM251 caused (0.5-2 mg/kg) a significant decrease of abstinence signs and AM404 (0.5-2 mg/kg) provoked a significant dose-dependent reduction in immobility time in the FST. Either AM251 or WAY 100635 antagonized anti-immobility effects of AM404.
Data indicate the existence of a link between serotonergic and endocannabinoid systems in the mechanisms underlying mood disorders caused by nicotine abstinence and suggest that these interactions are potential targets for pharmacological aid in smoking cessation.
An analysis was made of 111 consecutive cases of puerperal thromboembolism by the age, parity, mode of delivery, and lactation habit of the women concerned, and the findings were compared with those from control groups.The statistics show that inhibition of lactation by means of ethinyloestradiol is associated with a threefold increase in thromboembolism, although the effect is seen mainly in women who have an operative delivery and who are aged more than 25 years. Among women aged more than 35 years who have an assisted delivery, inhibition of lactation is accompanied by a tenfold increase in the incidence of puerperal thromboembolism.Advancing age and operative intervention (especially caesarean section) are in themselves predisposing causes of deep venous thrombosis and embolism. They can also constitute indications for inhibiting lactation. This makes it difficult to assess whether the relation of thromboembolism to inhibition of lactation or to the administration of oestrogen is real or apparent. Doubts on the interpretation of the findings are raised by the fact that the number of fatal cases of puerperal thromboembolism in England and Wales, and of non-fatal cases in the hospitals under review, has not increased in recent years despite a progressive decrease in breast-feeding. Nevertheless, the evidence suggests that although the administration of ethinyloestradiol is not by itself enough to cause puerperal thromboembolism, it may be a factor which can tip the scales in women who are already predisposed to suffer this condition.Any thromboembolic hazard associated with administration of oestrogens for inhibiting lactation is probably acceptable except in women known to be at special risk by reason of age, operative delivery, obesity, and a past history of thromboembolic episodes.
Ribavirin-induced anemia is one of the major causes of discontinuation and dose reduction during anti-hepatitis C virus therapy. Factors influencing this anemia, especially host genetic factors, are poorly understood. In this study we investigated predictive factors in hepatitis C virus patients treated with combination therapy.
We performed a 2-step genome-wide screening followed by replication analysis and fine-mapping using a total of 923 Japanese hepatitis C virus 1b-infected patients treated with pegylated-interferon plus ribavirin. We also applied logistic regression analysis to search for possible independent associations of clinical parameters and genetic variants with treatment-induced hemoglobin (Hb) decline as well as treatment outcomes.
We identified a variant, located upstream of the inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase gene on chromosome 20p13 that is significantly associated with treatment-induced anemia (combined P = 6.0 × 10(-14)). Resequencing and fine-mapping revealed several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) strongly associated with Hb decline, including the nonsynonymous SNP rs1127354 (P = 3.5 × 10(-44)), which was recently reported for other ethnic groups. Another reported SNP, the splicing variant-related SNP rs7270101, was not polymorphic in the Japanese population. Stratified analysis based on rs1127354 genotype revealed that inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase expression is not correlated with Hb decline, suggesting that rs1127354 is a direct causal variant in the Japanese population. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that age, baseline Hb, baseline platelet count, and rs1127354 were independently associated with severe anemia (Hb <10 g/dL).
A missense substitution in inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase gene affects ribavirin-induced anemia in hepatitis C virus-infected Japanese patients.
