Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is increasingly recognized as a key component in the development of insulin resistance and increased blood pressure. In a sample of 368 individuals, the ratio of soluble TNF-alpha receptors (sTNFR2/sTNFR1) correlated positively with systolic and diastolic blood pressure (P < 0.01). This ratio was significantly greater in type 2 diabetic subjects (DM-2) than in type 1 diabetic patients and was greater than in control nondiabetic subjects (P < 0.00001). The TNF-alpha receptor 1 (TNFR1) density in peripheral blood monocytes was similar in DM-2 patients and in nondiabetic subjects. After phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, TNFR1 shedding was significantly decreased in DM-2 compared with control subjects, and it was directly associated with insulin sensitivity (r = 0.54, P = 0.03). Serum sTNFR1 concentration was also linked to the vasodilatory response to glyceryltrinitrate (P = 0.01). Conversely, TNF-alpha receptor 2 shedding was negatively associated with insulin sensitivity (r = -0.54, P = 0.03), whereas shedding of L-selectin showed no significant association. After exercise-induced lowering of blood pressure, a parallel decrease in sTNFR2/sTNFR1 was observed in DM-2 patients. Our findings suggest that insulin resistance and blood pressure are linked to altered shedding of TNF-alpha receptors in DM-2. The latter seems reversible and is not genetically determined.
Budd-Chiari syndrome can be defined as an interruption or diminution of the normal blood flow out of the liver. Patients with Budd-Chiari syndrome present with varying degrees of symptomatology that can be divided into the following categories: fulminant, acute, subacute and chronic. The subacute form is the most common presentation. A majority of patients with Budd-Chiari syndrome have an underlying hypercoagulability state. We present the case of a young woman with Crohn s disease on oral contraceptives who developed bilateral pulmonary thromboembolism and Budd-Chiari syndrome.
The risks of agranulocytosis and aplastic anemia in relation to the use of anti-infective drugs were estimated in a population-based case-control study conducted in Europe and Israel. Anti-infective drug use in the 2-week period before the onset of illness was compared between 251 patients admitted to hospital with agranulocytosis and 1271 controls hospitalized for reasons judged to be unrelated to previous use of anti-infective drugs. Anti-infectives significantly associated with agranulocytosis when used for at least 3 consecutive days were trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (relative risk, 12; 95% confidence interval, 3.9 to 40) and macrolides (infinity). The relative risk estimate for any use of sulfonamides without trimethoprim was elevated, but not statistically significant (3.6; 0.7 to 18). These estimates took confounding by various factors, in particular the use of other drugs, into account. The estimated excess risks of agranulocytosis attributable to the use of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and macrolides in a 2-week period were 1.6 and 7.1 per million, respectively. Anti-infective use during the 29- through 180-day period before hospital admission was compared between 135 patients with aplastic anemia and 1410 controls. Although relative risk point estimates were elevated for trimethoprim/sulfonamides (2.1), other sulfonamides (2.9), and beta-lactams (1.5), none was statistically significant.
Stress proteins such as HSP70 members (HSP72 and GRP75) and metallothionein (MT) protect the kidney against oxidative damage and harmful metals, whereas inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) regulates tubular functions. A single dose of mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)) can cause acute renal failure in rats, its main target being the proximal tubule. Oxidative damage has been proposed as one of its pathogenic mechanisms. In this study we tested whether melatonin (MEL), a powerful antioxidant compound, is effective against HgCl(2) nephrotoxicity. Rats were treated with saline, HgCl(2) (3.5 mg/kg), MEL (5 mg/kg), and MEL + HgCl(2) and examined after 24 hr for HSP72, GRP75, MT, and iNOS by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. Tubular effects of the treatment were then characterized by ultrastructure. In the HgCl(2) group, all markers were overexpressed in convoluted proximal tubules and sometimes in distal tubules. In the MEL + HgCl(2) group, GRP75 and iNOS decreased in convoluted and straight proximal tubules, whereas HSP72 and MT persisted more than the saline and MEL-only groups. Tubular damage and mitochondrial morphometry were improved by MEL pretreatment. In conclusion, the beneficial effect of MEL against HgCl(2) nephrotoxicity was outlined morphologically and by the reduction of the tubular expression of stress proteins and iNOS. These markers could represent sensitive recovery index against mercury damage.
The special antishivering action of meperidine may be mediated by its kappa or anticholinergic actions. We therefore tested the hypotheses that nalbuphine or atropine decreases the shivering threshold more than the vasoconstriction threshold. Eight volunteers were each evaluated on four separate study days: 1) control (no drug), 2) small-dose nalbuphine (0.2 microg/mL), 3) large-dose nalbuphine (0.4 microg/mL), and 4) atropine (1-mg bolus and 0.5 mg/h). Body temperature was increased until the patient sweated and then decreased until the patient shivered. Nalbuphine produced concentration-dependent decreases (mean +/- SD) in the sweating (-2.5 +/- 1.7 degrees C. microg(-1). mL; r(2) = 0.75 +/- 0.25), vasoconstriction (-2.6 +/- 1.7 degrees C. microg(-1). mL; r(2) = 0.75 +/- 0.25), and shivering (-2.8 +/- 1.7 degrees C. microg(-1). mL; r(2) = 0.79 +/- 0.23) thresholds. Atropine significantly increased the thresholds for sweating (1.0 degrees C +/- 0.4 degrees C), vasoconstriction (0.9 degrees C +/- 0.3 degrees C), and shivering (0.7 degrees C +/- 0.3 degrees C). Nalbuphine reduced the vasoconstriction and shivering thresholds comparably. This differs markedly from meperidine, which impairs shivering twice as much as vasoconstriction. Atropine increased all thresholds and would thus be expected to facilitate shivering. Our results thus fail to support the theory that activation of kappa-opioid or central anticholinergic receptors contribute to meperidine's special antishivering action.
When given intracutaneously, capsaicin can cause burning pain by central propagation in thin afferents, as well as neurogenic vasodilatation, reflecting antidromic conduction in the same fibers. We wanted to test the hypothesis that an intravenous regional block (IVRA) inhibits these two phenomena to a similar degree.
Sixteen healthy volunteers participated. A bilateral IVRA was performed by simultaneously injecting mepivacaine in one arm and normal saline in the other in a randomized, double-blind manner. Ten minutes after release of the tourniquet, neurogenic inflammation was inflicted in each forearm by intracutaneous capsaicin. Microvascular skin blood flow was measured with a laser Doppler perfusion imager. The area of the flare and the flow therein were measured, taking into account the change in baseline caused by mepivacaine treatment and the postischemic hyperemia. Pain was repeatedly evaluated by visual analog scale.
The reactive hyperemia following arterial occlusion was less in the mepivacaine-treated arm 10 minutes after tourniquet release (P=.026). Intracutaneous capsaicin elicited a flare in both arms. The area of the flare was smaller 10 minutes after capsaicin (P=.009) in the mepivacaine-treated arm. There was no difference between the arms concerning the mean blood flow within the flare or in ischemic or capsaicin-induced pain.
Mepivacaine, given as an IVRA, had no effect on the post-IVRA sensory function of thin afferents but differentially decreased the spread of the capsaicin-induced flare.
Fifty-three patients with documented or suspected mixed flora infections were randomly assigned to receive either netilmicin or tobramycin in combination with clindamycin. Data from 36 patients with 43 documented infections yielding 102 clinical isolates were evaluated for efficacy. In the 18 patients receiving netilmicin-clindamycin, 90% of the infections responded favorably and 96% of the pathogens were eliminated. In the 18 patients receiving tobramycin-clindamycin, 81% of the infections resolved and 88.5% of the pathogens were eliminated. Forty-nine patients were included in the safety analysis. The incidence of nephrotoxicity was similar in both groups (netilmicin, 20%; tobramycin, 21%). Auditory toxicity occurred less frequently in the netilmicin-clindamycin group (4.5%) than in the tobramycin-clindamycin group (21.7%). These results demonstrate that both the netilmicin-clindamycin and the tobramycin-clindamycin combinations are comparable in efficacy and in potential for causing nephrotoxicity. In this study, however, netilmicin was considerably less ototoxic than tobramycin.
This communication describes a patient who developed Schneiderian first-rank symptoms in the course of treatment with fluvoxamine. The patient, a 28-year-old man suffering from panic disorder, developed several first-rank symptoms during fluvoxamine administration. These symptoms abated 1 week after fluvoxamine treatment was discontinued and haloperidol was started. Although haloperidol was discontinued, no further hallucinations or delusions occurred. This finding suggests that fluvoxamine can precipitate Schneiderian first-rank symptoms in some susceptible patients.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is a useful and safe provocation test for myocardial ischemia. Until now, the test has been focused only on the organic lesion in the coronary artery, and positive DSE has indicated the presence of significant fixed coronary artery stenosis. The aim of the present study is to examine whether myocardial ischemia due to coronary spasm is induced by dobutamine. We performed DSE on 51 patients with coronary spastic angina but without significant fixed coronary artery stenosis. All patients had anginal attacks at rest with ST elevation on the electrocardiogram (variant angina). Coronary spasm was induced by intracoronary injection of acetylcholine, and no fixed coronary artery stenosis was documented on angiograms in all patients. DSE was performed with intravenous dobutamine infusion with an incremental doses of 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40 microg/kg/min every 5 minutes. Of the 51 patients, 7 patients showed asynergy with ST elevation. All 7 patients (13.7%) had chest pain during asynergy, and both chest pain and electrocardiographic changes were preceded by asynergy. These findings indicate that dobutamine can provoke coronary spasm in some patients with coronary spastic angina. When DSE is performed to evaluate coronary artery disease, not only fixed coronary stenosis, but also coronary spasm should be considered as a genesis of asynergy.
The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase produces superoxide, thus regulating redox state in the vessel wall. Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs; -930A/G, A640G and C242T) of the p22(phox) subunit have been associated with hypertension; however, their role in peripheral and central pressures in normotensive individuals has not been addressed. A total of 210 healthy, normotensive individuals were studied. Genotypes for the -930A/G, A640G and C242T polymorphisms were determined by polymerase chain reaction. Peripheral pressures were measured by mercury sphygmomanometer and aortic pressures by a validated device using applanation tonometry. Both peripheral and central pressures differed across -930A/G genotypes. G allele carriers showed higher levels of peripheral systolic blood pressure (PSBP; AA: 113+/-12, GG/AG: 119+/-12 mm Hg; P<0.01) and peripheral diastolic blood pressure (AA: 70+/-9, GG/AG: 73+/-10 mm Hg; P<0.05). Regarding central pressures, AA homozygotes had lower central systolic blood pressure (CSBP; AA: 103+/-12, GG/AG: 108+/-12 mm Hg; P<0.01) and central diastolic blood pressure (AA: 71+/-9, GG/AG: 74+/-10 mm Hg; P<0.05). In multiple linear regression analysis, presence of the G allele (AG or GG) independently predicted CSBP. Blood pressure levels did not differ across A640G and C242T genotypes. The -930A/G polymorphism of p22(phox) is a determinant of peripheral and central pressures in normotensive individuals. The G allele is associated with higher blood pressure in the brachial artery, as well as in the aorta. These findings further elucidate the role of this polymorphism in the regulation of blood pressure. In contrast, the A640G and C242T SNPs do not influence peripheral and central pressures in normotensives.
The expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and the resultant increased nitric oxide production are associated with endotoxemia and atherosclerotic lesions observed in transplant hearts or balloon-injured artery. Ursodeoxycholic acid has been shown to have cardiovascular protective effects, such as inhibition of the development of transplant arteriosclerosis, but its mechanism remains unclear. Here, we investigated the effects of ursodeoxycholic acid on nitric oxide production and the expression of iNOS in vascular smooth muscle cells isolated from adult rat aorta and rabbit coronary artery. Nitrite released from cells in the culture medium was measured with the Griess reaction. iNOS mRNA and protein were measured by Northern and Western blot analyses. Treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid (30-1000 microM) significantly inhibited lipopolysaccharide plus interferon-gamma-induced nitric oxide production in a concentration-dependent manner, but ursodeoxycholic acid showed only small inhibitory effects on nitric oxide production that had already been induced by lipopolysaccharide plus interferon-gamma. Ursodeoxycholic acid by itself did not affect basal nitric oxide production. Ursodeoxycholic acid also suppressed lipopolysaccharide plus interferon-gamma-induced expression of iNOS mRNA and protein. Ursodeoxycholic acid had the most potent inhibitory effect among various kinds of bile acids examined, i.e. chenodeoxycholic acid, deoxycholic acid, cholic acid and conjugated bile acids such as tauroursodeoxycholic acid. These results suggest that ursodeoxycholic acid inhibits the induction of iNOS and then nitric oxide production in aortic and coronary artery smooth muscle cells, suggesting a possible mechanism for the cardiovascular protective effect of ursodeoxycholic acid under various pathophysiological conditions such as endotoxemia and atherosclerosis.
Autism symptoms, including impairments in language development, social interactions, and motor skills, have been difficult to model in rodents. Since children exposed in utero to sodium valproate (VPA) demonstrate behavioral and neuroanatomical abnormalities similar to those seen in autism, the neurodevelopmental effects of this antiepileptic agent were examined in mice following its pre- or postnatal administration. Exposed pups were evaluated in a battery of neurodevelopmental procedures designed to assess VPA-induced retardation (wherein a behavior fails to mature on schedule), regression (wherein a behavior does mature on time but then deteriorates), or intrusions (wherein normal behaviors are overshadowed by stereotypic or self-injurious behaviors). The resulting observations were interpreted in the context of this new strategy to model autism.
To develop guidelines for the management of QT prolongation after citalopram overdose, including decontamination with single-dose activated charcoal (SDAC) and cardiac monitoring.
Simulation study using a previously developed pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PKPD) model which predicted the time-course of QT prolongation and the effect of citalopram dose and use of SDAC on QT prolongation.
The previously developed PKPD model was used to address the following in patients following citalopram overdose: (1) Above what dose should patients be decontaminated? (2) Above what dose should patients have cardiac monitoring? (3) For what period of time should patients be monitored? The primary outcome was QT,RR combinations above an abnormal threshold as a surrogate predictor of torsades de pointes. Simulations were performed using MATLAB for an overdose patient with typical demographics: 30-year-old female with a heart rate of 79 bpm taking citalopram therapeutically. The simulations showed: (1) There was significant benefit associated with the administration of SDAC to patients following citalopram overdose ingesting >600 mg; (2) With citalopram overdoses >1,000mg it was advisable to give SDAC and cardiac monitor the patient; (3) The risk of developing future abnormal QT,RR combinations was less than 1% in patients with normal QT,RR combinations up to 13 h post-dose, so the minimum monitoring time for citalopram overdoses >1,000mg should be 13h. Recommended dose levels for intervention should be lowered in older patients and patients with tachycardia, while men are less sensitive to QT prolongation.
Guidelines for the management of QT prolongation after citalopram overdose were developed. We believe the model will help clinicians to decide which patients to decontaminate and monitor.
Our previous study demonstrated that PPARgamma ligand rosiglitazone prevents gastric carcinogenesis in rats induced by chemical carcinogen N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG). In this study, we attempted to identify novel anti-cancer mechanisms of rosiglitazone. By examining the gene expression profiles of MNNG-induced and rosiglitazone-treated gastric cancer with Uniset Rat I Bioarray microarray, we identified a gene that showed prominent responses in the rosiglitazone-treated group. The hypertension-related, calcium-regulated gene (HCaRG) was significantly up-regulated in rat gastric carcinoma of the rosiglitazone-treated group when compared with the MNNG group. We further examined HCaRG expression in human gastric cancer and found that the expression of HCaRG was down-regulated in human gastric cancerous tissue. Rosiglitazone markedly induced the expression of HCaRG in the AGS cell line. The up-regulation of HCaRG may be one of the mechanisms underlying the chemopreventive effect of rosiglitazone in gastric cancer.
Anticoagulation-related intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is often fatal, and rapid reversal of anticoagulation is the most appealing strategy currently available for treatment. We sought to determine whether particular emergency department (ED) interventions are effective in reversing coagulopathy and improving outcome.
Consecutive patients with warfarin-related ICH presenting to an urban tertiary care hospital from 1998 to 2004 were prospectively captured in a database. ED records were retrospectively reviewed for dose and timing of fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) and vitamin K, as well as serial coagulation measures. After excluding patients with incomplete ED records, do-not-resuscitate orders established in the ED, initial international normalized ratio (INR) < or =1.4, and for whom no repeat INR was performed, 69 patients were available for analysis. The primary outcome was a documented INR < or =1.4 within 24 hours of ED presentation.
Patients whose INR was successfully reversed within 24 hours had a shorter median time from diagnosis to first dose of FFP (90 minutes versus 210 minutes; P=0.02). In multivariable analysis, shorter time to vitamin K, as well as FFP, predicted INR correction. Every 30 minutes of delay in the first dose of FFP was associated with a 20% decreased odds of INR reversal within 24 hours (odds ratio, 0.8; 95% CI, 0.63 to 0.99). Dosing of FFP and vitamin K had no effect. No ED intervention was associated with improved clinical outcome.
Time to treatment is the most important determinant of 24-hour anticoagulation reversal. Although additional study is required to determine the clinical benefit of rapid reversal of anticoagulation, minimizing delays in FFP administration is a prudent first step in emergency management of warfarin-related ICH.
We examined the role of common genetic variation in schizophrenia in a genome-wide association study of substantial size: a stage 1 discovery sample of 21,856 individuals of European ancestry and a stage 2 replication sample of 29,839 independent subjects. The combined stage 1 and 2 analysis yielded genome-wide significant associations with schizophrenia for seven loci, five of which are new (1p21.3, 2q32.3, 8p23.2, 8q21.3 and 10q24.32-q24.33) and two of which have been previously implicated (6p21.32-p22.1 and 18q21.2). The strongest new finding (P = 1.6 × 10(-11)) was with rs1625579 within an intron of a putative primary transcript for MIR137 (microRNA 137), a known regulator of neuronal development. Four other schizophrenia loci achieving genome-wide significance contain predicted targets of MIR137, suggesting MIR137-mediated dysregulation as a previously unknown etiologic mechanism in schizophrenia. In a joint analysis with a bipolar disorder sample (16,374 affected individuals and 14,044 controls), three loci reached genome-wide significance: CACNA1C (rs4765905, P = 7.0 × 10(-9)), ANK3 (rs10994359, P = 2.5 × 10(-8)) and the ITIH3-ITIH4 region (rs2239547, P = 7.8 × 10(-9)).
Human serum paraoxonase 1 (hPON1) belongs to a family of enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of a broad range of esters and lactones. Although the very first identification of hPON1 might have been as a calcium-dependent paraoxonase/arylesterase, PON1 is in fact a lactonase associated with high-density lipoprotein and strongly stimulated by apoA-I. PON1 hydrolyzes various organophosphates, including insecticides and nerve gases. PON1 also plays a key role in prevention of atherosclerosis. Mediation of cholesterol efflux from macrophage is a key in vivo function of PON1. In present study, the hPON1 Q gene was cloned into baculovirus transfer vector pVL1392 and expressed in silkworm expression system. The rhPON1 Q presented two bands with every near molecular weight of about 40 and 43 kDa according to sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blotting analysis. The expression level was up to 1,256 mg/L in haemolymph, about 50 times as high as that from BmN cells (24.8 mg/L). After purified by two chromatography steps (DEAE-Sepharose and HiTrap Chelating HP), the purity of rhPON1 Q was up to 90%, and the enzymatic properties are similar to serum hPON1.
Bambuterol is the first long-acting oral beta 2-agonist with a 24 h effective duration. In order to investigate the possibility of replacing established treatment modalities with bambuterol once daily, we wanted to compare the bronchodilating and tremorogenic effects of bambuterol, 10 mg once daily, and terbutaline, 5 mg controlled-release (CR) tablets twice daily. The study was of a double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, cross-over design and involved two, two week treatment periods, separated by a one week wash-out period. Peak expiratory flow (PEF) recorded in patients' diaries was the primary efficacy variable. Seventy adult, asthmatic out-patients with mild to moderate asthma were included (forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) > or = 50% predicted). After treatment with bambuterol, mean morning and evening PEF (SD) were 347 (122) and 365 (121) l.min-1, respectively and 346 (121) and 365 (122) l.min-1, respectively, after treatment with terbutaline. FEV1 (SD) was 2.21 (0.91) l and 2.27 (0.93) l after bambuterol and terbutaline treatments, respectively. Tremor scores tended to be lower during treatment with bambuterol, although not significantly so. Tremor scores were low, in general. In conclusion, no difference in the bronchodilating effect was demonstrated between bambuterol, 10 mg once daily, and controlled release terbutaline, 5 mg twice daily. A tendency towards less tremor was seen with bambuterol.
Drug-induced long QT syndrome is a serious adverse drug reaction. Methadone prolongs the QT interval in vitro in a dose-dependent manner. In the inpatient setting, the frequency of QT interval prolongation with methadone treatment, its dose dependence, and the importance of cofactors such as drug-drug interactions remain unknown.
We performed a systematic, retrospective study comparing active or former intravenous drug users receiving methadone and those not receiving methadone among all patients hospitalized over a 5-year period in a tertiary care hospital. A total of 167 patients receiving methadone fulfilled the inclusion criteria and were compared with a control group of 80 injection drug users not receiving methadone. In addition to methadone dose, 15 demographic, biological, and pharmacological variables were considered as potential risk factors for QT prolongation.
Among 167 methadone maintenance patients, the prevalence of QTc prolongation to 0.50 second((1/2)) or longer was 16.2% compared with 0% in 80 control subjects. Six patients (3.6%) in the methadone group presented torsades de pointes. QTc length was weakly but significantly associated with methadone daily dose (Spearman rank correlation coefficient, 0.20; P<.01). Multivariate regression analysis allowed attribution of 31.8% of QTc variability to methadone dose, cytochrome P-450 3A4 drug-drug interactions, hypokalemia, and altered liver function.
QT interval prolongation in methadone maintenance patients hospitalized in a tertiary care center is a frequent finding. Methadone dose, presence of cytochrome P-450 3A4 inhibitors, potassium level, and liver function contribute to QT prolongation. Long QT syndrome can occur with low doses of methadone.
Nephropathy is one of the most common complications of diabetes mellitus. Glomerular hypertrophy is a hallmark in the early phase of the nephropathy. The mechanism of glomerular hypertrophy, however, remains incompletely understood. We have reported that Gas6 (growth arrest-specific gene 6) and its receptor, Axl, play a key role in the development of glomerulonephritis. Here we show the important role of Gas6/Axl in the pathogenesis of diabetic glomerular hypertrophy. In streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, mesangial and glomerular hypertrophy and an increase in the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and albuminuria were observed after 12 weeks of STZ injection. The glomerular expression of Gas6 and Axl was increased in those rats. Administration of warfarin inhibited mesangial and glomerular hypertrophy and the increase in GFR and albuminuria in STZ rats. Moreover, we found less mesangial hypertrophy in STZ-treated Gas6 knockout mice than control mice. In vitro we found that stimulation of mesangial cells with Gas6 resulted in mesangial cell hypertrophy. Thus we have found a novel mechanism of glomerular hypertrophy through the Gas6/Axl-mediated pathway in the development of diabetic nephropathy. Inhibition of the Gas6/Axl pathway in diabetic patients might be beneficial to slow down the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
Protein S-glutathionylation (PSSG), a reversible posttranslational modification of reactive cysteines, recently emerged as a regulatory mechanism that affects diverse cell-signaling cascades. The extent of cellular PSSG is controlled by the oxidoreductase glutaredoxin-1 (Grx1), a cytosolic enzyme that specifically de-glutathionylates proteins. Here, we sought to evaluate the impact of the genetic ablation of Grx1 on PSSG and on LPS-induced lung inflammation. In response to LPS, Grx1 activity increased in lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid in WT (WT) mice compared with PBS control mice. Glrx1(-/-) mice consistently showed slight but statistically insignificant decreases in total numbers of inflammatory cells recovered by BAL. However, LPS-induced concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and Granulocyte/Monocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) in BAL were significantly decreased in Glrx1(-/-) mice compared with WT mice. An in situ assessment of PSSG reactivity and a biochemical evaluation of PSSG content demonstrated increases in the lung tissue of Glrx1(-/-) animals in response to LPS, compared with WT mice or PBS control mice. We also demonstrated that PSSG reactivity was prominent in alveolar macrophages (AMs). Comparative BAL analyses from WT and Glrx1(-/-) mice revealed fewer and smaller AMs in Glrx1(-/-) mice, which showed a significantly decreased expression of NF-κB family members, impaired nuclear translocation of RelA, and lower levels of NF-κB-dependent cytokines after exposure to LPS, compared with WT cells. Taken together, these results indicate that Grx1 regulates the production of inflammatory mediators through control of S-glutathionylation-sensitive signaling pathways such as NF-κB, and that Grx1 expression is critical to the activation of AMs.
Saussurea lappa is a traditional herbal medicine used for to treat various inflammatory diseases. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of S. lappa against atopic dermatitis using human keratinocyte HaCaT cells, murine mast cell line MC/9 cells, and a house dust mite-induced atopic dermatitis model of Nc/Nga mice. Treatment with the S. lappa caused a significant reduction in the mRNA levels and production of inflammatory chemokines and cytokine, including thymus- and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC), macrophage-derived chemokine (MDC), regulated on activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES), and interleukin-8 (IL-8) in tumor necrosis factor-α/interferone-γ-stimulated HaCaT cells. S. lappa exhibited the significant reduction in histamine production in MC/9 cells. In the atopic dermatitis model, S. lappa significantly reduced the dermatitis score and serum IgE and TARC levels. In addition, the back skin and ears of S. lappa-treated Nc/Nga mice exhibited reduced histological manifestations of atopic skin lesions such as erosion, hyperplasia of the epidermis and dermis, and inflammatory cell infiltration. In conclusion, an extract of S. lappa effectively suppressed the development of atopic dermatitis, which was closely related to the reduction of chemokines and cytokine. Our study suggests that S. lappa may be a potential treatment for atopic dermatitis.
In persons suffering from occupational pathology due to antibiotics, the clinical picture of neurosensory hypoacusis is described and the pathogenetic mechanisms of the illness are unraveled. Perceptive bradyacusia occurs in the presence of organic pathology of the nervous system, internal organs and skin. In addition to the toxic action, antibiotics exert an allergenic action. As a result there develops allergic cerebral vasculitis. The latter one is an additional pathological factor giving rise to neurosensory hypoacusis in occupational pathology induced by antibiotics. The data obtained can be used in administration of pathogenetic therapy and in expert medical evaluation of the working capacity.
We conducted a combined genome-wide association study (GWAS) of 7,481 individuals with bipolar disorder (cases) and 9,250 controls as part of the Psychiatric GWAS Consortium. Our replication study tested 34 SNPs in 4,496 independent cases with bipolar disorder and 42,422 independent controls and found that 18 of 34 SNPs had P < 0.05, with 31 of 34 SNPs having signals with the same direction of effect (P = 3.8 × 10(-7)). An analysis of all 11,974 bipolar disorder cases and 51,792 controls confirmed genome-wide significant evidence of association for CACNA1C and identified a new intronic variant in ODZ4. We identified a pathway comprised of subunits of calcium channels enriched in bipolar disorder association intervals. Finally, a combined GWAS analysis of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder yielded strong association evidence for SNPs in CACNA1C and in the region of NEK4-ITIH1-ITIH3-ITIH4. Our replication results imply that increasing sample sizes in bipolar disorder will confirm many additional loci.
Partial or near-total lack of erythrocyte catalase activity is a rare condition, generally thought to be benign. However, little is known of the frequency of common diseases of adult onset in human beings with catalase deficiency. We report that, in a series of Hungarian patients with catalase deficiency, there is a higher frequency of diabetes than in unaffected first-degree relatives and the general Hungarian population. We speculate that quantitative deficiency of catalase might predispose to cumulative oxidant damage of pancreatic beta-cells and diabetes.
Fifty patients with histologically confirmed stage III breast cancer were enrolled in this study of doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 and docetaxel 75 mg/m2 intravenously infused over 1 hour every 21 days with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor for 4 cycles. This was followed by surgery (mastectomy or lumpectomy) and 4 more cycles of doxorubicin/docetaxel postoperatively, then radiation and tamoxifen as indicated. Forty-six of the 50 patients (92%) completed neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and 38 patients (76%) completed adjuvant chemotherapy. Clinical response (defined as > 50% decrease in size of tumor) was achieved after 2 cycles in 37 patients (74%) and after 4 cycles in 42 of the 46 patients (91%) who finished neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Pathologic complete response (pCR; no pathologic invasive cancer) at the primary site was obtained in 7 of 46 patients (15%); 11 had no residual gross disease but did have microscopic persistence or microscopic complete response (mCR), for a combined pCR and mCR of 18 of 46 patients (39%). No treatment-related deaths occurred, but 3 patients died during treatment: 1 from progressive disease, 1 from a gastrointestinal bleeding, and 1 from unexplained sudden cardiac death. Dose-limiting toxicities were hematologic (grade 3 neutropenia in 5 patients and grade 4 in 23 patients). Congestive heart failure developed in 4 of 50 patients (8%), with a mean decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 20% in affected patients and 1 asymptomatic decrease in LVEF of 25%. At last follow-up, 10 patients had died of progressive disease, and 1 each from sudden cardiac death and lower gastrointestinal bleeding. In locally advanced breast cancer, neoadjuvant doxorubicin/docetaxel is a very active regimen that achieved pCR of 15% and a combined pCR and mCR of 39%, for an overall clinical response rate of 91%. Adjuvant chemotherapy was complicated by dropouts and congestive heart failure. This regimen should be used with close monitoring of cardiac function.
Some patients with sarcoidosis can have cardiac involvement. Impairment of the cardiac sympathetic nerve activity is seen in about 50% of the sarcoidosis patients with small fiber neuropathy. In this case we present a sarcoidosis patient with small fiber neuropathy and cardiac symptoms with a cardiac sympathetic dysfunction, assessed with I-123 MIBG SPECT. After 5 months of treatment with carvedilol, which has besides adrenergic receptor blocking effects also antioxidant action, we saw a clear improvement of the cardiac sympathetic function demonstrated on a repeated I-123 MIBG SPECT. Future studies should explore the clinical relevance of the relation of oxidative stress, antioxidant therapy and cardiac dysfunction in sarcoidosis.
