In five patients with peripheral neuropathy due to vitamin B12 deficiency, electrodiagnostic studies demonstrated severe reduction in sensory nerve conduction velocities compatible with a demyelinating disorder affecting sensory nerve fibres. It is suggested that in some patients lack of vitamin B12 may cause primary sensory demyelinating neuropathy.
1. Symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) may be acutely exacerbated by administration of certain serotonin agonists Exacerbation of OCD symptoms by sumatriptan, a 5HT1D agonist (Zohar, 1993), is consistent with pre-clinical data suggesting that the serotonin auto-receptor plays an important role in this disorder (El Mansari et al, 1995). 2. In order to investigate the functional role of the serotonin auto-receptor in OCD, the authors undertook single photon emission computed tomography in OCD patients after administration of sumatriptan and placebo. The authors hypothesized that, as in the case of m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) challenge (Hollander et al, 1995), exacerbation of OCD symptoms would be accompanied by increased cortical metabolism and thus blood flow, and more specifically by increased activity in the orbitofrontal-striatal circuit. They also expected, that as in the case of mCPP challenge (Hollander et al, 1993), exacerbation of OCD symptoms would be associated with a relatively poor response to subsequent treatment with serotonin specific reuptake inhibitors. 3. Sumatriptan (100 mg orally) and placebo were administered on separate days to 14 patients who met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for OCD, using a randomized double-blind design. After 90 minutes, patients were injected with Tc-99m HMPAO and underwent single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of the brain. Activity in regions of interest was calculated, and compared using repeated measures analysis of variance. Patients were subsequently treated with a serotonin specific reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). 4. Behavioral response to sumatriptan was heterogenous, with 4 patients showing acute exacerbation, and 4 patients demonstrating a decrease in symptoms. On sumatriptan challenge, there was a significant association between symptom exacerbation and decreased activity in frontal areas. There was an association between decreased activity in an inferior frontal area with worse response to treatment, and also patients with symptom exacerbation after sumatriptan had poorer response to SSRI treatment. 5. Heterogeneity of behavioral response to sumatriptan in OCD is consistent with previous studies demonstrating conflicting and heterogenous behavioral responses to serotonergic challenges (Hollander et al, 1992), and with underlying heterogeneity in the neurobiology of this disorder. 6. It may be hypothesized that increased frontal activity in some patients with OCD is itself a compensatory mechanism. In patients with such compensatory hyperactivity, administration of a serotonin auto-receptor agonist results in decreased frontal activity and exacerbation of OCD symptoms. These patients may also be less likely to respond to treatment with a SSRI. 7. Further work combining pharmacological challenge paradigms and functional imaging techniques in OCD may be helpful in elucidating the neurobiology of this complex disorder.
The authors report 4 cases of thrombosis of the superior longitudinal sinus (SLS) in women taking oestroprogestational agents. This complication is very rare, only 25 cases existing in the literature. The clinical picture consists of premonitory headaches associated with neurological signs suggesting lesions affecting both hemispheres in alternation. In the absence of treatment, sudden deterioration on about the tenth day is to be feared. This picture is similar to that of puerperal thrombosis of the SLS. The diagnosis should be confirmed by carotid arteriography, which demonstrates the presence of collateral varices and the thrombosed sinus giving a "negative" image on the AP view. Cerebral scintigraphy shows one or more areas of uptake in the form of adjacent rounded shapes, corresponding to cerebral infarctions of venous origin. As far as the responsibility of oestro-progenstational agents is concerned, the role is suggested by the analogy with puerperal thromboses and also by the absence of cases in men (with the exception of head injury, infections of the face and haematological malignancies). The prognosis is grave (19 deaths out of 29 cases), but surviving patients are completely cured. This prognosis would seem to be essentially dependent upon the possibilities of venous callateral circulation, which are variable in each individual patient. Anticoagulants and thrombolytic risk, in effective doses, to transform the venous thrombosis into a cerebral haemorrhage. Treatment consists rather of methods to reduce cerebral volume, aimed at maximal use of collateral varices and assisting the patient to overcome to acute phase of the first 2 weeks. Headache would seem to be the principal presenting symptom. In our opinion, no biological test gives a reliable indication as to those women most at risk and contraindictions are in fact of a clinical character.
4 cases of thrombosis of the intracranial venous sinuses (TIVS) which occurred in patients 22-38 years of age who used oral contraceptives are discussed. Of the 29 reported cases of this type, 19 of the patients died. There are 3 stages in the evloution of TIVS: headache, hemispheric focus symptoms (e.g., Bravis-Jacksonian crises), and a phase of dramatic aggravation (e.g., severe headache, coma). Arteriography of the carotid artery and cerebral scintigraphy are the methods used to diagnose TIVS. Besides such predisposing factors as diabetes, obesity, migraines, etc., the use of oral contraceptives containing estrogen seem to be a factor in the development of TIVS, particularly within the 1st year of estrogen use. The reduction of cerebral volume seems to be the best treatment for TIVS: anticoagulants and thrombolytic compounds can cause fatal hemorrhaging
Unintentional ingestion of bupropion in young children has generally resulted in limited toxicity. We report a case of pediatric bupropion ingestion resulting in multiple seizures. The patient experienced hallucinations, agitation, vomiting, tachycardia and seizures after ingestion of 1050 (48 mg/kg) of extended-release bupropion. The potential for severe toxicity in the setting of pediatric overdose should be recognized.
A 77-year-old woman with no history of epilepsy presented a probable nonconvulsive status epilepticus while receiving continuous intravenous morphine for back pain relating to vertebral metastasis of a malignant lymphoma. A generalized tonic-clonic seizure occurred a few minutes after injection of the morphine antagonist naloxone. No cerebral lesion was detected. This observation supports the notion of a possible pro-epileptogenic effect of opioid substances in association with metabolic and other toxic factors. Various hypotheses as to the complex actions of morphine and its antagonist in epileptogenesis are discussed.
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data show an association between hypertension and exposure to dioxin-like halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (HAHs). Furthermore, chronic exposure of mice to the prototypical HAH, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), induces reactive oxygen species (ROS), endothelial dysfunction, and hypertension. Because TCDD induces cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) and CYP1A1 can increase ROS, we tested the hypothesis that TCDD-induced endothelial dysfunction and hypertension are mediated by CYP1A1. CYP1A1 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) mice were fed one control or TCDD-containing pill (180 ng TCDD/kg, 5 days/week) for 35 days (n = 10-14/genotype/treatment). Blood pressure was monitored by radiotelemetry, and liver TCDD concentration, CYP1A1 induction, ROS, and aortic reactivity were measured at 35 days. TCDD accumulated to similar levels in livers of both genotypes. TCDD induced CYP1A1 in endothelium of aorta and mesentery without detectable expression in the vessel wall. TCDD also induced superoxide anion production, measured by NADPH-dependent lucigenin luminescence, in aorta, heart, and kidney of CYP1A1 WT mice but not KO mice. In contrast, TCDD induced hydrogen peroxide, measured by amplex red assay, to similar levels in aorta of CYP1A1 WT and KO mice but not in heart or kidney. TCDD reduced acetylcholine-dependent vasorelaxation in aortic rings of CYP1A1 WT mice but not in KO mice. Finally, TCDD steadily increased blood pressure after 15 days, which plateaued after 25 days (+20 mmHg) in CYP1A1 WT mice but failed to alter blood pressure in KO mice. These results demonstrate that CYP1A1 is required for TCDD-induced cardiovascular superoxide anion production, endothelial dysfunction, and hypertension.
The effect of the nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) in rats on specific antibody responses to 2,4 dinitrophenyl (DNP) conjugated to either spider crab haemocyanin (MSH), a T cell-dependent antigen, or hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a T cell-independent type 2 antigen were studied. The serum IgG anti-DNP levels following immunization with both antigens were reduced in nephrotic animals compared with controls while IgM anti-DNP antibody titres were higher. The half-life of IgG anti-DNP antibodies passively transferred into non-immunized nephrotic rats was markedly reduced while the half-life of anti-DNP antibodies of the IgM class was comparable to that in controls. Low serum IgG and elevated IgM levels were seen in nephrotic animals compared to controls. Antibody-forming cells specific for DNP were demonstrated by immunohistology on rat spleens and the numbers of both IgG and IgM-producing cells were found to be significantly increased (P less than 0.05) in nephrotic animals in response to both DNP-HES and DNP-MSH. These data indicate that in nephrotic rats the alteration seen in the serum immunoglobulin levels is not attributable to reduced antibody production but increased catabolism of serum IgG antibodies.
Renal glomerular hyperfiltration has been proposed as an important contributing factor to the progression of hypertensive nephrosclerosis in rats with reduced renal mass. However, no clinical studies have assessed the role of glomerular hyperfiltration in the pathogenesis of hypertensive nephrosclerosis in humans. In a prospective, randomized, long-term blood pressure control study with up to 3 years follow-up, we showed that good blood pressure control with a mean diastolic blood pressure < or = 95 mm Hg preceded by a 2- to 4-month period of diastolic blood pressure < or = 80 mm Hg improved renal function in hypertensive nephrosclerosis patients. Patients treated with minoxidil, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (enalapril), or a calcium entry blocker (nifedipine) had improvement in renal function, as indicated by a positive slope of the reciprocal serum-creatine concentration versus time and an increment in glomerular filtration rate. These results suggested that improvement in renal function occurred with these major types of antihypertensive drug treatment. To assess the renal hemodynamics of minoxidil, enalapril, and nifedipine, eight patients with hypertensive nephrosclerosis were admitted to the General Clinical Research Center for renal clearance studies on each drug while ingesting a fixed-calorie, 12% protein, 40% fat, and 100 mEq Na/d diet. Mean blood pressure, effective renal plasma flow, and renal vascular resistance did not change during the three phases of treatment. However, minoxidil treatment increased the glomerular filtration rate by 48% versus enalapril and by 79% versus nifedipine. Since minoxidil treatment improves renal function while causing a relative hyperfiltration, glomerular hyperfiltration per se is an unlikely mechanism for the progression of hypertensive nephrosclerosis in humans.
Interictal intervals in pilocarpine-induced chronic epilepsy are characterized by apparent normal electrographic activity and longer sleep periods or drowsiness or both. Sparse information exists concerning the neural network activity during these seizure-free intervals. In our research, a [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) autoradiographic technique was used to investigate interictal changes in the metabolism of the epileptic rat brain.
Epileptic rats were monitored by video-EEG for approximately 120 days, with [14C]2DG injected after a seizure-free interval of > or = 24 h.
Autoradiographic analysis revealed an increase in glucose utilization by several brain regions; the most consistent increase was found in the lateral posterior thalamic nucleus and pretectal region.
These findings suggest that the lateral posterior thalamic nucleus and the pretectal region may be involved in cerebral circuits inhibiting epileptic activity during interictal intervals.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive disease that lacks established markers to direct therapeutic intervention. Thus, these tumors are routinely treated with cytotoxic chemotherapies (e.g., anthracyclines), which can cause severe side effects that impact quality of life. Recent studies indicate that the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor (RB) pathway is an important determinant in TNBC disease progression and therapeutic outcome. Furthermore, new therapeutic agents have been developed that specifically target the RB pathway, potentially positioning RB as a novel molecular marker for directing treatment. The current study evaluates the efficacy of pharmacological CDK4/6 inhibition in combination with the widely used genotoxic agent doxorubicin in the treatment of TNBC. Results demonstrate that in RB-proficient TNBC models, pharmacological CDK4/6 inhibition yields a cooperative cytostatic effect with doxorubicin but ultimately protects RB-proficient cells from doxorubicin-mediated cytotoxicity. In contrast, CDK4/6 inhibition does not alter the therapeutic response of RB-deficient TNBC cells to doxorubicin-mediated cytotoxicity, indicating that the effects of doxorubicin are indeed dependent on RB-mediated cell cycle control. Finally, the ability of CDK4/6 inhibition to protect TNBC cells from doxorubicin-mediated cytotoxicity resulted in recurrent populations of cells specifically in RB-proficient cell models, indicating that CDK4/6 inhibition can preserve cell viability in the presence of genotoxic agents. Combined, these studies suggest that while targeting the RB pathway represents a novel means of treatment in aggressive diseases such as TNBC, there should be a certain degree of caution when considering combination regimens of CDK4/6 inhibitors with genotoxic compounds that rely heavily on cell proliferation for their cytotoxic effects.
To prevent treatment withdrawal due to flutamide-induced liver dysfunction, we performed maximum androgen blockade (MAB) therapy by combining a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist or orchiectomy with low-dose flutamide (125 mg x 2/day) in patients with prostate cancer. In this study, the efficacy, adverse effects such as hepatotoxicity, and compliance were compared retrospectively between 35 patients who received low-dose flutamide therapy (1995-1999) and 27 patients who received flutamide at its ordinary dose (125 mg x 3/day). No significant difference was observed in the response rate (> or = PR) as determined from the prostate-specific antigen parameter (p = 0.6211) or the incidence of hepatotoxicity based on the aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels. However, flutamide withdrawal due to liver dysfunction was less frequent in the low-dose group (2.9%) than in the ordinary dose group (18.5%) (p = 0.0386). MAB therapy using low-dose flutamide is expected to prevent the reduction in the compliance due to side effects and to improve the long-term prognosis in patients with prostate cancer, who are mostly elderly individuals.
Assessment of an elderly depressed patient with an imipramine-induced tremor led to the conclusions that imipramine tremor (1) can be severe and incapacitating, (2) is most pronounced early in the treatment, (3) does not seem to be dose-related, and (4) is readily reversible with a beta-adrenergic blocking agent.
Probucol administration of 4 weeks produced torsades de pointes associated with exacerbated QT interval prolongation in a 36-year-old woman with Romano-Ward syndrome. With discontinuance of probucol, the QT interval corrected for rate shortened from 620 msec to 500 msec and ventricular ectopic beats disappeared completely. Although probucol is known to prolong the QT interval, associated ventricular tachyarrhythmia has not been reported in humans as yet. This case suggests that one should be very careful in the administration of probucol to patients with long baseline QT intervals.
The aim of the present study was to further investigate a previously reported attention-related impairment in dependent amphetamine users using event-related potential (ERP) indices of selective attention.
ERPs were recorded during an auditory selective attention task (SAT) that involved detecting infrequent long-duration target tones presented among short-duration tones that varied in location (left vs. right ear) and pitch (low vs. high). Amphetamine users (n = 19) were divided into two groups, high dependence (n = 10) and low dependence (n = 10), based on amphetamine Severity of Dependence Scale scores, and compared to an age-matched control group (n = 9).
The high-dependence group showed slowed reaction time and reduced early processing negativity and peak N1 amplitude to location-relevant nontarget stimuli. Poor performance on the SAT was highly correlated with deficits in early processing, which were also related to poor performance on the Wechsler Memory Scale Attention/Concentration index.
It is suggested that severely dependent users suffer an inability to selectively enhance the sensory processing of relevant auditory information. This may produce poor automatic preferential processing of relevant information and increase load on limited attentional resources.
Mice exposed prenatally to diethylstilbestrol (DES-exposed mice) can transmit a carcinogenic influence to the next generation (DES-lineage mice) when mated to control mice. The persistence of this effect was studied one generation further (DES-lineage-2 mice) by mating DES-lineage female mice to control males. The interaction of maternal dietary fat levels with DES was also tested by feeding high and low levels of dietary fat during the pregnancies that produced the final two generations. DES-lineage-2 mice, exposed to low or high fat maternal diets, had significantly more tumors than control mice with corresponding dietary fat exposure. The frequency of tumors in DES-lineage-2 mice was not significantly lower than in DES-lineage mice from a previous experiment. Thus, the multigenerational effect of DES is relatively intense in mice. If this type of carcinogenesis can occur in the human population, it poses a major threat to future generations.
Resveratrol, a phytoalexin, reduced the viability of MH7A cells, a human rheumatoid arthritis synovial cell line. In the apoptosis assay, resveratrol increased TUNEL-positive cells and stimulated H2A.X phosphorylation. Resveratrol disrupted mitochondrial membrane potentials in MH7A cells and stimulated cytochrome c release from the mitochondria to the cytosol. Resveratrol activated caspase-3 and caspase-9 but not caspase-8 in MH7A cells. Resveratrol upregulated the expression of the NAD-dependent deacetylase sirtuin 1 mRNA and downregulated the expression of the Bcl-X(L) mRNA, and resveratrol-induced MH7A cell death, mitochondrial damage, and caspase-3/-9 activation were prevented by sirtinol, an inhibitor of sirtuin 1. The results of the present study show that resveratrol induces MH7A cell apoptosis by activating caspase-9 and the effector caspase-3 along mitochondrial disruption as a result of reduced Bcl-X(L) expression, allowing cytochrome c release from the mitochondria into the cytosol, in a sirtuin 1-dependent manner. This suggests that resveratrol could suppress hyperplasia of synovial cells, a critical factor of rheumatoid arthritis.
Transgenic Apc1638N mice, heterozygous for a targeted frameshift mutation at codon 1638 of the endogenous adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene, are predisposed to develop multiple adenomas and adenocarcinomas along the intestinal tract and to a number of extra-intestinal lesions including, among others, mammary tumors. We have studied these mice in a short-term carcinogenicity test with 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo(4,5-b)pyridine (PhIP), a potent murine small intestinal mutagen and lymphomagen. Upon dietary administration of 0.03% PhIP in a short-term (6 months) study, a significantly increased number of small intestinal tumors as well as an increased number of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) were observed in male Apc+/Apc1638N mice compared with untreated transgenic mice. No differences in intestinal and mammary tumor multiplicity were observed between treated and control Apc+/Apc1638N females.
To report three cases of possible foscarnet-induced neurologic sequelae.
We report two cases of seizures and one case of hand cramping and finger paresthesia after starting foscarnet therapy with no evidence of predisposing risk factors, such as serum laboratory abnormalities, renal dysfunction, or known central nervous system (CNS) involvement. All three patients had stable laboratory values during therapy and when the neurologic adverse effects occurred. All patients were receiving appropriate dosages of foscarnet.
The incidence of seizures in AIDS patients was reviewed. A history of CNS lesions, infections, and/or AIDS per se may increase the risk of a neurologic adverse effect while receiving foscarnet therapy. Acute ionized hypocalcemia may cause these neurologic adverse effects. Ionized hypocalcemia is transitory, is related to the rate of foscarnet infusion, and may not be reflected as a change in total serum calcium concentration.
Foscarnet probably contributed to the neurologic adverse effects reported here. Foscarnet may need to be administered at a slower rate than is recommended by the manufacturer. Electrolytes must be monitored closely; however, a neurologic adverse effect may not be foreseen.
Craniofacial deformities caused by retinoic acid (RA) treatment are well known, but its mechanisms remain to be elucidated. In order to study RA-induced deformities during craniofacial morphogenesis, several different stages and regions of quail embryo in ovo were examined. It was found that the RA injection to the subgerminal space in early-stage (H.H. stage 8) affects specifically craniofacial morphogenesis. Superficially, the acrania and the exencephalia are the most remarkable deformities. Bone and cartilage staining has revealed the hypoplasia of maxilla in high frequencies. Histochemical analyses have demonstrated abnormal development and growth of the central nervous system (CNS). The expression of the Nau gene, a marker of post-mitotic neuroblasts, was also examined by in situ hybridization. Strong expression of the Nau gene in normal embryo was observed in the mantle zone in CNS in the E5 embryo. In contrast, Nau negative nervous tissues were often observed in the RA-treated E5 quail embryo, which indicates abnormal proliferation and differentiation of the neuroblasts in the CNS.
Urine chemical profiles were followed for three or nine days after intravenous injection of diatrizoate, iohexol, or saline in 30 rats, where a tubulointerstitial nephropathy was induced by gentamicin given over an eight-day period. Another ten rats injected with saline served as controls. Compared to injection of saline, both iohexol and diatrizoate induced dysfunction. The excretion of the cytoplasmic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase was significantly greater following iohexol than following diatrizoate. No significant differences between the two media were shown by the various serum components examined. Among the gentamicin-treated rats, light microscopy showed prolonged occurrence of tubular necrosis and a more intensive round cell infiltration following iohexol than following diatrizoate and saline. Both contrast media induced further temporary renal dysfunction in rats with gentamicin nephropathy; iohexol induced more morphologic changes than diatrizoate.
The use of safe iodinated contrast media (CM) to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is an important consideration among renally impaired diabetic patients during coronary angiography.
Diabetic patients with normal or mild renal dysfunction are less likely to receive renal protective measures during angiography, yet they may also be at risk for CIN. We compared the renal effects of iopamidol and iodixanol in diabetic patients who were referred for angiography.
Diabetic patients (N=122) with a serum creatinine (SCr) level of < or = 2 mg/dl were double-blind randomized to receive nonionic CM: iopamidol-370 (low osmolar, monomeric) or iodixanol-320 (iso-osmolar, dimeric). Renal stability was evaluated at baseline and at Days 1, 3, and 7 post-angiography. The primary endpoint was a > or = 25% increase in SCr.
Seventeen (10 iopamidol, 7 iodixanol; P=NS) patients had an increase in SCr > or = 25% over baseline. Over all days, analysis revealed nonsignificant differences in the incidence of CIN between the two study groups regardless of how CIN was defined.
Diabetic patients with normal or mild renal dysfunction are at risk for CIN. No significant difference in renal response was observed for these CM in this at-risk population.
Jolkinolides are the main abietane-type diterpenoids isolated from the root of Euphorbia fischeriana Steud. In the present study, we investigated in vitro anti-inflammatory activity of four structural analogs of jolkinolide in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264 macrophages. Among these jolkinolides, 17-hydroxy-jolkinolide B (HJB) exhibited the most potent inhibition of LPS-induced production of inflammatory mediators such as prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), nitric oxide (NO), and pro-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)]. HJB could decrease LPS-induced protein levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and the mRNA expressions of COX-2, iNOS, IL-6, and TNF-α in a concentration-dependent manner. These inhibitory effects were caused by suppression of MAPK phosphorylation and NF-κB activation. Furthermore, we demonstrated that HJB strongly induced heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protein and mRNA expressions. These findings suggest that HJB possesses anti-inflammatory actions in macrophages and may provide a potential therapeutic approach for inflammatory disorders.
The effects of different oral doses of isosorbide dinitrate administered acutely and four times daily during sustained therapy were studied in 12 patients with angina pectoris. After administration of 30, 60 and 120 mg of isosorbide dinitrate, the average plasma concentrations were higher and the area under the plasma concentration time curve was greater during sustained than during acute therapy (p less than 0.01). Reduction in standing systolic blood pressure was greater during acute than during sustained therapy (p less than 0.001). This reduction in systolic blood pressure was dose-related and persisted for 8 hours during acute therapy, but was not dose-related and was demonstrable for only 4 hours during sustained therapy. Compared with placebo therapy, exercise duration to the onset of angina and to the development of moderate angina increased significantly after each dose of isosorbide dinitrate for 8 hours during acute therapy but for only 2 hours during sustained therapy. During acute therapy, administration of a single dose of 15 or 30 mg of isosorbide dinitrate produced similar improvement in exercise tolerance as did a dose of 60 or 120 mg. During sustained therapy (15 mg four times daily), exercise tolerance increased to the same magnitude as with doses of 30, 60 or 120 mg four times daily. In most patients, near maximal improvement in exercise tolerance occurred after a dose of 15 or 30 mg four times daily. It is concluded that during sustained therapy with isosorbide dinitrate, partial tolerance to the antianginal and circulatory effects develops rapidly.
The central action, particularly potential antidepressant activity of WEB 1881, a new nootropic drug related to piracetam, was investigated in rats and mice. WEB 1881 antagonizes the reserpine- and apomorphine-induced hypothermia, potentiates the behavioral effect of DOPA and dihydroxyphenylserine, as well as the TRH-induced hyperthermia. Piracetam was only effective in the reserpine and DOPA tests. WEB 1881 is inactive in immobility test of Porsolt et al. It enhances the hind limb flexor reflex of the spinal rat, this effect being antagonized by prazosin and cyproheptadine. It exerts no effect on head twitches induced by L-5-hydroxytryptophan. The studied compound increases the noradrenaline and dopamine and turnover in the forebrain and brain stem. WEB 1881 given repeatedly potentiates the clonidine-induced aggressiveness and has no effect on the locomotor hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine. The results indicate that in a number of tests WEB 1881 acts like other antidepressant drugs (but in others not), moreover, they suggest that this action is--at least partly--mediated by the central noradrenaline system.
Sirolimus is associated with prolonged delayed graft function (DGF) following renal transplantation and exacerbation of proteinuria. We assessed renal allograft biopsies from DGF patients treated with de novo sirolimus (n = 10) for renal tubular cell and podocyte apoptosis and expression of activated caspase-3, Bcl-2, and mTOR and compared them to biopsies from DGF patients not receiving sirolimus (n = 15). Both groups received mycophenolate mofetil, prednisone and antibody induction. Apoptosis was assessed using terminal deoxynucleodidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. Caspase-3, Bcl-2, and mTOR expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Sirolimus treated patients had 334+/-69 TUNEL positive cells per 5 high power fields compared to 5.5+/-2.9 TUNEL positive cells in control patients (p<0.001). The number of TUNEL positive cells correlated with tubular architectural disruption. Expression of activated caspase-3, Bcl-2, or activated mTOR did not differ between groups. 60% of biopsies from sirolimus treated patients compared to 7% of biopsies from controls showed diffuse podocyte apoptosis (p = 0.007). There was no podocyte expression of activated mTOR, activated caspase-3, or Bcl-2 in either group. These data suggest that DGF patients treated with sirolimus have increased renal tubular cell apoptosis and podocyte apoptosis.
Eighteen patients with advanced breast cancer refractory to combination chemotherapy with 5-FU, Adriamycin, Cytoxan (FAC) were treated with methotrexate 30 to 40 mg/m2 iv and vincristing 1.5 mg/m2 iv at weekly intervals. Of 17 evaluable patients, 4 (23%) achieved a partial remission with a median duration of remission of 6 months and a median survival of 10 months. In another seven of seventeen patients (41%) the disease remained stable. Toxicity was minimal.
To compare OAB symptom outcomes following initial randomised treatment with solifenacin 5 mg or tolterodine ER 4 mg at the 4-week clinic-visit and again at 12 weeks for patients choosing to remain on this treatment dose from 4 weeks.
A prospective, double blind, double-dummy, two-arm, parallel-group, 12-week study (The STAR study) was conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of solifenacin 5/10 mg and tolterodine extended release (ER) 4 mg in OAB patients.
At 4 weeks mean improvements in OAB symptoms, including urgency, frequency (primary variable), incontinence and nocturia, were larger in patients randomised to solifenacin 5 mg; with the difference for incontinence being statistically significant (mean reduction in incontinence episodes/24 hrs in the solifenacin group of -1.30 vs. -0.90 (p=0.0181); the mean result for solifenacin 5 mg amounted to a 44% additional improvement.) There was an associated significant reduction in pad use (reduced by -1.21 vs. -0.80; p=0.0089); the mean result for solifenacin 5 mg amounted to a 51% additional improvement over that of tolterodine ER 4 mg. For patients choosing to remain on these treatments improvements in favour of solifenacin were maintained at study end (12-weeks). Treatments were well tolerated.
Within 4 weeks solifenacin 5mg was statistically significantly better than tolterodine ER 4 mg in improving incontinence and reducing incontinence pad use. Differences in efficacy in favour of solifenacin 5 mg were maintained from 4 weeks for the duration of the study for patients choosing to remain on their starting dose.
