Our aim was to gain insight into the gene expression profile during hepatic fibrosis autoreversal. Spontaneous recovery from hepatic fibrosis was created in SD rats by CCl(4) exposure for 8 weeks and then withdrawal for 6 weeks. Then differentially expressed genes during regression of fibrosis were analyzed using cDNA microarray. Results obtained were further subjected to hierarchical clustering and validated by semiquantitative RT-PCR. Expression of Mapk1 and Rps6ka1, which are critical members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, was also investigated by Northern blot and immunohistochemistry. Microarray hybridization identified 254 genes differentially expressed throughout resolution of fibrosis. Being verified by RT-PCR, up- or down-regulated genes were classified into various groups according to clustering and function: (1) metabolic enzymes, (2) facilitated diffusion proteins/transporters/symporters, (3) gastrointestinal hormones/receptors, (4) lipoproteins/fatty acid binding proteins, (5) transcription factors/nuclear factors, and (6) the MAPK signaling pathway. The mRNA level of Mapk1 increased greatly as hepatic fibrosis reversed. Meanwhile Mapk1 and Rps6ka1 were proven to be expressed in hepatocytes and absent from mesenchymal cells. Six groups of genes exhibit a close relation to the recovery of CCl(4)-induced hepatic fibrosis. The MAPK signaling-dependent pathway, representing one of the gene groups, may contribute to the reversal of hepatic fibrosis.
Pain and sensory thresholds were examined before and after intravenous administration of ketamine (0.15 mg/kg), morphine (0.075 mg/kg) or saline in 8 patients with post-herpetic neuralgia. A randomized, double-blind, cross-over study design was used. Post-herpetic neuralgia was associated with impaired sensory function, as shown by reduced tactile and warm sensation in the affected compared with the contralateral non-affected skin area. Neither ketamine nor morphine changed significantly the thresholds for warm, cold, heat pain or tactile sensation. However, ketamine normalized abnormal heat pain sensations in 4 patients, probably due to a central effect. Ketamine, but not morphine, produced significant relief of pain. Pain evoked by non-noxious stimulation of the skin (allodynia) was significantly inhibited by ketamine as well as by morphine. Wind-up-like pain (i.e., pain evoked by repeatedly pricking the affected skin area) was significantly inhibited by ketamine, but significantly aggravated by morphine. Side effects were observed in all the 8 patients after injection of ketamine and in 6 patients after injection of morphine. The present results support the hypothesis that the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors are involved in the control of post-herpetic neuralgia including allodynia and wind-up-like pain. The NMDA receptors also may play a role in the modulation of thermal perception.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), clinically manifested by hyperpyrexia, mental status changes, muscular rigidity, and autonomic dysfunction, is an idiosyncratic reaction to major neuroleptic pharmacologic agents. The reported causes of morbidity and mortality include respiratory insufficiency, cardiovascular collapse, arrhythmias, and renal failure. Coagulopathy does not seem to be a prominent component of the syndrome. We observed a case of NMS in which disseminated intravascular coagulation was a prominent feature.
A "free choice" two-bottle drinking test paradigm was implemented in naive adult male Wistar rats, resulting in a clear identification of rats drinking mainly water (water-preferring, WP rats) and rats spontaneously drinking also a consistent amount of a solution of cocaine (0.5 mg/ml water, cocaine-drinking, CD rats) or ethanol 10% v/v (ethanol-drinking, ED rats). Low, selective doses (5 micrograms/kg) of the specific cholecystokinin (CCK)-A receptor antagonist L-364,718 largely reduced the intake of ethanol 10% of ED rats only. In contrast, low, selective doses of GV-150013 (5 micrograms/kg) reduced significantly the consumption of cocaine of CD rats only. These results indicate that the CCK-A or B receptors are selectively involved in the modulation of alcohol or cocaine intake, respectively, and suggest an involvement of the CCKergic system in the drug-seeking behavior. WP rats and CD rats were then prepared for ex vivo electro-neurochemical analysis by means of differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) with micro-biosensors to monitor catechol, 5-hydroxyindole and peptidergic oxidation signals in the nucleus accumbens (nAcc). In this area, the peptidergic signal appeared to be related to the oxidation of endogenous CCK, which basal levels resulted higher in ED and CD rats than WP rats. Thus, the hypothesis that the endogenous tone of the CCK system is higher in the ED and CD rats than in the WP rats is proposed, and is supported by the observation that treatment with CCK-5 (CCK receptor agonist) selectively induced the WP rats to drink alcohol or cocaine. The selective effect of the CCK-antagonists on reducing the drug intake of ED or CD rats further supports this view, as it suggests that CCK antagonists may modify the individual sensitivity towards drugs of abuse set by the stimulating effect of high endogenous CCKergic tone over CCK-B or CCK-A receptors in spontaneous ED or CD rats, respectively. Therefore, the present data indicate that: i) Free-choice models may reveal the presence of individual sensitivity to alcohol or cocaine in naive rats; ii) the dopaminergic system is involved within the reward state, while peptidergic (CCKergic) activities modulate the drug-seeking state (craving state); iii) the CCK system could be a new target in the study of the drug dependency phenomenon. In particular, the data imply a CCK-A receptor mechanism in the regulation of individual sensitivity towards ethanol and a CCK-B receptor mechanism in the regulation of individual sensitivity towards cocaine. Thus, a potential therapeutic role for CCK-A antagonists in the treatment of ethanol abuse and for CCK-B antagonists in the treatment of cocaine abuse is proposed.
This study examined tyrosine kinase receptor (Trk) expression and phosphorylation in lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after acute (8 or 48 hours) or chronic (10 days) cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. Increases in the number of TrkA-immunoreactive (IR) cell profiles were detected in the L1 and L6 DRG (four-fold; P < or = 0.01) and the S1 DRG (1.5-fold; P < or = 0.05) but not in the L2, L4, and L5 DRG with CYP-induced cystitis of acute and chronic duration compared with control rats. The number of TrkB-IR cell profiles increased in the L1 and L2 DRG (L1: 2.6-fold; L2: 1.4-fold; P < or = 0.05) and in the L6 and S1 DRG (L6: 2.2-fold; S1: 1.3-fold; P < or = 0.05) only after acute CYP treatment (8 hours). After CYP treatment, the percentage of bladder afferent cell profiles expressing TrkA-IR (approximately 50%; P < or = 0.05) increased in L1 and L6 DRG. The percentage of bladder afferent cell profiles expressing TrkB-IR (approximately 45%; P < or = 0.05) in L1, L2, L6, and S1 DRG also increased compared with control cell profiles. The increase in TrkA-IR in bladder afferent cells occurred 8 hours after CYP treatment and was maintained in L1 DRG with chronic (10 days) CYP-induced cystitis. However, the increase in bladder afferent cells expressing TrkB-IR only occurred at the most acute time point examined (8 hours). TrkA-IR and TrkB-IR cell profiles also demonstrated phosphorylated Trk-IR with acute and/or chronic CYP-induced cystitis. These results demonstrated that CYP-induced cystitis increases the expression and phosphorylation of Trk receptors in lumbosacral DRG. Expression of neurotrophic factors in the inflamed urinary bladder may contribute to this increased expression, and neurotrophic factor and Trk interactions may play unique roles in decreased urinary tract plasticity with CYP-induced cystitis.
Drug addiction has been linked to protracted functional changes in neural circuits involved in motivation that can lead to drug dependence, craving and relapse. Here we investigated the role of the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) signal transduction pathway in long-lasting behavioral sensitization to cocaine in rats, an animal model of the long-lasting functional changes induced by repeated drug use. Our results show that PI3K is required for the expression, but not the induction, of behavioral sensitization to cocaine.
The release of intracellular stores of Ca(2+) occurs virtually in all types of cells by a means of amplifying external signals that modulate intracellular signaling events. In cardiac myocytes, type 2 ryanodine receptor (RyR(2)) is activated during excitation-contraction (E-C) coupling by Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) triggered by Ca(2+) influx across the sarcolemma. The hyperadrenergic state of heart failure results in leaky RyR(2) channels attributable to PKA hyperphosphorylation and depletion of the stabilizing FK506 binding protein, FKBP12.6. Dysregulation of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) release via RyR(2) could contribute to defects in Ca(2+) signaling in failing hearts. Researchers tested the hypothesis that improved cardiac muscle function attributable to beta-AR blockade is associated with restoration of normal RyR(2) channel function in patients with heart failure. The authors aimed to observe change of RyR in junior mouse with HF and the effect of beta-adrenoreceptor blocker on RyR in HF in this experiment.
The animal model of congestive heart failure was established by constriction of abdominal aorta. Five weeks old mice were randomly divided into 3 groups: (1) HF group without treatment (n = 20); (2) HF group treated with carvedilol (n = 20); (3) Sham-operated group (n = 20). Carvedilol was administered through direct gastric gavage. After 4 weeks of treatment the high frequency ultrasound was performed. Myocardial SR was fractionated with velocity centrifugation. The time courses of Ca(2+) uptake and leak were determined by fluorescent spectrophotometr.
Compared with the sham-operated group, left ventricular diastolic dimension (LVEDD) (P < 0.05), left ventricular systolic dimension (LVESD), interventricular septal thickness at end-diastole (IVSTd), interventricular septal thickness at end-systole (IVSTs), left ventricular posterior wall thickness at end-diastole (LVPWTd), and left ventricular posterior wall thickness at end-systole (LVPWTs) were all significantly increased (P < 0.01). Ejection fraction (EF) and fractional shortening (FS) were decreased (P < 0.01) in HF group without treatment. LVEDD (P < 0.05), LVESD, IVSTd, IVSTs, LVPWTd and LVPWTs were all prominently decresed (P < 0.01). EF and FS were increased (P < 0.01) in cases of HF treated with carvedilol when compared with HF group without treatment. After adding thapsigargin to the buffer including SR of three groups, there were fewer Ca(2+) leak in sham-operated group and HF group treated with carvedilol than that of HF group without treatment (P < 0.01), while after adding FK506 and thapsigargin together to the buffer including SR of three groups, there were marked Ca(2+) leak in sham-operated group and HF group treated with carvedilol (P < 0.01). However, there was no additional increase in Ca(2+) leak in HF group compared with that of the group where only thapsigargin was added (P > 0.05).
There is more cardiac Ca(2+) leak in HF. Carvedilol can inhibite Ca(2+) leak by restoring the contactation of FKBP12.6 back to RyR in HF to improve cardiac function and prevent left ventricle from remodeling.
Thalidomide has been described as an inhibitor of both angiogenesis (which may account for its teratogenic effects on limb bud formation) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production. We evaluated its therapeutic potential in collagen induced arthritis (CIA), a rat model of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Rats were administered orally 200 mg/kg/day thalidomide (n = 10) or either of 2 analogs, EM-12 (n = 9) or supidimide (n = 9). An additional group was given thalidomide (n = 10) at 200 mg/kg twice daily, and a control group (n = 13) was given vehicle only. At completion of the protocols, serum levels of TNF-alpha and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were measured.
Suppression of inflammatory synovitis by clinical and radiographic criteria was significantly lower in all experimental protocols except the lower dose thalidomide group. The EM-12 analog was the most efficacious, and twice daily thalidomide was better than once daily. The incidence of arthritis onset was comparable among all groups. Strong cell mediated and humoral responses to type II collagen, measured by a radiometric delayed type hypersensitivity assay and anti-type II collagen IgG ELISA, respectively, were similar in the experimental and control groups. TNF-alpha and VEGF levels were increased in all rats immunized with collagen compared to naive controls.
Thalidomide and its analogs can suppress the clinical severity of rat CIA, but the mechanism of action is not a result of TNF-alpha or VEGF downregulation.
To explore a new strategy for effective and economical anti-virus therapy for HBV infection, we conducted a sequence administration of lamivudine and interferon alpha 1b to evaluate its effects on HBV replication and rebound as well as YMDD mutation induced by lamivudine.
150 HBV patients having at least 6 months history of infection were assigned randomly into 5 groups. Each group of these patients was either treated with lamivudine, interferon alpha 1b, lamivudine combined with interferon, sequence administration of lamivudine and interferon (sequence group) or no anti-virus therapy (control group) for 12 months. The serum samples were collected at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 18th months and were assayed for ALT, AST, HBeAg, HBV DNA (quantitive PCR) as well as YMDD mutation types by microarray.
The anti-virus replication effects were shown as early as the 3rd month in the sequence group but not in the IFN and control groups. The significant and persistent inhibition effect of it on HBV replication and improvement of liver function was shown. It was more effective than lamivudine or IFN treatments at the end of the drug administration and 6 months later after the drug was withdrawn. We also found that this sequence administration pattern can significantly shorten the period of treatment of lamivudine as well as reduce the rate of YMDD mutation and rebound of HBV replication after lamivudine withdrawal. It is also more economical than a combined therapy of lamivudine with IFN.
This sequence administration of lamivudine and IFN pattern can significantly improve the anti-virus effect on HBV replication, shorten the period of treatment with lamivudine, reduce the mutation rate of YMDD and prevent the rebound of HBV after drug withdrawal.
Fenofibrate-induced acute or chronic hepatitis is rare, and only 11 reports from French, Italian or Spanish literature have been published up to date. We report a case of fenofibrate-induced acute cholestatic hepatitis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first one reported in Taiwan. A 61-year-old man developed acute cholestatic hepatitis after taking fenofibrate 100 mg tid for 10 days. Laboratory profile on admission showed serum total bilirubin 9.3 mg/dL, direct bilirubin 2.7 mg/dL, alanine aminotransferase 249 IU/L, aspartate aminotransferase 259 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase 259 IU/L, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase 1014 IU/L. Pathology proved hepatocanalicular cholestasis in liver. Fenofibrate was discontinued immediately. His clinical manifestations and liver function tests improved gradually and returned to nearly normal in 2 months. We suggest that liver function tests, including total bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, be checked at least 2 weeks after taking the drug and that serum aminotransferase be monitored every 3 months during the first 12 months of therapy. Treatment should be discontinued if alanine aminotransferase values increase by more than 100 IU/L.
A female patient on Fluorouracil (5-FU) therapy for rectal carcinoma developed acute intravascular haemolysis with her fifteenth drug injection; a similar episode occurred later after a controlled challenge with the drug. A 5-FU-dependent complement-activating IgM antibody, which reacted with RBC in an indirect antiglobulin test, was detected in her serum. The antibody did not react with cord RBC, but a blood group specificity could not be determined. An excess of 5-FU in the indirect antiglobulin tests resulted in inhibition of these reactions.
The authors present three case reports illustrating that a conservative approach to anorgasmia induced by effective treatment with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) phenelzine can result in spontaneous remission. Precipitously stopping phenelzine or adding another medication to counteract the side effect can be avoided. The apparent synchrony between the development of the side effect of anorgasmia and positive treatment response may represent a valuable clinical marker.
Efficacy and safety of the new beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, bisoprolol, in treatment of stable angina pectoris were studied in 36 patients using two types of single-blind design. After 2 weeks of therapy with bisoprolol in doses of 5 mg to 10 mg a day, exercise duration and time to 1 mm of ST-segment depression were significantly prolonged in 7 out of 10 patients who had a positive treadmill exercise test before bisoprolol. Bisoprolol significantly reduced heart rate (HR), systolic blood pressure (SBP), and rate-pressure product (RPP) at peak exercise, which would account for the beneficial effect of bisoprolol on exercise tolerance. Bisoprolol also produced improvement in symptoms for 26 patients with stable effort angina, as indicated by decreased frequency of anginal attacks and nitroglycerin consumption with a once-a-day regimen. Ten patients had no attacks after 5 mg of bisoprolol, and three more did not develop angina after increasing the dose to 10 mg a day. These results suggest that bisoprolol will be a promising, efficacious, and safe drug for the treatment of stable angina pectoris.
Abnormal copper metabolism has been linked with neurological disorders, such as Wilson and Menkes disease. Another disorder causing symptoms similar to copper metabolism disorder is Niemann-Pick type C. However, a definite pathophysiological connection between Niemann-Pick type C and copper metabolism disorders has never been established. The authors present an adolescent with an unusual presentation of copper deficiency-dysarthria, ataxia, and vertical gaze paresis, without significant cognitive degeneration or pathological magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The patient was found to carry 2 mutations in the NPC1 gene. A possible link, explaining how copper deficiency might induce the Niemann-Pick phenotype might involve overproduction of cholesterol and inhibition of acid sphingomyelinase. We suggest that copper metabolism disorders be included in the differential diagnosis for ataxia and dysarthria, even in cases with unusual presentations. Moreover, should the connection between copper and Niemann-Pick be validated, screening for copper metabolism disorders may be advisable in Niemann-Pick type C patients and vice-versa.
Npt2 encodes a renal-specific, brush-border membrane Na+-phosphate (Pi) cotransporter that is expressed in the proximal tubule where the bulk of filtered Pi is reabsorbed. Mice deficient in the Npt2 gene were generated by targeted mutagenesis to define the role of Npt2 in the overall maintenance of Pi homeostasis, determine its impact on skeletal development, and clarify its relationship to autosomal disorders of renal Pi reabsorption in humans. Homozygous mutants (Npt2(-/-)) exhibit increased urinary Pi excretion, hypophosphatemia, an appropriate elevation in the serum concentration of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D with attendant hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria and decreased serum parathyroid hormone levels, and increased serum alkaline phosphatase activity. These biochemical features are typical of patients with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets with hypercalciuria (HHRH), a Mendelian disorder of renal Pi reabsorption. However, unlike HHRH patients, Npt2(-/-) mice do not have rickets or osteomalacia. At weaning, Npt2(-/-) mice have poorly developed trabecular bone and retarded secondary ossification, but, with increasing age, there is a dramatic reversal and eventual overcompensation of the skeletal phenotype. Our findings demonstrate that Npt2 is a major regulator of Pi homeostasis and necessary for normal skeletal development.
The ontogeny of functional sympathetic neural, adrenal medullary, and extra-adrenal components of adrenergic control of heart rate was compared in neonatal Spontaneously hypertensive (SHR), Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and Borderline hypertensive (BHR) rats using combined sequential pharmacological blockade and surgical intervention. Baseline heart rate recorded from awake and unrestrained pups was lower in BHR than in WKY or SHR at 5 days of age. Tonic sympathetic neural control of heart rate was inferred from bradycardia after treatment with the adrenergic neuron-blocking agent, bretylium tosylate. Bradycardia after bretylium treatment was observed at 2, 5 and 8 days of age in all strains, suggesting tonic sympathetic neural control of heart rate during the first postnatal week. Parasympathetic control of heart rate was inferred from heart rate increase after treatment with the muscarinic receptor blocker, atropine methyl nitrate, in pups pretreated with bretylium. Tachycardia following atropine methyl nitrate was substantial in all 24-day-old pups. Control of heart rate by neurally mediated release of catecholamines from the adrenal medulla was inferred from bradycardia following administration of the ganglionic blocking agent, hexamethonium, to pups pretreated with bretylium and atropine methyl nitrate. Heart rate decreases after hexamethonium were found in 2-day-old WKY and BHR pups, and at 5 and 8 days in all strains. Adrenalectomy was performed in additional animals to confirm the adrenal catecholamine influence on heart rate. The influence of residual circulating catecholamines on neonatal heart rate was inferred from bradycardia following administration of the beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, atenolol, in pups pretreated with bretylium, methylatropine, and hexamethonium. Bradycardia was observed in pups of each strain and at all ages after atenolol treatment. Strain differences in autonomic controls of heart rate were most pronounced at 24 days of age. At 24 days of age both SHR and BHR pups showed increased adrenal catecholamine and parasympathetic influences on heart rate compared to WKY. Thus, prior to weaning, rats differing in their genetic predisposition to hypertension showed a unique pattern of autonomic control over heart rate which may be related to adult cardiovascular regulation.
To investigate the effect of amlodipine, nifedipine and perindopril on insulin sensitivity(IS) and blood lipid of patients with essential hypertension(EH).
105 EH patients were randomly divided into 3 groups: amlodipine group; nifedipine group; perindopril group. Treatment period lasted for 4 weeks. Before and after treatment, IS was measured by euglycemic insulin clamp technique with glucose metabolism rate (M) as an index of IS.
Amlodipine, nifedipine and perindopril significantly reduced blood pressure compared with that before treatment(P < 0.01). In the EH patients with decreased IS, the M value (mg.kg-1.min-1) after the use of amlodipine, nifedipine and perindopril was higer than that before treatment (amlodipine: 6.6 +/- 1.5 Vs 4.6 +/- 0.6, P < 0.01; nifedipine: 5.2 +/- 1.2 Vs 4.4 +/- 0.6, P < 0.05; perindopril: 6.8 +/- 1.6 Vs 4.4 +/- 0.6, P < 0.01). The increase of M value(mg.kg-1.min-1), nifedipine (1.2 +/- 0.9) were significantly lower than that of amlodipine(2.1 +/- 1.1) and perindopril(2.4 +/- 1.5), P < 0.01, respectively, but no significant difference was found between amlodipine and perindopril(P > 0.05).
Amlodipine and perindopril have beneficial effect on improving insulin sensitivity in EH patients with decreased insulin sensitivity. The effect of nifedipine on insulin sensitivity is lower than that of amlodipine and perindopril. Blood lipid is not significantly changed after short treatment.
Isotretinoin causes serious birth defects in about 25% of babies exposed in the first trimester of pregnancy. Despite warnings about the drug's teratogenicity, cases of isotretinoin embryopathy continue to occur; more than 80 such cases have been reported since 1982. The true magnitude of the problem is unknown, however, and case estimates range to more than 1,000. The need for isotretinoin embryopathy (IE) surveillance is therefore great. Sixty-one known cases were evaluated to determine the sensitivity (proportion of cases with a given defect pattern) of various defect combinations. Using data from the Metropolitan Atlanta Congenital Defects Program for the period before isotretinoin was available, we evaluated the specificity (proportion of malformed infants without exposure who do not have the pattern of defects) for the various defect combinations. Ear malformations (microtia, anotia, absence or stricture of auditory canal, missing pinnae) have an associated sensitivity of 70.5% and a specificity of 99.5%. Ear defects combined with central nervous system (CNS) defects (microcephalus, hydrocephalus, reduction deformities of the brain) and cardiovascular (CVS) defects (conotruncal defects, aortic arch abnormalities) have an associated sensitivity of 19.7% and a specificity of 100.0%. The case definition of ear defects combined with either CNS or CVS defects maximizes both specificity (99.9%) and sensitivity (45.9%). The investigators are now evaluating the feasibility of using this pattern of defects to monitor for IE within a national monitoring program.
McN-5652 is one of a series of substituted pyrrolo-isoquinolines that, as a group, potently inhibit the uptake of one or more of the monoamines, norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine. McN-5652 is characterized by exceptionally high potency as an inhibitor of the uptake of serotonin by rat brain synaptosomes in vitro (Ki approximately 0.6 nM) and ex vivo (ED50 approximately 2 mg/kg p.o.). The high potency of McN-5652 as a serotonin uptake inhibitor in vivo is indicated further by the low doses required to potentiate L-5-hydroxytryptophan-induced head twitches in mice (ED50 = 0.4 mg/kg 2 hr after p.o. dosing) and the serotonin syndrome in rats (ED50 = 1.5 mg/kg 2 hr after p.o. dosing). McN-5652 also potently inhibited the synaptosomal uptake of norepinephrine (Ki approximately 3 nM) and was a moderately potent inhibitor of the synaptosomal uptake of dopamine (Ki approximately 40 nM). McN-5652 inhibited tetrabenazine-induced ptosis in rats and mice but was much less effective in blocking the sedation caused by tetrabenazine. In rats, McN-5652 did not induce the stereotyped behavior often caused by dopamine agonists and inhibitors of dopamine uptake. Receptor binding experiments indicated that McN-5652 has a weak affinity for serotonin 5-HT2 and alpha-1 adrenergic receptors (apparent Ki approximately 200 nM) and a very low affinity for dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, serotonin 5-HT1, alpha-2 adrenergic, muscarinic and gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptors. Experiments using the guinea pig ileum indicate that McN-5652 is a weak, noncompetitive antagonist of histamine.
The pathophysiology behind spina bifida and other neural tube defects (NTDs) is unclear. Folic acid is one variable, but other factors remain. Studies suggest that substances active at the GABA receptor may produce NTDs. To test this hypothesis pregnant rats were exposed to either the GABA a agonist muscimol (1, 2 or 4 mg/kg), the GABA a antagonist bicuculline (.5, 1, or 2 mg/kg), the GABA b agonist baclofen (15, 30, 60 mg/kg), or the GABA b antagonist hydroxysaclofen (1, 3, or 5 mg/kg) during neural tube formation. Normal saline was used as a control and valproic acid (600 mg/kg) as a positive control. The embryos were analyzed for the presence of a spina bifida like NTD.
After drug administration the pregnancies were allowed to proceed to the 21st day of gestation. Then embryos were removed and skeletons staining and cleared. Vertebral arch closure was measured. Results indicate that the GABAa receptor agonist muscimol, the GABAa receptor antagonist bicuculline, and the GABAb agonist baclofen produced NTDs characterized by widening of the vertebral arch. Oppositely the GABAb antagonist hydroxysaclofen produced narrowing of the vertebral arches.
The findings indicate that GABA a or b ligands are capable of altering neural formation. GABA may play a greater than appreciated role in neural tube formation and may be important in NTDs. The narrowing of the vertebral arch produced by the GABA b antagonist hydroxysalcofen suggests that GABA b receptor may play an undefined role in neural tube closure that differs from the GABA a receptor.
The efficacy of maternal administration of ritodrine in cases of congenital atrioventricular block (CAVB), especially with fetal heart failure, is not yet determined.
At 21 2/7 weeks of gestation, isolated CAVB with a ventricular/atrial rate of 55-70/130-140 bpm was found in a fetus from a 30-year-old Japanese nulliparous woman with anti-SSA antibody. Cardiothoracic area ratio (CTAR) was 40% and no fetal hydrops was observed. At 30 2/7 weeks, the ventricular rate decreased to 49 bpm with an atrial rate of 125 bpm. CTAR increased to 53.8% and ascites appeared. Maternal continuous ritodrine infusion was started with rapid improvement of fetal cardiac function; increment in the ventricular rate to 57 bpm and atrial rate to 137 bpm, with a decrement in CTAR to 44.6%. Ascites also gradually decreased and by the fourth day, it had completely disappeared with CTAR of 40.2%. On the 12th day after ritodrine treatment (32 1/7), amniotic fluid volume decreased and fetal weight gain stopped, which led us to assume a worsening intrauterine environment, and cesarean section was performed. A 1,178 g male infant was born with a 5-min Apgar score of 8. Continuous isoproterenol infusion was started, increasing the ventricular rate from 71 to 80 bpm. Pacemaker implantation is under consideration to treat this infant.
Maternal administration of ritodrine not only increased the fetal heart rate but also ameliorated the signs of fetal heart failure, and thus is considered one treatment of choice in CAVB.
The effect of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 on intravenous cocaine self-administration (IVSA) in rats was evaluated. Male Long Evans rats were implanted with silastic catheters through the external jugular vein. The IVSA was conducted in 3-h daily sessions with a fixed ratio (FR1) schedule: the experimental apparatus had a nose-poking response-like operandum. Intravenous pre-treatment with WIN 55,212-2 (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) to rats self-administering cocaine (0.25 or 0.5 mg/kg/inj) at stable baseline, reduces cocaine intake in a dose-dependent manner. The CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A (3 mg/kg i.p.) completely reversed the WIN 55,212-2-induced decrease of cocaine intake. However, pre-treatment of SR 141716A alone (up to dose of 9 mg/kg i.p.) was unable to modify cocaine IVSA. These results indicate that stimulation of CB1 cannabinoid receptors activates rewarding mechanisms which produce reinforcing effects additional to those induced by cocaine.
In previous research we found that pre-training administration of histamine H3 receptor agonists such as (R)-alpha-methylhistamine and imetit impaired rat performance in object recognition and a passive avoidance response at the same doses at which they inhibited the release of cortical acetylcholine in vivo. Conversely, in the present study we report that the post-training administration of (R)-alpha-methylhistamine and imetit failed to affect rat performance in object recognition and a passive avoidance response, suggesting that H3 receptor influences the acquisition and not the recall processes. We also investigated the effects of two H3 receptor antagonists, thioperamide and clobenpropit, in the same behavioral tasks. Pre-training administration of thioperamide and clobenpropit failed to exhibit any procognitive effects in normal animals but prevented scopolamine-induced amnesia. However, also post-training administration of thioperamide prevented scopolamine-induced amnesia. Hence, the ameliorating effects of scopolamine-induced amnesia by H3 receptor antagonism are not only mediated by relieving the inhibitory action of cortical H3 receptors, but other mechanisms are also involved. Nevertheless, H3 receptor antagonists may have implications for the treatment of degenerative disorders associated with impaired cholinergic function.
Colchicine is an alkaloid drug commonly used in familial Mediterranean fever (FMF), gout, Behcet's syndrome, psoriasis and Sweet's syndrome. The exact mechanism of its action in these diseases is not entirely known. However, it has been shown that colchicine may inhibit neutrophil chemotaxis, thereby decreasing the inflammatory process. Recently, it was shown that colchicine accumulates in neutrophils in higher concentrations than in lymphomonocytes. Studies dealing with the multiple drug resistance (MDR) issue disclosed that neutrophils lack the P-glycoprotein (P-gly) membranal pump (encoded by the MDR1 gene). We propose that the preferential accumulation of colchicine in neutrophils compared with lymphomonocytes is due to the absence of the P-gly efflux pump in the former. This may explain the effectiveness of colchicine in diseases where increased chemotaxis is evident. The hypothesis may also provide an explanation for FMF patients who do not respond to the drug.
