Paliperidone ER is a novel antipsychotic drug in an extended-release (ER) formulation. As with all antipsychotics, careful dose setting is necessary to avoid side effects.
In this study, we measured striatal and extrastriatal dopamine D2 receptor occupancy during paliperidone ER treatment in patients with schizophrenia using positron emission tomography (PET) to compare regional occupancy and to estimate the optimal dose.
Thirteen male patients with schizophrenia participated in this 6-week multiple-dose study. Six of them took 3 mg of paliperidone ER per day, four took 9 mg, and three took 15 mg. Two to 6 weeks after first drug intake, two PET scans, one with [11C]raclopride and one with [11C]FLB 457, were performed in each patient on the same day. The relationship between the dose or plasma concentration of paliperidone and dopamine D2 receptor occupancy was calculated.
The dopamine D2 receptor occupancies in the striatum measured with [11C]raclopride and the temporal cortex measured with [11C]FLB 457 were 54.2-85.5% and 34.5-87.3%, respectively. ED50 values of the striatum and temporal cortex were 2.38 and 2.84 mg/day, respectively. There was no significant difference in dopamine D2 receptor occupancy between the striatum and the temporal cortex.
The data from this study suggest that paliperidone ER at 6-9 mg provides an estimated level of dopamine D2 receptor occupancy between 70-80% and that the magnitude of dopamine D2 receptor occupancy is similar between the striatum and temporal cortex.
The time course of the anticonvulsant effect of vigabatrin against cortically induced epileptic after-discharges (ADs) was studied in freely moving rats with implanted electrodes. Adult rats (n=30) were exposed to five stimulation sessions each consisting of six stimulation series at 20-min intervals. The first session was a control one, then two groups of animals (n=10 each) were given vigabatrin (600 or 1,200 mg/kg i.p.), the control animals received physiological saline. Stimulation sessions were repeated 1, 24, 48, and 96 hours after the injection. Control animals exhibited an increased transition from the spike-and-wave type of AD to the second, "limbic" type and an increased intensity of movements accompanying stimulation. ADs in the second and subsequent sessions were, however, shorter than in the first session. Vigabatrin facilitated the transition to the second type of AD 1 h after administration but suppressed this transition as well as decreased the number of stimulations eliciting ADs 48 h later. AD duration and the severity of clonic seizures accompanying spike-and-wave ADs were influenced similarly. The effects of the lower dose of vigabatrin were more marked than those of the higher dose. The biphasic action of vigabatrin in our model might be due either to uneven changes of GABA concentration in different brain structures or to an additional mechanism of action. Our results in a cortical model of seizure demonstrate that the sequence of pro- and anticonvulsant actions of vigabatrin is not restricted to seizures of limbic origin and might represent a general phenomenon.
We have recently found that blockade of dopamine D1-type receptors in the ventral tegmental area reduces the rewarding effects of intravenous cocaine; here, we explored the possibility that blockade of D1 receptors in the adjacent substantia nigra (SN)--not usually considered part of reward circuitry--might have similar effects.
To test the hypothesis that blockade of dopamine D1 receptors in the SN reduces the rewarding effects of cocaine.
Twenty one rats were prepared with intravenous catheters and with bilateral guide cannulae implanted such that injections could be made directly into the SN or just dorsal to the SN. The rats were trained to self-administer intravenous cocaine (1.0 mg/kg per injection) on a fixed-ratio 1 (FR1) schedule of reinforcement. After stable responding developed, 13 of the animals were tested following pretreatment with bilateral microinjections of SCH 23390 at doses of 0, 1, 2 or 4 microg/0.5 microl into the SN and 8 were tested with injections of 0 microg or 4 microg/0.5 microl into a site 2 mm dorsal to the SN site.
Microinjections of SCH 23390 in the SN significantly increased rates of cocaine self-administration, while injections dorsal to SN had no significant effect on responding.
These data suggest that blockade of dendritically released DA in the SN reduces the rewarding effects of cocaine. These findings complement accumulating evidence that the rewarding effects of cocaine are not restricted to the drug's ability to elevate dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens.
The number of patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is rising and these patients are at higher risk of cardiovascular disease. We studied the role of hormonal production of adipose tissue in the development of chronic inflammation in patients with ESRD before kidney transplantation.
Fifteen women with ESRD and 17 healthy women (control) underwent single blood drawing and visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue sampling during surgery (kidney transplantation in the ESRD group or cholecystectomy in the control group). Serum concentrations of C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, leptin, adiponectin, resistin, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 were measured. Messenger RNA expression of the same hormones, adiponectin receptors 1 and 2 and immunocompetent cell marker CD68 in subcutaneous and visceral samples were measured using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Adipose tissue was examined immunohistochemically for CD68-positive cells.
Serum concentrations of C-reactive protein, adiponectin, resistin, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 were significantly higher in the ESRD versus control group. Subcutaneous and visceral mRNA expressions of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and CD68 were significantly increased in the ESRD versus control group. Adiponectin receptor-1 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mRNA expressions were significantly higher in visceral but not in subcutaneous adipose tissue of the ESRD group. Messenger RNA expressions of resistin, leptin, adiponectin, interleukin-6, and adiponectin receptor-2 in both fat depots did not significantly differ between groups. Increased infiltration of subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue with CD68-positive immunocompetent cells was found in the ESRD group by histologic examination.
Subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissues in ESRD express higher amounts of proinflammatory cytokines and may play a role in the development of systemic inflammation.
To assess the synergistic action of famotidine (FMD) and chlorpheniramine (CPA) on acetic acid-induced chronic gastric ulcer in rats.
Chronic gastric lesions were induced in male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats by serosal application of the acetic acid. Forty SD rats were randomly divided into blank group (n = 8), control group (n = 8), FMD group (n = 8), CPA group (n = 8), and FMD+CPA group (n = 8). Each group was given intraperitoneally (i.p.) 0.5 mL/100 g distilled water, 9 g/L NaCl saline, 4 mg/kg FMD, 10 mg/kg CPA, 4 mg/kg FMD+10 mg/kg CPA, respectively, daily for 10 d. On d 10, ulcer area was determined by planimetry. The level of myeloperoxidase (MPO) in the liver homogenization was determined by biochemical methods and the plasma levels of 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha (6-keto-PGF(1a)) and IL-8 were determined by radioimmunoassay.
The synergistic effects of FMD+CPA group on the lesion, IL-8, 6-keto-PGF(1a) and MPO were confirmed. The effect of FMD+CPA group was significantly different as compared to the control and FMD groups. The lesion (mm(2)) was reduced from 40.18+/-2.6 in control group to 6.83+/-2.97 in PMD+CPA group, P<0.01, and from 32.9+/-3.27 in FMD group to 6.83+/-2.97 in PMD+CPA group, P<0.01. The plasma levels of IL-8 decreased from 0.69+/-0.11 ng/L in control group to 0.4+/-0.04 ng/L in PMD+CPA group, P<0.01, and from 0.51+/-0.08 ng/L in FMD group to 0.4+/-0.04 ng/L in PMD+CPA group, P<0.05. The level of 6-keto-PGF(1a) increased from 7.55+/-1.65 ng/L in control group to 16.62+/-0.97 ng/L in PMD+CPA group, P<0.01, and from 13.15+/-1.48 ng/L in FMD group to 16.62+/-0.97 ng/L in PMD+CPA group, P<0.05. The levels of MPO in the liver homogenate decreased from 9.12+/-2.05 u/L in control group to 4.33+/-0.95 u/L in PMD+CPA group, P<0.01, and from 8.3+/-1.29 u/L in FMD group to 4.33+/-0.95 u/L, P<0.01.
The synergistic action of FMD and CPA on acetic acid-induced chronic gastric ulcer in rats decreases the incidence of ulcer and also enhances the healing of ulcer.
Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) studies 9426 and 9425 evaluated dexrazoxane (DRZ) as a cardiopulmonary protectant during treatment for Hodgkin's disease (HD). We evaluated incidence and risk factors of acute myeloid leukemia (AML)/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and second malignant neoplasms (SMNs).
Treatment for low- and high-risk HD with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincristine, and etoposide (ABVE) or dose-intensified ABVE with prednisone and cyclophosphamide (ABVE-PC), respectively, was followed by low-dose radiation. The number of chemotherapy cycles was determined by rapidity of the initial response. Patients were assigned randomly to receive DRZ (n = 239) or no DRZ (n = 239) concomitantly with chemotherapy to evaluate its potential to decrease adverse cardiopulmonary outcomes.
Ten patients developed SMN. Six of eight patients developed AML/MDS, and both solid tumors (osteosarcoma and papillary thyroid carcinoma) occurred in recipients of DRZ. Eight patients with SMN were first events. With median 58 months' follow-up, 4-year cumulative incidence rate (CIR) for AML/MDS was 2.55% +/- 1.0% with DRZ versus 0.85% +/- 0.6% in the non-DRZ group (P = .160). For any SMN, the CIR for DRZ was 3.43% +/- 1.2% versus CIR for non-DRZ of 0.85% +/- 0.6% (P = .060). Among patients receiving DRZ, the standardized incidence rate (SIR) for AML/MDS was 613.6 compared with 202.4 for those not receiving DRZ (P = .0990). The SIR for all SMN was 41.86 with DRZ versus 10.08 without DRZ (P = .0231).
DRZ is a topoisomerase II inhibitor with a mechanism distinct from etoposide and doxorubicin. Adding DRZ to ABVE and ABVE-PC may have increased the incidence of SMN and AML/MDS.
Although amantadine is relatively free of side effects compared with levodopa, the incidence and severity of unwanted effects, such as hallucinations, insomnia and dizziness, markedly increase when the daily dose exceeds 200 mg. A 63-year-old schizophrenic female developed the Pisa syndrome following neuroleptic medication. She was started on a regimen of amantadine, 200 mg per day, on September 4, and the electroencephalogram (EEG) on September 11 was within normal limits. The dosage was increased to 300 mg on September 18 because there was no improvement and no side effects. Two days later a generalised convulsion occurred and an EEG revealed frequent multiple spikes or sharp waves with slow waves. No epileptic seizure has been observed since the amantadine was discontinued. The EEG on September 27 was again within normal limits. To our knowledge, the EEG of a patient with convulsion induced by amantadine has not been described previously. The epileptic mechanisms of amantadine have not been elucidated; however, it may be related to a modulating role of dopamine in the central nervous system.
Peginterferon (Peg-IFN) alfa in combination with ribavirin represents the gold standard treatment for chronic hepatitis C, but is associated with various side effects, especially hematological abnormalities. We report here a case of severe autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) complicated by symptomatic myocardial ischemia in a patient with chronic hepatitis C during combination therapy. The worsening hemolysis after ribavirin withdrawal and exclusion of other causes implicated Peg-IFN alfa as the cause of AIHA. Our study demonstrates that in patients without preexisting immunological abnormalities Peg-IFN can de novo induce autoimmune complications that, albeit rarely, may be life-threatening.
The molecular basis of susceptibility to childhood malignant hemopathy remains largely unknown. An excess of skeletal congenital anomalies has been reported among children with hematological malignancy and points towards involvement of developmental genes, like those belonging to the HOX gene family. In addition to their role in embryogenesis, HOX transcription factors are known to be regulators of proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cells. We aimed to explore the possibility that germline alterations of HOX genes might be involved in childhood acute lymphoid malignancies. A cohort of 86 children diagnosed with acute lymphoid malignancy was studied, 20 of them concurrently presenting a congenital anomaly of the skeleton. First, we screened for nucleotide changes throughout the HOX genes of paralogous groups 4 to 13 in the 20 patients with skeletal defects, following a skeletal phenotype-based strategy. Subsequently, we extended the HOX mutation screening to the other 66 children having a malignant lymphoproliferative disorder, but without skeletal defects. In total, 16 germline mutations were identified. While 13 changes were also observed in healthy controls, three variants were exclusively found in acute lymphoid malignancy cases. These comprised the germline c.242A>T (p.Glu81Val) missense mutation of HOXD4, detected in two children diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Furthermore, this mutation was found in association with other specific HOX variants of cluster D (2q31-q37), defining a unique haplotype. Functional analysis of the murine Hoxd4 homolog revealed that mutant Hoxd4 protein had lower transcriptional activity than wild-type protein in vitro. The p.Glu81Val mutation of HOXD4 thus results in a partial loss-of-function, which might be involved in childhood ALL.
In 460 cholecystectomies performed for acute cholecystitis 215 (47%) positive gallbladder bile cultures were obtained. In 73% of emergency operations bacteria were recovered, in 48% of early operations (p less than 0.001) and in 29% of late operations (p less than 0.001). In vitro concentrations of 8-16 mcg/ml of ampicillin or cephalothin inhibited in most cases the growth of E. coli, Klebsiella and Enterococci, which comprised 75% of all strains isolated. One hour after intravenous infusion of 1 g ampicillin the mean serum level was 21 mcg/ml, the mean common duct level 16 mcg/ml and the mean gallbladder bile level 4.4 mcg/ml. In acute cholecystitis 2 g cephalothin gave mean concentrations of 14, 8, and 1.2 mcg/ml. Most of these patients had cystic duct obstruction both on intravenous cholegraphy and during operation. Control patients with patent cystic ducts who received ampicillin had mean gallbladder and common duct bile levels of 47 and 56 mcg/ml, and those receiving cephalothin 23 and 28 mcg/ml. It appears that adequate gallbladder bile concentrations of antibiotics are not attainable in acute cholecystitis because of the obstruction to the bile flow. The favourable results of prophylactic antibiotic treatment in reducing septic complications seem to depend more on adequate serum and tissue concentrations than on the concentration of antibiotics in the bile.
Prostaglandins have been demonstrated to contract the gallbladder and induce fluid secretion into its lumen in experimental animals. Indomethacin is an effective inhibitor of prostaglandin synthetase and has recently been demonstrated to inhibit inflammatory fluid secretion into the gallbladder in experimental cholecystitis. A mechanism by which an increased prostaglandin synthesis will result in a raised intraluminal pressure in the gallbladder in patients with gallstone disease has been suggested. By inhibiting the synthesis of prostaglandins with indomethacin the intraluminal pressure is reduced and the biliary pain relieved. In a double-blind study with a placebo in 40 separate attacks of biliary pain in 37 patients with verified gallstone disease intravenous indomethacin was found to effectively relieve pain within 5 to 30 minutes. No serious side effects were seen, but nausea and vertigo of short duration were noticed in 10 of 21 cases of indomethacin treatment. The drug did not affect blood pressure, but a reduction of the pulse rate was usually seen.
The accelerated appearance of ocular cataracts at younger ages has been recorded in both astronauts and airline pilots, and is usually attributed to high-energy heavy ions in galactic cosmic ray radiation. We have previously shown that high-LET 1-GeV/nucleon (56)Fe ions are significantly more effective than X-rays in producing cataracts in mice. We have also shown that mice haploinsufficient for ATM develop cataracts earlier than wild-type animals, when exposed to either low-LET X-rays or high-LET (56)Fe ions. In this paper we derive quantitative estimates for the relative biological effectiveness (RBE) of high energy (56)Fe ions compared with X-rays, both for wild type and for mice haploinsufficient for ATM. There is a clear trend toward higher RBE's in haploinsufficient animals, both for low- and high-grade cataracts. Haploinsufficiency for ATM results in an enhanced sensitivity to X-rays compared with the wild type, and this enhancement appears even larger after exposure to high-LET heavy ions.
Resveratrol is a polyphenolic compound that exhibits anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory activities. BCL6, a transcriptional repressor frequently translocated in lymphomas, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and transformed follicular lymphoma (FL), regulates germinal center B-cell differentiation. We report herein that resveratrol treatment of human LY8 follicular lymphoma cells leads to an accumulation of LY8 cell in G0/G1 phase and apoptosis. Resveratrol decreased the expression of BCL6 protein, concomitant with the increased expression of several BCL6 regulated gene products, including p27, p53 and CD69. In addition, resveratrol reduces Myc expression in LY8 cells. These results demonstrate for the first time that resveratrol inhibits a BCL6-linked pathway and suggest that loss of BCL6 expression may represent a key event underlying the anti-proliferative activities of resveratrol on LY8 cells. The use of resveratrol to treat aggressive lymphomas with BCL6 and/or MYC translocations may prove useful as an effective therapy.
X-linked hydrocephalus, spastic paraplegia type I and MASA syndrome are related disorders with loci in subchromosomal region Xq28. We have previously shown that X-linked hydrocephalus is caused by mutations in the gene for neural cell adhesion molecule L1 (L1CAM), an axonal glycoprotein involved in neuronal migration and differentiation. Here we report mutations of the L1 gene in MASA syndrome and SPG1, in addition to HSAS families. Two of the HSAS mutations would abolish cell surface expression of L1 and represent the first functional null mutations in this disorder. Our results indicate that these three syndromes from part of a clinical spectrum resulting from a heterogeneous group of mutations in the L1 gene.
Acute effects of placebo, sustained-release nitroglycerin, diltiazem capsules, and the combination of both drugs were monitored in nine stable angina patients. They were randomized to receive either placebo or 13 mg of slow-release nitroglycerin orally (double-blind). This was followed in 1 hour by 120 mg of diltiazem orally, given to all patients (unblinded). Invasive hemodynamic measurements were made before and after each treatment at supine and sitting rest, two levels of submaximal, and at maximal exercise and twice in recovery. Compared to the control test at maximal exercise, sustained-release nitroglycerin increased aerobic capacity 24%, lowered peripheral resistance -32%, and lowered systemic pressure -23%, while the respective changes with placebo were -3%, 5%, and 2%. When diltiazem was added to placebo compared to the control test, there was a 4% increase in oxygen consumption and -9% and -4% reduction in systemic resistance and systemic pressure, respectively. The addition of diltiazem to nitroglycerin was associated with a 20% increase in oxygen consumption a -42% reduction in systemic resistance and a -32% reduction in systemic pressure. Two patients who received nitroglycerin plus diltiazem experienced symptomatic hypotension, while one patient who received placebo plus diltiazem experienced hypotension. These side effects caused the study to be terminated prematurely. Thus, although the combination of nitroglycerin and diltiazem had a greater effect on afterload than either drug alone, the combination did not provide greater improvement in cardiac performance.
The present work was designed to elucidate the in vivo role of complement in the proteinuria-associated tubulointerstitial injury. Rats were intravenously injected with puromycin aminonucleoside, and massive proteinuria was observed within 5 days. Prominent tubulointerstitial injury characterized by proximal tubular degeneration, tubular dilatation, and leukocyte infiltration were observed 7 days after injection. C3 and C5b-9 were observed in the luminal side of proximal tubular cells. Renal function, assessed by inulin and para-aminohippurate clearance, was significantly decreased. To-assess the role of complement in this model, rats were injected with either cobra venom factor or soluble recombinant human complement receptor type 1 starting at day 3. These manipulations significantly improved tubulointerstitial pathology and para-aminohippurate clearance without affecting the degree of proteinuria. Deposition of C3 and C5b-9 was not detected in the kidney of rats depleted of complement by cobra venom factor. In rats treated with soluble complement receptor, C3 was still detected in the tubules, but deposition of C5b-9 was not observed. Soluble complement receptor was detected at the site of C3 deposition and in the urine. These data strongly suggest that complement plays a pivotal role in proteinuria-associated tubulointerstitial injury and that systemic complement depletion or inhibition of complement in the tubular lumen may diminish the tubulointerstitial damage.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-13, 9) of Kupffer cells induced by gadolinium chloride (GdCl(3)) treatment can reverse dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrosis (in vivo) and the effect of GdCl(3) on MAP kinase activity (in vitro). Male Wistar rats 6 weeks of age received DMN (10 mg/kg) three successive days a week for 4 weeks. Then two groups of rats (n = 6 each) were treated twice weekly with either GdCl(3) (7 mg/kg) or saline solution intravenously for the next 4 weeks. Animals were sacrificed to estimate the degree of liver fibrosis. Isolated Kuppfer cells were treated with GdCl(3) and the expressions of MMPs, MAP kinase activity (ERK, SAPK/JNK, P38) as well as apoptosis were also examined. Rats that received DMN for 4 weeks followed by GdCl(3) injection for 4 weeks showed an reduced liver hydroxyproline content compared to rats treated with DEN followed by saline (277 +/- 22 VS 348 +/- 34 microg/g, n = 6 each, P < 0.01). There were significantly increased MMP-13 mRNA levels in GdCl(3)-treated rats. However, no significant change was observed in procollagen type I mRNA levels. Isolated Kuppfer cells treated with GdCl(3) showed increased MAP kinase activity, especially P38 pathway as well as MMP-13, 9 mRNA and type I collagen-degrading activity leading to apoptosis. SB203580, inhibitor of P38 pathway diminished these activation and prevented apoptosis. These results suggest that Kuppfer cells can reverse liver fibrosis via the expression of MMPs mainly through P38 pathway.
A 66-year-old woman was cared for at two referral institutions following a witnessed cardiac arrest in a local emergency department. Despite aggressive initial care, she failed to regain consciousness during a 28-day course. Based on an erroneous neurologic diagnosis of anoxic encephalopathy, pessimism regarding likelihood of improvement existed, prompting clinical consideration of withdrawal of care. The correct diagnosis of iatrogenic drug-induced coma alternating with drug-induced delirium only became apparent after the IV administration of repeated doses of a benzodiazepine antagonist. The patient and husband (co-authors) provide insights often unheard within care circles.
Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC), a primary psychoactive constituent of cannabis, has been reported to act as a neuroprotectant via the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor. In this study, Delta(9)-THC significantly decreased the infarct volume in a 4 h mouse middle cerebral artery occlusion mouse model. The neuroprotective effect of Delta(9)-THC was completely abolished by SR141716, cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist, and by warming the animals to 31 degrees C. Delta(9)-THC significantly decreased the rectal temperature, and the hypothermic effect was also inhibited by SR141716 and by warming to 31 degrees C. At 24 h after cerebral ischemia, Delta(9)-THC significantly increased the expression level of CB(1) receptor in both the striatum and cortex, but not in the hypothalamus. Warming to 31 degrees C during 4 h cerebral ischemia did not increase the expression of CB(1) receptor at the striatum and cortex in MCA-occluded mice. These results show that the neuroprotective effect of Delta(9)-THC is mediated by a temperature-dependent mechanism via the CB(1) receptor. In addition, warming to 31 degrees C might attenuate both the neuroprotective and hypothermic effects of Delta(9)-THC through inhibiting the increase in CB(1) receptor in both the striatum and cortex but not in the hypothalamus, which may suggest a new thermoregulation mechanism of Delta(9)-THC.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States. Although tobacco smoking accounts for the majority of lung cancer, approximately 10% of patients with lung cancer in the United States are lifelong never smokers. Lung cancer in the never smokers (LCINS) affects women disproportionately more often than men. Only limited data are available on the etiopathogenesis, molecular abnormalities, and prognosis of LCINS. Several etiologic factors have been proposed for the development of LCINS, including exposure to radon, cooking fumes, asbestos, heavy metals, and environmental tobacco smoke, human papillomavirus infection, and inherited genetic susceptibility. However, the relative significance of these individual factors among different ethnic populations in the development of LCINS has not been well-characterized. Adenocarcinoma is the predominant histologic subtype reported with LCINS. Striking differences in response rates and outcomes are seen when patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who are lifelong never smokers are treated with epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase (EGFR-TK) inhibitors such as gefitinib or erlotinib compared with the outcomes with these agents in patients with tobacco-associated lung cancer. Interestingly, the activating mutations in the EGFR-TK inhibitors have been reported significantly more frequently in LCINS than in patients with tobacco-related NSCLC. This review will summarize available data on the epidemiology, risk factors, molecular genetics, management options, and outcomes of LCINS.
A 33 year old male Nigerian presented with widespread involvement of peripheral nerves, several of which were tender and painful. Nerve biopsies confirmed the presence of Mycobacterium leprae in both endoneurial and perineurial areas, mainly in foamy macrophages (Virchow cells), but there were also large accumulations of an amorphous, acid-fast and alcohol-fast material which was not obviously of bacterial origin. Appropriate stains indicated that this had many characteristics of lipofuscin. Although not previously known, it was at this stage discovered that the patient had received treatment with anti-leprosy drugs nearly three years before presentation in this country. One of these was clofazimine, an aniline aposafranine derivative known to produce a ceroid-like pigment in the tissues of patients treated with this drug or lepromatous leprosy.
The effects of intravenous labetalol, a drug with both alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptor blocking actions, have been studied in 20 severely hypertensive patients. There was a prompt and sustained fall in arterial pressure; severe hypotension did not occur in recumbent patients but postural hypotension was common. Pulse rate was consistently reduced, but bradycardia was not a problem. Significant and correlated falls in plasma angiotensin II and aldosterone were seen. In a direct comparison with intravenous propranolol, labetalol was less effective in lowering plasma angiotensin II, but more effective in reducing blood pressure. Oral labetalol provided good control of blood pressure and other features in two patients with phaeochromocytoma. Intravenous labetalol was similarly effective in controlling a hypertensive crisis following clonidine withdrawal.
The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) and oxidative phosphorylation activity, has been linked to modifications of multiple molecular processes, including lipid peroxidation, signaling pathway and transcription factor modulation, and oxidative damage to DNA. Oxidative damage by endogenous ROS has been associated with the etiology of various pathological states. There are numerous reports that levels of manganese superoxide dismutase enzyme (MnSOD), an antioxidant enzyme responsible for the attenuation of ROS, are lowered in cancer cells, but the reasons for this reduction are poorly defined. Epigenetic silencing of genes involved in tumor suppression and DNA repair is known to occur in a variety of malignant cell types. Here we report that in the human multiple myeloma cell line KAS 6/1, the SOD-2 gene, encoding manganese superoxide dismutase, is epigenetically silenced as a result of promoter hypermethylation. The DNA methyltransferase inhibitor Zebularine reverses SOD-2 promoter methylation, increasing gene expression and enzyme levels. Infection of KAS 6/1 cells with a recombinant adenovirus carrying the MnSOD cDNA reduced the cell proliferation rate by approximately one-half, confirming the detrimental effects of epigenetic silencing of SOD-2 expression.
Depression and antidepressant therapy have been associated with sexual dysfunction in short-term and point-prevalence trials.
This report describes effects of duloxetine and escitalopram on sexual functioning during acute and long-term treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).
In this 8-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, adult outpatients with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition (DSM-IV)-defined MDD were randomized to duloxetine 60 mg/day (N = 273; 173 female), escitalopram 10 mg/day (N = 274; 186 female), or placebo (N = 137; 87 female). After the first 8 weeks of treatment, dose increases were permitted to optimize treatment.
The 14-item Changes in Sexual Functioning Questionnaire (CSFQ) was used to assess sexual functioning.
Of the 114 patients who did not meet total CSFQ score criteria for global sexual dysfunction at baseline (duloxetine, N = 51; escitalopram, N = 39; placebo, N = 24), the incidence of treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction was significantly higher for escitalopram compared with placebo at 4 and 8 weeks, and significantly higher compared with duloxetine at 4 weeks. At 8 weeks, the incidence of treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction was 17/51 (33.3%) for duloxetine-treated patients; 19/39 (48.7%) for escitalopram-treated patients; and 4/24 (16.7%) for placebo-treated patients (P = 0.01 escitalopram vs. placebo; P = 0.13 duloxetine vs. placebo). After 12 weeks, no significant differences were observed between active drugs. At 8 months, the incidence of treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction was 33.3% for duloxetine, 43.6% for escitalopram, and 25.0% for placebo. Regardless of treatment, patients who achieved remission of MDD showed improvement in global sexual functioning, whereas worsening was observed for patients who did not achieve remission (P < 0.001). Discontinuation rates for sexual side effects did not differ between duloxetine (N = 2) and escitalopram (N = 7) (P = 0.07).
Short-term treatment demonstrated a higher incidence of treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction with escitalopram compared with duloxetine and placebo. After 12 weeks, there were no statistically significant differences between drugs; however, MDD outcome (regardless of treatment) had a significant impact on improvement in global sexual functioning.
This was a comparative study of side effects and acceptability of low-dose pills administered by the oral and vaginal rout. In an experimental clinical trial study, undesirable side effects of nausea, dysmenorrhea, breast tenderness, gastrointestinal disorders, vertigo, headache, and breakthrough bleeding (BTB) were studied. The participants of the case and the control groups were the same women. The side effects were compared in 143 women using contraceptive pill containing 150 microg levonorgestrel and 30 microg ethinyl estradiol by vaginal and oral route. The efficacy and acceptability were evaluated. The side effects among the patients who used the contraceptive pills orally were significantly higher than among those who used the vaginal route (p < 0.0001). BTB occurred more often with the oral route, but there was no significant difference between their incidences (p = 0.267). Most participants in this study expressed a high level of acceptability with the vaginal route. There was only one unwanted pregnancy, which occurred when the participant used the contraceptive pill vaginally, but used it incorrectly. Using the contraceptive pill administered by vaginal route is a safe method with fewer side effects and more acceptability when compared with the oral route.
