Three male patients aged 29, 30 and 34 years and a 36-year-old female are reported with nasal septum perforation and a history of cocaine abuse. Two of the patients also had a perforation of the hard palate. In all four, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) were found. One had a cytoplasmic immunofluorescence-staining pattern (c-ANCA), the other three showed a perinuclear staining pattern (p-ANCA). Furthermore, all patients were found to be nasal carriers of S. aureus. We hypothesise that tissue damage to the nasal and palatal area in patients using cocaine may partly be mediated by the presence of ANCA antibodies. Furthermore, we speculate that S. aureus facilitates the development of these ANCA antibodies.
Five children with cancer treated with high dose cyclophosphamide experienced blurring of vision. In three patients, the blurring lasted less than one hour and disappeared, abruptly, but in the other two, it was prolonged, lasting three and 14 days with gradual improvement. In all five complete restoration of normal vision occurred. We have not found other reports of this association in the literature.
This study critically examined the role of PPARβ/δ in colon cancer models. Expression of PPARβ/δ mRNA and protein was lower and expression of CYCLIN D1 protein higher in human colon adenocarcinomas compared to matched non-transformed tissue. Similar results were observed in colon tumors from Apc(+/Min-FCCC) mice compared to control tissue. Dietary administration of sulindac to Apc(+/Min-FCCC) mice had no influence on expression of PPARβ/δ in normal colon tissue or colon tumors. Cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) was either increased or unchanged, while expression of 14-3-3ε was not influenced in human colon cancer cell lines cultured with the PPARβ/δ ligand GW0742 under conditions known to increase apoptosis. While DLD1 cells exhibited fewer early apoptotic cells after ligand activation of PPARβ/δ following treatment with hydrogen peroxide, this change was associated with an increase in late apoptotic/necrotic cells, but not an increase in viable cells. Stable over-expression of PPARβ/δ in human colon cancer cell lines enhanced ligand activation of PPARβ/δ and inhibition of clonogenicity in HT29 cells. These studies are the most quantitative to date to demonstrate that expression of PPARβ/δ is lower in human and Apc(+/Min-FCCC) mouse colon tumors than in corresponding normal tissue, consistent with the finding that increasing expression and activation of PPARβ/δ in human colon cancer cell lines inhibits clonogenicity. Because ligand-induced attenuation of early apoptosis can be associated with more late, apoptotic/necrotic cells, but not more viable cells, these studies illustrate why more comprehensive analysis of PPARβ/δ-dependent modulation of apoptosis is required in the future.
Ineffective erythropoiesis occurred during desacetyl vinblastine amide sulfate (VDS) therapy of a patient with metastatic Ewing's sarcoma. The peripheral blood was characterized by anisocytosis, poikilocytosis and reticulocytopenia. Bone marrow showed megaloblastic red cell hyperplasia with nuclear fragmentation, binuclearity and abnormal metaphases. Radioiron incorporation into red cells was markedly decreased. Electron microscopy showed red cell surface changes previously called ropalocytosis. Normal erythropoiesis promptly resumed when VDS treatment was withheld. Although less common than leukopenia, red cell abnormalities are part of the spectrum of vinca alkaloid toxicity.
As cigarette smoking prevalence rates approach 90% in schizophrenia, an important emerging question is the role of nicotine in the disease-related disturbance in cognition. We therefore tested a total of 38 male cigarette smokers (22 schizophrenia, 16 normal control), matched on nicotine dependence, on the Attention Network Test (ANT) at three nicotine conditions (baseline, 8 h overnight withdrawal, 3 h 21 mg nicotine patch). The results indicated that the groups did not differ in performance on either of three ANT measures (alertness, orienting, and executive) across baseline, patch, and withdrawal conditions. However, in comparison to the controls, the participants with schizophrenia showed faster ANT reaction time (RT) for the nicotine patch in relation to the baseline condition. In comparison to controls, the participants with schizophrenia also showed reduced ANT accuracy at withdrawal but not at patch condition. These results suggest that overall processing speed and accuracy are affected differently by nicotine levels in participants with schizophrenia, with evidence supporting greater impairment from withdrawal and greater improvement from nicotine administration.
A case of acute renal insufficiency associated with acute hepatitis that arose in the course of intermittent rifampicine management is reported. Specific reagin-type antibodies were noted in the circulating blood. The clinical, morphological and pathogenetic aspects of the case are compared with those of kidney disease caused by penicillin. While certain clinical features appear in both situations, the histological and immunofluorescence data suggest that two separate pathological entities are involved.
Phenacetin-based analgesics have been linked to the development of renal pelvis cancer and renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The relationship between non-phenacetin types of analgesics and kidney cancer is less clear, although laboratory evidence suggests that these drugs possess carcinogenic potential. A population-based case-control study involving 1204 non-Asian RCC patients aged 25-74 and an equal number of sex-, age- and race-matched neighbourhood controls was conducted in Los Angeles, California, to investigate the relationship between sustained use of analgesics and risk of RCC according to major formulation categories. Detailed information on medical and medication histories, and other lifestyle factors was collected through in-person interviews. Regular use of analgesics was a significant risk factor for RCC in both men and women (odds ratio (OR) = 1.6, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.4-1.9 for both sexes combined). Risks were elevated across all four major classes of analgesics (aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents other than aspirin, acetaminophen and phenacetin). Within each class of analgesics, there was statistically significant increasing risk with increasing level of exposure. Although there was some minor variability by major class of formulation, in general individuals in the highest exposure categories exhibited approximately 2.5-fold increase in risk relative to non- or irregular users of analgesics. Subjects who took one regular-strength (i.e. 325 mg) aspirin a day or less for cardiovascular disease prevention were not at an increased risk of RCC (OR = 0.9, 95% CI = 0.6-1.4).
Investigation of the antibiotic susceptibilities and trends for staphylococci collected from bacteraemia cases in the UK and Ireland, from 2001 to 2006, as part of the British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy's Bacteraemia Surveillance Programme.
Twenty-five hospitals from the UK and Ireland each collected up to 10 consecutive isolates of both Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) per year from 2001 to 2006. MIC determination and identification to species level were carried out centrally. mecA and also mupA alleles were sought by PCR in S. aureus and CoNS from 2005 and 2006, respectively.
One thousand four hundred and forty-eight S. aureus and 1214 CoNS were collected. The overall prevalence of methicillin resistance was 42% (with </=6% annual fluctuation) for S. aureus and 67% (range 54% to 80%) for CoNS. Resistance to aminoglycosides, macrolides, quinolones and tetracyclines was strongly associated with methicillin resistance in both species groups. Many (20.8%) CoNS and three (0.2%) S. aureus isolates were non-susceptible to teicoplanin, but there was no vancomycin non-susceptibility found in S. aureus and only one vancomycin-intermediate CoNS isolate. There was little evidence of susceptibility trends over time for any antibiotic, with the surveillance period preceding the recent fall in methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) prevalence indicated by the mandatory surveillance of MRSA bacteraemia in England. The newer antibiotics, ceftobiprole, daptomycin, linezolid, telavancin and tigecycline, all had excellent activity against staphylococci.
Multiresistant staphylococci remain abundant in the UK and Ireland but many new antimicrobials are becoming available and these may prove effective alternatives to glycopeptides.
Vinblastine and erythromycin are among the most commonly used chemotherapeutic and antimicrobial agents, respectively. No interaction between the two has ever been reported. Towards the end of a phase I study of vinblastine plus oral cyclosporin (to reverse multidrug resistance), three patients also received erythromycin to raise their cyclosporin levels. All developed severe toxicity consistent with a much higher vinblastine dose than was actually given. This apparent potentiation of vinblastine toxicity has not been previously described.
Benzodiazepines are used to treat the anxiety associated with cocaine withdrawal, as well as cocaine-induced seizures. Since cocaine exposure was shown to affect BZ binding density, abuse liability, subjective hypnotic actions and seizure susceptibility, we assessed whether chronic cocaine alters diazepam's anxiolytic and anticonvulsant actions. Changes in GABA(A) receptor subunit protein expression were also assessed as they may relate to BZ activity at the receptor. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with cocaine-HCl (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline once daily for 14 days. One day after the last injection, DZP (1 mg/kg i.p.) significantly increased time spent on and entries into open arms of an elevated plus maze in both saline- and cocaine-treated groups, yet the effect was greater in cocaine-treated rats. Eight days after cessation of treatment DZP did not have a significant anxiolytic effect in either group. To assess the effect of cocaine on DZP's anticonvulsant actions, PTZ was infused at a constant rate via the lateral tail vein and clonus onset was recorded in the presence and absence of DZP (5 mg/kg, i.p). DZP significantly elevated seizure threshold in both groups of rats. Chronic cocaine also had no effect on the beta-CCM seizure threshold. Quantitative immunohistochemistry of GABA(A) receptor subunit protein demonstrated significant regulation of alpha2 (-10%) and beta3 (+9%) subunits in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and CA1 regions, respectively. Small changes in GABAR subunit expression in specific brain areas may relate to DZP's enhanced anxiolytic effectiveness whereas it's anticonvulsant actions likely remain intact following cocaine administration.
While there is no single correct starting dose for levodopa therapy, many individuals can be started on either the 25/100 or controlled-release formula, following the general rule not to attempt to titrate carbidopa-levodopa to the point of "normality," which can lead to toxicity. The physician should also determine the proper use of any adjunctive medications; such combined therapy has become the standard approach to treatment. Following the initial period of therapy, emerging difficulties require a reassessment of therapeutic approaches, such as dosage adjustment or introduction of a dopamine agonist. Other possible adverse effects--such as gastrointestinal disorders, orthostatic hypotension, levodopa-induced psychosis, sleep disturbances or parasomnias, or drug interactions--also require carefully monitored individual treatment. Nonpharmacologic concerns can help the Parkinson's disease patient achieve and maintain optimal functioning, including daily exercise, physical therapy, and involvement with support groups.
Liver transplantation is associated with a number of neurological complications. We herein report a case of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with the use of sirolimus-based immunosuppression. The patient was treated by converting the immunosuppression from sirolimus to cyclosporine and by a short course of oral steroids. Following this, we observed almost complete clinical and electrophysiologic resolution of this syndrome. We believe that this is the first described case of such a complication occurring in association with sirolimus. This immunosuppressive agent can, therefore, lead to neurological complications similar to the ones that have been observed with calcineurin inhibitors.
A single case of multifocal inflammatory leukoencephalopathy, which developed during a course of adjuvant chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5FU) and levamisole is reported. Clinical features developed slowly and were not dramatic; this condition may therefore frequently be missed.
While providing potent immunosuppression for liver transplant recipients, calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) exhibit nephrotoxicity as a major side effect. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of conversion from CNI to sirolimus (SRL) among liver transplant recipients with CNI-induced chronic nephrotoxicity.
Between January 2004 and June 2005, we performed conversion in 16 recipients after a median period of 8.5 months after liver transplantation. The indication for conversion was CNI-related nephrotoxicity with a serum creatinine (sCr) value >132.6 umol/L. Renal function was measured before and after conversion to SRL. Clinical and laboratory data related to the clinical course of the patients were recorded to investigate the safety and efficacy of conversion.
Sixteen patients were converted to SRL after developing nephrotoxicity. Their renal function improved gradually after conversion. The levels of sCr decreased significantly within the first 30 days (164.1 +/- 12.48 micromol/L to 130.1 +/- 5.573 micromol/L), and over the next 60 days after conversion (97.86 +/- 11.69 micromol/L to 90.7 +/- 8.95 micromol/L) (P < .01). Similarly, the mean glomerular filtration rate (GFR) increased significantly during the same period. Four recipients experienced hypercholesterolemia, 1 with ankle edema, and 1 with acute rejection. The median follow-up was 2.4 years. No patient discontinued SRL due to side effects. No patient needed dialysis or kidney transplantation during the study period.
SRL is a safe, effective replacement agent as primary immunosuppressive therapy following withdrawal of CNIs in liver transplant recipients with CNI-induced chronic nephrotoxicity.
Doxorubicin remains a useful anti-cancer drug but as lifetime dose approaches 500 mg/m2 and particularly when this dose is exceeded, iatrogenic life-threatening cardiomyopathy becomes progressively more likely. This note reviews evidence indicating that doxorubicin induced cardiomyopathy is partly mediated by stimulation of Toll-like receptors (TLR) 2 and 4 which are expressed on cardiomyocytes. Indinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, and saquinavir are currently marketed protease inhibitors used to suppress human immunodeficiency virus. They have recently been shown to inhibit signalling at TLR 2 and 4 as well as intracellular events downstream from these receptors. It is possible that these FDA-approved anti-retroviral protease inhibitors could be used off-label to diminish likelihood of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity permitting higher doxorubicin doses. We suggest that currently marketed anti-viral protease inhibitors be investigated in animal models of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy and if such studies do indeed show protection, human studies be initiated.
Using DNA samples obtained from two unrelated patients, diagnosed as having familial dysalbuminaemic hyperthyroxinaemia (FDH), exons 1-14 which span the entire coding region of the human serum albumin (HSA) gene were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction. The sequence of each of the 14 DNA fragments was then determined. In each case a point mutation was identified at nucleotide 653 which causes an Arg to His substitution at amino acid position 218. The substitution was confirmed by amino acid sequencing of a mutant peptide resulting from tryptic digestion of the protein. Abnormal affinity of FDH HSA for a thyroxine (T4) analogue was verified by an adaptation of the procedure used in routine free T4 measurement. The location of the mutation is discussed in relation to other studies on the binding properties of HSA.
We have previously shown that the endothelin content in arteries of deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats is increased. We designed this study to examine, using the new orally active nonselective endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan, whether this increase in vascular endothelin may contribute to elevated blood pressure and vascular hypertrophy in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. Rats received bosentan (100 mg/kg body wt per day) for 3 weeks mixed with their food. Systolic blood pressure of DOCA-salt hypertensive rats rose to 197 +/- 5 mm Hg, and that of bosentan-treated DOCA-salt hypertensive rats was 177 +/- 4 mm Hg (P < .01). Mesenteric resistance arteries were studied on a wire myograph. The media width, ratio of media width to lumen diameter, and cross-sectional area of the media of resistance arteries of bosentan-treated DOCA-salt hypertensive rats were significantly smaller than those of untreated DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. The lumen diameter and cross-sectional area of the media of vessels of bosentan-treated rats were not different from those of uninephrectomized control rats. Vasoconstrictor responses, which were altered in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, approached control in the bosentan-treated rats. We conclude that these results with a nonselective endothelin receptor antagonist may suggest a role for endothelin in the elevation of blood pressure and vascular hypertrophy and remodeling in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats.
Exposure to artificial food colors and additives (AFCAs) has been implicated in the induction and severity of some childhood behavioral and learning disabilities. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nACHRs) are thought to be effective in the learning and memory-generating process. In this study, we investigated the effects of intrauterine exposure to AFCAs on subunit concentrations of NMDARs and nAChRs isoforms in rats. We administered a mixture of AFCAs (Eritrosin, Ponceau 4R, Allura Red AC, Sunset Yellow FCF, Tartrazin, Amaranth, Brilliant Blue, Azorubin and Indigotin) to female rats before and during gestation. The concentration of NR2A and NR2B subunits and nAChR α7, α4β2 isoforms in their offspring's hippocampi were measured by Western Blotting. Expressions of NR2B and nAChR β2 were significantly increased (17% and 6.70%, respectively), whereas expression of nAChR α4 was significantly decreased (5.67%) in male experimental group compared to the male control group (p<0.05). In the female experimental group, AFCAs caused a 14% decrease in NR2B expression when compared to the female control group (p<0.05). Our results indicate that exposure to AFCAs during the fetal period may lead to alterations in expressions of NMDARs and nAChRs in adulthood. These alterations were different between male and female genders.
The mechanisms underlying the severe urinary retention induced by acrylamide intoxication were studied in detail in the rat. Subcutaneous treatment with acrylamide monomer (50 mg/kg daily for 10 days) almost completely impaired the micturition reflex, resulting in urinary retention. In fact, the ability to eliminate an oral water load was virtually abolished, while bladder filling with saline (transvesical cystometrogram) failed to activate reflex micturition. Instead, a picture of overflow incontinence resulted in urethane-anaesthetized rats, which was not reversed by intravenous administration of 4-aminopyridine. The nerve-mediated contractile response to field stimulation (0.1-20 Hz, 0.5 ms, 60 V) of the isolated bladder was unaffected, thus suggesting the integrity of bladder efferent innervation, and no evidence was found from in vitro experiments that the myogenic contractility of the bladder was depressed by acrylamide treatment. Conversely, the sensory nerve-mediated response to capsaicin was abolished and sensory nerve fibres of the bladder were selectively depleted of their content of substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity following acrylamide treatment. In fact, concentrations of the same neuropeptides in other organs, including the adjoining ureters, were unaffected. As to the urethral segment, including the striated sphincter, the D-tubocurarine (0.2 mM)-sensitive urethral response to electrical stimulation (0.1 Hz, 0.1 ms, 20 V) was significantly reduced in acrylamide-treated animals. At the same level, neurofilament protein immunostaining revealed striking accumulations of neurofilament protein-like material in motor end-plates, thus indicating that neuromuscular junctions of the urethral striated sphincter were severely affected. Thus, the afferent arm of the micturition reflex was shown to be severely deranged by acrylamide intoxication, especially in its capsaicin-sensitive component. Since twitch-like contractions of the urethral striated sphincter are probably involved in promoting bladder voiding, a decreased efficiency of this mechanism could participate in the picture of urinary retention induced by acrylamide.
A number of psychotropic drugs, including tricyclic antidepressants, phenothiazine and lithium, have a well demonstrated risk of cardiotoxicity. Each individual therapeutic class has potentially deleterious effects on electrophysiology and myocardial function. The authors report a case showing how serious side effects may result from the association of these different classes in the presence of a coexistent heart disease, even when the underlying disease is mild.
We questioned whether there was any way to predict which patients with high serum theophylline levels would develop life-threatening toxicity and thereby determine which patients might benefit from prophylactic therapeutic measures, such as hemoperfusion or hemodialysis. We reviewed the records of 54 consecutive patients seen over a five-year period in whom the serum theophylline level was 39 micrograms/ml or higher (range 39-78 micrograms/ml, mean theophylline level 49.5 +/- 9.6 micrograms/ml). Toxicity sought included cardiovascular--major arrhythmias (asystole, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation) and minor arrhythmias, (central nervous system--major [seizures], minor [confusion, agitation]); and gastrointestinal (nausea, vomiting and diarrhea). In our sample of patients with extremely high theophylline levels, the incidence of life-threatening complications was low, and the subgroup of patients with high serum theophylline levels who developed life-threatening toxicity could not be easily identified. We conclude that major interventional procedures such as hemoperfusion or hemodialysis should not be used prophylactically in this population of patients of middle age to elderly men with high theophylline levels. We recommend a more conservative approach of using oral activated charcoal therapy in all patients with high serum theophylline levels, and reserving hemoperfusion or hemodialysis for those patients who develop seizures or major arrhythmias.
Considerable evidence demonstrates that genetic factors are important in the development and aggressiveness of prostate cancer. To identify genetic variants that predispose to prostate cancer we tested candidate SNPs from genomic regions that show linkage to prostate cancer susceptibility and/or aggressiveness, as well as genes that show a significant difference in mRNA expression level between tumor and normal tissue. Cases had histologically verified prostate cancer. Controls were at least 65 years old, never registered a PSA above 2.5 ng/ml, always had digital rectal examinations that were not suspicious for cancer, and have no known family history of prostate cancer. Thirty-nine coding SNPs and nine non-coding SNPs were tested in up to 590 cases and 556 controls resulting in over 40,000 SNP genotypes. Significant differences in allele frequencies between cases and controls were observed for ID3 (inhibitor of DNA binding), p = 0.05, HPN (hepsin), p = 0.009, BCAS1 (breast carcinoma amplified sequence 1), p = 0.007, CAV2 (caveolin 2), p = 0.007, EMP3 (epithelial membrane protein 3), p < 0.0001, and MLH1 (mutL homolog 1), p < 0.0001. SNPs in three of these genes (BCAS1, EMP3 and MLH1) remained significant in an age-matched subsample.
As retrospectively determined, the rate of sudden infant death syndrome in 66 infants prenatally exposed to cocaine was 15%, compared with only 4% among infants exposed to opiates. This prospective evaluation of cardiorespiratory pattern in 32 cocaine-exposed and 18 methadone-exposed infants was therefore performed to further evaluate the effects of intrauterine exposure. The two groups were similar in maternal age, race, and cigarette, alcohol, and marijuana use and in gestational age, sex, and birth weight. Apnea density and episodes of periodic breathing exceeded the 95th percentile for normal infants in 12 (38%) of 32 of cocaine-exposed infants vs only 1 (6%) of 18 opiate-exposed infants. Five cocaine-exposed but no opiate-exposed infants had apnea of infancy, and all 5 of these infants had an abnormal cardiorespiratory pattern. In all 13 infants with an abnormal cardiorespiratory pattern, theophylline treatment resulted in normalization of the respiratory pattern and was associated with absence of any (further) clinical events. In summary, infants prenatally exposed to cocaine have a higher incidence of cardiorespiratory pattern abnormalities than do infants with methadone or no prenatal drug exposure.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the prophylactic potential of hyperbaric oxygenation treatment and the timing of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) therapy for cyclophosphamide-(CYP) induced cystitis in rats. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 5 groups. Four groups received a single dose of CYP (100 mg/kg.) intraperitoneally (i.p.) at the same time (group 1 served as the control). Group 2 received CYP only; group 3 received HBO2 treatment (2.8 atmospheres absolute, 90 minutes, twice daily) before and the day after CYP. Group 4 received HBO2 before and on the day of CYP administration. Group 5 received HBO2 on the day of and the day after CYP. CYP injection resulted in severe cystitis. Prophylactic HBO2 treatment did not prevent the severe cystitis. After CYP injection, however, HBO2 treatment attenuated CYP-induced hemorrhagic cystitis in rats. Hyperbaric oxygen has a beneficial effect on repairing and healing bladder damage, though it does not function to prevent CYP-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
Three consecutive cases of severe aplastic anemia undergoing immunosuppressive therapy with cyclosporin A (CyA) and high-dose methylprednisolone (HDMP) developed grand mal seizures after receiving ketoconazole treatment. All the seizures were reversed after transient discontinuation of those drugs. To our knowledge, it has not been reported as yet that the combination of ketoconazole and HDMP may considerably increase the risk of CyA-induced seizure. We would advise that ketoconazole and HDMP not be taken concomitantly with CyA treatment, and whenever ketoconazole therapy is needed, CyA be started with as small a dose as possible.
We describe a recessively inherited frontonasal malformation characterized by a distinctive facial appearance, with hypertelorism, wide nasal bridge, short nasal ridge, bifid nasal tip, broad columella, widely separated slit-like nares, long philtrum with prominent bilateral swellings, and midline notch in the upper lip and alveolus. Additional recurrent features present in a minority of individuals have been upper eyelid ptosis and midline dermoid cysts of craniofacial structures. Assuming recessive inheritance, we mapped the locus in three families to chromosome 1 and identified mutations in ALX3, which is located at band 1p13.3 and encodes the aristaless-related ALX homeobox 3 transcription factor. In total, we identified seven different homozygous pathogenic mutations in seven families. These mutations comprise missense substitutions at critical positions within the conserved homeodomain as well as nonsense, frameshift, and splice-site mutations, all predicting severe or complete loss of function. Our findings contrast with previous studies of the orthologous murine gene, which showed no phenotype in Alx3(-/-) homozygotes, apparently as a result of functional redundancy with the paralogous Alx4 gene. We conclude that ALX3 is essential for normal facial development in humans and that deficiency causes a clinically recognizable phenotype, which we term frontorhiny.
We sought to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the GABAergic agent tiagabine in reducing cocaine use among methadone-treated patients.
Ten-week randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial.
Opiate Treatment Research Program, Veteran's Affairs Connecticut Healthcare System in West Haven, Connecticut, USA.
The participants were 45 cocaine-dependent methadone-treated patients who were predominately Caucasian (75.6%), male (77.8%) and never married (53%) with an average age of 38 years (SD = 6.5).
Comparison groups received tiagabine 12 mg/day (n = 15), tiagabine 24 mg/day (n = 15) or placebo (n = 15).
Baseline assessments included the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, the Addiction Severity Index, a urine drug test, self-reported use and opiate withdrawal scales. Urine drug tests were performed thrice weekly.
Treatment retention was over 80% for all treatment groups. The sample mean (+/- SE) of cocaine-free urines for the first week after study entry and before tiagabine was started was 1.16 (0.19) urines/week. During weeks 9 and 10 cocaine-free urines increased significantly from baseline by 33% with high-dose tiagabine (24 mg/day), by 14% with low-dose tiagabine (12 mg/day) and decreased by 10% with placebo (hierarchical linear model, Z= 2.03; P < 0.05). Self-reported cocaine use also decreased significantly more with active medications than with placebo.
Tiagabine at 24 mg/day was well tolerated among these methadone-treated patients with only one reporting headache. Tiagabine appears to be a promising GABAergic medication that moderately improves cocaine-free urines.
Because reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in the development of puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN), we examined whether superoxide dismutase (SOD) could ameliorate this condition. Phosphatidyl choline-bound SOD (PC-SOD) has higher affinity for the cell membrane than recombinant human SOD (rhSOD). In this study, PC-SOD had a longer half-life in the circulation and also higher affinity to renal fractions (glomerulus, brush border, and tubulus) than rhSOD. PAN was induced in rats with single injections of puromycin aminonucleoside. Rats were divided into four groups: group P, PAN rats without treatment; group PC-T and group rh-T, PAN rats treated with 30,000 U/kg PC-SOD and rhSOD, respectively; and group C, normal controls. The effect of PC-SOD versus rhSOD on PAN was evaluated by morphological podocyte changes (podocyte density along the GBM) and alpha(3) integrin expression at days 4 and 10. Proteinuria was measured over time until day 14. Distribution and quantitation of alpha(3) integrin were studied by confocal laser scan microscopy. On day 4, glomerular ROS was measured by chemiluminescence without stimulation. PC-SOD decreased proteinuria to the control level, but rhSOD only decreased proteinuria by 31%. PC-SOD significantly improved podocyte density (P < 0.05 versus group P). Total alpha(3) integrin expression decreased in the P and rh-T groups at day 4 and then had recovered by day 10, but the polarity of the site of expression did not recover. PC-T preserved both the amount and polarity of integrin expression on days 4 and 10. PC-SOD significantly suppressed ROS generation in PAN (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that alpha(3) integrin regulates glomerular permeability by maintaining podocyte shape and adhesion, which is disrupted by ROS overproduction.
