There have been 15 published cases of probable pentamidine-induced torsade de pointes (TdP). A prospective analysis of this complication of therapy is valuable considering the high frequency of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in the AIDS population, and the role of pentamidine in its therapy.
Open, nonrandomized, prospective study of HIV-infected patients receiving intravenous pentamidine in a 12-month period.
Walter Reed Army Medical Center, a tertiary care, referral-based facility in Washington, DC.
Eighteen HIV-infected patients were enrolled with informed consent; four were withdrawn from statistical analysis after receiving only one or two doses of empiric intravenously administered pentamidine.
Daily 12-lead electrocardiography, echocardiography, weekly signal-averaged electrocardiography, and weekly 24-h ambulatory electrocardiography were performed on each patient. Of the 14 subjects, 3 developed TdP. These 3 patients and 2 others developed a prolonged rate corrected, QT interval (QTc) to greater than 0.48 s (max QTc mean, 0.55 s, mean increase, 0.12 s). The QTc prolongation was noted in all five patients by the fourth daily dose (4 mg/kg/d) of pentamidine. The other 9 patients developed minimal change in QTc intervals throughout therapy (max QTc mean, 0.45 s; mean increase, 0.03 s). The maximum QTc increase was significantly different between these two cohorts (p < 0.03). The occurrence of TdP in the subgroup of patients developing prolonged QTc intervals to greater than 0.48 s (3 of 5 patients), or a change in QTc of greater than 0.08 s (3 of 4 patients) over individual baseline also was significant (p = 0.03 and p = 0.01, respectively). No baseline clinical variables associated with TdP or QTc prolongation were identified.
Intravenously administered pentamidine frequently results in QTc prolongation with a subsequent risk of TdP in HIV-infected patients. All patients treated with intravenously administered pentamidine should be evaluated with baseline and daily ECGs, at least during the first week of therapy, and should be closely monitored for a change in the QT interval. An increase in QTc to above 0.48 s or greater than 0.08 s above baseline carries a significant risk for proarrhythmia, and in this instance, continuous electrocardiographic monitoring or an alternative antibiotic regimen should be considered.
The aim of this study was to determine the gene and protein levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) in the heart of nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in rats and to evaluate the effect of antenatal dexamethazone (Dex) treatment.
CDH model was induced in pregnant rats after administration of 100 mg of nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation (term, day 22). Dexamethazone (Dex, 0.25 mg/kg) was given by intraperitoneal injection on days 18.5 and 19.5 of gestation. Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. The fetuses were divided into 3 groups: group I, control (n = 10); group II, nitrofen-induced CDH (n = 10); group III, nitrofen-induced CDH with antenatal Dex treatment (n = 10). ANP protein was measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate the relative amount of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) mRNA expression.
There was a significant reduction in ANP mRNA (P <.05) and protein (P <.01) levels in heart of group II (CDH) compared with group I. Antenatal Dex treatment significantly increased both ANP mRNA and protein levels in the heart of CDH animals (P <.05).
The reduced cardiac ANP gene expression and ANP synthesis indicates that the heart in CDH is functionally immature and may be unable to respond to hemodynamic load accompanying persistent pulmonary hypertension (PPH). ANP or drugs such as steroids, which raise endogenous ANP levels, may have a therapeutic application in CDH complicated by PPH.
A progressive fall in glomerular capillary plasma flow (QA) is observed in mercury chloride (HgCl2)-induced acute renal failure (ARF) although the site of the main lesion of this ARF is the proximal tubule. To elucidate this mechanism, we examined the expression of endothelin (ET)-1 and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) protein at the glomerulus level in the kidneys of control rats and rats with HgCl2-induced ARF. Both ET-1 and eNOS protein were detected in the juxtaglomerular cells of afferent arterioles. The expression of ET-1 was significantly increased in ARF rats when compared to control rats. Inversely, the expression of eNOS protein was markedly reduced in ARF rats as opposed to control rats. These observations suggest the participation of the vasoconstrictor, ET-1 and the vasodilator, NO in a reduction in QA observed in HgCl2-induced ARF.
Chlorpropamide (CPM) has been reported to produce impaired water excretion due to the enhancement of renal vasopressin (ADH) action and/or due to centrally enhanced ADH release, but it is still unknown whether CPM gives rise to ADH release with a subsequent hyponatremia in diabetes mellitus (DM), which, in turn, causes an impairment of the central nervous system. In 3 patients with DM, who developed hyponatremia during the treatment with CPM, an acute water load (WL) was carried out in the presence and absence of the drug, and plasma ADH was determined with plasma and urine osmolalities. Moreover, in 2 cases, MRI scans of the brain were taken. In all the patients, acute WL tests failed to suppress completely ADH release in response to changes in plasma osmolality in the presence of CPM, which, in turn, resulted in the impaired water excretion. In the absence of CPM, an acute WL normally suppressed plasma ADH leading to the diuresis. MRI scans illustrated the presence of central pontine myelinolysis. It is likely that CPM might stimulate ADH release in DM with a subsequent hyponatremia and brain damages.
Epigenetic silencing of tumor suppressor genes is a new focus of investigation in the generation and proliferation of carcinomas. Secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC) is reportedly detrimental to the growth of ovarian cancer cells and has been shown to be epigenetically silenced in several cancers. We hypothesized that SPARC is downregulated in ovarian cancer through aberrant promoter hypermethylation. To that end, we analyzed SPARC expression in ovarian cancer cell lines and investigated the methylation status of the Sparc promoter using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. Our results show that SPARC mRNA expression is decreased in three (33%) and absent in four (44%) of the nine ovarian cancer cell lines studied, which correlated with hypermethylation of the Sparc promoter. Treatment with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine rescued SPARC mRNA and protein expression. Addition of exogenous SPARC, as well as ectopic expression by an adenoviral vector, resulted in decreased proliferation of ovarian cancer cell lines. Investigation of primary tumors revealed that the Sparc promoter is methylated in 68% of primary ovarian tumors and that the levels of SPARC protein decrease as the disease progresses from low to high grade. Lastly, de novo methylation of Sparc promoter was shown to be mediated by DNA methyltransferase 3a. These results implicate Sparc promoter methylation as an important factor in the genesis and survival of ovarian carcinomas and provide new insights into the potential use of SPARC as a novel biomarker and/or treatment modality for this disease.
We examined the possible effects of a novel 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, rosuvastatin, on endothelial nitric oxide (NO) production and myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Recent studies suggest that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors promote vascular endothelial function through enhanced endothelial NO production. However, it is unclear whether all statins share this beneficial side effect or whether this effect is limited to the "natural" statins.
Wild-type mice (n = 158) were subjected to 30 min of regional myocardial ischemia and 24 h of reperfusion. Mice were treated with various doses of rosuvastatin (0.1, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, and 5.0 mg/kg) 18 h before myocardial ischemia and reperfusion.
Rosuvastatin significantly increased NO production from the vascular endothelium following acute administration to mice. In addition, rosuvastatin increased myocardial endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) messenger ribonucleic acid levels. Myocardial necrosis was reduced by approximately 40% with rosuvastatin therapy. Rosuvastatin attenuated myocardial injury when it was administered 6 h, but not 0 h or 3 h, before myocardial ischemia. In additional studies, rosuvastatin did not affect myocardial infarct size in eNOS-deficient mice compared to vehicle-treated eNOS mice.
These data demonstrate that rosuvastatin increases vascular endothelial NO production and attenuates myocardial necrosis following ischemia and reperfusion in mice.
In this study we investigated both intact and adrenalectomized rats to determine whether or not the anti-inflammatory effects of indomethacin, diclofenac sodium, ibuprofen, nimesulide, tenoxicam and aspirin (IDINTA) are related to adrenal gland hormones in carrageenan-induced inflammation model of rats. Also, we investigated the anti-inflammatory action mechanism of hormones (adrenalin, cortisol) which perform a role in the anti-inflammatory effect of IDINTAon the adrenergic receptors. he results show that IDINTA produces significant anti-inflammatory effects in intact rats (ID(50): 9.82, 10.81, 95.21, 75.23, 8.21 and 61.84 mg/kg), but insignificant effects in adrenalectomized rats (ID(50): 152.97, 188.17, 1275.0, 433.67, 188.16 and 1028.17 mg/kg). In addition, adrenalin and prednisolone caused anti-inflammatory effect rates of 78.3% and 95.7% respectively in adrenalectomized rats. The anti-inflammatory effects of adrenalin and prednisolone did not change when prazosin (alpha(1)-receptor blocker), yohimbine (alpha(2)a2-receptor blocker) and phenoxybenzamine (alpha(2)- and alpha(2)-receptor blocker) were given to rat groups; however, in adrenalectomized rats administered with propranolol (a non-selective blocker of beta(1) and beta(2)-receptors) the anti-inflammatory effect of adrenalin was lost, and that of prednisolone decreased to 36.2%. It was also found that metoprolol (a selective blocker of beta(1)-receptors) did not alter the anti-inflammatory effects of the drugs. As a result, it was shown that anti-inflammatory effects of IDINTA are related to adrenalin and cortisol (corticosterone in rats). It was also determined for the first time that adrenalin (totally) and prednisolone (partially) triggered anti-inflammatory effects via the beta(2)-receptors but not via the alpha(1), alpha(2) and beta(1)-receptors.
Effects of moderately hypertensive norepinephrine (NE) infusion on the function of denervated and innervated kidney were determined in conscious dogs chronically prepared by surgical splitting of the urinary bladder performed to enable separate urine collection from each kidney. While blood pressure increased 23 +/- 4 mm Hg and renal hemodynamics tended to increase slightly, sodium excretion of the denervated but not innervated kidney decreased significantly. This indicated a NE-stimulated increase in tubular sodium reabsorption. The effect was limited to the denervated kidney, possibly due to hypersensitivity of this organ's tubules to the circulating catecholamine. Previous blockade of alpha-receptors (phentolamine) appeared to blunt the dissociated response of the two kidneys to NE, whereas beta-receptor blockade (propranolol) did not affect it. This suggests that increasing sodium reabsorption of the denervated kidney depended on stimulation of tubular alpha-receptors. NE infusion impaired urine concentration equally in the intact and denervated kidney.
Muscle cramps that improve after carnitine or vitamin E therapies are common in haemodialysis (HD) patients. Because vitamin C participates in carnitine biosynthesis, and its levels are reduced in uraemia, subclinical vitamin C depletion may contribute to HD cramps. Our aim was to determine the effects of vitamins C, E and their combination on the frequency and intensity of HD cramps.
In this placebo-controlled, double-blind study, 60 HD-patients were randomized into four therapeutic groups. Each group (n=15) received six identical capsules daily for 8 weeks, containing one of the following: vitamin E (400 mg), vitamin C (250 mg), their combination, or placebo.
The frequency and intensity of HD cramps decreased significantly in all three vitamin groups compared with the placebo group at the end of the trial, and compared with the pre-treatment values. At the end of the trial, vitamins E, C, their combination, and placebo produced cramp reductions of 54, 61, 97 and 7%, respectively. The percentage cramp reduction had no significant correlation with age, sex, aetiology of end-stage renal disease, serum electrolytes or HD duration, but showed a positive correlation (r=0.33, P=0.01) with the type of therapy. No vitamin-related adverse effects were encountered during the trial.
Short-term treatment with the combination of vitamins E and C is safe and effective in reducing HD cramps; however, its safety for prolonged therapy has yet to be evaluated in HD patients.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a synthetic compound used to produce plastics and epoxy resins. BPA can leach from these products in appreciable amounts, resulting in nearly ubiquitous daily exposure to humans. Whether BPA is harmful to humans, especially when administered orally in concentrations relevant to humans, is a topic of debate.
In this study, we investigated the role of chronic oral exposure to BPA during adulthood on mammary carcinogenesis by using a transgenic mouse model that spontaneously develops tumors through overexpression of wild-type erbB2 [mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV)-erbB2].
MMTV-erbB2 mice were exposed to 0, 2.5, 25, 250, or 2,500 µg BPA/L drinking water from 56 until 112 days of age (for mechanism of action) or 252 days of age (for tumorigenesis). Cellular and molecular mechanisms of BPA action in the mammary gland were investigated via immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting.
Only low doses of BPA significantly decreased tumor latency and increased tumor multiplicity, tumor burden, and the incidence of metastasis. All BPA doses significantly increased the cell proliferation index, but only the higher doses also increased the apoptotic index in the mammary gland. At the molecular level, 25 µg BPA/L, but not 2,500 µg BPA/L, increased phosphorylation of erbB2, erbB3, insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor, and Akt in the mammary gland.
Low, but not high, BPA doses significantly accelerated mammary tumorigenesis and metastasis in MMTV-erbB2 mice. The combined ratio of cell proliferation and apoptosis indices and alterations in protein expression best predicted the ability of each dose of BPA to alter tumorigenesis in this model.
Rats with ethinyl estradiol-induced cholestasis have a decreased bile flow and a decreased expression of basolateral and canalicular hepatocyte membrane transporters. The bile acid ursodeoxycholic acid improves bile flow in these animals. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid on the expression of hepatocellular bile acid carriers.
Rats received either ethinyl estradiol (5 mg.kg body wt. for 10 days) or ethinyl estradiol associated with ursodeoxycholic acid (1% in the diet). A third group of rats received ursodeoxycholic acid alone. Bile flow, bile acid, and glutathione biliary outputs were measured. Messenger RNA levels and protein expression of Na -dependent taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide, and bile salt export pump were determined in basolateral and canalicular membrane preparations by Northern and Western blot analysis.
Ursodeoxycholic acid restored bile flow in ethinyl estradiol-treated rats by increasing bile acid secretion. It did not improve glutathione output nor bile acid-independent flow. Na -dependent taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide mRNA and protein were decreased by ethinyl estradiol and not restored by ursodeoxycholic acid. In contrast, canalicular bile salt export pump protein expression was decreased by ethinyl estradiol and fully restored to control levels by ursodeoxycholic acid.
Ursodeoxycholic acid increases bile flow in ethinyl estradiol-treated rats by increasing bile acid secretion. This increase is possibly mediated by a normalization of the expression of the canalicular bile salt export pump.
Although the current trend is to use monotherapy in the treatment of epilepsy, combination therapy is still employed in patients who have failed to respond to monotherapy. There is little clinical or experimental documentation of evidence against or in favor of anticonvulsant combination therapy. In this context, anticonvulsant and neurotoxic pharmacodynamic interactions between phenytoin (PHT) and valproate (VPA) were assessed in an experimental model in mice. All results were expressed in terms of brain drug concentrations for eliminating any pharmacokinetic interaction from the analysis. Both the median neurotoxic and the median anticonvulsant brain concentrations were determined for each drug used alone and for the combination. The interaction for the combination of PHT and VPA was shown to be supraadditive for the anticonvulsant activity, indicating an antiepileptic potentiation, whereas neurotoxicity was simply additive. These results suggest a potential benefit in terms of overall efficacy versus toxicity for the combination of PHT and VPA, as compared with PHT or VPA used alone.
Two groups of experiments were conducted to determine if morphine- and enkephalin-induced seizures are specifically mediated by the mu and delta receptor, respectively. In the first experiments, designed to assess the ontogeny of mu- or delta-seizures, rats from 6 h to 85 days of age received implanted cortical and depth electrodes as well as an indwelling cannula in the lateral ventricle. Various amounts of the mu-receptor agonists, morphine and morphiceptin, and the delta agonists, D-Ala2-D-Leu5-enkephalin (DADL) and Tyr-D-Ser-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr (DSLET), were then administered intracerebroventricularly (icv) with continuous EEG monitoring. The second experiments entailed use of the nonspecific opiate antagonist, naloxone, as well as the specific delta antagonist, ICI 154,129, against seizures induced by icv-administered morphine, morphiceptin, DADL, or DSLET. Both morphine and morphiceptin produced electrical seizure activity in rats as young as 5 days after birth. The drugs produced similar seizure activity in terms of electrical morphology, observed behavior, ontogeny, threshold dose, and reversibility with small doses of naloxone. In the pharmacologic experiments, icv naloxone blocked all opiate-induced seizures. ICI 154,129 blocked DSLET seizure, had little effect on enkephalin or DADL seizures, and no effect on morphine or morphiceptin seizures. These data indicate that DSLET seizures are delta-specific but that all other opiate-induced seizures studied may involve multiple opiate receptor-mediated mechanisms.
We studied a case of flaccid paraplegia that immediately followed intrathecal injection of cytosine arabinoside diluted in 1.5% bacteriostatic water (1.5% benzyl alcohol in H2O). The complication was reversed by rinsing the CSF space with saline. Autopsy showed fibrosis and remyelination of lumbosacral nerve roots. In acute and chronic animal experiments, we showed that benzyl alcohol in commercially used concentrations can have a local anesthetic and an irreversible toxic effect on nerve fibers. This provides a sufficient explanation for many cases of paraparesis following intrathecal chemotherapy.
A 52-year-old man, having been treated for 4 months with chlorpropamide for diabetes mellitus type II, developed severe cholestatic hepatitis following a short course of erythromycin ethylsuccinate. Despite prompt withdrawal of both drugs, the cholestatic picture worsened and was associated with morphological evidence of disappearing interlobular bile ducts. After a 2-year course of profound cholestasis complicated by steatorrhea and striking hyperlipidemia, the patient died of ischemic cardiomyopathy. It is believed that this is the first published case of irreversible cholestasis with disappearance of ducts potentially related to a metabolic interaction between erythromycin ethylsuccinate and chlorpropamide.
To determine the efficacy and safety of the herbal formula Phyto-Female Complex (SupHerb, Netanya, Israel; ingredients: standardized extracts of black cohosh, dong quai, milk thistle, red clover, American ginseng, chaste-tree berry) for the relief of menopausal symptoms.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in 50 healthy pre and postmenopausal women, aged 44-65 years, to whom oral Phyto-Female Complex or matched placebo was prescribed twice daily for 3 months. A structured questionnaire on the frequency and intensity of menopausal symptoms was administered weekly from one week before throughout the 3-month treatment period, followed by biochemical tests, breast check, and transvaginal ultrasonography.
The women receiving Phyto-Female Complex reported a significantly superior mean reduction in menopausal symptoms than the placebo group. The effect of treatment improvements in menopausal symptoms increased over time; by 3 months there was a 73% decrease in hot flushes and a 69% reduction of night sweats, accompanied by a decrease in their intensity and a significant benefit in terms of sleep quality. Hot flushes ceased completely in 47% of women in the study group compared with only 19% in the placebo group. There were no changes in findings on vaginal ultrasonography or levels of relevant hormones (estradiol, follicle-stimulating hormone), liver enzymes or thyroid-stimulating hormone in either group.
Phyto-Female Complex is safe and effective for the relief of hot flushes and sleep disturbances in pre- and postmenopausal women, at least for 3 months' use.
Group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are widely distributed in the basal ganglia, especially on the terminals of pathways which seem to be overactive in Parkinson's disease. The aim of the present study was to determine whether (1S,3R,4S)-1-aminocyclo-pentane-1,3,4-tricarboxylic acid (ACPT-1), an agonist of group III mGluRs, injected bilaterally into the globus pallidus (GP), striatum or substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), can attenuate the haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats, and whether that effect was related to modulation of proenkephalin (PENK) or prodynorphin (PDYN) mRNA expression in the striatum. Administration of ACPT-1 (0.05-1.6 microg/0.5 microl/side) caused a dose-and-structure-dependent decrease in the haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p. or 1.5 mg/kg s.c.)-induced catalepsy whose order was as follows: GP>striatum>SNr. ACPT-1, given alone to any of those structures, induced no catalepsy in rats. Haloperidol (3 x 1.5 mg/kg s.c.) significantly increased PENK mRNA expression in the striatum, while PDYN mRNA levels were not affected by that treatment. ACPT-1 (3 x 1.6 microg/0.5 microl/side) injected into the striatum significantly attenuated the haloperidol-increased PENK mRNA expression, whereas administration of that compound into the GP or SNr did not influence the haloperidol-increased striatal PENK mRNA levels. Our results demonstrate that stimulation of group III mGluRs in the striatum, GP or SNr exerts antiparkinsonian-like effects in rats. The anticataleptic effect of intrastriatally injected ACPT-1 seems to correlate with diminished striatal PENK mRNA expression. However, since the anticataleptic effect produced by intrapallidal and intranigral injection of ACPT-1 is not related to a simultaneous decrease in striatal PENK mRNA levels, it is likely that a decrease in enkephalin biosynthesis is not a necessary condition to obtain an antiparkinsonian effect.
Liver regeneration may be impaired in acute liver failure due to either inhibition of the proliferative response or ongoing liver cell death. Activin A, a member of the TGFbeta superfamily, inhibits hepatocyte DNA synthesis and induces apoptosis.
Levels of activin A and its binding protein follistatin in the serum of 23 patients with acute liver failure were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Serum activin A was significantly increased in acute liver failure patients (median 2.15 ng/ml, range 0.28-6.87 ng/ml) compared to normal controls (median 0.25 ng/ml, range 0.19-0.53 ng/ml; = 10; 0.001). However, this was not linked to the final disease outcome. Higher levels of activin A were found in the serum of patients with acute liver failure due to paracetamol overdose (median 2.87 ng/ml, range 0.72-6.87 ng/ml; = 17) than in patients with acute liver failure due to non-A to E hepatitis (median 1.10 ng/ml, range 0.28-2.70 ng/ml; = 6; 0.05). Serum follistatin was also increased in acute liver failure patients (median 2.84 ng/ml, range 0.57-13.24 ng/ml) compared to normal controls (median 0.68 ng/ml, range 0.32-3.70 ng/ml; 0.01).
Serum activin A is increased in acute liver failure and could be a factor in the inhibition of liver regeneration.
This article reports on the effects of captopril on both the prevention and the regression of myocardial cell hypertrophy and interstitial fibrosis in experimental animals (rats) with pressure overloaded hearts. Constriction of the abdominal aorta just below the diaphragm during periods of 20 days (prevention experiment) and 40 days (regression experiment) resulted in hypertension and cardiac hypertrophy. In the prevention experiment, captopril was able to inhibit the development of high blood pressure levels and cardiac hypertrophy in aortic-constricted rats. Similarly, the treatment of sham-operated rats with captopril led to a reduction in the weight of the heart and in the myocyte diameter compared with controls. The myocyte volume fraction of the left ventricles of both aortic-constricted and sham-operated animals that were treated with captopril was significantly diminished compared with that of the control group. The interstitial collagen volume fraction of all experimental groups was elevated as compared with the control group. As a consequence, the ratios of myocytes to interstitial collagen in groups of aortic-constricted rats, aortic-constricted rats that were treated with captopril, and sham-operated rats that were treated with captopril were reduced compared with the control group; that is, although captopril was able to prevent myocardial cell hypertrophy after aortic constriction, it could not prevent the maintenance of a normal ratio of myocytes to interstitial collagen, which was due to increased collagen volume fraction. In the regression experiment, captopril lowered high blood pressure levels and augmented heart weights to control values. The mean myocyte transverse diameter in aortic-constricted rats that were treated with captopril was significantly smaller than that of controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We studied the aggressive behaviour induced by repeated treatment with apomorphine, a dopamine agonist (0.5 mg/kg s.c. twice daily, 10 days), in rats. The first signs of defensive aggressiveness appeared on the third day of apomorphine treatment and were generally seen on the 7th day. Aggressiveness induced by a challenge dose of apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) on the 11th day was antagonized by haloperidol (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg i.p.) and clozapine (10 mg/kg i.p.). An antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-gated channels, dizocilpine (MK-801), also blocked the aggressive behaviour at 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg i.p. but caused ataxia. When dizocilpine (0.25 mg/kg i.p.) and apomorphine were coadministered for 10 days, aggressive behaviour did not develop. At 0.025 mg/kg i.p., dizocilpine even accelerated the appearance of apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour, which manifested on the 3rd day in all rats. In a separate study, a 7-day treatment with dizocilpine (0.25-1 mg/kg i.p.) of rats, sensitized by a prior 10-day apomorphine treatment, did not reverse the established aggressive behaviour. The coadministration of apomorphine and cholecystokinin (CCK) -A or -B antagonists, devazepide or L-365,260 (0.01-2.5 mg/kg i.p.) respectively, neither affected development of apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour nor intensity of aggressiveness in the sensitized rats. In binding studies neither density nor affinity of striatal dopamine D2 receptors was changed by acute or chronic apomorphine treatment. The number of [3H]pCCK-8 binding sites in the frontal cortex increased already after a single injection of apomorphine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Infarct expansion remains an important sequela of myocardial infarction. Both angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and intravenous nitrates reduce early infarct expansion in humans. This is believed to be caused by the reduction in left ventricular systolic wall stress that results from the arteriolar vasodilatation they produce. Patients are frequently already receiving calcium channel blockers at the time of infarction or these drugs are sometimes administered in the perimyocardial infarction period. The calcium blockers of the dihydropyridine class might be expected to modify infarct expansion. However, their effect on this process has not been studied. We therefore evaluated the effect of early treatment with the calcium blocker amlodipine, a potent arteriolar vasodilator with minimal negative inotropic properties, on chronic myocardial infarction in the rat. Permanent left coronary occlusion was created after pretreatment with amlodipine, 0.25 mg/kg (low dose) or 1.0 mg/kg (high dose), or placebo, intravenously twice a day, and continued for 7 days after infarction. Hearts (n = 50) were perfusion fixed 21 days after infarction and analyzed for infarct extent, scar thickness, left ventricular shape and size, and expansion index. Both doses decreased mean blood pressure (119 +/- 3 to 99 +/- 5 mm Hg low dose, p = 0.004; 110 +/- 5 to 84 +/- 4 mm Hg high dose, p = 0.0003), with reflex tachycardia only after the high dose (heart rate 395 +/- 9 to 434 +/- 11, p = 0.001). Infarct extent was equal in the three groups (39 +/- 2%, 41 +/- 2%, and 41 +/- 3% of left ventricular circumference for control, low, and high doses, respectively). The three groups did not differ significantly with regard to left ventricular cavity cross-sectional area (80 +/- 4, 77 +/- 3, and 87 +/- 3 mm2, control, low, and high doses, respectively; p = 0.07 high dose vs control), mean scar thickness (0.74 +/- 0.06, 0.73 +/- 0.05, and 0.65 +/- 0.06 mm, control, low, and high doses, respectively; p = NS), and expansion index (1.52 +/- 0.10, 1.58 +/- 0.12, and 1.95 +/- 0.19, control, low, and high doses, respectively; p = 0.08 high dose vs control). In the subgroup with larger infarcts (infarct extent greater than 0.39 of left ventricle), the expansion index was higher in the high-dose group (2.37 +/- 0.23 vs 1.64 +/- 0.17 control; p = 0.04). In this model, treatment with amlodipine does not limit infarct extent or reduce early infarct expansion and left ventricular dilatation, even when initiated before infarction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The aim of the present study was to determine the clinical efficacy and safety of chloroprocaine (CP) for gynaecological surgery. 2. One hundred and twenty gynaecological patients scheduled for hysterectomy were divided randomly into four groups: Group A (n = 30), 2.5% CP 1.0 mL; Group B (n = 30), 2.5% CP 1.2 mL; Group C (n = 30), 2.5% CP 1.4 mL; and Group D (n = 30), 2.5% CP 1.6 mL. The dose of CP used in each group was mixed with 1 mL vehicle containing 5% glucose and 1.5% ephedrine. Spinal anaesthesia was achieved by lumbar puncture in the L2-3 interspace and injection of the mixture. Wherever necessary, CP (2.5%) was used for epidural anaesthesia. 3. Although the times to onset and peak effect, as well as the grade of motor block of the lower limbs (Bromage scale), were similar among the four groups, the level of the highest sensory nerve block increased gradually, from T7 (+/- 1), T6 (+/- 1), T4 (+/- 1) to T3 (+/- 1) in Groups A, B, C and D, respectively. The rate of unsatisfactory spinal anaesthesia was 80 and 16.7% in Groups A and B, respectively, and consequently epidural anaesthesia was superimposed in those patients for surgery to start. Spinal anaesthesia was very satisfactory for surgery in Groups C and D. In contrast, the incidence of hypotension in Groups B, C and D was 6.7, 16.7 and 67.7%, respectively; however, respiratory depression only occurred in Group D in nine cases (30%). No other adverse events or neurologic deficits were found. 4. The present results suggest that 30-35 mg CP in a total volume of 2.2-2.4 mL used for spinal anaesthesia in hysterectomy is safe and efficient. The combination of spinal and epidural anaesthesia with 2.5% CP can achieve 100% satisfactory anaesthesia for this type of surgery.
Heparin, well known anticoagulant, can also modulate inflammatory and immunologic processes. Some investigators suggest that heparin inhibits mast cell degranulation. Mast cells play very important role in early phase of asthmatic reaction, releasing many proinflammatory mediators including histamine. The purpose of study was to determine the effect of heparin on early asthmatic response and on histamine level in plasma after allergen challenge. Eleven patients with mild and moderate asthma were studied in a double blind placebo controlled manner. Sodium heparin or placebo were taken via nebulizer, and 15 minutes later allergen challenge (Dpt./grass pollen) was performed. FEV1 was measured at 5, 15, 30 and 60 minutes after challenge and PC20 for allergen was calculated. Peripheral blood was collected before and 30 minutes after challenge to assess histamine concentration in plasma by an immunoenzymatic assay. We observed that heparin significantly decreased early asthmatic response in all patients. After challenge with the same concentration of allergen FEV1 fell 36% for placebo and 8% for heparin. Heparin also prevented rise in histamine level in plasma after allergen challenge. The concentration of histamine before and after challenge were respectively 9.55 +/- 4.08 and 13.06 +/- 3.86 nM for placebo (p < 0.05) and 8.88 +/- 1.50 and 11.18 +/- 1.84 nM for heparin (p > 0.05). There was no correlation between FEV1 and histamine level before and after challenge. Our results suggest that heparin diminishes allergen induced early phase of asthmatic recreation by inhibition of mast cells degranulation.
Acetorphan, i.e. N-[(R,S)-3-acetylmercapto-2-benzylpropanoyl]-glycine, benzyl ester, is a lipophilic derivative of Thiorphan, a potent inhibitor of "enkephalinase" (EC 3.4.24.11). On purified enkephalinase its inhibitory potency was approximately 1000 fold less than that of Thiorphan but became close to the latter (nanomolar) when it was incubated previously with cerebral membranes. After parenteral administration to mice and rats (1-10 mg/kg) extensive inhibition of cerebral enkephalinase was shown by the depressed enzyme activity in brain membranes from treated animals and the long-lasting potentiation of analgesia elicited by (D-Ala2,Met5)enkephalin (i.c.v.). This suggests that acetorphan easily enters the brain where the active Thiorphan is released. Parenteral acetorphan elicited a series of naloxone-reversible, opioid-like effects, most of which were described previously with intracerebral Thiorphan or other enkephalinase inhibitors. Antinociceptive effects were found in some tests (hot plate jump and phenylbenzoquinone-induced writhing) but not in others (hot plate licking and tail withdrawal). "Antidepressant" effect was found in the "mouse despair" test and antidiarrhoeal effect in the rat castor oil test. Acetorphan also elicited significant increases and decreases in turnover indexes of serotonin and noradrenaline, respectively, in mouse cerebral cortex. In mice chronically treated with acetorphan, the antinociceptive activity of the compound was not modified markedly and no overt withdrawal symptom could be observed after either treatment interruption or administration of naloxone.
Varenicline is a new drug indicated for smoking cessation. It has primarily been investigated in healthy adults. The commonest side-effects are nausea, headache, sleep disturbance, constipation, flatulence and vomiting. Hypoglycaemia has not been reported. As smoking cessation is important to reduce risk of cardiovascular morbidity, especially in diabetes, use of effective drugs indicated for smoking cessation is rational.
We report multiple episodes of severe hypoglycaemia after starting varenicline in a 53-year-old woman with Type 1 diabetes. Since onset of diabetes at age 25 years and until start of varenicline therapy, she had only experienced one episode of severe hypoglycaemia and hypoglycaemia awareness was not impaired. The severe hypoglycaemic episodes disappeared after withdrawal of varenicline.
We recommend cautious prescription of varenicline, intensified blood glucose monitoring and careful education of patients with diabetes treated with varenicline. Further investigation of the use of varenicline in patients with diabetes is warranted.
Viskaldix, a combination of Pindolol (Visken)--10 mg with Clopamide--5 mg, was administered to 15 patients with arterial hypertension. The follow up of the patients was according to a previous plan, the preparation administered according, to a schedule. In the determination of the stage of the disease, consideration was mainly given to the values of the diastolic pressure, measured in a lying position. The patients examined were of the following age: to 40--I patient; to 50-7 patients; to 60--7 patients. Seven patients were at the stage I, 4 patients--stage OII and 4 patients--stage III. Reduction of systolic and diastolic pressure with more than 1.33 kPa (10 mm Hg column) both in a lying and standing position were recorded in 2/3 of the patients with the treatment carried out. The effect on the blood pressure, was noticed to develop in 1/3 of the patients with the administration of 2 tablets daily. The blood pressure of only one patient failed to respond to the treatment.
Nitroglycerin administration provokes spontaneous-like migraine attacks in migraine and cluster headache (CH) patients. Nitroglycerin-induced migraine-like headache has been used as an experimental model of migraine. In this paper, we evaluate the possibility of using the nitroglycerin provocative test (NPT) as a supportive measure in the diagnosis of primary neurovascular headaches by assessing its reliability on a large population and adopting strict criteria for rating the response as positive or negative. Our population consisted of 197 migraineurs, 42 subjects suffering from cluster headache and 53 healthy controls. In migraine without aura, the test sensitivity was 82.1%, specificity 96.2% and accuracy 85.5%, while in subjects suffering from migraine with aura, the reliability of the NPT was less satisfactory (sensitivity 13.6%, specificity 96.2% and accuracy 72%). In CH patients tested during the active phase of the disease the sensitivity was 80.6%, specificity 100% and accuracy 92.9%. NPT is an easy, low-cost and reliable method for supporting the diagnosis of migraine without aura and cluster headache.
Pathologic fractures in children may be due to various causes. Rarely, it may be the presenting symptom of neurofibromatosis. A misdiagnosis of Rickets and Vitamin D supplementation in such a case may wreak havoc in the form of iatrogenic hypervitaminosis D. We report one such case.
Periorificial dermatitis, a common skin disease in young women, has been occasionally reported in children. This study elaborates the clinical features of periorificial dermatitis in children as well as possible pathogenetic factors and the response to 20% azelaic acid cream. A total of 10 children aged 3 to 12 (mean 7.7) years suffering from nongranulomatous periorificial dermatitis for 3 to 7 (mean 4.9) months were evaluated, and dermatologic examination was carried out. Pretreatment was documented. Skin prick tests with a panel of six common inhalative allergens and patch tests with the European Standard Series were performed. An association between atopy and periorificial dermatitis was evaluated, and patients were screened for skin colonization by fungi, bacteria, and Demodex mites. They were treated with 20% azelaic acid cream, which was topically applied twice daily on all affected areas, until complete resolution was achieved. Treatment period was followed by an individual observation period. Periorificial dermatitis had developed in typical distribution and morphology. In all patients, low- to high-potency topical corticosteroids had been used on the face prior to manifestation. Atopy was found in half of the patients. Allergological, bacteriological, and mycological examinations did not reveal pathologic results. Demodex mites could not be demonstrated by skin surface biopsy. Treatment with 20% azelaic acid cream led to complete resolution of skin lesions after 4 to 8 (mean 5.4) weeks in all patients. Transient exacerbation of skin condition with a peak between the 2nd and 6th day of treatment could be observed in three patients. Side effects of 20% azelaic acid cream were registered in six patients and were predominantly present in the first 2 weeks of treatment. Side effects were minimal and became rarer with ongoing treatment. No recurrences were seen within a follow-up period of 2 to 8 (mean 4.4) months. Treatment with 20% azelaic acid cream could provide an effective and safe alternative therapeutic option in children with nongranulomatous periorificial dermatitis.
