The reproductive consequences and mechanisms of action of chronic exposure to low-dose endocrine disruptors are poorly understood.
We assessed the effects of a continuous, low-dose exposure to a phytoestrogen (genistein) and/or an antiandrogenic food contaminant (vinclozolin) on the male reproductive tract and fertility.
Male rats were exposed by gavage to genistein and vinclozolin from conception to adulthood, alone or in combination, at low doses (1 mg/kg/day) or higher doses (10 and 30 mg/kg/day). We studied a number of standard reproductive toxicology end points and also assessed testicular mRNA expression profiles using long-oligonucleotide microarrays.
The low-dose mixture and high-dose vinclozolin produced the most significant alterations in adults: decreased sperm counts, reduced sperm motion parameters, decreased litter sizes, and increased post implantation loss. Testicular mRNA expression profiles for these exposure conditions were strongly correlated. Functional clustering indicated that many of the genes induced belong to the "neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions" family encompassing several hormonally related actors (e.g., follicle-stimulating hormone and its receptor). All exposure conditions decreased the levels of mRNAs involved in ribosome function, indicating probable decreased protein production.
Our study shows that chronic exposure to a mixture of a dose of a phytoestrogen equivalent to that in the human diet and a low dose-albeit not environmental-of a common anti-androgenic food contaminant may seriously affect the male reproductive tract and fertility.
Autoimmune hepatitis is a disorder of unknown aetiology. Imatinib belongs to a new class of anticancer agents with high selectivity toward a specific molecular target. Its main indications are chronic myeloid leukaemia and gastrointestinal tumours. We report here, for the first time to our knowledge, imatinib mesylate-induced hepatitis with autoimmune features.
We have previously shown that 5-HT3 receptors are involved in the development and expression of methamphetamine (MAP)-induced locomotor sensitization in mice. In the present study, we further examined whether the dopaminergic system is involved in the attenuating effects of MDL 72222, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, on acute MAP-induced locomotor hyperactivity. For this, we examined alterations of dopamine (DA) in the form of D1 receptor, D2 receptor, and dopamine transporter (DAT) binding labeled with [3H]SCH23390 for D1, [3H]raclopride for D2, and [3H]mazindol for DAT binding in the mouse brains with acute MAP exposure or pretreatment of MDL 72222 with MAP. No significant differences were detected in the D1 receptor, D2 receptor, or DAT binding between any of the groups studied. Interestingly, we found increased DA levels in the striatum following acute MAP exposure; these increased levels were reversed by pretreatment with MDL 72222, but did not affect 5-HT levels in the dorsal raphe. Overall, our results suggest that dopamine neurotransmission plays an important role in the attenuating effects of 5-HT3 receptor antagonist MDL 72222 on acute MAP-induced locomotor hyperactivity in mice.
Aspirin-sensitive rhinitis is the manifestation of aspirin intolerance in the upper respiratory tract. The disease represents a pseudoallergy against aspirin or related nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. As a major immunomodulatory role for airway innervation has been proposed in airway inflammatory diseases, the present study assessed changes in human nasal mucosa innervation in patients with aspirin-sensitive rhinitis in comparison to a control group. Immunohistochemistry for protein gene product 9.5, tachykinins, calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and neuropeptide tyrosine was performed on cryostats sections of nasal mucosa and neuropeptide containing nerves were examined independently using a score grading. In comparison to the control, the aspirin-sensitive rhinitis group had a significant increase of VIP-like immunoreactivity in mucosal nerve fibres. In contrast to constant numbers of mast cells, highly significant increases in the numbers of eosinophils were found in the group of aspirin-sensitive rhinitis patients. In summary, the present quantification of neuropeptide-immunoreactivity of mucosal nerves demonstrated differences in the human nasal mucosa innervation between nonrhinitic and aspirin-sensitive rhinitic individuals. These differences may reflect a pathophysiological role of upper airway innervation in pseudoallergic reactions.
Amiloride is a "potassium-sparing" diuretic agent of moderate natriuretic potency with site of action in postmacula densa segments of the distal nephron. In isolated segments of mammalian cortical distal nephron, amiloride diminishes sodium reabsorption and transtubular electrical PD and inhibits potassium secretion. We investigated the effects of long-term administration of a demonstrably maximal dose of amiloride (1.0 mg/kg b.i.d.) on plasma and urine acid-base and electrolyte composition in fixed steroid-replaced ADX dogs. Amiloride administration resulted in potassium retention and hyperkalemia and reduced net acid excretion and caused chronic hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. The cumulative reduction in net acid excretion and severity of systemic acidosis were not significantly different in additional groups in which potassium retention was prevented by restriction of dietary potassium during amiloride administration or in which amiloride was administered to animals with pre-existing dietary potassium depletion. The response of urine pH and ammonium excretion, however, differed among groups. In the steady state of chronic acidosis, urine pH and ammonium concentration were lowest in the hyperkalemic group and highest in the hypokalemic group, and among the three groups pH and ammonium were positively correlated (r = 0.67, p less than 0.001). Ammonium concentration varied inversely with plasma potassium concentration. Net acid excretion rates returned to control levels during the steady state of chronic amiloride-induced acidosis in the three groups. During continued amiloride administration, sustained correction of acidosis by long-term oral administration of sodium bicarbonate did not result in negative values of net acid excretion; that is, amiloride did not cause net wasting of base at normal plasma bicarbonate concentration. The results of these studies suggest that chronic amiloride administration results in a sustained impairment of renal hydrogen ion secretion restricted to the distal nephron and not dependent on alterations in potassium balance. Differences in potassium balance (positive or negative) appeared to influence only the availability of ammonia for diffusion into urine and steady-state urine pH, but not the steady-state net rate of renal hydrogen ion secretion during amiloride. These studies identify an experimental model of chronic distal renal tubular acidosis in which external hydrogen ion balance is re-established during chronic acidosis even when the availability of ammonia for excretion is decreased.
Amitraz, a formamidine insecticide and acaricide used in veterinary practice, presents side effects related to its pharmacological activity on alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. The present study was undertaken to investigate the antinociceptive effect of amitraz in rats and mice. The tail-flick test was used to determine the duration of the antinociceptive effect of the intraperitoneal (ip) administration of amitraz (1 and 2 mg/kg, 10 animals per group) in male Wistar rats weighing 180-220 g. The writhing test (using 10 ml/kg of a 0.6% acetic acid solution as a painful stimulus) was performed in 140 male Swiss mice weighing 20-30 g, divided into 14 groups that received ip injections of saline, amitraz (0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0 and 4.0 mg/kg), xylazine or detomidine (1.0, 1.5, 2.0 and 4.0 mg/kg), in order to compare the effect of amitraz to that caused by xylazine and detomidine, and to investigate the participation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors which were blocked by idazoxan (1 mg/kg). Amitraz induced a significant antinociceptive effect in both rats and mice. This effect is blocked in mice by idazoxan.
Event-related functional MRI (fMRI) was used to study blood oxygen level dependent cortical signal changes associated with volitional limb movements off and on levodopa in Parkinson's disease. Eight patients with early stage akinetic Parkinson's disease and eight healthy volunteers underwent three functional imaging runs (high speed echo planar imaging with 600 scans/run) while performing paced single joystick movements in a freely chosen direction every 7-15 s. The non-magnetic joystick was linked to a monitoring system for on-line registration of performance parameters along with timing of the pacing tones and fMRI-scan acquisition parameters. This allowed correlation of movement onset, i.e. event-onset, to scanning time. We repeated the scanning procedure in the Parkinson's disease patients when akinesia improved 30 min after oral levodopa. Compared with the control group, patients both off and on levodopa showed movement-related impaired activation in the rostral supplementary motor area and increased activation in primary motor cortex (M1) and the lateral premotor cortex bilaterally. Levodopa led to a relative normalization of the impaired activation in the mesial premotor cortex and decreased signal levels in M1, lateral premotor and superior parietal cortex. We conclude that levodopa improves impaired motor initiation in the supplementary motor area and decreases hyperfunction of lateral premotor and M1 associated with Parkinson's disease during simple volitional movements.
Despite the importance and frequency of levodopa-induced dyskinesias, little is known about their causal mechanisms. In this study, electrophysiological single-unit recordings of the neuronal activity of the globus pallidus internalis (GPi), the main basal ganglia output structure, and the globus pallidus externalis (GPe) were recorded continuously in both normal and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treated subhuman primates before and after the administration of three dopamine agonists--apomorphine (a dopaminergic mixed agonist), SKF-38393 (a D1 partial agonist) and piribedil (a D2/D3 agonist)--at doses known to induce dyskinesias in the parkinsonian monkey. Changes in both the firing frequency and the firing pattern were analysed in relation to behavioural modifications. In both the normal and the parkinsonian monkey, the three agonists induced a decrease in the mean firing frequency of GPi neurones, although dyskinesias were induced only in the parkinsonian animals. In this situation, the improvement of parkinsonian motor abnormalities was correlated with the decrease in GPi firing frequency, whereas firing pattern changes were concomitant with the onset of dyskinesias. Moreover, firing frequency seemed to be decreased excessively during dyskinesias. The results indicate that the electrophysiological mechanism of dyskinesia involves an excessive decrease in GPi firing frequency and a modification of the firing pattern. However, the similarity between the induced decrease in firing frequency in normal and parkinsonian animals underlines the need for dopamine depletion in the induction of dyskinesias.
To observe the changes in the expression of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), type I collagen (Col I), and type III collagen (Col III) among the rats with acute paraquat (PQ) poisoning and the intervention effect of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) on their expression, and to investigate the mechanism of PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis and the intervention effect of PDTC on the disease.
Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into control group (n = 6), PQ group (n = 36), and PQ + PDTC group (n = 36). The PQ group and PQ + PDTC group were given a single dose of saline-diluted PQ (80 mg/kg) by gavage; 2 h later, the PQ + PDTC group was intraperitoneally injected with a single dose of PDTC (100 mg/kg), and the PQ group was intraperitoneally injected with the same amount of saline. The control group was given saline (1 ml/kg) by gavage and was intraperitoneally injected with the same amount of saline 2h later. At 1, 3, 7, 14, 25, and 56 days after operation, the protein expression of CTGF was evaluated by Western blot; the mRNA expression of CTGF, Col I, and Col III was analyzed by real-time quantitative PCR; the content of hydroxyproline in lung tissue was measured, and the pathological changes of lung tissue of the poisoned rats were observed.
The protein expression of CTGF in the PQ group increased as the time went on, slowly from the 3rd to the 14th day and rapidly from the 28th to the 56th day, significantly higher than that in the control group at each time point (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). The mRNA expression of CTGF in the PQ group began to rise markedly on the 1st day, increased rapidly from the 3rd to the 14th day, and remained at a relatively high level from the 28th to the 56th day, significantly higher than that in the control group at each time point (P < 0.01). The mRNA expression of Col I in the PQ group changed little on the 1st and 3rd day, increased slightly on the 7th day, and increased greatly from the 14th to the 56th day, significantly higher than that in the control group from the 7th to the 56th day (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). The mRNA expression of Col III in the PQ group began to rise on the 1st day, reached the peak level on the 7th day, and then declined, significantly higher than that in the control group at each time point (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). Masson staining showed that fibroblasts proliferated from the 14th to the 28th day, and collagen fibers increased gradually. Compared with the PQ group, the PQ + PDTC group showed significantly decreased protein expression of CTGF as well as mRNA expression of CTGF, Col I, and Col III (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01).
In PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis, the expression of CTGF keeps rising, and the collagen secretion and matrix synthesis are increased probably by upregulating the transcriptional levels of Col I and Col III; CTGF plays an important role in PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis. PDTC can inhibit the expression of CTGF, thus reducing the lung injury in rats with PQ poisoning.
FK506, a new macrolide immunosuppressant agent, is approximately 100 times more potent than cyclosporine. Early clinical trials demonstrated FK506 to be effective in reversing refractory rejection in liver, kidney, and heart transplantation. Like cyclosporine, FK506 has significant nephrotoxicity. The clinical presentation and morphology of FK506 nephrotoxicity are identical to those of cyclosporine. Many animal and in vitro studies suggest that FK506 may be less nephrotoxic than cyclosporine. Studies in humans after transplantation have not confirmed this advantage. FK506 has pursued the same pattern in drug development as cyclosporine, with progressive dose reductions over the years. Studies from this early developmental period suggest that the nephrotoxicity of FK506 and cyclosporine in clinical use are approximately equivalent. Further refinement in the clinical use of FK506 will likely reduce its toxicity further. Appropriate studies conducted at that stage will determine which drug possesses less nephrotoxicity.
In search for a suitable rat model to study potentially affected blood-brain barrier (BBB) transport mechanisms in the course of Parkinsons disease (PD) progression, experiments were performed to characterise Parkinsons disease markers following subcutaneous (SC) and intracerebral (IC) infusion of the toxin rotenone in the rat.
Studies were performed using Male Lewis rats. SC infusion of rotenone (3 mg/kg/day) was performed via an osmotic minipump. IC infusion of rotenone occurred directly into the right medial forebrain bundle at three different dosages. At different times following rotenone infusion, behaviour, histopathology (tyrosine hydroxylase and alpha-synuclein immunocytochemistry), peripheral organ pathology (adrenals, heart, kidney, liver, lung, spleen and stomach) were assessed. In part of the SC and IC rats, BBB transport profiles of the permeability marker sodium fluorescein were determined using microdialysis.
SC rotenone failed to produce dopaminergic lesions and led to extensive peripheral organ toxicity. BBB permeability for fluorescein following SC rotenone was changed, however due peripheral toxicity. In contrast, IC rotenone produced a progressive lesion of the nigrostrial dopaminergic pathway over 28 days with no associated peripheral toxicity. IC rotenone also exhibited a large increase in amphetamine induced rotational behaviour. In addition, a few IC rats showed alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity and aggregation. Following IC rotenone, no changes in BBB permeability were detected after 14 days.
SC rotenone only produced peripheral toxicity. IC rotenone appeared to create a progressive lesion of the rat nigrostrial pathway, and may therefore be a more appropriate model of Parkinson's disease progression, compared with the most commonly used 6-OH-DA rat model.
To analyze the influence of the prothrombotic gene mutation factor V G1691A (factor V Leiden) and prothrombin G20210A on the risk of a first episode of catheter-related deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in a group of patients with breast cancer treated with chemotherapy.
Between January 1999 and February 2001, the occurrence of a first symptomatic DVT was investigated in a cohort of 300 consecutive patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer treated at a single institution with fluorouracil-based chemotherapy, administered continuously through a totally implanted access port. A nested case-control study included 25 women (cases) with catheter-related DVT and 50 controls without DVT matched with cases for age, identical chemotherapy, stage of disease and prognostic features. The G1691A factor V and G20210A prothrombin mutation genotypes were analyzed.
Five cases [20%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 9% to 39%)] and two controls (4%; 95% CI 1% to 14%) were heterozygous carriers of G1691A factor V (P = 0.04). The age-adjusted odds ratio for catheter-related DVT was 6.1 (95% CI 1.1-34.3). Only one patient (case) had the G20210A prothrombin gene mutation. Time from start of chemotherapy infusion to DVT was not significantly different between patients with (median 31 days) and without (median 43 days) G1691A factor V mutation (P = 0.6).
Factor V Leiden carriers with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer have an increased risk of developing catheter-related DVT during chemotherapy.
The authors report two patients with prolonged metabolic delirium presumably initiated by systemic absorption of homatropine from a topical ophthalmologic solution. Anticholinergic toxicity was confirmed by muscarinic radioreceptor assay in both cases and by quantitative EEG in one case.
Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are used increasingly in industry as substitutes for ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Limited studies in animals indicate potential hepatotoxicity of some of these compounds. We investigated an epidemic of liver disease in nine industrial workers who had had repeated accidental exposure to a mixture of 1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (HCFC 123) and 1-chloro-1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethane (HCFC 124). All nine exposed workers were affected to various degrees. Both compounds are metabolised in the same way as 1-bromo-1-chloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (halothane) to form reactive trifluoroacetyl halide intermediates, which have been implicated in the hepatotoxicity of halothane. We aimed to test whether HCFCs 123 and 124 can result in serious liver disease.
For one severely affected worker liver biopsy and immunohistochemical stainings for the presence of trifluoroacetyl protein adducts were done. The serum of six affected workers and five controls was tested for autoantibodies that react with human liver cytochrome-P450 2E1 (P450 2E1) and P58 protein disulphide isomerase isoform (P58).
The liver biopsy sample showed hepatocellular necrosis which was prominent in perivenular zone three and extended focally from portal tracts to portal tracts and centrilobular areas (bridging necrosis). Trifluoroacetyl-adducted proteins were detected in surviving hepatocytes. Autoantibodies against P450 2E1 or P58, previously associated with halothane hepatitis, were detected in the serum of five affected workers.
Repeated exposure of human beings to HCFCs 123 and 124 can result in serious liver injury in a large proportion of the exposed population. Although the exact mechanism of hepatotoxicity of these agents is not known, the results suggest that trifluoroacetyl-altered liver proteins are involved. In view of the potentially widespread use of these compounds, there is an urgent need to develop safer alternatives.
Platinum resistance of cancer cells may evolve due to a decrease in intracellular drug accumulation, decreased cell permeability or by an increased deactivation of the drug by glutathione (GSH). The aim of this study was (1) to investigate the effect of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) on the cytotoxicity of cisplatin in a large cell lung carcinoma cell line (H460), and (2) to examine the potential involvement of increased cisplatin uptake, GSH depletion and pyrimidine starvation by ATP in this effect. H460 cells were harvested and seeded (5% CO(2); 37 degrees C). Subsequently, cells were incubated with medium or ATP followed by an incubation with cisplatin. Cytotoxicity screening was analyzed by the sulforhodamine B (SRB) colorimetric assay, lactate dehydrogenase and caspase-3/7 activity. Pre-incubation for 72h with 0.3 and 3mM ATP strongly enhanced the anti-proliferative potency of cisplatin 2.9- and 7.6-fold, respectively. Moreover, after incubation of H460 cells with 0.3mM ATP the intracellular platinum concentration increased, indicating increased cisplatin uptake by ATP. ATP, despite lowering the LD(50) of cisplatin, did not modulate GSH levels in H460 cells. ATP itself showed a biphasic effect on H460 cell growth: 0.3mM inhibited H460 cell growth via the pyrimidine starvation effect, activation of caspase-3/7 and LDH leakage, while 3mM ATP showed no effect on cell growth. In conclusion, ATP sensitizes the H460 cells to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. The effect of 0.3mM ATP is not due to GSH depletion but involves increased cisplatin uptake and pyrimidine starvation due to ATP conversion to adenosine followed by cellular uptake.
Many herbs and spices are known to modulate the immune system and have been shown to restore the immunity in immuno-compromised individuals. Spices generally used to increase the taste and flavor of food also has the history of usage as an ayurvedic medicine. Therefore to explore the health modulating effects of Cuminum cyminum and to identify the active compound, immunomodulatory properties were evaluated using flowcytometry and ELISA in normal and immune-suppressed animals. C. cyminum and compound 1 stimulated the T cells and Th1 cytokines expression in normal animals. Swiss albino mice subjected to Cyclosporine-A induced immune-suppression were dosed orally with C. cyminum (25, 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg) on consecutive days. The results showed that administration significantly increased T cells (CD4 and CD8) count and Th1 predominant immune response in a dose dependent manner thereby suggesting immunomodulatory activity through modulation of T lymphocytes expression. In restraint stress induced immune-suppressed animals, compound 1 countered the depleted T lymphocytes, decreased the elevated corticosterone levels and size of adrenal glands and increased the weight of thymus and spleen. Based on the data we may conclude that C. cyminum is a potent immunomodulator and may develop as a lead to recover the immunity of immuno-compromised individuals.
Successful cardioversion of ventricular tachycardia in a full-term male infant, born severely depressed by emergency Cesarean section 9 min after the mother was given bilateral paracervical bupivacaine blocks for pain relief during normal labor, is described. The apparently stillborn baby was resuscitated by conventional means until electronic heart monitoring revealed transition from asystole to rapid ventricular tachycardia 14 min after birth. At 20 min, cardioversion with 5 watt-second was performed with successful reversion to sinus rhythm. The child recovered rapidly and neurological status at 12 months was normal. Obviously, active search and aggressive management of rapid ventricular arrhythmias are indicated during neonatal resuscitation, if potentially arrhythmogenic drugs are used in perinatal care.
The occurrence of an adverse reaction in Dirofilaria immitis-infected dogs following an intramuscular injection of chloroquine is described. The manifestations of this adverse reaction were characteristic of a neurologic disorder rather than the hypovolemic, shock-like state of the post-DEC adverse reaction previously described in dogs. In 3 of the 12 dogs the adverse reaction was of sufficient severity as to be fatal. Alterations in serum fibrinogen, serum transaminase levels and platelet numbers occurred but the magnitude of changes were not as great as that in the post-DEC adverse reaction. Following the injection of chloroquine the microfilaremia increased to a degree that was greater than the increase following DEC administration in the dog.
Labetalol has been successful in treating hypertension, and few side effects have been reported, although there have been cases of muscle pain during treatment. A patient with essential hypertension treated with labetalol 600 mg daily complained of muscle pains, particularly in the legs. No neurological abnormality was found, but the activity of muscle enzymes in the blood was high. Findings on electromyography were compatible with myositis and electron microscopical findings suggested toxic myopathy. Labetalol was stopped for 10 days, and the muscle pain disappeared and enzyme activity returned to normal. When labetalol was restarted the pain returned and enzyme activities rose. Myopathy should be considered in patients experiencing muscle pain after treatment with labetalol.
Conventional lung cancer therapies are associated with poor survival rates; therefore, new approaches such as gene therapy are required for treating cancer. Gene therapies for treating lung cancer patients can involve several approaches. Among these, aerosol gene delivery is a potentially more effective approach. In this study, Akt1 kinase-deficient (KD) and wild-type (WT) Akt1 were delivered to the lungs of CMV-LucR-cMyc-IRES-LucF dual reporter mice through a nose only inhalation system using glucosylated polyethylenimine and naphthalene was administrated to the mice via intraperitoneal injection. Aerosol delivery of Akt1 WT and naphthalene treatment increased protein levels of downstream substrates of Akt signaling pathway while aerosol delivery of Akt1 KD did not. Our results showed that naphthalene affected extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) protein levels, ERK-related signaling, and induced Clara cell injury. However, Clara cell injury induced by naphthalene was considerably attenuated in mice exposed to Akt1 KD. Furthermore, a dual luciferase activity assay showed that aerosol delivery of Akt1 WT and naphthalene treatment enhanced cap-dependent protein translation, while reduced cap-dependent protein translation was observed after delivering Akt1 KD. These studies demonstrated that our aerosol delivery is compatible for in vivo gene delivery.
The spontaneous reversal ethinyl estradiol-induced cholestasis has been documented 7 days after the last estrogen administration in the rat. This finding supports the hypothesis that estrogens produce only a transient functional failure of the hepatocytic structures responsible for bile secretion.
The nephrotoxic potential of the macrolide immunosuppressants, FK506 and rapamycin, was compared with that of cyclosporin (CsA) in male Wistar rats. FK506 induced a reduction of creatinine clearance, hypomagnesemia and hyperuricemia as previously described for CsA. In contrast, equidosed rapamycin did not alter the glomerular filtration rate. FK506 caused proximal tubular epithelial changes consisting of atrophy, vacuolization, inclusion bodies, microcalcification and focal mononuclear interstitial infiltrate as described for CsA. The most striking alteration was hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA). The percentage of renin-containing JGA and the extent of renin immunoreactivity along afferent vessels were significantly increased in FK506- and CsA-treated rats. By contrast, no renal morphologic lesions were found in rapamycin-treated animals. Renal cortical extracts contained abundant cyclophilin and FK506-binding protein (FKBP), the main intracytoplasmic receptors for CsA and FK506, respectively. Furthermore, we demonstrated that receptor bound CsA and FK506, but not rapamycin, formed complexes with the phosphatase calcineurin, as shown previously for lymphocytes. Thus, it is hypothesized that both the immunosuppressive and toxic effects of FK506 and CsA, but not of rapamycin, are mediated through an immunophilin-drug-calcineurin complex. The renal substrate of calcineurin, which mediates renal vasoconstriction is yet to be identified.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) treatment is a useful therapy against human acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), however, it concomitantly brings potential adverse consequences including serious side effect, human carcinogenicity and possible development of resistance. This investigation revealed that those problems might be relaxed by simultaneous application with (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), one of the major components from green tea. EGCG significantly lowered down the ATO concentration required for an effective control of APL cells, HL-60. The simultaneous treatment of ATO with EGCG induced a mitochondria-dependent apoptosis in HL-60 cells significantly, which accounted for more than 70% of the cell death in the treatment. The mechanism of apoptosis induction was elucidated. EGCG in HL-60 cells acted as a pro-oxidant enhancing intracellular hydrogen peroxide significantly. ATO, on the other hand, induced heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) to catalyze heme degradation, thereby provided ferrous iron for EGCG-induced hydrogen peroxide to precede Fenton reaction, which in turn generated deleterious reactive oxygen species to damage cell. In addition, EGCG inhibited expression of ferritin, which supposedly to sequester harmful ferrous iron, thereby augmented the occurrence of Fenton reaction. This investigation also provided evidence that ATO, since mainly acted to induce HO-1 in simultaneous treatment with EGCG, could be replaced by other HO-1 inducer with much less human toxicity. Furthermore, several of our preliminary investigations revealed that the enhanced cytotoxicity induced by combining heme degradation and Fenton reaction is selectively toxic to malignant but not non-malignant cells.
Ultrasonographic evaluation of systemic arterial function is widely available, and a close relation of endothelial function in the coronary and brachial arteries has been documented. It is unknown, however, whether a similar correlation exists for their 2 microcirculatory territories and thus whether assessment of the systemic microcirculation can be used similarly as a surrogate marker of myocardial perfusion.
Twenty-three patients with documented coronary artery disease (CAD; 66+/-9 years old, 18 men), 16 patients with syndrome X (SX; 56+/-5 years old, 13 women), and 45 healthy control subjects (C; 34+/-9 years old, 22 men) were studied. Myocardial perfusion was measured at rest and after dipyridamole (0.56 mg. kg(-1). min(-1) over 4 minutes) by PET, and brachial artery blood flow was measured at rest and after transient forearm ischemia by standard Doppler ultrasound techniques. Dipyridamole increased myocardial perfusion in all groups (mL. g(-1). min(-1): CAD, 0.89+/-0.27 versus 1.62+/-0.67, P:<0.001; SX, 0.82+/-0.16 versus 1.67+/-0.49, P:<0.001; and C, 0.82+/-0.15 versus 2.32+/-0.64, P:<0.001). Postocclusion forearm flow increased similarly in all groups (CAD, 52+/-18 versus 174+/-77 mL/min, P:<0.001; SX, 49+/-29 versus 202+/-82 mL/min, P:<0.001; and C, 61+/-34 versus 229+/-108 mL/min, P:<0.001). No significant correlations were found between peripheral and myocardial microcirculatory beds for either resting flow, hyperemic flow, or flow reserve in any of the groups (r(2)<0.1, P:=NS).
The peripheral perfusion responses to transient forearm ischemia do not correlate with dipyridamole-induced myocardial hyperemia. The lack of correlation indicates different mechanisms of microvascular activation or regulation and confirms that extrapolations between findings in the 2 vascular beds are not suitable.
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have well-established antidepressant activity and have also demonstrated efficacy in a number of anxiety disorders, including panic disorder. The SSRIs, escitalopram and sertraline, are well-tolerated and movement disorders are rarely associated with their use. We present a case of the emergence of tics associated with escitalopram and sertraline treatment, which might be due to an imbalance in the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system.
The prevalence of overweight and obesity in children and adolescents is increasing in both the United States and Mexico.
The goal of this article was to assess the efficacy and safety of sibutramine in obese Mexican adolescents.
This was a 6-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, prospective clinical trial of sibutramine QD. Male and female patients aged 14 to 18 years with sex-specific body mass index (BMI) for age and sex >85th percentile were eligible. The primary end points for the trial were the baseline versus end point absolute values for body weight, BMI, and percentage of the initial BMI (%BMI); secondary end points were waist circumference and percentage of the initial waist circumference (%waist). These were measured at days -15, 0, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 of the study. Quality of life was assessed at the study start and end using the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) questionnaire. Blood pressure and heart rate were assessed, and adverse events (AEs) were recorded. Both groups received individually tailored diet and exercise programs.
Forty-six patients (age range, 14-18 years) with a BMI >95th percentile for age were included (sibutramine group, n = 23 [14 females, 9 males]; placebo group, n = 23 [12 females, 11 males]). Twenty-one patients in the sibutramine group and 19 patients in the placebo group completed the 6-month trial. Using the intent-to-treat data, weight (mean [SD]) in the sibutramine group changed from 92.5 (14.6) kg to 85.7 (14.4) kg, for a net weight loss of 7.3 kg (95% CI 4.6-9.9), a waist circumference loss of 8.0 cm (95% CI, 4.7-11.3), and a % BMI loss of 9.2% (95% CI, 6.9-11.6). In the placebo group, weight changed from 98.9 (22.7) kg to 94.6 (22.5) kg, a weight loss of 4.3 kg (95% CI, 1.7-6.9), a waist circumference loss of 3.8 cm (95% CI, 0.7-7.0), and a %BMI loss of 5.2% (95% CI, 2.4-7.9) (P < 0.05 for all intragroup comparisons; P > 0.05 for the intergroup comparisons). Mean (SD) scores on the SF-36 scale in the sibutramine group changed from 78.0 (13.3) at baseline to 84.8 (7.4) at study end (P < 0.05); the respective values in the placebo group were 82.8 (10.3) and 87.3 (7.6) (P < 0.05). At base-line, systolic blood pressure (SBP) was 116.7 (5.9) mm Hg in the sibutramine group and 118.3 (7.6) mm Hg in the placebo group; at end point, the respective SBPs were 112.4 (9.6) mm Hg and 112.6 (6.5) mm Hg. At baseline, diastolic blood pressure (DBP) was 78.9 (4.5) mm Hg in the sibutramine group and 79.5 (5.2) mm Hg in the placebo group; at end point, the respective DBPs were 73.5 (6.3) mm Hg and 76.6 (6.2) mm Hg. At baseline, heart rate was 76.3 (6.4) beats/min in the sibutramine group and 81.1 (9.5) beats/min in the placebo group; at end point, the respective findings were 79.8 (8.8) beats/min and 77.6 (8.6) beats/min (P > 0.05 for all preceding intergroup comparisons). One patient in the sibutramine group had increased blood pressure (at month 3) and 3 had increased heart rate (at months 1, 2, and 4); 2 patients receiving placebo had increased blood pressure (month 3) and 2 had increased heart rate (at months 1 and 3). These changes disappeared in 1 week and did not require treatment or trial suspension. Additionally, in the sibutramine group, 3 patients experienced 4 mild AEs: headache, dry mouth, headache with nausea, and headache with weakness and paleness (P > 0.05). In the placebo group, 3 patients experienced 4 mild AEs: 2 cases of headache, as well as 1 case of headache with somnolence and 1 case of headache with dry mouth (P > 0.05).
Sibutramine 10 mg QD in addition to diet and exercise was effective and generally well tolerated in this population of obese Mexican adolescents.
2-ethoxyethanol, a solvent developed for nitrocellulose and also used in lacquers, dyes, varnish removers, and in numerous industrial processes, was evaluated for possible functional effects in offspring of rats exposed during gestation. A dose finding study revealed that no offspring survived inhalation exposure (7 hours/day) from gestation days 7-13 or 14-20 at 900 ppm, and there were approximately 34 percent neonatal deaths even after prenatal exposure to 200 ppm-the current Federal occupational standard. Consequently, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 100 ppm ethoxyethanol for 7 hours/day on gestation days 7-13 or 14-20. The only effect observed in the mothers was slightly prolonged gestation in he mothers exposed on days 14-20 of gestation (p less than .001). Behavioral testing of offspring from dams exposed to ethoxyethanol on gestation days 7-13 revealed: (a) impaired performance on a rotorod test of neuromuscular ability (p = .002); (b) prolonged latency of leaving the start area of an open field (p = .009); and (c) marginal superiority in avoidance conditioning begun on day 34 of age (p = 061). Offspring from dams exposed to ethoxyethanol on gestation days 14-20: (a) were less active than controls in a running wheel (p = 0.32), and (b) received an increased number and duration of shocks in avoidance conditioning begun on day 60 of age (p = .004). Neurochemical evaluation of whole-brain samples from newborn pups revealed significantly decreased levels of norepinephrine in offspring from both exposure periods (p less than .01). In regional analyses of brains from 21-day-old offspring of dams exposed to 100 ppm ethoxyethanol on gestation days 7-13, the cerebrum had significant elevations in acetylcholine (p less than .01), norepinephrine ( p less than .01), and dopamine (p less than .05), the cerebellum had nearly a 3-fold increase in acetylcholine (p less than .01); the brainstem had an increase in norepinephrine (p less than 0.01); and the midbrain had excesses of acetylcholine (p less than .01), norepinephrine (p less than .05) and protein (p less than .05). In brains from 21-day-old offspring of dams exposed to ethoxyethanol on gestation days 14-20, the cerebrum had significant elevations in acetylcholine, dopamine, and 5-hydroxytryptamine (p less than .05). Overall, the results indicate that there are behavioral and neurochemical alterations in offspring of rats following prenatal exposure to 100 ppm ethoxyethanol.
