Because of the rapid systemic clearance of BCNU (1,3-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea), intra-arterial administration should provide a substantial advantage over intravenous administration for the treatment of malignant gliomas. Thirty-six patients were treated with BCNU every 6 to 8 weeks, either by transfemoral catheterization of the internal carotid or vertebral artery or through a fully implantable intracarotid drug delivery system, beginning with a dose of 200 mg/sq m body surface area. Twelve patients with Grade III or IV astrocytomas were treated after partial resection of the tumor without prior radiation therapy. After two to seven cycles of chemotherapy, nine patients showed a decrease in tumor size and surrounding edema on contrast-enhanced computerized tomography scans. In the nine responders, median duration of chemotherapy response from the time of operation was 25 weeks (range 12 to more than 91 weeks). The median duration of survival in the 12 patients was 54 weeks (range 21 to more than 156 weeks), with an 18-month survival rate of 42%. Twenty-four patients with recurrent Grade I to IV astrocytomas, whose resection and irradiation therapy had failed, received two to eight courses of intra-arterial BCNU therapy. Seventeen of these had a response or were stable for a median of 20 weeks (range 6 to more than 66 weeks). The catheterization procedure is safe, with no immediate complication in 111 infusions of BCNU. A delayed complication in nine patients has been unilateral loss of vision secondary to a retinal vasculitis. The frequency of visual loss decreased after the concentration of the ethanol diluent was lowered.
Enalapril is an effective agent in the treatment of mild to severe hypertension. It is equally effective in elderly and young adult patients but appears to be more effective in white than in black hypertensive patients. Following treatment with enalapril, an assessment of maximum exercise performance found a decrease in total peripheral resistance without significant changes in cardiac output, heart rate, or stroke volume compared with pretreatment values. In addition, there have been reports of reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy in enalapril-treated hypertensive patients. Enalapril is also effective and well tolerated in hypertensive patients with renal impairment of varying etiology. The most common adverse experiences reported in controlled clinical trials were headache (5.2%), dizziness (4.3%), and fatigue (3.0%). In high-risk hypertensive patients, no enalapril-treated neutropenia, proteinuria, dysgeusia, or ageusia were reported. It may be concluded that the benefit-to-risk ratio of enalapril is among the best of the antihypertensive therapies currently available.
We have described a unique patient who had reversible and dose-related myasthenia gravis after penicillamine and chloroquine therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. Although acetylcholine receptor antibodies were not detectable, the time course was consistent with an autoimmune process.
Tamoxifen was approved for breast cancer risk reduction in high-risk women based on the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project's Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (P-1:BCPT), which showed 50% fewer breast cancers with tamoxifen versus placebo, supporting tamoxifen's efficacy in preventing breast cancer. Poor metabolizing CYP2D6 variants are currently the subject of intensive scrutiny regarding their impact on clinical outcomes in the adjuvant setting. Our study extends to variants in a wider spectrum of tamoxifen-metabolizing genes and applies to the prevention setting.
Our case-only study, nested within P-1:BCPT, explored associations of polymorphisms in estrogen/tamoxifen-metabolizing genes with responsiveness to preventive tamoxifen. Thirty-nine candidate polymorphisms in 17 candidate genes were genotyped in 249 P-1:BCPT cases.
CVP2D6_C1111T, individually and within a CYP2D6 haplotype, showed borderline significant association with treatment arm. Path analysis of the entire tamoxifen pathway gene network showed that the tamoxifen pathway model was consistent with the pattern of observed genotype variability within the placebo-arm dataset. However, correlation of variations in genes in the tamoxifen arm differed significantly from the predictions of the tamoxifen pathway model. Strong correlations between allelic variation in the tamoxifen pathway at CYP1A1-CYP3A4, CYP3A4-CYP2C9, and CYP2C9-SULT1A2, in addition to CYP2D6 and its adjacent genes, were seen in the placebo-arm but not the tamoxifen-arm. In conclusion, beyond reinforcing a role for CYP2D6 in tamoxifen response, our pathway analysis strongly suggests that specific combinations of allelic variants in other genes make major contributions to the tamoxifen-resistance phenotype.
The extremely poor prognosis of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma indicates the need for novel therapeutic approaches. The growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible (Gadd) gene Gadd45a is a member of a group of genes that are induced by DNA damaging agents and growth arrest signals.
We evaluated the biological activity of Gadd45a in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cancer-derived cell lines and assessed the efficacy of a combined treatment with adenoviral-mediated expression of Gadd45a (Ad-G45a) and anticancer drug (Etoposide, cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, respectively) for the PANC1 cell line.
Gadd45a is variously expressed in cell lines derived from pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cancer and adenoviral-mediated expression of Gadd45a (Ad-G45a) in these cells results in apoptosis via caspase activation and cell-cycle arrest in the G2/M phase. Gadd45a significantly increased the chemosensitivity of PANC1, which may be due to abundant apoptosis induction and cell cycle arrest. By combinational treatment of Ad-G45a infection and chemotherapeutics, Gadd45a expression was elevated to a higher extent in cancer cells with wild-type p53 than in that with knocked-out p53 status, indicating a higher chemosensitivity to cancer chemotherapy.
Gadd45a may be a promising candidate for use in cancer gene therapy in combination with chemotherapeutic agents.
Dracorhodin perchlorate, an anthocyanin red pigment, induces human melanoma A375-S2 cell death through the apoptotic pathway. Caspase-3, -8, -9, and -10 inhibitors partially reversed the cell death induced by dracorhodin perchlorate. Caspase-3 and -8 were activated, followed by the degradation of caspase-3 substrates, the inhibitor of caspase-activated DNase, and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Dracorhodin perchlorate upregulated the expression ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 and significantly increased the expression of p53 and p21(WAF1) proteins. The cell death was partially reduced by the mitogen-activated protein kinase c-JUN NH2-terminal protein kinase (JNK MAPK) inhibitor (SP600125) and p38 MAPK inhibitor (SB 203580), while the MEK inhibitor (PD98059) augmented cell death; the drug induced sustained phosphorylation of JNK and p38 MAPK. Moreover, the Fas agonistic antibody CH-11 has a synergistic effect with dracorhodin perchlorate. The phoshatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) family inhibitor wortmanin and tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein rescued the viability loss induced by dracohodin perchlorate. Taken together, dracorhodin perchlorate induces apoptosis in A375-S2 cells via accumulation of p53, alters the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, and activates caspases and p38/JNK MAPKs.
To describe a hypertensive reaction induced by concurrent use of selegiline and dopamine.
A 75-year-old critically ill white man who was receiving selegiline 5 mg twice daily for Parkinson's disease was initiated on an intravenous dopamine infusion for decreased urine output and hypotension. Within minutes of starting the dopamine infusion, the patient's systolic blood pressure increased from 105 to 228 mm Hg. Similar reactions occurred during two subsequent rechallenges.
Since monoamine oxidase is involved in the metabolism of catecholamines, selegiline may have affected the metabolism of the dopamine administered to the patient. Although selegiline is known to be a monoamine oxidase inhibitor specific for type B, evidence exists stating that selegiline may not be as specific as previously thought.
Dopamine should be used cautiously, if at all, in patients who are chronically receiving selegiline or who have received selegiline within the prior two weeks.
Extracellular recordings were carried out in the paraventricular nucleus of halothane-anesthetized male rats. Responses of neurons identified by antidromic criteria with projections to the nucleus tractus solitarius or to the ventral lateral medulla were compared to those of neurohypophysial neurons following alterations in blood pressure and osmolarity, hemorrhage and after intravenous injection of cholecystokinin. Neurohypophysial neurons displayed the well-described responses to blood pressure for putative vasopressin neurons and increases in excitability after cholecystokinin for putative oxytocin neurons. Twenty per cent of the ventral lateral medulla-projecting neurons were responsive to cardiovascular perturbations, with these displaying reduced activity after either decreases or increases in blood pressure. None of nine neurons projecting to the ventral lateral medulla responded to i.v. cholecystokinin. Two of 20 nucleus tractus solitarius-projecting neurons showed reduced activity after cholecystokinin and none increased their firing rate. Nitroprusside-induced hypotension was associated with reduced activity in 10% of this population. Three neurons displayed axon projections to both pituitary and medulla; two of these which projected to the nucleus tractus solitarius were activated by cholecystokinin. We conclude that some of the paraventricular nucleus neurons projecting to the medulla respond to recognized cardiovascular stimuli for neurohypophysial neurons, but neurons in these populations are generally unresponsive to cholecystokinin. The former group of neurons may act to coordinate autonomic and endocrine responses to cardiovascular perturbation; however, there may be other stimuli, such as cholecystokinin, which act only on one of the populations of paraventricular nucleus neurons. Furthermore, many neurons in the descending pathways may respond to stimuli not presently associated with activation of magnocellular neurons.
intracerebral hemorrhage associated with oral anticoagulants has a poor prognosis. Current treatment guidelines are based on case series and plausibility only, and a common consensus on effective hemostatic therapy is missing. We compared the effectiveness of diverse hemostatic approaches in a mouse model of warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage.
male C57BL/6 mice received anticoagulant treatment with warfarin (0.4 mg/kg for 3 days). Intracerebral hemorrhage was induced by striatal injection of collagenase, and 30 minutes later, mice received an intravenous injection of saline (200 μL n=15), prothrombin complex concentrate (100 U/kg, n=10), fresh-frozen plasma (200 μL, n=13), recombinant human Factor VII activated (3.5 mg/kg, n=8 and 10 mg/kg, n=8), or tranhexamic acid (400 mg/kg, n=12). Intracerebral hemorrhage volume was quantified on T2-weighted images after 24 hours.
mean hematoma volumes were 7.4 ± 1.8 mm(3) in the nonwarfarin controls and 21.9 ± 5.0 mm(3) in the warfarin group receiving saline. Prothrombin complex concentrate (7.5 ± 2.3 mm(3)) and fresh-frozen plasma (8.7 ± 2.1) treatment resulted in significantly smaller hematoma volume compared with saline. Recombinant human Factor VII activated (10 mg/kg: 14.7 ± 3.4; 3.5 mg/kg: 15.0 ± 6.8 mm(3)) and tranexamic acid (16.2 ± 4.1 mm(3)) were less effective. Water content in the hemorrhagic hemisphere was similar in all groups except for tranexamic acid in which it was significantly increased.
prothrombin complex concentrate and fresh-frozen plasma effectively prevent hematoma growth in murine warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage, whereas Factor VIIa was less effective. Tranexamic acid exacerbates perihematoma edema in this mouse warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage model.
Repeated administration of doses of cocaine below the threshold for seizure induction results in the development of an increased susceptibility to cocaine-induced seizures (cocaine-kindling). Genetic differences in susceptibility to cocaine-kindled seizures were evaluated in 4 inbred mouse strains and compared with susceptibility to seizures induced by acute administration of cocaine. The acute administration of cocaine produced convulsant activity in mice from all 4 genotypes, however, there were significant differences in the dose of cocaine required to induce seizures. C57 mice were highly susceptible and SJL mice highly resistant to convulsions induced by acute administration of cocaine, while BALB and DBA mice showed an intermediate degree of seizure susceptibility. The repeated administration of subconvulsant doses of cocaine resulted in rapid sensitization to cocaine-induced seizures. The 4 strains differed in the rate at which sensitization to cocaine-induced seizures developed, with the SJL strain being most sensitive and the C57 strain the least sensitive to the cocaine-kindling process. The susceptibility of the 4 strains to cocaine kindling was virtually opposite to their susceptibility to seizures induced by the acute administration of cocaine, suggesting that different mechanisms may be involved in the control of acute and kindled seizures did not persist upon further exposure to cocaine. Following a period of increased sensitivity to cocaine-induced seizures, tolerance to the convulsant properties of cocaine developed among C57, BALB and DBA mice. Only among the SJL mice did the development of a kindled state persist upon repeated exposure to cocaine. These differences emphasize the potential importance of inheritance in determining the effects of cocaine and suggest novel approaches to understanding the the mechanisms underlying the effects of cocaine.
Isoniazid (INH), the mainstay therapeutic for tuberculosis infection, has been associated with rare but serious hepatotoxicity in the clinic. However, the mechanisms underlying inter-individual variability in the response to this drug have remained elusive. A genetically diverse mouse population model in combination with a systems biology approach was utilized to identify transcriptional changes, INH-responsive metabolites, and gene variants that contribute to the liver response in genetically sensitive individuals. Sensitive mouse strains developed severe microvesicular steatosis compared with corresponding vehicle control mice following 3 days of oral treatment with INH. Genes involved in mitochondrial dysfunction were enriched among liver transcripts altered with INH treatment. Those associated with INH treatment and susceptibility to INH-induced steatosis in the liver included apolipoprotein A-IV, lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1, and choline phosphotransferase 1. These alterations were accompanied by metabolomic changes including reduced levels of glutathione and the choline metabolites betaine and phosphocholine, suggesting that oxidative stress and reduced lipid export may additionally contribute to INH-induced steatosis. Finally, genome-wide association mapping revealed that polymorphisms in perilipin 2 were linked to increased triglyceride levels following INH treatment, implicating a role for inter-individual differences in lipid packaging in the susceptibility to INH-induced steatosis. Taken together, our data suggest that INH-induced steatosis is caused by not one, but multiple events involving lipid retention in the livers of genetically sensitive individuals. This work also highlights the value of using a mouse diversity panel to investigate drug-induced responses across a diverse population.
The use of high-dose cyclophosphamide, carmustine, and etoposide (CBV) with autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) results in long-term disease-free survival of about 30% in patients with relapsed Hodgkin's disease. Laboratory and clinical data show that cisplatin is synergistic with etoposide and carmustine, with non-overlapping extramedullary toxicity. Twenty-one patients with relapsed Hodgkin's disease that had progressed after both MOPP-like and ABVD-like regimens were treated with CBV plus cisplatin (90 mg/m2) and ABMT. The CR rate was 55%; the three-year disease-free and overall survival were 29% and 38% respectively; these results are comparable to prior experience with CBV. Performance status was strongly correlated with achievement of CR, survival, and time to treatment failure. Nephrotoxicity was seen in 3 patients, and ototoxicity in 1 patient. Although cisplatin could be added to CBV with minimal additional toxicity, the results obtained in this small patient population were not better than those of the earlier regimen. A larger trial in patients not previously exposed to cisplatin may better define the role of its addition to CBV.
Grapefruit juice causes significant QT prolongation in healthy volunteers and naringenin has been identified as the most potent human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG) channel blocker among several dietary flavonoids. The interaction between naringenin and I(Kr)-blocking antiarrhythmic drugs has not been studied. We evaluated the effect of combining naringenin with I(Kr)-inhibiting antiarrhythmic drugs on cardiac I(Kr).
I(Kr) current was studied by using HERG expressed in Xenopus oocytes, and the two-electrode voltage clamp technique was employed. Antiarrhythmic drugs (azimilide, amiodarone, dofetilide and quinidine) were tested. Experiments were performed at room temperature. Naringenin blocked HERG current dose dependently with an IC(50) of 173.3 +/- 3.1 microM. Naringenin 100 microM alone inhibited HERG current by 31 +/- 6%, and this inhibitory effect was increased with coadministration of 1 or 10 microM antiarrhythmic drugs. When 100 microM naringenin was added to antiarrhythmic drugs, greater HERG inhibition was demonstrated, compared to the current inhibition caused by antiarrhythmic drugs alone. Addition of naringenin significantly increased current inhibition (p < 0.05).
There is an additive inhibitory effect on HERG current when naringenin is combined with I(Kr)-blocking antiarrhythmic drugs. This additive HERG inhibition could pose an increased risk of arrhythmias by increasing repolarization delay and possible repolarization heterogeneity.
Antithyroid drugs have been used for more than 50 years for the management of hyperthyroidism. Most patients tolerate treatment well but some may develop life-threatening side effects such as agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia and cholestatic hepatitis. A 45-year-old female was diagnosed with severe hyperthyroidism. Treatment with Carbimazole 30 mg/day was initiated. Within six weeks following the start of therapy, patient developed potentially life-threatening acute cholestatic hepatitis and agranulocytosis as adverse effects to carbimazole. The patient's symptoms and laboratory abnormalities resolved following withdrawal of offending drug. Agranulocytosis and cholestatic hepatitis together is an extremely rare idiosyncratic side effect of Carbimazole treatment and considered to be dose and age-related. Antithyroid drugs are deceptively easy to use, but because of the variability in the response of patients and the potentially serious side effects, all practitioners who prescribe the drugs need to have a working knowledge of their complex pharmacology.
Organic Mood Disorder of the manic type is a syndrome which resembles a manic episode but is due to a specific organic factor. Organic mania may be associated with a variety of physical illnesses such as temporal lobe epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, neoplasms and hyperthyroidism. In addition, organic mania can be associated with drugs including L-dopa, decongestants, sympathomimetics, steroids, baclofen withdrawal, cimetidine, and possibly captopril. This report describes a case of a 74 year old female who presented with a full syndrome of mania soon after being started on phenytoin. Neither the clinical picture, Mini-mental state score, nor EEG findings were suggestive of delirium. The syndrome resolved soon after the phenytoin was discontinued. This case suggests that phenytoin should be added to the list of medications capable of producing Organic Mood Syndrome, manic type.
Diethylstilbestrol (DES) has been associated with vaginal neoplasia and malformations in humans. We have studied a test population of 504 female Wistar rats given diethylstilbestrol at from 0.0 to 0.5 mg/kg maternal body weight on days 18, 19, and 20 of gestation. Animals were euthanized in extremis, or at 2 years of age. The incidence of vaginal epithelial tumors was dose related. The types of epithelial tumors of the vagina were adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and mixed carcinoma, containing discrete adenomatous and squamous components. The incidence of vaginal epithelial tumors was determined to be dose related: rats exposed to 0 mg DES/kg maternal weight had an incidence of 0.6% (1 of 167 rats); 0.1 mg/kg, 4.1%; and 0.5 mg/kg, 4.3% (6 of 140); 25 mg/kg, 1.6% (1 of 63); and 50 mg/kg, 11.5% (3 of 26). Tumors of other reproductive tissues (mammary gland, ovary, oviduct, cervix, or uterus) demonstrated no discernible DES dose-response relationship. There was no oncogenic effect of postnatal administration of oral contraceptives (0 oral contraceptives, 31.25 micrograms/kg diet ethynylestradiol, and 31.25 micrograms/kg diet norethindrone or 104 micrograms/kg diet ethynylestradiol and 31.25 micrograms/kg diet norethindrone). Thus, vaginal tumors can be induced in a dose-related manner in the rat following in utero DES exposure. Oral contraceptive treatment did not increase the risk of neoplasia.
Quinapril, when given as initial monotherapy or in addition to diuretics, was extensively evaluated in patients with moderate to severe hypertension, defined as sitting diastolic blood pressure (DBP) greater than or equal to 105 mm Hg with concomitant diuretic therapy or greater than or equal to 110 mm Hg during placebo baseline. In four double-blind, comparative trials and a subset analysis from a placebo-controlled study, 368 patients were treated with quinapril, and 338 patients were treated with comparative therapies (i.e., captopril, enalapril, or placebo). In three studies, quinapril was given in addition to diuretics, and in one study nonresponders received optional atenolol. Two studies assessed quinapril as first-line monotherapy, with nonresponders receiving hydrochlorothiazide in one study. Quinapril dosages ranged from 10 to 40 mg/day, with some patients receiving up to 80 mg/day. Quinapril effectively reduced blood pressure in patients with moderate to severe hypertension either as first-line monotherapy or when given concomitantly with a diuretic or a beta-blocker. Quinapril was comparable in efficacy to enalapril, and in several analyses quinapril was significantly more efficacious than captopril (p less than 0.05). Quinapril was well tolerated, and the incidence of adverse events was comparable with or less than that of captopril or enalapril.
Of 17,068 hospitalized medical patients monitored in a drug surveillance program, 616 (3.6 per cent) received pentazocine hydrochloride orally and 816 (4.8 per cent) received pentazocine lactate parenterally during one or more admissions. Unsatisfactory analgesic efficacy as judged by each patient's physician was nearly twice as frequent among recipients of pentazocine lactate as among recipients of parenteral morphine or meperidine. Adverse reactions were attributed to pentazocine hydrochloride in 18 recipients (2.9 per cent) and to pentazocine lactate in 37 recipients (4.5 per cent). Neuropsychiatric effects were the most common; they included hallucinations, bizarre feelings, disorientation, and agitation. These effects were dose dependent and frequently serious in nature. Minor gastro-intestinal effects were the second most common adverse reactions.
The antiamnestic effects of tenoten (pediatric formulation) was demonstrated on the model of scopolamine-induced amnesia of passive avoidance reflex and the nootropic effect of this preparation was demonstrated on the model of incomplete conditioning and in rat pups with experimental attention deficit syndrome. The efficiency of the preparation was comparable to that of piracetam and phenibut and even surpassed it by some parameters.
Quinapril, a new angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor with an intermediate duration of action, has been extensively studied in patients with hypertension and congestive heart failure (CHF) during a worldwide clinical development program. A comprehensive safety data base was established to allow appropriate analyses of the extensive patient safety data. The safety of quinapril has been evaluated in 2,697 patients with hypertension and CHF, including 451 elderly patients (greater than or equal to 65 years), and has been compared with safety data from a total of 1,058 patients receiving a comparative therapy. A comparison of the double-blind studies demonstrated that quinapril has a lower incidence of adverse events and/or withdrawals than reported for captopril or enalapril. An analysis of the onset of adverse events did not show either an increase with time on quinapril therapy or a dose relationship. The proportion of patients who experienced orthostatic hypotension or hypotension was less than that of patients who were treated with captopril or enalapril. An analysis of all events (from both double-blind and long-term, open-label studies) showed no increase in the incidence of events reported in patients with CHF compared with hypertensive patients. When the data for all studies were combined, an age analysis showed no increase in the total reporting of adverse events in elderly patients compared with the younger patients studied. The incidence of adverse events was lower in those patients not receiving concomitant diuretic therapy. An overall analysis of clinical laboratory data indicated that quinapril did not have significant adverse effects on clinical laboratory parameters when compared with captopril, enalapril, or placebo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the past, there has been considerable concern that treatment with active vitamin D might accelerate progression independent of hypercalcemia and hypercalcuria. Nevertheless, 1,25(OH)2D3 has known antiproliferative properties and has also been shown to inhibit renal growth. Since glomerular growth is a permissive factor for the development of glomerulosclerosis, we reasoned that 1,25(OH)2D3 might even attenuate progression. To test this working hypothesis we performed two experiments of 8 and 16 weeks duration, respectively, to compare subtotally nephrectomized (SNX) rats treated with ethanol and SNX treated with 1,25(OH)2D3. Control animals were sham operated and pair-fed with SNX animals. 1,25(OH)2D3 (3 ng/100 g body wt/day) was administered by osmotic minipump. 1,25(OH)2D3 had no significant effect on systolic blood pressure and only a transient effect on weight gain. SNX reduced the number of glomeruli (left kidney) from an average of 3.3 x 10(4) to 1.2 x 10(4) per kidney. Mean glomerular volume was 3.87 +/- 0.71 x 10(6) microns 3 in sham operated animals and significantly (P < 0.05) higher (10.1 +/- 1.75 x 10(6) microns 3) in untreated animals 16 weeks after SNX. Glomerular volume was significantly (P < 0.05) less in 1,25(OH)2D3 treated SNX [10.1 +/- 1.75 in ethanol vs. 7.04 +/- 1.78 in 1,25(OH)2D3 treated SNX]. In parallel, there was significantly (P < 0.01) less glomerulosclerosis [glomerulosclerosis index 1.16 +/- 0.14 in the ethanol treated SNX vs. 0.80 +/- 0.16 in SNX treated with 1,25(OH)2D3] in the eight week experiment. Albuminuria was significantly (P < 0.01) lower in 1,25(OH)2D3 treated than in ethanol treated SNX (mean 0.785 mg/24 hr, range 0.43 to 1.80, vs. 3.75 mg/24 hr, 1.29 to 14.2). The morphological data were directionally analogous in a second 16 week experiment. Only slight changes of the vascular sclerosis index and tubulointerstitial index were seen in SNX and were not affected by 1,25(OH)2D3 further. To prove that the effect of 1,25(OH)2D3 was independent of PTH, parathyreoidectomized SNX rats without or with 1,25(OH)2D3 treatment were examined seven days post-SNX. PCNA staining showed suppression of cell proliferation. Furthermore, in situ hybridization for transforming growth factor-B (TGF-beta) showed less vascular and tubular expression in 1,25(OH)2D3 treated rats. We conclude that 1,25(OH)2D3 has antiproliferative actions during the compensatory growth of nephrons in response to subtotal nephrectomy. These effects are independent of PTH. The data document that 1,25(OH)2D3 reduces renal cell proliferation and glomerular growth as well as glomerulosclerosis and albuminuria as indicators of progressive glomerular damage.
Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (hemoglobin 5.2 g, reticulocyte count 31.0 per cent) developed in a 53-year-old hypertensive woman who was taking Aldomet. Both the patient's serum and the eluate prepared from her red blood cells contained an antibody with anti-Jka specificity. Rapid sustained improvement in the anemia occurred after cessation of Aldomet and a two week course of prednisone therapy. Eight months later, anti-Jka was no longer detectable in the patient's serum and the direct antiglobulin test was nonreactive.
