To prospectively evaluate the incidence of biliary sludge and pseudolithiasis in children treated with ceftriaxone.
Thirty-three children (14 girls, 19 boys) treated with ceftriaxone for prophylaxis (n=13) or for an infection (n=20) were included in this study. The incidences of biliary sludge and pseudolithiasis were investigated using ultrasonography. The ultrasonographic evaluations were performed prior to and on the 4th-5th days and on the 8th-10th days of treatment. The patients who had biliary sludge or pseudolithiasis were followed up with ultrasonographic evaluation periodically until these pathological phenomena disappeared.
Ceftriaxone was administrated intravenously at a dosage of 100 mg kg(-1) day(-1). Serial gallbladder sonograms were performed before treatment and on the 4th-5th and 8th-10th days of therapy. Nineteen children developed pseudolithiasis and sludge in the gallbladder, and all were asymptomatic. No significant differences were found between the patients with normal versus abnormal sonographic findings in regard to gender, age, duration of the therapy, oral restriction except the presence of surgery (P< 0.005).
The combination of oral restriction and surgical procedures may be a causal factor in ceftriaxone-associated biliary pseudolithiasis. It is emphasized that when gallstone and/or sludge are detected in the gallbladder in children by ultrasonographic examination, the administration of ceftriaxone must be sought beyond other causative factors.
Constitutive nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) is known to play an important role in the survival of HuT-78 cells, a cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL) cell line. Here, we have demonstrated that pentoxifylline (PTX), a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, can trigger a series of events leading to apoptosis in HuT-78 cells without affecting NF-kappaB. Apoptosis was ascertained by sub-G1 peak analysis and TUNEL assay. Apoptosis induced by PTX in HuT-78 cells involved mitochondrial hyperpolarization, cytochrome c release, caspase-3 activation and PARP cleavage. Further, it was found that PTX treatment downregulated Bcl-xl and c-FLIP expression without affecting constitutive NF-kappaB but upregulated activator protein-1 (AP-1). Low concentration of PTX upregulated Fas and TRAIL expression in HuT-78 cells. In addition, PTX can act as a scavenger of reactive oxygen intermediate and it could enhance FasL mediated killing in HuT-78 cells. Our results taken together indicated that PTX may be a potential agent for killing CTCL cells.
Common methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene variants (MTHFR C677T and A1298C) have been described to have opposite effects on cancer patients. They may reduce cancer susceptibility and increase drug-related toxicity when folate antagonists (e.g. methotrexate) are utilized. We analyzed 110 patients with high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), 68 of whom were eligible for a chemotherapy combination containing methotrexate (MACOP-B) and 42 for chemotherapy without methotrexate (CHOP).
Patients were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction and stratified by MTHFR variants. These data were related to the toxicity (WHO grade GO-4) that the patients suffered and their survival. Overall 64 cases (58.2%) developed some form of toxicity and 23 (20.9%) had grade 3/4 toxicity.
When considering toxicity of any grade (grade 1-4), the 677TT genotype was significantly over-represented among cases with mucositis (OR=4.85; 95% CI, 1.47-15.97; p=0.009) and those with hepatic toxicity (OR=3.43; 95% CI, 0.99-11.86; p=0.052). Sub-analyses in the group treated with MACOP-B showed a slight increase in the risk of developing mucositis (OR=5.22; 95% CI, 1.20-27.27; p=0.03), and a strong increase in the risk of hepatic toxicity (OR=7.08; 95% CI, 1.38-36.2; p=0.019) and thrombocytopenia (OR=7.69, 95% CI 1.0-58.94; p=0.05). Interestingly, compared to the risk of developing toxicity of any grade, the risk of developing severe (grade 3/4) mucositis was almost doubled in the whole group of cases with 677TT (OR=8.13; 95% CI 1.61-41.04; p=0.011) and dramatically increased in the MACOP-B-treated cases with this gene variant (OR=24.6; 95% CI 2.49-87.41; p=0.001). There were significant results for 1298CC cases exclusively for mucositis (any grade, OR=5.33; 95% CI, 1.25-22.70; p=0.023 and OR=9.15; 95% CI, 1.14-73.41; p=0.037; for the whole group and the MACOP-B-treated group, respectively). Similarly, the risk of 1298CC patients developing severe mucositis increased (OR=9.24; 95% CI, 1.47-58.0; p=0.017 and OR=11.53; 0.93-143.18; p=0.057; in the whole group and in the MACOP-B-treated group, respectively). Event-free survival analysis revealed a lower probability of event-free survival at 5 years for 677T-carriers (log-ranks, p=0.05 and p=0.07 in the whole group and in the MACOP-B-treated group, respectively). More significant results were obtained when 1298CC cases were excluded from the reference group (log-ranks, p=0.03 and p=0.04, respectively). No significant associations were found in the CHOP-treated group.
Our data suggest that MTHFR gene variants play a critical role in NHL outcome, possibly by interfering with the action of methotrexate with significant effects on toxicity and survival. Genotyping of folate pathway gene variants might be useful to enable reduction of chemotherapy toxicity and/or to improve survival by indicating when dose adjustments or alternative treatments are necessary.
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), a mature B-cell neoplasm, is genetically characterized by the translocation t(11;14)(q13;q32). However, secondary alterations are required for malignant transformation. The identification of inactivated tumor suppressor genes contributing to the development of MCL may lead to further elucidation of the biology of this disease and help to identify novel targets for therapy.
Whole genome microarray-based gene expression profiling on treated versus untreated MCL cell lines was used to identify genes induced by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. The degree of promoter methylation and transcriptional silencing of selected genes was then proven in MCL cell lines and primary cases by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques, real-time PCR and gene expression profiling.
After 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatment, we identified more than 1000 upregulated genes, 16 of which were upregulated > or =3-fold. Most of them were not known to be silenced by methylation in MCL. A low expression of ING1, RUNX3 and BNIP3L was observed in three of the five the MCL cell lines. In addition, the expression of PARG1, which is located in the frequently deleted region 1p22.1, was substantially reduced and displayed at least partial promoter methylation in all investigated MCL cell lines as well as in 31 primary MCL cases.
In summary, we identified interesting novel candidate genes that probably contribute to the progression of MCL and suggest that PARG1 is a strong candidate tumor suppressor gene in MCL.
Array-based comparative genomic hybridization has proven to be successful in the identification of genetic defects in disorders involving mental retardation. Here, we studied a patient with learning disabilities, retinal dystrophy, and short stature. The family history was suggestive of an X-linked contiguous gene syndrome. Hybridization of full-coverage X-chromosomal bacterial artificial chromosome arrays revealed a deletion of ~1 Mb in Xp11.3, which harbors RP2, SLC9A7, CHST7, and two hypothetical zinc-finger genes, ZNF673 and ZNF674. These genes were analyzed in 28 families with nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) that show linkage to Xp11.3; the analysis revealed a nonsense mutation, p.E118X, in the coding sequence of ZNF674 in one family. This mutation is predicted to result in a truncated protein containing the Kruppel-associated box domains but lacking the zinc-finger domains, which are crucial for DNA binding. We characterized the complete ZNF674 gene structure and subsequently tested an additional 306 patients with XLMR for mutations by direct sequencing. Two amino acid substitutions, p.T343M and p.P412L, were identified that were not found in unaffected individuals. The proline at position 412 is conserved between species and is predicted by molecular modeling to reduce the DNA-binding properties of ZNF674. The p.T343M transition is probably a polymorphism, because the homologous ZNF674 gene in chimpanzee has a methionine at that position. ZNF674 belongs to a cluster of seven highly related zinc-finger genes in Xp11, two of which (ZNF41 and ZNF81) were implicated previously in XLMR. Identification of ZNF674 as the third XLMR gene in this cluster may indicate a common role for these zinc-finger genes that is crucial to human cognitive functioning.
Myopathy may occur as a complication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) infection or from its treatment, zidovudine (ZDV). We reviewed our experience with HIV-infected subjects referred for neuromuscular evaluation and compared features of myopathy in ZDV-treated (+ZDV) and untreated (-ZDV) patients. Fifty patients had myopathy, 25 diagnosed by pathologic criteria and 25 by clinical and other laboratory support. Twenty patients with myopathy had weight loss sufficient for the diagnosis of HIV wasting syndrome. Thirty-one subjects were +ZDV and 19 were -ZDV. Patients in each group presented with proximal weakness, although myalgia was more common in +ZDV patients. Both groups had elevated serum CK to a similar degree (medians: +ZDV, 485; -ZDV, 471). Muscle biopsies revealed myofiber degeneration, variable inflammatory infiltrates, inclusion bodies, and mitochondrial abnormalities in both groups. We followed response to ZDV withdrawal in 15 patients. Four had increased strength, three noted less myalgia, and eight had no clinical improvement. Twelve of 13 patients improved with prednisone. Although it is difficult to distinguish the myopathies of HIV and ZDV by clinical or pathologic criteria, in the majority of our patients, myopathy is due to HIV rather than ZDV.
A 74-year-old woman was scheduled for surgical treatment of a carpal tunnel syndrome. An intravenous (i.v.) regional anaesthetic was performed using 1% prilocaine standard technique. Three minutes after injection of the local anaesthetic mild to moderate central nervous system symptoms developed, along with tachycardia, sweating and peri-oral paraesthesia. The evolution was favourable, no convulsions or other more serious events occurred. Despite showing adequate pressure inflation the tourniquet failed to accomplish its purpose. The patient recovered well without any sequelae.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) has been shown to induce marked atrophic changes of exocrine pancreas of rats when given at 400 ppm in diet. On the other hand, 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) causes pancreatic acinar tumors. Both chemicals also induce intestinal tumors. In the present experiment, the possible promotional effects of PhIP on DMAB-induced carcinogenesis in the rat were investigated with particular attention given to the pancreas and intestine. After initiation with subcutaneous injections of DMAB (150 mg/kg b.w.) once a week for 3 weeks, PhIP was administered in the diet at doses of 200, 100, 25 and 0 ppm from weeks 5 to 40. In a dose-dependent manner, PhIP clearly increased the numbers of basophilic acinar foci and nodules while decreasing development of acidophilic lesions. The incidences of adenocarcinomas of the small intestine but not the colon demonstrated a tendency for an increase with the higher doses of PhIP. The results thus indicated that PhIP administration after DMAB treatment exerts two different effects on pancreatic acinar cell lesions, enhancing the growth of basophilic foci and suppressing that of their acidophilic counterparts. Any influence on alimentary canal tumorigenesis was limited to the small intestine.
Cocaine abuse induces severe cardiomyopathy. To investigate the molecular effects of acute and prolonged administration of cocaine, mRNAs encoding markers of either mechanical overload, as atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) and alpha- and beta-myosin heavy chains, or fibrosis as type I and III procollagens, were quantitated in the left ventricle of rats 4 h after one injection of cocaine (40 mg/kg, n = 7), or 14 (n = 15) and 28 days (n = 10) after chronic infusion of cocaine (40 mg/kg per day). Plasma cocaine and benzylecgonine concentrations were both significantly augmented during the infusion while plasma levels of triiodothyronine and thyroxine were lowered. Acute injection of cocaine induced ANF gene expression. Cocaine treatment during 28 days resulted in left ventricular hypertrophy (+ 20% after 24 days, P < 0.05) with normal blood pressure, associated with an accumulation of mRNAs encoding ANF and type I and III collagens (+66% and +55%, P < 0.05). Such a chronic treatment also induced a shift from the alpha- to the beta-myosin heavy chain gene expression (-40% and +50%, P < 0.05). In conclusion, cocaine activates markers of both hemodynamic overload and fibrosis. Such an activation may result from direct and/or indirect effects of the drug such as myocardial ischemia, mechanical overload and/or hypothyroidism.
1. Products of metabolism of arachidonic acid, such as 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE), thromboxane A(2) (TXA(2)) and prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2)), regulate vascular tone. Among them, 20-HETE is a potent constrictor in small arteries that also has natriuretic properties. The present study investigated changes in urinary concentrations of 20-HETE and metabolites of TXA(2) and PGI(2) in glucocorticoid-hypertension in rats, a sodium-independent model. 2. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with saline, adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH; 0.2 mg/kg) or dexamethasone (20 microg/kg) by daily s.c. injection for 12 days. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured using the tail-cuff method. Metabolic cages were used for 24 h urine collection. Thymus weight and urinary concentrations of 20-HETE, TXA(2) and PGI(2) were determined. 3. In the present study, SBP was increased by both ACTH (from 102 +/- 2 to 134 +/- 7 mmHg; n = 10; P < 0.01) and dexamethasone (from 106 +/- 5 to 122 +/- 4 mmHg; n = 10; P < 0.01). Thymus weight, a marker for glucocorticoid activity, was significantly decreased by both ACTH and dexamethasone (56 +/- 9 and 76 +/- 5 mg/100 g bodyweight, respectively; n = 10; P' < 0.01) compared with the saline control (151 +/- 5 mg/100 g bodyweight; n = 20). Urinary 20-HETE excretion was increased by ACTH (501 +/- 115 pmol/g creatinine; n = 10; P' < 0.05) but not by dexamethasone (126 +/- 13 pmol/g creatinine; n = 10) compared with the saline control (219 +/- 54 pmol/g creatinine; n = 20). Neither ACTH nor dexamethasone affected urinary excretion of TXB(2) or PGI(2) compared with the saline control. 4. In conclusion, ACTH but not dexamethasone increased urinary 20-HETE excretion in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Urinary concentrations of the metabolites TXB(2) and PGI(2) were unchanged in both models of glucocorticoid-hypertension. The vasoconstrictor 20-HETE may play a role in the genesis of ACTH-induced hypertension.
The present report describes a case of cardiac arrest and subsequent death as a result of hyperkalaemia following the use of suxamethonium in a 23-year-old Malawian woman. Five days after the onset of the symptoms of meningitis, the patient aspirated stomach contents and needed endotracheal intubation. Forty seconds after injection of suxamethonium, bradycardia and cardiac arrest occurred. Attempts to resuscitate the patient were not successful. The serum level of potassium was observed to be 8.4 mequiv L-1. Apart from the reduction in the patient's level of consciousness, there were no signs of motor neurone damage or of any of the other known predisposing conditions for hyperkalaemia following the administration of suxamethonium. It is postulated that her death was caused by hypersensitivity to suxamethonium, associated with her 5-day immobilization.
Extracellular levels of aspartate, glutamate and glutamine were monitored by microdialysis in the dorsal hippocampus of freely moving rats following the administration of a convulsant dose of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p.). Rats were either pretreated with the glutamate uptake inhibitor, 1-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (PDC, 1 mM in the perfusion medium, -25 min), or received pilocarpine directly. All rats injected with pilocarpine (with or without PDC pretreatment) developed limbic seizures (latency 15.4 +/- 2.4 min). Without PDC pretreatment there were no significant changes in extracellular levels of aspartate, glutamate and glutamine following pilocarpine administration until the onset of limbic seizures when glutamine levels fell by 35%. Following PDC pretreatment there were large and sustained increases in extracellular hippocampal aspartate (250%) and glutamate (55%) levels, but no significant change in the glutamine level. When pilocarpine was administered to this group of rats, there were further selective, significant, transient increases in the extracellular levels of aspartate (31%) and glutamate (18%) which preceded the onset of seizures. Aspartate and glutamate levels were not significantly increased (relative to PDC controls) during seizures. The conditions for pilocarpine-induced increases in aspartate and glutamate release were established in parallel groups of anaesthetised rats where pilocarpine was administered via a microdialysis probe in the dorsal hippocampus. Following the infusion of 10 mM pilocarpine there were large and rapid increases in the levels of aspartate (143%) and glutamate (179%), which were completely abolished by the absence of calcium in the perfusion medium, or by the presence of atropine (20 mM) or tetrodotoxin (1 microM).
The effects of nifedipine and cimetidine on cold/restraint stress-induced gastric ulcers and glandular wall mast cell count were studied in rats. Two hours of restraint at 4 degrees C resulted in 90% ulceration rate in the glandular stomach with a decrease in glandular wall mast cell count in the mucosa, submucosa and muscle layer. Nifedipine in three doses (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg) administered i.p. 30 min before stress significantly and dose dependently prevented gastric ulceration and mast cell degranulation. Cimetidine, in doses of 50, 100 and 150 mg/kg, again administered 30 min before stress prevented only gastric ulceration dose dependently without a significant change in mast cell count. The results indicate that both nifedipine and cimetidine are equally effective to reduce gastric mucosal ulceration in response to stress. However, the unique effect of nifedipine to inhibit mast cell degranulation which was now clearly demonstrated may favour the potential value of this drug in the management of peptic ulcer disease in humans.
Altered serotonergic neural transmission is hypothesized to be a susceptibility factor for psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. The serotonin 6 (5-HT6) receptor is therapeutically targeted by several second generation antipsychotics, such as clozapine and olanzapine, and d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in rats is corrected with the use of a selective 5-HT6 receptor antagonist. In addition, the disrupted prepulse inhibition induced by d-amphetamine or phencyclidine was restored by 5-HT6 receptor antagonist in an animal study using rats. These animal models were considered to reflect the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, and the above evidence suggests that altered 5-HT6 receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of psychotic disorders. The symptoms of methamphetamine (METH)-induced psychosis are similar to those of paranoid type schizophrenia. Therefore, we conducted an analysis of the association of the 5-HT6 gene (HTR6) with METH-induced psychosis.
Using five tagging SNPs (rs6693503, rs1805054, rs4912138, rs3790757 and rs9659997), we conducted a genetic association analysis of case-control samples (197 METH-induced psychosis patients and 337 controls) in the Japanese population. The age and sex of the control subjects did not differ from those of the methamphetamine dependence patients.
rs6693503 was associated with METH-induced psychosis patients in the allele/genotype-wise analysis. Moreover, this association remained significant after Bonferroni correction. In the haplotype-wise analysis, we detected an association between two markers (rs6693503 and rs1805054) and three markers (rs6693503, rs1805054 and rs4912138) in HTR6 and METH-induced psychosis patients, respectively.
HTR6 may play an important role in the pathophysiology of METH-induced psychosis in the Japanese population.
Up to 3% of patients receiving unfractioned heparin develop heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). We report on a polytrauma patient who developed severe HIT with bilateral pulmonary embolism. Lepirudin treatment resulted initially in rapid improvement. Ten days after discharge the patient complained of abdominal pain. A large subcapsular hepatic hematoma was diagnosed, requiring repeat surgery and ending in secondary sclerosing cholangitis. This process can potentially be avoided by regular tests of lepirudin concentration and coagulation.
Evasion of apoptosis is a hallmark of pancreatic cancer. However, the underlying mechanisms are still only partly understood and may involve antiapoptotic proteins such as c-FLIP. Here, the role of c-FLIP in the regulation of death receptor-mediated apoptosis in pancreatic cancer was investigated.
Expression of c-FLIP(L) and c-FLIP(S) was analysed in primary pancreatic carcinoma samples, pancreatic carcinoma cell lines and primary tumour cells together with its function as a regulator of death receptor-induced apoptosis by knockdown and overexpression studies and through modulation by chemotherapeutics.
c-FLIP is expressed in pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasm (PanIN) lesions and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas, whereas normal pancreatic ducts were consistently negative for c-FLIP. Simultaneous downregulation of c-FLIP(L) and c-FLIP(S) as well as individual knockdown of either isoform by RNA interference significantly enhances TRAIL (tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand)- and CD95-induced caspase activation and caspase-dependent apoptosis. Also, pretreatment with chemotherapeutic drugs--that is, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), cisplatin or gemcitabine--downregulates c-FLIP and renders cells sensitive to death receptor-triggered apoptosis. Similarly, primary cultured pancreatic cancer cells are primed for TRAIL-induced apoptosis by pre-exposure to 5-FU or cisplatin. Mechanistic studies revealed that 5-FU-mediated suppression of c-FLIP results in increased TRAIL-induced recruitment and activation of caspase-8 at the death-inducing signalling complex (DISC), leading to caspase-3 activation and caspase-dependent cell death. Overexpression of c-FLIP(L) rescues cells from 5-FU- or cisplatin-mediated sensitisation for TRAIL-induced apoptosis, indicating that c-FLIP suppression is a key event in this chemotherapy-mediated sensitisation to TRAIL. Further, concomitant neutralisation of c-FLIP and XIAP acts in concert to potentiate TRAIL-induced apoptosis.
Both the long and the short isoform of the antiapoptotic protein c-FLIP are critical regulators of death receptor-induced apoptosis in pancreatic carcinoma cells and are suppressed by chemotherapeutics. Targeting either c-FLIP(L) or c-FLIP(S) is sufficient to promote death receptor-induced apoptosis in pancreatic carcinoma cells. These findings have important implications for the design of TRAIL-based combination protocols in pancreatic cancer.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the role of apoptosis in the development of the newborn cochlear structures and hearing loss caused by prenatal cis-diaminedichloroplatinum (cisplatin) exposure. Pregnant albino guinea pigs were intraperitoneally injected with 1.5 mg/kg body weight cisplatin once a day for seven consecutive days at gestational day (GD) 51 to GD 57. At postnatal day (PND) 14, pups were examined in the distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) task. The temporal bones were then removed and immunohistochemically stained for caspase 3, using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL) method. Cisplatin used during pregnancy could induce hearing loss in newborn and cochlear hair cell apoptosis. In conclusion, apoptosis may play an important role in the development of hearing impairment, caused by perinatal cisplatin exposure.
Myelopathy is an uncommon complication of radiotherapy, particularly in the pediatric age group. A 5-year-old girl with acute lymphoblastic leukemia developed a severe but transient radiculopathy after intrathecal administration of methotrexate and cytarabine for an isolated central nervous system relapse. Chemotherapy was then given through an intraventricular catheter. Owing to a second central nervous system recurrence, she was treated with craniospinal radiation. The whole brain down to the level of C2 received a dose of 2400 cGy. Two months after completion of radiation, the child developed a progressive tetraparesis, and magnetic resonance imaging revealed an enhancing lesion involving the medulla and upper cervical cord. A biopsy was consistent with a treatment-related necrotizing leukoencephalopathy. This case suggests that patients who develop neurologic dysfunction when treated with methotrexate can also be particularly susceptible to radiation-related injury.
Administration of beta- and gamma-isomers of hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) at 800 ppm dietary level for 2 weeks to albino rats produced noticeable hepatocellular damage as indicated by elevations in serum aminotransferases and decreases in hepatic soluble enzymes. Although serum total LDH activity was not altered, the LD5 isoenzyme was proportionately higher in the HCH isomers treated animals. Treatment of rats with beta- and gamma-isomers of HCH increased the hepatic glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and aldolase activities suggesting a higher rate of glucose oxidation. Liver glucose-6-phosphatase activity was decreased in these animals indicating inactivation of gluconeogenesis in liver. Dietary beta- and gamma-HCH decreased the liver mitochondrial DNP/Mg++/Ca++-activated ATPases thus affecting the energy metabolism. An unaltered ratio of DNP/Mg++-ATPase, a study of swelling pattern of hepatic mitochondria, and NAD+ permeability test suggested the maintenance of structural integrity of mitochondrial membrane in these pesticide fed animals. Liver microsomal Na+,K+-ATPases were lower in these animals.
Sosihotang (SO) is an herbal medication, which has been widely used to treat fever, chill and vomiting due to common cold in east-Asian countries. In this study, to provide insight into the effects of SO on inflammation, we investigated its effect on pro-inflammatory mediator production in RAW 264.7 cells and mouse peritoneal macrophages using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. SO significantly inhibited the production of nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6 as well as gene expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), its synthesizing enzyme. In addition, SO inhibited nuclear factor (NF)-κB activation and suppressed extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38 and c- Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) phosphorylation. Furthermore, we found SO suppresses the production of NO and IL-6 in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophage cells. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis showed SO contains many active anti-inflammatory constituents such as liquiritigenin, baicalin, baicalein, glycyrrhizin and wogonin. We first elucidated the inhibitory mechanism of SO on inflammation induced by LPS in macrophage cells. Our results suggest SO has potential to be developed as a therapeutic agent for various inflammatory diseases.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the common cancers worldwide, caused by Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and hepatotoxins. Here we report the development of HCC in wild type as well as HCV core protein (HCP)-transgenic zebrafish upon treatment with a hepatotoxin, thioacetamide (TAA). Two-fold accelerated HCC development could be achieved in the TAA-treated transgenic fish, that is, the progression of the disease in TAA-treated wild type zebrafish developed HCC in 12 weeks whereas that of HCP-transgenic zebrafish shortened the HCC progression to 6 weeks. Histopathological observation showed the specific pathological features of HCC. The HCC progression was confirmed through RT-PCR that revealed an up and down regulation of different marker genes at various stages of HCC progression such as, steatohepatitis, fibrosis and HCC. Moreover, HCV core protein expressed in the HCP-transgenic zebrafish and TAA synergistically accelerate the HCC development. It must be mentioned that, this is the first report revealing HCV core protein along with TAA to induce HCC in zebrafish, particularly, in a short period of time comparing to mice model. As zebrafish has already been considered as a good human disease model and in this context, this HCC-zebrafish model may serve as a powerful preclinical platform to study the molecular events in hepatocarcinogenesis, therapeutic strategies and for evaluating chemoprevention strategies in HCC.
Aberrant apoptosis-mediated cell death is believed to result in a number of different human diseases. For example, excessive apoptosis in the liver can result in fulminant and autoimmune forms of hepatitis. We have explored the possibility that inhibition of Fas expression in mice would reduce the severity of fulminant hepatitis. To do this, we have developed a chemically modified 2'-O-(2-methoxy)ethyl antisense oligonucleotide (ISIS 22023) inhibitor of mouse Fas expression. In tissue culture, this oligonucleotide induced a reduction in Fas mRNA expression that was both concentration- and sequence-specific. In Balb/c mice, dosing with ISIS 22023 reduced Fas mRNA and protein expressions in liver by 90%. The ID50 for this response was 8-10 mg kg-1 daily dosing, and the reduction was highly dependent on oligonucleotide sequence, oligonucleotide concentration in liver, and treatment time. Pretreatment with ISIS 22023 completely protected mice from fulminant hepatitis induced by agonistic Fas antibody, by a mechanism entirely consistent with an oligonucleotide antisense mechanism of action. In addition, oligonucleotide-mediated suppression of Fas expression reduced the severity of acetaminophen-mediated fulminant hepatitis, but was without effect on concanavalin A-mediated hepatitis. Our results demonstrate that 2'-O-(2-methoxy)ethyl containing antisense oligonucleotides targeting Fas can exert in vivo pharmacological activity in liver, and suggest that oligonucleotide inhibitors of Fas may be useful in the treatment of human liver disease.
In 59 patients with hematologic malignancy undergoing chemotherapy regimens including adriamycin (ADR), myocardial imaging was performed by SPECT with 123I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) to detect cardiac sympathetic nerve abnormalities. SPECT imaging was performed 20 min and 4 hr after intravenous injection of 123I-MIBG, and the washout rate (WR) for the entire left ventricle was calculated. Then the relationship of the WR to the total dose of ADR, the left ventricular ejection fraction, and the frequency of arrhythmias was evaluated. It was found that the WR was related to the total dose of ADR, suggesting that it is a useful parameter for cardiac sympathetic nerve damage. As the WR increased, the frequency of ventricular arrhythmias also increased. The WR was usually normalized 3-6 months after the discontinuation of ADR. In patients with a WR > or = 50%, however, prolonged follow-up was required. In conclusion, the WR on 123I-MIBG myocardial SPECT scans may be useful as a parameter for predicting cardiac toxicity requiring the discontinuation of ADR or dose reduction.
OBJECTIVE: To compare a combination of a thiazide diuretic and an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor with a thiazide diuretic and a calcium antagonist. DESIGN: A double-blind randomized trial with subjects in two parallel groups administered either 10-20 mg benazepril once daily or 5-10 mg extended-release felodipine once daily, both titrated according to diastolic office blood pressure. During run-in and all 12 weeks of the study members of both groups were administered 2.5 mg bendroflumethiazide once daily. We measured 24 h ambulatory blood pressure with thiazide alone and after 12 weeks of combination therapy. SETTING: General practices. PATIENTS: We studied 96 hypertensive patients (50 women and 46 men), aged 25-75 years, whose blood pressures were insufficiently regulated (i.e. office diastolic blood pressure >/= 95 mmHg) despite treatment with a thiazide diuretic for at least 3 months. RESULTS: The responses of office blood pressure after 12 weeks of treatment did not differ between the groups and neither did the proportions of responders. The ambulatory recordings revealed, after 12 weeks of treatment, a fall in daytime blood pressure of 16.3/10.3 mmHg in members of the benazepril group compared with a fall of 8.5/5.2 mmHg in members of the felodipine group (P < 0.001/<0.001). Analysis of variance showed that the systolic but not the diastolic office blood pressure in members of the benazepril group was significantly lower during the 12-week study period. When evaluating rising single quote, left (low)white-coat-positive' patients separately, there was a tendency for there to be a more pronounced reduction of their (normal) blood pressure with benazepril therapy. There was a significant reduction in weight of patients in the benazepril group (by 0.9 kg), but not of patients in the felodipine group. We observed no difference in side effects between the two treatment groups.CONCLUSION: Add-on therapies both with benazepril and with felodipine are effective and both drug regimens are well tolerated, but ambulatory blood pressure monitoring yielded differing results.
• To investigate the safety and immune responses of 12 consecutive weeks of once-weekly personalized peptide vaccine (PPV) administration in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma (UC) for whom therapy with methotrexate, vinblastine, adriamycin and cisplatin (MVAC) has failed.
• A phase I trial was designed. Ten patients with MVAC-refractory advanced or metastatic UC were treated with weekly personalized peptide vaccine 12 times using positive peptides chosen from 14 and 16 peptides in patients with human leucocyte antigens A24 and A2, respectively. • Peptide-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte precursor analysis by interferon-γ production and peptide-reactive immunoglobulin G (IgG) using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was monitored during the treatment.
• The peptide vaccination was safe and well tolerated with no major adverse effects. Increased cytotoxic T lymphocyte response and the anti-peptide IgG titre were revealed by the post-vaccination sera in eight patients. • Clinical responses were as follows: one complete response, one partial response, two stable disease and six progressive disease. • Median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.0 and 8.9 months, respectively. In the four responders, median progression-free survival and overall survival were 21 and 24 months, respectively.
• This phase I study showed the safety of and boosted immune responses in response to PPV for advanced UC. • The potential efficacy of 12 consecutive weekly vaccinations with PPV in patients with advanced UC merits further investigation based on these findings.
