Anemia is a common problem in the elderly, but its etiology in this age group is not well known, nor is its correlation with the mental and functional states. The objectives of the present study were to determine the prevalence of anemia in a large institutionalized geriatric population, to diagnose the etiology, and to analyze the correlation of anemia with the nutritional, mental and functional status.
The study was performed in a 970 bed multilevel geriatric complex, from which 481 residents were randomly chosen. Their mean age was 81.4 +/- 8.7 years, and 46 of these residents were independent, 162 frail, and 273 nursing home patients.
High prevalence of anemia (31.4%) was found, but, in more than half of the cases, the anemia was mild. The most common diagnosis was anemia of chronic disorders (65.6%), followed by anemia of chronic renal failure (13.2%). Anemia primarily due to iron, vitamin B12 or folate deficiency was found to be only 4%. In 15.9% of these cases the main cause of anemia could not be resolved. No correlation with the nutritional or cognitive states was found, but the functional state was highly and significantly inversely correlated with the presence of anemia.
Anemia in institutionalized elderly is mostly the consequence of other chronic diseases. Further studies are required to determine whether a low functional state is an independent risk factor for anemia in old age.
Multisystem toxicity including both renal and hepatic failure has been reported with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. We report a fatal case of multisystem failure associated with tolmetin ingestion in a 15-year-old girl. Microvesicular fatty change was found in the liver at autopsy. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-associated multisystem failure to have this histopathologic finding.
The effects of propranolol and related drugs were investigated on ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia (VT) in dogs with intact and ablated vagi. Propranolol and UM-272 completely antagonized the ouabain VT in dogs with intact vagi, whereas timolol was ineffective. Bilateral vagotomy completely abolished the effect of UM-272 and reduced the effect of propranolol. Diphenylhydantoin, however, reversed ouabain VT in dogs with both intact and ablated vagi. It is inferred that the vagus plays a significant role in the arrhythmolytic effect of propranolol and UM-272.
The purpose of the present study was to determine if the in vivo neurobehavioral effects of the morphinan 14-beta-methyl 8-oxacyclorphan, [BC (3016)], would reflect the kappa agonist activity found in our previous in vitro studies. The effects of intracisternal administration of various doses (10-80 micrograms) of BC (3016) on body temperature, muscle rigidity, nociception of thermal, chemical and mechanical stimuli as well as its ability to induce catalepsy were examined. The effects of intrathecal administration of the same doses of the compound on reactivity of animals to a thermal stimulus were also assessed. Finally, the ability of BC (3016) to antagonize well known neurobehavioral effects of morphine was investigated. Results indicate that the analgesic properties of BC (3016) resemble those of typical kappa agonists: Intracisternal administration of the drug failed to affect nociception to an aversive thermal stimulus but markedly reduced the reactivity of animals subjected to noxious chemical or mechanical stimuli. On the other hand, intrathecal administration of BC (3016) significantly attenuated nociception of animals to a thermal stimulus. The in vivo neurobehavioral effects of BC (3016) appear to be kappa selective since the drug did not decrease body temperature, increase muscular tone or induce catalepsy, three effects generally attributed to mu agonists. Furthermore, BC (3016) antagonized the immobility, trunk rigidity, catalepsy and analgesia induced by morphine. In summary, the present results reveal that BC (3016) displays a profile of neurobehavioral effects similar to that of well known kappa agonists.
During a 3-year period of treatment with DPH three episodes of drug intolerance developed in a 16-year-old epileptic girl. The dose tolerated previously was 200 mg daily. The authors stress the effect of hormonal disturbances on the change in DPH tolerance.
A large number of both primary and secondary preventive trials suggest that treatment of elevated plasma lipids may reduce the frequency of coronary heart disease (CHD) events. Meta-analyses indicate that for every 10% reduction of cholesterol, CHD mortality is lowered by 13% and all-cause mortality by 10%. Experience from several angiographic trials also suggests that coronary atherosclerosis can be retarded, and in some instances limited regression induced, by low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol reduction and/or high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol elevation. Coronary angiographic studies have shown that although the effects on retardation/regression of altherogenic lesions have been small, with luminal diameter changes of around 0.10 mm, the effects on clinical events were more substantial, with reductions of the order of 50%. There is also evidence that it is the mild and moderate lesions that are of particular concern with respect to the occurrence of clinical coronary events. The progression of atherosclerosis and the occurrence of coronary events are probably not exclusively dependent on a lowering of LDL-cholesterol concentrations. Analyses from the Monitored Atherosclerosis Regression Study (MARS), the Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerotic Study (CLAS), and the Programs on the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidaemias (POSCH) indicate that triglyceride-rich lipoproteins may also be of importance for the progression of mild/moderate lesions in subjects treated with cholesterol-lowering regimens. Recently, the results of the 5-year Bezafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT) demonstrated that bezafibrate significantly retarded the progression of coronary atheroma and coronary events in young male survivors of myocardial infarction, as assessed by changes in minimum lumen diameter. This positive outcome is most likely due to the beneficial treatment effects on the levels of serum triglycerides (-31%), plasma fibrinogen (-12%), and HDL cholesterol (+9%). The results of the BECAIT on progression of coronary atherosclerosis are comparable with those of two recent angiographic trials with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, the Multicenter Anti-Atheroma Study (MAAS), and the Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS), despite different lipid and metabolic effects. BECAIT is the first controlled angiographic study to show that a fibrate can significantly retard the progression of coronary atherosclerosis. The exact mechanisms by which this occurs remain to be elucidated. However, the results of BECAIT illustrate the importance of factors other than LDL cholesterol in the progression of coronary atherosclerosis.
A 57-year-old man on chronic hemodialysis presented marked bilateral renal enlargement due to acquired cystic kidney disease (ACKD). He had been on hemodialysis for less than 3 years only (14 months prior to receiving a functional renal transplant which lasted 8 years, followed by 18 additional months of dialysis), before the diagnosis of ACKD was made following an episode of flank pain with gross hematuria. The marked changes in kidney appearance during this 11-year period were documented by serial ultrasound examination showing the kidneys to be of near-normal size before the start of dialysis (> or =10 cm in 1986), then shrunken and contracted 5 years later while having a functioning renal transplant (<5 cm in 1991), and markedly enlarged reaching the size of adult polycystic kidney disease after returning to dialysis (>13 cm in 1997). Since the risk of ACKD increases with duration of dialysis, we sought additional predisposing factors in this unusual case and found that 2 years after renal transplantation, the patient was diagnosed with breast cancer for which he was treated with surgical excision and tamoxifen. Based on ultrasound evidence that the tamoxifen treatment preceeded the appearance of the renal cystic changes, we wonder whether this drug may have played a role in the rapid development of ACKD.
The worldwide epidemic of metabolic syndrome correlates with an elevation in serum uric acid as well as a marked increase in total fructose intake (in the form of table sugar and high-fructose corn syrup). Fructose raises uric acid, and the latter inhibits nitric oxide bioavailability. Because insulin requires nitric oxide to stimulate glucose uptake, we hypothesized that fructose-induced hyperuricemia may have a pathogenic role in metabolic syndrome. Four sets of experiments were performed. First, pair-feeding studies showed that fructose, and not dextrose, induced features (hyperinsulinemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and hyperuricemia) of metabolic syndrome. Second, in rats receiving a high-fructose diet, the lowering of uric acid with either allopurinol (a xanthine oxidase inhibitor) or benzbromarone (a uricosuric agent) was able to prevent or reverse features of metabolic syndrome. In particular, the administration of allopurinol prophylactically prevented fructose-induced hyperinsulinemia (272.3 vs.160.8 pmol/l, P < 0.05), systolic hypertension (142 vs. 133 mmHg, P < 0.05), hypertriglyceridemia (233.7 vs. 65.4 mg/dl, P < 0.01), and weight gain (455 vs. 425 g, P < 0.05) at 8 wk. Neither allopurinol nor benzbromarone affected dietary intake of control diet in rats. Finally, uric acid dose dependently inhibited endothelial function as manifested by a reduced vasodilatory response of aortic artery rings to acetylcholine. These data provide the first evidence that uric acid may be a cause of metabolic syndrome, possibly due to its ability to inhibit endothelial function. Fructose may have a major role in the epidemic of metabolic syndrome and obesity due to its ability to raise uric acid.
Some histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) have recently been related to teratogenic effects in rodents. Skeletal defects have been directly associated with embryonic hyperacetylation of somitic nuclei after valproic acid or trichostatin A exposure in vivo. Albeit the antitumoral activity of HDACi has been classically related to chromatin condensation due to histonic lysine hyperacetylation, nonhistonic proteins have also been suggested as an HDACi target. The aim of this work was the study of the effects of three HDACi (apicidin, API; MS-275; sodium butyrate, BUT) on mouse development and their activity on embryonic histonic and nonhistonic proteins. Pregnant mice were ip treated with 10 mg/kg body weight API, 25 mg/kg MS-275, 2000 mg/kg BUT or with the vehicle alone on day 8 post coitum. Embryos were extracted 1, 2, or 3 h after treatment and Western blotting (using antibodies antihyperacetylated histone H4, antiacetylated lysine, or antitubulin) and immunohistochemistry (using the antibody antihyperacetylated histone H4) were performed. Fetuses, explanted at term of gestation, were double stained for bone and cartilage to detect skeletal abnormalities. The studied HDACi were teratogenic. The specific axial skeletal malformations were fusions or homeotic respecifications. These molecules induced hyperacetylation restricted to somitic histones. The hyperacetylation index of histone H4 as well as immunohistochemical and skeletal analyses indicated BUT as the less active molecule. These new data on effects of API, MS-275, and BUT on development suggest histonic hyperacetylation as the mechanism for the induction of the observed skeletal abnormalities.
Cardiotoxicity is a serious and relatively frequent complication of anti-tumorous treatment. Anthracyclines represent the greatest risk. Biochemical markers of structural and functional myocardial damage have been gaining ground in cardiotoxicity monitoring. The aim of the study was to monitor cardiotoxicity of induction chemotherapy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients and to assess the potential for use of biochemical markers in early diagnostics of cardiotoxicity. Fifteen consecutive adult patients with a newly diagnosed AML were studied. All patients received induction chemotherapy containing Idarubicin (IDA) 3 x 12 mg/m2 and intermediate doses of Cytarabine (8 x 1.5 g/m2). Serial measurements of plasma N-terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) values were performed at the baseline, the day following each IDA infusion, after 14 days and after circa 1 month, i.e. before the next chemotherapy. Cardio-specific markers (cTnT, CK-MB mass) were measured at the baseline and after the last IDA infusion. The mean baseline value of NT-proBNP in newly diagnosed AML patients was 129.7+/-59.6 pg/ml. The mean NT-proBNP value increased after the first IDA infusion to 307.3+/-171.4 pg/ml (p=0.02). In most of the patients, the second and the third IDA infusions were not associated with a further increase in the NT-proBNP value and levels after 2 and 4 weeks were not significantly different from the baseline. However, in one of the patients the NT-proBNP values were increasing after each IDA infusion (after the last one 786.2 pg/ml) and within 14 days he developed congestive heart failure due to left ventricular diastolic dysfunction as assessed by echocardiography. At that time, the NT-proBNP value was 1,184.0 pg/ml; after diuretics it decreased significantly. In all patients, plasma cTnT and CK-MB mass concentrations were within the reference interval at the baseline and after the induction chemotherapy. Our results suggest that induction chemotherapy in AML (IDA 36 mg/m2 and intermediate doses of Cytarabine): 1. does not cause detectable damage of the myocyte structure, 2. is in all patients associated with acute neurohumoral activation (transient elevation of NT-proBNP) indicating acute subclinical cardiotoxicity, 3. may lead to congestive heart failure and NT-proBNP seems to be a promising early marker and predictor of this complication.
Ethylbenzene + toluene are known individually to have ototoxic potential at high exposure levels and with prolonged exposure times generally of 4-16 weeks. Both ethylbenzene + toluene are minor constituents of JP-8 jet fuel; this fuel has recently been determined to promote susceptibility to noise-induced hearing loss. Therefore, the current study evaluates the ototoxic potential of combined exposure to ethylbenzene + toluene exposure in a ratio calculated from the average found in three laboratories. Rats received ethylbenzene + toluene by inhalation and half of them were subjected simultaneously to an octave band of noise (OBN) of 93-95 dB. Another group received only the noise exposure which was designed to produce a small, but permanent auditory impairment while an unexposed control group was also included. In two separate experiments, exposures occurred either repeatedly on 5 successive days for 1 week or for 5 days on 2 successive weeks to 4000 mg/m(3) total hydrocarbons for 6 h based upon initial pilot studies. The concentration of toluene was 400 ppm and the concentration of ethylbenzene was 660 ppm. Impairments in auditory function were assessed using distortion product otoacoustic emissions and compound action potential testing. Following completion of these tests, the organs of Corti were dissected to permit evaluation of hair cell loss. The uptake and elimination of the solvents was assessed by harvesting key organs at two time points following ethylbenzene + toluene exposure from additional rats not used for auditory testing. Similarly, glutathione (GSH) levels were measured in light of suggestions that oxidative stress might result from solvent-noise exposures. Ethylbenzene + toluene exposure by itself at 4000 mg/m(3) for 6 h did not impair cochlear function or yield a loss of hair cells. However, when combined with a 93-dB OBN exposure combined solvent + noise did yield a loss in auditory function and a clear potentiation of outer hair cell death that exceeded the loss produced by noise alone. No evidence was found for a loss in total GSH in lung, liver, or brain as a consequence of ethylbenzene + toluene exposure.
Flutamide, a widely used nonsteroidal anti-androgen, but not its bioisostere bicalutamide, has been associated with idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury. Although the susceptibility factors are unknown, mitochondrial injury has emerged as a putative hazard of flutamide. To explore the role of mitochondrial sensitization in flutamide hepatotoxicity, we determined the effects of superimposed drug stress in a murine model of underlying mitochondrial abnormalities. Male wild-type or heterozygous Sod2(+/-) mice were injected intraperitoneously with flutamide (0, 30 or 100 mg/kg/day) for 28 days. A kinetic pilot study revealed that flutamide (100 mg/kg/day) caused approximately 10-fold greater exposure than the reported therapeutic mean plasma levels. Mutant (5/10), but not wild-type, mice in the high-dose group exhibited small foci of hepatocellular necrosis and an increased number of apoptotic hepatocytes. Hepatic GSSG/GSH, protein carbonyl levels, and serum lactate levels were significantly increased, suggesting oxidant stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Measurement of mitochondrial superoxide in cultured hepatocytes demonstrated that mitochondria were a significant source of flutamide-enhanced oxidant stress. Indeed, mitochondria isolated from flutamide-treated Sod2(+/-) mice exhibited decreased aconitase activity as compared to vehicle controls. A transcriptomics analysis using MitoChips revealed that flutamide-treated Sod2(+/-) mice exhibited a selective decrease in the expression of all complexes I and III subunits encoded by mitochondrial DNA. In contrast, Sod2(+/-) mice receiving bicalutamide (50 mg/kg/day) did not reveal any hepatic changes. These results are compatible with our concept that flutamide targets hepatic mitochondria and exerts oxidant stress that can lead to overt hepatic injury in the presence of an underlying mitochondrial abnormality.
1-Bromopropane (1-BP), an alternative to ozone-depleting solvents, is a neuro and reproductive toxicant in animals and humans. In this study, the dose responses for urinary AcPrCys and S-propylcysteine (PrCys) adducts on globin and neurofilaments were determined as a function of 1-BP exposure level and duration in the rat; and globin PrCys adducts and urinary AcPrCys were quantified in samples obtained from workers in a 1-BP production facility. Rats were exposed to 1-BP by inhalation for 2 weeks at 0, 50, 200, or 800 ppm and to 1-BP at 0 or 50 ppm for 4 weeks. After the 4-week exposures ended, half of the animals were euthanized immediately and half euthanized 8 days later. Urinary AcPrCys was measured using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) and gas chromatograph-mass spectrometry (GC/MS); and PrCys adducts were determined on globin and neurofilaments using LC/MS/MS. In rats, PrCys adduct and urinary AcPrCys levels demonstrated a linear dose response relative to exposure level. PrCys globin adducts demonstrated a linear cumulative dose response over the 4-week exposure period. Elimination of AcPrCys appeared biphasic with detectable levels still present in urine up to 8 days postexposure. A significant increase in globin PrCys adducts was observed in the 1-BP workers relative to control workers; and urinary AcPrCys increased with increasing 1-BP ambient exposure levels. The results of these studies demonstrate the ability of 1-BP to covalently modify proteins in vivo and support the potential of urinary AcPrCys and globin PrCys adducts to serve as biomarkers of 1-BP exposure in humans.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) has become the preferred alternative for ovarian cancer patients who have failed platinum-based therapy, but side effects, such as palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE), may lead to sub-optimal drug exposure and treatment discontinuation. A prospective Canadian multicentre open-label study evaluated the effects of a nurse-administered education and support program on treatment adherence and tolerability in 112 women with recurrent ovarian cancer. Subjects received an average of four four-week PLD cycles, the recommended number of courses required to evaluate the efficacy from PLD. Side effects were common, but 75% of patients were able to complete > 3 cycles and 59% completed > 4 cycles of PLD chemotherapy. With proactive nursing intervention, the incidence of PLD-associated grade three-four toxicities such as PPE and mucositis was substantially decreased. Nursing intervention may allow more patients to receive chemotherapy on schedule, thus reproducing the conditions of the clinical study in which the efficacy of the drug has been established.
8-(3-chlorostryryl) caffeine (CSC), a selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist, has been reported to inhibit the levodopa-induced motor fluctuation in Parkinson's disease. However, the underlying mechanism of its action remains largely unknown. In our study, we investigated the signaling pathway by which CSC inhibited levodopa-induced motor fluctuation in rats with a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesion. We treated 6-OHDA-lesioned rats with levodopa (50 mg/kg/day, twice daily) for 22 days, followed by levodopa+CSC (5 mg/kg/day, twice daily) or levodopa+vehicle for 7 days. The sham-lesioned and 6-OHDA-lesioned rats treated with saline for 29 days served as sham and lesion control groups. We found that the treatment of CSC reversed the shortening of the rotational motor response duration induced by levodopa administration and the effect was maintained until the end of the treatment. The chronic levodopa treatment upregulated the adenosine A(2A) receptor expression and modified downstream signaling pathway including decreasing the phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr75 site and increasing the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in the lesioned striatum. However, the following CSC treatment attenuated the levodopa-induced adenosine A(2A) receptor upregulation and abolished the aberrant phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr75 site and that of ERK1/2. Our results indicate that the inhibitory effect of CSC on levodopa-induced motor fluctuation may be associated with the inhibition of Adenosine A(2A) Receptor and downstream DARPP-32 and ERK1/2 signaling pathway.
We report two cases of ventricular arrest with persisting atrial activity in association with propofol anaesthesia. In both cases, anticholinergic agents corrected the arrhythmia. It is recommended that anticholinergic drugs be given routinely when propofol is used in association with vagal stimulants.
Intravenous (i.v.) treatment with apomorphine (0.3 mg/kg) in conscious rats with chronic spinal cord transection (at T5-T7) induced a significant hypotension, which was greater than that in sham-operated rats. The present study examined whether such an amplification results from an enhanced spinal dopamine D(1) and/or D(2) receptor-mediated depressor effect. Intrathecal (i.t.) pretreatment with domperidone (40 microg/rat at T9-T10), a dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist that does not cross the blood-brain barrier, blocked nearly 35 and 56% of the maximal apomorphine-induced hypotension in control and spinal rats, respectively. The remaining hypotension after i.v. domperidone (0.5 mg/kg) pretreatment (i.e. the spinal component of the response) was significantly greater in spinal rats than in controls. In the latter animals, apomorphine-induced hypotension was fully abolished by metoclopramide (5 mg/kg, i.v.). However, in spinal rats, the hypotension was only abolished by combined pretreatment with i.v. metoclopramide and i.t. SCH 23390 (27 microg/rat at T9-T10). The results suggest that the enhancing hypotensive effects of i.v. apomorphine by spinal cord section are related to increased spinal dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptor-mediated depressor effects.
This report presents the clinical, laboratory, and light and electron microscopic observations on a patient with chronic active (aggressive) hepatitis caused by the administration of propylthiouracil. This is an addition to the list of drugs that must be considered in the evaluation of chronic liver disease.
Quality of life (QOL) was assessed in patients who switched to oxcarbazepine monotherapy because of the lack of efficacy or poor tolerability of their current antiepileptic drug (AED).
This open-label, single-arm study consisted of patients aged 12 >or= years with partial onset seizures. Oxcarbazepine (8-10mg/kg/day for children, 600 mg/day for adults) was titrated up over 4 weeks while the existing AED was tapered off. QOL was evaluated at baseline and end of study (Week 16) using the validated-in-epilepsy QOLIE-31 questionnaire.
For all patients who completed the QOLIE-31 at baseline and completion, a statistically significant improvement was noted for both the composite and multi-item subscale QOL scores (P<0.05 vs baseline). Statistically significant mean percentage improvements of >or=10% from baseline (range=10.8-50.1%) were also noted. Significant improvements were seen in health-related QOL for patients who experienced seizure freedom or >or=50% reductions in seizure frequency with oxcarbazepine monotherapy.
Patients with partial seizures who switched to oxcarbazepine monotherapy showed statistically significant, clinically relevant improvements in QOL.
Although triamterene has been known to contribute to urinary calculus formation, it has been presumed to be a rare phenomenon. Our review of stone analyses performed during the last decade by a single laboratory reveals an increasing incidence of triamterene stones. Awareness of the calculogenic potential of triamterene-containing medications should be re-emphasized.
Propylthiouracil (PTU) as a drug used during the treatment of hyperthyroidism could induce antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-positive vasculitis. Here the author reported a childhood case of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-positive vasculitis induced by PTU, which is rarely described.
The diagnosis was made according to the symptoms, signs, serum markers and renal biopsy, and the relevant literature was reviewed.
The 12-year-old girl presented with gross hematuria, proteinuria, renal function damage [Ccr 52.46 ml/(min. 1.73 m(2))], positive antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA-MPO) (MPO ELISA 140%) and a vasculitis lesion in the renal biopsy sample. She had been treated with PTU for 5 years because of Graves disease. After the diagnosis, the PTU was withdrawn, and prednisone (40 mg/d) and cyclophosphamide (25 mg, Bid) were applied. Three weeks after the therapy with prednisone and cyclophosphamide the gross hematuria disappeared. Three months after the treatment the renal function returned to normal [Ccr 124 mg/(min.1.73 m(2))], and the titer of ANCA-MPO decreased from 140% to 57%.
PTU may induce antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody positive vasculitis. A right diagnosis and treatment can improve its prognosis of the disease.
Acute intravascular haemolysis and renal failure developed while a patient was taking triamterene. A direct antiglobulin test with a polyvalent reagent was positive. Serum caused agglutination of normal red cells in the presence of triamterene and caused an increase of partial haemolysis of both trypsin-treated erythrocytes and red cells from a patient with paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) in the presence of complement. From the results of antibody-neutralization test and treatment with 2-mercaptoethanol, the presence of IgM antibody with lambda light chain could be demonstrated. The triamterene seemed to bind strongly to the red cells in vitro but in vivo there was no detectable adsorption to red cells. Haptenic inhibition was not demonstrated. From these results, it was assumed that this antibody was found to cross-react with methotrexate which has a structure similar to that of triamterene.
Accumulating evidence has revealed that a natural compound curcumin exerts its anti-tumor activity in pancreatic cancer. However, the underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive. Recently, miRNAs have been demonstrated to play a crucial role in tumorigenesis, suggesting that targeting miRNAs could be a promising approach for the treatment of human cancers. In this study, we explored whether curcumin regulates miR-7, leading to the inhibition of cell growth, migration and invasion in pancreatic cancer cells. We observed that curcumin suppressed cell growth, migration and invasion, and induced cell apoptosis, which is associated with increased expression of miR-7 and subsequently decreased expression of SET8, one of the miR-7 targets. These findings demonstrated that targeting miR-7 by curcumin could be a novel strategy for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Some derivatives of trans-anethole [1-methoxy-4-(1-propenyl)-benzene] (1) were synthesized, by introducing hydroxyl groups in the double bond of the propenyl moiety. Two types of reactions were performed: (i) oxymercuration/demercuration that formed two products, the mono-hydroxyl derivative, 1-hydroxy-1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-propane (2) and in lesser extent the dihydroxyl derivative, 1,2-dihydroxy-1-(4-methoxyphenyl)-propane (3) and (ii) epoxidation with m-chloroperbenzoic acid that also led to the formation of two products, the dihydroxyl derivative (3) and the correspondent m-chloro-benzoic acid mono-ester, 1-hydroxy-1(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-m-chlorobenzoyl-propane (4). The structures of these compounds were confirmed mainly by mass, IR, 1H and 13C NMR spectral data. The activity of anethole and hydroxylated derivatives was evaluated using antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and gastroprotector tests. Compounds (2) and (3) were more active antioxidant agents than (1) and (4). In the anti-inflammatory assay, anethole showed lower activity than hydroxylated derivatives. Anethole and in lesser extent its derivatives 2 and 4 showed significant gastroprotector activity. All tested compounds do not alter significantly the total number of white blood cells.
Recent studies have suggested clinical differences among selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. In a 12-week randomized, multicenter, double-blind trial, the antidepressant and anxiolytic efficacy of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors paroxetine and fluoxetine was compared in patients with moderate to severe depression.
A total of 203 patients were randomized to fixed doses (20 mg/day) of paroxetine or fluoxetine for the first six weeks of therapy. From week 7-12, dosing could be adjusted biweekly, as required (paroxetine 20-50 mg/day, and fluoxetine 20-80 mg/day). The mean prescribed doses were paroxetine 25.5 mg/day (range 20.0-40.2 mg/day), and fluoxetine 27.5 mg/day (range 20.0-59.5 mg/day). Emergence of motor nervousness or restlessness was assessed using the ESRS scale for akathisia.
Both active treatments demonstrated comparable antidepressant efficacy (HAM-D, CGI). Anxiolytic activity of the two drugs (COVI, STAI, HAM-D) was also comparable. However, paroxetine was found to be superior to fluoxetine on two subscore measures at week 1 of therapy (HAM-D Agitation item, p < 0.05; Psychic Anxiety item, p < 0.05), with no differences detected after week 2. The overall incidence of adverse effects was comparable in the two treatment groups. Constipation, dyspepsia, tremor, sweating and abnormal ejaculation were more common in paroxetine-treated subjects, whereas nausea and nervousness were more frequent in fluoxetine-treated patients. Weight loss was more common in the fluoxetine versus paroxetine group (11.88% versus 2.94%, respectively). ESRS scores for akathisia were low throughout the study and showed little change.
Differences observed between the two drugs in antianxiety effects were limited to two measures of anxiety among several others.
The data indicate that paroxetine and fluoxetine have comparable antidepressant and anxiolytic efficacy. Paroxetine appears to produce an earlier improvement in agitation and psychic anxiety symptoms compared with fluoxetine.
The expression of arginine vasopressin (AVP) gene in the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic nuclei (SON) was investigated in rats with lithium (Li)-induced polyuria, using in situ hybridization histochemistry and radioimmunoassay. The male Wistar rats consuming a diet that contained LiCl (60 mmol/kg) for 4 weeks developed marked polyuria. The Li-treated rats produced a large volume of hypotonic urine with low ionic concentrations. Plasma sodium concentrations were found to be slightly increased in the Li-treated rats compared with those in controls. Plasma concentration of AVP and transcripts of AVP gene in the PVN and SON were significantly increased in the Li-treated rats compared with controls. These results suggest that dehydration and/or the activation of visceral afferent inputs may contribute to the elevation of plasma AVP and the upregulation of AVP gene expression in the PVN and the SON of the Li-induced diabetes insipidus rat.
Scopolamine self-administration was investigated in an acute model using drug-naive mice. The mice could self-administer intravenous infusions contingent on nose poking and were tested in pairs using a contingent and a yoked control mouse. Upon nose poking of the contingent mouse, both mice received an intravenous infusion of either saline or scopolamine (fixed ratio 1). An inverted U-shaped unit dose-response curve was seen with the contingent mice. The unit dose at which nose poking of the contingent mice peaked (mean 375 per 30 min) was 0.1 mg/kg/infusion. Nose poking of yoked control mice also increased dose dependently, but it was significantly lower than that of the contingent mice. The apparent scopolamine-induced dose-dependent hyperactivity was, however, unlikely in itself to form the entire basis for the increase in nose poking of the contingent mice. The results demonstrate that scopolamine has acute and reinforcing properties in drug naive mice.
Cocoa bean preparations were first used by the ancient Maya and Aztec civilizations of South America to treat a variety of medical ailments involving the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and nervous systems. Diets rich in foods containing abundant polyphenols, as found in cocoa, underlie the protective effects reported in chronic inflammatory diseases. Release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from trigeminal nerves promotes inflammation in peripheral tissues and nociception.
To determine whether a methanol extract of Theobroma cacao L. (Sterculiaceae) beans enriched for polyphenols could inhibit CGRP expression, both an in vitro and an in vivo approach was taken.
Treatment of rat trigeminal ganglia cultures with depolarizing stimuli caused a significant increase in CGRP release that was repressed by pretreatment with Theobroma cacao extract. Pretreatment with Theobroma cacao was also shown to block the KCl- and capsaicin-stimulated increases in intracellular calcium. Next, the effects of Theobroma cacao on CGRP levels were determined using an in vivo model of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) inflammation. Capsaicin injection into the TMJ capsule caused an ipsilateral decrease in CGRP levels. Theobroma cacao extract injected into the TMJ capsule 24h prior to capsaicin treatment repressed the stimulatory effects of capsaicin.
Our results demonstrate that Theobroma cacao extract can repress stimulated CGRP release by a mechanism that likely involves blockage of calcium channel activity. Furthermore, our findings suggest that the beneficial effects of diets rich in cocoa may include suppression of sensory trigeminal nerve activation.
