A multi-centre study was carried out in 200 coronary patients to compare the efficacy and tolerance of isosorbide dinitrate retard (40 mg) and isosorbide-5-mononitrate (20 mg) with regard to the frequency of anginal attacks and consumption of sub-lingual (short acting) nitrates. After receiving treatment for 2 weeks with isosorbide dinitrate retard at a dosage of 2 or 3 tablets per day, only those patients continued the study who had a weekly average of 4 or more anginal attacks during this basal period. The selected patients were divided in 4 groups of 50 patients and received treatment for a further 4 weeks with either isosorbide dinitrate retard at a dosage of 2 tablets (Group D2) or 3 tablets (D3) per day or isosorbide-5-mononitrate at a dosage of 2 tablets (Group M2) or 3 tablets (Group M3) per day. A progressive improvement in symptoms was seen at the end of 2 and 4 weeks with both drugs. The greater therapeutic benefits were obtained in patients in Group M2; the greater difference was observed between Group M2 and D2 (p less than 0.01) and there were also significant differences (p less than 0.05) between Groups M2 and D3 and between Groups M3 and D3. Analysis of the results showed that the more frequently angina attacks had occurred during the basal period, the greater was therapeutic benefit obtained with isosorbide-5-mononitrate compared to isosorbide dinitrate retard at the end of the study. Heart rate at the end of the study showed a slight tendency to increase over initial levels in all groups. In contrast, systolic blood pressure decreased very significantly in all groups (p less than 0.001). Diastolic blood pressure also decreased in all groups but only to a highly significant degree in patients treated with isosorbide-5-mononitrate (p less than 0.001) and the two sub-groups M2 and M3 (p less than 0.005). In patients treated with isosorbide dinitrate retard, the reduction in diastolic pressure was only statistically significant when the 100 patients in the group were considered as a whole (p less than 0.05), while this was not the case for the two sub-groups D2 and D3. The most frequent side-effect was headache, which improved gradually. During treatment there was a progressive dissociation between reduction in the intensity and frequency of this adverse effect and the increasing anti-anginal action of the nitrates.
We have previously described individuals presenting with transient neonatal diabetes and showing a variable pattern of DNA hypomethylation at imprinted loci throughout the genome. We now report mutations in ZFP57, which encodes a zinc-finger transcription factor expressed in early development, in seven pedigrees with a shared pattern of mosaic hypomethylation and a conserved range of clinical features. This is the first description of a heritable global imprinting disorder that is compatible with life.
Our previous studies have shown that supplementation with 17beta-estradiol (E2) from the onset of diabetes attenuates diabetic nephropathy. However, E2 is accompanied by feminizing effects as well as adverse side effects on other organs. The current study examined the renoprotective effects of a selective estrogen receptor modulator, raloxifene (RAL), in an experimental model of diabetic nephropathy. RAL activates estrogen receptors and estrogen-receptor-mediated cellular events without the side effects of E2.
The study was performed in Sprague-Dawley nondiabetic (ND), streptozotocin-induced diabetic (D) and streptozotocin-induced D + RAL rats (n = 6/group).
After 12 weeks of treatment, D was associated with increased urine albumin excretion (ND: 4.2 +/- 0.4; D: 41.3 +/- 9.0 mg/day), glomerulosclerosis [glomerulosclerotic index; ND: 0.26 +/- 0.04; D: 1.86 +/- 0.80 arbitrary units (AU)], tubulointerstitial fibrosis (tubulointerstitial fibrosis index; ND: 0.37 +/- 0.05; D: 2.12 +/- 0.50 AU), increased collagen type I [ND: 1.31 +/- 0.07; D: 4.65 +/- 0.09 relative optical density (ROD)], collagen type IV (ND: 0.64 +/- 0.03; D: 1.37 +/- 0.11 ROD) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) protein expression (ND: 0.65 +/- 0.08; D: 1.25 +/- 0.10 ROD), increased density of CD68-positive cells (ND: 1.37 +/- 3.02; D: 29.2 +/- 1.74 cells/mm2) and increased plasma levels of interleukin-6 (ND: 14.8 +/- 5.0; D: 51.3 +/- 14.0 pg/ml). Treatment with RAL partially or fully attenuated these processes (urine albumin excretion: 21.0 +/- 5.0 mg/day; glomerulosclerotic index: 0.40 +/- 0.06 AU; tubulointerstitial fibrosis index: 0.20 +/- 0.04 AU; collagen type I: 2.55 +/- 0.49 ROD; collagen type IV: 0.70 +/- 0.09 ROD; TGF-beta: 0.91 +/- 0.08 ROD; CD68: 6.03 +/- 2.38 cells/mm2; interleukin-6: 31.2 +/- 5.0 pg/ml).
Our data indicate that treatment with RAL attenuates albuminuria and renal structural changes associated with diabetes.
Podocytes in the renal glomerulus express unusual intermediate filament (IF) proteins for epithelial cells. To gain insight into the role of IF proteins in podocytes, we investigated the expression of nestin, vimentin, and desmin in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis. A Western blot analysis for nestin, vimentin, and desmin demonstrated their exclusive expression in glomeruli and showed their increase in expression in nephrotic glomeruli. Immunolocalization studies showed nestin and vimentin to be located predominantly in the podocytes in both normal and nephrotic glomeruli and that enhancement of desmin staining only occurred in podocytes. A ribonuclease protection assay showed high levels of vimentin and nestin expression in normal glomeruli and an upregulation of all three IF transcripts in nephrotic glomeruli. One day after the PAN injection, however, the vimentin transcripts were found to already have significantly increased, whereas those of nestin or desmin showed no such increase. These findings indicate that podocytes express three IF proteins, namely, vimentin, desmin, and nestin, which are differentially regulated in response to injury. An upregulation of IF proteins may increase the mechanical stability of cells, thus enabling podocytes to undergo morphological changes on the tensile glomerular capillary wall.
Evaluate the association between thyroid disease and use of insecticides, herbicides, and fumigants/fungicides in male applicators in the Agricultural Health Study.
We examined the association between use of 50 specific pesticides and self-reported hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, and "other" thyroid disease among 22,246 male pesticide applicators.
There was increased odds of hypothyroidism with ever use of the herbicides 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), 2,4,5-T (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid), 2,4,5-TP (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy-propionic acid), alachlor, dicamba, and petroleum oil. Hypothyroidism was also associated with ever use of eight insecticides: organochlorines chlordane, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), heptachlor, lindane, and toxaphene; organophosphates diazinon and malathion; and the carbamate carbofuran. Exposure-response analysis showed increasing odds with increasing level of exposure for the herbicides alachlor and 2,4-D and the insecticides aldrin, chlordane, DDT, lindane, and parathion.
There is an association between hypothyroidism and specific herbicides and insecticides in male applicators, similar to previous results for spouses.
This study was performed to quantify the risk of renal disease in patients using aminosalicylates (5-ASA).
Data from the United Kingdom General Practice Research Database were used to estimate the incidence of renal disease in adult patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) or prescription for 5-ASA and in patients without IBD. In a nested case-control analysis, each case of renal disease was matched to 5 controls.
Among the 19,025 5-ASA users with IBD, 130 patients developed renal disease (incidence rate of 0.17 cases per 100 patients per year). The incidence among patients with IBD but without 5-ASA use was 0.25 and among patients without IBD was 0.08. In the case-control analysis, the crude odds ratio (OR) for renal disease in current 5-ASA users was 1.60 (95% confidence interval [95% CI]: 1.14-2.26); the adjusted OR was 0.86 (95% CI: 0.53-1.41). For recent users, the crude OR was 4.18 (95% CI: 2.59-6.76) and adjusted OR 2.48 (95% CI: 1.33-4.61); for past users (last prescription more than 12 months before), 1.71 (95% CI: 1.09-2.70) and 0.99 (95% CI: 0.55-1.76), respectively. Although the numbers were small, mesalazine and sulfasalazine users had comparable risks (crude OR for current and recent users of OR 2.08 [95% CI: 1.44-3.01] and 1.84 [95% CI: 1.20-2.82], respectively). In only a few records was renal disease attributed to interstitial nephritis or 5-ASA use.
Users of 5-ASA have an increased risk of renal disease that may be partly attributable to the underlying disease. Although renal disease is a recognized adverse effect of 5-ASA, the incidence appears to be low and does not appear to be related to either the dose or type of 5-ASA used.
To determine the steady-state dose-dependence of blood pressure, plasma and tissue ouabain during continuous infusion of ouabain in the rat, and to evaluate the adrenal dependence and effect of a high salt intake on this form of hypertension.
Ouabain was administered, via subcutaneous osmotic pumps, to normal and adrenalectomized male Sprague-Dawley rats for 5 weeks. Blood pressure, plasma renin and aldosterone, and circulating and tissue levels of ouabain were determined.
Following a latent period, blood pressures and circulating ouabain were significantly elevated dose-dependently in glycoside-infused rats at 5 weeks. Upon withdrawal of the ouabain infusion, blood pressure and plasma ouabain levels normalized within 1 week. In rats that received 30 micrograms ouabain/kg per day, the circulating, kidney, hypothalamic and anterior pituitary levels of ouabain were increased significantly (by 7-, 15-, 2.8- and 2.1-fold, respectively), whereas the content of other tissues tested was unchanged. Blood pressure and plasma levels of ouabain correlated with hypothalamic and kidney glycoside content in the infused rats. High-performance liquid chromatography of the adrenal, renal, hypothalamic and pituitary extracts showed one major peak of ouabain immunoreactivity, with a retention time equivalent to that of commercial ouabain. Plasma renin activity was normal, whereas aldosterone levels were increased significantly to 2.9- and sevenfold in rats that received 10 and 30 micrograms ouabain/kg per day, respectively. Dietary salt loading suppressed aldosterone and did not exacerbate hypertension. In bilaterally adrenalectomized rats the ambient circulating and kidney levels of ouabain were low and ouabain infusion raised glycoside levels and blood pressure significantly.
Prolonged infusion of ouabain in the normal rat raises the circulating, kidney, hypothalamic and anterior pituitary levels and induces a reversible hypertension with normal plasma renin activity. Although characterized by raised aldosterone levels, the hypertension does not require the adrenal glands and is not salt-sensitive. This model may be useful for exploring novel mechanisms of long-term regulation of blood pressure.
During endotoxemia, the ATP-dependent drug efflux pump P-glycoprotein (Abcb1/P-gp) is upregulated in kidney proximal tubule epithelial cells. The signaling pathway through which lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) regulates P-gp expression and activity was investigated further in the present study. Exposure of rat kidney proximal tubule cells to TNF-alpha alone or TNF-alpha and LPS increased P-gp gene and protein expression levels and efflux activity, suggesting de novo P-gp synthesis. Upon exposure to TNF-alpha in combination with LPS, P-gp activity in renal proximal tubule cells is increased under influence of nitric oxide (NO) produced by inducible NO synthase. Upon exposure to TNF-alpha alone, P-gp upregulation seems to involve TLR4 activation and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) translocation, a pathway that is likely independent of NO. These findings indicate that at least two pathways regulate P-gp expression in the kidney during endotoxemia.
This investigation aimed to compare the efficacy and toxicity of two amikacin dosing regimens in seriously ill paediatric surgical patients. Children (0.6-12 years old) received amikacin intravenously either once daily (15 mg/kg, n = 27) or twice daily (7.5 mg/kg, n = 27). Concomitant medication was given as prescribed. Mean (SD) peak serum amikacin levels were significantly different (p < 0.05) between the once and twice daily groups (37.7 (6.9) mg/l and 19.5 (3.7) mg/l, respectively). Cumulative dose and duration of therapy were also significantly higher in the once-daily group. Regimen efficacy (favourable, unfavourable or indeterminate outcome) was assessed by patient temperatures, clinical improvement and white cell counts. Serum creatinine measurements and post-therapy, pure tone air conduction audiometry assessed nephro- and ototoxicity, respectively. No statistically significant differences were found between the groups in terms of outcome (18/24 and 22/25 patients in the once- and twice-daily groups had favourable outcomes; there were no unfavourable outcomes), nephrotoxicity (none of the patients assessed developed nephrotoxicity) or ototoxicity (2/20 and 5/20 patients, respectively, had mild high frequency hearing deficits which were predominantly unilateral and reversible). Although the regimens were similar in this study, other investigations will further clarify the optimal dosing approach in paediatric patients.
Mouse foetuses were treated by Thalidomide on days 11-12 in order to verify whether the drug would induce blood abnormalities leading to circulatory troubles. About 18% of the treated foetuses showed both severe limb haemorrhages on day 14, and obvious alterations of the nucleated red blood cells of vitelline origin. These blood abnormalities, occurring suddenly during the well-known 'critical stage' of foetal development, could be responsible for circulatory blocks leading to necrosis.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) in rat spinal cord were activated by the reflex stimulation of bulbospinal sympathetic neuronal pathways after a nitroprusside-induced hypotension. Hypotension-sensitive SPN, identified by immunoreactivity (IR) to the product of the immediate early gene c-fos and to choline acetyltransferase, were localized in the intermediolateral cell column of thoracic and upper lumbar cord, particularly middle to lower thoracic cord. Putative neurotransmitters, or their markers, in varicose fiber networks around SPN were identified. Nearly all hypotension-sensitive (Fos-IR) SPN were apposed by varicose fibers immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, serotonin, substance P, or enkephalin. Neuropeptide Y (NPY)- or phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase (PNMT)-IR varicose fibers apposed Fos-IR SPN in the upper and middle thoracic spinal cord, but in lower thoracic segments some Fos-IR SPN lacked these appositions. In thoracic segment 12, 51% +/- 5% of Fos-IR SPN (n = 9 rats) lacked PNMT contacts and 25% +/- 3% of Fos-IR SPN (n = 8 rats) lacked NPY contacts. In contrast to other chemically defined afferents, galanin-IR varicose fibers apposed fewer than half of the Fos-IR SPN in the middle to lower thoracic cord. Neurotransmitters/neuromodulators that might influence the activity of SPN acting in the baroreflex-mediated control of blood pressure have been identified. Uniformity in the neurochemistry of some fibers making connections with Fos-IR SPN, regardless of their segmental origin, suggests that common sets of neurons provide convergent inputs to all hypotension-sensitive SPN. Other fibers show topographic differences in their contacts with Fos-IR SPN, suggesting that subgroups of hypotension-sensitive SPN are targeted by particular neuron groups.
Patients with inflammatory bowel disease have normal life expectancy and, due to modern immunosuppressive therapies, also a normal quality of life. Since mostly young people are affected, their social behaviour suits this environment. Alcohol binging is an increasingly disturbing factor among young people. We describe a patient with Crohn's disease, treated with azathioprine, who developed peliosis hepatis after three epsiodes of alcohol binging. Liver toxicity was not observed previously during the course of the treatment. Azathioprine-induced peliosis hepatis is thought to be idiosyncratic in humans. From animal studies, however, it is clear that hepatic depletion of glutathione leads to azathioprine toxicity to the sinusoidal endothelial cells. Damage of these cells causes peliosis hepatis. Since alcohol binging leads to hepatic glutathione depletion, we conclude that in our patient the episodes of binging have reduced liver gluathione content and therefore this has increased azathioprine toxicity causing peliosis hepatis. The problem of alcohol binging has not yet been addressed in IBD patients undertaking immunosuppressive therapy. This should be reviewed in future considerations regarding patients advice.
Allergic contact sensitization to 'para amino' compounds is frequent and the spectrum of cross-reactivity between members of this chemical group is variable.
A retrospective analysis of clinical patch test data obtained with a special test series in the centres of the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK) between 1995 and 1999.
In the 638 patients tested with the above test panel positive reactions were observed most often to p-aminoazobenzene (16.2%), p-phenylenediamine (14.1%), p-toluylenediamine (10.0%), followed by 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (8.5%), Disperse Orange 3 (8.4%) and p-aminophenol (3.1%). Among the 544 patients tested with p-phenylenediamine and all seven additional 'para amino' compounds, concordance between reactions varied greatly. The stronger the positive test reaction to p-phenylenediamine, p-toluylenediamine or p-aminoazobenzene, the more frequently additional positive reactions to the other compounds were observed.
A screening employing several 'para amino' compounds is necessary to describe the individual spectrum of allergic contact sensitization, as there is no reliable marker substance. Further research should aim at (i) establishing the mechanism of cross-reactivity to 'para amino' compounds and (ii) identifying exposures in the environment.
The estrogenic and antiestrogenic activities of Epimedii Herba, which is a traditional medicinal herb used in Korea and China were investigated in this study. The in vitro estrogen receptor (ER) mediated estrogenic/antiestrogenic activities of an Epimedii Herba extract (Epi ext) and its major components were determined using an estrogen responsive element driven reporter gene assay in MCF-7/ERE and HEK293T cells. The Epi ext exhibited ERα- and ERβ-mediated estrogenic activity with an EC(50) of 5.0 and 17.8 μM in HEK293T cells, respectively. Prenylflavonoid glycosides such as icariin (ICA), epimedin A, B, and C did not show any in vitro estrogenic or antiestrogenic activities. Icaritin (ICT) and quercetin exhibited in vitro ER mediated estrogenic activity with a more potent interaction with ERβ. In vivo estrogenic activities of the Epi ext, ICA and ICT were compared using an uterotrophic assay. Although the potency of in vitro estrogenic activity was in the order of ICT>Epi ext>ICA, ICA had the strongest estrogenic activity and next ICT in ovariectomized rats. These results collectively suggest that phytoestrogens possess both estrogenic and antiestrogenic activity, and that the differential expression of these two compounds with opposing activities is dependent on the physiological environment in terms of estrogen level, which may be the case in humans.
1. Centella asiatica, an Indian medicinal plant, has been described as possessing central nervous system activity, such as improving intelligence. In addition, we have demonstrated that C. asiatica has cognitive-enhancing and anti-oxidant properties in normal rats. Oxidative stress or an impaired endogenous anti-oxidant mechanism is an important factor that has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cognitive deficits seen in the elderly. 2. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) streptozotocin (STZ) in rats has been likened to sporadic AD in humans and the cognitive impairment is associated with free radical generation in this model. Therefore, in the present study, the effect of an aqueous extract of C. asiatica (100, 200 and 300 mg/kg for 21 days) was evaluated in i.c.v. STZ-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats. 3. Male Wistar rats were injected with STZ (3 mg/kg, i.c.v.) bilaterally on the days 1 and 3. Cognitive behaviour was assessed using passive avoidance and elevated plus-maze paradigms on the days 13, 14 and 21. Rats were killed on the day 21 for estimation of oxidative stress parameters (malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione, superoxide dismutase and catalase) in the whole brain upon completion of the behavioural task. 4. Rats treated with C. asiatica showed a dose-dependent increase in cognitive behaviour in both paradigms. A significant decrease in MDA and an increase in glutathione and catalase levels were observed only in rats treated with 200 and 300 mg/kg C. asiatica. 5. The present findings indicate that an aqueous extract of C. asiatica is effective in preventing the cognitive deficits, as well as the oxidative stress, caused by i.c.v. STZ in rats.
We reported that inhibition of central sympathetic pools of imidazoline I(1) receptors abolishes the hypotensive effect of ethanol in rats with glycerol-induced acute renal failure (ARF). This study investigated whether adenosine receptors modulate the ethanol-I(1)-receptor interaction. The effect of selective blockade of adenosine A(1), A(2A), or A(2B) receptors on hemodynamic responses to ethanol in the absence and presence of the I(1)-receptor agonist moxonidine was determined in ARF rats. Ethanol (1g/kg i.v.) decreased and increased blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR), respectively. Pretreatment with moxonidine abolished the hypotensive but not the tachycardic effect of ethanol. The hypotensive effect of ethanol remained unaltered after selective blockade of A(1), A(2A), or A(2B) receptors with 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) and 8-(3-chlorostyryl) caffeine (CSC) and alloxazine, respectively. Neither was ethanol hypotension affected after inhibition of adenosine uptake by dipyridamole (DPY). Alternatively, the ability of moxonidine to abolish ethanol hypotension was still evident in presence of alloxazine whereas it disappeared or weakened in rats pretreated with CSC and DPCPX, respectively. These findings implicate adenosine A(2A) receptors in the moxonidine-evoked inhibition of the hypotensive action of ethanol. A modulatory role for adenosine A(1) site in the ethanol-I(1)-receptor interaction is also possible through as yet unidentified mechanism.
This report of a severe, occupational, long-term acrylamide intoxication with permanent peripheral neuropathy, that chemical toxicity is still a hazard at Danish workplaces.
Difficulty sleeping is a recognised tobacco withdrawal symptom, but sleep problems, like application site reactions, are commonly reported as adverse reactions to transdermal nicotine therapy. However, no studies have examined potential predictive factors associated with the occurrence of expected adverse experiences during transdermal nicotine therapy. The subject of skin tolerability among patients with a history of eczema, psoriasis or other skin disorders is of particular interest, as are the relationships between plasma concentrations of nicotine, concurrent smoking, sleep problems and nausea.
The cohort study involving 1392 participants was designed to assess the timing, severity and predictive factors of adverse experiences reported during 24-hour transdermal nicotine therapy. Data were collected on patients aged 18 to 70 years old who were smokers and who had expressed a strong desire to stop smoking. The intervention consisted of brief behavioural counselling, a booklet containing smoking cessation advice and instructions for use of the patches, and a 12-week course of decreasing transdermal nicotine doses.
Follow-up was available on 1392 out of 1481 study participants. The majority of adverse experiences were mild. Sleep problems occurred in 669 out of 1392 (48%) participants and most often commenced on the day of smoking cessation. Application site reactions occurred in 478 out of 1392 (34%) participants and most often occurred after 6 days of therapy. No predictor had an adjusted hazard ratio above 2. Statistically significant (p < 0.05) predictors of sleep problems were successfully quitting smoking and female gender. Predictors of application site reactions were psoriasis or eczema, other skin conditions, age <40 years, female gender, place of birth outside Australasia, and trade or university education level. Substantially increased nicotine intake during therapy compared with baseline smoking occurred in 8% of participants who smoked concurrently, and 4% of participants who did not (p = 0.1). Increased nicotine intake was associated with a modest increase in the overall rate of adverse experiences (89% vs 63%, p = 0.04) and dizziness/lightheadedness (17% vs 3%, p = 0.03), but not with sleep problems or cardiovascular events.
Transdermal nicotine therapy appears to be well tolerated, even if the user smokes concurrently. Sleep disturbance during therapy appeared to be primarily associated with tobacco withdrawal rather than with nicotine excess from treatment with transdermal nicotine. Study participants with pre-existing skin disorders were somewhat more likely to report mild application site reactions than other participants.
Silent information regulator 1 (Sirt1), a class III histone deacetylase, retards aging and protects the heart from oxidative stress. We here examined whether Sirt1 is protective against myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R).
Protein and mRNA expression of Sirt1 is significantly reduced by I/R. Cardiac-specific Sirt1(-/-) mice exhibited a significant increase (44±5% versus 15±5%; P=0.01) in the size of myocardial infarction/area at risk. In transgenic mice with cardiac-specific overexpression of Sirt1, both myocardial infarction/area at risk (15±4% versus 36±8%; P=0.004) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling-positive nuclei (4±3% versus 10±1%; P<0.003) were significantly reduced compared with nontransgenic mice. In Langendorff-perfused hearts, the functional recovery during reperfusion was significantly greater in transgenic mice with cardiac-specific overexpression of Sirt1 than in nontransgenic mice. Sirt1 positively regulates expression of prosurvival molecules, including manganese superoxide dismutase, thioredoxin-1, and Bcl-xL, whereas it negatively regulates the proapoptotic molecules Bax and cleaved caspase-3. The level of oxidative stress after I/R, as evaluated by anti-8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine staining, was negatively regulated by Sirt1. Sirt1 stimulates the transcriptional activity of FoxO1, which in turn plays an essential role in mediating Sirt1-induced upregulation of manganese superoxide dismutase and suppression of oxidative stress in cardiac myocytes. Sirt1 plays an important role in mediating I/R-induced increases in the nuclear localization of FoxO1 in vivo.
These results suggest that Sirt1 protects the heart from I/R injury through upregulation of antioxidants and downregulation of proapoptotic molecules through activation of FoxO and decreases in oxidative stress.
Niacin (nicotinic acid) is not optimally used mainly because of flushing, a process mediated primarily by prostaglandin D(2), which leads to poor patient compliance and suboptimal dosing. This phase II dose-ranging study was designed to assess whether the prostaglandin D(2) receptor 1 antagonist laropiprant (LRPT; MK-0524) would (1) reduce extended-release niacin (ERN)-induced flushing in dyslipidemic patients and (2) support a novel accelerated ERN dosing paradigm: initiating ERN at 1 g and advancing rapidly to 2 g. In part A of the study, 154 dyslipidemic patients were randomized to LRPT 150 mg/day or placebo in a 9-week, 2-period crossover study. Patients who completed part A (n = 122) entered part B (after a 2-week washout), together with additional patients who entered part B directly (n = 290). Part B patients were randomized to placebo, ERN 1 g (Niaspan, no previous titration), or ERN 1 g coadministered with LRPT 18.75, 37.5, 75, or 150 mg for 4 weeks, with doubling of the respective doses for the remaining 4 weeks. Patients treated with LRPT plus ERN experienced significantly less ERN-induced flushing than those treated with ERN alone during the initiation of treatment (ERN 1 g, week 1) and the maintenance treatment (ERN 1 to 2 g, weeks 2 to 8). All doses of LRPT were maximally effective in inhibiting niacin-induced flushing. LRPT did not alter the beneficial lipid effects of ERN. LRPT plus ERN was well tolerated. In conclusion, the significant reduction in ERN-induced flushing provided by LRPT plus ERN supports an accelerated ERN dose-advancement paradigm to achieve rapidly a 2-g dose in dyslipidemic patients.
A 21-year-old Japanese woman was referred to our hospital because of severe anemia and thrombocytopenia. Bone marrow aspiration showed a hypercellular marrow with 91.5% promyelocytes. Cytochemical study and surface marker a diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia. Because leukocyte count elevated, she was treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) after conventional chemotherapy. After 11 days of ATRA therapy, the patient started to develop severe headache, nausea and diplopia. Ophthalmologic examination revealed bilateral papilledema. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the head showed no intracranial lesion. ATRA was discontinued because it was suspected to cause intracranial hypertension. Her symptoms were relieved and patilledema improved gradually. ATRA is safe and well-tolerated, if the retinoic acid syndrome can be prevented or managed. As the tolerable dose of ATRA in adults is higher than that in children, the side effects tend to occur in children. In Japan, only two childhood cases of intracranial hypertension during ATRA therapy have been reported. We must remember the possibility of intracranial hypertension during ATRA therapy, even in adults.
To evaluate variations in sexual and erectile function in subjects taking 1 mg of finasteride for androgenetic alopecia by administering the abridged 5-item version of the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) questionnaire before and during treatment.
In a multicenter study, 186 patients with androgenetic alopecia were asked to complete the IIEF-5 regarding the domain of erectile function before (at baseline) and 4 to 6 months after beginning finasteride treatment. The test was self-administered.
The study was conducted in 7 institutional dermatology departments in Italy (Bologna, Rome, Genoa, Cagliari, Milan, Florence, and Bari).
A total of 186 patients with androgenetic alopecia were evaluated before and 4 to 6 months after the initiation of finasteride therapy (1 mg). All patients (age range, 19-43 years; mean age, 28.3 years) were followed up as outpatients.
The score on each of the 5 domains of the IIEF-5 did not show any significant change after 4 to 6 months of treatment.
Our results support the clinical impression that sexual side effects are actually much less common than reported in clinical trials. The sexual function of all patients remained stable during treatment with 1 mg of finasteride.
To evaluate safety and efficacy of thalidomide in the treatment of prurigo nodularis in a group of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients whose condition was recalcitrant to standard treatment.
Prospective study.
Outpatient dermatology and neurology clinic, both referral settings.
Eight HIV-infected patients with refractory prurigo nodularis; a total of 10 met inclusion criteria, but 2 could not be followed up.
Treatment with thalidomide, 100 mg/d. Subjects were randomized after 1 month to receive 100 or 200 mg/d. If side effects were noted, the drug was reduced to a tolerable dose or discontinued. Subjects were monitored at baseline and monthly for degree of pruritus and total area of body involvement of prurigo nodularis. Sequential neurologic assessments were performed.
Efficacy and toxic effects.
The dosage of thalidomide ranged from 33 to 200 mg/d. Eight subjects had a greater than 50% response in reduction of itch over 3.4 months (average). Seven subjects had a greater than 50% reduction of skin involvement over 5 months (average). Three subjects developed thalidomide peripheral neuropathy (TPN). There was no correlation between duration of treatment, daily or cumulative dose, and TPN. A change in the Neuropathy Impairment Score of 10 points was a good marker of TPN, as was a greater than 50% decrease in the sural sensory nerve action potential amplitude.
Thalidomide reduced the signs and symptoms of prurigo nodularis in HIV-infected subjects. One third of subjects developed TPN, underscoring the importance of careful neurologic assessment.
Prion diseases are invariably fatal neurodegenerative disorders affecting man and various animal species. A large body of evidence supports the notion that the causative agent of these diseases is the prion, which, devoid of nucleic acids, is composed largely, if not entirely, of a conformationally abnormal isoform (PrP(Sc) of the cellular prion protein (PrPc). PrPc is a highly conserved and ubiquitously expressed sialoglycoprotein, the normal function of which is, however, still ill defined. Several modules have been recognised in PrPc structure. Their extensive analysis by different experimental approaches, including transgenic animal models, has allowed to assigning to several modules a putative role in PrPc physiology. Concurrently, it has underscored the possibility that alteration of specific domains may determine the switching from a beneficial role of PrPc into one that becomes detrimental to neurons, and/or promote the conversion of PrPc into the pathogenic PrP(Sc) conformer.
Intramuscular injection of haloperidol or epinephrine in a minimum effective dose produces the maximum antipsychotic effect in rat model of schizophrenia, i.e. completely removes stereotypy, hyperlocomotion, and ataxia induced by MK-801. Haloperidol in the specified dose induces catalepsy, while epinephrine exhibits no cataleptogenic effect. Combined intramuscular injection of haloperidol and epinephrine in the threshold doses, ineffective in monotherapy, causes the maximum antipsychotic effect, but not catalepsy. Preliminary anesthesia of the gastric mucosa with 1% lidocaine and blockade of intramural ganglia in the gastric mucosa with hexamethonium completely abolished the potentiated antipsychotic effects produced by combined treatment with haloperidol and epinephrine. Hence, potentiation of the antipsychotic effect of haloperidol with epinephrine is related to stimulation of afferents in the gastric mucosa.
To investigate the ocular-hypertensive response to different dosages of topical dexamethasone eye drops in Chinese children.
Prospective, randomized clinical trial.
Thirty-one consecutive children undergoing bilateral strabismus surgery.
Topical dexamethasone (0.1%) was administered to children undergoing bilateral strabismus surgery. They were all less than 10 years of age. One eye was randomized to receive a regimen of four times daily, and another received a twice daily regimen. Intraocular pressure (IOP) was serially measured in the postoperative period for 4 weeks or more. Topical steroids were discontinued if IOP was 30 mmHg or more.
Intraocular pressure was measured on the day before the surgery, on postoperative days 1, 3, 5, 8, 12, 15, 22, 29, and 2 weeks thereafter until the IOP reached preoperative levels. Peak IOP, IOP net increase, and time to reach an IOP more than 20 mmHg in the two study groups were analyzed.
A total of 31 patients (20 male, 11 female) were examined. The mean age was 5.8 +/- 2.0 years (range, 2-10 years). Preoperative IOP in groups treated twice daily and four times daily were similar. After topical dexamethasone treatment, both groups showed a significant rise in peak IOP compared with preoperative values (twice daily, 25.2 +/- 6.8 mmHg vs. 14.3 +/- 2.4 mmHg, P < 0.001; four times daily, 28.7 +/- 6.9 mmHg vs. 14.3 +/- 2.9 mmHg, P < 0.001). The peak IOP was significantly higher in the four times daily group (P < 0.001), as was the net increase in IOP (twice daily, 10.9 +/- 5.8 mmHg vs. four times daily, 14.5 +/- 6.4 mmHg; P < 0.001). There was no difference in time for both groups to achieve the peak IOP, but the time to exceed its upper normal value (20 mmHg) was shorter in the four times daily group (twice daily, 12.3 +/- 9.1 days vs. four times daily, 10.0 +/- 7.4 days; P < 0.05).
In children treated with topical dexamethasone, ocular hypertension occurs in a dose-dependent manner. Children in the four times daily group had a quicker onset and more severe ocular hypertensive response than the twice daily group. Nevertheless, even the twice daily regimen produced significant IOP rise, suggesting that dexamethasone use in children should be avoided if possible, and it would be desirable to monitor the IOP twice weekly when it is administered to children.
Chewing of Qat leaves which contain amphetamine alkaloids is a traditional drug practice in the horn of Africa. Cathine and cathinone are responsible for the desired psychogenic (suppression of hunger, mind stimulation, euphoria) and sympathicomimetic effects. In this study, we monitored seven volunteers during a traditional qat ritual. An increase in systolic and diastolic pressure was observed in three patients including one presenting predisposing chronic arterial hypertension. Peak pressure was observed approximately seven hours after beginning the ritual. The three patients presenting pressure changes were not significantly different from the four unaffected patients with regard to age or duration of qat use. These findings suggest that qat use by untreated hypertensive patients who react strongly to vasoconstrictive effects can lead to hypertension and resulting cardiovascular complications.
