To assess the role of verapamil (VER)-sensitive calcium (Ca2+) channels in the regional development and pathogenesis of isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy, male Fischer rats (150-175 g, N = 51) were divided into control (C) and ISO-treated (I) and VER (V1, 100 mg/L drinking water; V2, 10 mg/kg ip twice daily) and no-VER subgroups. Rats began VER treatment 1 week before isoproterenol which was given subcutaneously by minipump (3 mg/kg/d) for 7 days. Mean total heart weight of all I rats was larger than C rats (p less than 0.05). Regionally, percent hypertrophy of the right ventricle (RV) was greater (p less than 0.05), while that of the atria tended to be greater (p = ns) than the left ventricle plus septum in ISO-treated rats (LVS: I, 20 +/- 5%; V1I, 19 +/- 3%; V2I, 22 +/- 6%; RV: I, 37 +/- 10%; V1I, 40 +/- 11%; V2I, 34 +/- 7%; atria: I, 64 +/- 21%; V1I, 54 +/- 56%; V2I, 51 +/- 28%). The total and regional hypertrophy of the heart produced by ISO was not affected by VER treatment. Isoproterenol produced diffuse and focal myocardial fibrosis in the subendomyocardium of the LVS with occasional foci of fibrosis in the RV and the subepimyocardium of the LVS. Quantitative analysis of picrosirius red-stained tissue sections demonstrated an increased volume percent of myocardial connective tissue limited to the subendomyocardium of the LVS in response to ISO (p less than 0.05). Verapamil partially reduced the ISO-induced fibrosis (p less than 0.05) (I, 7.04 +/- 1.01%; V1I, 4.06 +/- 0.28%; V2I, 3.87 +/- 0.27%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 77-year-old woman with a 9 years history of Parkinson's disease was admitted to our hospital because of high fever, disturbance of consciousness, increased muscular rigidity and abnormal involuntary movements. She was continuously treated with levodopa + carbidopa (Menesit) 300 mg and amantadine 150 mg every day until admission. On admission, the pulse rate was 102 per minute, blood pressure 90/40 mmHg, body temperature 40.9 degrees C, and bloody stool was noticed. On laboratory examination, erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 6 mm/h, thrombocytes 8.1 X 10(4)/microliters, fibrinogen 91 mg/dl, FDP 40 mg/ml, suggesting DIC. According to her biochemical examination, serum GOT (167 u), GPT (119 u), CPK (847 IU/l), BUN (53.9 mg/dl) and myoglobin (10,370 ng/ml) were increased. These laboratory data indicated that she was suffering from neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). On diagnosis of NMS associated with DIC, she was treated with dantrolene and FUT-175. Dantrolene was effective on the elevated COK level and FUT-175 was effective on the DIC, and symptoms of NMS and DIC were completely improved after a period of 14 days. Patients with Parkinson's disease have been suspected to have a low incidence of DIC, and this may be the first case report on successful treatment of levodopa-induced NMS with DIC in the patient with Parkinson's disease.
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or "Ecstasy") is known to damage brain serotonin neurons in animals and possibly humans. Because serotonergic damage may adversely affect memory, we compared verbal memory function between MDMA users and MDMA-naïve control subjects and evaluated the relationship between verbal memory function and neuronal dysfunction in the MDMA users.
An auditory verbal memory task (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test) was used to study eight abstinent MDMA users and seven control subjects. In addition 1H-MRS was used in different brain regions of all MDMA users to measure N-acetylaspartate/creatine (NAA/Cr) ratios, a marker for neuronal viability.
The MDMA users recalled significantly fewer words than control subjects on delayed (p =.03) but not immediate recall (p =.08). In MDMA users, delayed memory function was strongly associated with NAA/Cr only in the prefrontal cortex (R(2) =.76, p =.01).
Greater decrements in memory function predicted lower NAA/Cr levels-and by inference greater neuronal dysfunction-in the prefrontal cortex of MDMA users.
4-Aminophenol (para-aminophenol; PAP) causes selective necrosis to the S3 segment of the proximal tubule in experimental animals. The mechanism of PAP nephrotoxicity has not been fully elucidated, although it has been suggested to involve glutathione (GSH)-dependent S-conjugation followed by processing by the enzyme gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma GT) to the corresponding cysteine S-conjugate. This proposed toxicity mechanism was probed further by administering L-(alpha S,5S)-alpha-amino-3-chloro-4,5-dihydro-5-isoxazoleacetic acid (AT-125), a potent gamma GT inhibitor, to Fischer 344 (F344) rats before treatment with PAP (100 mg/kg). AT-125 pretreatment did not appear to protect against PAP-induced nephrotoxicity as assessed by renal histopathology, clinical chemistry and proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR) spectroscopy of urine. These data suggest that renal gamma GT activity is not a prerequisite for PAP nephrotoxicity and that the generation of a cysteine S-conjugate is not a unique requirement for the induction of PAP nephrotoxicity.
Genome-wide association studies have shown that variation in MTNR1B (melatonin receptor 1B) is associated with insulin and glucose concentrations. Here we show that the risk genotype of this SNP predicts future type 2 diabetes (T2D) in two large prospective studies. Specifically, the risk genotype was associated with impairment of early insulin response to both oral and intravenous glucose and with faster deterioration of insulin secretion over time. We also show that the MTNR1B mRNA is expressed in human islets, and immunocytochemistry confirms that it is primarily localized in beta cells in islets. Nondiabetic individuals carrying the risk allele and individuals with T2D showed increased expression of the receptor in islets. Insulin release from clonal beta cells in response to glucose was inhibited in the presence of melatonin. These data suggest that the circulating hormone melatonin, which is predominantly released from the pineal gland in the brain, is involved in the pathogenesis of T2D. Given the increased expression of MTNR1B in individuals at risk of T2D, the pathogenic effects are likely exerted via a direct inhibitory effect on beta cells. In view of these results, blocking the melatonin ligand-receptor system could be a therapeutic avenue in T2D.
Despite remarkable progress in resuscitation and intensive care, the morbidity and mortality rates in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) remain high due to severe pulmonary hypoplasia. The pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia associated with CDH is still not clearly understood. Pulmonary parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) is expressed in the type II epithelial cells and stimulates surfactant production by a paracrine feedback loop regulated by PTHrP receptor (PTHrP-R), which is expressed in the mesenchyme, during terminal airway differentiation. It has been reported that PTHrP knockout and PTHrP-R null mice both exhibit pulmonary hypoplasia, disrupting alveolar maturation before birth. We designed this study to test the hypothesis that gene expression of PTHrP and PTHrP-R is downregulated in the late stages of lung morphogenesis in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Fetal lungs were harvested on D15, 18, and 21 and divided into three groups: control, nitrofen without CDH [CDH(-)], and nitrofen with CDH [CDH(+)] (n = 8 at each time point for each group, respectively). Total mRNA was extracted from fetal lungs and mRNA expression of PTHrP and PTHrP-R was analyzed by real-time RT-PCR and the significant differences between the groups were accepted at P < 0.05 by statistical analysis. Immunohistochemical studies were also performed to evaluate PTHrP and PTHrP-R protein expression at each time point.
Pulmonary mRNA expression of PTHrP-R was significantly decreased in both nitrofen groups [CDH(-) and CDH(+)] compared to controls at D18 and 21. The mRNA level of PTHrP was significantly decreased at D21 in both nitrofen groups compared to controls. Immunoreactivity of PTHrP and PTHrP-R at D18 and 21 was diminished in the distal epithelium and in the mesenchyme, respectively, in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lung compared to control lungs. There were no significant differences in both gene/protein expression of PTHrP and PTHrP-R on D15.
Downregulation of PTHrP and PTHrP-R gene expression during late lung morphogenesis may cause pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen CDH model, disrupting alveolar maturation and surfactant production by interfering with mesenchymal-epithelial interactions.
To identify previously unknown genetic loci associated with fasting glucose concentrations, we examined the leading association signals in ten genome-wide association scans involving a total of 36,610 individuals of European descent. Variants in the gene encoding melatonin receptor 1B (MTNR1B) were consistently associated with fasting glucose across all ten studies. The strongest signal was observed at rs10830963, where each G allele (frequency 0.30 in HapMap CEU) was associated with an increase of 0.07 (95% CI = 0.06-0.08) mmol/l in fasting glucose levels (P = 3.2 x 10(-50)) and reduced beta-cell function as measured by homeostasis model assessment (HOMA-B, P = 1.1 x 10(-15)). The same allele was associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes (odds ratio = 1.09 (1.05-1.12), per G allele P = 3.3 x 10(-7)) in a meta-analysis of 13 case-control studies totaling 18,236 cases and 64,453 controls. Our analyses also confirm previous associations of fasting glucose with variants at the G6PC2 (rs560887, P = 1.1 x 10(-57)) and GCK (rs4607517, P = 1.0 x 10(-25)) loci.
Risk factors for the development of auditory toxicity in patients receiving aminoglycosides were determined from the analysis of 135 patients enrolled in three prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical trials of gentamicin, tobramycin, and amikacin. Auditory toxicity, defined as a decrease in auditory acuity of greater than or equal to 15 dB, occurred in 30 patients (22.3%). Patients with auditory toxicity underwent therapy for a longer period, were more likely to be bacteremic, and had, on the average, a higher temperature (P less than 0.05). Using stepwise discriminant analysis, we selected these factors with liver dysfunction and the serum urea nitrogen:serum creatinine ratio in a function that accurately discriminates between toxic and nontoxic patients. Factors not adding significantly to the predictive accuracy of the equation were plasma aminoglycoside levels, aminoglycoside type, furosemide use, diabetes, age, sex, renal function, initial auditory acuity, hematocrit value, and shock. This analysis may be important both for determining the pathophysiology of auditory toxicity and for the prognostic stratification of patients receiving aminoglycosides in clinical trials.
Chronic bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an alternative treatment for disabling forms of Parkinson's disease when on-off fluctuations and levodopa-induced dyskinesias compromise patients' quality of life. The aim of this study was to assess the evolution of side-effects during the first year of follow-up and search for clinical predictive factors accounting for their occurrence. We compared the frequency of side-effects at 3 and 12 months after surgery in a cohort of 44 patients. The off-medication scores of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) II, III, axial symptoms, disease duration and age at surgery were retained for correlation analysis. Dysarthria/hypophonia, weight gain and postural instability were the most frequent chronic side-effects. Whereas dysarthria/hypophonia remained stable over time, weight gain and postural instability increased during the first year post-op. High axial and UPDRS II scores at surgery were predictive of dysarthria/hypophonia. Age and axial score at surgery were positively correlated with postural instability. Despite the occurrence of side-effects, the benefit/side-effects ratio of STN stimulation was largely positive during the first year of follow-up. Age, intensity of axial symptoms and UDPRS II off-medication score before surgery are predictive factors of dysarthria/hypophonia and postural instability after surgery.
Neutrophil infiltration, proinflammatory cytokines, eicosanoid generation and oxidative stress have been implicated in colitis. Resveratrol is a polyphenolic compound found in grapes and wine, with multiple pharmacological actions, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antitumour and immunomodulatory activities. In a previous report, we documented that resveratrol decreases the degree of inflammation associated with acute experimental colonic inflammation, but its effects on chronic experimental colitis remain undetermined. The aim of this research was to investigate the effects of resveratrol on the chronic colonic injury caused by intracolonic instillation of trinitrobenzenesulphonic acid (TNBS) in rats. The inflammatory response was assessed by histology and myeloperoxidase activity. Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) production, histological and histochemical analysis of the lesions were also carried out. We determined the production of prostaglandin (PG) E2 and D2 in colon mucosa, as well as cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and -2 and nuclear transcription factor NF-kappa B (NF-kappaB) p65 protein expression. Finally, since resveratrol has been found to modulate apoptosis, we intended to elucidate its effects on colonic mucosa under chronic inflammatory conditions. Resveratrol (10 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) significantly attenuated the damage score and corrected the disturbances in morphology associated to injury. In addition, the degree of neutrophil infiltration and the levels of TNF-alpha were significantly ameliorated. Resveratrol did not modify PGD2 levels but returned the decreased PGE2 values to basal levels and also reduced COX-2 and the NF-kappaB p65 protein expression. Furthermore, treatment of rats with resveratrol caused a significant increase of TNBS-induced apoptosis in colonic cells. In conclusion, resveratrol reduces the damage in chronic experimentally induced colitis, alleviates the oxidative events, returns PGE2 production to basal levels and stimulates apoptosis in colonic cells.
Long-term hormone replacement therapy (HRT) reduces cardiovascular risk, but an early increased risk was reported in women with coronary heart disease. In such women the arterial intima can express tissue factor, and changes in coagulation factor VII (factor VII) and tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) may be deleterious.
We measured factor VII clotting activity, activated factor VII, and concentrations of factor VII and TFPI during 12 months in healthy post-menopausal women randomized to: (i). cyclic oral estrogen/progestin (n = 25); (ii). long-cycle oral estrogen/quarterly progestin (n = 32); (iii). continuous oral estrogen/progestin (n = 21); (iv). continuous oral estrogen/intrauterine progestin (n = 22); (v). no HRT (n = 26). Blood was collected at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months. Additional sampling was done before progestin intake in the long cycle group.
No variations were observed in the reference group. There was a substantial decrease in TFPI concentrations in the HRT groups irrespective of the type of progestin. In women receiving long-cycle treatment, all factor VII measures increased during the unopposed estrogen periods, and the increase was reversed after progestin intake. The integrated response, AUC, for TFPI was significantly lower in the HRT groups compared with the reference group.
The observed changes may increase the early thrombotic risk associated with HRT use.
Bone repair involves both anabolic and catabolic responses. We hypothesized that anabolic treatment with OP-1 (BMP-7) and anti-catabolic treatment with zoledronic acid could be synergistic. In a rat critical defect, this combination therapy produced significant increases in new bone volume and strength.
When used to augment bone healing, osteogenic protein 1 (OP-1/BMP-7) and other BMPs stimulate the anabolic response, inducing osteoblast recruitment, differentiation, and bone production. However, BMPs can also upregulate catabolism by direct stimulation of osteoclasts and indirectly by osteoblasts through RANKL/RANK. We hypothesized that if such osteoclastic upregulation were modulated by zoledronic acid (ZA), the combination of OP-1 and ZA should produce increased new bone over OP-1 alone.
Rats with a surgically induced 6-mm femoral critical size defect were separated into five dosing groups: Carrier, Carrier + ZA, OP-1, OP-1 + ZA, and OP-1 + ZA administered 2 weeks after surgery (2W). Carrier +/- 50 microg OP-1 was placed in the defect, and 0.1 mg/kg ZA or saline was administered subcutaneously. Bone repair was analyzed by radiographs, QCT, mechanical testing, histology, and histomorphometry.
Carrier alone and Carrier ZA groups did not unite by 8 weeks. Radiological union occurred in all OP-1 groups but was tenuous in some animals treated with OP-1 alone. BMC was increased by 45% in the OP-1 ZA group and 96% in the OP-1 ZA 2W group over OP-1 alone (p < 0.01). Callus volume increased over OP-1 alone by 45% and 86% in the OP-1 ZA and OP-1 ZA 2W groups, respectively (p < 0.01). The increased callus volume in the OP-1 ZA 2W group translated to increases in strength of 107% and stiffness of 148% (p < 0.05). BFR was not significantly different between OP-1 groups regardless of ZA treatment.
ZA treatment significantly increased the BMC, volume, and strength of OP-1-mediated callus in a critical size defect in rats at 8 weeks. Thus, modulation of both anabolic and catabolic responses may optimize the amount and mineral content of callus produced, which could be of clinical benefit in obtaining bone union.
Calcium chloride is administered frequently to critically ill patients to improve cardiac output and BP. However, Ca has been implicated in the pathophysiology of shock and ischemic disorders. To test the hypothesis that Ca may be deleterious to shock outcome, we studied the effects of CaCl and Ca chelator (EGTA) infusions on mean arterial pressure (MAP) responses to endotoxin and 24-h survival in rats. Increasing ionized Ca from 4.1 +/- 0.06 to 4.9 +/- 0.20 and 8.5 +/- 0.52 mg/dl progressively increased endotoxin lethality from 20% to 37% and 80%, respectively. This occurred despite slight improvements in MAP in hypercalcemic rats. Conversely, hypocalcemia (3.6 +/- 0.08 mg/dl) lowered endotoxin-induced mortality to 0 without significant effects on MAP. Ca and EGTA infusions alone were not associated with any mortality. Although Ca administration may improve MAP, it significantly increases mortality associated with endotoxic shock in rats. Based on these observations, we advise caution when using Ca in patients with sepsis.
CpG endonuclease activity was identified in nuclear extracts obtained from mouse lung tumors. Enzyme activity was determined using a 333 bp polymerase chain reaction product of the estrogen receptor-alpha gene that contained either radiolabeled cytosine or tritium-labeled methyl groups at CpG sites. Activity was measured as the release of radioactivity from the substrate. The product of the nuclease activity was identified by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) as either 5-methyl-2'-deoxycytidine when the CpG sites in the substrate were methylated or 2'-deoxycytidine when the CpG sites were not methylated. The CpG endonuclease activity was dependent on nuclear protein and temperature, had a proclivity for double-stranded over single-stranded DNA and was inhibited by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid or 2-mercaptoethanol. Strain A/J mouse lung tumors induced by vinyl carbamate had a greater level of CpG endonuclease activity than non-involved lung tissue. Budesonide, a potent chemopreventive agent in mouse lung, not only prevented an increase in CpG endonuclease activity in lung tumors but, when administered to mice with established tumors, also decreased the level of endonuclease activity in the tumors. The effect of budesonide on CpG endonuclease activity in lung tumors was inversely related to its published effect on DNA methylation in mouse lung tumors, i.e. the drug decreased CpG endonuclease activity and increased the methylation of DNA. The increased CpG endonuclease activity in mouse lung tumors and its inhibition by budesonide would suggest this endonuclease as a potential molecular target for chemoprevention.
Endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) have been developed to block the effects of endothelin-1 (ET-1) in a variety of cardiovascular conditions. ET-1 is a powerful vasoconstrictor with mitogenic or co-mitogenic properties, which acts through the stimulation of 2 subtypes of receptors [endothelin receptor subtype A (ETA) and endothelin receptor subtype B (ETB) receptors]. Endogenous ET-1 is involved in a variety of conditions including systemic and pulmonary hypertension (PH), congestive heart failure (CHF), vascular remodeling (restenosis, atherosclerosis), renal failure, cancer, and cerebrovascular disease. The first dual ETA/ETB receptor blocker, bosentan, has already been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Trials of endothelin receptor antagonists in heart failure have been completed with mixed results so far. Studies are ongoing on the effects of selective ETA antagonists or dual ETA/ETB antagonists in lung fibrosis, cancer, and subarachnoid hemorrhage. While non-peptidic ET-1 receptor antagonists suitable for oral intake with excellent bioavailability have become available, proven efficacy is limited to pulmonary hypertension, but it is possible that these agents might find a place in the treatment of several cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular diseases in the coming future.
Female Fischer rats were divided into two groups and fed either basal diet or basal diet containing 0.166% 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl) thiazole for 52 weeks followed by basal diet for an additional 16 weeks. Our of the 24 rats fed 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl) thiazole, 23 had forestomach tumors, four had fibroadenomas and two had adenocarcinomas in the mammary glands, two had renal pelvic carcinomas, five had papillomas and six had carcinomas in the bladder, and two had cutaneous tumors. None of the 10 rats fed basal diet developed tumors. In another study, two-week-old Fischer rats of both sexes were injected s.c. once a week for the first eight weeks with 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl) thiazole at a dose of 10 mg/kg and then 1.4 mg/rat for an additional 46 weeks. The control rats were injected with solvent (dimethyl sulfoxide: water, 1:1) only. The experiment was terminated at the end of 58 weeks. Malignant fibrous histiocytomas were found in five out of eight male rats and four out of 11 female rats, and an angiosarcoma was found in one out of eight male rats injected with 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl) thiazole. None of the control rats developed tumors.
According to the CAO-/ARO-/AIO-94 trial of the German Rectal Cancer Study Group, pre-operative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based long-term chemoradiotherapy (CT/RT) is recommended for patients with rectal cancer UICC stage II/III. However, despite the local benefit of neoadjuvant treatment, the overall prognostic value remains uncertain in comparison to adjuvant CT/RT. We assessed the impact of standardized pre-operative CT/RT and intratumoural mRNA levels and polymorphisms of the TS gene on histopathological tumour regression.
40 patients with rectal cancer UICC stage II/III, receiving pre-operative 5-FU-based CT/RT followed by standardized surgery, including total mesorectal excision, were investigated. TS gene expression and TS polymorphisms of surgical specimens were correlated with the grade of histopathological tumour regression (0-4). Patients achieved regression grades 2-4 were determined as responders.
TS polymorphisms (5'-28bp repeat+G/C SNP and TS1494del6) could be determined in 39/40 (97.5%) and in 38/40 (95%) patients, respectively. Quantification of TS mRNA expression was successful in 36/40 (90%) patients. There was a highly significant linkage disequilibrium between 5'- and 3'-TS polymorphisms (p=0.0013). Interestingly, the majority of patients (82.1%) with 5'-TS genotypes known to be associated with low mRNA expression (2R/2R, 2R/3RC, 3RC/3RC) also possessed the TS1494del6 +6bp/+6bp genotype correlating with high TS mRNA expression. TS1494del6 polymorphism was significantly associated with TS mRNA expression. Patients with TS1494del6 -6bp/-6bp or -6bp/+6bp genotypes showed significantly lower mean TS mRNA expression with 0.55 (range:0.33;0.84) as compared to +6bp homozygotes with a mean expression of 0.90 (range:0.20;1.91) (p=0.025). Furthermore, all patients with TS 3'-UTR -6bp/-6bp or -6bp/+6bp genotype (11/11) were responders as compared to only 20/26 (77%) of patients with TS 3'-UTR +6bp/+6bp genotype (p=0.082). TS 5'-polymorphisms were not associated with neither tumour regression nor gene expression.
Our data suggest that the TS1494del6 polymorphism may be an important predictor for histopathological tumour regression in UICC II/III rectal cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant 5-FU-based CT/RT.
Although melatonin has been established as a free radical scavenger and antioxidant, its effects in diabetes have not been thoroughly investigated. The purpose of this study, therefore, was to investigate the effects of melatonin administration on lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes in rats. Concentrations of malondialdehyde (MDA) and reduced glutathione (GSH) in erythrocytes and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) were compared in 3 groups of 10 rats each [control non-diabetic rats (group I), untreated diabetic rats (group II) and diabetic rats treated with melatonin (group III)]. In the study groups, diabetes developed 3 days after intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of a single 60-mg/kg dose of STZ. Thereafter, while the rats in group II received no treatment, the rats in group III began to receive a 10-mg/kg i.p. dose of melatonin per day. After 6 wk, the rats in groups II and III had significantly lower body weights and significantly higher blood glucose levels than the rats of group I (P<0.001 and P<0.001, respectively). There were no significant differences in body weight or blood glucose levels between groups II and III. MDA levels in untreated diabetic rats were higher than those in control group rats and in diabetic rats treated with melatonin (P<0.01 and P<0.05, respectively). However, MDA levels in diabetic rats treated with melatonin were not different from those of the control group. The GSH, GSH-Px and SOD levels of untreated diabetic rats were significantly lower than those of the control group (P<0.02, P<0.002 and P<0.05, respectively). In group III, however, melatonin prevented decreases in the thiol antioxidant and the associated enzymes, and so these levels were not significantly different from those in the control group. These results confirm the presence of oxidative stress in STZ-induced experimental diabetes and indicate the beneficial free radical-scavenging and antioxidant properties of melatonin.
The rat has been explored in detail for its in utero susceptibility to male reproductive tract malformation following phthalate exposure. Few other species have been studied in detail, and it is important for both mechanistic and risk assessment purposes to understand the species specificity of this response. We investigated the response of the fetal mouse testis to phthalate exposure and compared these results with those previously obtained from the rat. Initial experiments using a variety of phthalate congeners (monobutyl phthalate, di-(n-butyl) phthalate, or mono (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate) and exposure paradigms did not reduce fetal mouse testis testosterone levels. Pharmacokinetic data after a single 500 mg/kg di-(n-butyl)-phthalate (DBP) exposure on mouse gestation day (gd) 18 demonstrated that the concentrations and kinetics of the active metabolite monobutyl phthalate (MBP) in fetal and maternal plasma were similar to the rat. After a single 500 mg/kg or multiple day 250 mg/kg fetal mouse DBP exposure, rapid and dynamic changes in testis gene expression were observed, including induction of immediate early genes. Unlike the rat, expression of genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis and steroidogenesis were not decreased and were increased in a few cases. Similar to the rat, however, a 250- or 500-mg DBP/kg/day mouse exposure from gd 16 through 18 significantly increased seminiferous cord diameter, the number of multinucleated gonocytes per cord, and the number of nuclei per multinucleated gonocyte. Together, these results demonstrate that fetal mouse and rat phthalate exposure both induce immediate early gene expression and disrupt seminiferous cord and gonocyte development. This response in the mouse occurs without a measurable decrease in testicular testosterone, suggesting that altered seminiferous cord formation and gonocyte multinucleation may not be mechanistically linked to lowered testosterone.
We measured plasma levels of the oxidative DNA damage marker 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and leucocyte mRNA expression levels of the genes encoding the 8-OHdG repair enzyme human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (hOGG1), the anti-oxidant enzymes copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/ZnSOD), manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPx-1), GPx-4, glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione synthetase (GS), the mitochondrial biogenesis-related proteins mtDNA-encoded ND 1 polypeptide (ND1), ND6, ATPase 6, mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam), nuclear respiratory factor 1(NRF-1), pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 component alpha subunit (PDHA1), pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase isoenzyme 1 (PDK-1) and hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) and the glycolytic enzymes hexokinase-II (HK-II), glucose 6-phosphate isomerase (GPI), phosphofructokinase (PFK), glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHa). We analysed their relevance to oxidative damage in 85 systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients, four complicated SLE patients undergoing rituximab treatment and 45 healthy individuals. SLE patients had higher plasma 8-OHdG levels (P < 0·01) but lower leucocyte expression of the genes encoding hOGG1(P < 0·01), anti-oxidant enzymes (P < 0·05), mitochondrial biogenesis-related proteins (P < 0·05) and glycolytic enzymes (P < 0·05) than healthy individuals. The increase in plasma 8-OHdG was correlated positively with the elevation of leucocyte expression of the genes encoding hOGG1 (P < 0·05), anti-oxidant enzymes (P < 0·05), several mitochondrial biogenesis-related proteins (P < 0·05) and glycolytic enzymes (P < 0·05) in lupus patients. The patients, whose leucocyte mtDNA harboured D310 heteroplasmy, exhibited a positive correlation between the mtDNA copy number and expression of ND1, ND6 and ATPase 6 (P < 0·05) and a negative correlation between mtDNA copy number and systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index (SLEDAI) (P < 0·05), as well as plasma 8-OHdG (P < 0·05). In particular, four complicated SLE patients with increased expression of the genes encoding the anti-oxidant enzymes, GAPDH, Tfam and PDHA1, experienced better therapeutic outcomes after rituximab therapy. In conclusion, higher oxidative damage with suboptimal increases in DNA repair, anti-oxidant capacity, mitochondrial biogenesis and glucose metabolism may be implicated in SLE deterioration, and this impairment might be improved by targeted biological therapy.
The results of many laboratory studies suggest that amphetamine use may lead to altered immune function and cytokine expression, both of which are implicated in HIV-related lymphomagenesis. We examined the hypothesis that use of amphetamines modifies risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in HIV-infected men in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study. Data on amphetamine use were collected every six months during the follow-up period between 1984 and 2002. A total of 171 NHL cases were diagnosed from the 19,250 person-years accrued. Multivariable Cox models were used to estimate the effects of baseline exposures, time-varying recent exposures, and three years lagged exposures on risk of NHL adjusting for potential confounders such as demographics, use of other substances, and risky sexual behaviors. We found that weekly or more frequent use of amphetamines was associated with an increased risk of NHL, with hazard ratios of 1.75 (95% CI = 0.81-3.77) for use at baseline, 4.73 (1.41-15.81) for recent use, and 3.05 (1.19-7.82) for three years prior use. Similar associations were observed when we separately examined systemic NHL and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Given these observations, the impact of amphetamines on lymphomagenesis among HIV-infected populations should be assessed more thoroughly.
We report the first case of a patient with Andersen syndrome in whom electrophysiologic study was performed. The patient was a 19-year-old woman with familial periodic paralysis, abnormal QT-U complex, and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. Mutation analysis revealed a missense mutation in KCNJ2, a component of Kir2.1. Monophasic action potential recordings showed a delayed afterdepolarization (DAD)-like hump in the left ventricle. Initiation of epinephrine-induced premature ventricular contractions always coincided with both the exaggerated DAD-like hump and the U wave. These findings suggest that reduced Kir2.1 current contributes to the development of DAD and ventricular arrhythmias in Andersen syndrome.
Thirty-eight in-patients with endogenous- and 20 in-patients with non-endogenous depression, took part in a multi-centre 3-week double-blind trial where patients were randomly allocated to treatment with either 6 g L-tryptophan or 150 mg imipramine daily. Item analysis of Hamilton ratings, before the investigation and weekly during the trial period demonstrated few statistically different mean scores on individual items between the two treatment groups. After 3 weeks' treatment a statistically significant item mean reduction on the 0.1% level was found in the item Agitation in favour of imipramine-treated, and in the item Work and Activities in favour of L-tryptophan-treated endogenously depressed patients. After 3 weeks' treatment a statistically significant item mean reduction on the 5% level was found in the item Suicide in favour of imipramine-treated non-endogenously depressed patients. The present study has shown that, after 3 weeks' treatment, imipramine and L-tryptophan has decreased the mean score on individual items of HRS in about the same degree.
S-1 is the most effective oral fluoropyrimidine derivative widely used for patients with gastric carcinoma in Japan. Although S-1 plus taxane has been a promising candidate as an effective chemotherapeutic regimen, the mechanisms of its additive or synergistic anticancer effects and changes in gene expression after the administration of these agents have not yet been fully elucidated.
Experimental chemotherapy was performed using human gastric carcinoma xenografts, MKN-45 and TMK-1, to examine anticancer effects and gene expressions of fluoropyrimidine metabolism-related enzymes including thymidine phosphorylase (TP), thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT), and uridine phosphorylase (UP). Nude mice were treated with S-1, paclitaxel, and their combination. After treatment, in vivo antitumor effects of S-1, paclitaxel alone, and their combination and the effects on gene expressions of enzymes involved in 5-fluorouracil metabolism were examined using the RT-PCR method.
The combined use of S-1 and paclitaxel showed additive to synergistic antitumor effects on both gastric cancer xenografts. While consistent upregulation of dThPase and DPD gene expression was exhibited after administration of S-1, no further increase of dThPase gene expression after combined use of S-1 with paclitaxel was observed. There was no increase in TS gene expression after the administration of either S-1 alone or paclitaxel alone.
These results provide some insight into the mechanism and/or rationale underlying the additive to synergistic effect of combined administration of S-1 and paclitaxel in gastric carcinoma.
Several electrical neural oscillatory abnormalities have been associated with schizophrenia, although the underlying mechanisms of these oscillatory problems are unclear. Animal studies suggest that one of the key mechanisms of neural oscillations is through glutamatergic regulation; therefore, neural oscillations may provide a valuable animal-clinical interface on studying glutamatergic dysfunction in schizophrenia. To identify glutamatergic control of neural oscillation relevant to human subjects, we studied the effects of ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist that can mimic some clinical aspects of schizophrenia, on auditory-evoked neural oscillations using a paired-click paradigm. This was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of ketamine vs saline infusion on 10 healthy subjects. Clinically, infusion of ketamine in subanesthetic dose significantly increased thought disorder, withdrawal-retardation, and dissociative symptoms. Ketamine significantly augmented high-frequency oscillations (gamma band at 40-85 Hz, p=0.006) and reduced low-frequency oscillations (delta band at 1-5 Hz, p<0.001) compared with placebo. Importantly, the combined effect of increased gamma and reduced delta frequency oscillations was significantly associated with more withdrawal-retardation symptoms experienced during ketamine administration (p=0.02). Ketamine also reduced gating of the theta-alpha (5-12 Hz) range oscillation, an effect that mimics previously described deficits in schizophrenia patients and their first-degree relatives. In conclusion, acute ketamine appeared to mimic some aspects of neural oscillatory deficits in schizophrenia, and showed an opposite effect on scalp-recorded gamma vs low-frequency oscillations. These electrical oscillatory indexes of subanesthetic ketamine can be potentially used to cross-examine glutamatergic pharmacological effects in translational animal and human studies.
Previous data have demonstrated that the convulsant effects of cocaine can be modulated by compounds that increase levels of endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or that directly stimulate GABA(A) receptors.
To determine whether the convulsant effects of cocaine can be modulated by ligands selective for GABA(B) receptors in mice.
Effects of the GABA(B) receptor agonist ((+/-)-baclofen), antagonist (phaclofen), and their combination were tested against clonic seizures induced by cocaine (75 mg/kg). Enantiomers of baclofen were used to confirm stereospecificity of (+/-)-baclofen's effects. Pharmacological specificity of (+/-)-baclofen's effects was tested by comparison against seizures induced by GBR 12909 (monoamine transporter inhibitor), pentylenetetrazole (GABA(A) antagonist), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA agonist), and aminophylline (A1/A2 adenosine antagonist). Additionally, effects of (+/-)-baclofen on kindled seizures induced by repeated administration of cocaine (60 mg/kg every 24 h for 6 days) were evaluated. The inverted screen test was used to assess behavioral side effects of baclofen.
(+/-)-Baclofen dose-dependently inhibited acute (ED50=4.1 mg/kg) and kindled (6.4 mg/kg) seizures induced by cocaine at doses somewhat lower than those producing behavioral side effects (11.5 mg/kg), and these effects were stereospecific. (+/-)-Baclofen suppressed seizures induced by GBR 12909 but not by pentylenetetrazole, NMDA, and aminophylline, suggesting selectivity of its anticonvulsant effects for monoamine-related mechanisms. Finally, phaclofen dose-dependently enhanced the convulsant effects of a threshold dose of cocaine (60 mg/kg).
Modulation of GABA(B) receptors can affect seizures induced by cocaine. This molecular mechanism may be involved in seizures induced by cocaine or, alternatively, may function as an independent inhibitory mechanism against seizures arising from blockade of monoamine uptake.
