This in vitro study determined the decontamination potential of soap and water, D-TAM skin cleanser, corn oil and the O'Dell reactive skin decontamination system to remove 3,5-dichloro-2,4,6-trifluoropyridine (DCTFP) from human skin after short exposure periods (10 and 30 min). The main result turned out to be the rapid volatility of DCTFP where half of the dose evaporated within 10 min and most of the dose was evaporated after 30 min. This rapid volatility was confirmed in an additional study where DCTFP rapidly evaporated from inert plastic disks (70% loss in 10 min). Despite rapid evaporation and short exposure periods, some DCTFP entered into the human skin epidermis, dermis and receptor fluid. Less DCTFP reached the receptor fluid with the 10 min decontamination (0.13%) than the 30 min decontamination (0.27%). Statistically, all tested decontamination systems performed the same (P>0.05). For human risk the volatility of DCTFP seems paramount. For skin decontamination any of the tested systems will work. An important point is that they should be used within minutes of skin exposure. This study exhibits the dynamics of evaporation, substantivity (skin binding), percutaneous absorption and decontamination of a volatile chemical.
The separate and combined effects of successive administration of amantadine, 100 mg/kg, i.p., and chlorpromazine, 0.2 mg/kg, i.p., on motor activity and whole brain levels of certain biogenic amines and major metabolites were studied in four strains of mice. These were the albino ICR, the inbred BALB/C, C57BL/6 and the hybrid CDF-I mice. Amantadine produced a strain-dependent behavioral stimulation subsequent the fourth dose. This was apparent in ICR and C57BL/6 mouse strains and was followed by a behavioral depression phase occurring during the night in C57BL/6 mice which was antagonized by chlorpromazine. Administration of chlorpromazine alone affected only CDF-1 mouse mobility. Chlorpromazine reduced only ICR mouse brain dopamine without concomitant changes in major acid metabolites. Repeated administration of amantadine prior to chlorpromazine negated this effect. Chlorpromazine enhancement of BALB/C brain serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was antagonised by pretreatment with amantadine. This antagonism was also evident in BALB/C mouse brain dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. The results suggest genotypic-dependent behavioral and cerebral effects by the drugs studied. The antagonism between amantadine and chlorpromazine on brain amines may explain the therapeutic efficacy of amantadine in modulating chlorpromazine-induced extrapyramidal disorders.
PGE(2) is a recognized mediator of many fevers, and cyclooxygenase (COX) is the major therapeutic target for antipyretic therapy. The source, as well as the site of action of PGE(2), as an endogenous pyrogen, is widely accepted as being central, but PGE(2) in the circulation, possibly from leukocytes, may also contribute to the development of fever. However, bacterial infections are important causes of high fever in patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy, and such fevers persist despite the use of COX inhibitors. In the study reported here, the febrile response to bacterial LPS was measured in rats made leukopenic by cyclophosphamide. A striking increase in LPS fever occurred in these granulocytopenic rats when compared with febrile responses in normal animals. Unlike LPS fever in normal rats, fever in granulocytopenic rats was neither accompanied by an increase in blood PGE(2) nor inhibited by ibuprofen. Both leukopenic and normal rats showed LPS-induced COX-2-immunoreactivity in cells associated with brain blood vessels. Furthermore, LPS induced an increase of PGE(2) in cerebrospinal fluid. Induction of COX-2-expression and PGE(2) production was inhibited by ibuprofen in normal but not in leukopenic rats. Although the results presented are, in part, confirmatory, they add new information to this field and open a number of important questions as yet unresolved. Overall, the present results indicate that, in contrast to immunocompetent rats, leukocytes and/or other mechanisms other than PGE(2) are implicated in the mechanisms restricting and reducing the enhanced febrile response to endotoxin in immunosuppressed hosts.
Six multivariable models predicting 3-month outcome of acute ischemic stroke have been developed and internally validated previously. The purpose of this study was to externally validate the previous models in an independent data set.
We predicted outcomes for 299 patients with ischemic stroke who received placebo in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA trial. The model equations used 6 acute clinical variables and head CT infarct volume at 1 week as independent variables and 3-month National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, Barthel Index, and Glasgow Outcome Scale as dependent variables. Previously developed model equations were used to forecast excellent and devastating outcome for subjects in the placebo tissue plasminogen activator data set. Area under the receiver operator characteristic curve was used to measure discrimination, and calibration charts were used to measure calibration. The validation data set patients were more severely ill (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale and infarct volume) than the model development subjects. Area under the receiver operator characteristic curves demonstrated remarkably little degradation in the validation data set and ranged from 0.75 to 0.89. Calibration curves showed fair to good calibration.
Our models have demonstrated excellent discrimination and acceptable calibration in an external data set. Development and validation of improved models using variables that are all available acutely are necessary.
The aim of this study was to examine the role of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) in the toxic action of methamphetamine on dopaminergic neurones in rats. Methamphetamine (10 mg/kg sc), administered five times, reduced the levels of dopamine and its metabolites in striatal tissue when measured 72 h after the last injection. A selective antagonist of mGluR5, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP; 5 mg/kg ip), when administered five times immediately before each methamphetamine injection reversed the above-mentioned methamphetamine effects. A single MPEP (5 mg/kg ip) injection reduced the basal extracellular dopamine level in the striatum, as well as dopamine release stimulated either by methamphetamine (10 mg/kg sc) or by intrastriatally administered veratridine (100 microM). Moreover, it transiently diminished the methamphetamine (10 mg/kg sc)-induced hyperthermia and reduced basal body temperature. MPEP administered into the striatum at high concentrations (500 microM) increased extracellular dopamine levels, while lower concentrations (50-100 microM) were devoid of any effect. The results of this study suggest that the blockade of mGluR5 by MPEP may protect dopaminergic neurones against methamphetamine-induced toxicity. Neuroprotection rendered by MPEP may be associated with the reduction of the methamphetamine-induced dopamine efflux in the striatum due to the blockade of extrastriatal mGluR5, and with a decrease in hyperthermia.
Ninety-eight of 945 patients admitted to Hennepin County Medical Center with acute medical complications of cocaine intoxication presented with seizures within 90 min of cocaine ingestion. Cocaine-related seizures were most frequently single, generalized convulsions, and these individuals all had normal cranial CT and EEG. Of the 945 patients, 18.4% of the women presented with seizures, compared with only 6.2% of the men. All subjects who presented with new onset focal seizures following cocaine ingestion had acute cocaine-related cerebral strokes or hemorrhages. Individuals with a history of cocaine-unrelated seizures, had their typical convulsions precipitated with "recreational" doses of cocaine. All four subjects with status epilepticus had ingested massive doses of cocaine, were resistant to medical treatment, and had significant morbidity and mortality. We were able to characterize four subgroups of subjects at risk for cocaine-related convulsions. First, individuals who had ingested massive doses of cocaine (2-8 gms) in whom cocaine induced seizures by its direct, dose-related convulsant effects. Second, individuals with a history of epilepsy had their typical seizures precipitated by lowering the seizure threshold. Third, females are at greater risk for cocaine-related compared to males. Fourth, years of chronic, habitual cocaine abuse may result in "chemical" kindling of epilepsy.
Twenty-three patients with advanced and heavily pretreated myeloma were treated with thalidomide. Starting dose was 200 mg/d, and 20 patients had dose escalations up to 400 (n = 5), 600 (n = 12) or 800 mg/d (n = 3), usually in divided doses. Nineteen patients were refractory to recent chemotherapy, and four had untreated relapse after prior intensive therapy. Ten out of 23 patients (43%) achieved partial response (PR; nine with refractory and one with relapsed disease), six patients had minor response or stabilization of the disease and four had disease progression. Another three patients died early from advanced myeloma at less than 3 weeks of thalidomide therapy. Of the 10 patients with PR, seven had a better response than after any prior therapy, despite vincristine-doxorubicin-dexamethasone (VAD)-based treatment in all but one and high-dose melphalan with autologous stem cell support in four. Time to achieve PR was rapid in patients receiving thalidomide in divided doses (median 31 d). Responses also included reduced bone marrow plasma cell infiltration and improved general status. Normalized polyclonal gammaglobulin levels were seen in four cases. Six out of 10 patients with PR remained in remission with a median time on treatment of 23 weeks (range 15-50 weeks). Sedation was common but usually tolerable, and some patients continued full- or part-time work. Four patients had skin problems, three patients had pneumonia, one hypothyrosis, one sinus bradycardia and one minor sensory neuropathy. Thalidomide may induce good partial remissions in advanced refractory myeloma with tolerable toxicity, and should be evaluated in other settings for myeloma patients. Divided thalidomide doses seem to reduce time to achieve remission and may improve response rate.
The spinocerebellar ataxias are a rare group of inherited neurodegenerative disorders. Epilepsy has not previously been associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2).
We describe a family with 3 affected members who had typical phenotypic and MRI features of SCA2. Two had focal epilepsy with complex partial seizures and epileptiform discharges on electroencephalography. Trinucleotide expansions in the pathological range were found in the SCA2 gene, confirming SCA2. Sequencing of the expanded SCA2 gene did not reveal any new mutations that could account for epilepsy.
The focal epilepsy was well-controlled with carbamazepine.
We hypothesise that the new feature of focal epilepsy is due to co-existence of a separate unlinked epilepsy susceptibility gene with the expanded SCA2 gene. Under this oligogenic model, both genes must be present, and co-inheritance of this susceptibility gene with the expanded SCA2 gene causes a complex interaction which triggers epilepsy.
We report a 3-week-old boy with cholestatic hepatitis, most likely due to carbamazepine exposure during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Cholestasis resolved after cessation of nursing. Liver function test results and histological findings were compatible with a drug-induced hepatitis. Other causes were excluded. While carbamazepine-induced hepatitis is well known in children and adults, it has never been described in association with prenatal exposure and/or breast-feeding.
Adult obese Zucker rats (OZRs) have elevated sympathetic vasomotor tone and arterial pressure (AP) with blunted baroreflex-mediated changes in heart rate (HR) compared with adult lean Zucker rats (LZRs). The present study examined whether compromised cardiac baroreflexes are indicative of attenuated sympathetic responses. In addition, because juvenile OZRs have a normal mean AP, we determined whether baroreflexes are fully functional prior to hypertension. At 13 wk, adult OZRs had an elevated baseline mean AP compared with LZRs (137 +/- 3 vs. 123 +/- 5 mmHg, P < 0.05) under urethane anesthesia. Phenylephrine-induced increases in AP evoked smaller inhibitions of splanchnic sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) and HR in OZRs compared with LZRs. In addition, sympathoexcitatory responses to nitroprusside-induced hypotension were also blunted in OZRs. Sigmoid analysis revealed a decreased gain, a higher mean AP at the midpoint of the curve (AP(50)), and a reduced range of changes in SNA in OZRs. In contrast, at 7 wk of age, although juvenile OZRs weighed more than LZRs (313 +/- 13 vs. 204 +/- 4 g, P < 0.05), mean AP was comparable in both groups (122 +/- 5 vs. 121 +/- 4 mmHg, not significant). In these rats, rapid changes in AP evoked comparable changes in SNA and HR in OZRs and LZRs. Sigmoid analysis revealed that, although the gain of the reflex was blunted in OZRs (P < 0.05), the mean AP(50) and range of changes in SNA were comparable in OZRs and LZRs. Together, these data indicate that in adult OZRs, sympathetic responses to acute changes in AP are smaller than those observed in adult LZRs and that impairment of baroreceptor reflexes in OZR is not limited to the regulation of HR but extends to sympathetic vasomotor control. In addition, most of these deficits in baroreflex control of SNA develop in adulthood long after the onset of obesity and when other deficits in cardiovascular regulation are present.
The possible synergism between caffeine and muscarinic antagonists to inhibit haloperidol-induced catalepsy was investigated with the bar test in rats. Pretreatment with low doses of caffeine (1-3 mg/kg), a non-selective adenosine antagonist, dose dependently reduced the intensity and increased the onset latency of catalepsy induced by haloperidol (0.5-2 mg/kg). Similar effects were produced by the muscarinic antagonists atropine (4.1 mg/kg), and trihexyphenidyl (THP, 0.01-3 mg/kg). THP inhibited catalepsy intensity with an ED(50) of 0.38 mg/kg, and increased its onset latency with an ED(50) of 0.52 mg/kg. The anticataleptic effect of anticholinergics was potentiated when a low dose of caffeine (1 mg/kg) was applied simultaneously. In the presence of caffeine, THP inhibited catalepsy intensity with an ED(50) of 0.19 mg/kg, and prolonged the latency with an ED(50) of 0.30 mg/kg. The synergism was more evident when THP was administered at subthreshold doses that were unable to modify haloperidol-induced catalepsy when applied alone, but produced a clear inhibition of catalepsy when injected with caffeine. To assess whether repeated administration of caffeine could induce tolerance to the synergism with THP, a group of rats was pretreated with three daily doses of caffeine (1 mg/kg) for seven days, and the catalepsy test was performed on the eighth day. In these animals, caffeine was still able to enhance the anticataleptic actions of THP, suggesting that repeated administration of 1 mg/kg caffeine does not induce tolerance to the synergism with anticholinergics. These results indicate that low doses of caffeine enhance the anticataleptic actions of muscarinic antagonists, and leave open the possibility of using caffeine as adjunctive therapy to reduce the doses and the adverse effects of anticholinergics in Parkinson's disease.
Experiments were performed to investigate the effects of long-term treatment with adrenergic receptor antagonist on electrical remodeling of the left ventricle with chronic pressure-overload. New Zealand rabbits underwent subtotal banding of superrenal abdominal aorta. At 10 weeks after surgery, echocardiography examination was performed, then action potential (AP), inward rectifier potassium current (I(Ki)), delayed rectifier potassium current (I(K)) and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger current (I(Na(+)/Ca(2+))) were recorded in midmyocardial cells isolated from left ventricle of abdominal aorta banded group (banded group), abdominal aorta banding plus Carvedilol intervention group (Carvedilol group), and normal control group rabbits by using the whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. The results showed that left ventricular mass index in control, banded, and Carvedilol groups were 1.78+/-0.06 (n=7), 2.33+/-0.11 (n=7), and 1.87+/-0.08 (n=7), respectively (banded vs control and Carvedilol, P<0.01). At basic cycle length of 2 s, AP duration (measured at 90% repolarization, APD(90), ms) in control, banded, and Carvedilol groups were 522.0+/-19.5 (n=6), 664.7+/-46.2 (n=7), 567.8+/-14.3 (n=8) respectively (banded vs control, P<0.01; Carvedilol vs banded, P<0.05). At test potential of -100 mV, inward I(Ki) density (pA/pF) in control, banded, and Carvedilol groups were -11.8+/-0.50 (n=8), -8.07+/-0.28 (n=8), -10.69+/-0.35 (n=8) respectively (banded vs control and Carvedilol, P<0.01). At test potential of +50 mV, I(K) tail current density (pA/pF) in control, banded, and Carvedilol groups were 0.59+/-0.04 (n=8), 0.40+/-0.02 (n=9), 0.51+/-0.02 (n=8) respectively (banded vs control, P<0.01; Carvedilol vs banded, P<0.05). At test potential of +60 mV, outward I(Na(+)/Ca(2+)) density (pA/pF) in control, banded, and Carvedilol groups were 1.06+/-0.11 (n=8), 1.54+/-0.10 (n=9), 1.24+/-0.07 (n=8), respectively (banded vs control and Carvedilol, P<0.01). At test potential of -120 mV, inward I(Na(+)/Ca(2+)) density (pA/pF) in control, banded, and Carvedilol groups were -0.54+/-0.06 (n =8), -0.75+/-0.04 (n=9), -0.60+/-0.03 (n=8), respectively (banded vs control, P<0.01; Carvedilol vs banded, P<0.05). It is shown that long-term treatment with Carvedilol not only prevents development of cardiac hypertrophy, but also improves the electrophysiological alterations in rabbit hearts with chronic pressure-overload. This finding may add new electrophysiological evidence for the treatment of heart failure and hypertension with adrenergic receptor antagonist.
Desferrioxamine was given intravenously, at higher doses than previously reported, to counter the effects of transfusion-induced iron overload in four patients with beta thalassaemia major. In two of them retinal abnormalities developed, presenting with night blindness and field defects, which improved on withdrawal of the drug.
Heme oxygenases (HOs), essential enzymes for heme metabolism, play an important role in the defense against oxidative stress. In this study, we evaluated the expression and functional significance of HO-1 and HO-2 in the ventilatory muscles of normal rats and rats injected with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Both HO-1 and HO-2 proteins were detected inside ventilatory and limb muscle fibers of normal rats. Diaphragmatic HO-1 and HO-2 expressions rose significantly within 1 and 12 h of LPS injection, respectively. Inhibition of the activity of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in rats and absence of this isoform in iNOS(-/-) mice did alter sepsis-induced regulation of muscle HOs. Systemic inhibition of HO activity with chromium mesoporphyrin IX enhanced muscle protein oxidation and hydroxynonenal formation in both normal and septic rats. Moreover, in vitro diaphragmatic force generation declined substantially in response to HO inhibition both in normal and septic rats. We conclude that both HO-1 and HO-2 proteins play an important role in the regulation of muscle contractility and in the defense against sepsis-induced oxidative stress.
A severe dose limiting axonal peripheral neuropathy may develop in subjects on treatment with the nucleoside analogues didanosine (ddl), zalcitabine (ddC), and stavudine (d4T). The impairment of mitrochondrial DNA synthesis is crucial to the pathogenesis of this disorder although other mechanisms have not been ruled out. The depletion of acetyl-carnitine, which regulates the metabolism and function of peripheral nerves could contribute to the neurotoxicity of these compounds.
Non-randomized, cross-sectional study of selected patients.
We measured the serum levels of acetyl- and total carnitine in 12 subjects with axonal peripheral neuropathy developed on treatment with different regimens of neurotoxic nucleoside analogues (ddl, ddC, d4T). Subjects who did not develop peripheral neuropathy while staying on treatment with ddl (n = 10) or zidovudine (n = 11) served as the control groups. HIV-negative subjects with axonal on demyelinating autoimmune neuropathies (n = 10) and healthy individuals (n = 13) were additional control groups.
Subjects experiencing axonal peripheral neuropathy on treatment with ddl, ddC and d4T had significantly reduced levels of acetyl-carnitine in comparison to the control groups. No difference was observed in the levels of total carnitine between study subjects and the control groups.
Our results demonstrate that subjects who developed peripheral neuropathy while staying on treatment with ddl, ddC and d4T had acetyl-carnitine deficiency. The normal levels of total carnitine in the study group appear to indicate the specificity of the defect and rule out coexisting relevant nutritional problems. The critical role of acetyl-carnitine for the metabolism and function of the peripheral nerves supports the view that the acetyl-carnitine deficiency found in these subjects may contribute to the neurotoxicity of ddl, ddC and d4T, even though the interference with mitochondrial DNA synthesis is regarded as the main cause of their toxicity.
Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is a known carcinogen. Grilled or smoked meat is the major source of BaP intake for human beings. Previously, we established hepatic tumor animal models by injecting rat hepatoma N1-S1 cells or concomitant injection of N1-S1 cells and BaP into healthy Sprague-Dawley rats. In this study, we performed proteomic analyses of rat plasma collected from a hepatic tumor model and compared them to controls using a 3-10 pI range and large two dimensional gel electrophoreses. Proteomic analyses of rat plasma with hepatic tumors induced by the injection of N1-S1 cells resolved 1295 protein spots. Among them, 10 proteins were identified by ESI-MS-MS; four proteins were up-regulated and six proteins were down-regulated as compared to the controls. In addition, 1295 protein spots were also resolved from rats with hepatic tumors by the injection of N1-S1 cells plus BaP; five proteins were upregulated, and seven proteins were down-regulated. Of these 12 proteins, 10 proteins were identified by ESI-MS-MS. Out of 20 identified proteins, alpha-1-inhibitor 3 and zero beta-1 globin were down-regulated in both rats with hepatic tumors by N1-S1 cell-only and rats with hepatic tumors by the injection of N1-S1 cell plus BaP as compared to the controls. In addition, the identities of four proteins, including dermcidin, serum amyloid P-component (SAP), proteasome subunit alpha type-4 and glutathione peroxidase 3 (GPX-3) were confirmed by western blot analysis. Therefore, the importance of those proteins as candidate biomarkers for the development of hepatic tumors should be further elucidated.
The H2-histamine receptor antagonists ranitidine and cimetidine were compared for their abilities to control gastric acid hypersecretion on a short- and long-term basis in 22 patients with gastric acid hypersecretory states. Nineteen patients had Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, one patient had systemic mastocytosis, and two patients had idiopathic hypersecretion. The rates of onset of the action of cimetidine and ranitidine were the same. The actions of both drugs were increased by anticholinergic agents, and there was a close correlation between the daily maintenance dose of each drug needed to control acid secretion. However, ranitidine was threefold more potent than cimetidine both in acute inhibition studies and in the median maintenance dose needed (1.2 g per day for ranitidine and 3.6 g per day for cimetidine). Sixty percent of the males developed breast changes or impotence while taking cimetidine and in all cases these changes disappeared when cimetidine was replaced by ranitidine. Treatment with high doses of cimetidine (one to 60 months; median, 11 months) or ranitidine (two to 31 months; median, 14 months) was not associated with hepatic or hematologic toxicity or alterations of serum gastrin concentrations, but ranitidine therapy was associated with a significantly lower serum creatinine level than seen with cimetidine therapy. The results show that both drugs can adequately inhibit acid secretion in patients with gastric hypersecretory states. Both are safe at high doses, but ranitidine is threefold more potent and does not cause the antiandrogen side effects frequently seen with high doses of cimetidine.
The objectives of this study were to test the hypothesis that dynorphin in the central nervous system modulates epinephrine-induced cardiac arrhythmias and that central cholinergic mechanisms are operative in this action of dynorphin. Cardiac arrhythmias were produced by continuous intravenous infusion of epinephrine, in Wistar rats, previously instrumented with catheters in the lateral cerebral ventricle, femoral vein and femoral artery. Epinephrine produced ventricular premature complexes and later the development of fatal ventricular fibrillation. Dynorphin A (1-13), 5 or 20 micrograms (3 or 12 nM) administered into the lateral cerebral ventricle (ICV), significantly (P less than 0.05) increased the threshold for development of cardiac arrhythmias. Dynorphin A (1-13), 20 micrograms, increased the epinephrine dose at the occurrence of ventricular premature beats to 171 +/- 8 (mean +/- 1 S.E.M.) compared to 120 +/- 5 micrograms epinephrine/kg in the control group and increased the dose at the onset of fatal arrhythmias to 186 +/- 8 compared to 141 +/- 10 micrograms epinephrine/kg in the control group. The action of dynorphin was significantly (P less than 0.05) antagonized by the kappa opioid antagonist MR2266. Atropine sulfate, administered ICV or intravenously, produced a dose dependent antagonism of this action of dynorphin A (1-13). This was not due to the peripheral effects of atropine, as atropine methylnitrate, which does not cross the blood brain barrier, did not oppose the effects of dynorphin A (1-13). These data indicate (i) dynorphin A (1-13) increases the threshold for or suppresses the manifestations of epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmias, (ii) dynorphin's action on cardiac arrhythmias is mediated through central cholinergic rather than peripheral parasympathetic mechanisms (iii) dynorphin may play a role as an endogenous opioid within the brain that modulates cardiac arrhythmias in circumstances of elevated circulating epinephrine concentration.
Oral cancer is one of the most common cancers in the world. Drugs can modulate the expression of drug metabolizing enzymes and are useful in chemoprevention as well as therapy in cancer. 4-Nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4-NQO) is used to induce oral cancer in the present study. In the present investigation, the effect of green tea polyphenols (GTP) on the activities of cytochrome b5, cytochrome P450, cytochrome b5 reductase (cyt b5 R), cytochrome P450 reductase (cyt P450 R), arryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH), DT-diaphorase (DTD)(Phase I enzymes) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and UDP-glucuronyl transferase (UDP-GT) (Phase II enzymes) were assessed in tongue and oral cavity. In induced rats, there was a decrease in the activity of Phase II enzymes and an increase in the activity of Phase I enzymes. On supplementation of GTP by both simultaneous and post treatment mode (200mg/kg) there was a significant increase in the activity of GST and UDP-GT and a significant decrease in the activity of Phase I enzymes. There was a significant decline in the number of tumors, tumor volume and oral squamous cell carcinoma in both simultaneous and post GTP treated animals relative to 4-NQO induced animals; on comparing simultaneous and post GTP treated animals the number of tumors, tumor volume and oral squamous cell carcinoma was significantly reduced in post treated animals. Thus inhibition of Phase I enzymes could be attributed to the protective efficacy of GTP which deactivates carcinogen and GTP induced the expression of Phase II enzymes that detoxifies the 4-NQO. It can be proposed that GTP plays role as a detoxifying agent by which its modulating role prevented/inhibited the formation of tumor.
This study investigated the protective effect of vitamin D analog paricalcitol combined with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (enalapril) on aortic oxidative injury in atherosclerotic mice.
Female mice were treated for 16 weeks as follows: (1) ApoE deficient + vehicle, (2) ApoE deficient + paricalcitol (200 ng 3 times a week), (3) ApoE deficient + enalapril (30 mg/l in drinking water), (4) ApoE deficient + paricalcitol + enalapril, and (5) wild-type controls.
ApoE-deficient mice developed hypertension which was prevented by enalapril or enalapril + paricalcitol treatment but not by paricalcitol treatment. Histology showed atherosclerotic plaque in the aorta of ApoE-deficient mice which was prevented by paricalcitol, enalapril, and paricalcitol + enalapril treatments. Aortic malondialdehyde levels, NADPH oxidase subunit p22(phox), manganese-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), inducible nitric oxide synthase, monocyte chemoattaractant protein-1, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and cyclooxygenase-2 protein expressions increased, whereas glutathione levels, CuZn-SOD, and endothelial protein expressions decreased in ApoE-deficient mice compared to controls. Treatment with paricalcitol and enalapril alone or in combination protected the inflammatory and oxidative endothelial injury of the aorta in atherosclerotic mice.
Combination therapy affords greater protection against aortic inflammatory and oxidative injury in atherosclerosis than monotherapy.
A refractory low-cardiac-output syndrome is, in pediatric patients, most often due to impaired myocardial function after corrective surgery in congenital heart disease. Therapy has to focus on postoperative adaptation, which usually takes place within a few days. We report on three therapeutic strategies to "bridge" this phase of postoperative adaptation. Improving the contractile state of the myocardium using enoximone was attempted in 16 neonates with low-cardiac-output syndrome refractory to catecholamines (Dosage: loading-dose 1 mg/kg in 10 min intravenously, followed by an infusion of 10 mcg/kg/min). In 12/16 neonates cardiac index increased by more than 20% ("responder"), while in 4/16 neonates cardiac index remained unchanged ("non-responder"). All non-responders succumbed due to refractory low-cardiac-output syndrome, while only one responder died in low-cardiac-output syndrome. Hemodynamically, enoximone resulted in an increase of cardiac index and stroke volume (p < 0.003), a reduced systemic vascular resistance (p < 0.0022), and reduced right and left atrial pressures (p < 0.003). Heart rate and mean arterial pressure remained unchanged. No rhythm disturbances were observed. Another therapeutic approach to postoperative low-cardiac-output syndrome is atrial decompression by creating an atrial septal defect. Due to the possibility of later transcatheter closure of these defects, the acceptance for the intraoperative creation of an atrial communication to decompress the right or left atrium is increased. The defect size is critical and should be below 9 mm, so that the Rashkind-PDA-Occluder can be used for later transcatheter closure. We performed such a "surgical-interventional" decompression in 18 patients (age: 2 weeks to 7 years). In six patients the atrial defect was created because of an underdeveloped left ventricle (body weight 2.9-9.2 kg), in 12 patients for right atrial decompression during a total cavopulmonary shunt (body weight 15.2-54.2 kg). A spontaneous closure of the defect did not occurred in any of the patients, thus, transvenous closure of the defect was performed 2 to 10 weeks postoperatively. In the follow-up period of 4 to 22 months no complications such as thrombus formation, thromboembolic events or infections occurred. In low-cardiac-output syndrome refractory to all therapeutic measures mechanical circulatory support is the final method to keep the patient alive. In 11 children with refractory low-cardiac-output syndrome mechanical circulatory support was performed. In three of these, extracorporal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) was used, in eight children a ventricular assist device (Berlin Heart) was used.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Phentermine is a central nervous system stimulant that can increase brain dopamine levels and has a structure similar to amphetamine. We report a case of schizophreniform-like psychotic disorder induced by phentermine in a young woman without a personal or family history of psychiatric disorders. The patient had taken phentermine 30 mg daily for more than three years. Psychotic symptoms developed acutely after she increased the phentermine dosage to 150-180 mg/day for one month due to an increase in work load. After discontinuation of phentermine and administration of neuroleptics, the psychotic symptoms subsided in two weeks. This is the first documented case of phentermine psychosis in Taiwan. This report will review the literature and discuss the prognosis of central nervous system stimulant-related psychotic disorders.
The objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy of our treatment regimen in metastatic melanoma. Thirty patients entered the study after undergoing a thorough metastatic workup. Treatment protocol included carmustine (BCNU) (150 mg/m(2) IV, day 1) every 6 weeks, dacarbazine (DTIC) (220 mg/m(2) IV, days 1-3), and cisplatin (25 mg/m(2) IV, days 1-3) every 3 weeks, interferon A-2B (6 x 10(6) U/m daily s.c. on days 4-8 and 16-20) and tamoxifen 20 mg/day for 6 weeks. Among 29 evaluable patients, overall response was seen in 15 (52%) and complete response in 5 (17%) patients. Median duration of partial response was 4 months (range, 1-12 months); of complete response was 8 months (range, 2-14 months). Complete response continues in two patients with lung metastases. Median survival time was 8.7 months. Side effects were tolerable. Four (13%) patients developed neutropenic fever, and platelet transfusions were required in five (17%) patients. One patient died of neutropenic sepsis. Thrombocytopenia caused prolongation of the median interval between the first and second courses, and drug doses were reduced in the second course in 8 of 26 (31%) patients. Our chemoimmunohormonal regimen is efficient in metastatic malignant melanoma and can induce durable remission. Severe thrombocytopenia leads to a reduction of carmustine dose in a new protocol.
