Atopic dermatitis is a common inflammatory skin disease caused by interaction of genetic and environmental factors. On the basis of data from a genome-wide association study (GWAS) and a validation study comprising a total of 3,328 subjects with atopic dermatitis and 14,992 controls in the Japanese population, we report here 8 new susceptibility loci: IL1RL1-IL18R1-IL18RAP (P(combined) = 8.36 × 10(-18)), the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region (P = 8.38 × 10(-20)), OR10A3-NLRP10 (P = 1.54 × 10(-22)), GLB1 (P = 2.77 × 10(-16)), CCDC80 (P = 1.56 × 10(-19)), CARD11 (P = 7.83 × 10(-9)), ZNF365 (P = 5.85 × 10(-20)) and CYP24A1-PFDN4 (P = 1.65 × 10(-8)). We also replicated the associations of the FLG, C11orf30, TMEM232-SLC25A46, TNFRSF6B-ZGPAT, OVOL1, ACTL9 and KIF3A-IL13 loci that were previously reported in GWAS of European and Chinese individuals and a meta-analysis of GWAS for atopic dermatitis. These findings advance the understanding of the genetic basis of atopic dermatitis.
Flavokawain A, a major constituent of chalcones derived from kava extracts, exerts various biological activities such as anti-tumor activities. In this study, we examined the suppressive effect of flavokawain A on LPS-induced expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and the molecular mechanisms responsible for these activities in the murine macrophages. Flavokawain A significantly suppressed expression of iNOS and COX-2, as well as the subsequent production of NO and PGE2 in the LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. Flavokawain A significantly inhibited LPS-induced activation of NF-κB and AP-1 signaling pathways. In addition, flavokawain A inhibited activation of JNK and p38 MAPK which was responsible for expression of iNOS and COX-2 in the LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. Furthermore, flavokawain A suppressed LPS-induced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6. These results suggest that flavokawain A may exert anti-inflammatory responses by suppressing LPS-induced expression of pro-inflammatory mediators via blockage of NF-κB-AP-1-JNK/p38 MAPK signaling pathways in the murine macrophages.
Due to the estrogenic properties of soy-derived isoflavones, many postmenopausal women are using these compounds as a natural alternative to hormone replacement therapy (HRT). How isoflavones impact breast cancer in postmenopausal women is important, because a majority of breast cancer cases occur in this age group. Chemical induction of mammary tumors in female rats has been used to determine that exposure of the mammary gland to soy isoflavones prior to tumor induction is protective against tumor formation. Here we investigate the effect of dietary genistein on mammary tumors that have already formed. The study was designed to determine the action of dietary genistein in a low endogenous estrogen environment as is observed in postmenopausal women. Animals were ovariectomized (OVX) after mammary tumor development and were then placed into one of three treatment groups: positive-control (OVX+ estradiol implant), genistein (OVX+ 750 p.p.m. genistein) and negative-control (OVX alone). Tumors were distinguished as malignant or benign by histopathological examination and were further characterized as either estrogen-dependent or estrogen-independent using immunohistochemistry to identify the presence of both estrogen receptor (ER) alpha and the progesterone receptor (PR). Genistein at 750 p.p.m. increased the weight of estrogen-dependent adenocarcinomas in ovariectomized rats compared with the negative-control animals. Genistein treatment also resulted in a higher percentage of proliferative cells in tumors and increased uterine weights when compared with negative-control animals. Collectively, these effects are probably due to the estrogenic activity of genistein. Plasma genistein concentrations in animals fed the isoflavone-containing diet were at physiological levels relevant to human exposure. Estradiol concentrations in ovariectomized animals not receiving an estradiol supplement were similar to those observed in postmenopausal women. The data suggest that in an endogenous estrogen environment similar to that of a postmenopausal woman, dietary genistein can stimulate the growth of a mammary carcinogen MNU-induced estrogen-dependent mammary tumors.
Zearalenone (ZEN) is a non-steroidal estrogenic mycotoxin produced by the fungi of Fusarium genera. Piglets were fed for 18 days with a control or a ZEN (316 ppb) contaminated diet. At the end of the experiment tissue samples were taken for assessment of: lymphocyte proliferation, monocytes and granulocytes respiratory burst, inflammatory cytokine synthesis in blood and liver, expression of genes involved in oxidative stress or in inflammation, plasma biochemical parameters, total antioxidant status and nitric oxide synthesis. In blood, ZEN increases the respiratory burst of monocytes and the inflammatory cytokine (TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, IFN gamma) synthesis, while in liver, ZEN decreases the synthesis of all inflammatory cytokines investigated. In liver and spleen, different effect on the expression of genes involved in oxidative stress and inflammation was observed. While in liver, ZEN decrease the expression of cyclooxigenase gene, but increase the expression of glutathione peroxydase and catalase genes; in spleen, ZEN induces a decrease of the superoxide dismutase gene expression together with an increase of the cyclooxigenase. In conclusion, our results showed that liver, spleen and blood may also be target tissues in weanling piglets fed ZEN contaminated diet, with different effects on oxidative stress and inflammation.
LIN28B regulates developmental processes by modulating microRNAs (miRNAs) of the let-7 family. A role for LIN28B in cancer has been proposed but has not been established in vivo. Here, we report that LIN28B showed genomic aberrations and extensive overexpression in high-risk neuroblastoma compared to several other tumor entities and normal tissues. High LIN28B expression was an independent risk factor for adverse outcome in neuroblastoma. LIN28B signaled through repression of the let-7 miRNAs and consequently resulted in elevated MYCN protein expression in neuroblastoma cells. LIN28B-let-7-MYCN signaling blocked differentiation of normal neuroblasts and neuroblastoma cells. These findings were fully recapitulated in a mouse model in which LIN28B expression in the sympathetic adrenergic lineage induced development of neuroblastomas marked by low let-7 miRNA levels and high MYCN protein expression. Interference with this pathway might offer therapeutic perspectives.
To evaluate evidence for de novo etiologies in schizophrenia, we sequenced at high coverage the exomes of families recruited from two populations with distinct demographic structures and history. We sequenced a total of 795 exomes from 231 parent-proband trios enriched for sporadic schizophrenia cases, as well as 34 unaffected trios. We observed in cases an excess of de novo nonsynonymous single-nucleotide variants as well as a higher prevalence of gene-disruptive de novo mutations relative to controls. We found four genes (LAMA2, DPYD, TRRAP and VPS39) affected by recurrent de novo events within or across the two populations, which is unlikely to have occurred by chance. We show that de novo mutations affect genes with diverse functions and developmental profiles, but we also find a substantial contribution of mutations in genes with higher expression in early fetal life. Our results help define the genomic and neural architecture of schizophrenia.
We investigated the effects of chronic cocaine exposure on the microcirculation in the rat mesenteric venules under both non-inflammatory and FMLP-induced inflammatory conditions. Chronic cocaine significantly increased WBC rolling flux in both conditions, and potentiated FMLP-induced leukocyte-endothelial cell adhesion (LEA). In cocaine-treated animals, total WBC number increased by 91%, and the ratio of white blood cell to red blood cell velocity was significantly lower, while vessel diameter was unchanged. Chronic cocaine decreased serum levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), but had no effect on interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta). Expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) was increased in mesenteric venules following chronic cocaine exposure, and may be one of the mechanisms underlying enhancement of FMLP-induced LEA. The increase in WBC count, WBC flux and LEA, and the change in cell velocity seen in the cocaine-treated animals could cause a decrease in effective vessel diameter and a change in intravascular resistance, and may underlie the progressive vascular damage seen in chronic cocaine-abusing individuals.
The c-Src tyrosine kinase, Csk, physically interacts with the intracellular phosphatase Lyp (encoded by PTPN22) and can modify the activation state of downstream Src kinases, such as Lyn, in lymphocytes. We identified an association of CSK with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and refined its location to the intronic polymorphism rs34933034 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.32; P = 1.04 × 10(-9)). The risk allele at this SNP is associated with increased CSK expression and augments inhibitory phosphorylation of Lyn. In carriers of the risk allele, there is increased B-cell receptor (BCR)-mediated activation of mature B cells, as well as higher concentrations of plasma immunoglobulin M (IgM), relative to individuals with the non-risk haplotype. Moreover, the fraction of transitional B cells is doubled in the cord blood of carriers of the risk allele, due to an expansion of late transitional cells in a stage targeted by selection mechanisms. This suggests that the Lyp-Csk complex increases susceptibility to lupus at multiple maturation and activation points in B cells.
The literature is devoid of reports indicating that a reduction in the dosage or discontinuation of antidepressants of any chemical class produces symptoms of major depression within 2-4 d. Four cases suggesting that a reduction in the daily dose or withdrawal of an antidepressant may produce symptoms of major depression within hours to days are presented.
Locked-in syndrome is a rare syndrome characterized by quadriplegia, intact consciousness, mutism, and communication using vertical eye movements. We report the case history of a patient with transient locked-in syndrome following repeated shunt procedures for idiopathic aqueductal stenosis. Communication was with lateral eye movements. Although she eventually recovered and regained functional independence, high doses of phenobarbital, given to prevent seizures, sedated her and obscured her mental status during her rehabilitation. We urge the careful monitoring of all centrally acting agents in patients with locked-in syndrome.
Human liver prolidase, a metal-dependent dipeptidase, is being tested as a potential catalytic bioscavenger against organophosphorus (OP) chemical warfare nerve agents. The purpose of this study was to determine whether persistent and high-levels of biologically active and intact recombinant human (rHu) prolidase could be introduced in vivo in mice using adenovirus (Ad). Here, we report that a single intravenous injection of Ad containing the prolidase gene with a 6× histidine-tag (Ad-prolidase) introduced high-levels of rHu prolidase in the circulation of mice which peaked on days 5-7 at 159 ± 129 U/mL. This level of prolidase is ~120 times greater than that of the enzyme level in mice injected with Ad-null virus. To determine if all of Ad-prolidase-produced rHu prolidase was exported into the circulation, enzyme activity was measured in a variety of tissues. Liver contained the highest levels of rHu prolidase on day 7 (5647 ± 454 U/g) compared to blood or any other tissue. Recombinant Hu prolidase hydrolyzed DFP, a simulant of OP nerve agents, in vitro. In vivo, prolidase overexpression extended the survival of 4 out of 6 mice by 4-8h against exposure to two 1× LD(50) doses of DFP. In contrast, overexpression of mouse butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), a proven stoichiometric bioscavenger of OP compounds, protected 5 out of 6 mice from DFP lethality and surviving mice showed no symptoms of DFP toxicity. In conclusion, the results suggest that gene delivery using Ad is capable of introducing persistent and high levels of human liver prolidase in vivo. The gene-delivered prolidase hydrolyzed DFP in vitro but provided only modest protection in vivo in mice, delaying the death of the animals by only 4-8h.
FYN belongs to the protein kinase family that phosphorylates NMDA receptor subunits, participating in the regulation of ion transmission and BDNF/TrkB signal transduction pathway. Lithium inhibits glutamatergic transmission via NMDA receptors, exerting neuroprotective effect against excitotoxicity. The aim of this study was to find possible association of three polymorphisms of FYN gene with prophylactic lithium response in the group of bipolar patients. We analyzed 101 bipolar patients treated with lithium carbonate for 5-27 years (mean 15 years). Twenty-four patients were identified as excellent lithium responders (ER), 51 patients as partial responders (PRs), and 26 patients were non-responders. Genotypes of the three analyzed polymorphisms were established by PCR-RFLP. Statistical analysis was done with Statistica. No significant differences in genotype distribution and allele frequencies were observed between T/G and A/G FYN polymorphisms and lithium response. We observed a trend toward association of TT genotype and T allele of T/C polymorphism with worse lithium response. The results of the study demonstrated only marginal association between FYN polymorphisms and prophylactic lithium response in bipolar patients. The results are discussed in light of our previous studies on FYN gene in bipolar illness and BDNF gene in lithium response.
Licorice (LE) has been commonly used in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) for over 4000 years to reconcile various drugs and for hepatic disorders. Glycyrrhizin is the main bioactive component isolated from LE herbs. In the present study we examined the effects of glycyrrhizin on pregnane X receptor (PXR)-mediated CYP3A expression and its hepatoprotective activity. Treatment of HepG2 cells with glycyrrhizin resulted in marked increase in both CYP3A4 mRNA and protein levels. The transcriptional activation of the CYP3A4 gene through glycyrrhizin is PXR-dependent, as shown in transient transfection experiments. Glycyrrhizin activates the DNA-binding capacity of the PXR for the CYP3A4 element responding to xenobiotic signals, as measured by the electrophoretic-mobility shift assay (EMSA). These results indicate that the induction of the hepatic CYP3A4 by glycyrrhizin is mediated through the activation of PXR. The next aim of the current study was to determine whether the activation of PXR and induction of CYP3A by glycyrrhizin prevents hepatotoxicity during cholestasis as a mechanism of hepatoprotection. Mice were pretreated with glycyrrhizin prior to induction of intrahepatic cholestasis using lithocholic acid (LCA). Pre-treatment with glycyrrhizin, as well as the PXR activator pregnenolone 16α-carbontrile (PCN), prevents the increase in plasma ALT and AST activity, multifocal necrosis and prevents an increase in a level of serum LCA level in mice, as compared with the results in the mice treated with LCA alone. Activation of the PXR by glycyrrhizin results in induction of CYP3A11 (CYP3A4 for human) expression and inhibition of CYP7A1 through an increase in small heterodimer partner (SHP) expression. Glycyrrhizin regulates the expression of the gene mentioned above to prevent toxic accumulation of bile acids in the liver and it also protects mouse livers from the harmful effects of LCA. In conclusion, PXR-mediated effects on CYP3A and CYP7A may contribute to the hepatoprotective property of glycyrrhizin against LCA-induced liver injury.
Administration of oxime therapy is currently the standard approach used to reverse the acute toxicity of organophosphorus (OP) compounds, which is usually attributed to OP inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Rate constants for reactivation of OP-inhibited AChE by even the best oximes, such as HI-6 and obidoxime, can vary >100-fold between OP-AChE conjugates that are easily reactivated and those that are difficult to reactivate. To gain a better understanding of this oxime specificity problem for future design of improved reactivators, we conducted a QSAR analysis for oxime reactivation of AChE inhibited by OP agents and their analogues. Our objective was to identify common mechanism(s) among OP-AChE conjugates of phosphates, phosphonates and phosphoramidates that result in resistance to oxime reactivation. Our evaluation of oxime reactivation of AChE inhibited by a sarin analogue, O-methyl isopropylphosphonofluoridate, or a cyclosarin analogue, O-methyl cyclohexylphosphonofluoridate, indicated that AChE inhibited by these analogues was at least 70-fold more difficult to reactivate than AChE inhibited by sarin or cyclosarin. In addition, AChE inhibited by an analogue of tabun (i.e., O-ethyl isopropylphosphonofluoridate) was nearly as resistant to reactivation as tabun-inhibited AChE. QSAR analysis of oxime reactivation of AChE inhibited by these OP compounds and others suggested that the presence of both a large substituent (i.e., ≥ the size of dimethylamine) and an alkoxy substituent in the structure of OP compounds is the common feature that results in resistance to oxime reactivation of OP-AChE conjugates whether the OP is a phosphate, phosphonate or phosphoramidate.
We report a case of perhexilene maleate (PEXID) toxicity in which the presenting feature was loss of vision secondary to chronic papilloedema. Vortex keratopathy similar to that seen in amiodarone keratopathy was present, and corneal and conjunctival biopsy findings are presented. To our knowledge this is the first case report of a keratopathy occurring in perhexilene toxicity. After withdrawal of the drug the papilloedema and keratopathy subsided, but some visual deficit remains. The properties of perhexilene maleate and other amphiphilic drugs are described, and the possible aetiology of vortex keratopathy is discussed.
2-Methoxyestradiol (2ME) is an endogenous estradiol metabolite, which acts antiproliferative in various tumor cell lines independent of the hormone receptor status. We investigated whether combinations of 2ME with various chemotherapeutic or endocrine compounds may result in an additive effect on the proliferation of human breast cancer cells. The breast cancer cell lines MCF-7 (receptor-positive), BM (receptor-negative) and a MCF-7 line transfected with the aromatase gene were used. All cell lines were incubated in the concentration range of 0.8 microM to 25 microM with 2ME alone and in equimolar combinations with the following compounds: epirubicine, daunorubicine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, carboplatin, vinorelbine, 5-fluorouracil, mafosfamide and 4-OH tamoxifen. The effect of letrozole and 2ME alone and in equimolar combinations was tested in the concentration range of 0.6 to 1 microM. Proliferation was measured after 4 days using the ATP-chemosensitivity test. In MCF-7 cells 2ME in combination with 4OH-tamoxifen, epirubicine, docetaxel, 5-fluoprouracil, mafosfamide and carboplatin led to an additive effect. In BM cells only 2ME combined with 4OH-tamoxifen, daunorubicine and mafosfamide showed an additive action. Both letrozole and 2ME were nearly similar effective in inhibition of the aromatase gene. Here no additive effect was found. 2ME displayed antiproliferative actions in various human breast cancer cells. In addition 2ME was able to increase the antiproliferative property of certain antihormones and cytostatic substances. Furthermore 2ME exhibits a similar property as compared to letrozole in inhibiting the aromatase activity. Since 2ME was well tolerated in a recently conducted phase II trial in patients with refractory metastatic breast cancer, the combination of 2ME with chemotherapeutics or antihormones may offer a new clinically relevant treatment regimen.
Simvastatin (SIM), a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, has therapeutic effects that are not limited to cholesterol reduction. In this study, we investigated the change in the cell surface area and protein content of cultured rat cardiomyocytes on exposure to cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1), a cytokine involved in the growth and survival of cardiac cells, plus SIM, and thus confirmed that SIM ameliorated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by CT-1. We also showed that SIM attenuated cardiac hypertrophy in rats with pressure overload due to abdominal aortic constriction by measuring such parameters as systolic blood pressure, ratio of heart weight to body weight and ratio of left ventricular weight to body weight in rats as well as cross-sectional area of cardiomyocytes. Western blot analysis indicated that the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway was involved in the mechanisms underlying the in vitro and in vivo inhibitory effects of SIM on cardiac hypertrophy. Moreover, the effect of SIM amelioration on CT-1-induced cultured cardiomyocyte hypertrophy might be related to the change in angiotensinogen (AGT) mRNA expression, as evidenced by RT-PCR analysis, and the subsequent alteration in angiotensin II (Ang II) levels. The results of our study provide further evidence that SIM, like other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, is a promising drug for prevention and treatment of cardiac hypertrophy.
Electroencephalographic techniques were used to study generalized convulsive status epilepticus induced by administration of subconvulsive doses of cholinomimetics (e.g., pilocarpine) to rats pretreated with lithium chloride. Status epilepticus induced by this treatment was compared with status epilepticus induced by kainic acid. Lithium/pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus developed within 10 min of initial paroxysmal spike activity, 24 +/- 1 min (N = 20) after administration of pilocarpine, and continued uninterrupted for more than 3 h. Kainic acid (10 mg/kg)-induced status epilepticus developed approximately 60 min after initial spike activity, 96 +/- 3 min (N = 7) after kainate administration, and continued for 0.5 h. Thus, the interval of intermittent seizure activity and the duration of status epilepticus differed markedly between these two models. The potentiation by lithium (3 meq/kg) of the convulsant effect of cholinergic agonists was found to be 10 to 13-fold for two direct-acting cholinomimetics, pilocarpine and arecoline, whereas the convulsant effect of the indirect-acting agonist, physostigmine, was potentiated by 50%. The full proconvulsant effect of lithium lasted from 2 to 24 h after a single acute treatment (3 meq/kg). The dose response of the proconvulsant effect of lithium was determined and the EC50 of lithium was approximately 1.5 meq/kg when pilocarpine (30 mg/kg) was administered 20 h later. Chronic treatment with lithium for 4 weeks potentiated the convulsant effect of pilocarpine by more than 26-fold. These results demonstrated that both acute and chronic administration of lithium enhance cholinergic function in vivo. Potentiation of cholinergic function by lithium may play a role in the therapeutic action of lithium in affective disorders.
Clonidine has been used in the management of hypertension in adults with few cases of cardiac dysrhythmia reported. These appear to occur most frequently in association with preexisting cardiac disease or toxic concentrations of the drug. We observed a case of clonidine-induced bradycardia and irregular firing of the sinoatrial node in a child who does not have cardiac disease given low doses of the drug in the treatment of intermittent explosive disorder.
Int-6 (integration site 6) was identified as an oncogene in a screen of tumorigenic mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) insertions. INT6 expression is altered in human cancers, but the precise role of disrupted INT6 in tumorigenesis remains unclear, and an animal model to study Int-6 physiological function has been lacking.
Here, we create an in vivo model of Int6 function in zebrafish, and through genetic and chemical-genetic approaches implicate Int6 as a tissue-specific modulator of MEK-ERK signaling. We find that Int6 is required for normal expression of MEK1 protein in human cells, and for Erk signaling in zebrafish embryos. Loss of either Int6 or Mek signaling causes defects in craniofacial development, and Int6 and Erk-signaling have overlapping domains of tissue expression.
Our results provide new insight into the physiological role of vertebrate Int6, and have implications for the treatment of human tumors displaying altered INT6 expression.
Patients with bipolar disorder have been reported to have neurocognitive deficits; however, it is not known whether the cognitive dysfunctions are state-dependent or a stable trait. Lithium and valproate, 2 of the most widely used mood stabilizers in the treatment of bipolar disorder, have also been associated with cognitive impairment. However, the degree and pattern of neurocognitive impairment in euthymic bipolar patients on either monotherapy with lithium or valproate have not been compared before in depth.
We compared 17 euthymic outpatients with bipolar disorder (BD) on lithium monotherapy to 11 euthymic outpatients with BD on valproate monotherapy and 29 comparison subjects using tests measuring immediate verbal memory and executive functions in addition to 3 subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Revised. The groups were similar in terms of level of education, duration and severity of illness, and gender distribution. Patients on lithium monotherapy were older than patients on valproate and healthy controls. Mood symptoms as assessed by standardized scales were mild to non-existent in both patient groups.
Immediate verbal memory was impaired in both patient groups compared to controls, where the main effect of age was not significant. No significant differences could be found on the other cognitive measures.
Both lithium and valproate may be associated with immediate verbal memory impairment, sparing other cognitive functions. Presence of a similar verbal memory deficit in the lithium and valproate groups suggests that this deficit might be intrinsic to BD or that the 2 medications influence immediate verbal memory similarly. Larger samples of remitted bipolar patients on monotherapy should be studied for more precise conclusions.
cis-Platinum, bleomycin, 5-fluorouracil, and cyclophosphamide were administered to rodent and canine models of osmotic blood-brain barrier modification to evaluate the relationship between tissue drug concentration in brain and the physiological and neuropathological effects of the drug. The toxicity studies were carried out in the canine, and the pharmacological studies were carried out in the rodent. Even without the osmotic procedure, intracarotid cis-platinum, in contrast to the other drugs, produced modification of the blood-brain barrier with resultant severe neurotoxicity. Osmotic blood-brain barrier modification was used to increase delivery of bleomycin and 5-fluorouracil to the ipsilateral brain region, but the increased delivery was associated with evident neurotoxicity. Cyclophosphamide administration in association with osmotic blood-brain barrier opening did not cause significant neural toxicity. These studies indicate that some chemotherapeutic agents given in association with osmotic blood-brain barrier opening can result in neurotoxicity. The corollary of the known limited neurotoxicity when these chemotherapeutic agents are used in a conventional manner appears to be due to the presence of the blood-brain barrier.
Tolerance and physical dependence caused by chronic treatment of narcotics are good models to study basic neuronal plasticity. Activation of the NMDA subtype of the glutamate receptor has been implicated as an anti-opioid system in the development of morphine analgesic tolerance and dependence. The present study examines the specific role of the epsilon1 subunit of the NMDA receptor using mice lacking the gene encoding epsilon1 subunit of the NMDA receptor (GluRepsilon1-/- mice). GluRepsilon1-/- mice showed significant enhancement and prolongation of morphine anti-nociception, compared with wild-type GluRepsilon1+/+ mice. GluRepsilon1-/- mice also showed a marked loss of the analgesic tolerance after repeated morphine treatments. In C57BL/6J mice treated with chronic morphine after tolerance paradigm, the GluRepsilon1 protein expression significantly increased in periaqueductal gray matter (PAG), ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens (NAc), but not amygdala or hippocampus. The rescue of GluRepsilon1 protein by electroporation into the PAG and VTA, but not NAc of GluRepsilon1-/- mice significantly reversed morphine analgesic tolerance liability. Similar attempts were also performed in the naloxone-precipitated physical dependence paradigm. GluRepsilon1-/- mice showed marked loss of typical withdrawal abstinence behaviors, and significant enhancement of GluRepsilon1 protein expression was only observed in NAc by chronic morphine treatments after dependence paradigm. The rescue of GluRepsilon1 protein by electroporation into the NAc of GluRepsilon1-/- mice significantly reversed the loss of abstinence behaviors. These findings suggest that GluRepsilon1 has locus-specific roles in the development of morphine analgesic tolerance and physical dependence.
Nisoldipine coat core (CC) is a long-acting formulation of the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker nisoldipine, suitable for once-daily administration in the treatment of patients with hypertension. Data are reported from three randomized, controlled trials. In two of these, nisoldipine CC was shown to be equivalent in efficacy and tolerability to atenolol in patients with mild to moderate hypertension and to enalapril in elderly patients with hypertension. In a third study using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in black patients with severe hypertension, nisoldipine CC maintained blood pressure control over the 24-hour dosing period. In addition, regression of left ventricular (LV) mass and improvement in LV function were observed at the end of the 4-month treatment period. Further data are presented from a pharmacokinetic pharmacodynamic modelling study investigating the potential effects of dose-dumping of nisoldipine from the controlled-release formulation, which may occur when the drug is taken with food. This study illustrates the superior control of plasma nisoldipine concentrations and blood pressure provided by the CC compared with an immediate-release formulation, and indicates that an interaction between nisoldipine CC and food is unlikely to cause adverse events. The results of these trials provide further support for the use of nisoldipine CC as an effective agent for the treatment of patients with hypertension, providing consistent antihypertensive efficacy and good tolerability with once-daily administration.
1. The effects of insulin treatment on in vivo and in vitro urinary bladder function in streptozotocin-diabetic rats were investigated. 2. Diabetes of 2 months duration resulted in decreases in body weight and increases in fluid consumption, urine volume, frequency of micturition, and average volume per micturition; effects which were prevented by insulin treatment. 3. Insulin treatment also prevented the increases in contractile responses of bladder body strips from diabetic rats to nerve stimulation, ATP, and bethanechol. 4. Diabetes of 4 months duration also resulted in decreases in body weight, and increases in fluid consumption, urine volume, frequency of micturition, and average volume per micturition, effects which were reversed by insulin treatment for the final 2 months of the study. 5. Insulin treatment reversed the increases in contractile responses of bladder body strips from diabetic rats to nerve stimulation, ATP, and bethanechol. 6. The data indicate that the effects of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on urinary bladder function are both prevented and reversed by insulin treatment.
