Patients in the stable phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) are usually treated with busulfan. The bone marrow of patients with CML may be exquisitely sensitive to busulfan, and occasionally such patients develop pancytopenia, secondary to hypoplasia or aplasia of the bone marrow, which is presumed to be due to busulfan-induced marrow toxicity. We report a case of Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML who developed pancytopenia while being treated with busulfan; however, the patient's bone marrow was not hypoplastic or aplastic but rather hyperplastic with sideroblastic changes. Busulfan is not known to cause sideroblastic changes, so this was considered to herald a transformation into acute leukemia. Busulfan was stopped, and only supportive treatment was given. To our surprise approximately 22 weeks after busulfan was stopped, the sideroblastic changes had disappeared and the bone marrow again showed features of CML. This case suggests that busulfan may cause sideroblastic anemia.
The aim of the study was to gauge the impact of drugs on placental changes in heroin and pervitin addict pregnant women as one of the influence factors supporting the lower birth-weight of the neonate.
Prospective study.
The Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics and the Department of Pathology of the General Teaching Hospital and the 1st Medical Faculty of Charles University in Prague.
The drugs-addict pregnant women were included in the study in the period between January 1998 till the end of the year 2000. We succeeded to concentrate in total 39 drug abused pregnant women and 39 their placentas and umbilical cords were examined (19 heroin and 20 pervitin addict). The placentas were sent for the histological examination in total without the chemical fixation. There were 3 placental samples, 2 cord and 2 membranes samples examined. The controls groups were formed by non-abused pregnant women and their placentas by method of accidental choice.
We found the statistically significant higher incidence of placental and cords abnormalities in among the addict women compared to their non abused controls (P < 0.05). In heroin addict group in 16 from 19 cases were the abnormalities present. We registrated increased intervillous and perivillous microfibrin deposits (6 times), an increased number of trophoblastic proliferation buds (7 times) increased vascularization of the villi (7 times) mikrovilli (6 times) and their necrosis (5 times). In umbilical cord we enregistered in 3 cases the only one artery, in two case the thrombosis of the vein. In 5 cases we also found the signs of infection. In pervitin addict group we registered placental changes in 9 from 20 cases. The majority of them presented as increased microfibrin deposits on the surface and also in the choriotic board (9 times), in five cases we enregistered the intervillous haemorrhage manifested in 2 cases clinically as abruption of placenta. The placental changes participate in low birth weight of neonates, IUGR and the abbreviation of the gestational duration.
The microscopic changes in placenta is the expression of the circulatory disorder during the attack of the drug. They are not four-square specific, rather quantitatively expressed. In heroin abused women is the incidence of placental changes much more higher comparing to pervitin-addict. Heroin led more frequently to preterm labour, lower birth-weight and IUGR. The pervitin-addict mothers are higher risk of placental abruption.
We describe a 21-year old female patient who had taken the alpha-2-antagonist yohimbine for weight-loss. The patient reported alterations in alcohol- and cocaine-seeking along with changes in defensive behaviour, including suicidal tendencies. Pre-clinical and clinical studies are discussed, which support the hypothesis of a causal relationship. We added an overview of relevant psychiatric effects and side effects of yohimbine.
Polymorphic catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) catalyzes the O-methylation of catechol estrogens. It has been reported that COMT polymorphism is a representative genetic trait related to the susceptibility of an individual to breast cancer. However, there is no consensus concerning the association between breast cancer in Japanese patients and COMT polymorphism. To analyze the polymorphism distribution in Japanese patients with breast cancer, a molecular genotyping method using a polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) was used. Based on an analysis of 201 Japanese patients with breast cancer and 352 healthy control subjects, a significant difference was observed in either the distribution of genotypes (p=0.03) or allele frequencies between the two groups (p=0.01). The relative risk of breast cancer for genotypes (COMT(Met/Met) and COMT(Val/Met)) including the variant allele (COMT(Met)) was 1.47 compared to the wild allele (COMT(Val)) and homozygote (COMT(Val/Val)). Furthermore, the distribution of genotypes in post-menopausal patients with breast cancer showed a significant difference with that of healthy subjects of the same menopausal status (p=0.01). No significant difference was found between the distribution of genotypes and clinicopathological features of the cancer. These results suggest that COMT polymorphism may thus be implicated as a genetic trait affecting the susceptibility of an individual to breast cancer in a Japanese population and be an important genetic risk factor in the development of breast cancer in post-menopausal women.
The pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is not fully understood. Platelet-derived growth factor A (PDGFA) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRα) play a crucial role in lung development. It has been reported that PDGF induces H(2)O(2)-production and that oxidative stress may be an important mechanism for the impaired lung development in the nitrofen rat model. We hypothesized that pulmonary expression of PDGFA and PDGFRα is altered in the nitrofen induced CDH model.
Pregnant rats received 100 mg nitrofen or vehicle on gestational day 9 (D9) and were sacrificed on D15, D18 or D21. RNA was extracted from fetal left lungs and mRNA levels of PDGFA and PDGFRα were determined using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry for protein expression of PDGFA and PDGFRα was performed. Pulmonary H(2)O(2) was measured colorimetrically.
mRNA levels of PDGFRα at D15 (4.50 ± 0.87) and PDGFA at D18 (2.90 ± 1.38) were increased in the nitrofen group (P < .05). Immunohistochemistry revealed increased pulmonary expression of PDGFRα and PDGFA. H(2)O(2) content was significantly higher in the nitrofen group.
Increased expression of PDGFA and PDGFRα suggests that pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen CDH model may be owing to PDGF-induced oxidative stress during lung development.
The study population included 159 women aged 18 to 37 years requiring contraception (60 in Sydney, 99 in Los Angeles). The design consisted of a 6 month study of a contraceptive vaginal ring (CVR) releasing 20 micrograms ethinyl estradiol and 1 mg of norethindrone acetate daily over two successive cycles with a new ring on each of three different insertion regimens. A total of 831 woman-months of exposure were recorded, and 129 women completed the study. The overall incidence of side effects was similar in the two centers and differences between the insertion regimens were not observed. Transient nausea following insertion of a new ring (mainly lasting 0.5 to 48 h) was the most prominent side effect, with no significant difference between the insertion regimens (although the incidence tended to be highest with bedtime insertion [34%] and lowest with early evening insertion and temporary removal during the first night [27%]). Transient vomiting occurred in about 10% of women in the first 24 h after first insertion of a new ring. The incidence and severity of nausea was greatly reduced in cycle 2 with each regimen (6% to 9% of women). Nausea could be prevented by overnight soaking of the ring in water before use. Other side effects such as headache, dizziness, uterine cramps, breakthrough bleeding, weight gain, and ring expulsion occurred with similarly low frequency in all three insertion groups. One pregnancy occurred with probable ovulation between cycles 5 and 6, the only pregnancy recorded to date in studies with this ring. The study demonstrated that this effective and generally well tolerated CVR causes a relatively high incidence of transient nausea after insertion of a new ring, which is probably due to accumulation of ethinyl estradiol on the ring surface during storage. Acceptability is still high, and this particular CVR merits further development.
A cross-sectional study involving 60 women from Sydney, Australia, and 99 women from Los Angeles, California (US), evaluated the impact of three different insertion regimens on the transient nausea associated with the contraceptive vaginal ring. The ring released 20 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 1 mg of norethindrone acetate per day. 128 women completed the 6-month study, providing 831 woman-months of exposure. The one pregnancy recorded during the 6-month study occurred during the 7-day break between cycles 5 and 6. 53% of women experienced nausea in at least one cycle. No significant differences in side effects were noted based on insertion group: 1) early evening (5-7 p.m.); 2) late night (10 p.m. to midnight); and 3) early evening insertion, removal at bedtime, and reinsertion the next morning. In each insertion group, the incidence of nausea was greatly reduced (to 6-9%) in the second cycle of use. 9% of women experienced transient vomiting in the 24 hours after first insertion of a new ring. The remaining side effects--headache, dizziness, uterine cramps, breakthrough bleeding, weight gain, and expulsion--were rare and occurred with equal frequency in all three insertion groups. Women at both study sites expressed a high degree of satisfaction with the vaginal ring, primarily because of its convenience and effectiveness. Overnight soaking of the ring before first use has the potential to reduce the side effect of transient nausea, presumed attributable to the accumulation of ethinyl estradiol on the ring surface during storage.
A proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), a new member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family, can stimulate tumor cell growth and proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. This research was to detect the expression of APRIL in colorectal carcinoma tissues, and to compare the effects of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin (DDP) on the expression of APRIL in colorectal carcinoma SW480 cells.
The protein and mRNA levels of APRIL in 56 specimens of human colorectal carcinoma and para-tumor tissues and in SW480 cells were determined by immunohistochemistry and real-time fluorescence quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (FQ-RT-PCR). SW480 cells were treated with 5-FU and DDP at various concentrations for 24 h, 48 h and 72 h. The changes of APRIL mRNA level were analyzed by FQ-RT-PCR.
Both positive rate and mRNA level of APRIL were significantly higher in colorectal carcinoma tissues than in para-tumor tissues (76.8% vs. 16.1%, 0.16+/-0.05 vs. 0.71+/-0.08, both P<0.001). The expression of APRIL was strong in SW480 cells. When treated with different concentrations of 5-FU, the mRNA level of APRIL in SW480 cells raised gradually and reached the highest levels at 72 h after treatment (0.85+/-0.10, 0.81+/-0.09, 0.83+/-0.11, and 0.90+/-0.12 at the concentrations of 25, 50, 100 and 200 microg/mL, respectively), which were significantly higher than those in blank control group (P<0.001). When treated with different concentrations of DDP, the mRNA level of APRIL in SW480 cells did not increase when compared with that in control group (P>0.05). After 72-hour treatment, the mRNA level of APRIL in SW480 cells was significantly lower in 10 microg/mL and 20 microg/mL DDP groups than in blank control group (0.44+/-0.05 and 0.40+/-0.07 vs. 0.57+/-0.06, P<0.05).
APRIL may promote the development of colorectal carcinoma. When chemotherapy is conducted to treat colorectal carcinoma, especially when 5-FU is included in the regimen, anti-APRIL therapy might be an important assistant treatment to counter the impact of APRIL caused by antitumor drugs.
The etiology, diagnosis and management of lithium-induced diabetes insipidus (LIDI) is discussed, including the presentation of a case report. It is suggested that lithium provokes LIDI by decreasing the responsive ness of the kidney to the antidiuretic hormone. Lithium-induced polyuria may be managed by concomitant treatment with a thiazide diuretic or discontinuation of the lithium. Caution must be employed, however, when using thiazides with lithium as these diuretics decrease renal clearance of lithium.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a key mediator in many physiological processes and one of the major receptors through which NO exerts its effects is soluble guanylyl cyclase. Guanylyl cyclase converts GTP to cyclic GMP as part of the cascade that results in physiological processes such as smooth muscle relaxation, neurotransmission, inhibition of platelet aggregation and immune response. The properties of A-350619, a novel soluble guanylyl cyclase activator, were examined to determine the modulatory effect on the catalytic properties of soluble guanylyl cyclase. A-350619 increased V(max) from 0.1 to 14.5 micromol/min/mg (145 fold increase), and lowered K(m) from 300 to 50 microM (6 fold decrease). When YC-1 (another sGC activator) and A-350619 were combined, a 156 fold increase in V(max) and a 5 fold decrease in Km were observed, indicating that the modulation of the enzyme brought about by YC-1 and A-350619 are not additive, suggesting a common binding site. Activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase by A-350619 was partially inhibited by ODQ, a specific inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase by oxidation of the enzyme heme. YC-1 and A-350619 after pre-treatment with N-omega-nitro-L-arginine, an NO-synthase inhibitor, relaxed cavernosum tissue strips in a dose-dependent manner with EC(50) of 50 microM and 80 microM, respectively. Addition of SNP potentiated the relaxation effect of YC-1 and A-350619, shifting the dose-response curve to the left to 3 microM and 10 microM, respectively. Consistent with its biochemical activity, A-350619 (1 micromol/kg) alone induced penile erection in a conscious rat model. Activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase in cavernosum tissue as an alternate method of enhancing the effect of NO may provide a novel treatment of sexual dysfunction.
Maprotiline has been reported to be less likely to cause epileptic seizures than the tricyclic antidepressants. The authors describe two cases in which patients suffered their first epileptic attacks while on therapeutic doses of maprotiline. They recommend that the newer antidepressants, as well as the tricyclics, should not be used with the aliphatic neuroleptics because of a possible additive or synergistic epileptic effect. If patients are to be withdrawn from C.N.S. depressants, then this should be accomplished prior to initiation of antidepressant therapy. Patients who are predisposed to seizures should have lower initial doses of antidepressants.
Several genomewide screens indicated that chromosome 7q was linked to autistic disorder. FOXP2, located on 7q31, is a putative transcription factor containing a polyglutamine tract and a forkhead DNA binding domain. It is one member of the forkhead family who are known to be key regulators of embryogenesis. A point mutation at a highly conserved residue within the forkhead domain co-segregated with affected status in the KE family who was a unique three generation pedigree with a severe speech and language disorder and FOXP2 was directly disrupted by a translocation in an individual who had similar deficits as those of the KE family. Several studies have investigated the role of FOXP2 polymorphisms in autism and none of them found positive association. We performed a family-based association study of three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of FOXP2 in 181 Chinese Han trios using the analyses of transmission/disequilibrium test (TDT) and haplotype. We found a significant association between autistic disorder and one SNP, as well as with specific haplotypes formed by this SNP with two other SNPs we investigated. Our findings suggest that the FOXP2 gene may be involved in the pathogenesis of autism in Chinese population.
The antihypertensive effects and side-effects of a clonidine transdermal therapeutic system (clonidine-TTS) were examined over 10 weeks in 22 patients with essential hypertension. The clonidine-TTS containing a 2.5 mg drug reservoir was designed to release 0.1 mg clonidine/24 h for seven days through a micropore rate-controlling membrane. In the total group mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased from 162 +/- 14/106 +/- 4 mmHg to 137 +/- 17/92 +/- 8 mmHg after four weeks and 136 +/- 13/90 +/- 7 mmHg after 10 weeks (P less than 0.001). Five patients (23%) responded well to one clonidine-TTS (diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 95 mmHg) and seven patients (32%) needed two clonidine-TTS. Additional oral therapy with 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide/day resulted in reduction of blood pressure to normal in six of the remaining 10 patients. This good pressure response was, however, accompanied by a high incidence of local allergic skin reactions of delayed type (type IV) in seven (32%) of the 22 cases. Patch testing with various components of clonidine-TTS which was performed in four of the seven patients showed in three cases allergic contact dermatitis to clonidine. Our results demonstrate a good and sustained antihypertensive action of clonidine-TTS. However, the extraordinarily high incidence of skin allergy to clonidine limits its use in the treatment of essential hypertension.
A single topical application of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) was found to induce mRNA of a metallothionein (MT) gene or genes in the skin of Sencar mice, and papillomas produced by repeated applications of TPA were shown to have elevated levels of MT mRNA. Induction of MT mRNA was maximal 4-8 h after application of TPA and returned to the control level 24 h later. A dose-dependent increase of MT mRNA was observed with doses of TPA of 1-5 micrograms. Of the other promoters tested, phorbol-12, 13-didecanoate, mezerein, and the ionophore A23187 also induced MT mRNA, but 4-O-methyl-TPA and benzoyl peroxide did not. Phorbol and 4 alpha-phorbol-12,13-didecanoate, which are not promoters, also did not induce MT mRNA. Retinoic acid and 1 alpha, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, inhibitors of tumor promotion, did not induce MT mRNA themselves or inhibit the induction of MT mRNA by TPA. In C57BL/6 promotion-resistant mice, TPA caused only slight induction of MT mRNA. These data suggest a correlation between induction of MT mRNA and epidermal hyperplasia. The constitutive elevation of MT mRNA levels in papillomas may be due to the loss, during the process of tumor promotion, of some mechanism regulating MT gene expression.
The use of oxytocin in labor has the inherent danger of producing uterine hyperstimulation with resultant fetal distress. When produced by gradual titration of intravenous oxytocin, discontinuation of the medication is usually sufficient to reverse the process. However, the rapid administration of a large intravenous dose of oxytocin, as occurred in this patient, may result in hypertonic uterine contractions and fetal distress unresponsive to traditional measures. The rationale for using a tocolytic drug to reverse the uterine hypertonus, produce intrauterine fetal resuscitation, and prevent cesarean section is discussed in this report.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is a complex inherited disorder of unknown aetiology, characterized by multiple motor and vocal tics. Involvement of the central cannabinoid (CB1) system is suggested because of therapeutic effects of marijuana (Cannabis sativa L.) consumption and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (-THC) treatment in TS patients. The central cannabinoid receptor (CNR1) gene encoding the CNR1 was considered as a candidate gene for TS and systematically screened by single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and sequencing. Compared with the published CNR1 sequence, three single base substitutions were identified: 1326T --> A, 1359G --> A, 1419 + 1G --> C. The change at position 1359 is a common polymorphism (1359 G/A) without allelic association with TS. 1326T --> A was present in only one TS patient and is a silent mutation which does not change codon 442 (valine). 1419 + 1G --> C affects the first nucleotide immediately following the coding sequence. It was first detected in three of 40 TS patients and none of 81 healthy controls. This statistically significant association with TS (P = 0.034) could not be confirmed in two subsequent cohorts of 56 TS patients (one heterozygous for 1419 + 1G --> C) and 55 controls and 64 patients and 66 controls (one heterozygous for 1419 + 1G --> C), respectively. Transcript analysis of lymphocyte RNA from 5 1419 + 1G --> C carriers revealed no systematic influence on the expression level of the mutated allele. In addition, segregation analysis of 1419 + 1G --> C in affected families gave evidence that 1419 + 1G --> C does not play a causal role in the aetiology of TS. We conclude that genetic variations of the CNR1 gene are not a plausible explanation for the clinically observed relation between the cannabinoid system and TS.
In order to clarify the mechanism of the neurotoxicity of 5-FU and/or its masked compounds, we studied the effects of alpha-fluoro-beta-alanine (FBAL) and fluoroacetic acid (FA) on the formation of vacuolar changes in the dog cerebrum, using the dosage of 3.0 mg/kg/day of FBAL-HCl (FBAL x HCl) and 0.03 mg/kg/day of FA-Na (FA x Na), respectively. These 2 compounds were selected because they are the metabolites of 5-FU claimed to be responsible for the neurotoxic effects of 5-FU and/or its masked compounds, and we wanted to confirm their effects. Tegafur-uracil mixture (UFT) was used as a positive control drug for the formation of vacuolar changes in the dog cerebrum. All compounds were orally administered daily for 3 months to beagle dogs. Each study group consisted of 3 males. Neurotoxic signs such as hyperesthesia and/or excitement, as well as convulsions, were observed in both FBAL x HCl and FA x Na groups; these toxic signs were also found in the UFT group. Slight loss of body weight gain and of food consumption was observed in the FBAL x HCl and UFT groups. Neuropathologically, vacuolar changes were detected in several areas of the dog cerebrum following administration of FBAL x HCl, FA x Na or UFT. In terms of morphology, the neuropathological effects of these 2 drugs were very similar to those induced by UFT. In conclusion, we clearly showed that FBAL is one of the main substances that cause neurotoxic signs and neuropathological changes in dogs intoxicated by 5-FU or its masked compounds. Moreover, FA might be considered to be a causative factor in addition to FBAL.
We hypothesize that iodine allergy is an immune response to iodinated self proteins produced in vivo from various iodine-containing chemicals. Since an antigenic determinant of experimental iodine allergy is diiodotyrosine (DIT), we designed low molecular weight DIT derivatives having provocative antigenicity without sensitizing immunogenicity. Tetraiododityrosine and hexaiodotrityrosine provoked dose-dependent skin reactions in guinea pigs previously immunized with iodine. No guinea pigs immunized with hexaiodotrityrosine showed anaphylactic reaction by i.v. challenge with hexaiodotrityrosine and none of their antisera showed positive passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) reaction in guinea pigs, indicating the non-immunogenic nature of the compound. Erythrosine, one of the color additives having a structure common with DIT, was assessed for its immunological property. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) inhibition studies on erythrosine revealed that the inhibitory activity of erythrosine was stronger than that of DIT. Furthermore, erythrosine provoked a PCA reaction in animals sensitized with anti-iodine antisera. In conclusion, hexaiodotrityrosine is thought to be useful for skin testing of iodine allergy without any fear of sensitization to the allergen. Erythrosine was shown to provoke an experimental iodine allergy and, also, the relationships between the new concept of iodine allergy and features of clinical findings of adverse effects by iodocontrast media are discussed.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate the effect of sulindac on uncolectomized familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP).
Seven FAP patients (SU group) without proctocolectomy were given sulindac 300 mg/day orally for 12 months. Six FAP patients without sulindac (non-SU group) served as controls. Colorectal lesions were assessed by protrusion index (no. radiolucent areas/cm(2); PI) under barium enema examination and non-polypoid lesion were assessed under chromoscopy prior to and at the end of the observation period. In the SU group, germline adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) mutation was determined by protein truncation test.
In the SU group, PI decreased significantly in the distal colon (from 3.0 +/- 1.1 to 1.1 +/- 0.8/cm(2), P < 0.02) and in the proximal colon (from 3.4 +/- 2.4 to 0.9 +/- 1.3/cm(2), P < 0.02). The PI in the non-SU group slightly but significantly increased in the distal colon (from 1.0 +/- 0.8 to 1.2 +/- 0.9/cm(2); P < 0.05) and it remained unchanged in the proximal colon (from 0.6 +/- 0.3 to 0.7 +/- 0.3/cm(2); P > 0.05). Chromoscopy at the end of observation identified non-polypoid lesions in five patients in the SU group, whereas such lesions were not found in the non-SU group (71% vs 0%, P = 0.016). Decrease in PI was not different among distal APC mutation (exons 1-9), proximal APC mutation (exons 10-15) and negative mutation.
Sulindac reduces colorectal adenomas of protruding type in uncolectomized FAP. The effect of sulindac may be unrelated to genotype of FAP.
The effects of the calcium channel blockers diltiazem on the parasympathetic nervous system were studied by using spectral analysis of heart rate variability, and were compared with the effects of the beta-receptor blocker metoprolol. The area under the curve of the high-frequency range (f = 0.18-0.35 Hz) during controlled respiratory rate (f = 0.25 Hz) was used as a quantitative index of parasympathetic activity. Twenty-four male patients with proven coronary artery disease and normal left ventricular function (LVEF > 60%) were studied 2 weeks after chronic treatment with diltiazem (3 x 60 mg daily) or metoprolol (3 x 50 mg daily) before and after administration of the drug. Twelve patients received diltiazem and 12 patients metoprolol. After administration of diltiazem the peripheral systolic blood pressure was reduced, but the parasympathetic activity was significantly higher than compared with the initial measurement. The same effect was seen for metoprolol, but a significant lower heart rate was present after administration. The relative area under the high-frequency range significantly increased at rest, by 110% after diltiazem and 70% after metoprolol. Diltiazem and metoprolol enhance the vagal influence at the heart, thereby leading to an enhancement of barosensitivity and of the respiratory sinus arrhythmia. This action may contribute to the beneficial effects of both drugs in patients with coronary artery disease.
Treatment of cocaine addiction is hampered by high rates of relapse even after prolonged drug abstinence. This relapse to compulsive cocaine use can be triggered by re-exposure to cocaine, by re-exposure to stimuli previously associated with cocaine or by exposure to stress. In laboratory rats, similar events reinstate cocaine seeking after prolonged withdrawal periods, thus providing a model to study neuronal mechanisms underlying the relapse to cocaine. The endocannabinoid system has been implicated in a number of neuropsychiatric conditions, including drug addiction. The active ingredient of marijuana, Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, activates the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) reward system and has rewarding effects in preclinical models of drug abuse. We report here that the synthetic cannabinoid agonist, HU210 (ref. 13), provokes relapse to cocaine seeking after prolonged withdrawal periods. Furthermore, the selective CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716A (ref. 14), attenuates relapse induced by re-exposure to cocaine-associated cues or cocaine itself, but not relapse induced by exposure to stress. These data reveal an important role of the cannabinoid system in the neuronal processes underlying relapse to cocaine seeking, and provide a rationale for the use of cannabinoid receptor antagonists for the prevention of relapse to cocaine use.
Hematoma volume is a major determinant of outcome in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Accurate volume measurements are critical for predicting outcome and are thought to be more difficult in patients with oral anticoagulation-related ICH (OAT-ICH) due to a higher frequency of irregular shape. We examined hematoma shape and methods of volume assessment in patients with OAT-ICH.
We performed a case-control analysis of a prospectively identified cohort of consecutive patients with ICH. We retrospectively reviewed 50 consecutive patients with OAT-ICH and 50 location-matched non-OAT-ICH controls. Two independent readers analyzed CT scans for hematoma shape and volume using both ABC/2 and ABC/3 methods. Readers were blinded to all clinical variables including warfarin status. Gold-standard ICH volumes were determined using validated computer-assisted planimetry.
Within this cohort, median INR in patients with OAT-ICH was 3.2. Initial ICH volume was not significantly different between non-OAT-ICH and OAT-ICH (35 +/- 38 cc vs. 53 +/- 56 cc, P = 0.4). ICH shape did not differ by anticoagulation status (round shape in 10% of OAT-ICH vs. 16% of non-OAT-ICH, P = 0.5). The ABC/3 calculation underestimated median volume by 9 (3-28) cc, while the ABC/2 calculation did so by 4 (0.8-12) cc.
Hematoma shape was not statistically significantly different in patients with OAT-ICH. Among bedside approaches, the standard ABC/2 method offers reasonable approximation of hematoma volume in OAT-ICH and non-OAT-ICH.
We describe a rare case of acute myeloid leukaemia with trilineage myelodysplasia complicated by central diabetes insipidus. In the present case, diabetes insipidus was masked by corticosteroid deficiency due to hypopituitarism and clinical symptoms presented after administering methylprednisolone. Although the remission of leukaemia was not achieved by chemotherapy, excessive urinary output was well-controlled by nasal administration of 1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin (DDAVP) during the course.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is caused by platelet-activating antiplatelet factor 4/heparin antibodies. However, clinical HIT (thrombocytopenia or thrombosis, or both) develops in only a minority of patients who form antibodies. It is difficult to distinguish HIT from non-HIT thrombocytopenia in patients after ventricular assist device (VAD) implantation. Further, the risks of heparin-induced immunization and clinical HIT approach 65% and 10%, respectively, in this patient population, with a particularly high risk of cerebrovascular ischemia/infarction. Given the apparent high risk of HIT and its complications, and the diagnostic challenges, we suggest that the VAD patient population be evaluated using alternative, nonheparin agents for routine postimplantation anticoagulation.
In order to evaluate the possible mechanisms of local anesthetic toxicity, the rat sciatic nerve was exposed to various solutions including Nesacaine (containing the antioxidant sodium bisulfite), 2-chloroprocaine in the Nesacaine vehicle (0.2% sodium chloride), 0.2% sodium bisulfite in 0.2% sodium chloride, or 0.2% sodium chloride alone. All solutions were pH balanced between 2.9 and 3.2. Forty-eight hours (h) following extraneural administration of 1 ml volumes, significant edema was produced by all solutions containing 3% 2-chloroprocaine, but not with 0.2% bisulfite in sodium chloride or with sodium chloride alone. Intrafascicular administration of five to ten microliter volumes of these solutions produced edema at 48 h in all cases, but the highest levels were observed with Nesacaine and the lowest levels with 0.2% bisulfite. The results of this study implicate the local anesthetic 2-chloroprocaine in the production of nerve edema, which is inconsistent with other reports that the toxicity of Nesacaine-CE can be attributed to the antioxidant bisulfite.
The gene IGF2, which encodes a fetal insulin-like growth factor, is imprinted, so only one of two parental copies of the gene is expressed. The altered expression of IGF2 has been implicated in Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, a human fetal overgrowth syndrome, which is characterized by overgrowth of several organs and an increased risk of developing childhood tumours. We have introduced Igf2 transgenes into the mouse genome by using embryonic stem cells, which leads to transactivation of the endogenous Igf2 gene. The consequent overexpression of Igf2 results in most of the symptoms of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, including prenatal overgrowth, polyhydramnios, fetal and neonatal lethality, disproportionate organ overgrowth including tongue enlargement, and skeletal abnormalities. These phenotypes establish Igf2 overexpression as a key determinant of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome.
Drug-induced liver injury due to celecoxib, a first generation Cox-2 inhibitor, has been rarely reported. We describe one case of severe and prolonged cholestasis after treatment with celecoxib for 12 days in a young woman with no evidence of other causes of liver disease or allergy. Jaundice lasted for 3 months, pruritus and abnormal liver biochemistry persisted for 18 months after stopping the drug. Liver biopsy specimens showed a cholestatic pattern of liver injury with only minimal mononuclear infiltrate in the portal tracts. This case report supports the notion that celecoxib may cause bland, long term cholestasis.
