The antibiotic drug novobiocin was evaluated for its anti-tumour properties in B16 melanoma cells. Novobiocin is shown to inhibit melanoma B16 cell proliferation. The anti-proliferative effect was gradually reversible upon removal of novobiocin from the culture medium. Growth inhibition by novobiocin was accompanied by phenotypic alterations, that included morphological changes, lipid accumulation and marked increases in the activities of NADPH cytochrome c reductase and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase. In vivo administration of repeated i.p. doses of novobiocin, to mice implanted with B16 melanoma cells resulted in growth retardation. The combined treatment of the B16 melanoma cells with novobiocin and other chemical inducers of differentiation was examined in a cell growth assay. Novobiocin and sodium butyrate inhibited cell growth in a near additive manner, while combination of novobiocin with the GTP-depleting agents, tiazofurin or mycophenolic acid resulted in a synergistic decrease in cell growth. Our results support the contention further that novobiocin and other differentiating agents might be of potential value in melanoma therapy.
The platelet-activating factor (PAF) represents a phospholipid with complex biological functions, including involvement in inflammatory processes. The degrading enzyme PAF acetylhydrolase (PAFAH) represents a candidate for asthma and other atopic diseases. Two loss-of-function mutations of PAFAH are associated with severe asthma in Japanese individuals. Our aim was to look for further PAFAH variants in white populations, their possible association with atopic and asthmatic phenotypes, and their functional importance. We picked up three common variants in the PAFAH gene: Arg92His (exon 4), Ile198Thr (exon 7), and Ala379Val (exon 11). The known loss-of-function mutations were not seen. The variant allele Thr198 was found to be highly associated with total IgE concentrations in an atopic population (P=.009) and with "atopic asthma" in an asthmatic population (P=.008). The variant allele Val379 was found to be highly associated with "specific sensitization" in the atopic population (P=.002) and with "asthma" in the asthmatic population (P=.003). By use of recombinant PAFAH enzymes, the variant Val379 showed increased (14 microM) and Thr198 markedly increased (42 microM) KM values compared to the wild type (7 microM); furthermore, Vmax of Val379 was highly increased (132%). Thr198 and Val379 influence plasmatic PAFAH toward lower substrate affinities and therefore are very likely to prolong the activities of PAF. At the same time, they are associated with an increased risk to develop asthma and atopy. Thus, two PAFAH variants seem to play a key role in atopic and asthmatic processes in Caucasian populations.
To investigate the activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and its relationship with expression of cytokine mRNA in intestinal mucosal biopsy specimens from patients with ulcerative colitis (UC).
31 cases with UC were included in the study. 17 cases received sulfasalazine (SASP) or SASP and glucocorticoid treatment. 14 cases did not receive any medication related with UC. Normal mucosa from 11 colon cancer cases served as control. Ten pieces of intestinal mucosal biopsy specimens were obtained from each patient. NF-kappaB DNA binding activity was evaluated with electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Expression of cytokine mRNA were studied with reversal tanscription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
(1) The expression of IL-1beta mRNA and IL-8 mRNA was increased significantly in patients with UC, as compared with that in the control specimens (P < 0.05) and had a significant positive correlation with NF-kappaB DNA binding activity (r = 0.8363, P < 0.05; r = 0.6024, P < 0.05, respectively). (2) Glucocorticoids and SASP strongly inhibited NF-kappaB activation and signficantly decreased the expression of IL-1beta mRNA and IL-8 mRNA.
NF-kappaB is a major and essential factor in regulating the expression of cytokine and plays a fundamental role in the pathogenesis of UC. SASP and glucocorticoids decrease cytokine expression via inhibition of NF-kappaB activation.
This study investigated the inhibitory effects of 2'-benzoyloxycinnamaldehyde (BCA) on cancer cells, including various drug-resistant cancer cell lines. To observe this activity, the anticancer drug-resistant cell lines were established by continuously exposing the parental cells to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cyclophosphamide (CDDP), and examining the cells with the MTT assay and flow cytometric analysis. The BCA treatment produced similar growth inhibitory effects and apoptotic cell death on the drug-resistant cancer cells as their parental cells. The activation of the p38-mitogen activated protein kinase, an increased level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and downregulation of Bcl-2 were observed in both the drug resistant and non-drug resistant cell lines. The GSH treatment effectively inhibited BCA-induced apoptosis by blocking ROS generation, suggesting that ROS is a major regulator in BCA-induced apoptotic cell death. These results suggest that BCA can be a useful drug candidate for treating drug-resistant cells.
Recurrent disseminated intravascular coagulation occurred in 3 women after ingestion of quinine tablets for cramp. All had circulating quinine-dependent antibodies to platelets and in 2 there was initial evidence of antibody consumption, with low titres that rose steeply over the next few days and remained high for many months.
We report a case of mutism secondary to total IV anesthesia with propofol, as an unusual complication that we have not found in the literature.
Studies of mechanisms of disease regulation by CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Treg) have been focused on their interaction with effector T cells; however, the possibility that regulation might involve noncognate cells has not been explored in detail. This study investigated the effect of CD4+CD25+ Treg on macrophage proinflammatory properties and phenotype in vitro and found that they modulate macrophages by inhibiting their activation, leading to reduced proinflammatory cytokine production and a downregulated effector phenotype. For testing the in vivo significance of this effect, CD4+CD25+ T cells that expressed high levels of Foxp3 were reconstituted into SCID mice after induction of Adriamycin nephropathy, a noncognate model of chronic renal disease. CD4+CD25+ T cells significantly reduced glomerular and interstitial injury. In addition, there was a significant fall in the number of macrophages in both the glomeruli and interstitium of SCID mice that were reconstituted with Treg as compared with the Adriamycin alone group. Blockade of TGF-beta using neutralizing antibodies significantly impaired the protective effect of Treg. These findings delineate a TGF-beta-dependent Treg-macrophage inhibitory interaction that can explain cognate-independent protection by Treg.
This study focused on the utility of interferon gamma (IFN gamma) as an anti-fibrotic drug in renal experimental fibrosis; the nephropathy was induced by two doses of Adriamycin (ADR) in 20 Sprague Dawley rats, 10 of which were randomly assigned to receive IFN gamma (45,000 UI) on alternate day for 16 weeks. At the end of the follow up, ADR rats treated with IFN gamma developed massive proteinuria, slight renal insufficiency, and presented diffuse glomerulosclerosis, tubulo interstitial infiltration and fibrosis. No difference was found in the composition of tubulo-interstitial infiltrates, mainly consisting in CD4+T lymphocytes with a minor component of CD8+T cells, in comparison with rats treated with ADR alone. These observations demonstrate the inefficacy of a protracted high-dose treatment with IFN gamma in chronic experimental nephropathy with interstitial fibrosis.
Methotrexate (MTX), used as a graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) prophylactic agent in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), exerts its effect via folate cycle inhibition. A critical enzyme involved in folate metabolism is 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR). We examined the association of a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) at position 677 in the MTHFR gene on GvHD outcomes in allogeneic HSCT patients administered MTX. MTHFR genotyping was performed by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) on 193 HSCT patients and donors. A total of 140 patients were transplanted with an HLA-matched related donor and 53 with an unrelated donor. GvHD outcomes were compared between genotypes by univariate and multivariate analysis. The combined donor 677CT and TT genotypes were associated with a decreased incidence of GvHD (acute and chronic combined) in HSCT recipients with an HLA-matched related donor (75% at 1 year in the CT and TT group compared with 91% in the wild type CC group, P=0.01), increased time to onset of first GvHD (P=0.001) and time to first GvHD treated with systemic therapy (P=0.022). Unrelated donor MTHFR genotype was not associated with outcome parameters and no associations of recipient genotype in either related or unrelated donor cohorts were observed.
To evaluate specific urological abnormalities in patients treated with the protease inhibitor indinavir.
A series of 155 consecutive human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients were treated with indinavir 800 mg p.o. three times a day. Of these, 14 (9%) treated for 1-321 (average 110) days experienced severe flank pain and were subjected to clinical and laboratory examinations.
Abdominal X-ray was consistently negative for stones. Ultrasonography showed upper-tract dilatation in 12 patients. Intravenous urography showed obstruction above a radiolucent obstacle in 7 patients; in 2 cases, there was a marked delay in urine excretion on the obstructed side. The mean urine pH was 6. Urine culture was negative. Serum uric acid, phosphorus, and calcium levels were normal. In 8 patients there was slight renal insufficiency, and 4 patients required ureteral stenting. In all cases, hyperhydration and oral analgesia led to a favorable outcome. In 3 patients, chemical analysis of the stone demonstrated monohydrate indinavir crystals.
In our experience, indinavir therapy is associated with urolithiasis in 9% of the cases. Hydration, analgesia, and acidification of the urine usually lead to a favorable clinical outcome. Prophylactic hydration and acidification of the urine are extremely important.
Two cases of lithium-induced hypothyroidism, presenting as carpal tunnel syndrome, are reported. This is believed to be the first report of such an association.
Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGME) is a widely used industrial solvent known to cause adverse effects to human and other mammals. Organs with high metabolism and rapid cell division, such as testes, are especially sensitive to its actions. In order to gain mechanistic understanding of EGME-induced toxicity, an untargeted metabolomic analysis was performed in rats. Male rats were administrated with EGME at 30 and 100 mg/kg/day. At days 1, 4, and 14, serum, urine, liver, and testes were collected for analysis. Testicular injury was observed at day 14 of the 100 mg/kg/day group only. Nearly 1900 metabolites across the four matrices were profiled using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Statistical analysis indicated that the most significant metabolic perturbations initiated from the early time points by EGME were the inhibition of choline oxidation, branched-chain amino acid catabolism, and fatty acid β-oxidation pathways, leading to the accumulation of sarcosine, dimethylglycine, and various carnitine- and glycine-conjugated metabolites. Pathway mapping of these altered metabolites revealed that all the disrupted steps were catalyzed by enzymes in the primary flavoprotein dehydrogenase family, suggesting that inhibition of flavoprotein dehydrogenase-catalyzed reactions may represent the mode of action for EGME-induced toxicity. Similar urinary and serum metabolite signatures are known to be the hallmarks of multiple acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency in humans, a genetic disorder because of defects in primary flavoprotein dehydrogenase reactions. We postulate that disruption of key biochemical pathways utilizing flavoprotein dehydrogenases in conjugation with downstream metabolic perturbations collectively result in the EGME-induced tissue damage.
In the testis, developing germ cells are dependent on supportive physical and paracrine interactions with Sertoli cells. The intimate nature of this relationship is demonstrated by the fact that a toxic insult compromising the stability of Sertoli cells will have deleterious effects on the associated germ cells. 2,5-Hexanedione (HD) and x-radiation (x-ray) are testicular toxicants, each with a unique cellular target. HD exposure disrupts microtubule function in Sertoli cells, and x-ray exposure causes double-strand breaks in the DNA of germ cells. Despite their differing modes of action, exposure to either toxicant has the similar ultimate effect of increased germ cell apoptosis. In this study, adult male F344 rats were exposed to 1% HD in the drinking water for 18 days with or without coexposure to 2 or 5 Gy x-ray 12 h prior to necropsy. Incidence of retained spermatid heads was increased in the HD and coexposure groups. Germ cell apoptosis was significantly increased in the x-ray and coexposure groups. There was a striking stage-dependent attenuation of apoptosis with coexposure compared with x-ray alone. Detailed histopathological analysis revealed a significant suppression of x-ray-induced germ cell apoptosis by HD pretreatment in stages I-VI of the seminiferous cycle, most noticeably at stages II/III. We hypothesize either that subacute HD pretreatment compromises the ability of the Sertoli cells to eliminate x-ray-damaged germ cells or that germ cells are more resistant to x-ray-induced damage, having adapted to a less supportive environment.
The unexpected observation of a hyperglycemic effect of some tricycle-based delta opioid receptor (DOR) agonists led to a series of studies to better understand the finding. Single administration of two novel tricyclic DOR agonists dose dependently elevated rat plasma glucose levels; 4-week toxicology studies confirmed the hyperglycemic finding and further revealed pancreatic β-cell hypertrophy, including vacuole formation, as well as bone dysplasia and Harderian gland degeneration with regeneration. Similar diabetogenic effects were observed in dog. A review of the literature on the antiserotonergic and antihistaminergic drug cyproheptadine (CPH) and its metabolites revealed shared structural features as well as similar hyperglycemic effects to the present series of DOR agonists. To further evaluate these effects, we established an assay measuring insulin levels in the rat pancreatic β-cell-derived RINm5F cell line, extensively used to study CPH and its metabolites. Like CPH, the initial DOR agonists studied reduced RINm5F cell insulin levels in a concentration-dependent manner. Importantly, compound DOR potency did not correlate with the insulin-reducing potency. Furthermore, the RINm5F cell insulin results correlated with the diabetogenic effect of the compounds in a 5-day mouse study. The RINm5F cell insulin assay enabled the identification of aryl-aryl-amine DOR agonists that lacked an insulin-reducing effect and did not elevate blood glucose in repeated dosing studies conducted over a suprapharmacologic dose range. Thus, not only did the RINm5F cell assay open a path for the further discovery of DOR agonists lacking diabetogenic potential but also it established a reliable, economical, and high-throughput screen for such potential, regardless of chemotype or target pharmacology. The present findings also suggest a mechanistic link between the toxicity observed here and that underlying Wolcott-Rallison Syndrome.
To review the literature regarding the efficacy, tolerability, and utility of lercanidipine in the treatment of hypertension.
A search of the literature was performed using MEDLINE (1966-September 2006), EMBASE Drugs and Pharmacology (1980-September 2006), and Current Contents/Clinical Medicine (week 24, 2005-week 30, 2006). Package inserts from lercanidipine, nifedipine, felodipine, and amlodipine were also reviewed for comparison of adverse effects.
Articles were limited to clinical trials, abstracts, and review articles published in English.
Lercanidipine is a novel dihydropyridine (DHP) calcium-channel blocker indicated for the treatment of mild-to-moderate hypertension. Although it is not yet available in the US, lercanidipine has been utilized extensively in other countries. In 2 randomized controlled trials of approximately 400 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, lercanidipine showed efficacy similar to that of 2 other DHPs, felodipine and slow-release nifedipine, in significantly reducing systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) after 4 weeks. In a longer trial (12 mo), lercanidipine 10 mg/day led to normalized blood pressure in 49% of patients after 4 weeks. A postmarketing trial of 9050 patients corroborated the results observed in previous clinical trials, with 64% of patients achieving a DBP of less than 90 mm Hg and 32% attaining blood pressure control (<140/90 mm Hg). In elderly patients, lercanidipine was found comparable with lacidipine and nifedipine, showing similar decreases in DBP when compared with nifedipine (-18.3 vs -17.7 mm Hg, respectively). What distinguishes lercanidipine from other members of the DHP class is its lower incidence of adverse effects, particularly edema. One study showed that fewer patients withdrew secondary to adverse drug reactions in the lercanidipine (0.9%) and nifedipine (3.8%) group compared with the felodipine (4.5%) group. Lercanidipine has also shown efficacy similar to that of other antihypertensives, including atenolol, captopril, and losartan.
Lercanidipine may be an option in the treatment of hypertension, as current literature suggests comparable antihypertensive efficacy and better tolerability. Further randomized, double-blind clinical trials must be conducted in order to clarify its position among other antihypertensive medications.
Propriospinal myoclonus is a rare disorder characterized by sudden, shock-like, involuntary jerks that arise from the axial muscles and spread both rostrally and caudally to other myotomes through slow polysynaptic pathways. It can be idiopathic or secondary to intrinsic and extrinsic spinal cord lesions; additionally, it can develop as an adverse effect to the administration of several drugs, including neuraxial local anesthetics. This article describes a case of transient propriospinal myoclonus in a 77-year-old woman undergoing surgery for hip replacement who received 12 mg of 0.5% normobaric bupivacaine administered by a 25-G spinal needle. On postoperative day 1, the patient presented with spinal myoclonus, defined by clinical and electrophysiologic studies. Valproate and clonazepam controlled the symptoms, and on day 4 the myoclonus completely disappeared. Few cases of myoclonus induced by intrathecal bupivacaine administration have been reported in the literature, but systematic reviews written to clarify the global incidence and the physiopathology of this complication are still lacking.
To study the effect of once-daily administration of a nitrendipine tablet 10 mg on 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure in inpatients with renal parenchymal hypertension.
Sixteen patients participated in the present study, and one patient was withdrawn because the baseline office blood pressure was less than 140/90 mmHg. In the baseline period, ambulatory blood pressure was monitored every 30 minutes for 30 hours. After the baseline measurement, nitrendipine 10 mg was orally administered once daily every morning for 7 days. The 30-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring was repeated after Day 6.
Fifteen patients (aged 64.9 +/- 15.0 years) completed the study protocol. Baseline office blood pressure was 157.9 +/- 17.5/84.7 +/- 12.5 mmHg (mean +/- SD). Nitrendipine 10 mg tablets significantly reduced both systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) at least for 11 hours after administration compared with those at baseline. The rate of "Decrease" (reduction in blood pressure > or = 20/10 mmHg and/or achieved blood pressure < 140/90 mmHg at trough point) was 60.0% (9/15). Eleven patients were considered as effective cases at peak point (maximal reduction in blood pressure > or = 20/10 mmHg). The rate of "Decrease" in effective cases at peak point was 72.7% (8/11).
These results suggest that a once-daily administration of nitrendipine 10 mg tablets is effective for the 24-hour control of blood pressure in patients with renal parenchymal hypertension.
Diagnosis of ictal discharges during epileptic activity should be based on raw electroencephalography (EEG). The apparatus necessary for such a diagnosis would typically require time to properly set up and operate. The bispectral index (BIS), an EEG-derived parameter that is easy to establish and easy to use, has been shown to correlate with numerous EEG conditions and may represent a useful tool. Acute encephalitis with refractory, repetitive, partial seizures (AERRPS) is an epileptic syndrome first described by Sakuma in Japan in 2001. We assessed the utility of using BIS monitoring as a diagnostic tool and as a monitor of anticonvulsive therapy in a 14-year-old patient admitted to the intensive care unit with AERRPS. After BIS monitor montage, BIS, electromyography (EMG) and raw EEG data were continuously recorded. Epileptic seizures lasting 1-2 min were repeated every 3-4 min. Using paired t-test analysis, mean +/- SD BIS and EMG peak values at the start of epileptic seizures (94.5+/-3.6, 55.8+/-2.5 dB) were significantly higher than values measured at the end of seizures (55.1+/-12.5, 34.5+/-2.8 dB), respectively. Real-time EEG revealed bursts of epileptiform discharges replaced by slow d and q waves with ictal remissions. During induced pharmacologic barbiturate/diazepam coma, BIS decreased to near isoelectricity (11.9+/-2.5) with a steady increase in suppression ratio (65.5+/-9.7). The characteristic BIS profile of repetitive 1-2 min high EEG/EMG activity could serve as an indicator of a global increase in cerebral activity with seizures. Our report suggests that BIS, an easy-to-use device, might be helpful in monitoring clinical trends after EEG confirmation of diagnosis as well as in successfully depicting the efficacy of therapy.
To study the effect of copper transporting P-type ATPase in copper metabolism of hepatocyte and pathogenesis of Wilson disease (WD).
WD copper transporting properties in some organelles of the cultured hepatocytes were studied from WD patients and normal controls.These cultured hepatocytes were incubated in the media of copper 15 mg x L(-1) only, copper 15 mg x L(-1) with vincristine (agonist of P-type ATPase) 0.5mg x L(-1), or copper 15 mg x L(-1) with vanadate (antagonist of P-type ATPase) 18.39 mg x L(-1) separately. Microsome (endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus), lysosome, mitochondria, and cytosol were isolated by differential centrifugation. Copper contents in these organelles were measured with atomic absorption spectrophotometer, and the influence in copper transportion of these organelles by vanadate and vincristine were comparatively analyzed between WD patients and controls. WD copper transporting P-type ATPase was detected by SDS-PAGE in conjunction with Western blot in liver samples of WD patients and controls.
The specific WD proteins (M(r)155,000 lanes) were expressed in human hepatocytes, including the control and WD patients. After incubation with medium containing copper for 2 h or 24 h, the microsome copper concentration in WD patients was obviously lower than that of controls, and the addition of vanadate or vincristine would change the copper transporting of microsomes obviously. When incubated with vincristine, levels of copper in microsome were significantly increased, while incubated with vanadate, the copper concentrations in microsome were obviously decreased. The results indicated that there were WD proteins, the copper transportion P-type ATPase in the microsome of hepatocytes. WD patients possessed abnormal copper transporting function of WD protein in the microsome, and the agonist might correct the defect of copper transportion by promoting the activity of copper transportion P-type ATPase.
Copper transportion P-type ATPase plays an important role in hepatocytic copper metabolism. Dysfunction of hepatocytic WD protein copper transportion might be one of the most important factors for WD.
We investigated the molecular mechanism of nicotine-accelerated atherosclerosis in a hyperlipidemic low-density lipoprotein receptor(-/-) mouse model.
Low-density lipoprotein receptor(-/-) mice received time-release nicotine or placebo pellets for 90 days. Aortic lesion size was 2.5 times larger in nicotine-treated than in placebo-treated mice (P<0.001). A mild increase in lipids was seen in treated mice. We quantified 18 different serum cytokines and found a significant increase of tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 1beta, and keratinocyte-derived chemokine in nicotine-treated mice. Among 107 nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) target genes screened from the aorta, we found that nicotine treatment upregulated only 4 atherogenic genes including vascular adhesion molecule 1 and cyclooxygenase 2 on day 60 and platelet-derived growth factor B and platelet 12-lipoxygenase on day 90. At the cellular level, nicotine induced tumor necrosis factor alpha and inducible nitric oxide synthase expression in RAW264.7 cells via the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Induction was confirmed in peritoneal macrophages isolated from nicotine-treated mice. Finally, we showed that preconditioned medium from nicotine-treated RAW264.7 cells activated NF-kappaB in human smooth muscle cells and vascular endothelial cells as evidenced by nuclear localization and electromobility shift assay.
Chronic nicotine exposure augments atherosclerosis by enhancing the production of proinflammatory cytokines by macrophages, which, in turn, activate atherogenic NF-kappaB target genes in the aortic lesions.
Rubratoxin B is a mycotoxin that causes hypoglycemia and fatty liver. We investigated the effect of rubratoxin B on hepatic glycogen content and regulation, because blood glucose levels are associated with hepatic glycogen storage. Mice were treated with 1.5mg/kg rubratoxin B for 24h. Stomachs of treated mice became extremely swollen, and the contents were significantly heavier than those of controls. Hypoglycemia stimulates appetite; therefore, rubratoxin B may perturb satiation. Rubratoxin B evidently depleted hepatic glycogen stores. Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) activity and mRNA levels in treated mice were reduced, indicating that rubratoxin B caused hepatic glycogen depletion by inhibiting PEPCK. PEPCK activity and mRNA levels were reduced to similar degrees; it appears that PEPCK activity is regulated transcriptionally. Levels of the PEPCK gene trans-activators phospho-CREB (active form) and C/EBPα were significantly reduced in the livers of treated mice, suggesting that these factors are important for PEPCK gene transcription. Rubratoxicosis and fatty acid oxidation disorders (FAODs) share characteristic signs, such as robust appetite, hypoglycemia, hepatic glycogen depletion, and fatty liver. Although FAODs are generally considered genetic deficiencies, our results indicate that a chemical can also cause FAOD-like signs in mice.
Recent insights into the molecular mechanisms of polycythemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythemia (ET) are challenging the traditional diagnostic classification of these myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs). Clonality analysis using X-chromosome inactivation patterns has revealed apparent heterogeneity among the MPDs. The recently discovered single somatic activating point mutation in the JAK2 gene (JAK2-V617F) is found in the great majority of patients with PV, but also in many patients with phenotypically classified ET and other MPDs. In contrast to the acquired MPDs, mutations of the erythropoietin receptor and thrombopoietin receptor have been identified in familial forms of nonclonal erythrocytosis and thrombocytosis, respectively. The mechanisms of major clinical complications of PV and ET remain poorly understood. Quantitative or qualitative abnormalities of red cells and platelets do not provide clear explanations for the thrombotic and bleeding tendency in these MPDs, suggesting the need for entirely new lines of research in this area. Recently reported randomized clinical trials have demonstrated the efficacy and safety of low-dose aspirin in PV, and an excess rate of arterial thrombosis, major bleeding, and myelofibrotic transformation, but decreased venous thrombosis, in patients with ET treated with anagrelide plus aspirin compared to hydroxyurea plus aspirin.
Between September 1978 and December 1985, 450 case reports of serious respiratory and cardiovascular events and 32 case reports of death attributed to ophthalmic timolol were received by the United States Food and Drug Administration and the National Registry of Drug-Induced Ocular Side Effects. Two hundred sixty-seven patients (55%) experienced a cardiac arrhythmia or a bronchospasm-related event. The median age was 68 years (n = 365). Fifty-five percent of the patients were women and 45% were men (n = 41). Of the 212 persons for whom medical history was provided, 129 (61%) had respiratory disease, 65 (31%) had cardiovascular disease, 13 (6%) had other illnesses, and five (2%) had no underlying illness. Of the 318 patients for whom data on duration of drug use were available 106 (33%) experienced their adverse event within one week of beginning timolol therapy: 73 (23%) had their events on the first day of therapy. Of 192 patients for whom information was available 177 (92%) improved after the drug was discontinued.
Mechanisms that mediate cocaine-induced cardiovascular events following vasoconstriction are incompletely understood.
To examine the effects of cocaine in moderate doses on hematologic and hemostatic parameters that influence blood viscosity and thrombotic potential.
Changes in hemoglobin concentration, hematocrit, and red blood cell counts were measured in human subjects who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition criteria for long-term cocaine abuse, before and sequentially after moderate intranasal and intravenous doses of cocaine. Hemostatic parameters, including von Willebrand factor, fibrinolytic activity, fibrinogen, plasminogen activator inhibitor antigen, and tissue-type plasminogen activator antigen, were sequentially measured after intravenous cocaine or saline placebo with cardiac troponin subunits T and I.
Hemoglobin level (P= .002), hematocrit (P =.01), and red blood cell counts (P = .04) significantly increased from 4% to 6% over baseline from 10 to 30 minutes after intranasal (n = 14) and intravenous (n = 7) cocaine administration in doses of 0.9 mg/kg and 0.4 mg/kg, respectively, with no change in white blood cell or platelet counts. There was a significant increase (P =.03) in von Willebrand factor from 30 to 240 minutes, peaking at 40% over baseline following intravenous cocaine administration in a dose of 0.4 mg/kg (n = 12), with no change after 0.2 mg/kg (n = 3) or placebo (n = 6). Other hemostatic factors, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and cardiac troponin subunits T and I showed no changes.
Cocaine induced a transient erythrocytosis that may increase blood viscosity while maintaining tissue oxygenation during vasoconstriction. An increase in von Willebrand factor without a compensatory change in endogenous fibrinolysis may trigger platelet adhesion, aggregation, and intravascular thrombosis.
Activation of transient receptor potential vanilloid type-1 (TRPV1) channels may affect lipid storage and the cellular inflammatory response. Now, we tested the hypothesis that activation of TRPV1 channels attenuates atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E knockout mice (ApoE(-/-)) but not ApoE(-/-)TRPV1(-/-) double knockout mice on a high-fat diet.
Both TRPV1 mRNA and protein expression were identified in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) and in aorta from C57BL/6J mice using RT-PCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry. In vitro, activation of TRPV1 by the specific agonists capsaicin and resiniferatoxin dose-dependently increased cytosolic calcium and significantly reduced the accumulation of lipids in VSMC from C57BL/6J mice but not from TRPV1(-/-) mice. TRPV1 activation increased ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) expression and reduced low-density lipoprotein-related protein 1 (LRP1) expression in VSMC by calcium-dependent and calcineurin- and protein kinase A-dependent mechanisms. These results showed increased cellular cholesterol efflux and reduced cholesterol uptake. In vivo, long-term activation of TRPV1 by capsaicin for 24 weeks increased ABCA1 and reduced LRP1 expression in aorta from ApoE(-/-) mice on a high-fat diet. Long-term activation of TRPV1 significantly reduced lipid storage and atherosclerotic lesions in the aortic sinus and in the thoracoabdominal aorta from ApoE(-/-) mice but not from ApoE(-/-)TRPV1(-/-) mice on a high-fat diet. These findings indicated that TRPV1 activation ameliorates high-fat diet-induced atherosclerosis.
Activation of TRPV1 may be a novel therapeutic tool to attenuate atherosclerosis caused by a high-fat diet.
Neuropathy is the dose-limiting side effect of vincristine (VCR) in cancer therapy. However, no simple experimental model has yet been reported. Here, we present a simple experimental model of VCR neurotoxicity using a mouse sciatic nerve crush model, which allows evaluation within a few weeks. VCR administered intravenously once on the day after the crush lesion caused a dose-dependent delay of the recovery of motor and sensory functions. The minimal dose required to cause the delay was 0.25 mg/kg, which corresponded to five times the usual clinical dose for man and was far less than the reported doses required to cause functional impairment in intact animals. The model would be useful not only for the development of new drugs but also for the estimation of the drug interactions in combination cancer therapy.
Non-controlled studies have noted a high prevalence of valvular regurgitation in patients with Chinese herb nephropathy; most of these patients had taken appetite suppressants. We aimed to determine the prevalence of valvular regurgitation and the role of appetite suppressants in patients with Chinese herb nephropathy.
This case-controlled echocardiographic study included 40 patients with end-stage renal failure due to Chinese herb nephropathy and 37 age-matched controls with end-stage renal disease due to nephropathy of other origin. Quantification of cumulative doses of appetite suppressants was performed.
Aortic regurgitation was detected in 52.5% of patients with Chinese herb nephropathy, 72+/-1 months after stopping appetite suppressants, and in 21.6% of controls (P=0.009). No difference was found in the incidence of mitral or tricuspid regurgitation. A history of slimming medication was the only significant determinant for aortic regurgitation (P=0.009). Higher cumulative doses of Chinese herbs, (dex)fenfluramine and diethylpropion were observed in patients with Chinese herb nephropathy with, when compared to those without, aortic regurgitation. The dose-response relationship between the cumulative dose of drugs and the presence of aortic regurgitation was significant for fenfluramine only (chi-square=5.16, P=0.024).
Six years after stopping appetite suppressants, aortic regurgitation remains highly prevalent among patients with end-stage Chinese herb nephropathy. The dose-related association with fenfluramine intake strongly confirms a determinant pathogenic role of anorectic drugs.
