Three patients with acute and two with subacute nitrofarantoin-induced pulmonary reactions were studied clinically and by examinining microcoscopically needle biopsy specimens of their lungs. In all five patients slight vasculitis and a few interstitial eosinophils were found in the pulmonary tissue 1-2 weeks after the withdrawal of nitrofurantion therapy. Alveolitis, fibrinous alveolar exudate and perivascular granulomas were also seen in some specimens. The patients with acute reactions had marked blood eosinophilia. In all patients, pulmonary diffusing capacity (DLCO) was below normal, but ventilatory function was not appreciably affected. Withdrawal of nitrofurantion resulted in complete or partial improvement in 4-8 weeks. Our clinical and histological findings support the suggestion that a type III immune-complex-mediated reactions is involved in acute and subacute hypersensitivity reactions to nitrofurantoin.
Cisplatin [cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II)] (CDDP) is an organic compound that is widely used for the treatment of a large number of tumors. Its clinical use is limited by the presence of some undesired side effects, like as oto- and nephro toxicity, whose mechanisms of action are not understood. One of the possible CDDP toxicity mechanism seems to involve the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), that can impair morphology and function of hair cells (HC) in the organ of Corti. To test this hypothesis we evaluated the effect of CDDP treatment on RNA steady-state levels of 15,000 genes by microarray analysis, using, as a experimental model, the OC-k3 cell line, obtained from the organ of Corti of transgenic mice and constitutively expressing the large SV40 T antigen. We have found overexpression of several genes related to arachidonate mobilization including phospholipase A2, group IV and V, phospholipase A2 activating protein and lysophospholipase I and III, as well as lipoxygenation like arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase and arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase activating protein. In addition, we found significant transcription of genes regulating cell respiration, including cyt c oxidase, as well as genes involved in xenobiotic detoxification and lipid peroxidation such as cyt P450, and other oxidases including spermine oxidase and monoamine oxidase. As a whole, overexpression of the group of different genes seems to indicate that an oxidative burst could take place during cisplatin administration. We therefore searched for evidences of superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide by means of electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy and flow cytometry, but failed to detect them. On the other hand, we found an increase of malondialdehyde (MDA) synthesis and protein carbonylation products, indicating the occurence of lipid peroxidative degradation. When we tested the effectiveness of butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), dithiothreitol (DTT) and N-acetylcysteine (N-Ac) as cytoprotectants, all of them reduced protein carbonylation to control levels and significantly protected OC-k3 from CDDP-induced cell death, with an higher protection when using the lipophylic antioxidant BHT. The same antioxidants prevented also the onset of protein carbonylation, which extent was decreased to basal levels. These data indicate that CDDP is able to stimulate gene expression up to 12 h after the beginning of the treatment. This increase in gene transcription involves a large number of genes potentially able to increase the level of cell ROS. Consistently, cells survival is improved by cotreatment with antioxidants, in particular lipophilics.
We analysed 50 probands with a family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer for germline mutations in the coding region of the BRCA1 candidate gene, using single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis on PCR-amplified genomic DNA. A total of eight putative disease-causing alterations were identified: four of these are frameshifts and two are nonsense mutations. In addition, we found two missense mutations, one of which changes the final cysteine of the BRCA1 zinc finger motif to glycine. These data are consistent with a tumour suppressor model, and support the notion that this candidate gene is in fact BRCA1. The heterogeneity of mutations, coupled with the large size of the gene, indicates that clinical application of BRCA1 mutation testing will be technically challenging.
To determine fetal growth and the incidence of withdrawal symptoms in term infants exposed to methamphetamine in utero, we retrospectively identified neonates whose mothers used methamphetamine during pregnancy and matched them to unexposed newborns. Exclusion criteria included multiple and preterm gestations. Although there were no differences in infant growth parameters between the methamphetamine-exposed and methamphetamine-unexposed neonates, methamphetamine exposure throughout gestation was associated with decreased growth relative to infants exposed only for the first two trimesters. In addition, there were significantly more small for gestational age infants in the methamphetamine group compared with the unexposed group. Methamphetamine-exposed infants whose mothers smoked had significantly decreased growth relative to infants exposed to methamphetamine alone. Withdrawal symptoms (as determined by a previously reported scoring system) requiring pharmacologic intervention were observed in 4% of methamphetamine-exposed infants. These preliminary findings indicate that methamphetamine use is associated with growth restriction in infants born at term.
The effects of microinjection of naloxone, an opiate receptor antagonist, into the medial preoptic area (MPO) and diagonal band of Broca (DBB) on luteinizing hormone (LH) and prolactin (PRL) secretion were examined in the intact male rat and female rat in diestrus 1. In both the male and female rats, the injection of 50 micrograms naloxone at 1300 h produced an acute, two- to three-fold increase in serum LH, attaining the peak at 20 min. The PRL concentration in the female 20 min-2 h after the injection was significantly lower than in the saline-injected rat. In the male rat, naloxone caused a decrease in the PRL concentration in the late afternoon when a small rise occurred in the saline-injected rat, although it caused no immediate changes. In addition to these hypophysiotropic effects, naloxone injected in the MPO and DBB unexpectedly had seizurogenic actions. More than 40% of the animals of both sexes given an injection of naloxone had behavioral seizures, which began after about 20 min and were repeated intermittently at 15-20 min intervals through the sampling period of 6 h. In the LH and PRL response to naloxone, there was no significant difference between animals with and without seizure response in both sexes. The results suggest that in the preoptic opioid system there is no difference according to sex in the control of LH, and only a small one, if any, in the control of PRL. Further, on the basis of previous reports, there is a GABAergic system in the preoptic region, that is antagonized by naloxone and causes the activation of cortical neuronal activity.
The present study is concerned with the lesions of nerve- and glial cells after AChE inhibition during brain development. The investigations were performed on rabbits. Dichlorvos (DDVP) an known inhibitor of AChE was given to young animals per os (4-8 mg/kg of body weight) from 6th to 15th day of life. Cerebral and cerebellar cortex and corpus callosum were examined in electron microscope. Our investigations revealed pathological changes in all neuroectodermal elements. It seems that inhibition of AChE induced by DDVP intoxication led to damage of biologic membranes. This is particularly harmful for differentiating and maturing cells.
There is increasing evidence that exposure to air pollutants during pregnancy can result in a number of deleterious effects including low birth weight and the incidence of allergic asthma. To investigate the in utero effects of DE exposure, timed pregnant BALB/c mice were exposed to 0, 0.8 or 3.1 mg/m(3) of DE during gestation days (GD) 9 to GD 18. The number of successful pregnancies was 15/20 in the air controls and 10/20 in each of the diesel exposures. Immune function in the 6-week-old offspring as determined by development of delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions to bovine serum albumin (BSA), antibody titers to injected sheep red blood cells (SRBC), splenic T cells expressing CD45(+)CD3(+)CD8(+) and CD3(+)CD25(+), and mRNA expression of TNF-alpha, TLR2, SP-A, TGF-beta and Foxp3 in the lung were not affected by prenatal DE exposure. On the other hand, lung TLR4 mRNA expression, the number of neutrophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and splenic T cells expressing CD45(+)CD3(+)CD4(+) and CD4(+)CD25(+) were differentially affected depending on the DE concentration and gender. When additional groups of mice were sensitized and challenged via the respiratory tract with ovalbumin to induce allergic airway inflammation, female mice had higher protein levels in the BALF compared to males and this was reduced by prenatal exposure to either concentration of DE. No other changes in allergen-induced immunity, lung function or severity of inflammation were noted. Collectively, the results show that in utero exposure to DE altered some baseline inflammatory indices in the lung in a gender-specific manner, but had no effect on development of specific immune responses to experimental antigens, or the severity of allergic lung inflammation.
The sedative-hypnotic benzodiazepine flunitrazepam (FZ) is abused worldwide. The purpose of our study was to investigate violence and anterograde amnesia following intoxication with FZ, and how this was legally evaluated in forensic psychiatric investigations with the objective of drawing some conclusions about the importance of urine sample in a case of a suspected intoxication with FZ. The case was a 23-year-old male university student who, intoxicated with FZ (and possibly with other substances such as diazepam, amphetamines or cannabis), first stabbed an acquaintance and, 2 years later, two friends to death. The police investigation files, including video-typed interviews, the forensic psychiatric files, and also results from the forensic autopsy of the victims, were compared with the information obtained from the case. Only partial recovery from anterograde amnesia was shown during a period of several months. Some important new information is contained in this case report: a forensic analysis of blood sample instead of a urine sample, might lead to confusion during police investigation and forensic psychiatric assessment (FPA) of an FZ abuser, and in consequence wrong legal decisions. FZ, alone or combined with other substances, induces severe violence and is followed by anterograde amnesia. All cases of bizarre, unexpected aggression followed by anterograde amnesia should be assessed for abuse of FZ. A urine sample is needed in case of suspected FZ intoxication. The police need to be more aware of these issues, and they must recognise that they play a crucial role in an assessment procedure. Declaring FZ an illegal drug is strongly recommended.
Alternative splicing is an important mechanism for expanding proteome diversity from a limited number of genes, especially in higher vertebrates. Brain-specific splicing factors play an important role in establishing specific patterns of alternative splicing in the brain and thereby contribute to its complex architecture and function. Nova proteins are splicing factors that are expressed specifically in the central nervous system, where they regulate a large number of pre-mRNAs encoding synaptic proteins that are important for the balance of neuronal excitation and inhibition. Since this balance is interrupted in epileptic seizures, we explored whether LiCl/pilocarpine- or kainate-induced epileptic seizures would induce changes in the levels of Nova mRNAs in the rat brain. We found that the muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine, but not the glutamatergic agonist, kainate, induced a significant downregulation of Nova2 mRNA and upregulation of all three Nova1 mRNA isoforms in the striatum. Treatment with the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, at the onset of pilocarpine-induced seizures inhibited the seizures and the changes in Nova mRNA levels. Therefore it seems likely that pilocarpine stimulation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors was a prerequisite for the observed changes, while the contribution of other striatal neurotransmitter systems activated by seizures could not be excluded. We propose that the LiCl/pilocarpine seizure model could serve as a valuable tool for studying mechanisms of Nova-regulated alternative splicing in rat striatum.
The neurosteroid 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) has been previously shown to induce catalepsy in mice that is modified by GABAergic, dopaminergic, adenosinergic and serotonergic agents. In light of the interaction of this endogenous neurosteroid with GABAergic and dopaminergic transmission, there is potential interest in the possible role of 3alpha,5alpha-THP in psychotic disorders.
This study assessed the effect of 3alpha,5alpha-THP in certain dopamine-mediated behavioral paradigms that are widely used to predict antipsychotic-like activity.
3alpha,5alpha-THP (1-8 microg per animal, i.c.v.), the classic neuroleptic (dopamine receptor antagonist) haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.), and the benzodiazepine diazepam (7 mg/kg, i.p.) were injected into different groups of animals, and their behavior was screened using the following animal tests: conditioned avoidance response, apomorphine-induced climbing, and amphetamine-induced motor hyperactivity. Separate groups of mice that received 3alpha,5alpha-THP (1-8 microg per animal, i.c.v.) were screened for catalepsy. Furthermore, the effect of a sub-cataleptic dose (0.1 microg per mouse, i.c.v.) of 3alpha,5alpha-THP, either alone or in combination with the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin (0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) was measured on haloperidol-induced catalepsy.
3alpha,5alpha-THP like haloperidol reduced conditioned avoidance, apomorphine-induced cage climbing and amphetamine-induced motor hyperactivity. Diazepam only affected conditioned avoidance. 3alpha,5alpha-THP also induced dose-dependent catalepsy. Furthermore, sub-cataleptic doses of 3alpha,5alpha-THP potentiated haloperidol-induced catalepsy. This potentiation was blocked by prior treatment with the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin.
These findings suggest that 3alpha,5alpha-THP, by its action at the GABA(A) receptors, increases GABAergic tone leading to a behavioral profile similar to that of dopamine receptor antagonists.
Cellular and molecular approaches are being explored to find a biomarker which can predict the development of radiation induced acute toxicity prior to radiation therapy. SNPs in radiation responsive genes may be considered as an approach to develop tools for finding the inherited basis of clinical radiosensitivity. The current study attempts to screen single nucleotide polymorphisms/deletions in DNA damage response, DNA repair, profibrotic cytokine as well as antioxidant response genes and its predictive potential with the normal tissue adverse reactions from 183 head and neck cancer patients undergoing platinum based chemoradiotherapy or radiotherapy alone. We analysed 22 polymorphisms in 17 genes having functional relevance to radiation response. Radiation therapy induced oral mucositis and skin erythema was considered as end point for clinical radiosensitivity. Direct correlation of heterozygous and mutant alleles with acute reactions as well as haplotype correlation revealed NBN variants to be of predictive significance in analysing oral mucositis prior to radiotherapy. In addition, genetic linkage disequilibrium existed in XRCC1 polymorphisms for >grade 2 oral mucositis and skin reaction indicating the complex inheritance pattern. The current study indicates an association for polymorphism in NBN with normal tissue radiosensitivity and further warrants the replication of such studies in a large set of samples.
Two multigravida patients with no prior psychiatric history were seen with postpartum psychosis, having received bromocriptine for inhibition of lactation. Bromocriptine given in high doses has been associated with psychosis in patients receiving the drug for Parkinson's disease. These cases demonstrate that bromocriptine may cause psychosis even when given in low doses.
Hypertension is a common finding in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) nephropathy. African Americans have a high prevalence of NIDDM and hypertension, and are relatively resistant to the antihypertensive effects of converting enzyme inhibitors (CEI) but respond well to calcium channel blockers (CCB). In the long-term study presented here, the effects of isradipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, on the course of the nephropathy were investigated and compared with the effects of captopril in 31 African Americans with NIDDM and proteinuria (> or = 500 mg/day). The patients were stratified by levels of GFR and proteinuria, and they were randomized to receive isradipine (N = 16) or captopril (N = 15); doses were adjusted to maintain similar BP levels (< 140/90). At 6 months, mean arterial pressure was similar (102 +/- 3 and 104 +/- 3 mm Hg in the isradipine and captopril groups, respectively) and GFR was unchanged (delta = -4 +/- 3 and +1 +/- 3 ml/min/1.73 in the isradipine and captopril groups, respectively; P = NS). However, proteinuria in the isradipine group increased by approximately 50% (2.01 +/- 0.40 versus 3.04 +/- 0.70 mg/mg creatinine at baseline versus 6 months, respectively, P < 0.05), whereas captopril reduced proteinuria by 30% after 6 months (2.85 +/- 0.70 at baseline versus 2.30 +/- 0.70 mg/mg creatinine, P < 0.05). Dietary protein, sodium intake, and HbA1C levels were similar in both groups and did not differ from baseline. It was concluded that over 6 months, captopril reduces and isradipine increases proteinuria in African Americans with NIDDM and nephropathy. Whether this contrasting effect on proteinuria will result in different rates of progression is not known, but dihydropyridine CCB should be used cautiously in African Americans with diabetic nephropathy.
To evaluate the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) associated with the use of cyproterone acetate (CPA) amongst men with prostate cancer.
Using data from the General Practice Research Database, cases of VTE were identified amongst men with prostate cancer. Four controls with no evidence of a VTE were selected for each case. The time from diagnosis of prostate cancer to first hormonal treatment, and from first hormonal treatment to VTE, was compared for different treatments. Adjusted risk estimates for VTE were derived from further analysis using a nested case-control study design amongst all men with advanced prostate cancer, qualified by evidence of hormonal treatment.
The time between diagnosis and first treatment was significantly shorter for men first treated with CPA than for men first treated with a luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) analogue (adjusted hazard ratio 1.33, 95% confidence interval, CI, 1.06-1.67). When the first treatment was CPA, the treatment-free period after diagnosis was significantly shorter for men who later had a VTE than for those who did not. The case-control study yielded an adjusted risk estimate for VTE amongst CPA users that was significantly higher than amongst men who were prescribed an LHRH analogue or who had had an orchidectomy (adjusted odds ratio 5.23, 95% CI 3.12-8.79).
There was a greater risk of VTE associated with CPA, which might be due to differences in disease severity between users of different products. The clinical significance of this finding is unclear.
In cerebral blood flow studies, migraine aura is characterized by a posterior cortical hypoperfusion. In contrast, only rare and mild changes in brain perfusion have been demonstrated in migraine without aura, suggesting two different haemodynamic patterns in migraine with and without aura. Our aim was to study hypoperfusion with positron emission tomography (PET) as early as possible during spontaneous migraine without aura attacks. We used H(2) (15)O PET to investigate seven patients (six female, one male) with migraine without aura (International Classification of Headache Diseases-II code 1.1) in three situations: during the headache phase, after headache relief following sumatriptan injection, and during an attack-free interval. Statistical analysis was performed with SPM2. Within 4 h after the attack onset, significant relative bilateral posterior cortical hypoperfusion was found and persisted after headache relief following sumatriptan injection. A posterior cortical hypoperfusion demonstrated in migraine without aura could suggest a common pathogenesis in migraine with and without aura. The significance of relative posterior hypoperfusion in migraine without aura is discussed according to the current knowledge of migraine pathogenesis.
The effects of single oral and intraperitoneal (i.p.) overdoses of paracetamol (500 mg/kg) were studied in mice. The correlation between hepatocellular damage and plasma levels of paracetamol metabolites derived from the oxidative pathway were also investigated. Animals were killed at different intervals (1, 2.5 and 6 h) after drug administration. Plasma concentrations of paracetamol and its sulphate, glucuronide, cysteine and mercapturate conjugates were determined by HPLC. Paracetamol plasma levels were significantly higher at 1 and 2.5 h after i.p. administration as compared to oral administration (p = 0.01 and p = 0.02, respectively). Plasma levels of mercapturic acid conjugate were significantly higher at 6 h after i.p. administration (p = 0.04). After 6 h, animals given oral paracetamol showed significantly less necrosis than animals given i.p. paracetamol (p = 0.03). Plasma levels of mercapturate conjugate at 6 h showed a significant correlation with the severity of liver necrosis (r = 0.64; p = 0.02). The results suggest that i.p. paracetamol seems to be more adequate for hepatotoxicity studies in mice.
In this study, the involvement of various molecular events in pyrogallol-mediated hepatotoxicity was deciphered by differential mRNA transcription profiles of control and pyrogallol treated mice liver. The modulatory effects of silymarin on pyrogallol-induced differentially expressed transcripts were also looked into. Swiss albino mice were treated with or without pyrogallol. In some set of experiments, mice were also treated with silymarin 2 h prior to pyrogallol. Total RNA was isolated from liver and polyadenylated RNA was reverse-transcribed into Cye 3 or Cye 5 labelled cDNA. Equal amounts of labelled cDNA from two different groups were mixed and hybridized with mouse 15 k array. The hybridized arrays were scanned, analyzed and the expression level of each transcript was calculated. The differential expression was validated by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction. Comparative transcription pattern showed an alteration in the expression of 183 transcripts (150 up-regulated and 33 down-regulated) associated with oxidative stress, cell cycle, cytoskeletal network, cell-cell adhesion, extra-cellular matrix, inflammation, apoptosis, cell-signaling and intermediary metabolism in pyrogallol-exposed liver and silymarin pre-treatment modulated the expression of many of these transcripts. Results obtained thus suggest that pyrogallol induces multiple molecular events leading to hepatotoxicity and silymarin effectively counteracts pyrogallol-mediated alterations.
Selected adverse reactions of penicillamine encountered in our clinic since 1975 are described. They include: proteinuria (26 cases), lupus erythematosus (six cases), myasthenia gravis (two cases), pemphigus (three cases), obliterative bronchiolitis (two cases) and obstructive jaundice (one case).
The second generation antipsychotic drugs, such as risperidone, olanzapine, and quetiapine, are effective in treating patients with schizophrenia and have been considered as the first line therapy. Recently, increasing attention has been drawn to the potential diabetogenic effect of these novel antipsychotics. The goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of metformin treatment on the olanzapine-induced metabolic disturbance in schizophrenic patients. Twenty-four schizophrenic subjects who had received olanzapine treatment at least 3 months were assigned to the therapy with metformin 1500 mg/day for 8 weeks. The metabolic parameters were quantitatively assessed at baseline, weeks 2, 4, and 8 by using the intravenous glucose tolerance test. After an 8-week treatment with metformin, the body weight, fasting levels of glucose, triglyceride, and insulin, insulin secretion, and insulin resistance significantly decreased. Half of study subjects with metabolic syndrome obtained improvement after the metformin trial. Subjects' psychopathological condition remained unchanged during the study period. The olanzapine-induced metabolic disturbance could be reversed after 8-week metformin treatment. Based on the results of this study, we hypothesize that metformin could modulate the effect of olanzapine-induced metabolic disturbance.
Various skin and mucosal reactions can be observed after administration of quinidine derivatives.
A patient who was taking Natisédine (quinidine phenylethyl barbiturate) intermittently and at reintroduction developed a papulopurpuric eruption (without thrombopenia) producing extensive centrifugal annular infiltration and central healing which regressed approximately one week after drug withdrawal. This eruption was associated with moderate 24 h proteinuria. The clinical aspect was that of vasculitis purpura as confirmed histology. Direct immunofluorescence only demonstrated C3 deposits in the vessel walls of the superficial dermis. The quinidine moiety of this drug (currently removed from the formulation) appears to be the responsible agent (imputability score: 13 B3).
Thrombopenic purpura by synthesis of anti-platelet antibodies induced by quinidine derivatives is well known. Inversely, cases of non-thrombopenic purpura imputable to these same derivatives is uncommon (7 reported cases). The pathophysiological mechanisms involved might be similar (antigenic similarity between the platelet surface and endothelium).
Antagonism of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors has been hypothesized as a potential target for the development of novel anxiolytics. This study was designed to determine the safety and efficacy of pexacerfont, a selective CRF-1 receptor antagonist, in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).
This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled and active comparator trial. Two hundred and sixty patients were randomly assigned to pexacerfont 100 mg/day (after a 1 week loading dose of 300 mg/day), placebo or escitalopram 20 mg/day in a 2:2:1 ratio. The primary outcome was the mean change from baseline to end point (week 8) in the Hamilton Anxiety Scale total score.
Pexacerfont 100 mg/day did not separate from placebo on the primary outcome measure. The half-powered active comparator arm, escitalopram 20 mg/day, demonstrated efficacy with significant separation from placebo at weeks 1, 2, 3, 6, and 8 (P<.02). Response rates for pexacerfont, placebo, and escitalopram were 42, 42, and 53%, respectively. Genetic and psychometric rating scale data was obtained in 175 randomized subjects. There was a significant association between a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of the gene encoding plexin A2 (PLXNA2-2016) with the HAM-A psychic subscale score for the entire cohort at baseline (FDR-adjusted P=.015).
Pexacerfont did not demonstrate efficacy compared to placebo for the treatment of GAD. Whether these findings are generalizable to this class of agents remains to be determined. Our preliminary genetic finding of an association between a SNP for the gene encoding plexin A2 and an anxiety phenotype in this study merits further exploration. The trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00481325) before enrollment.
A man with severe hypercalcemia (22 mg/dl) secondary to ingestion of a calcium carbonate antacid (Tums) was admitted with obtundation and hyperreflexia, which disappeared with treatment. Laboratory values, which were consistent with milk-alkali syndrome, included low-normal serum chloride (96 mEq/L), normal phosphorus of 2.7 mg/dl (phosphorus is usually normal to increased in this syndrome), increased blood urea nitrogen (39 mg/dl), and increased serum creatinine (2.4 mg/dl). A normal C-terminal parathormone level helped distinguish this patient from patients with severe hypercalcemia due to primary hyperthyroidism. The ECG revealed a widened rather than a shortened QT interval, as well as a J wave, a broadened T wave, and a U wave with this marked hypercalcemia, all of which reverted to normal with correction of the hypercalcemia.
A 51-year-old Korean man with end-stage renal disease and who was on intermittent hemodialysis was admitted with progressive dysarthria, gait disturbance, and myoclonus. The liver function tests and the electrolyte and arterial gas analyses were normal. The Magnetic resonance imaging scan showed a diffuse symmetric high signal intensity in the basal ganglia on the T2-weighted image. After a thorough history taking, we knew that he had been treated with metformin for 3 months at other hospital without our hospitals staff's knowledge. After stopping the metformin, the patient's neurologic signs and symptoms disappeared and the Magnetic resonance imaging findings after 20 days were markedly improved.
With the aim of identifying novel agents with antigrowth and pro-apoptotic activity on prostate cancer cells, in the present study, we evaluated the effect of five lichen secondary metabolites the depsides atranorin (1), diffrattaic (2) and divaricatic (3) acids, the depsidone vicanicin (4) and the protolichesterinic acid (5) on cell growth in androgen-sensitive (LNCaP) and androgen-insensitive (DU-145) human prostate cancer cells. The cell viability was measured using MTT assay. LDH release, a marker of membrane breakdown, was also measured. For the detection of apoptosis, the evaluation of DNA fragmentation (COMET assay) and caspase-3 activity assay were employed. The expression of Bcl-2, Bax, TRAIL, COX-2, NOS2 and Hsp70 proteins was detected by western blot analysis. Generation of reactive oxygen species was measured by using a fluorescent probe. It was observed that atranorin (1), diffrattaic (2) and divaricatic (3) acids showed a lower activity inhibiting the prostate cancer cells only at more high concentrations (25 and 50μM). Whereas compounds vicanicin (4) and protolichesterinic acid (5) showed a dose-response relationship in the range of 6.25-50μM concentrations in DU-145 and LNCaP cells, activating an apoptotic process. The novel finding, in the present study, is that apoptosis induced by these compounds appears to be mediated, at least in part, via the inhibition of Hsp70 expression, that may be correlated with a modulation of redox-sensitive mechanisms. The combination of vicanicin (4) and protolichesterinic acid (5) with other anti-prostate cancer therapies could be considered a promising strategy that warrants further in vivo evaluation.
