The composition of Na+ currents in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons depends on their neuronal phenotype and innervation target. Two TTX-resistant (TTX-R) Na+ currents [voltage-gated Na channels (Nav)] have been described in small DRG neurons; one with slow inactivation kinetics (Nav1.8) and the other with persistent kinetics (Nav1.9), and their modulation has been implicated in inflammatory pain. This has not been studied in neurons projecting to the colon. This study examined the relative importance of these currents in inflammation-induced changes in a mouse model of inflammatory bowel disease. Colonic sensory neurons were retrogradely labeled, and colitis was induced by instillation of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) into the lumen of the distal colon. Seven to ten days later, immunohistochemical properties were characterized in controls, and whole cell recordings were obtained from small (<40 pF) labeled DRG neurons from control and TNBS animals. Most neurons exhibited both fast TTX-sensitive (TTX-S)- and slow TTX-R-inactivating Na+ currents, but persistent TTX-R currents were uncommon (<15%). Most labeled neurons were CGRP (79%), tyrosine kinase A (trkA) (84%) immunoreactive, but only a small minority bind IB4 (14%). TNBS-colitis caused ulceration, thickening of the colon and significantly increased neuronal excitability. The slow TTX-R-inactivating Na current density (Nav1.8) was significantly increased, but other Na currents were unaffected. Most small mouse colonic sensory neurons are CGRP, trkA immunoreactive, but not isolectin B4 reactive and exhibit fast TTX-S, slow TTX-R, but not persistent TTX-R Na+ currents. Colitis-induced hyperexcitability is associated with increased slow TTX-R (Nav1.8) Na+ current. Together, these findings suggest that colitis alters trkA-positive neurons to preferentially increase slow TTX-R Na+ (Nav1.8) currents.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) derived from fossil fuels are ubiquitous contaminants and occur in aquatic habitats as highly variable and complex mixtures of compounds containing 2 to 6 rings. For aquatic species, PAHs are generally accepted as acting through either of two modes of action: (1) "dioxin-like" toxicity mediated by activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), which controls a battery of genes involved in PAH metabolism, such as cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A) and (2) "nonpolar narcosis", in which tissue uptake is dependent solely on hydrophobicity and toxicity is mediated through non-specific partitioning into lipid bilayers. As part of a systematic analysis of mechanisms of PAH developmental toxicity in zebrafish, we show here that three tetracyclic PAHs (pyrene, chrysene, and benz[a]anthracene) activate the AHR pathway tissue-specifically to induce distinct patterns of CYP1A expression. Using morpholino knockdown of ahr1a, ahr2, and cyp1a, we show that distinct embryolarval syndromes induced by exposure to two of these compounds are differentially dependent on tissue-specific activation of AHR isoforms or metabolism by CYP1A. Exposure of embryos with and without circulation (silent heart morphants) resulted in dramatically different patterns of CYP1A induction, with circulation required to deliver some compounds to internal tissues. Therefore, biological effects of PAHs cannot be predicted simply by quantitative measures of AHR activity or a compound's hydrophobicity. These results indicate that current models of PAH toxicity in fish are greatly oversimplified and that individual PAHs are pharmacologically active compounds with distinct and specific cellular targets.
This study was undertaken to investigate the influence of dietary vitamin A deficiency and type of diet on tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)- and phenobarbital-induced liver tumor promotion in rats. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were partially hepatectomized and subsequently initiated with nitrosodiethylamine. One week later the rats were allocated to five different dietary regimens for the duration of the study: three purified (casein-based) diets containing 200, 1200, and 10000 IU vitamin A per kilogram, respectively, and two conventional (cereal-based) rat diets containing 2000 and 14000 IU vitamin A per kilogram, respectively. After an additional 4 weeks, groups of rats on each dietary regimen were started on one of four different promoter treatments: 0.07 micrograms TCDD/kg/week (sc); 0.7 micrograms TCDD/kg/week (sc); 500 ppm phenobarbital in the drinking water or vehicle only (arachis oil, sc). The study was terminated after 16 weeks of promoter treatment. Sections of liver were stained for gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) activity and GGT-positive altered hepatic foci (AHF) were evaluated by stereological methods. All factors studied (TCDD, phenobarbital, dietary vitamin A content, and the type of diet) were shown to influence AHF development significantly. As expected, TCDD and phenobarbital enhanced foci development. Vitamin A deficiency enhanced foci development in its own right and increased the TCDD-induced response markedly. Dietary vitamin A content did not modulate phenobarbital promotion of AHF in the same manner. The enhancement of TCDD-induced effects on foci development by vitamin A deprivation was accompanied by an increased incidence of histological changes marking degeneration in the liver (e.g., oval cell hyperplasia) and accentuation of other TCDD-related toxic responses. In addition, the groups of rats maintained on the cereal-based diets and subjected to the various promoter/vitamin A regimens exhibited significantly higher AHF incidence as compared to correspondingly treated rats fed the purified, casein-based diets. In conclusion, vitamin A deficiency alone may promote hepatocarcinogenesis and enhance the promoting effect of TCDD treatment. However, TCDD-induced depletion of hepatic vitamin A stores was not implicated as a major cause of promotion by TCDD. Nevertheless, vitamin A deficiency brought about by TCDD alone may well act as a promotive stimulus concertedly with an as yet unidentified cellular mechanism in TCDD-induced liver tumor promotion. The differential effects of the two types of diets recorded in the study remain undocumented.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a major cause of refractory respiratory failure in the newborn. Besides pulmonary hypoplasia, the pathophysiology of CDH also includes surfactant deficiency. Vitamin A (vit A) is important for various aspects of lung development. We hypothesized that antenatal treatment with vit A would stimulate lung surfactant synthesis in experimental CDH induced in rats by maternal ingestion of the herbicide nitrofen (2,4-dichloro-phenyl-p-nitrophenyl-ether) on Day 12. Fetuses were assigned to six experimental groups: (1) controls from rats that received olive oil, the vehicle; (2) fetuses from rats that received olive oil on Day 12 and vit A orally (15,000 IU) on Day 14; (3) nitrofen (N)-exposed fetuses without diaphragmatic hernia (N/no DH); (4) N/no DH from rats given vit A on Day 14; (5 ) nitrofen-exposed fetuses with DH (N/+DH); (6) N/+DH from rats given vit A on Day 14. Fetuses were delivered by C-section at Day 21. Lung DNA content was lowered in the nitrofen group as compared with the controls group, but increased by subsequent vit A treatment. Lung surfactant disaturated phosphatidylcholine was reduced in the N/+DH group and restored to control level by vit A. The expression level of surfactant proteins (SP) -A and -C was decreased in vit A-treated control rats and in nitrofen-exposed fetuses with or without DH. Vit A restored SP-A and -C mRNA expression to control levels in N/+DH. SP-B expression was lowered in N/no DH and increased by vit A in this group. The proportion of type II cells assessed by SP-B immunolabeling was lowered in N/+DH and restored by vit A treatment. We conclude that antenatal treatment with vit A restores lung maturation in nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs with CDH. These findings point out vit A as a potential therapeutical agent for correcting surfactant deficiency in CDH.
To detect expression of bone morphogenetic protein 15 (BMP15) and growth differentiation factor 9 (GDF9) in oocytes, and their receptor type 2 receptor for BMPs (BMPR2) in cumulus cells in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF), and determine if BMPR2, BMP15, and GDF9 expression correlate with hyperandrogenism in FF of PCOS patients.
Prospective case-control study. Eighteen MII-oocytes and their respective cumulus cells were obtained from 18 patients with PCOS, and 48 MII-oocytes and cumulus cells (CCs) from 35 controls, both subjected to controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH), and follicular fluid (FF) was collected from small (10-14 mm) and large (>18 mm) follicles. RNeasy Micro Kit (Qiagen) was used for RNA extraction and gene expression was quantified in each oocyte individually and in microdissected cumulus cells from cumulus-oocyte complexes retrieved from preovulatory follicles using qRT-PCR. Chemiluminescence and RIA assays were used for hormone assays.
BMP15 and GDF9 expression per oocyte was higher among women with PCOS than the control group. A positive correlation was found between BMPR2 transcripts and hyperandrogenism in FF of PCOS patients. Progesterone values in FF were lower in the PCOS group.
We inferred that BMP15 and GDF9 transcript levels increase in mature PCOS oocytes after COH, and might inhibit the progesterone secretion by follicular cells in PCOS follicles, preventing premature luteinization in cumulus cells. BMPR2 expression in PCOS cumulus cells might be regulated by androgens.
Urocortins are members of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) family of peptides that bind to two receptors, CRF(1) and CRF(2). While CRF(1) is a high-affinity receptor for CRF, urocortin III binds with much greater affinity to CRF(2). In the present study we investigated the effect of CRF(2) receptor activation with urocortin III on airway smooth muscle tone in vitro and in an acute model of airway inflammation in mice. Urocortin III caused relaxation of methacholine-precontracted mouse tracheal segments. CRF caused similar relaxation, but with reduced potency compared to urocortin III, consistent with the CRF(2) receptor subtype. Relaxation induced by urocortin III was concentration-dependently inhibited by the CRF(2) antagonist, astressin 2B, with an IC(50) in the nanomolar range. These relaxations were potentiated by inhibition of phosphodiesterases but unaffected by inhibition of cyclooxygenase and NO or by removal of the epithelium. Finally, the number of neutrophils retrieved by bronchoalveolar lavage after administration of bacterial LPS (LPS) was reduced by prior intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of urocortin III. This effect was also suppressed by astressin 2B, implicating CRF(2) receptors. Therefore, CRF(2) agonists appear to have both bronchorelaxant and anti-inflammatory activities and might represent an interesting therapeutic approach to the treatment of inflammatory lung diseases.
Autopsy findings are discussed of a 23-month-old child exposed in utero to anticonvulsant therapy. Major abnormalities were confined to the heart and brain. The former consisted of massive biventricular hypertrophy with chamber obliteration. Except for generalized cerebral gliosis, the abnormalities in the brain were confined to the cerebellum, where malformation of the dentate nuclei, neuronal heterotopias, and abnormalities of Purkinje's cell dendrites were found. These findings lend further evidence for anticonvulsant teratogenicity.
Streptozotocin (STZ) is known to induce insulin-dependent diabetes in experimental animals. In STZ-induced diabetes, atrophy of the thymus is caused by elevated intracellular calcium levels leading to apoptosis. Hyperglycemia is known to result in a decrease in numbers of T cells in the thymus and circulation. Intracellular calcium levels increase in diabetic animals after induction by STZ. Hyperglycemia inhibits Ca2+-ATPase and increases intracellular calcium levels. We have investigated apoptosis in thymus tissue of neonatal STZ (n-STZ)-diabetic rats and the effects of isradipine as a calcium channel blocker (CCB) on apoptosis. Five groups of newborn Wistar rats were used. On the second day after birth, 100 mg/kg STZ was given i.p. to the first two groups. The first group was n-STZ diabetic. To the second group, starting from the 12th week, 5 mg/kg/day isradipine (i.p) was given for 6 weeks. To the third group, the same dose of isradipine was given on the second day, followed by STZ treatment. The fourth group was non-diabetic and treated with 5 mg/kg/day isradipine for six weeks. The fifth group consisted of non-diabetic rats. To the sixth group, dexamethasone (5 mg/kg i.p.) was given to adult rats. For detection of apoptotic cells in paraffin-embedded thymus sections, the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labelling (TUNEL) assay was used. The DNA ladder method was performed for analysis of DNA fragmentation. In the isradipine-treated non-diabetic group, typical apoptotic banding patterns were found, whereas thick bands between 123 and 246 bp length were found in the n-STZ- and n-STZ+isradipine-treated groups. More apoptotic cells were observed in the thymus of isradipine-treated, n-STZ-treated and n-STZ+isradipine-treated groups when compared with the non-diabetic control and isradipine+n-STZ-treated groups. In conclusion, we observed that long-term STZ diabetes results in apoptosis in the thymus. We also found that isradipine administered before STZ has protective effects against apoptosis, whereas isradipine alone induces apoptosis.
The Cesare Maltoni Cancer Research Center of the European Ramazzini Foundation has conducted a long-term bioassay on aspartame (APM), a widely used artificial sweetener. APM was administered with feed to 8-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats (100-150/sex/group), at concentrations of 100,000, 50,000, 10,000, 2,000, 400, 80, or 0 ppm. The treatment lasted until natural death, at which time all deceased animals underwent complete necropsy. Histopathologic evaluation of all pathologic lesions and of all organs and tissues collected was routinely performed on each animal of all experimental groups. The results of the study show for the first time that APM, in our experimental conditions, causes a) an increased incidence of malignant-tumor-bearing animals with a positive significant trend in males (p < or = 0.05) and in females (p < or = 0.01), in particular those females treated at 50,000 ppm (p < or = 0.01); b) an increase in lymphomas and leukemias with a positive significant trend in both males (p < or = 0.05) and females (p < or = 0.01), in particular in females treated at doses of 100,000 (p < or = 0.01), 50,000 (p < or = 0.01), 10,000 (p < or = 0.05), 2,000 (p < or = 0.05), or 400 ppm (p < or = 0.01); c) a statistically significant increased incidence, with a positive significant trend (p < or = 0.01), of transitional cell carcinomas of the renal pelvis and ureter and their precursors (dysplasias) in females treated at 100,000 (p < or = 0.01), 50,000 (p < or = 0.01), 10,000 (p < or = 0.01), 2,000 (p < or = 0.05), or 400 ppm (p < or = 0.05); and d) an increased incidence of malignant schwannomas of peripheral nerves with a positive trend (p < or = 0.05) in males. The results of this mega-experiment indicate that APM is a multipotential carcinogenic agent, even at a daily dose of 20 mg/kg body weight, much less than the current acceptable daily intake. On the basis of these results, a reevaluation of the present guidelines on the use and consumption of APM is urgent and cannot be delayed.
Our previous work has shown that exposure to inorganic arsenic in utero produces hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in adult male mice. To explore further the molecular mechanisms of transplacental arsenic hepatocarcinogenesis, we conducted a second arsenic transplacental carcinogenesis study and used a genomewide microarray to profile arsenic-induced aberrant gene expression more extensively. Briefly, pregnant C3H mice were given drinking water containing 85 ppm arsenic as sodium arsenite or unaltered water from days 8 to 18 of gestation. The incidence of HCC in adult male offspring was increased 4-fold and tumor multiplicity 3-fold after transplacental arsenic exposure. Samples of normal liver and liver tumors were taken at autopsy for genomic analysis. Arsenic exposure in utero resulted in significant alterations (p < 0.001) in the expression of 2,010 genes in arsenic-exposed liver samples and in the expression of 2,540 genes in arsenic-induced HCC. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis revealed that significant alterations in gene expression occurred in a number of biological networks, and Myc plays a critical role in one of the primary networks. Real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis of selected genes/proteins showed > 90% concordance. Arsenic-altered gene expression included activation of oncogenes and HCC biomarkers, and increased expression of cell proliferation-related genes, stress proteins, and insulin-like growth factors and genes involved in cell-cell communications. Liver feminization was evidenced by increased expression of estrogen-linked genes and altered expression of genes that encode gender-related metabolic enzymes. These novel findings are in agreement with the biology and histology of arsenic-induced HCC, thereby indicating that multiple genetic events are associated with transplacental arsenic hepatocarcinogenesis.
We evaluated 29 consecutive patients in whom gross or microscopic hematuria developed while they were on heparin or warfarin anticoagulant therapy. Patients who had bleeding as a result of anticoagulant overdosage and/or from an additional organ system(s) other than the urinary tract were excluded from this review. Significant pathological findings consisting of carcinoma, calculi, renal infarction, infection, benign prostatic hyperplasia and/or adult polycystic renal disease were identified in 17 patients. Insignificant or incidental pathological findings classified as posterior urethritis, simple renal cyst or renal scarring were noted in 6 patients. No pathological condition was found in the remaining 6 patients. We conclude that a thorough and appropriate evaluation of the urinary tract should be conducted in patients on anticoagulant therapy who have gross or microscopic hematuria, since a pathological lesion of variable clinical significance often is discovered.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome is an acute inflammatory and reactive disorder with skin and severe mucous membrane changes. Often patients have associated constitutional symptoms, including fever. The syndrome can be precipitated by infection or medication. We report a case of losartan-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome associated with renal impairment in a geriatric patient.
Antiarrhythmic effects of the new drug KT-362, which was reported to suppress Na and Ca currents of cardiac cells and also to suppress intracellular Ca release in isolated smooth muscle preparations, were examined using two-stage coronary ligation-, digitalis- and adrenaline-induced ventricular arrhythmias in the dog. Intravenous KT-362 at 10 mg/kg suppressed coronary ligation arrhythmia both at 24 and 48 hr after ligation, and the minimum effective plasma concentrations for arrhythmias induced by 24 hr coronary ligation and 48 hr coronary ligation were 6.1 +/- 1.7 and 8.6 +/- 2.7 micrograms/ml, respectively. Antiarrhythmic effects were accompanied by transient hypotension. Oral administration of 70-100 mg/kg was also effective on 24 hr coronary ligation arrhythmia. However, there was no prominent hypotension in these experiments. Intravenous KT-362 at 3 mg/kg suppressed digitalis arrhythmia; and the minimum effective plasma concentration was 3.3 +/- 1.2 micrograms/ml, which was lower than the effective plasma concentrations for coronary ligation arrhythmias. Intravenous KT-362 at 1 mg/kg also suppressed adrenaline arrhythmia; and the minimum effective plasma concentration was 1.0 +/- 0.1 microgram/ml, the lowest among the effective plasma concentrations. These pharmacological profiles of KT-362 are quite different from those of class 4 Ca antagonists, but similar to those of class 1 drugs such as propafenone. Though KT-362 has a hypotensive effect, it is effective on canine ventricular arrhythmias; thus its clinical usefulness for supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias is expected.
Inhibition of the formation of advanced glycation end-products delays the development of diabetic nephropathy. Puerarin decreases the formation of these products. We studied the effect of puerarin in a rat model of diabetic nephropathy.
Three groups of rats were studied: a control group, a diabetic group in whom diabetic nephropathy was induced by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin, and a puerarin group in which diabetic rats were treated with puerarin. During and after treatment, measurements were made on the rats' general status, blood glucose level, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, creatinine clearance rate and urinary albumin excretion over 24 hours. The expression of collagen I and heparan sulphate proteoglycan in the extracellular matrix of the glomerulus was assessed by immunohistochemistry.
Rats in the puerarin group had a better general condition than those with diabetes. They also had lower blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine and urinary albumin excretion rate over 24 hours compared with those in the diabetic group. The creatinine clearance and expression of heparan sulphate proteoglycan in the kidney also increased significantly in the puerarin group compared with that in the diabetic group.
Puerarin seems to have certain protective effects on diabetic nephropathy induced by streptozotocin. This is caused possibly by regulating the expression of glomerular extracellular matrix.
This case demonstrates the occurrence of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) in association with the administration of several antidepressant medications. The SIADH was shown by rechallenge to be associated with imipramine, an antidepressant not previously associated with SIADH. In addition, SIADH appeared to occur with bupropion, a new antidepressant structurally dissimilar to tricyclic antidepressants.
An 80-year-old woman on maintenance hemodialysis therapy developed severe hypercalcemia under vitamin D treatment for secondary hyperparathyroidism. To avoid the toxic calcemic effects, cinacalcet was introduced and the dose of vitamin D was substantially decreased. Cinacalcet targets the calcium-sensing receptor and decreases parathyroid hormone levels without increasing calcium and phosphorus levels. Three days after starting cinacalcet therapy, the patient developed palpable purpura on both upper and lower extremities that resolved after discontinuation of cinacalcet and administration of steroids. Skin biopsy of the initial eruption showed leukocytoclastic vasculitis. According to the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale, leukocytoclastic vasculitis probably was caused by cinacalcet introduction. Drug-induced vasculitis is a poorly defined disorder, and, in most cases, no pathogenetic mechanism can be described. An idiosyncratic reaction to the agent often is proposed. Cinacalcet should be considered a causative agent of cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and although this is the result of only a clinical observation, further attention is required in the future because cinacalcet recently has been introduced in the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients on long-term hemodialysis therapy.
The majority of cellular superoxide is generated in the mitochondria as a by-product of normal oxidative metabolism. In the mitochondria, superoxide is detoxified by manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2). Mice lacking SOD2 demonstrate a multifaceted neonatal lethal phenotype, including a spongiform encephalopathy that is preventable through antioxidant treatment. The molecular events behind the observed pathology in the cortex of these mice are unknown. We hypothesized that the lack of SOD2 would result in significant changes in cortical gene expression and that therapeutically beneficial antioxidant treatment would normalize the expression of some genes, providing insight into the mechanism by which mitochondrial oxidative stress results in neurodegeneration. We report the identification of gene expression profiles associated with this paradigm, which characterize the degree of response to the pharmacologic intervention. We have identified specific pathways targeted by endogenous oxidative stress, including glutathione metabolism, iron metabolism, and cell-survival pathways centering on the kinase AKT. The normalization of expression of some of these pathways by antioxidant treatment suggests approaches to treating disease in which endogenous oxidative stress plays a role.
The abilities of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), PGE2, PGD2 and PGF2 alpha to antagonize striatal dopamine function were assessed following bilateral and unilateral injections into the striata of the rat and guinea-pig. Three tests were used to assess the effects of the bilateral injections, ability to antagonize dyskinetic biting induced by 2-di-n-propylamino-5,6-dihydroxytetralin (0.025 mg kg-1 s.c.), ability to antagonize stereotyped behaviour induced by apomorphine (0.5 or 2 mg kg-1 s.c.) and ability to induce catalepsy. Asymmetry/circling behaviour revealed on challenge with apomorphine (0.25 mg kg-1 s.c.) was measured following unilateral injection into the striatum. In the rat, dyskinetic biting induced by 2-di-n-propylamino-5,6-dihydroxytetralin was antagonized by PGE1 (0.001-1 micrograms) and PGE2 (0.00001-1 micrograms) but not by PGD2 or PGF2 alpha (1 microgram). Stereotyped behaviour induced by apomorphine was not antagonized by any of the prostaglandins. A weak catalepsy was induced by PGE1 (1 microgram only), PGE2 (0.001-1 micrograms) and PGD2 (0.001-1 micrograms) but not by PGF2 alpha. Asymmetry and circling behaviour was only observed following the unilateral injection into the striatum of PGE1 and PGD2 (0.01-1 microgram) and challenge with apomorphine. In the guinea-pig the actions of PGE1 and E2 were compared with those of PGF2 alpha. Dyskinetic biting induced by 2-di-n-propylamino-5,6-dihydroxytetralin was antagonized by bilateral injections into the striatum of PGE2 (0.001-1 microgram), but not PGE1 (0.5 micrograms) and PGF2 alpha (1 microgram) but not PGE, (0.5 micrograms) and PGF2 alpha (1 microgram). Similar injections of PGE1, E2 and F2 alpha, all failed to antagonize apomorphine-induced stereotyped behaviour, or to induce catalepsy. PGE, (0.01-0.5 fig) and PGE2 (0.002-1 pg), but not PGF2 alpha, caused asymmetry following unilateral injection into the striatum and peripheral challenge with apomorphine. 5 It is concluded that the major effect in the striatum of the prostaglandins of the E series is to antagonize dyskinetic biting; this action is not shared by other prostaglandins tested, and does not reflect a generalised ability to antagonize striatal dopamine function. It is suggested that the actions of the prostaglandins to modify differentially dopamine-dependent behaviours from the striatum may reflect activity at a site subsequent to the dopamine receptor.
Intracoronary papaverine commonly produces striking QT interval prolongation with rare but serious ventricular dysrhythmias reported. Because of 3 cases of severe papaverine-induced dysrhythmia in our laboratory, QT intervals and hemodynamic and intracoronary velocity data collected during intracoronary papaverine administration were retrospectively reviewed in 34 patients; 20 patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries (group 1) and 14 patients (group 2) before and (group 2) after single-vessel left coronary angioplasty. QT intervals increased from 394 +/- 44 to 464 +/- 73 msec, 414 +/- 47 to 504 +/- 95 msec, and 410 +/- 41 to 486 +/- 75 msec for groups 1 and 2 before and after angioplasty, respectively (all P less than 0.01). There was no correlation with hemodynamic, electrocardiographic, or coronary vasodilatory reserve responses and change in QTc interval. In the 3 index patients having significant papaverine-related arrhythmias, a baseline QT interval was prolonged (after prior papaverine exposure) in only 1 in association with torsade de pointes. These data indicate that QT interval prolongation after papaverine is a common occurrence, but that the production of ventricular dysrhythmia is probably idiosynchratic in origin. In view of these findings, we recommend that appropriate antiarrhythmic preparations be in place for patients receiving intracoronary papaverine.
Congenital vertical talus (CVT), also known as "rocker-bottom foot" deformity, is a dislocation of the talonavicular joint, with rigid dorsal dislocation of the navicular over the neck of the talus. This condition is usually associated with multiple other congenital deformities and only rarely is an isolated deformity. The reported familial cases are consistent with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance with incomplete penetrance. In contrast, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is thought to be a completely distinct heterogeneous group of disorders, with foot abnormalities that typically develop a high-arched "claw foot" appearance later in life. In the present study, DNA was isolated from 36 members of a single upstate (northern) New York white family of Italian descent in which both CVT and CMT were segregating. Whole-genome linkage analysis with Affymetrix GeneChip Mapping 10K Array defined a 7-Mb critical region on chromosome 2q31, which led to candidate-gene sequencing of six HOX genes and detection of a single missense mutation, M319K (956T-->A), in the HOXD10 gene. In the study family, this mutation was fully penetrant and exhibited significant evidence of linkage (LOD 6.33; theta =0), and it very likely accounts for both CVT and CMT in heterozygotes.
Twenty-two compounds based on thiazolidine-2,4-dione moiety were synthesized and evaluated for the inhibitory potency on the production of nitric oxide (NO), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) activity, and the generation of prostaglandin E(2) (PEG(2)). (Z)-N-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-(4-((2,4-dioxothiazolidin-5-ylidene) methyl) phenoxy) acetamide (3I), superior to the commercial anti-inflammatory drug indomethacin, significantly inhibited iNOS activity (IC(50) = 8.66 μM), iNOS-mediated NO, and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-derived PGE(2) production (IC(50) = 4.16 and 23.55 μM, respectively) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 cells. Docking study revealed that 3I was perfectly docking into the active site of murine iNOS and suppressed the expression of iNOS protein as evidenced by Western blot analysis. At the dose of 50 mg/kg, oral administration of 3I possessed protective properties in both carrageenan-induced paw edema and adjuvant-induced arthritis rat models.
Cannabis is the most widely consumed illicit drug and its consumption is currently associated with tobacco, which contains another psychoactive compound, namely nicotine. Interactions between cannabinoids and other drugs of abuse, such as opioids, have been previously reported. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the possible role of CB1 cannabinoid receptor in responses induced by acute and repeated nicotine administration by using knockout mice lacking the CB1 cannabinoid receptor and their wild-type littermates. Acute nicotine (0.5, 1, 3 and 6 mg/kg, sc) administration decreased locomotor activity and induced antinociceptive responses in the tail-immersion and the hot-plate test, in wild-type animals. The antinociceptive effects in the tail-immersion test were significantly enhanced in CB1 knockout mice. In wild-type mice nicotine (0.5 mg/kg, sc) produced a significant rewarding effect, as measured by a conditioned place preference paradigm. This response was absent in CB1 knockout mice. Finally, a model of mecamylamine-induced abstinence in chronic nicotine-treated mice (10 mg/kg/day, sc) was developed. Mecamylamine (1 and 2 mg/kg, sc) precipitated several somatic signs of nicotine withdrawal in wild-type dependent mice. However, no difference in the severity of nicotine withdrawal was observed in CB1 knockout mice. These results demonstrate that some acute effects and motivational responses elicited by nicotine can be modulated by the endogenous cannabinoid system and support the existence of a physiological interaction between these two systems.
Sarcolemmal Na(+)/H(+) exchanger (NHE) activity, which is provided by the NHE isoform 1 (NHE1), has been implicated in ischemia/reperfusion-induced myocardial injury in animal models and humans, on the basis of studies with pharmacological NHE1 inhibitors. We generated a transgenic (TG) mouse model with cardiac-specific over-expression of NHE1 to determine whether this would be sufficient to increase myocardial susceptibility to ischemia/reperfusion-induced injury. TG mouse hearts exhibited increased sarcolemmal NHE activity and normal morphology and function. Surprisingly, they also showed reduced susceptibility to ischemia/reperfusion-induced injury, as reflected by improved functional recovery and smaller infarcts. Such protection was sustained in the presence of NHE1 inhibition with zoniporide, indicating a mechanism that is independent of sarcolemmal NHE activity. Immunoblot analysis revealed accumulation of immature NHE1 protein as well as marked upregulation of both cytoprotective (78/94 kDa glucose-regulated proteins, calreticulin, protein disulfide isomerase) and pro-apoptotic (C/EBP homologous protein) components of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response in TG myocardium. With increasing age, NHE1 TG mice exhibited increased myocyte apoptosis, developed left ventricular contractile dysfunction, underwent cardiac remodelling and died prematurely. Our findings indicate that: (1) Cardiac-specific NHE1 over-expression induces the ER stress response in mouse myocardium, which may afford protection against ischemia/reperfusion-induced injury despite increased NHE activity; (2) Ageing NHE1 TG mice exhibit myocyte apoptosis, cardiac remodelling and failure, likely as a result of sustained ER stress; (3) The pluripotent effects of the ER stress response may confound studies that are based on the chronic over-expression of complex proteins in myocardium.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine involved in cystitis and a non-cognate ligand of the chemokine receptor CXCR4 in vitro. We studied whether CXCR4-MIF associations occur in rat bladder and the effect of experimental cystitis.
Twenty male rats received saline or cyclophosphamide (40 mg/kg; i.p.; every 3(rd) day) to induce persistent cystitis. After eight days, urine was collected and bladders excised under anesthesia. Bladder CXCR4 and CXCR4-MIF co-localization were examined with immunhistochemistry. ELISA determined MIF and stromal derived factor-1 (SDF-1; cognate ligand for CXCR4) levels. Bladder CXCR4 expression (real-time RTC-PCR) and protein levels (Western blotting) were examined. Co-immunoprecipitations studied MIF-CXCR4 associations.Urothelial basal and intermediate (but not superficial) cells in saline-treated rats contained CXCR4, co-localized with MIF. Cyclophosphamide treatment caused: 1) significant redistribution of CXCR4 immunostaining to all urothelial layers (especially apical surface of superficial cells) and increased bladder CXCR4 expression; 2) increased urine MIF with decreased bladder MIF; 3) increased bladder SDF-1; 4) increased CXCR4-MIF associations.
These data demonstrate CXCR4-MIF associations occur in vivo in rat bladder and increase in experimental cystitis. Thus, CXCR4 represents an alternative pathway for MIF-mediated signal transduction during bladder inflammation. In the bladder, MIF may compete with SDF-1 (cognate ligand) to activate signal transduction mediated by CXCR4.
We report a 36-year-old woman with the occurrence of painful focal seizures of her left hand and the left leg. She also had focal motor seizures at the left corner of her mouth. The duration and frequency of the episodes increased over four days from a few seconds once a day to frequent intervals lasting more than four hours at a time. The symptoms appeared one day after start of the treatment with fluvastatin (40 mg) administered in order to diminish the endothelial activation induced by antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). The patient suffered from severe manifestations of the antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) including Catastrophic Antiphospholipid Syndrome (CAPS, Asherson's syndrome). In this case a single 40 mg dose of oral fluvastatin was linked to seizures. After discontinuation of this treatment, the seizures immediately disappeared and the patient fully recovered without evidence of permanent neurological damage. This data links statins to seizures in patients with compromised blood brain barrier such as APS.
The converting-enzyme inhibitor, captopril, in a dose of 450 mg daily, was given together with a diuretic to eleven patients with severe hypertension unresponsive to previous therapy. Sustained control of blood pressure was achieved. Plasma angiotensin II and aldosterone fell significantly, whereas plasma active and total renin, and blood-angiotensin-I concentrations increased. Adverse effects included temporary taste disturbance, tachycardia, nephrotic syndrome, and possible drug-induced Guillain-Barré neuropathy. The combination of captopril and diuretic is thus very effective in controlling refractory hypertension. However, because of the frequency and severity of side-effects it should probably be used only in patients whose blood pressure has previously been uncontrolled by other means.
