The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy and the incidence of clinically significant adverse drug reactions (ADRs) in paediatric patients receiving continuous intravenous morphine infusions for acute postoperative pain. Definitions were established for ADRs and data were collected in an immediately retrospective fashion for a maximum of 72 h in 110 patients >/=5 three months of age (0.3-16.7 years) receiving morphine infusions and admitted to a general ward over a three month convenience sampling period. Inadequate analgesia occurred in 65.5% of patients during the first 24 h of therapy and occurred most frequently in patients with infusion rates of 20 microg.kg-1.h-1 or less. Nausea/vomiting was the most commonly experienced ADR (42.5%). The incidence of respiratory depression was 0% (95% CI=0-3.3%). Other ADRs included: urinary retention (13.5%), pruritus (12.7%), dysphoria (7.3%), hypoxaemia (4.5%), discontinuation of morphine for treatment of an ADR (3.6%), and difficulty in arousal (0.9%). The most common ADRs associated with morphine infusions were inadequate analgesia (in the first 24 h) and nausea/vomiting. There were no cases of respiratory depression. Methods of avoiding initial inadequate analgesia and treating nausea and vomiting associated with morphine infusions are needed.
We conducted a cohort study to investigate the frequency of serious blood dyscrasias in patients age 10-74 years, taking antiepileptic drugs between January 1, 1990, and October 31, 1994. Main outcome measures were validated diagnoses of neutropenia, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, bicytopenia, pancytopenia, or aplastic anemia. A total of 29,357 recipients of antiepileptic therapy received 684,706 prescriptions. Among them there were 21 cases of serious blood dyscrasia of which only 18 could be considered to have a temporal relationship to drug use. Seventeen cases occurred in current users of carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin or valproate, and 7 in patients taking two or more drugs. Twenty of the 21 patients recovered. The overall rate of blood dyscrasias was 3-4/100,000 prescriptions. The rate in those age less than 60 years was 2.0 (range 0.9-3.6)/100,000 prescriptions compared with 4.0 (range 1.6-8.2) for those age 60 or older. The overall rate of neutropenia was 1.2 (0.5-2.3)/100,000 prescriptions, compared with 0.9 (0.3-1.9) for thrombocytopenia and 0.4 (0.1-1.3) for hemolytic anemia. Rates did not differ among the four drugs. Serious blood dyscrasias are rare in patients taking antiepileptic agents.
The electrocardiographic response of digoxin-induced fascicular tachycardia to Fab fragments was evaluated in two patients. In addition, we documented the response of the fascicular tachycardia to spontaneous premature ventricular depolarizations during different tachycardia rates, the response to a nonsustained episode of ventricular tachycardia, and the mode of spontaneous initiation and termination of short-lived episodes of the tachycardia during the treatment process. The following findings were noted: slowing of the tachycardia in response to Fab administration; change in the morphologic characteristics of the tachycardia from multiform to uniform; resetting of the tachycardia by spontaneous premature ventricular depolarization with the return cycle equal to the observed tachycardia cycle length; acceleration of the tachycardia in response to five beats of a faster nonsustained ventricular tachycardia; and initiation and termination of the tachycardia, both by spontaneously occurring premature ventricular depolarizations and in the absence of premature ventricular depolarizations. Both tachycardias resolved completely within 20 and 40 minutes, respectively, of Fab administration. We conclude that Fab administration can promptly resolve fascicular tachycardias precipitated by digoxin toxicity and that the observed electrocardiographic phenomena strongly suggest triggered activity as the electrophysiologic mechanism of fascicular tachycardia in man.
This study was carried out in order to compare the potential anti-inflammatory activity and the level of action of triamcinolone acetonide (Triam. Ac.) and amcinonide (Amc.) after percutaneous administration to animals. Administered per os to rats Amc. is 18 times less active (DI50 1,85 mg . kg-1) on carrageenin plantar edema and 10 times less active (DI50 4,2 mg . kg-1) than Triam Ac. on air pouch granuloma with carrageenin. The potential anti-inflammatory activity at the various levels of tissues under the skin was evaluated with an ointment and a cream containing the two corticosteroïds through three methods: --vasoconstrictor assays on guinea pig showing cutaneous activity; --plantar edema showing subcutaneous activity; --air pouch granuloma showing anti-exsudative activity. The results are as it follows: --vasoconstrictor activity Amc. higher than Triam. Ac.; --plantar edema Amc. equal to Triam Ac.; --air pouch granuloma Am. lesser than Triam. Ac. The two corticoids administered percutaneously show any thymolytic activity on young female rats. Though Amc. is far less active than Triam. Ac. when orally administered, nevertheless it is a powerful dermocorticoïd with a poor systemic activity. Its local effects are less profound than those of Triam. Ac.
Zopiclone, a relatively new nonbenzodiazepine short-acting hypnotic medication is prescribed frequently for insomnia. The authors report a case of zopiclone-induced acute interstitial nephritis in a young, otherwise healthy man. The patient presented with anuric acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis. Kidney biopsy results showed acute interstitial nephritis with a prominent eosinophilic infiltrate in the interstitium. He recovered his renal function after stopping the medication and receiving corticosteroids.
We describe a 28-year-old man treated with hydroxyurea for sickle cell anemia, who was admitted to the University Hospital with an acute myocardial infarction. The patient had evolved high hematocrit values during his long-term hydroxyurea treatment, suggesting a correlation between a possible increment in blood viscosity and the coronary occlusion without previous lesions. Indeed, several studies associate vasocclusive episodes and severe clinical course with high viscosity. Although hydroxyurea is considered an effective therapeutic option for these patients, care should be taken to monitor hematocrit levels and possible complications. Hematocrit and hemoglobin values of above 30% and 10.5 g/dl in SS patients on hydroxyurea therapy should be avoided or closely monitored.
We present the case of a nine-year-old boy afflicted with Ondine's curse, who developed complete atrioventricular heart block after a single bolus of propofol for induction of anaesthesia for strabismus surgery. Ondine's curse, the other name for congenital central hypoventilation syndrome, is characterized by a generalized disorder of autonomic function. Propofol has no effect on the normal atrioventricular conduction system in humans but it reduces sympathetic activity and can highly potentiate other vagal stimulation factors. Heart block has been documented after propofol bolus use in adults but, to our knowledge, not in children. It would appear that propofol is not a good choice for anaesthesia in congenital central hypoventilation syndrome.
The antiviral effect of azidothymidine (AZT) can be potentiated by acyclovir (ACV), and this drug association has been used in the management of HIV-infected patients. In the present study we examined the effects of this association on the livers and kidneys of both pregnant rats and their concepts. Previous data from this laboratory suggested that the deleterious effects of ACV on rat pregnancy are due to its extraplacental actions and these are, at least in part, counteracted by concomitant treatment with AZT. Kidneys and livers of pregnant rats were noticed to be much more sensitive to the toxic action of the drugs than those of their concepts, ACV eliciting much more evident morphological alterations than did AZT. Contrary to what was expected, in the group of rats treated with both drugs AZT was not able to diminish the severity of the alterations evoked by ACV. The proposed "protective" action of AZT against the abortive effect of ACV on rat pregnancy does not seem to be exerted through a renal or hepatic pathway.
Recurrent urticaria and recurrent angioedema are frequent adverse reactions in non-atopic patients who do not tolerate aspirin. Of 1,632 infants and children who visited our allergy department for the first time, nine children (0.55%), five males and four females, presented recurrent urticaria or recurrent angioedema after taking aspirin. No evidence of atopy was disclosed either by clinical history (personal and family), skin testing, eosinophil levels or total IgE. Aspirin intolerance was established by oral challenge. Only three of the nine patients reported aspirin intolerance in their histories.
Cardiovascular dynamic, inotropic and electrophysiologic effects of the new tetracyclic antidepressant 2,3,3a,4,5,6-hexahydro-8-methyl-1H-pyrazino[3,2,1-j,k]-carbazole hydrochloride (pirlindole) (0.5, 1, 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg, i.v.) were investigated in anaesthetized dogs and compared with those of i.v. imipramine (0.5, 1, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg) administration. Noradrenaline (norepinephrine)-induced systemic blood pressure increase was significantly potentiated by imipramine but not by pirlindole. Severe hypotension was caused by most imipramine doses, whereas the initial blood pressure fall after pirlindole was followed by an increase. Heart rate did not alter with lower prilindole doses but increased after 2.5 mg/kg. Imipramine caused severe tachycardia. Pirlindole had no effects on contractility but imipramine was negative-inotropic. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure fell after pirlindole; imipramine caused transient decrease in filling pressure between 0.5 and 2.5 mg/kg, whereas 5 mg/kg significantly elevated this variable. Myocardial oxygen consumption increased with 5 and 10 mg/kg pirlindole but was reduced by imipramine. Pirlindole did not induce changes in the electrophysiology of the heart. Imipramine decreased PQ-time and elevated ST-T segments indicating myocardial ischaemia. Imipramine effects on electrical conduction were deleterious so that no dog survived 10 mg/kg. These results suggest that pirlindole may be a possible therapeutic regimen for treatment of depressed human patients with a previous history of cardiovascular disease.
Nephropathy, eosinophilia and fever were observed in an 18-year-old man being treated for staphylococcal septicemia. Parenteral challenge with suspected sensitizing agents confirmed methicillin as the likely offender. Review of the literature relating to methicillin-induced nephropathy suggests a hypersensitivity origin for this disorder, but immunologic and ultrastructural investigation to date has failed to elucidate pathogenesis.
1. Progression to renal failure may be linked to the degree of proteinuria through tubulo-interstitial mechanisms. However, there are no data in man on the kinetics of proximal renal tubular protein catabolism or markers of tubular injury before and after lisinopril. We developed a method to allow such studies, and found increased tubular catabolism of 99mTc-labelled aprotinin (Trasylol) in patients with nephrotic range proteinuria which was associated with increased ammonia excretion. 2. In this study, 10 patients with mild renal impairment (51Cr-EDTA clearance 63.7 +/- 8.3 ml.min-1.1.73 m-2) and heavy proteinuria (8.2 +/- 2.3 g/ 24 h) were given lisinopril (10-20 mg) for 6 weeks. Renal tubular catabolism of intravenous aprotinin was measured before and after lisinopril by renal imaging and urinary excretion of the free radiolabel over 26 h. Fractional degradation was calculated from these data. Fresh timed urine collections were also analysed for ammonia excretion every fortnight from 6 weeks before treatment. Total urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and the more tubulo-specific N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase 'A2' isoenzyme were also measured. 3. After lisinopril proteinuria fell significantly as expected (from 9.5 +/- 1.6 to 4.5 +/- 1.0 g/24 h, P < 0.01). This was associated with a reduction in metabolism over 26 h (from 1.7 +/- 0.1 to 1.2 +/- 0.1% dose/h, P < 0.01) and in fractional degradation of aprotinin (from 0.08 +/- 0.02 to 0.04 +/- 0.007/h, P < 0.04). Ammonia excretion also fell significantly (from 1.2 +/- 0.1 to 0.6 +/- 0.1 mmol/h, P < 0.0001), as did both total urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (P < 0.0001) and the N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase 'A2' isoenzyme (P < 0.015). These observations after lisinopril treatment have not been described previously. There was no significant change in blood pressure nor in glomerular haemodynamics.
alpha-Naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) induces intrahepatic cholestasis in rats, involving damage to biliary epithelial cells; our study aims to investigate whether disruption of biliary function in hepatocytes can contribute to early stages of ANIT-induced intrahepatic cholestasis. Isolated rat hepatocyte couplets were used to investigate biliary function in vitro by canalicular vacuolar accumulation (cVA) of a fluorescent bile acid analogue, cholyl-lysyl-fluorescein (CLF), within the canalicular vacuole between the two cells. After a 2-h exposure to ANIT, there was a concentration-dependent inhibition of cVA (cVA-IC50; 25 microM), but no cytotoxicity (LDH leakage or [ATP] decline) within this ANIT concentration range. There was no loss of cellular [GSH] at low ANIT concentrations, but, at 50 microM ANIT, a small but significant loss of [GSH] had occurred. Diethylmaleate (DEM) partially depleted cellular [GSH], but addition of 10 microM ANIT had no further effect on GSH depletion. Reduction in cVA was seen in DEM-treated cells; addition of ANIT to these cells reduced cVA further, but the magnitude of this further reduction was no greater than that caused by ANIT alone, indicating that glutathione depletion does not enhance the effect of ANIT. F-actin distribution (by phalloidin-FITC staining) showed an increased frequency of morphological change in the canalicular vacuoles but only a small, non-significant (0.05 < p < 0.1) increase in proportion of the F-actin in the region of the pericanalicular web. The results are in accord with a disruption of hepatocyte canalicular secretion within two h in vitro, at low, non-cytotoxic concentrations of ANIT, and the possible involvement of a thiocabamoyl-GSH conjugate of ANIT (GS-ANIT) in this effect.
We report two cases of extrapyramidal reactions occurring in children following the use of droperidol in combination with morphine for patient-controlled analgesia (PCA). Symptoms appeared 38 and 27 h, respectively, after commencement and after a total dose of 0.14 mg.kg-1 and 0.17 mg.kg-1, respectively. Although effective and safe in adult patients, we recommend caution with the use of droperidol-morphine mixtures for PCA in paediatric patients.
Tacrolimus (FK-506) is an important immunosuppressive agent most often given for maintenance immunosuppression to prevent acute cellular organ rejection. A 57-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease presumed secondary to chronic glomerulonephritis underwent a living related renal allograft transplantation. She tolerated the surgery well and was discharged on postoperative day 5. She was stabilized with prednisone, azathioprine, and tacrolimus. Two years after transplantation, nefazodone 50 mg twice/day orally was prescribed due to depression. After 1 week of nefazodone therapy the patient experienced headache, confusion, and "gray areas" in her vision, without abnormal ophthalmologic findings. Her serum creatinine was elevated to 2.2 mg/dl (baseline 1.5 mg/dl), and trough tacrolimus level was markedly elevated (> 30 ng/ml). Both tacrolimus and nefazodone are metabolized by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 system. We suspect that nefazodone inhibits metabolism of tacrolimus. Coadministration of antidepressant agents such as nefazodone, or any other drug that inhibits the CYP3A4 isoenzyme subfamily, should be anticipated to interfere with tacrolimus metabolism. Monitoring blood concentrations of tacrolimus is vital, and appropriate dosage adjustments are required when the two drugs are administered concurrently to avoid serious interactions such as nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity.
Functional and biochemical data have suggested a role for the cytochrome P450 arachidonate monooxygenases in the pathophysiology of hypertension, a leading cause of cardiovascular, cerebral, and renal morbidity and mortality. We show here that disruption of the murine cytochrome P450, family 4, subfamily a, polypeptide 10 (Cyp4a10) gene causes a type of hypertension that is, like most human hypertension, dietary salt sensitive. Cyp4a10-/- mice fed low-salt diets were normotensive but became hypertensive when fed normal or high-salt diets. Hypertensive Cyp4a10-/- mice had a dysfunctional kidney epithelial sodium channel and became normotensive when administered amiloride, a selective inhibitor of this sodium channel. These studies (a) establish a physiological role for the arachidonate monooxygenases in renal sodium reabsorption and blood pressure regulation, (b) demonstrate that a dysfunctional Cyp4a10 gene causes alterations in the gating activity of the kidney epithelial sodium channel, and (c) identify a conceptually novel approach for studies of the molecular basis of human hypertension. It is expected that these results could lead to new strategies for the early diagnosis and clinical management of this devastating disease.
Obesity and the related metabolic abnormalities are associated with increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Malfunctioning of retinoid X receptor (RXR) α due to phosphorylation by Ras/MAPK also plays a critical role in liver carcinogenesis. In the present study, we examined the effects of acyclic retinoid (ACR), which targets RXRα, on the development of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced liver tumorigenesis in C57BLKS/J- +Lepr(db)/+Lepr(db) (db/db) obese mice. Male db/db mice were given tap water containing 40 ppm DEN for 2 weeks, after which they were fed a diet containing 0.03% or 0.06% of ACR throughout the experiment. In mice treated with either dose of ACR for 34 weeks, the development of liver cell adenomas was significantly inhibited as compared with basal diet-fed mice. ACR markedly inhibited the activation of Ras and phosphorylation of the ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) and RXRα proteins in the livers of experimental mice. It also increased the expression of RAR β and p21(CIP1) mRNA while decreasing the expression of cyclin D1, c-Fos, and c-Jun mRNA in the liver, thereby restoring RXRα function. Administration of ACR improved liver steatosis and activated the AMPK protein. The serum levels of insulin decreased by ACR treatment, whereas the quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI) values increased, indicating improved insulin sensitivity. The serum levels of TNF-α and the expression levels of TNF- α, IL-6, and IL-1 β mRNA in the livers of DEN-treated db/db mice were decreased by ACR treatment, suggesting attenuation of the chronic inflammation induced by excessive fatty deposits. ACR may be, therefore, useful in the chemoprevention of obesity-related HCC.
A double-blind randomised controlled trial was conducted to study the effects of oral theophylline alone compared with oral theophylline and salbutamol in a sample of asthmatic children. Each treatment was administered at maximum recommended dosage. Children treated with the theophylline and salbutamol combination had higher pulse rates, lower peak flow measurements, and depressed blood theophylline levels. These results suggest that when given at maximum oral dosage, theophylline and salbutamol in combination, tend to interact negatively producing tachycardia and reduced therapeutic function.
The authors performed a randomized trial comprising patients with metastatic breast carcinoma (MBC). They used a noninferiority design to evaluate whether the results of sequential administration of epirubicin and paclitaxel were not markedly worse than the concomitant administration in terms of objective response rates (ORRs). Toxicity profile, quality of life (QOL), and pharmacoeconomic evaluations were evaluated as well.
In the current study, 202 patients with MBC were randomized to receive either the combination of epirubicin at a dose of 90 mg/m2 plus paclitaxel at a dose of 200 mg/m2 for 8 cycles (concomitant arm, n = 108) or epirubicin at a dose of 120 mg/m2 for 4 cycles followed by paclitaxel at a dose of 250 mg/m2 over 3 hours for 4 cycles every 21 days (sequential arm, n = 94).
The authors rejected the null hypothesis that the sequential treatment is less active than the standard concomitant regimen (ORRs: concomitant = 58.5%, sequential = 57.6%). The median progression-free and overall survival periods were 11.0 months (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 9.7-12.3) and 20.0 months (95% CI, 17.2-22.6), respectively, in the concomitant arm and 10.8 months (95% CI, 7.9-13.6) and 26 months (95% CI, 18.1-33.8), respectively, in the sequential arm (P = not significant). Patients who received the sequential regimen experienced a higher incidence of Grade 3/4 (according to the World Health Organization grading system) neutropenia (62.2% of courses vs. 50.62%; P = 0.003) and Grade > or = 2 neuropathy (45.5% vs. 30.4% of patients; P = 0.03), whereas 6 patients who received the concomitant regimen developed Grade II cardiotoxicity according to New York Heart Association criteria. QOL analyses failed to provide clear differences.
The sequential administration of epirubicin and paclitaxel at full doses was found to be as active as their association. Therefore, both the sequential and the combined administration were acceptable options.
Benzene is an organic solvent that has been used in industry for about 100 years throughout the world. Since 1973, a series of toxicological and molecular epidemiological studies on benzene were conducted by researchers at the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine (CAPM) (1973-1986) and subsequently by a collaboration between the CAPM and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) in the United States that began in 1986, which was joined by investigators from the University of California at Berkeley, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and New York University. The findings demonstrated that the risk of leukemia and lymphoma among benzene-exposed workers was significantly increased, with elevated risks for leukemia present not only at higher exposure but also among workers exposed to under 10 ppm. Therefore, the benzene permissible level was decreased to 1.8 ppm (6 mg/m(3)) and benzene-induced leukemia is treated as an occupational cancer in China. The benzene permissible level is 1.0 in the United States and in several other developed countries and it has been suggested to be decreased to 0.5 ppm (ACGIH). A number of potential biomarkers are related to benzene exposure and poisoning. Some of these are benzene oxide-protein adducts, chromosome aberration of lymphocytes, and GPA mutations in erythrocytes, a decrease in B cell and CD4(-)T cell counts in peripheral blood, and altered expression of CXCL16, ZNF331, JUN, and PF4 in lymphocytes. Variation in multiple benzene metabolizing genes may be associated with risk of benzene hematotoxicity, including CYP2E1, MPO, NQO1, and GSTT1.
We have synthesized and studied the ability of a series of nine novel 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] analogs to inhibit clonal growth of myeloid leukemic cells (HL,60), prostate (LNCaP, PC-3 and DU-145) and breast (MCF-7) cancers cells. DU-145 cells were actively resistant to compounds (cmpd) with all of these modifications, but when we removed C-19 (E, 1,25-Dihydroxy-23E-ene-26,27-hexafluoro-19-nor-20-cyclopropy l- cholecalciferol) an analog resulted that was inhibitory against all three prostate cell lines, breast and HL-60 cell lines. Further analysis showed that pulse exposure (3 days, 10(-7) M) to this analog was enough to inhibit clonal growth of PC-3 cell by 50%. Furthermore, cmpd E increased the number of PC-3 cells in G1 and decreased the number in S phase. 1,25(OH)2D3 mediates its biological activities through specific binding to the vitamin D3 receptor (VDR) and subsequent association with vitamin D3 response elements (VDRE) in genes modulated by 1,25(OH)2D3. Several novel vitamin D3 cmpds have recently been identified which have 5- to 1000-fold greater abilities to induce differentiation and to inhibit proliferation of prostate cancer, breast cancer and HL-60 leukemic blast cells as compared to the parental 1,25(OH)2D3. To clarify the mechanism by which nine of these vitamin D3 analogs mediate their remarkably potent biological activities, we have investigated their abilities in PC-3 prostate cancer cells to transactivate a chroramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) reporter gene containing a VDRE from the human osteocalcin gene attached to a thymidine kinase minimal promoter. Dose-response studies of Cmpd E showed that in serumless culture conditions, transactivation of the VDRE-CAT was stronger than cmpd J [1,25(OH)2D3]. Then, we investigated the effects of vitamin D3 cmpd J in mice. Our data showed the growth inhibitory action of the vitamin D3 cmpd E in prostate cancer cell line (PC-3) was stastically superior to the non-treatment group in terms of tumor size and tumor weight in mice. In summary, this is the first report of a potent series of 20-cyclopropyl-cholecalciferol vitamin D3 analogs with the ability to inhibit proliferation of LNCaP, PC-3, DU-145, MCF-7 and HL-60 cell lines. These cmpds may mediate their potent anti-proliferative activities through a cell cycle arrest pathway.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a widely abused psychostimulant that is associated with neurotoxicity and neurocognitive impairments in adults. However, the effects of METH use on neurocognitive performance of adolescents are unclear.
Fifty-four adolescent METH users and 74 age-matched comparison subjects (ages 12 to 23 years) were evaluated with a battery of neuropsychological tests. The cognitive domains evaluated include psychomotor (Symbol Digit, Trail Making), executive function (Stroop Interference task, Wisconsin Card Sort task), fine-motor speed (Grooved Pegboard), memory (Digit span and Auditory Verbal Learning Task), as well as attention and working memory (California Computerized Assessment package).
METH users were slower on the Stroop Interference task than the comparison subjects (F(1,114) = 4.33, p = 0.03). METH subjects also performed worse than controls on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale III/Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children IV (WAIS/WISC) Matrices task (F(1,114) = 4.37, p = 0.04) and performed significantly worse on the Peg Board task than the comparison subjects for both the dominant (F(1,114) = 7.56, p = 0.01) and non-dominant (F(1,114) = 6.75, p = 0.01). Lastly, length of abstinence was associated with improved performance on the Peg Board test with the dominant had (r = -0.34), as well as the WAIS/WISC Forward Digit Span task (r = 0.38)
METH use is associated with impaired executive functions in adolescent users.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats kept on a standard chow or on a magnesium (Mg)-deficient diet during 6 days received s.c. injections of 0, 25, 50, 100 and 200 micrograms of epinephrine (Ep). 1 h before, they were orally treated with 0, 125 or 250 mg of Mg/kg b.w. given as magnesium aspartate hydrochloride. Drug-induced changes were studied by analyzing serum and cardiac tissue samples (Mg, Ca, K, Na and in addition glucose, FFA, cholesterol and creatine kinase in serum) taken at 7 different times (15 to 420 min) after treatment with Ep; effects were evaluated by considering the respective areas under the concentration-time curves (AUC). AUCs were calculated with linear and logarithmic graduation of the time-scale and were also transformed into logarithms. In additional experiments, animals of both diet groups were treated with Mg and Ep as described above and the hearts, excised after 420 min, were prepared for histological examination. Cardiotoxic effects induced by adrenergic overstimulation were aggravated by Mg deficiency. Most pronounced electrolyte alterations and histologically detectable cardiac necroses were observed in the Mg-deficient animals at 420 min following the s. c. injection of 200 micrograms of Ep. On the other hand, oral Mg treatment induced hypermagnesemia and reduced toxic effects of Ep--especially Ca overload of the heart muscle--in controls and in Mg-deficient rats.
Nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) is a potent carcinogen widely existing in the environment. Our previous study has demonstrated that garlic oil (GO) could prevent NDEA-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats, but the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. It has been well documented that the metabolic activation may play important roles in NDEA-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Therefore, we designed the current study to explore the potential mechanisms by investigating the changes of hepatic phase Ⅰ enzymes (including cytochrome P450 enzyme (CYP) 2E1, CYP1A2 and CYP1A1) and phase Ⅱ enzymes (including glutathione S transferases (GSTs) and UDP- Glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs)) by using enzymatic methods, real-time PCR, and western blotting analysis. We found that NDEA treatment resulted in significant decreases of the activities of CYP2E1, CYP1A2, GST alpha, GST mu, UGTs and increases of the activities of CYP1A1 and GST pi. Furthermore, the mRNA and protein levels of CYP2E1, CYP1A2, GST alpha, GST mu and UGT1A6 in the liver of NDEA-treated rats were significantly decreased compared with those of the control group rats, while the mRNA and protein levels of CYP1A1 and GST pi were dramatically increased. Interestingly, all these adverse effects induced by NDEA were simultaneously and significantly suppressed by GO co-treatment. These data suggest that the protective effects of GO against NDEA-induced hepatocarcinogenesis might be, at least partially, attributed to the modulation of phase I and phase II enzymes.
