The N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor is an intriguing target for the development of drugs with anti-Parkinsonian activity as well as with protective actions against degenerative processes induced by brain ischemia. Amantadine is used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease without a well established mechanism of action. We show here that amantadine inhibits, in a non-competitive way, the NMDA receptor-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine release from rat neostriatum in vitro in "therapeutic" (i.e., low micromolar) concentrations. This indicates that amantadine might exert its anti-Parkinsonian effect via blockade of NMDA receptors. Sustained stimulation of NMDA receptors induces so-called excitotoxicity. Recently, it was demonstrated that amantadine is able to inhibit NMDA induced cell death in a neuronal culture. On the basis of these findings it seems worth investigating if amantadine is also able to protect against neurodegenerative processes caused by brain ischemia in vivo.
We report clinical details in 16 cases of quinine poisoning. Plasma quinine concentrations above 15 mg/l were associated with increased risks of permanent visual damage and of cardiac arrhythmias from which one of our patients died. The rate of quinine elimination was not significantly altered by forced acid diuresis in five patients (t 1/2 25.1 +/- SEM 4.6 h) as compared to eight patients treated conservatively (t 1/2 26.5 +/- SEM 5.78 h). Neither urinary pH or flow rate correlated consistently with urinary quinine clearance. In three other patients charcoal column haemoperfusion, haemodialysis and exchange transfusion were performed. These were also ineffective in increasing quinine elimination. It is concluded that techniques advocated to increase quinine elimination are ineffective in the management of quinine poisoning.
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors do not have any teratogenic effect in man but their use during pregnancy has led to cases of hypotension and subsequent severe renal failure in the newborn. The authors report two cases, one involving a twin pregnancy which illustrate the variability of the foetal involvement. It is emphasized that the side effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are not only reversible but also are not constantly found.
The incidence of adenocarcinoma of the lower third of the esophagus, esophagogastric junction, and gastric cardia has been rising in the face of limited treatment options for patients with metastatic disease. With the emergence of data to suggest that single agent docetaxel and irinotecan carry antineoplastic effects in this setting, we determined the response rate of these agents when given in combination.
Forty-six patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lower third of the esophagus, esophagogastric junction, and gastric cardia were evaluated. Patients received docetaxel 50 mg/m2/d and irinotecan 130 mg/m2/d intravenously at 21-d intervals with a tumor assessment after 2 cycles. Because of unacceptable toxicity among the first 13 patients, dosing was reduced to docetaxel 40 mg/m2/d and irinotecan 100 mg/m2/d intravenously at 21-d intervals.
The response rate for the entire cohort was 26% (95% confidence interval: 14%, 41%) with 12 confirmed partial responses. Five of these 12 responses were observed in patients treated at the higher chemotherapy dose. However, because 8 of 13 patients suffered grade 4 neutropenia and fevers, a dose reduction was incorporated into the protocol, and the remainder of the cohort was treated at the lower dose. All except 4 of the 15 observed grade 4 toxicities occurred at the higher dose, and these toxicities included nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, hypotension, dysrhythmias, and diarrhea in addition to neutropenia and fevers. There were no grade 5 toxicities. The median survival for the entire cohort was 7.3 mo.
The combination of docetaxel and irinotecan provides modest antineoplastic activity among patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, esophagogastric junction, and gastric cardia. Doses of docetaxel 40 mg/m2/d and irinotecan 100 mg/m2/d at 21-d intervals provide an acceptable safety profile, but higher doses appear to result in unacceptable toxicity.
This study determined the level of mercury, lead, and zinc in baby teeth of children with autism spectrum disorder (n = 15, age 6.1 +/- 2.2 yr) and typically developing children (n = 11, age = 7 +/- 1.7 yr). Children with autism had significantly (2.1-fold) higher levels of mercury but similar levels of lead and similar levels of zinc. Children with autism also had significantly higher usage of oral antibiotics during their first 12 mo of life, and possibly higher usage of oral antibiotics during their first 36 mo of life. Baby teeth are a good measure of cumulative exposure to toxic metals during fetal development and early infancy, so this study suggests that children with autism had a higher body burden of mercury during fetal/infant development. Antibiotic use is known to almost completely inhibit excretion of mercury in rats due to alteration of gut flora. Thus, higher use of oral antibiotics in the children with autism may have reduced their ability to excrete mercury, and hence may partially explain the higher level in baby teeth. Higher usage of oral antibiotics in infancy may also partially explain the high incidence of chronic gastrointestinal problems in individuals with autism.
The systemic effects of timolol eye drops were investigated in 35 patients divided into three groups: 1. (15 asthmatics); 2. (10 non-asthmatic patients suffering from glaucoma); 3. (10 elderly control subjects). A placebo eye drops was given at time 0, the timolol maleate drops were given at time 30 mn. The control parameters were checked every 15 minutes. They did not show variations under placebo. After administration of timolol, systolic and diastolic blood pressures as well as vital capacity remained unchanged. Heart rate decreased in 91% of subjects by a mean: 18.5% and, extreme 38%: Bradycardia was always sino-atrial and there was a dose effect relationship. Also F.E.V., decreased in 13 of the 15 asthmatics and in 2 patients with chronic bronchitis: in 4 patients the decrease in flow exceeded 20%. The importance of timolol in the treatment of open-angle chronic glaucoma is well-established, but the results reported here and else where emphazing frequent risks should induce prescribers to comply with the rules of good use: analysis of previous history, and compliance with general contra-indications to beta blockers. Routine E.C.G. and strict adjustment of dosage is recommended.
Benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, and candesartan, an angiotensin receptor blocker, are common drugs for treating hypertension. This study aimed to investigate the enhanced attenuation of myocardial fibrosis in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) possibly induced by joint treatment with benazepril and candesartan and the possible involvement of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1)-Smad signaling pathway. SHRs were treated with benazepril at 10 mg.kg.d, candesartan at 4 mg.kg.d, and a combination of 2 drugs at half dose, respectively, for 12 weeks. Echocardiography and histology indicated that joint treatment with 2 drugs more significantly inhibited myocardial fibrosis in SHRs than either monotherapy, as evidenced by the changes in cardiac structural parameters, ultrasonic integrated backscatters, collagen volume fraction, and perivascular collagen area. The collagen analyses further revealed that significant decreases in total collagen concentration, the ratio of collagen type I to type III, and collagen cross-linking were found after the enhanced attenuation of myocardial fibrosis. Western blot analysis showed that the protein expression of TGF-beta1 and Smad3 was significantly decreased after joint treatment with 2 drugs. We conclude that synergistic attenuation of myocardial fibrosis in SHRs is produced by combined use of benazepril and candesartan possibly through the modulation of TGF-beta/Smad signaling proteins.
Administration of an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, voglibose, increases the secretion of glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1, a key modulator of pancreatic islet hormone secretion and glucose homeostasis. In the present study, novel mechanisms by which voglibose increases active GLP-1 circulation were evaluated. Voglibose (0.001 and 0.005%) was administered in the diet to ob/ob mice for 1 day or 3 to 4 weeks to determine effects on incretin profiles and plasma activity of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4), an enzyme responsible for GLP-1 degradation. Voglibose showed no direct inhibitory effect against DPP-4 in vitro (DPP-4 inhibitor alogliptin, IC(50) < 10 nM). Likewise, 1-day treatment with voglibose did not change plasma DPP-4 activity; however, it increased plasma active GLP-1 by 1.6- to 3.4-fold. After chronic treatment, voglibose stimulated GLP-1 secretion, as evidenced by the 1.3- to 1.5-fold increase in plasma active plus inactive amidated GLP-1 levels. Plasma DPP-4 activity was decreased unexpectedly by 40 to 51%, resulting from reduced plasma DPP-4 concentrations in voglibose-treated mice. Voglibose increased GLP-1 content by 1.5- to 1.6-fold and 1.4- to 1.6-fold in the lower intestine and colon, respectively. The increased GLP-1 content in the colon was associated with elevated expression of gut glucagon gene. Chronic treatment with voglibose resulted in 1.9- to 4.1-fold increase in active GLP-1 circulation, which was higher than 1-day treatment. A similar treatment with pioglitazone (0.03%), an insulin sensitizer, did not affect plasma DPP-4 activity or GLP-1 levels. These results suggest that increased GLP-1 secretion, decreased DPP-4 activity, and increased gut GLP-1 content may have contributed to increased active GLP-1 circulation after chronic treatment with voglibose in a glucose control-independent manner in ob/ob mice.
Primary sensory afferent neurons modulate the hyperdynamic circulation in cirrhotic rats with portal hypertension. The stomach of cirrhotic rats is prone to damage induced by ethanol, a phenomenon associated with reduced gastric hyperemic response to acid-back diffusion. The aim of this study was to examine the impact of ablation of capsaicin-sensitive neurons and the tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonist A5330 on the susceptibility of the portal hypertensive gastric mucosa to ethanol-induced injury and its effects on gastric cyclooxygenase (COX) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) mRNA expression. Capsaicin was administered to neonatal, male, Wistar rats and the animals were allowed to grow. Cirrhosis was then induced by bile duct ligation in adult rats while controls had sham operation. Ethanol-induced gastric damage was assessed using ex vivo gastric chamber experiments. Gastric blood flow was measured as well as COX/NOS mRNA expression. Topical application of ethanol produced significant gastric damage in cirrhotic rats compared to controls, which was reversed in capsaicin- and A5330-treated animals. Mean arterial and portal pressure was normalized in capsaicin-treated cirrhotic rats. Capsaicin and A5330 administration restored gastric blood flow responses to topical application of ethanol followed by acid in cirrhotic rats. Differential COX and NOS mRNA expression was noted in bile duct ligated rats relative to controls. Capsaicin treatment significantly modified gastric eNOS/iNOS/COX-2 mRNA expression in cirrhotic rats. Capsaicin-sensitive neurons modulate the susceptibility of the portal hypertensive gastric mucosa to injury induced by ethanol via tachykinin NK(1) receptors and signalling of prostaglandin and NO production/release.
Nickel (Ni) is ubiquitous in the biosphere and is a common component of natural fresh waters. When present in high concentrations, it becomes toxic to aquatic organisms. It is known that Ni toxicity may induce oxidative stress and apoptosis. However, the precise mechanism and the pathways that are activated in fish are still unclear. Thus, this study aimed to assess which apoptotic pathways are triggered by Ni in Carassius auratus liver, the main target of waterborne pollutants. Fish were exposed to 10, 25, 50 and 100mg/L of nickel sulfate for 96 h. Our data showed that Ni exposure caused fish weight loss (by 10-12%) and decreased locomotory activity (by 1-25%). Ni exposure significantly decreased the relative lymphocyte count (by 1-24%) and increased the relative count of monocytes (by 25-111%) and neutrophils (by 10-322%) as compared to controls. Ni induced oxidative stress, as evidenced by increasing of lipid peroxidation level (29-91%) and depleting of the glutathione levels (7-79%) in fish liver. Ni also suppressed the activities of superoxide dismutase (by 39-55%) and glutathione peroxidase (16-24%) and decreased ATP levels (13-51%) in livers. Moreover, liver caspase-3, one of the key executioners of apoptosis, was markedly activated by the Ni exposure. Ni exposure also increased expression levels of phosphorylated Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) in liver, which in turn activated pro-apoptotic signaling events by breaking the balance between pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins. In conclusion, these results suggested that Ni induced oxidative stress and apoptosis, at least, via the JNK signaling pathway.
Flecainide acetate has a recognized proarrhythmic effect in patients treated for ventricular tachycardia. Three patients developed severe ventricular arrhythmias while taking flecainide for atrial fibrillation. Patient 1 had normal ventricular function and idiopathic atrial fibrillation. Treadmill exercise tests during digoxin therapy showed no ventricular arrhythmia; however, during flecainide therapy the patient developed ventricular flutter at his peak exercise level that required cardioversion. Patient 2 had normal ventricular function and a prosthetic mitral valve. During therapy with flecainide, 150 mg twice daily, he had an episode of sustained ventricular tachycardia, also at his peak exercise level. Patient 3 had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy but no previous ventricular arrhythmia. She died suddenly within 10 days of starting flecainide therapy. Judged from previous findings none of these patients was considered at high risk for proarrhythmia. These cases suggest a possible relation between vigorous exercise, atrial fibrillation, and the proarrhythmic properties of flecainide and indicate the limitations of classifying patients as "high-risk" or "low-risk" for proarrhythmic complications of anti-arrhythmic therapy.
The genetic variation of human butyrylcholinesterase is associated with the majority of prolonged cases of apnea in patients submitted to the muscle relaxant succinylcholine. The present study reports two new mutations of the BCHE gene in 346 Euro-Brazilians: IVS3-14T>C found in five heterozygotes (allele frequency: 0.72+/-0.32%) and L574fsX576 found in one heterozygote (allele frequency: 0.14+/-0.14%). These two variants were not found in 85 Guarani Amerindians. It is not expected that the IVS3-14T>C mutation may interfere in the splicing process and that the mutation found in exon 4 (L574fsX576) may disturb BChE tetramerization and activity.
We carried out uptake and depuration experiments in the laboratory to investigate the effects of temperature (15 degrees C and 25 degrees C) on the depuration kinetics and persistence of a cyanobacterial toxin, microcystin-LR (MCYST-LR), in a freshwater bivalve, Unio douglasiae. Bivalves were fed toxic Microcystis cells in the 15-day uptake experiment and nontoxic diatoms in the following 15-day depuration experiment. Each bivalve's hepatopancreas was lyophilized and extracted with a butanol:methanol:water solution for analysis of MCYST-LR by high-performance liquid chromatography. The toxin in the organ accumulated rapidly after the beginning of the uptake experiment and reached approximately steady-state conditions on day 5 at concentrations of 130 +/- 11 microg g(-1) dry weight at 15 degrees C and 250 +/- 40 microg g(-1) at 25 degrees C. In the depuration experiments MCYST-LR was eliminated asymptotically from the tissue. The values of the depuration rate constant (k(d)), calculated with a first-order one-compartment model, were found to be 0.142 +/- 0.044 day(-1) at 15 degrees C and 0.226 +/- 0.046 day(-1) at 25 degrees C. The depuration Q(10) value from 15 degrees C to 25 degrees C equaled 1.6. This study was the first to reveal the kinetics of depuration for MCYST-LR in a bivalve. The results show that MCYST-LR may be eliminated slowly in autumn and winter and persist in the tissue until spring. Thus, in terms of toxicokinetics, the risk to people of being poisoned by bivalves would increase if toxic blooms occur in autumn.
Cancer prevention studies suggest that selenium is effective in reducing the incidence of cancers including prostate, colon, and lung cancers. Previous reports showed that selenium inhibits premalignant human breast MCF-10AT1 and MCF10AT3B cell growth in vitro and reduces mammary tumor incidence after exposure to carcinogens in tumor models. Because estrogen is critical to the development and differentiation of estrogen target tissues, including the breast, the present study was designed to examine the effect of selenium on estrogen receptor (ER) expression and activation using methylseleninic acid (MSA), an active form of selenium in vitro. Selenium decreased the levels of expression of ERalpha mRNA and protein and reduced the binding of labeled estradiol to estrogen receptor in MCF-7 cells. Selenium inhibited the trans-activating activity of estrogen receptor in MCF-7 cells expressing functional estrogen receptor using a luciferase reporter construct linked to estrogen responsive element. Selenium decreased the binding of estrogen receptor to the estrogen responsive element site using an electrophoretic mobility gel shift assay. Selenium suppressed estrogen induction of the endogenous target gene c-myc. In contrast to the effect on ERalpha in MCF-7 cells, selenium increased ERbeta mRNA expression in MDA-MB231 human breast cancer cells. Thus, differential regulation of ERalpha and ERbeta in breast cancer cells may represent a novel mechanism of selenium action and provide a rationale for selenium breast cancer prevention trial.
The effect of pretreatment with pertussis toxin at the doses of 0.25 and 0.50 microg per mouse ICV on the amnesic effect produced by baclofen (0.1 4 mg kg(-1) i.p.), diphenhydramine (15-30 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and scopolamine (0.5-5 mg kg(-1) i.p.) was investigated in the mouse passive avoidance test. Ten days after a single injection of pertussis toxin, baclofen (2 4 mg kg(-1) i.p.) amnesia was prevented. By contrast, pertussis toxin had no effect on diphenhydramine- and scopolamine-induced amnesia. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin at both doses used did not impair motor coordination of the mice, as revealed by the rota-rod test. The present results indicate that the activation of pertussis toxin-sensitive G-proteins represents an important transduction step in memory impairment induced by GABA(B) (gamma-aminobutyric acid B) agonists, but not by antihistaminic and antimuscarinic drugs.
Parity in humans and rats provides significant protection against mammary tumor development. This study was carried out to investigate whether treatment of parous rats with mammotropic hormones would affect methyl-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced mammary carcinogenesis. Parous rats were treated with 17beta-estradiol (E2), progesterone (P4) and thyroxine (T4) alone or in combination. E2 (20 microg/60 days) and P4 (20 mg/60 days) were administered by silastic tubing and T4 in the drinking water (3 microg T4/ml). Hormonal treatments commenced 7 days before MNU injection and continued for 33 weeks. Animals were palpated weekly for tumor detection. The effects of the hormonal treatments on the circulating concentrations of E2, P4, growth hormone (GH), prolactin (PRL), T4 and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) after 7 days of treatment, the time of MNU injection, was assessed. Animals treated with E2 had significantly elevated circulation concentrations of GH, PRL and P4, and serum levels of E2 were more consistent in this group than in the other animal groups. P4 treatment caused elevation in P4 concentration in serum but did not affect the circulating levels of other hormones. The proliferation of the mammary gland at the time of MNU injection was elevated in animal groups treated with E2 either alone or with P4 and T4 and in animals treated with P4 alone, but the mammary gland was most differentiated in untreated parous rats and least in animals treated with E2 either alone or with P4 and T4. Mammary tumor incidence was 10% in parous rats that did not receive any hormonal treatment. Treatments with E2 or P4 alone significantly increased the susceptibility of parous animals to 67 and 50.0%, respectively; a tumor incidence similar to that of untreated AMV rats (64%). Parous rats treated with E2 plus P4 had tumor incidence higher than 90%. T4 administered did not affect mammary carcinogenesis.
Blockade of angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1) signaling attenuates heart failure following myocardial infarction (MI), perhaps through reduction of fibrosis in the noninfarcted myocardium. However, its specific effect on the infarct tissue itself has not been fully clarified, which we examined in the present study. After MI induction in mice, treatment with the AT1 blocker olmesartan, beginning on the 3rd day post-MI, significantly improved survival (94%) 4 wk post-MI, compared with saline (53%) and hydralazine (73%). Olmesartan-treated mice also showed significant attenuation of left ventricular dilatation and dysfunction, as well as significantly greater infarct wall thickness, although the absolute size of the infarct scar was unchanged. In addition, significantly greater numbers of nonmyocytes (mainly vascular cells and myofibroblasts) were present within the infarct scar in olmesartan-treated hearts. Ten days post-MI, apoptosis among granulation tissue cells was significantly suppressed in the olmesartan-treated hearts, where expression of Fas, Bax, procaspase-3, and Daxx and activation of caspase-3, c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase, and c-Jun were all significantly attenuated. By contrast, expression of Fas ligand, Bcl-2, and Fas-associated death domain and activation of caspase-8 were unaffected, suggesting olmesartan exerts a negative regulatory effect on the alternate pathway downstream of Fas receptor. In vitro, olmesartan dose-dependently inhibited Fas-mediated apoptosis in granulation tissue-derived myofibroblasts. The present study proposes this antiapoptotic effect as another important mechanism for an AT1 blocker in improving post-MI ventricular remodeling, as well as its antifibrotic effect, and also suggests a significant link between renin-angiotensin and Fas/Fas ligand systems in postinfarction hearts.
In this study, we show that combined use of Imatinib (IM) and arsenic sulfide [As(4)S(4) (AS)] exerts more profound therapeutic effects in a BCR/ABL-positive mouse model of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) than either drug as a single agent. A systematic analysis of dynamic changes of the proteome, phosphoproteome, and transcriptome in K562 cells after AS and/or IM treatment was performed to address the mechanisms underlying this synergy. Our data indicate that AS promotes the activities of the unfolded protein reaction (UPR) and ubiquitination pathway, which could form the biochemical basis for the pharmacological effects of this compound. In this CML model, AS targets BCR/ABL through the ubiquitination of key lysine residues, leading to its proteasomal degradation, whereas IM inhibits the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Combination of the 2 agents synergistically arrests the cell cycle, decreases activity of BCR/ABL, and leads to activation of intrinsic and extrinsic apoptosis pathways through complex modifications to both transcription and protein levels. Thus, these results suggest potential clinical benefits of IM/AS combination therapy for human CML.
Calcipotriol is a synthetic vitamin D3 analog that binds to vitamin D receptors in epidermal cells. In vitro studies have shown that calcipotriol stimulates terminal cell differentiation and has antiproliferative effects. In vivo, calcipotriol has been shown to reduce the number of cycling epidermal cells. Calcipotriol also has less effect on calcium metabolism than calcitriol, which is the natural, bioactive, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
These properties make calcipotriol an ideal candidate for the topical treatment of hyperproliferative skin disorders. While it has been approved for topical use in psoriasis, its potential for use in other dermatological disorders has not yet been fully investigated.
This survey of the literature suggests that calcipotriol may show promise in the treatment of other conditions involving abnormal keratinization and hyperproliferation of epidermal cells. While some of these disorders are rare, and therefore difficult to study, further study into the nonpsoriatic uses of calcipotriol may be rewarding.
Dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO), 3 g/kg body weight, administered daily by the intraperitoneal route, potentiated the proteinuria and formation of tubular casts in aminonucleoside of puromycin (PA) induced nephrosis in Sprague-Dawley rats. The effect was evident at 4 as well as 8-9 days following PA administration. In the absence of PA, DMSO did not induce proteinuria or cast formation. The mechanism by which DMSO enhanced proteinuria and cast formation is not known.
Transient neurological symptoms (TNS) after spinal anaesthesia have been reported most commonly in association with lidocaine, but have been observed with other local anaesthetics. The aim of this prospective, randomized, double-blind study was to investigate the incidence of TNS after spinal anaesthesia with either levobupivacaine or lidocaine.
Patients undergoing inguinal hernia, appendectomy, varicose vein or minor orthopaedic operations were included in the study (60 patients; 47 male, 13 female, overall mean age 30 years). All patients had an American Society of Anesthesiologists score of I or II. The patients were randomly assigned to receive spinal anaesthesia with either 20 mg isobaric levobupivacaine (5 mg/ml) or 80 mg isobaric lidocaine (20 mg/ml). Onset of sensory and motor block and side effects were recorded. On post-operative days 1, 2, and 3, patients were interviewed by an investigator blinded to the spinal anaesthetic used. The patients were classified as having TNS if, following recovery from anaesthesia, there was pain in the buttocks, thighs and/or lower limbs.
In the levobupivacaine group, one patient (3.33%) experienced TNS, whereas in the lidocaine group, eight (26.6%) experienced TNS (P=0.002). Maximum times to arrival of sensory blocks were shorter with lidocaine (P<0.001). The levobupivacaine and lidocaine groups did not differ significantly in terms of the highest dermatome included in sensory block or motor block grade.
After spinal anaesthesia with levobupivacaine, the incidence of TNS was much less than after lidocaine. However, it appears that TNS may occur in association with levobupivacaine.
We investigate the effect of rosiglitazone, a ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) with anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative actions, on hippocampal injury and its roles in mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) expression caused by transient global ischemia (TGI) in rats. Increased UCP2 expression was observed in mitochondria of hippocampal CA1 2-24h after TGI/reperfusion, with maximal expression levels at 6-18h. Administration of rosiglitazone to hippocampus 30min prior to the onset of TGI further enhanced mitochondrial UCP2 expression 2-6h following TGI/reperfusion. Rats subjected to TGI/reperfusion displayed a significant increase in lipid peroxidation, based on increased malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, in hippocampal CA1 mitochondria 2-6 h after reperfusion. Rosiglitazone significantly attenuated TGI/reperfusion-induced lipid peroxidation and suppressed hippocampal CA1 neuronal death based on the surviving neuronal counts. In conclusion, our results provide correlative evidence for the "PPARgamma-->UCP2-->neuroprotection" cascade in ischemic brain injury.
Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) is a pro-drug dissociating nitric oxide throughout the body. It dilates cephalic arteries without increasing cerebral blood flow (CBF). GTN induces headache in healthy volunteers and migraine attacks in migraineurs. Acetazolamide (Az) increases CBF but does not dilate cerebral arteries. The hypothesis tested here was that Az, by dilating cerebral arterioles but not arteries and thereby decreasing pulsatile stretching of the wall of the large arteries and their perivascular sensory nerves, would reduce or prevent the GTN-induced headache We tested this hypothesis in 14 healthy volunteers. In a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study, they were pretreated with Az or placebo followed on both study days by a GTN infusion of 0.5 microg kg(-1) min(-1) for 20 min. Headache was scored on a verbal rating scale and a headache diary was kept for 12 h. Mean blood velocity of the middle cerebral artery was measured (transcranial Doppler). Our hypothesis was disproved, as Az did not decrease GTN-induced headache. Unexpectedly but interestingly, GTN combined with Az induced more delayed headache than GTN alone. Furthermore, a migraine-like headache was observed in three volunteers, who did not develop migraine after GTN alone. The fact that a suitable pharmacological intervention may trigger migraine in individuals with no prior migraine may suggest that the ability to develop migraine without aura is a quantitative genetic trait.
The IMiDs represent a new proprietary class of thalidomide analogues that possess greater potency and less toxicity than the parent compound. As a group, these agents share the pharmacologic property of modulating cellular response to ligand activation, the precise biologic effect of which is cell lineage and stimulant-dependent. Lenalidomide (CC-5013; Revlimid), a second generation IMiD, has shown significant erythropoietic activity in patients with lower risk MDS that have failed or are not candidates for recombinant erythropoietin treatment. Unlike cytokine therapy, lenalidomide suppresses select MDS clones and enhances erythropoietin receptor signaling to restore erythropoiesis. Activity is greatest in patients with interstitial deletions involving chromosome 5q31.1. A multicenter phase II study reported a 76 % overall transfusion response rate in transfusion-dependent patients with deletion 5q, with 67 % achieving transfusion independence after a median interval of 4.6 weeks of treatment. Cytogenetic responses were observed in 73% of patients with complete cytogenetic remission in 45% patients. Both transfusion response and cytogenetic response frequency were independent of karyotype complexity, raising excitement that this new treatment strategy might favorably alter the natural history of disease in higher risk patients with deletion 5q. Lenalidomide was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on December 27, 2005, for the treatment of IPSS Low and intermediate-1 risk MDS patients with del(5q) abnormality. A phase III Intergroup trial (ECOG 2905) will test the capacity to potentiate erythropoietin response by comparing response to lenalidomide monotherapy to the combination of darbepoetin and lenalidomide in non-deletion 5q MDS patients.
The endocannabinoid transmission becomes overactive in the basal ganglia in Parkinson's disease (PD), as reported in patients and animal models of this disease. In the present study, we examined the status of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in the basal ganglia of female and male Park-2 knockout mice, a genetic model of PD that progresses with no neuronal death and that may be considered representative of early and presymptomatic parkinsonian deficits. We found an increase in the density of CB(1) receptors in the substantia nigra compared to wild-type animals with no changes in other basal ganglia, although this occurred only in females. Despite this increase, the motor inhibition caused by the acute administration of the cannabinoid agonist Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol to Park-2 knockout female mice was markedly of lesser magnitude compared with the response found in wild-type animals. By contrast, the administration of the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716 resulted in a hyperkinetic response in parkin-null mice, response that was almost absent in wild-type animals and that was accompanied by a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the caudate-putamen. However, parkin-null male mice exhibited normal levels of CB(1) receptors in the substantia nigra and the remaining basal ganglia, with the only exception of a small decrease in the lateral part of the caudate-putamen. This was associated with an increase in mRNA levels for superoxide dismutase in this structure. In addition, the administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol to parkin-null male mice caused a motor inhibition that was significantly greater than in the case of their wild-type counterparts, and that was accompanied by an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the caudate-putamen. In summary, extending the data obtained in humans and animal models of basal ganglia neurodegeneration, changes in CB(1) receptors were also observed in parkin-null mice, a model of PD that may be considered representative of early stages of this disease. These changes are associated with differences in behavioral responses to cannabinoid agonists or antagonists between Park-2 knockout and wild-type mice, although parkin-null mice exhibited evident gender-dependent differences for both levels of CB(1) receptors and motor responses to agonists or antagonists.
Baclofen (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) induced catatonia in rats within 10 min of its administration and the effect lasted for 3 hr. Muscimol (100 ng i.c.v. or 1 mg/kg, i.p.) as well as GABA (5 micrograms i.c.v.) potentiated the effect without producing any effect per se. Bicuculline, bromocriptine and scopolamine failed to modify the catatonia induced by baclofen, thereby ruling out the involvement of GABAA receptors, dopaminergic and cholinergic mechanisms. However, GABAB receptor antagonists, such as homotaurine and delta-amino-n-valeric acid, reversed the catatonia induced by baclofen in rats. Since baclofen is known to bind to a subpopulation of GABA receptors (bicuculline-insensitive) and baclofen-induced catatonia was susceptible to reversal by homotaurine and delta-amino-n-valeric acid, it is suggested that this effect could be mediated through GABAB receptors.
