To improve survival rate in advanced head and neck cancer, we scheduled 90 patients to receive low dose cisplatin plus 5-fluorouracil regimen as neoadjuvant(NAC), concurrent(CC), adjuvant(AC), and second line chemotherapy (SC) setting. Our regimen consisted of cisplatin (CDDP 5 mg/m2/1 hr infusion on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU 200 mg/m2/24 hr infusion or oral administration of tegaful-uracil (UFT-E) 400 mg/body on days 1-28). The concurrent chemoradiotherapy consisted of conventional irradiation with 1.6-2.0 Gy/day on five days per week up to a total dose around 60Gy, and CDDP 3 mg/m2 by intravenous infusion over 1 hour plus 5-FU 150 mg/m2 by intravenous infusion over 24 hours per day on five days per week. For SC, 24 patients evaluable for response, 4 CR and 6 PR with RR of 42% were achieved. For NAC, 14 patients were evaluated for response, 2 CR and 7 PR were achieved. CC was indicated for locally unresectable cases. Of the 33 patients evaluable for response were 17 CR and 9 PR with RR of 79%. Dose limiting toxicities for chemotherapy were anemia and leukopenia and chemoradiotherapy was mucositis. Our treatment modality showed marginal toxicity and good response. Moreover, our regimen could be given in an outpatient setting safely so quality of life for patients was identical. We concluded that for advanced head and neck cancer, these treatment options were effective for second line and adjuvant setting. Chemoradiotherapy with this regimen also gave a impact for improving local control and survival period for locally unresectable cases.
To observe the treatments on the patients with acute methamidophos dichlorvos (DDV) and omethoate poisoning and provide the reliable basis for the rational treatments on these three organophosphorus pesticides poisoning.
101 patients with AOPP in 7 hospitals were divided into three groups: Group A, 59 patients with acute methamidophos poisoning, Group B, 32 patients with acute DDV/dipterex (DEP) poisoning, Group C, 10 patients with acute omethoate/dimethoate poisoning. The levels of erythrocyte AChE and the therapeutic efficacies of pralidoxime chloride (PAM-Cl) were compared among the three groups.
The AChE activities of all the three groups were inhibited on level of (9.12 +/- 7.99) U/g Hb (group A), 7.32 +/- 4.62 U/g Hb (group B) and (12.01 +/- 9.53) U/g Hb (group C), among which no significant difference was found (P > 0.05). All the patients recovered from acute cholinergic excitation or crisis after the treatment of PAM-Cl. The erythrocyte AChE activities were obviously reactivated in group A three hours later after admission to hospital, each on level of (11.37 +/- 8.67) U/g Hb, (12.51 +/- 6.98) U/g Hb, (15.90 +/- 7.31) U/g Hb, (18.33 +/- 4.78) U/g Hb and (18.91 +/- 7.00) U/g Hb at the 12th, 24th, 48th, 72nd hour and discharge (P < 0.05), and the upgrade tendency was continuous. AChE activities in group B were also reactivated after treatment, each on level of (8.91 +/- 5.89) U/g Hb, (1.31 +/- 6.61) U/g Hb, (13.00 +/- 7.55) U/g Hb, (14.22 +/- 7.80) U/g Hb, (12.78 +/- 7.07) U/g Hb and (16.87 +/- 7.06) U/g Hb at the 3rd, 12th, 24th, 48th, 72nd hour and discharge, but the upgrade tendency turned slowly after 12 hours, the inhibited AChE activities were not reactivated in group C from the beginning to the end.
After the treatment of PAM-Cl, the AChE activities of the patients with acute methamidophos poisoning could be continuously reactivated, the AChE activities of the patients with acute DDV/DEP poisoning could also be reactivated in 12 hours, and then keep stable, but the AChE activities of the patients with acute omethoate/dimethoate poisoning could not be reactivated. However, PAM-Cl has therapeutic efficacy against acute toxicity of all the three organophosphorus pesticides. Oximes should be vigorously used in the treatment of AOPP, including acute omethoate/dimethoate poisoning.
We retrospectively studied 32 patients treated with the m-BACOD regimen in a single institution between January 1988 and December 1991. After four to seven courses, four patients presented severe acute pneumonitis (PaO2 < 55 mmHg in room air), with diffuse bilateral interstitial syndrome. Broncho-alveolar lavage displayed increased lymphocyte count (> 45%) with inversion of CD4/CD8 in two cases and no evidence of parasitic, bacterial or viral infection. All patients received methyl-prednisolone (0.5 to 1 mg/kg/d x 1 week) with both complete clinical and radiological recovery within a week. The m-BACOD regimen was continued without bleomycine for four patients and without bleomycine plus methotrexate for two patients, until the completion of eight courses, without recurrence of pneumonitis. Drug-exclusion decisions were made empirically because the exact nature of the pneumonitis was not recognized at the time of diagnostic. Because of the regular administration in the m-BACOD regimen, methotrexate leads to an increased risk of pneumonitis. We concluded that the use of the m-BACOD regimen should henceforth be discontinued.
The occurrence of thrombosis and phlebitis after intravenous injection of 10 mg diazepam, 4 mg lorazepam, or 1-2 mg flunitrazepam was studied on the second or third and the seventh to 10th days. A significantly higher incidence occurred with all drugs on days 7 to 10 than on days 2 and 3. Painless thrombosis occurred much more often with diazepam than with the other two benzodiazepines. Its incidence was greater in small hand or arm veins than in large antecubital vessels. Lorazepam and flunitrazepam therefore have clear advantages over diazepam.
Improved survival of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has made it more difficult to develop new protocols to further improve results. The authors report the pilot experience with the Memorial Sloan-Kettering-New York-II (MSK-NY-II) protocol, based on the New York regimen with changes made in an attempt to improve efficacy while reducing toxicity.
Forty-four of 46 consecutive patients were randomized to one of four regimens varying only in the sequence and mode of administration of the drugs during the first 48 hours of therapy, while the kinetics of the disappearance of the leukemic cells from the bone marrow was monitored with bone marrow aspirates and biopsies on days 0, 2, 7, and 14.
Thirty-two high-risk and 12 average-risk patients were randomized. The marrow contained less than 25% blasts in 74.4% and 92.9% by day 7 and 14, respectively. Ninety-three percent achieved remission. Regimens beginning with daunorubicin achieved a greater and more rapid reduction in leukemic cells than those starting with cyclophosphamide. Daunorubicin infusion produced a more rapid cytoreduction than daunorubicin bolus. Two of 41 patients who achieved remission relapsed, and there was one death in remission. With a median follow-up of 54+ months, the event-free survival (EFS) rate was 86% +/- 10%. Disease-free survival (DFS) rate at 48 months was 93%. The estimated 4-year EFS rate for the high-risk and average-risk patients were 83 +/- 14% and 93 +/- 10%, respectively. Four of 18 patients given daunorubicin bolus and 0 of 18 patients given daunorubicin infusion who were monitored with serial echocardiograms had significant decrease in cardiac function (P = 0.10). The major toxicity of the therapy was infections, with 35% of patients developing serious infections during induction and consolidation. Half the patients had an episode of bacteremia from the venous catheter during the 2 years of maintenance.
Close monitoring of kinetics of cytoreduction can rapidly distinguish between similar therapies, and the surrogate end-point may reduce the need for the long follow-up periods that may still be required to demonstrate differences in EFS. Continuous infusion of daunorubicin had less cardiotoxicity with faster antileukemic activity than bolus infusion. The MSK-NY-II protocol with a 86% 4-year EFS rate and a 95% DFS rate was a promising new regimen for the treatment of average-risk and high-risk ALL.
Calcineurin-inhibitor therapy can lead to renal dysfunction in heart transplantation patients. The novel immunosuppressive (IS) drug sirolmus (Srl) lacks nephrotoxic effects; however, proteinuria associated with Srl has been reported following renal transplantation. In cardiac transplantation, the incidence of proteinuria associated with Srl is unknown. In this study, long-term cardiac transplant patients were switched from cyclosporine to Srl-based IS. Concomitant IS consisted of mycophenolate mofetil +/- steroids. Proteinuria increased significantly from a median of 0.13 g/day (range 0-5.7) preswitch to 0.23 g/day (0-9.88) at 24 months postswitch (p = 0.0024). Before the switch, 11.5% of patients had high-grade proteinuria (>1.0 g/day); this increased to 22.9% postswitch (p = 0.006). ACE inhibitor and angiotensin-releasing blocker (ARB) therapy reduced proteinuria development. Patients without proteinuria had increased renal function (median 42.5 vs. 64.1, p = 0.25), whereas patients who developed high-grade proteinuria showed decreased renal function at the end of follow-up (median 39.6 vs. 29.2, p = 0.125). Thus, proteinuria may develop in cardiac transplant patients after switch to Srl, which may have an adverse effect on renal function in these patients. Srl should be used with ACEi/ARB therapy and patients monitored for proteinuria and increased renal dysfunction.
Periconceptional folic acid supplementation is suggested to prevent orofacial clefts (OFCs). Other B vitamins however may be beneficial as well.
To investigate the maternal periconceptional dietary intake of thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, pyridoxine and cobalamin in association with the occurrence of OFC.
Two hundred and six mothers of a child with nonsyndromic OFC and 203 control mothers filled out a general questionnaire and a food frequency questionnaire around 14 months postpartum as a proxy for periconceptional intake. After exclusion of known pregnant and lactating mothers, those who reported to have altered their diet compared to the periconceptional period, and mothers with incidental folic acid supplement use periconceptionally, data of 182 OFC mothers and 173 controls were analysed. After logarithmic transformation, geometric means (P5-P95) were calculated and compared between the groups. After subsequent adjustment for energy, quintiles of dietary B vitamin intake were created.
The periconceptional intake of thiamine, niacin and pyridoxine was significantly lower in mothers of an OFC child. A trend towards risk reduction for OFC with increasing dietary intake was demonstrated for thiamine (p = 0.04) and pyridoxine (p = 0.03). Risk reductions were only demonstrated in women using folic acid supplements periconceptionally. Supplement users tended to consume a diet richer in B vitamins.
Periconceptional intake of thiamine, niacin and pyridoxine seems to contribute to the prevention of OFC.
The Chinese herbal dietary supplements Chaso and Onshido are marketed for weight loss in Japan. The safety of these weight loss aids is unknown.
To describe patients who developed liver injury while taking Chaso or Onshido.
Case series.
Keio University Hospital, Tokyo, Japan, and other hospitals in Japan.
6 patients who took Chaso and 6 patients who took Onshido before presenting with liver injury.
Pathologic, clinical, and laboratory evaluations and chemical analysis of the herbal weight loss aids.
All 12 patients developed acute liver injury characterized by a marked increase in serum liver chemistry values (mean alanine aminotransferase level, 1978 U/L [range, 283 to 4074 U/L]) after ingesting these products. Two patients developed fulminant hepatic failure: 1 patient required liver transplantation, and the other patient died. N-nitroso-fenfluramine, a variant of the appetite-depressant drug fenfluramine, was present in these products.
The use of the weight loss aids Chaso and Onshido may be associated with acute liver injury. N-nitroso-fenfluramine is a possible hepatotoxic ingredient.
Curcumin, a phytochemical agent in the spice turmeric, has received increasing attention for its anticancer, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. However, application of curcumin has been limited due to its insolubility in water and poor bioavailability both clinically and experimentally. In addition, the protective effects and mechanisms of curcumin in eye diseases have been poorly studied. In the present study, we synthesized a curcumin analog, 1, 5-bis (2-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1, 4-pentadien-3-one (C3), which displayed improved protective effect against acrolein-induced toxicity in a human retinal pigment epithelial cell line (ARPE-19). At 5 μM, curcumin completely protected against acrolein-induced cell oxidative damage and preserved GSH levels and mitochondrial function. Surprisingly, C3 displayed a complete protective effect at 0.5 μM, which was much more efficient than curcumin. Both 0.5 μM C3 and 5 μM curcumin induced Nrf2 nuclear translocation and Nrf2 target genes transcription similarly. Experiments using Nrf2 siRNA showed that the protective effects of curcumin and C3 were eliminated by Nrf2 knockdown. Additionally, both curcumin and C3 activated the PI3/Akt pathway, however, Nrf2 activation was independent of this pathway, and therefore, we hypothesized that both curcumin and C3 activated phase II enzymes via directly disrupting the Nrf2/Keap1 complex and promoting Nrf2's nuclear translocation. Since acrolein challenge of ARPE-19 cells has been used as a model of smoking and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), we concluded that the curcumin analog, C3, may be a more promising drug candidate for its potential application for the prevention and treatment of eye diseases, such as AMD.
Magnetic resonance (MR) multimodality evoked potentials (MEPs) and clinical findings were correlated in a 47-year-old epileptic man in whom parenteral valproic acid (VPA) therapy induced severe comatose hyperammonemic encephalopathy without biological signs of hepatotoxicity (or hepatocytic dysfunction). Although the plasma VPA level remained within a normal therapeutic range, the ammoniemia increased to a toxic peak level at 411 micromol/l 24 h after symptom onset, requiring VPA therapy discontinuation. Brain MR monitoring demonstrated early cytotoxic edema evolving into delayed vasogenic edema and final brain atrophy. Concomitantly to abnormalities within the brainstem on MR images, an increase in brainstem conduction at MEPs and clinical disturbance of brainstem reflexes were observed at the initial phase of the disease course. Later, the resolution of the MR and MEPs abnormalities paralleled the clinical recovery of the reflexes.
The defective gene (ATP7B) that causes Wilson disease (WD) codes for a putative copper-transporting P-type adenosine triphosphatase. After cloning of ATP7B, the spectrum of mutations and their clinical consequences have been investigated in patients with WD in different ethnic populations. However, the spectrum of mutations and the correlation of genotype-phenotype in the Chinese population have not been extensively studied.
To investigate the characterization of mutations of ATP7B and the correlation between genotype and phenotype in the Chinese population.
We studied 60 unrelated healthy Chinese and 65 unrelated Chinese families, including 84 patients with WD and 126 parents. Genomic DNA was prepared from peripheral blood leukocytes using a salt-precipitation method. Polymerase chain reaction single-strand conformation polymorphism and subsequent direct sequencing were used to identify the mutations and polymorphisms of ATP7B. Statistical analysis was performed using t test or chi(2) test.
We identified 18 mutations (7 novel) and 11 polymorphisms (3 novel). The novel mutations are -36C-->T, Trp650ter, Gln914ter, 2810delT, Thr935Met, Arg1041Pro, and Glu1173Lys. The novel polymorphisms are 1168A-->G (Ile390Val), 2785A-->G (Ile929Val), and 3316G-->A (Val1106Ile). Two mutations, Arg778Leu and Thr935Met, are relatively frequent, representing 37.7% and 10.0% of patients, respectively. To our knowledge, we are the first to report the correlation between the genotype and phenotype of Arg778Leu. The result shows that Arg778Leu homozygotes are associated with the early onset of WD with hepatic presentation.
The Arg778Leu and Thr935Met mutations are hot spots in the Chinese population. The features of mutations of ATP7B differ between the Chinese and Western ethnic populations. The Arg778Leu mutation has severe effects on the function of ATP7B. These findings are valuable for developing a fast and effective method to diagnose the presence of the WD gene.
The cardiotoxicity of tricyclics is wellknown. The interpretations of such a mechanism are many: the tricyclic ring, the dimetilaminic group, the re-uptake NA mechanisms at myocardic level. A study was designed in order to answer the question. Four antidepressant drugs (a true quadricyclic: mianserin; a tricyclic with short later chain: amineptine; two tricyclic antidepressants with long chain: amitriptyline and chlorimipramine) were chosen in the double-blind cross-over study design in two different types of depression: anxious and retarded depression. A computerized cycloergometer test was performed at different times, together with ECG and depression evaluation. The patients with retarded depression were treated with amineptine (from 150 mg to 300 mg/day) and after a wash-out periods with chlorimipramine (150 mg/day). The patients with anxious depression were treated with mianserin (30-60 mg/day) for a fortnight and afterwards with amitriptyline (150 mg/day). The evaluation of the ergometric tests carried out at the fixed day have been carried out using the "Minnesota methodology". The results obtained show that the quadricyclic (mianserin) doesn't point out any cardiotoxicity. All tricyclics, especially amitriptyline, show cardiotoxicity signs.
The antithrombotic agents are usually interrupted in fear of bleeding complications before neurosurgery. However, the optimal schematic regimen of substitutive medication to prevent thromboembolic events after surgery is unsettled.
We report five complex neurosurgical cases with high risk for thromboembolism requiring thromboprophylaxis during craniotomy.
In one patient with coronary bare metal stent and antiplatelet therapy, acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel was discontinued 5 and 11 days prior to surgery, respectively. Four other patients were on regular warfarin therapy due to previous deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or mechanical aortic valve. Adjusted bridging therapy with low-molecular-weight heparin was applied in all cases. The patient with the coronary stent who was managed with reduced-dose dalteparin developed postoperative intracranial hemorrhage despite having platelet and fresh-frozen plasma transfusions, and the patient did not survive. Another patient with a history of lower-extremity deep venous thrombosis developed a postoperative intracranial hematoma but also a recurrence of left lower extremity deep venous thrombosis and had a delayed recovery. The other two patients with history of pulmonary embolism, and one patient having mechanical aortic valve and atrial fibrillation, recovered uneventfully when reduced doses of low molecular weight heparin bridging therapy were administered.
Our observations confirm the complexity of balancing the risks of bleeding and thrombosis in neurosurgical patients on antithrombotic medication. In these patients, the individual bleeding risk is likely minimized by the administration of reduced doses of LMWH relatively late after craniotomy and by delaying the start of warfarin after surgery.
In order to probe into the early prediction molecular index and the signal transduction molecular mechanism of methyl mercury chloride (MMC) neurotoxicity, the expression of c-jun mRNA in rat brains induced by different concentration MMC for different times were observed by using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) methods (the control group was physiological saline of 0.9%, the concentrations of expose groups were 0.05, 0.5, 5 mg x kg(-1) respectively, the sampling times were 20, 60, 240, 1440 min). The result showed the expression of c-jun mRNA in rat brains was prior to the accumulation of mercury, and the expression of c-jun mRNA in rat brains could early predict the neurotoxicity of MMC. IEG (c-jun) participated in the toxicity process of injury by MMC.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are structurally similar to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and have both central (learning and memory deficits) and peripheral (motor dysfunction) neurotoxic effects at concentrations/doses similar to those of PCBs. The cellular and molecular mechanisms for these neurotoxic effects are not fully understood; however, several studies have shown that PBDEs affect thyroid hormones, cause oxidative stress, and disrupt Ca2+-mediated signal transduction. Changes in these signal transduction pathways can lead to differential gene regulation with subsequent changes in protein expression, which can affect the development and function of the nervous system.
In this study, we examined the protein expression profiles in the rat cerebellum and hippocampus following developmental exposure to a commercial PBDE mixture, DE-71.
Pregnant Long-Evans rats were dosed perinatally with 0 or 30.6 mg/kg/day of DE-71 from gestation day 6 through sampling on postnatal day 14. Proteins from the cerebellum and hippocampus were extracted, expression differences were detected by two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis, and proteins were identified by tandem mass spectrometry. Protein network interaction analysis was performed using Ingenuity® Pathway Analysis, and the proteins of interest were validated by Western blotting.
Four proteins were significantly differentially expressed in the cerebellum following DE-71 exposure, whereas 70 proteins were significantly differentially expressed in the hippocampus. Of these proteins, 4 from the cerebellum and 47 from the hippocampus, identifiable by mass spectrometry, were found to have roles in mitochondrial energy metabolism, oxidative stress, apoptosis, calcium signaling, and growth of the nervous system.
Results suggest that changes in energy metabolism and processes related to neuroplasticity and growth may be involved in the developmental neurotoxicity of PBDEs.
Kodavanti PR, Royland JE, Osorio C, Winnik WM, Ortiz P, Lei L, Ramabhadran R, Alzate O. 2015. Developmental exposure to a commercial PBDE mixture: effects on protein networks in the cerebellum and hippocampus of rats. Environ Health Perspect 123:428-436; http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1408504.
Hypertropia, not due to the usual causes and associated with a central nervous system disorder, should be suspected as being a skew deviation (Hertwig-Magendie sign). We describe a new case of this supranuclear disorder, presumably related to cocaine-induced stroke. This disorder was treated by botulinum A toxin (Oculinum) injection into the superior rectus muscle. Follow-up one year later found the vertical deviation resolved.
Endometriosis affects >10% of women during their reproductive years, many of whom report high rates of spontaneous pregnancy loss (SPL). We examined whether gene polymorphisms in apolipoprotein E (APOE), which is involved in lipoprotein metabolism, are associated with endometriosis and/or endometriosis-associated infertility. We conducted a cross-sectional genetic association study of women surgically confirmed to have endometriosis (n = 345) and no surgical evidence of the disease (n = 266). Genotyping of APOE polymorphism (ε2, ε3, ε4) was conducted by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism followed by visualization of specific patterns by gel electrophoresis. Statistical significance of differences in genotype and allelic frequencies was assessed using Pearson's χ(2) test and Risk analysis. Overall, we found no association between APOE genotype and diagnosis of endometriosis. However, patients with endometriosis who reported at least one SPL were three times more likely to be ε2 carriers and 2-fold less likely to be ε4 carriers. Compared with ε3 carriers, patients with endometriosis who were ε2 carriers and had at least one live birth reported four times the rate of SPL, while ε4 carriers were <0.4-fold less likely to report an SPL. Our data suggest that there may be an association between APOE allelic frequency and SPL in patients with endometriosis, which appears to be independent of mechanisms associated with infertility, an intriguing observation that deserves further investigation.
Dandy's Syndrome initially provokes dizziness and vertigo. Later on patients suffer from motion unsteadiness especially in dark surroundings and from oscillopsies. Gentamicin is ototoxic mostly for the vestibular part of the inner ear, and it is nephrotoxic. It may cause transitory renal dysfunction. Chronic or acute renal insufficiencies inhibit gentamicin clearance.
Among 20 cases we found 15 who had previously been treated with aminoglycosides (13 with gentamicin and two with streptomycin). Ten of our patients showed symptoms of preexistant chronic nephrosis or of transitory renal insufficiency caused by gentamicin therapy. In all 13 cases, peripheral vestibular function was destroyed or severely damaged by antibiotic. The same patients had no hearing loss.
The different reactions of the cochlear and the vestibular end organs support the theoretical basis for transtympanic gentamicin treatment of Menière's disease.--Other reasons for Dandy's Syndrome were bilateral Menière's disease, skull fractures, and bilateral vestibular disorders.
The potential social and economic harm caused by cocaine addiction is well known. The wider health risks and potential nasal complications of septal perforation and nasal collapse are also recognised. We report a case of oro-nasal fistula secondary to cocaine misuse and discuss the aetiology, management and potential methods of repair.
Nonischemic heart disease, especially idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, is relatively common among Japanese patients receiving amiodarone for concomitant ventricular arrhythmia, but the hemodynamic effects of amiodarone in these Japanese patients are unclear. The hemodynamic changes during chronic amiodarone administration were retrospectively studied in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and ventricular arrhythmia.
Fifty-two patients [42 males, 10 females, 53 +/- 2 years (mean age +/- SE)] with ventricular tachyarrhythmia and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy with left ventricular ejection fraction of 27 +/- 1% (mean +/- SE) were treated with 200-400 mg daily of oral amiodarone as the loading dose for the initial 14 days and 100-200 mg daily maintenance dose for a further 6 months. No patients were taking beta-blockers or positive inotropic drugs. Echocardiographic examination was performed before (baseline), at week 2 and at month 6 of amiodarone therapy. Twenty four-hour Holter monitoring during the same time period was also performed in 34 patients. Seventeen patients underwent right heart catheterization before and at week 2.
Echocardiographic measurements showed no significant change in left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, although there was a slight increase in fractional shortening from 16 +/- 1% to 19 +/- 1% (p < 0.05) and 18 +/- 1% (mean +/- SE) (p < 0.01) at week 2 and month 6 of amiodarone therapy, respectively. Amiodarone markedly reduced the mean heart rate and the frequency of premature ventricular complexes on ambulatory monitoring. The cardiac index did not change and the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure tended to decrease slightly at week 2 in the 17 patients who underwent catheterization.
This retrospective study showed no worsening of the hemodynamic state during chronic amiodarone administration in Japanese patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy and ventricular arrhythmia.
Methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) for opioid dependency has consistently shown important heath, social and legal benefits. What started as a small experimental program in Lexington, Kentucky has grown and expanded substantially over 35 years. Its practice is now well established both in specialized centers and in the broader community. In society, methadone deaths represent an important issue of public safety: methadone diversion to and ingestion by nontolerant individuals outside of treatment. Within treatment, methadone deaths occur most commonly in the early stabilization period (due to issue of tolerance), in periods of transition, or among certain individuals who abuse other substances (opioids, benzodiazepines, or alcohol). Research suggests moderately high methadone dosages help improve patient retention. Results from pharmacodynamic, kinetic and stereospecific studies continue to support the importance of individualizing dose. For some patients, much larger doses may be necessary to fully achieve all pharmacotherapy goals of treatment. Practitioners must be cautious however as certain patients on higher dosages are predisposed to torsade de pointes and increased mortality. Policymakers have a responsibility in their decision-making to balance the quality of life benefits for patients within MMT with the risks of increased mortality both for individuals within treatment and the general public.
Cerebral aneurysm (CA) is a relatively common disease and can cause a catastrophic subarachnoid hemorrhage with a high mortality and morbidity rate. Despite its clinical and social importance, the detailed mechanism of CA formation remains to be elucidated, resulting in the absence of effective medical treatment against CAs. Recent studies revealed that chronic inflammation in arterial walls by hemodynamic force is implicated in CA formation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are a major mediator of inflammation and actively participate in the pathogenesis of various vascular diseases. In the present study, we first assessed the expression of ROS-producing and -eliminating genes in CA walls by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR analysis. The ROS-producing gene, p47phox, was upregulated in infiltrating macrophages and medial smooth muscle cells in arterial walls. Upregulated ROS-producing genes and suppressed ROS-eliminating genes suggested that ROS overproduction occurred in aneurysmal walls. In situ superoxide imaging by dihydroethidium, which showed ROS overproduction in aneurysmal walls, confirmed this hypothesis. Edaravone, a powerful free radical scavenger, effectively inhibited CA formation by suppressing inflammation-related gene expression in aneurysmal walls. Furthermore, CA formation was markedly inhibited by p47phox deletion in mice and was accompanied by decreased inflammation in aneurysmal walls. These data suggested the active participation of ROS and p47phox in CA formation and the therapeutic potential of an ROS-eliminating agent against CA formation.
Zidovudine, a Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (NRTI) is one of the earliest antiretroviral agents used as a combination in the Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) for the treatment of HIV infection. Its use is however not without adverse effect particularly bone marrow aplasia leading to varying degrees of cytopenias predominantly anaemia. This calls for adequate evaluation and monitoring of patients on this drug. Its major side effect of anaemia limits its use in some patients. We report a case of Zidovudine induced anaemia and bone marrow aplasia in a patient infected with HIV.
The Hospital case note of a 27 year old widow with HIV infection and anaemia, who has been on HAART (Zidovudine, Lamivudine and Nevirapine) for one year, was reviewed.
She presented with severe anaemia (PCV of 0.05), White cell and platelet counts were within normal limits and reticulocyte count of 0.001%. Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy were diagnostic of pure red cell aplasia on a background hypocellular marrow. She was transfused with four (4) units of packed cells and Zidovudine was replaced with Stavudine. She made remarkable improvement and remains transfusion independent afterwards.
Zidovudine is well a known cause of anaemia and thus should be used with caution in the initiation of antiretroviral therapy.
The post-operative pain (POP) is accompanied by autonomic, psychological and behavioural responses which can result in a significant increase in morbidity and mortality. The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of intravenous bolus administration of morphine versus subcutaneous administration.
Fifty subjects scheduled for elective abdominal surgery were randomized into a group S (n = 26) and group E (n = 24). The first group was administered morphine (0.35 mg/kg) subcutaneously immediately after induction of anesthesia, while the second group the same drug at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg was administered intravenously 45' before the end of the intervention. All patients received intraoperative remifentanil (0.25-0.50 microg/kg/min), and at the end of surgery paracetameolo 1 g and ondansetron 4 mg. Upon awakening, the DPO has been reviewed by the NRS (numerical scale of pain) at time zero (TO), after 30' (t1), 1h (T2) and 24h (T3). Furthermore, it was annotated request for rescue doses of morphine and the collateral effects.
The two study groups did not show significant differences related to the anthropometric characteristics, duration of surgery, type of surgery, ASA class. No difference between the two groups was highlighted during the evaluation of POP through NRS scale and quantity of "rescue" doses requested. In group E there was a single case of respiratory depression.
Our study suggests that whether intravenous or subcutaneous administration of morphine, both simple and economical analgesic techniques, they are able to guarantee the same quality control of POP in patients undergoing abdominal surgery.
Bisphenol-A (BPA), an environmental endocrine disruptor, has attracted attention because of its adverse effects on the brain and behavioral development. Previous evidence indicates that perinatal exposure to low levels of BPA affects anxiety-like and cognitive behaviors in adult rodents. The present study aims to investigate the changes of anxiety- and depression-like behaviors of perinatally exposed mice in adulthood following the gestational (gestation days 7 to 20) or lactational (postnatal days 1 to 14) exposure to BPA (0.4 or 4 mg/kg/d). The results indicated that both gestational and lactational exposures to BPA increased anxiety and depression-like behavior in mice of both sexes. The females with gestational exposure exhibited an increased anxiety-like state in the four models tested, including the open field, dark-light transition task, mirrored maze, and elevated plus maze tasks. Furthermore, the females with lactational exposure and the males with gestational exposure exhibited an anxiogenic-like behavior in two models, whereas the males with lactational exposure exhibited an anxiogenic-like behavior only in the elevated plus maze test. The results of the forced swim task showed that gestational exposure markedly increased the immobile time in both sexes, and the same effect was induced by lactational exposure only with 4 mg/kg/d BPA. Furthermore, western blot analyses showed that both gestational and lactational exposures inhibited the expression of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 in the hippocampus and amygdala in mice of both sexes, whereas the level of the NMDA receptor subunit NR1 was increased in the amygdala following gestational exposure but was reduced in the hippocampus of the females with lactational exposure. These results suggest that both gestational and lactational exposures to BPA increased anxiety- and depression-like behaviors of adult mice of both sexes. In addition gestational exposure exhibited a stronger effect on anxiety-like state in females. The altered levels of AMPA and NMDA receptors in the hippocampus and amygdala may be associated with BPA-induced behavioral changes.
The neuron loss characteristic of hippocampal sclerosis in temporal lobe epilepsy patients is thought to be the result of excitotoxic, rather than ischemic, injury. In this study, we assessed changes in vascular structure, gene expression, and the time course of neuronal degeneration in the cerebral cortex during the acute period after onset of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). Immediately after 2 hr SE, the subgranular layers of somatosensory cortex exhibited a reduced vascular perfusion indicative of ischemia, whereas the immediately adjacent supragranular layers exhibited increased perfusion. Subgranular layers exhibited necrotic pathology, whereas the supergranular layers were characterized by a delayed (24 h after SE) degeneration apparently via programmed cell death. These results indicate that both excitotoxic and ischemic injuries occur during pilocarpine-induced SE. Both of these degenerative pathways, as well as the widespread and severe brain damage observed, should be considered when animal model-based data are compared to human pathology.
