Deep-brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus appears to reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesias, but whether this effect is caused by the reduction of the total levodopa ingestion or represents a direct effect on the motor system is unknown. Precision grip force of grasping movements and levodopa-induced dyskinesias was analyzed in 10 parkinsonian patients before and after 3 months of deep-brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. Peak grip force was abnormally increased before surgery in the off-drug state and, particularly, in the on-drug state (sensitization). This grip force upregulation normalized with chronic deep-brain stimulation in both conditions (desensitization). Peak-dose dyskinesias also improved, and off-dystonia was completely abolished. Mean dosage of dopaminergic drugs was reduced, but force overflow and dyskinesias were equally improved in 2 patients without a reduction. Despite the same single levodopa test dose, force excess and levodopa-induced dyskinesias were drastically reduced after 3 months of deep-brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. This indicates that direct effects of deep-brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus on levodopa-induced dyskinesias are likely to occur. Grip force overflow is a promising parameter to study the desensitizing effect of chronic deep-brain stimulation on levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
A "specific bradycardic agent" has direct negative chronotropic actions without producing other systemic or coronary hemodynamic alterations. UL-FS 49, a recently synthesized structural analog of verapamil without classical slow channel calcium blocking activity, is proposed as such an agent. The purpose of this investigation was to characterize the hemodynamic and electrocardiographic actions of UL-FS 49 (0.25, 0.50, and 1.0 mg/kg) and compare its effects with those of propranolol (0.25, 0.50, and 1.0 mg/kg) in conscious or isoflurane-anesthetized (with and without neuromuscular blockade by pancuronium) chronically instrumented dogs. In six groups, comprising 52 experiments, UL-FS 49 was found to be more efficacious than propranolol in reducing heart rate, although this agent did not block the hemodynamic response to isoproterenol. UL-FS 49 produced 45-50% reductions in heart rate in dogs with isoflurane-induced tachycardia as compared to 15 and 30% reductions following propranolol. Furthermore, few other hemodynamic alterations were produced by UL-FS 49 indicating the remarkable specificity of this drug for reducing heart rate. A "specific bradycardic agent" such as UL-FS 49 may be useful clinically during the perioperative period. Such a drug may be especially advantageous for patients with documented or suspected ischemic heart disease, those who cannot tolerate the side effects of beta adrenergic blockade, as well as patients requiring a greater reduction in heart rate than can be obtained with beta adrenergic receptor antagonists.
Clinical observations indicate that antipsychotic action starts early and increases in magnitude with repeated treatment. Animal models that faithfully capture this time course of action are few. Inhibition of hyperlocomotion induced by amphetamine or phencyclidine has been widely used as a screening tool for the antipsychotic activity of a drug. We thus investigated whether repeated antipsychotic treatment could produce an early-onset and progressively increased antagonistic effect on amphetamine or phencyclidine-induced hyperlocomotion as a way of assessing the validity of such models in capturing time course of antipsychotic action. On each of the five consecutive test days, different groups of rats (n=6-7/group) received an initial injection of either haloperidol (0.01-0.10 mg/kg, sc), clozapine (5-20.0 mg/kg, sc), olanzapine (1.0 mg/kg, sc), chlordiazepoxide (10.0 mg/kg, ip) or vehicle (sterile water, sc) 30 min prior to a second injection of either amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, sc) or phencyclidine (3.2 mg/kg, sc). Motor activity was subsequently monitored for 60 min after amphetamine or phencyclidine treatment. Repeated treatment of haloperidol, clozapine, or olanzapine progressively potentiated inhibition on repeated phencyclidine-induced hyperlocomotion and prolonged this action over the five consecutive days. In contrast, antipsychotic inhibition on repeated amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion was gradually attenuated and shortened. Repeated treatment of chlordiazepoxide, a benzodiazepine anxiolytic, retained its inhibition on amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion, but had no effect on phencyclidine-induced one. These results suggest that repeated phencyclidine-induced hyperlocomotion model based on repeated antipsychotic treatment regimen is capable of capturing the progressive increase pattern of antipsychotic treatment seen in the clinic and differentiating antipsychotics from anxiolytics; thus it may serve as a better model for the investigation of the neurobiological mechanisms of action of antipsychotic drugs and delineating the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
The tolerance and beta-adrenergic blocking activity of flestolol, a short-acting beta-blocker, was investigated in 30 subjects. Flestolol infused intravenously at doses up to 100 micrograms/kg/min was found to be well tolerated. A dose-dependent attenuation of isoproterenol-induced tachycardia and increase in systolic blood pressure occurred with flestolol at doses ranging from 0.5 to 15.0 micrograms/kg/min. The average percent reduction in isoproterenol-induced tachycardia (beta-blockade) at each dose of flestolol, 0.5, 2.5, 5.0, 15.0, and 50.0 micrograms/kg/min, was 15.1%, 45.9%, 67.0%, 85.9%, and 90.3%, respectively. The onset of beta-blockade occurred within 30 minutes. After the end of flestolol infusion there was a marked reduction in beta-blockade within 6 minutes, with complete recovery from beta-blockade within 30 to 45 minutes. There was a statistically significant (P less than 0.01) positive correlation between flestolol dosage and its blood levels (r = 0.91) as well as between the flestolol-induced beta-blockade and its dosage (r = 0.62).
Among creatine deficiency syndromes, an X-linked condition related to a defective creatine transport into the central nervous system has been described recently. Hallmarks of the disease are the absence of a creatine signal at brain spectroscopy, increased creatine levels in blood and urine, ineffectiveness of oral supplementation, and a mutation in the SLC6A8 (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man [OMIM] 300036) creatine transporter gene. We report on a patient in whom a novel mutation (1221-1223delTTC) was identified.
The antihypertensive effects of the oral converting enzyme inhibitor captopril and of propranolol were evaluated in a single-blind trial of 12 weeks in 19 ambulatory men with moderated essential hypertension (supine diastolic blood pressure [DPB], 100 to 120 mm Hg after receiving placebo for two weeks) whose sodium intake was unrestricted. The captopril group included 12 patients and the propranolol group seven. After the initial dose-finding period of four weeks, supine DBP was significantly reduced in eight patients receiving captopril and in four of the patients receiving propranolol. In these patients DBP decreased throughout the following eight weeks. In the remaining patients from each group, DBP was not reduced by either drug given alone at maximum allowable dosages during dose-finding periods, nor by combined administration in following weeks. No adverse side effects attributable to captopril were noted, except in one patient in whom proteinuria developed after seven weeks. Captopril has potential value in the treatment of moderate essential hypertension.
We report a case of myopathy, accompanied by widespread contractures predominantly involving the elbow and knee joints, following long-standing pentazocine abuse.
Some strains of mice, in whom anesthesia was induced with 1.2% isoflurane in air, developed episodes of intense opisthotonus, lasting 1-2 min. Occasionally, opisthotonus also occurred transiently on emergence from isoflurane anesthesia. The incidence of opisthotonus upon anesthetic induction varied with the strain of mice studied, and was particularly high (nearly 80%) in the ddN and YBR/Ki strains. A significantly lower incidence of opisthotonus was observed in all 14 strains studied when 2.0% enflurane was used. One percent halothane did not produce opisthotonus in any strain of mice except one animal of the YBR/Ki strain, and, in this situation, it occurred only on emergence. These results suggest that, in some strains of mice, induction of anesthesia with isoflurane may apparently excite (disinhibit) the central nervous system more intensely than does anesthesia with enflurane or halothane.
During a comparative trial between enteric-coated and rectally administered phenylbutazone in patients with rheumatoid disease, one patient developed a mild hepatitis. She had recently concluded a long period of gold therapy. The natural history of phenylbutazone hepatitis is reviewed on the basis of 41 case histories, and the experience with this individual patient interpreted accordingly.
The objective of this study is to evaluate differential response to disulfiram treatment of cocaine dependence by sex. Sex by treatment interactions from two pooled randomized clinical trials involving 191 cocaine-dependent subjects (36% female) were evaluated. Primary outcomes were days of abstinence and percentage of drug-free urine specimens. Significant sex by treatment interactions were found, where men treated with disulfiram had better outcomes than those who were not. Women had an intermediate outcome regardless of whether they received disulfiram. Sex differences in response to disulfiram treatment have important clinical and theoretical implications. Reasons for this apparent sex-based response are not clear, but possible mechanisms worthy of greater study include differences in alcohol use by sex as well as differences in dopamine-mediated responses to cocaine and disulfiram.
The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (PS-341/Velcade) is used for the treatment of relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma and mantle-cell lymphoma. We recently reported its therapeutic potential against natural killer (NK)-cell neoplasms. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms of bortezomib-induced cell death in NK lymphoma cells. NK lymphoma cell lines (SNK-6 and NK-YS) and primary cultures of NK lymphomas treated with bortezomib were examined for alterations in cell viability, apoptosis, cellular senescence, and cell cycle status. Bortezomib primarily induced mitochondrial apoptosis in NK-YS cells and in primary lymphoma cells at the same concentration as reported in myeloma cells. Unexpectedly, SNK-6 cells required a significantly higher median inhibitory concentration of bortezomib (23 nmol/L) than NK-YS and primary lymphoma cells (6-13 nmol/L). Apoptosis was limited in SNK-6 cells due to the extensively delayed turnover of Bcl-2 family members. These cells were killed by bortezomib, albeit at higher pharmacologic concentrations, via mitotic catastrophe-a mitotic cell death associated with M-phase arrest, cyclin B1 accumulation, and increased CDC2/CDK1 activity. Our results suggest that, in addition to cell death by apoptosis at lower bortezomib concentrations, NK lymphoma cells resistant to bortezomib-induced apoptosis can be killed via mitotic catastrophe, an alternative cell death mechanism, at higher pharmacologic concentrations of bortezomib. Hence, activating mitotic catastrophe by bortezomib may provide a novel therapeutic approach for treating apoptosis-resistant NK-cell malignancies and other cancers.
A 36-year-old patient with a disorder characterized by severe mental retardation, behavioral problems, dysmorphic face, "muscular build," and hand/foot anomalies, is reported. Following a diagnosis of de novo pericentric inversion of chromosome 8 based on standard cytogenetic analysis, a subsequent 75 kb array-CGH investigation disclosed a deletion spanning for about 13.7 Mb in the 2q31.2q32.3 region. Whole painting of chromosome 8 established the intrachromosomal nature of the rearrangement and FISH analysis with locus-specific probes confirmed the deletion on the long arm of chromosome 2. The deleted region, clinical outcome, and medical history in this patient are mainly superimposable to those reported in a published 8-year-old boy, suggesting that this genomic segment is prone to rearrangements and its hemizygosity gives rise to a clinically recognizable syndrome. The role of some genes mapping in the deleted region and related with distinct disorders is discussed. Interestingly, deletion of MSTN gene, a negative regulator of muscle growth, was associated in our patient with a "muscular build," a feature which could be regarded as a handle for clinical recognition of this syndrome.
Breast cancer is one of the most common tumors in women of Western countries. The high aggressiveness and therapeutic resistance of estrogen-independent breast tumors have motivated the development of new strategies for prevention and/or treatment. Combinations of two or more chemopreventive agents are currently being used to achieve greater inhibitory effects on breast cancer cells. This study reveals that both aspirin and lunasin inhibit, in a dose-dependent manner, human estrogen-independent breast cancer MDA-MB-231 cell proliferation. These compounds arrest the cell cycle in the S- and G1-phases, respectively, acting synergistically to induce apoptosis. To begin elucidating the mechanism(s) of action of these compounds, different molecular targets involved in cell cycle control, apoptosis and signal transduction have been evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) array. The cell growth inhibitory effect of a lunasin/aspirin combination is achieved, at least partially, by modulating the expression of genes encoding G1 and S-phase regulatory proteins. Lunasin/aspirin therapy exerts its potent pro-apoptotic effect is at least partially achieved through modulating the extrinsic-apoptosis dependent pathway. Synergistic down-regulatory effects were observed for ERBB2, AKT1, PIK3R1, FOS and JUN signaling genes, whose amplification has been reported as being responsible for breast cancer cell growth and resistance to apoptosis. Therefore, our results suggest that a combination of these two compounds is a promising strategy to prevent/treat breast cancer.
Pilocarpine, given intraperitoneally to rats, reproduces the neuropathological sequelae of temporal lobe epilepsy and provides a relevant animal model for studying mechanisms of buildup of convulsive activity and pathways operative in the generalization and propagation of seizures within the forebrain. In the present study, the effects of manipulating the activity of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated synaptic inhibition within the substantia nigra on seizures produced by pilocarpine in rats, were investigated. In animals pretreated with microinjections of isoniazid, 150 micrograms, an inhibitor of activity of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme, L-glutamic acid decarboxylase, into the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR), bilaterally, non-convulsant doses of pilocarpine, 100 and 200 mg/kg, resulted in severe motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus. Electroencephalographic and behavioral monitoring revealed a profound reduction of the threshold for pilocarpine-induced convulsions. Morphological analysis of frontal forebrain sections with light microscopy revealed seizure-related damage to the hippocampal formation, thalamus, amygdala, olfactory cortex, substantia nigra and neocortex, which is typically observed with pilocarpine in doses exceeding 350 mg/kg. Bilateral intrastriatal injections of isoniazid did not augment seizures produced by pilocarpine, 200 mg/kg. Application of an irreversible inhibitor of GABA transaminase, gamma-vinyl-GABA (D,L-4-amino-hex-5-enoic acid), 5 micrograms, into the SNR, bilaterally, suppressed the appearance of electrographic and behavioral seizures produced by pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg. This treatment was also sufficient to protect animals from the occurrence of brain damage. Microinjections of gamma-vinyl-GABA, 5 micrograms, into the dorsal striatum, bilaterally, failed to prevent the development of convulsions produced by pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg. The results demonstrate that the threshold for pilocarpine-induced seizures in rats is subjected to the regulation of the GABA-mediated synaptic inhibition within the substantia nigra.
In a rat model of glomerular immune injury induced by administration of anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody and resembling human rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, we explored whether activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) regulates synthesis of eicosanoids originating from cyclooxygenation or lipoxygenation of arachidonic acid. At early stages (24 hr) of injury, inhibition of iNOS using the selective inhibitor L-N6-(1-iminoethyl) lysine (L-NIL) at doses sufficient to reduce urinary excretion of nitrate/nitrite, reduced glomerular synthesis of the prostaglandins PGE2 and PGI2, but had no effect on that of thromboxane A2 (TxA2). The syntheses of 5-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (HETE), 15-HETE and leukotriene B4 (LTB4) were also reduced. That of 12-HETE remained unchanged. We also explored the effect of arachidonate cyclooxygenation and lipoxygenation eicosanoids on iNOS expression. Administration of the cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, indomethacin, at doses sufficient to inhibit glomerular prostaglandin synthesis, increased iNOS mRNA levels in glomeruli. Administration of the 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) inhibitor, MK-0591, at doses sufficient to inhibit glomerular LTB4 synthesis also increased iNOS mRNA. The effect of 5-LO inhibition on iNOS expression was more pronounced than that of COX inhibition. In nephritic animals given the iNOS inhibitor, L-NIL, or indomethacin proteinuria worsened. In those given the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor there was no change in urine protein excretion. These observations point to regulatory interactions between the arachidonic acid and the L-arginine: NO pathways in glomerulonephritis. These interactions are of importance in considering antiinflammatory strategies based on inhibition of iNOS or of specific eicosanoids.
A 5-week double-blind study compared amoxapine to imipramine (2:1 dosage ratio) in the treatment of depressed outpatients. The two agents were similar in anti-depressant efficacy and rapidity of action. The most common adverse reactions to both drugs were anticholinergic effects and sedation; cardiovascular effects were minimal. A few amoxapine-treated patients developed adverse effects typical of neuroleptic drugs: some experienced extrapyramidal signs, one developed galactorrhea, and most showed elevated plasma prolactin concentrations. Amoxapine was associated with significant neuroleptic activity in plasma. No correlation was found between blood levels of either drug and therapeutic response.
Following the report of the death of a patient concurrently taking fenfluramine, following routine general anaesthesia, a series of anaesthetised rabbits received injections of adrenaline or fenfluramine. There were abnormal electrocardiographic changes and phonocardiographic evidence of altered heart activity in both groups, but the changes seen with fenfluramine were greater in number and less readily reversed with beta blockers and resuscitative drugs. This evidence may support an interaction between halothane and fenfluramine in man, and it is suggested that the latter drug be discontinued for a week prior to anaesthesia for elective surgery.
One important contributing factor in the high prevalence of drug abuse disorders seen among schizophrenic patients seems to be related to chronic treatment with typical neuroleptics. We have previously demonstrated that withdrawal from long-term treatment with the typical neuroleptic haloperidol, but not the atypical neuroleptic ziprasidone, potentiated the hyperlocomotor effect induced by a single cocaine injection and cocaine-induced conditioned place preference in mice. In the present study we investigated whether withdrawal from long-term treatment with these same neuroleptics would also modify cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion sensitization, which has been proposed as an animal model for the intensification of drug craving in cocaine addiction. Swiss male mice were i.p. treated with haloperidol (1.0 mg/kg) or ziprasidone (4.0 mg/kg) for 15 days. Twenty-four hours after the last injection, animals received an i.p. injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg) for 5 consecutive days, being placed after each injection in the open-field apparatus in order to perform a drug-environment conditioning. Seven days after the last drug-environment conditioning procedure, the animals were challenged with an i.p. injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg), placed in the open-field apparatus and had their locomotor activity quantified. Withdrawal from haloperidol (but not ziprasidone) potentiated cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization. These results are suggested to be a consequence of the development of the dopaminergic supersensitivity phenomenon by long-term treatment with the typical compound. Our findings provide additional support for the use of atypical agents like ziprasidone in the treatment of schizophrenic patients with comorbid substance abuse disorder.
A growing body of experimental and clinical literature indicates an association between Gaucher disease and parkinsonism, raising the possibility that convergent mechanisms may contribute to neurodegeneration in these disorders. The aim of this study was to determine whether there is a relationship between alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn), a key protein in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis, and abnormalities in glucocerebroside (GC) catabolism that lead to the development of Gaucher disease. We inhibited glucocerebrosidase (GCase) with conduritol B epoxide (CBE) in neuroblastoma cells and mice to test whether a biological link exists between GCase activity and alpha-syn. After CBE exposure, enhanced alpha-syn protein was detected in differentiated cells challenged with CBE as compared to vehicle, with no change in alpha-syn mRNA. In the mouse model, after one injection of CBE, elevated nigral alpha-syn levels were also detected. Analyses by Western blot and confocal microscopy revealed that normal alpha-syn distribution was perturbed after CBE exposure with its accumulation apparent within nigral cell bodies as well as astroglia. These findings raise the possibility that alpha-syn may contribute to the cascade of events that promote neuronal dysfunction in Gaucher disease and are the first to implicate this protein as a plausible biological intersection between Gaucher disease and parkinsonism using a pharmacological model.
Chronic administration of cocaine has been shown to attenuate the functional capacity of delta opioid receptors to inhibit adenylyl cyclase activity. Abuse and withdrawal from cocaine in humans is associated with increases in anxiety and depression. Since recent research supports the role of delta opioid receptors in anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in rodents, we hypothesized that functional desensitization of delta opioid receptors contributes to anxiety- and depression-like behavioral phenotypes following short-term withdrawal from chronic administration of cocaine. To test this hypothesis, delta opioid receptor signaling and behaviors were evaluated 24h after 14days of binge-pattern cocaine administration (15mg/kg three times daily at 1h intervals) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Results showed that the inhibition of adenylyl cyclase by delta opioid receptor agonists was attenuated in the frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and caudate putamen 24h after cessation of cocaine administration. One day withdrawal from chronic administration of cocaine resulted in increased anxiety- and depression-like behaviors as measured by the elevated plus maze and the forced swim test respectively, and no change in locomotor activity. The anxiety- and depression-like behaviors were dose-dependently reduced by acute administration of the selective delta opioid receptor agonist, SNC80. These results demonstrate that early withdrawal from cocaine resulted in increased anxiety and depression, which accompanies the desensitization of delta opioid receptor function. Furthermore, cocaine-induced anxiety- and depression-like behaviors were reversible by the delta opioid receptor agonist SNC80.
The Probucol Angioplasty Restenosis Trial was a prospective, randomized, controlled study that investigated the effectiveness of probucol therapy in reducing the rate of restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
Antioxidants have an inhibitory effect on smooth muscle cell growth in experiments in vitro and in vivo, which suggests a possible pharmacologic effect on restenosis after PTCA.
One hundred one patients were randomly assigned to receive 1,000 mg/day of probucol or control (no lipid-lowering) therapy 4 weeks before PTCA. After 4 weeks of premedication, both groups underwent PTCA. Probucol was continued until follow-up angiography 24 weeks after PTCA. Angiographic results were analyzed at a core laboratory by quantitative coronary angiography.
Dilation was successful in 46 of 50 patients in the probucol group and 45 of 51 in the control group. At follow-up angiography 24 weeks after angioplasty, angiographic restenosis occurred in 9 (23%) of 40 patients in the probucol group and 22 (58%) of 38 in the control group (p = 0.001). Minimal lumen diameter was 1.49 +/- 0.75 mm (mean +/- SD) in the probucol group and 1.13 +/- 0.65 mm in the control group (p = 0.02). Percent diameter stenosis at follow-up angiography in the probucol group was significantly lower than that in the control group (43.9% vs. 56.4%, p = 0.009). The late loss was 0.37 +/- 0.69 mm in the probucol group and 0.60 +/- 0.62 mm in the control group (p = 0.13). The loss/gain ratio was 0.32 +/- 0.74 in the probucol group and 0.56 +/- 0.81 in the control group (p = 0.059). Net gain was greater in the probucol group than in the control group (0.77 +/- 0.70 vs. 0.48 +/- 0.59 mm, p = 0.053).
Probucol administered beginning 4 weeks before PTCA appears to reduce restenosis rates.
Nifedipine administration for hypertensive emergencies can induce neurological and cardiac events due to abrupt hypotension. Nifedipine also increase the risk of coronary events in case of unstable angina or recent myocardial infarction. In hypertensive emergencies, the potential advantages and risks of achieving a rapid fall in arterial pressure should be assessed case by case. In patients with coronary heart disease, nifedipine is contraindicated in case of recent myocardial infarction or unstable angina. Nifedipine is only a second-line choice for stable angina, and should be combined with a betablocker.
The effect of some hypolipidemic agents, which are commercially available and those being developed, on certain biochemical values and on hepatic peroxisomal enzyme activities of rats were examined. Clofibrate (0.25% (w/w) in the diet), p-chlorophenoxy-isobutyryl-glycinamide (CGA) (0.25%), clinofibrate (0.1%), KCD-232 (0.1%) and MLM-160 (0.1%) increased the activities of peroxisomal fatty acyl-CoA oxidizing system, carnitine acetyltransferase, and mitochondrial carnitine palmitoyltransferase. Of peroxisomal enzymes, catalase activity was increased by the above agents, whereas the activities of D-amino acid oxidase and urate oxidase were decreased by clofibrate and CGA, and but were increased by KCD-232 and MLM-160 which are structurally unrelated to clofibrate. No influence on these enzyme activities by AL-369 and probucol treatments were observed. Hepatomegaly was induced by clofibrate, CGA, KCD-232 and MLM-160. Concerning serum lipid levels, clofibrate, CGA, clinofibrate, KCD-232 and MLM-160 decreased both cholesterol and triglyceride levels, whereas probucol decreased only cholesterol level. AL-369 had no influence on serum lipid levels under this condition using normolipemic rat. From these results, it was concluded that differing clofibrate and CGA, clinofibrate, MLM-160 and KCD-232 might not induce peroxisome proliferation in hepatic cells, although these have an influence on the enzyme composition of hepatic peroxisomes.
The estimated incidence of angioedema during angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment is between 1 and 7 per thousand patients. This potentially serious adverse effect is often preceded by minor manifestations that may serve as a warning.
A functional polymorphism (the upstream variable-number tandem repeat region, or uVNTR) in the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) promoter region has been reported to be associated with behavioral abnormalities as well as increased serotonergic responsivity. We examined the relation between MAOA-uVNTR alleles and the phenotypic expression of autism in 41 males younger than 12.6 years of age. Children with the low-activity MAOA allele had both lower intelligence quotients (IQ) and more severe autistic behavior than children with the high-activity allele. In follow-up testing of 34 of the males at the 1-year time-point, those with the low-activity allele showed a worsening in IQ but no change in the severity of their autistic behavior. We conclude that functional MAOA-uVNTR alleles may act as a genetic modifier of the severity of autism in males.
To determine treatment-related acute toxicity rates in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer treated by oral celecoxib, i.v. cisplatin and 5-FU, and concurrent pelvic radiation therapy.
Eligible patients on this RTOG Phase I-II study for advanced cervix cancer included FIGO Stage IIB-IVA or patients with FIGO Stage IB through IIA with biopsy proven pelvic node metastases or tumor size > or =5 cm. Patients were treated with pelvic radiotherapy and brachytherapy. Celecoxib was prescribed at 400 mg twice daily beginning on day 1 for 1 year. Cisplatin (75 mg/m2) and 5-FU (1g/m2 for 4 days) were administered every 3 weeks times 3. The primary end point of the study was treatment related toxicity.
Between August 2001 and March 2004, 84 patients were accrued to the study and 77 patients were evaluable for toxicity. Regarding the primary end point, toxicities were observed in the following areas: blood/bone marrow (16), gastrointestinal (14), pain (7), renal/genitourinary (6), cardiovascular (3), hemorrhage (1), and neurologic (1). For the first 75 evaluable patients, a toxicity failure was identified in 36 patients for a rate of 48%.
Celecoxib at 400 mg twice daily together with concurrent cisplatin and 5-FU and pelvic radiotherapy has a high incidence of acute toxicities. The most frequent toxicities were hematologic. Albeit, the toxicity was deemed excessive in this trial, the rate of toxicities was not too different compared to other recent experiences with concurrent chemoradiation for advanced cervix cancer.
Approximately 50% of long-term cigarette smokers die prematurely from the adverse effects of smoking, including on lung cancer and other illnesses. Nicotine is a main component in tobacco and has been implicated as a potential factor in the pathogenesis of human lung cancer. However, the mechanism of nicotine action in the development of lung cancer remains largely unknown. In the present study, we designed a nicotine-apoptosis system, by pre-treatment of nicotine making lung cancer cell A549 to be in a physiological nicotine environment, and observed that nicotine promoted cell proliferation and prevented the menadione-induced apoptosis, and exerts its role of anti-apoptosis by shift of apoptotic stage induced by menadione from late apoptotic stage to early apoptotic stage, in which NF-kappaB was up-regulated. Interference analysis of NF-kappaB in A549 cells showed that knock down of NF-kappaB resulted in apoptosis promotion and counteracted the protective effect of nicotine. The findings suggest that nicotine has potential effect in lung cancer genesis, especially in patients with undetectable early tumor development and development of specific NF-kappaB inhibitors would represent a potentially exciting new pharmacotherapy for tobacco-related lung cancer.
The renal toxicity of combined administration of cyclosporin and aminoglycosides was evaluated in rats. Increasing doses of amikacin (A) or gentamicin (G) were injected alone or in association with cyclosporin (CS). Creatinine clearance rate, urinary N-acetyl-Beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) activity and NAG-B isoenzyme level were determined to evaluate glomerular or tubular dysfunctions. When given alone, high doses of aminoglycosides (100 mg/kg/day of G and 375 mg/kg/day of A) induced transient inhibition of glomerular filtration rate. The concomitant administration of CS caused severe acute renal failures with 50 mg/kg/day of G and only with 375 mg/kg/day of A. With equal doses of G, urinary NAG excretion was seven times higher in association with CS than in monotherapy. In the same conditions, NAG activity was only doubled with A. A specific increased of NAG-B isoenzyme level occurred only during the most nephrotoxic association. This attest of a proximal tubular lesion, preliminary to glomerular dysfunction. The results of this study confirm the potent synergistic nephrotoxicity that CS exerts in combination with aminoglycosides. Nevertheless, the good tolerance of amikacin lead us to reconsider the principle of exclusion of such association in transplant recipients.
Seventy patients with preterm labor and intact membranes were initially treated with ritodrine hydrochloride to delay preterm delivery. Tocolysis beyond 24 hours was achieved in 59 patients. Fifty-five of the 59 patients were then placed on either oral ritodrine or placebo as maintenance therapy in a randomized double-blind manner. If preterm labor recurred, the sequence of intramuscular and then oral treatment was repeated. The number of days gained after initiation of intramuscular treatment was similar in both groups (oral ritodrine = 34 days, oral placebo = 36 days). In those 55 patients receiving oral treatment, there was a smaller number of relapses requiring repeat intramuscular treatment in the oral ritodrine group (1.11 in the ritodrine patient vs. 2.71 in the placebo patient, p less than 0.05), and the mean interval between beginning oral treatment and the first relapse/delivery was 5.8 days in the oral placebo group and 25.9 in those receiving oral ritodrine (p less than 0.05). Cardiovascular side effects, notably maternal tachycardia and palpitations were frequent but well tolerated. The results suggest that oral ritodrine maintenance will decrease the incidence of recurrent preterm labor in patients who have had initial successful tocolysis.
