Phenobarbital is widely used in the treatment of children with febrile seizures, although there is concern about possible behavioral and cognitive side effects. In 217 children between 8 and 36 months of age who had had at least one febrile seizure and were at heightened risk of further seizures, we compared the intelligence quotients (IQs) of a group randomly assigned to daily doses of phenobarbital (4 to 5 mg per kilogram of body weight per day) with the IQs of a group randomly assigned to placebo. After two years, the mean IQ was 7.03 [corrected] points lower in the group assigned to phenobarbital than in the placebo group (95 percent confidence interval, -11.52 to -2.5, P = 0.0068 [corrected]). Six months later, after the medication had been tapered and discontinued, the mean IQ was 5.2 points lower in the group assigned to phenobarbital (95 percent confidence interval, -10.5 to 0.04, P = 0.052). The proportion of children remaining free of subsequent seizures did not differ significantly between the treatment groups. We conclude that phenobarbital depresses cognitive performance in children treated for febrile seizures and that this disadvantage, which may outlast the administration of the drug by several months, is not offset by the benefit of seizure prevention.
The cooked meat derived genotoxic carcinogen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) induces cancer of the colon, prostate and mammary gland when fed to rats. Epidemiology studies link these tumours to a Western diet and exposure to heterocyclic amines such as PhIP. We have shown that PhIP is also potently estrogenic and have proposed that this hormonal activity contributes to its target site carcinogenicity. We now postulate that the estrogenic properties of PhIP influence metastatic potential. We have used an in vitro assay for cell invasion based upon digestion and migration through a reconstituted basement membrane model. Zymography and immunoblotting were used to confirm PhIP-mediated changes associated with induction of the invasive phenotype. Treatment of the mammary cancer cell lines MCF-7 and T47D with PhIP induces cells to digest and migrate through a reconstituted basement membrane. The response was dose dependent, observed at sub-nanomolar concentrations of PhIP and was inhibited by the antiestrogen ICI 182,780. The PhIP-induced invasive phenotype was associated with expression of cathepsin D, cyclooxygenase-2 and matrix metalloproteinase activity. These findings emphasise the range and potency of the biological activities associated with this cooked meat product and mechanistically support the tissue-specific carcinogenicity of the chemical.
Primiparous timed-pregnant Wistar dams were administered a single daily SC injection of diazepam (1.0 or 5.0 mg/kg) or vehicle, over gestation days 14-20. The offspring were assessed on a number of developmental parameters. Pups exposed to the lower dose exhibited a decrease in birth weight and a delay in hair growth. Although these parameters were apparently not affected in the higher dose group, a significant dose-dependent decrease in pup viability was observed, both at birth and at one week of age. No differences were manifested for incisor eruption, pinna uncurling, eye opening, righting, geotaxis, acoustic startle, swimming, or forward locomotion. Rotarod performance was affected in the prenatal DZP animals and body weight at 60 days of age was depressed in the males of the 1.0 mg/kg group. The high dose of diazepam produced an increased susceptibility to minor metrazol-induced seizures in a kindling paradigm, but these altered seizure thresholds were not evidenced in an acute metrazol dose-response study. The NE and DA contents of hypothalamus, brainstem, hippocampus, and cortex of adult brains were assessed in each group. DA was not altered in any brain region while a single significant effect on NE was found. In the 1.0 mg/kg exposed rats only males, but not females, showed higher brainstem levels than controls. These results indicate that in the rat, prenatal exposure to clinically relevant doses of diazepam causes both fetal toxicity and long-term neurobehavioral alterations.
In a double-blind randomized study, patients received premedication with lorazepam 0.04 mg kg-1 and salbutamol 0.1 mg kg-1 or lorazepam 0.04 mg kg-1 and placebo given orally 2.5-3 h before anaesthesia. The plasma potassium concentration was measured at the time of premedication, before the induction of anaesthesia and at selected intervals after suxamethonium 1 mg kg-1 i.v. The plasma potassium concentration was lower in those patients who received salbutamol than in those given placebo, and remained lower at all the subsequent sample times. Oral salbutamol did not appear to affect the incidence of suxamethonium related muscle pain.
The hypotensive effect of captopril 50 mg twice daily and of captopril 50 mg + hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 25 mg once daily was studied in 12 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension, whose blood pressure was not normalized by captopril 25 mg twice daily alone. Both captopril 50 mg twice daily and captopril 50 mg + HCTZ 25 mg once daily caused a significant reduction of outpatient blood pressures as compared with placebo (P less than 0.001). Captopril 50 mg + HCTZ 25 mg once daily also reduced outpatient blood pressures significantly when compared with captopril 25 mg twice daily (P less than 0.01). Both captopril 50 mg twice daily and captopril 50 mg + HCTZ 25 mg once daily significantly reduced 24 h blood pressure (P less than 0.001) without disturbance of its normal circadian rhythm. This effect was more pronounced while on captopril + HCTZ. Captopril 50 mg + HCTZ 25 mg once daily normalizes 24 h blood pressure in most patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension, whose blood pressure is not controlled by captopril 25 mg twice daily alone.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes are involved in ischemic brain injury, and their receptors (CysLT(1) and CysLT(2)) have been cloned. To clarify which subtype mediates the ischemic neuronal injury, we performed permanent transfection to increase CysLT(1) and CysLT(2) receptor expressions in PC12 cells. Oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD)-induced cell death was detected by Hoechst 33258 and propidium iodide fluorescent staining as well as by flow cytometry. OGD induced late phase apoptosis mainly and necrosis minimally. Over-expression of CysLT(1) receptor decreased and over-expression of CysLT(2) receptor increased OGD-induced cell death. An agonist LTD(4) (10(-7)M) also induced apoptosis, especially in CysLT(2) receptor over-expressing cells. A selective CysLT(1) receptor antagonist montelukast did not affect OGD-induced apoptosis; while non-selective CysLT receptor antagonist Bay u9773 inhibited OGD-induced apoptosis, especially in CysLT(2) receptor over-expressing cells. Thus, CysLT(1) and CysLT(2) receptors play distinct roles in OGD-induced PC12 cell death; CysLT(1) attenuates while CysLT(2) facilitates the cell death.
The aim of this study was to investigate the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on the state of proliferation/apoptosis of the pulmonary inflammatory cells in a rat pulmonary fibrosis model induced by bleomycin.
Seventy-five pathogen-free Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into three groups: control, bleomycin (BLM) and dexamethasone (DXM) groups with 25 rats in each group. Each group was then divided into five subgroups based on time of study (1-, 3-, 7-, 14- and 28-days). BAL fluid was obtained, the cells were counted and a differential was performed. A lower DNA content in apoptotic cells was detected and quantitated by flow cytometry. Haematoxylin and eosin staining was performed to observe the extent of alveolitis and fibrosis of lung tissue; the morphological changes in apoptotic cells were discerned by transmission electron-microscopy and a semi-quantitative assessment of apoptotic cells in lung tissue was performed using in situ TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick endlabelling).
The total number of inflammatory cells and the percentage of neutrophils in BAL fluid in almost every subgroup of the DXM group were significantly lower than those in corresponding subgroups of the BLM group (P < 0.01). The percentages of apoptotic cells in BAL fluid in the 14-day and 28-day subgroups of the DXM group were higher than those in corresponding subgroups of the BLM group (P < 0.05). The peak of alveolitis in the DXM group shifted backward and the extent of fibrosis was less than that in the BLM group. The apoptosis index (AI) of inflammatory cells in each of the DXM subgroups was higher than that in corresponding BLM subgroups except for day 14.
Dexamethasone can induce apoptosis of pulmonary inflammatory cells and reduce the extent of alveolitis and fibrosis in bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis of rats.
To examine the developmental exposure effect of nicotine (NIC) on hippocampal neurogenesis, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with (-)-NIC hydrogen tartrate salt through drinking water at 2, 10 or 50 ppm from gestational day 6 to day 21 after delivery. On postnatal day (PND) 21, immunohistochemically doublecortin (Dcx)(+) cells increased at ≥10 ppm in the dentate subgranular zone (SGZ) as examined in male offspring; however, dihydropyrimidinase-like 3 (TUC4)(+) cells decreased at 2 ppm, and T box brain 2 (Tbr2)(+) cells were unchanged at any dose. Double immunohistochemistry revealed decreases in TUC4(+)/Dcx(+) and TUC4(+)/Dcx(-) cells, an increase in TUC4(-)/Dcx(+) cells at 2 and 10 ppm and an increase in Tbr2(-)/Dcx(+) cells at 50 ppm, suggesting an increase in type-3 progenitor cells at ≥2 ppm and decrease in immature granule cells at 2 and 10 ppm. The number of mature neuron-specific NeuN(-) progenitor cells expressing nicotinic acetylcholine receptor α7 in the SGZ and mRNA levels of Chrna7 and Chrnb2 in the dentate gyrus was unchanged at any dose, suggesting a lack of direct nicotinic stimulation on progenitor cells. In the dentate hilus, glutamic acid decarboxylase 67(+) interneurons increased at ≥10 ppm. All changes disappeared on PND 77. Therefore, maternal exposure to NIC reversibly affects hippocampal neurogenesis targeting late-stage differentiation in rat offspring. An increase in interneurons suggested that their activation affected granule cell differentiation. The lowest observed adverse effect level was at 2 ppm (0.091 mg/kg/day as a free base) by the affection of hippocampal neurogenesis at ≥2 ppm.
Previously, we reported that decreased epididymal expression of CD59 and decay accelerating factor (DAF) genes may affect sperm motility and the acrosome reaction in rats treated long-term (28 days) with sulfasalazine. To investigate the early effects of sulfasalazine on the male reproductive tract, we presently examined sperm motility, the acrosome reaction, and gene expression in the testes and epididymides of rats treated with sulfasalazine for 1, 7 or 14 days. Reduced sperm motility and acrosome reactions were noted on day 7, however, there were no remarkable changes in testicular gene expression. On the other hand, attenuated epididymal gene expression of CD59 and DAF was observed as early as day 1. As CD59 and DAF are secreted from the epididymis and play a role in sperm maturation, we hypothesize that sulfasalazine affects sperm maturation as an early effect and that CD59 and DAF genes are related to the negative effect.
We studied the competitive interaction of terbutaline and two beta blockers, metoprolol and oxprenolol, with different cardioselectivity for the beta-2 adrenoceptor. Using pharmacokinetic-dynamic modeling in nonsteady-state conditions, of the antagonism by the beta blockers of the terbutaline-induced hypokalemia, the beta blocker beta-2 selectivity was quantitated in the terms of IC50 values representing plasma concentrations resulting in half-receptor occupancy. Six healthy subjects were given an 0.5-mg s.c. dose of terbutaline on three occasions: 1) 1 hr after p.o. administration of a placebo; 2) 1 hr after 150 mg of metoprolol p.o.; and 3) 1 hr after 80 mg of oxprenolol p.o. During 7 hr after terbutaline administration drug concentrations and effects were monitored. Oxprenolol decreased both terbutaline volume of distribution (-69%) and clearance (-63%) and increased its area under plasma concentrations vs. time curve (+157%). Such effects of metoprolol on terbutaline pharmacokinetics were not observed. The dynamic model offered a good description of the observed effects. The apparent IC50 values varied between 42 and 68 ng/ml (mean, 54 ng/ml) for metoprolol and between 3.6 and 4.7 ng/ml (mean, 4.1 ng/ml) for oxprenolol. In view of these results, and comparing them with apparent beta-1 IC50 values as reported in the literature, metoprolol can be considered a relatively beta-1 selective agent. Pharmacokinetic-dynamic modeling of the interaction of beta-2 sympathicomimetics and beta blocking agents after single dosing, seems to be a suitable method for the determination of the relative beta-2 selectivity of the antagonist.
We investigated whether genetic polymorphisms may contribute to the interpatient variability of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Polymorphisms in the candidate genes GSTM1, GSTT1, OCT1, OCT2, LARP2, ERCC1, XRCC1 and EPO were analyzed for associations with nephrotoxicity in 79 cancer patients receiving cisplatin-containing chemotherapy.
Higher cisplatin dose was associated with strongly decreased estimated glomerular filtration rates (eGFR) (r(2) = 0.205). Two highly genetically linked polymorphisms in the ERCC1 gene, 8092C>A and Asn118Asn, were significantly associated with change in eGFR, accounting for an additional 13% of interindividual variability. Homozygous carriers of the 8092A allele in ERCC1 showed no reduction in eGFR, compared with the 11.5% mean eGFR decrease in C allele carriers (p = 0.004). Homozygous carriers of the C allele of Asn118Asn showed no reduction in eGFR, compared with the 12.8% mean eGFR decrease seen in T allele carriers (p = 0.047). Polymorphisms in the other candidate genes were not associated with cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Genetic polymorphisms in ERCC1 may be valuable predictors of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Epileptic patients receiving medications such as phenytoin or phenobarbital have been noted to have an exceedingly low incidence of myocardial infarction, but children treated with carbamazepine have shown alteration of their serum lipid profile that could predispose them to atherosclerosis. This report seems to corroborate this point and describes the findings in an 11-year-old boy who died following a major seizure, rhabdomyolysis, and renal failure. The autopsy demonstrated that he had marked coronary atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction. The child had been treated with carbamazepine for more than 10 years.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a mitogen for hepatocytes, but it is not clear whether HGF stimulates or inhibits hepatocarcinogenesis. We previously reported that HGF transgenic mice under the metallothionein gene promoter developed benign and malignant liver tumors spontaneously after 17 months of age. To elucidate the role of HGF in hepatocarcinogenesis, diethylnitrosamine (DEN) was administered to HGF transgenic mice. HGF overexpression accelerated DEN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, often accompanied by abnormal blood vessel formation. In this study, 59% of transgenic males (versus 20% of wild-type males) and 39% of transgenic females (versus 2% of wild-type females) developed either benign or malignant liver tumors by 48 weeks (P<0.005, P<0.001, respectively). Moreover, 33% of males and 23% of female transgenic mice developed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), while none of the wild-type mice developed HCC (P<0.001, P<0.005, respectively). Enhanced kinase activity of the HGF receptor, Met, was detected in most of these tumors. Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was up-regulated in parallel with HGF transgene expression. Taken together, our results suggest that HGF promotes hepatocarcinogenesis through the autocrine activation of the HGF-Met signaling pathway in association with stimulation of angiogenesis by HGF itself and/or indirectly through VEGF.
Aarskog-Scott syndrome (AAS) is a rare, clinically and genetically heterogeneous condition characterized by facial dysmorphic features, short stature, brachydactyly, and genital anomalies. The X-linked form is caused by mutations of the FGD1 gene. Although clinical manifestations and diagnostic criteria are well established, diagnosis is not simple, as the spectrum of phenotypical features may be extremely variable. Here, we report on the clinical and genetic characterization of a family in which molecular analyses revealed the inheritance of a novel truncating mutation of the FDG1 gene (c.945insC) in two affected brothers, with one of them displaying unusually severe craniofacial abnormalities. This previously unreported combination of anomalies might be due to the occurrence of two distinct disorders (AAS and hemifacial microsomia) or may represent an extension of the AAS phenotypic spectrum. Our findings highlight the phenotypic heterogeneity of AAS, supporting the opinion that the FGD1 mutations result in a broad spectrum of severity and, in some cases, may express a clinical appearance very different than typically described.
Acute exposure to triethyl lead chloride (7.88 mg/kg) enhanced the behavioral effects of both direct- and indirect-acting dopaminergic agonists. Rats treated with lead 1 week before testing exhibited an increased response to the motor stimulant effects of D-amphetamine and apomorphine. The dose-response curves for D-amphetamine (1.25, 2.0, 3.15 and 5.0 mg/kg)- and apomorphine (0.2, 0.5, 1.25 and 2.0 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity were shifted to the left in the triethyl lead group. Finally, apomorphine (1 mg/kg) produced more stereotypy in rats pretreated with triethyl lead. This enhanced sensitivity to dopaminergic agonists was not due to altered pharmacokinetics of the challenge drugs, since the onset and duration of their behavioral effects were not affected by triethyl lead. Furthermore, the regional distribution and accumulation of D-[3H]amphetamine was not altered by triethyl lead. These data suggest that acute exposure to triethyl lead enhances the responsiveness of dopaminergic processes which contribute to locomotor activity. The involvement of brain dopamine in other aspects of organolead neurotoxicity is discussed.
The common cold is a viral illness that affects persons of all ages, prompting frequent use of over-the-counter and prescription medications and alternative remedies. Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms (e.g., cough, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea). Dextromethorphan may be beneficial in adults with cough, but its effectiveness has not been demonstrated in children and adolescents. Codeine has not been shown to effectively treat cough caused by the common cold. Although hydrocodone is widely used and has been shown to effectively treat cough caused by other conditions, the drug has not been studied in patients with colds. Topical (intranasal) and oral nasal decongestants have been shown to relieve nasal symptoms and can be used in adolescents and adults for up to three days. Antihistamines and combination antihistamine/decongestant therapies can modestly improve symptoms in adults; however, the benefits must be weighed against potential side effects. Newer nonsedating antihistamines are ineffective against cough. Topical ipratropium, a prescription anticholinergic, relieves nasal symptoms in older children and adults. Antibiotics have not been shown to improve symptoms or shorten illness duration. Complementary and alternative therapies (i.e., Echinacea, vitamin C, and zinc) are not recommended for treating common cold symptoms; however, humidified air and fluid intake may be useful without adverse side effects. Vitamin C prophylaxis may modestly reduce the duration and severity of the common cold in the general population and may reduce the incidence of the illness in persons exposed to physical and environmental stresses.
The effects of clonidine (15-30 mug/kg i.v.) on carotid sinus and other baroreceptors were investigated in anesthetized dogs. In 14 control dogs, right carotid sinus pressure was controlled by retrograde perfusion through the common carotid artery at constant flow with femoral arterial blood. Graded reductions in heart rate and blood pressure induced by graded increases in carotid sinus pressure were prevented, whereas reflex bradycardias associated with norepinephrine pressor activity were potentiated by clonidine. Norepinephrine-induced bradycardia, although reduced, still persisted after chronic bilateral sinusectomy and these responses were also potentiated by clonidine. In contrast, clonidine did not potentiate reflex bradycardia in dogs 20 days after aortic stripping. In intact dogs, clonidine inhibited the response to bilateral carotid artery occlusion and to carotid sinus nerve stimulation. These studies suggest that clonidine can inhibit carotid sinus baroreceptor function and simultaneously potentiate other, presumably aortic, baroreceptor activity.
Tamoxifen is a nonsteroidal antiestrogen employed frequently in the treatment of breast cancer. An association between this drug and endometrial neoplasia has been reported. We report on 11 postmenopausal women with breast cancer who developed endometrial cancer while undergoing tamoxifen therapy and recommend aggressive investigation of vaginal bleeding in all women being treated with this agent.
Results of liver transplantation (LT) for hepatitis B have improved significantly with the use of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and/or lamivudine. The aim of this study is to review the long-term outcome of patients who underwent LT for hepatitis B. Records of 41 patients who underwent LT for hepatitis B and survived 3 months or longer post-LT were reviewed. Twenty patients were administered no immunoprophylaxis or short-term intramuscular HBIG, whereas 21 patients were administered high-dose intravenous (IV) HBIG. Median post-LT follow-up in these 2 groups was 76 months (range, 4 to 155 months) and 25 months (range, 4 to 68 months), respectively. Hepatitis B recurred in 15 (75%) and 4 patients (19%) who underwent LT in the pre-HBIG and post-HBIG eras, respectively. Cumulative rates of recurrent hepatitis B at 1 and 3 years post-LT in these 2 groups were 66% and 77% and 20% and 20%, respectively (P <.001). Recurrent hepatitis B in the post-HBIG era correlated with antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen titer less than 100 IU/L. Nine patients with recurrent hepatitis B were administered lamivudine for 13 to 49 months (median, 28 months); 6 patients continued to have stable or improved liver disease, whereas 3 patients developed virological breakthrough with slow deterioration of liver disease. Long-term IV HBIG is effective in preventing recurrent hepatitis B. The risk for recurrent hepatitis B is negligible after the first year post-LT. Among patients with no virological breakthrough, lamivudine can stabilize or improve liver disease for up to 4 years in patients with recurrent hepatitis B post-LT.
Cardiac toxicity is a major complication which limits the use of adriamycin as a chemotherapeutic agent. Cardiomyopathy is frequent when the total dose exceeds 600 mg/m2 and occurs within one to six months after cessation of therapy. A patient is reported who developed progressive cardiomyopathy two and one-half years after receiving 580 mg/m2 which apparently represents late, late cardiotoxicity.
Seizures induced by three convulsant treatments produced differential effects on the concentration of acetylcholine in rat brain. Status epilepticus induced by (i) coadministration of lithium and pilocarpine caused massive increases in the concentration of acetylcholine in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, (ii) a high dose of pilocarpine did not cause an increase of acetylcholine, and (iii) kainate increased acetylcholine, but the magnitude was lower than with the lithium/pilocarpine model. The finding that the acetylcholine concentration increases in two models of status epilepticus in the cortex and hippocampus is in direct contrast with many in vitro reports in which excessive stimulation causes depletion of acetylcholine. The concentration of choline increased during seizures with all three models. This is likely to be due to calcium- and agonist-induced activation of phospholipase C and/or D activity causing cleavage of choline-containing lipids. The excessive acetylcholine present during status epilepticus induced by lithium and pilocarpine was responsive to pharmacological manipulation. Atropine tended to decrease acetylcholine, similar to its effects in controls. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, MK-801, reduced the excessive concentration of acetylcholine, especially in the cortex. Inhibition of choline uptake by hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) administered icv reduced the acetylcholine concentration in controls and when given to rats during status epilepticus. These results demonstrate that the rat brain concentrations of acetylcholine and choline can increase during status epilepticus. The accumulated acetylcholine was not in a static, inactive compartment, but was actively turning-over and was responsive to drug treatments. Excessive concentrations of acetylcholine and/or choline may play a role in seizure maintenance and in the neuronal damage and lethality associated with status epilepticus.
In this study, we present five cases of seizures following withdrawal of flunitrazepam, lorazepam, or triazolam, representing 3% of a sample consisting of 153 patients dependent on benzodiazepines. Both abrupt cessation of benzodiazepine intake and high-dose use seem to be critical for the appearance of seizures. Pharmacological features, such as short elimination half-life and high potency, might explain the higher risk of seizures observed in these patients.
Although new, large, double-blind, randomized studies are needed to establish the efficiency of intravenous thrombolysis, open trials of sufficient size may also provide novel data concerning specific outcomes after thrombolysis.
An open study of intravenous rtPA in 100 patients with internal carotid artery (ICA) territory strokes between 20 and 81 years of age, with a baseline Scandinavian Stroke Scale (SSS) score of <48 at entry was conducted. Inclusion time was within 7 hours after stroke onset. rtPA (0.8 mg/kg) was infused for 90 minutes, with an initial 10% bolus. Heparin was given according to 3 consecutive protocols. The SSS evaluation was done on days 0, 1, 7, 30, and 90. CT scan was performed before treatment, on days 1 and 7. Etiological investigations included echocardiography and carotid Doppler sonography and/or angiography. Outcome at 1 year was documented by SSS score, the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score, and a 10-point invalidity scale. Multivariate logistic regression was used to identify predictors of poor versus good outcome.
At day 90, 45 patients (45%) had a good result, defined as complete regression or slight neurological sequelae (mRS score of 0-1), 18 patients had a moderate outcome (mRS 2-3), and 31 patients had serious neurological sequelae (mRS 4-5). Six patients died, 2 with intracerebral hematoma after immediate heparin. Five of 11 patients (45.5%) treated between 6 and 7 hours had a good result. The overall intracerebral hematoma rate was 7%. Higher values of fibrin degradation products at 2 hours were observed in the subgroup with intracerebral hematomas. Significant predictors of poor outcome on multivariate logistic regression analysis were baseline SSS score of <15 (odds ratio [OR], 3.38; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.07 to 10. 74; P=0.04), indistinction between white and gray matter on CT scan (OR, 6.59; 95% CI, 2.19 to 19.79; P=0.0008), and proximal internal carotid thrombosis (OR, 3.29; 95% CI, 0.99 to 10.95; P=0.05).
Our study confirms the safety of intravenous rtPA at a dose of 0.8 mg/kg and suggests efficacy for this drug even within 7 hours. Outcome and hematoma rates were at least as favorable as for trials of therapy with a 3-hour time window. Subgroups with a poor prognosis include low baseline neurological score, baseline CT changes, and proximal ICA thrombosis. However, approximately 30% of patients with each of these characteristics show a good outcome, so their inclusion in future routine rtPA protocols is still justified.
Ethyl pyruvate (EP), a simple aliphatic ester of pyruvic acid, has been shown to act as an anti-inflammatory molecule in various pathological conditions, which include sepsis or hemorrhagic shock. Recently, we showed that ethyl pyruvate has a neuroprotective effect in the postischemic brain and also in KA-induced pathogenesis in the brain. In this study, we examined whether aspirin augments neuroprotective effect of ethyl pyruvate in transient focal ischemia model by complementing the neuroprotective effects of ethyl pyruvate. Although, most of neuroprotective effect of aspirin has been attributed to the anti-platelet action, aspirin also has direct neuroprotective effects, including NF-kappaB inhibition. Ethyl pyruvate dose-dependently suppressed infarct formation in the postischemic brain, wherein intravenous administration of 5 mg/kg ethyl pyruvate 30 min after the occlusion reduced infarct volume to 34.5 +/- 15.5% (n = 6, P < 0.01) of that of the untreated control. In combination with aspirin (5 mg/kg, i.v.), the neuroprotective effect was enhanced, resulting in 16.0 +/- 5.9% (n = 6, P < 0.01) infarct volume. The time window for synergistic neuroprotection by ethyl pyruvate and aspirin extended to 9 h post-MCAO. The synergistic reduction in infarct volume was accompanied by suppression of the clinical manifestations associated with cerebral ischemia including motor impairment and neurological deficits. Inflammatory processes including microglial activation and proinflammatory cytokine expression were notably suppressed by the combination treatment in the postischemic brain and in primary microglia cultures, wherein ethyl pyruvate and aspirin modulate NF-kappaB signaling differentially. Aspirin interferes with IkappaB phosphorylation and degradation in the cytoplasm, possibly by specifically inhibiting IkappaB kinase-beta, whereas, the effect of ethyl pyruvate seems to occur in the nucleus, where it may interfere with the binding of NF-kappaB to responsive promoter elements in the target genes. Similar enhancement in neuroprotective effect was also observed in primary cortical cultures after NMDA or Zn(2+) treatment or oxygen-glucose deprivation. Together, these results indicate that combination treatment of ethyl pyruvate and aspirin affords synergistic neuroprotection in the postischemic brain with a wide therapeutic window, in part via differential modulation of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway.
