Cisplatin is a widely used and effective chemotherapeutic agent, although its use is restricted by the high incidence of irreversible ototoxicity associated with it. In children, cisplatin ototoxicity is a serious and pervasive problem, affecting more than 60% of those receiving cisplatin and compromising language and cognitive development. Candidate gene studies have previously reported associations of cisplatin ototoxicity with genetic variants in the genes encoding glutathione S-transferases and megalin. We report association analyses for 220 drug-metabolism genes in genetic susceptibility to cisplatin-induced hearing loss in children. We genotyped 1,949 SNPs in these candidate genes in an initial cohort of 54 children treated in pediatric oncology units, with replication in a second cohort of 112 children recruited through a national surveillance network for adverse drug reactions in Canada. We identified genetic variants in TPMT (rs12201199, P value = 0.00022, OR = 17.0, 95% CI 2.3-125.9) and COMT (rs9332377, P value = 0.00018, OR = 5.5, 95% CI 1.9-15.9) associated with cisplatin-induced hearing loss in children.
To discover new rheumatoid arthritis (RA) risk loci, we systematically examined 370 SNPs from 179 independent loci with P < 0.001 in a published meta-analysis of RA genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of 3,393 cases and 12,462 controls. We used Gene Relationships Across Implicated Loci (GRAIL), a computational method that applies statistical text mining to PubMed abstracts, to score these 179 loci for functional relationships to genes in 16 established RA disease loci. We identified 22 loci with a significant degree of functional connectivity. We genotyped 22 representative SNPs in an independent set of 7,957 cases and 11,958 matched controls. Three were convincingly validated: CD2-CD58 (rs11586238, P = 1 x 10(-6) replication, P = 1 x 10(-9) overall), CD28 (rs1980422, P = 5 x 10(-6) replication, P = 1 x 10(-9) overall) and PRDM1 (rs548234, P = 1 x 10(-5) replication, P = 2 x 10(-8) overall). An additional four were replicated (P < 0.0023): TAGAP (rs394581, P = 0.0002 replication, P = 4 x 10(-7) overall), PTPRC (rs10919563, P = 0.0003 replication, P = 7 x 10(-7) overall), TRAF6-RAG1 (rs540386, P = 0.0008 replication, P = 4 x 10(-6) overall) and FCGR2A (rs12746613, P = 0.0022 replication, P = 2 x 10(-5) overall). Many of these loci are also associated to other immunologic diseases.
Free radicals are known to activate coagulation and inhibit fibrinolysis. Edaravone, a free radical scavenger, protects vascular endothelial cells and neurons during acute brain ischemia in in vitro models. Hemorrhagic transformation and treatment outcomes were retrospectively examined in 76 patients with acute cardiogenic embolism treated with edaravone in addition to routine treatment within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. Hemorrhagic transformation was categorized according to European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study-II. Patient characteristics were also evaluated, including evidence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, coronary heart disease, history of smoking, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale on arrival, and modified Rankin scale at 3 months post-onset. Edaravone administration was one of the factors that contributed to increased frequency of hemorrhagic transformation, but had showed no significant relationship with the outcome. The present study showed that edaravone administration increased the frequency of hemorrhagic transformation with heparin in patients with cardiogenic embolism. Free radical scavenging may have promoted the coagulating conditions. Edaravone administration may allow reduction of the dose of heparin and tissue plasminogen activator in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
In the eye, it has been previously reported that exposure to a cholinesterase inhibitor results in a reduced miotic response following prolonged exposure and a decreased miotic response to the cholinergic agonists. However, no studies exist that characterize the effect of a single low-level vapor exposure to a nerve agent on parasympathetic function in the eye or determine the threshold dose for such an effect. The present study investigated the hypotheses that a single low-level exposure to soman vapor would result in dysfunction of the parasympathetic pathway mediating the pupillary light reflex resulting from a loss of muscarinic receptor function on the pupillary sphincter muscle. Adult male rats were exposed to soman vapor in a whole-body dynamic airflow exposure chamber. Rats exposed to low levels of soman vapor dose-dependently developed miosis (threshold dose between 4.1 and 6.1 mg-min/m3). Pupil size returned to preexposure levels within 48 h due to desensitization of pupillary muscarinic receptors, as assessed by the pupillary response to the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine. An attenuated pupillary light reflex was also present in miotic animals (threshold dose near 6.1 mg-min/m3). While pupil size recovers within 48 h, other measures of pupillary function, including the light reflex, acetylcholinesterase activity, and muscarinic receptor responsiveness, did not return to normal for up to 10 days postexposure. Recovery of the light reflex coincided with the recovery of pupillary muscarinic receptor function, suggesting that the attenuation of the light reflex was due to receptor desensitization.
Isocyanate exposure in the workplace has been linked to asthma and allergic rhinitis. Recently, investigators have proposed that Th2 cytokine responses in lymph nodes draining the site of dermal application of chemicals including isocyanates may be used to identify sensitizers that cause asthma-like responses. The purpose of this study was to determine if the cytokine profile induced after dermal sensitization with isocyanates and serum IgE predict immediate (IHS) and methacholine-induced late (LHS) respiratory hypersensitivity responses after intranasal challenge. Dermal application of hexylmethane diisocyanate (HMDI), toluene diisocyanate (TDI), or methylene diisocyanate (MDI) significantly increased interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5, and IL-13 secretion in parotid lymph node cells. Isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI) increased IL-4 and IL-13, but not IL-5. Tolyl(mono)isocyanate (TMI), tetramethylene xylene diisocyanate (TMXDI), or the contact sensitizer dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB), only induced minor increases in some of the Th2 cytokines. HMDI, TDI, MDI, and IPDI elicited greater increases in total serum IgE than DNCB, TMI, and TMXDI. All chemicals except TMXDI caused IHS after intranasal challenge of sensitized female BALB/c mice. Only HMDI-, TMI-, or TMXDI-sensitized and challenged mice had increases in LHS. All chemicals elicited epithelial cytotoxicity indicative of nasal airway irritation. The discordance between dermal cytokine profiles and respiratory responses suggests that dermal responses do not necessarily predict respiratory responses. Serum IgE also was not predictive of the respiratory responses to the isocyanates, suggesting that other unknown mechanisms may be involved.
Seizures and status epilepticus induce an excessive production of reactive oxygen species leading to oxidative stress. Vitamin E, a classic antioxidant, has a neuroprotective effect on rats with seizures by regulating reactive oxygen species production. The activity of chaperone-mediated autophagy, a selective pathway for the degradation of cytosolic proteins in lysosomes, is enhanced during oxidative stress. Whether chaperone-mediated autophagy is induced during status epilepticus is not established. To address this problem, we used pilocarpine to elicit status epilepticus in rats. Lysosome-associated membrane protein 2a was used to estimate chaperone-mediated autophagy. We showed that compared to control animals, lysosome-associated membrane protein 2a at lysosomal membranes increased significantly in rats at 8 h, 16 h, and 24 h after induction of status epilepticus, which directly correlated with chaperone-mediated autophagy activity. Since reactive oxygen species are believed to be important in the pathogenesis of status epilepticus and are essential for the process of chaperone-mediated autophagy, we also sought to determine if pretreatment with vitamin E reduced chaperone-mediated autophagy. Pretreatment with vitamin E reduced oxidative stress and partially inhibited chaperone-mediated autophagy in brain at 24 h after status epilepticus versus vehicle. Taken together, these data show that chaperone-mediated autophagy is increased in rats with pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus through upregulation of de novo synthesis of lysosome-associated membrane protein 2a. Antioxidants such as vitamin E may partially inhibit activated chaperone-mediated autophagy.
The stages of initiation and promotion in the natural history of epidermal carcinogenesis have been known for many years. Recently, experimental systems other than skin have been shown to exhibit similar, if not completely analogous, stages in the natural history of neoplasia. In particular, the demonstration by Peraino and his associates that phenobarbital may enhance the production of hepatomas by a relatively subcarcinogenic dose of acetylaminofluorene was one of the first demonstrations of stages occurring in an extraepidermal neoplasm. Studies reported in this paper have demonstrated that administration of phenobarbital (0.05% in the diet) for 6 months following a single dose of diethylnitrosamine (5 to 10 mg/kg) given within 24 hours after partial hepatectomy resulted in a marked increase in the number of enzyme-altered foci in the liver as well as in the production of hepatocellular carcinomas. This was compared to animals receiving only a single dose of diethylnitrosamine following partial hepatectomy with no further treatment, in which only a relatively small number of foci were evident in the absence of phenobarbital feeding. Using three different enzyme markers, a distinct degree of phenotypic heterogeneity of the enzyme-altered foci in liver was demonstrated. These studies have shown that liver carcinogensis can be readily divided into two stages: a) initiation by a single dose of diethylnitrosamine following partial hepatectomy and b) promotion by the continuous feeding of phenobarbital. Furthermore, the immediate progeny of the initiated cells, the enzyme-altered focus, may be recognized by suitable microscopic means prior to the formation of gross lesions as required in the skin system. These initiated cell populations exhibit a degree of biochemical heterogeneity which reflects that seen in fully developed hepatic neoplasms, suggesting that promotion and progression in this system does not significantly alter the basic biochemical characteristics of the initiated cell.
Toxic effects were observed in two healthy patients who received cocaine intranasally before dacryocystorhinostomy. One patient suffered an additional reaction to intranasally administered phenylephrine (Neo-Synephrine) hydrochloride. Because cocaine blocks uptake of catecholamines and has a sympathetic potentiating effect, its use is dangerous in patients with hypertensive cardiovascular disease or in conjunction with sympathomimetic or alpha-modifying drugs. Use of dilute solutions carefully measured for select patients is mandatory. The total dose of cocaine should not exceed 3 mg/kg.
Turmeric (Curcuma longa Linn.) has been shown to inhibit chemical carcinogenesis. In this study, we compared the chemopreventive efficacy of an aqueous turmeric extract (AqTE) and its constituents, curcumin-free aqueous turmeric extract (CFAqTE) and curcumin, using the Salmonella typhimurium mutagenicity assay and the bone marrow micronucleus test in female Swiss mice. AqTE exhibited antimutagenic activity against direct-acting mutagens, 4-nitro-O-phenylenediamine and 1-methyl-3-nitro-1-nitrosoguanidine, in strains TA 98 and TA 100 respectively. Both AqTE and CFAqTE inhibited the mutagenicity of benzo [alpha]pyrene in the two strains in the presence of Aroclor-1254-induced rat liver homogenate. The inhibition in both studies was dose-dependent. Administration of AqTE, CFAqTE and curcumin at a dose of 3 mg/animal 18 h prior to i.p. benzo [alpha]pyrene injection (250 mg/kg) significantly inhibited bone marrow micronuclei formation in female Swiss mice by 43%, 76%, and 65% respectively. Furthermore, the incidence and multiplicity of forestomach tumours induced by benzo [alpha]pyrene (1 mg/animal, twice weekly, p.o. for 4 weeks) in female Swiss mice were significantly inhibited by AqTE, CFAqTE and curcumin given 2 weeks before, during and after the carcinogen treatment. These data indicate that the protection against genomic damage by turmeric extract and its components tested could be necessary for some aspects of its cancer chemoprevention.
Children treated with large doses of corticosteroids were found to develop hepatomegaly within a few days. No relationship could be established between the condition for which steroids were given and the liver enlargement. Liver biopsy was thought to be indicated, and thus was performed in three children because of diagnostic uncertainty. The light and electron microscopic examinations revealed normal liver architecture, without edema, sinusoid engorgement, or inflammatory changes. The hepatocytes were distended by increased amounts of glycogen. In a pattern reminiscent of some glycogen storage diseases, mitochondria and other cytosol components were displaced toward the cell membrane or around the nucleus, which occasionally contained glycogen. Moderate sinusoidal compression, interhepatocytic free glycogen particles, and mild increase in lipid droplets were also found. It is concluded that the hepatomegaly noted in patients given short-term, high-dosage steroid therapy is due to excessive glycogen accumulation within parenchymal cells. This finding is in accordance with observations in animals, as well as with biochemical studies demonstrating hepatocytic glycogen deposition after steroid therapy. Being benign and reversible, early hepatomegaly following administration of high-dose corticosteroids should not influence the initial therapeutic plan required by the basic disease.
Urocortin, a newly isolated 40-amino-acid mammalian peptide homologous to corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), activates both CRH type 1 and 2 receptors, but may be an endogenous ligand for CRH receptor type 2. Urocortin given systemically inhibited heat-induced paw edema in the rat, and was therefore ascribed anti-inflammatory properties. We examined the effects of urocortin in the carrageenin-induced subcutaneous inflammation model. Rats were treated with urocortin 200 (n = 6) or 20 nmol/kg (n = 6); inflammatory exudates were reduced by approximately 30% compared to controls (n = 7) at both doses. However, since subcutaneous urocortin has been shown to reduce arterial blood pressure, we tested the hypothesis that its antiedema and antiextravasatory effects were secondary to arterial hypotension. Therefore, we examined the parallel effects of urocortin- and hydralazine-induced hypotension on acute inflammation induced by carrageenin in the rat. Rats were treated with subcutaneous carrageenin and control injections (n = 8), carrageenin and urocortin (20 nmol/kg, n = 9), or carrageenin and intraperitoneal hydralazine (10 mg/kg, n = 8). Mean arterial blood pressure was measured hourly for 7 h in 12 animals, and after 2 h, the nadir of treatment, in a further 13 animals. Rats were then sacrificed, and the inflammatory exudate volume and leukocyte count were measured. Mean exudate volumes were reduced from 4.8 +/- 0.5 ml (controls) to 2.4 +/- 0.3 ml (p = 0.004) and 2.9 +/- 0.6 ml (p = 0.007) in urocortin- and hydralazine-treated animals, respectively. Urocortin and hydralazine both produced a significant fall in blood pressure compared to controls, with mean arterial pressure 2 h after carrageenin injection falling to 51.0 +/- 4.1 (p < 0.001) and 34.6 +/- 4.6 (p < 0.001) vs. 92.9 +/- 3.7 mm Hg in controls, respectively. A significant positive correlation was noted between blood pressure and inflammatory exudate volume (r = 0. 52, p = 0.007). As both hydralazine and urocortin lowered blood pressure and inflammatory exudate volume, we suggest that the anti-inflammatory effects of urocortin and related neuropeptides may be nonspecific, acting through hypotension rather than through direct anti-inflammatory mechanisms. The use of inflammatory models which rely on extravasation may be inappropriate for the study of substances that produce hypotension.
We examined the electrophysiologic characteristics and mechanisms of verapamil-sensitive atrial tachycardia (AT) originating from the atrioventricular (AV) annulus in 18 patients. AT originated from the AV node vicinity (AV nodal AT, 10 patients) and the area distant from the AV node (non-AV nodal AT, 8 patients). There was no significant difference in the tachycardia cycle length between AV nodal and non-AV nodal AT. For both types of AT, tachycardia was inducible by atrial extrastimulation with an inverse relation between the coupling and the postpacing intervals. A single extrastimulus delivered from the earliest atrial activation site reset both ATs with an inverse relation between the coupling interval and return cycle. Also no significant difference was observed in the percentage of the excitable gap to tachycardia cycle length between AV nodal and non-AV nodal AT. Concealed entrainment was observed by rapid atrial pacing delivered from the earliest atrial activation site for both ATs. These findings suggest that these ATs are due to reentry. Intravenous administration of verapamil (2.5 to 5 mg) and adenosine triphosphate (5 mg) terminated AT in all patients. AT was successfully ablated at the earliest atrial activation site in all patients. It was shown that this form of AT in which a calcium channel-dependent substrate is involved arises not only from the vicinity of the AV node but also along the AV annulus with common electrophysiologic characteristics. These suggest the presence of a distinct entity of tachycardia more appropriately classified as verapamil-sensitive AV annular AT.
The authors conducted a study in which schizophrenic-like behavioral disturbances were induced in members of a macaque social colony by the chronic administration of d-amphetamine. Animals given the drug showed hypervigilance, hyperactivity, fragmented and repetitive behaviors, and progressive social withdrawal as well as the development of solitary stereotypies. The syndrome was dissected pharmacologically with alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine, chlorpromazine, pimozide, and haloperidol. Based on the behavioral findings and the known mechanisms of action of these drugs, the authors conclude that the major elements of the psychotic-like behavior induced by d-amphetamine were mediated by dopamine systems.
The effects of triazolam 0.5 mg and temazepam 30 mg on immediate and delayed recall in normal and insomniac subjects were evaluated in three separate, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group studies. Neither drug caused significant impairment of immediate recall. In the tests of delayed recall, triazolam caused a consistent anterograde amnestic effect. No significant impairment of delayed recall was observed in the temazepam study. Anterograde amnesia is thought to be a dose-related effect of benzodiazepines. Compounds with high benzodiazepine receptor affinity such as triazolam are thought to cause this type of amnesia more often than the lower-affinity compounds such as temazepam.
We describe a case of collapsing focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and severe kidney dysfunction in a liver transplant recipient after the initiation of alendronate for osteopenia. In view of the increasing incidence of chronic kidney disease in long-term liver transplant patients, bisphosphonates need to be used with caution in these patients. The usefulness of bisphosphonates for the prevention of early bone loss after liver transplantation is increasingly reported. However, there is little information on the safety and efficacy of these drugs when used in the later stages of liver transplant, particularly in the presence of chronic kidney disease. Bisphosphonates are excreted unchanged via the kidneys after reaching the systemic circulation. Some cases of severe kidney injury, in particular collapsing focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, have been described that are associated with the use of pamidronate. Alendronate, a widely used bisphosphonate in transplant patients, has not been related to kidney toxicity. We describe a case of collapsing focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and severe kidney dysfunction in a liver transplant recipient soon after the initiation of alendronate for osteopenia. Possible pathogenetic mechanisms are discussed. In view of the increasing incidence of chronic kidney disease in long-term liver transplant patients, bisphosphonate need to be used with caution in patients with a low glomerular filtration rate.
We investigated the psychiatric disorders in subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy (SMON) patients by structured interview. The prevalence of major depressive disorder in SMON patients was estimated by structured interview and using Beck's depression inventory (BDI) questionnaires.
Psychiatric conditions were evaluated in 26 SMON patients (9 males, 17 females, mean age 70.7 years) living in Kyoto prefecture through a structured interview given by psychiatrists. BDI questionnaires and clinical symptoms of SMON were investigated in 106 patients, ranging from 51 to 91 years in age (mean, 73.5) with SMON patients living in Kinki area. BDI questionnaires were obtained from 92 age-matched aged healthy people, ranging from 57 to 91 years in age (mean, 75.8), living in Kyoto city.
Among the psychiatric disorders in SMON patients, the prevalence of major depressive disorder and suicidal ideation significantly increased during the period of clioquinol intake and four patients (15.4%) out of 26 SMON patients still suffer from major depressive disorder. The prevalence of major depressive disorder in SMON patients was estimated at 15.1% (16/106) and this percentage was about seven times as frequent as in the age-matched aged healthy people (2.2%; 2/92). In female SMON patients, the degree of the depressive states was significantly correlated with the severe degree of dysesthesia of the lower extremities, and it was inversely correlated with the duration of SMON disease and the total scores of the Barthel index.
This is the first report that shows the prevalence of major depressive disorder in SMON patients at present, which was seven times more frequent than age-matched aged healthy persons.
During a 5-year period, 85 patients with TIAs, 65 patients with embolic brain ischemia of cardiac source and 50 patients with progressing stroke received intravenous heparin within 96 h. Twelve (6%) developed an early bleeding in the area involved by ischemia. In the 2 cases with transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) (2.3%), major functional sequelae persisted and the 2 cases with emboli from heart (3.2%) died, whereas among the 8 cases with progressing stroke (16%), only 3 worsened from anticoagulant-induced bleeding. Intracerebral bleeding was not associated with excessive anticoagulation or high blood pressure and was related to a large infarction only in the cases with emboli from the heart. Among the 108 patients who were placed on acenocoumarol during 3-12 months after heparin therapy, only one (0.9%) suffered a hemorrhagic infarct from a probable recurrent embolization. The risk of anticoagulant-induced intracerebral bleeding is quite different between the varieties of preceding ischemic events, with different subsequent impact on prognosis.
We report on the striking variable expression of adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) deficiency in three patients belonging to a family which originates from Portugal. ADSL deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of the de novo purine synthesis which results in accumulation of succinylpurines in body fluids. As a result, patients may have variable combinations of psychomotor retardation and/or regression, seizures, autistic features and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia. However, intrafamilial variable expression of the phenotype has not been documented to date in this disease and is not commonly observed in metabolic disorders. Here, while the proband had marked psychomotor regression and progressive cerebellar vermis atrophy, the other two affected patients presented mainly autistic features. Mutation analysis of the ADSL gene revealed the presence of a homozygous R426H mutation in this family. Finally, although ADSL deficiency is a rare disorder, this diagnosis should be considered and assessed using a simple urinary screening method for the presence of succinylpurines in any patient with mental retardation of unexplained origin.
We investigated changes in the glycerophospholipids in kidney tissue and its various intracellular fractions in rats with nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin aminonucleoside. The ethanolamine plasmalogen, 1-O-alk-1'-enyl-2-acyl-GPE (EP), was increased in kidney tissue obtained from the puromycin-treated animals. A similar increase was found in the mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum (microsomes) of this tissue. These increases were not found in the liver. Since platelet-activating factor (PAF) is known to be produced in increased amounts in inflammatory disorders, it is suggested that the higher plasmalogen found in rat kidneys during experimental nephrotic syndrome might be derived from increased levels of this autacoid. The increase in PAF may also result in the elevation of plasma PAF-acetylhydrolase (AH) activity observed in these animals.
Bupivacaine is a commonly used local anesthetic in dental, ophthalmologic, and simple surgical procedures. Its current popularity derives from its potency and relatively long half-life. Widespread use of bupivacaine has resulted in sometimes severe adverse reactions when significant systemic absorption has occurred. This report documents a life-threatening event following use of bupivacaine, briefly reviews its neurotoxic and cardiotoxic effects, and raises questions about current management strategies when toxicity occurs.
Reduced Selenium-Binding Protein 1 (SELENBP1) expression was recently shown in multiple cancers. There is little information on the expression and function of SELENBP1 in cancer progression. In order to develop a better understanding of the role of SELENBP1 in ovarian cancer, our objective was to determine if SELENBP1 is expressed in the normal ovaries and ovarian tumors in the egg-laying hen, a spontaneous model of human ovarian cancer.
SPB1 mRNA expression in normal ovary (n=20) and ovarian tumors (n=23) was evaluated by RT-PCR. Relative levels of mRNA were compared by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) in selected samples. SELENBP1 protein expression was evaluated by 1D Western blot and immunohistochemistry with a commercial anti-human SELENBP1 antibody.
SELENBP1 mRNA and protein was expressed in 100% of normal and ovarian tumors and qRT-PCR confirmed decreased mRNA expression in 80% of ovarian tumors. SELENBP1 was primarily localized in surface epithelial cells of normal ovaries. In ovaries containing early tumor lesions, SELENBP1 expression was reduced in the surface epithelium near the tumor and was expressed in tumor cells, while more distant regions with normal histology retained SELENBP1 expression in the surface epithelium.
We have shown for the first time that SELENBP1 is expressed in both normal ovaries and ovarian tumors in the hen and that SELENBP1 expression is altered in the vicinity of the tumor. Furthermore, SELENBP1 expression in normal ovarian surface epithelium and in ovarian tumors parallels that previously reported for ovarian cancer in women.
A high incidence of severe peripheral neuropathy occurred during the pilot study of a new regimen for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The clinically observed incidence and severity of vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy was considerably enhanced by the sequential use of vincristine and teniposide in this combination chemotherapy.
We carried out a genome-wide association study of breast cancer predisposition with replication and refinement studies involving 6,145 cases and 33,016 controls and identified two SNPs (rs4415084 and rs10941679) on 5p12 that confer risk, preferentially for estrogen receptor (ER)-positive tumors (OR = 1.27, P = 2.5 x 10(-12) for rs10941679). The nearest gene, MRPS30, was previously implicated in apoptosis, ER-positive tumors and favorable prognosis. A recently reported signal in FGFR2 was also found to associate specifically with ER-positive breast cancer.
