This case report describes a 35-year old male who experienced ventricular tachycardia induced by intramucosal injection of epinephrine (1:100,000). Under general anaesthesia with desflurane inhalation, 1.5% lidocaine containing 1:100,000 epinephrine was injected into the nasal mucosa for septoplasty. ST segment elevation and QRS widening occurred after 10 minutes and progressed to pulseless ventricular tachycardia. A sinus rhythm was restored after cardiopulmonary resuscitation with electrical cardioversion. The cardiac enzymes were significantly elevated after the event. Exercise-stress testing and coronary angiography were normal. However, an injection of acetylcholine into the coronary artery provoked vasospasm in the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries. This case illustrates an unusual response to low dose epinephrine with cardiac arrest induced in a patient with undiagnosed variant angina.
A case of halothane-associated liver damage and renal failure is described in an 18-month-old girl after her third halothane anaesthetic. There had been two uneventful enflurane anaesthetics. The diagnosis was confirmed by detecting antibodies specific for halothane-associated liver failure using a recently developed enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Hypoxia and acidosis are microenvironmental selection forces during somatic evolution in breast carcinogenesis. The effect of cobalt chloride (CoCl(2))-induced hypoxia on the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha, glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), and carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX) was assessed in breast cancer cells derived from primary sites (HCC1395 and HCC1937) and metastatic sites (MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231) by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunoblotting. We analyzed these proteins' expression in tissue samples from normal breast tissue, usual ductal hyperplasia (DH), atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH), ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) using immunohistochemistry. CAIX mRNA was expressed constitutively in MDA-MB-231 cells but not in the other three cell lines. CAIX mRNA expression was increased after CoCl(2)-induced hypoxia in all four breast cancer cell lines. The expression of HIF-1alpha and GLUT1 proteins was increased after CoCl(2)-induced hypoxia in all breast cancer cell lines tested. Hypoxia significantly increased CAIX protein expression in primary cancer cells but not in metastatic ones. HIF-1alpha was not expressed in benign breast tissue, whereas it was significantly expressed in DH, ADH, DCIS, and IDC (p < 0.001). GLUT1 and CAIX were expressed only in DCIS (56.8% and 25.0%) and IDC (44.1% and 30.5%), with higher expression in high grade DCIS than low/intermediate grade DCIS (79.2% vs. 30.0%, p = 0.001 and 37.5% vs. 10.0%, p = 0.036, respectively). High CAIX expression was significantly associated with poor histological grade of IDC (p = 0.005). During breast carcinogenesis, the role of HIF-1alpha changes from response to proliferation to tumor progression. GLUT1 expression (glycolytic phenotype) and CAIX expression (acid-resistant phenotype) may result in a powerful adaptive advantage and represent an aggressive phenotype.
Approximately one week after a cycle of antibiotic therapy using ampicillin for pulmonary inflammation, an 82-year-old woman developed symptoms of acute renal insufficiency reminiscent of nephrotic syndrome. Symptoms were completely reversible and normal renal function was recovered (even after 14 months of follow-up). The Authors conclude by attributing this to acute tubulo-interstitial nephropathy due to hypersensitivity to ampicillin.
Hypotensive reactions during surgical procedures cause diagnostic problems in establishing whether the hypotension is due to blood loss or pharmaceuticals or other causes. A case of hypotension probably due to an albumin infusion is described. Bradykinin effects are probably the cause of many hypotensive reactions. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduce degradation of bradykinin and thus increase the risk of hypotensive reactions. When possible, doctors should consider withholding ACE inhibitors 24 hours before surgical procedures likely to require albumin transfusions.
A main factor which might cause cardiac arrhythmias and arterial hypotension during thoracic operations is surgical manipulation around the pericardium and the lung hilus. Halothane and enflurane were compared as to the occurrence of arrhythmias and hypotension caused by standardized surgical stimulation. Twenty-eight patients scheduled for thoracotomy were studied. The patients were selected in randomized order, and the anaesthetic agent in use was unknown to the surgeon. ECG, intra-arterial blood pressure and central venous pressure were recorded continuously. Six patients in the halothane group (n = 14) and nine patients in the enflurane group (n = 14) developed premature atrial contractions and nodal rhythm, while nine patients in the halothane group and five in the enflurane group developed a fall in systolic blood pressure of more than 20 mmHg (2.7 kPa). No statistically significant difference in the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias and hypotension was found between the two anaesthetic groups.
Administration of cadmium (Cd) at a dose of 1.23 mg/kg (2.0 mg/kg as CdCl(2)) markedly decreased the activity of an enzyme (acetohexamide reductase) catalysing the ketone-reduction of acetohexamide, an oral antidiabetic drug, in liver microsomes of male rats. However, the decreased enzyme activity was increased by repeated treatment with testosterone propionate (TP). When male rats were castrated and TP was given to the castrated ones, a similar decrease and increase, as described above, were observed in the microsomal enzyme activity. Cd exposure to male rats induced haemorrhage and atrophy of the testes and significantly diminished serum testosterone levels. There was no possibility that Cd accumulated in liver microsomes of male rats causing direct inhibition of the microsomal enzyme activity. We conclude that Cd exposure decreases androgen-dependent metabolism of acetohexamide in liver microsomes of male rats through its testicular toxicity. Cd exposure had no effect on acetohexamide reductase activity in liver cytosol of male rats.
Cockayne syndrome is a multisystem sun-sensitive genetic disorder associated with a specific defect in the ability to perform transcription-coupled repair of active genes after UV irradiation. Two complementation groups (CS-A and CS-B) have been identified, and 80% of patients have been assigned to the CS-B complementation group. We have analyzed the sites of the mutations in the CSB gene in 16 patients, to determine the spectrum of mutations in this gene and to see whether the nature of the mutation correlates with the type and severity of the clinical symptoms. In nine of the patients, the mutations resulted in truncated products in both alleles, whereas, in the other seven, at least one allele contained a single amino acid change. The latter mutations were confined to the C-terminal two-thirds of the protein and were shown to be inactivating by their failure to restore UV-irradiation resistance to hamster UV61 cells, which are known to be defective in the CSB gene. Neither the site nor the nature of the mutation correlated with the severity of the clinical features. Severe truncations were found in different patients with either classical or early-onset forms of the disease.
Posteroventral medial pallidotomy sometimes produces striking improvement in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease, but the studies to date have involved small numbers of patients and short-term follow-up.
Forty patients with Parkinson's disease underwent serial, detailed assessments both after drug withdrawal ("off" period) and while taking their optimal medical regimens ("on" period). All patients were examined preoperatively and 39 were examined at six months; 27 of the patients were also examined at one year, and 11 at two years.
The percent improvements at six months were as follows: off-period score for overall motor function, 28 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 19 to 38 percent), with most of the improvement in the contralateral limbs; off-period score for activities of daily living, 29 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 19 to 39 percent); on-period score for contralateral dyskinesias, 82 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 72 to 91 percent); and on-period score for ipsilateral dyskinesias, 44 percent (95 percent confidence interval, 29 to 59 percent). The improvements in dyskinesias and the total scores for off-period parkinsonism, contralateral bradykinesia, and rigidity were sustained in the 11 patients examined at two years. The improvement in ipsilateral dyskinesias was lost after one year, and the improvements in postural stability and gait lasted only three to six months. Approximately half the patients who had been dependent on assistance in activities of daily living in the off period before surgery became independent after surgery. The complications of surgery were generally well tolerated, and there were no significant changes in the use of medication.
In late-stage Parkinson's disease, pallidotomy significantly reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesias and off-period disability. Much of the benefit is sustained at two years, although some improvements, such as those on the ipsilateral side and in axial symptoms, wane within the first year. The on-period symptoms that are resistant to dopaminergic therapy do not respond to pallidotomy.
Examination of 27 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) before treatment showed an elevation of the serum level of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) in 15 patients. In these patients, the LDH level fell to normal in response to corticosteroid therapy. In six of 27 patients, steroid myopathy with elevation of the LDH level developed during corticosteroid therapy. At the same time, there was no or only a slight increase in the creatine phosphokinase level, while the SGOT and aldolase levels remained normal. The elevated LDH levels gradually returned to normal as the corticosteroid dosages were reduced and the myopathic symptoms disappeared. We suggest that the measurement of LDH levels is useful for diagnosis and the subsequent treatment of patients with steroid myopathy in SLE.
S-1 is an oral fluorouracil anticancer drug that contains the 5-FU prodrug tegafur. Tegafur has been shown to be converted enzymatically to 5-FU to exert its antitumor effect, and this conversion is principally catalyzed by CYP2A6. Forty-six non-small-cell lung cancer patients were enrolled. The frequencies of the CYP2A6*4C, CYP2A6*7, and CYP2A6*9 alleles were 17.4, 19.6, and 15.2%, respectively. In the S-1 pharmacokinetic analysis, the area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 10 h (AUC(0-10)) ratios of 5-FU/tegafur showed large interindividual variabilities, ranging from 5.14 to 112.6. The AUC(0-10) for tegafur was 1.5-fold higher in patients with the CYP2A6*4C allele than in patients without the CYP2A6*4C allele P < 0.05). Furthermore, patients with the CYP2A6*4C allele had a significantly lower maximum plasma concentration (102.6 +/- 32.9 ng/ml) for 5-FU than patients without the CYP2A6*4C allele (157.0 +/- 65.5 ng/ml, P < 0.05). Genotyping of CYP2A6 polymorphisms may provide vital information for effective cancer therapy using S-1.
Bilateral local injections into the nucleus accumbens of apomorphine in doses between 0.125 and 20 micrograms produced a dose-dependent increase of locomotor activity in rats recorded over the first 5-min period after placing the animals in a novel environment 7 min after the injection. Continuous records over consecutive 5-min periods revealed that the locomotor effect of apomorphine (1 microgram, bilaterally) declines rapidly within less than 30 min. Progressively weaker locomotor hyperactivity in the first 5-min periods was observed after prolongation of the interval between intra-accumbens injection of apomorphine and the commencement of testing from 7 to 12, 17 and 22 min, respectively. Since no difference was found between locomotor activity of animals just placed in the novel environment and that of animals already present in this environment for one or more periods of record at fixed times after the injection, it is concluded that exploration does not contribute to locomotor hyperactivity induced by intra-accumbens injections of apomorphine.
An evaluation of the effects of a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, Hochu-ekki-to (Bu-zong-yi-qi-tang) on endometrial carcinogenesis was performed in experiments with female mice. In the short-term experiment, dietary exposure of Hochu-ekki-to (0.2% for 2 weeks) decreased the estradiol-17beta (E2)-stimulated expression levels of c-jun (P<0.001), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha (P<0.005), estrogen receptors (ER)-alpha (P<0.001) and ER-beta (P<0.005), as determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and a Southern blot analysis in the uteri of the ovarectomized mice. In the long-term experiment, the mice were given N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) solution (1 mg/100 g body weight) and normal saline (as controls) into their left and right uterine corpora, respectively, and then were divided into four groups. Group 1 (25 mice) was given a diet with Hochu-ekki-to and 5 ppm E2. Group 2 (25 mice) was given a diet with E2 alone. Group 3 (25 mice) was given a diet with Hochu-ekki-to alone. Group 4 (25 mice) was kept on the basal diet alone and treated as a control. The incidence of uterine endometrial cancer in the group with Hochu-ekki-to treatment was substantially lower than of the control group. The inhibitory effect of Hochu-ekki-to on endometrial carcinogenesis is thus suggested to decrease the expressions of c-jun, TNF-alpha, ER-alpha and -beta.
Carbamazepine has been reported to exacerbate seizures in children with primary generalized epilepsy and epilepsy with mixed seizure types. Seizure exacerbation has been rarely observed in adults, mainly in the mentally retarded or in those with primary generalized epilepsy. We present an adult patient who had frequent absence seizures and simple partial seizures for 20 years. She was treated with carbamazepine for over 16 years. The patient's EEG showed generalized spike and wave complexes. Her seizures remitted and the EEG normalized after the discontinuation of carbamazepine therapy.
Pheochromocytomas, which are catecholamine-secreting tumors of neural crest origin, are frequently hereditary. However, the molecular basis of the majority of these tumors is unknown. We identified the transmembrane-encoding gene TMEM127 on chromosome 2q11 as a new pheochromocytoma susceptibility gene. In a cohort of 103 samples, we detected truncating germline TMEM127 mutations in approximately 30% of familial tumors and about 3% of sporadic-appearing pheochromocytomas without a known genetic cause. The wild-type allele was consistently deleted in tumor DNA, suggesting a classic mechanism of tumor suppressor gene inactivation. Pheochromocytomas with mutations in TMEM127 are transcriptionally related to tumors bearing NF1 mutations and, similarly, show hyperphosphorylation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) effector proteins. Accordingly, in vitro gain-of-function and loss-of-function analyses indicate that TMEM127 is a negative regulator of mTOR. TMEM127 dynamically associates with the endomembrane system and colocalizes with perinuclear (activated) mTOR, suggesting a subcompartmental-specific effect. Our studies identify TMEM127 as a tumor suppressor gene and validate the power of hereditary tumors to elucidate cancer pathogenesis.
The actions of environmental toxicants and relevant mixtures in promoting the epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of ovarian disease was investigated with the use of a fungicide, a pesticide mixture, a plastic mixture, dioxin and a hydrocarbon mixture. After transient exposure of an F0 gestating female rat during embryonic gonadal sex determination, the F1 and F3 generation progeny adult onset ovarian disease was assessed. Transgenerational disease phenotypes observed included an increase in cysts resembling human polycystic ovarian disease (PCO) and a decrease in the ovarian primordial follicle pool size resembling primary ovarian insufficiency (POI). The F3 generation granulosa cells were isolated and found to have a transgenerational effect on the transcriptome and epigenome (differential DNA methylation). Epigenetic biomarkers for environmental exposure and associated gene networks were identified. Epigenetic transgenerational inheritance of ovarian disease states was induced by all the different classes of environmental compounds, suggesting a role of environmental epigenetics in ovarian disease etiology.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is the second most common cause of presenile dementia. The predominant neuropathology is FTLD with TAR DNA-binding protein (TDP-43) inclusions (FTLD-TDP). FTLD-TDP is frequently familial, resulting from mutations in GRN (which encodes progranulin). We assembled an international collaboration to identify susceptibility loci for FTLD-TDP through a genome-wide association study of 515 individuals with FTLD-TDP. We found that FTLD-TDP associates with multiple SNPs mapping to a single linkage disequilibrium block on 7p21 that contains TMEM106B. Three SNPs retained genome-wide significance following Bonferroni correction (top SNP rs1990622, P = 1.08 x 10(-11); odds ratio, minor allele (C) 0.61, 95% CI 0.53-0.71). The association replicated in 89 FTLD-TDP cases (rs1990622; P = 2 x 10(-4)). TMEM106B variants may confer risk of FTLD-TDP by increasing TMEM106B expression. TMEM106B variants also contribute to genetic risk for FTLD-TDP in individuals with mutations in GRN. Our data implicate variants in TMEM106B as a strong risk factor for FTLD-TDP, suggesting an underlying pathogenic mechanism.
Epilepsy is a syndrome of episodic brain dysfunction characterized by recurrent unpredictable, spontaneous seizures. Cerebellar dysfunction is a recognized complication of temporal lobe epilepsy and it is associated with seizure generation, motor deficits and memory impairment. Serotonin is known to exert a modulatory action on cerebellar function through 5HT(2C) receptors. 5-HT(2C) receptors are novel targets for developing anti-convulsant drugs. In the present study, we investigated the changes in the 5-HT(2C) receptors binding and gene expression in the cerebellum of control, epileptic and Bacopa monnieri treated epileptic rats. There was a significant down regulation of the 5-HT content (p<0.001), 5-HT(2C) gene expression (p<0.001) and 5-HT(2C) receptor binding (p<0.001) with an increased affinity (p<0.001). Carbamazepine and B. monnieri treatments to epileptic rats reversed the down regulated 5-HT content (p<0.01), 5-HT(2C) receptor binding (p<0.001) and gene expression (p<0.01) to near control level. Also, the Rotarod test confirms the motor dysfunction and recovery by B. monnieri treatment. These data suggest the neuroprotective role of B. monnieri through the upregulation of 5-HT(2C) receptor in epileptic rats. This has clinical significance in the management of epilepsy.
Since its introduction, fluorescein angiography has been widely used to investigate diseases of the ocular fundus. A case of fatal acute myocardial infarction after intravenous fluorescein angiography is presented. This appears to be the first case documented by autopsy in which the findings are compatible with myocardial infarction as the cause of death. Although there are no known contraindications for fluorescein angiography in patients with a history of cardiovascular disease, the indications for this elective procedure should be carefully reviewed in such patients. Adequate emergency resuscitation equipment should be available in the fluorescein angiography suite.
No drug can completely prevent vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Impaired intracellular signal transduction by cyclic nucleotides might be involved. We investigated effects of intravenous isoproterenol and NKH477 on cerebral blood flow in rats with or without intracisternal injection of autologous blood one week previously. In controls without hemorrhage, isoproterenol at 0.01, 0.1, 1, and 10 mg kg(-1) min(-1) increased cerebral blood flow by 1.2%+/-9.5%, 19.7%+/-12.8%, 46.8%+/-23.5%, and 63.8%+/-32.9% respectively; 10mg kg(-1) min(-1) of isoproterenol increased systemic blood pressure by 66.6%+/-58.1%, while other doses decreased blood pressure. In the subarachnoid hemorrhage group, isoproterenol increased cerebral blood flow by -20.0%+/-6.5%, -7.6%+/-8.7%, 8.2%+/-8.8%, and 35.9%+/-83.1% respectively; 10 mg kg(-1) min(-1) of isoproterenol increased systemic blood pressure by 68.8%+/-79.5%, while other doses decreased blood pressure. In controls, NKH477 at 3, 10, and 30 mg kg(-1) increased cerebral blood flow by 2.3%+/-3.6%, 14.4%+/-7.0%, and 50.7%+/-14.6%, respectively; in the subarachnoid hemorrhage group, NKH477 changed cerebral blood flow by -1.3%+/-2.4%, 4.6%+/-2.8%, and -12.6%+/-10.8% (not significant difference from controls). NKH477 at 30 mg kg(-1) min(-1) decreased systemic blood pressure in both groups, but the effect in the hemorrhage group was greater. Either isoproterenol or NKH477 at appropriate doses can increase cerebral blood flow in vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage without decreasing blood pressure.
The acute effects of intravenous diltiazem on exercise performance were studied in 10 patients with coronary artery disease. Haemodynamic measurements were made at rest and during exercise before and after 0.5 mg kg-1 of diltiazem. Diltiazem prolonged the duration of exercise (+2.85 min, P less than 0.001) and delayed the onset of ischaemic ST depression or angina in all patients. The highest tolerated heart rate and pressure rate product were increased in all but one patient after diltiazem. At rest diltiazem decreased mean arterial pressure (-10.8%, P less than 0.005), systemic vascular resistance (SVR) (-11.8%, P less than 0.05) and left ventricular stroke work index (SWI) (-14.1%, P less than 0.005). During exercise under diltiazem therapy, at the level achieved before the drug, the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (-30%, P less than 0.005) and the SVR (-13.6%, P less than 0.02) were lowered, the SWI (+13%, P less than 0.01) was increased; at the end of exercise only the SVR (-14%, P less than 0.05) was reduced. Two patients experienced angina on lying down and one had orthostatic hypotension after exercise with diltiazem. This study indicates that intravenous diltiazem is a potentially useful agent for the treatment of angina by reducing myocardial oxygen demand at rest and by improving left ventricular performances on exercise.
Calcium carbonate has been successfully used as a phosphate binder in patients with chronic renal failure; however, a high frequency of hypercalcaemia has been reported. To study the effects of calcium carbonate preparations with different dissolution characteristics on the incidence of this side effect, we conducted a double-blind, crossover trial in 21 patients undergoing chronic haemodialysis. Aluminum hydroxide therapy was replaced with calcium carbonate. The subjects then randomly received either an enteric-coated or a gastric-coated preparation. Calcium carbonate (3.1-3.6 g/d) controlled serum phosphate concentrations as effectively as aluminium hydroxide (2.9 g/d). Concurrently, there was a significant rise in mean serum calcium and a fall in serum concentrations of both parathyroid hormone and osteocalcin, the latter suggesting a decrease in bone turnover. Overall, hypercalcaemic episodes developed in 9 patients (43%) and occurred at a considerable frequency (33 episodes per 100 patient-months) during treatment with the gastric-coated formulation. Following conversion to enteric-coated calcium carbonate (3.6 g/d) patients had fewer occurrences of hypercalcaemia (12 episodes per 100 patient-months, P less than 0.05) and, as compared to the gastric-coated preparation, increases in serum calcium greater than 3.00 mmol/l were not observed at all. Hyperaluminaemia was regressive during therapy with calcium carbonate, but addition of small doses of aluminium hydroxide caused a large rise in serum aluminium concentrations after infusion of desferrioxamine, indicating an enhanced rate of absorption or aberrant compartmentalization of aluminium. We conclude that calcium carbonate can control hyperphosphataemia in dialysis patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The authors present a case of paroxetine-induced rabbit syndrome in a 65-year-old white woman. To their knowledge, this is the first report in the literature describing rabbit syndrome induced by the administration of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-specifically, paroxetine in combination with perphenazine and amitriptyline.
A case of hepatitis induced by methyldopa and verified by means of challenge with the drugs is reported. The severe, chronic, aggressive inflammation greatly regressed after discontinuing the drug. The clinical differences, as well as those in laboratory findings disappeared. The electron-microscopic showed definite, but non-specific changes in the hepatic and sinusoidal mesenchymal cells. Our case was compared with the electromicroscopic picture of chronic aggressive hepatitis of unknown aetiology, and one essential difference was found in our hepatitis case as a result of methyldopa treatment: pathologic fibrogenesis did not occur. The rapid regression of the severe morphological picture can be attributed to this fact.
Although in some cases delayed hypersensitivity may be observed, beta-lactam antibiotics frequently induce immediate allergic IgE-mediated reactions with the specificity localized in the acyl-side chain structure. Generally, delayed immunologic reactions are related to sensitized T lymphocytes and major histocompatibility complex restricted.
To investigate the prevalence of HLA class I and II antigens in patients with delayed hypersensitivity to aminopenicillins in order to evaluate a relationship between major histocompatibility complex immune response genes and aminopenicillins hypersensitivity.
We assessed 24 patients with history of delayed hypersensitivity to aminopenicillins using (1) skin test with penicilloyl polylysine, minor determinant mixture, benzylpenicillin, amoxicillin, and ampicillin; (2) patch tests with benzylpenicillin, amoxicillin, and ampicillin; (3) RAST for penicilloyls G and V; and (4) oral challenges with amoxicillin, ampicillin, and penicillin V in 18/24 patients. All patients were typed by microlymphotoxicity standard test for HLA class I and II antigens. Statistical analysis by chi2 test 2 x 2 contingency tables, according to Svejgaard, were used for comparison between patients and random Italian population (522 subjects).
In the patients group we found higher prevalence of HLA A2 (12/24 = 50%, RR = 6.76 P < .001, EF = 0.425), DRw52 (20/24 = 83.3%, RR = 9.28, P < .001, EF = 0.74), and lower frequency of DR4 (3/24 = 12% ns).
These data suggest that the immune mechanisms involved in adverse reactions to aminopenicillins in vivo are related to genetic markers of immune response and confirms that the presentation of penicillin-hapten determinants to lymphocyte is major histocompatibility complex restricted.
A previously healthy 59-year-old man received chlorpropamide 250 mg/day for adult-onset diabetes. Within 1 month of starting the drug, he developed cholestatic jaundice and pseudomembranous colitis. The colitis worsened during subsequent treatment with multiple antibiotics and sulfasalazine. Oral vancomycin produced a prompt and total remission. One similar case of chlorpropamide toxicity manifested by jaundice and colitis has been previously reported. It is possible that the sulfonamide moiety of the chlorpropamide was implicated in the development of the colitis.
