A 51-year-old man underwent surgery for duodenal ulcer in 1983. Ulcer recurred several times. Recently, the patient was receiving 30 mg/day of lansoprazole. On June 15, 2001 hemorrhagic recurrent ulcer was diagnosed. Analysis of CYP2C19 enzyme genotype indicated that the patient was a heterozygous extensive metabolizer, suggesting that 30 mg/day of lansoprazole did not produce effective concentrations of drug in the serum. The dose of lansoprazole was increased to 60 mg/day, and intragastric pH monitoring revealed that a pH > or = 3 was maintained for 99.8% of a 24-hour period, as compared with a previous value of 88.3%. After 3 weeks of treatment, endoscopic examination showed that a red scar had formed at the ulcer site.
The response of the oesophageal microcirculation to luminal damaging agents may play an important role in reflux-induced mucosal injury. We characterized the microcirculatory consequences of exposure to bile with or without hydrochloric acid, and determined the changes in the constitutive nitric oxide synthase and inducible nitric oxide synthase activities in a canine model of acute reflux oesophagitis.
Group 1 served as a saline-treated control, while groups 2-4 were exposed for 3 h to bile alone, to hydrochloric acid, or to bile + hydrochloric acid, respectively. The mucosal microcirculation was observed continuously by means of intravital videomicroscopy with an orthogonal polarization spectral imaging technique. Myeloperoxidase, constitutive and inducible nitric oxide synthase activities were measured via tissue biopsies, while the degree of mucosal damage was evaluated histologically.
Bile evoked deep tissue damage and leucocyte accumulation in the mucosa and muscle layer. The capillary red blood cell velocity and the relative vessel area increased significantly (P < 0.05). The constitutive NO synthase activity was decreased, and the inducible NO synthase activity was increased significantly. In the hydrochloric acid-treated group the functional capillary density decreased, the mucosal damage was less severe, the constitutive NO synthase activity did not change, whereas the inducible NO synthase activity was increased significantly. The constitutive NO synthase activity did not change after the bile + hydrochloric acid treatment either.
Reflux components induce characteristic microcirculatory alterations. The structural damage and leucocyte invasion are accompanied by bile-induced constitutive NO synthase inhibition when hydrochloric acid production is suppressed.
PTEN mutations have been implicated in the development of endometrial hyperplasia and subsequent cancer. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonists have demonstrated antineoplastic and chemopreventive effects. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of the PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone on both PTEN wild type and PTEN null cell lines and in the PTEN heterozygote((+/-)) murine model. Hec-1-A (PTEN wild type) and Ishikawa (PTEN null) cells were treated with rosiglitazone. Thirty-five female PTEN(+/-) mice were genotyped and placed into one of four groups for treatment for 18 weeks: A) PTEN wild type with 4 mg/kg rosiglitazone, B) PTEN(+/-) mice with vehicle, C) PTEN(+/-) mice with 4 mg/kg rosiglitazone, and D) PTEN(+/-) mice with 8 mg/kg rosiglitazone. Proliferation and apoptosis were measured by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling of DNA fragmentation sites assay. Rosiglitazone caused cell growth inhibition in both Hec-1-A and Ishikawa in a dose-dependent manner (P < 0.02 and P < 0.03, respectively). Rosiglitazone also induced apoptosis in both Hec-1-A (P < .001) and Ishikawa (P < .001) cells in a dose-dependent manner. In the murine model, rosiglitazone decreased proliferation of the endometrial hyperplastic lesions (B vs C; 39.7% vs 9.3% and B vs D; 39.7% vs 4.2%; P < 0.0001) and increased apoptosis of glandular endometrial epithelial cells (B vs C; 2.8% vs 22.4%; P < 0.0001 and B vs D; 2.8% vs 30.2%; P = 0.003). PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in both PTEN intact and PTEN null cancer cell lines and in hyperplastic endometrial lesions in the PTEN(+/)(-)murine model.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II (HIT type II) is the most serious complication of heparin treatment apart from bleeding, which is the most common side effect. Eleven days after coronary bypass grafting, a 71 year old patient showed a posterolateral myocardial infarction and a thrombocytopenia of 80,000/microliter. This was considered a postoperative thrombocytopenia. Coronary angiography revealed closed venous bypass grafts. The right coronary artery (RCA) was revascularized by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and stent placement. During both coronary angiography and PTCA, heparin was administered to the patient. The platelet number did not change. Four days later the patient showed an inferior myocardial infarction and an AV-block III degrees and a syncope. The following coronary angiography revealed RCA stent occlusion. HIT type II was presumed and recanalization was carried out using Lepirudin (Refludan) as the anticoagulant. After placing the guide wire, thrombi could be seen in the proximal RCA. Abciximab (Reo pro), a monoclonal antibody against the glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor was additionally administered. Coronary angiography on the next day revealed only a small remaining thrombus. The AV-block disappeared immediately after revascularization. The diagnosis of HIT type II was confirmed through heparin-induced-platelet-activation-test (Hipa-test) and immunoassay (PF 4/heparin-ELISA). This case report illustrates the complicated diagnosis of HIT type II and the successful simultaneous use of Lepirudin (Refludan) and Abciximab (Reo pro). The number of platelets should be checked daily during heparin treatment. In the case of a thrombocytopenia, the treatment should be stopped immediately, and Hipa-test and PF 4/heparin-ELISA should be carried out.
A child with Sturge-Weber syndrome and a left occipital leptomeningeal angioma developed focal seizures at 6 years of age that responded initially to oxcarbazepine. After 7 months of seizure freedom, the patient developed typical myoclonic-astatic seizures associated with generalized electrographic discharges, which worsened as oxcarbazepine was increased. The seizures and electroencephalogram improved dramatically in 3 weeks as the oxcarbazepine was withdrawn and valproic acid was initiated. This case demonstrates the importance of recognizing that children with epilepsy due to focal lesions can develop secondary bilateral synchrony that can be aggravated by medications that are effective for partial seizures. In such cases, treatment with a broad-spectrum antiepileptic may be advantageous.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease affects both motor and sensory peripheral nerves, with broad variability in its clinical and pathologic expression. The involvement of the central nervous system in this disease has been reported in the past, and on two occasions Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease was associated with myoclonic seizures. The previously reported patients with associated Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and seizures developed a severe disease and died at a young age. This report describes a now 8-year-old male with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A associated with myoclonic seizures and developmental delay. Genetic studies established for the first time the duplication of the PMP-22 gene in a patient with this unusual association, confirming the diagnosis. The patient was treated with carbamazepine, valproate, and lamotrigine, has been seizure-free for over 2 years, and was successfully weaned from his medications.
Neuroplasticity after perinatal programming may allow for neuroprotection against hypoxic-ischemia (HI) at birth. The cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is a key mediator of stimulus-induced nuclear responses that underlie survival, memory and plasticity of nervous system. Chronic treatment of fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, can upregulate CREB activation in the hippocampus. We examined whether fluoxetine administration before HI may protect against neonatal HI brain injury through CREB-mediated mechanisms. We found that low-dose fluoxetine pretreatment in a neonatal HI brain injury model significantly reduced functional deficits at adulthood. The neuroprotective mechanisms were associated with increased CREB phosphorylation and increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor and synapsin I mRNA expression in the hippocampus. Neurogenesis also increased because of greater precursor cell survival in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. These findings suggest that functional deficits after HI in the developing brain can be reduced by agents that enhance neural plasticity and neurogenesis through CREB activation.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) represents highly aggressive neoplasms with a mean survival of approximately 10 months. Osteopontin, a glycoprotein involved in cell-matrix interactions correlated with invasion and metastatic spread in several tumors, has recently been proposed as a serum marker of MPM in asbestos-exposed subjects. The aim of this study was to define the prognostic role of osteopontin in MPM. For the study, 32 long-term survivors (>24 months) and a random sample of 69 short-term survivors (<or=24 months) were matched according to the main clinicopathologic features. Immunohistochemical osteopontin expression in tissue specimens was quantified through the HScore (histologic scoring) method and correlated with clinicopathologic parameters and survival. Osteopontin expression was significantly lower in long-term compared with short-term survivors (P< .0001), and overall survival analysis showed that low osteopontin expression was associated with longer survival; multivariate analysis confirmed the value of osteopontin expression as an independent prognostic factor (P< .0001).
Valproic acid is commonly and effectively used in the treatment of idiopathic generalized epilepsies, including juvenile absence epilepsy. Although several adverse effects are associated with this drug, it has only rarely been known to exacerbate seizures. Similar to antiarrhythmic drugs aggravating particular arrhythmias, antiepileptic drugs can paradoxically induce new seizure types or exacerbate existing ones. This reaction is better known with carbamazepine and phenytoin, but is less common with broad-spectrum antiepileptic drugs such as valproic acid. This report describes a case of paradoxical, intravenous valproic acid-induced seizure exacerbation in a child with juvenile absence epilepsy, documented by video-electroencephalography.
We present a case of recovery from fulminant hepatic failure secondary to high serum levels of fluconazole precipitated by amphotericin B induced renal dysfunction. Fluconazole dose adjustment or alternative antifungal treatment should be considered in patients with impaired renal function.
We sought to evaluate the use of propofol (2,6-diisopropylphenol) for ED procedural sedation, particularly when administered in a routine fashion for a variety of indications.
This was a prospective observational study conducted in an urban teaching ED. Propofol was administered by handheld syringe and combined with fentanyl. Measurements included propofol and fentanyl dose, serial vital signs, pulse oximetry, adverse events, and patient and physician satisfaction.
One hundred thirty-six subjects (18 to 69 years) were enrolled. Procedures included 82 (60.3%) abscess incision and drainages and 47 (34.6%) orthopedic reductions. Adverse events occurred in 14 cases (10.3%; 95% confidence interval 5.2% to 15.4%), including hypotension in 5, hypoxemia in 7, and apnea in 5. One patient required intubation. Both patient and physician satisfaction were excellent.
ED procedural sedation with propofol was effective and well accepted by patients and physicians. However, it produced a significant incidence of hypotension, hypoxemia, and apnea.
We evaluated the efficacy and toxicity of the novel combination of ifosfamide (IFX) and vinorelbine (VNB) as first-line chemotherapy in patients with stage IIIB and IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Between March 1993 and November 1994, 44 patients (17 stage IIIB; 27 stage IV) received a regimen consisting of IFX, 2 g/m2 in a 1-h infusion, days 1-3; mesna, 400 mg/m2 in an i.v. bolus at hours 0 and 4 and 800 mg orally at hour 8, days 1-3; and VNB, 35 mg/ m2 in a 20-min infusion, days 1 and 15. During the first course only, a half dose of VNB (17.5 mg/m2) was administered on days 8 and 22. Courses were repeated every 28 days. Forty patients were fully evaluable for response, and 44 were assessable for toxicity. Objective regression was recorded in 13 of 40 patients (33%). No patient achieved a complete response. Thirteen patients presented a partial response (33%); 17 (42%) had no change; and progressive disease was observed in 10 (25%). The median duration of response was 10 months, and the median time to treatment failure for the whole group was 4 months. Median survival was 11 months. The dose-limiting toxic effect was myelosuppression. Leukopenia occurred in 25 patients (57%) and was grade 3 or 4 in 8 patients (18%). Twelve patients (27%) developed peripheral neurotoxicity, while five had mild IFX-induced CNS toxicity. Phlebitis was observed in 15 of 30 patients (50%) who did not have central implantable venous systems. The IFX-VNB combination exhibited an activity against NSCLC that was among the highest reported for non-cisplatin-containing regimens, with a toxicity profile that was easily managed.
A 15-year-old female survived a total of 65 minutes cardiac arrest following ingestion of verapamil and selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors. We consider that the lack of neurological damage, despite evidence of significant renal and myocardial injury, may be related to the possible neuroprotective effect of a large dose of verapamil.
The effects of chronic cocaine abuse have been widely described in the literature. Common complications include nasal septal perforation, saddle-nose deformity, and palatal perforation. Erosion of the external structures of the face has not been as extensively described, nor have oronasal fistulas that involve structures other than the hard or soft palate. In this article, we present the first reported case of cocaine-induced external nasal erosion that included multiple oronasal fistulas in the anterior gingival sulcus but did not involve the hard or soft palate. We stress the importance of a thorough history in such patients and consideration of all possible diagnoses, including drug abuse.
Doxorubicin is an essential component of the treatment of aggressive lymphoma, childhood solid tumors, bone and soft tissue sarcomas, and breast cancer and additional indications are emerging. On the other hand, daunorubicin has occupied the central position of interest in the treatment of acute leukemia. Epirubicin has a spectrum very similar to doxorubicin but lesser toxicity. The ability to protect against cardiotoxicity with ICRF-187 further enhances clinical interest in exploiting modifications in doze intensity to therapeutic advantage. Idarubicin has at least equivalent activity to daunorubicin and doxorubicin in leukemia. New areas of research in relation to anthracycline antibiotics include introduction of new the analogs, insight into mechanisms of resistance, the reversal of multidrug resistance in vitro, the protection of cardiac toxicity, and the study of other important biochemical reactions relevant to cytotoxicity. Orally active anthracyclines such as idarubicin and compounds which lack cross-resistance with the parent drugs or have other mechanisms for cytotoxicity are being developed. It is likely that these modifications will lead to an expanding therapeutic spectrum for these already widely useful drugs.
Mercuric chloride (HgCl2) as well as several drugs can induce T cell activation leading to systemic immune-mediated diseases in genetically susceptible individuals or rodents. T cell hybridomas represent a well-characterized model system for in vivo mechanisms of various stimuli-induced cell death. The cellular response to HgCl2 was examined using various T cell lines and particularly the murine T cell hybridoma 2B4.11. Exposure to HgCl2 induced both necrosis and apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent way as demonstrated by DNA fragmentation analysis, flow cytometry of the whole cells and of isolated nuclei, and morphological examination. HgCl2-induced cell death was partly inhibited by cycloheximide. The expression of human Bcl-2 in 2B4.11 cells after transfection significantly prevented HgCl2-induced cell death but did not affect the susceptibility to apoptosis induced by an anti-CD3 epsilon mAb. Subcytotoxic doses of HgCl2 enhanced metabolic activity of Bcl-2 transfectants in contrast with mock-transfected cell line. Thus, we conclude that apoptosis is part of the cell death process induced by HgCl2 and that the ability of Bcl-2 to prevent the death of one particular cell line is stimulus-dependent suggesting the existence of different pathways leading to cell death.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in type 2 diabetes-related endothelial dysfunction. We hypothesized that resveratrol protects against oxidative stress-induced endothelial dysfunction in aortas of diabetic mice by inhibiting tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha)-induced activation of NAD(P)H oxidase and preserving phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS).
We examined endothelial-dependent vasorelaxation to acetylcholine (ACh) in diabetic mice (Lepr(db)) and normal controls (m Lepr(db)). Relaxation to ACh was blunted in Lepr(db) compared with m Lepr(db), whereas endothelial-independent vasorelaxation to sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was comparable. Resveratrol improved ACh-induced vasorelaxation in Lepr(db) without affecting dilator response to SNP. Impaired relaxation to ACh in Lepr(db) was partially reversed by incubating the vessels with NAD(P)H oxidase inhibitor apocynin and a membrane-permeable superoxide dismutase mimetic TEMPOL. Dihydroethidium (DHE) staining showed an elevated superoxide (O(2)(.-)) production in Lepr(db), whereas both resveratrol and apocynin significantly reduced O(2)(.-) signal. Resveratrol increased nitrite/nitrate levels and eNOS (Ser1177) phosphorylation, and attenuated H(2)O(2) production and nitrotyrosine (N-Tyr) content in Lepr(db) aortas. Furthermore, resveratrol attenuated the mRNA and protein expression of TNFalpha. Genetic deletion of TNFalpha in diabetic mice (db(TNF-)/db(TNF-)) was associated with a reduced NAD(P)H oxidase activity and vascular O(2)(.-) production and an increased eNOS (Ser1177) phosphorylation, suggesting that TNFalpha plays a pivotal role in aortic dysfunction in diabetes by inducing oxidative stress and reducing NO bioavailability.
Resveratrol restored endothelial function in type 2 diabetes by inhibiting TNFalpha-induced activation of NAD(P)H oxidase and preserving eNOS phosphorylation, suggesting the potential for new treatment approaches to promote vascular health in metabolic diseases.
There is an increasing body of evidence supporting the need for prophylactic management of the adverse events (AEs) associated with long-term opioid use in patients with chronic pain. Symptoms of bowel dysfunction, such as constipation, may have a significant impact on a patient's quality of life and willingness to continue opioid therapy, and therefore should be managed proactively to ensure that the patient can continue effective pain management. The fixed-dose combination (FDC) prolonged-release (PR) oxycodone/naloxone (OXN) may be an effective therapeutic approach to delivering analgesia, with a reduced risk for opioid-induced constipation.
The aim of this paper was to report the pharmacokinetic results from a single-dose study and a multiple-dose bioequivalence study of OXN versus separate formulations of oxycodone PR and naloxone PR administered concurrently in healthy subjects.
Both studies were open-label, randomized crossover studies in healthy adult male and female subjects. In the single-dose study, subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups: OXN FDC (44 x 10/55-mg, 2 x 20/110-mg, or 1 x 40/20-mg dose strength [each given at a total combined dose of 40/220 mg]) or oxycodone PR 40 mg + naloxone PR 20 mg given in separate formulations. In the multiple-dose study, 34 subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups: OXN FDC 40/20 mg, oxycodone PR 40 mg, or naloxone PR 20 mg. Treatments were considered bioequivalent if the 90% CIs for relative bioavailability calculations fell within a predetermined range of 80% to 125%. AEs were assessed by the investigator at each study visit.
The single-dose study included 28 subjects (22 men, 6 women; mean [SD] age, 32.3 [5.44] years; weight, 75.5 [9.3] kg; and body mass index [BMI], 24.2 [2.5] kg/mm(2)). The mean plasma oxycodone concentration-time curves for OXN and oxycodone PR + naloxone PR were similar. With oxycodone, the mean (SD) AUC(t) values with OXN 10/5, 20/10, and 40/20 mg and oxycodone PR + naloxone PR were 473.49 (72.16), 491.22 (82.18), 488.89 (91.04), and 502.28 (84.13) ng . h/mL, respectively; mean C(max) values were 34.91 (4.36), 35.73 (4.93), 34.46 (5.03), and 40.45 (4.71) ng/mL. For naloxone-3-glucuronide (the primary analyte of naloxone), the mean (SD) AUC(t) values with OXN 10/5, 20/10, and 40/20 mg and oxycodone PR + naloxone PR were 539.93 (142.24), 522.45 (128.57), 520.10 (133.18), and 523.37 (119.75) ng . h/mL, respectively; mean C(max) values were 62.01 (15.96), 63.62 (19.51), 61.95 (18.37), and 63.55 (16.75) ng/mL. There were no statistically significant differences between the treatments, and each of the treatment comparisons resulted in 90% CIs within the range for bioequivalence. The multiple-dose steady-state bioequivalence study included 34 subjects (28 men, 6 women; mean [SD] age, 36 [9.4] years; weight,78.9 [11.7] kg; and BMI, 24.6 [1.9] kg/m(2)). No significant differences were observed between the treatments, with the exception of naloxone-3-glucuronide C(min,ss) values. Mean C(min,ss) values of 22.6 and 24.0 ng/mL were obtained for the OXN combination and naloxone PR tablet, respectively. In the multiple-dose study, the most frequently reported AEs with OXN,oxycodone PR, and naloxone PR were headache (7%, 26%, and 17%, respectively), anorexia (10%, 16%, and 13%), and nausea (10%, 13%, and 7%).
The results from the single-dose study were consistent with the regulatory definition of bioequivalence of the FDCs and single components across the range of doses administered. The pharmacokinetic properties of the OXN FDC were similar to those of oxycodone PR + naloxone PR given as separate formulations, based on the regulatory definition. These findings were consistent with the results of the multiple-dose steady-state bioequivalence study. In this population of healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetic properties of oxycodone apparently were not significantly influenced by administering oxycodone in a combination product, and the availability of naloxone-3-glucuronide from OXN was similar to that from the naloxone PR tablet. These findings suggest that the coadministration of oxycodone PR and naloxone PR in an FDC would not significantly affect the bioavailability of either of its constituents in these subjects.
Tulobuterol transdermal therapeutic system (TTS) is the world's first commercially available transdermal preparation of tulobuterol, a beta2-stimulant that can maintain effective blood tulobuterol (CAS 41570-61-0) levels for 24 h when applied once daily. In the present study, a total of 24 adult patients with mild persistent (Step 2) or moderate persistent (Step 3) bronchial asthma, consisting of 13 and 11 patients, who were or were not using inhalational steroids, respectively, used tulobuterol TTS (Hokunalin Tape) for one year and underwent measurement of peak expiratory flow (PEF) once daily. Peripheral eosinophil count, serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) level and airway responsiveness (Dmin) were evaluated at 6 months and 1 year, respectively, after the start of the study. PEF exhibited significant improvements after 6 months and 1 year in patients treated with or without inhalational steroids, while serum ECP was improved significantly only in the patients on inhalational steroids. Patients not using inhalational steroids exhibited significant exacerbation of Dmin at neither after 6 months nor after 1 year. One-year treatment with tulobuterol TTS did not appear to cause tachyphylaxis. The significant improvements in Dmin observed after 6 months and after 1 year in the patients using inhalational steroids suggested beneficial effects of inhalational steroids in controlling airway inflammation. Tulobuterol TTS is considered quite beneficial in improving quality of life (QOL) in patients with bronchial asthma because its incidence of adverse effects including palpitations and shivering is significantly lower than those of oral preparations because of its remarkable improvement of pulmonary function and symptoms of airway obstruction without increasing airway responsiveness even after repeated use, and because it is simple to use and ensures excellent clinical efficacy.
It is well established that high expression of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL can significantly contribute to chemoresistance in a number of human malignancies. Much less is known about the role the more recently described Bcl-2 family member Mcl-1 might play in tumor biology and resistance to chemotherapy. Using an antisense strategy, we here address this issue in melanoma, a paradigm of a treatment-resistant malignancy. After in vitro proof of principle supporting an antisense mechanism of action with specific reduction of Mcl-1 protein as a consequence of nuclear uptake of the Mcl-1 antisense oligonucleotides employed, antisense and universal control oligonucleotides were administered systemically in combination with dacarbazine in a human melanoma SCID mouse xenotransplantation model. Dacarbazine, available now for more than three decades, still remains the most active single agent for treatment of advanced melanoma. Mcl-1 antisense oligonucleotides specifically reduced target protein expression as well as the apoptotic threshold of melanoma xenotransplants. Combined Mcl-1 antisense oligonucleotide plus dacarbazine treatment resulted in enhanced tumor cell apoptosis and led to a significantly reduced mean tumor weight (mean 0.16 g, 95% confidence interval 0.08-0.26) compared to the tumor weight in universal control oligonucleotide plus dacarbazine treated animals (mean 0.35 g, 95% confidence interval 0.2-0.44) or saline plus dacarbazine treated animals (mean 0.39 g, 95% confidence interval 0.25-0.53). We thus show that Mcl-1 is an important factor contributing to the chemoresistance of human melanoma in vivo. Antisense therapy against the Mcl-1 gene product, possibly in combination with antisense strategies targeting other antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members, appears to be a rational and promising approach to help overcome treatment resistance of malignant melanoma.
To evaluate the incidence and causes of complications associated with spinal anesthesia for cesarean delivery.
Prospective study, case series.
Tampere University Hospital, 284 patients scheduled for elective or nonelective cesarean delivery with spinal anesthesia. Complications occurring during spinal anesthesia with hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine during a 1-year period were analyzed.
Hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine for cesarean delivery proved to be a reliable anesthetic with a failure rate of 2.8%. The most common complications were hypotension (42%) and nausea (14%). In 81% of patients, hypotensive periods occurred before delivery. Hypotension before delivery had no correlation with low Apgar scores or with low pH in the umbilical artery of the infant. Risk factors for hypotension were elective procedures and operations without prophylactic ephedrine infusion. Nausea occurred significantly more often if a lower interspace was used for administering the subarachnoid block.
Spinal anesthesia proved to be a safe, reliable, and rapid method of anesthesia for cesarean delivery, but, in view of a high incidence of minor complications, careful patient monitoring during spinal anesthesia is necessary to make the outcome optimal for mother and fetus.
A number of retinoid X receptor (RXR) agonists have proven to be highly effective in preventing methylnitrosourea (MNU) induced mammary cancers. However, these agonists have side effects; particularly causing an increase in serum triglyceride levels. A series of ligands for RXR were designed based on computer modeling to the ligand binding domain (LBD) of the RXR receptors and on structure-activity relationships. The chemopreventive effects of these retinoids were evaluated in the relatively long-term MNU model. As a short-term assay to predict their efficacy, the ability of the retinoids to modulate cell proliferation and apoptosis was also determined in mammary cancers after only 7 days of treatment. The five UAB retinoids evaluated included two Class I UAB retinoids (UAB20, UAB112) and three Class II UAB retinoids (UAB30, 4-methyl-UAB30 and the benzosuberone-analog of UAB30). The previously evaluated RXR agonist targretin and the pan-agonist 9-cis-retinoic acid (9-cis-RA), which interacts with both RAR and RXR receptors, were included as positive agonists known to prevent cancer in the MNU model. In the prevention studies, in which the agents were administered beginning 5 days after MNU until the end of the study, targretin (150 mg/kg diet) and 4-methyl-UAB30 (200 mg/kg diet) were highly effective in decreasing cancer numbers by 75-85%. UAB30 (200 mg/kg diet) and 9-cis-RA (60 mg/kg diet) gave intermediate inhibitions of 60 and 45%, respectively. Targretin (15 mg/kg diet), UAB20 (200 mg/kg diet) and the benzosuberone analog of UAB30 (200 mg/kg diet) showed limited activity by decreasing cancer multiplicity 25-30%, while UAB112 had no effect on mammary cancer multiplicity. A direct correlation was observed between the long-term chemopreventive efficacy of these agents and their ability to decrease cell proliferation in mammary cancers after short-term treatment. Furthermore, the highly effective agents (4-methyl-UAB30 and targretin at 150 mg/kg diet) increased apoptosis 3-5 times, while agents with moderate or limited preventive efficacy failed to significantly increase apoptosis. Although the more effective retinoid treatments increased serum triglycerides 2.5- to 4.0-fold, one moderately effective agent (UAB30) had no significant effect on lipid levels. In summary, a short-term in vivo method has been identified for screening newly synthesized retinoids both for chemopreventive efficacy and for their adverse effect on serum triglycerides.
Lung transplant (LT) recipients often receive dapsone for Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis. However, the prevalence of dapsone-induced hematologic toxicity in LT recipients is unknown. We report a high prevalence of hemolytic anemia (HA) associated with dapsone use in LT patients when compared with other patients described in the literature who have been prescribed dapsone prophylaxis.
We performed a retrospective chart review on all LT recipients who received dapsone prophylaxis between 2004 and 2006. Demographics, ideal body weight (IBW), severity of anemia, transfusion requirements, laboratory evidence of hemolysis, serum creatinine and glucose-6-phosphate deyhdrogenase (G6PD) enzyme levels were collected.
Forty-three patients received dapsone. Ten (22.7%) patients had HA, despite normal G6PD levels. The mean drop in hemoglobin from baseline was 2.7 g/dl (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.9 to 3.5, p < 0.0001). Of those patients with HA, 6 had elevated serum creatinine from baseline. The odds ratio for hemolysis was 4.75 for each 1.0-mg/dl increase in creatinine (95% CI 1.07 to 21.03, p = 0.04). Mean IBW for the HA group was 58.4 kg. A dapsone dose of 100 mg/day orally resulted in a mean dose of 1.7 mg/kg.
The prevalence of dapsone-induced HA in LT recipients is 5-fold higher than the reported rate in the population of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patients. Individuals with renal failure or low body weight and for whom dose exceeds 1.5 mg/kg may be at increased risk for dapsone-induced HA. Although current CDC guidelines do not recommend adjusting dose by IBW or renal function, we suggest that consideration should be given to these dosing strategies.
Bisphenol-A has been extensively evaluated for toxicity in a variety of tests as the most common environmental endocrine disruptor. In the present study, we found that prenatal and neonatal exposure to bisphenol-A affects the development of the central dopaminergic system in the mouse limbic area. Additionally, this treatment with bisphenol-A produced a down-regulation of dopamine D3 receptor and an up-regulation of dopamine D1 receptor function to activate G-protein in the mouse limbic forebrain, which is thought to play a critical role for rewarding effects by drugs of abuse. We next investigated the relationship between the neurobehavioral toxicity and its exposure period. The exposure to bisphenol-A during either organogenesis or lactation, but not implantation and parturition, significantly enhanced the morphine-induced hyperlocomotion and rewarding effect. Furthermore, the exposure to bisphenol-A during either organogenesis or lactation also produced an up-regulation of dopamine D1 receptor function to activate G-protein in the mouse limbic forebrain. These results indicate that either organogenesis or lactation is more sensitive to the bisphenol-A-induced neuronal toxicity than any other periods. In conclusion, we found here that prenatal and neonatal exposure to bisphenol-A can potentiate the central dopaminergic systems, resulting in the supersensitivity of the drugs of abuse-induced rewarding effects and hyperlocomotion in the mouse. Furthermore, the organogenesis and lactation are the most important period to cause the alteration of dopaminergic system by bisphenol-A exposure in the mouse.
