The purpose of this study was to evaluate the renal side-effects of adefovir therapy in kidney-transplant (KT) recipients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, who have become resistant to lamivudine therapy.
11 kidney-transplant (KT) patients (10 men, 1 woman, median age 54 (46 - 67) years) had lamivudine-resistant chronic HBV infection. With respect to HBV markers, all were HBs Ag-positive, 8 were HBe Ag-negative/HBe antibody- (Ab) positive, i.e. precore mutant, and 3 were HBe Ag-positive/HBe Ab-negative. They were all given adefovir at 10 mg/d (3 cases) or 5 mg/d (6 cases) or 2.5 mg/d (2 cases) according to creatinine clearance.
Compared to baseline without adefovir therapy, at last follow-up, adefovir therapy was associated, at 1 and 2 years post therapy, with a significant decrease in aspartate (AST) (28 (17 - 53), 28 (10 - 79) vs. 58 (24 - 1,282) IU/l, p = 0.001), alanine (ALT) (38 (13 - 55), 36 (17 - 92) vs. 72 (31 - 1,594) IU/l, p = 0.0032] aminotransferase levels, and gammaGT (31 (14 - 51), 25 (14 - 196) vs. 44 (25 - 742) IU/l, p = 0.03). With respect to HBV DNA, when compared to baseline, there was a significant decrease at both years 1 and 2 post therapy (p = 0.01). With respect to KT function at 2 years after starting adefovir, there was a significant increase in serum creatinine from 125 (+/- 35) to 141 (+/- 32) micromol/l, (p = 0.02) and a significant increase in 24-h proteinuria. With respect to renal tubular parameters, as compared to baseline without adefovir therapy, one year after adefovir therapy was commenced there was a significant decrease in urinary pH from 6.6 (+0.6) to 5.65 (+/- 0.7); p = 0.03, a significant decrease in bicarbonaturia (from 0.33 +/- 0.7 to 0.1 +/- 0.3 mmol/h, p = 0.01), an increase in urinary excretion of H+ (1.79 (+/- 1.33) to 2.44 (+/- 1.18) mmol/l (p = 0.03)), a significant decrease in phosphatemia (0.82 +/- 0.19 vs. 0.65 +/- 0.13 mmol/l, p = 0.04) and a significant decrease in phosphaturia threshold, a significant decrease in tubular phosphorus reabsorption (75.5 +/- 9.4% vs. 61.8 +/- 16%, p = 0.05), and a significant increase in the phosphorus index of excretion (0.18 +/- 0.114 vs. 0.35 +/- 0.164, p = 0.01).
We have demonstrated that low-dosage adefovir therapy in kidney-transplant patients is relatively safe as far as renal parameters are concerned, even though we observed a slight impairment of renal proximal-tubular function.
The glomerular podocyte plays a key role in maintaining the integrity of the glomerular filtration barrier. This function may be regulated by activation of cell surface G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR). Studies suggest that podocytes express GPCR that are implicated in the pathogenesis of glomerular diseases. Common to these GPCR systems is activation of phospholipase C through the Gq alpha-subunit (Galpha q). For investigating the role of Galpha q-coupled signaling pathways in promoting renal injury in podocytes, a constitutively active Galpha q subunit (Galpha qQ > L) was expressed in glomerular podocytes using the mouse nephrin promoter. Transgenic (TG) mice demonstrated albuminuria as well as a decrease in both kidney mass and nephron number. By light microscopy, a portion of the TG mice had glomerular abnormalities, including focal to diffuse hypercellularity and segmental sclerosis. Consistent with injury-promoting effects of Galpha qQ > L, there was a significant reduction in podocalyxin mRNA as well as nephrin mRNA and protein levels in glomeruli from TG mice compared with non-TG controls. Expression of the transgene also seemed to increase susceptibility to glomerular injury, because treatment with puromycin aminonucleoside enhanced proteinuria in TG mice compared with non-TG littermate controls (4.2 +/- 1.0 [TG] versus 1.6 +/- 0.3 [non-TG] mg/24 h; P = 0.0161). Thus, activation of Galpha q in glomerular podocytes caused alterations in glomerular histomorphology, albuminuria, decreased nephron mass, and reduced glomerular expression of both nephrin and podocalyxin as well as enhanced susceptibility to glomerular damage induced by puromycin aminonucleoside. It is speculated that Galpha q-coupled signaling cascades may be important effector pathways mediating renal injury.
Systemic inflammatory response syndrome is a fatal disease because of multiple organ failure. Acute kidney injury is a serious complication of systemic inflammatory response syndrome and its genesis is still unclear posing a difficulty for an effective treatment. Aldose reductase (AR) inhibitor is recently found to suppress lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cardiac failure and its lethality. We studied the effects of AR inhibitor on LPS-induced acute kidney injury and its mechanism.
Mice were injected with LPS and the effects of AR inhibitor (Fidarestat 32 mg/kg) before or after LPS injection were examined for the mortality, severity of renal failure and kidney pathology. Serum concentrations of cytokines (interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and tumor necrosis factor-α) and their mRNA expressions in the lung, liver, spleen and kidney were measured. We also evaluated polyol metabolites in the kidney.
Mortality rate within 72 hours was significantly less in LPS-injected mice treated with AR inhibitor both before (29%) and after LPS injection (40%) than untreated mice (90%). LPS-injected mice showed marked increases in blood urea nitrogen, creatinine and cytokines, and AR inhibitor treatment suppressed the changes. LPS-induced acute kidney injury was associated with vacuolar degeneration and apoptosis of renal tubular cells as well as infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages. With improvement of such pathological findings, AR inhibitor treatment suppressed the elevation of cytokine mRNA levels in multiple organs and renal sorbitol accumulation.
AR inhibitor treatment ameliorated LPS-induced acute kidney injury, resulting in the lowered mortality.
Edema and ascites in nephrotic syndrome mainly result from increased Na+ reabsorption along connecting tubules and cortical collecting ducts (CCD). In puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis, increased Na+ reabsorption is associated with increased activity of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) and Na+,K+-ATPase, two targets of aldosterone. Because plasma aldosterone increases in PAN-nephrotic rats, the aldosterone dependence of ENaC activation in PAN nephrosis was investigated. For this purpose, (1) the mechanism of ENaC activation was compared in nephrotic and sodium-depleted rats, and (2) ENaC activity in PAN-nephrotic rats was evaluated in the absence of hyperaldosteronemia. The mechanism of ENaC activation was similar in CCD from nephrotic and sodium-depleted rats, as demonstrated by (1) increased number of active ENaC evaluated by patch clamp, (2) recruitment of ENaC to the apical membrane determined by immunohistochemistry, (3) shift in the electrophoretic profile of gamma-ENaC, and (4) increased abundance of beta-ENaC mRNA. Corticosteroid clamp fully prevented all PAN-induced changes in ENaC but did not alter the development of a full-blown nephrotic syndrome with massive albuminuria, amiloride-sensitive sodium retention, induction of CCD Na+,K+-ATPase, and ascites. It is concluded that in PAN-nephrosis, (1) ENaC activation in CCD is secondary to hyperaldosteronemia, (2) sodium retention and induction of Na+,K+-ATPase in CCD are independent of hyperaldosteronemia, and (3) ENaC is not necessarily limiting for sodium reabsorption in the distal nephron.
Early Alzheimer's disease (EAD) is the intermediary stage between mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and late-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). The symptoms of EAD mirror the disease advancement between the two phases. Dementia, memory deficits, and cognitive decline are more pronounced as the disease progresses. Oxidative stress in brain is reported in MCI and AD, including lipid peroxidation indexed by protein-bound 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE). There are limited data regarding the proteomics analysis of brain from subjects with EAD and even less concerning the possible relationship of EAD HNE-modified brain proteins with HNE-modified proteins in MCI and AD. Proteomics was utilized to investigate excessively HNE-bound brain proteins in EAD compared to those in control. These new results provide potentially valuable insight into connecting HNE-bound brain proteins in EAD to those previously identified in MCI and AD, since EAD is a transitional stage between MCI and late-stage AD. In total, six proteins were found to be excessively covalently bound by HNE in EAD inferior parietal lobule (IPL) compared to age-related control brain. These proteins play roles in antioxidant defense (manganese superoxide dismutase), neuronal communication and neurite outgrowth (dihydropyriminidase-related protein 2), and energy metabolism (alpha-enolase, malate dehydrogenase, triosephosphate isomerase, and F1 ATPase, alpha subunit). This study shows that there is an overlap of brain proteins in EAD with previously identified oxidatively modified proteins in MCI and late-stage AD. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that oxidative stress, in particular lipid peroxidation, is an early event in the progression of AD, and is the first to identify in EAD identical brain proteins previously identified as HNE-modified in MCI and late-state AD.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers have been shown to relieve persistent pain; however, the mechanism is not clearly understood. Superoxide produced from mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation is considered the major source of ROS in neurons during excitation where mitochondrial superoxide levels are normally controlled by superoxide dismutase (SOD-2). The present study hypothesizes that capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia is a consequence of superoxide build-up in spinal dorsal horn neurons and SOD-2 is a major determinant. To test this hypothesis, the spinal levels of SOD-2 activity, inactivated SOD-2 proteins, and mitochondrial superoxide were measured and correlated to the levels of capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia in mice with and without SOD-2 manipulations. The data suggest that superoxide accumulation is a culprit in the abnormal sensory processing in the spinal cord in capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia. Our studies also support the notion that SOD-2 nitration is a critical mechanism that maintains elevated superoxide levels in the spinal cord after capsaicin treatment. Finally, our findings suggest a therapeutic potential for the manipulation of spinal SOD-2 activity in pain conditions.
Rabdosia trichocarpa is used in a popular home-made remedy for gastric and stomachic complaints in Japan. A diterpene, trichorabdal A from R. trichocarpa, showed a very strong in vitro antibacterial activity against Helicobacter pylori. With regard to the antibacterial activity of the extract and constituents of R. trichocarpa against H. pylori, the effect of traditional use of this plant for the treatment of gastritis is probably due to the suppression of H. pylori since the extract of R. trichocarpa particularly inhibits the growth of H. pylori. It could be a promising native herb treatment for patients with gastric complaints including gastric ulcer caused by H. pylori.
Valproate (VPA) induces postural tremor in 6-45% of patients. The characteristics of VPA-induced tremor have not yet been quantitatively assessed, and it is not known whether tremor prevalence or severity is affected by VPA formulation (controlled-release CR-VPA vs. conventional VPA). The aim of this study was quantitatively to assess tremor in epilepsy patients receiving VPA and to compare the effects of two VPA formulations (CR-VPA vs. VPA) on tremor severity.
In a prospective study, 18 consecutive patients with newly diagnosed focal or generalized epilepsy were assigned to receive alternately either VPA (n=10) or CR-VPA (n=8) monotherapy. Computerized tremor analysis was performed at baseline 1 day before initiating VPA treatment and repeated after a seizure-free period of >or=8 weeks, during which VPA doses had remained stable. Rest and postural tremor were recorded by accelerometry, and surface electromyograms (EMGs) were recorded from the wrist flexors and extensors.
At baseline, the two groups had similar postural tremor amplitudes. At follow-up, the CR-VPA group had remained at the same level, whereas VPA subjects exhibited a significant increase in tremor amplitudes (p<0.05) despite comparable VPA doses and comparable plasma VPA concentrations at the time of tremor testing.
This is the first study to assess quantitatively VPA-induced tremor by standardized tremor analysis. These results suggest that CR-VPA may cause less tremorigenic activity as compared with standard VPA. The mechanisms underlying this difference are unclear but may include greater peak-trough variation with VPA than with CR-VPA.
Epomediol (EPO) is a synthetic terpenoid compound shown to be active in increasing bile flow and some enzymatic activities of liver plasma membranes in the rat. The possible effect of EPO treatment in the ethinyl-estradiol (EE) induced cholestasis in the rat was investigated by measuring the hepatic transport of sulfobromophthalein (BSP) (plasma clearance and biliary secretion) and bile flow. Liver plasma membrane fluidity was also determined by the steady state fluorescence polarization (P) of diphenylhexatriene (DPH). EE administration (5 mg/kg s.c. for 5 days) was followed by a significant, comparable reduction (P less than 0.001) in BSP plasma clearance and biliary excretion and in bile flow. Intraperitoneal administration of EPO (100 mg/kg) to EE-treated rats restored both parameters of BSP transport, as well as bile flow, to control values. Liver plasma membrane fluidity was markedly (P less than 0.01) decreased by EE administration with a concomitant reduction (P less than 0.01) in Na+/K+-ATPase activity. EPO administration significantly increased membrane fluidity to values higher either to cholestatic (P less than 0.05) or control (P less than 0.05) animals. On the contrary, EPO did not influence Na+/K+-ATPase activity in either EE-treated or control animals. These data indicate that EPO fully reverses the impairments of BSP transport and bile flow induced by EE, possibly by reversing the decrease in liver plasma membrane fluidity induced by the synthetic estrogen. On the contrary, the EE-mediated decrease in Na+/K+-ATPase activity was not reversed by EPO.
In the pursuit of gains in muscle size and strength, body-builders may mistakenly use illicit drugs believing them to be anabolic steroids. The case described illustrates the physical and psychological dangers of such behaviour.
Raloxifene (CAS 84449-90-1, RAL), a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) effective for the prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis, also has been shown to acutely stimulate nitric oxide (NO) synthesis associated with improved endothelium-dependent relaxation. The effect of a 3-month RAL treatment (10 mg/kg/d) on basal blood pressure, measured via the carotid artery, and its challenge with increasing doses of intravenous bradykinin (1, 3 and 10 nmol/kg) was investigated. Furthermore, aortic NO bioavailability and relaxation in 9-month-old male and female ovarectomized (OVX) spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) was tested. Calcium ionophore stimulated NO release from aortic endothelial cells and aortic superoxide (O2-) production was directly assessed by using electrochemical nanosensors. Relaxation studies were performed with acetylcholine (10(-8) to 10(-5) mol/L) following precontraction with phenylephrine (10(-7) mmol/L). Whereas basal blood pressure (BP) was not significantly decreased in RAL treated SHR, the dose-dependent challenge with bradykinin induced an enhanced BP reduction in either gender. In contrast to female animals, aortic segments from RAL treated male animals showed significantly improved relaxaSHR) to 360 +/- 15 nmol/L. Vice versa, O2- was decreased from 110 +/- 15 to 22 +/- 1 nmol/L. In female SHR, ovarectomy led to an increase/decrease of NO/O2- from 130 +/- 5 to 180 +/- 10 nmol/L and 82 +/- 7 to 68 +/- 3 nmol/L, respectively. These effects were significantly amplified by RAL treatment (NO: 370 +/- 10 and O2-: 25 +/- 2 nmol/L). The results show that long-term treatment with RAL has beneficial affects on the cardiovascular system in old male and female OVX SHR via an increased NO bioavailability.
Lipid signaling pathways are involved in cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis, and could have a role in the progression of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) into acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Indeed, recent studies showed that phosphoinositide-phospholipase (PI-PL)Cbeta1 mono-allelic deletion correlates with a higher risk of AML evolution. Also, a single patient treated with azacitidine, a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor currently used in MDS, displayed a direct correlation between PI-PLCbeta1 gene expression and drug responsiveness. Consequently, we hypothesized that PI-PLCbeta1 could be a target for demethylating therapy. First, we analyzed the structure of PI-PLCbeta1 gene promoter, then quantified the degree of PI-PLCbeta1 promoter methylation and gene expression in MDS patients at baseline and during azacitidine administration. Indeed, PI-PLCbeta1 mRNA increased in responder patients, along with a reduction of PI-PLCbeta1 promoter methylation. Also, the molecular response correlated to and anticipated the clinical outcome, thus suggesting that PI-PLCbeta1 gene reactivation could predict azacitidine responsiveness. Our results demonstrate not only that PI-PLCbeta1 promoter is hypermethylated in high-risk MDS patients, but also that the amount of PI-PLCbeta1 mRNA could predict the clinical response to azacitidine, therefore indicating a promising new therapeutic approach.
The effect of melatonin (MEL) on the nephropathy and the oxidative stress induced by a single and high dose of Adriamycin (AD) has been studied in Wistar male rats. MEL (50 microg/kg/day) was injected intraperitoneally 3 and 7 days, respectively, before and after AD injection (20 mg/kg i.p.). Trunk blood was drawn and triglycerides, total cholesterol, phospholipids, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, urea, creatinine, total protein, lipoperoxides, and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and catalase activity (CAT) were determined in serum. In kidney homogenates, lipoperoxides, GSH, and CAT were measured as well as total protein in urine. AD administration resulted in hyperlipidemia and high-grade proteinuria and a marked increase in serum lipoperoxides, urea, and creatinine. In the kidney, the increase in lipoperoxides was accompanied by a significant decrease of GSH and CAT. The efficiency of MEL was specially remarkable in restoring GSH, CAT, and proteinuria to the levels of controls. These results confirm the involvement of free radicals in the pathogenesis of nephrotoxicity induced by AD. Likewise, they show the high antioxidative power of MEL and its marked effect on the prevention and suppression of this nephropathy.
A recent hypothesis for cancer chemoresistance posits that cytotoxic survival of a subpopulation of tumor progenitors drives the propagation of recurrent disease, underscoring the need for new therapeutics that target such primitive cells. To discover such novel compounds active against drug-resistant ovarian cancer, we identified a subset of chemoresistant ovarian tumor cells fulfilling current definitions of cancer-initiating cells from cell lines and patient tumors using multiple stemness phenotypes, including the expression of stem cell markers, membrane dye efflux, sphere formation, potent tumorigenicity, and serial tumor propagation. We then subjected such stem-like ovarian tumor-initiating cells (OTIC) to high-throughput drug screening using more than 1,200 clinically approved drugs. Of 61 potential compounds preliminarily identified, more stringent assessments showed that the antihelmintic niclosamide selectively targets OTICs in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression arrays following OTIC treatment revealed niclosamide to disrupt multiple metabolic pathways affecting biogenetics, biogenesis, and redox regulation. These studies support niclosamide as a promising therapy for ovarian cancer and warrant further preclinical and clinical evaluation of this safe, clinically proven drug for the management of this devastating gynecologic malignancy.
Interferon alfa-2b (Intron A; Schering Plough) has been shown to be active in advanced previously treated multiple myeloma (MM). Recent in vitro evidence has suggested synergy between cytotoxic agents and interferon alfa-2b. This phase I-II protocol was initiated to study interferon alfa-2b in combination with melphalan and prednisone. Groups of five patients received interferon alfa-2b twice-weekly for two weeks at dose levels of 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0 and 10.0 X 10(6) IU/m2. During week 2, melphalan (9 mg/m2) and prednisone (40 mg/m2) were administered concurrently with interferon alfa-2b followed by a rest period during nadir myelosuppression, the cycles being repeated every 28 days. Thirty patients were entered of whom 21 were Stage III, 3 Stage II and 6 Stage I. Median nadir WBC/mm3 and platelets/mm3 at the various dose levels are given in the table. Serious adverse reactions while on study included myocardial infarction, renal failure and leukopenia-related sepsis. Early response information is available. Twenty-six patients are evaluable for response. Seven have had progressive disease and 19 (69%) a partial response, the median duration was 11+ months. Interferon alfa-2b does not appear to antagonize melphalan/prednisone effectiveness and may be additive or synergistic. Full evaluation of this combination will be undertaken in randomized controlled trials which are now underway.
Zhigancao injection can antagonise the arrhythmia induced by chloroform, adrenaline, aconitine, strophanthine K and barium chloride, slow the heart rate, prolong P-R and Q-T intervals and antagonise the positive chronotropic response induced by isoprenaline. The LD50 of zhigancao injection is 41.2g/kg in nice by intraperitoneal.
Increasing evidence supports a possible role for nitric oxide (NO) in the transmission of pain signals and in the development of central mechanisms of hyperalgesia. Previously, we have shown that nitroglycerin, an NO donor, is able to induce a long-lasting hyperalgesic state in rats. Nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia can be detected as an increase in the nociceptive behavior evoked by the formalin test. In the present study we investigated the possible mediators in the nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesic state. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with nitroglycerin and pretreated with indomethacin, 5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclo-hepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK-801) or N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). The results obtained showed that inhibition of prostaglandins or NO synthesis prevents nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia in Phase II of the formalin test. A similar inhibitory effect was also observed following pretreatment with the glutamate antagonist MK801. The present findings point to the role of prostaglandins, NO synthesis and glutamate activity in the induction of nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia.
Resistance to chemotherapy is a major cause of mortality in advanced cancer patients. In this study, digital karyotyping was used to search for genomic alterations in liver metastases that were clinically resistant to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). In two of four patients, we identified amplification of an approximately 100-kb region on 18p11.32 that was of particular interest because it contained the gene encoding thymidylate synthase (TYMS), a molecular target of 5-FU. Analysis of TYMS by fluorescence in situ hybridization identified TYMS gene amplification in 23% of 31 5-FU-treated cancers, whereas no amplification was observed in metastases of patients that had not been treated with 5-FU. Patients with metastases containing TYMS amplification had a substantially shorter median survival (329 days) than those without amplification (1,021 days, P <0.01). These data suggest that genetic amplification of TYMS is a major mechanism of 5-FU resistance in vivo and have important implications for the management of colorectal cancer patients with recurrent disease.
A 69-year-old man, who had undergone an aortic-valve replacement for aortic regurgitation and aortoplasty for an aortic aneurysm with re-implantation of the coronary arteries, was given flecainide 100 mg twice daily during the rehabilitation period because of atrial fibrillation and multiple ventricular extrasystoles (Lown 4b). Within a few days he developed a severe depressive psychosis with delusions and acoustic hallucinations which failed to respond to psychoactive drugs. After admission to a psychiatric hospital the anti-arrhythmia drugs were discontinued, drug-induced exogenous psychosis having been diagnosed. A few days later all psychiatric symptoms disappeared without any further complications. Other possible causes of the psychiatric syndrome were excluded.
A retrospective analysis was performed on the medical charts of 160 cancer patients who received esorubicin (ESO or 4'deoxydoxorubicin) in a Phase I clinical trial. The purpose of the review was to characterize the incidence of local venous reactions to this investigational doxorubicin (DOX) analog. The impact of prophylactic pretreatments of post-treatment using antihistamines and glucocorticosteroids was also assessed. There were 58 episodes of local reactions to ESO injections (14.3%). These reactions were characterized by local swelling, itching and erythema. Like DOX-induced venous reactions, ESO complications resolved spontaneously after several hours and did not predispose patients to skin ulceration or subsequent general hypersensitivity reactions. Indeed, ESO reactions were more common with initial treatments at low drug doses of only 10-15 mg/M2 (p less than .05 by Chi-square analysis). One case of ESO extravasation (about 5mg) was successfully managed with topical cooling. The use of antihistamines and corticosteroids was ineffective at preventing local reactions. However, when these drugs were administered after a reaction had ensued, symptoms were lessened significantly in half of the patients treated (p less than .05). The results of this review suggest that ESO causes a four-fold greater incidence of local venous reactions than with the parent DOX.
Anthracyclines and taxanes are often used as first-line chemotherapy treatments in patients with breast cancer. There are, however, significant toxicity and side effects associated with these therapies. Previous studies have demonstrated that active hexose-correlated compound (AHCC) reduces such side effects. The present study explored the beneficial effects of AHCC on adverse events in patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer.
Forty-one women who were treated with anthracyclines and taxanes at Nagumo Clinic in Tokyo from October 2004 to March 2011 were selected for this study.
We compared the occurrence of adverse events in patients who received AHCC with those who did not receive AHCC. Using Fisher's exact tests, we also compared the worst-grade adverse events in each treatment cycle. Generalized estimating equations were employed to compare longitudinal changes, and the use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, in the two groups was analyzed using Student's t-test.
We found that, compared to the control group, the AHCC group had significantly fewer neutrophil-related events (odds ratio, 0.30; p=0.016), significantly lower use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and a higher (although not significant) rate of adverse events associated with γ-glutamyl transpeptidase.
AHCC has the potential to reduce the severity of neutropenia induced by breast cancer chemotherapy and the use of G-CSF during chemotherapy.
According to the CAO/ARO/AIO-94 trial of the German Rectal Cancer Study Group, preoperative combined fluorouracil (FU) -based long-term chemoradiotherapy (CT/RT) is recommended for patients with International Union Against Cancer (UICC) stage II/III rectal cancer. However, despite the local benefit of neoadjuvant treatment, the overall prognostic value remains uncertain in comparison with adjuvant CT/RT. Furthermore, the prognostic value of molecular biomarkers, such as thymidylate synthase (TS), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), all of which are involved in the FU metabolism, is unknown in neoadjuvant settings. We assessed the impact of standardized preoperative CT/RT and intratumoral TS, TP, and DPD levels on patient outcome.
Forty patients with rectal cancer pretherapeutic UICC stage II/III, receiving preoperative FU-based CT/RT (CAO/ARO/AIO-94 trial) followed by standardized surgery, including total mesorectal excision, were investigated. Downsizing, downstaging, tumor regression, as well as TS, TP, and DPD gene expression of post-treatment surgical specimens were correlated with disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS).
Significant downsizing (P < .001) and downstaging (P = .001) were achieved with preoperative CT/RT. During a median follow-up of 49 months (95% CI, 43 to 58 months), the cancer recurrence rate was 28.2%. DFS and OS were significantly increased in patients with downstaging (P < .001 and P = .003, respectively), compared with patients without downstaging. All patients who developed cancer recurrence had a persistent positive lymph node status after preoperative CT/RT (P < .001) and a significantly higher TS gene expression (P = .035) compared with those patients without recurrence.
Persistent positive lymph node status and high intratumoral TS expression after preoperative CT/RT are predictive of an unfavorable prognosis in rectal cancer UICC stage II/III.
In patients with hypertension, beta blockade decreases muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA; micrographic technique) expressed in burst frequency (burst/min) but does not affect MSNA expressed in burst incidence (burst/100 heart beats), because reductions in blood pressure (BP) upon each diastole continue to deactivate the arterial baroreceptors, but at a slower heart rate (HR). We studied the effects of oral beta blockade on MSNA and baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) in normal participants. Bisoprolol (5 mg, 1 week) was administered in 10 healthy young adults, using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized cross-over study design. The beat-to-beat mean RR interval (RR) and systolic blood pressure (SBP) series were analyzed by power spectral analysis and power computation over the very low frequency (VLF), low frequency, and high frequency (HF) bands. Baroreflex sensitivity was computed from SBP and RR cross-analysis, using time and frequency domain methods. Bisoprolol increased RR (P < .0005), decreased mean SBP and diastolic blood pressure values (P < .01), did not change the SBP and RR powers, except for RR power in VLF (P < .02) and SBP power in HF (P < .03). The MSNA variability (P > .13) and respiratory pattern (P = .84) did not change from placebo to bisoprolol condition. The bisoprolol-induced bradycardia was associated with higher burst/100 heart beats (P < .05) and bisoprolol did not affect burst/min (P = .80). Time domain BRS estimates were increased after bisoprolol (P < .05), while frequency domain ones did not change (P > .1). Oral bisoprolol induces differential effects on sympathetic burst frequency and incidence in normal participants. Peripheral sympathetic outflow over time is preserved as a result of an increased burst incidence, in the presence of a slower HR. Unchanged BP and HR and MSNA variability suggests that the larger burst incidence is not due to sympathetic activation.
The antiarrhythmic agent flecainide acetate was resolved by fractional crystallization of its diastereomeric alpha-bromocamphor-pi-sulfonate salts. Optical purity of the two enantiomers was shown to be greater than 99% by an NMR technique using the chiral shift reagent Eu(hfbc)3. Antiarrhythmic effects of flecainide and its enantiomers were assessed in two different animal models, chloroform-induced ventricular fibrillation in mice and ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia in dogs. The two enantiomers were highly effective in suppressing both of these experimental arrhythmias and appeared to be essentially equipotent. No significant differences were found either between the two enantiomers or between the enantiomers and racemic flecainide.
The majority of lung carcinoma cases occur in current or former smokers. K-ras gene mutations are common in lung adenocarcinoma and have been associated with cigarette smoking, asbestos exposure, and female gender.
In the current study, the authors examined the contribution of cigarette smoking to K-ras gene mutations in patients with primary lung adenocarcinoma. Smoking histories were obtained from 106 prospectively enrolled patients with primary adenocarcinoma of the lung.
K-ras mutations were detected in the primary tumor using an allele-specific ligation assay. Ninety-two of the 106 patients (87%) with lung adenocarcinoma were smokers. Nonsmokers with this tumor were more likely to be women (11 of 14; 79%), whereas the majority of smokers (57%) were men. K-ras mutations were detected in 40 of 106 tumors (38%) and were significantly more common in smokers compared with nonsmokers (43% vs. 0%; P = 0.001).
The results of the current study confirm and extend previous observations that smokers with adenocarcinoma of the lung are more likely to have K-ras mutant tumors compared with nonsmokers. The strong link between cigarette smoking and K-ras mutations in adenocarcinoma of the lung supports the role of specific tobacco carcinogens in the etiology of this malignancy.
Over 170 mutations in superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a lethal motor neuron disease. Although the molecular properties of SOD1 mutants differ considerably, we have recently shown that intracellular copper dyshomeostasis is a common pathogenic feature of different SOD1 mutants. Thus, the potentiation of endogenous copper regulation could be a therapeutic strategy. In this study, we investigated the effects of the overexpression of metallothionein-I (MT-I), a major copper-regulating protein, on the disease course of a mouse model of ALS (SOD1(G93A)). Using double transgenic techniques, we found that the overexpression of MT-I in SOD1(G93A) mice significantly extended the lifespan and slowed disease progression, but the effects on disease onset were modest. Genetically induced MT-I normalized copper dyshomeostasis in the spinal cord without influencing SOD1 enzymatic activity. The overexpression of MT-I in SOD1(G93A) mice markedly attenuated the pathological features of the mice, including the death of motor neurons, the degeneration of ventral root axons, the atrophy of skeletal muscles, and the activation of glial cells. Double transgenic mice also showed a decreased level of SOD1 aggregates within the glial cells of the spinal cord. Furthermore, the overexpression of MT-I in SOD1(G93A) mice reduced the number of spheroid-shaped astrocytes cleaved by active caspase-3. We concluded that therapeutic strategies aimed at the potentiation of copper regulation by MT-I could be of benefit in cases of ALS caused by SOD1 mutations.
Carbonyl stress is implicated in accelerated vascular disease, but little is known about the factors that control the reactions of carbonyls with proteins. Acrolein is a reactive carbonyl generated by the oxidation of lipids and amino acids. It also forms during cigarette smoking. We therefore investigated the possibility that acrolein might react with apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), the major protein of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), which plays a critical role in mobilizing cholesterol from artery wall macrophages. Tandem mass spectrometric analysis demonstrated that lysine residues were the only amino acids in apoA-I that were modified by acrolein. Immunohistochemical studies with a monoclonal antibody revealed that acrolein adducts colocalized with apoA-I in human atherosclerotic lesions. Moreover, the ability of apoA-I to remove cholesterol from cultured cells was impaired after exposure to acrolein, suggesting that the carbonyl might interfere with apoA-I's normal function of promoting cholesterol efflux from artery wall cells. Our observations suggest that acrolein may interfere with normal HDL cholesterol transport by modifying apoA-I. This structural damage might play a critical role in atherogenesis by impairing cholesterol removal from artery wall cells.
Lazabemide (Ro 19-6327) is a relatively short-acting, reversible, and selective type B monoamine oxidase inhibitor that is not metabolized to amphetamines or other active compounds. We previously found lazabemide to be safe and well tolerated at dosages of up to 400 mg/day during a 6-week study of 201 patients with early untreated Parkinson's disease (PD). We now assess whether or not lazabemide influences the progression of disability in untreated PD. Patients (N = 321) were assigned by randomization to one of five treatment groups (placebo, 25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg, or 200 mg/day) and followed systematically for up to 1 year. The risk of reaching the primary end point (the onset of disability sufficient to require levodopa therapy) was reduced by 51% for the patients who received lazabemide compared with placebo-treated subjects. This effect was consistent among all dosages. The frequency of adverse experiences did not differ among the treatment groups. At dosages ranging from 25 to 200 mg/day, lazabemide was well tolerated and delayed the need for levodopa in early, otherwise untreated PD. The magnitude and pattern of benefits were similar to those observed after 1 year of deprenyl (selegiline) treatment in the DATATOP clinical trial.
