We present a case of sotalol-induced prolongation of the QT-interval with torsades de pointes in an octogenarian who was hospitalized because of gastroenteritis causing prerenal acute renal failure. Subsequent accumulation of sotalol caused a severe prolongation of the QT-interval on the surface ECG and ultimately torsades de pointes with loss of consciousness. The patient was successfully treated with temporary cardiac pacing, intravenous magnesium sulfate and definitive withdrawal of sotalol. The electrophysiological basis of the pro-arrhythmic properties of sotalol is reviewed in brief, additional risk factors are identified and treatment is outlined.
The chemical uncoupler 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) was an effective and widely used weight loss drug in the early 1930s. However, the physiology of DNP has not been studied in detail because toxicity, including hyperthermia and death, reduced interest in the clinical use of chemical uncouplers. To investigate DNP action, mice fed a high fat diet and housed at 30 °C (to minimize facultative thermogenesis) were treated with 800 mg/liter DNP in drinking water. DNP treatment increased energy expenditure by ∼ 17%, but did not change food intake. DNP-treated mice weighed 26% less than controls after 2 months of treatment due to decreased fat mass, without a change in lean mass. DNP improved glucose tolerance and reduced hepatic steatosis without observed toxicity. DNP treatment also reduced circulating T3 and T4 levels, Ucp1 expression, and brown adipose tissue activity, demonstrating that DNP-mediated heat generation substituted for brown adipose tissue thermogenesis. At 22 °C, a typical vivarium temperature that is below thermoneutrality, DNP treatment had no effect on body weight, adiposity, or glucose homeostasis. Thus, environmental temperature should be considered when assessing an anti-obesity drug in mice, particularly agents acting on energy expenditure. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of DNP suggest that chemical uncouplers deserve further investigation for the treatment of obesity and its comorbidities.
The effect of long-term timolol treatment on heart size after myocardial infarction was evaluated by X-ray in a double-blind study including 241 patients (placebo 126, timolol 115). The follow-up period was 12 months. The timolol-treated patients showed a small but significant increase in heart size from baseline in contrast to a decrease in the placebo group. These differences may be caused by timolol-induced bradycardia and a compensatory increase in end-diastolic volume. The timolol-related increase in heart size was observed only in patients with normal and borderline heart size. In patients with cardiomegaly, the increase in heart size was similar in both groups. After re-infarction, heart size increased in the placebo group and remained unchanged in the timolol group.
An elderly Japanese woman ingested a massive quantity of phenol in a suicide attempt. She was admitted to the Emergency Department in respiratory arrest and deep coma. Duodenogastritis was evident endoscopically. With the return of spontaneous respiration and consciousness, fine, rapid rhythmic perioral movements developed together with Parkinsonian findings. The abnormal movements were aggravated by administration of a neuroleptic and ameliorated by discontinuing the drug; they disappeared completely by hospital day 15. In addition to neuroleptic drugs, phenol intoxication may cause the rabbit syndrome by inducing cholinergic dominance with relative dopamine hypofunction in the central nervous system.
To detect abnormal regional myocardial coronary flow reserve, serial spin-echo MR tomograms of four control dogs and six with a partial balloon occlusion of the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery were acquired before and after dipyridamole infusion and during the paramagnetic effect of a bolus plus infusion of gadolinium-DTPA. Microsphere myocardial blood flow was measured for correlation with serial regional changes in MR signal intensity. Significant difference in gadolinium-enhanced MR signal intensity existed between the hypoperfused LAD and the hyperemic left circumflex perfusion beds (46 +/- 22% vs 78 +/- 29% above baseline, respectively; P less than 0.05). The percentage changes in gadolinium-enhanced MR signal and microsphere myocardial blood flow were significantly correlated (r2 = 0.93).
Seventy-five patients who developed mild hepatic reactions (serum transaminase concentrations of 45 to 149 units per liter) and 50 patients who showed more serious liver damage (serum transaminase values greater than 150 units per liter) were compared with 261 consecutive patients who had no liver reactions during treatment with rifampin and isoniazid. Generally, liver toxicity occurred in 18 per cent of patients receiving combined anti-tuberculous drug therapy. Small increases in transaminase occurred in 14 per cent of the patients; large increases occurred in 4 per cent. Elderly women comprised a risk group. Among patients exhibiting a more serious hepatic lesion (transaminase values greater than 150 units per liter), alcoholics, mostly men, formed another risk group, together with other patients with a history of previous liver or biliary disease. Of 261 patients who did not develop a liver reaction, 57 per cent were slow INH acetylators. In this study, the groups with small and large increases in transaminase were clearly separated; in the former group there was no preponderance of phenotype, whereas in the latter group, slow acetylators clearly dominated among early (first 4 weeks of treatment) hepatic reactions (P less than 0.01). Studies of single-drug regimens of isoniazid have shown that neither slow nor rapid acetylation has any causal influence on isoniazid-induced hepatitis. Because the metabolism of rifampin is independent of the acetylation process, rifampin and isoniazid in combination seem to cause a toxic hepatitis that differs from the hepatitis induced by either drug separately.
The efficacy of nitrosorbide, corinfar and obsidan in preventing myocardial ischemia, induced by exercise or intravenous dipyridamole, was evaluated in 20 coronary patients. Nitrosorbide was found to be the most effective, and obsidan, the least effective, drug in preventing the steal syndrome. It is suggested that the efficiency of anti-anginal drugs is based on their effect on coronary flow control as well as hemodynamic determinants of myocardial oxygen requirements. The dipyridamole test can be used for the assessment of the effects of antianginal agents.
The effect of high doses of chenodeoxycholic and ursodeoxycholic acids on hepatic morphology and on cholesterol and bile acid metabolism was examined in the rat. After 2 weeks of either cheno or ursodeoxycholic acid feeding, the livers of the treated rats revealed marked proliferation of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum which appeared as an adaptation phenomenon of the microsomal enzyme system in response to bile acid intake. However, the livers of the chenodeoxycholic acid-treated rats showed early alteration that included mild triaditis, swelling of the bile canalicular microvilli, distended Golgi vesicles, whorling of the mitochondria, and presence of large vacuoles bound by single membranes. During cheno- or ursodeoxycholic acid treatment, the administered bile acid predominated in the bile and amounted to 79 or 67% of the biliary bile acids, respectively. At the same time, the concentration of the muricholic acids was also increased. Biliary cholic acid content dropped significantly, but no change in lithocholic acid concentration was observed. In addition, the activity of HMG-CoA reductase as well as that of cholesterol-7 alpha-hydroxylase was reduced by either of the administered bile acids, while no change in hepatic cholesterol content was detected, and intestinal cholesterol absorption was not significantly different from that of controls. These results show that cheno- and ursodeoxycholic acids inhibited hepatic cholesterol and bile acid synthesis but did not increase either intestinal cholesterol absorption or hepatic microsomal cholesterol content. Since the amounts of biliary lithocholic acid were similar in the bile acid-treated animals, the morphologic abnormalities detected in the chenodeoxycholic acid-fed rats are probably due to an increased pool of chenodeoxycholic acid. However, lithocholic acid-induced liver injury cannot be excluded.
The incidence of vincristine-induced neuropathy was studied in 60 unselected patients, of whom 23 had lymphoma and 37 had other malignant disease. All were treated with vincristine combined with other cytotoxic agents. Fourteen of the patients with lymphoma (61%) developed neuropathy compared with five patients with leukaemia or non-lymphoid cancer (14%), even though all patients received comparable doses of vincristine. The difference between the two groups in the incidence of neuropathy was highly significant. Of the patients who developed neuropathy, 17 did so within the first three months of treatment and seven in the first month. Patients with lymphoma who are receiving vincristine should be observed carfully for symptoms and signs of neuropathy. Vincristine should be withdrawn if progressive neurotoxicity develops.
We investigated the effects of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (temocapril) and an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (olmesartan) on changes in myocardial sympathetic nervous activity, fatty acid metabolism and myocardial blood flow using 131I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine, 125I-beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid and 99mTc-tetrofosmin, respectively, in rats with isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent isoproterenol administration (3 mg/kg per day) for 1 week by osmotic mini-pump. The hearts were excised and analyzed for the uptake of meta-iodobenzylguanidine. Beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid and tetrofosmin in 11 segments in four groups; sham group (saline), isoproterenol group (isoproterenol alone), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor group (isoproterenol and temocapril), and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker group (isoproterenol and olmesartan). Isoproterenol significantly increased the heart weight compared with the sham group, whereas it was significantly blunted in the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker groups. The ratio of the percent kilogram dose per gram of meta-iodobenzylguanidine to tetrofosmin, an index of myocardial sympathetic nervous activity, was significantly decreased in the isoproterenol group (0.18 +/- 0.01) compared with the sham group (0.41 +/- 0.03). Importantly, these changes were significantly improved in the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (0.28 +/- 0.01) and the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker groups (0.32 +/- 0.01). The ratio of the percent kilogram dose per gram of beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid to tetrofosmin, an index of myocardial fatty acid metabolism, was significantly decreased in the isoproterenol group (1.30 +/- 0.03) compared with the sham group (1.60 +/- 0.10). In contrast, there were no significant differences in beta-methyl-iodophenyl pentadecanoic acid to tetrofosmin ratios between the sham and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor groups, or the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker group. Cardiac hypertrophy induced by chronic beta-adrenergic stimulation is accompanied by impairment of sympathetic nervous activity and fatty acid metabolism. These abnormalities are effectively prevented by the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker.
To respond to potential adverse exposures properly, health care providers need accurate indicators of exposure levels. The indicators are particularly important in the case of acetaminophen (APAP) intoxication, the leading cause of liver failure in the U.S. We hypothesized that gene expression patterns derived from blood cells would provide useful indicators of acute exposure levels. To test this hypothesis, we used a blood gene expression data set from rats exposed to APAP to train classifiers in two prediction algorithms and to extract patterns for prediction using a profiling algorithm. Prediction accuracy was tested on a blinded, independent rat blood test data set and ranged from 88.9% to 95.8%. Genomic markers outperformed predictions based on traditional clinical parameters. The expression profiles of the predictor genes from the patterns extracted from the blood exhibited remarkable (97% accuracy) transtissue APAP exposure prediction when liver gene expression data were used as a test set. Analysis of human samples revealed separation of APAP-intoxicated patients from control individuals based on blood expression levels of human orthologs of the rat discriminatory genes. The major biological signal in the discriminating genes was activation of an inflammatory response after exposure to toxic doses of APAP. These results support the hypothesis that gene expression data from peripheral blood cells can provide valuable information about exposure levels, well before liver damage is detected by classical parameters. It also supports the potential use of genomic markers in the blood as surrogates for clinical markers of potential acute liver damage.
Previous studies have shown that tachycardia induced by intravenous injection of bromocriptine, which persisted after adrenalectomy, was mediated by central dopamine D2 receptor stimulation. Such stimulation could activate central sympathetic outflow to the heart. To test this hypothesis, we investigated whether pretreatment with isoproterenol, known to induce cardiac beta-adrenoceptor desensitization, could reduce bromocriptine-induced tachycardia. A 5 day pretreatment with isoproterenol (5 mg/kg/day) induced a 21% increase in the ratio of ventricular dry weight to body weight, compared with saline-pretreated rats. In isolated perfused heart preparations from isoproterenol-pretreated rats, the isoproterenol-induced increase in left ventricular systolic pressure and heart rate was significantly reduced, compared with saline-pretreated rats (the isoproterenol concentration producing 50% of the maximal positive inotropic and chronotropic responses was increased approximately 5- and 4-fold, respectively). In conscious control rats, intravenous injection of bromocriptine (50, 150 and 250 micrograms/kg) decreased mean aortic pressure and increased heart rate in a dose-related manner. Pretreatment with isoproterenol for 5 days reduced bromocriptine-induced tachycardia without affecting hypotension. Cardiac autonomic tone remained of the same order of magnitude irrespective of whether the animal was pretreated with isoproterenol. These results indicate that isoproterenol pretreatment reduces bromocriptine-induced tachycardia mainly through desensitization of cardiac beta-adrenoceptors rather than via an impairment of autonomic regulation of the heart. This supports the hypothesis that bromocriptine-induced activation of central dopamine D2 receptors increases heart rate via activation of central sympathetic outflow to the heart.
We sought to examine the utility of serum albumin measurement in staging AIDS and monitoring patients' response to therapy.
The possible importance of serum albumin measurement in assessing AIDS stage and in monitoring the response to highly active antiretroviral therapy using CD4 cell count and body weight as parameters was examined in 185 consecutive HIV-infected, therapy-naïve individuals who were recruited for antiretroviral therapy at the university of Ilorin Teaching Hospital. The regimen included lamivudine, stavudine and nevirapine. The diagnosis of AIDS was established through a combination of clinical features and HIV seropositivity using two different enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay techniques. Serum albumin level was determined by the Bromocresol green method, while the CD4 lymphocyte count was obtained using the Dynal T4 count method. Body weight was measured in kilograms with light clothes on.
There were significant positive correlations between pretreatment albumin and both pretreatment CD4 cell count and pretreatment weight, and between post-treatment albumin and both post-treatment weight and post-treatment CD4 cell count up to a count of 700 cells/microL. There were also significant positive correlations between increase in serum albumin and both increase in body weight and duration of treatment.
We conclude that, in developing countries where many patients may not be able to afford to pay for CD4 cell counts and viral load tests, which are the traditional markers for HIV disease, serum albumin would be a very useful surrogate test for predicting severity of HIV infection and for clinical monitoring of response to antiretroviral therapy.
Long-term intragastric application of the antiepileptic drug sodium valproate (Vupral "Polfa") at the effective dose of 200 mg/kg b. w. once daily to rats for 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months revealed neurological disorders indicating cerebellum damage ("valproate encephalopathy"). The first ultrastructural changes in structural elements of the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) in the cerebellar cortex were detectable after 3 months of the experiment. They became more severe in the later months of the experiment, and were most severe after 12 months, located mainly in the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex. Lesions of the capillary included necrosis of endothelial cells. Organelles of these cells, in particular the mitochondria (increased number and size, distinct degeneration of their matrix and cristae) and Golgi apparatus were altered. Reduced size of capillary lumen and occlusion were caused by swollen endothelial cells which had luminal protrusions and swollen microvilli. Pressure on the vessel wall was produced by enlarged perivascular astrocytic processes. Fragments of necrotic endothelial cells were in the vascular lumens and in these there was loosening and breaking of tight cellular junctions. Damage to the vascular basement lamina was also observed. Damage to the capillary was accompanied by marked damage to neuroglial cells, mainly to perivascular processes of astrocytes. The proliferation of astrocytes (Bergmann's in particular) and occasionally of oligodendrocytes was found. Alterations in the structural elements of the BBB coexisted with marked lesions of neurons of the cerebellum (Purkinje cells are earliest). In electron micrographs both luminal and antiluminal sides of the BBB of the cerebellar cortex had similar lesions. The possible influence of the hepatic damage, mainly hyperammonemia, upon the development of valproate encephalopathy is discussed.
The purpose of this study was to investigate immune-inflammatory markers in schizophrenia and the effects of chronic treatment with clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic agent, on these variables. Toward this end, we measured interleukin-6 (IL-6), soluble IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R) and sIL-2R in the blood of 26 normal controls and 14 schizophrenic patients before and after treatment with clozapine. The sIL-2R and IL-6 levels were significantly higher in younger (< 35 years) schizophrenic subjects than in normal controls and older (> or = 35 years) schizophrenic subjects. The sIL-6R levels were significantly lower in schizophrenic subjects than in normal controls. Chronic treatment with clozapine significantly increased the blood concentration of sIL-2R; the increases in the latter were significantly related to the dose of clozapine but not to changes in severity of positive or negative symptoms. We conclude that: (a) schizophrenia in younger people is accompanied by increased IL-6 and sIL-2R secretion; and (b) subchronic treatment with clozapine increases sIL-2R levels. Increased plasma sIL-2R may be one mechanism by which neuroleptics exhibit their immunosuppressive effects.
Since a combination of surgery and adjuvant high-dose doxorubicin therapy can prolong survival in patients with extremity sarcomas, but at the expense of significant cardiomyopathic changes, we prospectively studied the differences in cardiotoxicity in 118 patients with sarcomas treated with high- vs low-dose doxorubicin therapy following surgery. Cardiac function, as assessed by left ventricular ejection fraction (EF), was determined by standard radionuclide angiography during rest and exercise. No patients in this study developed congestive heart failure. While both regimens produced net decreases in EF during rest and exercise, the high-dose doxorubicin regimen resulted in significantly greater declines in EF than the low-dose protocol. Of patients with normal baseline values, a greater percentage of patients receiving the high-dose regimen developed an abnormal EF than did those receiving the low-dose regimen, even after separating younger from older individuals. Thus, treatment-induced cardiomyopathy appears to be a significant clinical problem after both high- and low-dose doxorubicin therapy. The use of the low-dose regimen decreases the magnitude of the cardiomyopathic changes.
In order to explore the pathophysiology of diabetic neuropathy, we studied serial changes of axonal excitability in 20 adult Wistar rats with streptozocin-induced diabetes using the technique of threshold electrotonus (TE). After persistent hyperglycaemia had developed, rats were divided into two groups: nine were fed a diet containing aldose reductase inhibitor (Epalrestat 30 mg/kg/day) (ARI(+) group) and 11 were fed a diet without the inhibitor (ARI(-) group). Eight normal control rats of similar age (NC group) were also studied. We monitored membrane properties of motor axons in the tail for 3 months using TE to measure the changes in excitability induced by subthreshold polarizing currents while recording compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) in the tail muscle. The ARI(-) group showed a significant increase in CMAP latency 1 month after streptozocin injection, and by 3 months there was significantly lower excitability after hyperpolarization for 100 ms compared with the NC group. A similar change in TE was reproduced by injection of caesium chloride, an inhibitor of inward rectification. By contrast, the ARI(+) group exhibited no significant change in TE or latency at 3 months, although they showed significant body weight loss and hyperglycaemia. These findings indicate that inward rectification is reduced in an experimental model, as in human diabetes, and that blocking the polyol pathway with an ARI prevents this reduction. Reduced inward rectification potentiates conduction block caused by activity-dependent hyperpolarization and may underlie the decreased vibratory sensation seen in the early stage of diabetic neuropathy.
Gentamicin-induced acute renal failure is characterized by a decrease in renal plasma flow and creatinine clearance. Endothelins (ET) are potent renal vasoconstrictors. The aim of this work is to assess the role of ET-1 in gentamicin-induced renal failure. Renal glomerular release of ET-1 was measured in rats with gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity (100 mg/kg/day, s.c. for 2, 4 or 6 days). Glomeruli were isolated and incubated for 24 h in RPMI-1640. Glomerular supernatant and plasma concentration of ET-1 were measured by RIA. Renal failure was assessed by insulin, para-aminohippuric and creatinine clearance and histological studies. Gentamicin induced a dose number-dependent increase in plasma creatinine and a decrease in creatinine clearance. This was accompanied by a marked decrease in inulin and para-aminohippuric acid clearance, as well as by a marked tubular necrosis, without alterations in glomerular structures. Plasma ET-1 concentration and glomerular ET-1 release were also increased in gentamicin-treated rats. When 10-5 M gentamicin was added to control glomeruli, ET-1 production was not modified (36.4 +/- 2.2 vs. 35.2 +/- 1.7 pg/ml/24 h). All these results suggest that elevated ET-1 plasma levels and increased glomerular release of ET-1 could mediate, at least in part, the decrease in glomerular filtration rate observed in gentamicin-induced ARF.
In patients treated with anthracyclines, the addition of dexrazoxane moderately reduces the risk of symptomatic heart failure. But dexrazoxane increases the haematological toxicity induced by chemotherapy and might also reduce its antitumour efficacy.
The present study examines BPA pharmacokinetics in neonatal rats following s.c. injection or oral delivery of 10 μg BPA/kg BW and compares susceptibility to estrogen-induced prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) following either exposure route. Serum BPA in PND3 rats was measured using HPLC-MS-MS. Free and total BPA at C(max) were 1.77 and 2.0 ng/ml, respectively following injection and 0.26 and 1.02 ng/ml, respectively following oral exposure. The AUC(0-2) for free and total BPA was 4.1-fold and 1.8-fold greater, respectively, in s.c. vs. oral delivery. While exposure route affected BPA metabolism, internal dosimetry following s.c. injection of 10 μg BPA/kg BW is similar to BPA levels observed in humans. Prostates from aged rats given s.c. or oral BPA neonatally and T+E implants as adults exhibited nearly identical, heightened susceptibility to PIN incidence and score as compared to neonatal oil-controls. These findings on prostate health are directly relevant to humans at current BPA exposure levels.
In a double-blind study cefixime, an oral cephalosporin of the third generation, was compared to cefaclor in the treatment of acute otitis media in 397 children aged 6 months to 12 years. Clinical evaluation was carried out at the beginning, at day 10-12 and day 28-35 after the start of the treatment. Specimens for bacterial culture and sensitivity testings were taken from the nasopharynx at the initial visit. Patients were randomized either to cefixime in a dose of 8 mg/kg/day or cefaclor in a dose 40 mg/kg/day in the proportion of 2 cefixime patients to 1 cefaclor patient. Two daily doses were administered for 7 days. At day 10-12, 93.5% in the cefixime group and 90.5% in the cefaclor group (p = 0.08) were clinically cured or improved. At day 28-35 the rate of cured or improved patients had decreased, mostly due to reinfections, to 90.1% in the cefixime group and to 86.6% in the cefaclor group (p = 0.12), respectively. 375 patients (69.9%) had positive bacterial culture in the nasopharynx of at least one strain of Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Branhamella (Moraxella) catarrhalis or combinations of these 3.73.6% of the B. catarrhalis strains were beta-lactamase producing and 11.4% of the H. influenzae strains, respectively. All isolated bacteria were sensitive to cefixime. Adverse events were reported in 17.9% in the cefixime and 10.6% in the cefaclor group. Most reactions were of moderate or mild nature and mostly affected skin or the gastrointestinal region. No serious adverse experiences occurred. In view of the good clinical results obtained cefixime seems to be at least as effective as cefaclor in the treatment of acute otitis media in children.
Piroxicam has too many cutaneous and gastrointestinal adverse effects and yet, it remains on the market.
An acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (donepezil hydrochloride) has recently been used for the treatment of senile dementia of Alzheimer type. The effect of this acetylcholinesterase inhibitor on the autonomic nervous control of the heart was investigated in 17 patients with senile dementia of Alzheimer type. Donepezil administration did not change the plasma concentration of norepinephrine or epinephrine. Twenty-four hour electrocardiogram monitoring was performed, and heart rate variability before and 6 weeks after treatment with donepezil (5 mg per orally) was determined. The heart rate averaged over 24 h was reduced slightly from 74.1 +/- 2.7 beats/min before treatment to 71.1 +/- 2.3 beats/min after treatment. Low (0.04-0.15 Hz) and high (0.15-0.40 Hz) frequency components were reduced significantly with treatment. Ultralow (0.0001-0.003 Hz) and very low (0.003-0.04 Hz) frequency components were not affected. The reduction in the high frequency (41.9 +/- 7.4%) component was greater (p < 0.03) than the reduction in the low frequency (18.6 +/- 10.7%) component. It therefore appears that acetylcholinesterase inhibitor reduces the 1-30 s modulation of heart rate variability but that it has no influence on the much longer 1 min-1 h fluctuation.
A patient with rhabdomyolysis and transient renal failure due to auto injection of the procaine containing drug "Gerovital" is described. This case illustrates the hazards of self-regulated alternative treatment.
Low-dose testosterone replacement therapy in women with relative androgen deficiency has been shown to have beneficial effects on body composition, bone mass, and psychosexual function. However, the safety of chronic testosterone administration on cardiovascular risk and insulin resistance is unknown.
The aim of the study was to determine the effects of physiological testosterone replacement on cardiovascular risk markers and insulin resistance in women.
A 12-month, randomized, placebo-controlled study was conducted.
A General Clinical Research Center was the setting for the study.
A total of 51 women of reproductive age with androgen deficiency due to hypopituitarism participated.
Study participants were randomized to physiological testosterone administration, 300 mug daily, or placebo, by patch.
We measured fasting glucose, fasting insulin, insulin-resistance homeostasis model of assessment (IRHOMA), quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM), leptin, lipoprotein (a), apolipoprotein A1, and homocysteine.
At 12 months, fasting insulin and IRHOMA were significantly lower in the testosterone compared with the placebo group, and there was a trend toward a higher QUICKI level at 12 months in the testosterone compared with the placebo group. These differences were no longer significant after controlling for baseline levels. We observed no effect, either positive or negative, of testosterone administration on high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, VCAM leptin, lipoprotein (a), or apolipoprotein A1.
Our data suggest that physiological testosterone replacement in women with hypopituitarism for 12 months does not increase, and may improve, insulin resistance. Chronic low-dose testosterone administration does not increase markers of cardiovascular disease reflecting several different mechanistic pathways. Large, randomized, placebo-controlled, long-term prospective studies are needed to determine whether low-dose testosterone replacement affects cardiovascular risk and event rates in women.
The beta-blocker/vasodilator carvedilol is found to have beneficial effects in patients with chronic heart failure. However, the safety and efficacy of this agent in the presence of concomitant amiodarone therapy has not been previously determined.
We retrospectively analyzed the Australia/New Zealand Carvedilol Heart Failure Research Collaborative Group study of 415 patients with mild to moderate ischemic heart failure where amiodarone was administered as part of the treatment therapy (in 52 patients). After the open-label carvedilol run-in, patients received carvedilol (target dose 25 mg twice daily) or placebo for an average of 19 months. The main adverse events during this double-blind period were worsened heart failure, hypotension/dizziness, bradycardia/atrioventricular block, and aggravation of angina. By Chi square analysis, carvedilol and amiodarone together were not associated with a greater overall incidence of adverse effects than either drug alone. The beneficial effects of carvedilol on left ventricular ejection that were observed in the main trial were preserved in the presence of amiodarone.
Carvedilol is a useful additional therapy for patients with chronic heart failure already receiving amiodarone. Carvedilol can be added to amiodarone in these patients without expectation of increased adverse effects or loss of clinical efficacy.
Beneficial effects of short-term erythropoietin (EPO) therapy have been demonstrated in several animal models of acute neurologic injury, including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE)--the animal model of multiple sclerosis. We have found that EPO treatment substantially reduces the acute clinical paralysis seen in EAE mice and this improvement is accompanied by a large reduction in the mononuclear cell infiltration and downregulation of glial MHC class II expression within the inflamed CNS. Other reports have recently indicated that peripherally generated anti-inflammatory CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) and the IL17-producing CD4+ T helper cell (Th17) subpopulations play key antagonistic roles in EAE pathogenesis. However, no information regarding the effects of EPO therapy on the behavior of the general mononuclear-lymphocyte population, Tregs or Th17 cells in EAE has emerged.
We first determined in vivo that EPO therapy markedly suppressed MOG specific T cell proliferation and sharply reduced the number of reactive dendritic cells (CD11c positive) in EAE lymph nodes during both inductive and later symptomatic phases of MOG(35-55) induced EAE. We then determined the effect in vivo of EPO on numbers of peripheral Treg cells and Th17 cells. We found that EPO treatment modulated immune balance in both the periphery and the inflamed spinal cord by promoting a large expansion in Treg cells, inhibiting Th17 polarization and abrogating proliferation of the antigen presenting dendritic cell population. Finally we utilized tissue culture assays to show that exposure to EPO in vitro similarly downregulated MOG-specific T cell proliferation and also greatly suppressed T cell production of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Taken together, our findings reveal an important new locus whereby EPO induces substantial long-term tissue protection in the host through signaling to several critical subsets of immune cells that reside in the peripheral lymphatic system.
The effects of ajmaline on human platelet aggregation, arachidonate metabolism and platelet activating factor (PAF)-induced lethality in rabbits were examined. Platelet aggregation induced by several stimuli (ADP, collagen, and PAF) was inhibited by increasing concentrations of ajmaline. The potency of ajmaline was higher when PAF was employed as stimulating agent in comparison with other agonists (IC50 70, 270 and 380 microM for PAF, ADP and collagen, respectively) whereas ajmaline had no effect against arachidonic acid-induced aggregation. In contrast however, ajmaline inhibited arachidonate metabolism by platelet homogenates. The formation of both thromboxane A2 and 12-hydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acid was inhibited by ajmaline with comparable potencies. Pretreatment of rabbits with ajmaline (50 mg kg-1) completely abolished the lethal effects of PAF (11 micrograms kg-1) given intravenously (P < 0.001). In addition, ajmaline at doses ranging from 50 to 100 mg kg-1 inhibited carrageenan-induced rat paw oedema (P < 0.001). In this test ajmaline was three times more potent than aspirin. In the light of these results we conclude that ajmaline, a known anti-arrhythmic agent is a PAF antagonist and a dual inhibitor of platelet cyclo-oxygenase and lipoxygenase enzymes with anti-inflammatory properties.
