Atmospheric pollution is a global public health problem. The adverse effects of air pollution are strongly associated with respiratory and cardiovascular diseases and, to a lesser extent, with adverse pregnancy outcomes. This study analyzes the relationship between exposure to PM10 and low birth weight in the city of Santo André, São Paulo State, Brazil. We included babies born to mothers resident in Santo André between 2000 and 2006. Data on daily PM₁₀ levels was obtained from the São Paulo State Environmental Agency. We performed descriptive analysis and logistic regressions. The prevalence rate of low birth weight was 5.9%. There was a dose-response relationship between PM₁₀ concentrations and low birth weight. Exposure to the highest quartile of PM₁₀ (37,50µg/m³) in the third trimester of pregnancy increased the risk of low birth weight by 26% (OR: 1.26; 95%CI: 1.14-1.40) when compared to the first quartile. The same effect was observed in the remaining trimesters. This effect was observed for ambient particle concentrations that met the current air quality standards.
Pancreatic cancer is a deadly disease, and therefore effective treatment and/or prevention strategies are urgently needed. The objectives of this study were to examine the molecular mechanisms by which embelin inhibited human pancreatic cancer cell growth in vitro, and xenografts in Balb C nude mice, and pancreatic cancer cell growth isolated from KrasG12D transgenic mice. XTT assays were performed to measure cell viability. AsPC-1 cells were injected subcutaneously into Balb c nude mice and treated with embelin. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were measured by Ki67 and TUNEL staining, respectively. The expression of Akt, and Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) and their target gene products were measured by the immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis. The effects of embelin on pancreatic cancer cells isolated from 10-months old KrasG12D mice were also examined. Embelin inhibited cell viability in pancreatic cancer AsPC-1, PANC-1, MIA PaCa-2 and Hs 766T cell lines, and these inhibitory effects were blocked either by constitutively active Akt or Shh protein. Embelin-treated mice showed significant inhibition in tumor growth which was associated with reduced expression of markers of cell proliferation (Ki67, PCNA and Bcl-2) and cell cycle (cyclin D1, CDK2, and CDK6), and induction of apoptosis (activation of caspase-3 and cleavage of PARP, and increased expression of Bax). In addition, embelin inhibited the expression of markers of angiogenesis (COX-2, VEGF, VEGFR, and IL-8), and metastasis (MMP-2 and MMP-9) in tumor tissues. Antitumor activity of embelin was associated with inhibition of Akt and Shh pathways in xenografts, and pancreatic cancer cells isolated from KrasG12D mice. Furthermore, embelin also inhibited epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) by up-regulating E-cadherin and inhibiting the expression of Snail, Slug, and ZEB1. These data suggest that embelin can inhibit pancreatic cancer growth, angiogenesis and metastasis by suppressing Akt and Shh pathways, and can be developed for the treatment and/or prevention of pancreatic cancer.
A relative lack of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS, i.e., the syndromes of dystonia, parkinsonism, akathisia, dyskinesia) is one criterion used to determine whether an antipsychotic is "atypical." The extrapyramidal symptom profiles of the novel antipsychotic olanzapine and the conventional antipsychotic haloperidol were compared in a population of 2606 patients from three well-controlled prospective clinical trials.
Extrapyramidal symptom data were analyzed for 1796 patients treated with olanzapine (5 to 20 mg/day) and 810 patients treated with haloperidol (5 to 20 mg/day) for up to 6 weeks of therapy. Patients were monitored weekly by three methods of extrapyramidal symptom assessment: (1) detection of extrapyramidal adverse events (signs and symptoms) by casual observation, nonprobing inquiry, and spontaneous report; (2) objective rating scale scores: and (3) use of concomitant anticholinergic medications. Emergence of EPS was assessed by (1) analysis of the incidence of extrapyramidal syndrome categories based on adverse events, (2) the incidence of extrapyramidal syndromes based on categorical analysis of rating scale scores, (3) analysis of mean maximum change in rating scale scores, and (4) categorical analysis of anticholinergic medication use. Outcome of EPS was assessed by (1) analysis of mean change in rating scale scores at endpoint and (2) mean anticholinergic use at endpoint.
Olanzapine was statistically significantly (p = .014, p < .001) superior to haloperidol in all four analyses related to emergence of EPS and in the two analyses related to outcome. Furthermore, during acute treatment, statistically significantly fewer patients treated with olanzapine (0.3%) discontinued the study because of any extrapyramidal adverse event than patients treated with haloperidol (2.7%, p < .001).
Olanzapine exhibited a statistically significantly lower extrapyramidal symptom profile than the conventional antipsychotic haloperidol at comparably effective antipsychotic doses. The lower extrapyramidal symptom profile with olanzapine was evident despite statistically significantly more frequent use of anticholinergic drugs among haloperidol-treated patients. Fewer olanzapine-treated than haloperidol-treated patients discontinued because of EPS, suggesting that olanzapine should contribute to better compliance with longer term maintenance treatment, with minimal anticholinergic-associated events.
The objective of this prospective randomized study was to evaluate and compare the hormonal and clinical effects of long-acting gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist and a combination of GnRH agonist with combined oral contraceptive (COC) or flutamide in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Thirty-five hirsute women with PCOS, ranging in age from 19-27 years, were randomly divided into three groups: group A treated with GnRH agonist (n = 12), group B (n = 12) treated with GnRH agonist plus COC and group C (n = 11) treated with GnRH agonist plus flutamide for 6 months. Before, at the end and 6 months after the end of treatment, blood samples were drawn from all women (in early follicular phase in those with menstrual cycles) to measure ovarian and adrenal androgens, gonadotropins luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), estradiol and estrone plasma levels. The results showed that all three protocols had good therapeutic efficacy. A significant reduction in hirsutism was observed in all patients after 6 months of therapy, the Ferriman-Gallwey scores dropping to 9 +/- 3 in group A, 10 +/- 4 in group B and 11 +/- 5 in group C. Six months after the end of therapy, the hirsutism score continued to be significantly reduced in all groups. After 6 months of therapy, a reduction in plasma levels of LH, FSH, estrone, estradiol, testosterone, free testosterone, androstenedione and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) was observed in all groups although this was more pronounced in group B and group C. These therapies may be the basis of future treatments that quickly reduce hirsutism and remove its causes by reducing the secretion of ovarian and adrenal androgens and by blocking androgen receptors.
Previous small trials have suggested that nefazodone does not suppress rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep or increase REM latency in depressed patients, in contrast to fluoxetine. The effects of nefazodone and fluoxetine on sleep architecture and on clinician- and patient-rated sleep measures were directly compared in this 8-week, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group study.
Forty-four outpatients with moderate to severe, nonpsychotic major depressive disorder (DSM-III-R) and insomnia were randomly assigned to receive nefazodone (Days 1-7, 200 mg/day; Days 8-56, 400 mg/day) or fluoxetine (Days 1-56, 20 mg/day). Sleep measures were obtained at baseline, while patients were unmedicated, and at Weeks 2, 4, and 8 of treatment.
In 43 evaluable patients (23 nefazodone, 20 fluoxetine), nefazodone and fluoxetine demonstrated similar antidepressant efficacy. All significant values were p < .05. Fluoxetine significantly decreased sleep efficiency and REM sleep and increased number of awakenings, Stage 1 sleep, and REM latency compared with baseline. In contrast, nefazodone significantly decreased percentage of awake and movement time and did not alter sleep efficiency or number of awakenings, Stage 1 or REM sleep, or REM latency compared with baseline. Nefazodone was associated with significantly less change from baseline for sleep efficiency, number of awakenings, percentage of awake and movement time, percentage of REM and Stage 1 sleep, and REM latency compared with fluoxetine. Both fluoxetine- and nefazodone-treated patients also showed significant improvement in some clinician- and patient-rated sleep disturbance scores, but nefazodone-treated patients improved to a significantly greater extent than fluoxetine-treated patients in most measures.
While nefazodone and fluoxetine showed equivalent antidepressant efficacy, more objective, subjective, and clinician-rated measures of sleep disturbance were improved during treatment with nefazodone than with fluoxetine. These results suggest that antidepressant effects of medications can occur independently of drug-induced changes in objective, subjective, and clinician-rated measures of sleep. Further studies, including parallel placebo-controlled comparisons with nefazodone, are needed to further test this hypothesis.
Pemphigus is an autoimmune disease that results from the interaction between predisposing genetic factors and exogenous factors, the most common environmental factors being drugs and food. Topical phenol has induced pemphigus in one patient. Drugs and foods that induce pemphigus are divided into three main groups according to their chemical structure: thiols (containing a sulfhydryl group), phenol, nonthiol nonphenol. Thiol and phenol compounds can induce acantholysis in tissue cultures in vitro. The suggested mechanisms for thiol acantholysis include direct biochemical impairment of cell adhesion, protease activation and immunological reaction with the formation of a neoantigen. Possible mechanisms of phenol-induced pemphigus include the induction of IL-1alpha and TNF-alpha release by keratinocytes. These cytokines have been shown to be relevant in the regulation and synthesis of complement and proteases, like plasminogen activator, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of acantholysis in pemphigus vulgaris. Avoiding exposure of genetically predisposed individuals to these factors is important in treating and preventing this disease.
Several inherited disorders of fatty acid beta-oxidation have been described that relate mainly to saturated precursors. This study is the first report of an enzyme defect related only to unsaturated fatty acid oxidation and provides the first in vivo evidence that fat oxidation in humans proceeds by the reductase-dependent pathway. The patient was a black female, presenting in the neonatal period with persistent hypotonia. Biochemical studies revealed hyperlysinemia, hypocarnitinemia, normal organic acid profile, and an unusual acylcarnitine species in both urine and blood. The new metabolite was positively identified by mass spectrometry as 2-trans,4-cis-decadienoylcarnitine, derived from incomplete oxidation of linoleic acid. In spite of dietary therapy, the patient died of respiratory acidosis at four months of age. Samples of liver and muscle from the autopsy were assayed for 2,4-dienoyl-coenzyme A reductase activity. Using the substrate 2-trans,4-cis-decadienoylcoenzyme A, the reductase activity was 40% of the control value in liver and only 17% of that found in normal muscle. It is suggested that unsaturated substrates should be used for in vitro testing to cover the full range of potential beta-oxidation defects and that acylcarnitine species identification be used for in vivo detection of this disorder.
We examined the preventive effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) against neurotoxicity induced in aged rats by anticancer drugs such as cisplatin, vincristine and taxol using a superior cervical ganglion explant culture system. The inhibition of neurite outgrowth by cisplatin, vincristine and taxol was markedly prevented by co-treatment with NGF. The neurite and nerve cell populations were well preserved in vincristine and taxol, whereas cisplatin reduced these populations as compared with control even when treated with NGF. These results indicate that, just as in young adult rats, NGF prevents toxic sympathetic nerve injury induced by vincristine and taxol even in aged rats, but does not protect against cisplatin-induced nerve cell injury.
A series of 46 patients with acute leukaemia were treated with amsacrine (m-AMSA) and cytosine arabinoside (ara-C). Complete remission (CR) was achieved in 15 of 38 (40%) patients with acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML) and 4 of 8 (50%) patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). The CR rate was significantly higher (P less than 0.05) for the younger, previously treated patients with AML (9/16) than for the older previously untreated ones (6/22), because of higher treatment mortality in the latter group. Myelosuppression was prolonged and profound. Major nonhaematological toxicity affected the gastrointestinal tract (nausea, vomiting, mucositis, bleeding and ileus associated with severe diarrhoea). Many patients also developed reversible hepatic dysfunction and two elderly patients died of cardiac arrhythmia. Further trials of this combination are justified in patients with relapsed or resistant leukaemia, but for older patients dose reduction is recommended.
Intracisternal (i.c.) injection of neurotensin (NT) to rats or mice attenuated the locomotor hyperactivity induced by d-amphetamine, methylphenidate or cocaine, but not the increased activity induced by apomorphine or lergotrile. The reduction of methylphenidate-induced locomotor activity by i.c. NT was not due to an increased drug metabolism because i.c. NT did not change plasma methylphenidate concentrations. These actions of NT are distinct from those of the dopamine receptor antagonist haloperidol, which blocked the locomotor hyperactivity induced by all five stimulant drugs in rats. A further difference between NT and neuroleptics was demonstrated by the observation that i.c. NT did not block apomorphine-induced stereotypic behavior. In vitro, NT did not displace [3H]spiperone from its binding sites in homogenates of either the striatum or nucleus accumbens from rat brain. Moreover, i.c. injection of NT did not alter the subsequent in vitro binding of [3H]spiperone to membranes of the nucleus accumbens or striatum. In addition, NT did not alter basal or dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in homogenates of the nucleus accumbens or striatum. However, i.c. injection of NT produced a significant increase in the concentrations of homovanillic acid, a major dopamine metabolite, in the nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercles and striatum. In addition, the concentration of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was increased in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles after i.c. NT. Peripheral injection of haloperidol produced qualitatively similar effects on dopamine metabolism, but the effects of haloperidol, unlike those of i.c. NT, were attenuated by apomorphine injection. Taken together, these data indicate that centrally administered NT affects certain brain dopamine systems without interacting directly with those dopamine receptors labeled by [3H]spiperone, coupled to adenylate cyclase or mediating the pharmacological effects of apomorphine.
In asthmatic airways, adenosine is a potent bronchoconstrictor with either pro- or anti-inflammatory effects depending on receptor interactions. While aspirin has been suggested to mediate adenosine action, the roles of adenosine and its receptors in aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) are not well-defined. Therefore, we evaluated associations between genetic polymorphisms of adenosine deaminase and the four adenosine receptors (A(1), A(2A), A(2B), and A(3)) with the AIA phenotype. The genes for adenosine deaminase (ADA) and the four adenosine receptors (ADORA1, ADORA2A, ADORA2B, and ADORA3) were screened by direct sequencing, and 13 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were selected among 23 polymorphisms. Using multivariate logistic regression analysis, we compared the frequencies of SNP genotypes and haplotypes among 136 patients with AIA, 181 patients with aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA), and 183 normal individuals. We found significant differences between normal and patients with AIA in the ADORA1 SNP genotype frequencies for 1405C>T (P=0.001) and A102A (P=0.013). No other significant associations were detected for the other SNPs. In the haplotype analysis, ht[C-T-G] (P=0.003) and ht[A-C-G] (P=0.032) in ADORA1 and ht[A-T] in ADORA2 (P=0.013) were significantly associated with AIA. Genetic polymorphisms of adenosine receptors A(1) and A(2A) were associated with AIA, suggesting that adenosine might play a crucial role in the development of AIA through interactions with the A(1) and A(2A) receptors.
The ability of the benzodiazepine receptor full agonist diazepam, the selective agonist abecarnil, and the partial agonist imidazenil to antagonize convulsions induced by isoniazid (200 mg/kg, S.C.) was studied in mice chronically treated with diazepam (3 mg/kg, i.p., three times daily) or abecarnil (0.1 or 1 mg/kg, i.p., three times daily or 6 mg/kg, S.C., daily). Diazepam induced tolerance to its own anticonvulsant effect. In contrast, chronic treatment with abecarnil failed to induce tolerance to its own anticonvulsant activity. Animals treated with abecarnil at 0.1 mg/kg developed cross-tolerance to imidazenil, whereas those treated with 1 mg/kg became less sensitive to diazepam. Mice chronically treated with abecarnil at 6 mg/kg showed almost complete tolerance to diazepam. Abecarnil was able to antagonize the convulsions elicited by isoniazid in diazepam-tolerant mice. These data indicate that chronic administration of abecarnil, unlike that of classical benzodiazepines, does not induce tolerance to its anticonvulsant effect, and that abecarnil overcomes tolerance induced by long-term treatment with the full agonist diazepam.
Four patients developed clinically important portal hypertension with histological features of idiopathic portal hypertension while they were receiving cytotoxic drugs for chronic myeloid leukaemia and Hodgkin's disease. Mild sclerosis of some small portal triads was the only abnormality seen at light microscopical examination in three of the four cases. In the remaining case light microscopical findings seemed to be normal. Two cases examined by electron microscopy showed perisinusoidal fibrosis; in one case this was the only abnormality detected. There is an association between idiopathic portal hypertension and the use of chemotherapeutic agents, particularly thioguanine. Adequate histological examination of liver tissue, including electron microscopic studies, is recommended for patients who develop hepatic problems while receiving cytotoxic treatment to elucidate this problem.
Clarithromycin is a commonly used macrolide antibiotic. It is known to cause QT prolongation. Medication induced QT prolongation is a major risk factor for the development of torsade de pointes.
A 79-year-old lady presented with frequent episodes of torsade de pointes following commencement of clarithromycin. This was noted to be in association with a prolongation of the QT interval.
Knowledge of medications which prolong the QT interval is important to minimize the risk of ventricular arrhythmias, which may lead to sudden death. This is essential in patients with a congenitally long QT interval.
We investigated the signaling pathway of the arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) on HO23 cells (immortalized human granulosa cells (hGC)) mediated by benzyl butyl-phthalate (BBP). BBP (1 μM) significantly increased the mRNA and protein levels of AhR, aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) and cytochrome-P450 (CYP)1B1 in HO23 cells. Treatment with 3',4'-dimethoxyflavone (3',4'-DMF) or AhR siRNA significantly reduced AhR and CYP1B1, but CYP1A1 was not affected by 3',4'-DMF or AhR siRNA, suggesting that increases in CYP1A1 may not regulated by AhR. BBP induced the AhR fusion protein to localize and accumulate around the nucleus, and AhR heterodimerization with ARNT was observed in the nucleus by immunoprecipitation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and reporter assays revealed the effect of BBP on CYP1B1, but not CYP1A1. Necrosis was significantly increased in HO23 cells after BBP treatment, and 3',4'-DMF, AhR siRNA or CYP1B1 siRNA knockdown blocked this phenomenon. These data suggest that BBP-induced HO23 cell necrosis is AhR and CYP1B1 dependent.
An experimental model of headache offers unique possibilities to study the mechanisms responsible for head pain. Using the glyceryl trinitrate [GTN; nitric oxide (NO) donor] model of experimental headache, we studied the intensity, quality and time profile of headache after infusion of GTN in 16 patients with chronic tension-type headache and in 16 healthy controls. Subjects were randomized to receive intravenous infusion of GTN (0.5 microg/kg per minute for 20 min) or placebo on two headache-free days separated by at least 1 week. Headache intensity was measured on a 10-point verbal rating scale during 2 h of observation and for the next 10 h after discharge from hospital. The primary endpoints were the difference between the area under the curve (AUC-intensities x duration) for headache recorded on the day of GTN treatment and on the day of placebo treatment in patients, and in patients and controls on the days of GTN treatment. In patients, the AUC on a GTN day [2221 (1572-3704); median with quartiles in parentheses], was significantly greater than on a placebo day [730 (60-1678), P: = 0. 008]. On the GTN day, the AUC in patients [2221 (1572-3704)] was significantly higher than in controls [43 (0-972), P: = 0.0001]. In patients, peak pain intensity occurred 8 h after infusion of GTN, whereas in controls it occurred 20 min after the start of infusion. The present study demonstrates that an NO-induced biphasic response with an immediate and a delayed headache is common to chronic tension-type headache and migraine. Furthermore, the NO-induced delayed headache has the characteristics of the primary headache disorder. This suggests that NO contributes to the mechanisms of several types of primary headaches and that NO-related central sensitization may be an important common denominator in the pain mechanisms of primary headaches.
The dopamine transporter has been shown to be the most relevant target site for the specificity of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+), a neurotoxin for dopaminergic neurons. In contrast, the mechanisms underlying the selective toxicity of manganese and rotenone, potentially toxic agents implicated in dopaminergic neuronal cell death, remain unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the cellular mechanisms of manganese or rotenone uptake in dopaminergic cells via the dopamine transporter. PC12 cells overexpressing the dopamine transporter, which were exposed to 10microM MPP+, showed extensive DNA fragmentation, a biochemical hallmark of apoptosis, whereas wild-type PC12 cells or vector-transfected PC12 cells, which were exposed to 5mM MPP+, did not show DNA fragmentation. In contrast, manganese and rotenone induced DNA fragmentation at slightly lower concentrations in PC12 cells overexpressing the dopamine transporter compared to control cells. Dopamine transporter inhibitors, such as mazindol, nomifensine, or GBR12909, inhibited MPP+-induced DNA fragmentation but did not affect manganese- and rotenone-induced DNA fragmentation in PC12 cells overexpressing the dopamine transporter. Finally, manganese accumulated to similar levels in PC12 cells overexpressing the dopamine transporter and control PC12 cells following incubation with manganese chloride. These results suggested that the dopamine transporter dose not confer cytotoxicity to manganese and rotenone.
To evaluate the carcinogenicity of troglitazone in rasH2 mice, 7-week-old male and female rasH2 mice were fed a diet containing 0, 3,000 or 6,000 ppm troglitazone for 26 weeks. An increased tendency in the incidence of vascular tumors was observed in females of the 6,000 ppm group. The preliminary analysis using a high-density oligonucleotide microarray on a splenic hemangiosarcoma of a high dose female that could be obtained as a fresh sample showed that several genes related to the ras/MAPK pathway activation, angiogenesis, cell cycle and cell multiplication were up-regulated. In addition, most of the genes up-regulated were confirmed by the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). These results may suggest that the carcinogenic susceptibility of rasH2 mice to troglitazone is relatively low and up-regulations of the ras/MAPK pathway and angiogenesis-related genes are probably involved in the production of splenic hemangiosarcomas in rasH2 mice given troglitazone.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) has been found to induce apoptosis in leukemia cell lines and clinical remissions in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. In this study, we investigated the cytotoxic effect and mechanisms of action of As(2)O(3) in human tumor cell lines. As(2)O(3) caused inhibition of cell growth (IC(50) range, 3-14 microM) in a variety of human solid tumor cell lines, including four human non-small-cell lung cancer cell lines (H460, H322, H520, H661), two ovarian cancer cell lines (SK-OV-03, A2780), cervical cancer HeLa, and breast carcinoma MCF-7, as assessed by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. Flow cytometry analysis showed that As(2)O(3) treatment resulted in a time-dependent accumulation of cells in the G(2)/M phase. We observed, using Wright-Giemsa and 4',6-diamidine-2-phenylindole-dihydrochloride staining, that As(2)O(3) blocked the cell cycle in mitosis. In vitro examination revealed that As(2)O(3) markedly promoted tubulin polymerization without affecting GTP binding to beta-tubulin. Immunocytochemical and EM studies of treated MCF-7 cells showed that As(2)O(3) treatment caused changes in the cellular microtubule network and formation of polymerized microtubules. Similar to most anti-tubulin agents, As(2)O(3) treatment induced up-regulation of the cyclin B1 levels and activation of p34(cdc2)/cyclinB1 kinase, as well as Bcl-2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, activation of caspase-3 and -7 and cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase and beta-catenin occurred only in As(2)O(3)-induced mitotic cells, not in interphase cells, suggesting that As(2)O(3)-induced mitotic arrest may be a requirement for the activation of apoptotic pathways. In addition, As(2)O(3) exhibited similar inhibitory effects against parental MCF-7, P-glycoprotein-overexpressing MCF-7/doxorubicin cells, and multidrug resistance protein (MRP)-expressing MCF-7/etoposide cells (resistance indices, 2.3 and 1.9, respectively). Similarly, As(2)O(3) had similar inhibitory effect against parental ovarian carcinoma A2780 cells and tubulin mutation paclitaxel-resistant cell lines PTx10 and PTx22 (resistance indices, 0.86 and 0.93, respectively), suggesting that its effect on tubulin polymerization and G(2)/M phase arrest is distinct from that of paclitaxel. Taken together, our data demonstrate that As(2)O(3) has a paclitaxel-like effect, markedly promotes tubulin polymerization, arrests cell cycle at mitosis, and induces apoptosis. In addition, As(2)O(3) is a poor substrate for transport by P-glycoprotein and MRP, and non-cross-resistant with paclitaxel resistant cell lines due to tubulin mutation, suggesting that As(2)O(3) may be useful for treatment of human solid tumors, particularly in patients with paclitaxel resistance.
Radiographic contrast agents are associated with a number of adverse effects, including central nervous system effects and seizures. Almost all contrast agents are primarily filtered and excreted by the kidneys, and they accumulate in patients with end-stage renal disease. Brain retention of contrast associated with high doses is a rare event, having been reported only twice in the literature. We report a case of a 49-year-old male on chronic hemodialysis who developed brain retention of contrast resulting in seizures and encephalopathy after receiving large doses of meglumine/sodium diatrizoate during coronary angiography. He was treated successfully with hemodialysis and suffered no permanent neurologic sequelae. Patients with end-stage renal disease may be at increased risk of adverse effects from contrast when administered in high doses.
To investigate the effect of the phosphorothoate insecticide profenofos on male specific gene expression on rat testis, 16-week-old Wistar rats were orally administered at dose of 17.8 mg/kg twice weekly for 65 days. Gene expression in the testes was monitored by DNA microarray analysis and real-time RT-PCR, which revealed that genes related to steroidogenesis including cytochrome P450 17A1 (CYP17A1), steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and CYP11A1 were significantly increased. Besides the testes were histopathologicaly examined, which revealed testicular destruction and degeneration represented by a layer of columnar epithelium, oedematous changes surrounding the seminiferous tubules besides vacuolated spermatogonial cells and more elongated Leydig cells. These data suggest that profenofos considered as one of the male reproductive toxicants. Furthermore, we propose that the above three steroidogenic-related genes and the gene of acrosomal reaction as potential biomarkers of testicular toxicity.
Intrathoracic goiter is a rare cause of superior vena cava syndrome. We present the findings in a patient in whom the syndrome was precipitated by therapy with propylthiouracil and remitted on withdrawal of the medication. The superior vena cava syndrome did not recur on medical management, suggesting that surgery is not always indicated in this setting.
To examine the effect of antiretroviral agents and clinical factors on the development of elevated blood pressure (BP).
Observational cohort study of patients initiating their first HAART regimen. We evaluated mean BP prior to HAART and while receiving HAART in relation to antiretroviral classes and individual agents, and demographic and clinical characteristics including change in body mass index (BMI) while on HAART. We used logistic regression analysis to examine factors associated with elevated BP [> or = 10 mmHg increase in systolic BP (SBP), diastolic BP (DBP) or new diagnosis of hypertension].
Among 444 patients who had 4592 BP readings, 95 patients developed elevated SBP (n = 83), elevated DBP (n = 33), or a new diagnosis of hypertension (n = 11) after initiating HAART. In multivariate analysis, patients on lopinavir/ritonavir had the highest risk of developing elevated BP [odds ratio (OR), 2.5; P = 0.03] compared with efavirenz-based regimens. When change in BMI was added to the model, increased BMI was significantly associated with elevated BP (OR, 1.3; P = 0.02), and the association between lopinavir/ritonavir and elevated BP was no longer present. Compared with lopinavir/ritonavir-based regimens, patients receiving atazanavir (OR, 0.2; P = 0.03), efavirenz (OR, 0.4; P = 0.02), nelfinavir (OR, 0.3; P = 0.02), or indinavir (OR, 0.3; P = 0.01) had significantly lower odds of developing elevated BP.
Treatment with lopinavir/ritonavir is significantly associated with elevated BP, an effect that appears to be mediated through an increase in BMI. Patients receiving atazanavir were least likely to develop elevated BP. The impact of antiretroviral medications on cardiovascular disease risk factors will increasingly influence treatment decisions.
6-Thioguanine (6-TG), the active metabolite of 6-mercaptopurine and its prodrug azathioprine, are thought to be responsible for clinical efficacy in the treatment of active Crohn's disease. Its use as a therapeutic agent for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has been limited to patients who are resistant to or intolerant of other antimetabolites. Short-term experience with this agent has not demonstrated an increased incidence of hematologic or hepatic toxicity; however long-term safety data are scarce. We herein report a patient who developed acute sinusoidal obstruction syndrome after 14 months of successful thioguanine treatment. This is the first report of such a complication in an adult treated with 6-TG for active Crohn's disease.
Methadone, a synthetic opioid, has been used for more than 35 years to treat heroin addiction. It is also an effective therapy for chronic pain. An increase in the mean dose used nationally to treat these patients has been reported. There is an ongoing debate over whether it is necessary to screen patients with an ECG before and during therapy with methadone. We present a patient who developed QT prolongation and sustained ventricular arrhythmias after her methadone dose was increased. Previous literature, as well as the mechanism and risk factors, will be reviewed in this article. Recommendations will be given as to when an ECG is preferably to be performed.
Stefin B (cystatin B) is an endogenous cysteine cathepsin inhibitor, and the loss-of-function mutations in the stefin B gene were reported in patients with Unverricht-Lundborg disease (EPM1). In this study we demonstrated that stefin B-deficient (StB KO) mice were significantly more sensitive to the lethal LPS-induced sepsis and secreted higher amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-18 in the serum. We further showed that increased caspase-11 gene expression and better pro-inflammatory caspase-1 and -11 activation determined in StB KO bone marrow-derived macrophages resulted in enhanced IL-1β processing. Pretreatment of macrophages with the cathepsin inhibitor E-64d did not affect secretion of IL-1β, suggesting that the increased cathepsin activity determined in StB KO bone marrow-derived macrophages is not essential for inflammasome activation. Upon LPS stimulation, stefin B was targeted into the mitochondria, and the lack of stefin B resulted in the increased destabilization of mitochondrial membrane potential and mitochondrial superoxide generation. Collectively, our study demonstrates that the LPS-induced sepsis in StB KO mice is dependent on caspase-11 and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species but is not associated with the lysosomal destabilization and increased cathepsin activity in the cytosol.
The present study tested the hypothesis that prenatal cocaine exposure differentially regulates heart susceptibility to ischaemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in adult offspring male and female rats. Pregnant rats were administered intraperitoneally either saline or cocaine (15 mg kg(-1)) twice daily from day 15 to day 21 of gestational age. There were no differences in maternal weight gain and birth weight between the two groups. Hearts were isolated from 2-month-old male and female offspring and were subjected to I/R (25 min/60 min) in a Langendorff preparation. Preischaemic values of left ventricular (LV) function were the same between the saline control and cocaine-treated hearts for both male and female rats. Prenatal cocaine exposure significantly increased I/R-induced myocardial apoptosis and infarct size, and significantly attenuated the postischaemic recovery of LV function in adult male offspring. In contrast, cocaine did not affect I/R-induced injury and postischaemic recovery of LV function in the female hearts. There was a significant decrease in PKCepsilon and phospho-PKCepsilon levels in LV in the male, but not female, offspring exposed to cocaine before birth. These results suggest that prenatal cocaine exposure causes a sex-specific increase in heart susceptibility to I/R injury in adult male offspring, and the decreased PKCepsilon gene expression in the male heart may play an important role.
Cocaine use has been associated with both acute renal failure and hypertension (HTN), but only recently have data suggested it may lead to a chronic insidious form of renal failure. We designed a cross-sectional study to compare the association of cocaine use in hemodialysis patients with and without a diagnosis of HTN-related end-stage renal disease (HTN-ESRD). Two hundred one black patients from two outpatient hemodialysis units in an urban community were evaluated. There were 193 eligible patients, 106 men and 87 women, aged 49.28 +/- 14.4 years. A history of significant cocaine use before dialysis was reported by 55 of 193 subjects (28.5%). A diagnosis of HTN-ESRD was reported in 49 of 55 cocaine users (89.1%) compared with 64 of 138 nonusers (46.38%; odds ratio, 9.44; 95% confidence interval, 3.79 to 23.49; P < 0.0005). Of the 113 subjects with HTN-ESRD, 49 subjects (43.4%) had a history of cocaine abuse, either alone or in combination with other drugs. Subjects with HTN-ESRD with cocaine use were younger than those without cocaine use (40.7 +/- 9.0 versus 53.8 +/-15.3 years; P < 0.0005) and had a shorter reported duration of HTN (5.3 +/- 5.4 versus 12.7 +/- 9.8 years; P < 0.0005, adjusted for age and sex). In our urban dialysis population, a clinical diagnosis of HTN-ESRD was strongly associated with a history of cocaine use and earlier onset of ESRD. Cocaine should be considered as a cause of ESRD in patients without a clear cause of renal failure.
