The present study was designed to assess potential reproductive toxicity caused by fentin and fenbutatin in the mice. Adult male mice received i.p. injections of fentin hydroxide and fenbutatin oxide at a dose of 0, 10 or 25 microg/kg body weight on 1st, 3rd and 5th day of experimentation. Mice were sacrificed on day 25 and analyzed for spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis. A significant decrease in epididymal sperm count, sperm motility, sperm viability and sperm function (HOS coiling) were observed in experimental mice when compared with controls. The decrease in sperm quantity and quality was significant in the 25 microg/kg group than that in the control group. The activity levels of testicular steroidogenic enzymes, 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) and 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) were significantly decreased in treated mice indicating decreased steroidogenesis after organotin compounds administration. The levels of serum testosterone decreased with an increase in follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone in experimental mice when compared to control mice. The results suggest that fentin and fenbutatin cause impairment of spermatogenesis through the inhibition of testosterone production.
We have shown previously that vitamin A deficiency (VAD) leads to the decreased expression of gene products that are specifically synthesized by mature neurons in the olfactory epithelium (OE) of adult rats. These results support the hypothesis that retinoic acid, a derivative of vitamin A, is required for neurogenesis and neuron replacement in vivo. VAD does not cause gross degeneration of the OE, raising the question: what types of cells continue to populate VAD OE? In this study, we compared the cell densities of VAD and VA-sufficient (VAS) OE and investigated whether cell proliferation is upregulated in VAD OE. The results show that (1) total cell number in VAD and VAS OE are comparable; (2) localized areas of hyperplasia are present in the basal regions of VAD, but not VAS, OE; (3) there is a substantial increase in the number of PCNA (proliferating cell nuclear antigen) positive cells in the basal region of VAD OE relative to VAS OE; and (4) there is a relative increase in the levels of mRNA encoding the transcription factor, MASH I, in VAD OE. We conclude that reduced availability of vitamin A derivatives, such as retinoic acid, leads to a loss of control over proliferation, hyperplasia, and increased numbers of pro-neural cells in vivo.
Betaine (glycine betaine or trimethylglycine) plays important roles as an osmolyte and a methyl donor in animals. While betaine is reported to suppress expression of proinflammatory molecules and reduce oxidative stress in aged rat kidney, the effects of betaine on the central nervous system are not well known. In this study, we investigated the effects of betaine on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced memory impairment and on mRNA expression levels of proinflammatory molecules, glial markers, and GABA transporter 2 (GAT2), a betaine/GABA transporter.
Mice were continuously treated with betaine for 13 days starting 1 day before they were injected with LPS, or received subacute or acute administration of betaine shortly before or after LPS injection. Then, their memory function was evaluated using Y-maze and novel object recognition tests 7 and 10-12 days after LPS injection (30 μg/mouse, i.c.v.), respectively. In addition, mRNA expression levels in hippocampus were measured by real-time RT-PCR at different time points.
Repeated administration of betaine (0.163 mmol/kg, s.c.) prevented LPS-induced memory impairment. GAT2 mRNA levels were significantly increased in hippocampus 24 hr after LPS injection, and administration of betaine blocked this increase. However, betaine did not affect LPS-induced increases in levels of mRNA related to inflammatory responses. Both subacute administration (1 hr before, and 1 and 24 hr after LPS injection) and acute administration (1 hr after LPS injection) of betaine also prevented LPS-induced memory impairment in the Y-maze test.
These data suggest that betaine has protective effects against LPS-induced memory impairment and that prevention of LPS-induced changes in GAT2 mRNA expression is crucial to this ameliorating effect.
Reduced uterine perfusion initiated in late gestation in the rat results in intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and development of hypertension by 4 wk of age. We hypothesize that the renin angiotensin system (RAS), a regulatory system important in the long-term control of blood pressure, may be programmed by placental insufficiency and may contribute to the etiology of IUGR hypertension. We previously reported that RAS blockade abolished hypertension in adult IUGR offspring; however, the mechanisms responsible for the early phase of hypertension are unresolved. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to examine RAS involvement in early programmed hypertension and to determine whether temporal changes in RAS expression are observed in IUGR offspring. Renal renin and angiotensinogen mRNA expression were significantly decreased at birth (80 and 60%, respectively); plasma and renal RAS did not differ in conjunction with hypertension (mean increase of 14 mmHg) in young IUGR offspring; however, hypertension (mean increase of 22 mmHg) in adult IUGR offspring was associated with marked increases in renal angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) activity (122%) and renal renin and angiotensinogen mRNA (7-fold and 7.4-fold, respectively), but no change in renal ANG II or angiotensin type 1 receptor. ACE inhibition (enalapril, 10 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1), administered from 2 to 4 wk of age) abolished hypertension in IUGR at 4 wk of age (decrease of 15 mmHg, respectively) with no significant depressor effect in control offspring. Therefore, temporal alterations in renal RAS are observed in IUGR offspring and may play a key role in the etiology of IUGR hypertension.
These studies examined the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in the urothelium and suburothelial space and detrusor from rats treated with cyclophosphamide (CYP) to induce acute (4 h), intermediate (48 h), or chronic (10-day) cystitis. Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry were used to demonstrate COX-2 expression. In whole mount preparations of urinary bladder, nerve fibers in the suburothelial plexus, and inflammatory cell infiltrates were characterized for COX-2 expression after CYP-induced cystitis. COX-2 expression significantly (P <or= 0.01) increased in the urothelium + suburothelium and detrusor smooth muscle with acute, intermediate, and chronic (10-day) CYP-induced cystitis, but expression in urothelium + suburothelium was significantly greater. CYP-induced upregulation of COX-2 showed by immunostaining in the urothelium + suburothelium was similar to that observed with Western blot analysis and also demonstrated COX-2 inflammatory cell infiltrates (CD86+) and nerve fibers (PGP+) in the suburothelial plexus. Although COX-2 expression was significantly (P <or= 0.01) increased in detrusor smooth muscle, immunohistochemistry failed to demonstrate an obvious change in COX-2-immunoreactivity (IR) in detrusor muscle, but COX-2 inflammatory infiltrates were present throughout the detrusor. COX-2-IR nerve fibers exhibited increased density in the suburothelial plexus with acute or chronic CYP-induced cystitis. COX-2-IR macrophages (CD86+) were present throughout the urinary bladder with acute and chronic CYP-induced cystitis. These studies demonstrate cellular targets in the urinary bladder where COX-2 inhibitors may act.
We report the case of a 70-year-old hypertensive man with a solitary kidney and chronic renal insufficiency who developed two episodes of transient anuria after losartan administration. He was hospitalized for a myocardial infarction with pulmonary edema, treated with high-dose diuretics. Due to severe systolic dysfunction losartan was prescribed. Surprisingly, the first dose of 50 mg of losartan resulted in a sudden anuria, which lasted eight hours despite high-dose furosemide and amine infusion. One week later, by mistake, losartan was prescribed again and after the second dose of 50 mg, the patient developed a second episode of transient anuria lasting 10 hours. During these two episodes, his blood pressure diminished but no severe hypotension was noted. Ultimately, an arteriography showed a 70-80% renal artery stenosis. In this patient, renal artery stenosis combined with heart failure and diuretic therapy certainly resulted in a strong activation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Under such conditions, angiotensin II receptor blockade by losartan probably induced a critical fall in glomerular filtration pressure. This case report highlights the fact that the angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan can cause serious unexpected complications in patients with renovascular disease and should be used with extreme caution in this setting.
Ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy lysosome pathway (ALP) are the two most important routes for degradation of aggregated/misfolded proteins. Additionally, ALP is so far the only known route to clear entire organelles, such as mitochondria. We proposed that enhancement of ALP may be beneficial for some neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), in which the accumulation of aggregated/misfolded proteins and the dysfunction of mitochondria are the two major pathogenesis. Mitochondrial complex I inhibitor rotenone, which causes dysfunction mitochondria and UPS, has been considered as one of the neurotoxins related to PD. In this study, rotenone-exposed human neuronal SH-SY5Y cells were used as an in vitro model for us to determine whether autophagy enhancer rapamycin could protect against rotenone-induced injury and its underlying mechanisms. The observed results showed that rapamycin alleviated rotenone-induced apoptosis, whose effects were partially blocked when autophagy related gene 5 (Atg5) was suppressed by Atg5 small interference RNA (siRNA) transfection. Additionally, the results showed that rapamycin pretreatment diminished rotenone-induced accumulation of high molecular weight ubiquitinated bands, and reduced rotenone-induced increase of cytochrome c in cytosolic fraction and decreased mitochondrial marker cytochrome oxidase subunit IV (COX IV) in mitochondrial fraction. The changes in cytochrome c and COX IV indicated that the decreased translocation of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol was probably due to the turn over of entire injured mitochondria. The results that lysosome and mitochondria were colocolized within the cells pretreated with rapamycin and that the mitochondria could be found within autophagy double membrane structures further supported that the damaged mitochondria might be cleared through autophagy, which process has been termed as "mitophagy." Our studies suggested that autophagy enhancer rapamycin is neuroprotective against rotenone-induced apoptosis through autophagy enhancement. We concluded that pharmacologically induction of autophagy by rapamycin may represent a useful therapeutic strategy as disease-modifiers in PD.
Six genes are widely expressed during vertebrate embryogenesis, suggesting that they are implicated in diverse differentiation processes. To determine the functions of the Six1 gene, we constructed Six1-deficient mice by replacing its first exon by the beta-galactosidase gene. We have previously shown that mice lacking Six1 die at birth due to thoracic skeletal defects and severe muscle hypoplasia affecting most of the body muscles. Here, we report that Six1(-/-) neonates also lack a kidney and thymus, as well as displaying a strong disorganisation of craniofacial structures, namely the inner ear, the nasal cavity, the craniofacial skeleton, and the lacrimal and parotid glands. These organ defects can be correlated with Six1 expression in the embryonic primordium structures as revealed by X-Gal staining at different stages of embryogenesis. Thus, the fetal abnormalities of Six1(-/-) mice appear to result from the absence of the Six 1 homeoprotein during early stages of organogenesis. Interestingly, these Six1 defects are very similar to phenotypes caused by mutations of Eya 1, which are responsible for the BOR syndrome in humans. Close comparison of Six1 and Eya 1 deficient mice strongly suggests a functional link between these two factors. Pax gene mutations also lead to comparable phenotypes, suggesting that a regulatory network including the Pax, Six and Eya genes is required for several types of organogenesis in mammals.
Cases of drug-induced aplastic anaemia, haemolytic anaemia, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis reported to the Swedish Adverse Drug Reaction Committee during the five-year period 1966-70 have been analysed and compared with cases of the same cytopenias from "all" causes. Oral diuretics were a dominant cause of drug-induced thrombocytopenia, methyldopa of haemolytic anaemia, and oxyphenbutazone of aplastic anaemia. Computer systems should help such studies, particularly in showing a changing pattern of complications and causes.
We report a case of intrahepatic cholestasis due to chronic vitamin A supplementation. A 70-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital for jaundice and reduced nutritional and general status with a 2-month history of increasing cholestasis. Some years previously she had suffered from breast and ovarian cancer with subsequent surgery and chemotherapy. Chemotherapy was terminated one month before elevated serum transaminase activities and cholestatic serum markers were noted. Following the chemotherapy, supportive care included weekly vitamin A injections (100,000 IU per injection). Liver biopsy showed an acute toxic liver injury with focal parenchymal necrosis, sinusoidal lesions, inflammatory infiltrate (round cells, macrophages), and activation and proliferation of stellate cells. The hepatic vitamin A concentration was found to be significantly elevated. There were no signs of intrahepatic metastasis or liver cirrhosis. Treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid rapidly improved the cholestasis and led to a total recovery after three weeks.
As sulphonylurea derivatives are used ubiquitously, the possibility that they may cause liver disease deserves attention. In contrast to the known pattern of reversible parenchymal liver disease due to sulphonylurea derivatives, we describe a fatal case of glyburide-induced cholestatic hepatitis with liver failure.
Plasma low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) is mainly taken up and cleared by the hepatocellular LDL receptor (LDL-R). LDL-R gene expression is regulated by the sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs). Previous studies have shown that curcumin reduces plasma LDL-C and has hypolipidemic and anti-atherosclerotic effects. Herein, we investigated the effect of curcumin on LDL-R expression and its molecular mechanism in HepG2 cells. Curcumin increased LDL-R expression (mRNA and protein) and the resultant uptake of DiI-LDL in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Using a GFP reporter system in a transfected HepG2/SRE-GFP cell line, we found that curcumin activated the sterol regulatory element of the LDL-R promoter. In HepG2/Insig2 cells, curcumin reversed the inhibition of LDL-R expression induced by Insig2 overexpression. These data demonstrate that curcumin increases LDL-R protein expression and uptake activity via the SREBPs pathway. These findings contribute to our further understanding of the cholesterol-lowering and anti-atherosclerotic effects of curcumin.
To use juvenile dermatomyositis (DM) survey data and expert opinion to develop a small number of consensus treatment protocols, which reflect current initial treatment of moderately severe juvenile DM.
A consensus meeting was held in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on December 1-2, 2007. Nominal group technique was used to achieve consensus on treatment protocols, which represented typical management of moderately severe juvenile DM. Consensus was also reached as to which patients these protocols would be applicable (inclusion and exclusion criteria), which initial investigations should be done prior to initiating one of these protocols, which data should be collected to evaluate these protocols, and the concomitant interventions required or recommended.
Three protocols that described the first 2 months of treatment were developed. All protocols included corticosteroids and methotrexate. One protocol also included intravenous gamma globulin. Consensus was achieved for all issues that were addressed by conference participants, although there were some areas of controversy.
Despite considerable variation in clinical practice, it is possible to achieve consensus on the initial treatment of juvenile DM. Once these protocols are extended beyond 2 months, these protocols will be available for clinical use. By using methods that account for differences between patients (confounding by indication), the comparative effectiveness of the protocols will be evaluated. In the future, the goal will be to identify the optimal treatment of moderately severe juvenile DM.
Improved treatment regimens for patients with chronic hepatitis C, genotype 1 and high viral load are needed. Increasing the dose of ribavirin has increased the response rate, but experience with doses of more than 1,200 mg/day is limited. The aim of this study was to investigate the safety and tolerance to treatment with a high and individualized dose of ribavirin in combination with peginterferon. Ten patients with chronic hepatitis C, genotype 1 and high viral load were treated with peginterferon alfa-2a and ribavirin for 48 weeks in a prospective trial. The initial ribavirin dose was individualized and calculated from a pharmacokinetic formula based mainly on renal function. Ribavirin plasma concentrations were monitored, and the dose was adjusted to reach the target concentration. Hemoglobin was monitored, and patients were treated with erythropoietin and blood transfusions when indicated. After dose adjustments, the mean dose of ribavirin was 2,540 mg/day (range, 1,600-3,600) at week 24. The main side effect was anemia, which was controlled with erythropoietin. Two patients required blood transfusions. One patient was withdrawn at week 24 because of a lack of viral response, and one patient at week 39 because of side effects, primarily interferon associated. At follow-up (>or=24 weeks posttreatment), nine of ten patients had undetectable HCV RNA and thus were cured by standard definitions. In conclusion, a high dose of ribavirin according to an individualized schedule is feasible but associated with more frequent and serious side effects such as anemia. The viral response merits further evaluation.
To compare cancer mortality among A-bomb survivors exposed as children with cancer mortality among an unexposed control group (the entire population of Japan, JPCG).
The subjects were the Hiroshima and Nagasaki A-bomb survivor groups (0-14 years of age in 1945) reported in life span study report 12 (follow-up years were from 1950 to 1990), and a control group consisting of the JPCG. We estimated the expected number of deaths due to all causes and cancers of various causes among the exposed survivors who died in the follow-up interval, if they had died with the same mortality as the JPCG (0-14 years of age in 1945). We calculated the standardized mortality ratio (SMR) of A-bomb survivors in comparison with the JPCG.
SMRs were significantly higher in exposed boys overall for all deaths, all cancers, leukemia, and liver cancer, and for exposed girls overall for all cancers, solid cancers, liver cancer, and breast cancer. In boys, SMRs were significantly higher for all deaths and liver cancer even in those exposed to very low doses, and for all cancers, solid cancers, and liver cancer in those exposed to low doses. In girls, SMRs were significantly higher for liver cancer and uterine cancer in those exposed to low doses, and for leukemia, solid cancers, stomach cancer, and breast cancer in those exposed to high doses.
We calculated the SMRs for the A-bomb survivors versus JPCG in childhood and compared them with a true non-exposed group. A notable result was that SMRs in boys exposed to low doses were significantly higher for solid cancer.
The dose-limiting toxicity of the chemotherapeutic agent vincristine is peripheral neuropathy, for which there is no established therapy. The amino acid glutamate has been proposed as a neuroprotectant for vincristine, but a full preclinical evaluation of its efficacy, safety and mechanism of action has been hampered by a lack of suitable animal models. We report the development of a Dark Agouti rat model of sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy, to investigate the neurotoxicity of cytotoxic drugs. Neuropathy was manifested as gait disturbance in 100% of vincristine-treated animals (n = 12), significant elevation of the tail-flick threshold (5.1 +/- 2 sec) and significantly impaired mean Rotarod times (55 +/- 41 sec) developing after administration of 1.5 mg/kg vincristine over 2 weeks. Among vincristine-treated animals supplemented p.o. with sodium glutamate (500 mg/kg/day in drinking water) from 24 hr before vincristine treatment, only one (8%, P = .01) developed gait disturbance, the tall-flick threshold was not significantly different from controls and the mean Rotarod score was 188 +/- 18 sec (P = .004). Glutamate thus significantly protected against both sensory and motor neuropathy. We observed no intrinsic neurotoxicity with glutamate and no interference with the cytotoxic efficacy of vincristine against a transplantable rat mammary adenocarcinoma grown s.c. in Dark Agouti rats. Our findings suggest that glutamate is likely to be a safe and effective neuroprotectant for patients receiving vincristine, and it warrants further clinical evaluation. The mechanism of this selective neuroprotection by glutamate remains to be elucidated. Our rat model may be of use in determining whether glutamate offers protection from other neurotoxic drugs.
Three compounds reportedly blocking the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, namely 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, gamma-D-glutamylglycine and 3-hydroxy-2-quinoxalinecarboxylic acid, were injected subdurally onto the cortex of freely moving rats. All 3 compounds effectively suppressed behavioral and electrographic seizure activity induced by strychnine, morphine and picrotoxin that were administered via the same route. The cortical application of the NMDA-receptor antagonists did not induce behavioral or electrographic changes, and behavioral side-effects commonly observed following intracerebroventricular administration of these compounds were absent. The anatomical separation of anticonvulsant action and side-effects induced by these compounds suggests that this class of compounds may eventually be useful as antiepileptic drugs.
In a randomized study, 80 healthy unpremedicated female patients were included. For short gynaecological procedures (curettage) they were anaesthetized with either propofol 2 mg/kg (n = 40) or thiopentone 5 mg/kg (n = 40) in combination with nitrous oxide/oxygen (1/1). Supplementary doses of propofol (25 mg) or thiopentone (50 mg) were given when necessary during the procedure. Propofol caused a significant fall in arterial blood pressure (greater than thiopentone in diastolic pressure) and a decrease in heart rate (thiopentone did not change heart rate). Discomfort on injection was similar in both groups. Recovery times were shorter in propofol group: Patients opened their eyes at 1.3 minutes, were awake at 2.2 minutes and could seat with no help at 5.2 minutes. In the thiopentone group, there was a greater incidence of nausea. Propofol was associated with euphoria, "clear-headedness" and pleasant dreams more than thiopentone. We conclude that propofol is a good alternative to thiopentone in short operative procedures.
We report a case of pulmonary atresia in which the ductus arteriosus underwent aneurysmal dilatation after infusion of prostaglandin E1 incorporated in lipid microspheres. To our knowledge this is the first case in which this rare morphological change has been demonstrated with the noninvasive method of magnetic resonance imaging.
Both rosiglitazone and metformin increase hepatic insulin sensitivity, but their mechanism of action has not been compared in humans. The objective of this study was to compare the effects of rosiglitazone and metformin treatment on liver fat content, hepatic insulin sensitivity, insulin clearance, and gene expression in adipose tissue and serum adiponectin concentrations in type 2 diabetes. A total of 20 drug-naive patients with type 2 diabetes (age 48 +/- 3 years, fasting plasma glucose 152 +/- 9 mg/dl, BMI 30.6 +/- 0.8 kg/m2) were treated in a double-blind randomized fashion with either 8 mg rosiglitazone or 2 g metformin for 16 weeks. Both drugs similarly decreased HbA1c, insulin, and free fatty acid concentrations. Body weight decreased in the metformin (84 +/- 4 vs. 82 +/- 4 kg, P < 0.05) but not the rosiglitazone group. Liver fat (proton spectroscopy) was decreased with rosiglitazone by 51% (15 +/- 3 vs. 7 +/- 1%, 0 vs. 16 weeks, P = 0.003) but not by metformin (13 +/- 3 to 14 +/- 3%, NS). Rosiglitazone (16 +/- 2 vs. 20 +/- 1 ml.kg(-1).min(-1), P = 0.02) but not metformin increased insulin clearance by 20%. Hepatic insulin sensitivity in the basal state increased similarly in both groups. Insulin-stimulated glucose uptake increased significantly with rosiglitazone but not with metformin. Serum adiponectin concentrations increased by 123% with rosiglitazone but remained unchanged during metformin treatment. The decrease of serum adiponectin concentrations correlated with the decrease in liver fat (r = -0.74, P < 0.001). Rosiglitazone but not metformin significantly increased expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, adiponectin, and lipoprotein lipase in adipose tissue. In conclusion, rosiglitazone but not metformin decreases liver fat and increases insulin clearance. The decrease in liver fat by rosiglitazone is associated with an increase in serum adiponectin concentrations. Both agents increase hepatic insulin sensitivity, but only rosiglitazone increases peripheral glucose uptake.
Glucokinase (GK) is a glycolytic key enzyme that functions as a glucose sensor in the pancreatic beta-cell, where it governs glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). Heterozygous inactivating mutations in the glucokinase gene (GCK) cause a mild form of diabetes (maturity-onset diabetes of the young [MODY]2), and activating mutations have been associated with a mild form of familial hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia. We describe the first case of severe persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia due to a "de novo" mutation in GCK (Y214C). A baby girl presented with hypoglycemic seizures since the first postnatal day as well as with inappropriate hyperinsulinemia. Severe hypoglycemia persisted even after treatment with diazoxide and subtotal pancreatectomy, leading to irreversible brain damage. Pancreatic histology revealed abnormally large and hyperfunctional islets. The mutation is located in the putative allosteric activator domain of the protein. Functional studies of purified recombinant glutathionyl S-transferase fusion protein of GK-Y214C showed a sixfold increase in its affinity for glucose, a lowered cooperativity, and increased kcat. The relative activity index of GK-Y214C was 130, and the threshold for GSIS predicted by mathematical modeling was 0.8 mmol/l, compared with 5 mmol/l in the wild-type enzyme. In conclusion, we have identified a de novo GCK activating mutation that causes hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of exceptional severity. These findings demonstrate that the range of the clinical phenotype caused by GCK mutations varies from complete insulin deficiency to extreme hyperinsulinemia.
We have studied 40 ASA I/II patients aged from 18 to 65 years undergoing otorhinolaryngologic surgery of 40-100 minutes of duration. Patients were randomly assigned to two groups. Anesthesia in group I was induced with thiopental, 4 mg/kg and maintained with N2O at 66% and a variable perfusion of fentanyl. In group II, anesthesia was induced with propofol, 2.5 mg/kg and maintained with a perfusion of 6-12 mg/kg/hour and an initial perfusion of fentanyl, 4 micrograms/kg/hour. Loss of consciousness occurred in 37.49 +/- 9.78 seconds in group I and in 46.25 +/- 12.62 seconds in group II, with no significant differences. Two minutes after induction, propofol group presented a significant decrease in systolic blood pressure of - 12 mm Hg and both groups presented comparable increases in systolic blood pressure and heart rate during intubation. Five minutes later, systolic blood pressure regained normal values. Maintenance in group II was achieved in a proper fashion with a mean propofol consumption of 9.5 +/- 2.6 mg/kg/hour and fentanyl consumption of 4.94 +/- 2.22 micrograms/kg/hour whereas in group II, with N2O at 66%, the amount of fentanyl required was 6.85 +/- 2.95 micrograms/kg/hour, which was significantly higher. Eye opening from the time of interruption of anesthetics was achieved at 6.6 +/- 3.2 minutes in group I and 12.44 +/- 6.34 in group II. Consciousness was regained at 11.25 +/- 3.96 and 16.87 +/- 6.95 minutes, respectively. Pain on injection occurred in 15% with propofol and in 10% with thiopental. No patient presented major complications nor phlebitis after administration of the anesthetic.
To highlight the complications of nitrous oxide abuse.
A case is presented of a myeloneuropathy in a 21-year-old woman who had been abusing nitrous oxide, obtained from whipped cream bulbs, who was referred to a psychiatric hospital with a diagnosis of conversion disorder. Nitrous oxide toxicity has been reported in medical and dental professions and a few cases of myeloneuropathy due to induced vitamin B12 deficiency have been reported. This would appear to be the first reported case of myeloneuropathy resulting from nitrous oxide abuse from whipped cream propellants as a recreational drug in the community.
Three doses of intramuscular hydroxy cobalamin (1000 micrograms) over the course of 1 week.
Her neurological symptoms and anxiety settled.
Nitrous oxide is becoming more popular as a recreational drug; its complications should be noted and a thorough neurological examination performed if abuse is suspected.
To investigate the exposure to dinitrotoluene (DNT) and trinitrotoluene (TNT) and the resulting effects in workers which occur during the disposal of military waste.
Eighty two employees from a mechanical plant in Germany were studied, of whom 51 were regularly exposed to ammunition containing TNT and DNT, 19 occasionally, and 12 not at all.
Air analyses yielded maximum concentrations of 20 micro g/m(3) for 2,4-DNT and 3250 micro g/m(3) for 2,4,6-TNT, respectively. The maximum concentrations in the urine of workers regularly exposed amounted to 5.0 micro g/l of 2,4,6-TNT, 1464.0 micro g/l of 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene, 6693.0 of micro g/l 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoluene, 2.1 micro g/l of 2,4-DNT, 95.0 micro g/l of 2,4-dinitrobenzoic acid, and 3.6 micro g/l of 2,6-DNT. There was a highly significant linear correlation between the urinary concentrations of the two main metabolites of TNT, 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene and 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoluene. In 63 persons TNT or DNT or metabolite concentrations above the analytical detection limit were found in urine. These persons reported more frequently symptoms like bitter taste, burning eyes, and discoloration of the skin and hair than persons (n = 19) without detectable TNT and/or DNT exposure.
During the disposal of military waste containing relevant TNT and DNT, exposure can occur of occupational-medical relevance. Biological monitoring is suitable for the early detection of possible adverse effects at workplaces exposed to TNT. Protective measures should be improved, together with adequate occupational-medical surveillance of persons exposed to nitroaromatic explosives. Further studies are necessary to exclude possible long term effects.
The chronic intravenous toxicity of cefodizime sodium (THR-221) was studied in beagle dogs. Groups of 6 males and 6 females were treated with THR-221 at doses of 0 (saline), 200, 400, 800 and 1600 mg/kg/day for 6 months. The THR-221 related symptoms were vomiting, excessive drinking behavior and salivation. The paleness of the visible mucosa and discoloration of vascular color by funduscopy due to systemic anemia were observed in one animal each of 800 and 1600 mg/kg/day groups. Body weight was depressed transiently or continuously in a few animals of 400-1600 mg/kg/day groups. The hematological, serum chemical and urinalysis findings in a few animals of 400-1600 mg/kg/day groups revealed decreases in RBC count, PCV and hemoglobin, an increase in reticulocyte count, a decrease in WBC count, a decrease in platelet count, slight increase in TP, and albumin, a decrease in AlP, and an increase in urinary Na. Light microscopically, deposition of hemosiderin and increased extramedullary hematopoiesis in the liver and spleen, and deposition of fibroid substance in the white pulp of the spleen and diffuse fibrosis in the bone marrows were detected in a few animals of 800 and 1600 mg/kg/day groups. Electron microscopically, no significant toxic changes were observed. The maximum nontoxic doses of THR-221 are estimated as 200 mg/kg/day in male and less than 200 mg/kg/day in female.
A case is described of a saturation diver with no previous history of asthma who repeatedly developed work-related symptoms of asthma at pressure, which appear to be causally related to the use of dichlorophen as a disinfectant agent. Although challenge tests were negative, suggesting that dichlorophen may have been acting as an irritant rather than as a sensitizer, the symptoms were abolished by the use of an alternative disinfectant agent. The potential importance of this effect in a diver is discussed, and the case highlights the importance of the use of nontoxic agents in the diving environment.
Two middle aged female patients developed hallucinations and severe confusion with paranoid features during oral tocainide administration at recommended dosage levels. Both patients had evidence of impaired renal function. Symptoms were provoked on re-challenge in the first patient. In the second patient the tocainide blood level was higher than the recommended therapeutic range. Both patients reverted to their normal mental state on withdrawal of the drug.
