Dose-dependent modifying effects of quinacrine on induction of preneoplastic liver cell foci were investigated in male F344 rats. Six week old animals were injected i.p. with N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) at a dose of 200 mg/kg, and starting 2 weeks later, rats were given quinacrine at dietary levels of 20, 100 and 500 p.p.m. for 6 weeks. Groups without either DEN or quinacrine treatment were used as controls. At week 3 following DEN administration, all animals were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy, and after killing the animals at week 8, development of preneoplastic liver cell foci was investigated using the glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) as a marker. The numbers and unit areas of GST-P-positive foci per cm2 were significantly increased in the DEN/quinacrine (500 p.p.m.) group as compared to DEN-alone group values. An increase in number was also evident in the 100 p.p.m. but not the 20 p.p.m. treated group, no lesions being induced by quinacrine alone (500 p.p.m.). Electron microscopic study confirmed that quinacrine dose-dependently induces lipidosis in hepatocytes, i.e. markedly myeloid lamellar cytoplasmic inclusion bodies were observed. The results thus demonstrated that quinacrine treatment enhances GST-P-positive liver cell foci development in a dose-dependent way, this effect presumably being related to the induction of lipidosis.
Low level of cadmium (Cd) exposure may enhance osteoclasts formation in vitro. The aim of the study was to observe the effects of Cd on osteoclasts formation in vivo. Sprague-Dawley male rats were divided into 4 groups which were given Cd via drinking water at concentrations of 0, 2, 10 and 50 mg/L for 12 weeks. At the 12th week, urine samples were collected from all of the rats. All rats were then sacrificed and the blood was collected for biomarkers assay. Bone tissues were dissected for mineral density determinations, histological investigation, tartrate resistant acid phosphatase staining and immunohistochemical staining. The bone mineral density and bone microstructure index of rats treated with 50mg Cd/L were obviously lower than in control rats. Histochemical investigation showed that Cd could induce osteoclasts formation in a dose-dependent manner. Tartrate resistant acid phosphatase 5b levels in rats treated with Cd were higher than the control. Immunohistochemical investigation showed that Cd could enhance receptor-activated nuclear factor kappa B ligand expression (RANKL) and inhibit osteoprotegerin (OPG) expression. Our study evidences in vivo that excessive bone resorption mediated via osteoclasts is an important way for Cd toxic effects on bone and OPG/RANKL may play an important role.
The gender-specific expression pattern of aromatase and 5alpha-reductases (5alpha-R) during brain development provides neurons the right amount of estradiol and DHT to induce a dimorphic organization of the structure. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are endocrine disruptive pollutants; exposure to PCBs through placental transfer and breast-feeding may adversely affect the organizational action of sex steroid, resulting in long-term alteration of reproductive neuroendocrinology. The study was aimed at: a) evaluating the hypothalamic expression of aromatase, 5alpha-R1 and 5alpha-R2 in fetuses (GD20), infant (PN12), weaning (PN21) and young adult (PN60) male and female rats exposed to PCBs during development; b) correlating these parameters with the time of testicular descent, puberty onset, estrous cyclicity and copulatory behavior; c) evaluating possible alterations of some non reproductive behaviors (locomotion, learning and memory, depression/anxiety behavior). A reconstituted mixture of four indicator congeners (PCB 126, 138, 153 and 180) was injected subcutaneously to dams at the dose of 10 mg/kg daily from GD15 to GD19 and then twice a week till weanling. The results indicated that developmental PCB exposure produced important changes in the dimorphic hypothalamic expression of both aromatase and the 5alpha-Rs, which were still evident in adult animals. We observed that female puberty onset occurs earlier than in control animals without cycle irregularity, while testicular descent in males was delayed. A slight but significant impairment of sexual behavior and an important alteration in memory retention were also noted specifically in males. We conclude that PCBs might affect the dimorphic neuroendocrine control of reproductive system and of other neurobiological processes.
To evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and blood pressure (BP) lowering effect of extended release metoprolol succinate (ER metoprolol) in children 6 to 16 years of age with established hypertension.
Patients were randomized to one of four treatment arms: placebo or ER metoprolol (0.2 mg/kg, 1.0 mg/kg, or 2.0 mg/kg). Data were analyzed on 140 intent-to-treat patients.
Mean age (+/-SD) was 12.5 +/- 2.8 years and mean baseline BP was 132/78 +/- 9/9 mmHg. Following 4 weeks of treatment, mean changes in sitting BP were: placebo = -1.9/-2.1 mmHg; ER metoprolol 0.2 mg/kg = -5.2/-3.1 mmHg; 1.0 mg/kg = -7.7/-4.9 mmHg; 2.0 mg/kg = -6.3/-7.5 mmHg. Compared with placebo, ER metoprolol significantly reduced systolic blood pressure (SBP) at the 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg dose (P = .027 and P = .049, respectively), reduced diastolic blood pressure (DBP) at the 2.0 mg/kg dose (P = .017), and showed a statistically significant dose response relationship for the placebo-corrected change in DBP from baseline. There were no serious adverse events or adverse events requiring study drug discontinuation among patients receiving active therapy.
These data indicate that ER metoprolol is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for hypertension in children.
Brain perfusion abnormalities after an abstinence period of 28 days in a group of patients with alcohol and / or cocaine dependence was investigated. They were related with gender, consumption period and number of drugs. Fifty men and 10 women were included and SPECT perfusion was performed using 99mTc ethylene cysteine dimer (ECD) with qualitative and semiquantitative section analysis. Perfusion abnormalities were observed in 60% of the patients, principally in frontal, temporal and parietal lobes. The abnormalities were focal in 58.3%, diffuse in 41.7% and bilateral in 95% of all patients. Abnormalities were observed in 68% of the men and in only 20% of the women (p = 0.01). Patients with brain perfusion abnormalities had a longer period of consumption corresponding to a median of 17.5 years in patients with abnormalities versus nine years in those with no abnormalities (p = 0.036), however, their ages as well as the number of drugs consumed were not significantly different. In conclusion, after 28 days of alcohol and / or cocaine abstinence there is significant presence of brain perfusion abnormalities with 99mTc ECD. This could be explained by vasospasm and / or secondary endothelial lesions.
We report the case of a 62-year-old man who was administered sodium valproate (VPA) and who subsequently developed the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). He had been taking VPA for treatment of idiopathic generalized tonic-clonic convulsions since he was 56 years old. After substituting VPA with zonisamide, the serum sodium level returned to normal. We consider this episode of SIADH to be the result of a combination of factors including a weakness of the central nervous system and the long-term administration of VPA.
Micro RNAs (miRNAs) constitute a unique class of small, non-coding ribonucleic acids (RNAs) that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. The presence of two inducible miRNAs, miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a, involved in respectively, astroglial cell proliferation and in the innate immune and inflammatory response, is significantly up-regulated in human neurological disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study we analyzed abundances miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a in magnesium-, iron-, gallium, and aluminum-sulfate-stressed human-astroglial (HAG) cells, a structural and immune-responsive brain cell type. The combination of iron- plus aluminum-sulfate was found to be significantly synergistic in up-regulating reactive oxygen species (ROS) abundance, NF-кB-DNA binding and miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a expression. Treatment of metal-sulfate stressed HAG cells with the antioxidant phenyl butyl nitrone (PBN) or the NF-кB inhibitors curcumin, the metal chelator-anti-oxidant pyrollidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), or the resveratrol analog CAY10512, abrogated both NF-кB signaling and induction of these miRNAs. Our observations further illustrate the potential of physiologically relevant amounts of aluminum and iron sulfates to synergistically up-regulate specific miRNAs known to contribute to AD-relevant pathogenetic mechanisms, and suggest that antioxidants or NF-кB inhibitors may be useful to quench metal-sulfate triggered genotoxicity.
The links between drug use and psychosis are of major aetiological and prognostic significance. Psychosis and drug dependence frequently co-occur within the prison population, providing the opportunity to study this link more closely.
To explore the relationship between psychosis and drug dependence in a sample of prisoners.
A total of 3142 prisoners were surveyed nationally, and structured clinical data were obtained from a subsample of 503 respondents. Psychiatric assessment was based on the Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (version 1.0). Measures of amphetamine, cannabis, cocaine and heroin use and dependence were obtained through self-report.
Logistic regression analyses indicated that first use of amphetamines or cocaine before the age of 16 years and severe cannabis or cocaine dependence were related to an increased risk of psychosis. In contrast, severe dependence on heroin was associated with a reduced risk of this classification.
Severe dependence on cannabis and psychostimulants is associated with a higher risk of psychosis and is in contrast to severe dependence on heroin, which has a negative relationship with psychosis.
The 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) pathway has been associated with a variety of inflammatory diseases including asthma, atherosclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, pain, cancer and liver fibrosis. Several classes of 5-LOX inhibitors have been identified, but only one drug, zileuton, a redox inhibitor of 5-LOX, has been approved for clinical use. To better evaluate the efficacy of 5-LOX inhibitors for pharmacological intervention, a rat model was modified to test the in vivo efficacy of 5-LOX inhibitors. Inflammation was produced by adding carrageenan into a newly formed air pouch and prostaglandins produced. While macrophages and neutrophils are present in the inflamed pouch, little 5-LOX products are formed. Cellular 5-LOX activation was obtained by adding calcium ionophore (A23187) into the pouch thus providing a novel model to evaluate the efficacy and selectivity of 5-LOX inhibitors. Also, we described modifications to the in vitro 5-LOX enzyme and cell assays. These assays included a newly developed fluorescence-based enzyme assay, a 5-LOX redox assay, an ex vivo human whole blood assay and an IgE-stimulated rat mast cell assay, all designed for maximal production of leukotrienes. Zileuton and CJ-13,610, a competitive, non-redox inhibitor of 5-LOX, were evaluated for their pharmacological properties using these assays. Although both compounds achieved dose-dependent inhibition of 5-LOX enzyme activity, CJ-13,610 was 3-4 fold more potent than zileuton in all-assays. Evaluation of 5-LOX metabolites-by LC/MS/MS and ELISA confirmed that both compounds selectively inhibited all products downstream of 5-hydroperoxy eicosatetraenoic acid (5-HPETE), including 5-oxo-6,8,11,14-eicosatetraenoic acid (5-oxoETE), without inhibition of 12-lipoxygenase (12-LOX), 15-lipoxygenase (15-LOX), or cyclooxygenase (COX) products. In the rat air pouch model, oral dosing of CJ-13,610 and zileuton resulted in selective inhibition 5-LOX activity from pouch exudate and ex vivo rat whole blood with similar potency to in vitro assay. These data show that the rat air pouch model is a reliable and useful tool for evaluating in vivo efficacy of 5-LOX inhibitors and may aid in the development of the next generation of 5-LOX inhibitors, such as the non-redox inhibitors similar to CJ-13,610.
The pathologic mechanisms of skin injuries, following the acute inflammatory response induced by vesicating agents sulfur mustard (SM) and nitrogen mustard (NM) exposure, are poorly understood. Neutrophils which accumulate at the site of injury, abundantly express myeloperoxidase (MPO), a heme protein that is implicated in oxidant-related antimicrobial and cytotoxic responses. Our previous studies have shown that exposure to SM analog 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES) or NM results in an inflammatory response including increased neutrophilic infiltration and MPO activity. To further define the role of neutrophil-derived MPO in NM-induced skin injury, here we used a genetic approach and examined the effect of NM exposure (12h and 24h) on previously established injury endpoints in C57BL/6J wild type (WT) and B6.129X1-MPOtm1Lus/J mice (MPO KO), homozygous null for MPO gene. NM exposure caused a significant increase in skin bi-fold thickness, epidermal thickness, microvesication, DNA damage and apoptosis in WT mice compared to MPO KO mice. MPO KO mice showed relatively insignificant effect. Similarly, NM induced increases in the expression of inflammatory and proteolytic mediators, including COX-2, iNOS and MMP-9 in WT mice, while having a significantly lower effect in MPO KO mice. Collectively, these results show that MPO, which generates microbicidal oxidants, plays an important role in NM-induced skin injuries. This suggests the development of mechanism-based treatments against NM- and SM-induced skin injuries that inhibit MPO activity and attenuate MPO-derived oxidants.
Alpha interferon (IFN-alpha) is an approved medication for chronic hepatitis B. Gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) is a key mediator of host antiviral immunity against hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in vivo. However, the molecular mechanism by which these antiviral cytokines suppress HBV replication remains elusive. Using an immortalized murine hepatocyte (AML12)-derived cell line supporting tetracycline-inducible HBV replication, we show in this report that both IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma efficiently reduce the amount of intracellular HBV nucleocapsids. Furthermore, we provide evidence suggesting that the IFN-induced cellular antiviral response is able to distinguish and selectively accelerate the decay of HBV replication-competent nucleocapsids but not empty capsids in a proteasome-dependent manner. Our findings thus reveal a novel antiviral mechanism of IFNs and provide a basis for a better understanding of HBV pathobiology.
The pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia in the nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is not clearly understood. Slit-2 and Slit-3 are expressed in fetal lung and play a key role in directing the functional organization and differentiation of lung mesenchyme during branching morphogenesis. We hypothesized that the pulmonary gene expression levels of Slit genes are altered in the nitrofen-induced CDH.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Fetal lungs were harvested on D15 and D21 and divided into 2 groups as follows: CDH (n = 9 at each time-point) and control (n = 9 at each time-point). The pulmonary gene expression levels of Slit-2, Slit-3, Robo1, and Robo2 were analyzed by real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Student's t test or Mann-Whitney U test was used for statistical analysis.
Relative messenger RNA expression levels of Slit-2 and Slit-3 were significantly increased in CDH lungs compared to control at both D15 and D21 (P < .05). However, there were no significant differences between CDH and controls in the pulmonary gene expression levels of Robo1 and Robo2 at each time-point.
Our results provide evidence, for the first time, that Slit genes are upregulated in nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs in both early and late stages of lung development. Altered pulmonary Slit gene expression may disrupt branching lung morphogenesis resulting in pulmonary hypoplasia.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ), nocistatin, and prepro-N/OFQ 160-187 (C-peptide) are all derived from the same precursor protein. We examine the pharmacological mechanisms of nocistatin- and C-peptide-induced pronociceptive responses in a novel algogenic-induced nociceptive flexion test in mice. The intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of nocistatin- and C-peptide induced pronociceptive responses in a range of 0.01 to 10 or 1 pmol, respectively, which showed 100- to 1000-fold less potent effects than the N/OFQ. The nociceptive effects of both peptides were not affected by 1-[(3R,4R)-1-cyclooctylmethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-piperidyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H-benzimidazole-2-one (J-113397) (i.pl.), an N/OFQ receptor antagonist, indicating that they are mediated by a novel mechanism independent of activation of N/OFQ receptor. Like N/OFQ, nocistatin-induced nociception was abolished by i.pl. injection of pertussis toxin, phospholipase C inhibitor, or CP-99994, a neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist, indicating that nocistatin may elicit nociception through a substance P release from nociceptor endings via activation of Gi/o and phospholipase C. The nociception was abolished by neonatal pretreatment (s.c.) with capsaicin or by i.t. pretreatment with CP-99994, but not MK-801 (i.t.), an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist. In contrast, C-peptide-induced nociception was attenuated by the pretreatment with antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for Galphas (i.t.) and with KT-5720 (i.pl.), a cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, but not with pertussis toxin. The nociception was neither attenuated by neonatal capsaicin nor by i.t. injection with CP-99994, but it was attenuated by i.t. injection with MK-801. These results suggest that nocistatin and C-peptide derived from prepro-N/OFQ stimulate distinct nociceptive fibers through different in vivo signaling mechanisms.
Alteration of the gut microbiota through diet and environmental contaminants may disturb physiological homeostasis, leading to various diseases including obesity and type 2 diabetes. Since most exposure to environmentally-persistent organic pollutants (POPs) occurs through the diet, the host gastrointestinal tract and commensal gut microbiota are likely to be exposed to POPs.
We report that 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF), a persistent environmental contaminant, profoundly impacts the gut microbiota and host metabolism in an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR)-dependent manner.
Six-week-old male wild-type and Ahr(-/-) mice on the C57BL/6J background were treated with 24 µg/kg TCDF in the diet for five days. 16S rRNA gene sequencing, (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolomics, targeted ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with triplequadrupole mass spectrometry (UPLC-TQMS) and biochemical assays were used to determine the microbiota compositions and the physiological and metabolic effects of TCDF.
Dietary TCDF altered the gut microbiota by shifting the ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes. TCDF-treated mouse cecal contents were enriched with Butyrivibrio spp., but depleted in Oscillobacter spp. in comparison with vehicle-treated mice. These changes in the gut microbiota were associated with altered bile acid metabolism. Further, dietary TCDF inhibited the farnesoid X receptor (FXR) signaling pathway, and triggered significant inflammation and host metabolic disorders as a result of activation of bacterial fermentation, and altering hepatic lipogenesis, gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis, in an AHR-dependent manner.
These findings provide new insights into the biochemical consequences of TCDF exposure involving the alteration of the gut microbiota, modulation of nuclear receptor signaling, and disruption of host metabolism.
A inadvertently administrated high dose of sympathomimetic drug induced cardiogenic shock manifestations in a previously healthy woman. This state was characterized by EKG subendocardial injury, serum cardiac enzymes elevation, extensive regional left ventricular wall motion abnormalities on echocardiogram. Therapeutics included oxygen, systemic vasodilators and diuretics. Clinical recovery occurred over a four days period and parallels the normalization of echocardiogram and EKG alterations.
Twelve racemic analogues of the antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) were tested and compared with VPA for anticonvulsant activity by the subcutaneous pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) seizure threshold test and for neurotoxicity by the rotorod test. Four compounds produced maximal anticonvulsant activity (100% protection) in equimolar doses (1.5 mmol/kg) to VPA and two compounds showed a similar effect with lower doses (1.0 mmol/kg). Four compounds produced lower activity (38-80% protection), and two compounds showed no anticonvulsant activity at the dose used (1.5 mmol/kg). Two of the 12 compounds, (+/-)-2-n-propyl-4-hexynoic acid (11) and (+/-)-4-methyl-2-n-propyl-4-pentenoic acid (12), showed no sedation at doses that produced the maximum anticonvulsant effect. For the first time we succeeded to develop two compounds with higher protective index and safety ratios than VPA. Compound 11 had a longer duration of action and higher protective index but a lower safety ratio than 12. Comparisons of the anticonvulsant and minimal neurotoxic effects of these compounds with their calculated lipophilicity (C log P) revealed that compounds with the desired high anticonvulsant activity and minimal neurotoxicity showed C log P values between 1.84 and 2.64 and had nine carbon atoms (in contrast to eight carbon atoms for VPA).
Acute acetaminophen (APAP) nephrotoxicity was studied in male Wistar rats 1 h after different APAP single doses (200, 500 and 1000 mg/kg body wt, i.p.). Significant impairments in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and clearance of p-aminohippuric acid (ClPAH) were observed in a dose-dependent way, although tubular parameters measured, water and electrolyte fractional excretion, remained at control values, while the urine to plasma osmolality ratios (Uosm/Posm) were diminished in APAP-1000 rats (control = 2.93 +/- 0.20, APAP-1000 = 1.40 +/- 0.04). The time course of renal function was also studied in APAP-1000 mg/kg-treated animals; parallel impairments were observed in GFR, ClPAH and tubular functions. Maximal alteration was observed at 16 h and restorement began at 24 h post-injection. Glucose renal handling, either at low or at high tubular glucose loads, remained at control values. Thus, our data suggest that the early stage of acetaminophen nephrotoxicity might be due to renal hemodynamic changes which might induce an alteration in tubular function principally in distal structures of medullary tissue, as shown by the Uosm/Posm results. These effects occurred coupled with a diminution in hepatic glutathione (GSH) levels at every APAP dose and in renal GSH levels in APAP-1000 mg/kg-treated rats. Moreover, renal damage was observed both in the presence or absence of hepatic damage.
To analyze the effect of low frequency transcranial magnetic stimulation (LF-TMS) on changing neuropeptide-Y (NPY) expression and apoptosis of hippocampus neurons in epilepsy rats induced by pilocarpine (PLO).
Thirty male Sprague Dawley rats (240 g +/- 20 g) were randomly divided into 2 groups. I group simply celiac injected pilocarpine. II group celiac injected PLO after LF-TMS. Pathological item included HE staining, NPY immunohistochemical staining and apoptosis staining.
HE staining revealed neurons of hippocampus were obviously death and cell's structure was destroyed in PLO group. The PLO + LF-TMS group was less injured and destroyed. Using One-Way ANOVA, NPY immunohistochemical staining shown the positive cell number was increased at all areas of hippocampus in PLO group contrasting with the low positive cell number in the PLO + LF-TMS group. In PLO group the number of apoptosis cell at hippocampus areas was significant higher than the PLO + LF-TMS group.
Using the PLO evoked epilepsy model, LF-TMS alleviated neurons injury at hippocampus area, so LF-TMS might playing an important role in resisting the progressing of epilepsy. The positive cell number of NPY increased at all areas of hippocampus, which indicated the close relation between NPY and epilepsy. NPY might have some function on resisting epilepsy.
Typical antipsychotics such as haloperidol exert their therapeutic effects via blockade of dopamine (DA) D(2) receptors, leading to extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in humans and catalepsy in rodents. In contrast, atypical antipsychotics and new generation D(2)/5-HT(1A) antipsychotics have low cataleptogenic potential. However, there has been no systematic comparative study on the effects of these different classes of antipsychotics in non-human primates, a species displaying a more sophisticated repertoire of behavioural/motor activity than rats. Once weekly, six young adult female non-haloperidol-sensitised cynomolgus monkeys were treated i.m. with a test compound and videotaped to score catalepsy-associated behaviour (CAB: static postures, unusual positions and crouching). Haloperidol, risperidone, olanzapine, nemonapride and remoxipride induced, to different extents, an increase in unusual positions (a response akin to dystonia), some crouching and static postures. In contrast, clozapine, quetiapine, ziprasidone and aripiprazole produced much lower or no unusual positions; clozapine also produced marked increases in static postures and crouching. Among novel D(2)/5-HT(1A) antipsychotics, SLV313 and F15063 augmented the number of unusual positions, albeit at doses 16-63 times higher than those of haloperidol for approximately the same score. SSR181507 and bifeprunox produced moderate static postures, little crouching and negligible unusual positions. These data provide the first comparative analysis in cynomolgus monkeys of EPS liability of conventional, atypical and novel D(2)/5-HT(1A) antipsychotics. They indicate that the latter are less prone than haloperidol to produce CAB, and provide a basis for comparison with rodent catalepsy studies.
Genetic contributions to bone mineral density (BMD) and bone turnover are well known. In the present study, we analyzed the relationship between polymorphism of parathyroid hormone (PTH)/PTH-related peptide (PTHrP) receptor gene existing in exon M7 and the clinical characteristics of primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT). PTH/PTHrP receptor genotypes were analyzed in 92 pHPT patients by direct sequence to determine whether nucleotide 1417 of the cDNA was C or T. BMD levels at the lumbar spine and at the radius before and one year after parathyroidectomy, as well as serum levels of calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and intact PTH were measured. Although there were no significant differences in serum levels of calcium, phosphorus and intact PTH, ALP was significantly lower in the CT genotype compared with the TT genotype. BMD level at the radius was significantly higher in the CT genotype than in the CC genotype. Moreover, an increase in radial BMD one year after parathyroidectomy was significantly less in CT genotype than two other genotypes (CC, TT). The present study is the first to indicate that the polymorphism of PTH/PTHrP receptor gene is closely related to the extent of bone mass reduction in pHPT and that this polymorphism would be one of the genetic factors responsible for the severity of the pathological state of pHPT.
The interaction of cancer cells with blood cells and cell wall components evokes inflammatory responses and is a critical event in the metastatic process. Indomethacin is a potent inhibitor of the cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes and has previously been shown to decrease the growth of primary tumors in vivo. Proinflammatory prostaglandins produced by the two COX enzymes may also play a role in the development of metastases.
To directly address this question, we tested the effect of indomethacin on the accumulation of circulating [(3)H]-uridine-labeled tumor cells in the lungs and on the subsequent development of lung tumors.
We found that inhibition of COX activity in the recipient mice prior to the injection of tumor cells decreased the percentage of the cells arrested in the lungs. This effect was highly significant since it subsequently led to substantial attenuation of lung metastasis development.
These data thus demonstrate the antimetastatic effect of indomethacin through a mechanism which involves a reduction in tumor cell uptake by the lungs.
This study describes the magnitude of risk of therapy-related myelodysplasia and acute myeloid leukemia (t-MDS/AML) in 578 individuals diagnosed with Ewing sarcoma and enrolled on Children's Oncology Group therapeutic protocol, INT-0091. Between 1988 and 1992, patients with or without metastatic disease were randomized to receive doxorubicin, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and dactinomycin (regimen A) or these 4 drugs alternating with etoposide and ifosfamide (regimen B). Between 1992 and 1994, patients with metastatic disease were nonrandomly assigned to receive high-intensity therapy (regimen C: regimen B therapy with higher doses of doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and ifosfamide). Median age at diagnosis of Ewing sarcoma was 12 years, and median length of follow-up, 8 years. Eleven patients developed t-MDS/AML, resulting in a cumulative incidence of 2% at 5 years. While patients treated on regimens A and B were at a low risk for development of t-MDS/AML (cumulative incidence: 0.4% and 0.9% at 5 years, respectively), patients treated on regimen C were at a 16-fold increased risk of developing t-MDS/AML (cumulative incidence: 11% at 5 years), when compared with those treated on regimen A. Increasing exposure to ifosfamide from 90 to 140 g/m2, cyclophosphamide from 9.6 to 17.6 g/m2, and doxorubicin from 375 to 450 mg/m2 increased the risk of t-MDS/AML significantly.
To determine if HT-1001, an extract of American ginseng, affects scopolamine-induced memory and performance deficits in a spatial learning task, alters brain concentrations of aminergic neurotransmitters, and alters choline uptake in synaptosome preparations.
Animal study.
48 Sprague Dawley rats.
Long-term oral administration of a test material or control solution. Intraperitoneal administration of scopolamine (2 mg/kg) 30 minutes before testing.
Performance on Morris water maze task, choline uptake, aminergic neurotransmitter analysis, in vitro monoamine oxidase analysis (of compounds).
HT-1001 protected against scopolamine-induced amnesia and increased choline uptake in synaptosomal preparations. HT-1001 did not alter brain concentrations of norepinephrine, dopamine, 5-HT (serotonin), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid or 5-hydroxyindoleactic acid. HT-1001 had a very weak ability to inhibit monoamine oxidase activity in vitro.
HT-1001 demonstrates a capacity to protect against scopolamine-induced memory deficits.
In cocaine dependent individuals, changes in subjective and objective sleep quality accompany their characteristic binge-abstinence cycle. Preliminary studies suggest that sleep quality may decline with prolonged abstinence. Reported here are results of the most extensive study to date on sleep abnormalities during cocaine binge and confirmed abstinence under controlled conditions.
The purpose of the current study was to use an experimental, inpatient model of the cocaine binge and abstinence cycle to examine the course and magnitude of sleep disturbances during cocaine use and abstinence.
Five inpatient non-treatment seeking cocaine users completed 3 baseline days of drug abstinence followed by 3 days of medically monitored "binge" cocaine use, and then 15 days of drug abstinence. Physiological sleep was recorded with polysomnography and the Nightcap ambulatory monitor, while subjective sleep was assessed by questionnaire.
Across 3 days of binge cocaine use and 15 subsequent days of confirmed drug abstinence, mean sleep duration, efficiency and latency changed in the direction of poorer sleep quality. In contrast, subjective reports of sleep quality remained unchanged across the same period.
Physiological sleep quality deteriorated from days when cocaine was used across the first 2 weeks of confirmed drug abstinence. In contrast, subjective reports of sleep quality remained unchanged across the same period. We postulate that this dissociation between objective and subjective sleep quality results from a cocaine-use related disruption of the sleep homeostat. Worsening sleep quality during cocaine abstinence may contribute to the risk of relapse and its treatment may offer novel therapeutic strategies for cocaine dependence.
The aim of this study was to examine the importance of the serum hepatitis C viral load within the first year post-liver transplant in determining posttransplant survival. A retrospective analysis of 118 consecutive hepatitis C virus-positive liver transplant recipients who received an allograft from January 1997 to September 2005 was undertaken with a median duration of follow-up of 32.4 months. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to examine the effects of recipient, donor, surgical, and viral factors on posttransplant outcomes. A total of 620 viral load estimations were undertaken in the first 12 months following transplantation. Patient and graft survival rates at 1, 3, and 5 years were 87.8%, 79.9%, and 70.1% and 87.0%, 79.2%, and 68.2%, respectively. According to multivariate analysis, a peak viral load > or = 10(7) IU/mL (P = 0.004; hazard ratio, 8.68; 95% confidence interval, 2.04-37.02) and exposure to antirejection therapy (P = 0.05; hazard ratio, 2.26; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-5.38) were both independent predictors of diminished patient and graft survival and hepatitis C-related allograft failure. The only other independent predictor of hepatitis C virus-related outcome after transplant was azathioprine use, which was associated with improved outcomes (P = 0.04; hazard ratio, 0.25; 95% confidence interval, 0.07-0.91). A peak viral load in the first year after transplant of >10(8), 10(7) to 10(8), and <10(7) IU/mL was associated with a mean survival of 11.8, 70.6, and 89.1 months respectively (P < or = 0.03). The results emphasize the importance of high viral loads in the early posttransplant period as an independent predictor of recipient outcomes.
Fatty acid synthase (FAS), the key metabolic multi-enzyme that is responsible for the terminal catalytic step in the de novo fatty acid biosynthesis, plays an active role in the development, maintenance, and enhancement of the malignant phenotype in a subset of breast carcinomas. We recently described that a molecular bi-directional cross-talk between FAS and the Her-2/neu (erbB-2) oncogene is taking place at the level of transcription, translation, and activity in breast cancer cells. Because Her-2/neu has been linked with altered sensitivity to cytotoxic drugs, we envisioned that FAS gene expression may represent a novel predictive molecular factor for breast cancer response to chemotherapy in a Her-2/neu-related manner. We herein evaluated whether chemotherapy-induced cell damage acts in an epigenetic fashion by inducing changes in the transcriptional activation of FAS gene in breast cancer cells. To evaluate this option, FAS- and Her-2/neu-overexpressing SK-Br3 breast cancer cells were transiently transfected with a FAS promoter-reporter construct (FAS-Luciferase) harboring all the elements necessary for high level expression in cancer cells. SK-Br3 cells cultured in the presence of topoisomerase IIalpha (TOP2A) inhibitors doxorubicin and etopoxide (VP-16) demonstrated a 2- to 3-fold increase in FAS promoter activity when compared with control cells growing in drug-free culture conditions. We failed to observe any significant activation of FAS promoter following exposure to the anti-metabolite 5-fluorouracil, the alkylating drug cisplatin, or the microtubule interfering-agents paclitaxel and vincristine. Moreover, the up-regulatory effects of TOP2A inhibitors on the transcriptional activation of FAS gene expression were not significantly decreased when the FAS promoter was damaged at the sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP)-binding site. Considering that FAS inhibition produces profound inhibition of DNA replication and S-phase progression in cancer cells, we finally asked whether a cross-talk between TOP2A and FAS could exhibit a Her-2/neu-related bi-directional nature. TOP2A protein levels were decreased during treatment with the anti-Her-2/neu antibody trastuzumab while, concomitantly, FAS promoter activity and FAS protein expression were significantly reduced. Of note, when the expression levels of TOP2A protein were analyzed following exposure of SK-Br3 cells to increasing concentrations of the novel slow-binding FAS inhibitor C75, a dose-dependent reduction in TOP2A expression was observed. Although FAS gene is not physically located in the Her-2/neu-TOP2A amplicon, our present findings strongly suggest that a tight functional association between FAS, Her-2/neu and TOP2A genes is taking place in a subset of breast carcinoma cells.
The iso-enzyme profiles of urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosoaminidase (NAG) were studied in the workers from a chloro-alkaline electrolysis plant that had been continuously exposed to elemental mercury. The same workers then had a work break of four months and were later re-exposed to mercury for another five months. The activities of urinary NAG in workers exposed to mercury before and after the work break and in the control group were 2.09 +/- 1.03 IU/L; 0.90 +/- 0.52 IU/L and 1.13 +/- 0.35 IU/L, respectively. The fraction of the dominant A form activity in the total activity, in the workers exposed to mercury after a work break (85.31 +/- 5.32%), was almost equal to the fraction of A in the control group (84.64 +/- 2.75%). The percent fraction of A forms (A and A2) during continuous exposure was almost equal to the sum of the fractions A and A2 in the control group and for exposure after the work break. The fraction of the B form activity in the total activity during exposure to elemental mercury for five months after the work break (7.41 +/- 3.45%) was lower (P < 0.1) than the fraction of the B form in the control group (8.62 +/- 2.19%). The decrease in the fraction of the B form compared with the control group was more significant (P < 0.001) in the case of continuously exposed workers (5.25 +/- 2.55%). Beside the major A and B iso-enzymes of NAG, the A2 form was also isolated, and its fraction in the control group (6.73 +/- 2.15%) was not negligible. For workers exposed to mercury for five months, it was 7.28 +/- 3.52%. It is concluded that mercury affected the increased exocytosis of iso-enzyme A and the inhibition of B iso-enzyme of NAG. The increase in activity of urinary NAG in subjects exposed to mercury was a consequence of the increased excretion of A form. It was established also that the four months work break was sufficient for the repair of renal damages that occurred during continuous exposure, and which were monitored by the activity of NAG. Thus, the effects of mercury seem to have been reversible.
To evaluate the efficacy of combined Invigorating Kidney for Preventing Asthma (IKPA) tablets and beclomethasone dipropinate (BDP).
Fifty seven seasonal asthmatic patients were studied. They were randomly assigned to either of the two groups: the treated group (n = 32) treated with the IKPA tablets and inhalated BDP, the control group (n = 25) inhalated BDP singly. Measurements of serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), soluble IL-2 receptor (SIL-2), total eosinophil counts, spirometry and methacholine challenge were performed before and after treatment.
After 3 months' treatment and 6 months' observation the authors observed a significant improvement in both groups. The treated group had better clinical efficacy and the ECP level had reduced significantly, FEV1 increased greatly than the control group.
The two drugs influenced the function of eosinophils and and T lymphocytes and this might contribute to the efficacy.
