The prescription-event monitoring procedure developed at the University of Southampton was used to evaluate five different non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), including piroxicam, in approximately 55,000 patients. The overall incidence of side effects was what would be expected. The risks of gastrointestinal haemorrhage and peptic ulceration were spread uniformly across the five drugs under study. No real difference was seen in the incidence of these conditions when patients discontinued the medication or switched to another NSAID. Overall, serious side effects were extremely rare. One provocative finding was the possibility that drugs of this class may exert a cardioprotective effect. There appeared to be a deficit of cases of myocardial infarction while the patients were taking an NSAID. Responsibility for the efficacy and safety of all drugs resides with many people and organizations: the manufacturers, national health departments, licensing departments, and physicians. The press, which has contributed to many unwarranted panics concerning drug safety, also must refrain from using power without responsibility.
Interleukin-28B (IL-28B), also referred to as interferon-λ3, belongs to the type III interferon family. Earlier studies showed that IL-28B suppresses proliferation of some tumor cells in vitro. IL-28B gene transfection ex vivo also resulted in growth retardation of tumor cells in mice, through either direct antiproliferative action or induction of antitumor immunity. However, it has not been reported whether in vivo therapeutic administration of recombinant IL-28B can inhibit the growth of a pre-established tumor. Here, we found that repetitive subcutaneous administration of recombinant mouse IL-28B significantly induced tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes and augmented natural killer cytolytic activity, leading to moderate suppression of the growth of a murine head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cell line that was completely resistant to the direct antiproliferative effect of IL-28B. Moreover, co-administration of recombinant mouse IL-28B and cisplatin (CDDP) more significantly inhibited in vivo growth of the tumor that had been established in syngenic mice and induced tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. The CDDP treatment induced the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I and Fas molecules on the surface of HNSCC cells both in vitro and in vivo; this may be the mechanism underlying the synergistic tumor suppression activity of IL-28B and CDDP. Unlike type I interferon, IL-28B did not suppress growth of bone marrow cells in culture. Therefore, IL-28B may be useful as a tool for a novel multidisciplinary therapy against cancer, significantly potentiating innate and adaptive antitumor immune responses, especially when co-administrated with CDDP, which is currently the first choice chemotherapeutic agent against various tumors including HNSCCs.
Retinoids play a key role in lung development. Recent studies suggest that retinoid signalling pathway may be disrupted in the nitrofen model of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), but the exact mechanism is not clearly understood. We hypothesized that nitrofen interferes with cellular uptake of retinol during lung morphogenesis and therefore designed this study to examine total retinol levels in lung, liver, and serum, and the gene expression of main components of the retinoid pathway in the nitrofen model of CDH.
Pregnant rats were exposed to vehicle or 100 mg of nitrofen on day 9 of gestation. Term fetuses were divided in control and nitrofen with CDH and without CDH groups. Retinol levels in serum, lungs, and liver were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate the relative amount of cellular retinol-biding protein I, retinal dehydrogenase 1a2 and 1a3 (Aldh1a2 and Aldh1a3), retinoic acid receptors alpha and beta (RARalpha, RARbeta), and retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRalpha) expression in the lung.
Total retinol levels in the lungs were significantly lower in both nitrofen with CDH (1.78 +/- 0.37 microg/g) and nitrofen without CDH (1.61 +/- 0.24 microg/g) groups compared with controls (2.43 +/- 0.31 microg/g) (P < .001), whereas serum retinol levels were significantly higher in nitrofen with and without CDH groups (0.77 +/- 0.13 and 0.75 +/- 0.11 microg/g, respectively) compared with controls (0.58 +/- 0.12 microg/g) (P < .001). There was no significant difference in liver retinol levels between the 3 groups. Relative expression of cellular retinol-biding protein I, Aldh1a3, RARalpha, RARbeta, and RXRalpha were significantly up-regulated in the lungs of the nitrofen with CDH group (0.70 +/- 0.15, 3.94 +/- 0.91, 2.15 +/- 0.47, 3.49 +/- 1.00, 1.88 +/- 0.42, respectively) and the nitrofen without CDH group (0.61 +/- 0.14, 3.72 +/- 0.31, 1.66 +/- 0.20, 3.28 +/- 1.02, 1.38 +/- 0.24, respectively) compared with controls (0.43 +/- 0.11, 2.71 +/- 0.47, 0.79 +/- 0.42, 1.85 +/- 0.69, 0.57 +/- 0.22, respectively) (P < .05).
Our data clearly show that lung retinol storage is decreased in the nitrofen model of CDH. The associated increase in gene expressions of most downstream components of the retinoid signalling pathway may be a feedback reaction to the deficiency of lung retinol. These results suggest that nitrofen acts by interfering with the cellular uptake of retinol during lung morphogenesis resulting in pulmonary hypoplasia in this model.
Pefloxacine belongs to a group of new quinolone antibiotics with more general indications than the urinary quinolones marketed about twenty years ago. The contraindication of the quinolones in children under 15 years of age limits their usage exclusively to adults. In this paper, the adverse arthralgic effects of these quinolones, which have largely motivated the contraindication, have been analyzed from an experimental, clinical and pathophysiological point of view. It is concluded that the pediatric benefits associated with the marked antibacterial activity of pefloxacine, particularly in pseudomonas and enterobacteriae infections, should be balanced against the risks associated with arthralgia whenever the condition of the patient is grave and decisions vital to a favorable prognosis for the sick child are necessary.
Six cases of methyldopa hepatitis, including two in which the patients died are reported; and 77 cases from the literature are reviewed. Patients in whom severe hepatotoxic reactions to methyldopa develop usually complain of prodromal symptoms typical of hepatitis, often with fever, one to four weeks after therapy is initiated. Jaundice, when it occurs, is usually manifest within three months. Asymptomatic, transient elevations of serum transaminase levels may occur in patients receiving methyldopa. However, since the clinical and histologic features of hepatic injury from methyldopa are indistinguishable from viral hepatitis, it is suggested that the incidence of this iatrogenic disease is higher than generally appreciated. Serum transaminase levels should be determined at the initiation of therapy with methyldopa and four weeks later. Moreover, any patient who has unexplained fever or the prodromal symptoms of hepatitis should undergo liver chemistry studies immediately.
Cocaine use is associated with a variety of serious neurological complications, including cerebral infarction, intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage, transient ischemic attacks, migraines, and seizures. We report two cases of intracerebral hemorrhage with biopsy-proven cerebral vasculitis associated with the use of cocaine. The first case involved a 32-year-old man who presented with headache, left-sided hemiparesis, and severe hypertension and who was found to have a large right putaminal hemorrhage on cranial tomographic (CT) scan. Cerebral angiography did not show vasculitic changes, but brain tissue obtained during hematoma evacuation revealed a nonnecrotizing leukocytoclastic angiitis of the small vessels. The second case involved a 20-year-old man who presented with headache, agitation, and speech difficulty that progressed to disorientation and dysphasia. He had a large left temporoparietal hematoma seen on CT scan. Cerebral angiography was consistent with vasculitis, and brain tissue obtained during hematoma evacuation revealed a small vessel vasculitis. In both cases, thorough clinical and laboratory investigations found no evidence of systemic vasculitis or an etiologic agent other than cocaine. We also critically reviewed the previously reported cases of cocaine-associated cerebral vasculitis and the relevant medical literature to discuss the "cocaine-associated vasculitis syndrome" in the context of more established vasculitidies, including hypersensitivity vasculitis. In addition, we outline a diagnostic and therapeutic approach to patients with possible cocaine-associated vasculitis.
Mancozeb, a polymeric complex of ethylene bis (dithiocarbamate) manganese with zinc salt is a protective fungicide. In the present study complete carcinogenic activity of mancozeb, has been observed following topical application on dorsal mouse skin. Female Swiss albino mice were exposed to mancozeb at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight dissolved in 100 microliters dimethyl sulfoxide 3 times per week. Development of tumours was observed after 31 weeks (217 days) of mancozeb application. A high rate of mortality was observed after 54 weeks (378 days) of mancozeb application due to its toxicity and the study was terminated after 60 weeks. On histological examination, these tumours were found mostly to be benign in nature, e.g., squamous cell papillomas and keratoacanthomas.
Pulse pressure increases with age in industrialized societies as a manifestation of arterial stiffening. Lead accumulates in the vasculature and is associated with vascular oxidative stress, which can promote functional and structural vascular disease.
We tested the hypothesis that cumulative community-level lead exposure, measured with K-X-ray fluorescence, is associated with pulse pressure in a cohort of adult men.
In a cross-sectional analysis of 593 men not treated with antihypertensive medication, tibia lead was positively associated with pulse pressure (p < 0.001). Adjusting for age, race, diabetes, family history of hypertension, education, waist circumference, alcohol intake, smoking history, height, heart rate, fasting glucose, and total cholesterol-to-HDL ratio, increasing quintiles of tibia lead remained associated with increased pulse pressure (ptrend = 0.02). Men with tibia lead above the median (19.0 microg/g) had, on average, a 4.2-mmHg (95% confidence interval, 1.9-6.5) higher pulse pressure than men with tibia lead level below the median. In contrast, blood lead level was not associated with pulse pressure.
These data indicate that lead exposure may contribute to the observed increase in pulse pressure that occurs with aging in industrialized societies. Lead accumulation may contribute to arterial aging, perhaps providing mechanistic insight into the observed association of low-level lead exposure with cardiovascular mortality.
The smoke of cigarettes represents an important accelerator of the aging process, and there is no doubt that smoke is an important risk factor for many diseases, in particular for cardiovascular, neoplastic and respiratory diseases. Smoking plays an important role also in the development of other pathological conditions being particularly frequent in geriatric ages, such as dementia, osteoporosis, diabetes, erectile dysfunction, senile macular degeneration, nuclear cataract and alterations of skin. This means that smoke compromises not only life expectancy, but also the quality of the life, favoring the occurrence of non-autonomy. Non-smokers have a much higher life expectancy than smokers, and the suspension of smoking is accompanied, even in the elderly, by an increase in the survival time due to the reduction of smoke-induced biological damage. The first requirement of stopping smoking certainly is the motivation of the smoker himself to do this, since without this motivation any attempt is futile. Today numerous quitting strategies exist, either of pharmacological or non-pharmacological type, which are also advantageous for the elderly person. Approved pharmacological treatments include nicotine replacement therapies, bupropion, drugs targeting cannabinoid receptors and newer pharmacological approaches including the selective nicotinic partial agonists. Varenicline, an alpha4 beta2 nicotinic acetylcoline receptor partial agonist, is the most recently agent approved for smoking cessation. This drug works by reducing the strength of the smoker's urge to smoke and by relieving withdrawal symptoms. The most effective smoking cessation programs involve a combination of pharmacotherapy and behavioural and/or cognitive counselling to improve abstinence rates.
Three subtypes of vesicular transporters accumulate glutamate into synaptic vesicles to promote its vesicular release. One of the subtypes, VGLUT3, is expressed in neurons, including cholinergic striatal interneurons, that are known to release other classical transmitters. Here we showed that disruption of the Slc17a8 gene (also known as Vglut3) caused an unexpected hypocholinergic striatal phenotype. Vglut3(-/-) mice were more responsive to cocaine and less prone to haloperidol-induced catalepsy than wild-type littermates, and acetylcholine release was decreased in striatum slices lacking VGLUT3. These phenotypes were associated with a colocalization of VGLUT3 and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in striatal synaptic vesicles and the loss of a synergistic effect of glutamate on vesicular acetylcholine uptake. We propose that this vesicular synergy between two transmitters is the result of the unbalanced bioenergetics of VAChT, which requires anion co-entry for continuing vesicular filling. Our study reveals a previously unknown effect of glutamate on cholinergic synapses with potential functional and pharmacological implications.
Clinically significant methemoglobinemia can develop as a result of medications. Although dapsone and primaquine are known to produce methemoglobinemia in susceptible individuals, methemoglobinemia has been reported only rarely in the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) population. We describe five cases of methemoglobinemia caused by either primaquine or dapsone alone or in combination. The initial methemoglobin level ranged from 15.3% in the patient whose methemoglobinemia was caused by primaquine alone to 33.1%. Five patients developed symptomatic methemoglobinemia requiring hospitalization for 1 to 12 days. Two cases resulted from intentional overdoses of dapsone, and three developed within several days of commencing primaquine while dapsone remained present in the bloodstream. The four severe cases required intravenous methylene blue, supplemental oxygen, plus erythrocyte transfusions, whereas the mild case responded to oxygen therapy plus discontinuation of the precipitating drugs. Blood gases and pulse oximetry do not aid in the diagnosis, which requires cooximetry. Our study indicates that dapsone and primaquine alone or in combination can produce clinically significant methemoglobinemia in HIV-infected individuals, either in the setting of an overdose or when primaquine is instituted before dapsone has been cleared from the bloodstream.
Melatonin is a powerful antioxidant and a synchronizer of many physiological processes. Alteration of the melatonin pathway has been reported in circadian disorders, diabetes and autism spectrum disorders (ASD). However, very little is known about the genetic variability of melatonin receptors in humans. Here, we sequenced the melatonin receptor MTNR1A and MTNR1B, genes coding for MT1 and MT2 receptors, respectively, in a large panel of 941 individuals including 295 patients with ASD, 362 controls and 284 individuals from different ethnic backgrounds. We also sequenced GPR50, coding for the orphan melatonin-related receptor GPR50 in patients and controls. We identified six non-synonymous mutations for MTNR1A and ten for MTNR1B. The majority of these variations altered receptor function. Particularly interesting mutants are MT1-I49N, which is devoid of any melatonin binding and cell surface expression, and MT1-G166E and MT1-I212T, which showed severely impaired cell surface expression. Of note, several mutants possessed pathway-selective signaling properties, some preferentially inhibiting the adenylyl cyclase pathway, others preferentially activating the MAPK pathway. The prevalence of these deleterious mutations in cases and controls indicates that they do not represent major risk factor for ASD (MTNR1A case 3.6% vs controls 4.4%; MTNR1B case 4.7% vs 3% controls). Concerning GPR50, we detected a significant association between ASD and two variations, Delta502-505 and T532A, in affected males, but it did not hold up after Bonferonni correction for multiple testing. Our results represent the first functional ascertainment of melatonin receptors in humans and constitute a basis for future structure-function studies and for interpreting genetic data on the melatonin pathway in patients.
Increases in dopamine and glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens independently promote the reinstatement of cocaine seeking, an animal model of relapse. Here we have tested whether cocaine reinstatement in rats depends on interactions between accumbal dopamine and glutamate systems that are mediated by Ca(2+)/calmodulin-mediated kinase II (CaMKII). We show that stimulation of D1-like dopamine receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell reinstates cocaine seeking by activating L-type Ca(2+) channels and CaMKII. Cocaine reinstatement is associated with D1-like dopamine receptor-dependent increases in accumbens shell CaMKII phosphorylated on Thr286 and glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) phosphorylated on Ser831 (a known CaMKII phosphorylation site), in addition to increases in cell-surface expression of GluR1-containing AMPA receptors in the shell. Consistent with these findings, cocaine reinstatement is attenuated by intra-shell administration of AAV10-GluR1-C99, a vector that impairs the transport of GluR1-containing AMPA receptors. Thus, CaMKII may be an essential link between accumbens shell dopamine and glutamate systems involved in the neuronal plasticity underlying cocaine craving and relapse.
We examined prospectively risk factors which might contribute to INH-induced liver damage in 113 patients taking preventive INH for at least 8 weeks. Twelve who had abnormal initial liver tests did not get worse with INH, while 19/101 with normal initial tests developed significant liver dysfunction, mostly hepatocellular, three having overt hepatitis. When 12 other patients who drank alcohol were excluded from analysis, there were still 15/89 with significant liver dysfunction, 12 of whom were slow acetylators (p less than 0.05). The only other risk factor was age. By combining acetylator phenotype with age, but excluding alcohol, we calculated the risk of INH-induced liver enzyme elevation as follows: under 35 years--fast acetylators, 3.7%, slow acetylators, 13%; over 35--fast acetylators, 13.2%, slow acetylators, 37% (p less than 0.02). Fast acetylation is thus not a risk factor for developing INH-induced liver dysfunction; indeed, the contrary seems to be the case.
The mood stabilizing drug lithium has emerged as a robust neuroprotective agent in preventing apoptosis of neurons. Long-term treatment with lithium effectively protects primary cultures of rat brain neurons from glutamate-induced, NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. This neuroprotection is accompanied by an inhibition of NMDA-receptor-mediated calcium influx, upregulation of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2, downregulation of pro-apoptotic p53 and Bax, and activation of cell survival factors. Lithium treatment antagonizes glutamate-induced activation of c-Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 kinase, and AP-1 binding, which has a major role in cytotoxicity, and suppresses glutamate-induced loss of phosphorylated cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB). Lithium also induces the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and subsequent activation TrkB, the receptor for BDNF, in cortical neurons. The activation of BDNF/TrkB signaling is essential for the neuroprotective effects of this drug. In addition, lithium stimulates the proliferation of neuroblasts in primary cultures of CNS neurons. Lithium also shows neuroprotective effects in rodent models of diseases. In a rat model of stroke, post-insult treatment with lithium or valproate, another mood stabilizer, at therapeutic doses markedly reduces brain infarction and neurological deficits. This neuroprotection is associated with suppression of caspase-3 activation and induction of chaperone proteins such as heat shock protein 70. In a rat model of Huntington's disease (HD) in which an excitotoxin is unilaterally infused into the striatum, both long- and short-term pretreatment with lithium reduces DNA damage, caspase-3 activation, and loss of striatal neurons. This neuroprotection is associated with upregulation of Bcl-2. Lithium also induces cell proliferation near the injury site with a concomitant loss of proliferating cells in the subventricular zone. Some of these proliferating cells display neuronal or astroglial phenotypes. These results corroborate our findings obtained in primary neuronal cultures. The neuroprotective and neurotrophic actions of lithium have profound clinical implications. In addition to its present use in bipolar patients, lithium could be used to treat acute brain injuries such as stroke and chronic progressive neurodegenerative diseases.
The aim of this study is to determine the chemical composition, and evaluate the genotoxic, and anti-growth potency of the methanol extracts of lichen species Hypogymnia physodes (L.) Nyl. (HPE). Anti-growth effect was tested in two different human breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231) by the MTT and ATP viability assays and apoptosis was assayed by the caspase-cleaved cytokeratin 18 (M30-antigen). Genotoxic activity of HPE was studied using chromosome aberration and micronuclei tests in human lymphocytes culture in vitro. The chemical composition of H. physodes was analyzed by using direct thermal desorption method coupled with comprehensive gas chromatography-time of flight mass spectrometry (GCXGC-TOF/MS). Our results indicate that HPE has an anti-growth effect at relatively lower concentrations, while relatively higher concentrations are required for genotoxic activity. HPE, therefore, seems to represent a therapeutic potential and poses new challenges for medicinal chemistry.
The potential modifying effects of high prolactinemia on rat prostate carcinogenesis was investigated. Male F344 rats were treated at 5 times of 5-week intervals with s.c. injections of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB), each injection following 3 weeks pretreatment with dietary ethinyl estradiol. After completion of the carcinogen administration stage, rats received multiple s.c. transplantations of a prolactin producing transplantable pituitary tumor, MtT/F84 until sacrifice at week 51. The effects of additional or single treatment with bromocriptine, a prolactin suppressing agent, were also investigated. The body, liver and kidney but prostate weights were significantly increased in the groups given MtT/F84. Although the development of prostate carcinomas was not affected by the observed hyperprolactinemia, the incidences of atypical hyperplasia of both ventral and lateral prostate were significantly enhanced. The findings thus indicate that prolactin may have promoting potential for prostate carcinogenesis.
Fenflumizole (2-(2,4-difluorophenyl)-4,5-bis(4-methoxyphenyl) imidazole) was given to rats in a single oral dose of 30 mg/kg. The plasma concentration of fenflumizole reached a peak 2-3 hr after the dosing in non-fasted as well as fasted rats. Two metabolites (demethylation products) of fenflumizole were also detected in the plasma, but only in traces. Fenflumizole (30 and 100 mg/kg) and aspirin (100 mg/kg), given orally 2 hr prior to i.v. arachidonate (80 mg/kg), were effective in protecting the rats from death. Fenflumizole in single oral doses of 100 to 800 mg/kg dose-dependently developed erosions in the rat gastric mucosa, but was much less ulcerogenic than aspirin (3.12-200 mg/kg). Thus, fenflumizole seems to possess a potent antithrombotic activity and a relatively low gastro-ulcerogenicity in rats.
To inform of a new teratogenic syndrome in human beings and its confirmation in rats.
The study comprised three phases: a field study; a case-control study; and a genetic epidemiology study, aiming at identifying the causes of the occurrence of congenital malformations and psychomotor retardation in the city of Matamoros, Tamaulipas. The second-phase clinical multidisciplinary study was carried out at a general hospital, to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of patients identified during the first phase and offer them the necessary treatment. The third-phase experimental study was done in rats in order to confirm the teratogenic effect of the agents detected in the first phase.
A total of 44 patients had a peculiar phenotype and mental retardation of varying degrees, all children of ex-workers of the same factory who were in direct contact, without protection, with organic solvents (methyl cellosolve and ethylene glycol). In the clinical study a syndrome was delineated, previously unreported, consisting of a peculiar facies, mental retardation, and musculo-skeletal and sensorial abnormalities. In the experimental study it was demonstrated that both methyl cellosolve and ethylene glycol cause cranio-facial, musculo-skeletal and central nervous system abnormalities, which confirmed the teratogenic effect of these solvents.
The results of this study establish the existence of a new teratogenic syndrome in humans, produced by methyl cellosolve and ethylene glycol, whose teratogenic capacity had not been reported previously.
We examined the effects of methylprednisolone (MPSL) on type IV collagen, laminin and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) mRNA levels in the renal glomeruli and medulla of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis. mRNA levels encoding for type IV collagen and laminin increased markedly, whereas those for HSPG decreased significantly in glomeruli of PAN nephrosis. Administration of MPSL partially ameliorated the abnormal gene expression for basement membrane components. Furthermore, we showed that medullary mRNA levels for all these basement membrane components decreased with age in PAN nephrosis with or without MPSL treatment, suggesting that neither PAN nor MPSL has any effect on basement membrane component mRNA levels in the renal medulla. In contrast, mRNA levels for the interstitial collagens including alpha 1 (I) and alpha 1 (III) chains in glomeruli showed little change with or without MPSL treatment, whereas those in medulla increased significantly in PAN nephrosis when compared with the control. MPSL ameliorated the abnormal gene expression of alpha 1 (I) and alpha 1 (III) collagen in renal medulla. These results indicate that PAN affects both glomerular mRNA encoding for basement membrane components and medullary mRNA encoding for interstitial collagens, and that MPSL has marked effects on the amelioration of abnormal gene expression in both glomeruli and medulla of PAN nephrosis.
The objective of this multicenter, randomized, double-blind study was to determine the efficacy and safety of cetilistat and orlistat relative to placebo in obese patients with type 2 diabetes, on metformin. Following a 2-week run-in, patients were randomized to placebo, cetilistat (40, 80, or 120 mg three times daily), or orlistat 120 mg t.i.d., for 12 weeks. The primary endpoint was absolute change in body weight from baseline. Secondary endpoints included other measures of obesity and glycemic control. Similar reductions in body weight were observed in patients receiving cetilistat 80 or 120 mg t.i.d. or 120 mg t.i.d. orlistat; these reductions were significant vs. placebo (3.85 kg, P = 0.01; 4.32 kg, P = 0.0002; 3.78 kg, P = 0.008). In the 40 mg t.i.d. and placebo groups, reductions were 2.94 kg, P = 0.958 and 2.86 kg, respectively. Statistically significant reductions in glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)) were noted. Cetilistat was well tolerated, and showed fewer discontinuations due to adverse events (AEs) than in the placebo and orlistat groups. Discontinuation in the orlistat group was significantly worse than in the 120 mg cetilistat and placebo groups and was entirely due to gastrointestinal (GI) AEs. Treatment with cetilistat 80 or 120 mg t.i.d., or with orlistat 120 mg t.i.d., significantly reduced body weight and improved glycemic control relative to placebo in obese diabetic patients. Cetilistat was well tolerated with the number of discontinuations due to AEs being similar to placebo.
The authors present a case of the death of a young female drug addict due to intracerebral hemorrhage. Liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry was instrumental in the identification and quantitative determination of amphetamine within an intracerebral hematoma that had persisted for 13 days. In view of the fact that the deceased was young, did not suffer from any detectable diseases, and the narcotic substance was only detected within the hematomas, the case should be classified among rare complications of amphetamine abuse.
This case report describes a child with a severe autistic syndrome worsened by hypersexual behavior consisting of compulsive masturbatory activity. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have been reported to be beneficial in reducing hypersexual behaviors. A treatment with mirtazapine improved the entire clinical autistic picture with the disappearance of masturbation. This result suggests that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors could be useful and promising tools in the treatment of hypersexual behaviors in children with autistic disorders. Moreover, the general, and in some ways unexpected, improvement of the social interaction, communication, and imagination, the dramatic reduction of aloof mannerisms, stereotypes, aggressiveness, and inappropriate emotional response to frustrations, as well as the first appearance of the pragmatic use of language and a strong impetus to emotional development disclosed a new spectrum of possible applications of these drugs, and mirtazapine in particular, suggesting the need for new and more extensive studies on the pharmacotherapy of autism.
Thirty-one age-matched, conscious, virgin, male Sprague-Dawley rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) were individually injected with a single subcutaneous dose of 85 mg/kg dl-isoproterenol to determine the degree and time course of drug-induced cardiac failure and functional recovery. At 24 hr and 1 week postisoproterenol, rats were anesthetized and prepared for the recording of cardiac output and arterial pressure. Calculated cardiac index was used to determine normal cardiac function. Following that measurement, a 2-min, 15.3 ml/min infusion of Tyrode's solution was performed via a right jugular vein cannula. Volume-loaded peak-cardiac outputs and peak stroke volumes were also used as indices of cardiac function. Twenty-four hours after the injection of isoproterenol to he normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats, cardic failure was evident only during the stress of volume loading. Normal cardiac index was unaffected, but peak cardiac output and peak stroke volume were depressed. By 1 week after isoproterenol, the volume loaded measures of cardiac function had returned to normal. Interestingly, by 1 week postisoproterenol, total peripheral resistance was reduced. This reduced vascular resistance may have aided myocardial repair. At 24 hr postisoproterenol, the volume loaded peak cardiac outputs and peak stroke volumes in the SHRs were reduced to the same degree as in the Sprague-Dawley rats. Here, also, no change in normal cardiac index occurred. In the SHRs, however, total peripheral resistances were elevated at both 24 hr and 1 week. These increases in resistance appeared to impair the myocardial healing process, as both normal cardiac index and volume-loaded peak cardiac output and peak stroke volume were depressed at 1 week postisoproterenol. In normotensive and hypertensive rats, different vascular responses to isoproterenol or its initial cardiac effects may determine the duration and eventual degree of cardiac failure.
Ocular mucosa is exposed constantly to the external environment, and chronic exposure to air pollution may affect the ocular surface.
We assessed the effect of air pollution on the ocular surface by combining determinations of individual exposure and conjunctival impression cytology.
A panel study was conducted with 29 volunteers recruited in two locations with different pollution levels: São Paulo (n = 13) and Divinolândia (n = 16). We assessed mean individual levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) exposure for 7 days, using a passive sampler. Impression cytology samples were obtained from inferior tarsal conjunctiva. Comparisons between the two groups in terms of NO2 exposure and goblet-cell counts were performed using the Student t-test. Correlations between goblet-cells counts and corresponding individual NO2 exposure levels were determined using Spearman's correlation.
Individuals living in São Paulo received a significantly (p = 0.005) higher dose of NO2 (mean 32.47; SD 9.83) than those living in Divinolândia (mean 19.33; SD 5.24). There was a steady increase in goblet-cell counts, proportional to NO2 exposure (Spearman's correlation = 0.566, p = 0.001), with a dose-response pattern.
A positive and significant association between exposure to air pollution and goblet-cell hyperplasia in human conjunctiva was detected. The combination of simple measurements of exposure and impression cytology was an effective and noninvasive approach for characterizing human response to ambient levels of air pollution.
The process of translation occurs at a nexus point downstream of a number of signal pathways and developmental processes. Modeling activation of the PTEN/AKT/mTOR pathway in the Emu-Myc mouse is a valuable tool to study tumor genotype/chemosensitivity relationships in vivo. In this model, blocking translation initiation with silvestrol, an inhibitor of the ribosome recruitment step has been showed to modulate the sensitivity of the tumors to the effect of standard chemotherapy. However, inhibitors of translation elongation have been tested as potential anti-cancer therapeutic agents in vitro, but have not been extensively tested in genetically well-defined mouse tumor models or for potential synergy with standard of care agents.
Here, we chose four structurally different chemical inhibitors of translation elongation: homoharringtonine, bruceantin, didemnin B and cycloheximide, and tested their ability to alter the chemoresistance of Emu-myc lymphomas harbouring lesions in Pten, Tsc2, Bcl-2, or eIF4E. We show that in some genetic settings, translation elongation inhibitors are able to synergize with doxorubicin by reinstating an apoptotic program in tumor cells. We attribute this effect to a reduction in levels of pro-oncogenic or pro-survival proteins having short half-lives, like Mcl-1, cyclin D1 or c-Myc. Using lymphomas cells grown ex vivo we reproduced the synergy observed in mice between chemotherapy and elongation inhibition and show that this is reversed by blocking protein degradation with a proteasome inhibitor.
Our results indicate that depleting short-lived pro-survival factors by inhibiting their synthesis could achieve a therapeutic response in tumors harboring PTEN/AKT/mTOR pathway mutations.
