Cancer chemotherapy is associated with a wide range of vascular toxicities, which may be related to endothelial cell damage by these agents. The authors describe a patient with Hodgkin's disease who developed an atypical aortic dissection while receiving MOPP/ABV chemotherapy (nitrogen mustard, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone, doxorubicin, bleomycin, and vinblastine). They would place aortic dissection on the list of potential vascular complications associated with antineoplastic agents.
Small molecules have been shown to modulate the neurogenesis processes. In search for new therapeutic drugs, the herbs used in traditional medicines for neurogenesis are promising candidates.
We selected a total of 45 natural compounds from Traditional Chinese herbal medicines which are extensively used in China to treat stroke clinically, and tested their proliferation-inducing activities on neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs). The screening results showed that salvianolic acid B (Sal B) displayed marked effects on the induction of proliferation of NSPCs. We further demonstrated that Sal B promoted NSPCs proliferation in dose- and time-dependent manners. To explore the molecular mechanism, PI3K/Akt, MEK/ERK and Notch signaling pathways were investigated. Cell proliferation assay demonstrated that Ly294002 (PI3K/Akt inhibitor), but neither U0126 (ERK inhibitor) nor DAPT (Notch inhibitor) inhibited the Sal B-induced proliferation of cells. Western Blotting results showed that stimulation of NSPCs with Sal B enhanced the phosphorylation of Akt, and Ly294002 abolished this effect, confirming the role of Akt in Sal B mediated proliferation of NSPCs. Rats exposed to transient cerebral ischemia were treated for 4 weeks with Sal B from the 7th day after stroke. BrdU incorporation assay results showed that exposure Sal B could maintain the proliferation of NSPCs after cerebral ischemia. Morris water maze test showed that delayed post-ischemic treatment with Sal B improved cognitive impairment after stroke in rats.
Sal B could maintain the NSPCs self-renew and promote proliferation, which was mediated by PI3K/Akt signal pathway. And delayed post-ischemic treatment with Sal B improved cognitive impairment after stroke in rats. These findings suggested that Sal B may act as a potential drug in treatment of brain injury or neurodegenerative diseases.
The authors report the wide mortality observed in alloxan diabetic rats infarcted with large doses of isoproterenol. The experimental data are in line with the results of clinical studies testifying that the diabetic disease involves the cardiovascular system and affects the prognosis of myocardial infarct. These experiences do not permit to define the direct mechanism(s) responsible for the high mortality in diabetic infarcted rats over controls (diabetic not infarcted); however these results give rise to a discussion on the following topics: 1. The damage of intramural coronary vessels as a cause of depressed cardiac contractility in diabetic rats. 2. The role of reduced plasmatic levels of insulin in depressing myocardial performance in alloxan diabetic rats. 3. The hyperglycaemia-provoking effect of isoproterenol as a contributing factor in the death of diabetic rats. 4. The possible direct action of diabetogenic doses of alloxan on the myocardium.
Purpose. Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) has been identified as a regulator of CD25(+)CD4(+) regulatory T-cell (T(reg)) and Th17 cell differentiation in mice, and activation of AHR by its ligand 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces functional T(reg) cells. In this study, the authors examined whether the AHR-mediated effect of TCDD suppresses mouse experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) by inducing T(reg) cell differentiation. Methods. C57BL/6 mice were injected with TCDD 1 day before immunization with human interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein peptide 1-20 (hIRBP-p), and the severity of EAU was assessed clinically and histopathologically. Immunologic responses of draining lymph node cells and splenocytes to hIRBP-p and anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (mAb) were assessed by T-cell proliferation and cytokine production. In addition, differentiation of Foxp3(+) T cells and their immunosuppressive roles in TCDD-injected mice were evaluated. Results. TCDD injection increased Foxp3(+) T cells in the lymph nodes and in the spleen. Development of EAU was completely suppressed by TCDD injection, and suppression was abolished by treatment with anti-CD25 mAb before TCDD injection. Both lymphocytes and splenocytes obtained from TCDD-injected mice immunized with hIRBP-p failed to produce IFN-gamma and IL-17 on stimulation with hIRBP-p, and the failure of IL-17 production was observed even when stimulated with anti-CD3 mAb. However, this protocol did not interfere with IL-10 production and T-cell proliferation response when assessed on stimulation with anti-CD3 mAb. Conclusions. Activation of AHR by TCDD markedly suppressed autoimmune uveoretinitis through mechanisms that expand CD25(+)Foxp3(+) T(reg) cells and interfere with the activation of Th1 and Th17 cells.
A 34-year-old man was admitted in a coma after a nightlong abuse of cocaine and alcohol, whereupon he fell and convulsed at home. There was a fracture of the nose, hyperpyrexia, tachycardia and hypertension. Dry mouth and mydriasis were suggestive of anticholinergic poisoning. Physostigmine 3 mg were slowly administered intravenously, followed by complete neurological recovery and normalisation of the body temperature. There was no brain damage. Cocaine and atropine were found in the patient's urine. Several users of cocaine in various European countries have recently developed a central anticholinergic syndrome due to adulteration of cocaine with atropine. In the presence of indications for such an intoxication, physostigmine is the antidote of first choice.
Hepatoblastomas (HBs) were induced in B6C3F1 male mice by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and sodium phenobarbital (PB). Six-week-old mice received a single intraperitoneal dose of DEN followed by a continuous treatment with PB in diet at a concentration of 0 (group 1) or 500 (group 2) ppm for 50 weeks. HBs were observed in 13 of 21 (62%) group 2 mice, with typical histologic features as reported previously, while no such tumors were observed in group 1. Seven of 13 (54%) HBs were found in and/or adjacent to hepatocellular adenomas (HCAs) or hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Immunohistochemically, all HBs were positive for S-100 protein but negative for keratin, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), albumin (ALB) and vimentin, while HCC cells occasionally reacted positively for AFP with a mosaic pattern. HCC and HCA cells were occasionally positive for ALB. Non-neoplastic hepatocytes and normal bile ducts were positively stained for ALB and keratin/S-100 protein, respectively. S-100 protein is known to be expressed in many mesenchymal tissues and neoplasms including neuroectodermal elements but negative in cells of the hepatic lineage. Thus, the present immunohistochemical results suggested that mesenchymal differentiation occurs in mouse HB cells as observed in human HBs, one of the most frequent infant liver tumors in humans. Although the susceptibility of mouse HBs to PB-promotion suggests a hepatocytic histogenesis, the present immunohistochemical results support the hypothesis that the mouse HB is derived from pluripotent endodermal stem-like cells.
The authors used tremography to record the bilateral digital tremor of a patient showing extrapyramidal system effects in response to withdrawal from phenothiazines. They found that changes in the amplitude of tremor correlated with clinical ratings of extrapyramidal disturbance. Changes in the amplitude and in the spectrum of tremor were similar to the bipolar paradoxical changes seen during intoxication with an anticholinergic psychotogen.
An overview of the development, actions and clinical applications of cimetidine, a new histamine H2 receptor antagonist, is given with reference to the literature. The experience of various investigators with this drug in the treatment of peptic ulcer disease are compared with each other and further indications described. The present results suggest a high therapeutic efficacy with trifling side effects. The latter is discussed with reference to two of our own observations. As long as the side effects are not sufficiently known, it is recommended that indications should be restricted to serious recurrent ulcer disease, reflux disease, prophylaxis and treatment of acute life-threatening hemorrhages and for palliative therapy of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
Bcl-2 expression is upregulated in prostate cancer cells after androgen withdrawal and is associated with the development of androgen independence and chemoresistance. Induction of apoptotic cell death after androgen ablation, or chemotherapy, may be enhanced through functional inhibition of bcl-2. In this report, we tested the effects of antisense bcl-2 oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN) with androgen ablation and taxane therapy on time to androgen-independent (Al) progression in the androgen-dependent Shionogi tumor model. Treatment of Shionogi tumor cells in vitro with 500 nmol/L antisense bcl-2 ODN decreased bcl-2 mRNA by 85%, compared with treatment with 500 nmol/L mismatch control ODN. Although bcl-2 expression levels in Shionogi cells were not changed by docetaxel treatment, docetaxel treatment induced bcl-2 phosphorylation. Consequently, the formation of bcl-2/Bax heterodimer formation was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner. Treatment of Shionogi tumors in vitro with either 500 nmol/L antisense bcl-2 ODN or 10 nmol/L docetaxel alone did not induce apoptosis or reduce growth rates. However, combined treatment reduced the concentration that reduces cell viability by 50% (IC50) of docetaxel from 100 nmol/L to 10 nmol/L and induced characteristic apoptotic DNA laddering and cleavage of the poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) protein. Adjuvant in vivo administration of antisense bcl-2 ODN and polymeric micellar paclitaxel after castration resulted in a significant delay in time to Al recurrence when compared with administration of either agent alone. Furthermore, combined treatment of mice bearing Al recurrent Shionogi tumors with antisense bcl-2 ODN and micellar paclitaxel synergistically induced tumor regression and growth inhibition when compared with treatment with either agent alone. These findings suggest that down-regulation of bcl-2 by antisense ODN chemosensitizes Al Shionogi tumors to taxanes, over and above the effects of taxane-induced phosphorylation of bcl-2. Antisense bcl-2 ODN combined with taxanes may be a novel approach to the treatment of both established and emerging Al disease.
Natural killer (NK) cells play a role in the innate and adaptive antitumor immune responses. The activity of NK cells is regulated by functionally opposing, activating and inhibitory receptors whose balance ultimately determines whether target cells will be susceptible to NK cell mediated lysis. As melanoma is an immunogenic tumor, the effect of immunomodulating agents is consistently investigated. In this study in 79 metastatic melanoma (MM) patients and 52 controls NK activity, expression of activating NKG2D and CD161 receptors and KIR receptors, CD158a and CD158b, on freshly isolated PBL and NK cells were evaluated. Native NK cell activity of melanoma patients in clinical stage I-III and MM patients was determined against NK sensitive K562, NK resistant Daudi, human melanoma FemX, HeLa and HL 60 target tumor cell lines. In addition, predictive pretherapy immunomodulating effect after 18 h in vitro treatments of PBL of MM patients with rh IL-2, IFN-alpha (IFN), 13-cis retinoic acid (RA) and combination IFN-alpha and RA was evaluated with respect to NK cell lyses against K562 and FemX cell lines. In this study we show for the first time that low expression of CD161 and activating NKG2D receptors, without increased expression of KIR receptors CD158a and CD158b, as well as a decrease in the cytotoxic, CD16(bright) NK cell subset, is associated with a significant impairment in NK cell activity in MM patients. Furthermore, the predictive pretherapy finding that IL-2, IFN, IFN and RA, unlike RA alone, can enhance NK cell activity of MM patients against FemX melanoma tumor cell line can be of help in the design and development of therapeutic regimens, considering that it has recently been shown that low-dose combination of different immunomodulators represents the most promising approach in the therapy of MM.
In the present study, the behavioral effects of apomorphine, methamphetamine, and haloperidol were examined in nicotine-treated rats. All animals were SC administered nicotine at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg or saline once daily for 14 days. Hyperlocomotion induced by apomorphine (0.2 mg/kg, IP) and methamphetamine (1.0 mg/kg, IP) was greater in nicotine-treated rats than in control rats. Stereotyped behaviors induced by apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg, IP) and methamphetamine (5.0 mg/kg, IP) were also potentiated in nicotine-treated rats. However, the incidence of catalepsy induced by haloperidol (0.25-1.5 mg/kg, IP) was slightly lower in nicotine-treated rats. These results suggest that chronic nicotine treatment may increase the susceptibility of the dopaminergic system to dopaminergic drugs.
Tumor metastasis is associated with integrin-mediated adhesion and hyaluronan receptor expression. Accumulating evidence suggests that phytoestrogens, which are naturally occurring, plant-derived phytochemicals, could inhibit tumorigenesis during the development of breast cancer. Less is known, however, about the regulation of adhesion receptors by phytoestrogens and, particularly, their potency to influence proliferation of primary human breast cells in comparison with the steroid hormone 17beta-estradiol. Throughout the proliferation experiments, we used primary human mammary epithelial cells from normal tissue that was derived from plastic surgery. For receptor expression (beta1, alpha2, alpha3, CD44), we used the cell line MCF-7. Both investigations were carried out by flow cytometry. The phenotype of primary human mammary epithelial cells was microscopically characterized by analyzing the distribution of ZO-1, cytokeratin and the estrogen receptors alpha and beta. The integrins and the hyaluronan receptor were significantly up-regulated with 17beta-estradiol in human MCF-7 cells. In contrast, genistein and daidzein did not affect the expression at a concentration of 100 micromol/l. In all proliferation experiments with a significant stimulation of the primary human mammary epithelial cell growth due to 17beta-estradiol, in general, genistein and daidzein did not influence S-phase and G2/M-phase cells. Additionally, the stimulative effect of 17beta-estradiol could be inhibited. As the phytoestrogens do not up-regulate adhesion receptors in human breast cells and, regarding proliferation, are able to abolish the stimulatory effect of 17beta-estradiol, we suggest that phytoestrogens could have beneficial effects for the prevention or inhibition of carcinogenesis in hormone-dependent malignancies.
Quercetin, a natural constituent abundantly present in grapes, red wine, and other food products, is known to possess potent antiproliferative effects against various malignant cells. The present study aims to investigate the effect of quercetin on the apoptosis and morphology of gastric carcinoma BGC-823 cells, as well as the probable mechanism, in an effort to identify an effective drug as a potential candidate for gastric cancer. Gastric carcinoma BGC-823 cells were treated with quercetin, and cell morphology was determined by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Apoptosis and cell cycle were measured by flow cytometry, using propidium iodide staining. The apoptotic protein expression of caspase-3, Bcl-2 and Bax was detected by Western blot. Quercetin induced apoptosis in BGC-823 cell. Some morphologic features of apoptosis were found, such as cell shrinkage or even apoptosis body. Quercetin changed the apoptotic protein expression. These results indicate that quercetin can induce apoptosis of the BGC-823 cells. A decrease in Bcl-2/Bax ratio with the increased expression of caspase-3 provides evidence that quercetin-induced apoptosis may be mediated via the mitochondrial pathway.
Previous work has suggested that the therapeutic efficacy of olanzapine might be partially dependent on action at the D(1)-dopamine (DA) receptor site. Because early DA loss can lead to supersensitive D(1)-DA receptors, effects of olanzapine were investigated in adult rats given lesions to DA-containing neurons as neonates. In these animals, locomotor effects of SKF-38393 (a D(1)-DA agonist) were attenuated by olanzapine, but at doses (5 and 10 mg/kg) that decreased activity when given alone. Olanzapine prevented induction of striatal Fos protein by SKF-38393 and partially attenuated the long-term "priming" effect of repeated SKF-38393 treatment. Olanzapine also antagonized the stimulant effects of quinpirole (a D(2)-type DA agonist) in animals lesioned as young adults, at doses lower than those necessary to antagonize SKF-38393-induced activity. In addition, olanzapine antagonized apomorphine-induced self-injurious behavior in neonate-lesioned rats in a dose-related fashion. Attenuation of self-injury in this animal model suggests that olanzapine should be tested against this symptom in patient populations.
The clinical use of doxorubicin (Dox), a potent anticancer drug, is limited by its concurrent dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. We previously found that metallothionein-I/II (MT-I/II) null mice are more vulnerable to Dox-induced cardiomyopathy, but it is unknown whether depletion of MT would sensitize cardiomyocytes to Dox toxicity in vitro since the protective effect of MT still remains controversial. In the present study, a primary culture system of cardiomyocytes from neonatal MT-I/II null (MT(-/-)) and corresponding wild type (MT(+/+)) mice was established to unequivocally determine the effect of MT deficiency on Dox-induced toxicity. MT concentrations in the MT(-/-) cardiomyocytes were about 2.5-fold lower than those in MT(+/+) cardiomyocytes. MT(-/-) cardiomyocytes were more sensitive to Dox-induced cytotoxicity than MT(+/+) cardiomyocytes as measured by morphological alterations, lactate dehydrogenase leakage, cell viability, and apoptosis. Dox time- and concentration-dependently increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation in MT(+/+) cardiomyocytes, and this effect was exaggerated in MT(-/-) cardiomyocytes. Antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and glutathione (GSH) significantly rescued MT(+/+) but not MT(-/-)cardiomyocytes from Dox-induced cell death and ROS generation. These findings suggest that basal MT provide protection against Dox-induced toxicity in cardiomyocytes, particularly highlight the important role of MT as a cellular antioxidant on scavenging ROS.
Thioacetamide (TAA) is a hepatotoxin frequently used for experimental purposes which produces centrilobular necrosis after a single dose administration. In spite of the fact that oxidative stress seems to play a very important role in the mechanism of TAA-induced injury, the effect of TAA on hepatocytes in primary culture with respect to the influence on mitochondria has yet to be verified. Hepatocytes were incubated for 24h in a medium containing TAA (0-70 mmol/l). Glutathione content (GSH/GSSG), reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde formation were assessed as markers of cell redox state. Toxicity was determined by lactate dehydrogenase leakage and WST-1 assay. The functional capacity of hepatocytes was evaluated from albumin and urea production. Mitochondrial metabolism was assessed by measuring mitochondrial membrane potential and oxygen consumption. Our results show that a profound decrease in the GSH level in hepatocytes precedes a sharp rise in endogenous ROS production. ROS production correlates with an increase in lipoperoxidation. Mitochondria are affected by TAA secondarily as a consequence of oxidative stress. Oxidation of the NADH-dependent substrates of respiratory Complex I is significantly more sensitive to the toxic action of TAA than oxidation of the flavoprotein-dependent substrate of Complex II. Mitochondria can also maintain their membrane potential better when they utilize succinate as a respiratory substrate. It appears that GSH should be depleted below a certain critical level in order to cause a marked increase in lipid peroxidation. Mitochondrial injury can then occur and cell death develops.
Oxidative modification of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) increases atherogenic potential to induce the accumulation of lipids and cells in the vascular wall. Previous studies reveal that hypertensive patients have a higher susceptibility to LDL oxidation. As animal models indicate that vitamin E protects LDL from oxidation, here we study the influence of vitamin E on the resistance of LDL to oxidation (lag time) in 47 subjects (31 normotensive, 16 hypertensive) before and after oral administration of vitamin E (400 IE) daily for two months. LDL was isolated and oxidised by incubation with copper ions. The time course of oxidation was measured by continuous photometric monitoring of diene formation at 234 nm. At the beginning of this study, normotensive subjects showed a lag time of 108 +/- 26 minutes and hypertensive patients a lag time of 85 +/- 24 minutes (P<0.05). Vitamin E caused a significant increase in the lag time in both groups: normotensive subjects 128 +/- 33, hypertensives patients 114 +/- 27 minutes (P<0.01). At completion of the study, lag times in both groups were similar (P=not significant). The data presented here suggests that vitamin E protects against the increased risk of vascular disease in patients with hypertension by reducing the susceptibility to oxidative modification of LDL. Vitamin E may therefore act as an inhibitor of atherogenesis.
We report the findings in a patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (type A) who initially had recurrent fainting episodes. It appeared that they were caused by prolonged posttachycardiac depression of the sinus node, which was induced by treatment with propranolol. The possibility of covert dysfunction of the sinus node in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome should be considered before commencing therapy with beta-adrenergic blocking agents.
Pentagastrin is a cholecystokinin (CCK)-B agonist and laboratory panicogenic agent that produces endocrine (ACTH and cortisol), symptom (anxiety, panic) and cardiovascular (heart rate) responses. Although in vitro data have supported its chemical stability, preliminary data suggested that increasing time between drug preparation and drug infusion could reduce the magnitude of endocrine and symptom responses. The current study examined this possibility. Twenty-one healthy subjects presented at the University of Michigan General Clinical Research Center (GCRC) and had an intravenous catheter inserted. Heart rate, cortisol levels and subjective anxiety were measured before and after pentagastrin and placebo injections. Pentagastrin was prepared either within 60 min of IV infusion (Normal Preparation group) or at least 3.5 h prior to infusion (Early Preparation group). Relative to the Normal Preparation group, Early Preparation subjects had similar heart rate responses but significantly smaller cortisol and subjective anxiety responses. Early preparation of pentagastrin thus appears to weaken endocrine and subjective anxiety responses, highlighting the importance of attending to often overlooked procedural variables (e.g., time between preparation and administration) in studies of this type. The sensitivity of cortisol and anxiety responses to preparation time, but insensitivity of heart rate, is consistent with previous studies suggesting different thresholds of activation for the three response modalities. These differential sensitivities may suggest different and separable CCK-B stimulated pathways for each response, which combine to produce panic, rather than a single, unified CCK-B mediated panicogenic response.
In the present study, the effects of adenosine agonists on the development of sensitization to withdrawal signs precipitated after sporadic treatment with diazepam, in mice, were investigated. To obtain the sensitization, the animals were divided into groups: continuously and sporadically treated with diazepam (15.0 mg/kg, s.c.). The adenosine receptor agonists (CPA, CGS 21,680 and NECA) were administered in sporadically diazepam treated mice during two diazepam-free periods. Concomitant administration of pentetrazole (55.0 mg/kg, s.c.) with flumazenil (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) after the last injection of diazepam or vehicle, induced the withdrawal signs, such as clonic seizures, tonic convulsion and death episodes. The major finding of our experiments is attenuation of withdrawal signs in sensitized mice, inducing by all adenosine agonists. Only higher dose of CPA produced significantly decreased the number of withdrawal incidents, while both used doses of CGS 21,680 and NECA produced more clear effects. These results support the hypothesis that adenosinergic system is involved in the mechanisms of sensitization to the benzodiazepine withdrawal signs, and adenosine A(2A) receptors play more important role in that process.
Phenytoin (PHT) teratogenicity has been related to embryonic arrhythmia due to the capacity of PHT to block I(K) channels pharmacologically, resulting in hypoxia-reoxygenation damage. The aim of this study was to further elucidate the proposed mechanism.
Pregnant CD-1 mice were given PHT (85 mg/kg) or saline intraperitoneally on gestational days 10-11. Embryonic heart rhythm and presence of hemorrhage in orofacial region was recorded on day 12, fetuses were examined for malformations on day 18. Embryonic heart rate was also recorded on individual days after dosing days 9-16. In addition, PHT was given at doses of 10, 25, or 85 mg/kg on day 12 for analysis of plasma concentrations.
PTH-induced bradycardia and arrhythmia in approximately 20% of the embryos, 48% showed hemorrhage in the orofacial region; 39% of the fetuses had cleft palate. The region in which hemorrhages were visible in the embryo corresponded with the region where tissue deficiency (cleft palate) was visible in the fetus at term. None of the controls showed hemorrhages, dysrhythmia, or cleft palate. PHT affected embryonic heart rates on days 9-13, but not on days 14-16. Single dose administration on day 12, the most sensitive day, resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in embryonic heart rate (12-34%). Embryonic arrhythmia occurred at 25 and 85, but not at 10 mg/kg or in the controls. Mean maternal free plasma concentrations were 6 and 14 micromol/L in the 10- and 25-mg/kg groups, respectively.
PHT-induced cleft palate was preceded by embryonic dysrhythmia and hemorrhage in the orofacial region. Embryonic heart rhythm was phase specifically affected, as described for selective I(Kr) channel blockers, at clinically relevant concentrations. The results support the idea that PHT teratogenicity is a consequence of pharmacologically induced dysrhythmia and hypoxia-related damage.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] is a well-recognized human lung carcinogen. In order to gain further insight into Cr(VI)-induced carcinogenesis, we have established an adequate in vitro cellular model for the study of this process. To this end, BEAS-2B cells were used. Chronic exposure of cells to 1 microM Cr(VI) induced changes in the cells' ploidy and a decrease in cloning efficiency, although cultures continued to progress to confluence. After prolonged exposure (12 passages), the culture became heterogeneous, exhibiting areas where apparently normal epithelial cells and morphologically altered cells coexisted. Subsequent culture at a very low density strongly accentuated the Cr(VI)-induced changes in morphology and pattern of growth. Three individual colonies were then ring-cloned and expanded into three subclonal aneuploid cell lines. These subclonal cell lines showed changes in growth pattern and morphology, as well as a karyotype drift concomitant with the overexpression of genes commonly involved in malignant transformation (c-MYC, EGFR, HIF-1alpha and LDH-A). Moreover, when one of these cell lines (RenG2) was injected into nude mice, it showed the ability to induce tumors. This cell line revealed no microsatellite instability (MSI), which points to the expression of a functional MLH1 protein and an active mismatch repair (MMR) system. Therefore, the progression to malignancy of the BEAS-2B cells involved Cr(VI)-induced transformants that retained the ability to repair DNA damage, suggesting that genotoxicity underlies the ongoing carcinogenic process.
High levels of stress or stress hormones have been reported to exacerbate a variety of human disorders of the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, immune, reproductive, and nervous systems. In rats, high glucocorticoid levels have been reported to cause neuronal death and injury as well as enhance susceptibility to neurotoxic agents and attenuate repair mechanisms; however, the impact of high dosages of CORT in mice has not been fully evaluated. We investigated the ability of supraphysiological levels of CORT to cause hippocampal neuronal death, and to modulate the neurotoxicity of kainic acid (KA) in male C57BL/6J mice. Timed-release CORT pellets (10, 35, 100 mg/21 d) were implanted subcutaneously in the back of mice, and the sustained release of glucocorticoid caused involution of the thymus and decreased the weight of the spleen. Kainic acid caused stage 1 seizures that were unaffected by CORT; however, steroid treatment decreased KA-associated mortality. Little neuronal damage was detected by the cupric-silver neurodegeneration stain. Neurotoxicity caused by an intraperitoneal injection of 25mg/kg KA was attenuated by seven days of CORT pre-treatment. The KA-induced increase in cupric-silver staining, reactive gliosis, microglial activation, and blood-brain barrier disruption was attenuated indicating neuroprotection. Our data indicate supraphysiological levels of CORT do not cause neuronal death or injury in hippocampus of C57BL/6J mice and provide neuroprotection against KA-induced neural damage.
