Triple-negative breast cancers, which represent 10-20% of all mammary tumours, are characterised by the aggressive phenotype, are often found in younger women and have been associated with poor prognosis. Obesity increases the risk for triple-negative breast cancer development. Because triple-negative breast cancer patients are unresponsive to current targeted therapies and other treatment options are only partially effective, new pharmacological modalities are urgently needed. Here we examined if the leptin (obesity hormone) receptor is a viable target for the treatment of this cancer subtype. In human triple-negative breast cancer tissues, the leptin receptor was expressed in 92% (64/69) and leptin in 86% (59/69) of cases. In a model triple-negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231, the leptin receptor antagonist peptide Allo-aca inhibited leptin-induced proliferation at 50 pM concentration. In an MDA-MB-231 orthotopic mouse xenograft model, Allo-aca administered subcutaneously significantly extended the average survival time from 15.4 days (untreated controls) to 24 and 28.1 days at 0.1 and 1mg/kg/day doses, respectively. In parallel, conventional treatment with 1mg/kg/day intraperitoneal cisplatin prolonged the average survival time to 18.6 days, while administration of 20mg/kg/day oral Tamoxifen (negative control) had no significant survival effects relative to controls. In normal CD-1 mice, Allo-aca produced no systemic toxicity up to the highest studied subcutaneous bolus dose of 50mg/kg, while, as expected, it induced a modest 6-10% body weight increase. Our results indicate that leptin receptor antagonists could become attractive options for triple-negative breast cancer treatment, especially in the obese patient population.
9-Substituted 6,6-dimethyl-11-oxo-6,11-dihydro-5H-benzo[b]carbazoles were discovered as highly selective and potent anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitors by structure-based drug design. The high target selectivity was achieved by introducing a substituent close to the E(0) region of the ATP binding site, which has a unique amino acid sequence. Among the identified inhibitors, compound 13d showed highly selective and potent inhibitory activity against ALK with an IC(50) value of 2.9 nM and strong antiproliferative activity against KARPAS-299 with an IC(50) value of 12.8 nM. The compound also displayed significant antitumor efficacy in an established ALK fusion gene-positive anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (ALCL) xenograft model in mice without body weight loss.
Kynurenic acid (KYNA) is a broad spectrum antagonist of ionotropic glutamate receptors, preferentially active at the strychnine-insensitive glycine allosteric site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, and a noncompetitive antagonist of alpha7 nicotinic receptor. Animal studies showed that it possesses anticonvulsant and neuroprotective properties. Its involvement in the pathophysiology of various brain disorders was suggested. In this study, the effect of pesticides on KYNA production in brain cortical slices was investigated. Pyrethroids, deltamethrin and fenpropathrin significantly lowered KYNA production. Methomyl, bensultap, fipronil, diquat and MCPA were ineffective in this regard. In view of this data, the inhibition of KYNA synthesis appear to merit further investigation as a potential factor contributing to the toxicology of pyrethroids.
When administered early after an overdose of acetaminophen, intravenous acetylcysteine prevents hepatic necrosis by replenishing reduced stores of glutathione. How acetylcysteine improves the survival of patients with established liver damage induced by acetaminophen, however, is unknown. This study was undertaken to determine whether the beneficial effect of acetylcysteine under such circumstances could be due to enhancement of oxygen delivery and consumption.
We studied the effect of acetylcysteine on systemic hemodynamics and oxygen transport in 12 patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure and 8 patients with acute liver failure from other causes. The acetylcysteine was given in a dose of 150 mg per kilogram of body weight in 250 ml of 5 percent dextrose over a period of 15 minutes and then in a dose of 50 mg per kilogram in 500 ml of 5 percent dextrose over a period of 4 hours; measurements were made before treatment began and after 30 minutes of the regimen.
In the patients with acetaminophen-induced liver failure, the infusion of acetylcysteine resulted in an increase in mean oxygen delivery from 856 to 975 ml per minute per square meter of body-surface area (P = 0.0036), due to an increase in the cardiac index from 5.6 to 6.7 liters per minute per square meter (P = 0.0021). Mean arterial pressure rose from 88 to 95 mm Hg (P = 0.0054) despite a decrease in systemic vascular resistance from 1296 to 1113 dyn.sec.cm-5 per square meter (P = 0.027). There was an increase in oxygen consumption from 127 to 184 ml per minute per square meter (P = 0.0007) associated with an increase in the oxygen-extraction ratio from 16 to 21 percent (P = 0.022). The effects in the patients with acute liver failure from other causes were similar.
The increase in oxygen delivery and consumption in response to acetylcysteine may account for its beneficial effect on survival in patients with fulminant hepatic failure induced by acetaminophen.
Wistar-Furth rats (WF) do not develop hypertension when treated with salt and mineralocorticoids and therefore may be useful for investigating the mechanisms of mineralocorticoid action and hypertension. In the present studies, we determined vascular and renal responses of WF to mineralocorticoids. Control Wistar rats (W) developed deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-NaCl and dexamethasone hypertension, whereas WF rats developed dexamethasone hypertension only. Aldosterone treatment of vascular smooth muscle cells cultured from WF resulted in 82% less upregulation of angiotensin II radioligand binding, 50% less induction of angiotensin II AT1a receptor mRNA, and 76% less potentiation of angiotensin II-stimulated inositol phosphates than did aldosterone treatment of cells from W. Similarly, DOCA-NaCl potentiated angiotensin II- and phenylephrine-stimulated contractions in aortic rings from W but not from WF. Although DOCA-NaCl treatment affected hypokalemia to an equal degree in WF and W, increases in renal citrate synthase activity (a specific renal mineralocorticoid response) were greater in W than in WF. WF manifest a partial defect in mineralocorticoid responsiveness in vascular smooth muscle and, possibly, in the kidney.
The effect on cerebral haemodynamics of arterial hypotension induced by sodium nitroprusside infusion was studied in nine patients at the end of operations for intracranial aneurysms under N2O-O2-halothane anaesthesia. Cerebral blood flow (CBF), using the intraarterial 133Xe injection method, and cerebral jugular venous blood gases were monitored before, during and after the induced hypotension. CBF and jugular venous oxygen tension (PvO2) remained constant during the hypotensive period. Following its termination, a 13% increase in CBF occurred (P less than 0.05) and PvO2 showed the same trend, a 5% increase (P less than 0.30). Regional CBF recordings (rCBF) in 16 small areas within the cerebral hemisphere were obtained at each measurement. In four of the patients, rCBF abnormalities were present in the form of hyperaemic regions, probably induced by the operation or the disease itself. The focal abnormalities were not accentuated during hypotension nor were ischaemic regions disclosed. It is concluded that sodium nitroprusside has only a minor influence on cerebral haemodynamics in the anaesthetized state.
The intranigral injection of kainic acid (k.a.) (3.5 nM/s.n.) produced a lesion which resulted in a decreased muscarinic receptor binding capacity and in a decreased choline acetyl transferase (CAT) activity confined to the pars reticulata. The unilateral, intranigral injection of carbachol in the substantia nigra (s.n.) produced turning, ipsilateral to the injected side, of dose-related intensity, which was antagonized by scopolamine given either i.p. or intranigrally together with carbachol. The bilateral, intranigral injection of carbachol produced rigid catalepsy, highly resistant to apomorphine administration and antagonized by scopolamine. On the other hand, the catalepsy produced by intranigral picrotoxin was much more sensitive to apomorphine and was disrupted by systemic scopolamine administration. Intranigral scopolamine per se produced either contralateral turning or stereotyped movements consistently, when injected unilaterally or bilaterally, respectively. In addition, scopolamine injected bilaterally in the s.n. but not in the caudate nucleus (c.n.), at the concentration of 64 nM side, was able to antagonize the haloperidol-induced catalepsy and to prevent the tremors and the muscular rigidity produced by arecoline. This effect of scopolamine was surmountable with a higher dose of arecoline. Finally, intranigral muscimol (0.44 nM/s.n.) prevented the occurrence of the parkinsonian syndrome produced by systemic arecoline. It is concluded that the muscarinic receptors present in the s.n. pars reticulata play a role in the control of posture opposite to that of the nigral GABA receptors.
The aim of this study was to discuss the potential implications of prolonged and aggressive treatment of long-term survivors of ovarian cancer.
A case report of a patient with ovarian cancer extensively treated with platinum-based chemotherapy and aggressive surgery is presented.
A woman with a >15-year history of ovarian cancer experienced severe neurotoxicity (peripheral neuropathy, hearing loss), underwent aggressive resection of asymptomatic and long-standing metastatic disease in the liver (with tumor recurrence <1 year after surgery), and subsequently died of secondary acute leukemia.
It is critical that oncologists remember that the theoretical benefits of available anti-neoplastic interventions must be carefully and constantly weighted against the potential harm they may cause.
Recent studies indicate that excessive production of oxidants plays a role in the pathogenesis of glomerular injury leading to proteinuria in patients with minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS). The novel free radical scavenger, edaravone (EDA), which was recently developed in Japan, is currently used in patients with stroke. We studied whether this new agent would be beneficial in patients with MCNS by its antioxidant activity and examined its effect on proteinuria in nephrosis induced by puromycin-aminonucleoside (PAN) in rats. Nineteen Wistar-Kyoto rats injected with PAN were assigned to four groups: group 1, without EDA (n=4); group 2, concomitant EDA injection from 1 day prior to PAN administration (n=5); group 3, concomitant EDA injection from 1 day after PAN administration (n=5); group 4, concomitant EDA injection from 3 days after PAN administration (n=5). Daily urinary excretions of protein and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), a new sensitive marker of oxidative DNA damage in vivo, were measured in each group from the 1st to the 30th day after PAN injection. In group 1 proteinuria developed from the 5th day and reached the peak level on the 9th day. In groups 2, 3, and 4 proteinuria did not appear until the 6th day. The excretions in urinary protein and 8-OHdG were significantly lower in groups 2, 3, and 4 than group 1 on days 5, 9, and 25. In conclusion, EDA could delay and ameliorate the urinary protein excretion in accordance with the urinary 8-OHdG excretion in PAN-induced nephrosis.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) can induce clinical remission in patients suffering from acute promyelocytic leukemia, through induction of apoptosis and activation of caspases. We investigated the potential use of As(2)O(3) in human gastric cancer and its possible mechanisms. Human gastric cancer cell lines AGS and MKN-28 were treated with various concentrations (0.1 to 100 microM) of As(2)O(3) for 24 to 72 hr. Apoptosis was determined by acridine orange staining, flow cytometry and DNA fragmentation. Protein levels of p53, p21(waf1/cip1), c-myc, bcl-2 and bax were detected by Western blotting. Effects of As(2)O(3) on caspase-3 protease activity, its protein concentration and cleavage of poly(ADP)-ribose polymerase (PARP) were also studied. As(2)O(3) inhibited cell growth and induced apoptosis in both cell lines, though AGS cells were more sensitive. As(2)O(3) induced apoptosis in AGS cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Treatment resulted in a marked increase in p53 protein levels as early as 4 hr. Co-incubation with p53 anti-sense oligo-nucleotide suppressed As(2)O(3)-induced intracellular p53 over-expression and apoptosis. As(2)O(3) increased the activity of caspase-3, with appearance of its 17 kDa peptide fragment, and cleavage of PARP, with appearance of the 85 kDa cleavage product, both in parallel with the induction of apoptosis. Both the tripeptide caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk and the specific caspase-3 inhibitor DEVD-fmk partially suppressed As(2)O(3)-induced caspase-3 activation and apoptosis. As(2)O(3) inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis in gastric cancer cells, involving p53 over-expression and activation of caspase-3. The potential use of this compound in the treatment of gastric cancer is worth further investigation.
Two areas of the damage localization in the organs of hearing after streptomycin use were found in the experiments with guinea pigs, i.e. (1) the Corti's organ of the lower part of the basal helix, the zone of perception of the maximum frequency sounds and (2) the tympanic muscles. Administration of streptomycin subcutaneously in a daily dose of 300 mg/kg for 50 days resulted in pronounced atrophic changes in the fibres of m. tensor tympani and some atony of m. stapedius. On the basis of the histological examination of the tympanic muscles after prolonged use of streptomycin and comparison of the periods of the tonus reduction in the skeletal muscles and Preier reflex after a single administration of streptomycin in maximum tolerating doses, it was concluded that streptomycin affected the state of the tympanic muscles as a myorelaxant. The atrophic changes in the tensor as a result of prolonged streptomycin use was due to chronic atony of the muscle. The decrease in the contraction capacity of the tensor must result in loosening of the drum membrane tension, impairement of the muscle activity coordination, decreased ability for elimation of the auditory ossicle fluctuation. Increased audibility limits within middle and low frequencies and noise in the ears during prolonged treatment of patients with streptomycin may be associated with chronic atony of the tympanic muscles and mainly tensor.
1,2,3-Trichloropropane (1,2,3-TCP) is an industrial water contaminant with potential for human exposure by the oral route. The systemic toxicology of 1,2,3-TCP was evaluated after subacute or subchronic exposure in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals were treated with 0.01, 0.05, 0.20 and 0.80 mmol kg-1 day-1 for 10 days and 0.01, 0.05, 0.10 and 0.40 mmol kg-1 day-1 for 90 days. Chemical exposure was by oral gavage in corn oil. Lethality did not occur in either study. Toxicity was observed primarily in the high dose group of subacute and subchronically treated rats of both sexes. Weight gain suppression occurred at a dose of 0.8 mmol kg-1 (118 mg kg-1) after 10 days. After 90 days of exposure to 0.40 mmol kg-1, the final body weights were 81% and 86% of control values for males and females, respectively. When major organ weights were normalized by body weight, liver and kidney values were generally increased relative to control in the two highest dose groups after 10- and 90-day chemical exposure. Serum chemistries and histopathology indicated a mild hepatotoxic response to 1,2,3-TCP in the high dose group of each study but did not support any renal toxicity. Thymic weight reduction due to atrophy occurred at 10 days of exposure in high dose groups but was normal in all groups after the 90-day treatment. The primary histological finding in this study was an inflammation-associated cardiopathy produced by 1,2,3-TCP. Myocardial necrosis and degeneration occurred in a diffuse pattern with marked eosinophilia of affected cells. Male and female animals showed a cardiopathic response only at a dose of 0.8 mmol kg-1 1,2,3-TCP after the 10-day exposure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. This study compares the role of endothelial factors in alpha-adrenoceptor contractile responses in mesenteric resistance (MRA) and superior (SMA) mesenteric arteries from ouabain-treated (8.0 microg day(-1), 5 weeks) and untreated rats. The role of the renin-angiotensin system was also evaluated. 2. Ouabain treatment increased systolic blood pressure. In addition, ouabain reduced the phenylephrine response in SMA but did not alter noradrenaline responses in MRA. 3. Endothelium removal or the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor (l-NAME, 100 microm) increased the responses to alpha-adrenergic agonists in both vessels. After ouabain treatment, both endothelial modulation and the l-NAME effect were increased in SMA, while only the l-NAME effect was increased in MRA. Endothelial NOS expression remained unaltered after ouabain treatment. 4. Indomethacin (10 microm) similarly reduced the noradrenaline contraction in MRA from both groups; in contrast, in SMA, indomethacin only reduced phenylephrine-induced contractions in segments from untreated rats. Co-incubation of l-NAME and indomethacin leftward shifted the concentration-response curves for noradrenaline more in MRA from ouabain-treated rats; tetraethylammonium (2 mm) shifted the noradrenaline curves further leftward only in MRA from untreated rats. 5.Losartan treatment prevents the development of hypertension but not all vascular changes observed after ouabain treatment. 6. In conclusion, a rise in endothelial NO and impaired prostanoid participation might explain the reduction in phenylephrine-induced contraction in SMA after ouabain treatment. An increase in the modulatory effect of endothelial NO and impairment of endothelium-dependent hyperpolarizing factor effect might explain why the ouabain treatment had no effect on noradrenaline responses in MRA.
In this contribution we discuss the gene- and cell type-specific repair of miscoding DNA alkylation products as a risk parameter in both mutation induction and malignant transformation by N-nitroso carcinogens. Upon exposure to N-nitroso compounds such as N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MeNU) or N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (EtNU), about a dozen different alkylation products are formed in cellular DNA. Among these are O(6)-methylguanine (O(6)-MeGua) and O(6)-ethylguanine (O(6)-EtGua), respectively, which differ only by one CH(2) group in their alkyl residue and, when unrepaired, cause G:C-->A:T transition mutations by anomalous base pairing during DNA replication. We have analyzed the global and gene-specific repair of O(6)-MeGua and O(6)-EtGua in target cell DNA, ras gene mutation frequencies, and tumor incidence, in the model of mammary carcinogenesis induced in 50-day-old female Sprague-Dawley rats by a single application of MeNU or EtNU. Both carcinogens induce histologically indistinguishable mammary adenocarcinomas at high yield. In the target mammary epithelia, O(6)-MeGua is repaired at similar slow rates in both transcriptionally active genes (Ha-ras, beta-actin), silent genes (lgE heavy chain), and in bulk DNA, by the one-step repair protein O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (MGMT; low level of expression in the target cells). The slow repair of O(6)-MeGua translates into a high frequency of mutations at the central position of Ha-ras codon 12 (GGA) in MeNU-induced tumors. O(6)-EtGua, however, is removed approximately 20 times faster than O(6)-MeGua selectively from transcribed genes via an MGMT independent, as yet uncharacterized excision mechanism. Accordingly, no Ha-ras codon 12 mutations are found in the EtNU-induced mammary tumors. Neither MeNU- nor EtNU-induced tumors exhibit mutations at codons 13 and 61 of Ha-ras or at codons 12, 13 and 61 of Ki-ras. While a moderate surplus MGMT activity of the target cells - contributed by a bacterial MGMT transgene (ada) - significantly counteracts mammary tumorigenesis in MeNU-exposed rats, this is not the case in the EtNU-treated animals. Differential repair of structurally distinct DNA lesions in transcribed or (temporarily) silent genes thus determines the probability of mutation and, together with cell type-specific and interindividual differences in DNA repair capacity, influences carcinogenic risk.
This study was designed to assess the effect of nebulized lignocaine or saline given before induction on the quality of induction of anaesthesia with desflurane in unpremedicated, young, adult males. Of the first six patients, five developed laryngospasm, breath-holding, coughing and increased secretions. In four patients oxygen saturation decreased to 92% or less. Significant tachycardia and hypertension occurred in four patients, and bradyarrhythmia after induction occurred in three patients. Hiccups and bronchospasm occurred in one patient. Because of the unacceptably high incidence of complications, the study was discontinued. The incidence and severity of complications were not decreased by administration of nebulized lignocaine and were higher than those reported by other workers. We conclude that in unpremedicated, young, adult males, induction of anaesthesia with desflurane and nitrous oxide in oxygen was associated with a high incidence of respiratory irritant effects, tachycardia, hypertension and post-induction bradyarrhythmia. We also found that lignocaine, as used in this study, did not appear to obtund the cardiovascular and respiratory complications during inhalation induction using desflurane.
Increased levels of serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) are frequently observed in patients with advanced, hormone-refractory prostate cancer. However, the precise mechanism of IL-6 regulation is still largely unknown. Since prostate cancer gradually progresses to an androgen-independent state despite the stress caused by various therapeutic agents, we hypothesized the stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs) involvement in androgen-independent growth or IL-6 secretion of prostate cancer cells. Using PC-3 and DU145 human prostate cancer cells, we analyzed the role of SAPKs in IL-6 mediated cell growth and found that the p38MAPK and JNK are involved in androgen-independent cancer cell growth. Furthermore, IL-6 secretion by PC-3 and DU145 cells was significantly suppressed by SAPKs inhibitor, especially by p38MAPK inhibitor SB203580, but not by JNK inhibitor SP600125 nor by MEK inhibitor, PD98059. These results raised the possibility that the IL-6 mediated androgen-independent proliferation of PC-3 and DU145 cells is regulated at least partly via SAPKs signaling pathway especially through p38MAPK activation.
Whether antidepressants prevent depression during interferon-alpha/ribavirin treatment for hepatitis C virus infection has yet to be established.
To investigate the use of paroxetine in a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled study for this indication.
Sixty-one hepatitis C virus-infected patients were randomly assigned to the antidepressant, paroxetine (n = 28), or placebo (n = 33), begun 2 weeks before and continued for 24 weeks during interferon-alpha/ribavirin treatment. Primary endpoints included development of major depression and severity of depressive symptoms measured by the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS).
Rates of major depression during the study were low (17%) and did not differ between groups. Nevertheless, using published MADRS cut-off scores, the percent of subjects who met criteria for mild, moderate or severe depression during interferon-alpha/ribavirin therapy was significantly lower in paroxetine- vs. placebo-treated subjects (P = 0.02, Fisher's exact test). Assignment to paroxetine was also associated with significantly reduced depressive symptom severity. This effect was largely accounted for by participants with depression scores above the median (MADRS > 3) at baseline in whom paroxetine was associated with a maximal reduction in MADRS scores of 10.3 (95% CI: 2.1-18.5) compared with placebo at 20 weeks (P < 0.01). Study limitations included a small sample size and high drop-out rate.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled trial provides preliminary data in support of antidepressant pre-treatment in hepatitis C virus patients with elevated depressive symptoms at baseline.
Neutropenic patients receiving amphotericin B, frequently in combination with aminoglycosides and vancomycin, were prospectively monitored for the development of nephrotoxicity. Based on previous studies, the authors recommended that these patients receive greater than or equal to 90 meq of sodium/day on each day of amphotericin B administration. Patients who received this amount of sodium on every day of amphotericin B therapy were classified as adequate sodium. The adequate sodium group was further subdivided on the basis of whether or not the adequate sodium was in the form of sodium ticarcillin. Patients not receiving this amount of sodium on every day of amphotericin B therapy were classified as inadequate sodium; overall, these patients received greater than or equal to 90 meq of sodium/day on 74% of days on which they received amphotericin B. The inadequate sodium and adequate sodium groups did not differ significantly with respect to age, gender, diagnoses, or baseline creatinine. The incidence of nephrotoxicity (creatinine greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dl) was significantly higher, 4 of 14 (29%), in the inadequate sodium group, as compared to the adequate sodium, adequate ticarcillin group, 1 of 35 (3%), or the adequate sodium only group, 1 of 24 (4%), p = .008. To adjust for total amphotericin dose, the risk of nephrotoxicity as a function of time on study was evaluated by the life table method; the risk of nephrotoxicity was significantly greater in the inadequate sodium group, p = .019.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The potential of several classes of antihypertensive drugs to cause orthostatic hypotension in man was evaluated in a conscious cynomolgus monkey model. Supine and erect blood pressure and heart rate were continuously monitored before and after administration of chlorisondamine (a ganglionic blocking agent); phentolamine and prazosin (alpha-adrenergic blocking agents); propranolol (a beta-adrenergic blocking agent); and minoxidil (a vasodilator). Substantial validation of the model was accomplished when it was observed that these drugs evoked cardiovascular responses in the animal model which were similar to those which had been described in the clinical literature.
We aimed to examine the possible involvement of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the pathogenesis of puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN).
The expression and localization of the mRNA of VEGF and its receptors, flt-1 and flk-1, were analyzed in the kidneys of puromycin aminonucleoside-injected rats by use of Northern blotting and in situ hybridization.
In association with the induction of proteinuria, VEGF mRNA underwent decrease in amount from 3 days after the injection, reaching the minimum level at 7 days, followed by a gradual recovery by 28 days. The levels of flk-1 and flt-1 mRNA showed similar transient decrease in PAN kidney, whereas the mRNA of von Willebrand factor, a marker of endothelial cells, showed no change in amount. In the normal rat kidney, VEGF mRNA was localized primarily to podocytes, and flk-1 mRNA was localized exclusively to endothelial cells with much higher intensity in glomeruli than in peritubular capillaries. In PAN kidney, the intensities of both VEGF and flk-1 signals in podocytes and glomerular endothelial cells, respectively, appeared much lower at 7 days than in normal kidney.
These results indicate that the VEGF-VEGF receptor system is downregulated in PAN, implying that it is not involved in the mechanism of proteinuria in PAN.
A 60-year-old man was treated with rifampicin, isoniazid, ethambutol and pyrazinamide for pulmonary tuberculosis. Acute renal failure developed 1 month after re-administration of rifampicin following 1 month's interruption of treatment. A renal biopsy showed crescentic lesions characteristic of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. This is, to our knowledge, the fourth case of rapidly progressive crescentic glomerulonephritis associated with rifampicin treatment, which responded to methylprednisolone pulse therapy followed by oral steroid therapy.
Fourteen days after renal transplantation, at first gave with good transplant function, a 36-year-old woman developed neurogenic dysfunction of bladder emptying. This was treated with baclofen, 5 mg three times daily by mouth. Between the 7th and 10th treatment day she progressively developed an organic psychotic syndrome and increasing respiratory paralysis after the onset of renal failure, associated with rejection of the transplanted kidney which required dialysis. Plasma concentration of baclofen was 565 ng/ml (therapeutic range 80-400 ng/ml). After discontinuing the drug and renewed haemodialysis the baclofen level rapidly fell and the symptoms receded. In a second case, a 57-year-old man on dialysis developed a thalamic pain syndrome after an intracerebral haemorrhage in the region of the basal ganglia. He was given four times 10 mg baclofen by mouth over 24 hours. 24 hours after the first dose he became deeply unconscious with respiratory failure. Plasma concentration of baclofen after the first haemodialysis period was 480 ng/ml. After 48 hours of artificial ventilation it was possible to extubate; a symptomatic transitory psychotic syndrome disappeared within 4 days. Both patients had pre-existing cerebral damage in addition to the chronic renal failure (in the first patient, meningoencephalitis 30 years previously with persisting focal lesions in the computed tomogram CT]; in the second one, residual lesions in the CT after intracerebral haemorrhage). It is emphasized that in patients who are in renal failure baclofen treatment should be undertaken cautiously: toxic signs can quickly develop especially if there is pre-existing cerebral damage.
The relationship between treatment efficacy and the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of anticancer drugs is poorly defined. 1,3-Bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) is an alkylating agent used in the treatment of brain and other forms of cancer. It is postulated that BCNU kills cells by forming DNA interstrand cross-links. The present study was undertaken to characterize the PK and PD of BCNU in mouse L1210 cells. L1210 cells were exposed to BCNU (0-160 microM) and analyzed for intracellular BCNU concentrations, DNA interstrand cross-links, cell cycle phase, and cytotoxicity. The half-life of BCNU in cells was approximately 40 min. The maximum reduction of mitochondrial enzyme activity (maximum cell death) achieved within 24 hr after exposure to BCNU was concentration-dependent and could be described by a Hill equation. At lower concentrations, the area under the DNA interstrand cross-link-time curve linearly correlated with the maximum cell death and the area under the BCNU concentration-time curve. BCNU induced cell accumulation in the G(2)/M phase of the cell cycle, which continued even after apparent completion of cross-link repair. Loss of membrane permeability was minimal (approximately 2%) during the first 24 hr. Thereafter, cells died exponentially over the next 9 days, primarily by necrosis. In conclusion, while cytotoxicity was concentration-dependent, an indirect relationship was found among the time-course of BCNU concentrations, DNA interstrand cross-links, and cell death. Because of the disparity between the time-scale of PK and PD, focusing only on the early events may provide limited information about the process of anticancer drug-induced cell death.
To investigate the inhibitory effect of somatostatin (SST) analogue octreotide on human gastric cancer.
Fifty gastric cancer patients were randomly assigned into 2 equal groups. The patients in the control group received no medication before surgical resection of gastric cancer, and those in octreotide group were given daily subcutaneous injection of 100 µg octreotide for 7 days before the surgery. The resected specimens were examined histologically and the expressions of p53 and Ras protein were detected by immunohistochemistry.
Compared with the control group, gastric cancer tissue in octreotide group showed significantly increased necrosis (P<0.05) and enhanced proliferation of fibrous tissues (P<0.05) with lowered expressions of p53 and Ras protein (P<0.05).
Octreotide can inhibit the expressions of p53 and Ras and suppress the growth of the human gastric cancer.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease secondary to the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) produces in mice and primates histopathological changes similar to PD in humans. A common feature of PD and MPTP models is neuronal death and dopamine depletion. Silymarin is a complex of flavonolignans derived from the seeds of the plant Silybum marianum and has mainly antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, cytoprotective and neuroprotective effects. In order to explore whether silymarin has a neuroprotective effects in a mouse model of PD we determined the concentration of striatal dopamine by HPLC, the number of apoptotic cells by in situ Tunel assay and the number of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons by immunohistochemistry in substantia nigra of vehicle-treated, silymarin-treated, MPTP-intoxicated and MPTP-silymarin treated C57BL/6J male mice. MPTP (30 mg/kg) and silymarin doses (25, 50, 100, 200, 250, 300 or 400mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally once daily for five consecutive days. Silymarin treatment showed a non-monotonic dose-response curve and only 50 and 100mg/kg doses preserved dopamine levels (62% and 69%, respectively) after MPTP intoxication. Additionally, 100mg/kg silymarin treatment significantly diminished the number of apoptotic cells and preserved dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of MPTP-intoxicated mice. These results show the neuroprotective properties of 100mg/kg silymarin and may be of interest in the treatment of PD.
Research conducted by this laboratory over the past decade has demonstrated the high susceptibility of the fetus to lung tumor formation following in utero exposure of the resistant C57BL/6 and DBA/2N strains of mice to 3-methylcholanthrene (MC). In this review, we describe our more recent studies on the effects of MC and cotreatment with the lung tumor promoter, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), on lung tumor formation in the intermediately susceptible BALB/c strain of mice, and the determination of the potential carcinogenicity of the heterocyclic amine, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) in resistant mouse strains. BALB/c mice showed a similar incidence of lung tumors, both in terms of percentage of mice with tumors and number of tumors per mouse, as found in the resistant [D2 x B6D2F1]F2 mice. Ki-ras point mutations were found in 56% (20/36) of BALB/c lung lesions compared with an incidence of 79% in [D2 x B6D2F1]F2 mice. BALB/c lung lesions demonstrated a similar association of Ki-ras mutations with tumor stage. Interestingly, a strain-dependent difference was observed in the mutational spectrum, where 62% and 38% of the lesions in BALB/c mice exhibited G-->C and G-->T transversions, respectively, in contrast with the 16% and 84% incidences observed in [D2 x B6D2F1]F2 mice. BHT had no statistically significant effect on tumor incidence, multiplicity, or Ki-ras mutational spectrum in BALB/c mice treated in utero with MC, although a trend toward increased tumor multiplicity was observed. Finally, experiments initiated to assess the transplacental carcinogenicity of IQ in D2B6F1 mice demonstrated that 1 year after birth, no macroscopically or microscopically visible liver, lung, or colon tumors were found in the transplacentally treated offspring, nor was induction of Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1, or glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in fetal lung and liver tissues observed. This implies that at least under these experimental conditions, IQ may not be an important transplacental carcinogen. Overall, these data demonstrate that mutagenic damage to Ki-ras is a critical early event mediating murine lung tumorigenesis in both sensitive and resistant strains. Strain-dependent differences in the Ki-ras mutational spectrum may be associated with their differential susceptibility to lung tumor initiation.
