Galactofuranoside derivatives were synthesised by the classic Fischer glycosydation method, and their immune modulation properties were studied in vitro and in vivo. NMR spectroscopic and ESI-MS analyses confirmed the purity and authenticity of all derivatives. Their phagocyte capacities were tested in resident macrophages. Methyl β-galactofuranoside (GFB-Me) and n-octyl β-galactofuranoside (GFB-O) had an immune stimulant effect at 25μmolml(-1) with an enhancement of 35.12%±0.06 SD and 17.49%±0.11 SD, respectively, but Methyl α-galactofuranoside (GFA-Me) and n-octyl α-galactofuranoside (GFA-O) gave a low immune response. Methyl α-galactofuranoside 5,6-O-isopropylidene (GFA-IP) and Methyl β-galactofuranoside 5,6-O-isopropylidene (GFB-IP) had negative values relative to the control group of minus 4.96%±0.10 SD and -40.72%±0.07 SD, respectively. Furthermore, GFB-Me and GFB-Me-IP were evaluated in vivo on the lethality induced by cecal ligation and puncture. Cytokine levels and iNOS expression were determined and correlated to mortality data. The results showed that the free HO-5 and HO-6 and the β-configuration are essential for the induction of phagocytic activity by the galactofuranosyl units. The methyl β-galactofuranosides also enhanced lethality during sepsis, increasing the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and iNOS expression.
Cyclophosphamide (CY) has been shown to reverse the signs of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) even after the onset of neurological deficits. Because of the analogy of EAE to exacerbations of multiple sclerosis (MS) a clinical trial of CY in acute MS exacerbations was undertaken. A 'sequential criterion' method was used to minimize the size of sample needed for this pilot study. CY failed to alter significantly the course of acute exacerbations of MS. Possible reasons for this failure, and the value of the sequential criterion method in pilot studies, are discussed.
The neural crest is a uniquely vertebrate cell type that gives rise to much of the craniofacial skeleton, pigment cells and peripheral nervous system, yet its specification and diversification during embryogenesis are poorly understood. Zebrafish homozygous for the lockjaw (low) mutation show defects in all of these derivatives and we show that low (allelic with montblanc) encodes a zebrafish tfap2a, one of a small family of transcription factors implicated in epidermal and neural crest development. A point mutation in low truncates the DNA binding and dimerization domains of tfap2a, causing a loss of function. Consistent with this, injection of antisense morpholino oligonucleotides directed against splice sites in tfap2a into wild-type embryos produces a phenotype identical to low. Analysis of early ectodermal markers revealed that neural crest specification and migration are disrupted in low mutant embryos. TUNEL labeling of dying cells in mutants revealed a transient period of apoptosis in crest cells prior to and during their migration. In the cranial neural crest, gene expression in the mandibular arch is unaffected in low mutants, in contrast to the hyoid arch, which shows severe reductions in dlx2 and hoxa2 expression. Mosaic analysis, using cell transplantation, demonstrated that neural crest defects in low are cell autonomous and secondarily cause disruptions in surrounding mesoderm. These studies demonstrate that low is required for early steps in neural crest development and suggest that tfap2a is essential for the survival of a subset of neural crest derivatives.
Glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) gene therapy might offer new strategies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). GDNF is a potent dopaminergic (DA) neurotrophic factor. The effect of GDNF gene therapy was assessed using anatomical, behavioral, and neurochemical approaches. We examined the protective effect of increased striatal GDNF levels achieved by delivery of an adenoviral vector (Ad-) encoding human GDNF (Ad-GDNF). Animals were injected with Ad-GDNF prior to striatal lesion. Striatal DA concentration was measured by microdialysis. Animals receiving 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) only showed a significant decrease in rotation when compared to those receiving Ad-GDNF prior to the 6-OHDA neurotoxin. Under basal conditions, the Ad-GDNF group showed a significant (P < or = 0.05) increase (1880%) in DA concentration when compared to the 6-OHDA group. Amphetamine challenge induced a significantly (P < or = 0.05) higher release of DA in the Ad-GDNF group than in the 6-OHDA group. These findings show that long-term delivery of GDNF protein in the striatum provides significant cell, behavioral, and neurochemical protection.
This multinational, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, phase III trial assessed the efficacy and tolerability of the oral platinum analog satraplatin in patients with metastatic castrate-refractory prostate cancer (CRPC) experiencing progression after one prior chemotherapy regimen.
Nine hundred fifty patients were randomly assigned (2:1) to receive oral satraplatin (n = 635) 80 mg/m(2) on days 1 to 5 of a 35-day cycle and prednisone 5 mg twice daily or placebo (n = 315) and prednisone 5 mg twice daily. Primary end points were progression-free survival and overall survival (OS). The secondary end point was time to pain progression (TPP).
A 33% reduction (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.67; 95% CI, 0.57 to 0.77; P < .001) was observed in the risk of progression or death with satraplatin versus placebo. This effect was maintained irrespective of prior docetaxel treatment. No difference in OS was seen between the satraplatin and placebo arms (HR = 0.98; 95% CI, 0.84 to 1.15; P = .80). Compared with placebo, satraplatin significantly reduced TPP (HR = 0.64; 95% CI, 0.51 to 0.79; P < .001). Satraplatin was generally well tolerated, although myelosuppression and GI disorders occurred more frequently with satraplatin.
Oral satraplatin delayed progression of disease and pain in patients with metastatic CRPC experiencing progression after initial chemotherapy but did not provide a significant OS benefit. Satraplatin was generally well tolerated. These results suggest activity for satraplatin in patients with CRPC who experience progression after initial chemotherapy.
Methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) has been shown to be specifically anti-angiogenic in piscine and mammalian model systems at concentrations that appear non-toxic in other organ systems. The mechanism by which MTBE targets developing vascular structures is unknown. A global transcriptome analysis of zebrafish embryos developmentally exposed to 0.00625-5mM MTBE suggested that hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-regulated pathways were affected. HIF-driven angiogenesis via vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) is essential to the developing vasculature of an embryo. Three rescue studies were designed to rescue MTBE-induced vascular lesions: pooled blood in the common cardinal vein (CCV), cranial hemorrhages (CH), and abnormal intersegmental vessels (ISV), and test the hypothesis that MTBE toxicity was HIF-Vegf dependent. First, zebrafish vegf-a over-expression via plasmid injection, resulted in significantly fewer CH and ISV lesions, 46 and 35% respectively, in embryos exposed to 10mM MTBE. Then HIF degradation was inhibited in two ways. Chemical rescue by N-oxaloylglycine significantly reduced CCV and CH lesions by 30 and 32% in 10mM exposed embryos, and ISV lesions were reduced 24% in 5mM exposed zebrafish. Finally, a morpholino designed to knock-down ubiquitin associated von Hippel-Lindau protein, significantly reduced CCV lesions by 35% in 10mM exposed embryos. In addition, expression of some angiogenesis related genes altered by MTBE exposure were rescued. These studies demonstrated that MTBE vascular toxicity is mediated by a down regulation of HIF-Vegf driven angiogenesis. The selective toxicity of MTBE toward developing vasculature makes it a potentially useful chemical in the designing of new drugs or in elucidating roles for specific angiogenic proteins in future studies of vascular development.
Caffeine consumption is a risk factor for osteoporosis, but the precise regulatory mechanisms are currently unknown. Here, we show that cell viability decreases in osteoblasts treated with caffeine in a dose-dependent manner. This cell death is attributed primarily to apoptosis and to a smaller extent, necrosis. Moreover, caffeine directly stimulates intracellular oxidative stress. Our data support caffeine-induced apoptosis in osteoblasts via a mitochondria-dependent pathway. The apoptotic biochemical changes were effectively prevented upon pretreatment with ROS scavengers, indicating that ROS plays a critical role as an upstream controller in the caffeine-induced apoptotic cascade. Additionally, p21-activated protein kinase 2 (PAK2) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) were activated in caffeine-treated osteoblasts. Experiments further found that PAK2 activity is required for caffeine-induced JNK activation and apoptosis. Importantly, our data also show that caffeine triggers cell death via inactivation of the survival signal, including the ERK- and Akt-mediated anti-apoptotic pathways. Finally, exposure of rats to dietary water containing approximately 10-20 microM caffeine led to bone mineral density loss. These results demonstrate for the first time that caffeine triggers apoptosis in osteoblasts via activation of mitochondria-dependent cell death signaling and inactivation of the survival signal, and causes bone mineral density loss in vivo.
The cellular effects of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) are modified by a family of binding proteins (IGFBPs) that act as reservoirs in serum for the growth factor and are produced locally by tissues, including the kidney. Because regulation of these proteins may influence renal repair, either directly or by their interactions with IGF-I, we studied gene expression during the recovery from renal failure induced by folic acid and during the compensatory increase in renal function following uninephrectomy (UNX). Expression of IGF-I, the IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR), and all six IGFBPs was detected using an ribonuclease protection assay. IGFBP-5 was the most abundant binding protein mRNA present in kidney, whereas IGFBP-2 and -6 were the least abundant. During regeneration following folic acid-induced acute renal failure, IGF-I, IGFBP-3, and IGFBP-5 mRNAs declined in abundance approximately two- to threefold. On the other hand, IGF-IR, IGFBP-1, and IGFBP-2 were increased (approximately 2-, 6-, and 6-fold, respectively) in the first 24 h. IGFBP-1 mRNA remained elevated for at least 3 days. Despite the known increase in cellular RNA content following UNX, little difference in specific expression of mRNAs was observed. Because IGFBP-1 has been shown to stimulate cell migration and has previously been localized to the distal nephron, the site of greatest injury in the folic acid model, these data are compatible with the notion that this protein may function either directly to affect cellular repair or act as a reservoir for IGF-I under conditions of cellular damage.
The study evaluated whether a diet containing diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2, a synthetic antioxidant, could reduce the biochemical alterations induced by chronic consumption of highly enriched fructose diet and/or hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). Rats were fed a control diet (CT) or a high fructose diet (HFD), supplemented with or not HCTZ (4.0g/kg) and/or (PhSe)2 (3ppm) for 18weeks. HFD intake increased significantly plasma glucose, fructosamine, triglycerides and cholesterol levels. (PhSe)2 supplementation significantly reduced triglycerides and cholesterol but could not restore them to control levels. The combination of HFD and HCTZ significantly altered plasma glucose, fructosamine, triglycerides and cholesterol levels which were not restore by (PhSe)2 supplementation. Lipid peroxidation, protein carbonyl formation, vitamin C level and catalase activity decreased after HFD, HCTZ or HFD plus HCTZ ingestion. Remarkably (PhSe)2 supplementation restored the oxidative stress parameters. HCTZ decreased renal superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, which was restored to control levels by (PhSe)2. Furthermore, the association of HFD and HCTZ decreased plasma potassium levels and aggravated HCTZ-induced hypomagnesemia and hypertriglyceridemia. Here we provided evidence of the involvement of oxidative stress and metabolic disorders in a rat model of HFD associated or not with HTCZ. (PhSe)2 supplementation reduced the oxidative stress and this compound should be considered for the treatment of biochemical disturbances and oxidative stress in other animal models of metabolic disorders.
The potent and efficacious anti-dysrhythmic agent amiodarone (AM) can cause potentially life-threatening lung damage (amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity; AIPT), which is characterized by cell death in the lungs, followed by inflammation and fibrosis. AM's major metabolite, desethylamiodarone (DEA), has a greater toxic potency than AM and it has been suggested that DEA may act synergistically with AM to cause lung toxicity. The objective of this study was to determine the type of cytotoxic interaction between AM and DEA in HPL1A human peripheral lung epithelial cells. Cytotoxicity was measured by lactate dehydrogenase release. AM and DEA caused concentration-dependent cytotoxicity in HPL1A cells. The concentration of drug causing 50% cell death (LC50) and the Hill slope factor, which represents steepness of the concentration-cell death curve, were significantly different between AM and DEA (12.4μM and 1.98; 5.07μM and 5.43, for AM and DEA, respectively) indicating that they may induce cytotoxicity through different mechanisms. A combined concentration of 7.13μM AM plus DEA, equivalent to 41% of each compound's individual LC50 value, resulted in 50% cell death. Isobolographic analysis revealed this effect to be additive, although the combined concentrations were only slightly higher than the concentrations that defined the threshold of synergy (threshold of synergy=4.21±1.98μM AM plus 1.73±1.05μM DEA; experimental data point=5.06±0.47μM AM plus 2.07±0.47μM DEA). The cytotoxic interaction between AM and DEA may be clinically relevant in the development of AIPT.
Persons with Down syndrome (DS) exhibit low muscle strength that significantly impairs their physical functioning. The Ts65Dn mouse model of DS also exhibits muscle weakness in vivo and may be a useful model to examine DS-associated muscle dysfunction. Therefore, the purpose of this experiment was to directly assess skeletal muscle function in the Ts65Dn mouse and to reveal potential mechanisms of DS-associated muscle weakness. Soleus muscles were harvested from anesthetized male Ts65Dn and wild-type (WT) colony controls. In vitro muscle contractile experiments revealed normal force generation of nonfatigued Ts65Dn soleus, but a 12% reduction in force was observed during recovery from fatiguing contractions compared with WT muscle (P < 0.05). Indicators of oxidative stress and mitochondrial oxidative capacity were assessed to reveal potential mechanisms of DS-associated muscle weakness. Protein expression of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1), a triplicated gene in persons with DS and Ts65Dn mice, was increased 25% (P < 0.05) in Ts65Dn soleus. Nontriplicated antioxidant protein expression was similar between groups. Lipid peroxidation was unaltered in Ts65Dn animals, but protein oxidation was 20% greater compared with controls (P < 0.05). Cytochrome-c oxidase expression was 22% lower in Ts65Dn muscle (P < 0.05), while expression of citrate synthase was similar between groups. Microarray analysis revealed alteration of numerous pathways in Ts65Dn muscle, including proteolysis, glucose and fat metabolism, neuromuscular transmission, and ATP biosynthesis. In summary, despite biochemical and gene expression differences in soleus muscle of Ts65Dn animals, the functional properties of skeletal muscle likely contribute a minor part to the in vivo muscle weakness.
Repeated, intermittent administration of psychomotor stimulants has been shown to produce increasing effects (behavioral sensitization) in many species of animals. In a novel two-day sensitization paradigm, rats that received a single high dose of cocaine (40 mg/kg) compared with saline on day 1 showed an increased locomotor response to a challenge dose (10 mg/kg) on day 2. This effect is conditioned or context-dependent; i.e., it is only observed if the rats received cocaine in an environment similar to the test environment. If the cocaine-induced hyperactivity on day 1 is prevented with pharmacological agents such as haloperidol and diazepam, sensitization on day 2 does not occur. Furthermore, although moderate (0.2 mg/kg) and high doses (0.5 mg/kg) of haloperidol (day 1) prevented the development of sensitization to cocaine, they were ineffective when given prior to the day 2 challenge dose in preventing the expression of sensitization. Thus, this type of cocaine sensitization appears to involve conditioning, show stimulus generalization, and offer a possible model for clinical neuroleptic nonresponsiveness once stimulant-induced pathological behavior has been induced.
Treatment with indinavir/ritonavir (IDV/RTV) is very effective but hampered by frequent development of IDV-associated adverse events (mainly nephrotoxicity and skin changes). We tested whether dose reduction of IDV guided by therapeutic drug monitoring resulted in improved tolerability without compromising antiviral efficacy.
HIV-infected patients with any IDV/RTV regimen who suffer from IDV-related adverse events were included. Viral load had to be adequately controlled for at least 2 months prior to inclusion. Dose reduction from 800 mg to 600 or 400 mg IDV b.i.d. followed a specified protocol. IDV-related toxicity and IDV plasma concentrations were monitored for 24 weeks. IDV concentrations were quantified with a validated high performance liquid chromatography method.
Twenty patients were included. Reasons for inclusion were: skin abnormalities 11, nephrotoxicity five, metabolic disturbances three, and hypertension one. IDV dose could be lowered to 400 mg b.i.d. in 13, to 600 mg b.i.d. in two patients. Five patients discontinued the treatment. Overall tolerability improved with respect to incidence and severity of adverse events. Median trough concentrations decreased from 1.02 mg/l (range 0.08-7.1) at baseline to 0.48 mg/l (0.11-1.4) after 24 weeks (p = 0.03) and remained above the critical threshold of 0.1 mg/l at any time after dose reduction. There was no change of CD4 cell counts or viral suppression. There were no significant changes in other laboratory parameters (creatinine, bilirubin, triglycerides, cholesterol, blood count, and urinalysis).
Dose reduction of IDV improved tolerability of IDV-containing highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART). Sufficient IDV trough concentrations were maintained in all patients as was virologic control.
Summary Penicillin causes immune haemolytic anaemia by the 'drug-adsorption' mechanism and typically occurs after prolonged exposure to large doses of the drug. Withdrawal of the drug is associated with improved red cell survival and gradual cessation of haemolysis. Although this complication is uncommon, it can be potentially serious. An unusual case is described herein. The patient was exposed to a short course (9 days) of standard dose penicillin but suffered acute severe haemolysis about 1 week after cessation of therapy. A high titre anti-penicillin antibody (1 : 512) not cross-reacting with cephalosporins, was demonstrated. The delay in the development of immune haemolysis vis-à-vis penicillin therapy may be due to the patient being immunologically naive to the drug. Penicillin may persist for weeks in circulation, coating red cells and providing continued antigenic stimulation for the development of anti-penicillin antibody.
It has long been known that certain estrogens and testosterone may increase, or sometime decrease, the incidence of neoplasmas in laboratory animals. They probably act by switching-on inappropriate genetic information or switching-off appropriate genetic information contained in nucleic acids. For instance, they may switch-on in adult animals information which is relevant only to a certain stage of embryogenesis or they may facilitate the expression of oncogenic viruses which would otherwise lay harmlessly dormant. The situation is rendered complex because an effect on one endocrine gland leads to effects on others so that factors which favour tumour development may result indirectly from administration of an anabolic or other hormonal agent. Two kinds of neoplasm are now known to be associated with human exposure to anabolic agents: vaginal adenocarcinoma and liver-cell tumours. Tumours of both kinds are among the spectrum of neoplasms that has been seen in laboratory animals exposed to agents of the same kind. In both animals and man there is evidence that tumours arising in response to anabolic agents are sometimes, initially at least, hormone-dependent. The evidence that 17beta-estradiol, diethylstilbestrol, chlormadinone, and testosterone are carcinogenic for laboratory animals is briefly reviewed and the reader's attention is directed towards the 1974 IARC Monograph on the evaluation of sex hormones for carcinogenic risk to man where the same evidence is reviewed more extensively. The significance for man of the results of studies on laboratory animals is discussed with special reference to the use of anabolic agents in meat production. Non-residue uses are to be preferred, as are naturally-occurring agents as opposed to compounds which do not occur in nature. More information is needed concerning the possible effects of prolonged exposure to very low doses of anabolic agents.
Small eye (Pax6Sey) is a semi-dominant mutation affecting development of the eyes, brain and nasal structures. The mutant phenotype arises from defects within the Pax6 gene and several mutant alleles have been identified. A previous study reported that Pax6Sey/Pax6Sey homozygotes, in a random-bred stock, had a median cartilaginous rod-like structure in the nasal region and 80% had supernumerary upper incisor teeth. In this study we show that supernumerary upper incisor teeth and a previously unreported nasal capsule-derived cartilaginous 'spur' occur in compound heterozygous Pax6Sey-Neu/Pax6Sey and homozygous Pax6Sey/Pax6Sey fetuses from several strains of mice. The frequencies of the abnormal phenotypes were not related to allele type but showed variable penetrance, which was dependent on genetic background. The median nasal cartilaginous rod-like structure was present in all homozygous small eye fetuses. The Pax6Sey/Pax6Sey homozygote may provide insight into the complex gene interactions involved in eye, nasal and craniofacial morphogenesis.
The T-2 and HT-2 toxins, the main metabolites of Fusarium poae, induce toxicity in broilers and accumulate in tissues. Consequently, during the breeding process of broilers, diets are frequently supplemented with physical adsorbents to protect birds against the toxicity induced by mycotoxins. In the present research, T-2 and HT-2 were produced in maize inoculated with F. poae. Mont, the strongest adsorbent based on in vitro adsorption ratios, was added to the contaminated diet. One-day-old chickens were randomly and equally divided into the following four groups: control diet group, Mont supplemented diet group, contaminated diet group and detoxification diet group. The experiment lasted for 42 days. Compared to the control group, the contaminated group showed significant decrease in body weight, feed intake and TP (P < 0.05), and marked increase in FCR, ALP, AST and ALT activity, T-2/HT-2 residues in the tissues and the relative expressions of apoptosis-related mRNAs (P < 0.05). Mont supplementation provided protection for the treated broilers in terms of performance, blood biochemistry, hepatic function, T-2/HT-2 residue of tissues and apoptosis. Therefore, Mont may be suitable as a detoxification agent for T-2/HT-2 in feed for broilers.
Sixteen ASA 1 or 2 patients scheduled for abdominal surgery were included in the study after they had given their informed consent. Thirty minutes after starting a low-thoracic epidural anaesthesia (median level of sensitivity loss: T5), the patients were randomly given an intravenous bolus injection of either thiopentone (4 mg.kg-1, n = 8) or etomidate (0.5 mg.-1, n = 8), associated with succinylcholine 1 mg.kg-1. One minute after induction of general anaesthesia, the patients were intubated and mechanically ventilated (V(T) 8 ml.kg-1, rate 12 c.min-1). Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) (oscillometric method), cardiac output (CO) (transthoracic bioimpedance) and heart rate were recorded semi-continuously. Total peripheral resistances (TPR) were calculated using the formula TPR = (MA/CO)*80. There were no differences between the groups in patient age, height, weight, and cardiovascular consequences of epidural anaesthesia. After anaesthetic induction and before endotracheal intubation, there was a slight decrease in CO in both groups, without any change in MAP. After intubation, MAP increased in both groups through peripheral vasoconstriction, whereas CO did not increase further. A significant tachycardia was occurred only seen in the thiopentone group, before and after tracheal intubation. This study showed that thiopentone and etomidate were suitable drugs for anaesthetic induction in a patient under epidural blockade. However, the absence of tachycardia following etomidate may be beneficial in cardiac patients. The monitoring of cardiac output determinants during thiopentone and etomidate anaesthesia require further invasive investigations.
Glutathione, the main antioxidant of intestinal epithelial cells, is suggested to play an important role in gut barrier function and prevention of inflammation-related oxidative damage as induced by acute bacterial infection. Most studies on intestinal glutathione focus on oxidative stress reduction without considering functional disease outcome. Our aim was to determine whether depletion or maintenance of intestinal glutathione changes susceptibility of rats to Salmonella infection and associated inflammation.Rats were fed a control diet or the same diet supplemented with buthionine sulfoximine (BSO; glutathione depletion) or cystine (glutathione maintenance). Inert chromium ethylenediamine-tetraacetic acid (CrEDTA) was added to the diets to quantify intestinal permeability. At day 4 after oral gavage with Salmonella enteritidis (or saline for non-infected controls), Salmonella translocation was determined by culturing extra-intestinal organs. Liver and ileal mucosa were collected for analyses of glutathione, inflammation markers and oxidative damage. Faeces was collected to quantify diarrhoea.
Glutathione depletion aggravated ileal inflammation after infection as indicated by increased levels of mucosal myeloperoxidase and interleukin-1beta. Remarkably, intestinal permeability and Salmonella translocation were not increased. Cystine supplementation maintained glutathione in the intestinal mucosa but inflammation and oxidative damage were not diminished. Nevertheless, cystine reduced intestinal permeability and Salmonella translocation.
Despite increased infection-induced mucosal inflammation upon glutathione depletion, this tripeptide does not play a role in intestinal permeability, bacterial translocation and diarrhoea. On the other hand, cystine enhances gut barrier function by a mechanism unlikely to be related to glutathione.
The present study aimed to investigate the influence of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitor captopril and the Ca-antagonist nifedipine on endothelium-dependent vasodilation (EDV) in the forearm of hypertensive patients. Twenty-three middle-aged untreated hypertensive patients underwent evaluation of EDV and endothelium-independent vasodilation (EIDV) in the forearm, by means of local intra-arterial infusions of methacholine (MCh, evaluating EDV) and sodium-nitroprusside (SNP, evaluating EIDV), before and 1 h after intake of either captopril (25 mg) or nifedipine (10 mg) in a randomised, double-blind fashion. A matched normotensive control group was investigated at baseline conditions only. Five of the hypertensives were also evaluated after 3 months of treatment with captopril 25 mg twice daily in an open pilot study. First, the vasodilation induced by methacholine (MCh), but not SNP, was significantly attenuated in the hypertensive patients compared to the normotensive controls (P < 0.001 at MCh 4 microg/min). Second, although the two drugs induced a similar decline in blood pressure (BP) 1 h after administration (-11 to 10 mm Hg/-8 to 7 mm Hg), captopril significantly potentiated the vasodilator response to MCh (+32+/-13%, MCh 4 micr og/min, P < 0.01) but not SNP, while nifedipine did not significantly alter the response to either MCh or SNP. The improvement in vasodilator response to MCh induced by captopril was closely related to the reduction in BP (r = 0.72, P < 0.01). Third, in the pilot study, 3 months of captopril treatment induced a significant potentiation of the vasodilator response to MCh (+34+/-17%, MCh 4 microg/min, P < 0.05) in parallel with a significant BP reduction (-22+/-24/13+/-13 mm Hg, P < 0.05), while the response to SNP was unchanged. In conclusion, the present study confirmed that essential hypertension is associated with a defect in EDV. Furthermore, an improvement in EDV was seen in hypertensive patients shortly after administration of captopril, but not nifedipine. In addition, a significant beneficial effect on EDV was seen in a small pilot study during long-term treatment with captopril.
Activation of cannabinoid CB(2) receptors suppresses neuropathic pain induced by traumatic nerve injury. The present studies were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cannabinoid CB(2) receptor activation in suppressing painful peripheral neuropathy evoked by chemotherapeutic treatment with the antitumor agent paclitaxel. Rats received paclitaxel (2 mg/kg i.p./day) on 4 alternate days to induce mechanical hypersensitivity (mechanical allodynia). Mechanical allodynia was defined as a lowering of the threshold for paw withdrawal to stimulation of the plantar hind paw surface with an electronic von Frey stimulator. Mechanical allodynia developed in paclitaxel-treated animals relative to groups receiving the Cremophor EL/ethanol/saline vehicle at the same times. Two structurally distinct cannabinoid CB(2) agonists, the aminoalkylindole (R,S)-AM1241 [(R,S)-(2-iodo-5-nitrophenyl)-[1-((1-methyl-piperidin-2-yl)methyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-methanone] and the cannabilactone AM1714 (1,9-dihydroxy-3-(1',1'-dimethylheptyl)-6H-benzo[c]chromene-6-one), produced a dose-related suppression of established paclitaxel-evoked mechanical allodynia after systemic administration. Pretreatment with the CB(2) antagonist SR144528 [5-(4-chloro-3-methylphenyl)-1-(4-methylbenzyl)-N-(1,3,3-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], but not the CB(1) antagonist SR141716 [5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-N-(piperidin-1-yl)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], blocked the antiallodynic effects of both (R,S)-AM1241 and AM1714. Moreover, (R)-AM1241, but not (S)-AM1241, suppressed paclitaxel-evoked mechanical allodynia relative to either vehicle treatment or preinjection thresholds, consistent with mediation by CB(2). Administration of either the CB(1) or CB(2) antagonist alone failed to alter paclitaxel-evoked mechanical allodynia. Moreover, (R,S)-AM1241 did not alter paw withdrawal thresholds in rats that received the Cremophor EL vehicle in lieu of paclitaxel, whereas AM1714 induced a modest antinociceptive effect. Our data suggest that cannabinoid CB(2) receptors may be important therapeutic targets for the treatment of chemotherapy-evoked neuropathy.
Sixty patients meeting DSM-III criteria for major depression were assigned randomly to double-blind treatment for four weeks according to fixed-dosage steps with (1) amitriptyline hydrochloride alone, up to a maximum dosage of 300 mg/day; (2) tranylcypromine alone, up to 40 mg/day; or (3) the combination of amitriptyline hydrochloride, up to 150 mg/day, and tranylcypromine, up to 20 mg/day. The conditions of patients in all three treatment groups improved equally. The combined treatment did not produce a higher frequency of side effects, and no side effects, such as hypertensive or hyperthermic crises, occurred in any patient. Both amitriptyline alone and combined treatment produced substantially more anticholinergic side effects than did tranylcypromine. These results support the safety and efficacy of the combined treatment, although claims for superior efficacy over single-antidepressant treatments in this heterogenous population were not supported.
Human pancreatic malignancies originating from duct cells most frequently demonstrate activation of Ki-ras gene by G-to-A transition at codons 12 and 13. Rat pancreatic exocrine tumors more frequently and almost exclusively derive from acinar cells and thus differ morphologically from human pancreatic neoplasms. Male Wistar rats fed with 2% gabapentin (1-(aminomethyl)cyclohexane acetic acid) in diet for 2 years developed pancreatic exocrine adenomas and adenocarcinomas. To study the mutations in Ki-ras gene, rat pancreatic proliferative lesions induced by gabapentin were retrospectively analyzed by PCR amplification of DNA isolated from paraffin sections of formalin-fixed rat pancreatic adenomas and adenocarcinomas, using specific primers for regions encoding exon 1 (codon 12/13) and exon 2 (codon 61). The amplified 110-bp fragments of exon 1 and exon 2 were analyzed for mutations at codon 12/13 and 61. The results showed Ki-ras mutations at codon 12 in human pancreatic carcinomas. Novel mutations GGT-to-TGT and GGT-to-CGT were detected at codon 12 in 1/5 and 2/5 human pancreatic tumors. Rat adenomas or carcinomas induced by gabapentin expressed wild type sequences at codons 12, 13 and 61. These findings were confirmed by allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization, single-strand confirmation polymorphism of exon 1 and direct sequencing of exon 1 and exon 2. The absence of mutations in these rat pancreatic tumors suggests that these tumors do not correspond to the human tumors, and that the pathogenesis of this rodent tumor formation may follow different molecular mechanisms.
A caucasian 28-year-old woman at 25 weeks gestation with a diagnosis of preterm labour suffered a convulsion after the administration of indomethacin. Convulsions are described as an infrequent complication with this therapy in the non-pregnant population. No such convulsion has been described to date in pregnancy.
The hypoplastic lung in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) has both a quantitative and qualitative reduction in surfactant. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) drastically decreases surfactant phospholipids synthesis by isolated human type II pneumocytes. Recently, it was shown that TNF-alpha mRNA expression is increased in human hypoplastic CDH lung. Antenatal glucocorticoid therapy demonstrates improved surfactant biochemical immaturity in an animal CDH model. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of antenatal dexamethasone (Dex) on TNF-alpha protein and gene expression in nitrofen-induced CDH hypoplastic lung in rats. A CDH model was induced in pregnant rats after the administration of nitrofen on d 9.5 of gestation. Dex was given intraperitoneally on d 18.5 and 19.5. Cesarean section was performed on d 21. In situ hybridization was performed with a rat TNF-alpha-specific and digoxigenin-labeled oligonucleotide probe. TNF-alpha level was measured in solubilized lung tissue extracts by ELISA. In control lung, TNF-alpha mRNA expression was weak or absent. In contrast, strong TNF-alpha mRNA expression was demonstrated in type II pneumocytes and bronchiolar epithelium in CDH lung. In Dex-treated CDH lung, TNF-alpha mRNA expression was weak in both type II pneumocytes and the bronchiolar epithelium. The level of TNF-alpha was elevated significantly in CDH lung compared with levels in control lung extracts (p < 0.01). In Dex-treated CDH lung, TNF-alpha protein was significantly decreased compared with CDH lung (p < 0.05). Our findings suggest that the reduction in the local production of TNF-alpha may be one contributing mechanism by which antenatal glucocorticoid therapy improves pulmonary parenchymal immaturity, including surfactant.
Nine of 50 MS patients became hypomanic or manic during treatment with ACTH or prednisone. Symptoms did not occur with every drug exposure and were more common with ACTH. Patients at risk were identified by episodes of major depression before and after the onset of MS and by family histories of depression or alcoholism.
To report a case of colchicine-induced myopathy in a teenager with familial Mediterranean fever (FMF).
A 15-year-old boy of Turkish origin, diagnosed as having FMF at the age of 14 years, was treated with colchicine 1.5 mg/d. He had experienced only 2 mild peritonitis attacks with fever within 1 year. The patient used the recommended dose regularly, and he described progressive proximal muscle weakness and generalized myalgias, which started 1 month before presentation. Physical examination showed proximal muscle weakness in his arms and legs. Laboratory tests revealed elevated serum creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase. All other laboratory values were within normal range. Electromyographic investigation revealed a myopathic pattern in proximal muscles without any neuropathic changes. A biopsy of the deltoid muscle showed vacuolar degeneration of striated muscle fibers with no inflammatory findings.
Colchicine, the most important drug in treatment of FMF, can cause myopathy in patients with impaired renal and hepatic function. In our patient, an objective causality scale showed that therapeutic doses of colchicine for FMF were the definite cause of myopathy, even though his renal and hepatic function were normal. The treatment of FMF attacks in patients who cannot use colchicine is an important problem. There are insufficient data about the use of immunosuppressive agents in the treatment of FMF attacks; however, we now successfully control the attacks with colchicine 0.5 mg/d and azathioprine 2 mg/kg/d.
Colchicine-induced myopathy should be excluded in patients with FMF who present with generalized muscle weakness. Clinicians should be aware that myopathy can occur in patients with FMF who have normal renal and hepatic function.
