Expression of GLUT-1 and transglutaminase 2 is increased in aggressive breast cancer, whereas claudin-1, which is expressed in normal tissues, is absent in such tumors. This experimental study was undertaken to establish the aggressiveness and prognosis of DMBA-induced mammary tumors in female Wistar rats based on the assessment of these markers.
The rats were divided into two groups, a control group (n = 70) and a chemoprevention group (n = 70). Breast tumors were induced in both groups by administration of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a] anthracene (DMBA). The chemoprevention group also received alpha-tocopherol and a solution of micronutrients containing ascorbic acid and selenium. Neoplastic lesions of both groups were randomly selected for immunohistochemical assessment of the expression of GLUT-1, transglutaminase 2 and claudin-1.
A higher proportion of mammary tumors expressed GLUT-1 and transglutaminase 2 in the chemoprevention group. Claudin-1 expression was absent in all tumors of both groups.
These results are suggestive of increased aggressiveness of tumors not susceptible to chemoprevention by the agents used in this study.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) has unique physical and chemical characteristics, water and oil repellency, thermal stability, and surfactant properties. PFOA has been regularly found in the blood of animals and humans worldwide, and has become an increasing concern because of its adverse effects in immune system. However, the role of PFOA in the allergic inflammation is not well-known. To further extend the immunotoxicity of PFOA, we examined the role of PFOA on the mast cell-mediated allergic inflammation and studied the possible mechanism of action. PFOA dose- and time-dependently increased histamine release from mast cells and serum histamine by the induction of intracellular calcium. PFOA exacerbated the IgE-dependent local allergic reaction in the mouse allergy model. PFOA induced gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and IL-8 in mast cells. The inducing effect of PFOA on the pro-inflammatory cytokines was nuclear factor-κB, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and caspase-1 dependent. Furthermore, the activation of cyclooxygenase-2 by PFOA suggests the induction of allergic inflammatory mediators by the PFOA. Our findings provide evidence that PFOA, the known immunotoxic agent, induces mast cell-derived allergic inflammatory reactions by histamine release and expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
We have described two elderly patients who had psychosis after beginning transdermal scopolamine therapy. In both cases, changes in mental status resolved promptly when the medication was discontinued.
We have tested the hypothesis that the adverse effects of glucocorticoids in the delta-sarcoglycan-deficient (Sgcd-null) mouse are due to additional mineralocorticoid effects. We investigated the effects of spironolactone, an unselective mineralocorticoid-receptor antagonist, on in vivo cardiac haemodynamics, cardiomyocyte damage and fibrosis in prednisolone treated Sgcd-null mice. Oral spironolactone given to 8-week-old Sgcd-null non-steroid treated mice had beneficial effects on systolic function by improving myocardial contractility when assessed by pressure-volume loops. Given in combination with prednisolone, spironolactone prevented steroid-induced deterioration of cardiac haemodynamics and acute sarcolemmal damage but not cardiac fibrosis. This study demonstrates the beneficial effects of oral spironolactone on cardiac haemodynamics in Sgcd-null mice and its ability to prevent some of the adverse effects of glucocorticoids.
Mechanical ventilation with high tidal volume (HVT) causes lung injury and decreases the lung's ability to clear edema in rats. beta-adrenergic agonists increase active Na(+) transport and lung edema clearance in normal rat lungs by stimulating apical Na(+) channels and basolateral Na,K-ATPase in alveolar epithelial cells. We studied whether beta-adrenergic agonists could restore lung edema clearance in rats ventilated with HVT (40 ml/kg, peak airway pressure of 35 cm H(2)O) for 40 min. The ability of rat lungs to clear edema decreased by approximately 50% after 40 min of HVT ventilation. Terbutaline (TERB) and isoproterenol (ISO) increased lung edema clearance in control nonventilated rats (from 0.50 +/- 0. 02 ml/h to 0.81 +/- 0.04 ml/h and 0.99 +/- 0.05 ml/h, respectively) and restored the lung's ability to clear edema in HVT ventilated rats (from 0.25 +/- 0.03 ml/h to 0.64 +/- 0.02 ml/h and 0.88 +/- 0. 09 ml/h, respectively). Disruption of cell microtubular transport system by colchicine inhibited the stimulatory effects of ISO in HVT ventilated rats, whereas beta-lumicolchicine did not affect beta-adrenergic stimulation. The Na,K-ATPase alpha(1)- and beta(1)-subunit mRNA steady state levels were not affected by incubation with ISO for 60 min in alveolar type II cells isolated from control and HVT ventilated rats. The data suggest that beta-adrenergic agonists increased alveolar fluid reabsorption in rats ventilated with HVT by promoting recruitment of ion-transporting proteins from intracellular pools to the plasma membrane of alveolar epithelial cells.
We report 2 cases of priapism associated with topical application of cocaine on the glans penis. Both patients used cocaine to enhance sexual performance. The possible physiological mechanism is discussed.
The effect of pretreatment of some voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonists was studied on haloperidol-induced catalepsy in male Wistar rats. Cataleptogenic effect of haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) was enhanced dose-dependently by nitrendipine (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) and the highest dose of nimodipine (20 mg/kg, i.p.). Neither verapamil (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) nor diltiazem (10 and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) influenced the score of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. These results suggest the involvement of calcium-dependent mechanisms in the generation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The possible involvement of dopaminergic mechanisms and modification by calcium channel antagonists are discussed.
B-RAF is the most frequently mutated protein kinase in human cancers. The finding that oncogenic mutations in BRAF are common in melanoma, followed by the demonstration that these tumours are dependent on the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway, offered hope that inhibition of B-RAF kinase activity could benefit melanoma patients. Herein, we describe the structure-guided discovery of PLX4032 (RG7204), a potent inhibitor of oncogenic B-RAF kinase activity. Preclinical experiments demonstrated that PLX4032 selectively blocked the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in BRAF mutant cells and caused regression of BRAF mutant xenografts. Toxicology studies confirmed a wide safety margin consistent with the high degree of selectivity, enabling Phase 1 clinical trials using a crystalline formulation of PLX4032 (ref. 5). In a subset of melanoma patients, pathway inhibition was monitored in paired biopsy specimens collected before treatment initiation and following two weeks of treatment. This analysis revealed substantial inhibition of ERK phosphorylation, yet clinical evaluation did not show tumour regressions. At higher drug exposures afforded by a new amorphous drug formulation, greater than 80% inhibition of ERK phosphorylation in the tumours of patients correlated with clinical response. Indeed, the Phase 1 clinical data revealed a remarkably high 81% response rate in metastatic melanoma patients treated at an oral dose of 960 mg twice daily. These data demonstrate that BRAF-mutant melanomas are highly dependent on B-RAF kinase activity.
To explore the relationship between genetic polymorphisms of CYP-1A1 and CYP2D6 and risks of chronic benzene poisoning (BP).
A case control study was conducted. 152 BP patients and 152 workers occupationally exposed to benzene without poisoning manifestations were involved. Polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technology was used for detecting the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of MspI in the non-coding region of CYP-1A1 gene and c.188, g.212 position in the first extron of CYP2D6 gene.
The individuals with CYP1A1 MspI T/T genotype had a 1.32 times (95% CI: 1.05 approximately 1.65, P = 0.02) increased risk of BP compared with those carrying T/C and C/C genotypes. In no-smoking population, there was a 1.56 times (95% CI: 1.15 approximately 2.12, P = 0.003) increased risk of BP for subjects carrying CYP1A1 MspIT/T genotype compared with those carrying T/C and C/C genotypes. The individuals carrying CYP2D6 c.188 C/C or C/T genotype had a 1.23 times (95% CI: 1.05 approximately 1.42, P = 0.01) increased risk compared with those carrying T/T genotypes. In no-smoking population, there was a 1.23 times (95% CI: 1.04 approximately 1.47, P = 0.01) increased risk of BP for subjects carrying CYP2D6 c.188 C/C or C/T genotypes compared with those carrying T/T genotype. The single nucleotide polymorphism of g.212 position in the first extron of CYP2D6 gene had not been validated.
The individuals with CYP2D6 c.188 C/C, CYP2D6 c.188 C/T and CYP1A1 MspIT/T genotypes tend to be more susceptible to benzene toxicity.
To investigate the susceptibility of trichloroethylene-induced medicamentosa like dermatitis by comparing the frequency of HLA-DMA and HLA-DMB in patients with trichloroethylene-induced medicamentosa like dermatitis and in normal controls.
The DNA of lymphocytes in 61 patients with trichloroethylene-induced medicamentosa like dermatitis and in 60 people as the normal control were abstracted by using touchdown PCR amplification of HLA-DMA and HLA-DMB. Then through restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and sequence base typing, the alleles and genotypes were confirmed. The frequency of HLA-DMA and HLA-DMB in the two groups was compared.
The HLA-DMA*0101 allele frequency in patients with trichloroethylene-induced medicamentosa like dermatitis was significantly higher than in the control group (71.3% vs 55.0%, P < 0.05). The allele frequency of HLA-DMA*0103 was significantly higher in the patient group than in the control group (11.5% vs 3.3%, P < 0.05). The ratio of *0102 homozygotes of HLA-DMA*0102 in the patient group was significantly higher than in the control group (25.0% vs 8.2%, P < 0.05). The ratio of *0102 heterozygotes of HLA-DMB*0101 in the patient group was lower than in the control group (P < 0.05).
The polymorphisms of DMA may be related to the susceptibility of the patients with trichloroethylene-induced medicamentosa like dermatitis.
Lidocaine and MgSO4 are often coadministered to patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension. This study examined whether MgSO4 alters the lidocaine-seizure threshold in the rat and, if so, whether systemic MgSO4 administration is as effective as intracerebroventricular MgSO4 infusion. In Experiment 1, rats were administered 50% MgSO4 or 0.9% NaCl intravenously (IV) (20 microL/h) for 5 days. In Experiment 2, rats were administered 0.9% NaCl, 0.8% MgSO4, or 2.0% MgSO4 (10 microL/h) via intracerebroventricular infusion for 24 h. All rats then underwent continuous IV lidocaine infusion until onset of electroencephalographic seizures. In Experiment 1, plasma [Mg2+] was greater in the MgSO4 group (5.1 +/- 1.5 mg/dL vs 1.8 +/- 0.3 mg/dL) but neither the dose of lidocaine required to induce seizures (MgSO4 = 19 +/- 2 mg/kg; saline = 23 +/- 5 mg/kg) nor brain [Mg2+] (MgSO4 = 794 +/- 17 micrograms/g; saline = 788 +/- 33 micrograms/g) were changed. In Experiment 2, intracerebroventricular MgSO4 increased both brain [Mg2+] (2% MgSO4 = 923 +/- 79 micrograms/g; saline = 788 +/- 35 micrograms/g) and the lidocaine seizure dose (2% MgSO4 = 39 +/- 7 mg/kg; saline = 26 +/- 3 mg/kg). Although intracerebroventricular administration of MgSO4 produces an anticonvulsant effect, chronic hypermagnesemia does not alter whole brain [Mg2+] and therefore offers no protection from lidocaine-induced seizures in this model.
Hematological abnormalities including neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia are commonly seen in patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. The aim of this study was to identify factors which would help to predict the development of hematological abnormalities in patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. During a 4-year period, all patients with chronic hepatitis C started on treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin were identified. Patients were defined as having hematological abnormalities if they had the presence of either anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or a combination of the above during treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. A total of 136 patients with chronic hepatitis C were included in this study. Fifty-two (38.2%) of the patients developed significant hematological abnormalities during treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin with 28 (20.6%), 30 (22.1%), and 11 (8.1%) developed neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia, respectively. Genotype 1, history of hypertension, low baseline platelet count, low baseline hemoglobin, as well as a raised creatinine were significant factors associated with the development of hematological abnormalities. Significant hematological abnormalities are commonly present in patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. This study identifies pretreatment parameters that may help identify high-risk patients who are more likely to develop hematological abnormalities during treatment for chronic hepatitis C.
The safety and efficacy of using continuous high-dose transcutaneous nitroglycerin in doses up to 100 mg/24 hours in chronic stable angina was assessed in 20 patients using serial treadmill testing. Patients had first to show a response to sublingual nitroglycerin with a 20% improvement in exercise time. All patients were then titrated with 20 mg (40 cm2), 60 mg (120 cm2), 80 mg (160 cm2) or 100 mg (200 cm2) patches, until intolerable headache in association with a 10 mmHg reduction in blood pressure and a ten-beat increment in heart rate. Drug was then discontinued for 2 days and patients underwent three repeat stress tests to reestablish a consistent drug-free baseline. Patients were then randomized in double-blind fashion to receive either active patch (N = 11) in previous titration dose or placebo patch (N = 9), with treadmill tests performed at 0 (1 hour after previous patch removal), 4, and 24 hours after patch application at baseline and at weeks 1 and 2. Venous blood was obtained for measurement of plasma nitroglycerin levels. After the first 24 hours of active patch therapy, there was a significant reduction in systolic blood pressure (P = .05), a significant increase in heart rate (P = .01), and a minor increase in exercise tolerance (P = .06) compared to placebo. At weeks 1 and 2, there was an attenuation of drug effect in all of these parameters. Plasma nitroglycerin levels demonstrated consistently high plasma levels over each 24-hour dosing interval, on day 1, week 1, and week 2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thirty-three cases of anthracycline related cardiotoxicity occurred in our institution in patients with a previously negative cardiovascular history, physical examination, and normal ECG. A total of 95 RNCA studies were performed in this group (73 studies included both rest and exercise RNCA). Twenty-one patients had two or more serial studies. Seventeen had a normal, baseline prechemotherapy study and 16 had studies done following the initiation of therapy. Fourier analysis, consisting of amplitude and phase images, were created for each study. In the subset with a baseline study, the rest LVEF became abnormal first in two of 17 patients (12%), the rest or stress LVEF in ten of 17 (59%), the rest Fourier image analysis in ten of 17 (59%), and the rest or stress Fourier image analysis in 16 of 17 (94%). In the subset without a baseline study, the rest LVEF was abnormal in ten of 16 (63%), the rest or stress LVEF in 15 of 16, (94%), the rest Fourier image analysis in 16 of 16 (100%), and the rest or stress Fourier image analysis in 16 of 16 (100%). The authors conclude that: 1) the exercise RNCA is superior to the rest RNCA alone in the early detection of anthracycline related cardiotoxicity, 2) the single most sensitive indicator of cardiotoxicity is Fourier image analysis; and 3) sequential rest and stress RNCA studies with Fourier amplitude and phase analysis is the most sensitive, noninvasive method of evaluating patients who receive potentially cardiotoxic agents.
We have attempted to produce experimentally the histological hepatic lesions observed in the case of biliary infant atresia. Though the etiopathogeny of this disease remains uncertain, the possibility of a toxic origin for the liver was evoked. Female rats were treated per os from the 10th to the 20th day of gestation with 44' DDPM, a molecule able to provoke an intra-hepatic biliary ductular proliferation. If we always observed hepatic lesions in pregnant rats sacrificed 24 hours before delivery, in some cases we also noticed the existence of macro- and microscopic hepatic lesions in the foetus. With a dose superior to LD 50, we have sometimes observed neural tube defects without hepatic lesions.
The cardiac side-effects of corticosteroid therapy are very uncommon.
A girl with ulcerative colitis developed at the age of 8 years an acute digestive episode despite prednisolone and total parenteral nutrition. The patient was then given intravenous methylprednisolone (2 mg/kg/d). Polypnea appeared 25 days later while blood pressure remained normal. Echocardiography revealed a cardiac hypertrophy associated with a systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve. Cardiac symptoms and echography findings returned to normal after reduction of corticosteroid therapy and its administration via the oral route.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has been described in preterms treated with dexamethasone for bronchopulmonary dysplasia. It is exceptional in older children under corticosteroid therapy and its mechanism remains unknown.
Weanling male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered semi-purified isocaloric diet containing soy oil (SO), seal oil (SE), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), fish oil (FO) or lard (LA) for 28 days, and then gavaged with 0, 1 or 3 mg MeHg kg(-1) body weight per day and fed the same diet for 14 days. Serum and 24 h urine samples were collected on the day of necropsy, and analyzed for markers of kidney function and diseases. Kidney slices were analyzed for para-amino-hippurate (PAH) and tetraethylammonium (TEA) uptake, total mercury and MeHg content, and examined for pathological lesions. Total mercury and MeHg contents increased significantly and dose-dependently in all dietary groups. MeHg significantly increased relative kidney weight in all groups, serum creatinine in all except SO group, serum uric acid in the DHA and LA groups, serum Mg in all except the LA group, and urinary protein in the SO group. MeHg significantly decreased serum urea nitrogen in SE, FO and LA groups, urinary creatinine in the DHA group, PAH uptake in all except the SE group, and TEA uptake in all groups. MeHg caused nephrosis in all dietary groups. MeHg also significantly increased neutrophil counts in all except the SE group, decreased serum albumin and triglyceride in all except the DHA group, and increased serum total cholesterol in all groups, suggesting a nephrotic syndrome-like outcome. These results confirmed that kidney tubules are major targets of MeHg nephrotoxicity. Treatment with dietary fats did not prevent, but rather altered the profile of, nephrotoxicity of MeHg in rats.
Cocaine-associated cues acquire incentive motivational effects that manifest as cue-elicited craving in humans and cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. Here we examine the hypothesis that neuronal processes associated with incentive motivational effects of cocaine cues involve increased expression of the plasticity-associated gene, Arc. Rats trained to self-administer cocaine subsequently underwent extinction training, during which cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e., responses without cocaine reinforcement) progressively decreased. Rats were then tested for cocaine-seeking behavior either with or without response-contingent presentations of light/tone cues that had been previously paired with cocaine infusions during self-administration training. Cues elicited reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior and were accompanied by increased Arc mRNA levels in the orbitofrontal, prelimbic, and anterior cingulate cortices, suggesting Arc involvement in conditioned plasticity associated with incentive motivational effects of cocaine cues. Additionally, rats with a history of cocaine self-administration and extinction exhibited upregulation of Arc expression in several limbic and cortical regions relative to saline-yoked controls regardless of cue exposure condition, suggesting persistent neuroadaptations involving Arc within these regions.
High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with UV detection for the simultaneous determination of the free form of p-hydroxymethamphetamine (p-OHMA) and its metabolite, glucuronide (p-OHMAG) was accomplished for the first time. We achieved this by employing 1) an ion pair reagent for retention of sample to a solid-phase extraction (SPE) cartridge, Sep-Pak Light C18 and 2) a simple two-step stepwise elution technique for subsequent ion pair RP-HPLC. The proposed method was optimized for resolution of p-OHMAG, p-OHMA and MA. The method was successfully applied to urine samples collected from MA abusers.
Monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) is an enzyme expressed in the brain that metabolizes dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, and serotonin. Abnormalities of serotonin neurotransmission have long been implicated in the psychopathology of autism. A polymorphism exists within the promoter region of the MAOA gene that influences MAOA expression levels so that "low activity" alleles are associated with increased neurotransmitter levels in the brain. Individuals with autism often exhibit elevated serotonin levels. Additional studies indicate that the "low activity" allele may be associated with lower IQ and more severe autistic symptoms. In this study we genotyped the MAOA promoter polymorphism in a group of 29 males (age 2-3 years) with autism and a group of 39 healthy pediatric controls for whom brain MRI data was available. We found a consistent association between the "low activity" allele and larger brain volumes for regions of the cortex in children with autism but not in controls. We did not find evidence for over-transmission of the "low activity" allele in a separate sample of 114 affected sib pair families. Nor did we find any unknown SNPs in yet another sample of 96 probands. Future studies will determine if there is a more severe clinical phenotype associated with both the "low activity" genotype and the larger brain volumes in our sample.
To compare the incidence and severity of pain and myoclonus, 83 patients, premedicated with oral diazepam, received a double-blind intravenous injection of either droperidol 5 mg, fentanyl 0.1 mg or normal saline two minutes before induction with etomidate. The only statistically significant difference between the three groups was the decreased incidence of involuntary movements in the fentanyl and the droperidol group as compared with the normal saline group.
To study the incidence and extent of the occasionally noted hypotension after intravenous (IV) infusions of fosphenytoin (FOS) and levetiracetam (LEV) in patients presenting with acute cerebral symptoms.
Retrospective data collection of consecutive patients with acute cerebral symptoms who received IV infusions of a single dose of 750 mg or more of either fosphenytoin or levetiracetam and had documented blood pressure values in the 2h prior and the 2h after their IV infusion.
More than 10 mmHg drop in the systolic, diastolic and MBP was observed in the FOS group following the IV infusion (-16.82 mmHg, -11.60 mmHg, and 13.34 mmHg, respectively). However, there was not a significant change in the MBP after LEV infusion (1.54 mmHg, 1.84 mmHg, and 1.74 mmHg for systolic, diastolic and MBP change, respectively). The difference in the systolic, diastolic and MBP changes between the two groups was statistical significant (all p values are <0.0001) after adjusting for age, clinical presentations of the patients and if they were on any antihypertensive medication in the hospital. Sixty two percent of patients who received FOS had >10 mmHg decrease in their MBP. In the LEV group, only 2 of the 50 patients (4%) had >10 mmHg decrease in their MBP. The difference in proportion of the patients with >10 mmHg drop in MBP between the two study groups is also statistically significant (p<0.001) for age, clinical presentations of the patients and if they were on any antihypertensive medication in the hospital.
IV infusion of FOS in subjects presenting with acute cerebral symptoms may cause significant decreases in their blood pressure. This was not seen in patients receiving IV LEV infusions. Since maintaining adequate cerebral perfusion pressure is a key point in the management of patients with acute cerebral symptoms, the results of this study may carry a clinical impact on the management of this subgroup of patients.
Cellular antioxidant enzymes such as glutathione peroxidase 1 and superoxide dismutase have a central role in the control of reactive oxygen species. In vitro data and studies in animal models suggest that these enzymes may protect against atherosclerosis, but little is known about their relevance to human disease.
We conducted a prospective study among 636 patients with suspected coronary artery disease, with a median follow-up period of 4.7 years (maximum, 5.4) to assess the risk of cardiovascular events associated with base-line erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase 1 and superoxide dismutase activity.
Glutathione peroxidase 1 activity was among the strongest univariate predictors of the risk of cardiovascular events, whereas superoxide dismutase activity had no association with risk. The risk of cardiovascular events was inversely associated with increasing quartiles of glutathione peroxidase 1 activity (P for trend <0.001); patients in the highest quartile of glutathione peroxidase 1 activity had a hazard ratio of 0.29 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.15 to 0.58; P<0.001), as compared with those in the lowest quartile. Glutathione peroxidase 1 activity was affected by sex and smoking status but retained its predictive power in these subgroups. After adjustment for these and other cardiovascular risk factors, the inverse association between glutathione peroxidase 1 activity and cardiovascular events remained nearly unchanged.
In patients with coronary artery disease, a low level of activity of red-cell glutathione peroxidase 1 is independently associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events. Glutathione peroxidase 1 activity may have prognostic value in addition to that of traditional risk factors. Furthermore, increasing glutathione peroxidase 1 activity might lower the risk of cardiovascular events.
Formation of beta-glucuronidase-resistant "glucuronides" of valproic acid (VPA) by intramolecular rearrangement of biosynthetic valproate glucuronide in vivo was investigated in a patient diagnosed with VPA-associated hepatobiliary and renal dysfunction. Plasma elimination half-life of VPA following cessation of the drug was 13.9 h. At the time of the toxicity, the concentration of conjugated VPA in plasma was very high (36-54% of nonconjugated VPA levels) relative to that in normal patients (2.9%). The fraction of conjugated VPA resistant to beta-glucuronidase hydrolysis was 0.28-0.47 in plasma and 0.15-0.42 in urine. The corresponding fraction in urine from normal patients receiving VPA therapy was 0.044. The evidence was consistent with retarded elimination of biosynthetic VPA glucuronide caused by renal and hepatobiliary dysfunction. Consequent prolongation of circulation of VPA glucuronide at the slightly alkaline pH of blood would permit extensive intramolecular rearrangement which is known to be pH-, temperature-, and time-dependent. The biological consequences of the presence of such beta-glucuronidase-resistant conjugated VPA in vivo are largely unknown.
To describe a case of possible cocaine-related vasculitis resulting in gangrene of the scrotum and review the literature on cocaine-related vascular complications.
A 22-year-old male presented with fever, painful swelling of the right scrotum, and a blackened ulcerated lesion on the right scrotum 3 hours after smoking crack cocaine. Blood and urine cultures and serologic tests were negative, and the D-dimer level was normal. Echocardiogram showed no evidence of vegetation and results of a chest X-ray were normal. Despite treatment for presumptive orchitis with intravenous levofloxacin 750 mg/day, the ulcerated lesion of the right scrotum progressed the next day. The patient received debridement of the necrotic tissue and pathology revealed some degenerated vessels with fibrinoid deposits and inflammatory infiltrates, suggestive of vasculitis. No further tenderness and swelling of the scrotum occurred and the patient was discharged after 10 days. When he returned for follow-up, the wound had healed completely.
Cocaine-related vascular complications, including ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and peripheral occlusive disease, all of which have various possible mechanisms, are of clinical importance. Vasculitis is one of the mechanisms of vascular complications associated with cocaine use. According to the Naranjo probability scale, cocaine was the possible causative agent of the patient's vasculitis, which led to scrotum gangrene. To our knowledge, this is the first report in the literature of scrotum gangrene developing after crack cocaine was smoked.
This case report describes a rare occurrence of gangrene of the scrotum associated with cocaine smoking, which is consistent with cocaine's potent vasoconstrictive activity. Cocaine abuse has the potential to cause clinically significant ischemic events anywhere in the body, independent of the method of administration.
Iopamidol, a water-soluble contrast medium, has been rarely associated with seizures. We describe 3 patients (from a series of 785) who had generalized tonic-clonic seizures after iopamidol myelography. Two of the patients underwent lumbar and one cervical myelography. There was a history of seizures in 2 patients, and the dose of iopamidol used in the patients who convulsed was high, ranging from 3,000 to 4,500 mg iodine. Despite the reported low incidence of complications with iopamidol, seizures may occur, especially in patients with previous seizures and also in those receiving higher doses of iopamidol.
Pericarditis, usually viral in origin, is an infrequent cause of chest pain. Pericarditis due to drug allergy is even less frequent and is thus rarely considered in the differential diagnosis. A case is reported of a woman who presented with severe chest pain, caused by minocycline induced pericarditis. Such allergy may be more common than reported. It is suggested that drug induced pericarditis should be included in the differential diagnosis of acute chest pain.
To report a case of neurotoxicity and aseptic meningitis in a patient receiving valacyclovir.
An 86-year-old white man had started valacyclovir 1 g 3 times a day for a herpetic rash along the left side of his face. He subsequently presented with balance difficulties, constant frontal headaches, and a seizure 1 day prior to admission. Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) analysis revealed 162 white cells/mm(3), 1 red blood cell/mm(3), glucose 56 mg/dL, and protein 144 mg/dL, with a negative Gram stain. Further laboratory examination failed to demonstrate other causes for the patient's clinical picture. After discontinuation of valacyclovir and supportive care, the patient symptomatically improved.
As of the third week of September 2003, only 1 other case of valacyclovir-related aseptic meningitis was published describing a patient with characteristics similar to those of our patient. Our patient's neurologic symptoms may have been due to acyclovir toxicity, but acyclovir-toxic patients present with normal CSF findings. Several drug classes, including nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, antibiotics, and intravenous immunoglobulins, can induce aseptic meningitis. Other reasons for the patient's symptoms or causes of meningitis were excluded, although viral meningitis remains a possibility. Valacyclovir-induced aseptic meningitis was considered to be possible according to the Naranjo probability scale.
Healthcare providers should be aware of valacyclovir as a possible cause of drug-induced aseptic meningitis.
