Cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective inhibitors have been associated with an increased risk of thrombotic cardiovascular events in placebo-controlled trials, but no clinical trial has been reported with the primary aim of assessing relative cardiovascular risk of these drugs compared with traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The MEDAL programme was designed to provide a precise estimate of thrombotic cardiovascular events with the COX-2 selective inhibitor etoricoxib versus the traditional NSAID diclofenac.
We designed a prespecified pooled analysis of data from three trials in which patients with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis were randomly assigned to etoricoxib (60 mg or 90 mg daily) or diclofenac (150 mg daily). The primary hypothesis stated that etoricoxib is not inferior to diclofenac, defined as an upper boundary of less than 1.30 for the 95% CI of the hazard ratio for thrombotic cardiovascular events in the per-protocol analysis. Intention-to-treat analyses were also done to assess consistency of results. These trials are registered at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov with the numbers NCT00092703, NCT00092742, and NCT00250445.
34 701 patients (24 913 with osteoarthritis and 9 787 with rheumatoid arthritis) were enrolled. Average treatment duration was 18 months (SD 11.8). 320 patients in the etoricoxib group and 323 in the diclofenac group had thrombotic cardiovascular events, yielding event rates of 1.24 and 1.30 per 100 patient-years and a hazard ratio of 0.95 (95% CI 0.81-1.11) for etoricoxib compared with diclofenac. Rates of upper gastrointestinal clinical events (perforation, bleeding, obstruction, ulcer) were lower with etoricoxib than with diclofenac (0.67 vs 0.97 per 100 patient-years; hazard ratio 0.69 [0.57-0.83]), but the rates of complicated upper gastrointestinal events were similar for etoricoxib (0.30) and diclofenac (0.32).
Rates of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with arthritis on etoricoxib are similar to those in patients on diclofenac with long-term use of these drugs.
Data in animals indicate that large amounts of digitalis potentiate arterial baroreflexes and that this factor may be important for the cardiovascular effects of the drug. To determine if arterial baroreflex potentiation also exists after administration of therapeutic doses of digitalis in man, we studied how stimulation and deactivation of arterial baroreceptors by phenylephrine and nitroglycerin injection affect heart rate and how stimulation and deactivation of carotid baroreceptors by neck suction and pressure affects blood pressure and heart rate. The study was performed in 29 normotensive or hypertensive subjects before and after injection of Lanatoside C (0.8 mg i.v.). Baroreceptor stimulation reduced heart rate and blood pressure, while baroreceptor deactivation increased both of these variables. The bradycardic and hypotensive effect of baroreceptor stimulation increased significantly after digitalis both in normotensive and hypertensive subjects. However, the tachycardic and hypertensive responses to baroreceptor deactivation were not affected by digitalis. Thus, therapeutic doses of digitalis in man enhance baroreceptor reflexes, and both the heart rate and the blood pressure reflex effects are involved. However, the enhancement occurs to a marked degree only with baroreceptor stimulation and is not evident with baroreceptor deactivation.
Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas is refractory to chemotherapeutic agents, including BCNU and streptozotocin. We have previously shown that drugs, which adduct the O(6)- position of guanine, are ineffective against pancreatic tumor cell lines because of high expression of O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT). The effect of MGMT inactivation on the resistance of pancreatic tumors to carmustine (BCNU) and to temozolomide (TMZ) was examined in five human pancreatic tumor xenografts in athymic mice. Tumor-bearing mice were treated: (a) with a single i.p. injection of BCNU or TMZ at the maximum-tolerated doses of 75 and 340 mg/m(2), respectively; and (b) with O(6)-benzylguanine (BG) or O(6)-benzyl-2'-deoxyguanosine (dBG) in combination with BCNU or TMZ. Pretreatment with the MGMT inactivators BG or dBG reduced the maximum-tolerated doses of BCNU and TMZ to 35 and 170 mg/m(2), respectively. MIA PaCa-2, CFPAC-1, PANC-1, CAPAN-2, and BxPC-3 having MGMT levels of 890, 1680, 680, 900, and 330 fmol/mg protein, respectively, were unresponsive to BCNU. MIA PaCa-2 and CFPAC-1 were also unresponsive to TMZ, whereas CAPAN-2 responded with a tumor delay of 32 days. BG or dBG sensitized all tumors to both BCNU and TMZ. BG plus BCNU treatment of MIA PaCa-2, CFPAC-1, PANC-1, CAPAN-2, and BxPC-3 induced tumor delays of 18, 16, 12, 14, and 16 days, respectively. In comparison, dBG plus BCNU at doses that were equitoxic to BCNU plus BG yielded tumor delays of 30, 19, 16, 21, and 22 days, respectively. The pancreatic tumors tested displayed functional mismatch repair that, however, may not be always sufficiently restrictive to prevent mutations under alkylation stress. Treatments with either BCNU or TMZ resulted in some degree of mutation in recurring tumors with the exception of CAPAN-2, the only wt-p53 xenograft. dBG, a weak MGMT inactivator in vitro as compared with BG, was markedly more effective than the latter in enhancing the efficacy of BCNU against pancreatic tumor xenografts. Both BG and dBG also enhanced the efficacy of TMZ against pancreatic tumors, possibly because of the repression of MGMT, which cannot be achieved with TMZ treatments alone. These results suggest that pancreatic tumors, which are resistant to DNA alkylating agents, may be sensitized to such agents when pretreated with MGMT inactivators.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) with thrombosis is a rare, but important complication of heparin therapy. We describe the case of a 53-year-old patient hospitalized with complicated pelvic fracture. Intravenous infusion of unfractionated heparin (15'000 IU/24 h) was given for thrombosis prevention. After 11 days' treatment the patient developed deep venous thrombosis of the left calf, complicated 2 days later by massive bilateral pulmonary embolism. Simultaneous with these thromboembolic events, thrombocytopenia, signs of activated coagulation, and antibodies to heparin occurred. In the context of this case the diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities of HIT, and in particular treatment with the heparinoid danaproid (Orgaran), are discussed.
In a previous study, it was shown that the serum levels of type III procollagen aminoterminal peptide (P3NP) were significantly greater in patients receiving methotrexate (MTX) treatment for psoriasis than in untreated control patients with psoriasis. Although levels were highest in patients with hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis, serum P3NP concentrations in those patients with normal liver histology on light microscopy were also shown to be significantly higher than in controls. In the present study, liver biopsies from 22 such 'normal' patients were examined by electron microscopy, in order to determine whether P3NP levels correlated with ultrastructurally demonstrable fibrosis. Fibrosis in the perisinusoidal space of Disse was present in as many as 82% of biopsies. Although the prevalence of such fibrosis in psoriasis patients who have not received MTX is unknown, the high prevalence of Disse space fibrosis and of raised P3NP in MTX-treated patients suggests that MTX causes subtle liver damage in a majority of treated patients. However, we were unable to show a statistical correlation between P3NP and the degree of Disse space fibrosis.
Flumazenil is a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist used to reverse sedation and respiratory depression induced by benzodiazepines. Seizures and cardiac arrhythmias have complicated its use in adult patients. Overdose patients who have coingested tricyclic antidepressants have a higher risk of these complications. Little information exists concerning adverse effects of flumazenil in children. We report the occurrence of a generalized tonic-clonic seizure in a pediatric patient following the administration of flumazenil.
It has been suggested that patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) may have high risk for liver cancer. However, it is unknown whether high-fat diet (HFD) induced NASH promotes hepatocarcinogenesis. In this study, Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with a low dose of hepatic carcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and then fed either Lieber-DeCarli control diet (CD) or HFD for 6 weeks. Liver histology and the hepatic placental form of glutathione S-transferase (P-GST) positive foci were examined. Expression levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), cyclinD1, phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) including extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38, as well as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) were measured in the liver. Induction of lipid peroxidation end products (malondialdehyde plus 4-hydroxynonenal) in liver and apoptotic hepatocytes were also assessed. Results showed that HFD-fed rats developed significantly higher incidence and multiplicity of P-GST positive foci along with more fat accumulation, infiltration of inflammatory cells and higher lipid peroxidation in the liver, when compared with rats fed the CD. This high prevalence of hepatic lesions in the liver was accompanied by greater PCNA expression and cyclinD1 protein concentration but little change in hepatocyte apoptosis. HFD feeding elevated hepatic phosphorylated ERK but reduced phosphorylated p38 when compared with the CD feeding. In addition, a significantly higher expression of TNF-alpha mRNA and nuclear NF-kappaB p65 protein were observed in HFD group than in CD group. These data clearly demonstrate that NASH induced by HFD promoted DEN-initiated early hepatocarcinogenesis, which was associated with elevated TNF-alpha/NF-kappaB signaling and MAPK related hepatocyte proliferation.
Mefloquine, a drug used for treatment and prophylaxis of malaria, is known for its neuropsychiatric adverse effects. We hypothesized that neuropsychiatric adverse effects of mefloquine are associated with polymorphisms in the MDR1/ABCB1 gene that encodes for the efflux pump P-glycoprotein.
The association between MDR1 C1236T, G2677T, and C3435T single-nucleotide polymorphisms and the occurrence of neuropsychiatric adverse effects was examined in a prospective cohort study of 89 healthy white travelers taking mefloquine.
Of the subjects, 27 (28%) reported neuropsychiatric adverse effects, women significantly more frequently than men. Allele frequencies of the C1236T, G2677T, and C3435T polymorphisms were similar to those found in other white populations, and there was no significant association between any of the individual polymorphisms and neuropsychiatric adverse effects. However, women with the 1236TT, 2677TT, and 3435TT genotypes had a higher risk of neuropsychiatric adverse effects than the reference groups of women with heterozygous and homozygous CC or GG genotypes, with odds ratios of 6.3 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1-36.9), 10.5 (95% CI, 1.1-100.6), and 5.4 (95% CI, 1.1-30.0), respectively. The association for women homozygous for the 1236-2677-3435 TTT haplotype was even stronger (P = .004) than the effect of any of the individual polymorphisms. No associations with mefloquine blood levels were observed.
In this study the MDR1 1236TT, 2677TT, and 3435TT genotypes, along with the 1236-2677-3435 TTT haplotype, were associated with neuropsychiatric adverse effects of mefloquine in women. MDR1 polymorphisms may play an important role in predicting the occurrence of neuropsychiatric adverse effects of mefloquine, particularly in female travelers.
Thiopurine metabolism was investigated in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated in the United Kingdom Medical Research Council trial ALL97. This trial compared the efficacy and toxicity of thioguanine (INN, thioguanine) versus mercaptopurine.
Consecutive children were randomized to receive thioguanine or mercaptopurine during maintenance chemotherapy. Toxicity data were collected by an adverse event-reporting system with follow-up questionnaires. Red blood cell thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) activity and thioguanine nucleotide concentrations were measured by standard techniques.
Of the children, 748 were randomized to thioguanine and 744 were randomized to mercaptopurine. There was no difference in the event-free survival rate between the 2 groups (80% and 81%, respectively, at 5 years). Thioguanine was associated with veno-occlusive disease (VOD) of the liver in 95 children, and persistent splenomegaly as a result of portal hypertension developed in 43 children. TPMT activity was significantly lower in the children in whom VOD developed, with a median of 13.4 U (range, 5.8-23 U) compared with 15.2 U (range, 5.3-27) in a control group of 161 leukemia patients in whom VOD did not develop (median difference, 1.8 U; 95% confidence interval, 0.9-2.7 U; P = .0001). TPMT activity in children with persistent splenomegaly was also lower than that in control subjects (median difference, 1.6 U; 95% confidence interval, 0.3-2.8 U; P = .012). There was no difference in red blood cell thioguanine nucleotide concentrations.
Thioguanine was associated with liver damage in 11% of children randomized to thioguanine without an improvement in event-free survival rate. The association of lower TPMT activity with thioguanine-related liver damage could provide a means of identifying at-risk patients.
The very heterogeneous population of glomeruli in rats with lithium-induced chronic nephropathy which includes small glomeruli without connection to a proximal tubule (atubular glomeruli) and large hypertropic glomeruli with connection to a normal proximal tubule, was studied at the ultrastructural level, using stereological methods. After 8 weeks of lithium treatment followed by 8 weeks without lithium the hypertrophic glomeruli showed no changes in their relative ultrastructural composition, including normal mesangium, basement membrane-like material and peripheral basement membrane. The absolute quantities of each component were, however, increased due to the increased volume of the glomeruli. The atubular glomeruli had increased volume fractions of mesangium, peripheral basement membrane, basement membrane-like material and epithelium, whereas the absolute quantities were decreased due to the decreased volume. The thickness of the basement membrane was within normal limits in the group of hypertrophic glomeruli but increased by 31% above controls in the group of atubular glomeruli. Both groups of glomeruli in lithium-treated animals showed normal mean foot process width, but with a slightly abnormal distribution. The atubular glomeruli showed a disproportionate large decrease in peripheral filtration surface and capillary length, compared with the reduction in glomerular volume, whereas the hypertrophic glomeruli showed changes in proportion with the increased volume.
This paper has presented evidence of growth and behavioral effects related to prenatal methadone exposure. The data suggest that methadone may have a small direct teratological effect reflected in reduced head circumference, poorer motor coordination, increased body tension, and delayed acquisition of motor milestones in methadone-exposed toddlers. In the sample as a whole, there are no direct effects of methadone exposure on mental development. However, methadone-exposed infants reared in extremely poor environmental circumstances show very delayed mental development. They function more poorly than nonexposed infants reared in such environments and more poorly than methadone-exposed infants reared in more adequate (although still economically poor) environments. This finding is important because it suggests that in the cognitive domain, methadone may not cause a behavioral deficit, but instead create a vulnerability in these children that then makes them more susceptible to impoverished environments. The results from this study indicate that a large subgroup of methadone-exposed children are clearly at risk for poor early intellectual development and that the source of the risk is to a large degree related to environmental factors. These findings suggest that preventive interventions--focused both on enriching the early experiences of such children (e.g., high-quality infant day care) and improving the quality of caregiving provided in the homes--might be particularly effective.
We assessed the effect of rat strain on susceptibility to anesthesia and convulsions produced by inhaled compounds. We determined the minimum alveolar anesthetic concentration (MAC) of desflurane and nitrous oxide, and the convulsive 50% effective dose (ED50) of 1,2-dichlorohexafluorocyclobutane, flurothyl, and difluoromethyl-1-chlorotetrafluoroethyl ether in five strains (three inbred [Long Evans, Sprague-Dawley, and Wistar] and two outbred [Fischer and Brown Norway]). Strain had slight effects on anesthetic potency, the strains with the highest MAC values (Long Evans and Brown Norway) having values < or =28% greater than the strains with the lowest values (Sprague Dawley and Wistar). MAC for nitrous oxide correlated directly with MAC for desflurane as a function of strain. MAC for either desflurane or nitrous oxide correlated inversely with the convulsive ED50 of 1,2-dichlorohexafluorocyclobutane, but correlated poorly (and directly) with the convulsive ED50 of the remaining compounds. Convulsivity varied little as a function of strain (greatest difference 21%) and did not vary consistently as a function of strain. No consistent difference was seen between inbred versus outbred strains.
Rat strain has a minimal effect on the potency of inhaled anesthetics or the convulsant activity of inhaled compounds. It seems that the sites acted on by inhaled compounds to produce anesthesia and convulsions are conserved across common rat strains.
1. Proximal tubular cell dysfunction in chronic glomerular disease (CGD) has been ascribed, in part, to reabsorption of transferrin-iron from tubular fluid and subsequent cytosolic peroxidative injury. To investigate a possible role for altered mitochondrial function in tubular cell injury in CGD, renal cortical mitochondrial respiratory function was examined in rats with adriamycin nephrosis. 2. State 4 (resting) respiration was increased in adriamycin nephrosis in comparison with control (51 +/- 2 vs 43 +/- 2 ng atoms oxygen (O)/min per mg protein, respectively; P < 0.02). 3. Mitochondrial iron concentration was increased in nephrotic rats compared with control (9.52 +/- 0.70 vs 5.97 +/- 0.26 nmol Fe/mg protein, respectively; P < 0.001) and rates of state 3, state 4 and uncoupled respiration and the severity of proteinuria correlated with mitochondrial iron concentration. 4. To further define the relationship between mitochondrial iron accumulation and altered respiratory function, rats were loaded with iron. 5. In comparison with control, acute iron loading of normal rats impaired creatinine clearance (1.48 +/- 0.02 vs 0.40 +/- 0.29 mL/min), increased kidney weight (1.33 +/- 0.07 vs 1.74 +/- 0.14 g) and impaired mitochondrial enzyme activity (e.g. cytochrome oxidase 185.0 +/- 46.6 vs 362.0 +/- 32.8 delta log [cytochrome C]/min per mg protein; P < 0.05), but had no significant effect on rates of mitochondrial respiration or on mitochondrial fragility. 6. Mitochondrial iron concentration was not increased by iron loading, despite a similar increment in cytoplasmic iron to that seen in rats with adriamycin nephrosis. 7. In summary, resting mitochondrial respiration is increased in nephrotic rats in proportion to mitochondrial iron accumulation. Changes in mitochondrial oxygen consumption do not appear to be a primary event in the tubular cell injury of iron loading.
This randomized, double-blind, crossover study assessed the efficacy and tolerability of a new rapid onset nasal fentanyl formulation (Fentanyl Pectin Nasal Spray; FPNS) for breakthrough cancer pain (BTCP). Eighty-three of 114 patients experiencing one to four BTCP episodes/day while taking ≥60 mg/day of oral morphine or equivalent successfully identified an effective dose of FPNS during a titration phase and entered a double-blind phase in which 10 BTCP episodes were treated with this effective dose (7) or placebo (3). Compared with placebo, FPNS significantly improved mean summed pain intensity difference (SPID) from 10 min (P<0.05) until 60 min (P<0.0001), including the primary endpoint at 30 min (P<0.0001). FPNS significantly improved pain intensity (PI) scores as early as 5 min (P<0.05); pain intensity difference (PID) from 10 min (P<0.01); and pain relief (PR) scores from 10 min (P<0.001). More patients showed a clinically meaningful (≥ 2-point reduction in PI) pain reduction from 10 min onward (P ≤ 0.01) and 90.6% of the FPNS-treated versus 80.0% of placebo-treated BTCP episodes did not require rescue medication (P<0.001). Approximately 70% of patients were satisfied or very satisfied with the convenience and ease of use of FPNS. Only 5.3% of patients withdrew from treatment due to adverse events, no significant nasal effects were reported, and 87% of patients elected to continue open-label treatment post-study. In this short-term study, FPNS was safe, well tolerated, and rapidly efficacious for BTCP.
Incomplete cerebral ischemia (30 min) was induced in the rat by bilaterally clamping the common carotid arteries. Peripheral venous blood samples were withdrawn from the femoral vein four times (once every 5 min) before ischemia (0 time) and 5, 15, and 30 min after ischemia. Plasma extracts were analyzed by a highly sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the direct determination of malondialdehyde, oxypurines, and nucleosides. During ischemia, a time-dependent increase of plasma oxypurines and nucleosides was observed. Plasma malondialdehyde, which was present in minimal amount at zero time (0.058 mumol/liter plasma; SD 0.015), increased after 5 min of ischemia, resulting in a fivefold increase after 30 min of carotid occlusion (0.298 mumol/liter plasma; SD 0.078). Increased plasma malondialdehyde was also recorded in two other groups of animals subjected to the same experimental model, one receiving 20 mg/kg b.w. of the cyclooxygenase inhibitor acetylsalicylate intravenously immediately before ischemia, the other receiving 650 micrograms/kg b.w. of the hypotensive drug nitroprusside at a flow rate of 103 microliters/min intravenously during ischemia, although in this latter group malondialdehyde was significantly higher. The present data indicate that the determination of malondialdehyde, oxypurines, and nucleosides in peripheral blood, may be used to monitor the metabolic alterations of tissues occurring during ischemic phenomena.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Data by [Bell et al. J Psychopharmacol (2002) 16:5-14] suggest that a decrease in 5-HT neurotransmission predisposes to panic attacks and that the antipanic effect of SSRIs depends upon the availability of 5-HT in the brain.
Our aim was to assess the effect of acute tryptophan depletion (TD) on cholecystokinin-tetrapeptide (CCK-4)- induced symptoms in patients with panic disorder (PD) who had responded to a 10-week treatment with a selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), citalopram.
A total of 18 patients (6 males and 12 females, mean age 34.5 years) received a tryptophan-free amino acid drink and a control drink, each followed by a CCK-4 challenge (25 microg), 1 week apart in a double-blind crossover design.
The results showed no significant differences in response to the CCK-4 challenge between the TD and the control conditions. Panic rate after the CCK-4 challenge was 27.8% after depletion and 33.3% after control drink (chi2=0.13, p=0.72). No significant effects of TD were observed in panic intensity scores, subjective anxiety, or cardiovascular indices.
This study demonstrates that an acute lowering of brain 5-HT availability with TD does not affect response to a CCK-4 challenge in PD patients successfully treated with citalopram. Thus, the reduction of CCK-4 sensitivity following SSRI-treatment in patients with PD may be related to mechanisms other than 5-HT availability in the brain, possibly to a reduction in brain cholecystokinin receptor sensitivity.
To study the effect of indomethacin (IN) on human colon cancer cell line SW480 with p53 mutant and SW480 transfected wild-type p53 (wtp53/SW480) in vitro and investigate molecular mechanism of anti-tumor effect of IN on colon cancer.
SW480 cells and wtp53/SW480 cells were treated with different concentrations of IN respectively, the expressions of CDK2, CDK4 and p21WAF1/CIP1 protein were detected by Western blotting.
IN gradually down-regulated the expression of CDK2, CDK4 protein of wtp53/SW480 cells in a dose-dependent manner, and inhibitory effect reached the maximum level at 600 micromol/L; IN up-regulated the expression of p21 WAF1/CIP1 protein in a dose-dependent manner at a certain concentration range, and the expression reached the maximum level at 400 micromol/L, and returned to the base level at 600 micromol/L. The expression of CDK2, CDK4 and p21WAF1/CIP1 protein of SW480 cells did not change.
IN exerts antitumor effect partly through down regulation of the expression of CDK2, CDK4 protein and up regulation of the expression of p21WAF1/PIC1.
In this pilot study the authors set out to: (a) describe the incidence of taste changes associated with intravenous (i.v.) pentamidine treatment; and (b) determine the factors that are related to making the taste changes better and worse. A convenience sample (N = 18) of adult male outpatients with AIDS participated in this study. One hundred percent of the participants experienced an unpleasant taste after the administration of pentamidine. The largest percentage of patients had a metallic taste (89%, n = 16); while 67% (n = 12) experienced a bitter taste. These data suggest that healthcare providers need to assess for the unpleasant taste associated with i.v. pentamidine and develop appropriate management strategies.
Seven patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD) with severely disabling dyskinesia received low-dose propranolol as an adjunct to the currently used medical treatment. There was a significant 40% improvement in the dyskinesia score without increase of parkinsonian motor disability. Ballistic and choreic dyskinesia were markedly ameliorated, whereas dystonia was not. This study suggests that administration of low doses of beta-blockers may improve levodopa-induced ballistic and choreic dyskinesia in PD.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a relatively common birth defect associated with high mortality and morbidity. Although the exact etiology of most cases of CDH remains unknown, there is a growing body of evidence that genetic factors play an important role in the development of CDH. In this review, we examine key findings that are likely to form the basis for future research in this field. Specific topics include a short overview of normal and abnormal diaphragm development, a discussion of syndromic forms of CDH, a detailed review of chromosomal regions recurrently altered in CDH, a description of the retinoid hypothesis of CDH, and evidence of the roles of specific genes in the development of CDH.
Drug abuse is associated with brain dysfunction and neurodegeneration, and various recreational drugs induce apoptotic cell death. This study examined the role of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway in psychostimulant-induced neuronal dysfunction. Using primary neuronal cultures, we observed that amphetamine (IC50=1.40 mM) was more potent than cocaine (IC50=4.30 mM) in inducing cell toxicity. Apoptotic cell death was further evaluated using cocaine and amphetamine concentrations that moderately decreased cell reduction capacity but did not affect plasma membrane integrity. Compared to cocaine, amphetamine highly decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential, as determined using the fluorescent probe rhodamine-123, whereas both drugs decreased mitochondrial cytochrome c. In contrast to amphetamine, cocaine cytotoxicity was partly mediated through effects on the electron transport chain, since cocaine toxicity was ameliorated in mitochondrial DNA-depleted cells lacking mitochondrially encoded electron transport chain subunits. Cocaine and amphetamine induced activation of caspases-2, -3 and -9 but did not affect activity of caspases-6 or -8. In addition, amphetamine, but not cocaine, was associated with the appearance of evident nuclear apoptotic morphology. These events were not accompanied by differences in the release of the apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria. Our results demonstrate that although both amphetamine and cocaine activate the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway in cortical neurons, amphetamine is more likely to promote apoptosis.
Although most studies have suggested an increased risk of valvulopathy (primarily regurgitation) with pergolide mesylate use, one study suggested that this problem may also occur with use of the non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists pramipexole dihydrochloride and ropinirole hydrochloride.
To determine if cardiac valve regurgitation occurs more commonly in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) treated with pergolide than in those treated with nonergot agonists at a comparable dose.
A case-control study of echocardiographic findings of valve function in patients receiving dopamine agonists for PD.
University-based referral center. Patients Thirty-six patients with idiopathic PD taking pergolide were compared with a matched control group of patients taking nonergot agonists with regard to the frequency and severity of cardiac valve regurgitation. Main Outcome Measure Valve scores (1 indicates trace; 2, mild; 3, moderate; and 4, severe) for the pergolide group were compared with those for the nonergot agonist control group.
The mean +/- SD valve regurgitation scores in the matched pergolide group compared with the nonergot group were as follows: aortic, 0.83 +/- 1.23 vs 0.19 +/- 0.53 (P = .01); mitral, 1.42 +/- 1.0 vs 0.39 +/- 0.65 (P<.001); and tricuspid, 1.43 +/- 1.0 vs 0.19 +/- 0.53 (P<.001). Lifetime exposure to a dopamine agonist was not statistically different between the pergolide and nonergot agonist groups (P = .18).
These data strengthen the conclusion that pergolide contributes to cardiac valve regurgitation when used in the long term as a treatment for PD. There appears to be low risk of cardiac valve regurgitation when using non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists.
There has been an increase in opioid consumption world wide in the last decade. There has also been a disturbing increase in the number of reports of neuroexcitatory opioid-related side effects observed in patients receiving large doses of systemically administered morphine and its structural analogue, hydromorphone. It is now becoming clearer that patients receiving long-term opioid therapy can develop unexpected pain. We describe an interesting case of successful management of hydromorphone-induced neurotoxicity and hyperalgesia produced by short-term therapy with rapidly escalating doses of systemic hydromorphone.
Calorie restriction (CR), the purposeful reduction of energy intake with maintenance of adequate micronutrient intake, is well known to extend the lifespan of laboratory animals. Compounds like 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) that can recapitulate the metabolic effects of CR are of great interest for their potential to extend lifespan. 2DG treatment has been shown to have potential therapeutic benefits for treating cancer and seizures. 2DG has also recapitulated some hallmarks of the CR phenotype including reduced body temperature and circulating insulin in short-term rodent trials, but one chronic feeding study in rats found toxic effects. The present studies were performed to further explore the long-term effects of 2DG in vivo. First we demonstrate that 2DG increases mortality of male Fischer-344 rats. Increased incidence of pheochromocytoma in the adrenal medulla was also noted in the 2DG treated rats. We reconfirm the cardiotoxicity of 2DG in a 6-week follow-up study evaluating male Brown Norway rats and a natural form of 2DG in addition to again examining effects in Fischer-344 rats and the original synthetic 2DG. High levels of both 2DG sources reduced weight gain secondary to reduced food intake in both strains. Histopathological analysis of the hearts revealed increasing vacuolization of cardiac myocytes with dose, and tissue staining revealed the vacuoles were free of both glycogen and lipid. We did, however, observe higher expression of both cathepsin D and LC3 in the hearts of 2DG-treated rats which indicates an increase in autophagic flux. Although a remarkable CR-like phenotype can be reproduced with 2DG treatment, the ultimate toxicity of 2DG seriously challenges 2DG as a potential CR mimetic in mammals and also raises concerns about other therapeutic applications of the compound.
Phenytoin and its vehicle were orally administered to adult Sprague-Dawley rats during 7, 14 and 30 days at doses of 300 and 450 mg/kg/24 hr., respectively. We found: 1) Increased liver DNA concentration in subgroups of animals treated with 450 mg at 7 (P < 0.02) and 15 days (P < 0.001) Phenytoin serum levels were 19 ug/ml. 2) Increased protein concentration with 300 mg at 7 (P < 0.01) and 15 days (P < 0.001), respectively. 3) Cloudy swelling, vacuolar degeneration, liver sinusoids disappearance and lymphocytic cells infiltrate in subgroups of rats receiving vehicle throughout 6, 14 and 15 days correspondingly. The former lesion was found in all subgroups, except that 450 mg treated animals liver more severely affected. 4) Increased DNA concentration in kidney of subgroups receiving 450 mg/kg throughout 7 (P < 0.05), 15 (P < 0.001) and 30 days (P < 0.001), correspondingly. 5) Increased protein concentration in rats receiving 450 mg during 15 days (P < 0.001) and severely decreased at 30 days period. 6) Cloudy swelling was found in all treated animals subgroups. Seven cellular and tissue lesions were caused by vehicle at 15 and 30 days periods. 450 mg of phenytoin predominantly caused tissue condensation and vacuolar degeneration in kidney cortex. 7) propylene glycol do affect liver and kidney at doses below TD-50. Phenytoin stimulate kidney and liver cell proliferation. Caution should be observed when using parenteral phenytoin.
Nicotine exposure diminishes the protective breathing and arousal responses to stress (hypoxia). By exacerbating sleep-disordered breathing, this disturbance could underpin the well established association between smoking and the increased risk of sudden infant death syndrome. We show here that the protective responses to stress during sleep are partially regulated by particular nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). We compared responses of sleeping wild-type and mutant mice lacking the beta2 subunit of the nAChR to episodic hypoxia. Arousal from sleep was diminished, and breathing drives accentuated in mutant mice indicating that these protective responses are partially regulated by beta2-containing nAChRs. Brief exposure to nicotine significantly reduced breathing drives in sleeping wild-type mice, but had no effect in mutants. We propose that nicotine impairs breathing (and possibly arousal) responses to stress by disrupting functions normally regulated by beta2-containing, high-affinity nAChRs.
Amantadine (25, 50, 100 mg/kg), memantine (5, 10, 20 mg/kg) and MK-801 (0.05, 0.1, 0.2 mg/kg), all having NMDA channel blocking properties, were compared in three tests used for screening of antiparkinsonian agents in rats, namely: haloperidol-induced catalepsy, locomotor activity in monoamine depleted rats and rotation in rats with a unilateral substantia nigra lesion. Additionally, plasma levels of amantadine and memantine were assessed to gain an insight into the concentration ranges achieved at behaviorally active doses. Amantadine and (+)-MK-801 produced dose-dependent inhibition of haloperidol-induced catalepsy while memantine was less efficacious producing clear-cut anticataleptic action at a dose of 10 mg/kg only but failing at 20 mg/kg due to myorelaxant activity. All agents attenuated sedation in monoamine depleted rats with amantadine being the least and MK-801 being the most effective. The same rank order of efficacy was seen in inducing ipsilateral rotations in rats after a substantia nigra lesion. On the basis of the present study and published data, it can be assumed that the doses of amantadine, memantine and MK-801 showing antiparkinsonian-like activity in animals result in plasma levels leading to NMDA antagonism. However, in the haloperidol-induced catalepsy test the efficacy of amantadine was higher than memantine, while the opposite was true for rotation and reserpine-induced sedation indicating pharmacodynamic differences between both agents.
Previous reports have documented a cardiomyopathy in rats resulting from streptozotocin-induced diabetes. In order to determine the reversibility of streptozotocin-induced cardiomyopathy to insulin therapy, hearts from rats made diabetic by streptozotocin for 6 weeks and then treated with insulin for 3 weeks were compared with untreated diabetic rats and control rats not injected with streptozotocin. When perfused in an isolated working heart apparatus with 5.5 mM glucose as substrate, hearts from untreated diabetic rats when compared to hearts from either streptozotocin-injected rats treated with insulin or control rats showed significant depressions in peak left ventricular pressure, maximal positive and negative dP/dt, oxygen extraction, lactate production and effluent lactate; pyruvate ratio. Ca2+-actomyosin ATPase was also depressed in untreated diabetics. As left atrial pressure was raised in untreated diabetic rats, a decline in cardiac output was observed, whereas in insulin-treated or control groups there was no such negative response. Indices of cardiac performance were significantly greater in insulin-treated rats when compared to control rats suggesting overcorrection with insulin therapy. To explore whether insulin treatment may have a beneficial effect on the myocardium control rats were made hyperinsulinemic for 6 to 7 weeks. Shorter isovolumic relaxation times and elevated values for Ca2+-actomyosin ATPase were observed in hearts from hyperinsulinemic animals when compared to hearts from control animals. These results demonstrate complete reversibility of streptozotocin-induced cardiomyopathy and confirm that this condition is due to insulin deficiency and not to a primary cardiotoxic effect of streptozotocin.
The use of intrathecal clonidine as an adjunct for the management of chronic pain, intra- and postoperative analgesia is gaining an increase in popularity. However, antinociceptive doses of intrathecal clonidine may produce pronounced hemodynamic side effects, including hypotension and bradycardia. In this report, we present a case of severe hypotension after cardiopulmonary bypass in a patient with intrathecal clonidine infusion. We postulate that the intrathecally administered alpha 2-agonist clonidine reduced our patient's ability to tolerate the hemodynamic lability that is present during the separation from cardiopulmonary bypass by potentially inhibiting sympathetic nervous system activity, renin-angiotensin system, or vasopressin release. The authors report a case of severe hypotension after cardiopulmonary bypass in a patient receiving intrathecal clonidine infusion for chronic neuropathic pain.
Although originally developed as an antitumor agent in the 1970s, dexrazoxane (DEX) is currently used as a cardioprotective agent in combination with doxorubicin (DOX). Due to concerns about anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity at higher cumulative doses, many investigators have chosen to administer DOX by prolonged infusion. Therefore, with the ultimate goal of combining infusional DEX and DOX, we performed a phase I study of intravenous DEX alone as a 96-hour infusion. Surprisingly, the maximum tolerated dose of DEX identified in this study was 10- to 15-fold lower than previously determined using different schedules of administration. Results of pharmacokinetic studies in support of the trial have found that steady-state DEX plasma concentrations in the range of 4 to 5 micromol/L can be achieved safely. Because previous experiments have explored the ability of DEX to inhibit the catalytic activity topoisomerase II at low micromolar concentrations and due to a lack of in vitro cytotoxicity data for long-term exposures, we performed further laboratory studies to provide a context for our pharmacokinetic findings. As a result of these correlative studies, we have found that prolonged exposures to DEX are cytotoxic to human leukemic cells at concentrations that are clinically achievable.
