Secondary injury exacerbates the extent of spinal cord insults, yet the mechanistic basis of this phenomenon has largely been unexplored. Here we report that broad regions of the peritraumatic zone are characterized by a sustained process of pathologic, high ATP release. Spinal cord neurons expressed P2X7 purine receptors (P2X7R), and exposure to ATP led to high-frequency spiking, irreversible increases in cytosolic calcium and cell death. To assess the potential effect of P2X7R blockade in ameliorating acute spinal cord injury (SCI), we delivered P2X7R antagonists OxATP or PPADS to rats after acute impact injury. We found that both OxATP and PPADS significantly improved functional recovery and diminished cell death in the peritraumatic zone. These observations demonstrate that SCI is associated with prolonged purinergic receptor activation, which results in excitotoxicity-based neuronal degeneration. P2X7R antagonists inhibit this process, reducing both the histological extent and functional sequelae of acute SCI.
In the in vitro study, it was investigated whether the expression of muscarinic receptors and cholinergic responses were altered in the situation of experimental cystitis. Rats were treated with cyclophosphamide intraperitoneally and the bladders were excised 36-100 h later. Immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting showed all subtypes of the muscarinic receptor (M1-M5) to be present in the specimens from inflamed urinary bladders and controls. In the cyclophosphamide-treated rats, the expression of muscarinic M5 receptors was increased by more than 40 times (p<0.01; n=8) both in the smooth muscle and the urothelium. Both the maximal contractile response to carbachol and to a high potassium concentration was approximately halved in cyclophosphamide-treated tissues, whereas the reduction was substantially greater in response to low carbachol concentrations (<EC(50)). The administration of 4-DAMP inhibited the carbachol-induced contractile responses of inflamed strips less potently than of controls, whereas pirenzepine and methoctramine showed equipotency in the two groups. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor l-NNA increased the contractile effect of carbachol in inflamed detrusor strips, while it had no effect in controls. Immunoblotting showed endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) to be up-regulated in cystitis, and immunohistochemistry revealed the change to occur in the urothelium and in the suburothelial layer. The alteration of cholinergic detrusor responses in cyclophosphamide-treated rats depends mainly on a general detriment of contractility but also on indirect effects possibly via nitric oxide synthesis. The most prominent histological alterations occurred in the urothelium in which muscarinic M5 receptors increased in particular. The study further underlines that the urothelium may play significant roles in the pathogenesis of urinary bladder disorders such as interstitial cystitis.
Chronic inflammation is implicated in the development of several human cancers, including lung cancer. Certain particulate hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] compounds are well-documented human respiratory carcinogens that release genotoxic soluble chromate and are associated with fibrosis, fibrosarcomas, adenocarcinomas, and squamous cell carcinomas of the lung. Despite this, little is known about the pathologic injury and immune responses after repetitive exposure to particulate chromates.
In this study we investigated the lung injury, inflammation, proliferation, and survival signaling responses after repetitive exposure to particulate chromate.
BALB/c mice were repetitively treated with particulate basic zinc chromate or saline using an intranasal exposure regimen. We assessed lungs for Cr(VI)-induced changes by bronchoalveolar lavage, histologic examination, and immunohistochemistry.
Single exposure to Cr(VI) resulted in inflammation of lung tissue that persists for up to 21 days. Repetitive Cr(VI) exposure induced a neutrophilic inflammatory airway response 24 hr after each treatment. Neutrophils were subsequently replaced by increasing numbers of macrophages by 5 days after treatment. Repetitive Cr(VI) exposure induced chronic peribronchial inflammation with alveolar and interstitial pneumonitis dominated by lymphocytes and macrophages. Moreover, chronic toxic mucosal injury was observed and accompanied by increased airway pro-matrix metalloprotease-9. Injury and inflammation correlated with airways becoming immunoreactive for phosphorylation of the survival signaling protein Akt and the proliferation marker Ki-67. We observed a reactive proliferative response in epithelial cells lining airways of chromate-exposed animals.
These data illustrate that repetitive exposure to particulate chromate induces chronic injury and an inflammatory microenvironment that may promote Cr(VI) carcinogenesis.
Clozapine is an atypical neuroleptic drug that has proved to be effective in alleviating psychotic symptoms refractory to treatment with standard neuroleptic drugs. In addition to hematological side effects, an increased susceptibility to epileptic seizures during clozapine treatment has previously been described. In this report, we describe the clinical picture and electroencephalographic findings of 12 schizophrenic patients who have had from one to six clozapine-associated epileptic convulsions.
Sibutramine is an inhibitor of norepinephrine and 5-HT reuptake largely used in the management of obesity. Although a fairly safe drug, postmarketing adverse effects of sibutramine were reported including abnormal ejaculation in men. This study investigates the effects of sibutramine on ejaculation and vas deferens and seminal vesicle contractility. Adult male rats received sibutramine (5; 20; or 50 mg kg(-1), ip) and after 60 min were exposed to receptive females for determination of ejaculation parameters. The vasa deferentia and seminal vesicles of untreated rats were mounted in isolated organ baths for recording of isometric contractions and HEK293 cells loaded with fluorescent calcium indicator were used to measure intracellular Ca(2+) transients. Sibutramine 5 and 20 mg kg(-1) reduced ejaculation latency whereas 50 mg kg(-1) increased ejaculation latency. Sibutramine 3 to 30 microM greatly increased the sensitivity of the seminal vesicle and vas deferens to norepinephrine, but at concentrations higher than 10 microM there were striking depressions of maximal contractions induced by norepinephrine, carbachol and CaCl(2). In HEK293 cells, sibutramine 10 to 100 microM inhibited intracellular Ca(2+) transients induced by carbachol. Depending on the doses, sibutramine either facilitates or inhibits ejaculation. Apart from its actions in the central nervous system, facilitation of ejaculation may result from augmented sensitivity of smooth muscles to norepinephrine while reductions of intracellular Ca(2+) may be involved in the delayed ejaculation observed with high doses of sibutramine.
In the patient suffering from angina, the protective effect of oxprenolol in the isoprenaline test is demonstrated by the reduction of disappearance of ischemic-type electrocardiographic alterations and of angina and rhythm disturbances. In our study, these results were obtained in spite of neutralization of the negative chronotropic effect of the beta-blocker through the use of an endo-auricular pacemaker. This points indirectly to the role played by the contractile state of the myocard in catecholamine-induced modifications of the oxygen intake of cardiac muscle.
Developmental exposure to environmental estrogens is associated with adverse consequences later in life. Exposure to genistin (GIN), the glycosylated form of the phytoestrogen genistein (GEN) found in soy products, is of concern because approximately 20% of U.S. infants are fed soy formula. High circulating levels of GEN have been measured in the serum of these infants, indicating that GIN is readily absorbed, hydrolyzed, and circulated.
We investigated whether orally administered GIN is estrogenic in neonatal mice and whether it causes adverse effects on the developing female reproductive tract.
Female CD-1 mice were treated on postnatal days 1-5 with oral GIN (6.25, 12.5, 25, or 37.5 mg/kg/day; GEN-equivalent doses), oral GEN (25, 37.5, or 75 mg/kg/day), or subcutaneous GEN (12.5, 20, or 25 mg/kg/day). Estrogenic activity was measured on day 5 by determining uterine wet weight gain and induction of the estrogen-responsive gene lactoferrin. Vaginal opening, estrous cyclicity, fertility, and morphologic alterations in the ovary/reproductive tract were examined.
Oral GIN elicited an estrogenic response in the neonatal uterus, whereas the response to oral GEN was much weaker. Oral GIN altered ovarian differentiation (i.e., multioocyte follicles), delayed vaginal opening, caused abnormal estrous cycles, decreased fertility, and delayed parturition.
Our results support the idea that the dose of the physiologically active compound reaching the target tissue, rather than the administered dose or route, is most important in modeling chemical exposures. This is particularly true with young animals in which phase II metabolism capacity is underdeveloped relative to adults.
Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma raised on cirrhotic liver represents a major endeavor because surgery and chemotherapeutic management fail to improve the clinical course of the disease. Chemoprevention could represent an important means to inhibit the process of hepatocarcinogenesis. Farnesyltransferase inhibitors are a class of drugs blocking the growth of tumor cells with minimal toxicity towards normal cells.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of a novel farnesyltransferase inhibitor, ABT-100, on human liver cancer cell lines, HepG2 and Huh7, and on an animal model of hepatocarcinogenesis.
ABT-100 inhibited HepG2 and Huh7 cell growth as well as the invading ability of Huh7 on Matrigel. In HepG2 and Huh7 cells, ABT-100 inhibited growth factor-stimulated phosphoinositide 3-kinase and Akt/protein kinase B activity. Furthermore, ABT-100 inhibited Akt-dependent p27(Kip1) phosphorylation and this event was associated with increased levels of p27(Kip1) in the nucleus and reduced activity of the cyclin-dependent kinase 2. Moreover, ABT-100 treatment resulted in a significant reduction in tumor incidence and multiplicity.
Taken together, these findings identify a mechanism of ABT-100 function and show the efficacy of ABT-100 as a chemopreventive agent of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Seven patients with advanced renal failure, six of whom were dialysed, received a cation exchange resin in the calcium cycle because of severe hyperkalemia, together with their usual preventive treatment of renal osteodystrophy, including 25 hydroxycholecalciferol. Hypercalcemia developed in four subjects within less than thirty days and disappeared within four days following the withdrawal of the resin. Patients who exhibited hypercalcemia had higher calcium intake, lower predialysis blood calcium and higher PTH values before introduction of the treatment. Three of the four hypercalcemic patients were diabetics. It is therefore advised to frequently monitor blood calcium when using calcium exchange resin in patients treated with vitamin D analogs.
The present study evaluated some of the mechanisms underlying prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced paw edema formation in mice. Intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of PGE2 (0.10-10.0 nmol/paw) into the hindpaw elicited a dose-related edema formation, with a mean ED50 value of 0.42 nmol/paw. The coinjection of selective E-prostanoid (EP)3 [(2E)-N-[(5-bromo-2-methoxyphenyl)-sulfonyl]-3-[5-chloro-2-(2-naphthylmethyl)phenyl]acrylamide; L826266), but not EP2 or EP4 (all 10 nmol/paw), receptor antagonists significantly inhibited PGE2-induced paw edema. Like L826266, the PGE2-induced paw edema was markedly reduced by treatment with pertussis toxin and phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor 1-[6-[[17beta-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl]amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U-73122). Likewise, the selective neurokinin (NK)1 receptor antagonist N-[(4R)-4-hydroxy-1-(1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)carbonyl-l-prolyl]-N-methyl-N-phenyl-methyl-3-(2-aphthyl)-l-alaninamide (FK888) and the antagonist of vanilloid receptor (TRPV1) receptors 4'-chloro-3-methoxycinnamanilide (SB366791) (both 1 nmol/paw) also significantly inhibited PGE2-mediated paw edema. Conversely, the selective NK2, NK3, and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) CGRP(8-37) receptor antagonists all failed to interfere with PGE2-induced paw edema. The neonatal treatment of mice with capsaicin was also able to reduce PGE2-induced paw edema. The inhibitors of protein kinase C (PKC) 3-[1-[3-(dimethylaminopropyl]-1H-indol-3-yl]-4-(1H-indol-3-yl)-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione monohydrochloride (GF109203X) and mitogen protein-activated kinases (MAPKs; 30 nmol/paw) c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) (anthra[1,9-cd]pyrazol-6(2H)-one; SP600125), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (PD98059), and p38 [4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)1H-imidazole; SB203580], but not protein kinase A, markedly decreased the PGE2-mediated edema formation. The i.pl. injection of PGE2 (3 nmol/paw) induced a significant activation of MAPKs, namely, JNK and p38, an effect that was largely prevented by the selective EP3 receptor antagonist L826266 (10 nmol/paw). Collectively, these findings indicate that edematogenic responses elicited by PGE2 are mediated by EP3 receptor activation, also involving the stimulation of PLC, PKC, and MAPKs pathways and the participation of TRPV1 and NK1 receptors. These results make a considerable contribution to our comprehension of the mechanisms involved in PGE2-mediated inflammatory responses in mice.
The effects of anticholinergic and dopaminergic drugs used for Parkinson's disease were studied on the tremor induced by physostigmine (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) in rats. For the measurement of tremor a new electronic device was employed. Atropine (0.3-1.2 mg/kg) and biperiden (0.01-1.0 mg/kg) reduced the physostigmine-induced tremor in a dose-related manner and could abolish it. Biperiden was less potent than atropine. Methylatropine in a dose of 1.2 mg/kg slightly inhibited the tremor. Amantadine (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) reduced the tremor but only to a certain degree. Bromocriptine (0.1-10.0 mg/kg) reduced it in a manner that was not dose-related. Pimozide potentiated the tremor in the dose of 0.2 mg/kg but not in larger doses. At the onset of the tremor, a small decrease in rectal temperature occurred. The hypothermia lasted significantly longer than the tremor. Neither the anticholinergic nor the dopaminergic anti-Parkinson drugs altered the hypothermic effect of physostigmine. The results show that those anti-Parkinson drugs, which act by increasing the dopaminergic activity can counteract the tremor induced by physostigmine. However, these drugs are clearly less active than th anticholinergic anti-Parkinson drugs.
We report two patients in whom the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) developed during the administration of psychotherapeutic drugs. In one, the syndrome occurred after administration of a phenothiazine drug and in the other, a butyrophenone. Both the patients were diagnostically studied for evidence of other disorders, either neurologic or systemic, which could cause this syndrome with negative results. They responded to fluid and free water restriction with remarkable recovery and no sequelae. It is stressed that psychotherapeutic drug administration must be considered as one of the iatrogenic causes of SIADH.
Methamphetamine (METH) is an illicit drug that causes neuronal apoptosis in the mouse striatum, in a manner similar to the neuronal loss observed in neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, injections of METH to mice were found to cause the death of enkephalin-positive projection neurons but not the death of neuropeptide Y (NPY)/nitric oxide synthase-positive striatal interneurons. In addition, these METH injections were associated with increased expression of neuropeptide Y mRNA and changes in the expression of the NPY receptors Y1 and Y2. Administration of NPY in the cerebral ventricles blocked METH-induced apoptosis, an effect that was mediated mainly by stimulation of NPY Y2 receptors and, to a lesser extent, of NPY Y1 receptors. Finally, we also found that neuropeptide Y knock-out mice were more sensitive than wild-type mice to METH-induced neuronal apoptosis of both enkephalin- and nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons, suggesting that NPY plays a general neuroprotective role within the striatum. Together, our results demonstrate that neuropeptide Y belongs to the class of factors that maintain neuronal integrity during cellular stresses. Given the similarity between the cell death patterns induced by METH and by disorders such as Huntington's disease, our results suggest that NPY analogs might be useful therapeutic agents against some neurodegenerative processes.
Toxicological studies in sentinel organisms frequently use biomarkers to assess biological effect. Development of "omic" technologies has enhanced biomarker discovery at the molecular level, providing signatures unique to toxicant mode-of-action (MOA). However, these signatures often lack relevance to organismal responses, such as growth or reproduction, limiting their value for environmental monitoring. Our primary objective was to discover metabolic signatures in chemically exposed organisms that can predict physiological toxicity. Marine mussels (Mytilus edulis) were exposed for 7 days to 12 and 50 microg/l copper and 50 and 350 microg/l pentachlorophenol (PCP), toxicants with unique MOAs. Physiological responses comprised an established measure of organism energetic fitness, scope for growth (SFG). Metabolic fingerprints were measured in the same individuals using nuclear magnetic resonance-based metabolomics. Metabolic signatures predictive of SFG were sought using optimal variable selection strategies and multivariate regression and then tested upon independently field-sampled mussels from rural and industrialized sites. Copper and PCP induced rational metabolic and physiological changes. Measured and predicted SFG were highly correlated for copper (r(2) = 0.55, P = 2.82 x 10(-7)) and PCP (r(2) = 0.66, P = 3.20 x 10(-6)). Predictive metabolites included methionine and arginine/phosphoarginine for copper and allantoin, valine, and methionine for PCP. When tested on field-sampled animals, metabolic signatures predicted considerably reduced fitness of mussels from the contaminated (SFG = 6.0 J/h/g) versus rural (SFG = 15.2 J/h/g) site. We report the first successful discovery of metabolic signatures in chemically exposed environmental organisms that inform on molecular MOA and that can predict physiological toxicity. This could have far-reaching implications for monitoring impacts on environmental health.
Although kidney is a target organ of arsenic cytotoxicity, the underlying mechanisms of arsenic-induced nephrotoxicity remain poorly understood. As tetramethylpyrazine (TMP) has recently been found to be a renal protectant in multiple kidney injuries, we hypothesize that TMP could suppress arsenic nephrotoxicity. In this study, human renal proximal tubular epithelial cell line HK-2 was used to elucidate the precise mechanisms of arsenic nephrotoxicity as well as the protective mechanism of TMP in these cells. Sodium arsenite exposure dramatically increased cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, decreased levels of cellular glutathione (GSH), decreased cytochrome c oxidase activity and mitochondrial membrane potential, which indicated mitochondrial dysfunction. On the other hand, sodium arsenite activated pro-inflammatory signals, including β-catenin, nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), tumor necrosis factor alpha and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Small molecule inhibitors of NF-κB and p38 MAPK blocked arsenic-induced COX-2 expression, suggesting arsenic-induced COX-2 up-regulation was NF-κB- and p38 MAPK-dependent. Finally, sodium arsenite induced autophagy in HK-2 cells at early phase (6 h) and the subsequent apoptosis at 24 h. Treatment by TMP or by the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine decreased arsenic-induced ROS production, enhanced GSH levels, prevented mitochondria dysfunction and suppressed the activation of pro-inflammatory signals and the development of autophagy and apoptosis. Our results suggested that TMP may be used as a new potential therapeutic agent to prevent arsenic-induced nephrotoxicity by suppressing these pathological processes.
Traffic-related air pollution is related with asthma, and this association may be modified by genetic factors.
We investigated the role of genetic polymorphisms potentially modifying the association between home outdoor levels of modeled nitrogen dioxide and asthma.
Adults from 13 cities of the second European Community Respiratory Health Survey (ECRHS II) were included (n = 2,920), for whom both DNA and outdoor NO(2) estimates were available. Home addresses were geocoded and linked to modeled outdoor NO(2) estimates, as a marker of local traffic-related pollution. We examined asthma prevalence and evaluated polymorphisms in genes involved in oxidative stress pathways [gluthatione S-transferases M1 (GSTM1), T1 (GSTT1), and P1 (GSTP1) and NAD(P)H:quinine oxidoreductase (NQO1)], inflammatory response [tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFA)], immunologic response [Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)], and airway reactivity [adrenergic receptor beta2 (ADRB2)].
The association between modeled NO(2) and asthma prevalence was significant for carriers of the most common genotypes of NQO1 rs2917666 [odds ratio (OR) = 1.54; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.10-2.24], TNFA rs2844484 (OR = 2.02; 95% CI, 1.30-3.27). For new-onset asthma, the effect of NO(2) was significant for the most common genotype of NQO1 rs2917666 (OR = 1.52; 95% CI, 1.09-2.16). A significant interaction was found between NQO1 rs2917666 and NO(2) for asthma prevalence (p = 0.02) and new-onset asthma (p = 0.04).
Genetic polymorphisms in the NQO1 gene are related to asthma susceptibility among persons exposed to local traffic-related air pollution. This points to the importance of antioxidant pathways in the protection against the effects of air pollution on asthma.
The anti-leukemic antibiotics, anthracyclines, are most effective agents in the treatment of acute leukemia. However, they have severe cardiac toxicities, which ordinarily shows dose-dependency, but sometimes produce acute cardiomyopathy. We experienced Torsade-de-pointes arrhythmia during the treatment of acute myelocytic leukemia (AML); The patient was a 28 year old woman and had an AML-M1. After the short course administration of daunorubicin (total 90 mg/m2) and aclarubicin (total 219 mg/m2), she suffered from an attack of Torsade-de-pointes ventricular tachycardia and passed away, since any treatment against ventricular arrhythmia was not effective. Autopsy studies revealed degeneration and atrophy of cardiac muscle in the area around His's bundle, which suggested an anthracycline-induced cardiac toxicity.
Studies have shown associations between air pollution or traffic exposure and adverse birth outcomes, such as low birth weight. However, very few studies have examined the effect of traffic emissions on spontaneous abortion (SAB).
The goal of this study was to determine whether residential exposure to vehicular traffic was associated with SAB.
Pregnant women from a prepaid health plan in California were recruited into a prospective cohort study in 1990-1991. Three measures of traffic exposure were constructed for the 4,979 participants using annual average daily traffic (AADT) counts near each residence and distance from residence to major roads. SAB was examined in relation to the traffic exposure measures using logistic regression adjusting for a number of demographic and lifestyle variables.
Of the traffic measures, maximum annual average traffic within 50 m showed the strongest association with SAB, although it was not statistically significant. The adjusted odds ratio (AOR) for the top 90th percentile (AADT greater than 15,199) versus the bottom 75th percentile (AADT = 0-1,089) was 1.18 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.87-1.60]. However, subgroup analyses showed statistically significant associations for traffic with SAB among African Americans (AOR = 3.11; 95% CI, 1.26-7.66) and nonsmokers (AOR = 1.47; 95% CI, 1.07-2.04).
In this cohort, living within 50 m of a road with AADT of 15,200 or more was significantly associated with SAB among African Americans and nonsmokers. Further research is needed to confirm these results and possibly elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the findings.
Functions of retinoic acid receptors (RARs) in adult CNS have been poorly characterized. Here we investigated potential neuroprotective action of tamibarotene (Am80), an RARalpha/beta agonist available for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia, on midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Am80 protected dopaminergic neurons in rat midbrain slice culture from injury mediated by lipopolysaccharide-activated microglia, without affecting production of nitric oxide, a key mediator of cell injury. The effect of Am80 was mimicked by another RAR agonist, TAC-101, but not by a retinoid X receptor agonist, HX630, and HX630 did not synergize with Am80. We observed neuronal expression of RARalpha and RARbeta in midbrain slice culture and also found that Am80 increased tissue level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA. Exogenous BDNF prevented dopaminergic neurodegeneration, and the neuroprotective effect of Am80 was suppressed by a TrkB inhibitor, K252a, or by anti-BDNF neutralizing antibody. These results reveal a novel action of RARs mediated by enhancement of BDNF expression. Finally, oral administration of Am80 prevented dopaminergic cell loss in the substantia nigra induced by local injection of lipopolysaccharide in mice, indicating that RARs are a promising target of therapeutics for neurodegenerative disorders.
Bacterial infection is a frequent event in renal transplant recipients and often requires the use of antimicrobial agents. In this paper it is reported an evidence of pharmacokinetic interaction between clarithromycin and sirolimus in a kidney transplanted woman, suffering from pulmonary infection sustained by a bacterial pathogen, in particular Hemophilus Influenzae. In the present case report, the concomitant administration of clarithromycin and sirolimus determined impressive increase of sirolimus trough blood concentrations from 6.2 up to 54 ng/mL and this increase was associated with an acute impairment of renal function, almost completely reversed upon both drugs discontinuation. This drug-drug interaction is due to a likely inhibition of activity of both cytochrome P450 3A4 and P-glycoprotein. Although this interaction could be predicted, it represents the first reported clinical evidence.
After several decades of commercial use, the flame-retardant chemicals polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and their metabolites are pervasive environmental contaminants and are detected in the human body. Decabrominated diphenyl ether (decaBDE) is currently the only PBDE in production in the United States.
Little is known about the health effects of decaBDE. In the present study we examined the effects of neonatal decaBDE exposure on behavior in mice at two ages.
Neonatal male and female C57BL6/J mice were exposed to a daily oral dose of 0, 6, or 20 mg/kg decaBDE from postnatal days 2 through 15. Two age groups were examined: a cohort that began training during young adulthood and an aging cohort of littermates that began training at 16 months of age. Both cohorts were tested on a series of operant procedures that included a fixed-ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement, a fixed-interval (FI) 2-min schedule, and a light-dark visual discrimination.
We observed minimal effects on the light-dark discrimination in the young cohort, with no effects on the other tasks. The performance of the aging cohort was significantly affected by decaBDE. On the FI schedule, decaBDE exposure increased the overall response rate. On the light-dark discrimination, older treated mice learned the task more slowly, made fewer errors on the first-response choice of a trial but more perseverative errors after an initial error, and had lower latencies to respond compared with controls. Effects were observed in both dose groups and sexes on various measures.
These findings suggest that neonatal decaBDE exposure produces effects on behavioral tasks in older but not younger animals. The behavioral mechanisms responsible for the pattern of observed effects may include increased impulsivity, although further research is required.
The effects of dietary protein and converting enzyme inhibition (CEI) on chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy (PAN) were studied. PAN was induced with seven SQ injections of puromycin aminonucleoside 20 mg/kg over 10 weeks in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The rats were divided into a 22.5% protein diet group (Gr 1), a 6% protein diet group (Gr 2), and an enalapril-treated group on 22.5% protein diet (Gr 3). Group 4 animals served as age-matched controls. Both diets were isocaloric and had the same phosphorus content. Rats from groups 1, 2, and 4 were sacrificed at 12, 18 and 24 weeks. Five rats of group 3 were sacrificed at 12 weeks, and the others were divided in subgroups 3A (diet changed to 6% protein) and 3B (no changes); half of each subgroup was sacrificed at 18 and 24 weeks, respectively. Group 2 had significantly less proteinuria than group 1 at all times. Group 3 had the same proteinuria as group 1 until 12 weeks and then began to decrease. In group 3A proteinuria decreased to group 2 levels, while in group 3B the decrease was slower but still prominent. Early lesions of focal and segmental glomerular sclerosis/hyalinosis (FSH) were present in groups 1, 2, 3 at 12 weeks (16 +/- 1.2%, 15 +/- 1.3%, 7 +/- 1.3%, respectively, versus 1.3 +/- 0.4% in controls), but by 18 weeks a reversal in FSH was seen in groups 2 and 3A/B (3 +/- 1.6%, 2 +/- 0.4%, and 3 +/- 0.9%, respectively, vs. 14 +/- 1.5% in group 1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) is a rat model for human minimal change nephropathy. During PAN, severe proteinuria is induced that is paralleled by a reduced expression of a rat podocyte protein, named podoplanin. The protein probably plays a role in maintaining the unique shape of podocytes. Recently, attenuated amino acid transport has been observed in cultured mouse glomerular epithelial cells treated with puromycin aminonucleoside (PA). In the present study, gp38P, a protein homologous to rat podoplanin was cloned from mouse glomerular epithelial cells and was found to be down-regulated by PA. A role for gp38P in membrane transport in mouse podocytes has been suggested.
Based on homology to rat podoplanin, the protein gp38P was cloned from mouse glomerular epithelial cells by RT-PCR. Mouse glomerular epithelial cells, mouse cortical collecting duct cells, and Xenopus oocytes were treated with PA and the expression of gp38P was examined by RT-PCR and western blot analysis. Expression of gp38P in other mouse tissues was demonstrated by RT-PCR. The possible impact of gp38P on amino acid transport and folic acid uptake was examined in Xenopus oocytes.
gp38P cloned from mouse glomerular epithelial cells showed strong homologies to rat podoplanin and gp38, a protein expressed in the thymus and other tissues. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated ubiquitous expression of gp38P in epithelial and non-epithelial tissues. Quantitative RT-PCR and western blot analysis indicated down-regulation of gp38P in PA-treated glomerular epithelial cells along with loss of cell shape and cell lysis, which was not observed in other cell types. When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, gp38P had no impact on folic acid uptake or transport activity of the amino acid co-transporters CAT1, EAAC1, and rBAT.
Cultured mouse glomerular epithelial cells express the podoplanin homologue gp38P, which is down-regulated by PAs. gp38P is ubiquitously expressed and is likely to control specifically the unique shape of podocytes.
To determine if the classic stroke risk factors, chronic hypertension, diabetes, cigarette smoking, chronic alcohol abuse, older age, and male sex, are also risk factors in cocaine-related ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke.
A computer search of ICD-9 codes identified 100 patients admitted to two inner city hospitals between 1986 and 1995 with acute ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke who also tested positive for cocaine in the urine. The case records of these patients were reviewed retrospectively. The ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke groups were compared with a control group of 109 cocaine users without a history of stroke. Multiple logistic regression was performed to see if the classic stroke risk factors independently increased the risk of cocaine-induced ischemic and/or hemorrhagic stroke.
A total of 66 stroke patients in the study group had ischemic stroke, whereas 34 had hemorrhagic stroke. The stroke and control groups were similar in racial and gender composition. The mean ages of patients with ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke (both 41 years) were greater than the control group (34 years) (P<.01). Only chronic hypertension (odds ratio [OR] 5.2, P<.0001) and older age (OR 1.08/year increase of age, P<.0006) were independent risk factors for ischemic stroke. Female sex (OR 3.2, P<.015) and older age (OR 1.1/year increase of age, P<.0002) were independent risk factors for hemorrhagic stroke.
Chronic hypertension and older age may magnify the risk of cocaine-related ischemic stroke, whereas female sex and older age may increase the risk of cocaine-related hemorrhagic stroke.
Organohalogen compounds (OHCs) are known to have neurotoxic effects on the developing brain.
We investigated the influence of prenatal exposure to OHCs, including brominated flame retardants, on motor, cognitive, and behavioral outcome in healthy children of school age.
This study was part of the prospective Groningen infant COMPARE (Comparison of Exposure-Effect Pathways to Improve the Assessment of Human Health Risks of Complex Environmental Mixtures of Organohalogens) study. It included 62 children in whose mothers the following compounds had been determined in the 35th week of pregnancy: 2,2'-bis-(4 chlorophenyl)-1,1'-dichloroethene, pentachlorophenol (PCP), polychlorinated biphenyl congener 153 (PCB-153), 4-hydroxy-2,3,3',4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (4OH-CB-107), 4OH-CB-146, 4OH-CB-187, 2,2',4,4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-47), BDE-99, BDE-100, BDE-153, BDE-154, and hexabromocyclododecane. Thyroid hormones were determined in umbilical cord blood. When the children were 5-6 years of age, we assessed their neuropsychological functioning: motor performance (coordination, fine motor skills), cognition (intelligence, visual perception, visuomotor integration, inhibitory control, verbal memory, and attention), and behavior.
Brominated flame retardants correlated with worse fine manipulative abilities, worse attention, better coordination, better visual perception, and better behavior. Chlorinated OHCs correlated with less choreiform dyskinesia. Hydroxylated polychlorinated biphenyls correlated with worse fine manipulative abilities, better attention, and better visual perception. The wood protective agent (PCP) correlated with worse coordination, less sensory integrity, worse attention, and worse visuomotor integration.
Our results demonstrate for the first time that transplacental transfer of polybrominated flame retardants is associated with the development of children at school age. Because of the widespread use of these compounds, especially in the United States, where concentrations in the environment are four times higher than in Europe, these results cause serious concern.
Prenatal exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) increases offspring aggression and diminishes differences in sexually dimorphic behaviors in rodents.
We examined the association between prenatal BPA exposure and behavior in 2-year-old children.
We used data from 249 mothers and their children in Cincinnati, Ohio (USA). Maternal urine was collected around 16 and 26 weeks of gestation and at birth. BPA concentrations were quantified using high-performance liquid chromatography-isotope-dilution tandem mass spectrometry. Child behavior was assessed at 2 years of age using the second edition of the Behavioral Assessment System for Children (BASC-2). The association between prenatal BPA concentrations and BASC-2 scores was analyzed using linear regression.
Median BPA concentrations were 1.8 (16 weeks), 1.7 (26 weeks), and 1.3 (birth) ng/mL. Mean (+/- SD) BASC-2 externalizing and internalizing scores were 47.6 +/- 7.8 and 44.8 +/- 7.0, respectively. After adjustment for confounders, log(10)-transformed mean prenatal BPA concentrations were associated with externalizing scores, but only among females [beta = 6.0; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.1-12.0]. Compared with 26-week and birth concentrations, BPA concentrations collected around 16 weeks were more strongly associated with externalizing scores among all children (beta = 2.9; 95% CI, 0.2-5.7), and this association was stronger in females than in males. Among all children, measurements collected at <or= 16 weeks showed a stronger association (beta = 5.1; 95% CI, 1.5-8.6) with externalizing scores than did measurements taken at 17-21 weeks (beta = 0.6; 95% CI, -2.9 to 4.1).
These results suggest that prenatal BPA exposure may be associated with externalizing behaviors in 2-year-old children, especially among female children.
