A 51 year old female developed a skeletal muscle myopathy after 3 months of pivampicillin therapy. Pivampicillin can cause carnitine deficiency due to the pivalic acid side group. Plasma carnitine content and the patients symptoms failed to improve significantly on discontinuing the drug. Oral carnitine replacement therapy was administered for 6 weeks but the patient's plasma carnitine levels responded only slowly to this treatment. It is suggested that pivampicillin inhibits uptake of carnitine from the gut and may either directly or indirectly depress endogenous carnitine synthesis. In such cases a more aggressive carnitine replacement regime is indicated and pivampicillin should be avoided in patients requiring long-term antibiotic administration.
Chronic immune activation by coinfecting pathogens has been suggested as a cofactor in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease progression, particularly in the setting of developing countries. Here, we used in vivo-infected mononuclear cells to examine the role of the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani and its major membrane constituent, lipophosphoglycan (LPG), in mediating CD4+ T-lymphocyte activation-induced HIV replication and CD4+ T-cell death. We found that Leishmania antigens upregulated HIV replication in CD8-depleted peripheral blood mononuclear cells from asymptomatic HIV-infected donors compared to unstimulated cells. L. donovani-induced viral replication was associated with cellular proliferation, increased expression of the cellular immune activation markers CD25 and HLA-DR within the CD4+ subpopulation, and enhanced secretion of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin 2 (IL-2), and IL-6. LPG induced TNF-alpha secretion in the absence of increased expression of cellular activation markers. Moreover, in a few cases we observed that L. donovani induced HIV replication without significant cellular activation but with cytokine secretion. The rate of apoptosis was accelerated in these latently infected CD4+ T cells primed with Leishmania antigens compared to controls, and TNF-alpha production appeared to be the central event necessary for this effect. Furthermore, we demonstrate that thalidomide inhibited Leishmania-induced virus replication coupled with abrogated Leishmania-induced TNF-alpha secretion but not IL-2 or IL-6 production. Furthermore, thalidomide did not affect Leishmania-induced apoptosis. The results suggest that Leishmania and its product, LPG, up-regulate HIV replication in latently infected cells through distinct antigen-specific and non-antigen-specific cellular immune activation mechanisms and that TNF-alpha secretion is pivotal in this process. The immunomodulatory role of thalidomide raises interest as a potential adjuvant to reduce HIV disease progression in Leishmania-HIV coinfected individuals.
We tested the hypothesis that clonidine-evoked hypotension is dependent on central adenosinergic pathways. Five groups of male, conscious, aortic baroreceptor-denervated (ABD) rats received clonidine (10 microg/kg i.v.) 30 min after i.v. 1) saline, 2) theophylline (10 mg/kg), or 3) 8-(p-sulfophenyl)theophylline (8-SPT) (2.5 mg/kg) or 1 h after i.p. 4) dipyridamole (5 mg/kg) or 5) an equal volume of sesame oil. Blockade of central (theophylline) but not peripheral (8-SPT) adenosine receptors abolished clonidine hypotension. In contrast, dipyridamole substantially enhanced the bradycardic response to clonidine. In additional groups, intracisternal (i.c.) dipyridamole (150 microg) and 8-SPT (10 microg) enhanced and abolished, respectively, clonidine (0.6 microg i.c.)-evoked hypotension. Because clonidine is a mixed I1/alpha2 agonist, we also investigated whether adenosine signaling is linked to the I1 or the alpha2A receptor by administering the selective I1 (rilmenidine, 25 microg) or alpha2A [alpha-methylnorepinephrine (alpha-MNE), 4 microg] agonist 30 min after central adenosine receptor blockade (8-SPT; 10 microg i.c.) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The hypotensive response elicited by rilmenidine or alpha-MNE was abolished in 8-SPT-pretreated rats. To delineate the role of the adenosine A2A receptor in clonidine-evoked hypotension, i.c. clonidine (0.6 microg) was administered 30 min after central adenosine receptor A2A blockade [5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo[4,3-epsilon]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]-pyrimidine (SCH58261); 150 microg i.c.]. The latter virtually abolished the hypotensive and bradycardic responses elicited by clonidine. In conclusion, central adenosine A2A signaling plays a key role in clonidine-evoked hypotension in conscious aortic barodenervated rats.
To explore the possible mechanisms underlying cough induced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) in patients with hypertension.
127 patients with hypertension were enrolled to receive ACEI (97 cases prescribed cilazapril and 30 cases prescribed benazepril hydrochloride) for 8 weeks. Patients who had coughed in the period were assigned to the cough group (48 cases) and patients who hadn't coughed were assigned to the non-cough group (79 cases). The serum ACE activity before and after administration of the drugs and the polymorphism of ACE gene (including homozygous-alleles II, DD, and heterozygous ID) were analyzed. Binary logistic regression was used as a statistical method to determine the factors associated with cough.
The frequencies of the I alleles and II genotype of ACE gene in the cough group (0.70% and 56.3%) were significantly higher than those in the non-cough group (0.42% and 23.3%, P < 0.05). The mean serum ACE activity before and after administration of the ACEI in the cough group [(26 +/- 6) U/L, (4 +/- 4) U/L] was significantly lower than that in the non-cough group [(33 +/- 8) U/L, (8 +/- 8) U/L, all P < 0.01]. The difference in the range of decrease of serum ACE activity after ACEI between the cough group [(22 +/- 7) U/L] and the non-cough group [(25 +/- 9) U/L] was not significant (P = 0.077). Serum ACE activity before ACEI was highest in the homozygous-alleles DD group [(36 +/- 8) U/L], secondly in the heterozygous ID group [(29 +/- 6) U/L] and the lowest in homozygous-alleles II group [(26 +/- 7) U/L], differences being significant among three groups (P < 0.01). ACEI-related cough showed no relationship with sex, smoking habit and the ACEI used.
The serum ACE activity was associated with polymorphism of ACE gene. Cough induced by ACEI was related to I allele and II genotype. There was a relationship between the serum ACE activity before administration of ACEI and cough induced by ACEI.
Vinpocetine is a widely used drug for the treatment of cerebrovascular and memory disorders. This study aimed to investigate the effect of vinpocetine on the acute hepatic injury caused in the rat by the administration of CCl4 in vivo. Vinpocetine (2.1, 4.2, 8.4 mg/kg) or silymarin (30 mg/kg) was given once daily orally simultaneously with CCl4 and for 15 days thereafter. Liver damage was assessed by determining serum enzyme activities and hepatic histopathology. Stained sections were subjected to morphometric evaluation using computerized image analyzer. The results showed that vinpocetine administered to CCl4-treated rats decreased the elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) by 49.3, 58.1 and 63.6%, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) by 10.5, 22.6 and 27.2% and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) by 52.5, 59.6 and 64.9%, respectively, and in a dose-dependent manner. Meanwhile, silymarin reduced elevated ALT, AST and ALP levels by 53.1, 26.9 and 66%, respectively. Histological examination of liver specimens revealed a marked reduction in liver cell necrosis in vinpocetine and silymarin-treated rats compared with vehicle-treated CCl4-treated rats. Quantitative analysis of the area of damage showed 85.3% reduction in the area of damage after silymarin and 72.2, 78.9 and 82.6% reduction after vinpocetine treatment at 2.1, 4.2, 8.4 mg/kg, respectively. It is concluded that administration of vinpocetine in a model of CCl4-induced liver injury in rats reduced liver damage. The reduction obtained by 4.2 mg/kg of vinpocetine was similar to that obtained by 30 mg/kg silymarin. Therefore, it is suggested that vinpocetine might be a good pharmacological agent in the treatment of liver disease besides its neuroprotective effects.
The quantitative evidence relating habitual antipyretic analgesic consumption to the development of renal disease is reviewed. For purposes of analysis, "abuse" of analgesics is defined as regular, usually daily consumption. The prevalence of habitual consumption demonstrates marked geographic variation for poorly defined reasons. Prevalence tended to be highest in those populations in which phenacetin was available and popular. The prevalence of nephropathy among habitual consumers also shows marked interpopulation variability. A highly significant linear relationship exists between the prevalence of habitual analgesic consumption in a given population and the prevalence of nephropathy in the subset of that population that habitually consumes analgesics. This relationship may represent a dose-response curve relating amount of analgesic intake to prevalence of nephropathy. Four cross-sectional studies, 1 longitudinal, and 1 case-control study have shown significant differences in prevalence of nephropathy between habitual users of phenacetin-containing analgesics and control populations. Conversely, 2 cross-sectional studies and 1 case control study showed no difference between habitual users of analgesics and control populations. However, those studies showing no difference were performed in populations with low prevalence of habitual consumption of compound analgesics and a lower prevalence of nephropathy than was found in those populations where differences were observed. The relative risk for developing various manifestations of analgesic nephropathy has been estimated in 4 studies and varies depending on which abnormality is considered. Data are available only for subjects consuming phenacetin-containing compound analgesics. The relative risk for elevated serum creatinine is in the range of 8 to 11, about twice that for an abnormal renal concentrating test (approximately 4). The relative risk for clinical papillary necrosis is approximately 18, and for cause-specific death (and by inference for end-stage renal disease) about 4. The difference in risk between most clinical manifestations of analgesic nephropathy and death (or end-stage renal disease) may be due to the fact that most patients with nephropathy do not progress to terminal renal failure. Rheumatology clinic studies indicate that the prevalence of nephropathy in habitual consumers of phenacetin-containing compounds is higher than that for habitual consumers of aspirin alone. Removal of phenacetin from compound analgesics in Scandinavian countries appears to have reduced the prevalence of papillary necrosis and death from interstitial nephritis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
While nicotine replacement therapy is assumed to be a safer alternative to smoking during pregnancy, the long-term consequences for the offspring remain elusive. Animal studies now suggest that maternal nicotine exposure during perinatal life leads to a wide range of adverse outcomes for the offspring including increased adiposity. The focus of this study was to investigate if nicotine exposure during pregnancy and lactation leads to alterations in hepatic triglyceride synthesis. Female Wistar rats were randomly assigned to receive daily subcutaneous injections of saline (vehicle) or nicotine bitartrate (1mg/kg/day) for two weeks prior to mating until weaning. At postnatal day 180 (PND 180), nicotine exposed offspring exhibited significantly elevated levels of circulating and hepatic triglycerides in the male offspring. This was concomitant with increased expression of fatty acid synthase (FAS), the critical hepatic enzyme in de novo triglyceride synthesis. Given that FAS is regulated by the nuclear receptor Liver X receptor (LXRα), we measured LXRα expression in both control and nicotine-exposed offspring. Nicotine exposure during pregnancy and lactation led to an increase in hepatic LXRα protein expression and enriched binding to the putative LXRE element on the FAS promoter in PND 180 male offspring. This was also associated with significantly enhanced acetylation of histone H3 [K9,14] surrounding the FAS promoter, a hallmark of chromatin activation. Collectively, these findings suggest that nicotine exposure during pregnancy and lactation leads to an increase in circulating and hepatic triglycerides long-term via changes in the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of the hepatic lipogenic pathway.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in cigarette smoke are among the most likely causes of lung cancer. PAHs require metabolic activation to initiate the carcinogenic process. Phenanthrene (Phe), a noncarcinogenic PAH, was used as a surrogate of benzo[α]pyrene and related PAHs to study the metabolic activation of PAHs in smokers. A dose of 10 μg of deuterated Phe ([D₁₀]Phe) was administered to 25 healthy smokers in a crossover design, either as an oral solution or by smoking cigarettes containing [D₁₀]Phe. Phe was deuterated to avoid interference from environmental Phe. Intensive blood and urine sampling was performed to quantitate the formation of deuterated r-1,t-2,3,c-4-tetrahydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrophenanthrene ([D₁₀]PheT), a biomarker of the diol epoxide metabolic activation pathway. In both the oral and smoking arms approximately 6% of the dose was metabolically converted to diol epoxides, with a large intersubject variability in the formation of [D₁₀]PheT observed. Two diagnostic plots were developed to identify subjects with large systemic exposure and significant lung contribution to metabolic activation. The combination of the two plots led to the identification of subjects with substantial local exposure. These subjects produced, in one single pass of [D₁₀]Phe through the lung, a [D₁₀]PheT exposure equivalent to the systemic exposure of a typical subject and may be an indicator of lung cancer susceptibility. Polymorphisms in PAH-metabolizing genes of the 25 subjects were also investigated. The integration of phenotyping and genotyping results indicated that GSTM1-null subjects produced approximately 2-fold more [D₁₀]PheT than did GSTM1-positive subjects.
Results are submitted for a morphologic study of two nephrobiopsies in patients with manic-depressive psychosis on long-term treatment with lithium drugs, who developed clinical symptoms of chronic renal insufficiency. Light-optic, electronic-, and immunofluorescent microscopy was made use of in the study. Both biopsies showed features consistent with the diagnosis of chronic interstitial nephritis with manifest changes in proximal convoluted tubules of the kidney. On the basis of the morphologic picture of the kidney lesion and chemical nature of lithium (metal of the group and ionic identity with sodium and potassium) a conclusion was drawn that the initial mechanism in the development of renal pathology in exposure to lithium is a damage to the proximal convoluted tubules.
The ability of the epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor gefitinib (Iressa) to prevent/treat methylnitrosourea (MNU)-induced mammary cancers and to modulate biomarkers in female Sprague-Dawley rats was examined. Rats were given a single dose of MNU (75 mg/kg body weight) at 50 days of age. In the prevention studies, continual treatment with Iressa at 10, 3, or 1 mg/kg body weight per day beginning 5 days after MNU reduced tumor multiplicity by 93%, 43%, and 20%, respectively. Treatment of rats bearing small palpable cancers with Iressa (10 mg/kg body weight per day) resulted in the complete regression of 70% of the tumors. Short-term treatment of tumor-bearing rats with Iressa caused decreases in cell proliferation and phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor and increases in apoptosis. To examine treatment regimens that might decrease the skin toxicity associated with Iressa, both intermittent treatments and combinations of lower doses of Iressa with other effective agents were evaluated. Treatment with Iressa (10 mg/kg body weight per day) continually or intermittently (either "3 weeks on/3 weeks off" or "4 days on/3 days off") reduced cancer multiplicity by 91%, 24%, and 68%, respectively. However, all regimens reduced tumor weights >85%. Finally, combining suboptimal doses of Iressa with suboptimal doses of vorozole (an aromatase inhibitor) or targretin (a retinoid X receptor agonist) yielded greater chemopreventive efficacy than any of these agents given alone.
Silastic implants containing the progestin, levonorgestrel, were tested as long-term contraceptives in 101 women. After three full years of exposure and 2,998 woman-months of use, no pregnancies had occurred. The continuation rates were 87% at 12 months, 79% at 24 months and 66% at 36 months. The most important side effect was excessive or irregular bleeding during the first year. No treatment was offered for this side effect other than vitamins and iron or change of method, with the exception of 3 cases where ethinyl estradiol was used one time for 2 weeks each. Bleeding disturbances led 8 patients to ask for removal of implants. Other side effects were headache, acne and lower abdominal pain. Blood and urine analysis tested 17 different parameters and all but plasma cortisol remained within normal limits throughout the study. A general tendency toward lowered cortisol values was observed and two subjects had more than one value below the normal limit for the population during the study. Glucose tolerance tests during the second year were abnormal in two women with familial diabetes but they returned to normal values spontaneously at the next test. It is concluded that levonorgestrel implants offer effective protection against pregnancy during the first three years of continuous use. Their acceptability and few side effects justify larger trials, especially if treatment of bleeding irregularities is introduced.
Cysteine cathepsins play an important role in shaping the highly infiltrative growth pattern of human gliomas. We have previously demonstrated that the activity of cysteine cathepsins is elevated in invasive glioblastoma (GBM) cells in vitro, in part due to attenuation of their endogenous inhibitors, the cystatins. To investigate this relationship in vivo, we established U87-MG xenografts in non-obese diabetic (NOD)/severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)-enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) mice. Here, tumor growth correlated with an elevated enzymatic activity of CatB both in the tumor core and at the periphery, whereas CatS and CatL levels were higher at the xenograft edge compared to the core. Reversely, StefB expression was detected in the tumor core, but it was generally absent in the tumor periphery, suggesting that down-regulation of this inhibitor correlates with in vivo invasion. In human GBM samples, all cathepsins were elevated at the tumor periphery compared to brain parenchyma. CatB was also typically associated with angiogenic endothelia and necrotic areas. StefB was mainly detected in the tumor core, whereas CysC and StefA were evenly distributed, reflecting the observations in the xenografts. However, at the mRNA level, no differences in cathepsins and cystatins were observed between the tumor center and the periphery in both human biopsies and xenografts. Interestingly, in human tumors, cathepsin and stefin transcript levels correlated with CD68 and CXCR4 levels, but not with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Moreover, we reveal for the first time that an elevated StefA mRNA level is a highly significant prognostic factor for patient survival.
Bortezomib, an inhibitor of the 26S proteasome, is currently approved for treatment of multiple myeloma and is being studied for therapy of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We found that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive B cells with type III latency were more susceptible to killing by bortezomib than those with type I latency. Bortezomib induced apoptosis of EBV lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) by inducing cleavage of caspases 8 and 9; apoptosis was inhibited by pretreatment with a pan-caspase inhibitor. Bortezomib reduced the levels of the p50 and p65 components of the canonical NF-kappaB pathway and reduced the level of p52 in the noncanonical NF-kappaB pathway, which is induced by EBV LMP1. Bortezomib inhibited expression of cIAP-1, cIAP-2, and XIAP, which are regulated by NF-kappaB and function as inhibitors of apoptosis. Bortezomib did not inhibit expression of several other antiapoptotic proteins, including Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL. Finally, bortezomib significantly prolonged the survival of severe combined immunodeficiency mice inoculated with LCLs. These findings suggest that bortezomib may represent a novel strategy for the treatment of certain EBV-associated lymphomas.
This study examines the arrhythmogenic action of alpha 1 and alpha 2-adrenoceptor stimulation in the isolated perfused rat heart. The alpha 1-agonist methoxamine in the presence of the beta 1-antagonist atenolol 10(-6) M decreased the ventricular fibrillation threshold in the normoxic rat ventricular myocardium: VFT values (mA): Control 11.2 +/- 0.5; methoxamine 10(-6) M 4.9 +/- 0.9 (P less than 0.01 vs control); methoxamine 10(-5) M 3.5 +/- 0.5 (P less than 0.01 vs control). The alpha 1-antagonist prazosin 10(-8) M prevented the methoxamine-induced fall in ventricular fibrillation threshold. The alpha 2-agonist BHT 933 (azepexole) in the presence of atenolol 10(-6) M produced no alteration in the ventricular fibrillation threshold. Methoxamine 10(-6) M to 10(-5) M had a positive inotropic effect with increased left ventricular pressure development, myocardial oxygen consumption and QT-interval; however, tissue levels of cyclic AMP remained unchanged. Methoxamine 10(-6) M did not alter heart rate, coronary flow rate or deplete tissue levels of adenosine triphosphate, phosphocreatine or glycogen. The enhanced vulnerability to ventricular fibrillation induced by methoxamine could be demonstrated only at supraphysiological extracellular calcium concentrations (2.5 mM) but not at physiological calcium concentrations (1.25 mM). The arrhythmogenic and inotropic effect of methoxamine 10(-6) M was prevented by inhibition of transsarcolemmal Ca2+ ion influx by nisoldipine 10(-8) M or by inhibition of release of Ca2+ from sarcoplasmic reticulum by ryanodine 10(-9) M to 10(-8) M. Thus in isolated normoxic rat heart preparations, activity of the alpha 1-receptor appears to mediate ventricular arrhythmogenesis but only in the setting of myocardial calcium overload. The arrhythmogenic effect of alpha 1-stimulation may be due to increased transsarcolemmal calcium influx and enhanced release of calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum; increased myocardial oxygen consumption secondary to greater left ventricular pressure development may contribute in part.
A patient with Fanconi's anemia who developed a hepatoma after 50 months of therapy with anabolic steroids is reported. The lesion presented as a cold focal defect on a Tc99m sulfur colloid scintigram, but was avascular on dynamic scintigraphy. Both the unusual avascularity of the hepatoma, and its association with anabolic steriod therapy are discussed.
Tamoxifen, which binds to estrogen receptors, is widely used as adjuvant therapy after surgery for early-stage breast cancer. Our previous randomized trial of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy for breast cancer showed a significant decrease of new, contralateral breast cancers in patients who received tamoxifen. Tamoxifen may also influence risk factors for cardiac and thromboembolic disease (e.g., serum cholesterol and antithrombin III).
The purpose of this study was to assess morbidity from cardiac and thromboembolic disease among 2365 postmenopausal patients with early-stage breast cancer in the Stockholm randomized trial of adjuvant tamoxifen (40 mg daily for 2 or 5 years) versus no adjuvant endocrine therapy. Patients were entered in the study from November 1976 through December 1988.
In our retrospective study, the analysis of morbidity was based on data from a computerized, population-based register of hospital admissions and discharge diagnoses. Mortality data were obtained from the Swedish National Central Bureau of Statistics. In the Stockholm study, treatment with tamoxifen was initiated within 4-6 weeks of modified radical mastectomy or breast-conserving surgery including axillary lymph node dissection and postoperative radiation therapy to the breast. In that randomized trial, 755 patients at low risk of death from breast cancer received adjuvant tamoxifen only; 760 received no treatment. In addition, 628 high-risk patients were randomly assigned to receive adjuvant chemotherapy plus tamoxifen (173 patients) or postoperative radiotherapy plus tamoxifen (151) or, as a control, to receive chemotherapy (171) or postoperative radiation therapy (133), both without tamoxifen or other endocrine therapy. Median follow-up was 6 years.
Tamoxifen therapy resulted in a statistically significant reduced incidence of hospital admissions due to cardiac disease. The relative hazard (tamoxifen for 2 or 5 years versus control) was 0.68 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.48-0.97; P = .03). In the randomized comparison of 5 versus 2 years of tamoxifen, there was a statistically significant difference favoring the longer treatment (relative hazard = 0.37; 95% CI = 0.15-0.92; P = .03). There was little difference between the tamoxifen and control groups in terms of admissions due to thromboembolic disease.
These findings suggest that long-term adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen may result in substantial reduction of cardiac morbidity in patients with low risk of death from breast cancer as well as in women in chemopreventive studies who have high risk of developing breast cancer.
Our results support continuation of ongoing trials of tamoxifen therapy in these two groups of subjects.
A series of ureido-substituted benzenesulfonamides was prepared that showed a very interesting profile for the inhibition of several human carbonic anhydrases (hCAs, EC 4.2.1.1), such as hCAs I and II (cytosolic isoforms) and hCAs IX and XII (transmembrane, tumor-associated enzymes). Excellent inhibition of all these isoforms has been observed with various members of the series, depending on the substitution pattern of the urea moiety. Several low nanomolar CA IX/XII inhibitors also showing good selectivity for the transmembrane over the cytosolic isoforms have been discovered. One of them, 4-{[(3'-nitrophenyl)carbamoyl]amino}benzenesulfonamide, significantly inhibited the formation of metastases by the highly aggressive 4T1 mammary tumor cells at pharmacologic concentrations of 45 mg/kg, constituting an interesting candidate for the development of conceptually novel antimetastatic drugs.
The introduction of melphalan and prednisone 40 years ago was a significant advance in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). In the following decades, significant advances were few, but included landmarks, such as the introduction of VAD and autologous transplantation during the 1980s and bisphosphonates in the 1990s. Although response rates to therapy were increased, overall survival was not significantly improved. In 1999, the treatment of myeloma was revolutionized by the introduction of thalidomide. Subsequently, the development of the immunomodulatory thalidomide analogues and the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib have impacted on response rates to therapy in relapsed and refractory myeloma and are currently being evaluated as primary therapy for myeloma. Early results suggest activity in combination with standard therapy to overcome drug resistance in patients with early stage disease and are changing treatment strategies in multiple myeloma. As an increasing number of other novel therapeutics is identified and mechanisms of resistance are elucidated, combinations of these drugs will be developed to optimize new therapeutic regimens.
Over a quarter of the U.S. population is exposed to harmful levels of airborne particulate matter (PM) pollution, which has been linked to development and exacerbation of respiratory diseases leading to morbidity and mortality, especially in susceptible populations. Young children are especially susceptible to PM and can experience altered anatomic, physiologic, and biological responses. Current studies of ambient PM are confounded by the complex mixture of soot, metals, allergens, and organics present in the complex mixture as well as seasonal and temporal variance. We have developed a laboratory-based PM devoid of metals and allergens that can be replicated to study health effects of specific PM components in animal models. We exposed 7-day-old postnatal and adult rats to a single 6-h exposure of fuel-rich ultrafine premixed flame particles (PFPs) or filtered air. These particles are high in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons content. Pulmonary cytotoxicity, gene, and protein expression were evaluated at 2 and 24 h postexposure. Neonates were more susceptible to PFP, exhibiting increased lactate dehydrogenase activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and ethidium homodimer-1 cellular staining in the lung in situ as an index of cytotoxicity. Basal gene expression between neonates and adults differed for a significant number of antioxidant, oxidative stress, and proliferation genes and was further altered by PFP exposure. PFP diminishes proliferation marker PCNA gene and protein expression in neonates but not adults. We conclude that neonates have an impaired ability to respond to environmental exposures that increases lung cytotoxicity and results in enhanced susceptibility to PFP, which may lead to abnormal airway growth.
Examination of three retinoid X receptor (RXR) agonists [Targretin (TRG), UAB30, and 4-methyl-UAB30 (4-Me-UAB30)] showed that all inhibited mammary cancer in rodents and two (TRG and 4-Me-UAB30) strikingly increased serum triglyceride levels. Agents were administered in diets to female Sprague-Dawley rats. Liver RNA was isolated and microarrayed on the Affymetrix GeneChip Rat Exon 1.0 ST array. Statistical tests identified genes that exhibited differential expression and fell into groups, or modules, with differential expression among agonists. Genes in specific modules were changed by one, two, or all three agonists. An interactome analysis assessed the effects on genes that heterodimerize with known nuclear receptors. For proliferator-activated receptor α/RXR-activated genes, the strongest response was TRG > 4-Me-UAB30 > UAB30. Many liver X receptor/RXR-related genes (e.g., Scd-1 and Srebf1, which are associated with increased triglycerides) were highly expressed in TRG and 4-Me-UAB30- but not UAB30-treated livers. Minimal expression changes were associated with retinoic acid receptor or vitamin D receptor heterodimers by any of the agonists. UAB30 unexpectedly and uniquely activated genes associated with the aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (Ah) receptor (Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, Cyp1b1, and Nqo1). Based on the Ah receptor activation, UAB30 was tested for its ability to prevent dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary cancers, presumably by inhibiting DMBA activation, and was highly effective. Gene expression changes were determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in rat livers treated with Targretin for 2.3, 7, and 21 days. These showed similar gene expression changes at all three time points, arguing some steady-state effect. Different patterns of gene expression among the agonists provided insight into molecular differences and allowed one to predict certain physiologic consequences of agonist treatment.
Neuroactive steroids demonstrate pharmacological actions that have relevance for a host of neurological and psychiatric disorders. They offer protection against seizures in a range of models and seem to inhibit certain stages of drug dependence in preclinical assessments. The present study was designed to evaluate two endogenous and one synthetic neuroactive steroid that positively modulate the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor against the increase in sensitivity to the convulsant effects of cocaine engendered by repeated cocaine administration (seizure kindling). Allopregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one), pregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5beta-pregnan-20-one) and ganaxolone (a synthetic derivative of allopregnanolone 3alpha-hydroxy-3beta-methyl-5alpha-pregnan-20-one) were tested for their ability to suppress the expression (anticonvulsant effect) and development (antiepileptogenic effect) of cocaine-kindled seizures in male, Swiss-Webster mice. Kindled seizures were induced by daily administration of 60 mg/kg cocaine for 5 days. All of these positive GABA(A) modulators suppressed the expression of kindled seizures, whereas only allopregnanolone and ganaxolone inhibited the development of kindling. Allopregnanolone and pregnanolone, but not ganaxolone, also reduced cumulative lethality associated with kindling. These findings demonstrate that some neuroactive steroids attenuate convulsant and sensitizing properties of cocaine and add to a growing literature on their potential use in the modulation of effects of drugs of abuse.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) such as benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) are ubiquitous environmental pollutants found in tobacco smoke, air pollution, and grilled foods. Prenatal exposure to BaP causes premature reproductive senescence in mice, and other PAHs are transplacental ovarian carcinogens. Glutathione (GSH) is critical for detoxification of the reactive metabolites of PAHs. Therefore, we hypothesized that mice that are genetically deficient in GSH synthesis, due to deletion of the modifier subunit of glutamate cysteine ligase (Gclm), the rate-limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis, have increased destruction of oogonia, premature ovarian failure, and ovarian tumorigenesis after transplacental BaP exposure compared with Gclm(+/+) females. Gclm(+/-) female and male mice were mated, and dams were treated with 0, 2, or 10 mg/kg/d BaP in sesame oil by gavage from gestational days 7 to 16. Compared with oil-treated F1 females of the same genotype, Gclm(-/-) prenatally BaP-treated females had significantly greater decrements in offspring production than Gclm(+/+) BaP-treated females. Similarly, we observed significant BaP dose × Gclm genotype interactions on ovarian follicle counts and ovarian tumor multiplicity at 7.5 months of age, with Gclm(-/-) females having greater decrements in follicle numbers and more ovarian tumors in response to prenatal BaP exposure than Gclm(+/+) females. The ovarian tumors were positive for the epithelial marker cytokeratin. Our results show that prenatal exposure of females to BaP causes premature ovarian failure and ovarian tumorigenesis and that embryonic GSH deficiency due to deletion of Gclm increases sensitivity to these transplacental ovarian effects of BaP.
Although stromal-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) via its cognate receptor CXCR4 is assumed to play a critical role in migration of endothelial cells during new vessel formation after tissue injury, CXCR4 expression on endothelial cells is strictly regulated. Erythromycin (EM), a 14-membered ring macrolide, has an anti-inflammatory effect that may account for its clinical benefit in the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases. However, the effects of EM on endothelial cells and especially their expression of CXCR4 have not been fully evaluated. In this study, we demonstrated that EM markedly induced CXCR4 surface expression on microvascular endothelial cells in vitro and lung capillary endothelial cells in vivo. This ability to induce CXCR4 surface expression on endothelial cells was restricted to 14-membered ring macrolides and was not observed in other antibiotics including a 16-membered ring macrolide, josamycin. Furthermore, this EM-induced expression of CXCR4 on endothelial cells was functionally significant as demonstrated by chemotaxis assays in vitro. These findings suggest that EM-induced CXCR4 surface expression on endothelial cells may promote migration of CXCR4-expressing endothelial cells into sites of tissue injury, which may be associated with the known anti-inflammatory activity of this macrolide.
The endogenous estradiol metabolite estradiol 17beta-D-glucuronide (E(2)17G) induces an acute cholestasis in rat liver coincident with retrieval of the canalicular transporters bile salt export pump (Bsep, Abcc11) and multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2, Abcc2) and their associated loss of function. We assessed the participation of Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase C isoforms (cPKC) in the cholestatic manifestations of E(2)17G in perfused rat liver (PRL) and in isolated rat hepatocyte couplets (IRHCs). In PRL, E(2)17G (2 mumol/liver; intraportal, single injection) maximally decreased bile flow, total glutathione, and [(3)H] taurocholate excretion by 61%, 62%, and 79%, respectively; incorporation of the specific cPKC inhibitor Gö6976 (500 nM) in the perfusate almost totally prevented these decreases. In dose-response studies using IRHC, E(2)17G (3.75-800 muM) decreased the canalicular vacuolar accumulation of the Bsep substrate cholyl-lysylfluorescein with an IC50 of 54.9 +/- 7.9 muM. Gö6976 (1 muM) increased the IC50 to 178.4 +/- 23.1 muM, and similarly prevented the decrease in the canalicular vacuolar accumulation of the Mrp2 substrate, glutathione methylfluorescein. Prevention of these changes by Gö6976 coincided with complete protection against E(2)17G-induced retrieval of Bsep and Mrp2 from the canalicular membrane, as detected both in the PRL and IRHC. E(2)17G also increased paracellular permeability in IRHC, which was only partially prevented by Gö6976. The cPKC isoform PKCalpha, but not the Ca(2+)-independent PKC isoform, PKCepsilon, translocated to the plasma membrane after E(2)17G administration in primary cultured rat hepatocytes; Gö6976 completely prevented this translocation, thus indicating specific activation of cPKC. This is consistent with increased autophosphorylation of cPKC by E(2)17G, as detected via western blotting.
Our findings support a central role for cPKC isoforms in E(2)17G-induced cholestasis, by inducing both transporter retrieval from the canalicular membrane and opening of the paracellular route.
