Chlorpromazine (CPZ) is a long recognized cause of jaundice, but the mechanism by which this agent produces icteric liver disease is not well defined. This study examined some effects of CPZ administration on bilirubin metabolism and biliary secretion in the rat. Acute CPZ treatment (25 mg per kg intravenously) produced hemolysis and resulted in increased bilirubin output and stimulation of hepatic heme synthesis. Both unconjugated bilirubin and a gamma-azopigment found primarily in obstructed rat bile were seen. Acute infusion of hemoglobin solutions to simulate the hemolysis produced by acute CPZ treatment resulted in increased bilirubin output and increased hepatic heme synthesis, but no alterations in the normal conjugation pattern of bilirubin in bile were seen. Chronic CPZ treatment for 4 and 8 days (25 mg per kg intraperitoneally) increased bilirubin output without elevating plasma hemoglobin levels and increased the fraction of monoconjugated bilirubin in bile; the 8-day chronic treatment regimen also caused unconjugated bilirubin to appear in bile. No change in liver weight, bile salt, phospholipid, or cholesterol output was seen with chronic CPZ therapy. Changes in bilirubin production and conjugation caused by CPZ may be a contributing factor in this agent's hepatotoxicity.
The primary objective of this prospective, open, non controlled, multicenter study was to collect data on migraine patient's health related quality of life before and after treatment of their migraine attacks b naratriptan orl 2.5 mg over a 12 week period.
The impact on health related quality of life was evaluated by the mean change from pre-treatment scores on the French migraine health related quality of life specific questionnaire (QVM).
244 patients have been included in the study. A statistically significant score improvement in health related quality of life, as measured by the global score and the four scores related to the four dimensions of the QVM questionnaire (functional, psychological, social and therapeutic) was observed compared to the pre-treatment score values. At the end of the treatment period, 67% of patients preferred naratriptan oral 2.5 mg to their usual treatment.
Those data suggest that the use of naratriptan oral 2.5 mg for the treatment of migraine attacks during a 12 week period may be associated with a significant improvement in migraine patient's quality of life.
I have described a patient with scleroderma whose sex, age at onset of symptoms, and history of long-term intravenous use of cocaine suggest a possible causative role of cocaine in his disease.
Relative daytime drowsiness and performance impairment produced by meclizine and dimenhydrinate was assessed in 24 healthy male volunteers. Subjects received either dimenhydrinate, 100 mg, at 8:00 AM, 12:00 PM, and 4:00 PM; meclizine, 50 mg, at 8:00 AM, with placebo at 12:00 PM and 4:00 PM; or placebo at all three times in this randomized, double-blind, three-way crossover study. Impairment of mental performance was assessed by choice reaction time testing and digit symbol substitution scores. Drowsiness was self-assessed on the Stanford Sleepiness Scale and on a visual analog scale. Both antihistamines produced changes in digit symbol substitution, recognition time, and subjective assessments of sleepiness different from placebo. Expressed as change from baseline, the greatest reductions in digit symbol substitution scores after dimenhydrinate occurred 3 hours after the first dose (6.6 +/- 7) and were not different from the greatest measured change after meclizine (5.8 +/- 8), which occurred 9 hours after the dose was administered. Similar results were obtained with the other psychometric test scores. Self-rated sleepiness after dimenhydrinate was greatest 1 hour after the first dose, and was significantly greater than the largest degree of sleepiness after meclizine, which occurred at 7 hours after the dose. The effects of the first dose of dimenhydrinate on psychometric test scores were compared with the magnitude of the effects produced by subsequent doses. The magnitude of effect of the first dose of dimenhydrinate was significantly greater than the magnitude of effect produced by subsequent doses. The data suggest the possibility that acute tolerance to central nervous system impairment develops with multiple doses of dimenhydrinate.
We present a patient in whom indomethacin treatment for acute gouty arthritis induced reversible azotaemia and hyperkalaemia. Re-introduction of the drug under controlled conditions of metabolic balance resulted in recurrence of hyperkalaemia and azotaemia, and was associated with a fall in plasma renin activity, but no change was observed in plasma aldosterone. Since potassium retention and hyperkalaemia occurred in the absence of hypoaldosteronism, other factors must be invoked to explain the observed upset in potassium homeostasis. This, and other recent case reports suggest that prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors such as indomethacin should be used with caution, especially in patients with pre-existing azotaemia, congestive heart failure, or gout.
The aim of this study is to investigate the optimal injection time of alfentanil during induction of anesthesia to blunt the circulatory responses induced by laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation.
Seventy-five patients of ASA class I or II were randomly assigned to five groups. Group I was the placebo group in which the patients received normal saline 2 ml just before induction. Patients in groups II, III, IV and V received alfentanil 10 microg/kg at 5, 3, 1 and 0.5 min before intubation respectively. Anesthesia was maintained with 1.5% isoflurane and nitrous oxide in 50% oxygen (2:2 L/min). The patients' heart rate and blood pressure before and after intubation were documented and compared. The occurrence of adverse effects was also recorded.
Patients' demographic data, baseline hemodynamic profile and the laryngoscopic time did not differ among the five groups. The patients in groups II, III and IV showed decreased heart rate compared with group I within 3 min after intubation. The patients in group V like those in group I did not show a reduction in heart rate 1 min after intubation. The patients in groups II, III, IV and V all showed reduced systolic blood pressure and rate-pressure product (RPP) 2 min after intubation. The occurrence of hypotension and bradycardia was not different among the five groups; hypertension and high RPP were less in groups II, III and IV as compared with group I. Ninety-three percent patients in group II and group III suffered from dizziness after alfentanil administration. One patient in group II had nausea and another one patient displayed hypoxemia after alfentanil administration.
Considering equal effectiveness and fewer side effects, one minute before intubation is the optimal injection time of alfentanil to blunt the circulatory responses induced by laryngoscopy and tracheal intubation.
The efficacy and acceptability of bromocriptine in suppressing postpartum lactation was determined in a double blind study in which bromocriptine 2.5 mg twice daily for 14 days was compared with a placebo. Forty women who decide during the antenatal period not to breast feed entered the study. The bromocriptine treated group had significantly less mammary secretion and breast engorgement than the control group and also required less analgesia. The most noticeable side effects during the trial were dizziness, headache and abdominal pain. The only statistical difference between the two groups was a higher incidence of dizziness in the bromocriptine treated group.
A 58-year-old woman with Parkinson's disease was treated with high-dose pergolide for 10 years. After the addition of citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, to treat an anxiety disorder, she developed cardiac decompensation that was most likely related to typical pergolide-related fibroproliferative abnormalities of the tricuspidal, aortic and mitral valves, without cardiomyopathy or coronary heart disease. The aortic and tricuspidal valves were replaced with prosthetics and pergolide was switched to ropinirol. At a control visit after one year, patient's heart function was stable. Pergolide is an ergot-derived dopamine agonist used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and restless-legs syndrome. In 2002, it was first associated with heart-valve defects. Patients treated with pergolide should be monitored for clinical signs of heart-valve failure. If there is no evidence of heart-valve defects, then regular monitoring of cardiac function is indicated. In case of indications of heart-valve failure pergolide should be discontinued. In some cases the heart-valve abnormalitites are reversible.
We report here the long-term sequelae in 22 patients with L-tryptophan-induced eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS). The mean follow-up was 23 months (range, 5 to 40 months). Myalgia, rash, pruritus, edema, and respiratory symptoms often improved with the use of corticosteroids, but fatigue and weakness persisted in most cases. Other abnormalities that commonly persisted were arthralgia, muscle-cramping, peripheral neuropathy, and thickened skin. One patient had chronic pulmonary hypertension. These findings indicate that for most patients, EMS is a chronic disorder.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of orexin-A in the spinal cord on bladder function in normal rats and cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis rat models. The effects of intrathecal (i.t.) injection of orexin-A (0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 nmol) on bladder function were examined during continuous infusion cystometrogram (CMG) in urethane anesthetized normal and CYP-induced cystitis rats. The effects of i.t. injection of selective orexin-1 receptor (OXR1) antagonist SB334867 (10 nmol) on orexin-A-induced bladder overactivity in normal rats and SB334867 (10 and 30 nmol) on changes in bladder function in normal and CYP-induced cystitis rats were investigated. The effects of intravenous (i.v.) injection of orexin-A (0.3 and 1.0 nmol) on micturition reflex were also investigated in normal rats. I.t. injection of orexin-A (0.1 and 1.0 nmol) significantly decreased the intercontraction intervals (ICI) in normal and CYP-induced cystitis rats. I.t. injection of SB334867 (10 nmol) significantly increased the ICI of orexin-A induced overactive bladder in normal rats and i.t. injection of SB334867 (30 nmol) also increased the ICI in normal rat bladder. However, in CYP-injected cystitis rat models, i.t. injection of SB334867 did not change the bladder function. I.v. injection of orexin-A failed to affect the bladder function in normal rats. Orexin mRNA levels in the lateral hypothalamus were significantly decreased in CYP-induced cystitis rats. These results indicate that orexin-A in the spinal cord activates micturition reflex via OXR1 in normal rats. In addition, OXR1 antagonist did not have any effect on micturition reflex in CYP-induced cystitis rats.
The intensity of putative benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms was evaluated as part of a double blind placebo-controlled study of benzodiazepines and behaviour therapy in the management of agoraphobia. During the first phase of that study, some subjects were switched from low dose diazepam to placebo, and others remained on diazepam. Symptoms were evaluated in long-term benzodiazepine users (n = 30) and non-users n = 32) when they first entered the study and 4 weeks later, after both groups had been randomized to either diazepam or placebo, using eight analog rating scales measuring commonly reported withdrawal symptoms. At baseline, both users and non-users reported a substantial number of symptoms, with higher levels in the more anxious patients, but no differences between groups. After the transition to either diazepam or placebo, the users switched to placebo reported significantly higher levels of symptoms than users switched to diazepam and non-users combined. Multiple regression analysis suggested that the increase in symptoms was associated with the increase in anxiety, which was higher in the withdrawing group than the other three groups. These results raise questions concerning the extent to which withdrawal symptoms uniquely characterize benzodiazepine withdrawal. They confirm the common assumption that an increase in symptoms often accompanies withdrawal from benzodiazepines, but suggest that such symptoms are not so intense as to make withdrawal excessively difficult, at least in low-dose users.
An animal study was carried out to examine the beneficial influence of the known hypocholesterolemic spice principle-capsaicin on the susceptibility of low-density lipoprotein to oxidation in normal and hypercholesterolemic condition. In rats rendered hypercholeterolemic by maintaining them on a cholesterol-enriched diet for eight weeks, inclusion of capsaicin (0.015%) in the diet, produced significant hypocholesterolemic effect. Oxidation of low-density lipoprotein was induced either by copper ion in vitro after its isolation, or by ferrous ion in vivo in experimental rats under either normal or hypercholesterolemic situation and the beneficial effect of dietary capsaicin on the same was evaluated. LDL oxidation was measured by the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) formed and relative electrophoretic mobility of oxidized LDL. Dietary capsaicin was found to be protective to the LDL oxidation in vitro in the case of normal rats as indicated by reduction in TBARS by more than 40%. In the case of LDL isolated from hypercholesterolemic rats the extent of copper induced LDL oxidation was significantly lower than that of LDL isolated from normal rats. Dietary capsaicin did not make any difference in the extent of LDL oxidation in vitro in hypercholesterolemic rats. Ferrous ion induced in vivo oxidation of LDL was 71% lower in capsaicin fed normal rats. In high cholesterol feeding, Fe-induced in vivo oxidation of LDL was 73% lower, while the same was still marginally lower in capsaicin fed hypercholesterolemic rats. Hepatic lipid peroxidation was significantly decreased by dietary capsaicin in normal rats. While a significantly decreased level of lipid peroxidation was observed in hypercholesterolemic rats compared to normal rats, the same was not significantly altered by dietary capsaicin. Results suggest that dietary spice principle capsaicin is protective to LDL oxidation both in vivo and in vitro under normal situation, while in hypercholesterolemic situation where the extent of LDL oxidation is already lowered, capsaicin does not offer any further reduction.
To study the effect of zonisamide on experimental tremors in rats.
Effect of zonisamide on harmaline- or oxotreorine-induced tremors, and tacrine-induced tremulous jaw movements (TJMs) was studied.
Zonisamide significantly suppressed both harmaline- and oxotremorine-induced tremors dose-dependently. Zonisamide also significantly suppressed tacrine-induced TJMs, and this effect was not lost under conditions of monoamine-depletion or dopaminergic blockade.
The anti-tremor effects of zonisamide may be achieved by a non-dopaminergic mechanism. Since it effectively suppressed tremors that are based on different kinds of tremors, we propose a novel perspective of clinical potential of zonisamide as a non-specific, anti-tremor drug.
The matrix type transdermal drug delivery systems (TDDS) of metoprolol were prepared by film casting technique using a fabricated stainless steel film casting apparatus and characterized in vitro by drug release, skin permeation, skin irritation, and in vivo pharmacodynamic and stability studies. Four formulations were prepared that differed in the ratio of matrix forming polymers. Formulations M-1, M-2, M-3, and M-4 were composed of Eudragit RL-100 and polyvinyl acetate with the following ratios: 2:8, 4:6, 6:4, and 8:2, respectively. All the four formulations carried 10% (w/w) of metoprolol tartrate, 5% (w/w) of dibutylphthalate, and 5% (w/w) of (+/-) menthol in dichloromethane:isopropyl alcohol (80:20 v/v). Cumulative amount of drug released in 48 hr from the four formulations was 79.16%, 81.17%, 85.98%, and 95.04%. The corresponding values for cumulative amount of drug permeated for the said formulations were 59.72%, 66.52%, 77.36%, and 90.38%. On the basis of in vitro drug release and skin permeation performance, formulation M-4 was found to be better than the other three formulations and it was selected as the optimized formulation. The formulation appeared to be stable when stored at 40 degrees C and 75% RH with negligible degradation of the drug. The TDDS was found to be free of any skin irritation as suggested by skin irritation score of 1.16 (<2.00) under Draize score test. Statistically significant reduction in mean blood pressure (p < .01) was achieved in methyl prednisolone-induced hypertensive rats on treatment with the TDDS.
Bretylium tosylate (Bretylol) has recently been approved for parenteral use against resistant ventricular arrhythmias. The pharmacologic action of bretylium is complex, and its antiarrhythmic action differs significantly from other drugs. Bretylium is an adrenergic neuronal blocking agent taken up selectively at peripheral adrenergic nerve terminals, where it initially releases norepinephrine (sympathomimetic effect) and then produces adrenergic neuronal blockade. It has direct cardiac membrane effect to prolong action potential duration and effective refractory period but, unlike other membrane active antiarrhythmic agents, does not depress conduction velocity or automaticity. Bretylium increases ventricular fibrillation threshold and prevents the decrease in ventricular fibrillation threshold associated with myocardial ischemia. It does not depress myocardial contractility. Clinical studies have shown parenteral bretylium to be effective in suppressing ventricular arrhythmias, particularly recurrent, drug resistant ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
We present a case of early (within the first 24 hours) development of malignant torsades de pointes (TdP) associated with intravenous amiodarone therapy. After correction of predisposing factors (heart failure, hypokalemia, digoxin) amiodarone again resulted in torsades. This observation suggests that in patients who have experienced amiodarone-induced proarrhythmia, amiodarone administration under different, more stable clinical conditions may still be hazardous.
Methylene-bis-orthochloroaniline (MOCA) induced a wide spectrum of neoplasms in male rats fed either a protein-adequate (27 percent casein) or a protein-deficient (8 percent casein) diet. The concentrations of MOCA used were 125, 250, 500 and 1000 ppm. Increasing doses of MOCA in either diet resulted in decreased survival times. MOCA induced pulmonary adenomas, adenocarcinomas, mammary gland adenocarcinomas, Zymbal gland carcinomas, hepatocellular carcinomas, and hemangiosarcomas. In both diet groups the lungs were the most sensitive organs to the induction of neoplasms by MOCA. The incidence of primary pulmonary neoplasms in the lowest dose tested (125 ppm) was 6 percent (p less than or equal to 0.01), while in the highest dose (1000 ppm) it was 70 percent (p less than or equal to 0.01). The hepatocellular carcinoma incidence in rats fed a protein-deficient diet with 500 ppm MOCA was 18 percent, whereas in rats fed a protein-adequate diet with the same MOCA concentration this incidence was only 4 percent. The mean urinary concentration of MOCA in the group of rats fed the lowest dose (125 ppm-PD) was 0.63 ppm, a concentration comparable to that measured in the urine of workers exposed to MOCA.
The occurrence of concomitant first and second degree sinoatrial block due to chronic amiodarone treatment in 1 patient with moderate mitral valve stenosis is described. Discontinuation of amiodarone resulted in the disappearance of such a sinoatrial conduction disturbance.
This study was designed to investigate the effect of 2,3-dihydro-N, N-dimethyl-2-oxo-3-[(4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-indol-2-yl)methylene]-1H-indole-5-sulfonamide (SU-6656), a selective inhibitor of src family kinase, on the development of naloxone-induced opioid withdrawal syndrome in mice. Subacute morphine administration followed by a single injection of naloxone (8 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) was used to precipitate the opioid withdrawal syndrome in mice. Behavioral observations were made immediately after naloxone treatment. The withdrawal syndrome was quantitatively assessed in terms of withdrawal severity score and frequency of jumping, rearing, forepaw licking, and circling. Daily single administration of SU-6656 was continued during the morphine treatment procedure. Injection of naloxone precipitated severe withdrawal in morphine-dependent mice. However, once-daily administration of SU-6656 (1.5, 3, and 6 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) markedly and dose-dependently attenuated the naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome. Therefore, it seems that an src family-kinase-linked mechanism is involved in the development of physiological opioid dependence; thus, src family kinase may serve as a potential target to address the pathological condition of physiological dependence and abstinence associated with continuous opioid usage.
Acute hypertensive states can produce antinociception, largely via unknown mechanisms. The aim of the present series of experiments was to examine potential hormonal and neural bases of analgesia induced by i.v. infusion of the pressor (hypertensive) agent phenylephrine. All rats were implanted with right jugular and left carotid cannulae for phenylephrine infusion and blood pressure/heart rate monitoring, respectively, and were tested approximately 24 h later in the unanesthetized state. The tail-flick test was used to measure responsivity prior to, during, and after phenylephrine infusion. Potential adrenal and pituitary contributions to phenylephrine-induced antinociception were examined, respectively, by physical disruption of adrenal blood flow and pharmacological suppression of pituitary activation. Acute block of all adrenal hormones, via closure at the time of testing of pre-implanted adrenal ligatures, did not block phenylephrine antinociception. However, pharmacological suppression of pituitary activation via pretreatment with the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone abolished phenylephrine antinociception. Intriguingly, dexamethasone had no noticeable effect on urination prior to phenylephrine administration, yet only dexamethasone-treated rats exhibited copious urination during phenylephrine infusion. This suggests that the hypertensive agent phenylephrine releases vasopressin from the posterior pituitary terminals of the paraventricular hypothalamus (PVH) in a dexamethasone-suppressible manner, possibly via the known baroreceptor-nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS)-PVH link. Since (1) bilateral lesions of the spinal cord dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) were shown in the current study to abolish phenylephrine antinociception, (2) PVH is known to send vasopressinergic projections to the spinal cord via the DLF, and (3) intrathecal vasopressin produces antinociception via V1-like vasopressin receptors, the effect of an intrathecal V1 vasopressin antagonist was tested on phenylephrine-induced antinociception. The V1 vasopressin antagonist blocked phenylephrine antinociception, suggesting that phenylephrine antinociception may be mediated by a baroreceptor-NTS-PVH-DLF circuit leading to vasopressin release at spinal levels.
The metabolism and disposition of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) and 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole (ANFT) were studied in rat and guinea pig. Rat is susceptible whereas guinea pig is resistant to FANFT-induced bladder cancer. Rats and guinea pigs were p.o. administered either 2-[14C]ANFT or 2-[14C]FANFT (100 mg/kg), and 18-h urine and feces were collected. Tissue distribution of radiolabel was determined. In both species, the highest concentrations of radioactivity expressed as nmol/g tissue were observed in the urine and intestines. Urinary metabolites were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography and radioactivity determined by radioanalytical detection. FANFT was not detected in urine from either species under any experimental condition. More ANFT was observed in urine following FANFT than ANFT administration. This deformylation-dependent excretion of FANFT was demonstrated in both species and has been previously described as renal metabolic/excretory coupling. Less ANFT, the carcinogen more proximate than FANFT, is excreted in guinea pigs compared with rats. A unique ANFT metabolite was identified in guinea pig but not rat urine. This metabolite represented 80 and 18% of radioactivity recovered in guinea pig urine following ANFT and FANFT administration, respectively. A metabolite produced by guinea pig liver and kidney microsomes in the presence of uridine-5'-diphosphoglucuronic acid coeluted with this unique metabolite. The urinary metabolite was characterized using hydrolytic enzymes, acid hydrolysis, and mass spectrometry and identified as an ANFT-N-glucuronide. A unique UDP-glucuronosyl-transferase appears to be responsible, at least in part, for the reduced amount of free ANFT excreted by guinea pigs compared with rats. Reduced levels of urinary ANFT observed in guinea pigs may partially explain the resistance of this species to FANFT-induced bladder cancer.
Drug-induced ototoxicity might sometimes be a problem in end-stage renal failure (ESRF) patients. However, ototoxicity secondary to isoniazid intake has not been reported in ESRF until now. During the last decade, ototoxicity was diagnosed in 16.6% (7/42) of our ESRF patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD) who also used antituberculosis therapy. Streptomycin was not included in any of these regimens, isoniazid was used by all 7 patients with ototoxicity and there was reversal of hearing loss in 2 of these patients after discontinuation of isoniazid. In our ESRF-HD patients who developed ototoxicity during the course of antituberculosis therapy, isoniazid was probably the responsible agent either alone or it added to the side effects of other drugs.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the beneficial effect of HIV protease inhibitor Indinavir on memory deficits associated with experimental dementia of Alzheimer disease's (AD) type. Dementia was induced in Swiss albino mice by administration of Celecoxib (100 mg kg(-1) orally, daily for 9 days) or Streptozotocin (3 mg kg(-1) administered intracerebroventricularly on 1st and 3rd day) and the cognitive behaviors of Swiss albino mice were assessed using Morris water maze test. Brain acetyl cholinesterase (AChE) activity was measured by Ell Mann's method. Brain thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) levels and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels were measured by Ohokawa's and Beutler's method respectively to assess total oxidative stress. Donepezil (0.1 mg kg(-1) i.p.) served as positive control in the present investigation. Celecoxib as well as Streptozotocin (STZ) produced a significant loss of learning and memory. Indinavir (100 and 200 mg kg(-1) orally) successfully attenuated Celecoxib as well as STZ induced cognitive deficits. Higher levels of brain AChE activity, TBARS and lower levels of GSH were observed in Celecoxib as well as STZ treated animals, which were significantly attenuated by Donepezil and Indinavir. Study highlights the potential of Indinavir in memory dysfunctions associated with dementia of AD.
Nitrofurans are antimicrobial compounds containing a nitro group at the 5-position of the furan ring and an amine or hydrazide side chain derivative. One member of the nitrofurans, nitrofurantoin (NFT), is a renal carcinogen in male rats despite its still controversial genotoxicity. We investigated chemical structure-related modes of action of NFT, and reporter gene mutation assays for NFT and its constituent moieties were performed. NFT, 5-nitro-2-furaldehyde (NFA), or 1-aminohydantoin (AHD) was administered to male F344 gpt delta rats by gavage for 4 or 13 weeks at a carcinogenic or the maximum tolerated dose. NFT caused a significant increase in gpt mutant frequency (MF) at 13 weeks with G-base substitution mutations. An increase in gpt MF was also observed in the NFA-treated group at 13 weeks, but not in the AHD-treated group. 8-Hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels in the kidney DNA of NFT-treated rats were significantly increased after 4 weeks. NFT caused accumulation of hyaline droplets indicated by positive immunostaining and western blot analysis for α2u-globulin in the proximal tubules. An additional study, in which female gpt delta rats were given NFT at the same dose used for males, was performed to mitigate the effect of α2u-globulin. NFT exerted the same effects on female rat kidneys to the same extent as males in terms of gpt MF and 8-OHdG level. Thus, it is highly probable that the structure of the nitro furan plays a key role in NFT-induced genotoxicity and genotoxic mechanisms including oxidative DNA damage are involved in NFT-induced renal carcinogenesis. α2u-globulin-mediated nephropathy may be a prerequisite for NFT-induced renal carcinogenesis in male rats, and additionally NFT could be a latent carcinogen in female rats and other animal species.
Phosphorylation of histone H2AX (γ-H2AX) in response to DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) should be eliminated from the sites of DNA damage to fulfill the DNA repair and release cells from the growth arrest. Previous study showed that protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) interact with γ-H2AX that lead to the dephosphorylation of γ-H2AX. Here, we examined the effects of suppression of PP2A regulatory subunits on dephosphorylation of γ-H2AX in human embryonic kidney epithelial cells (HEK) treated by topoisomerase I inhibitor camptothecin (CPT). We found that cells with suppression of B55α or B56ϵ were more sensitive to DNA damage agents. Suppression of B56ϵ led to persistence of γ-H2AX, resulting in prolonged DSBs repair and increased chromatin instability measured by comet assay. In addition, the deficiency of B56ϵ impaired the cell cycle regulation and the DNA repair pathway of homologous recombination (HR). Notably, we detected that PP2A B56ϵ subunit was involved directly in dephosphorylation of γ-H2AX and translocated from cytoplasm to nucleus upon the treatment of CPT. Our findings demonstrate that PP2A holoenzyme containing B56ϵ is responsible for the dephosphorylation of γ-H2AX and regulation of DNA repair of DSBs induced by CPT.
