As an acute neurotoxicity, high dose 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-induced encephalopathy is well-known, but encephalopathy associated with lower dose is rarely reported. Here, we report a case of a male with anal cancer who was treated with 5-FU 1000 mg/m(2), continuous infusion for 5 days q4 weeks. At the second and the fourth cycles of chemotherapy, sudden confusion, cognitive dysfunction and disorientation occurred during 5-FU infusion. They were accompanied by hyperammonemia in the absence of focal neurological deficits or structural abnormalities. These symptoms completely disappeared and the serum ammonia level returned to normal after discontinuation of 5-FU and conservative care. In order to investigate a possible deficit of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), we checked its mRNA level before and after treatment using real-time PCR. The patient's pre-treatment level was 80% compared with reference group, and it was elevated up to 187% of initial after 5-FU treatment, implying that that his encephalopathy may be 5-FU catabolite type rather than DPD deficiency. In conclusion, we report that encephalopathy can develop even with the dose of 5-FU lower than ever reported, and it should be considered as a differential diagnosis for proper management.
We report an 82-year-old man who developed ventricular tachycardia and Torsades de Pointes (TdP) after oral administration of garenoxacin, a novel quinolone antibiotic agent that differs from the third-generation quinolones, for pneumonia. He had hypokalemia (K 2.3 mmol/L) induced by licorice and also had received disopyramide for arrhythmia, bicalutamide for prostate cancer, and silodosin for prostate hypertrophy. After taking him off all drugs and administering spironolactone supplemented with potassium, his low serum potassium level was ameliorated. Therefore, although garenoxacin reportedly causes fewer adverse reactions for cardiac rhythms than third-generation quinolone antibiotics, one must be cautious of the interference of other drugs during hypokalemia in order to prevent TdP.
Flaxseed contains several dietary components that have been linked to low breast cancer risk; i.e., n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), lignans and fiber, but it also contains detectable levels of cadmium, a heavy metal that activates the estrogen receptor (ER). Since estrogenic exposures early in life modify susceptibility to develop breast cancer, we wondered whether maternal dietary intake of 5% or 10% flaxseed during pregnancy or lactation (between postpartum days 5 and 25) might affect 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary tumorigenesis in the rat offspring. Our data indicated that both in utero and postnatal 5% and 10% flaxseed exposures shortened mammary tumor latency, and 10% flaxseed exposure increased tumor multiplicity, compared to the controls. Further, when assessed in 8-week-old rats, in utero 10% flaxseed exposure increased lobular ER-alpha protein levels, and both in utero and postnatal flaxseed exposures dose-dependently reduced ER-beta protein levels in the terminal end buds (TEBs) lobules and ducts. Exposures to flaxseed did not alter the number of TEBs or affect cell proliferation within the epithelial structures. In a separate group of immature rats that were fed 5% defatted flaxseed diet (flaxseed source different than in the diets fed to pregnant or lactating rats) for 7 days, cadmium exposure through the diet was six-fold higher than allowed for humans by World Health Organization, and cadmium significantly accumulated in the liver and kidneys of the rats. It remains to be determined whether the increased mammary cancer in rats exposed to flaxseed through a maternal diet in utero or lactation was caused by cadmium present in flaxseed, and whether the reduced mammary ER-beta content was causally linked to increased mammary cancer risk among the offspring.
We studied ten individuals from eight families showing features consistent with the immuno-osseous dysplasia spondyloenchondrodysplasia. Of particular note was the diverse spectrum of autoimmune phenotypes observed in these individuals (cases), including systemic lupus erythematosus, Sjögren's syndrome, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, hypothyroidism, inflammatory myositis, Raynaud's disease and vitiligo. Haplotype data indicated the disease gene to be on chromosome 19p13, and linkage analysis yielded a combined multipoint log(10) odds (LOD) score of 3.6. Sequencing of ACP5, encoding tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase, identified biallelic mutations in each of the cases studied, and in vivo testing confirmed a loss of expressed protein. All eight cases assayed showed elevated serum interferon alpha activity, and gene expression profiling in whole blood defined a type I interferon signature. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized link between tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase activity and interferon metabolism and highlight the importance of type I interferon in the genesis of autoimmunity.
The present experiments were designed to evaluate the effects of pifithrin-alpha (PFT-alpha), which is a p53 inhibitor, on doxorubicin (DOX)-induced apoptosis and cardiac injury. Administration of DOX (22.5 mg/kg ip) in mice upregulated the mRNA levels of Bax and MDM2, whereas PFT-alpha attenuated those levels when administered at a total dose of 4.4 mg/kg at 30 min before and 3 h after DOX challenge. DOX treatment led to an upregulation of p53 protein levels, which was preceded by elevated levels of phosphorylated p53 at Ser15. PFT-alpha had no effect on the level of p53 or its phosphorylated form. The protein levels of Bax and MDM2 were elevated by DOX and attenuated by PFT-alpha. DOX gave rise to increased apoptosis-positive nuclei in cardiac cells, elevated serum creatine phosphokinase, ultrastructural alterations, and cardiac dysfunction. PFT-alpha offered protection against all of the aforementioned changes. Finally, PFT-alpha did not interfere with the antitumor potency of DOX. This study demonstrates that PFT-alpha effectively inhibits DOX-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis, which suggests that PFT-alpha has the potential to protect cancer patients against DOX-induced cardiac injury.
Thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections are a main feature of connective tissue disorders, such as Marfan syndrome and Loeys-Dietz syndrome. We delineated a new syndrome presenting with aneurysms, dissections and tortuosity throughout the arterial tree in association with mild craniofacial features and skeletal and cutaneous anomalies. In contrast with other aneurysm syndromes, most of these affected individuals presented with early-onset osteoarthritis. We mapped the genetic locus to chromosome 15q22.2-24.2 and show that the disease is caused by mutations in SMAD3. This gene encodes a member of the TGF-β pathway that is essential for TGF-β signal transmission. SMAD3 mutations lead to increased aortic expression of several key players in the TGF-β pathway, including SMAD3. Molecular diagnosis will allow early and reliable identification of cases and relatives at risk for major cardiovascular complications. Our findings endorse the TGF-β pathway as the primary pharmacological target for the development of new treatments for aortic aneurysms and osteoarthritis.
Determine the efficacy and timing of small molecule oligonucleotide-based inhibitors to the enzyme telomerase in an in vitro model of androgen-independent, osseous prostate cancer.
Telomerase was inhibited in prostate cancer cell lines C4-2/C4-2B and in controls by using small molecule antisense oligonucleotide-based inhibitors alone or in various combinations of small-dose Taxotere (sanofi-aventis, Bridgewater, NJ) and/or conditionally replication competent adenovirus (AD-BSP-E1a). After transfection and proliferation, telomerase telomeric repeat amplification protocol and telomere restriction fragment assays were performed, with specific times for evaluating telomere length. Specimens were stained for analysis with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labeling (TUNEL), and prostate-specific antigen (PSA).
C4-2/C4-2B cell lines had the shortest initial mean telomere length (approximately 2.5 kilobase [kb]) compared to PC-3 (approximately 5.5 kb). Dose-dependent inhibition of telomerase activity was seen using match oligonucleotide-based inhibitors to telomerase (50% inhibitory concentration 3-5 nm), whereas mismatch compound showed no telomerase inhibition. Significant growth delay and apoptosis in cell lines occurred after > 50 days of treatment. Cells treated with combination "triple therapy" (i.e., telomerase inhibitors, adenovirus, and Taxotere) had the highest amount of apoptosis. Compared to controls, all combination treatment groups had statistically significant reductions in prostate-specific antigen in the conditioned media.
Combining cytotoxic regimens with small molecule inhibitors to telomerase with oligonucleotide-based agents could be beneficial in controlling osseous hormone refractory prostate cancer, as evidenced by these in vitro, preclinical investigations. Telomerase inhibition needs to move into in vivo models and human studies.
Acetorphan is an orally active inhibitor of enkephalinase (EC 3.4.24.11) with antidiarrhoeal activity in rodents apparently through protection of endogenous enkephalins and a purely antisecretory mechanism. Its antidiarrhoeal activity in man was assessed in an experimental model of cathartic induced secretory diarrhoea as well as in acute diarrhoea of presumed infectious origin. In six healthy volunteers receiving castor oil and pretreated with acetorphan or placebo in a crossover controlled trial, the drug significantly decreased the number and weight of stools passed during 24 hours. About 200 outpatients with severe acute diarrhoea (more than five stools per day) were included in a randomised double blind study of acetorphan against placebo. The significant antidiarrhoeal activity of acetorphan was established using a variety of criteria: (i) the duration of both diarrhoea and treatment were diminished; (ii) no acetorphan treated patient withdrew from the study whereas five dropped out because of worsening in the placebo group; (iii) the frequency of symptoms associated with diarrhoea--for example, abdominal pain or distension, nausea and anorexia--remaining after two weeks was nearly halved; (iv) using visual analogue scales acetorphan treatment was found more effective than placebo by both investigators and patients. There was statistically no significant difference between acetorphan and placebo in respect of side effects, particularly constipation, which often accompanies the antidiarrhoeal activity of mu opioid receptor agonists this difference is attributable to the lack of antipropulsive activity of acetorphan in man. The efficacy and tolerance of acetorphan suggest that enkephalinase inhibition may represent a novel therapeutic approach for the symptomatic management of acute secretory diarrhoea without impairing intestinal transit.
Previously, the authors observed that paclitaxel treatment of hepatoma cells resulted in differential cytotoxicity. Whether other antimicrotubule agents (docetaxel and 2-methoxyestradiol) are more effective than paclitaxel is not clear. Moreover, whether the modulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is involved in the drug-induced growth inhibition of hepatoma cells is not known.
The authors examined the effects of 2-methoxyestradiol, paclitaxel, and docetaxel on HepG2, Hep3B, HA22T/VGH, and Hepa1-6 hepatoma cell lines. The parameters examined included cell viability, cell membrane permeability, cell cycle distribution, DNA fragmentation, and ROS generation.
Docetaxel and paclitaxel inhibited the growth of hepatoma cells at submicromolar concentrations, whereas that of 2-methoxyestradiol was within a micromolar range. This drug-induced growth inhibition was cell cycle dependent. 2-Methoxyestradiol-treated (10-50 microM) cells resulted in G2/M block prior to apoptosis. High dose (0.1 microM) docetaxel- and paclitaxel-treated cells resulted in a G2/M arrest followed by generation of polyploidy or apoptosis; however, low dose (0.01 microM) treatment induced apoptosis without G2/M arrest. The low dose effect was more significant in docetaxel-treated cells than in paclitaxel-treated cells. Although these antimicrotubule agents increased the formation of ROS, antioxidant treatment did not block drug-induced cell cycle and growth inhibition effects.
The current results suggest that the growth inhibition of hepatoma cells induced by 2-methoxyestradiol, paclitaxel, and docetaxel was mediated through G2/M-phase arrest, caspase activation, and DNA fragmentation. The drug-induced apoptosis was independent of ROS formation. Docetaxel was more effective than paclitaxel in killing hepatoma cells. The potential of using 2-methoxyestradiol and docetaxel for the treatment of patients with hepatoma is worthy of further study.
Among side effects due to sodium valproate (VPA) administration, parkinsonism is very rare. We report here three cases of VPA induced parkinsonism. Case 1 (75 year-old-woman) developed parkinsonism (rigidity, akinesia, postural instability) 41 month after the VPA administration (800 mg/day). Parkinsonism resolved within 6 months of discontinuing VPA. Case 2 (70 year-old-man) developed parkinsonism (rigidity, akinesia, postural instability, frozen gait) 15 months after the VPA administration (800 mg/day). Parkinsonism resolved within 6 months of discontinuing VPA. Case 3 (74 year-old-woman) developed parkinsonian gait 7 months after VPA administration (800 mg/ day). Parkinsonian gait resolved within a month of reducing VPA. Pathophysiologic mechanisms of this rare toxic reaction remain unknown. VPA induced parkinsonism is not so rare and has been under-reported and under-recognized. When we are confronted with the patients who develop parkinsonism after VPA administration, the possibility of VPA induced parkinsonism should be considered in the differential diagnosis. Old age, long duration of treatment, and VPA dose maintaining serum therapeutic levels might be predisposing factors for this syndrome.
Although dynorphin A-(1-17) has been characterized in vitro as a high efficacy kappa-opioid receptor agonist, functional studies of dynorphin A-(1-17) following central or systemic administration indicate the involvement of both opioid and non-opioid components. The aim of this study was to investigate whether local administration of dynorphin-related analogs can attenuate capsaicin (8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide)-induced nociception and what type of opioid receptor mediates the local action of dynorphin A-(1-17) in monkeys. Capsaicin (100 microg) was used to evoke a nociceptive response, thermal allodynia, which was manifested as a reduced tail-withdrawal latency in normally innocuous 46 degrees C warm water. Co-administration of dynorphin A-(1-17) (0.3-10 microg) with capsaicin in the tail dose-dependently inhibited thermal allodynia; however, both non-opioid fragments dynorphin A-(2-17) (10-300 microg) and dynorphin A-(2-13) (10-300 microg) were ineffective. Local antiallodynia of dynorphin A-(1-17) was antagonized by a small dose (100 microg) of an opioid receptor antagonist, quadazocine, applied s.c. in the tail. Pretreatment with a selective kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI), s.c. 320 microg in the tail also reversed local antiallodynia of dynorphin A-(1-17). Both locally effective doses of antagonists, when applied s.c. in the back, did not antagonize local dynorphin A-(1-17), indicating that peripheral kappa-opioid receptors selectively mediated the local action of dynorphin A-(1-17) in the tail. In addition, a much larger dose of dynorphin A-(1-17) (1000 microg), when administered s. c. in the back or i.m. in the thigh, did not cause sedative or diuretic effects. These results suggest that in vivo opioid actions of dynorphin-related peptides can be differentiated locally in this procedure. They also indicate that local application of peptidic ligands may be a useful medication for localized pain.
Antihypertensive drugs may lower blood pressure through very different mechanisms, initially as well as during chronic use. This article is a review of the immediate hemodynamic changes induced by a beta blocker (visacor), an alpha-receptor blocker (doxazosin), two calcium antagonists (tiapamil and nisoldipine), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (perindoprilat), two double-acting compounds (dilevalol and carvedilol), and placebo studied in 126 patients with mild to moderately severe essential hypertension. The patient populations of the different treatment groups were comparable. The invasive hemodynamic technique, including intraarterial blood pressure (BP) recording and measurements of cardiac output by cardiogreen, was the same in all studies. All antihypertensive compounds examined induced a rapid reduction in blood pressure both at rest and during exercise, while no significant changes occurred in the placebo group. This review shows the scope of hemodynamic responses, ranging from peripheral vasodilation to a reduction of heart rate and blood flow. Furthermore, different counterregulatory effects blunting the immediate BP reduction are demonstrated.
We report the case of a 53-year-old man with Crohn's disease who developed azathioprine-induced nodular regenerative hyperplasia of the liver. The diagnosis was suspected when abnormalities in liver function tests were observed and transabdominal ultrasonography and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed signs of portal hypertension. The final diagnosis was established by liver biopsy, showing the characteristic alterations in liver architecture. Outcome was favorable after treatment discontinuation, with complete normalization of liver function tests within a year. The present article describes the incidence and the main clinical characteristics of this adverse effect to thiopurines.
Drug-induced leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LCV) may present as the result of a single offending agent or more uncommonly, from a cross-reaction with a related medication. We describe a patient with sulfonamide allergy who developed LCV after exposure to a sulfonylurea. Sulfur-containing drugs may cross-react to induce LCV in susceptible individuals.
Patients with prednisone-resistant nephrotic syndrome and biopsy-proven focal segmental glomerulosclerosis were treated with intravenous methylprednisone. After the first 2 weeks of therapy, the average urine protein excretion decreased from 247 to 96 mg/m2/h (p less than 0.04). Two of the 7 patients have had long-term, nearly complete remissions. The other patients relapsed. One relapsing patient was retreated with methylprednisolone and is now in remission. Four relapsing patients were treated with alkylating agents, in combination with methylprednisolone. All of these patients entered complete or partial remissions. Methylprednisolone causes a significant decrease in the proteinuria of children with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. In addition, although the follow-up period is relatively short, it would appear that methylprednisolone, often in conjunction with an alkylating agent, has significantly improved the clinical status of these patients.
Many carcinogenesis and tumorigenesis studies reported in the past several decades have relied upon bolus dose(s) of test compounds to determine their DNA damage and carcinogenic potential. The high doses are far from the human scenario where exposure is almost always to low doses and for long duration. In this study, we report a novel polymeric implant system that provides continuous ("24/7") exposure to low doses using benzo[a]pyrene (BP) as a model carcinogen. Cylindrical implants (1 cm length, 3.2 mm diameter; 10 mg BP/100 mg implant) prepared from polycaprolactone:F68 (9:1) showed controlled release in vitro for long duration. To determine the rate of release and biochemical effects in vivo, groups of female Sprague-Dawley rats received either no treatment or subcutaneous sham or BP implants (1 cm, 10% load) and were euthanized after 6, 15, 30, and 180 days; the average dose of BP by the implant route was 16.7 ± 3 μg/rat. For comparison, rats were also treated with a single bolus dose of BP intraperitoneally (10 mg/rat) and euthanized at 6, 15, and 30 days. DNA adducts analyzed by (32)P-postlabeling in the lung and liver increased steadily with time with levels reaching 31 ± 3 and 17 ± 6 adducts/10(9) nucleotides, respectively, after 25 weeks; the adduct burden in the mammary tissue initially increased but then declined with time presumably due to high cell turn over. In contrast, the bolus dose treatment showed the highest DNA adduct levels after 6 days, followed by a steady decline. The steady accumulation of tissue DNA adducts in the implant groups corroborates the sustained overexpression of CYP1A1 and 1B1, the cytochrome P450s involved in the conversion of BP to its electrophilic metabolites. In contrast, the overexpression of CYP1A1 and 1B1 resulting from the bolus dose of BP lasted only for a few days. This is the first demonstration revealing that low-dose, continuous exposure to environmental polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons such as BP can render sustained expression of CYPs and steady accumulation of tissue DNA adducts. On the basis of our recent study in which we showed the presence of 17β-estradiol in the lung, the sustained overexpression of CYP1A1 and 1B1 due to continuous exposure to BP may increase the susceptibility to estrogen-mediated carcinogenicity.
A low concentration (0.2 nM) of oxytocin induced phasic tension development in the isolated uterus of the day-22 pregnant rat. Tonic spasm was also induced by higher concentrations of oxytocin (2 and 20 nM). Spasmogenic responses to bradykinin and potassium chloride (KCl) also contained phasic and tonic components while acetylcholine induced tonic spasm only. The phasic component of the responses to oxytocin and to bradykinin and both components of the response to KCl were inhibited by (+)-cis diltiazem (0.1 and 1 microM). The tonic component of the responses to oxytocin and to bradykinin and the responses to acetylcholine were only reduced by (+)-cis diltiazem at concentrations greater than 10 microM. (-)-cis Diltiazem was less potent than (+)-cis diltiazem as an inhibitor of calcium (Ca2+)-induced spasm in a depolarizing medium and of the phasic spasms induced by oxytocin. The two isomers were of similar potency as inhibitors of oxytocin-induced tonic spasm. Spasmogenic responses to oxytocin, bradykinin, acetylcholine and KCl were decreased when uteri were bathed in media which were Ca2+-free or of low Na+ content. However, there was no correlation between the rank order of sensitivity of the four spasmogens to the changed media and to their inhibition by (+)-cis diltiazem. Oxytocin (0.2 nM) increased the frequency, duration and amplitude of spike activity, measured by extracellular electrical recording, in parallel with enhancement of phasic tension development. With higher concentrations of oxytocin (2 and 20 nM) spike firing was initially continuous but often subsequently ceased despite the associated tonic contracture. After incubation in (+)-cis diltiazem (10 microM), oxytocin (0.2, 2 and 20 nM) produced graded tonic spasm without spike activity. Oxytocin (0.2 nM) produced a small increase in 45Ca2+ influx into myometrium as assessed by the 'lanthanum method'. Higher concentrations of oxytocin (2 and 20 nM) did not increase 45Ca2+ influx. It is concluded that the phasic component of the response of the uterus to oxytocin and bradykinin is associated with Ca2+ influx via voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. The tonic component is due to another mechanism(s) which does not appear to involve Ca2+ influx. All of the spasmogenic response to KCl can be explained by Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. These channels do not appear to be involved in the spasmogenic response to acetylcholine.
The aim of the present study is to elucidate the effect of bepridil on heart rate-dependent QT prolongation in patients with or without structural heart disease. QT intervals and the preceding R-R intervals were randomly measured by 24-hour Holter electrocardiogram in 29 patients with symptomatic arrhythmias. The slope of the regression curve was used as a marker of bradycardia-dependent QT prolongation. The slope was not different in patients without structural heart disease (0.34 +/- 0.10) as compared with the apparently normal control subjects (0.32 +/- 0.057, n = 29), whereas it was larger than that in patients with structural heart disease (0.57 +/- 0.17; P < .01). Steep slopes (>0.43) were observed in 11 of the 14 patients with structural heart disease, whereas they were observed only in 1 patient without structural heart disease (P < .01). In conclusion, we need to pay attention to bradycardia-dependent QT prolongation by bepridil, especially when dealing with structural heart disease.
Adrenomedullin (ADM) is upregulated in cardiac tissue under various pathophysiological conditions. However, the direct inotropic effect of ADM on normal and compromised cardiomyocytes is not clear. In rat ventricular myocytes, ADM produced an initial (<30 min) increase in cell shortening and Ca(2+) transient and, on prolonged incubation (>1 h), a marked decrease in cell shortening and Ca(2+) transient. Both effects were sensitive to inhibition by the ADM antagonist ADM-(22-52). The increase and decrease in cell shortening and Ca(2+) transient were attenuated by pretreatment with indomethacin [a nonspecific cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor], nimesulide and SC-236 (specific COX-2 inhibitors), and tranylcypromine (a prostacyclin synthase inhibitor); SQ-29548 (a thromboxane receptor antagonist) was without effect. Cells isolated from LPS-treated rats that were in the late, hypodynamic phase of septic shock also showed a marked decrease in cell shortening and Ca(2+) transient. Because ADM is overexpressed in sepsis, we repeated the above protocol in cells isolated from LPS-treated rats. At 4 h after LPS injection, ADM levels markedly increased in plasma, ventricles, and freshly isolated ventricular myocytes. Decreases in cell shortening and Ca(2+) transient in LPS-treated cells were reversed by pretreatment with ADM-(22-52). Anti-ADM (rat) IgG also reversed the decrease in cell shortening and other parameters of cell kinetics. Indomethacin, SC-236, and tranylcypromine restored cell contractility and the decrease in Ca(2+) transient, whereas SQ-29548 had no effect, implying that prostacyclin played a role in both effects. However, with regard to cell-shortening kinetics, indomethacin and SQ-29548 decreased the amount of time taken by the cells to return to baseline, whereas SC-236 and tranylcypromine did not, implying that not only prostacyclin, but also thromboxane, is involved. The results indicate that ADM interacts with COX to yield prostanoids, which mediate its negative inotropic effect in LPS-treated rat ventricular myocytes.
We investigated the feasibility of escalating doses of dacarbazine (DTIC) in combination with high-dose cyclophosphamide, carmustine, and etoposide (CBV) given with autologous stem-cell transplantation in 33 patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma or multiple myeloma.
Eligible patients were treated in this phase I study with cyclophosphamide (7.2 g/m2), carmustine (BCNU) (600 mg/m2), etoposide (2.4 g/m2), and escalating doses of DTIC (3,000 to 6,591 mg/m2) administered either as a 2- (in 23 patients) or a 6- (in 10 patients) hour infusion to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of DTIC and the toxicity profile of this combination.
The MTD of DTIC infused over 2 hours and given with the CBV regimen was 3,900 mg/m2, with the dose-limiting toxicity being hypotension. Seven patients experienced transient acute hypocalcemia in association with the DTIC infusion. Prolonging the DTIC infusion to 6 hours or administration of supplemental calcium did not allow further dose escalation of DTIC to occur. Other non-hematologic toxicities observed with this regimen have been reported with CBV alone. Of 25 patients assessable for tumor response at first evaluation posttransplant, 13 (52%) were in complete remission (CR), four (16%) were in partial remission (PR), five (20%) had stable disease (SD), and three (12%) had progressive disease (PROG). Of 31 patients assessable for relapse-free survival, 22 are alive with 13 in CR, one in PR, two with SD, and six with PROG at a median follow-up duration of 313 days (range, 35 to 749+). Treatment-related mortality occurred in six patients (18%).
The feasibility of combining DTIC in high doses with the CBV regimen has been demonstrated. Dose-limiting hypotension is transient and reversible when DTIC is administered at 3,900 mg/m2 with CBV. Future trials to evaluate the effect of the addition of DTIC to the CBV regimen on response rate and relapse-free survival are encouraged.
The French Epirubicin Study Group carried out a randomized trial comparing epirubicin alone 75 mg/m2 with fluorouracil (5FU) 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 50 mg/m2 (FEC 50) and 5FU 500 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2, and epirubicin 75 mg/m2 (FEC 75) as first treatment for advanced breast cancer patients. Patients were stratified according to whether or not there were bone metastases only. Four hundred twelve patients entered this trial; 378 were assessable for tolerability and 365 for efficacy. The overall response rates were comparable between FEC 50 (44.6%) and FEC 75 (44.7%), but both were better than the epirubicin alone (30.6%) (P = .04 and P = .0006, respectively). The complete response rate was better in FEC 75 (15.5%) than in FEC 50 (7%) (P = .025) or epirubicin (4%) (P = .002). Similar results were obtained in the group of patients without bone-only metastases. No difference in the three treatments was observed in the patients with bone metastases only. Mean durations of response were similar in the three groups, being 412 days, 440 days, and 350 days for FEC 50, FEC 75, and epirubicin, respectively. Patients without previous adjuvant chemotherapy fared better than those with previous treatment (without anthracyclines). Tolerability was fair in the three groups. Overall, the epirubicin-alone group showed better tolerance than the two other groups, which did not differ significantly. Time to progression and survival were not different among the three groups, but more early relapses occurred in the epirubicin and FEC 50 groups; survival seemed to be better during the first 8 months in the FEC 75 group, and the survival difference between the epirubicin group and the FEC 75 group was of borderline significance. No difference in survival was observed between epirubicin- and FEC 50-group patients, even though the response rate was significantly worse in the monochemotherapy group.
Three cases have been reviewed when acute renal failure without signs of concomitant hepatic failure developed post-operatively in patients with a so far intact renal function. A potential pathogenetic role of halothane in the onset of acute renal failure in these patients is discussed.
Malignant melanoma is a lethal disease, and the incidence and mortality associated with it are increasing worldwide. It has a significant tendency to develop both metastasis and resistance to chemotherapy. The tumor cells show abnormal redox regulation, and although the molecular mechanisms involved are not well characterized, they seem to be related to oxidative stress. In a previous study, we showed the antitumoral properties of gallic acid ester derivatives in leukemia cells. Here, we show the effect of octyl, decyl, dodecyl and tetradecyl gallates on B16F10 cells, a melanoma cell line. All compounds induced cytotoxic effects, and the IC(50) values obtained were between 7microM and 17microM after 48h of incubation. Cell death occurred through apoptosis, as demonstrated by the genomic DNA fragmentation pattern. The gallates were able to induce significant production of free radicals, deplete both glutathione and ATP, activate NF-kappaB and promote the inhibition of cell adhesion under the experimental conditions. The glutathione depletion induced by these compounds was related to the inhibition of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthase activity. These results suggest that gallates induce tumoral cell death through apoptosis as a consequence of oxidative stress, though they use different mechanisms to do so. These findings are important since melanoma cells are resistant to death because of their high level of antioxidant defense, adhesion capability and propensity to metastasize.
The central nervous system toxicities of etidocaine, bupivacaine, and lidocaine were studied during constant-rate intravenous infusions in rhesus monkeys. Comparison of drug effects was achieved by determining the drug dosages and arterial plasma concentrations that induced electrical seizure activity. The central nervous system toxicity of etidocaine was similar to that of bupivacaine. The toxicity of each was four times greater than that of lidocaine. Since the drug infusion rates were proportional to anesthetic potencies in clinical usage, the therapeutic-toxic ratios of these three drugs are similar.
The records of 2,673 patients randomized according to seven consecutive Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) studies of adjuvant therapy for breast cancer were reviewed for the occurrence of vascular complications. All protocols opened and closed between June 1977 and July 1987. The objectives of the present study were (1) to compare the frequency of vascular complications among patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer with patients on observation, and (2) to estimate the contribution of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy to the occurrence of venous and arterial thrombi. The frequency of thrombosis, both venous and arterial combined, was 5.4% among patients who received adjuvant therapy and was 1.6% among patients on observation (P = .0002). Premenopausal patients who received chemotherapy and tamoxifen had significantly more venous complications than those who received chemotherapy without tamoxifen (2.8% v 0.8%, P = .03). Postmenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had significantly more venous thrombi than those who received tamoxifen alone (8.0% v 2.3%, P = .03) or those who were observed (8.0% v 0.4%, P less than .0001). Premenopausal patients who received tamoxifen and chemotherapy had a 1.6% frequency of arterial thrombosis, significantly more than patients who received chemotherapy alone (1.6% v 0.0%, P = .004). The frequency of arterial thrombosis among postmenopausal patients was not significantly correlated with adjuvant therapy. In conclusion, patients who received adjuvant therapy for breast cancer had a 5.4% frequency of thromboembolic complications, significantly more than those who were observed. The combination of chemotherapy and tamoxifen was associated with more venous and arterial thromboembolic complications than chemotherapy alone in premenopausal patients and with more venous thrombi than tamoxifen alone among postmenopausal patients.
Human erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) is an inherited disorder of porphyrin metabolism and its experimental murine model can be produced by treatment with griseofulvin (GF). We investigated the alteration of mRNA expression in ferrochelatase (FeC), delta-aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALAS) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in liver, skin and peripheral blood cells of GF-treated mice. In liver, ALAS mRNA was enhanced dramatically by GF administration, in accord with thesis that the expression of ALAS is regulated by feedback mechanism. The expression of HO-1 mRNA increased most rapidly and drastically in liver, however its mechanism of regulation may be different from that of ALAS mRNA. The level of FeC mRNA in liver was less affected with GF treatment. Our results indicate that the inhibition of FeC by GF administration might occur primarily at post-transcriptional level. Similar effects were observed in the ALAS and HO-1 mRNA expression in peripheral blood cells, 2-fold increase in the ALAS mRNA and increase from undetectable level to detectable level in the HO-1 mRNA. In skin of GF-treated mice, average increases of 1.3-fold in the ALAS mRNA and 1.6-fold in the HO-1 mRNA were statistically insignificant. The FeC mRNA level was not altered in peripheral blood or in skin of GF-treated mice. The present study indicates that the molecular analysis is practicable in skin and peripheral blood. In further study, this model could contribute to investigate the pathogenesis of clinical manifestation including possibly cutaneous changes in EPP.
Sevoflurane, a halogenated anesthetic, is associated with mild aminotransferase elevations but does not tend to cause clinically significant hepatotoxicity. We report a rare case of severe hepatic necrosis following exposure to sevoflurane during surgery. A 37-year-old man presented with nausea,vomiting, abdominal pain, and jaundice on the third postoperative day after an abdominal wall mass resection. Laboratory tests showed markedly elevated aminotransferase levels, hyperbilirubinemia, and coagulopathy. His viral hepatitis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serologies were negative for acute infection, and his Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV) serologies were suggestive of recent EBV infection and remote CMV infection. Antinuclear antibody and anti-smooth muscle antibody screens were negative. Ceruloplasmin and serum copper values were in the normal range. The histopathological findings included an acute centrilobular cholestatic hepatocellular injury compatible with the clinical history of acute drug-induced hepatotoxicity. The patient improved with conservative management. Unlike other halogenated anesthetics, proposed mechanisms of sevoflurane hepatotoxicity include production of compound A, increased cytosolic free Ca(2+), and activation of free radical metabolizing enzymes. The patient was likely susceptible to toxicity due to an underlying EBV infection and a probable history of exposure to halogenated anesthetics. Sevoflurane is generally considered to be relatively safe for subjects with mild liver dysfunction, in comparison with other halogenated anesthetics. However, this case suggests that sevoflurane can lead to severe life-threatening hepatic necrosis in at-risk individuals.
