Drugs such as cocaine and amphetamines potentiate the effect of epinephrine and norepinephrine on the brain and act as stimulants. Here, we report a case of paradoxical severe hypersomnolence from cocaine use in an HIV cocaine-addicted patient. We describe a possible pathomechanism for cocaine depletion at the synapse, causing decreased synaptic activation and leading to sleepiness.
Multiple studies demonstrate that coadministration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists with the opioid agonist morphine attenuates the development of analgesic tolerance. Sex differences in the effects of noncompetitive, but not competitive NMDA receptor antagonists on acute morphine analgesia, have been reported in mice, yet the role of sex in modulation of morphine tolerance by NMDA receptor antagonists has yet to be addressed. Therefore, we tested whether there is a sex difference in the effect of NMDA receptor antagonists on the development of morphine analgesic tolerance in C57BL/6J mice. Acutely, at a dose required to affect morphine tolerance in male mice, the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) prolonged morphine analgesia similarly in both sexes in the hot plate and tail withdrawal assays. In the hot plate assay, coadministration of MK-801 or the competitive antagonist 3-(2-carboxpiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphanoic acid (CPP) with morphine attenuated the development of tolerance in male mice, while having no effect in females. Like normal and sham females, ovariectomized mice were similarly insensitive to the attenuation of morphine tolerance by MK-801 in the hot plate assay. Surprisingly, in the tail withdrawal assay, MK-801 facilitated the development of morphine-induced hyperalgesia and tolerance in males but not females. The results demonstrate that male mice are more sensitive to modulation of nociception and morphine analgesia after repeated coadministration of NMDA receptor antagonists. Furthermore, the underlying mechanisms are likely to be different from those mediating the sex difference in the modulation of acute morphine analgesia that has previously been reported.
The 8-aminoquinoline tafenoquine showed significant in vitro activity against Leishmania species, including L. donovani amastigotes in macrophages, with 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)s) between 0.1 and 4.0 μM for both pentavalent antimony (SbV)-sensitive and SbV-resistant strains and by oral administration in BALB/c mice, with 50% effective dose (ED(50)) values of 1.2 to 3.5 mg/kg for 5 days. Tafenoquine was less active against intracellular Trypanosoma cruzi amastigotes, with an IC(50) of 21.9 μM.
Severe anaemia is a rare, unexplained, side effect of azathioprine therapy. We report here such a case associated with a previously unreported abnormality in azathioprine metabolism. A 57 year old man on azathioprine therapy, for a presumed collagen vascular disease, developed severe megaloblastic anaemia. This resolved on cessation of azathioprine treatment. A very high concentration of an azathioprine metabolite, 6-thioguanine nucleotide, was found in the patient's red blood cells and this was confirmed by subsequent rechallenge with a single dose of 50 mg azathioprine.
An inflammatory response accompanies the reversible pneumotoxicity caused by butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) administration to mice. Lung tumor formation is promoted by BHT administration following an initiating agent in BALB/cByJ mice, but not in CXB4 mice. To assess the contribution of inflammation to this differential susceptibility, we quantitatively characterized inflammation after one 150 mg/kg body weight, followed by three weekly 200 mg/kg ip injections of BHT into male mice of both strains. This examination included inflammatory cell infiltrate and protein contents in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2 expression in lung extracts, and PGE(2) and PGI(2) production by isolated bronchiolar Clara cells. BAL macrophage and lymphocyte numbers increased in BALB mice (P<0.0007 and 0.02, respectively), as did BAL protein content (P<0.05), COX-1 and COX-2 expression (P<0.05 for each), and PGI(2) production (P<0.05); conversely, these indices were not perturbed by BHT in CXB4 mice. BALB mice fed aspirin (400 mg/kg of chow) for two weeks prior to BHT treatment had reduced inflammatory cell infiltration. Our results support a hypothesis that resistance to BHT-induced inflammation in CXB4 mice accounts, at least in part, for the lack of effect of BHT on lung tumor multiplicity in this strain.
We wish to report a 76-year-old woman with 2 episodes of meningitis related to the intake of trimethoprim. On both occasions the patient demonstrated encephalitic symptoms and a pathological electroencephalogram with cerebral function disturbances. A similar case with encephalitic symptoms due to trimethoprim has not been reported earlier.
Sulindac has antineoplastic effects on various cancer cell lines; consequently, we assessed sulindac's effects on laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cells in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, SCC (HEP-2) cells treated with various cyclooxygenase inhibitors or transfected with constitutively active signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) or survivin vectors were analyzed using Western blot analysis, annexin V assay, and cell proliferation assay. In parallel, nude mice injected subcutaneously with HEP-2 cells were either treated intraperitoneally with sulindac or left untreated, and analyzed for tumor weight, survivin expression, and tyrosine-phosphorylated Stat3 expression. In vitro studies confirmed the selective antiproliferative and proapoptotic effects of sulindac, which also downregulated Stat3 and survivin protein expression. Stat3 or survivin forced expression partially rescued the antiproliferative effects of sulindac. In vivo studies showed significant repression of HEP-2 xenograft growth in sulindactreated mice versus controls, with near-complete resolution at 10 days. Additionally, tumor specimens treated with sulindac showed downregulation of phosphorylated tyrosine-705 Stat3 and survivin expression. Taken together, our data suggest, for the first time, a specific inhibitory effect of sulindac on tumor growth and survivin expression in laryngeal cancer, both in vitro and in vivo, in a Stat3-dependent manner, suggesting a novel therapeutic approach to head and neck cancer.
Cholinesterase (ChE) activity in the blood serum of rats was elevated to 15, 25, and 45 times by the sc administration of 1000, 2000 and 3000 electric eel acetylcholinesterase (AChE) units respectively. Apparently no ill-effect to animals was observed. The maximal activity of the enzyme occurred in 90 min after its administration and was directly proportional to the administered dose. The increase activity of ChE in the serum on the exogenous administration of AChE persisted for 18 hr. The exogenously raised serum ChE, protected rats against lethal dose of dichlorvos, but not against lethal dose of soman. The possible mechanism of differential response in discussed.
The prevalence, severity, and location of white matter signal hyperintensities (WMH) on brain magnetic resonance images were compared in patients with cocaine or opiate dependence and healthy subjects. Patients with cocaine (n=32) and opiate dependence (n=32), whose diagnoses were confirmed with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, and age- and sex-matched healthy subjects (n=32) were scanned using a 1.5 T whole body GE magnetic resonance scanner. Axial proton-density and T2-weighted images were obtained as well as fluid-attenuated inversion recovery axial images. The severity of WMH was assessed separately for deep (and insular) and periventricular WMH, using a modified composite version of the rating scales of Fazekas and Coffey. The cocaine-dependent group had greater severity of WMH than the opiate-dependent group, which in turn had greater severity of WMH than the healthy comparison group (odds ratios=2.54 and 2.90, respectively). The cocaine-dependent group had greater lesion severity of deep and insular WMH than the opiate-dependent group and the healthy comparison group (odds ratio>3.25 for deep WMH; odds ratio>4.38 for insular WMH). For periventricular WMH, there were no significant differences between the three groups. The frontal lobes were the predominant locations of WMH in both substance-dependent groups. The greater prevalence and severity of WMH in cocaine-dependent subjects than in opiate-dependent subjects may reflect the fact that cocaine induces more ischemia via vasoconstriction than opiates. Also, there was a trend for lower WMH severity in substance-dependent women relative to the healthy comparison group, possibly due to estrogen's protective effect against cerebrovascular accidents.
A 72-year-old woman had been given cimetidine 400mg/day for her gastritis since June 17, 1987. On August 8, she developed oral bleeding. Peripheral blood showed pancytopenia (WBC 1,900/microliters, RBC 208 x 10(4)/microliters, Plt 0.8 x 10(4)/microliters) and bone marrow studies revealed markedly depressed hematopoiesis. Bolus methylprednisolone and high dose gamma globulin were administered, but not effective. On December 11, 1987, she lapsed into coma and died three days later. Autopsy disclosed nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis and cerebral infarction.
The neuropharmacological profile of the atypical antipsychotic, olanzapine, is consistent with a potentially useful medication for cocaine abuse. The present study utilized an i.v. drug self-administration paradigm in nonhuman primates to obtain definitive evidence regarding the effectiveness of olanzapine to modulate the reinforcing effects of cocaine. The effects of olanzapine were compared directly to those of the neuroleptic, haloperidol. Rhesus monkeys (n=7) were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.03-0.3 mg/kg/injection) under a second-order, fixed-interval 600-s schedule with fixed ratio 20 components. Experimental sessions comprised five consecutive fixed intervals, each followed by a 1-min timeout. In drug-interaction experiments, a single dose of olanzapine (0.03-0.3 mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.01-0.03 mg/kg) was administered i.v. 15 min presession for at least three consecutive sessions. In drug-substitution experiments, different doses of olanzapine (0.01-0.1 mg/kg/injection) were substituted for cocaine until responding stabilized. Olanzapine caused dose-related decreases in cocaine self-administration at pretreatment doses that had no overt behavioral effects indicative of sedation. A dose of 0.1 mg/kg eliminated cocaine self-administration in all subjects. In contrast, doses of haloperidol that suppressed cocaine self-administration induced marked sedation and catalepsy. Olanzapine failed to maintain self-administration behavior above saline extinction levels over a range of unit doses. In vivo microdialysis experiments in a second group of awake rhesus monkeys (n=3) confirmed previous reports in rodents that olanzapine effectively increases extracellular dopamine in ventral striatum. The dose of olanzapine that markedly suppressed cocaine self-administration behavior increased dopamine to approximately 190% of control values. Lastly, pretreatment with fluoxetine had no systematic effect on olanzapine-induced increases in striatal dopamine. The results indicate that olanzapine can effectively suppress cocaine self-administration behavior in nonhuman primates at doses that enhance dopamine release but do not maintain drug self-administration.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation and migration are responses to arterial injury that are highly important to the processes of restenosis and atherosclerosis. In the arterial balloon injury model in the rat, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) are induced in the vessel wall and regulate these VSMC activities. Novel insulin sensitizing agents, thiazolidinediones, have been demonstrated to inhibit insulin and epidermal growth factor-induced growth of VSMCs. We hypothesized that these agents might also inhibit the effect of PDGF and bFGF on cultured VSMCs and intimal hyperplasia in vivo. Troglitazone (1 microM), a member of the thiazolidinedione class, produced a near complete inhibition of both bFGF-induced DNA synthesis as measured by bromodeoxyuridine incorporation (6.5+/-3.9 vs. 17.6+/-4.3% cells labeled, P < 0.05) and c-fos induction. This effect was associated with an inhibition (by 73+/-4%, P < 0.01) by troglitazone of the transactivation of the serum response element, which regulates c-fos expression. Inhibition of c-fos induction by troglitazone appeared to occur via a blockade of the MAP kinase pathway at a point downstream of MAP kinase activation by MAP kinase kinase. At this dose, troglitazone also inhibited PDGF-BB-directed migration of VSMC (by 70+/-6%, P < 0.01). These in vitro effects were operative in vivo. Quantitative image analysis revealed that troglitazone-treated rats had 62% (P < 0.001) less neointima/media area ratio 14 d after balloon injury of the aorta compared with injured rats that received no troglitazone. These results suggest troglitazone is a potent inhibitor of VSMC proliferation and migration and, thus, may be a useful agent to prevent restenosis and possibly atherosclerosis.
The case histories are reported of two patients who had persistent spermatogenesis as evidenced by normal semen analyses and fertility in the face of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and testosterone administration. When not receiving testosterone, both men consistently had normal or low serum gonadotropin levels. Since pooled serum testosterone levels were low simultaneously, these "normal" gonadotropin values are still consistent with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Standard testosterone replacement therapy maintained secondary sex characteristics and, surprisingly, spermatogenesis in both men. A review of the literature revealed conflicting evidence concerning the roles of gonadotropins and testosterone in affecting spermatogenesis. In applying this evidence to our patients, it appears that gonadotropins may have only a minimal role in maintaining fertility in patients with established spermatogenesis and "adequate" testosterone levels; it also appears that relatively low doses of exogenous testosterone may maintain or enhance spermatogenesis in certain individuals. We conclude that men with acquired hypogonadotropic hypogonadism should not be presumed to be sterile and that a larger study of fertility in these patients is necessary. Until then, we recommend that the semen of these patients be analyzed at the time of diagnosis and during treatment with testosterone.
The present study investigated the impact of ifosfamide (IFO) on renal thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) activity. In mice treated with IFO for 6 h, TrxR activity significantly decreased in a dose-dependent manner. Subsequently, acute renal failure (ARF) occurred dose-dependently. Like IFO, the well-established TrxR-specific inhibitor auranofin suppresfssed renal TrxR activity and generated ARF too. TrxR was inactivated by IFO preferentially over other antioxidant parameters at 6 h; however, it recovered nearly to normal levels within 12 h. When auranofin was administered at 6 h after IFO treatment, the recovery at 12 h was sharply attenuated. Consequently, ARF was pronouncedly exacerbated. IFO within its maximum tolerated dose did not considerably deplete renal glutathione. However, escalating IFO dose strikingly attacked both the thioredoxin and the glutathione systems, resulting in lethality, which implies that glutathione depletion sensitizes IFO-induced nephrotoxicity and cosuppression of both systems causes more severe toxicological consequences than suppressing the thioredoxin system alone. Indeed, combining IFO with buthionine sulfoximine, an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, induced much more severe ARF than IFO alone did. Taken together, inhibition of renal TrxR activity can be considered as a pivotal mechanism of IFO-induced ARF, and individuals with lower levels of renal glutathione are at high risk of incurring ARF after IFO treatment.
Over-activation of TGFβ signaling pathway and uncontrolled cell proliferation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) play pivotal roles in liver fibrogenesis, while the protein serine/threonine phosphatase PP2Cα was reported to negatively regulate TGFβ signaling pathway and cell cycle. Our study aimed to investigate the role of PP2Cα in liver fibrogenesis.
The effects of PP2Cα activation on liver fibrosis were investigated in human HSCs and primary rat HSCs in vitro using western blotting, real-time PCR, nuclear translocation, cell viability and cell cycle analyses. The antifibrogenic effects in carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))- and bile duct ligation (BDL)-induced mice in vivo were assessed using biochemical, histological and immunohistochemical analyses. The results demonstrated that activation of PP2Cα by overexpression or the new discovered small molecular activator NPLC0393 terminated TGFβ-Smad3 and TGFβ-p38 signaling pathways, induced cell cycle arrest in HSCs and decreased α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression, collagen deposition and hepatic hydroxyproline (HYP) level in CCl(4)- and BDL-induced mice.
Our findings suggested that PP2Cα activation might be an attractive new strategy for treating liver fibrosis while the small molecular activator NPLC0393 might represent a lead compound for antifibrogenic drug development. Moreover, our study might provide the first evidence for the role of PP2C family members in the fibrotic disease.
We present a case of a patient with AIDS who developed a profound anemia caused by zidovudine, an important antiretroviral drug. In the setting of concurrent cytomegalovirus retinitis, the anemia produced transient visual loss that resolved with transfusion of red blood cells. Withdrawal of zidovudine resulted in a stable hemoglobin. This case describes an unusual manifestation of severe anemia. Anemia itself is a very common complication of treatment with zidovudine, one of the most commonly used agents in the treatment of AIDS. The relationship of profound anemia to transient visual loss and the role played by zidovudine in anemia in AIDS patients are discussed.
The authors describe rare types of drug-induced urolithiasis in two female patients (N4-acetylsulfamethoxazole--a Biseptol metabolite and oxolinic acid--Desurol). To improve the diagnosis of drug induced urolithiasis the authors recommend a combination of microscopic methods and infrared spectroscopy. They findings are documented by photographs and infrared absorption spectra.
Hostile physiological environments such as hypoxia and acidic extracellular pH, which exist in solid tumors, may promote invasion and metastasis through inflammatory responses and formation of eicosanoids. Here, we have investigated the effects of the anti-inflammatory agent indomethacin on the invasion and metabolism of the human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-435 in Dulbecco's Modified Eagles (DME)-based or Roswell Park Memorial Institute (RPMI)-based cell medium, using a magnetic resonance-compatible invasion assay. Indomethacin treatment significantly reduced the invasion of MDA-MB-435 cells independent of the culture and perfusion conditions examined. Significant changes were detected in levels of intracellular choline phospholipid metabolites and in triglyceride (TG) concentrations of these cells, depending on indomethacin treatment and basal cell medium used. Additionally, genetic profiling of breast cancer cells, grown and treated with low-dose indomethacin in cell culture using an RPMI-based medium, revealed the upregulation of several genes implicating cyclooxygenase-independent targets of indomethacin. These data confirm the ability of an anti-inflammatory agent to reduce breast cancer invasion and demonstrate, depending on cell culture and perfusion conditions, that the indomethacin-induced decrease in invasion is associated with changes in choline phospholipid metabolism, TG metabolism, and gene expression.
This preliminary study describes a case of a male patient who developed gynaecomastia and sexual difficulties whilst taking risperidone for chronic paranoid schizophrenia. Laboratory tests showed raised prolactin levels and depressed testosterone levels which were reversed on cessation of medication. A small study was subsequently conducted on male psychotic patients to compare the prolactogenic effects of risperidone (n=14) with traditional antipsychotic medication (n=15). The results showed a greater but non-significant prolactogenic effect of risperidone.
Four cases of hypnagogic or hypnopompic visual hallucinations in patients during amitriptyline treatment are reported. The hallucinations were clearly delineated, projected to the outer objective space and were for a short time experienced as real. The patients rapidly realized the unreality of the "sights", probably because they regained the full criticism and coherent thinking of an unpsychotic awake individual. There may be a relation between the effects of amitriptyline in brain, the changed pattern of sleep and the clinical recovery. Patients should be informed about the benign character of this type of hallucinatory phenomena so that treatment is not terminated at an undue time.
Core histones are proteins organized in octamers, to which DNA is wrapped more or less tightly, depending on their acetylation status. Gene transcription is regulated by a complex series of epigenetic modifications, i.e., histone modification such as methylation and acetylation, events determined by the enzymatic activity of histone methyltransferases, and histone acetyltransferases, respectively, the latter counterbalanced by histone deacetylases (HDAC). Acetylation of histones facilitates destabilization of DNA-nucleosome interaction and renders DNA more accessible to transcription factors. Methylation of different specific lysine residues of histones is differently linked to euchromatin (transcripted DNA) or heterochromatin (silenced DNA). On the other hand, methylation of the promoter regions of some genes by DNA methyltransferases (DNMT) leads to transcriptional silencing and is a common mechanism to regulate gene expression. In normal eukaryotic cells, DNA methylation and histone acetylation are interdependent and maintain equilibrium, allowing temporal expression of genes. In neoplastic cells, this balance is frequently disrupted. In leukemic cells, hypermethylation of CpG islands in the promoter region of genes critical for cell cycle and maturation is frequent, and DNMTs were found to be overexpressed, findings paralleled by evidence of transcriptional repression of downstream genes. Therefore, the combination of HDAC and DNMT inhibitors has been considered to be a possible therapeutic approach to restore normal gene expression in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and other diseases. Human AML1/ETO Kasumi cells were exposed to the HDAC inhibitor D1 (O-n-butanoil-2,3-O-isopropylidene-alpha-D: -mannofuranoside) and 5-aza-deoxycytidine (decitabine) alone and in combination. Histone acetylation as measured by flow cytometry was increased following treatment with D1 and the combination of D1 and decitabine. Addition of D1 alone or in combination with decitabine also led to inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis. Thus, treatment of AML with HDAC inhibitors such as D1 and DNMT inhibitors such as decitabine might have clinical benefit for patients, especially these presenting subtypes of AML, like AML1/ETO, in which the leukemogenic mechanism involves corepressor protein complexes containing HDAC and DNMT.
Ethambutol hydrochloride has been used in the treatment of tuberculosis for 25 years. Its only important adverse effect, retrobulbar neuritis, is thought to be a minor concern with conventional dosages. The author presents four cases of serious visual impairment due to ethambutol therapy. Three of the patients were receiving a maintenance dosage of 15 mg/kg per day. The fourth patient was inadvertently given 25 mg/kg per day for 4 months. After therapy with the drug was stopped, improvement was slow, with complete recovery in two cases and only minor residual changes in a third. The patient who received the higher dosage of ethambutol suffered permanent, marked impairment. Ethambutol appears to contribute little to modern short-course antituberculous regimens that include more potent agents such as isoniazid and rifampin. In view of this and the potential for serious visual impairment, alternative antituberculous agents should be considered.
The present study was designed to evaluate the preventive effect of S-allyl cysteine sulfoxide (SACS) in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial ischaemia in male Wistar rats. Rats were pretreated with SACS (40 and 80 mg kg(-1) body-weight) for 5 weeks. After the treatment period, ISO (150 mg kg(-1) body-weight) was administered subcutaneously to rats at intervals of 24 h for 2 days. The activities of creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase and alanine transferase were significantly increased in serum and significantly decreased in the hearts of ISO-treated rats. Pretreatment with SACS decreased the activities of these enzymes significantly in serum and significantly increased the activities in heart in ISO-treated rats. The levels of cholesterol, triglycerides and free fatty acids increased in serum and heart, while the levels of phospholipids increased in serum and decreased in heart in ISO-treated rats. SACS pretreatment showed a significant effect on the lipids studied. The activity of 3-hydroxy 3-methyl glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase was significantly increased and the activity of lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase (LCAT) was significantly reduced in ISO-induced rats. Oral pretreatment with SACS significantly decreased the activity of HMG CoA reductase and significantly increased the activity of LCAT in ISO-induced rats. The levels of plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and hydroperoxides were increased in ISO-treated rats. Pretreatment with SACS significantly decreased the levels of lipidperoxides in ISO-treated rats. The effect at a dose of 80 mg kg(-1) body-weight was more effective than at a dose of 40 mg kg(-1) body-weight and brought back all the biochemical parameters to near normal levels. Thus our study shows that SACS has a lipid-lowering effect in ISO-induced rats. Our study may have clinical relevance.
Overexpression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) has been reported in gastric cancers. However, the relationship between expression of COX-2 and clinico-pathological or genotypic features has not been elucidated. To address the issue, expression of COX-2 protein was analyzed in 100 gastric cancers as well as 7 gastric cancer cell lines by using immunoblot analysis. Overexpression of COX-2 in cancer tissues compared with matched non-cancerous tissues was found in 70% of cases and was significantly associated with lymphatic involvement, lymph node metastasis and advanced tumor stage. Interestingly, overexpression of COX-2 was less frequent in gastric cancers with microsatellite instability (MSI) than in those without MSI (8/20 vs. 62/80, p < 0.01). Expression of COX-2 protein was detected in some gastric cancer cell lines without MSI at various levels, but not in those with MSI. Our results suggest that overexpression of COX-2 may play an important role in tumor progression of gastric cancer and also support the notion that gastric cancers with and without MSI represent distinctive pathways of carcinogenesis. We also observed a reduction of MSI phenotype after aspirin or sulindac treatment in a hMLH1-defective gastric cancer cell line SNU-1, which lacks COX-2 expression. Int. J. Cancer (Pred. Oncol.) 84:400-403, 1999.
To determine whether guinea pigs chronically exposed to morphine would develop tolerance to the morphine-induced contraction of the sphincter of Oddi (SO), adult male guinea pigs were implanted with morphine pellets (100 mg morphine). The effect of increasing IV doses of morphine on the SO was assessed by determining the duration of which saline perfusate stopped flowing into the duodenum of morphine-treated guinea pigs (MTGP) vs nonimplanted animals (non-MTGP). Isolated bovine and guinea pigs SO were also challenged with morphine. In the in vivo experiments the spasmogenic response of the SO from MTGP to morphine was greater than that of SO from non-MTGP. However, morphine had no effect on isolated SO. These results indicate that chronic morphine exposure does not result in tolerance of the SO to the spasmogenic effects of morphine. On the contrary, chronic morphine even sensitized the SO to morphine, in addition, the in vitro data indicated that morphine does not act directly on the smooth muscle of SO to cause its spasmogenic effect.
Chronic hepatitis C affects one-third of HIV(+) patients worldwide. High ribavirin (RBV) exposure is crucial to maximize the response to hepatitis C therapy in this population, although it may increase the risk for hemolytic anemia. PERICO is a prospective multicenter trial in which HIV/HCV-coinfected patients are randomized to receive peginterferon (pegIFN) alfa-2a 180 microg/week plus either weight-based RBV (1000-1200 mg/day) or RBV 2000 mg/day, the latest along with erythropoietin alfa (EPO) 30,000 IU/week from the first day until week 4. A total of 149 patients were assessed in a planned interim analysis at week 4. In both arms, 22% of patients achieved negative HCV-RNA (rapid virological response, RVR). Multivariate analysis [OR (IC 95%), p] showed that factors associated with RVR were HCV genotypes 2/3 vs. 1/4 [20 (5-100), <0.01] and baseline HCV-RNA [0.16 (0.07-0.37) per log IU/ml, <0.01]. The occurrence of severe anemia (hemoglobin <10 g/dl) did not differ when comparing RBV vs. high RBV + EPO (7% vs. 3%; p = 0.4). Moreover, RBV plasma trough levels were comparable at week 4 (1.9 vs. 2.4 microg/ml; p = 0.2). Use of high RBV doses with preemptive EPO during the first 4 weeks of hepatitis C therapy is safe, but fails to enhance significantly RBV plasma exposure and RVR rates. Extensive intraerythrocyte accumulation of RBV following boosted production of red blood cells by EPO could explain these findings.
Telavancin displays potent in vitro and in vivo activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), including strains with reduced susceptibility to vancomycin. We compared the efficacies of telavancin and vancomycin against MRSA strains with vancomycin MICs of ≥1 μg/ml in a neutropenic murine lung infection model. Thirteen clinical MRSA isolates (7 vancomycin-susceptible, 2 vancomycin-heteroresistant [hVISA], and 4 vancomycin-intermediate [VISA] isolates) were tested after 24 h, and 7 isolates (1 hVISA and 4 VISA isolates) were tested after 48 h of exposure. Mice were administered subcutaneous doses of telavancin at 40 mg/kg of body weight every 12 h (q12h) or of vancomycin at 110 mg/kg q12h; doses were designed to simulate the area under the concentration-time curve for the free, unbound fraction of drug (fAUC) observed for humans given telavancin at 10 mg/kg q24h or vancomycin at 1 g q12h. Efficacy was expressed as the 24- or 48-h change in lung bacterial density from pretreatment counts. At dose initiation, the mean bacterial load was 6.16 ± 0.26 log(10) CFU/ml, which increased by averages of 1.26 ± 0.55 and 1.74 ± 0.68 log in untreated mice after 24 and 48 h, respectively. At both time points, similar CFU reductions were noted for telavancin and vancomycin against MRSA, with vancomycin MICs of ≤2 μg/ml. Both drugs were similarly efficacious after 24 and 48 h of treatment against the hVISA strains tested. Against VISA isolates, telavancin reduced bacterial burdens significantly more than vancomycin for 1 of 4 isolates after 24 h and for 3 of 4 isolates after 48 h. These data support the potential utility of telavancin for the treatment of MRSA pneumonia caused by pathogens with reduced susceptibility to vancomycin.
