Phospholipidosis (PLD) is characterized by the excessive intracellular accumulation of phospholipids. It is well established that a large number of cationic amphiphilic drugs have the potential to induce PLD. In the present study, we describe two facile in vitro methods to determine the PLD-inducing potential of a molecule. The first approach is based on a recent study by (Sawada et al., 2005, Toxicol. Sci. 83, 282-292) in which 17 genes were identified as potential biomarkers of PLD in HepG2 cells. To confirm the utility of this gene panel, we treated HepG2 cells with PLD-positive and -negative compounds and then analyzed gene expression using real-time PCR. Our initial analysis, which used a single dose of each drug, correctly identified five of eight positive compounds and four of four negative compounds. We then increased the doses of the three false negatives (amiodarone, tamoxifen, and loratadine) and found that the changes in gene expression became large enough to correctly identify them as PLD-inducing drugs. Our results suggest that a range of concentrations should be used to increase the accuracy of prediction in this assay. Our second approach utilized a fluorescently labeled phospholipid (LipidTox) which was added to the media of growing HepG2 cells along with compounds positive and negative for PLD. Phospholipid accumulation was determined using confocal microscopy and, more quantitatively, using a 96-well plate assay and a fluorescent plate reader. Using an expanded set of compounds, we show that this assay correctly identified 100% of PLD-positive and -negative compounds. Dose-dependent increases in intracellular fluorescent phospholipid accumulation were observed. We found that this assay was less time consuming, more sensitive, and higher throughput than gene expression analysis. To our knowledge, this study represents the first validation of the use of LipidTox in identifying drugs that can induce PLD.
Although early detection of toxicant induced kidney injury during drug development and chemical safety testing is still limited by the lack of sensitive and reliable biomarkers of nephrotoxicity, omics technologies have brought enormous opportunities for improved detection of toxicity and biomarker discovery. Thus, transcription profiling has led to the identification of several candidate kidney biomarkers such as kidney injury molecule (Kim-1), clusterin, lipocalin-2, and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (Timp-1), and metabonomic analysis of urine is increasingly used to indicate biochemical perturbations due to renal toxicity. This study was designed to assess the value of a combined (1)H-NMR and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) metabonomics approach and a set of novel urinary protein markers for early detection of nephrotoxicity following treatment of male Wistar rats with gentamicin (60 and 120 mg/kg bw, s.c.) for 7 days. Time- and dose-dependent separation of gentamicin-treated animals from controls was observed by principal component analysis of (1)H-NMR and GC-MS data. The major metabolic alterations responsible for group separation were linked to the gut microflora, thus related to the pharmacology of the drug, and increased glucose in urine of gentamicin-treated animals, consistent with damage to the S(1) and S(2) proximal tubules, the primary sites for glucose reabsorption. Altered excretion of urinary protein biomarkers Kim-1 and lipocalin-2, but not Timp-1 and clusterin, was detected before marked changes in clinical chemistry parameters were evident. The early increase in urine, which correlated with enhanced gene and protein expression at the site of injury, provides further support for lipocalin-2 and Kim-1 as sensitive, noninvasive biomarkers of nephrotoxicity.
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of pemetrexed, carboplatin, and bevacizumab followed by maintenance pemetrexed and bevacizumab in patients with chemotherapy-naive stage IIIB (effusion) or stage IV nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Patients received pemetrexed 500 mg/m(2), carboplatin area under the concentration-time curve of 6, and bevacizumab 15 mg/kg every 3 weeks for six cycles. For patients with response or stable disease, pemetrexed and bevacizumab were continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Fifty patients were enrolled and received treatment. The median follow-up was 13.0 months, and the median number of treatment cycles was seven (range, one to 51). Thirty patients (60%) completed > or = six treatment cycles, and nine (18%) completed > or = 18 treatment cycles. Among the 49 patients assessable for response, the objective response rate was 55% (95% CI, 41% to 69%). Median progression-free and overall survival rates were 7.8 months (95% CI, 5.2 to 11.5 months) and 14.1 months (95% CI, 10.8 to 19.6 months), respectively. Grade 3/4 hematologic toxicity was modest-anemia (6%; 0), neutropenia (4%; 0), and thrombocytopenia (0; 8%). Grade 3/4 nonhematologic toxicities were proteinuria (2%; 0), venous thrombosis (4%; 2%), arterial thrombosis (2%; 0), fatigue (8%; 0), infection (8%; 2%), nephrotoxicity (2%; 0), and diverticulitis (6%; 2%). There were no grade 3 or greater hemorrhagic events or hypertension cases.
This regimen, involving a maintenance component, was associated with acceptable toxicity and relatively long survival in patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC. These results justify a phase III comparison against the standard-of-care in this patient population.
Methotrexate (MTX) -induced liver damage is an important complication in patients treated with this drug for skin disease. Reliable non-invasive monitoring tests would have considerable importance.
This retrospective study was designed in order to evaluate if serial normal serum levels of amino-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP) might indicate that no significant fibrosis is taking place in the liver, and thereby reduce the need for repeated liver biopsies in psoriatic patients treated with MTX.
The clinical records of 70 patients with psoriasis, who in the years 1989/90 were on MTX and had both a liver biopsy without fibrosis and a normal PIIINP, were examined and followed until the patient stopped taking the drug. The follow-up time was from 1 to 11 years.
A total of 189 liver biopsies and 329 analyses of PIIINP were recorded. Twenty-one patients had only one and no further biopsies, but their data included at least two to three PIIINP samples obtained within a year around the time of the biopsy, and at least two were taken either prior to or at the time of the biopsy. The remaining patients had from two to seven liver biopsies each and a total of 267 analyses of PIIINP. In the study period only four patients developed fibrosis of the liver as shown by liver biopsies, and all four of these patients developed elevated serum PIIINP levels. In addition two further patients, one of them with psoriatic arthritis, had elevated PIIINP, but normal liver biopsy. Thus no liver fibrosis was missed in the 63 patients with consistently normal PIIINP levels.
Present data support the view that, as long as PIIINP is consistently normal in serial investigations, there is minimal risk of development of substantial liver fibrosis.
Lecithin:retinol acyltransferase (LRAT) catalyzes the esterification of retinol (vitamin A) in the liver and in some extrahepatic tissues, including the lung. We produced an LRAT gene knock-out mouse strain and assessed whether LRAT-/- mice were more susceptible to vitamin A deficiency than wild type (WT) mice. After maintenance on a vitamin A-deficient diet for 6 weeks, the serum retinol level was 1.34 +/- 0.32 microM in WT mice versus 0.13 +/- 0.06 microM in LRAT-/- mice (p < 0.05). In liver, lung, eye, kidney, brain, tongue, adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and pancreas, the retinol levels ranged from 0.05 pmol/mg (muscle and tongue) to 17.35 +/- 2.66 pmol/mg (liver) in WT mice. In contrast, retinol was not detectable (<0.007 pmol/mg) in most tissues from LRAT-/- mice after maintenance on a vitamin A-deficient diet for 6 weeks. Cyp26A1 mRNA was not detected in hepatic tissue samples from LRAT-/- mice but was detected in WT mice fed the vitamin A-deficient diet. These data indicate that LRAT-/- mice are much more susceptible to vitamin A deficiency and should be an excellent animal model of vitamin A deficiency. In addition, the retinol levels in serum rapidly increased in the LRAT-/- mice upon re-addition of vitamin A to the diet, indicating that serum retinol levels in LRAT-/- mice can be conveniently modulated by the quantitative manipulation of dietary retinol.
Nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCLP) is a common complex birth defect. Periconceptional supplementation with folic acid, a key component in DNA synthesis and cell division, has reduced the birth prevalence of neural tube defects and may similarly reduce the birth prevalence of other complex birth defects including NSCLP. Past studies investigating the role of two common methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), C677T (rs1801133) and A1298C (rs1801131), in NSCLP have produced conflicting results. Most studies of folate pathway genes have been limited in scope, as few genes/SNPs have been interrogated. Here, we asked whether variations in a more comprehensive group of folate pathway genes were associated with NSCLP, and were there detectable interactions between these genes and environmental exposures?
Fourteen folate metabolism-related genes were interrogated using 89 SNPs in multiplex and simplex non-Hispanic white and Hispanic NSCLP families.
Evidence for a risk association between NSCLP and SNPs in NOS3 and TYMS was detected in the non-Hispanic white group, whereas associations with MTR, BHMT2, MTHFS, and SLC19A1 were detected in the Hispanic group. Evidence for over-transmission of haplotypes and gene interactions in the methionine arm was detected.
These results suggest that perturbations of the genes in the folate pathway may contribute to NSCLP. There was evidence for an interaction between several SNPs and maternal smoking, and for one SNP with gender of the offspring. These results provide support for other studies that suggest that high maternal homocysteine levels may contribute to NSCLP and should be further investigated.
Carboplatin is less ototoxic than cisplatin, but ototoxicity may occur with carboplatin at higher doses. We evaluated hearing in children with brain tumors treated with conventional dose cisplatin followed by high-dose carboplatin. Children under 6 years of age, newly diagnosed with brain tumors, were treated after surgery with cisplatin, Etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and vincristine, followed by consolidation with carboplatin, ThioTEPA, Etoposide, and autologous bone marrow rescue. Hearing was assessed before and after consolidation, utilizing standard audiometric techniques. Seven of the 11 evaluable patients developed high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss after induction therapy. Hearing deteriorated after consolidation in five patients, with pure tone threshold shifts of up to 65 dB between 2,000 and 8,000 Hz. Of these five patients, audiological abnormalities were documented in four prior to consolidation, one received cranial irradiation after consolidation, and all five received aminoglycoside antibiotics for at least 2 weeks, with toxic drug levels in four. Three patients have subsequently required hearing aids. Significant ototoxicity is common in these patients. Ototoxicity related to consolidation therapy is likely due to the high dose of carboplatin used, prior cisplatin therapy, aminoglycosides, and, in one patient, cranial irradiation. Audiological assessment is essential in children treated with dose-intensive chemotherapy regimens containing cisplatin and carboplatin for identification and rehabilitation of ototoxicity.
The efficacies of inhaled doses of fenoterol 200 micrograms, ipratropium bromide 40 micrograms and their combination (200 + 40 micrograms) were compared in a double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study in 24 adult patients with stable asthma bronchiale. The tests were performed during 4 consecutive days. The change in bronchial obstruction was assessed by means of spirometry [forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV 1.0), forced vital capacity (FVC), peak expiratory flow (PEF)] and body plethysmography [thoracic gas volume (TGV), airway resistance (Raw)] measurements. The values of FEV% and specific airway conductance (SGaw) were calculated. The frequency of side-effects was recorded. During the treatment with the combination of ipratropium bromide and fenoterol the change in the mean SGaw differed highly significantly (p less than 0.001) from placebo in the initial bronchodilator response and at 3, 4 and 5 h. With fenoterol, compared to placebo, a highly significant difference in bronchodilator effect lasted for 4 h, with ipratropium bromide for 3 h. Similarly, a highly significant difference measured with FEV 1.0 during the medication with the combination of ipratropium bromide and fenoterol lasted for 4 h, with fenoterol alone for 2 h, and with ipratropium alone for 1 h. The most harmful side-effect in this group of asthmatics proved to be muscular tremor, caused most often by the combination of ipratropium bromide and fenoterol. The findings of this study suggest that the combination of ipratropium bromide and fenoterol gives a stronger bronchodilatation and a more prolonged effect in asthmatics than ipratropium bromide or fenoterol alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The expression of preproenkephalin messenger RNA was studied in the brain of Parkinson disease (PD) patients using in situ hybridization. All these patients were treated with levodopa (LD) and the development of motor complications was recorded. Eleven normal controls and 14 PD patients were used, of which 4 developed dyskinesias, 3 developed wearing-off, 3 developed both dyskinesias and wearing-off, and 4 developed no adverse effect following dopaminomimetic therapy. Nigrostriatal denervation was similar between the subgroups of PD patients as assessed using 125I-RTI-specific binding to the dopamine transporter and measures of catecholamine concentrations by HPLC. A significant increase of preproenkephalin messenger RNA levels was observed in the lateral putamen of dyskinetic patients in comparison to controls (+210%; p < 0.01) and in comparison to nondyskinetic patients (+112%; p < 0.05). No change was observed in medial parts of the putamen or in the caudate nucleus. No relationship between preproenkephalin messenger RNA levels and other clinical variables such as development of wearing-off, age of death, duration of disease, or duration of LD therapy was found. These findings suggest that increase synthesis of preproenkephalin in the medium spiny output neurons of the striatopallidal pathway play a role in the development of dyskinesias following long-term LD therapy in Parkinson disease.
In order to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of cinitapride, 103 patients with gastrointestinal disorders were admitted to a randomized, parallel, double blind trial for treatment with cinitapride, metoclopramide or placebo. Cinitapride was significantly more effective than metoclopramide in restoring normal defecation rates in constipated patients after 7 and 14 days of treatment (p = 0.036 and p = 0.008) and significantly more effective than placebo in restoring normal consistency of compact stools after 7 and 14 days of treatment (p = 0.006 and p = 0.051). Cinitrapide also proved to be significantly more effective than metoclopramide in curing or improving post-prandial epigastric distention (p = 0.031), post-prandial epigastric fullness (p = 0.037) and abdominal pain (p = 0.002) after 7 and 14 days of treatment. After treatment with cinitapride, dyspeptic symptoms disappeared or improved in 56-82% of patients. The efficacy rates in controlling gastrointestinal transit disorders, according to the investigators, were 64% for cinitapride, 28% for metoclopramide (p = 0.004) and 39% for placebo (p = 0.031) and, according to the patients, 55% for cinitapride, 25% for metoclopramide (p = 0.014) and 39% for placebo, 44% of the patients treated with cinitapride, 51% of the patients treated with metoclopramide and 26% of the patients treated with placebo reported and adverse reaction, with statistically significant differences between metoclopramide and placebo (p = 0.031). The tolerance rates, according to the investigators, were 82% for cinitapride, 64% for metoclopramide and 94% for placebo (placebo vs. metoclopramide, p = 0.001) and, according to the patients, 72% for cinitapride, 51% for metoclopramide and 89% for placebo (placebo vs. metoclopramide, p = 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide (CART-(55-102)) is involved in the suppression of food intake. We now report that CART-(55-102) is involved in anxiety in rodents. Intracerebroventricularly administered CART-(55-102) as well as intraperitoneal administration of N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG-7142), a selective GABA(A)/benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonist, reduced time spent in the open arms in the elevated plus-maze task in mice. CART-(55-102)-induced anxiogenic-like behavior in this task was attenuated by widely prescribed anxiolytics such as diazepam and buspirone. Likewise, CART-(55-102) and FG-7142 significantly reduced social interaction in mice. Both diazepam and buspirone significantly reversed CART-(55-102)-induced anxiogenic-like behavior in social interaction tests. By contrast, another biologically active CART peptide, CART-(62-102), was without effect in the elevated plus-maze task in mice. Moreover, intracerebroventricular administration of CART-(55-102) markedly increased the firing rate of locus coeruleus neurons in single unit recording in anesthetized rats. As CART-(55-102) produced anxiety-like effects in rodents, this peptide may possibly be involved in anxiety and stress-related behavior.
We have investigated whether the A1166C polymorphism of the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor gene modulates the effects of angiotensin II on collagen type I turnover and myocardial stiffness in hypertension.
We studied 255 hypertensive patients before and after 1 year of treatment with either losartan (n = 185) or atenolol (n = 70). Serum concentrations of the carboxy-terminal propeptide of procollagen type I (PIP) and the carboxy-terminal telopeptide of collagen type I (CITP), markers of extracellular collagen type I synthesis and degradation, respectively, were measured by specific radioimmunoassays. Left ventricular chamber stiffness (KLV), was determined from the deceleration time of the early mitral filling wave, as measured by Doppler echocardiography. Hypertensives were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction and divided in two subgroups: AA (n = 126) and AC/CC (n = 129).
Baseline PIP and KLV were increased (P < 0.01) in AA hypertensives compared with AC/CC hypertensives. No changes in baseline CITP were observed between the two subgroups of hypertensives. Confounding factors were similar between the two subgroups of hypertensives. Administration of losartan was associated with reduction (P < 0.01) in PIP and KLV in AA hypertensives but not in AC/CC hypertensives. Treatment with atenolol did not change PIP and KLV in either subgroup of hypertensives. No changes in CITP were observed with the two treatments.
These findings suggest that the A1166C polymorphism of the AT1 receptor gene is associated with collagen type I synthesis and myocardial stiffness in patients with hypertensive heart disease.
To compare ketorolac tromethamine with morphine for pain management after major abdominal surgery.
Double-blind, randomized study.
Hospital recovery room and postoperative surgical unit.
One hundred ninety-one patients with at least moderate pain after major abdominal surgery.
Patients received ketorolac by patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) bolus alone (Ket B), ketorolac by bolus plus infusion (Ket I), or morphine by PCA bolus (morphine), with injectable morphine available for supplementation.
Levels of sedation, pain intensity, pain relief, and adverse events were recorded at baseline, at 2, 4, and 6 hours, and at termination. Supplemental morphine was required by 71% of Ket B patients, 67% of Ket I patients, and 38% of morphine patients (p < or = 0.001 for Ket B vs morphine). Although patients receiving ketorolac required more supplemental morphine than the morphine group (6.0 mg Ket I, 6.2 mg Ket B, 4.0 mg morphine), there was a large morphine-sparing effect in both ketorolac groups (total morphine 6.0 mg Ket I, 6.2 mg Ket B, 33.3 mg morphine). Overall pain relief scores were similar for morphine and Ket I groups, and were lower for Ket B than for morphine (p = 0.002). There were no differences among groups in numbers of patients with adverse events.
Ketorolac may be effective when administered by PCA device, and has a clear morphine-sparing effect.
Aripiprazole is a dopamine (DA) D(2) receptor partial agonist, approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of schizophrenia. DA receptor partial agonists have been previously assessed as potential therapeutic agents for cocaine dependence. The present experiment examined the effect of aripiprazole on methamphetamine self-administration in a rodent model of an increasing drug self-administration with prolonged session duration. Wistar rats were allowed to self-administer methamphetamine (0.05 mg/kg/injection, intravenously) in either 1-h (short access: ShA rats) or 6-h sessions (long access: LgA rats). After 15 sessions, the dose-response function of methamphetamine was determined under either a progressive- or a fixed-ratio schedule. Next, the effect of aripiprazole (0.3-10 mg/kg, subcutaneuously (s.c.)) on the dose-response function was examined. LgA rats exhibited an increasing rate of methamphetamine self-administration. Responding for methamphetamine by LgA rats was higher than that of ShA rats under both schedules. Pretreatment with aripiprazole shifted the dose-response function of methamphetamine to the right in both LgA and ShA rats. However, the effect of aripiprazole was greater in LgA than ShA rats. In in vitro receptor binding assay, no change in the level of D(2) DA receptors in the nucleus accumbens and the striatum was found in any group. The present data suggest increased sensitivity of the dopaminergic system to aripiprazole in LgA rats compared with ShA rats. However, mechanisms other than downregulation of D(2) DA receptors in the nucleus accumbens and the striatum may be responsible for the increased sensitivity of the dopaminergic function in LgA rats.
The role of Kupffer cells in the hepatocellular injury and oxidative stress induced by lindane (20 mg/kg; 24h) in hyperthyroid rats (daily doses of 0.1 mg L-3,3',5-triiodothyronine (T3)/kg for three consecutive days) was assessed by the simultaneous administration of gadolinium chloride (GdCl3; 2 doses of 10mg/kg on alternate days). Hyperthyroid animals treated with lindane exhibit enhanced liver microsomal superoxide radical (O2.-) production and NADPH cytochrome c reductase activity, with lower levels of cytochrome P450, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activity, and glutathione (GSH) content over control values. These changes are paralleled by a substantial increase in the lipid peroxidation potential of the liver and in the O2.- generation/ SOD activity ratio, thus evidencing a higher oxidative stress status that correlates with the development of liver injury characterized by neutrophil infiltration and necrosis. Kupffer cell inactivation by GdCl3 suppresses liver injury in lindane/T3-treated rats with normalization of altered oxidative stress-related parameters, excepting the reduction in the content of GSH and in catalase activity. It is concluded that lindane hepatotoxicity in hyperthyroid state, that comprises an enhancement in the oxidative stress status of the liver, is largely dependent on Kupffer cell function, which may involve generation of mediators leading to pro-oxidant and inflammatory processes.
This study reviews the incidence and management of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis in a group of patients who received high-dose chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation.
The records of 217 consecutive patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation were reviewed. The incidence, degree, and management of hematuria in this group of pancytopenic and immunocompromised patients were recorded.
Despite prophylaxis, cystitis developed in 58 of these 217 patients (27%). In 12 patients (6%) the cystitis was severe. These patients had gross hematuria, clot retention, and drop in hematocrit necessitating blood transfusion. These patients were managed with continuous bladder irrigation, alum irrigation, and when less aggressive approach was unsuccessful, with intravesical formalin instillation. Alum irrigation was used in 5 patients, and was successful in only 1 patient. Six patients required intravesical formalin instillation to control the hematuria. Formalin solution 2-5% was instilled initially. When lower-concentration formalin failed, 5-10% formalin was used progressively.
Patients with bone marrow transplantation in whom severe hemorrhagic cystitis develops should be managed aggressively early. Intravesical formalin appears to be the most effective regimen in controlling profuse, persistent hematuria.
The present studies examined the role of alpha 1- versus alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the cardiovascular effects of clonidine administered into the anterior hypothalamic/pre-optic (AH/PO) region of the forebrain by the push-pull perfusion technique. Push-pull cannulas were placed bilaterally into the AH/PO region of anesthetized, paralyzed and ventilated rats. Perfusion of this area with artificial CSF (0.015 ml/min), yohimbine (5 or 50 microM) for 30 min did not affect mean arterial blood pressure or heart rate. Perfusion of the AH/PO region with clonidine (0.55-5.50 mM) resulted in a concentration-dependent reduction of mean arterial pressure and heart rate. The hypotensive effects of clonidine were found to be greater than the bradycardic effects, when expressed as a percent of pre-infusion baseline values. Co-perfusion with yohimbine (5, 50 microM) significantly attenuated the hypotensive, but not the bradycardic, effects of a single concentration (1.75 mM) of clonidine; this selective antagonism of the hypotensive effect of clonidine by yohimbine was concentration dependent. In contrast to yohimbine, co-perfusion with 5 microM prazosin did not significantly affect either the clonidine-induced hypotension or bradycardia. Co-perfusion with the higher concentration (50 microM) of prazosin significantly reversed the bradycardic, but not the hypotensive, effects of 1.75 mM clonidine. These results suggest that AH/PO clonidine perfusion depresses both mean arterial pressure and heart rate, and that the clonidine-induced hypotension is due to alpha 2-adrenoceptor activation, while the clonidine-induced bradycardia is due to alpha 1-adrenoceptor activation.
We recently reported that bezafibrate, a lipid-lowering drug of the fibrate class, administered in addition to clomiphene citrate (CC) successfully induced ovulation in CC-resistant polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) patients. We hypothesized that bezafibrate may directly affect ovarian follicle development. Insulin resistance and compensatory hyperinsulinemia are important for the pathogenesis of PCOS. In this study, we first examined the effects of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), which plays a role in insulin resistance, on follicle development by using the follicle culture system. TNF significantly inhibited follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)-induced follicle development, 17beta-estradiol (E2) secretion, and ovulation rate in a dose-dependent manner. We then examined whether bezafibrate treatment could rescue the inhibition of FSH-induced follicle development and steroidogenesis by TNF. Bezafibrate treatment rescued inhibition of follicle development, secretion of E2, and ovulation rate by TNF. We examined the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) subtypes in mouse preantral follicles. As the protein expression of only PPARG was observed in mouse preantral follicles, we examined whether bezafibrate could affect follicle development and steroidogenesis through PPARG pathways. Treatment with GW1929, a selective PPARG agonist, restored inhibition of FSH-induced follicle development and steroidogenesis by TNF, whereas treatment with GW9662, a selective PPARG antagonist, canceled the restorative effects of bezafibrate. Collectively, the results in this study suggest that bezafibrate may directly exhibit a restorative effect on the inhibition of ovarian follicle development and steroidogenesis by TNF through the PPARG pathway.
Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a well-recognized complication of chemotherapy for multiple myeloma (MM). Serial bone marrow metaphase examinations were performed for MM restaging in 3,077 patients undergoing high-dose therapy (HDT). MDS-associated cytogenetic abnormalities (MDS-CAs) were observed in 105 of 2,418 patients in whom cytogenetic data were available after HDT. MDS-CAs occurred transiently in 72 patients and on 3 successive occasions (persistent MDS-CAs) in 33 patients, for 10-year estimates of 4% and 2%, respectively; only 21 patients developed overt clinical MDS and 5, acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML). MDS-CA development was linked to lower CD34 yield at collection, longer time interval from MM diagnosis to HDT, older age, and lower platelet recovery after HDT; persistent MDS-CAs were predicted by CD34 yield of less than 3 x 10(6)/kg and need for more than 2 apheresis procedures. Applying a tertile frequency distribution over time to all 105 patients with MDS-CAs, its detection early after HDT was associated with longer time interval from diagnosis and low pre-HDT platelet count (likely resulting from pre-HDT damage), whereas late-onset MDS-CAs were noted among patients treated with Total Therapy 2 and Total Therapy 3 that applied post-HDT consolidation chemotherapy (suggesting possible post-HDT damage). While the risk of MDS-CAs was low and clinical MDS occurred infrequently, monitoring after post-HDT consolidation chemotherapy appears warranted.
Head oscillations in response to whole body oscillation of Parkinsonian patients before and after administration of levodopa were compared with those of normal subjects. Parkinsonian patients developed large increases in the amplitude of their head movements while fixating a stationary target after administration of levodopa. This increase was proportional to disease severity and was maximal in stage IV patients with levodopa induced dyskinesias. These findings indicate a fundamental yet reversible change in the strategy of eye-head coordination in Parkinsonian patients after administration of levodopa which may be due to release of normally inhibited visuo-vestibular reflexes.
A 3 year old girl was admitted with suspected bacterial meningitis. The patient's history concerning renal and cerebral function and known allergies had been uneventful until that time. 36 h after initiation of a high dose antibiotic therapy with Penicillin G (0.5 Mega IE/kg/day) and Amoxicillin (400 mg/kg/day) macrohematuria and consecutive anuria was observed. Prerenal cardiocirculatory failure, a Schwartz-Bartter-reaction as well as coagulatory failure could be ruled out. There were no symptoms of hypersensitivity. Sonographic examinations of the kidneys and the urinary tract as well as urinanalysis suggested an acute tubular obstruction and papillary necrosis caused by amoxicillin. After changing the antibiotic regimen to chloramphenicol and induction of diuresis by furosemide and dopamine renal failure could be resolved within 39 h. The patient recovered completely. High dose therapy with amoxicillin (greater than 300 mg/kg/day) includes the risk of tubular obstruction due to cristalluria. Solubility of ampicillin in aqueous fluids (6.5 mg/ml at pH 7) should be supported by sufficient diuresis and urine alkalization.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) is a drug frequently used to treat variety of neurological diseases or symptoms. Among its adverse effects, auditory disturbance is described rarely. In the present report, we describe an 18-year-old girl who noted false lowering of perceived pitch after starting CBZ treatment for epilepsy, and review the literature reporting CBZ-associated abnormal pitch perception.
To test the feasibility of integrated backscatter (IB) for detecting anthracycline cardiotoxicity, we performed conventional echocardiography and IB analysis. For interindividual comparison, 32 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and 14 control subjects were selected. Of the patients, 10 had been treated with doxorubicin doses of </=200 mg/m(2) (low dose), 15 with </=400 mg/m(2) (moderate dose), and 7 with >400 mg/m(2) (high dose). In intraindividual comparison, 8 patients were examined before doxorubicin therapy and at a dose of 100 mg/m(2) and 8 were examined before and at a 300-mg/m(2) dose. Cyclic variation of IB (CV-IB) was obtained at the left ventricular posterior wall, using a modified, commercially available system in M-mode format. In interindividual comparison, CV-IB in high- and moderate-dose groups was smaller. In intraindividual comparison, CV-IB decreased after treatment with 300 mg/m(2) of doxorubicin. CV-IB was affected in some patients treated with a moderate dose of doxorubicin. IB analysis may be helpful for detecting early anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
To study the effect of intracavernous sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a nitric oxide (NO) donor, on penile erection.
Forty-two patients with erectile dysfunction (ED) were randomly assigned to receive SNP 300 micrograms or the control drugs (papaverine 30 mg + phentolamine 1 mg) intracavernously crosswise one week apart. The penile length, circumference and hardness after the administration of the experimental and control drugs were assessed and compared statistically.
(1) There was no significant difference between the changes in penile length and circumference in the two occasions; (2) In 25 SNP and 28 control cases, the hardness of the penis was scored above 100 as evaluated by the Virag method (P > 0.05); (3) The duration of erection in the controls was longer than that in the SNP, but there were three priapism in the controls and not a single one in the SNP; (4) there was no apparent change in the heart rate and blood pressure in both occasions; other side effects were minimal except slight local pain in a few controls.
SNP facilitates relaxation of the penile smooth muscle and penile erection without significant side effects. SNP may be used in ED patients that experience pain and priapism with papaverine/phentolamine.
We reported that interleukin-6 (IL-6) plays a protective role in the development of cisplatin-induced acute renal failure (ARF) through upregulation of anti-oxidative stress factors. In this study, we examined the effects of dimethylthiourea (DMTU), a hydroxyl radical scavenger, on the development of cisplatin-induced ARF in wild-type (WT) and IL-6(-/-) mice to determine how IL-6 contributes to modulation of oxidative stress caused by cisplatin.
WT and IL-6(-/-) male mice were given either cisplatin (30 mg/kg) or saline intraperitoneally. DMTU (100mg/kg) or saline was given 30 min before cisplatin or saline administration. Blood and kidney samples were collected on days 1 and 3 after cisplatin administration.
In WT mice, DMTU markedly improved cisplatin-induced renal dysfunction and survival rate. DMTU reduced the expression levels of TNF-α, Bax and c-fos and increased the expression levels of IL-6, Bcl-xL and Nrf2 in WT mice. Reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) by DMTU resulted in increases of IL-6, anti-apoptosis and anti-oxidant gene expression levels. In IL-6(-/-) mice, DMTU also improved cisplatin-induced renal dysfunction and reduced expression levels of TNF-α, Bax and c-fos, but not Bcl-xL and Nrf2. Since Nrf2 induces IL-6 expression, IL-6 and Nrf2 may influence each other during anti-oxidant responses. The basal level of HO-1 in IL-6(-/-) mice was higher than that in WT mice.
In IL-6(-/-) mice, overproduction of ROS by cisplatin results in upregulation of HO-1 expression in order to eliminate oxidative stress. IL-6 mediates the generation and elimination of ROS during cisplatin-induced ARF.
To report a case of possible foscarnet-induced severe hypomagnesemia and other electrolyte disorders.
An AIDS patient experienced an exacerbation of cytomegalovirus retinitis and was treated with foscarnet. The patient experienced muscle twitches, tremulousness, and anxiety on day 17 of foscarnet therapy. Laboratory results indicated hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, and hypophosphatemia. After electrolyte supplementation and discontinuation of foscarnet, the symptoms resolved and laboratory indices returned to normal.
Electrolyte disorders associated with foscarnet are reviewed. Severe hypomagnesemia occurred in this patient and published literature is highlighted. In addition, known and/or possible mechanisms of the disorders are discussed.
It is probable that foscarnet contributed to the electrolyte disorders and symptomatology in this patient. Electrolytes must be monitored frequently during foscarnet therapy. Also, concomitant therapy with antianxiety medications that may mask the symptoms of electrolyte disorders should be undertaken with caution.
Experiments in rodents have indicated that maternal valproic acid (VPA) exposure has permanent adverse effects upon neurological and behavioral development. In humans, prenatal exposure to VPA can induce fetal valproate syndrome, which has been associated with autism. The present study examined mouse pups exposed in utero to VPA, measuring physical development, olfactory discrimination, and social behavior as well as expression of plasticity-related genes, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and NMDA receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B. VPA-exposed mice showed delayed physical development, impaired olfactory discrimination, and dysfunctional pre-weaning social behavior. In situ hybridization experiments revealed lower cortical expression of BDNF mRNA in VPA animals. These results support the validity of the VPA mouse model for human autism and suggest that alterations in plasticity-related genes may contribute to the behavioral phenotype.
