Leukotriene-modifying drugs are novel agents introduced recently to treat asthma. Both 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors, such as zileuton, and leukotriene receptor antagonists, such as zafirlukast and montelukast, have proved effective in the treatment of asthma. To our knowledge, there have been no detailed reports regarding dermatologic manifestations of this class of drugs. This article describes an unusual case of erythema nodosum in a 46-year-old asthmatic man who received 2 different leukotriene modifiers.
This study extends our earlier studies in rats by applying our heatstroke model to a new species. Additionally, transgenic mice are used to examine the role of heat shock protein (HSP) 72 in experimental heatstroke. Transgenic mice that were heterozygous for a porcine HSP70i gene ([+]HSP72), transgene-negative littermate controls ([-]HSP72), and normal Institute of Cancer Research strain mice (ICR) under pentobarbital sodium anesthesia were subjected to heat stress (40 degrees C) to induce heatstroke. In [-]HSP72 or ICR, the values for mean arterial pressure, the striatal blood flow, and the striatal PO2 after the onset of heatstroke were significantly lower than those in preheat controls. The core and brain temperatures, the extracellular concentrations of ischemic and injury markers in the striatum, and the striatal neuronal damage scores were significantly greater than those in the preheat controls. In [-]HSP72 or ICR, the body temperatures, cell ischemia content, and injury marker in the striatum were significantly higher, and the mean arterial pressure, striatal blood flow, and striatal PO2 concentration were significantly lower during heatstroke than in [+]HSP72. Accordingly, the latency and the survival times for [+]HSP72 significantly exceeded those of [-]HSP72 or ICR. These results demonstrate that the overexpression of HSP72 in multiple organs improves survival during heatstroke by reducing hyperthermia, circulatory shock, and cerebral ischemia and damage in mice.
2-Amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ), a food mutagen, induces forestomach tumors in CDF1 mice. We established a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis system to detect mutations in the mouse p53 gene exons 2-10, which encompass all five regions conserved among species, and a system to examine loss of heterozygosity (LOH) that uses newly identified polymorphisms between BALB/c and DBA mice, the parental strains of CDF1 mice. Four original forestomach tumors (one papilloma, two carcinomas, and one lymph-node metastasis) and four cell lines derived from four independent forestomach tumors were examined with the PCR-SSCP system and by polymorphism analysis. Of the four original tumors, the papilloma had a G-->A transition at the second position of codon 171, and one carcinoma had a G-->T transversion at the second position of codon 113 with loss of the wild-type allele, whereas the other two carcinomas had no detectable mutations. Of the four cell lines, two had a base substitution and LOH, and the other two had double mutations (a base substitution and a deletion). By amplification of the double mutations in a fragment, the two cell lines were shown to have four kinds of alleles, indicating induction of recombination within the p53 gene. Our results show that our PCR-SSCP analysis system is efficient for detecting p53 mutations in mouse genomic DNA and that alteration of the p53 gene plays a significant role in MeIQ-induced mouse forestomach carcinogenesis.
D-type cyclins play a pivotal role in cell cycle regulation and their abnormal expression was associated with several human malignancies. To assess Cyclin D2 promoter methylation status and expression levels in prostate tissues, quantitative methylation-specific PCR and quantitative reverse transcription PCR assays were performed in a large series of prostate carcinomas, high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasias (HGPIN), benign prostate hyperplasias (BPH), normal prostate tissue (NPT) samples, and prostate cancer (PCa) cell lines (before and after demethylating treatment). Methylation levels were correlated with mRNA expression levels and key clinicopathologic parameters. Cyclin D2 promoter methylation was found in 117/118 PCa, 38/38 HGPIN, 24/30 BPH, 11/11 NPT, and 4/4 cell lines. Methylation levels were significantly higher in PCa compared with HGPIN, NPT, and BPH (P<0.0001), correlating with tumor stage and Gleason score (r=0.29, P=0.0014; and r=0.32, P=0.0005, respectively). Conversely, Cyclin D2 mRNA levels were significantly lower in PCa (P<0.01) and a significant inverse correlation between Cyclin D2 methylation and expression levels was found in prostatic tissues (r=-0.61, P<0.000001). Demethylating treatment induced a substantial increase in Cyclin D2 mRNA in LNCaP cells whereas decreased levels were observed in DU-145 and PC-3 cells. We concluded that Cyclin D2 promoter methylation downregulates gene transcription and occurs with high frequency at low levels in normal, hyperplastic, and preneoplastic prostate tissues. Conversely, high Cyclin D2 methylation levels characterize invasive prostatic carcinoma, correlating with clinicopathologic features of tumor aggressiveness.
During an 18-month period of study 41 hemodialyzed patients receiving desferrioxamine (10-40 mg/kg BW/3 times weekly) for the first time were monitored for detection of audiovisual toxicity. 6 patients presented clinical symptoms of visual or auditory toxicity. Moreover, detailed ophthalmologic and audiologic studies disclosed abnormalities in 7 more asymptomatic patients. Visual toxicity was of retinal origin and was characterized by a tritan-type dyschromatopsy, sometimes associated with a loss of visual acuity and pigmentary retinal deposits. Auditory toxicity was characterized by a mid- to high-frequency neurosensorial hearing loss and the lesion was of the cochlear type. Desferrioxamine withdrawal resulted in a complete recovery of visual function in 1 patient and partial recovery in 3, and a complete reversal of hearing loss in 3 patients and partial recovery in 3. This toxicity appeared in patients receiving the higher doses of desferrioxamine or coincided with the normalization of ferritin or aluminium serum levels. The data indicate that audiovisual toxicity is not an infrequent complication in hemodialyzed patients receiving desferrioxamine. Periodical audiovisual monitoring should be performed on hemodialyzed patients receiving the drug in order to detect adverse effects as early as possible.
To determine the incidence of tics or dyskinesias (T/D) and examine associated clinical factors in children treated with stimulant medications for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Cross-sectional analysis of a clinic cohort with chart review.
Hospital-based clinical service within a division of developmental and behavioral pediatrics.
One hundred twenty-two children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder treated with stimulant medication. All children currently or recently treated were included.
None.
Determinations were made of medication used, medication dosage, presence or absence of T/D, time of T/D onset, and history and family history of T/D. Incidence of T/D was 9.0% of children or 8.2% of medication trials. One child (0.8%) had development of Tourette's syndrome. Age, medication, dosage, history of tics, or family history of tics was not related to onset of T/D.
Approximately 9% of children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder treated with stimulant medication had development of T/D, predominantly transient in nature, with less than 1% having development of chronic tics or Tourette's syndrome. Personal or family tic history, medication selection, or dosage was not related to onset of T/D.
Irinotecan is a topoisomerase I inhibitor previously shown to be active in the treatment of malignant glioma. We now report the results of a phase 1 trial of irinotecan plus BCNU, or 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, for patients with recurrent or progressive MG. Irinotecan dose escalation occurred independently within 2 strata: patients receiving enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (EIAEDs) and patients not receiving EIAEDs. BCNU was administered at a dose of 100 mg/m2 over 1 h every 6 weeks on the same day as the first irinotecan dose was administered. Irinotecan was administered intravenously over 90 min once weekly. Treatment cycles consisted of 4 weekly administrations of irinotecan followed by a 2-week rest with dose escalation in cohorts of 3 to 6 patients. Seventy-three patients were treated, including 49 patients who were on EIAEDs and 24 who were not on EIAEDs. The maximum tolerated dose for patients not on EIAEDs was 125 mg/m2. The maximum tolerated dose for patients on EIAEDs was 225 mg/m2. Dose-limiting toxicity was evenly distributed among the following organ systems: pulmonary, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, neurologic, infectious, and hematologic, without a clear predominance of toxicity involving any one organ system. There was no evidence of increasing incidence of toxicity involving one organ system as irinotecan dose was escalated. On the basis of these results, we conclude that the recommended doses of irinotecan for a phase 2 clinical trial when given in combination with BCNU (100 mg/m2) are 225 mg/m2 for patients on EIAEDs and 125 mg/m2 for patients not on EIAEDs.
Previously unreported adverse drug reactions can be difficult to detect and it may be even more difficult to establish a cause and effect relationship, particularly if the adverse reactions mimic naturally occurring disease. In a previous paper we reported 29 patients with granulomatous anterior uveitis, blepharoconjunctivitis, periorbital dermatitis, marginal keratitis and elevation in intraocular pressure (IOP), suspected to be caused by metipranolol (Glauline). With the approval of the District Ethics Committee 7 of those patients were rechallenged with metipranolol 0.3% compared to timolol maleate 0.5% in a double blind trial. The 7 metipranolol treated eyes developed an adverse reaction within 14 days. Metipranolol (Glauline) has been conclusively proven to cause granulomatous anterior uveitis, blepharoconjunctivitis and elevation in IOP, adverse effects never previously reported with any of the ophthalmic topical beta-blockers. The multidose preparations of metipranolol (Glauline) in all three strengths 0.1%, 0.3% and 0.6% and the single dose minim preparation of metipranolol 0.6% have now been withdrawn from clinical use in the United Kingdom.
This paper reviews the behaviour of intraocular pressure (IOP) in glaucomatous eyes treated with metipranolol with and without drug-induced adverse reactions (ADRs). Two hundred and forty seven patients with open angle glaucoma who were receiving the three different strengths of metipranolol (0.1%, 0.3%, and 0.6%) in our Department and the 7 patients who participated in the metipranolol rechallenge trial were included in this study. Out of the 247 patients, there were 52 eyes of 29 patients who showed 78 episodes of ADRs associated with metipranolol. Forty five of these 78 episodes (57.6%) were associated with loss of IOP control. Two of the 7 eyes treated with metipranolol in the rechallenge trial showed loss of IOP control, 1 of them without any signs of ocular inflammation. We further studied all the glaucomatous eyes controlled with metipranolol 0.6% only and 22 eyes were identified with loss of IOP control but without recognisable signs or symptoms of ADR. Five other eyes in this group later developed metipranolol-induced ADRs. The possible pathophysiological mechanisms for the loss of IOP control are discussed and it is suggested that the active drug, metipranolol, could be directly implicated.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains one of the most challenging solid cancers to treat due to its highly proliferative, angiogenic and invasive nature. The small molecule CDK inhibitor, flavopiridol, has demonstrated antitumor activity in human xenograft models and is currently in clinical trials showing efficacy in patients with advanced disease. We have developed an experimental animal model using the murine glioma GL261 cells as a novel in vivo system to screen potential therapeutic agents for GBM. Results of in vitro testing demonstrate that flavopiridol has several relevant clinical characteristics such as its ability to: 1. inhibit cell growth; 2. inhibit cell migration; 3. decrease expression of cyclin D1, CDK4 and p21; 4. induce apoptosis in cells with high levels of p27 expression; and 5. decrease the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. The mechanism by which flavopiridol induces apoptosis is mitochondrial-mediated. We demonstrate by electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry that drug treatment induces mitochondrial damage that was accompanied by the release of cytochrome c into the cytosol together with the translocation of apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) into the nucleus. This finding in murine glioma cells differs from the mechanism of flavopiridolinduced cell death reported by us for human glioma cells (Alonso et al., Mol Cancer Ther 2003; 2:139) where drug treatment induced a caspase- and cytochrome c-independent pathway in the absence of detectable damage to mitochondria. In apoptotic human glioma cells only translocation of AIF into the nucleus occurred. Thus, the same drug kills different types of glioma cells by different mitochondrial-dependent pathways.
The concentration of myocardial cyclic AMP was measured in 9 dogs by radioimmunoassay after the administration of aminophylline. Fourteen dogs served as control. The concentration of cyclic AMP in the left ventricle was the highest and the lowest value was obtained in the right atrium in the control dogs. Ventricular fibrillations were induced immediately after the injection of 30 mg/Kg aminophylline in 3 dogs out of 9. The concentration of the left ventricular cyclic AMP in 6 dogs which tolerated aminophylline was significantly elevated compared with that of the control dogs (p less than 0.05). The left ventricular cyclic AMP in 3 dogs with ventricular fibrillation was significantly higher compared with that in the aminophylline tolerated dogs with non-fibrillating hearts (p less than 0.01). These results showed that the concentration of cyclic AMP was elevated in the fibrillating heart.
Occupational exposure to cobalt is of widespread concern due to its use in a variety of industrial processes and the occurrence of occupational disease. Due to the lack of toxicity and carcinogenicity data following exposure to cobalt, and questions regarding bioavailability following exposure to different forms of cobalt, the NTP conducted two chronic inhalation exposure studies in rats and mice, one on soluble cobalt sulfate heptahydrate, and a more recent study on insoluble cobalt metal. Herein, we compare and contrast the toxicity profiles following whole-body inhalation exposures to these two forms of cobalt. In general, both forms were genotoxic in the Salmonella T98 strain in the absence of effects on micronuclei. The major sites of toxicity and carcinogenicity in both chronic inhalation studies were the respiratory tract in rats and mice, and the adrenal gland in rats. In addition, there were distinct sites of toxicity and carcinogenicity noted following exposure to cobalt metal. In rats, carcinogenicity was observed in the blood, and pancreas, and toxicity was observed in the testes of rats and mice. Taken together, these findings suggest that both forms of cobalt, soluble and insoluble, appear to be multi-site rodent carcinogens following inhalation exposure.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is overexpressed in colon tumors. Its main product is the immunosuppressive prostaglandin PGE2 that aids tumor immune escape. In this study, we analyzed mechanisms of action of the COX-2 inhibitor rofecoxib on the immune response to colorectal cancer in an animal model. The murine colorectal cancer cell line MC26, and splenocytes from BALB/c mice immune to irradiated MC26 cells, were incubated with rofecoxib or PGE2. In MC26 cells, 100 nM rofecoxib caused a complete abrogation of PGE2 production and inhibited cell proliferation. Splenocytes from tumor immune mice showed a 300% (P<0.01) increase in proliferation in response to irradiated MC26 cells, amplified to 450% (P<0.01) by 1 microM rofecoxib (n=3). MC26 cells incubated with 1 microM rofecoxib showed increased gene expression of CCL3, CCL5, and CCL20 (P<0.01). enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay tests also showed increased production of CCL5 and CCL20 (P<0.01). PGE2 reversed this effect causing a 40% reduction in chemokine gene expression (n=3). In contrast, splenocytes from naive BALB/c mice stimulated with irradiated MC26 cells had only a marginal chemokine response to rofecoxib. PGE2 caused a 50% down-regulation of CCL5 and CCL20 at the gene level (n=2) and 30% and 40% reduction of CCL3, CCL4, CCL5, and CCL20 at the protein level (n=2). Hence rofecoxib has a 2-fold effect upon the immune response to MC26 cells, by enhancing production of chemokines chemotactic for dendritic cells and also reducing PGE2-mediated inhibition of lymphoproliferation. Together, these may be sufficient for an effective TH1-mediated antitumor response. Rofecoxib may have potential as an addition to existing immunotherapy strategies.
The most well-known cause of chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity is doxorubicin (DOX). The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is the main cellular machinery for protein degradation in eukaryotic cells. However, the expression pattern of the UPS in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity remains unclear. C57BL/6 mice were intraperitoneally injected with a single dose of DOX (15mg/kg). After 1, 3 and 5 days, cardiac function and apoptosis were detected with echocardiography and TUNEL assay. Microarray assay and qPCR analysis were also performed at day 5. We found that DOX caused a significant decrease in cardiac function at day 5 and increase in cardiomyocyte apoptosis at days 3 and 5. Microarray data revealed that totally 1185 genes were significantly regulated in DOX-treated heart, and genes involved in apoptosis and the UPS were mostly altered. Among them, the expression of 3 immunoproteasome catalytic subunits (β1i, β2i and β5i) was markedly down-regulated. Moreover, DOX significantly decreased proteasome activities and enhanced polyubiquitinated proteins in the heart. Importantly, overexpression of immunoproteasome catalytic subunits (β1i, β2i or β5i) significantly attenuated DOX-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis and other UPS gene expression while knockdown of them significantly increased DOX-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis. These effects were partially associated with increased degradation of multiple pro-apoptotic proteins. In conclusion, our studies suggest that immunoproteasome plays an important role in DOX-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and may be a novel therapeutic target for prevention of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity.
As revealed, in acute experiments on rabbits, cats, and rats, a new morphine-like synthetic analgesic drug azidomorphine exceeded 20--100-fold the morphine ability to inhibit synaptic transmission in the thalamic structures, cerebral cortex, and the spinal cord during the nociceptive stimulation, and also by its analgesic activity.
The effects of the chronic administration of antidepressants on threshold electroconvulsive (ECS) seizures were evaluated in rats. Initially, tonic-clonic seizures were induced in 90% of the animals. Of those animals responding with tonic-clonic seizures, 42% had hindlimb extension (extensors); the remainder showed only hindlimb flexion (flexors). No alteration in the pattern of seizures was observed 24 hr after a single oral dose of any of the antidepressant drugs. The rats were then treated with a total of 20 consecutive daily doses of antidepressants and threshold electroconvulsive seizure responses were evaluated 24 hr after the last dose. A significantly greater percentage of rats responded with extensor seizures after chronic treatment with amoxapine, chlorimipramine, parglyine and mianserin. There was no change in the pattern of seizures of the rats treated chronically with desipramine, but the duration of the clonic phase was reduced. After a 7 day period free of drugs a significantly greater percentage of animals had extensor seizures in the groups treated with amoxapine, chlorimipramine, pargyline and desipramine but not mianserin. In the light of evidence that chronic treatment with antidepressants reduces the activity of norepinephrine- or isoproterenol-sensitive adenylate-cyclase, and that the norepinephrine system is an important endogenous anticonvulsant factor in electroconvulsive seizures, these results suggest that the same mechanism may mediate both the therapeutic and proconvulsant effects of the chronic administration of antidepressants.
Acute administration of phenytoin (40 and 75 mg/kg) was unable to counteract seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole and even prolonged them in some cases. These prolonged seizures remained with chronic (10 days) treatment but an anticonvulsant effect of phenytoin (40 and 75 mg/kg) also emerged, shown by a decrease in the incidence of seizures. This latter effect could be detected even 24 hr after the last dose. Both acute and chronic treatment with phenytoin (40 or 75 mg/kg) were able to enhance anticonvulsant efficacy of diazepam against pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. The mechanisms underlying these three independent effects of phenytoin and their clinical relevance are discussed.
The present study reports the effects of apomorphine (APO) on blood pressure and the principal site of action of this agonist in 4-week deoxycorticosterone-acetate (DOCA)-hypertensive conscious rats. In these preprations, intravenous (i.v.) administration of APO (0.50-1 mg/kg) induced short-lasting and dose-dependent decreases in mean arterial pressure. The hypotensive response to APO (0.3 mg/kg) was reversed into a significant pressor effect by i.v. hexamethonium (30 mg/kg), whereas it was enhanced by i.v. pretreatment with the vasopressor antagonist of arginine vasopressin (AVP) d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP (10 microg/kg) and/or prazosin (1 mg/kg). This depressor effect was suppressed by the central and peripheral dopamine D2 receptor antagonist metoclopramide (5 mg/kg i.v.), unaffected by the selective dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.2 mg/kg i.v.), partly reduced by intrathecal domperidone (40 microg per rat at T9-T10 level), a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, and reversed into a significant pressor effect by i.v. domperidone (0.5 mg/kg). The latter pressor effect was fully abolished by combined i.v. pretreatment with the vasopressor antagonist of AVP and prazosin. These results show that, in conscious DOCA salt-hypertensive rats, APO induced a brief, initial depressor effect, which is opposed to a central pressor component. The depressor component is related to an inhibition of norepinephrine transmission through activation of dopamine D2 receptors, some of which are located in the spinal cord and some of which are located in the peripheral circulation. The central pressor component, which became manifest after peripheral dopamine D2 receptor blockade, appears to be related to an increase in vasopressin release and sympathetic tone through activation of brain dopamine D2 receptors.
Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) content is elevated in human lung adenocarcinomas, and lung cancer patients exhale more nitric oxide (NO) than healthy individuals. The mechanism of this association of chronically elevated NO with tumorigenesis has not been defined. We investigated the role of iNOS in murine lung tumorigenesis, a model of human lung adenocarcinoma, using wild-type (+/+) and iNOS (-/-) mice. Genetic disruption of iNOS decreased urethane-induced lung tumor multiplicity by 80% (P < 0.0001). iNOS protein was expressed in lung tumors growing in wild-type mice and bronchiolar Clara cells isolated from normal mouse lungs, but was undetectable in whole lung extracts by immunoblotting. Because NO regulates vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in other systems, we examined the effect of iNOS deficiency on VEGF protein concentration in mouse lung tumors. VEGF concentration was 54% lower in lung tumors isolated from iNOS (-/-) mice versus controls, implying that NO modulates angiogenesis in these tumors. Lung tumors also have elevated levels of cyclooxygenase (COX) -1 and COX-2 contents relative to normal lungs, but iNOS deficiency did not change COX expression in the tumors. Chronic inflammation predisposes mice to lung tumorigenesis; accordingly, we examined whether butylated hydroxytoluene-induced chronic lung inflammation was influenced by iNOS deficiency. Butylated hydroxytoluene-induced alveolar macrophage infiltration was unaffected by iNOS (-/-) status, suggesting that although NO is a critical mediator of mouse lung tumorigenesis, it is not essential in this model of lung inflammation. The substantial (80%) reduction in lung tumor multiplicity in iNOS (-/-) mice strongly supports examining iNOS-specific inhibitors as potential lung cancer chemopreventive agents.
This review summarizes the growing body of epidemiologic and experimental research pertaining to the relationship between SLE and occupational exposures, such as crystalline silica, solvents, and pesticides. Epidemiologic studies, using different designs in different settings, have demonstrated moderate to strong associations between occupational silica exposure and SLE. Recent experimental studies of silica in lupus-prone mice provide support for the idea that, in addition to its known adjuvant effect, silica exposure increases the generation of apoptotic material, an important source of self-antigen. Despite compelling experimental studies of the organic solvent trichloroethylene (TCE) in lupus-prone mice, there is little evidence of an overall association of SLE and occupational exposure to a broad classification of solvents in humans. However, there is a lack of data on SLE in occupational cohorts with exposures to TCE or other specific solvents. One epidemiologic study reported an association of pesticide mixing and SLE, while a recent experimental study reported accelerated disease in pesticide-treated lupus-prone mice. Other occupational exposures worth investigating include asbestos, metals, and UV radiation. Attention should also be given to the role of gene-environment interactions, which may require large, multi-site studies that collect both genetic material and occupational exposure data. The quality of exposure assessment is an important consideration in designing and evaluating these studies. The use of pre-clinical endpoints (e.g. high-titer autoantibodies) in occupational cohorts with well-characterized exposure histories may reveal occupational risk factors for autoimmunity, and may also provide baseline data for studies of determinants of progression to SLE.
Human insulin receptor substrate-1 (hIRS-1) cDNAs were cloned from a lambda GT11 expression library using a monoclonal antibody (MAb) produced against a human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell line (FOCUS). The predicted amino acid sequence derived from both a genomic DNA fragment and the cDNAs showed a 90.5% identity to the previously reported rat IRS-1 cDNA [Sun, X.P. (1991) Nature 352, 73-77]. Multiple potential phosphorylation sites, that suggest an intrinsic function of this molecule in response to insulin action, were highly conserved between the two species. A c.a. 180 kDa hIRS-1 protein was immunoprecipitated and found to be phosphorylated on tyrosine residue(s) following insulin stimulation of HuH-7 HCC cells. Northern blot analysis demonstrated a single c.a. 5 kb transcript in HCC cell lines and tissues. Higher levels of hIRS-1 gene transcripts were observed in HCC tumors compared to adjacent non-involved normal liver.
Selenoprotein P (Sepp1) is involved in selenium homeostasis. Mice with a deletion of Sepp1, replacement of it by the shortened form Sepp1(Delta240-361), or deletion of its receptor apolipoprotein E receptor 2 develop severe neurologic dysfunction when fed low-selenium diet. Because the brainstems of Sepp1(-/-) mice had been observed to contain degenerated axons, a study of these 3 strains was made under selenium-deficient and high-selenium (control) conditions. Selenium-deficient wild-type mice were additional controls. Serial sections of the brain were evaluated with amino cupric silver degeneration and anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein stains. All 3 strains with altered Sepp1 metabolism developed severe axonal injury when fed selenium deficient diet. This injury was mitigated by high-selenium diet and was absent from selenium-deficient wild-type mice. Injury was most severe in Sepp1(-/-) mice, with staining in at least 6 brain regions. Injury in Sepp1(Delta240-361) and apolipoprotein E receptor 2 mice was less severe and occurred only in areas injured in Sepp1(-/-) mice, suggesting a common selenium-related etiology. Affected brain regions were primarily associated with auditory and motor functions, consistent with the clinical signs. Those areas have high metabolic rates. We conclude that interference with Sepp1 function damages auditory and motor areas, at least in part by restricting selenium supply to the brain regions.
A visceral pain model incorporating use of cyclophosphamide (CP) to induce bladder inflammation has been described. CP treatment in rats produces changes in behavior (abnormal postures and eye closure) and respiration rate indicative of visceral pain. We characterized the dose-dependency and progression of CP-induced cystitis pain after intraperitoneal (i.p.) CP. The behavioral and respiration rate changes were ameliorated by systemic morphine and ABT-594 [(R)-5-(2-azetidinylmethoxy)-2-chloropyridine], a neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, in a manner reversible by naloxone and mecamylamine, respectively. Sites of antinociceptive actions of morphine and ABT-594 were investigated using systemic, intrathecal (i.t.), or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of blood-brain barrier impenetrant antagonists. Naloxone methiodide produced a complete antagonism of morphine antinociception after i.c.v. but not i.p. or i.t. administration. Chlorisondamine blocked ABT-594 antinociception after i.c.v. but not i.p. administration. Further pharmacological characterization of behavioral and respiration changes in CP-cystitis was performed using standard analgesics. The alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine produced a weak attenuation of CP-pain behavior. NSAIDs (ibuprofen, acetaminophen, and celecoxib) and anticonvulsants (gabapentin and lamotrigine) were without effect. These results demonstrate that morphine and ABT-594 produce antinociception in CP-cystitis by a predominantly supraspinal site of action, and that mechanisms producing robust centrally-mediated antinociception could be beneficial in cystitis pain.
In this article, potential antinociceptive effects of a variety of pharmacological agents were evaluated in a rat cystitis pain model. Morphine and a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist ABT-594 were found to exert potent antinociception in this model. Findings presented here aid identification of agents to treat cystitis pain in the clinic.
Pseudocumene (1,2,4-trimethylbenzene, TMB) is a component of several solvent mixtures. During recent studies on rats we investigated the effect of a 4-week (6 h/day, 5 days/week) inhalation exposure to TMB at concentrations of 0, 25, 100, or 250 ppm on radial maze performance, open field activity, passive avoidance, active two-way avoidance, and shock-induced changes in the pain sensitivity reflecting the magnitude of the shock-induced fear response (hot plate test). The tests were performed between days 14 and 54 after the last exposure. The radial maze performance was not disturbed in any dose group. During testing in the open field grooming was significantly increased in rats exposed to 100 ppm TMB. In rats exposed to 100 and 250 ppm TNB, a foot shock applied after stepping off an elevated platform (a safe area) resulted in a significantly smaller increase in the step-down latency (i.e., passive avoidance, on days 3 and 7 after the foot shock) than in sham-exposed animals. Learning of a two-way active avoidance was slightly retarded in rats exposed to 250 ppm of TMB. Results of the hot plate test revealed no differences between groups in the paw sensitivity to heat (54.5 degrees C) before a 2-min intermittent food shock, but in rats exposed to 100 and 250 ppm of TMB the foot shock-induced fear response persisted apparently longer. These results suggest that inhalation exposure to TMB may lead to long-lasting disturbances in CNS functions.
Patients with malignant brain tumors have a variety of immunologic abnormalities, including the impaired responsiveness of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) to mitogens and alloantigens. We further investigated this impairment of lymphocyte reactivity by employing the techniques of limiting dilution analysis and cytokinetic analysis. PBL preparations from patients have approximately six times fewer phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-responsive cells than PBL from normal subjects. Similar results were obtained with purified T cell preparations. Cytokinetic analysis of PHA-induced [3H]thymidine incorporation employing colchicine blocking of mitosis demonstrated that the number of first generation cells entering the S-phase of mitosis for each 24-hr period was less for PBL from patients than for PBL from normal individuals. First generation responding cells from patients and normal subjects entered DNA synthesis at the same time (48 to 72 hr). Cytokinetic analysis over a period of 168 hr demonstrated that whereas PBL from normal individuals demonstrated second generation responding cells, PBL from the majority of patients did not, thus indicating a defect in their ability to undergo clonal expansion. Measurement of interleukin 2 (IL 2) activity in culture fluids from PHA-activated PBL from normal subjects and patients revealed significantly lower IL 2 levels in culture fluids from PBL from patients. The addition of various concentrations of lectin-free IL 2 to PBL from patients stimulated with PHA did not restore responsiveness to normal values. There was no difference between the levels of interleukin 1 (IL 1) produced by lipopolysaccharide-activated monocytes from normal subjects and patients. Overall, these results suggest that an intrinsic defect exists in T cells obtained from brain tumor patients that renders them unable to enter into normal mitogen-induced blastogenesis.
Cerebro-oculo-facial-skeletal (COFS) syndrome is a rare, autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by microcephaly, microphthalmia and/or cataracts, neurogenic arthrogryposis, and multiple congenital anomalies. A term female infant with COFS syndrome who developed infantile spasms at the age of 3 months is reported. The patient had a good response to intramuscular ACTH with disappearance of infantile spasms and resolution of the hypsarrhythmic pattern on electroencephalography succeeded by a slow, synchronous pattern. Modified hypsarrhythmia returned after ACTH therapy was discontinued. Infantile spasms have not previously been reported in association with COFS syndrome and are a potentially treatable aspect of the disease. This patient may add to the clinical spectrum of COFS syndrome or may have a variant.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of colchicine, a microtubule-disrupting agent, causes cognitive dysfunction and oxidative stress. The present study was designed to investigate the protective effects of quercetin against colchicine-induced memory impairment and oxidative damage in rats. An i.c.v. cannula was implanted in the lateral ventricle of male Wistar rats. Colchicine was administered at dose of 15 microg/rat. Morris water maze and plus-maze performance tests were used to assess memory tasks. Various biochemical parameters such as lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione, nitrite level, acetylcholinesterase and proteins were also assessed. Central administration of colchicine (15 microg/rat) showed poor retention of memory. Chronic treatment with quercetin (20 and 40 mg/kg, p.o.) twice daily for a period of 25 days beginning 4 days prior to colchicine injection significantly improved the colchicine-induced cognitive impairment. Biochemical analysis revealed that i.c.v. colchicine injection significantly increased lipid peroxidation, nitrite and depleted reduced glutathione activity in the brains of rats. Chronic administration of quercetin significantly attenuated elevated lipid peroxidation and restored the depleted reduced glutathione, acetylcholinesterase activity and nitrite activity. The results of the present study clearly indicated that quercetin has a neuroprotective effect against colchicine-induced cognitive dysfunctions and oxidative damage. This article was published online on 3 November 2008. An error was subsequently identified. This notice is included in the online and print version to indicate that both have been corrected.
A global isotopic labeling strategy combined with multidimensional liquid chromatographies and tandem mass spectrometry was used for quantitative proteome analysis of a presymptomatic A53T alpha-synuclein Drosophila model of Parkinson disease (PD). Multiple internal standard proteins at different concentration ratios were spiked into samples from PD-like and control animals to assess quantification accuracy. Two biological replicates isotopically labeled in forward and reverse directions were analyzed. A total of 253 proteins were quantified with a minimum of two identified peptide sequences (for each protein); 180 ( approximately 71%) proteins were detected in both forward and reverse labeling measurements. Twenty-four proteins were differentially expressed in A53T alpha-synuclein Drosophila; up-regulation of troponin T and down-regulation of fat body protein 1 were confirmed by Western blot analysis. Elevated expressions of heat shock protein 70 cognate 3 and ATP synthase are known to be directly involved in A53T alpha-synuclein-mediated toxicity and PD; three up-regulated proteins (muscle LIM protein at 60A, manganese-superoxide dismutase, and troponin T) and two down-regulated proteins (chaoptin and retinal degeneration A) have literature-supported associations with cellular malfunctions. That these variations were observed in presymptomatic animals may shed light on the etiology of PD. Protein interaction network analysis indicated that seven proteins belong to a single network, which may provide insight into molecular pathways underlying PD. Gene Ontology analysis indicated that the dysregulated proteins are primarily associated with membrane, endoplasmic reticulum, actin cytoskeleton, mitochondria, and ribosome. These associations support prior findings in studies of the A30P alpha-synuclein Drosophila model (Xun, Z. Y., Sowell, R. A., Kaufman, T. C., and Clemmer, D. E. (2007) Protein expression in a Drosophila model of Parkinson's disease. J. Proteome Res. 6, 348-357; Xun, Z. Y., Sowell, R. A., Kaufman, T. C., and Clemmer, D. E. (2007) Lifetime proteomic profiling of an A30P alpha-synuclein Drosophila model of Parkinson's disease. J. Proteome Res. 6, 3729-3738) that defects in cellular components such as actin cytoskeleton and mitochondria may contribute to the development of later symptoms.
Certain hydrophobic bile acids, including deoxycholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid, exert toxic effects not only in the liver but also in the intestine. Moreover, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), which has protective actions against apoptosis in the liver, may have both protective and toxic effects in the intestine. The goal of the present study was to clarify the mechanisms responsible for the toxic effect of UDCA in intestinal HT-29 cells. Here, we show that UDCA potentiated both phosphatidylserine externalization and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation induced by SN-38, the most potent metabolite of the DNA topoisomerase I inhibitor, CPT-11. Furthermore, the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential as well as mitochondrial membrane permeability transition induced by SN-38 was enhanced in the presence of UDCA, resulting in an increased lethality determined by colony-forming assay. This UDCA-induced increased apoptosis was not due to alteration of either intracellular accumulation of SN-38 or cell cycle arrest by SN-38. The increased apoptosis was best observed when UDCA was present after SN-38 stimulation and was independent of caspase-8 but dependent on caspase-9 and caspase-3 activation. Furthermore, UDCA enhanced SN-38-induced c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase activation. In conclusion, UDCA increases the apoptotic effects while decreasing the necrotic effects of SN-38 when added after the topoisomerase I inhibitor, showing potential clinical relevance as far as targeted cell death and improved wound healing are concerned. However, the use of this bile acid as an enhancer in antitumor chemotherapy should be further evaluated clinically.
