Our objective was to compare four management strategies for heartburn: therapy with an H2-receptor antagonist (ranitidine), therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (lansoprazole), crossover from ranitidine to lansoprazole ("step-up" therapy), and crossover from lansoprazole to ranitidine ("step-down" therapy).
This was a controlled, double-blind, multicenter trial comprising 593 adults with heartburn, randomized to one of four groups for 20 wk. Subjects received either ranitidine 150 mg b.i.d. for 20 wk, or lansoprazole 30 mg once daily for 20 wk, or ranitidine 150 mg b.i.d. for 8 wk [corrected] followed by lansoprazole 30 mg once daily for 12 wk ("step-up"), or lansoprazole 30 mg once daily for 8 wk followed by ranitidine 150 mg b.i.d. for 12 wk ("step-down"). Outcome measures were based on self-reports in daily diaries of 24-h heartburn severity, measured by maximum daytime and nighttime severity, and percentage of 24-h heartburn-free days measured by absence of both daytime and nighttime heartburn.
Median heartburn severity was significantly lower (p < 0.05) for lansoprazole (0.25) than the other groups (0.46 ranitidine, 0.44 "step-up," 0.35 "step-down"). The lansoprazole group had a significantly higher percentage of 24-h heartburn-free days (median 81.4%, p < 0.01) than other groups (66.6, 66.9, and 73.6%, respectively). In the "step-up" and "step-down" groups, heartburn was less severe, and percentages of 24-h heartburn-free days were higher during lansoprazole treatment regardless of treatment sequence.
Proton pump inhibitor treatment provides more consistent heartburn relief than an H2-receptor antagonist, or "step-up" or "step-down" therapy.
The gene encoding inhibitor of kappa B (IkappaB) kinase alpha (IKKalpha; also called IKK1) was disrupted by gene targeting. IKKalpha-deficient mice died perinatally. In IKKalpha-deficient fetuses, limb outgrowth was severely impaired despite unaffected skeletal development. The epidermal cells in IKKalpha-deficient fetuses were highly proliferative with dysregulated epidermal differentiation. In the basal layer, degradation of IkappaB and nuclear localization of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) were not observed. Thus, IKKalpha is essential for NF-kappaB activation in the limb and skin during embryogenesis. In contrast, there was no impairment of NF-kappaB activation induced by either interleukin-1 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha in IKKalpha-deficient embryonic fibroblasts and thymocytes, indicating that IKKalpha is not essential for cytokine-induced activation of NF-kappaB.
The oligomeric IkappaB kinase (IKK) is composed of three polypeptides: IKKalpha and IKKbeta, the catalytic subunits, and IKKgamma, a regulatory subunit. IKKalpha and IKKbeta are similar in structure and thought to have similar function-phosphorylation of the IkappaB inhibitors in response to proinflammatory stimuli. Such phosphorylation leads to degradation of IkappaB and activation of nuclear factor kappaB transcription factors. The physiological function of these protein kinases was explored by analysis of IKKalpha-deficient mice. IKKalpha was not required for activation of IKK and degradation of IkappaB by proinflammatory stimuli. Instead, loss of IKKalpha interfered with multiple morphogenetic events, including limb and skeletal patterning and proliferation and differentiation of epidermal keratinocytes.
The thalamus is thought to play an important role in secondary generalization of seizures. The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of anterior thalamic nucleus lesions and high-frequency stimulation in the pilocarpine model of secondarily generalized seizures in rats.
Adult Wistar rats underwent unilateral (n = 7) or bilateral anterior nucleus thalamotomies (n = 10), or unilateral (n = 4) or bilateral (n = 9) anterior thalamic nucleus stimulation through implanted electrodes. Control animals (n = 9) received bilateral implants but no stimulation. Seven days after these procedures, animals were provided pilocarpine (320 mg/kg intraperitoneally) to induce seizures and status epilepticus (SE). Electrographic recordings from hippocampal and cortical electrodes were evaluated, and ictal behavior was assessed.
In the control group, 67% of the animals developed SE 15.3 +/- 8.8 minutes after pilocarpine administration. Neither unilateral anterior nucleus lesions nor stimulation significantly reduced the propensity or latency for developing seizures and SE. Bilateral thalamic stimulation did not prevent SE (observed in 56% of the animals), but it significantly prolonged the latency to its development (48.4 +/- 17.7 min, P = 0.02). Strikingly, no animal with bilateral anterior nucleus thalamotomies developed seizures or SE with pilocarpine.
Bilateral anterior thalamic nuclear complex stimulation and thalamotomies were protective against SE induced by pilocarpine.
Nymphaea stellata (Willd.) has been used in traditional medicine for centuries to treat several illnesses, including diabetes. However, scientific evidence supporting its mechanism of action is lacking. Here, we showed that an N. stellata flower chloroform extract (NSFCExt) has significant plasma glucose lowering ability. Furthermore, an active compound was identified and purified by column chromatography, and the structure of this compound, nymphayol, was determined by X-ray crystallographic analysis. Nymphayol was tested for its effects on insulin secretion by RIN-5F cells cultured in low or high glucose medium; we found that nymphayol treatment improved glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in vitro. Additionally, insulin sensitization and glucose uptake were increased in L6 myotubes. Nymphayol was administered to type 2 diabetic male Wistar rats at several doses (5, 10 or 20 mg/kg/day) for 45 days. After nymphayol administration, the plasma glucose concentration was significantly (p⩽0.05) lower (60.33%) than in control diabetic rats, and the plasma insulin level increased in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the cellular insulin response was analyzed in type 2 diabetic rats; oral administration of nymphayol increased IRS1 phosphorylation and GLUT4 protein expression in liver and muscle. Nymphayol significantly (p⩽0.05) restored the levels of HbA1c, hepatic glycogen and hepatic glucose-metabolizing enzyme (hexokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphatase, fructose-1, 6-bisphosphatase, glycogen synthase and glycogen phosphorylase) activity in diabetic rats. The administration of glibenclamide, a reference drug (600 μg/kg), also produced a significant (p⩽0.05) reduction in blood glucose in STZ-nicotinamide induced diabetic rats. The results suggest that nymphayol may be a useful therapy for diabetes because it stimulates insulin secretion and promotes glucose absorption.
The copper-transporting P(1B)-type ATPases (Cu-ATPases) ATP7A and ATP7B are key regulators of physiological copper levels. They function to maintain intracellular copper homeostasis by delivering copper to secretory compartments and by trafficking toward the cell periphery to export excess copper. Mutations in the genes encoding ATP7A and ATP7B lead to copper deficiency and toxicity disorders, Menkes and Wilson diseases, respectively. This report describes the interaction between the Cu-ATPases and clusterin and demonstrates a chaperone-like role for clusterin in facilitating their degradation. Clusterin interacted with both ATP7A and ATP7B in mammalian cells. This interaction increased under conditions of oxidative stress and with mutations in ATP7B that led to its misfolding and mislocalization. A Wilson disease patient mutation (G85V) led to enhanced ATP7B turnover, which was further exacerbated when cells overexpressed clusterin. We demonstrated that clusterin-facilitated degradation of mutant ATP7B is likely to involve the lysosomal pathway. The knockdown and overexpression of clusterin increased and decreased, respectively, the Cu-ATPase-mediated copper export capacity of cells. These results highlight a new role for intracellular clusterin in mediating Cu-ATPase quality control and hence in the normal maintenance of copper homeostasis, and in promoting cell survival in the context of disease. Based on our findings, it is possible that variations in clusterin expression and function could contribute to the variable clinical expression of Menkes and Wilson diseases.
Tributyltin (TBT) is a ubiquitous contaminant in aquatic environment, but the detailed mechanisms underlying the toxicity of TBT have not been fully understood. In this study, the effects of TBT on behavior, energy metabolism and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress were investigated by using Chinese rare minnow larvae. Fish larvae were exposed at sublethal concentrations of TBT (100, 400 and 800 ng/L) for 7 days. Compared with the control, energy metabolic parameters (RNA/DNA ratio, Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase) were significantly inhibited in fish exposed at highest concentration (800 ng/L), as well as abnormal behaviors observed. Moreover, we found that the PERK (PKR-like ER kinase)-eIF2α (eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2α) pathway, as the main branch was activated by TBT exposure in fish larvae. In short, TBT-induced physiological, biochemical and molecular responses in fish larvae were reflected in parameters measured in this study, which suggest that these biomarkers could be used as potential indicators for monitoring organotin compounds present in aquatic environment.
Mixed lymphohematopoietic chimerism can be induced in mice with bone marrow transplantation (BMT) after a nonmyeloablative preparative regimen that includes cyclophosphamide, anti-T-cell antibody therapy, and thymic irradiation. These mixed chimeras are resistant to the induction of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after delayed donor leukocyte infusions (DLIs), despite a potent lymphohematopoietic graft-versus-host reaction that converts the mixed chimeric state to a full donor one. Based on this animal model, we initiated a trial of nonmyeloablative therapy with HLA-matched or -mismatched donor BMT and DLI for refractory hematologic malignancies. Twenty-one of 36 patients enrolled in this trial received a genotypically (n = 20) or phenotypically (n = 1) HLA-matched donor transplant; results reported here are for those patients only. Preparative therapy consisted of cyclophosphamide in doses of 150 to 200 mg/kg; peritransplant antithymocyte globulin; thymic irradiation (in patients who had not received previous mediastinal radiation therapy); and cyclosporine. Eighteen of 20 evaluable patients developed persistent mixed lymphohematopoietic chimerism as defined by >1% donor peripheral white blood cells until at least day 35 posttransplantation. Ten patients received prophylactic DLI beginning 5 to 6 weeks after BMT for conversion of mixed chimerism to full donor hematopoiesis and to optimize a graft-versus-leukemia effect. Fourteen of 20 evaluable patients (70%) achieved an antitumor response; 8 of these responses were complete, and 6 were partial. Of the 8 evaluable patients who received prophylactic DLI, 6 showed conversion to full donor chimerism. Five of the 9 evaluable patients (56%) who received prophylactic DLI achieved a complete response, compared with 3 of 11 patients (27%) who did not receive prophylactic DLI. Currently 11 patients are alive, and 7 of these are free of disease progression at a median follow-up time of 445 days (range, 105-548 days) posttransplantation. Transplantation-related complications included cyclophosphamide-induced cardiac toxicity in 3 of 21 patients (14%) and grade II or greater GVHD in 6 patients (29%). One patient (5%) died from a complication of BMT, and 1 patient (5%) died from GVHD after 2 prophylactic DLIs were given for conversion of chimerism. In summary, mixed lymphohematopoietic chimerism was reproducibly induced after a novel nonmyeloablative preparative regimen incorporating chemotherapy, peritransplant antithymocyte globulin, and thymic irradiation, allowing for early administration of DLI in 10 of 21 patients. After treatment, striking antitumor responses were observed in the majority of patients with chemotherapy-refractory hematologic malignancies.
Two chroman-2,4-dione derivatives, namely 2a and 2f, were tested as in vivo anticoagulants by seven days of continuous per os application to adult male Wistar rats in a concentration of 20 mg/kg of body weight. Derivatives were selected from a group of six previously intraperitoneally applied compounds on the basis of presenting remarkable activity in a concentration of 2 mg/kg of body weight. The derivatives 2a and 2f are VKORC1 inhibitors, and comparison of the absorption spectra, association, and dissociation constants suggested that the compounds will be bound to serum albumin in the same manner as warfarin is, leading to transfer towards the molecular target VKORC1. After oral administration, the compounds proved to be anticoagulants comparable with warfarin, inasmuch as the measured prothrombin times for 2a and 2f were 56.63 and 60.08 s, respectively. The INR values of 2a and 2f ranged from 2.6 to 2.8, recommending them as useful therapeutics in the treatment of patients suffering from thromboembolic events and atrial fibrillation. The high percentage of binding and high binding affinity of 2a and 2f towards serum albumin reduced the risk of induced internal bleeding. Several kinds of toxicity studies were performed to investigate whether or not 2a and 2f can cause pathological changes in the liver, kidneys, and DNA. The catalytic activity of serum enzymes, concentration and catalytic activity of liver and kidney oxidative stress markers and enzymes, respectively, as well as the observed hepatic and renal morphological changes indicated that the compounds in relation to warfarin induced irrelevant hepatic toxicity, no increment of necrosis, and inconsiderable oxidative damage in the liver and kidneys. Estimation of DNA damage using the comet assay confirmed that 2a and 2f caused no clinically significant genotoxicity. The higher activity and lower toxicity of 2f recommended this compound as a better drug candidate than 2a.
Three new natural products, australisines A-C (1-3, resp.), were isolated from the stem bark of Morus australis, together with eight related compounds, including mulberrofurans E-G, J, and Q, mongolicin C, chalcomoracin, and kuwanon G. Their structures were fully characterized by spectroscopic methods. Compounds 1-3, mulberrofuran G, mongolicin C, and chalcomoracin showed moderate cytotoxic activities against five human cancer cell lines, with IC50 values ranging from 4.6-9.2 microg/ml, as determined by MTT assay.
We present a pelvic tumor occurring in a 23 year old woman in which a Wilms' tumor-like element was predominant. The presence of a benign glandular component surrounded by small spindle and round malignant cells paralleled that encountered in adenosarcoma of the uterine body and cervix. The possible histogenesis is discussed. Clinically the recurrent tumor showed evidence of a response to chemotherapy. Treatment was complicated by petit mal seizures, for which adriamycin was responsible. The patient exhibited no evidence of disease 22 months after the first operation.
Nowadays, there are no validated drugs to control the neuropathic pain induced by paclitaxel, one of the most effective antineoplastic drugs. The aim was to study the involvement of opioid and NMDA receptor on established paclitaxel-induced pain, testing three common analgesics drugs morphine, ketamine and methadone. Animals received four intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections on alternate days of paclitaxel (1mg/kg). Three weeks later, animals showed a mechanical and heat allodynia/hyperalgesia. Morphine (1, 2.5, 5 and 10mg/kg) abolished the reduction in the mechanical and thermal withdrawal thresholds in a dose dependent manner. This effect was blocked by naloxone. Only highest dose of ketamine (50mg/kg) was able to increase the mechanical and thermal threshold and returned to basal values. Subanalgesic doses of morphine (1mg/kg) and ketamine (12.5mg/kg) produced an additive effect on heat hyperalgesia reaching an antinociceptive effect. This combination did not induce any change on tactile allodynia. Methadone (2.5 and 5mg/kg) produced an analgesic effect that was completely antagonized by naloxone in both tests. Our results confirm that: the activation of opioids receptor produced analgesia; the blockade of NMDA receptors produce antinociception but at high doses with motor impairments and low doses of ketamine enhancing the effect of opioids.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the vitamin K epoxide reductase (VKOR) gene have been successfully used for warfarin dosage prediction. However, warfarin resistance studies of naturally occurring VKOR mutants do not correlate with their clinical phenotype. This discrepancy presumably arises because the in vitro VKOR activity assay is performed under artificial conditions using the non-physiological reductant dithiothreitol.
The aim of this study is to establish an in vivo VKOR activity assay in mammalian cells (HEK293) where VKOR functions in its native milieu without interference from endogenous enzymes.
Endogenous VKOR activity in HEK293 cells was knocked out by transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs)-mediated genome editing.
Knockout of VKOR in HEK293 cells significantly decreased vitamin K-dependent carboxylation with vitamin K epoxide (KO) as substrate. However, the paralog of VKOR, VKORC1L1, also exhibits substantial ability to convert KO to vitamin K for carboxylation. Using both VKOR and VKORC1L1 knockout cells, we examined the enzymatic activity and warfarin resistance of 10 naturally occurring VKOR mutants that were reported previously to have no activity in an in vitro assay. All 10 mutants are fully active; five have increased warfarin resistance, with the order being W59R>L128R≈W59L>N77S≈S52L. Except for the L128R mutant, this order is consistent with the clinical anticoagulant dosages. The other five VKOR mutants do not change VKOR's warfarin sensitivity, suggesting that factors other than VKOR play important roles. In addition, we confirmed that the conserved loop cysteines in VKOR are not required for active site regeneration after each cycle of oxidation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by decreased dopamine, intracellular inclusions (Lewy bodies) and brain iron deposits. PD has also been related with reduced ferroxidase activity, diminished antioxidant defenses and lipid peroxidation. Striatal injection of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) into rodents reproduces the major biochemical characteristics of PD, including oxidative stress. Copper (Cu) plays an important role as prosthetic group of several proteins involved in iron metabolism and antioxidant responses, such as ceruloplasmin (Cp). In the present study, intraperitoneal CuSO4 injection (10μmol/kg) produced an insignificant increase of Cu content in striatum and midbrain (17.5% and 7%, respectively). After 10 and 11h, Cu induced 6- and 4-fold increase Cp mRNA in midbrain and striatum, respectively. Cu-supplement also produced a time-dependent increase ferroxidase activity in striatal tissue, reaching a maximum 16h after Cu treatment in midbrain; while, ferrous iron content diminished 18% in striatum and 8% in midbrain. In regard the PD model, we found that MPP(+) (10μg/8μL, intrastriatal), induced a significant (P<0.05) reduction of striatal ferroxidase activity; this effect was reverted by Cu pre-treatment 16h before MPP(+). Likewise, Cu-supplement prevented lipid fluorescent products formation in striatum, evaluated (P<0.01) 6h after MPP(+). In the long term, apomorphine-evoked circling behavior was evaluated 6 days after MPP(+) injury; Cu pre-treatment significantly reduced (P<0.05) the apomorphine-induced ipsilateral turns in MPP(+)-lesioned rats. These results suggest that Cu-induced expression of Cp could be an interesting scope against the deleterious effects of iron deposits in PD.
This study was designed to determine whether deficient substance P in the sciatic nerve of diabetic rats was associated with a similar reduction in calcitonin gene-related peptide and whether the depletion of either or both peptides could be affected by insulin treatment or by aldose reductase inhibition. Substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide were measured as immunoreactivities in the same nerve extracts. The sciatic nerve content of substance P was significantly reduced in diabetic rats (0.063 +/- 0.011; all data are mean +/- 1 standard deviation in ng peptide/mg nerve protein; n = 9 for all groups) compared to controls (0.093 +/- 0.026). The calcitonin gene related peptide content was similarly reduced (2.14 +/- 0.49) compared to controls (3.78 +/- 1.21). Tight glycaemic control with insulin prevented completely the deficit in both peptides (substance P = 0.096 +/- 0.021, calcitonin gene-related peptide = 4.66 +/- 0.92). Treatment with the aldose reductase inhibitor, imirestat, corrected the substance P deficit (0.08 +/- 0.018) and attenuated the calcitonin gene-related peptide (3.55 +/- 1.03) depletion seen in the untreated diabetic animals. This indicates that the polyol pathway may play a role in the peptide status of the sciatic nerve. Regression analysis of all data gave r2 = 0.53, indicating a comparable effect of diabetes and the treatments on both peptides.
Rats injected with mercuric chloride develop an acute renal tubular necrosis with uremia, which is frequently lethal. Pretreatment for 3 or 7 days with a protein-free diet reduces the mortality, the clinical signs (tremor), and the severity of renal tubular necrosis, and ameliorates the uremic chemical findings in the serum. Similar results followed injection of a nephrotoxic amino acid, D-serine, after pretreatment with a protein-free diet. Indirect evidence suggests that induction of metallothionein may be involved, at least in the experiments with mercury. Acute uremia produced by nephrotoxic chemicals may be useful for further studies of the role of nutrition in uremia, while avoiding the surgical procedures and prolonged observations required for the "remnant kidney" models.
Intense sounds were delivered to 11 subjects with normal hearing both before and during administration of standard doses of four nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. After four days of aspirin treatment (3.9 g daily), the subjects' resting hearing levels raised by about 10 dB. Administration of intense sounds that had previously been shown to produce about 12 dB of temporary hearing loss added increments of 10 to 15 dB to the aspirin-induced hearing loss. That is, the total temporary hearing loss produced by aspirin plus exposure to intense sound was about 10 to 15 dB greater than that produced by exposure to the intense sound alone. A similar effect was observed for sodium salicylate. After similar administrations of sulindac (400 mg per day) and diflunisal (750 mg per day), there was no corresponding increase in the sound-induced hearing loss. Under certain reasonable assumptions about underlying mechanisms, these findings suggest that persons taking moderate doses of aspirin or sodium salicylate may be at increased risk of noise-induced hearing loss.
Exposure to higher levels of air pollution particulate matter (PM) with an aerodynamic diameter of less than 2.5 μm (PM2.5) links with an increased risk of cardiovascular and respiratory deaths and hospital admission as well as lung cancer. Although the mechanism underlying the correlation between PM2.5 exposure and adverse effects has not fully elucidated, PM2.5-induced oxidative stress has been considered as an important molecular mechanism of PM2.5-mediated toxicity. In this work, human lung epithelial A549 cells were used to further investigate the biological effects of PM2.5 on autophagy. The cell viability showed both time- and concentration-dependent decrease when exposure to PM2.5, which can be attributed to increase of the levels of extracellular lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in A549 cells. Moreover, PM2.5-induced oxidative damage in A549 cells was observed through the alteration of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities compared to the unexposed control cells. PM2.5-induced autophagy was indicated by an increase in microtubule-associated protein light chain-3 (LC3) puncta, and accumulation of LC3 in both time- and concentration-dependent manner. PM2.5-induced mRNA expression of autophagy-related protein Atg5 and Beclin1 was also observed compared with those of the unexposed control cells. These results suggest the possibility that PM2.5-induced oxidative stress probably plays a key role in autophagy in A549 cells, which may contribute to PM2.5-induced impairment of pulmonary function.
We previously reported that the over-expression of hRFI, a protein preferentially expressed in the digestive tract regions of several cancers, exhibited a tendency to inhibit TNF-alpha induced apoptosis. In this study, we sought to determine the potential effect of hRFI expression on the sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and/or other fluoropyrimidines. For the whole lysates of 8 colon cancer cell lines, we performed Western blotting with anti-hRFI antibody and analyzed the correlations between the expression level of hRFI and the cell lines' sensitivity to 5-FU induced apoptosis. Furthermore, for a tissue microarray consisting of 32 xenograft derived human cancer cell lines, we examined the expression levels of hRFI and survivin by immunohistochemical staining, and analyzed the correlations between the expression of each protein and the sensitivity to several chemotherapeutic agents in the xenografts examined. Both in colon cancer cell lines and in xenografts, the expression level of hRFI was correlated with resistance to 5-FU and its derivatives. This evidence suggests that hRFI may be a marker predicting the response to fluorouracil derived chemotherapeutic agents and that the reduction of the expression level of hRFI might improve the outcome of chemotherapy.
To determine the efficacy and potential complications of oral naltrexone used in the treatment of pruritus in cholestatic patients and to compare them with other studies.
Thirty-four enrolled cholestatic patients complaining of pruritus were studied. In the initial phase, pruritus scores during day and night were evaluated. Subsequently, patients were given a placebo for one week followed by naltrexone for one week. In each therapeutic course (placebo or naltrexone) day and night pruritus scores were distinguished by a visual analogue scale (VAS) system and recorded in patients' questionnaires.
Both naltrexone and placebo decreased VAS scores significantly. Naltrexone was more effective than placebo in decreasing VAS scores. Both day and night scores of pruritus decreased by half of the value prior to therapy in thirteen patients (38%). Daytime pruritus improved completely in two patients (5.9%), but no improvement in the nighttime values was observed in any patient. Sixteen patients (47%) suffered from naltrexone complications, eleven (32%) of them were related to its withdrawal. Complications were often mild. In the case of withdrawal, the complication was transient (within the first 24-28 h of therapy) and self-limited. We had to cease the drug in two cases (5.9%) because of severe withdrawal symptoms.
Naltrexone can be used in the treatment of pruritus in cholestatic patients and is a safe drug showing few, mild and self-limited complications.
Several neuropharmacological effects of RX 781094, a new selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, have been investigated in rodents. In rats, RX 781094 (0.1-1.0 mg kg-1, i.v.) produced a rapid dose-related reversal of cortical EEG synchronisation and behavioural sedation, induced by clonidine or the more selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, guanoxabenz. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists yohimbine and mianserin were also effective in blocking guanoxabenz-induced EEG synchronisation but had a lower potency than did RX 781094. In specificity experiments, RX 781094 (1.0 mg kg-1, i.v.) failed to antagonise the EEG synchronisation and pronounced behavioural sedation induced by the CNS depressant sodium pentobarbitone (15 mg kg-1, i.v.). In mice, pretreatment (i.v. or p.o.) with RX 781094 inhibited in a dose-dependent way both guanoxabenz-induced behavioural hypoactivity and clonidine-induced hypothermia. By itself, RX 781094 had no effect on the temperature of normal mice. In sleep-waking studies in rats, RX 781094 (0.1 and 1.0 mg kg-1, i.v.) had no measurable stimulant or depressant effect on the CNS, in contrast to (+)-amphetamine (1.0 mg kg-1, i.v.) which elicited marked CNS stimulation. These results support the conclusion that RX 781094 is a potent antagonist at central alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
The third-generation cephalosporin, ceftazidime, is widely used for the treatment of serious gram-negative infections. As is true of cephalosporins in general, reported adverse effects have been few. We report a case of ceftazidime-induced status epilepticus in a patient with Pseudomonas aeruginosa meningitis and compare the clinical manifestations of this case with those of two previously described cases of ceftazidime-related encephalopathy. This diagnosis should be entertained and an electroencephalogram should be obtained in all patients with myoclonus and/or altered mental status while they are receiving ceftazidime therapy.
Sulindac, a nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory, indene-derived drug, caused life-threatening immune hemolytic anemia in an individual with back pain.
A patient was admitted to the hospital with immune hemolytic anemia and kidney and liver failure after several days ingestion of sulindac. The direct antiglobulin test was positive with polyspecific and monospecific anti-IgG but not with anti-C3. The eluate did not react in routine tests but reacted strongly after the addition of sulindac. The serum contained a sulindac-dependent antibody reacting to a titer of 32. The sulindac-dependent antibody was of both IgG and IgM classes and had no apparent blood group specificity. The antibody agglutinated red cells from humans and chimpanzees but not from chickens, rabbits, or sheep, which implied that a specific component on human and chimpanzee red cells was needed for reactivity. The antibody reacted with red cells treated with trypsin, papain, pronase, dithiothreitol, and sialidase. With aggressive medical care, the patient's condition improved.
These findings appear compatible with the so-called immune complex mechanism for drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia. Physicians are alerted to the severe nature of this syndrome.
Cells under aerobic condition are always threatened with the insult of reactive oxygen species, which are efficiently taken care of by the highly powerful antioxidant systems of the cell. The erythrocytes (RBCs) are constantly exposed to oxygen and oxidative stress but their metabolic activity is capable of reversing the injury under normal conditions. In vitro hemolysis of RBCs induced by 5, 10 and 20mM glucose was used as a model to study the free radical induced damage of biological membranes in hyperglycemic conditions and the protection rendered by vitamin E on the same. RBCs are susceptible to oxidative damage, peroxidation of the membrane lipids, release of hemoglobin (hemolysis) and alteration in activity of antioxidant enzymes catalase and superoxide dismutase. The glucose induced oxidative stress and the protective effect of vitamin E on cellular membrane of human RBCs manifested as inhibition of membrane peroxidation and protein oxidation and restoration of activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase, was investigated. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances are generated from decomposition of lipid peroxides and their determination gives a reliable estimate of the amount of lipid peroxides present in the membrane. Vitamin E at 18 μg/ml (normal serum level) strongly enhanced the RBC resistance to oxidative lysis leading to only 50-55% hemolysis in 24h, whereas RBCs treated with 10 and 20mM glucose without vitamin E leads to 70-80% hemolysis in 24h. Levels of enzymic antioxidants catalase, superoxide dismutase and nonenzymic antioxidants glutathione showed restoration to normal levels in presence of vitamin E. The study shows that vitamin E can protect the erythrocyte membrane exposed to hyperglycemic conditions and so a superior antioxidant status of a diabetic patient may be helpful in retarding the progressive tissue damage seen in chronic diabetic patients.
Kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) has been qualified by the Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency as a urinary biomarker to monitor preclinical nephrotoxicity in rats and on a case-by-case basis for the translation of potentially nephrotoxic drugs into first-in human studies. Although mouse models are widely employed in preclinical studies, few urinary biomarker studies have been performed in mice due to limited urine availability and lack of sensitive assays. Here, we report the development and validation of two different assays for quantitative assessment of mouse urinary KIM-1 (uKIM-1) and compare the sensitivity of KIM-1 relative to other standard markers in ischemia reperfusion and aristolochic acid (AA)-induced kidney injury in mice. A sensitive, reproducible, and quantitative microbead-based KIM-1 ELISA was established, which requires only 10 μl urine for triplicate determination with an assay range of 12.21 pg/ml to 50 ng/ml. The second assay is a laminar flow dipstick assay, which has an assay range of 195 pg/ml to 50 ng/ml and provides quantitative assessment of KIM-1 in 15 min. uKIM-1 levels increased with increasing time of ischemia or time after AA administration. After only 10-min ischemia followed by 24-h reperfusion, uKIM-1 was significantly elevated by 13-fold, whereas serum creatinine (sCr), blood urea nitrogen, N-acetyl-β-glucosaminidase (NAG), and proteinuria levels did not change. After AA administration, uKIM-1 levels were significantly upregulated by greater than threefold within 12 h, whereas sCr and NAG levels were unchanged. Mouse KIM-1 was stable for multiple freeze-thaw cycles, for up to 5 days at room temperature and up to at least an year when stored at -80°C.
To report a case of hypotension and bradyarrhythmia caused by verapamil toxicity in a patient prescribed telithromycin.
A 76-year-old white woman receiving verapamil 180 mg/day for hypertension experienced a sudden onset of shortness of breath and weakness and was found to be profoundly hypotensive and bradycardic, with a systolic blood pressure of 50-60 mm Hg and a heart rate of 30 beats/min. She had been taking telithromycin 800 mg/day for 2 days previously for acute sinusitis. The patient was treated with crystalloids, vasopressors, and transvenous pacing. Approximately 72 hours after admission, her blood pressure and heart rate rapidly returned to normal, and she was discharged several days later.
Telithromycin is a known substrate of the CYP3A4 system, and several pharmacokinetic interactions can occur by displacement of other drugs from this system. Verapamil is metabolized through several cytochrome P450 isoenzyme systems. Although there are no previous reports of an interaction between these drugs, other possible causes for the patient's symptoms were excluded and the diagnosis of a probable interaction between verapamil and telithromycin leading to verapamil toxicity was made.
Telithromycin is a ketolide antibiotic approved for treatment of respiratory tract infections and acute sinusitis. The potential for clinically significant drug interactions should be considered before using this agent, especially in patients taking other drugs that are metabolized through the CYP3A system. Caution should be exercised when considering the use of this antibiotic in patients receiving verapamil.
Seizures and death are the more important toxic consequences related to cocaine overdose. Some reports have shown that pharmacological manipulations in dopaminergic, serotonergic and noradrenergic systems alter the occurrence of cocaine-induced convulsions and death. Based on this fact, this work was performed to determine the changes in monoamine levels (DA, 5-HT and NE) and their metabolites (DOPAC, HVA and 5-HIAA) after cocaine-induced status epilepticus (SE) and death in striatum and prefrontal cortex (PFC). The monoamines and their metabolites were assayed by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Animal SE in striatum presented a decrease in DA and NE levels and an increase in HVA although in PFC there was an increase in DA, 5-HT and NE. Animals that died from cocaine-induced seizures in striatum showed an increase only in NE levels, but on the other hand in PFC a decrease occurred in DA and NE levels. Taken together these results indicated that cocaine-induced SE and death altered monoamine levels in different ways depending on the brain area studied, suggesting that different mechanisms are involved.
The equilibrium between the production and degradation of collagen is rigorously controlled by a number of growth factors and cytokines. Interferon alfa (IFN-alpha) is now widely used for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C, which can improve serum levels of fibrotic markers and the degree of hepatic fibrosis, not only in patients who responded to therapy but also in those in whom it is ineffective. These findings may suggest that IFN-alpha possesses direct antifibrotic effects in addition to its antiviral activity. However, in contrast to IFN-gamma, which has been shown to suppress collagen gene transcription, little is known about the mechanisms responsible for the antifibrotic effects of IFN-alpha. Here, we report that IFN-alpha, when administered into transgenic mice harboring the alpha2(I) collagen gene (COL1A2) promoter sequence, significantly repressed promoter activation and prevented the progression of hepatic fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride injection. Transient transfection assays indicated that IFN-alpha decreased the steady-state levels of COL1A2 messenger RNA (mRNA) and inhibited basal and TGF-beta/Smad3-stimulated COL1A2 transcription in activated hepatic stellate cells (HSC). These inhibitory effects of IFN-alpha on COL1A2 transcription were exerted through the interaction between phosphorylated Stat1 and p300. Blocking of the IFN-alpha signal by overexpressing the intracellular domain-deleted IFN receptor increased basal COL1A2 transcription and abolished the inhibitory effects of IFN-alpha. In conclusion, our results indicate that IFN-alpha antagonizes the TGF-beta/Smad3-stimulated COL1A2 transcription in vitro and suppresses COL1A2 promoter activation in vivo, providing a molecular basis for antifibrotic effects of IFN-alpha.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), a stress-responsive enzyme that catabolizes heme into carbon monoxide (CO), biliverdin, and iron, has previously been shown to protect grafts from ischemia/reperfusion injury and rejection. Here we investigated the protective potential of HO-1 in 5 models of immune-mediated liver injury. We found that up-regulation of endogenous HO-1 by cobalt-protoporphyrin-IX (CoPP) protected mice from apoptotic liver damage induced by anti-CD95 antibody (Ab) or d-galactosamine in combination with either anti-CD3 Ab, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). HO-1 induction prevented apoptotic liver injury, measured by inhibition of caspase 3 activation, although it did not protect mice from caspase-3-independent necrotic liver damage caused by concanavalin A (Con A) administration. In addition, overexpression of HO-1 by adenoviral gene transfer resulted in protection from apoptotic liver injury, whereas inhibition of HO-1 enzymatic activity by tin-protoporphyrin-IX (SnPP) abrogated the protective effect. HO-1-mediated protection seems to target parenchymal liver cells directly because CoPP treatment protected isolated primary hepatocytes from anti-CD95-induced apoptosis in vitro. Furthermore, depletion of Kupffer cells (KCs) did not interfere with the protective effect in vivo. Exogenous CO administration or treatment with the CO-releasing agent methylene chloride mimicked the protective effect of HO-1, whereas treatment with exogenous biliverdin or overexpression of ferritin by recombinant adenoviral gene transfer did not. In conclusion, HO-1 is a potent protective factor for cytokine- and CD95-mediated apoptotic liver damage. Induction of HO-1 might be of a therapeutic modality for inflammatory liver diseases.
