Velocity sedimentation analysis of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) molecular forms in the fast extensor digitorum longus muscle and in the slow soleus muscle of the rat was carried out on days 4, 8, and 14 after induction of muscle paralysis by botulinum toxin type A (BoTx). The results were compared with those observed after muscle denervation. In addition, the ability of BoTx-paralyzed muscles to resynthesize AChE was studied after irreversible inhibition of the preexistent enzyme by diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate. Major differences were observed between the effects of BoTx treatment and nerve section on AChE in the junctional region of the muscles. A precipitous drop in content of the asymmetric A12 AChE form was observed after denervation, whereas its decrease was much slower and less extensive in the BoTx-paralyzed muscles. Recovery of junctional AChE and of its A12 form after irreversible inhibition of the preexistent AChE in BoTx-paralyzed muscles was nevertheless very slow. It seems that a greater part of the junctional A12 AChE form pertains to a fraction with a very slow turnover that is rapidly degraded after denervation but not after BoTx-produced muscle paralysis. The postdenervation decrease in content of junctional A12 AChE is therefore not primarily due to muscle inactivity. The extrajunctional molecular forms of AChE seem to be regulated mostly by muscle activity because they undergo virtually identical changes both after denervation and BoTx paralysis. The differences observed in this respect between the fast and slow muscles after their inactivation must be intrinsic to muscles.
To investigate whether central nervous system (CNS) stimulants used for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are associated with the development of Raynaud's syndrome (RS).
A case-control design was used for this study. All patients seen in a pediatric rheumatology practice during a 5-year period who had signs and symptoms of RS and met diagnostic criteria for RS as determined by pulse volume recording were studied as cases. Controls were randomly selected patients at the same clinic who did not have signs or symptoms of RS. They were matched to the cases for age, sex, and time of presentation. We tested for associations between various CNS medications and presence of RS. We also evaluated differences in laboratory test results between RS cases and matched controls.
Sixty-four patients were enrolled in the study (32 cases with RS [23 female, 9 male] and 32 control patients). McNemar's test showed a significant association between the presence of RS and past or current use of ADHD stimulants (methylphenidate and dextroamphetamine) (chi(2) = 5.00, P = 0.01). The use of other CNS medications was not found to be significantly associated with RS (chi(2) = 1.33, P = 0.25 by McNemar's test). C-reactive protein levels and erythrocyte sedimentation rates were significantly higher in controls than in cases.
The results of this study indicate that there is a significant association between development of RS and therapy with CNS stimulants used for the treatment of ADHD. Although this was a small study, these findings provide preliminary evidence of an adverse effect of CNS stimulant medications in patients seen in rheumatology practice.
Methamphetamine (METH) produces dopaminergic neurotoxicity by the production of reactive oxygen (ROS) and nitrogen (RNS) species. The role of free radicals has also been implicated in the process of aging. The present study was designed to evaluate whether METH-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity and hyperthermia is a result of peroxynitrite production and if these effects correlate with age. One-, six- and 12-month-old male rats (n = 8) were administered a single dose of METH (0, 5, 10, 20, and 40 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). The formation of 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) as a marker of peroxynitrite production as well as dopamine and its metabolites DOPAC and HVA were measured in the striatum 4-h after METH-administration. Rectal temperature was monitored every 30 min after METH administration until 4 h. At 40 mg/kg METH, a 100% mortality in 12-month-old animals was observed, whereas no deaths occurred in 1- or 6-month-old rats. An age-dependent increase in hyperthermia was observed after METH-administration. A similar pattern of dose-dependent increase in the formation of 3-NT and in the depletion of dopamine and its metabolites with age was observed in the striatum. Furthermore, no effect was observed at 5 mg/kg METH in 1-month-old animals, whereas the effect was significant in 6- and 12-month-old animals. These data suggest that aging increases the susceptibility of the animals toward METH-induced peroxynitrite generation and striatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity.
In a multicenter placebo-controlled study, the safety, side effects, and patient acceptance of alprazolam for the treatment of panic disorder and agoraphobia were examined. A total of 525 patients meeting DSM-III criteria for agoraphobia with panic attacks or panic disorder were randomly assigned to receive alprazolam or placebo, which they took for eight weeks. The mean daily dose at the end of the study was 5.7 mg of alprazolam or 7.5 capsules of placebo daily. Potentially serious reactions to alprazolam occurred in ten of 263 subjects who received the drug. These included acute intoxication (three), hepatitis (two), mania (two), amnesia (one), aggressive behavior (one), and depression (one). Treatment-related side effects that were worse in patients taking alprazolam than in those taking placebo included sedation, fatigue, ataxia, slurred speech, and amnesia. Sedation was the most frequent but tended to subside with dose reduction or continued administration of the drug. Patient acceptance of alprazolam, as measured by the rate of completion for study participants, was high. Eighty-four percent of patients receiving active drug completed the study compared with 50% receiving placebo.
Ketamine appears to induce both excitatory and depressant actions in the brain; however, it is not clear which regions are affected. The 2-deoxyglucose functional mapping method of Sokoloff et al. was used to determine regional variations in metabolic activity of rat brain caused by injection of ketamine, 25-75 mg, intramuscularly. To compare the effects of ketamine with those of hippocampal-induced seizures, the 2-deoxyglucose method was used, following injection of penicillin G, 400-800 units, into the hippocampus. The findings from five control, seven ketamine-treated, and three penicillin G-treated rats are given. Ketamine caused a significant increase of metabolic activity in the hippocampal sulci and a decrease of activity in the medial geniculate and the inferior colliculus. Similar changes were found with hippocampal seizures caused by penicillin. The inhibition of the regions associated with sensory systems (medial geniculate and inferior colliculus) may account in part for the anesthetic action of ketamine, while the intense activity of the hippocampus may be related to the excitatory manifestations. The results indicate that ketamine produces seizures in the hippocampus, which in turn inhibit auditory and visually associated nuclei. Thus, the anesthesia may follow from the sensory depression and the cataleptic phenomena may be related to the hippocampal excitation.
Cognitive impairments frequently accompany epileptic disorders. Here, we examine two neuroprotective agents, the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist ketamine and the dopaminergic antagonist acepromazine, for their efficacy in attenuating cognitive impairments in the lithium-pilocarpine (LI-PILO) model of rat limbic epilepsy. Declarative-like cognitive behaviors were assessed in a Morris water maze task that consisted successively of spatial and nonspatial (cued platform) training. Whereas the ketamine-treated (Ket) LI-PILO rats performed equally in all respects to nonseized control rats for the spatial and nonspatial components of the water maze task, the acepromazine-treated (Ace) LI-PILO rats failed to demonstrate learning in either the hidden or cued platform variants of the task and did not demonstrate any place learning in the platform-removed probe trials. We further assessed nondeclarative (associative) cognitive behaviors with a standard contextual fear-conditioning protocol. LI-PILO rats treated with acepromazine failed to learn the Pavlovian relationship; Ket LI-PILO rats performed equivalently to nonseized controls. Cumulatively, these data suggest robust cognitive sparing for LI-PILO rats with pharmacological NMDA receptor antagonism following induction of status epilepticus (SE). This cognitive sparing occurs despite earlier findings that the mean amount of total brain damage with LI-PILO is equivalent for Ket and Ace rats.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in abdominal aortic aneurysm pathogenesis. This study sought to characterize the relevance of superoxide dismutases (SOD), a family of reactive oxygen catalyzing metalloenzymes, including manganese SOD (MnSOD), copper-zinc SOD (CuZnSOD), and extracellular SOD (EcSOD), in a rodent aortic aneurysm model.
Male rat infrarenal abdominal aortas were perfused with either saline (control) or porcine pancreatic elastase (6 U/mL). Aortic diameter was measured and aortas harvested on post-operation days 1, 2, and 7 (N=5-6 per treatment group per day). MnSOD, CuZnSOD, EcSOD, catalase, MMP-2, MMP-9, and beta-actin expression in aortic tissue was determined by quantitative real-time PCR. MnSOD protein levels were measured using western immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. In subsequent experiments, aimed at understanding the mechanism by which SOD is involved in AAA pathogenesis, rat aortic explants (RAEs) were incubated in media for 24 h in the presence of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta, 2 ng/mL) and TEMPOL (SOD mimetic), catalase, or a combined SOD and catalase mimetic. Media MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity was determined by zymography. Data were analyzed by Student's t-tests and ANOVA.
Elastase-perfused aortic diameters were significantly increased compared to control aortas by post-perfusion day 7 (P=0.016). MnSOD mRNA levels in elastase perfused aortas were 6.0 (P=0.05) and 7.5 times (P<0.01) greater than control aortas at post-perfusion days 1 and 2, respectively. EcSOD, CuZnSOD, catalase, and MMP-2 mRNA expression did not statistically vary between the two groups. MMP-9 expression was 3.5-fold higher in the elastase group on post-perfusion day 2 (P=0.04). Western immunoblotting confirmed MnSOD protein was up-regulated on day 4 in the elastase-perfused group compared to controls (P=0.02). Immunohistrochemistry demonstrated increased MnSOD staining in the elastase group on day 4. In RAE experiments, TEMPOL increased both MMP-9 and MMP-2 activity 2 (P=0.09) and 3-fold (P=0.05), respectively, whereas catalase and the combined SOD/catalase mimetic failed to increase MMP-2 or MMP-9 activity.
Experimental abdominal aortic aneurysm formation is associated with early increases in MnSOD expression and an increase in MMP-9 activity. Strategies aimed at inhibiting oxidative stress during AAA formation should focus on MnSOD.
Compared with increasing evidence suggesting that fenvalerate is neurotoxic to adults, further information regarding developmental toxicity of this compound attracts more attention. In this study, we used zebrafish as an environmental monitoring model to further explore the potential toxicity of fenvalerate. Our results demonstrated that larvae exposed to fenvalerate for 24-96 h displayed obvious morphological abnormalities, and the LC50 concentrations were 131.95 microg/L (LC50-24h), 107.18 microg/L (LC50-48 h), 21.76 microg/L (LC50-72 h), and 6.25 microg/L (LC50-96 h). To further investigate the effects of fenvalerate on embryos and larvae, acridine orange staining was performed at a 50 microg/L concentration. Staining showed notable signs of apoptosis mainly in the brain. Further studies revealed that fenvalerate induced alterations in SOD activity in larvae were concentration dependent and also related to the length of exposure. Fenvalerate also down-regulated the expression of ogg1 and dlx2 genes in a concentration dependent manner, which indicated that the oxidative-DNA repair system as well as neurogenesis were impaired. In this study, we investigated the toxicity of fenvalerate using zebrafish, that provided new evidence of observable brain impairment during embryogenesis due to fenvalerate exposure and discussed their implications for the development of fenvalerate induced neurotoxicity.
We screened 124 individuals for single nucleotide polymorphisms of the alpha1, beta3 and gamma2 genes of the GABA(A) receptor in the regions corresponding to the ligand-binding domains on the protein level. In a patient with chronic insomnia, a missense mutation was found in the gene of the beta3 subunit. This mutation results in the substitution of the amino acid residue arginine for histidine in position 192 (beta3(R192H)). The patient was found to be heterozygous for this mutation. Functional analysis of human alpha1beta3(R192H)gamma2S GABA(A) receptors using ultra fast perfusion techniques revealed a slower rate of the fast phase of desensitization compared with alpha1beta3gamma2S GABA(A) receptors. Additionally, current deactivation [a major determinant of inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) duration] was faster in the mutated receptors. This raises the possibility of decreased GABAergic inhibition contributing to insomnia, as some members of the patient's family also suffer from insomnia. The mutation beta3(R192H) might, therefore, be linked to this condition. The intron/exon boundaries of the alpha1 subunit gene were also established and three additional variants were found in the alpha1 and beta3 genes.
The main purpose of the current study was to find predictive biomarkers that can be routinely used for the response to chemotherapy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
From this standpoint, we selected the histoculture drug response assay (HDRA) to assess in vitro chemosensitivity, and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction to investigate the gene expression profile of individual tumors as available predictive biomarkers. Using both surgery and biopsy specimens, we analyzed their gene expression profiles using the 18 markers that we thought were likely predictors of the response to anti-cancer agents.
Statistically significant associations were found between 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) sensitivity in HDRA and HER-2 mRNA expression level (p = 0.0030). Moreover, HER-2 expression was significantly associated with cisplatin sensitivity (p = 0.0089). Cisplatin sensitivity in HDRA was also demonstrated to have a significant association with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression in which the group with cisplatin resistance tended to have a higher expression level than the sensitive group (p = 0.0385).
HER-2 and EGFR may be possible reliable predictive biomarkers for anti-cancer therapy, and might help in the decision-making process for individual patients with HNSCC.
Debate and controversy exists concerning the potential for the herbicide atrazine to cause gonadal malformations in developing Xenopus laevis. Following review of the existing literature the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency required a rigorous investigation conducted under standardized procedures. X. laevis tadpoles were exposed to atrazine at concentrations of 0.01, 0.1, 1, 25, or 100 microg/l from day 8 postfertilization (dpf) until completion of metamorphosis or dpf 83, whichever came first. Nearly identical experiments were performed in two independent laboratories: experiment 1 at Wildlife International, Ltd. and experiment 2 at the Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB). Both experiments employed optimized animal husbandry procedures and environmental conditions in validated flow-through exposure systems. The two experiments demonstrated consistent survival, growth, and development of X. laevis tadpoles, and all measured parameters were within the expected ranges and were comparable in negative control and atrazine-treated groups. Atrazine, at concentrations up to 100 microg/l, had no effect in either experiment on the percentage of males or the incidence of mixed sex as determined by histological evaluation. In contrast, exposure of larval X. laevis to 0.2 microg 17beta-estradiol/l as the positive control resulted in gonadal feminization. Instead of an even distribution of male and female phenotypes, percentages of males:females:mixed sex were 19:75:6 and 22:60:18 in experiments 1 and 2, respectively. These studies demonstrate that long-term exposure of larval X. laevis to atrazine at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 100 microg/l does not affect growth, larval development, or sexual differentiation.
Mesotheliomas are tumors arising from mesothelial cells and are associated with asbestos exposure and approximately 50% contain simian virus 40 (SV40) DNA sequences. SV40 infection of human mesothelial cells (HM) causes early cellular immortalization and late transformation. Aberrant methylation is a major mech-anism for loss of function of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs). We recently reported that of seven genes frequently methylated in epithelial tumors, only RASSF1A gene was frequently methylated in mesotheliomas, and its methylation was correlated with loss of RASSF1A expression and the presence of SV40. We studied whether SV40 infection of normal HM induces aberrant methylation of the genes previously studied in mesotheliomas. Of six infected foci examined at early passages (passages 8-30) there was no methylation of the seven genes examined. Of two foci examined at late passages (passages 51-86) after the appearance of morphological changes suggestive of transformation, methylation and loss of expression of RASSF1A was detected. Sequencing of the CpG dense region around the transcription start site and semi-quantitative real-time methylation specific PCR (MSP) assay for RASSF1A methylation demonstrated progressive methylation during late passages. Exposure to the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine restored RASSF1A expression, while exposure to the histone deacetylation inhibitor trichostatin A had no effect. These data, together with our previous findings, support a causal relationship between SV40 infection, progressive RASSF1A methylation and its silencing, and the pathogenesis of mesothelioma.
We examined the effect of chronic administration of imipramine and bupropion, monoamine reuptake inhibitors, on the duration of immobility in the forced swim test and serotonin (5-HT)(2A) receptor function in the form of 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA levels in rats chronically treated with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). The immobility-decreasing effect of bupropion without imipramine did not influence the chronic ACTH treatment. The effect on the expression of 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA of chronic ACTH treatment was decreased by bupropion, but not imipramine. These results suggest that bupropion has the effect of reducing immobility time in the forced swim test in the tricyclic antidepressant-resistant depressive model induced by chronic ACTH treatment in rats, and that decreased 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA levels may be involved in this phenomenon.
A phase II study of detorubicin, the semisynthetic 14-diethoxyacetoxy ester of daunorubicin, was conducted in 42 patients with metastatic melanoma. The drug was administered in a dose range of 120 to 180 mg/m2 and repeated at 3-week intervals. One clinical complete remission (soft tissue) and seven partial responses (three visceral and four soft tissue) were observed among the 22 patients who had undergone no prior chemotherapy, a complete and partial response rate of 36%. The duration of response varied from 2 to 27 months with a median of 10 months. There were also four (19%) minor responses (one visceral and three soft tissue). In contrast, among the 20 patients who had undergone prior chemotherapy treatment, only three patients showed a minor response. General toxicities were acceptable and were similar to those of Adriamycin (Adria Laboratories, Columbus, Ohio). Cardiac toxicity was evaluated by cardiac biopsy and radionuclide scan. Cardiac biopsy changes were identical to those observed with Adriamycin and were progressive with cumulative dose. One patient had a high-grade biopsy at a cumulative detorubicin dose of 1,420 mg/m2. Similarly, a trend of decreasing ejection fraction with cumulative dose was noted. Only one patient developed congestive heart failure at a cumulative dose of 1,290 mg/m2, that was well compensated with digoxin and diuretics. In contrast to Adriamycin, detorubicin has shown activity in previously untreated patients with metastatic melanoma.
The present study was carried out to determine whether a selective decrease of mitochondrial (mt) DNA-encoded cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) subunits occurs in zidovudine myopathy, as expected with a compound known to induce selective mtDNA depletion. Fourteen HIV-infected patients with zidovudine myopathy were studied. Thirteen had partial CCO deficiency assessed by histochemistry. Western blot analysis of CCO subunits (II/III, IV, Va, Vb, VIa, VIb, VIc, VIIa, VIIb, and VIIc) was performed on muscle biopsy samples. We evaluated the mtDNA-encoded subunits to nuclear DNA-encoded subunits ratio with the II/III to IV ratio. Patients had either a selective decrease of mtDNA-encoded CCO subunits (3 patients), or an overall decrease affecting both mtDNA-and nuclear DNA-encoded subunits (5 patients), or a normal expression of CCO subunits (6 patients). Positive correlations could not be established between the pattern of expression of CCO subunits and total zidovudine intake, degree of inflammation, and percentages of ragged-red fibers or CCO-deficient fibers. The finding of a decrease of both mtDNA- and nuclear DNA-encoded CCO subunits suggests that a factor additional to zidovudine could be implicated in the pathogenesis of the myopathy, at least in some patients. New insights into the pathogenesis of zidovudine myopathy might come from the use of more sensitive methods, including evaluation of CCO subunits in single fibers.
The objective determination of hearing impairment with evoled response techniques may be of value in the early detection of ototoxic reactions, especially in infants and other "difficult" patient populations. In this study the auditory brain stem response to "clicks" at two intensities and two repetition rates were recorded from guinea pigs that had been given one of two dosage levels of kanamycin or no drug. The scalp-recorded cochlear microphonic to continuous tones was also recorded. Hearing loss was seen in one-third of the animals receiving kanamycin. The temporal course of the deficit varied considerably between animals. Auditory system change was most readily detected in response to low-intensity stimuli, while change in repetition rate of the clicks did not affect the results. The cochlear microphonic potentials correlated with the auditory brain stem response.
Non-invasive measures of brain gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) concentrations may be especially useful in the identification of cocaine-related changes in brain chemistry that can be used to guide the development of future treatments for cocaine-dependent persons. This study assessed whether brain GABA levels in cocaine-dependent subjects with and without an alcohol disorder differ from GABA levels in healthy comparison subjects. Two-dimensional, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to determine GABA levels in the left prefrontal lobe of cocaine-dependent subjects (N=35) recruited from a National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA)-sponsored treatment trial of cocaine dependence and a comparison group (N=20). At treatment baseline, mean GABA concentrations were 0.93+/-0.27 mM/kg in cocaine-dependent subjects and 1.32+/-0.44 mM/kg in the comparison sample (t [d.f.=53]=3.65, P<0.001). Cocaine-dependent subjects with a history of a co-morbid alcohol disorder (N=23) had significantly lower baseline GABA levels (0.87 mM/kg) (t [d.f.=41]=4.31, P<0.001) than the comparison group. However, cocaine-dependent subjects without an alcohol disorder (N=12) also had lower GABA levels (1.04 mM/kg) than the comparison subjects (t [d.f.=30]=2.09, P=0.045), suggesting that cocaine dependence alone can decrease GABA levels.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed on five patients with infantile spasms who were treated with relatively low doses of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) to study the extent of brain shrinkage induced by ACTH therapy. MRI prior to ACTH therapy revealed periventricular hyperintensity (PVH) areas and poor myelination in four patients. In one case, MRI performed 2 days after initiation of ACTH therapy also showed PVH and poor myelination. Brain shrinkage was observed 2 weeks after initiation of ACTH therapy. The most impressive follow-up finding upon MRI was the decrease in PVH found in four patients. The differentiation between myelinated white matter and surrounding cortex became poorer in three cases. Cortical atrophy progressed in all patients but ventricular dilation progressed in only one patient. At the end of ACTH therapy, ventricular dilation progressed in all cases. These findings suggest that loss of water not only from periventricular white matter but also from cortex is the main etiological factor of brain shrinkage induced by ACTH.
The effects of different doses of ondansetron (0.1, 0.5, 1, 2 mg/kg) administered intra-peritoneally were studied on amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and stereotypy in wistar rats. Ondansetron was administered 30 minutes prior to d-amphetamine (3 mg/kg, i.p.). Ondansetron in doses of 0.5 and 1 mg/kg significantly decreased the mean number of head dippings and crossings in the hole board test and in doses of 0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg significantly decreased the average stereotypic score. Since the hyperactivity and stereotypy are dopamine mediated, the effect of ondansetron to reduce these states suggests a potential role for ondansetron in conditions with dopamine excess.
Despite its common adverse effects intravenous (i.v.) amphotericin B is an indispensable antifungal drug in childhood oncology. We report here on three cases of painful cyanotic Raynaud's phenomenon after i.v. administration or inhalation of amphotericin B. A liposomal i.v. preparation of amphotericin B was well tolerated by the infants. Spasms of peripheral vessels mediated by thromboxane A2 could be responsible for the Raynaud's phenomenon. Hence, inhibitors of prostaglandin synthesis are suggested for therapy.
The action of MK-801 (NMDA antagonist; 0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg, IP) was tested against picrotoxin-induced seizures (3-6 mg/kg, IP) in rats aged 7, 12, 18, 25, and 90 days. We found MK-801 only inconsistently affected clonic seizures in 12- and 25-day-old rats, whereas tonic-clonic seizures were suppressed or delayed in almost all age groups. In addition, the lethality of picrotoxin was diminished by the higher dose of MK-801 in all age groups. The results suggest: a) different generators for both seizure patterns (clonic and tonic-clonic), b) an involvement of NMDA receptors in the genesis of tonic-clonic seizure pattern, and c) an interaction of MK-801 with GABAergic transmission throughout the entire development studied.
Paclitaxel is the prototype of a new class of chemotherapeutic agents with an antimitotic effect that is related to its ability to interfere with the microtubule system. It causes peripheral neurological toxicity by means of its activity on the axonal microtubules. To define the clinical and neurophysiological characteristics of paclitaxel neuropathy 23 patients undergoing paclitaxel therapy at a dose of 175 mg/m2 were studied. The patients were divided into two groups, with only one group receiving pretreatment with potentially neurotoxic drugs such as cisplatin and carboplatin. The results showed a high incidence of mild neurotoxicity in both groups. Treatment was discontinued due to severe neurotoxicity in only one patient pretreated with platinum-compounds. The clinical and neurophysiological data make it possible to define paclitaxel neurotoxicity as a distal axonal neuropathy with a summatory effect in patients pretreated with cisplatin; the possible reversibility of paclitaxel neurotoxicity requires further confirmation.
We examined the effect of 1% L-arginine in the drinking water on the infiltration of the kidney by macrophages in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis (PAN) and in rats with bilateral ureteral obstruction (BUO) of 24 hours duration. Rats given L-arginine in the drinking water for three days before BUO or PAN was initiated had a greater glomerular filtration rate after release of BUO or induction of PAN than similar rats not given L-arginine (P < 0.0001). Administration of L-arginine decreased the renal infiltration by macrophages in rats with PAN (P < 0.0001) or BUO (P < 0.0001) compared to rats with PAN or BUO given tap water alone. Chemotaxis studies suggested that macrophages were activated during obstruction as evidenced by the greater random migration of peritoneal macrophages obtained from rats with 24-hour urethral obstruction than from sham-operated rats (SOR; P < 0.0001). In vitro, maximal chemotaxis induced by 7% zymosan-activated serum (ZAS) in peritoneal macrophages from SOR was enhanced by low (10(-6) to 10(-5) M) and decreased by high concentrations (10(-3) to 10(-2) M) of L-arginine in the incubation medium. Migration of macrophages from rats with urethral obstruction was increased by 7% ZAS but the increase diminished with high concentrations of L-arginine (10(-3) to 10(-2) M). Random migration of peritoneal macrophages obtained from rats with urethral obstruction given L-arginine prior to obstruction was significantly lower than that of peritoneal macrophages obtained from similar rats given tap water alone prior to obstruction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dyskinesias are known to occur in many patients with Parkinson's disease treated with dopaminergic drugs but to date, drug-induced dyskinesias have not been observed in humans with no underlying basal ganglia disorder. We describe a patient with psychogenic parkinsonism and intravenous apomorphine abuse leading to subsequent choreatiform dyskinesias.
