The synthesis and the effect of a combination of 6-glycine and 14-phenylpropoxy substitutions in N-methyl- and N-cycloproplymethylmorphinans on biological activities are described. Binding studies revealed that all new 14-phenylpropoxymorphinans (11-18) displayed high affinity to opioid receptors. Replacement of the 14-methoxy group with a phenylpropoxy group led to an enhancement in affinity to all three opioid receptor types, with most pronounced increases in δ and κ activities, hence resulting in a loss of μ receptor selectivity. All compounds (11-18) showed potent and long-lasting antinociceptive effects in the tail-flick test in rats after subcutaneous administration. For the N-methyl derivatives 13 and 14, analgesic potencies were in the range of their 14-methoxy analogues 9 and 10, respectively. Even derivatives 15-18 with an N-cyclopropylmethyl substituent acted as potent antinociceptive agents, being several fold more potent than morphine. Subcutaneous administration of compounds 13 and 14 produced significant and prolonged antinociceptive effects mediated through peripheral opioid mechanisms in carrageenan-induced inflammatory hyperalgesia in rats.
The authors reviewed efficacy and safety data for ondansetron for preventing postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV).
Systematically searched, randomized, controlled trials (obtained through MEDLINE, EMBASE, Biological Abstracts, manufacturer's database, manual searching of journals, and article reference lists) were analyzed. Relevant end points were prevention of early PONV (within 6 h after surgery) and late PONV (within 48 h) and adverse effects. Relative benefit and number-needed-to-treat were calculated. The number-needed-to-treat indicated how many patients had to be exposed to ondansetron to prevent PONV in one of them who would have vomited or been nauseated had he or she received placebo.
Fifty-three trials were found that had data from 7,177 patients receiving 24 different ondansetron regimens and from 5,712 controls receiving placebo or no treatment. Average early and late PONV incidences without ondansetron were 40% and 60%, respectively. There was a dose response for oral and intravenous ondansetron. Best number-needed-to-treat to prevent PONV with the best documented regimens was between 5 and 6. This was achieved with an intravenous dose of 8 mg and an oral dose of 16 mg. Antivomiting efficacy was consistently better than antinausea efficacy. Efficacy in children was poorly documented. Ondansetron significantly increased the risk for elevated liver enzymes (number-needed-to-harm was 31) and headache (number-needed-to-harm was 36).
If the risk of PONV is very high, for every 100 patients receiving an adequate dose of ondansetron 20 patients will not vomit who would have vomited had they received placebo. The antinausea effect is less pronounced. Of these 100, three will have elevated liver enzymes and three will have a headache who would not have had these adverse effects without the drug.
In twenty beagle dogs selective injections were made into the left coronary artery with iopentol, iohexol and metrizoate in doses of 4 ml, 8 ml and 16 ml. Thirty-six iopentol injections, 35 iohexol injections and 37 metrizoate injections were made. Frequencies of ventricular fibrillation were significantly lower (p less than 0.05) after iopentol (0%) and iohexol (3%) than after metrizoate (22%). Iopentol and iohexol also produced significantly less decrease in aortic blood pressure than metrizoate at the different doses.
In past years, Zuclopenthixolacetate as well as Flupentixoldecanoate have each proven to be reliable and efficient in the treatment of schizophrenic psychoses. In a specially implemented psychiatric treatment unit (PTU) we administered a high-dose depot neuroleptic combination therapy initially consisting of both substances to seriously ill schizophrenic prisoners who exhibited highly aggressive behaviour (N=20). We initially used both antipsychotics at the same time as a simple regimen in order to restore the prisoners' health to enable them to return to their home prisons. A single coercive intervention was performed in 14 out of 20 prisoners which was followed by a second one in two cases according to Article 101 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure. On average, prisoners needed a treatment course of 30.4 days. Within this time PANSS global scores were reduced by approximately 40%. Side effects occurring as a consequence of neuroleptic treatment were negligible and could be dealt with.
Manipulations of serotonergic systems have been shown to modify many of the behavioral effects of cocaine. It was recently demonstrated that serotonin (5-HT) depletions produced by inhibition of tryptophan hydroxylase reduced cocaine-seeking in an animal model. The present study was designed to determine whether pretreatment with specific 5-HT antagonists might also decrease cocaine-seeking. The effect of pretreatment with the 5-HT(2) antagonist, ritanserin (0.0, 1.0, or 10.0 mg/kg), or the 5-HT(1A) antagonist, WAY 100635 (0. 0, 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0 mg/kg), on cocaine (5.0, 10.0, or 20.0 mg/kg)-produced reinstatement of extinguished drug-taking behavior was measured. Although ritanserin was ineffective, WAY 100635 attenuated cocaine-produced reinstatement in a dose-dependent manner. These effects of WAY 100635 appeared to be specific since responding maintained by saccharin self-administration remained high following pretreatment with 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg WAY 100635. These data suggest a role of 5-HT(1A), but not 5-HT(2), receptors in cocaine-seeking.
Human drug dependence routinely features a difficulty with disengaging attention from drug-related stimuli, a symptom previously shown to be predictive of relapse during treatment. We examined the neural mechanisms underlying this attentional bias in cocaine users, varying working memory (WM) load to reflect the demands imposed by ruminative craving thoughts. Sixteen active users of cocaine were administered a WM task that manipulated the requirement for selective attention by varying the background contents, cocaine-related or neutral, upon which a recall probe item was shown. Behavioural and fMRI data were collected. Cocaine users had significantly poorer attentional control under high WM demands, suffering both increased response times and reduced recall accuracy, with this effect more pronounced for cocaine stimuli (when compared to neutral stimuli). The presence of background cocaine stimuli was associated with increases in occipital cortex activity, consistent with increased visual processing of the irrelevant stimuli for these trials. In addition, the cocaine stimuli were associated with increased right prefrontal activity with those participants with higher levels of right prefrontal activity having lower levels of attentional bias. Cocaine users under high cognitive demands had difficulty modulating the neural mechanisms underlying cognitive control which appear necessary for restricting the visual processing of task-irrelevant, but salient drug-related, stimuli, a finding that may be relevant to identifying those at most risk of relapse.
The present study was designed to investigate whether arsenic trioxide induced the apoptosis in rat mesenteric arterial smooth muscle cells (SMCs), which provides new insights into mechanisms of arsenic-related vascular diseases. Here, we found that arsenic trioxide significantly decreased the viability of SMCs in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, higher level of arsenic trioxide directly caused cellular necrosis. The Hoechst and AO/EB staining demonstrated that apoptotic morphological change was presented in SMCs exposed to arsenic trioxide. The TUNEL assay displayed that more positive apoptotic signal appeared in SMCs treated with arsenic trioxide. The following result showed that ROS formation was markedly increased in arsenic trioxide-treated SMCs. Pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine, an anti-oxidant reagent, obviously attenuated the enhancement of ROS production and the reduction of cell viability induced by arsenic trioxide in SMCs. Arsenic trioxide also enhanced free intracellular Ca(2+) level in SMCs. BAPTA also significantly prevented the increased intracellular Ca(2+) and decreased cell viability induced by arsenic trioxide in SMCs. These results suggested that arsenic trioxide obviously induced apoptosis in SMCs, and its mechanism was partially associated with intracellular ROS formation and free Ca(2+) increasing.
Paraoxon (POX) is an active metabolite of organophosphate (OP) pesticide parathion that has been weaponized and used against civilian populations. Exposure to POX produces high mortality. OP poisoning is often associated with chronic neurological disorders. In this study, we optimize a rat survival model of lethal POX exposures in order to mimic both acute and long-term effects of POX intoxication. Male Sprague-Dawley rats injected with POX (4mg/kg, ice-cold PBS, s.c.) produced a rapid cholinergic crisis that evolved into status epilepticus (SE) and death within 6-8min. The EEG profile for POX induced SE was characterized and showed clinical and electrographic seizures with 7-10Hz spike activity. Treatment of 100% lethal POX intoxication with an optimized three drug regimen (atropine, 2mg/kg, i.p., 2-PAM, 25mg/kg, i.m. and diazepam, 5mg/kg, i.p.) promptly stopped SE and reduced acute mortality to 12% and chronic mortality to 18%. This model is ideally suited to test effective countermeasures against lethal POX exposure. Animals that survived the POX SE manifested prolonged elevations in hippocampal [Ca(2+)]i (Ca(2+) plateau) and significant multifocal neuronal injury. POX SE induced Ca(2+) plateau had its origin in Ca(2+) release from intracellular Ca(2+) stores since inhibition of ryanodine/IP3 receptor lowered elevated Ca(2+) levels post SE. POX SE induced neuronal injury and alterations in Ca(2+) dynamics may underlie some of the long term morbidity associated with OP toxicity.
Propofol anesthesia may induce metabolic disturbances and sevoflurane anesthesia arterial hypotension. This study compares both techniques regarding acid-base and hemodynamic status during intracranial surgery. Sixty-one patients were randomized into 2 groups according to anesthesia maintenance, a propofol group (n=30), and a sevoflurane group (n=31). The anesthesia protocol including rocuronium and remifentanil infusion was otherwise similar in both groups. Arterial blood samples were drawn every 2 hours during the procedure and upon arrival in the intensive care unit to assess acid-base status. The number of hypotensive and hypertensive events served to assess hemodynamic stability. Metabolic acidosis was more frequent during propofol than sevoflurane anesthesia (7 out of 29 and 1 out of 31, P=0.02). Its severity was linearly correlated with lactate concentration (R=0.32), total dose of propofol (R=0.2), and length of procedure (R=0.28). Hyperlactacidemia was also observed during sevoflurane anesthesia, but without acidosis. Hypertension occurred more frequently during propofol than sevoflurane anesthesia (13 out of 30 vs. 1 out of 31, P<0.001), particularly in patients with a past medical history of hypertension. Higher remifentanil infusion rates reduced the risk of hypertension. Conversely, sevoflurane anesthesia favored arterial hypotension (22 out of 31 vs. 12 out of 30, P=0.015). Preoperative morning administration of antihypertensive medications to patients with a history of arterial hypertension was associated with a low probability of hypertensive events, at the cost of more frequent hypotension. In conclusion, propofol anesthesia for intracranial surgery is more frequently associated with lactic acidosis and hypertension; sevoflurane anesthesia may favor arterial hypotension.
The purpose of the current study was to determine whether abstinent methamphetamine (MA) abusers demonstrate differences in white matter (WM) integrity of the corpus callosum (CC) due to possible neurotoxic effects of long-term MA abuse, compared with control subjects. In addition to fractional anisotropy (FA), the eigenvalues of the diffusion ellipsoid were used to evaluate the microstructural source of abnormal change in abstinent MA abusers if there occurred a difference in white matter integrity of the CC between healthy controls and abstinent MA abusers. Results showed significantly reduced FA in the genu of the corpus callosum in MA-dependent subjects compared with controls. Furthermore, the eigenvalues offered a unique opportunity to assess the microstructural source of abnormal changes in the genu of the CC. The relationships between Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) performance and the values of tensor measures also suggest that altered myelination is a possible source of FA reduction observed in the genu of the CC in MA abusers.
There have been few publications concerning the role of the immune system in neuroleptic intolerance. Some studies have shown that in neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), the serum level of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) increases significantly, which is thought to trigger the onset of DIC.
A 23-year-old woman suffering from catatonic schizophrenia developed hypersensitivity to neuroleptics. One month before being referred to the present authors, she had a haloperidol-induced NMS episode in another psychiatric hospital, with high temperature, CPK activity, muscle rigidity and leukocytosis. On admission to our clinic and after treatment with promazine, laboratory tests showed an increase in serum CPK activity and mild leukocytosis. Neuroleptic treatment was discontinued, and the serum level of CPK and white blood cell count was monitored daily for 7 days, as well as the serum level of some cytokines and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by blood neutrophils. The serum levels of interleukin 1 alpha (IL-1), IL-6 and TNF-alpha changed significantly over the observation period, forming waves with peak activity of IL-6 and TNF-alpha exceeding normal levels. The level of IL-1 alpha was within the control range. ROS production by the patient's blood neutrophils was also increased, as well as catalase serum activity.
Some proinflammatory cytokines may participate in the mechanisms leading to the development of neuroleptic intolerance in schizophrenic patients. Cytokine-stimulated ROS production may participate in tissue injury and increase CPK serum activity.
Patients given long-term treatment with lithium often develop an impairment of renal water reabsorption which may lead to clinically significant adverse reactions. A convenient measure of this impairment may be obtained using the ratio of urine volume (V) divided by lithium clearance (CLi). When data from a large group of patients were recalculated, this ratio showed a statistically significant correlation with the serum lithium level. This finding supports the suggestion that patients might advantageously be maintained at lower serum levels than those commonly employed.
To evaluate 24-hour intraocular pressure (IOP) control with an evening-dosed latanoprost-timolol maleate fixed combination vs timolol alone in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
After a medicine-free period, qualified patients were randomized to either placebo dosed in the morning with a latanoprost-timolol fixed combination dosed in the evening or timolol alone dosed twice daily for 8 weeks. Patients were then switched to the opposite treatment for 8 weeks. At baseline and at the end of each treatment period, patients underwent IOP measurements.
Both treatments reduced the IOP from untreated baseline at each time point and for the 24-hour curve (P<.001). When treatments were compared, the latanoprost-timolol fixed combination decreased the IOP more than timolol alone at each time point and for the 24-hour curve (2.9 mm Hg), and provided a lower absolute IOP at each time point (P<.001) and for the range (fluctuation) in IOP (P = .003) and for the 24-hour curve. Several adverse effects were observed more often with the latanoprost-timolol fixed combination, including ocular stinging (P = .05), conjunctival hyperemia (P = .02), and ocular itching (P = .04).
The evening-dosed latanoprost-timolol fixed combination may provide better IOP control than timolol alone over 24 hours and may demonstrate a narrower range of IOP fluctuation in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma.
Interactions of amygdala kindling and drug effects were explored in two experiments. Pretreatment with cocaine (40 mg/kg, IP) for 10 days did not significantly affect the rate of amygdala kindling compared to saline or non-kindled controls. In contrast, daily amygdala kindling with 200 microA for 0.5 s for 20 days substantially altered subsequent behavioral responses in a long-lasting fashion. Animals showed decreased spontaneous vertical rearing activity, as well as decreased cocaine-induced vertical activity. In contrast, they were more reactive to the direct dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. Eighteen days following completion of amygdala kindling, kindled animals were more sensitive to lidocaine-induced convulsions; 88% of kindled animals, but only 24% of the implanted sham-stimulated controls, had seizures. These data suggest that amygdala kindling may produce long-lasting changes in selected spontaneous and drug-induced behaviors, as well as convulsive thresholds. Possible physiological and neurological changes underlying this altered responsivity are discussed.
Previous studies based on limited exposure assessment have suggested that Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with pesticide exposure. The authors used data obtained from licensed private pesticide applicators and spouses participating in the Agricultural Health Study to evaluate the relation of self-reported PD to pesticide exposure. Cohort members, who were enrolled in 1993-1997, provided detailed information on lifetime pesticide use. At follow-up in 1999-2003, 68% of the cohort was interviewed. Cases were defined as participants who reported physician-diagnosed PD at enrollment (prevalent cases, n = 83) or follow-up (incident cases, n = 78). Cases were compared with cohort members who did not report PD (n = 79,557 at enrollment and n = 55,931 at follow-up). Incident PD was associated with cumulative days of pesticide use at enrollment (for highest quartile vs. lowest, odds ratio (OR) = 2.3, 95% confidence interval: 1.2, 4.5; p-trend = 0.009), with personally applying pesticides more than half the time (OR = 1.9, 95% confidence interval: 0.7, 4.7), and with some specific pesticides (ORs > or = 1.4). Prevalent PD was not associated with overall pesticide use. This study suggests that exposure to certain pesticides may increase PD risk. Findings for specific chemicals may provide fruitful leads for further investigation.
The cerebral and systemic hemodynamic and metabolic effects of hypotension induced with desflurane were examined in 11 dogs. During a steady-state baseline period under 1 MAC desflurane (7.2%), the following were measured or derived: arterial, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary artery occlusion pressures; arterial, mixed venous, and sagittal sinus blood gases; cardiac index and cerebral blood flow (CBF); whole-body and cerebral O2 consumption; systemic and cerebral vascular resistance; intracranial pressure; and blood glucose and lactate concentrations. After the baseline period, hypotension to a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 50 mmHg was produced by 15.5% (2.2 MAC), and hypotension to an MAP of 40 mmHg was produced by 17.1% (2.4 MAC) for 1 h. During this hypotensive period all measurements were taken at 5- or 15-min intervals. At the end of the hypotensive period, brain biopsy specimens were taken for measurement of cerebral concentrations of ATP, phosphocreatine, and lactate to determine whether there was any metabolic evidence of cerebral ischemia. Desflurane-induced hypotension produced a significant, 40-50% decrease in cardiac index with a significant change in systemic vascular resistance at the lower blood pressure, but produced little change in heart rate. Even though whole-body O2 consumption did not decrease, adequate peripheral perfusion was maintained with the lower cardiac output, as evidenced by lack of accumulation of blood lactate. Induced hypotension caused a significant, 50 (at MAP = 50 mmHg) to 64% (at MAP = 40 mmHg) decrease in cerebral perfusion pressure, accompanied by a significant, 36 (at MAP = 50 mmHg) to 60% (at MAP = 40 mmHg) decrease in CBF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In 20 post-operative patients who had undergone caesarean section, morphine 2 mg or fentanyl 75 micrograms in 0.9% saline were given epidurally in a randomized study, to compare their effectiveness in providing post-operative pain relief and the incidence of untoward reaction. There was a faster onset of action (P less than 0.01) and the quality of pain relief was substantially better after epidural fentanyl (P less than 0.01). However, the duration of action was markedly longer after epidural morphine (P less than 0.01). There was a significantly greater incidence of urinary retention after morphine administration (P less than 0.05). It is suggested that fentanyl gives better relief of pain than morphine when given epidurally.
The acute hemodynamic and humoral responses to intravenous dilevalol (10 to 390 mg) were evaluated in 10 patients with moderate hypertension. Dilevalol, in doses of 30 mg or more, decreased arterial pressure (p less than 0.0001) through a decrease in total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.0001) associated with an increase in stroke volume and cardiac output (p less than 0.0001). Heart rate increased moderately at doses above 190 mg. Plasma norepinephrine levels increased (p less than 0.05), but epinephrine levels remained unchanged. Plasma renin activity and level of atrial natriuretic peptide decreased (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.01, respectively). The hypotensive and humoral changes persisted 3 hours after the last dose. Dilevalol modified the pattern of hemodynamic response to isometric stress, slightly enhancing the increases in peripheral resistance and blunting increases in cardiac output and heart rate. The response in arterial pressure during administration of dilevalol remained similar to that seen in the pretreatment phase. The results show that dilevalol, when given intravenously in a dose of 30 to 90 mg, reduces arterial pressure by reducing total peripheral resistance without acceleration in heart rate. On the basis of these hemodynamic effects, dilevalol should be further evaluated for treatment of hypertensive emergencies.
A 55-year-old man with glioblastoma multiforme was treated with continuous, dose-dense temozolomide. This therapy was curtailed after three cycles because of nausea, asthenia, and neuropsychological deterioration. During a subsequent course of radiotherapy, the patient developed fever, headaches, and cutaneous lesions.
Physical examination, cerebral MRI, brain biopsy, skin biopsy, immunohistochemistry, bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage, and laboratory tests.
Severe temozolomide-induced immunosuppression, exacerbated by corticosteroids, with profound T-cell lymphocytopenia and simultaneous opportunistic infections with Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, brain abscess with Listeria monocytogenes, and cutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma.
Discontinuation of temozolomide, discontinuation of radiotherapy, antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin and gentamicin, and administration of atovaquone and pentamidine.
Angioedema, also known as angioneurotic edema or Quincke's disease, is a well-demarcated, localized edema involving the subcutaneous tissues that may cause upper-airway obstruction. We report the case of a previously healthy 19-year-old man with no known drug allergies in whom angioedema with significant tongue swelling and protrusion developed within 10 minutes of the administration of a single IV dose of droperidol.
Acrodermatitis enteropathica is a rare autosomal recessive disorder of zinc deficiency. The genetic defect has been mapped to 8q24 and the defective gene identified as SLC39A4, which encodes the zinc transporter Zip4. The diagnosis is made by way of clinical presentation together with histopathology and laboratory tests. Here we provide an overview of zinc metabolism and a description of inherited and acquired zinc deficiency.
The transcriptional activator serum response factor (SRF) is a member of the immediate early gene family known to promote embryonic development, cell growth, and myogenesis through interaction with multiple nuclear protein factors. Previous studies have shown that SRF possesses potent transcriptional activation domains that can interfere with gene expression at artificially high expression levels through "transcriptional squelching." The current work sought to characterize toxicological aspects of SRF-mediated transcriptional squelching. An adenoviral expression system driven by the potent cytomegalovirus promoter was used to achieve up to a 50-fold increase in SRF protein levels. The overexpressed SRF is nuclear localized and interferes with gene expression independent of specific promoter interaction as expected for transcriptional squelching. SRF-mediated squelching elicits robust cell killing affecting multiple cell types including normal and abnormal proliferating cells as well as postmitotic cells such as cardiomyocytes in culture, and the cell killing is more pronounced than that mediated by the tumor suppressor protein p53. Although both the DNA-binding and transcriptional activation domains of SRF are normally required for the physiological roles of SRF, only the transcriptional activation domain is required for cell killing. Unlike c-myc-induced cell killing, squelching-induced cell death does not require serum withdrawal and cannot be effectively attenuated by blocking the caspase and calpain proteolytic pathways or by overexpression of the antiapoptotic gene bcl-xL. These findings suggest transcriptional squelching may be engineered for killing cancer cells, and the SRF gene may represent a novel molecular target for cancer therapeutics.
Involvement of free radicals and their scavenging enzymes in mice pulmonary thromboembolism, induced by intravenous infusion of collagen and adrenaline, has been studied. Malonaldehyde (MDA) and activities of xanthine oxidase (XO), catalase (CAT) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were estimated in platelets, heart and lung homogenates. MDA increased in all the tissues sharply, while animals showed 70-80% thrombocytopenia. Xanthine oxidase activity in these animals increase significantly in heart. However, increased SOD activity and decreased catalase activity was observed in platelets. Intravenous administration of superoxide dismutase (5 mg/kg), catalase (5 mg/kg) and mannitol (200 mg/kg) protected the mice against pulmonary thromboembolism. The importance of free radicals in mice pulmonary thromboembolism has been demonstrated.
This work evaluated the potential usefulness of pharmacological activation of cardiac ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K(ATP)) in the prevention of drug-induced QT prolongation in anaesthetised guinea-pigs. Prolongation of cardiac repolarisation and QT interval is an adverse effect of many drugs blocking HERG potassium channels. This alteration can be dangerously arrhythmogenic and has been associated with the development of a particular form of ventricular tachyarrhythmia known as torsade de pointes.
The well-known K(ATP) openers aprikalim, cromakalim and pinacidil were used. Moreover, three benzothiazine derivatives, which have been reported as potent activators of K(ATP) channels, were also used.
Pharmacological activation of K(ATP) channels caused a reduction of the QT prolongation, induced by astemizole, cisapride, quinidine and thioridazine. In contrast, the QT prolongation induced by haloperidol, sotalol and terfenadine, which are known to block HERG channels but also K(ATP) channels, was not influenced by K(ATP) activation. Glibenclamide and tolbutamide (non-selective blockers of K(ATP) channels expressed both in sarcolemmal and in mitochondrial membranes) antagonised the effects of K(ATP) openers, whereas 5-hydroxydecanoic acid (selective blocker of the mitochondrial K(ATP) channels) failed to antagonise the effects of K(ATP) openers, indicating that only the sarcolemmal K(ATP) is involved in the cardioprotective activity.
The data suggest that pharmacological K(ATP) activation might represent an option for treatment of patients exposed to QT-prolonging drugs.
Ten percent of human lupus syndromes occur in patients as a result of treatment with certain medications. H-2s mice can produce autoantibodies following treatment with various drugs or heavy metals and they are a potential animal model of drug-induced lupus. We have examined nine anti-chromatin monoclonal antibodies (mAb) from A.SW mice that had been treated with either D-penicillamine or quinidine, two lupus-inducing drugs in humans. These mAb are specific either for DNA or histone-DNA complexes corresponding to nucleo-specific either for DNA or histone-DNA complexes corresponding to nucleosomes or subnucleosome particles. Only one mAb reacts with an unknown chromatin antigen. The V region sequences of six of these mAb were studied and are notable by several features. As previously observed in spontaneous autoantibodies to DNA or histone-DNA complexes, arginine or asparagine residues are found at critical locations throughout the V regions. Many of these residues, potentially important for binding to DNA or DNA-histone complexes, result either from somatic mutations or atypical VH-D-JH rearrangements. Another significant characteristic is that the VH genes of several D-penicillamine- or quinidine-induced mAb are most similar to those of anti-nucleolar mAb obtained from mercury-injected A.SW mice. The implications of these findings for the pathogenesis of spontaneous or induced autoimmunity are discussed.
Cutaneous reactions, including acne, pruritus, urticaria, and nail dyschromia, have been associated with zidovudine use. Cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis is characterized by distinctive patterns of dermal perivascular inflammation without visceral involvement. We treated two cases of cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis associated with fever in patients with severe human immunodeficiency virus-related immunodeficiency in which symptoms resolved on withdrawal of zidovudine therapy and recurred after rechallenge with the drug. This unusual hypersensitivity reaction to zidovudine is probably related to the immune dysregulation and the propensity toward allergic phenomena found in human immunodeficiency virus infection.
To study serum creatinine (SCr) levels following indomethacin for patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) closure in extremely preterm neonates in relation to postnatal age at the start of treatment.
This was a retrospective (January 2000-December 2002) analysis of data on preterm neonates (gestation <29 weeks) who received indomethacin for PDA. Pre-existing renal malformation and/or impairment and high serum levels of nephrotoxic drugs were criteria for exclusion.
Indomethacin was commenced at postnatal age <7 days and >or=7 days in 60 (group 1) and 30 (group 2) neonates, respectively. The median (Q1, Q3) gestational age and birth weight for group 1 and group 2 neonates were 25 (23, 27) vs. 25 (24, 26) weeks and 740 (620, 909) vs. 780 (663, 966) grams, respectively. Postnatal age <7 days at start of indomethacin was associated with higher baseline (0.083 (0.074, 0.090) vs. 0.073 (0.054, 0.083) mmol/L, p=0.001) and peak SCr levels (0.099 (0.089,0.109) vs. 0.090 (0.064, 0.104) mmol/L, p=0.015). Logistic regression analysis controlling for gestational age and baseline SCr level indicated that postnatal age >or=7 days was a risk factor for elevated SCr after indomethacin (OR=13.4, 95% CI: 3.8-46.6, p < 0.001).
Postnatal age >or=7 days at the start of indomethacin is a predictor of a significant rise in SCr in extremely preterm neonates.
