Neonatal hypoxic-ischaemic (HI) brain injury resulting in encephalopathy is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality with no effective treatment. Here we show that caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), an active component of propolis, administered either before or after an HI insult, significantly prevents HI-induced neonatal rat brain damage in the cortex, hippocampus and thalamus. In addition to blocking HI-induced caspase 3 activation, CAPE also inhibits HI-mediated expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and caspase 1 in vivo and potently blocks nitric oxide-induced neurotoxicity in vitro. Furthermore, CAPE directly inhibits Ca2+-induced cytochrome c release from isolated brain mitochondria. Thus, CAPE induces neuroprotection against HI-induced neuronal death, possibly by blocking HI-induced inflammation and/or directly inhibiting the HI-induced neuronal death pathway. CAPE may therefore be a novel effective therapy for preventing neonatal HI injury.
There is widespread public concern that exposure to road vehicle traffic pollution causes asthma, but epidemiological studies in developed countries have not generally confirmed a strong effect and may have underestimated the risk as a result of relatively high and widespread exposure to traffic in everyday life.
To investigate the effect of living close to a traffic bearing road on the risk of wheezing in Jimma, Ethiopia where road traffic is generally low and restricted to a limited network of roads.
Data have been previously collected on respiratory symptoms, allergic sensitisation, and numerous demographic and lifestyle factors in a systematic sample of inhabitants of Jimma town. In 2003 the homes of these people were retraced; the shortest distance to the nearest surfaced road, and traffic flows on these roads were measured.
Distance measurements were collected for 7609 (80%) individuals. The overall prevalence of wheeze was similar in those living within 150 m of a road compared to those living further away (3.9% v 3.7%), but among the 3592 individuals living within 150 m, the risk of wheeze increased significantly in linear relation to proximity to the road (adjusted odds ratio = 1.17 per 30 m proximity, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.36). This relation was stronger, though not significantly so, for roads with above median traffic flows.
These findings indicate that living in close proximity to road vehicle traffic is associated with an increased risk of wheeze, but that other environmental factors are also likely to be important.
The proposed increased use of methanol (MeOH)-based fuels raises the concern for an increased risk for MeOH toxicity. MeOH, which is detoxified in part via a folate-dependent pathway, is known to be teratogenic in rodents. Previous observations have implicated maternal folate status as a critical modulator for the developmental toxicity of MeOH. The current study extends these findings, examining the effect of maternal dietary folate intake on fetal folate stores, as well as identifying a possible marker for the prediction of the developmental toxicity of MeOH. Virgin female CD-1 mice were assigned to diets containing either 400 (marginal) or 1200 (control) nmol folic acid (FA)/kg, and and 1% succinylsulfathiazole for 5 weeks prior to mating and throughout breeding and gestation. From gestation day (GD) 6 through 10 dams were given by gavage deionized, distilled water (dH2O) or MeOH at 2.5 g/kg body weight, twice daily. On GD 18, mice were weighed and killed and the liver, kidneys, and gravid uteri removed and weighed. Implantation sites, live and dead fetuses, and resorptions were counted; fetuses were weighed individually and examined for cleft palate and exencephaly. The marginal FA dietary treatment resulted in low maternal liver (50% reduction) and red cell folate (30% reduction) concentrations, as well as low fetal tissue folate concentrations (60 to 70% reduction) relative to the adequate FA dietary groups. Marginal FA treatment alone resulted in cleft palate in 13% of the litters; there were no litters affected with cleft palate in the adequate FA-control group. Marginal FA-MeOH treatment resulted in a further increase in the litters affected by cleft palate (72% of litters affected). The percent of litters affected by exencephaly was highest in the marginal FA-MeOH group. The frequency of micronuclei in maternal and fetal reticulocytes, a marker for chromosomal abnormalities, was not influenced by either the marginal FA diet or by MeOH treatment. These results show that marginal folate deficiency in pregnant dams significantly increases the teratogenicity of MeOH.
The potential of arsenic to cause neural tube defects (NTD) in the human population remains a topic of controversy. While clearly toxic, the lack of well-defined human epidemiologic studies on this subject has made it difficult to fully understand the effects arsenic may have on the developing human neural tube. In the absence of good clinical data, we have tried to develop a murine model where hypotheses about the reproductive toxicity of arsenate can be tested. For these studies a murine strain (LM/Bc) that has proven to be susceptible to arsenic-induced NTD was use. Because cellular proliferation is vital for normal neural tube closure (NTC) to occur, in the present study we investigated whether an acute arsenate treatment could alter the expression of several cell cycle genes during murine neurulation. Pregnant LM/Bc dams were injected intraperitoneally on gestation day (GD) 7:12 (day:hour) and 8:12 with 40 mg/kg of arsenate, a treatment that causes exencephaly in 90 to 100% of the exposed fetuses. Neural tubes were then isolated from both control and arsenic treated embryos at GD 9:00, 9:12, 10:00, and 10:12, which encompasses all the stages of neurulation for this murine strain. Using the molecular techniques of in situ transcription and antisense RNA amplification (RT/aRNA) the expression pattern for bc1-2, p53, wee-1, and wnt-1 was analyzed at each of these time points. In the neural tubes isolated from control embryos, the expression of all four genes was significantly altered as neurulation progressed, demonstrating their developmental regulation. Following arsenate treatment, however, there was a significant upregulation in the expression of bc1-2 and p53 at gestational day 9:0, compared to their control values. The heightened expression of both of these genes suggests that arsenic inhibits cell proliferation, rather than inducing apoptosis, which delayed NTC and ultimately led to the neural tube defects observed in exposed embryos.
To investigate the relationship of prostaglandins (PGs) to seizure induction, the effects of six PG synthetase inhibitors on convulsions induced by flurothyl, picrotoxin, pentetrazol (PTZ), electroshock or bicuculline were evaluated. Ibuprofen, sulindac, mefenamic acid, and low dose meclofenamic acid increased the latency-to-onset in the flurothyl and/or PTZ models; the electroshock, picrotoxin and bicuculline models were not significantly affected by any of the pretreatment agents. These results suggest that PGs are involved in the mechanism(s) underlying fluorthyl- and PTZ-induced convulsions, but not picrotoxin-, electroshock-, or bicuculline-induced convulsions.
Apolipoprotein E (APOE)-epsilon4 has been associated with an unfavorable course of multiple sclerosis (MS). The mechanisms responsible for this are unclear, although cross-sectional MRI demonstrated a higher extent of "black holes" (BHs) in such patients. Here, we have studied the impact of the APOE genotype on both the longitudinal evolution of focal (BH ratio) and global (brain volume change [BVC]) brain tissue damage. Ninety-nine MS patients underwent ApoE genotyping, clinical examination, and magnetic resonance imaging at baseline and after 2.7 +/- 1.1 years to assess lesion load (LL) and BVC. In APOE-epsilon4 patients, the annual reduction in brain volume was fivefold higher (-0.65 +/- 0.61%) than in those without APOE-epsilon4 (-0.13 +/- 0.36%; p = 0.0001). At baseline, T(2) LL and T(1) LL were non-significantly higher in epsilon4 carriers, despite a shorter disease duration and absence of significant clinical differences. During follow-up, T(1) LL increased from 1.2 +/- 2.3 ccm to 1.7 +/- 2.7 ccm in the epsilon4 group, although T(2) LL did not change, leading to a significantly higher increase in the BH ratio [(T(1) LL/T(2) LL) x 100] from 5.5 to 12.4% (p = 0.005). BH ratio remained almost constant in non-epsilon4 patients (5.0 vs 5.7%). Accelerated brain tissue loss and a higher proportion of lesions evolving into BH therefore provide magnetic resonance imaging evidence for more pronounced tissue destruction in MS patients with APOE-epsilon4.
Apoptosis is a form of regulated cell death that plays an important role in the maintenance of tissue homeostasis. Treatment of Dalton's lymphoma ascites cells (DLA)-induced experimental solid tumor tumor cells with 13 cis-retinoic acid, at concentrations of 25 microg/mL and 50 microg/mL, produced apoptotic morphologic changes, such as nuclear condensation and DNA-ladder formation after 48h incubation at 37 degrees C. in addition, the compound upregulated caspase-3 expression and downregulated bcl-2 gene expression. In vivo treatment with 13 cis-retinoic acid (200 micromoles/kg body weight, ip) inhibited solid tumor development induced with DLA cells in Swiss albino mice. In conclusion, the results suggest that the anti-tumor activity of 13 cis-retinoic acid in DLA cells is due to apoptosis mediated by the regulation of bcl-2 and caspase-3 gene expression.
It is well known that the use of the alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists in the BPH therapy may induce ejaculatory disorder. A review of clinical literature shows a greater incidence of ejaculatory disorder during the use of tamsulosin compared with alfuzosin. Anejaculation has been until now referred to retrograde ejaculation due to relaxation of prostatic and bladder neck smooth muscle tone. In a recent researches was evaluated the effect of tamsulosin and alfuzosin on rat vas deferent "in vitro", concluding that tamsulosin may "cause ejaculatory dysfunction by altering the progression and emission of sperm". An abnormal increase of contraction would be the cause of ejaculatory disorder. The aim of our paper is to compare human and rat vas deferens contractile activity and to evaluate with a clinical study if tamsulosin causes retrograde ejaculation disorder.
We have revaluated the human and rat vas deferens contractile activity in vitro according to our experience and literature. We have also performed a clinical study on 10 patients (48-72 y) affected by anejaculation. Post-coital urine was examined to search spermatozoa.
Human and rat vas deferens activity is not comparable. Contractile activity induced by norepinephrin after tamsulosin incubation in rat prostatic vas deferens strips is similar to the contractile activity evoked by norepinephrin in human strips. Spermatozoa were found in post coital urine of 6 patients.
In our opinion the treatment with tamsulosin may induce retrograde ejaculation but not other ejaculatory disorder due to abnormal sperm progression.
Cerebral venography and manometry in nine patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension consistently showed venous hypertension in the superior sagittal sinus and proximal transverse sinuses, with a significant drop in venous pressure at the level of the lateral third of the transverse sinus. The abnormality, clearly demonstrated by manometry, was not well shown on the venous phase of cerebral angiography. The appearance of the transverse sinus on venography varied from smooth tapered narrowing to discrete intraluminal filling defects that resembled mural thrombi. Two patients with intracranial hypertension due to minocycline did not show venous hypertension.
Lisinopril, a long-acting, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, was compared with placebo in a randomized, parallel, double-blind, 12-week study of 193 patients with heart failure. All patients were New York Heart Association Functional Class II, III, or IV and had remained symptomatic despite optimal dosing with digoxin and diuretics. After 12 weeks of therapy, the improvement in treadmill exercise duration was greater in the lisinopril group (113 seconds) compared with the placebo group (86 seconds). This improvement in exercise duration was particularly evident in patients with left ventricular ejection fractions less than 35% (lisinopril = 130 seconds; placebo = 94 seconds). In patients receiving lisinopril, the increase in exercise duration was accompanied by an improvement in quality of life as measured by the Yale Scale Dyspnea/Fatigue Index and in signs and symptoms of heart failure. In addition, the lisinopril group had a larger mean increase (3.7%) in left ventricular ejection fraction when compared with the placebo group (1.3%). Thus, lisinopril, administered once daily for 12 weeks, was well tolerated and efficacious in the treatment of heart failure when used concomitantly with diuretics and digoxin.
The daily administration of chlorpromazine (CPZ) in doses of 8--40 mg/kg over 113 weeks to four rhesus monkeys produced dyskinesias and alterations in social behavior. General activity and social interactions were reduced by CPZ treatment but social aggression was elevated during initial drug administration. These behaviors returned to normal when treatment was discontinued. Dyskinesias appeared during CPZ treatment, and two striking ones, gravel mouth and hand gesture, persisted for 12 weeks after drug withdrawal. These results indicate that dyskinesias which share major features of human tardive dyskinesia can be produced in nonhuman primates by long-term CPZ treatment.
Lymphocytes from normal subjects and patients with B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) show functional responses to extracellular ATP characteristic of the P2X(7) receptor (previously termed P2Z). These responses include opening of a cation-selective channel/pore that allows entry of the fluorescent dye ethidium and activation of a membrane metalloprotease that sheds the adhesion molecule L-selectin. The surface expression of P2X(7) receptors was measured in normal leucocytes, platelets, and B-CLL lymphocytes and correlated with their functional responses. Monocytes showed four- to fivefold greater expression of P2X(7) than B, T, and NK lymphocytes, whereas P2X(7) expression on neutrophils and platelets was weak. All cell types demonstrated abundant intracellular expression of this receptor. All 12 subjects with B-CLL expressed lymphocyte P2X(7) at about the same level as B lymphocytes from normal subjects. P2X(7) function, measured by ATP-induced uptake of ethidium, correlated closely with surface expression of this receptor in normal and B-CLL lymphocytes and monocytes (n = 47, r = 0.70; P < 0.0001). However, in three patients the ATP-induced uptake of ethidium into the malignant B lymphocytes was low or absent. The lack of P2X(7) function in these B lymphocytes was confirmed by the failure of ATP to induce Ba(2+) uptake into their lymphocytes. This lack of function of the P2X(7) receptor resulted in a failure of ATP-induced shedding of L-selectin, an adhesion molecule that directs the recirculation of lymphocytes from blood into the lymph node.
The ability of anticholinergic agents microinjected into the subthalamic nucleus to reduce reserpine-induced muscular rigidity was assessed in rats. The electromyographical activity of the gastrocnemius-soleus muscle was used as a parameter of muscular rigidity. Reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p.) produced the appearance of electromyographical activity. The muscarinic antagonists M3 (1.27 nmol of 4-DAMP) and M1 (2.36 nmol of pirenzepine) markedly reduced the reserpine-induced electromyographical activity, whereas the M2 antagonist AFDX-116 (2.37 nmol) had no effect. These results suggest that a high cholinergic tone in the subthalamic nucleus is associated with the reserpine-induced muscular rigidity. Moreover, the M3 muscarinic antagonist is more effective than the M1 muscarinic antagonist in reducing the muscular rigidity in reserpinized rats, a model of Parkinson's disease, by blocking the high cholinergic tone in the subthalamic nucleus.
Transgenic rats carrying human c-Ha-ras proto-oncogene (Hras128 rats) have been shown to be highly susceptible to induction of tumors. We have found an early induction of tongue tumors in Hras128 rats treated with 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4NQO). 4NQO was administered to the Hras128 and wild-type Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats for 4 and 8 weeks, respectively. The experiment was terminated at 14 (Hras128 rats) and 28 (SD rats) weeks. Either during or after treatment with 4NQO, dysplastic hyperplasia, papilloma and squamous cell carcinoma were found on the tongue of both Hras128 and wild-type rats, with a higher incidence and multiplicity in Hras128 rats. Treatment of the Hras128 rats with 4NQO significantly increased cell proliferation in the tumor compared to the control rats. In the tongue tumors of the Hras128 rats, there was a significant increase in the mRNA expression levels of cyclin D1 and COX2. To examine whether this experimental system is useful for screening of the candidate agents for cancer preventive effect, nimesulide, a selective COX2 inhibitor, was tested in the present model. Nimesulide significantly decreased total multiplicity of tongue lesions compared to the control rats. Treatment of Hras128 rats with nimesulide caused a significant decrease in the levels of mRNA expression of cyclin D1 and COX2 in the tumor. Therefore, the current 4NQO-induced Hras128 rat tongue carcinogenesis model provides a simple and rapid system for investigating carcinogenesis process and evaluating the effect of possible cancer preventive agents for human tongue cancer.
The effect of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) on capsaicin-evoked activation of cutaneous nociceptors was tested in a double blind study in 10 volunteers. Capsaicin (2% in ethanol) was applied topically for 30 min. Topical ASA (0.25 g/ml) reduced pain intensity and axon reflex flare size. Also, areas of secondary hyperalgesia to light touch and pin-prick were diminished. In contrast, capsaicin-induced heat hyperalgesia was unaffected by ASA. It is concluded that ASA counteracts the excitatory effects of capsaicin on nociceptors and mechanical hyperalgesia but not its sensitizing action to heat.
Recent clinical studies implicate proteinuria as a key prognostic factor for renal and cardiovascular complications in hypertensives. The pathogenesis of proteinuria in hypertension is, however, poorly elucidated. Podocytes constitute the final filtration barrier in the glomerulus, and their dysfunction may play a pivotal role in proteinuria. In the present study, we examined the involvement of podocyte injury in Dahl salt-hypertensive rats, an animal model prone to hypertensive glomerulosclerosis, and explored the effects of inhibition of aldosterone. Four-week-old Dahl salt-resistant and salt-sensitive rats were fed a 0.3% or 8.0% NaCl diet. Some salt-loaded Dahl salt-sensitive rats were treated with a selective aldosterone blocker eplerenone (1.25 mg/g diet) or hydralazine (0.5 mmol/L). After 6 weeks, salt-loaded Dahl salt-sensitive rats developed severe hypertension, proteinuria, and glomerulosclerosis. Immunostaining for nephrin, a constituent of slit diaphragm, was attenuated, whereas expressions of damaged podocyte markers desmin and B7-1 were upregulated in the glomeruli of salt-loaded Dahl salt-sensitive rats. Electron microscopic analysis revealed podocyte foot process effacement. Podocytes were already impaired at as early as 2 weeks of salt loading in Dahl salt-sensitive rats, when proteinuria was modestly increased. Both eplerenone and hydralazine partially reduced systemic blood pressure as measured by indirect and direct methods in salt-loaded Dahl salt-sensitive rats, but only eplerenone dramatically improved podocyte damage and retarded the progression of proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis. Our findings suggest that podocyte injury underlies the glomerulopathy of Dahl salt-hypertensive rats and that inhibition of aldosterone by eplerenone is protective against podocyte damage, proteinuria, and glomerulosclerosis in this hypertensive model.
A case in which the enterotoxins of Staphylococcus aureus may have served as bacterial superantigens is presented. This 71-year-old man developed proteinuria and renal dysfunction after contacting pneumonia caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), coagulase type II. The infection occurred after surgery for recurrent lung cancer. Staphylococcus enterotoxins B, C, and TSST-1 were detected from the bacillus. Ten days after the onset of pneumonia, proteinuria was noted; urinary protein was as high as 1.8 g/day. The serum creatinine was elevated from 1.0 mg/dl to 3.7 mg/dl. Several immunological reactions were detected; the serum levels of IgG and IgA were increased, and the selective usage of T-cell receptor V beta (TCRV beta) was observed. Serum levels of IL-1 beta, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) were also elevated. Examination of the renal biopsy specimen by light microscopy showed minor to mild mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis. Immunofluorescence microscopy demonstrated the deposition of IgG, IgA, and C3, mainly along the capillary walls. Electron microscopy revealed electron dense deposits, mainly in the subepithelial areas, and injury to the glomerular basement membrane. When the pneumonia improved following antibiotic therapy, the renal function also improved, and proteinuria decreased. The levels of immunoglobulins and the usage of TCRV beta also decreased. Because staphylococcus enterotoxins act as superantigens, we believe this to be a typical case of superantigen-related glomerulonephritis.
Intraventricular administration of haloperidol or chlorpromazine produces catalepsy and blocks apomorphine-induced stereotypic behavior. Low intraventricular doses of domperidone, sulpiride and spiperone, equally cataleptogenic as haloperidol or chlorpromazine, augment rather than diminish stereotypic behavior produced by subsequent apomorphine treatment. The resultant stereotypic behavior continues even while the animal is in a rigid cataleptic posture and is marked by persistent gnawing and licking. Prior to the induction of catalepsy and after recovery from it, mice display the entire range of typical apomorphine-induced behavior including sniffing, climbing, gnawing, and licking. This animal model may be related to the clinical observation of the coexistence of tardive dyskinesia and drug-induced Parkinsonism in individual patients.
To determine whether the incidence of masseter muscle rigidity is affected by the anaesthetic induction sequence, we prospectively studied for ten months the anaesthetic course in 5,641 infants and children who received muscle relaxation to facilitate tracheal intubation. The anaesthetic induction sequence consisted of intravenous sodium thiopentone (STP) 5 mg.kg-1 alone, halothane induction alone 1-4%, or halothane followed by STP. Inhalational inductions with halothane included nitrous oxide and oxygen. Tracheal intubation was facilitated by either intravenous succinylcholine (Sch) at least 1.5 mg.kg-1 or by a non-depolarizing muscle relaxant. The induction sequence and all episodes of MMR were recorded. Ninety percent of the patients received Sch and 10% received a non-depolarising agent. Of those who received Sch, 88% (5,064 patients) were anaesthetised with STP and 12% (607 patients) were anaesthetised with halothane alone or halothane followed by STP. Masseter muscle rigidity was defined clinically by the transient inability to distract the mandible from the maxilla such that the mouth could not be opened or could only be opened with force. No children anaesthetised with STP followed by Sch developed MMR. One child (0.9%) developed MMR after halothane and Sch and two developed MMR after halothane, STP and Sch (0.4%). The incidence of MMR after Sch was less with STP than with halothane alone or with halothane and STP (P < 0.025). The peak CPK values in the three children who developed MMR were 17,580 IU.L-1 after halothane and Sch, and 7,280 IU.-1 and 3,273 IU.-1 after halothane, STP and Sch. There was no evidence of MH reactions in these patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A number of chemicals have been classed as endocrine disrupting compounds due to their ability to mimic the actions of endogenous hormones in vivo and in vitro. The objective of this experiment was to determine the pathological changes and oestrogen receptor (ER) distribution in the cervix and uterus of prepubertal ovariectomised ewe lambs following exposure to a range of compounds with a predominantly oestrogenic effect. Lambs were exposed to diethylstilbestrol (0.175 mg/kg biweekly), bisphenol-A (3.5mg/kg biweekly) or octylphenol (3.5mg/kg biweekly) for 6 weeks. Following sacrifice, uterine and cervical tissue pathology was assessed. The endometrial and myometrial areas were quantified and the distribution of ERalpha and ERbeta assessed by immunohistochemistry. No differences were observed between control and octylphenol-exposed lambs in uterine gross pathology and histopathology. Uteri from bisphenol-A- and diethylstilbestrol-exposed lambs were heavier than both control and octylphenol-exposed lambs. In the bisphenol-A-exposed lambs, endometrial oedema accounted for a significant increase in the endometrial cross-sectional area over the other groups. Uteri from animals exposed to diethylstilbestrol showed variable pathology including oedema and cellular proliferation. Keratinisation of the cervical epithelium was observed in both bisphenol-A- and diethylstilbestrol-exposed lambs. Exposure to diethylstilbestrol and bisphenol-A was associated with a diffuse intracellular distribution of ERalpha and ERbeta in the uterine endometrium. This was in addition to the strong cytoplasmic staining of uterine epithelial cells and nuclear staining of specific sub-epithelial cells observed in all groups. We conclude that a 6-week exposure of lambs to bisphenol-A and diethylstilbestrol altered the uterocervical environment and has the potential to disrupt subsequent reproductive function. Pathological changes could not be detected in the uterus or cervix of lambs exposed to octylphenol.
Cisplatin has many toxic effects; emesis, impairment of renal function, myelosuppression, peripheral neuropathy, ototoxicity and renal tubular wasting. We used MVP regimen (Mitomycin C, Vp-16, and Cisplatin) in advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC). Using hydration and prophylactic supplementation of sodium and potassium before and during chemotherapy, we have observed the development of hyponatremia in 48 courses (43%), hypokalemia in 23 courses and hypomagnesemia in 11 courses. Some patients showed abnormalities of renal function in 16 courses. All the electrolyte depletion and renal problem was corrected before next courses by hydration and replacement of the wasting. Frequent measurement of serum cation and appropriate replacement are recommended when high dose Cisplatin containing regimen is used in chemotherapy of neoplasms.
A protocol to infect five-week-old Wistar rats by Plasmodium berghei which resulted in 100% mortality was developed in this work. In order to accomplish this goal, the effect of the administration of 10(7) and 10(8) parasitized erythrocytes by i.v. and i.p. route was investigated. The animals inoculated with 10(7) parasitized red blood cells by i.p. and i.v. routes showed 25 and 50% mortality, respectively. Inoculation with 10(8) parasitized erythrocytes by both routes resulted in a 100% lethal infection. The i.v. inoculation showed less scattered results and it was preferred over the i.p. route. The suitability of the protocol developed was evaluated by treating infected Wistar rats with chloroquine (30 mg/kg/day). A decreased parasitemia after the treatment was observed until the complete eradication of the parasite, around 10 days post-inoculation. Parasitemia depression after chloroquine treatment demonstrates the utility of the model developed to test new antimalarial drugs.
Alopecia areata (AA) is among the most highly prevalent human autoimmune diseases, leading to disfiguring hair loss due to the collapse of immune privilege of the hair follicle and subsequent autoimmune attack. The genetic basis of AA is largely unknown. We undertook a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in a sample of 1,054 cases and 3,278 controls and identified 139 single nucleotide polymorphisms that are significantly associated with AA (P <or= 5 x 10(-7)). Here we show an association with genomic regions containing several genes controlling the activation and proliferation of regulatory T cells (T(reg) cells), cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA4), interleukin (IL)-2/IL-21, IL-2 receptor A (IL-2RA; CD25) and Eos (also known as Ikaros family zinc finger 4; IKZF4), as well as the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region. We also find association evidence for regions containing genes expressed in the hair follicle itself (PRDX5 and STX17). A region of strong association resides within the ULBP (cytomegalovirus UL16-binding protein) gene cluster on chromosome 6q25.1, encoding activating ligands of the natural killer cell receptor NKG2D that have not previously been implicated in an autoimmune disease. By probing the role of ULBP3 in disease pathogenesis, we also show that its expression in lesional scalp from patients with AA is markedly upregulated in the hair follicle dermal sheath during active disease. This study provides evidence for the involvement of both innate and acquired immunity in the pathogenesis of AA. We have defined the genetic underpinnings of AA, placing it within the context of shared pathways among autoimmune diseases, and implicating a novel disease mechanism, the upregulation of ULBP ligands, in triggering autoimmunity.
The effect of captopril was explored in salt-depleted methylprednisolone (MP)-hypertensive rats. MP treatment raised BP by 41+/-2 mmHg over 2 weeks. Controls (C) had no change in BP. Sodium balance and weight data indicated a greater salt depletion in MP than in C. On day 15, captopril reduced BP in both MP (20+/-4 mmHg) and C (31+/-4 mmHg). The effect was significantly smaller in MP than in C (p less than 0.05). Plasma renin activity (PRA) was similarly elevated in both groups, consistent with salt depletion. Serum (SCE) and lung-converting enzyme (LCE) activity were similar in MP and C. The diminished antihypertensive effect of captopril in MP is therefore not attributable to differences in PRA, SCE, or LCE. Our data suggest that depressor actions of captopril unrelated to the renin-angiotensin system are impaired in MP. Glucocorticoid-induced changes in vasodilator systems may explain these findings.
The purpose of the studies was to assess the electrolyte concentration in blood serum of pregnant Wistar rats, in which pregnancy coexisted with adriamycin-induced nephrotic syndrome. The results displayed hiponatremia in serum blood of these female rats. After puerperium sodium concentration came to the level similar to that before pregnancy, in comparison to control. Hiponatremia could cause neurological complications, which in pregnancy could activate eclampsia.
