Cushing's disease is caused by corticotroph adenomas of the pituitary. To explore the molecular mechanisms of endocrine autonomy in these tumors, we performed exome sequencing of 10 corticotroph adenomas. We found somatic mutations in the USP8 deubiquitinase gene in 4 of 10 adenomas. The mutations clustered in the 14-3-3 protein binding motif and enhanced the proteolytic cleavage and catalytic activity of USP8. Cleavage of USP8 led to increased deubiqutination of the EGF receptor, impairing its downregulation and sustaining EGF signaling. USP8 mutants enhanced promoter activity of the gene encoding proopiomelanocortin. In summary, our data show that dominant mutations in USP8 cause Cushing's disease via activation of EGF receptor signaling.
Prostate cancer is driven by a combination of genetic and/or epigenetic alterations. Epigenetic alterations are frequently observed in all human cancers, yet how aberrant epigenetic signatures are established is poorly understood. Here we show that the gene encoding BAZ2A (TIP5), a factor previously implicated in epigenetic rRNA gene silencing, is overexpressed in prostate cancer and is paradoxically involved in maintaining prostate cancer cell growth, a feature specific to cancer cells. BAZ2A regulates numerous protein-coding genes and directly interacts with EZH2 to maintain epigenetic silencing at genes repressed in metastasis. BAZ2A overexpression is tightly associated with a molecular subtype displaying a CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP). Finally, high BAZ2A levels serve as an independent predictor of biochemical recurrence in a cohort of 7,682 individuals with prostate cancer. This work identifies a new aberrant role for the epigenetic regulator BAZ2A, which can also serve as a useful marker for metastatic potential in prostate cancer.
Here we describe a conditional piggyBac transposition system in mice and report the discovery of large sets of new cancer genes through a pancreatic insertional mutagenesis screen. We identify Foxp1 as an oncogenic transcription factor that drives pancreatic cancer invasion and spread in a mouse model and correlates with lymph node metastasis in human patients with pancreatic cancer. The propensity of piggyBac for open chromatin also enabled genome-wide screening for cancer-relevant noncoding DNA, which pinpointed a Cdkn2a cis-regulatory region. Histologically, we observed different tumor subentities and discovered associated genetic events, including Fign insertions in hepatoid pancreatic cancer. Our studies demonstrate the power of genetic screening to discover cancer drivers that are difficult to identify by other approaches to cancer genome analysis, such as downstream targets of commonly mutated human cancer genes. These piggyBac resources are universally applicable in any tissue context and provide unique experimental access to the genetic complexity of cancer.
We present a case of delirium due to amitriptyline overdose, which resolved rapidly following initiation of the cholinesterase inhibitor donepezil. The authors discuss the possibility of cholinesterase inhibitors being an effective choice in the management of anticholinergic drug induced delirium.
The experiments carried out on Albino Swiss mice indicated that bilateral clamping of carotid arteries (BCCA) for 30 min caused no neuronal damage but produced an increase in GABA content in the hippocampus, striatum and frontal cortex. The behavioral studies have shown that BCCA did not influence the motor coordination, the spontaneous locomotor activity, the reactivity to pain and the cataleptic response to haloperidol of the mice. However, a significant increase in amphetamine-induced hyperactivity was observed after BCCA. In mice, BCCA did not impair long-term memory and spatial working memory, reflected by alternation behavior in the Y-maze. The same dose of scopolamine impaired the working memory in mice which underwent BCCA much more than sham-operated controls. Naftidrofuryl improved the working memory in mice subjected to BCCA as measured 48 h after the surgery. Pretreatment with naftidrofuryl protected the animals against the impairment of alternation behavior caused by scopolamine administration.
Three healthy adult males developed acute renal failure following cocaine abuse. Muscle pain, tenderness, elevated levels of serum muscle enzymes, heme-positive urine and the presence of pigmented granular casts in urine all indicated occurrence of rhabdomyolysis. One of them developed acute compartmental syndrome of the left leg and required emergency fasciotomy. The course of renal failure and fast recovery were suggestive of acute tubular necrosis in all 3 patients. A possible role of cocaine in the aggravation of renal and/or muscle ischemia has been speculated.
Autosomal recessive primary microcephaly (MCPH) is a disorder of neurodevelopment resulting in a small brain. We identified WDR62 as the second most common cause of MCPH after finding homozygous missense and frame-shifting mutations in seven MCPH families. In human cell lines, we found that WDR62 is a spindle pole protein, as are ASPM and STIL, the MCPH7 and MCHP7 proteins. Mutant WDR62 proteins failed to localize to the mitotic spindle pole. In human and mouse embryonic brain, we found that WDR62 expression was restricted to neural precursors undergoing mitosis. These data lend support to the hypothesis that the exquisite control of the cleavage furrow orientation in mammalian neural precursor cell mitosis, controlled in great part by the centrosomes and spindle poles, is critical both in causing MCPH when perturbed and, when modulated, generating the evolutionarily enlarged human brain.
Genes associated with human microcephaly, a condition characterized by a small brain, include critical regulators of proliferation, cell fate and DNA repair. We describe a syndrome of congenital microcephaly and diverse defects in cerebral cortical architecture. Genome-wide linkage analysis in two families identified a 7.5-Mb locus on chromosome 19q13.12 containing 148 genes. Targeted high throughput sequence analysis of linked genes in each family yielded > 4,000 DNA variants and implicated a single gene, WDR62, as harboring potentially deleterious changes. We subsequently identified additional WDR62 mutations in four other families. Magnetic resonance imaging and postmortem brain analysis supports important roles for WDR62 in the proliferation and migration of neuronal precursors. WDR62 is a WD40 repeat-containing protein expressed in neuronal precursors as well as in postmitotic neurons in the developing brain and localizes to the spindle poles of dividing cells. The diverse phenotypes of WDR62 suggest it has central roles in many aspects of cerebral cortical development.
Exposure to environmental toxicants is associated with numerous disease outcomes, many of which involve underlying immune and inflammatory dysfunction.
To address the gap between environmental exposures and immune dysfunction, we investigated the association of two endocrine-disrupting compounds (EDCs) with markers of immune function.
Using data from the 2003-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, we compared urinary bisphenol A (BPA) and triclosan levels with serum cytomegalovirus (CMV) antibody levels and diagnosis of allergies or hay fever in U.S. adults and children ≥ 6 years of age. We used multivariate ordinary least squares linear regression models to examine the association of BPA and triclosan with CMV antibody titers, and multivariate logistic regression models to investigate the association of these chemicals with allergy or hay fever diagnosis. Statistical models were stratified by age (< 18 years and ≥ 18 years).
In analyses adjusted for age, sex, race, body mass index, creatinine levels, family income, and educational attainment, in the ≥ 18-year age group, higher urinary BPA levels were associated with higher CMV antibody titers (p < 0.001). In the < 18-year age group, lower levels of BPA were associated with higher CMV antibody titers (p < 0.05). However, triclosan, but not BPA, showed a positive association with allergy or hay fever diagnosis. In the < 18-year age group, higher levels of triclosan were associated with greater odds of having been diagnosed with allergies or hay fever (p < 0.01).
EDCs such as BPA and triclosan may negatively affect human immune function as measured by CMV antibody levels and allergy or hay fever diagnosis, respectively, with differential consequences based on age. Additional studies should be done to investigate these findings.
Schizophrenia is associated with increased rates of substance abuse that are thought to be the result of changes in cortical and mesolimbic dopamine activity. Previous work has shown that gestational methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) treatment induces increased mesolimbic dopamine activity when given around the time of embryonic day 17 (ED17), suggesting that MAM treatment may model some aspects of schizophrenia. Given that increased dopaminergic activity facilitates aspects of drug self-administration and reinstatement of drug seeking, the current experiments sought to assess cocaine self-administration in MAM treated animals. Experiment 1 examined the acquisition of cocaine self-administration in ED17 MAM and saline treated rats using a sub-threshold dose of cocaine. In experiment 2 ED17 MAM and saline treated animals were trained to self-administer cocaine and were then assessed under varying doses of cocaine (dose-response), followed by extinction and drug-induced reinstatement of responding. A subset of these animals was trained on a win-shift radial maze task, designed to detect impairments in hippocampal-dependent memory. In experiment 3, MAM and saline treated animals were assessed on a progressive ratio schedule of cocaine delivery. Finally, in experiment 4 MAM and saline treated animals were assessed on cocaine-induced locomotor activity across a range of doses of cocaine. MAM treatment disrupted performance of the win-shift task but did not alter cocaine self-administration or cocaine-induced locomotion. Implications of these results for the MAM model of schizophrenia are discussed.
Human genetics and immune responses are considered to critically influence the outcome of malaria infections including life-threatening syndromes caused by Plasmodium falciparum. An important role in immune regulation is assigned to the apoptosis-signaling cell surface receptor CD95 (Fas, APO-1), encoded by the gene FAS. Here, a candidate-gene association study including variant discovery at the FAS gene locus was carried out in a case-control group comprising 1,195 pediatric cases of severe falciparum malaria and 769 unaffected controls from a region highly endemic for malaria in Ghana, West Africa. We found the A allele of c.-436C>A (rs9658676) located in the promoter region of FAS to be significantly associated with protection from severe childhood malaria (odds ratio 0.71, 95% confidence interval 0.58-0.88, p(empirical) = 0.02) and confirmed this finding in a replication group of 1,412 additional severe malaria cases and 2,659 community controls from the same geographic area. The combined analysis resulted in an odds ratio of 0.71 (95% confidence interval 0.62-0.80, p = 1.8×10⁻⁷, n = 6035). The association applied to c.-436AA homozygotes (odds ratio 0.47, 95% confidence interval 0.36-0.60) and to a lesser extent to c.-436AC heterozygotes (odds ratio 0.73, 95% confidence interval 0.63-0.84), and also to all phenotypic subgroups studied, including severe malaria anemia, cerebral malaria, and other malaria complications. Quantitative FACS analyses assessing CD95 surface expression of peripheral blood mononuclear cells of naïve donors showed a significantly higher proportion of CD69+CD95+ cells among persons homozygous for the protective A allele compared to AC heterozygotes and CC homozygotes, indicating a functional role of the associated CD95 variant, possibly in supporting lymphocyte apoptosis.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors mediate excitatory neurotransmission in the mammalian brain. Two glycine-binding NR1 subunits and two glutamate-binding NR2 subunits each form highly Ca²(+)-permeable cation channels which are blocked by extracellular Mg²(+) in a voltage-dependent manner. Either GRIN2B or GRIN2A, encoding the NMDA receptor subunits NR2B and NR2A, was found to be disrupted by chromosome translocation breakpoints in individuals with mental retardation and/or epilepsy. Sequencing of GRIN2B in 468 individuals with mental retardation revealed four de novo mutations: a frameshift, a missense and two splice-site mutations. In another cohort of 127 individuals with idiopathic epilepsy and/or mental retardation, we discovered a GRIN2A nonsense mutation in a three-generation family. In a girl with early-onset epileptic encephalopathy, we identified the de novo GRIN2A mutation c.1845C>A predicting the amino acid substitution p.N615K. Analysis of NR1-NR2A(N615K) (NR2A subunit with the p.N615K alteration) receptor currents revealed a loss of the Mg²(+) block and a decrease in Ca²(+) permeability. Our findings suggest that disturbances in the neuronal electrophysiological balance during development result in variable neurological phenotypes depending on which NR2 subunit of NMDA receptors is affected.
The rhesus macaque tripartite motif containing protein TRIM5alpha specifically restricts HIV-1 infection at an early post-entry step before reverse transcription [Stremlau, M., Owens, C. M., Perron, M. J., Kiessling, M., Autissier, P. & Sodroski, J. (2004) Nature 427, 848-853]. Here, we show that the human and African green monkey (AGM) TRIM5alpha genes encode Ref1 and Lv1 antiretroviral activities, respectively. Expression of TRIM5alpha in permissive cat cells renders them resistant to restriction-sensitive murine leukemia virus but not closely related insensitive virus. Disruption of TRIM5alpha expression in human and AGM cells with small interfering RNA rescues infectivity of restricted virus without affecting unrestricted virus. We also demonstrate that the activity of the murine restriction factor Fv1 depends on TRIM5alpha expression when Fv1 is expressed in human cells. Furthermore, a drug that modifies the behavior of the related promyelocytic leukemia protein PML specifically rescues infection by viruses restricted by human TRIM5alpha. Alignment of the TRIM5alpha proteins from rhesus macaque and AGM indicates an 18-aa insertion. We speculate that this insertion may contribute to the broader specificity of the AGM TRIM5alpha restriction as compared with the human and rhesus macaque proteins.
To compare health outcomes and costs of different strategies for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in pregnancy.
Using a Markov decision-analysis model, the following three strategies were evaluated for treatment of latent tuberculosis infection in pregnancy, defined as positive tuberculin skin reaction of 10 mm or greater and negative chest radiograph: no treatment, antepartum isoniazid administration, in which women were given 300 mg of isoniazid with pyridoxine beginning at 20 weeks' gestation for 6 months; and postpartum isoniazid, in which women were given isoniazid and pyridoxine for 6 months after delivery. Sensitivity analyses were performed for a wide range of probability and cost estimates, and considered discount rates.
Under base-case assumptions, the fewest cases of tuberculosis within the cohort occurred with antepartum treatment (1400 per 100,000) compared with no treatment (3300 per 100,000) or postpartum treatment (1800 per 100,000). Antepartum treatment resulted in a marginal increase in life expectancy due to the prevented cases of tuberculosis, despite more cases of isoniazid-related hepatitis and deaths, compared with no treatment or postpartum treatment. Antepartum treatment was the least expensive. Only if the case-fatality rate for tuberculosis was tenfold lower than the base-case and the risk of fatal hepatitis tenfold higher did antepartum treatment become the least advantageous strategy.
Rather than delaying treatment until postpartum, consideration for antepartum treatment of latent tuberculosis during pregnancy should be given. If isoniazid is not administered antepartum, then efforts to improve postpartum compliance should be instituted, as either antepartum or postpartum treatment is better than no treatment.
To determine the association between DNA mismatch repair (MMR) protein expression and response to chemotherapy in patients with advanced colorectal cancer (CRC).
Using immunohistochemistry, tumour expression of 2 MMR genes, hMLH1 and hMSH2, was assessed in 86 patients with advanced CRC, who were treated with either irinotecan alone or in combination with 5-flurouracil/folinic acid.
Weak/negative staining in the tumours was associated with the presence of metastases at diagnosis (p = 0.026) and with the time for metastases to appear (p = 0.0001). An objective response to treatment was observed in 32/56 (57%) patients who had tumours with negative/weak MMR protein expression (p = 0.001), compared to 17% of patients with tumours with moderate/strong expression. Those who had tumours with weak/absent expression of either hMLH1 or hMSH2 who received the combination therapy were more likely to show an objective response (p = 0.0001).
Advanced CRC patients whose tumours have deficient MMR demonstrate a shorter time to metastasis than those with normal hMLH1/hMSH2 expression. Patients with MMR-deficient tumours are also more likely to benefit from combination chemotherapy (irinotecan plus 5-flurouracil/folinic acid).
Amitriptyline, one of the most prescribed antidepressants, is reported to claim a large number of human lives due to drug overdose related cardiac arrest. Although amitriptyline poisoning has long been recognized as a frequent and serious fatality in the medical field, few efforts have been made to devise methods for treating its toxicity. To address this issue, phospholipid-based nanosized vesicles (spherulites) were employed to reverse the cardiotoxicity induced by amitriptyline in an isolated heart perfusion model.
The ability of spherulites to efficiently take up amitriptyline was first established in vitro in protein free and albumin-containing buffers. Vesicles bearing an internal pH of 3.0 or 7.4 were then infused into amitriptyline pre-intoxicated isolated rat hearts, and changes in coronary perfusion pressure (CPP), the first derivative of left ventricular pressure (dP/dt max) and heart rate were monitored. Control hearts received no vesicles.
Based on the recoveries in CPP observed, the efficacies of the formulations were ranked as follows: control=pH 7.4-spherulites<pH 3.0-spherulites; whereas the ranking for the recoveries in heart rate was: control<pH 7.4-spherulites<pH 3.0-spherulites. The significantly faster and higher recoveries in pH 3.0- vs. 7.4-spherulite-treated hearts demonstrated the importance of pH-gradient formulation for efficient extraction of tissue-bound amitriptyline.
These data suggest that spherulites have a protective effect against acute cardiovascular failure following intoxication with amitriptyline and possibly other cardiotoxic drugs. It appears that the beneficial effects derived from the formulation infusion involved restoration of both haemodynamic and metabolic oxygen demands on the heart.
Effects of dexamethasone on development of sympathetic nerve function in the heart were evaluated by giving 1 mg/kg of dexamethasone s.c. daily for several days beginning the day after birth. Dexamethasone interfered with tyramine- and isoproterenol-induced tachycardia in the neonates but did not cause alterations in development of a marker for presynaptic sympathetic nerve terminals (synaptic vesicle uptake of [3H] norepinephrine) nor of postsynaptic beta adrenoceptor binding of [3H]dihydroalprenolol; the deficit was also unrelated to general cellular effects of the hormone. These data suggest that the subnormal chronotropic responses of the heart to sympathetic stimulation in dexamethasone-treated neonatal rats result from uncoupling of receptors from the organ response. The effects of dexamethasone on cardiac responses were specific to the neonate, as mature rats given dexamethasone did not show suppression of cardiac sympathetic action. Neonatal dexamethasone treatment also produced a deficit of adrenomedullary development with deficiencies in catecholamine levels and in catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes; deficits in phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase activity persisted into young adulthood.
Two patients with disulfiram-(Antabuse-)induced encephalopathy exhibited paranoid ideas, disorientation, impaired memory, ataxia, dysarthria, snout and grasp reflexes, and abnormal electroencephalograms. The first patient developed symptoms on two occasions, each time after disulfiram administration. The second patient experienced a generalized seizure followed by fulminant psychosis three weeks after starting disulfiram therapy. Spinal fluid examination in the latter patient revealed a low homovanillic acid (HVA) level. Since disulfiram inhibits dopamine oxidation, disulfiram-induced encephalopathy may be related to excess dopaminergic activity in the central nervous system.
Intrathecal baclofen delivery for the treatment of spasticity has been used for almost 20 years with a great deal of success. A wide variety of complications and pitfalls have been described. This report details a novel complication involving inadvertent and initially unrecognized canalization of the subdural space with the spinal catheter, which ultimately resulted in an overdose.
An intrathecal pump system was implanted in a 15-year-old girl with spasticity. This initially resulted in a lack of therapeutic effect. The diagnostic workup ultimately led to contrast administration through the pump system, which precipitated a baclofen overdose when sequestered medication in the subdural compartment was released into the intrathecal space.
The spinal catheter was subsequently revised, and the patient made a full recovery.
The possibility of a subdural catheter should be included in the differential diagnosis in patients who experience a lack of drug effect after pump implantation, despite increases in dosage. Close monitoring is required because of the risk of spontaneous or induced overdose, which may occur when a communication develops between the subdural and intrathecal compartments.
In the last several years, amantadine has been increasingly prescribed for akinesia in Parkinson's disease and to combat fatigue associated with multiple sclerosis. Amantadine is a well-known medication involved in drug-induced livedo reticularis (LR), yet remains under-reported in the English literature. We describe 2 patients with amantadine livedo reticularis: one patient with multiple sclerosis had, previous to this eruption, tolerated 4 years of amantadine therapy without adverse reactions and another patient with Parkinson's disease who developed LR 1 month after starting amantadine.
To analyze the relationship between third generation oral contraceptive (OC) use and various cardiovascular risk factors--including markers of inflammation--in a population-based sample.
Data on OC use were obtained from women, aged 25-44 years participating in the MONICA Augsburg survey 1994-1995. Complete data were available from 841 women. Third generation OCs were defined as OCs containing desogestrel or gestodene, the remaining OC products were summarized in the group "other OC."
Women taking third generation OCs had significantly higher C-reactive protein, fibrinogen, plasma viscosity, and HDL-cholesterol concentrations compared to the "other OC" group and non-users. In contrast, LDL-cholesterol was identical in the three groups. The analyses of interaction between smoking and OC use revealed that smoking women taking third generation pills had a less favourable pattern concerning inflammatory markers compared to women not on OC or using other products.
Potentially harmful effects of OCs may arise from their positive association with the acute phase response. There is a close relationship with inflammatory markers in particular in women taking third generation OCs, which may, at least in part, contribute to the increased atherothrombotic risk, reported specifically in these women.
Quinine-induced blindness arising during empirical treatment for malaria in a young man is reported. The condition was noteworthy because it was total and permanent, which is at variance with other published reports. The condition usually disappears within minutes to weeks, but persistent deficits tend to be mild and are rare. Although quinine is an essential anti-malarial agent, physicians should be fully aware of possible side-effects.
A case is reported where the use of i.v. disopyramide for a supraventricular tachycardia resulted in a more serious ventricular dysrhythmia giving hypotension and this probably contributed to the development of a myocardial infarction. Attention is drawn to the possible risk.
Thymic hyperplasia can occur after cytotoxic therapy for various malignancies. The possible cause could be rebound enlargement after initial atrophy caused by these drugs. During the treatment of hematological malignancies this could be a cause of great concern. We report here a case of thymic hyperplasia after chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Awareness of this unusual side-effect may prevent needless investigation and therapy.
Ibogaine (IBO) is an alkaloid with putative antiaddictive properties, alleviating opiates dependence and withdrawal. The glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors have been implicated in the physiological basis of drug addiction; accordingly, IBO acts as a noncompetitive NMDA antagonist. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of IBO on naloxone-induced withdrawal syndrome in morphine-dependent mice, focusing on the role of NMDA receptors. Jumping, a major behavioral expression of such withdrawal, was significantly (P<.01) inhibited by IBO (40 and 80 mg/kg, 64.2% and 96.9% inhibition, respectively) and MK-801 (0.15 and 0.30 mg/kg, 67.3% and 97.7%, respectively) given prior to naloxone. Coadministration of the lower doses of IBO (40 mg/kg) and MK-801 (0.15 mg/kg) results in 94.7% inhibition of jumping, comparable to the effects of higher doses of either IBO or MK-801. IBO and MK-801 also significantly inhibited NMDA-induced (99.0% and 71.0%, respectively) jumping when given 30 min (but not 24 h) prior to NMDA in nonaddictive mice. There were no significant differences in [3H]MK-801 binding to cortical membranes from naive animals, morphine-dependent animals, or morphine-dependent animals treated with IBO or MK-801. This study provides further evidence that IBO does have an inhibitory effect on opiate withdrawal symptoms and suggests that the complex process resulting in morphine withdrawal includes an IBO-sensitive functional and transitory alteration of NMDA receptor.
We investigated the chemopreventive effect of p-methoxycinnamic acid (p-MCA), an active phenolic acid of rice bran, turmeric, and Kaemperfia galanga against 1,2-dimethylhydrazine-induced rat colon carcinogenesis. Male albino Wistar rats were randomly divided into six groups. Group 1 consisted of control rats that received a modified pellet diet and 0.1% carboxymethyl cellulose. The rats in Group 2 received a modified pellet diet supplemented with p-MCA [80 mg/kg body weight (b.wt.) post-orally (p.o.)] everyday. The rats in Groups 3-6 received 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) (20 mg/kg b.wt.) via subcutaneous injections once a week for the first 4 weeks; additionally, the rats in Groups 4, 5 and 6 received p-MCA at doses of 20, 40 and 80 mg/kg b.wt./day p.o., respectively, everyday for 16 weeks. The rats were sacrificed at the end of the experimental period of 16 weeks. The DMH-treated rats exhibited an increased incidence of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) development; an increased crypt multiplicity; decreased concentrations of tissue lipid peroxidation markers such as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), conjugated dienes (CD) and lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH); decreased levels of tissue enzymic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR); and decreased levels of non-enzymic antioxidants such as reduced glutathione (GSH) and vitamins C, E and A in the colon. Supplementation with p-MCA significantly reversed these changes and significantly inhibited the formation of ACF and its multiplicity. Thus, our findings demonstrate that p-MCA exerts a strong chemopreventive activity against 1,2-dimethylhydrazine-induced colon carcinogenesis by virtue of its ability to prevent the alterations in DMH-induced circulatory and tissue oxidative stress and preneoplastic changes. p-MCA was more effective when administered at a dose of 40 mg/kg b.wt. than at the other two doses tested.
Several recent studies have shown that certain forms of genetic or acquired hypertension are associated with oxidative stress and that animals with those types of hypertension respond favorably to antioxidant therapy. We hypothesize that oxidative stress may cause hypertension via (among other mechanisms) enhanced oxidation and inactivation of nitric oxide (NO). To test this hypothesis, Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to oxidative stress by glutathione (GSH) depletion by means of the GSH synthase inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine (BSO, 30 mmol/L in drinking water) for 2 weeks. The control group was given drug-free drinking water. In parallel experiments, subgroups of animals were provided vitamin E-fortified chow and vitamin C-supplemented drinking water. The BSO-treated group showed a 3-fold decrease in tissue GSH content, a marked elevation in blood pressure, and a significant reduction in the urinary excretion of the NO metabolite nitrate plus nitrite, which suggests depressed NO availability. These characteristics were associated with a significant accumulation in various tissues of nitrotyrosine, which is the footprint of NO inactivation by reactive oxygen species. Administration of vitamin E plus vitamin C ameliorated hypertension, improved urinary nitrate-plus-nitrite excretion, and mitigated nitrotyrosine accumulation (despite GSH depletion) in the BSO-treated animals but had no effect in the control group. In conclusion, GSH depletion resulted in perturbation of the NO system and severe hypertension in normal animals. The effects of BSO were mitigated by concomitant antioxidant therapy despite GSH depletion, which supports the notion that oxidative stress was involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension in this model.
The authors report two patients without coronary artery disease who experienced asystole during the IV infusion of dipyridamole on routine TI-201 myocardial perfusion imaging and review the literature for possible explanations of this rare side effect. Until now, this side effect was only reported in patients with coronary artery disease or beta-blocker therapy. Yet, the cases lacked both concomitant factors and autonomic dysregulation is suggested as a cause for asystole.
The purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of sulpiride-induced hyperprolactinemia on testicular functions, as assessed by evaluation of plasma testosterone (T), dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and 17 beta-estradiol (E2) levels. An HCG test (5000 IU on three consecutive days) was performed in basal conditions and after 12 and 26 days of sulpiride treatment (150 mg daily) in 7 male volunteers, 19 to 32 years of age, as well as in 6 sulpiride-free controls. The results show that after 12 days of induced hyperprolactinemia (mean increase 400%) the T response to HCG was similar to basal test; after 26 days however, the increase of T mean plasma levels was significantly greater. The increase in E2 significantly correlated to that of T during the first and second HCG tests, but no longer after 26 days of hyperprolactinemia, resulting in an imbalance of the E2/T ratio of plasma increments. The response of DHT to HCG was significant in basal conditions and after 26 days of sulpiride and always correlated with T behavior. Data obtained in our experimental conditions suggest that PRL might enhance T secretion. 5 alpha-reductase activity seemed to be partially affected after 12 days of treatment, while a significant inhibition seemed to be exerted on aromatase activity.
