The Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT-P-1) demonstrated that tamoxifen could reduce the risk of invasive breast cancer in high-risk women by 49%, but that it could also increase the risk of endometrial cancer, vascular events and cataracts. This paper provides an estimate of the net health impacts of tamoxifen administration on high-risk Canadian women with no prior history of breast cancer. The results of the BCPT-P-1 were incorporated into the breast cancer and other modules of Statistics Canada's microsimulation POpulation HEalth Model (POHEM). While the main intervention scenario conformed as closely as possible to the eligibility criteria for tamoxifen in the BCPT-P-1 protocol, 3 additional scenarios were simulated. Predicted absolute risks of breast cancer at 5 years of 1.66%, 3.32% and 4.15% were calculated for women 35 to 70 years of age. When the BCPT-P-1 results were incorporated into the simulation model, the analysis suggests no increase in life expectancy in this risk group. Tamoxifen appeared to be beneficial for women with a 5-year predicted risk of 3.32% or greater. The results of these simulations are particularly sensitive to the reduction in mortality observed in the BCPT-P-1, as well as being sensitive to other characteristics of the simulation model. Overall, the analysis raises questions about the use of tamoxifen in otherwise healthy women at high risk of breast cancer.
An anti-diabetic agent, troglitazone, was withdrawn from the market because of its association with liver injury. However, the mechanism of the injury has not been elucidated. We examined, retrospectively, the frequency of the polymorphisms of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C19 and 2D6 genes in eight patients with type 2 diabetes who had troglitazone-induced liver injury and 31 subjects who tolerated troglitazone well. Polymorphisms of CYP 2C19 and 2D6 genes were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction using peripheral white blood cells. The incidence of mutations was compared with known population data for the Japanese. Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in CYP 2C19 alleles were found in four of the eight (50.0%) patients with troglitazone-induced liver injury. This rate was significantly higher than that in patients without liver injury (four of 31, 12.9%). The frequency of P450 2D6 mutations was the same in both groups. In conclusion, troglitazone-induced liver injury occurred more frequently in subjects with the CYP 2C19 mutations in Japanese patients.
Our research group recently reported that pancreatic endocrine cancer cell lines are sensitive to the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA). In the present paper, we show that the combined treatment of pancreatic endocrine tumour cell lines with TSA and the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC) determines a strong synergistic inhibition of proliferation mainly due to apoptotic cell death. Proteomic analysis demonstrates that the modulation of specific proteins correlates with the antiproliferative effect of the drugs. A schematic network clarifies the most important targets or pathways involved in pancreatic endocrine cancer growth inhibition by single or combined drug treatments, which include proteasome, mitochondrial apoptotic pathway and caspase related proteins, p53 and Ras related proteins. A comparison between the patterns of proteins regulated by TSA or DAC in endocrine and ductal pancreatic cancer cell lines is also presented.
Globally, arsenic, mercury and lead constitutes as the three most hazardous environmental toxicants perturbing imbalance in pro—oxidant and antioxidant homeostasis. Individual toxicity of these environmental toxicants is well known but there is lack of comparative data on variables indicative of oxidative stress. We thus investigated the effects of chronic exposure to sodium arsenite, mercuric chloride and lead acetate on blood and tissue oxidative stress, metal concentration and metallothionein (MT) contents. Male rats were exposed to sodium arsenite, mercuric chloride and lead acetate (0.05 mg/kg each, orally, once daily) for 6 months. Arsenic, mercury and lead exposure led to a significant inhibition of blood δ—aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) activity and glutathione level supported by increased thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS). The level of inhibition was more pronounced in case of lead followed by mercury and arsenic. These metals/ metalloid significantly increased reactive oxygen species (ROS), thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity accompanied by a decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and reduced and oxidized glutathione (GSH and GSSG) levels in blood and tissues. Mercury alone produced a significant induction of hepatic and renal MT concentrations. Serum transaminases, lactate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase activities increased significantly on exposure to arsenic and mercury exposure suggesting liver injury which was less pronounced in case of lead exposure. These biochemical alterations were supported by increased arsenic, mercury and lead concentrations in blood and soft tissues. The present study suggests that exposure to sodium arsenite and mercuric chloride lead to more pronounced oxidative stress and hepatotoxicity while lead acetate caused significant alterations in haem synthesis pathway compared to two other thiol binding metal/metalloid.
Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS) are implicated in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases. Also, increased lipid peroxidation and protein nitration are reported in systemic autoimmune diseases. Lipid peroxidation-derived aldehydes (LPDAs) such as malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) are highly reactive and bind proteins covalently, but their potential to elicit an autoimmune response and contribution to disease pathogenesis remain unclear. Similarly, nitration of protein could also contribute to disease pathogenesis. To assess the status of lipid peroxidation and/or RONS, autoimmune-prone female MRL+/+ mice (5-week old) were treated with trichloroethene (TCE), an environmental contaminant known to induce autoimmune response, for 48 weeks (0.5mg/ml via drinking water), and formation of antibodies to LPDA-protein adducts was followed in the sera of control and TCE-treated mice. TCE treatment led to greater formation of both anti-MDA- and -HNE-protein adduct antibodies and higher serum iNOS and nitrotyrosine levels. The increase in TCE-induced oxidative stress was associated with increases in anti-nuclear-, anti-ssDNA- and anti-dsDNA-antibodies. These findings suggest that TCE exposure not only leads to oxidative/nitrosative stress, but is also associated with induction/exacerbation of autoimmune response in MRL+/+ mice. Further interventional studies are needed to establish a causal role of RONS in TCE-mediated autoimmunity.
Bipolar disorder is a chronic and severe mental disorder. Recently, new animal models have emerged to further investigate underlying mechanisms of bipolar disorder such as ouabain-induced hyperactivity in rats. In this study, we investigated the cerebrospinal fluid levels of S100B protein as a putative marker of astrocytic activity in bipolar mania induced by intracerebroventricular administration of ouabain in rats. Ouabain induced a two-fold increase in crossing responses in the open field test and increased 30% the cerebrospinal fluid concentration of S100B, as compared to vehicle group. Our findings reinforce the role of astroglial cells in the pathogenesis of bipolar disorder and S100B protein as a marker of bipolar mania.
Little is understood regarding the impacts of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure during early development on the health, survival, and reproductive capability of adults. Here we use zebrafish to determine whether early life stage exposure to TCDD induces toxicity in adult zebrafish and their offspring. Zebrafish were exposed to graded concentrations of TCDD (0-400 pg/ml) via waterborne exposure for 1 h/week from 0 to 7 weeks of age. The heart and swim bladder were identified as being most sensitive to TCDD exposure during early development. Subtle developmental toxic responses collectively impaired survival, and only zebrafish in the 0, 25, and 50 pg TCDD/ml groups survived to adulthood. Surviving fish exhibited TCDD toxicity in craniofacial structures (i.e., operculum and jaw), heart, swim bladder, and ovary. Exposure to 25 pg TCDD/ml impaired egg production (40% of control), fertility (90% of control), and gamete quality. TCDD-treated males contributed more than females to impaired reproductive capacity. Transgenerational effects were also discovered in that offspring from parents exposed to TCDD during early life stages showed a 25% increase in mortality compared with the F1 of dimethyl sulfoxide fish, reduced egg production (30-50% of control) and fertility (96% of control). Thus, adverse effects resulting from TCDD exposure during early life stages for one generation of zebrafish were sufficient to cause adverse health and reproductive effects on a second generation of zebrafish. In the environment, transgenerational effects such as these may contribute to population declines for the most TCDD sensitive fish species.
Gentacoll (Schering-Plough A/S, DK-3520 Farum, Denmark) implant is a biologically absorbable collagen with gentamicin, which enables local use of gentamicin in an abscess cavity.
To increase healing rate in treatment of perianal abscess with primary suture, the effect of intraoperative parenteral clindamycin and Gentacoll was investigated against monotherapy with intraoperative clindamycin in a randomized study.
One hundred seven patients, 55 in the Gentacoll group and 52 in the control group, were enrolled in the study and followed for three months.
Twelve patients (22 percent) in the Gentacoll group developed a new abscess and/or fistula. In the control group nine patients (17 percent) developed a recurrent abscess or a fistula. In both groups 43 patients had an uneventful course. The differences between the two groups were not significant. Of all 107 patients, 19.5 percent had recurrent disease in the follow-up period. Duration of hospitalization and reconvalescence were identical in both groups. One case of superficial thrombophlebitis was seen after clindamycin. No other adverse effects to either Gentacoll or clindamycin were seen.
The study shows that Gentacoll is a safe preparation but is without value as a supplement to clindamycin in the treatment of acute perianal abscess with primary suture. The study has documented the value of this treatment under cover with a intraoperative dose of clindamycin.
A 46-year-old woman presented for an emergency admission because of colic-like upper abdominal pain and markedly impaired general condition. Eight days before admission she had started and continued to take pantoprazole because of symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux.
Clinical examination and laboratory tests indicated abnormal liver functions suggesting hepatitis. Serology largely excluded an infectious, autoimmunological or metabolic cause. Duplex sonography gave no evidence of bile obstruction or Budd-Chiari syndrome.
The patient's condition and laboratory tests after the drug had been discontinued gradually improved on symptomatic treatment, indicating pantoprazole-induced hepatitis.
Intake of proton pump inhibitors is a rare cause but should be considered in the differential diagnosis of hepatitis of uncertain etiology.
To determine the immediate and long-term effects of adding sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, to the medical regimen of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
Thirteen patients with PAH received empirical adjunctive sildenafil treatment at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn, between November 1, 2000, and August 31, 2001. All received a 25-mg dose of sildenafil, increased by 25 mg at 8-hour intervals, if tolerated, up to 100 mg during hemodynamic monitoring for 24 to 48 hours. Long-term effects on right heart hemodynamics were assessed by noninvasive right ventricular systolic pressure, right ventricular index of myocardial performance, and a 6-minute walk test.
Sildenafil significantly increased cardiac output (CO) (P = .04) and decreased pulmonary artery systolic pressure, mean pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance, and mean arterial pressure (P < or = .01) at peak measurements (obtained 1-2 hours after highest dose). At trough measurements (obtained 8 hours after highest dose), sildenafil significantly decreased pulmonary artery systolic pressure, mean pulmonary artery pressure, and mean arterial pressure (P = .01). Ten patients discharged from the hospital were taking the highest-tolerated dose of sildenafil every 8 hours. The right ventricular systolic pressure and right index of myocardial performance showed no significant improvement at follow-up (117 +/- 70 days), although concomitant treatment with epoprostenol could be tapered in 2 patients. Changes in New York Heart Association classes were inconsistent, and improvements in the 6-minute walk test were not significant.
Sildenafil has an immediate pulmonary vasodilator effect in patients already receiving vasodilators for PAH. Its long-term effects on right heart function and functional status are equivocal. A large, prospective, well-designed study is needed to determine the effects of sildenafil on PAH, both in untreated and concurrently treated patients.
To assess the effect of escitalopram in the treatment of pervasive developmental disorders (PDDs).
This 10-week study had a forced titration, open-label design. Twenty-eight subjects (mean age 125.1 +/- 33.5 months) with a PDD received escitalopram at a dose that increased weekly to a maximum dose of 20 mg as tolerated. The Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Community Version (ABC-CV) and the Clinical Global Impression scale (CGI) were used to assess outcome.
There was significant improvement in ABC-CV Irritability Subscale Scores (baseline mean 20.5 +/- 5.9 to final mean 10.9 +/- 7.2; p < or = .001) and in the other ABC-CV Subscales. Improvement on Clinical Global Improvement Scale severity rating was also significant (baseline mean 5.2 +/- 1.0 to final mean 4.6 +/- 1.2; p < or = .001). Twenty-five percent of the subjects responded at a dose less than 10 mg and did not tolerate the 10-mg dose, and an additional 36% responded at a dose greater than or equal to 10 mg. Final dose was unrelated to weight and only weakly correlated with age.
This open-label study found escitalopram to be useful in treating some difficulties common in PDDs. A wide variability in dose was found that could not be accounted for by weight and only partially by age. The study provides information useful for the design of double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of escitalopram in PDDs.
Our purpose was to investigate fetal cerebral blood flow and the incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage in patients undergoing tocolysis with either indomethacin or magnesium sulfate at < 30 weeks' gestation.
Consenting patients at < 30 weeks' gestation with preterm labor were randomized to receive indomethacin or magnesium sulfate tocolysis. Magnesium sulfate was administered intravenously with an 8 gm loading dose given over the first hour, 4 gm over the second hour, and then a maintenance infusion of 2.5 gm per hour. The infusion was continued for approximately 12 hours after the cessation of uterine contractions. Patients randomized to receive indomethacin were given an initial dose of 50 to 100 mg orally or per rectum, followed by 25 to 50 mg orally every 4 to 6 hours for 24 to 48 hours. Oral tocolytic agents were not used after successful tocolysis. Betamethasone was administered to all patients. Patients underwent fetal cerebral Doppler studies during tocolytic therapy and at least 24 hours after completion of the treatment.
Twelve patients were randomized to receive indomethacin and twelve patients were randomized to receive magnesium sulfate. Twenty-one fetuses underwent cerebral Doppler studies in triplicate during and after therapy. The mean gestational age at tocolysis was 27.5 +/- 1.9 weeks for the indomethacin group and 26.4 +/- 1.6 weeks for the magnesium sulfate group (p = 0.14). The middle cerebral artery resistance index for fetuses during indomethacin treatment was 0.73 +/- 0.09, whereas the resistance index after therapy was 0.75 +/- 0.05 (p = 0.49). The resistance index during magnesium sulfate tocolysis was 0.79 +/- 0.04 and after therapy it was 0.76 +/- 0.04 (p = 0.18). There was no significant difference in the resistance index between the groups on or off therapy. In addition, the incidence of intraventricular hemorrhage was similar in both groups.
These results suggest that indomethacin does not significantly affect fetal cerebral blood flow. If antenatal indomethacin in the preterm fetus increases the risk of intraventricular hemorrhage, it would appear to be by another mechanism.
Recent voluntary withdrawal of the ergoline-derivative Alzheimers' drug Pergolide (Permax) resulting from demonstrated risk of cardiac valve injury illustrates the increased importance of valve injury in pharmaceutical toxicology. Following the 2001 landmark discovery of cardiac valve injury associated with the widely prescribed anti-obesity drug combination fenfluramine-phentermine, and subsequent withdrawal, the need to understand and assess cardiac valve biology and pathology both preclinically and clinically has been accentuated. Unique aspects of the developmental biology, anatomy, and physiology of cardiac valves compared to main cardiac tissue have been discovered, and key elements of the pathophysiology of various valvular injury mechanisms have been described. Although general clinical cardiac valvular disease in humans has been well characterized, animal modeling of valvular injury has proved to be difficult and undersubscribed. Additionally, both the preclinical, pharmaceutical, toxicologic assessment of valvular injury and the understanding of species-comparative valvular pathology have been limited. As discoveries and awareness grows, the purpose of this paper is to review the structure and function of cardiac valves, mechanisms, and outcomes of the common acquired human cardiac valve diseases, including those that are drug-related; to summarize comparative laboratory animal valvular pathology; and to review the literature of contemporary animal models of valvular injury.
The acute haemodynamic effect of carvedilol, a new non-selective beta-receptor blocker with vasodilating effect, was examined at rest supine and sitting and during 100 W bicycle exercise in 18 patients (mean age 44 years) with essential hypertension. Intra-arterial blood pressure and heart rate were recorded continuously. Cardiac output was measured by dye dilution (Cardiogreen). Two h after the first oral dose (12.5-25 mg) of carvedilol, blood pressure was reduced in all patients sitting at rest, from 176/110 to 153/101 mmHg (P less than 0.001), associated with a reduction in cardiac index (16%; P less than 0.001) while total peripheral resistance remained unchanged or was slightly reduced. When sitting up after 2 h supine rest two patients had hypotensive reactions (excessive blood pressure drop; cold, pale, sweating skin) which disappeared after lying down with elevation of the legs and light physical exercise. The fall in cardiac index was due to reduction both in heart rate (8%, P less than 0.001) and stroke index (9%; P less than 0.01). During exercise the reduction in cardiac output was less (6%; P less than 0.05) while a clear reduction (6%; P less than 0.01) was seen in total peripheral resistance. This acute haemodynamic response is different from that seen immediately after conventional beta-blockers when total peripheral resistance always increases.
The case of a 4-year-old girl with valproate-induced stupor and electroencephalographic pattern of increased fast activity is reported. Stupor and fast activity have been related to the effects on gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors mediated by endozepines or by exogenous drugs such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates. The action of valproate in GABA metabolism and in GABA neuronal networks could produce a similar result through a hyperrecruitment of GABA-mediated postsynaptic transmission.
Alpha-methyldopa-induced histologic alterations were investigated in 21 patients with hepatic injury after short- and long-term exposure. Seven patients developed liver injury within 6 months and 24 after several years (mean, 5 years) of exposure. Histologic findings and clinical and biochemical data differed significantly in the two groups. Morphologic analysis of the short-term-treated group revealed marked parenchymatous degeneration, focal, confluent and massive necrosis, and inflammation. Fatty accumulation and increased fibrous trabeculae were characteristic for the patients treated for long term. All patients in the short-term-exposed group had acute and severe hepatitis. Four of them had icterus. Two patients died of hepatic coma. Patients in the long-term-treated group had for several months initially mild but increasing discomfort, dyspepsia, nausea, and colics. Liver function tests in these groups revealed differences in serum albumin, bilirubin, and transferase levels. No changes were observed in alkaline phosphatase and Thrombotest. Fat accumulation and fibrous trabeculae suggest that the alterations precede the clinical symptoms and biochemical signs of hepatitis. The findings show that alpha-methyldopa may induce hepatocellular injury after short- and long-term exposure.
Both mu opioid agonists and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists are implicated in the regulation of neuropathic pain in post-nerve injury preclinical pain models. This study characterizes the effects of intravenously infused alfentanil (a mu-receptor agonist) and ketamine (an NMDA-receptor antagonist) on human neuropathic pain states, characterized by allodynia and hyperalgesia. Using diphenhydramine as the placebo, alfentanil and ketamine infusions were given in a randomized double-blind fashion 1 week apart via a computer-controlled infusion (CCI) pump that was programmed to target plasma levels of alfentanil at 25, 50 and 75 ng/ml and ketamine at 50, 100 and 150 ng/ml. At the beginning of each infusion and each targeted plasma level, baseline vital signs, neurosensory testing that included thermal thresholds, thermal pain and von Frey filament thresholds, and spontaneous and evoked pain scores were obtained. Moreover, the areas of allodynia or hyperalgesia to stroking and a 5.18 von Frey filament were mapped at the beginning and the end of each infusion. A total of seven males and five females with post-nerve injury allodynia and hyperalgesia were enrolled in the study. Elevations of cold, warm, hot pain and von Frey tactile thresholds were noted. Dose-dependent increases in cold and cold pain thresholds, and reductions in stroking pain scores were noted in both the alfentanil and the ketamine infusions. In addition, alfentanil showed a statistically significant dose-dependent reduction in both spontaneous and von Frey pain scores. Both the alfentanil and ketamine infusions showed a reduction in the stroking hyperalgesic area and ketamine showed a significant reduction in the von Frey hyperalgesia area. No significant CNS side effects and changes in vital signs were noted. A partial deafferentation state was found in the post-nerve injury patients who presented with allodynia and hyperalgesia. The effects of alfentanil on cold and cold pain thresholds and spontaneous pain scores correlates with previous studies suggesting an opiate central analgesic effect. In addition, the reduction of the hyperalgesic area and evoked pain scores with the alfentanil infusion suggests that opioids may have some peripheral effects in the post-nerve injury patients. Therefore, clinical utilization of opioids with careful titration may be beneficial in post-nerve injury patients with partial deafferentation. With the absence of significant CNS side effects, the ketamine infusion not only demonstrated the well-documented spinal cord mechanism of the NMDA receptor, but the result of the current study also suggests that a peripheral mechanism of NMDA receptor may exist. The relationship between central sensitization and regulation of peripheral NMDA-receptor expression requires further investigation.
Accumulating clinical evidence indicates that impaired glucose tolerance is a common phenomenon in essential hypertension. Although recent evidence underscores the role of heme-oxygenase (HO) in diabetes, its effects on insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism in spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR), a model of essential hypertension with characteristics of metabolic syndrome including insulin resistance/impaired glucose metabolism remains largely unclear. Here we report the effects of the HO inducer, hemin, and the HO blocker, chromium-mesoporphyrin on insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism in SHRs. Adult SHRs were severely hypertensive but normoglycemic. Hemin therapy lowered blood pressure, increased plasma insulin, decreased glycemia, and enhanced insulin sensitivity by improving glucose tolerance (ip glucose tolerance test) and insulin tolerance (ip insulin tolerance test) but reduced insulin resistance (homeostasis model assessment index). These effects were accompanied by increased gastrocnemius muscle HO-1, HO activity, cGMP, cAMP alongside antioxidants including bilirubin, ferritin, superoxide dismutase, catalase, and the total antioxidant capacity, whereas oxidative/inflammatory mediators like 8-isoprostane, nuclear-factor-kappaB, activating-protein-1, activating-protein-2, c-Jun-NH2-terminal-kinase, and heme were abated. Furthermore, hemin reduced proteinuria/albuminuria and enhanced the depressed levels of adiponectin, AMP-activated protein-kinase, and glucose transporter-4 in SHRs, suggesting that although SHRs are normoglycemic, insulin signaling and renal function may be impaired. Contrarily, the HO inhibitor chromium-mesoporphyrin exacerbated oxidative stress, aggravated insulin resistance, glucose tolerance, insulin tolerance and nephropathy. Hemin also enhanced HO signaling in Wistar Kyoto and Sprague Dawley rats and increased insulin sensitivity albeit less intensely than in SHRs, suggesting greater selectivity of HO in SHRs with dysfunctional insulin signaling. These results suggest that perturbations of insulin signaling may be a forerunner to hyperglycemia in essential hypertension. By concomitantly potentiating insulin-sensitizing agents, suppressing insulin/glucose intolerance, and abating oxidative stress, HO inducers may prevent metabolic and cardiovascular complications in essential hypertension.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) is a drug that has been associated with serious side effects including stroke. It is often combined with caffeine in diet preparations and "look-alike" pills. In order to determine if PPA/caffeine can lead to stroke in normotensive and/or hypertensive rats, we administered the combination in six times the allowed human dose calculated on a per weight basis for the rats two times per day for five days. Subarachnoid and cerebral hemorrhage was noted in 18% of the hypertensive rats. A single PPA/caffeine administration (same dose) lead to acute hypertension in both the normotensive and hypertensive animals. These results suggest that PPA/caffeine can lead to cerebral hemorrhage in previously hypertensive animals when administered in greater than the allowed dosage. An acute elevation in blood pressure may be a contributing factor.
Temozolomide (TMZ) administered daily with radiation therapy (RT) for six weeks, followed by adjuvant TMZ for six months, has become standard therapy for patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). After several newly diagnosed patients at our institution developed severe (grade 3-4), prolonged thrombocytopenia, we conducted a retrospective review to define the incidence, depth, and duration of thrombocytopenia associated with this therapy. We reviewed the medical records and laboratory data of all adult patients with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas who started treatment with this regimen between June 2004, when the regimen was first used at our institution, and August 2005. Of the 52 patients who met the criteria for this review, grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 10 (19%; 95% CI, 10%-33%). In eight patients, the thrombocytopenia was attributable to concurrent daily TMZ and RT. The median duration of grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia was 32 days (range, 1-389 days). Five patients (10%) required platelet transfusions, two (4%) have required continued biweekly platelet transfusions for over six months, and nine (17%) discontinued therapy because of thrombocytopenia. Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 25% of women and 14% of men. Grade 3-4 neutropenia and anemia were noted in 10% and 8% of patients, respectively, and were not clinically significant. Between 15% and 20% of our newly diagnosed patients receiving TMZ and RT developed severe (grade 3-4) and potentially irreversible thrombocytopenia. The factors that predispose patients to this toxicity have yet to be determined. This toxicity should be considered when (1) prescribing this regimen to patient populations where a clinical benefit has yet to be shown, (2) contemplating empirical escalations of the dose or duration of TMZ, or (3) combining it with other potentially myelosuppressive therapies.
Acute liver failure (ALF), an often fatal condition characterized by massive hepatocyte necrosis, is frequently caused by drug poisoning, particularly with acetaminophen (N-acetyl-p-aminophenol/APAP). Hepatocyte necrosis is consecutive to glutathione (GSH) depletion and mitochondrial damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS) overproduction. Magnolol, one major phenolic constituent of Magnolia officinalis, have been known to exhibit potent antioxidative activity. In this study, the anti-hepatotoxic activity of magnolol on APAP-induced toxicity in the Sprague-Dawley rat liver was examined. After evaluating the changes of several biochemical parameters in serum, the levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were elevated by APAP (500 mg/kg) intraperitoneal administration (8 and 24 h) and reduced by treatment with magnolol (0.5 h after APAP administration; 0.01, 0.1, and 1 mug/kg). Histological changes around the hepatic central vein, lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance/TBARS), and GSH depletion in liver tissue induced by APAP were also recovered by magnolol treatment. The data show that oxidative stress followed by lipid peroxidation may play a very important role in the pathogenesis of APAP-induced hepatic injury; treatment with lipid-soluble antioxidant, magnolol, exerts anti-hepatotoxic activity. Our study points out the potential interest of magnolol in the treatment of toxic ALF.
Because reactive oxygen species have been implicated in the pathogenesis of various hyperproliferative and inflammatory diseases, the mRNA expression of the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase was studied in psoriatic skin tissue. By using reverse transcription-PCR we found similar expression of copper, zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) in the involved vs. uninvolved psoriatic skin. In contrast, the level of the manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) mRNA message was consistently higher in lesional psoriatic skin as compared to adjacent uninvolved skin and healthy control skin. Parallel investigation of those cytokines that are thought to be direct or indirect inducers of the MnSOD activity revealed an increased mRNA expression of IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha, and GM-CSF in lesional psoriatic skin. To study if these cytokines exert a direct effect on dismutase expression in epidermal cells, human keratinocytes in culture were challenged with IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha, and GM-CSF. It was found that IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha, but not GM-CSF, induced the mRNA expression of MnSOD, and an additive effect was demonstrated for the two former cytokines. Further, the expression of both CuZnSOD and MnSOD transcripts was similar in cultured keratinocytes maintained at low differentiation (low Ca2+ medium) and cells forced to terminal differentiation (by high Ca2+ medium). Our results indicate that the abnormal expression of MnSOD mRNA in lesional psoriatic skin is not directly linked to the pathologic state of keratinocyte differentiation in the skin. It seems more likely that the cutaneous overexpression of MnSOD in psoriatic epidermis represents a protective cellular response evoked by cytokines released from inflammatory cells invading the diseased skin.
Furan is produced in foods during processing and preservation techniques that involve heat treatment. Previously, we reported that furan-exposed rats exhibited dose-dependent gross and histological changes in liver which correlated with changes in liver serum enzymes ALT, AST and ALP. Here we report the effects of furan on the male reproductive system. There were no histological or weight changes in the reproductive organs. Serum testosterone levels were increased in a dose-dependent manner whereas serum LH was decreased. There were no changes in 17-OHase, 3β-HSD and 17β-HSD activities or serum FSH. Furan did not alter mRNA expression levels for the LH receptor or Tspo but in contrast, mRNA levels of StAR were increased in all doses of furan. The mRNA for the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme (Cyp11a1) was increased by furan at the high dose, as was the level of intratesticular testosterone. We conclude that subchronic furan exposure affects testicular steroidogenesis.
Perinatal delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9-THC) exposure in rats affects several behavioral responses, such as opiate self-administration behavior or pain sensitivity, that can be directly related to changes in opioidergic neurotransmission. In addition, we have recently reported that the administration of naloxone to animals perinatally exposed to delta9-THC produced withdrawal responses, that resemble those observed in opiate-dependent rats. The purpose of the present study was to examine the basal opioid activity in the brain of adult male and female rats that had been perinatally exposed to delta9-THC. To this aim, proenkephalin mRNA levels were measured, by using in situ hybridization histochemistry, in the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, central amygdala and prefrontal cingulate cortex. The results showed a marked reduction in proenkephalin mRNA levels in the caudate-putamen of delta9-THC-exposed females as compared to oil-exposed females, whereas no changes were observed between delta9-THC- and oil-exposed males. There were no differences in proenkephalin mRNA levels in the nucleus accumbens, central amygdala and prefrontal cingulate cortex between males and females perinatally exposed to delta9-THC and their respective controls, although a certain trend to decrease was observed in delta9-THC-exposed females. In summary, perinatal exposure to delta9-THC exposure decreased proenkephalin gene expression in the caudate-putamen of adult rats, although this effect exhibited a marked sexual dimorphism since it was only seen in females. This result is in agreement with a previous observation from our laboratory that females, but not males, that had been perinatally exposed to delta9-THC, self-administered more morphine in adulthood. This suggests that low levels of proenkephalin mRNA may be used as a predictor of greater vulnerability to opiates.
Renal insufficiency increases cardiovascular risk, accelerates atherogenesis, and causes vascular wall remodeling. Here we evaluated the effect of the calcimimetic R-568 and non-hypercalcemic doses of calcitriol on vascular structure. Subtotal nephrectomy was produced in Sprague-Dawley rats followed by treatment with R-568, calcitriol, or vehicle for 12 weeks. The aortic wall was significantly thicker in vehicle-treated uremic rats than in those with a sham-operation but R-568-treated uremic rats had a lower value. In contrast, calcitriol increased wall thickness in both the sham-operated and uremic groups. The calcification score, measured by von Kossa staining, and the number of proliferating cells in the intima and media were significantly higher in the calcitriol-treated uremic group. The expression of the calcium sensing receptor was higher in the intima of sham-operated and uremic rats treated with R-568 compared to animals treated with vehicle or calcitriol, while the expression of the vitamin D receptor was upregulated by both calcitriol and R-568. Our study shows that in uremic rats, calcitriol increased while R-568 attenuated media calcification and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells.
