Invasive Aspergillus infections cause significant morbidity and mortality in marrow transplant patients. In this study, we examined whether administration of intravenous low-dose prophylactic amphotericin B could reduce the incidence and mortality associate with invasive aspergillosis in patients undergoing allogenic marrow transplantation.
The subjects of this analysis were 186 consecutive patients undergoing allogeneic marrow transplantation in an adult bone marrow transplant unit between July 1, 1985, and September 30, 1990, utilizing consistent disease-specific chemoirradiation and graft-versus-host disease protocols. The incidence, morbidity, and case fatality of invasive aspergillosis in the study group receiving amphotericin chemoprophylaxis were compared with that in two historic cohorts managed without prophylactic amphotericin B. Univariate and multivariate statistical analyses were performed to examine whether an apparent protective effect could be attributed to differences in patient and treatment variables among the cohorts and to determine potential toxicities of the chemoprophylaxis regimen.
There was a significant reduction in both the incidence (p = 0.003) and mortality (p = 0.03) of invasive aspergillosis in patients receiving amphotericin B chemoprophylaxis as compared with those not receiving chemoprophylaxis. The prophylactic amphotericin B schedule, as employed here, was not associated with increased renal or hepatic toxicity as compared with that in historically managed patients.
These data suggest that the risks of invasive aspergillosis in allogeneic marrow transplant recipients can be reduced by administration of prophylactic amphotericin B during the pretransplant and peritransplant periods.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) or colonic aganglionosis is a congenital disorder characterized by an absence of intramural ganglia along variable lengths of the colon resulting in intestinal obstruction. The incidence of HSCR is 1 in 5,000 live births. Mutations in the RET gene, which codes for a receptor tyrosine kinase, and in EDNRB which codes for the endothelin-B receptor, have been shown to be associated with HSCR in humans. The lethal-spotted mouse which has pigment abnormalities, but also colonic aganglionosis, carries a mutation in the gene coding for endothelin 3 (Edn3), the ligand for the receptor protein encoded by EDNRB. Here, we describe a mutation of the human gene for endothelin 3 (EDN3), homozygously present in a patient with a combined Waardenburg syndrome type 2 (WS2) and HSCR phenotype (Shah-Waardenburg syndrome). The mutation, Cys159Phe, in exon 3 in the ET-3 like domain of EDN3, presumably affects the proteolytic processing of the preproendothelin to the mature peptide EDN3. The patient's parents were first cousins. A previous child in this family had been diagnosed with a similar combination of HSCR, depigmentation and deafness. Depigmentation and deafness were present in other relatives. Moreover, we present a further indication for the involvement of EDNRB in HSCR by reporting a novel mutation detected in one of 40 unselected HSCR patients.
The myocardial protective effects of endothelin antagonist in ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICMP), doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy (DOX) and pressure-overload hypertrophy by transverse aortic constriction (TAC) models have been predicted to be different. The objective of this experiment, therefore, is to evaluate the myocardial protective effect of tezosentan, an endothelin receptor antagonist, in various experimental heart failure models. Sprague-Dawley rats (6-8 weeks old, 200-300 g) were randomized to three experimental groups (n=30 each): ICMP; DOX; and TAC group. Each of these groups was randomly assigned further to the following subgroups (n=10 each): sham-operated ischemia-reperfusion subgroup (SHAM); tezosentan treated ischemia-reperfusion subgroup (Tezo); and tezosentan non-treated ischemia-reperfusion subgroup (N-Tezo). Total circulatory arrest was induced for 1 hr, followed by 2 hr of reperfusion. The left ventricular developed pressure, peak positive and negative first derivatives, and coronary blood flow were significantly different (P<0.05) among the SHAM, Tezo, and N-Tezo subgroups of the ICMP group at 30 min of reperfusion, but there were no statistically significant differences among the subgroups of the DOX and TAC groups. In conclusion, tezosentan, an endothelin receptor antagonist, showed myocardial protection effects only on the ischemic cardiomyopathy rat model, but not in the non-ischemic heart failure rat models.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) and Waardenburg sundrome (WS) are congenital malformations regarded as neurocristopathies since both disorders involve neural crest-derived cells. The WS-HSCR association (Shah-Waardenburg syndrome) is a rare autosomal recessive condition that occasionally has been ascribed to mutations of the endothelin-receptor B (EDNRB) gene. WS-HSCR mimicks the megacolon and white coat-spotting observed in Ednrb mouse mutants. Since mouse mutants for the EDNRB ligand, endothelin-3 (EDN3), displayed a similar phenotype, the EDN3 gene was regarded as an alternative candidate gene in WS-HSCR. Here, we report a homozygous substitution/deletion mutation of the EDN3 gene in a WS-HSCR patient. EDN3 thus becomes the third known gene (after RET and EDNRB) predisposing to HSCR, supporting the view that the endothelin-signaling pathways play a major role in the development of neural crests.
The antiemetic efficacy of metoclopramide (MCP) was evaluated in 33 consecutive patients treated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (HiDAC), greater than or equal to 3 g/m2, a highly emetogenic agent increasingly used in patients with hematologic malignancies for which no previous formal antiemetic trials have been reported. Administration of MCP in conjunction with prophylactic diphenhydramine resulted in major antiemetic responses (0-2 episodes of emesis in the 24 h after therapy) in 23 of 33 (70%) patients. The addition of lorazepam (LZP) to MCP resulted in major antiemetic response in 7 or 8 (88%) patients who failed to respond to MCP alone. Major side effects were extrapyramidal reactions (5%) and moderate diarrhea (18%). MCP alone or in conjunction with LZP is effective antiemetic therapy in patients treated with HiDAC.
Torsades de pointes (TP), an unique polymorphous type of ventricular tachycardia, is associated with either an acquired or congenitally prolonged QT interval. Several reports have demonstrated TP to follow an acquired prolonged QT interval secondary to chronic hypocalcaemia, hypomagnesaemia, or hypokalaemia. We report a rapid onset, acute extracellular hypokalaemia not associated with other electrolyte disturbances inducing a prolonged QT interval followed by TP. This is the first case report of a rapid onset isolated acute extracellular hypokalaemia inducing TP. Since anaesthetists are involved in therapies that will rapidly reduce extracellular potassium (diuretic, catecholamine, and/or insulin administration, hyperventilation), this cae report serves as a warning that such therapy may have the risk of arrhythmia induction.
A comparative clinical trial between two newly introduced intralesional treatments for acute leishmaniasis and the established treatment of intralesionally-administered pentavalent antimony compounds was performed. Treatments were allocated randomly to a total of 63 patients who received 2% zinc sulphate, 7% sodium chloride solutions or sodium stibogluconate intralesionally. A number of patients were left without treatment as controls. Patients were followed-up for 45 days, the results showing that the three treatments gave comparable cure rates by the end of the follow-up period. However, zinc sulphate gave a high cure rate (94.8%) usually with a single injection.
Recent developments with chemotherapy for breast cancer have improved patient survival. However, there continue to be nonresponders to conventional anticancer agents. Multidrug resistance (MDR) is caused by the expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) on the cell membrane. The expression of P-gp is encoded by MDR1 mRNA in tumors and is associated with clinical drug resistance. Since P-gp appears to be involved in both acquired and congenital MDR in human cancers, P-gp could be an important target for improving the efficacy of chemotherapy. Recently, we have focused on a therapeutic approach to reduce drug resistance in chemotherapy for breast cancer. Dofequidar fumarate (Dof) is a novel, orally active quinoline derivative that reverses multidrug resistance. In preclinical studies, the inhibition of doxorubicin-resistant cancer cell lines was observed in the presence of Dof + doxorubicin. We conducted clinical trials including Dof + cyclophosphamide (C), doxorubicin (A), and fluorouracil therapy (F) for patients with advanced or recurrent breast cancer. We compared the efficacy and tolerability of Dof + CAF with CAF alone. In this randomized, placebo-controlled trial, all patients were treated with six cycles of CAF therapy. Patients received Dof (900 mg p.o.) 30 min before doxorubicin. The primary endpoint was overall response rate (partial or complete response). In total, 221 patients were evaluable. The overall response rate was 42.6% for CAF alone versus 53.1% for Dof + CAF. Although the response rate improved by more than 10% with the combination of Dof + CAF, it was not statistically significant. Initially, we were expecting more than 20% improvement in the overall response rate. However, Dof significantly improved progression-free survival in patients who were premenopausal (P=0.046), who had received no prior therapy (P<0.01), or patients with advanced (stage IV) primary tumors (P=0.017). In addition, treatment with Dof did not affect the plasma concentration of doxorubicin in patients. These clinical studies indicate that Dof was well tolerated and displayed promising efficacy in patients who had not received prior therapy. The antiestrogens, tamoxifen, and toremifene, may moderate P-gp-related drug resistance in vitro. Toremifene demonstrated a synergistic effect in combination with paclitaxel on various human breast cancer cell lines. Furthermore, a synergistic effect was observed on a multidrug-resistant cell line. This synergistic effect was more potent when paclitaxel was combined with toremifene than with tamoxifen. Clinical benefits in some patients with recurrent breast cancer were reported.
Many nervous system pathologies are associated with increased levels of apolipoprotein D (ApoD), a lipocalin also expressed during normal development and aging. An ApoD homologous gene in Drosophila, Glial Lazarillo, regulates resistance to stress, and neurodegeneration in the aging brain. Here we study for the first time the protective potential of ApoD in a vertebrate model organism. Loss of mouse ApoD function increases the sensitivity to oxidative stress and the levels of brain lipid peroxidation, and impairs locomotor and learning abilities. Human ApoD overexpression in the mouse brain produces opposite effects, increasing survival and preventing the raise of brain lipid peroxides after oxidant treatment. These observations, together with its transcriptional up-regulation in the brain upon oxidative insult, identify ApoD as an acute response protein with a protective and therefore beneficial function mediated by the control of peroxidated lipids.
1. Chronic administration of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] can normalize plasma calcium in human hypoparathyroidism and in thyroparathyroidectomized animals. The effect of 1,25(OH)2D3 on plasma calcium is associated with an increase in urinary calcium excretion. In an attempt to prevent this increase thyroparathyroidectomized rats receiving 1,25(OH)2D3 were also treated with hydrochlorothiazide for 9-11 days. 2. Calcium clearance studies show that hydrochlorothiazide stimulated the tubular reabsorption of calcium in thyroparathyroidectomized rats treated with 1,25(OH)2D3. 3. Calcium balance and kinetic studies indicated that hydrochlorothiazide decreased 1,25(OH)2D3-induced hypercalciuria in thyroparathyroidectomized rats. Hydrochlorothiazide did not affect the 1,25(OH)2D3-induced increase in plasma calcium. The hypocalciuric effect of hydrochlorothiazide was not associated with significant changes in calcium deposition into or release from bone. 4. In thyroparathyroidectomized rats treated with 1,25(OH)2D3 the hypocalciuric effect of hydrochlorothiazide was associated with a fall in intestinal calcium absorption. Overall, the calcium balance was unaffected. 5. Thus it appears that hydrochlorothiazide reduces the 1,25(OH)2D3-induced hypercalciuria in parathyroid hormone-deficient animals by decreasing intestinal calcium absorption. Despite the decreased absorption, hydrochlorothiazide does not reduce the 1,25(OH)2D3-induced increase in plasma calcium.
In experiments on male rats it was established, that injection of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) before the injection of adrenaline decrease essentially the activity of peroxidation of lipids in myocardium in comparison with animals which had only injection of adrenaline. Accordingly, pH is a factor, that limited a damage of myocardium on the development of adrenaline myocardiodystrophy.
The goal of this study was to report a variety of atrial tachycardia that might be caused by an unusual electrophysiologic substrate.
The mechanism of atrial tachycardias is attributed to re-entry, abnormal automaticity or triggered activity, based on their electropharmacological responses. A rate-related and lidocaine-sensitive atrial tachycardia has not been reported.
Eight patients (3 women and 5 men, aged 14 to 60 years) with repetitive, uniform atrial tachycardias were studied. In six patients the arrhythmia had been refractory to at least three antiarrhythmic agents (class 1A and C sodium channel blockers, amiodarone, beta-adrenergic blocking agents, verapamil, digoxin). Conventional electrocardiograms, Holter recordings and B mode echocardiograms were performed in each patient. Intravenous lidocaine and verapamil were tested in the eight patients. Six patients underwent an electrophysiologic study.
The baseline electrocardiogram showed nearly incessant runs of atrial tachycardia in all patients. The mean atrial ectopic cycle length ranged from 376 to 502 ms. In seven patients a progressive prolongation of the cycle length from the beginning to the end of the salvos was documented. The arrhythmia was suppressed by increments of sinus node rate and by atrial pacing at cycle lengths longer than that of the atrial tachycardia. In all patients the arrhythmia was abolished by intravenous lidocaine, whereas intravenous verapamil was ineffective. Four symptomatic patients were successfully treated with radiofrequency ablation of the ectopic focus, and two patients were treated with oral mexiletine.
The peculiar electropharmacological responses of this arrhythmia suggest an uncommon underlying mechanism that remains to be elucidated.
Mutations in insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway have been shown to lead to increased longevity in various invertebrate models. Therefore, the effect of the haplo-insufficiency of the IGF-1 receptor (Igf1r(+/-)) on longevity/aging was evaluated in C57Bl/6 mice using rigorous criteria where lifespan and end-of-life pathology were measured under optimal husbandry conditions using large sample sizes. Igf1r(+/-) mice exhibited reductions in IGF-1 receptor levels and the activation of Akt by IGF-1, with no compensatory increases in serum IGF-1 or tissue IGF-1 mRNA levels, indicating that the Igf1r(+/-) mice show reduced IGF-1 signaling. Aged male, but not female Igf1r(+/-) mice were glucose intolerant, and both genders developed insulin resistance as they aged. Female, but not male Igf1r(+/-) mice survived longer than wild type mice after lethal paraquat and diquat exposure, and female Igf1r(+/-) mice also exhibited less diquat-induced liver damage. However, no significant difference between the lifespans of the male Igf1r(+/-) and wild type mice was observed; and the mean lifespan of the Igf1r(+/-) females was increased only slightly (less than 5%) compared to wild type mice. A comprehensive pathological analysis showed no significant difference in end-of-life pathological lesions between the Igf1r(+/-) and wild type mice. These data show that the Igf1r(+/-) mouse is not a model of increased longevity and delayed aging as predicted by invertebrate models with mutations in the insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway.
This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, 8-wk study compared the new H+/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor, lansoprazole, 30 mg daily, to ranitidine 150 mg bid for treatment of erosive reflux esophagitis resistant to histamine-2 receptor antagonists (H2RA). Patients were evaluated after 2, 4, 6, and 8 wk of treatment by symptom assessment and endoscopy. Healing rates for lansoprazole were 71%, 80%, 88%, and 89% at 2, 4, 6, and 8 wk, respectively, compared to 21%, 33%, 45%, and 38% for ranitidine (p < 0.001 at all points). Lansoprazole was significantly more effective than ranitidine for relief of heartburn and reduction of antacid tablet use. Increases in serum gastrin concentrations between the baseline and the 8-wk visit were greater in lansoprazole-treated than in ranitidine-treated patients. Lansoprazole was safe and well tolerated. In patients with erosive reflux esophagitis resistant to standard doses of H2RA, lansoprazole 30 mg/day is more effective than continuation of an H2RA (ranitidine 150 mg bid) for healing of esophagitis and improvement of symptoms.
The association of intrauterine exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) and the subsequent development of reproductive tract abnormalities in young women has been well documented. Although the incidence of vaginal adenocarcinoma was low in the exposed population, vaginal adenosis, a nonmalignant abnormality, was quite common. In order to study the pathogenesis of adenocarcinoma and to determine the frequency of adenosis following prenatal exposure to DES, timed pregnant CD-1 mice were treated s.c. with DES (dose range, 5 to 100 micrograms/kg/day) on Days 9 though 16 of gestation. This period corresponds to major organogenesis of the reproductive tract in the mouse. Female offspring were sacrificed between 1 and 18 months of age. In addition to nonmalignant abnormalities, some of which have been described in women exposed prenatally to DES, two cases of vaginal adenocarcinoma (2%) were observed in 91 prenatally DES-treated animals. No comparable epithelial lesions were seen in 158 control female mice. One other case of adenocarcinoma of the vagina was reported previously by this laboratory using the prenatally exposed animal model. In another series of mice treated prenatally with DES, 100 micrograms/kg/day, 3 of 20 (15%) 1-month-old animals and one of 10 (10%) 18-month-old treated offspring had glandular epithelium abnormally located in the vaginal fornices (adenosis). Other cervicovaginal abnormalities observed after prenatal DES exposure included structural alterations, cervical enlargement, squamous metaplasia in the endocervical canal, excess keratinization of the ectocervix and vagina, transverse folds and basal cell hyperplasia in the upper vagina, and prominent Wolffian duct remnants. Thus, vaginal adenosis in the mouse does not appear to be a common abnormality following treatment with DES in utero. Neonatal exposure to DES on Days 1 to 5, on the other hand, resulted in six of eight (75%) animals with adenosis at 35 days of age. Since perinatal mouse studies have reported high incidences of vaginal adenosis, but, to our knowledge, no cases of vaginal adenocarcinoma, the results presented in this report suggest that the stage of cellular differentiation at the time of DES exposure may be critical in the final expression of these abnormalities.
Chronic exposure to industrial solvent and water pollutant trichloroethylene (TCE) in female MRL+/+mice generates disease similar to human autoimmune hepatitis. The current study was initiated to investigate why TCE-induced autoimmunity targeted the liver. Compared to other tissues the liver has an unusually robust capacity for repair and regeneration. This investigation examined both time-dependent and dose-dependent effects of TCE on hepatoprotective and pro-inflammatory events in liver and macrophages from female MRL+/+mice. After a 12-week exposure to TCE in drinking water a dose-dependent decrease in macrophage production of IL-6 at both the transcriptional and protein level was observed. A longitudinal study similarly showed that TCE inhibited macrophage IL-6 production. In terms of the liver, TCE had little effect on expression of pro-inflammatory genes (Tnfa, Saa2 or Cscl1) until the end of the 40-week exposure. Instead, TCE suppressed hepatic expression of genes involved in IL-6 signaling (Il6r, gp130, and Egr1). Linear regression analysis confirmed liver histopathology in the TCE-treated mice correlated with decreased expression of Il6r. A toxicodynamic model was developed to estimate the effects of TCE on IL-6 signaling and liver pathology under different levels of exposure and rates of repair. This study underlined the importance of longitudinal studies in mechanistic evaluations of immuntoxicants. It showed that later-occurring liver pathology caused by TCE was associated with early suppression of hepatoprotection rather than an increase in conventional pro-inflammatory events. This information was used to create a novel toxicodynamic model of IL-6-mediated TCE-induced liver inflammation.
The carcinogenic activity of 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-2), a pyrolysis product of tryptophan, was studied in inbred strain ACI rats. Twenty rats received a diet containing 0.01% Trp-P-2 for 870 days. Nineteen rats survived for more than 400 days after the start of feeding, 1 rat developed a hemangioendothelial sarcoma of the liver, and 6 rats developed neoplastic liver nodules. These liver tumors were found only in female rats that died 666--870 days after the start of feeding. No liver tumors were found in control animals.
M2 macrophage polarization is implicated in colorectal cancer development. Isoliquiritigenin (ISL), a flavonoid from licorice, has been reported to prevent azoxymethane (AOM) induced colon carcinogenesis in animal models. Here, in a mouse model of colitis-associated tumorigenesis induced by AOM/dextran sodium sulfate (DSS), we investigated the chemopreventive effects of ISL and its mechanisms of action. Mice were treated with AOM/DSS and randomized to receive either vehicle or ISL (3, 15 and 75 mg/kg). Tumor load, histology, immunohistochemistry, and gene and protein expressions were determined. Intragastric administration of ISL for 12 weeks significantly decreased colon cancer incidence, multiplicity and tumor size by 60%, 55.4% and 42.6%, respectively. Moreover, ISL inhibited M2 macrophage polarization. Such changes were accompanied by downregulation of PGE2 and IL-6 signaling. Importantly, depletion of macrophages by clodronate (Clod) or zoledronic acid (ZA) reversed the effects of ISL. In parallel, in vitro studies also demonstrated that ISL limited the M2 polarization of RAW264.7 cells and mouse peritoneal macrophages with concomitant inactivation of PGE2/PPARδ and IL-6/STAT3 signaling. Conversely, exogenous addition of PGE2 or IL-6, or overexpression of constitutively active STAT3 reversed ISL-mediated inhibition of M2 macrophage polarization. In summary, dietary flavonoid ISL effectively inhibits colitis-associated tumorigenesis through hampering M2 macrophage polarization mediated by the interplay between PGE2 and IL-6. Thus, inhibition of M2 macrophage polarization is likely to represent a promising strategy for chemoprevention of colorectal cancer.
The modulating effects of turmeric (T), ethanolic turmeric extract (ETE) and curcumin-free aqueous turmeric extract (CFATE) on the initiation or post-initiation phases of DMBA-induced mammary tumorigenesis were investigated in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Dietary administration of 1% T/0.05% ETE 2 weeks before, on the day of DMBA treatment (day 55) and 2 weeks after the single dose (15 mg/animal) of DMBA (during the initiation period) resulted in significant suppression of DMBA-induced mammary tumorigenesis as seen by a reduction in tumor multiplicity, tumor burden and tumor incidence. However, simultaneous administration of 1% T-derived CFATE as the sole source of drinking water during the initiation phase did not suppress DMBA-induced mammary tumorigenesis. Dietary administration of 1% T/0.05% ETE or 1% T-derived CFATE as the sole source of drinking water starting 48 h after DMBA treatment and continuing until the end of the experiment (during the post-initiation period) resulted in significant suppression of DMBA-induced mammary tumorigenesis as seen by reduction in the tumor multiplicity and/or tumor burden although tumor incidence was unaffected. The present data clearly indicate that dietary administration of T/ETE showed strong chemopreventive activity during initiation as well as post-initiation phases of DMBA-induced rat mammary tumorigenesis while CFATE was found to be weakly active only when it was administered during the post-initiation phase.
Acute diuresis is considered to alter the hemodynamic responses in the hypertensive state by reducing cardiac preload, mainly due to venodilation. To investigate the magnitude of this event, normotensive and two kidney-one clip hypertensive rats have been subjected to similar plasma volume restrictions by i.v. injection of 0.5 ml of furosemide (1 mg/100 g b.wt.). Two other groups of normotensive and hypertensive rats were subjected to 0.5 ml of 5% dextrose solution injection and served as controls. Mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate did not change after furosemide injection in either the normotensive or the renovascular hypertensive group. Alternatively, cardiac output of the hypertensive rats receiving furosemide injection was significantly lower by 39.9% and total peripheral resistance was significantly higher by 48.4% when compared to hypertensive rats receiving dextrose solution injection, whereas there was no difference concerning these indices in normotensive rats after the same interventions. Due to redistribution of regional blood flow, the coronary, cerebral and renal circulations of the hypertensive rats after furosemide injection have been protected. It is concluded that i.v. injection of furosemide, by decreasing cardiac preload, mainly due to venodilation, reduces cardiac output of renin-dependent hypertensive animals, whereas mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate remain unaltered. Redistribution of blood flow to vital organs prevented a further deterioration of the cardiovascular system.
In 6 out of 11 patients treated with rubidomycin deterioration of haemodynamic indices was observed including prolongation of the pressure rise subperiod, isometric contarction subperiod and reduction of mechanical index. These changes appeared already after the first administration of the drug and were followed in 4 cases by signs of circulatory failure.
The standard procedure for diagnosing allergic contact dermatitis is to perform a patch test. Because this has several disadvantages, the development of a new in vitro test system would be of immense value. Gene transcripts that distinguish allergics from non-allergics may have the potential to serve as the molecular basis for such a diagnostic tool. In this study, we use the microarray technology in the identification of differentially expressed genes in allergen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 3 chromium-allergic patients versus 3 healthy controls. Using an Affymetrix GeneChip, the gene expression was analysed in PBMC cultures grown with 100 microg/ml CrCl3 or in media alone for 24 hr. A total of 26 genes were differentially expressed by more than twofold (P < 0.01) in allergen-activated PBMCs from patients compared with controls. 18 of these were upregulated, whereas 8 were downregulated. The expression of 1 downregulated gene, CASP8, was also found specifically and significantly reduced in an expanded population including 4 additional chromium allergic patients and 1 additional control subject by real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. The expression of 2 upregulated genes, ETS2 and CISH, correlated with a high-proliferative response following CrCl3 exposure. Additionally, real-time RT-PCR analysis indicated that the same gene expression changes are valid for nickel allergics, potentially making the expression profile more widely available. The 26 differentially expressed genes identified in this study may potentially function as diagnostic markers for contact sensitivity.
To define sleep disturbances in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and explore the association between carbamazepine (CBZ) therapy, sleep, and daytime somnolence.
We recorded nocturnal polysomnography and measured subjective and objective daytime somnolence in a group of newly diagnosed TLE patients, who had no evidence of anatomic brain lesion on neuroimaging and had never been treated before. Recordings were performed at baseline, after the initial administration of 400 mg CBZ-controlled release (CR) and after 1 month of treatment (400 mg twice daily b.i.d.). The findings were compared with those of a group of young healthy volunteers, both at baseline and after the first administration of CBZ. The chronic effect of CBZ-CR treatment was evaluated only in TLE patients.
At baseline, nocturnal sleep patterns of TLE patients did not show marked alterations when the influence of seizures, cerebral lesions, and drugs had been ruled out. In both the TLE and the control groups, initiation of CBZ therapy provoked a reduction and a fragmentation of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and an increase in the number of sleep stage shifts. In the TLE group, these effects were almost completely reversed after 1 month of treatment, and no significant difference was noted between baseline condition and long-term follow-up. With regard to daytime sleepiness, initial administration of the drug caused an increase in objective sleepiness only in the control group. Subjective sleepiness was higher in the control group than in the TLE group but was not modified by the drug.
We conclude that CBZ-CR has negative effects on REM sleep during initial administration but chronic treatment does not significantly modify nocturnal sleep or daytime somnolence.
