We report a case of azathioprine sensitivity manifesting with severe hypotension and diarrhoea. This sequence of events occurred on two separate occasions after administration of the drug.
A significant fraction of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) undergo rapid apoptosis after balloon angioplasty. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that protecting VSMCs from undergoing apoptosis prevents the cascade of events that lead to intimal hyperplasia.
Rapamycin-loaded gel-like nanoparticles (mean diameter, 54+/-5 nm) were infused locally in a rat carotid artery model of vascular injury. The drug has both antiapoptotic and antiproliferative effects on VSMCs and hence was selected for the current study. Localized delivery of nanoparticles sustained the drug level in the target artery for >2 weeks; demonstrated significant inhibition of hyperplasia (intima/media ratio, 1.5+/-0.02 versus 2.7+/-0.6; P<0.01); and most importantly, re-endothelialized the injured artery (endothelium coverage: treated 82% versus control 28%). We also demonstrated inhibition of activation of caspase-3/7 enzymes in the treated artery, preventing VSMCs from undergoing apoptosis and subsequent infiltration of macrophages.
It may be postulated that the localized delivery of rapamycin inhibited apoptosis of VSMCs, minimizing the inflammatory response to the injury and, thus, creating conditions conducive to vascular repair (re-endothelialization). Unlike stenting, which can lead to thrombosis and increased risk for in-stent restenosis, our approach could eliminate or minimize long-term complications because the injured artery undergoes a natural process of re-endothelialization.
A 58-year-old man with chronic paranoid-hallucinatoric psychosis had transient episodes with marked paranoid delusions, auditory hallucinations without confusion, shakiness of both upper extremities, tachycardia and sweating. EMG performed with surface electrodes revealed many silent periods in postural active muscles with maximum duration of 120 ms; blood glucose was 65-75 mg/dl. At other times, blood glucose was 135-140 mg/dl, EMG revealed few silent periods in postural active muscles with maximal duration of 50 ms and the patient noted some vibration in his outstretched hands only. Drug-induced asterixis (clozapine, benperidol) amplified by relative hypoglycemia was therefore assumed, and symptoms disappeared after oral antidiabetics were reduced.
The effect of intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate on provoked myocardial ischaemia during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was studied in 60 patients who had at least 1 mm electrocardiographic (ECG) ST segment deviation during a 70 s control balloon inflation period. Isosorbide dinitrate (dose 1 mg, 2 mg or 3 mg) or placebo (saline) was administered by slow intracoronary injection, and the ST segment changes recorded again during an identical dilatation period 2-4 min later. Following injection of isosorbide dinitrate, the severity of ST segment deviation decreased (1 mg -31 +/- 30%, P = 0.03; 2 mg -51 +/- 35%, P = 0.0001; 3 mg -36 +/- 32%, P = 0.002) during coronary balloon inflation, and the time until onset of 1 mm ST deviation was prolonged (1 mg +79 +/- 137%, P = 0.06; 2 mg +85 +/- 87%, P = 0.02; 3 mg +78 +/- 109%, P = 0.02). With the 3 mg dose, the time to maximum ECG change increased (+37 +/- 87%, P = 0.02). In the placebo group, there was a small decrease in the severity of ST segment deviation in patients receiving placebo (-23 +/- 32%, P = 0.03), but no change in the time to its onset or in the time to maximum ST deviation. Isosorbide dinitrate did not alter heart rate, systolic arterial pressure or the rate-pressure product at maximum ST segment change, implying that when isosorbide was administered by direct intracoronary injection, a direct cardiac effect was responsible for the major anti-ischaemic effect of the drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are a leading cause of death from intentional drug overdose. Available therapies are often unsatisfactory. In this study we evaluated the use of a high-affinity drug-specific polyclonal Fab fragment (TFab) as an antidote to desipramine toxicity.
We gave anaesthetized rats under mechanical ventilation IV desipramine so that we might study the effect of TFab on survival or IP desipramine to facilitate study of the interaction of TFab and hypertonic sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3), the standard clinical treatment for TCA overdose.
For the study of the effects of TFab and NaHCO3 on survival, each rat was given a constant IV infusion of desipramine until it died, together with TFab 2 g/kg, bovine serum albumin, or .9% NaCl starting 5 minutes after the desipramine infusion. In the study of the interaction of TFab and NaHCO3, each rat received 30 mg/kg IP desipramine followed by TFab (molar TFab:desipramine ratio, .11), NaHCO3, TFab+NaHCO3, or NaCl at the time of maximal toxicity (15 minutes).
In the survival protocol, QRS-interval duration, systolic blood pressure, and heart rate were significantly improved by TFab, and survival was prolonged by 58% compared with that in the albumin and NaCl groups (P < .001). The molar ratio of TFab to administered desipramine was .21. The unbound fraction of desipramine in serum at the time of death was reduced by TFab, but the unbound desipramine concentration was not, suggesting that TFab prolonged survival by delaying the increase in the unbound serum desipramine concentration. In the interaction protocol, neither TFab nor NaHCO3 was effective alone, but the combination significantly reduced QRS-interval prolongation (P = .001).
These data demonstrate the efficacy of TFab in reducing desipramine-induced cardiovascular toxicity and prolonging survival. The pharmacokinetic effects of TFab in rats with severe desipramine toxicity were similar to those observed in sublethal desipramine toxicity. Therapeutic benefit is enhanced by the concurrent use of NaHCO3 and may be achieved despite binding only a fraction of the desipramine dose.
DNA methylation markers provide a powerful tool to make diagnoses based on genetic material obtained directly from tumors or from "remote" locations such as sputum, pleural fluid, or serum. In particular when limited cell numbers are available, amplifyable DNA markers can provide a very sensitive tool for cancer detection and classification. Malignant mesothelioma (MM), an aggressive cancer strongly associated with asbestos exposure, can be difficult to distinguish from adenocarcinoma of the lung when limited material is available. In an attempt to identify molecular markers for MM and adenocarcinoma, we examined the DNA methylation status of 14 loci. Analysis of methylation levels in 10 MM and 8 adenocarcinoma cell lines showed that methylation of APC was significantly elevated in adenocarcinoma compared to MM cell lines (P=0.0003), while methylation of CDH1 was higher in MM (P<0.02). Subsequent examination of the methylation status of the 14 loci in 6 MM and 7 adenocarcinoma primary tumors, which yielded similar methylation profiles, supported these observations. Comparison of methylation in MM cell lines and tumors versus non-tumor lung tissue indicated that APC exhibits less methylation in MM (P=0.003) while RASSF1, PGR1, ESR1, and CDH1 show more methylation in MM, the latter two showing the most significant difference between the two tissue types (P< or = 0.0001). Comparison of methylation in adenocarcinoma cell lines and tumors versus non-tumor lung tissue showed methylation of ESR1, PGR1 and RASSF1 to be significantly elevated in adenocarcinoma, with RASSF1 being most significant (P=0.0002). Thus, with the examination of 14 loci, we have identified 5 candidates that show potential for distinguishing between MM, adenocarcinoma and/or non-cancer lung. Our observations support the strong potential of methylation markers as tools for accurate diagnosis of neoplasms in and around the lung.
Leydig cell hypoplasia is a rare autosomal recessive condition that interferes with normal development of male external genitalia in 46,XY individuals. We have studied two Leydig cell hypoplasia patients (siblings born to consanguineous parents), and found them to be homozygous for a missense mutation (Ala593Pro) in the sixth transmembrane domain of the luteinizing hormone (LH) receptor gene. In vitro expression studies showed that this mutated receptor binds human choriogonadotropin with a normal KD, but the ligand binding does not result in increased production of cAMP. We conclude that a homozygous LH receptor gene mutation underlies the syndrome of autosomal recessive congenital Leydig cell hypoplasia in this family. These results have implications for the understanding of the development of the male genitalia.
Patent ductus arteriosus is one of the most common congenital abnormalities found in premature infants. Ibuprofen, a nonsteroidal drug that is commonly used as an antipyretic, analgesic and anti-inflammatory agent, is also used to induce closure of symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants. Recently, we gave L-lysine ibuprofen to a preterm infant with respiratory distress to induce closure of a patent ductus arteriosus, and the infant experienced pulmonary hypertension. Only 3 cases of pulmonary hypertension following early administration of an ibuprofen solution buffered with tromethamine have previously been reported. However, this severe side effect has never been observed in multicentre, randomized, double-blind controlled trials, nor in recent reviews or meta-analyses of L-lysine ibuprofen use.
Cocaine produces a pattern of cardiovascular responses that are associated with apparent myocardial ischemia, arrhythmias, and other life-threatening complications in some individuals. Despite recent efforts to better understand the causes of cocaine-induced cardiovascular dysfunction, there remain a number of unanswered questions regarding the specific mechanisms by which cocaine elicits hemodynamic responses. This review will describe the actions of cocaine on the cardiovascular system and the evidence for the mechanisms by which cocaine elicits hemodynamic and pathologic responses in humans and animals. The emphasis will be on experimental data that provide the basis for our understanding of the mechanisms of cardiovascular toxicity associated with cocaine. More importantly, this review will identify several controversies regarding the causes of cocaine-induced cardiovascular toxicity that as yet are still debated. The evidence supporting these findings will be described. Finally, this review will outline the obvious deficits in our current concepts regarding the cardiovascular actions of cocaine in hope of encouraging additional studies on this grave problem in our society.
High levels of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) synthesis resulting from the up-regulation of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 has been shown to be critical for the development of non-melanoma skin tumors. This effect of PGE2 is likely mediated by one or more of its 4 G-protein coupled membrane receptors, EP1-4. A previous study showed that BK5.EP1 transgenic mice produced more carcinomas than wild type (WT) mice using initiation/promotion protocols, although the tumor response was dependent on the type of tumor promoter used. In this study, a single topical application of either 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) or benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), alone, was found to elicit squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) in the BK5.EP1 transgenic mice, but not in WT mice. While the epidermis of both WT and transgenic mice was hyperplastic several days after DMBA, this effect regressed in the WT mice while proliferation continued in the transgenic mice. Several parameters associated with carcinogen initiation were measured and were found to be similar between genotypes, including CYP1B1 and aromatase expression, B[a]P adduct formation, Ras activity, and keratinocyte stem cell numbers. However, EP1 transgene expression elevated COX-2 levels in the epidermis and SCC could be completely prevented in DMBA-treated BK5.EP1 mice either by feeding the selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib in their diet or by crossing them onto a COX-2 null background. These data suggest that the tumor promoting/progressing effects of EP1 require the PGE2 synthesized by COX-2.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is one of the most common cancers worldwide. During tumorigenesis, tumor suppressor and cancer-related genes are commonly silenced by aberrant DNA methylation in their promoter regions. Zebularine (1-(β-(D)-ribofuranosyl)-1,2-dihydropyrimidin-2-one) acts as an inhibitor of DNA methylation and exhibits chemical stability and minimal cytotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we explore the effect and possible mechanism of action of zebularine on hepatocellular carcinoma cell line HepG2. We demonstrate that zebularine exhibits antitumor activity on HepG2 cells by inhibiting cell proliferation and inducing apoptosis, however, it has little effect on DNA methylation in HepG2 cells. On the other hand, zebularine treatment downregulated CDK2 and the phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein (Rb), and upregulated p21(WAF/CIP1) and p53. We also found that zebularine treatment upregulated the phosphorylation of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). These results suggest that the p44/42 MAPK pathway plays a role in zebularine-induced cell-cycle arrest by regulating the activity of p21(WAF/CIP1) and Rb. Furthermore, although the proapoptotic protein Bax levels were not affected, the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 level was downregulated with zebularine treatment. In addition, the data in the present study indicate that inhibition of the double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) is involved in inducing apoptosis with zebularine. These results suggest a novel mechanism of zebularine-induced cell growth arrest and apoptosis via a DNA methylation-independent pathway in hepatocellular carcinoma.
We reported that Notch-1, a potent breast oncogene, is activated in response to trastuzumab and contributes to trastuzumab resistance in vitro. We sought to determine the preclinical benefit of combining a Notch inhibitor (γ-secretase inhibitor (GSI)) and trastuzumab in both trastuzumab-sensitive and trastuzumab-resistant, ErbB-2-positive, BT474 breast tumours in vivo. We also studied if the combination therapy of lapatinib plus GSI can induce tumour regression of ErbB-2-positive breast cancer.
We generated orthotopic breast tumour xenografts from trastuzumab- or lapatinib-sensitive and trastuzumab-resistant BT474 cells. We investigated the antitumour activities of two distinct GSIs, LY 411 575 and MRK-003, in vivo.
Our findings showed that combining trastuzumab plus a GSI completely prevented (MRK-003 GSI) or significantly reduced (LY 411 575 GSI) breast tumour recurrence post-trastuzumab treatment in sensitive tumours. Moreover, combining lapatinib plus MRK-003 GSI showed significant reduction of tumour growth. Furthermore, a GSI partially reversed trastuzumab resistance in resistant tumours.
Our data suggest that a combined inhibition of Notch and ErbB-2 signalling pathways could decrease recurrence rates for ErbB-2-positive breast tumours and may be beneficial in the treatment of recurrent trastuzumab-resistant disease.
Venlafaxine, a new antidepressant with fewer side effects, could be of interest to reduce neuropathic pain following antineoplasic drug treatment. In the present study, we demonstrated that venlafaxine inhibits hyperalgesia in a new rat model of neuropathy induced by the antineoplasic drug vincristine, and exerts its effect preferentially via supraspinal and spinal mechanisms.
The behavioural and electrocortical effects of two monobactam derivatives were studied after intraperitoneal (ip) administration in DBA/2 mice, a strain genetically susceptible to sound-induced seizures, and in C57 and Swiss mice, two strains not prone to seizure. DBA/2 mice were more susceptible than Swiss and C57 mice to seizures induced by aztreonam or carumonam. No significant differences were observed between seizures elicited by aztreonam and carumonam in animals (DBA/2 only) administered intracerebroventricularly or ip. Although the main mechanism for seizure-like activity of monobactams cannot be easily determined, we believe that several mechanisms may be involved. An increased excitation of the central nervous system (CNS) by inhibition of GABA binding to receptors and a slow clearance of aztreonam and carumonam from the CNS may be postulated.
Cocaine is the only drug to show a rise in misuse between 1996 and 2007 in England and Wales. It can cause chest pain and myocardial infarction. This study assessed the prevalence of cocaine use in patients presenting with chest pain, and determined the association between cocaine use and chest pain.
Patients presenting with chest pain had a urine sample collected at presentation. Each patient with chest pain was matched with a non-chest pain control. Demographic detail, drug history and clinical outcome was recorded, samples anonymised and subsequently tested for cocaine and metabolites.
Of the 1469 patients, 101 (6.9%) tested positive for cocaine compared with 3.8% of controls (p<0.001). Men (8%) were more likely than women (5.1%) to test positive for cocaine. Two patients developed a myocardial infarction. Cocaine use was highest in those aged 18-30 years for both sexes and decreased with age. Cocaine-positive patients with chest pain were more likely to present in the evening, after midnight or at the weekend. Only 18% of all patients presenting with chest pain had a specific drug history recorded in their notes.
As many patients do not admit to use of an illegal drug, routine testing would enable cocaine-related ischaemic events to be identified more easily but this remains controversial. As management of cocaine-induced chest pain is different from other causes of chest pain, doctors should routinely question patients with chest pain about cocaine use in addition to well recognised risk factors.
N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) is an important enzyme catalyzing N-acetylation of sulfasalazine (SASP). The aim of the present study was to investigate associations of the genotypes of NAT2 with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and with adverse effects of SASP, which is used as the first-line treatment of IBD.
The wildtype allele (NAT2*4) and three variant alleles (NAT2*5B, NAT2*6A and NAT*7B) of the NAT2 gene were determined in 101 patients with IBD (84 patients with ulcerative colitis and 17 patients with Crohn's disease) and 109 healthy controls by the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Sixty-eight patients with IBD treated with SASP were followed, and their adverse reactions were recorded.
Eleven patients (16%) experienced adverse effects from SASP, including nine cases of sulfapyridine (SP) dose-related adverse effects and two cases of hypersensitivity (skin rash). Patients with the slow acetylator genotypes without the NAT2*4 allele experienced adverse effects more frequently (36%) than those with the fast acetylator genotypes with at least one NAT2*4 allele (11%), but the results were not significantly different (OR of 0.26, 95% CI 0.065 to 1.004; P=0.051). However, those with the slow acetylator genotypes experienced more SP dose-related adverse effects than those with the fast acetylator genotypes (36% versus 8%, OR of 0.17, 95% CI 0.039 to 0.749; P=0.019).
The NAT2 gene polymorphism was not associated with susceptibility to IBD in Chinese populations, but the NAT2 slow acetylator genotypes were significantly associated with SP dose-related adverse effects of SASP in the treatment of IBD.
To determine the mechanism(s) of the inhibitory effect of glucocorticoids on airway hyperresponsiveness in allergic bronchial asthma, the effects of systemic treatment with glucocorticoids on bronchial smooth muscle hyperresponsiveness and RhoA upregulation were investigated in rats with allergic bronchial asthma. Rats were sensitized and repeatedly challenged with 2,4-dinitrophenylated Ascaris suum antigen. Animals were also treated with prednisolone or beclomethasone (each 10 mg/kg, i.p.) once a day during the antigen inhalation period. Repeated antigen inhalation caused a marked bronchial smooth muscle hyperresponsiveness to acetylcholine with an upregulation of RhoA. Augmented acetylcholine-induced activation of RhoA and phosphorylation of myosin light chain were observed in bronchial smooth muscles of the antigen-exposed animals. Systemic treatment with either glucocorticoid used inhibited the bronchial smooth muscle hypercontraction until the level of the sensitized control rats that received saline inhalation instead of antigen challenge. Interestingly, both glucocorticoids also inhibited the upregulation of RhoA and augmented acetylcholine-induced activation of RhoA and phosphorylation of myosin light chain. In conclusion, glucocorticoids ameliorated the augmented bronchial smooth muscle contraction by inhibiting upregulation of RhoA. These effects of glucocorticoids may account for, in part, their beneficial effects in the treatment of asthma.
We studied the relationship between theophylline and memory/learning using an elevated plus-maze test and measuring spontaneous locomotor activity in developing mice. There were no significant differences in transfer latency (TL) in 21-, 30- and 42-day-old mice in the acquisition trial, but theophylline significantly prolonged TL in comparison with the control group in 21- and 30-day-old mice in the retention trial (n = 20; 21-day-old mice, P = 0.0009; 30-day-old mice, P = 0.03). The dose-dependent stimulant effects of theophylline were shown in spontaneous locomotor activity (n = 16; 21-day-old mice, P = 0.0005; 30-day-old mice, P = 0.0007; 42-day-old mice, P = 0.0003) in all groups and in rearing in 21-day-old mice (P = 0.02) 1 h after drug administration, but there were no significant effects 24 h after drug administration in all groups. Our study showed that even a therapeutic dose of theophylline impaired memory/learning only in developing mice, and theophylline increased locomotor activity both in developing and adolescent mice. These observations are consistent with several clinical studies, which reported the relationships between theophylline use and memory/learning and learning-related behaviors in children, such as difficulty in studying and hyperactivity. Theophylline possibly induces memory/learning disabilities and hyperactivity in infants and young children.
1. Advanced glycation end-products (AGE) and their receptors (RAGE) have been implicated in renal damage in diabetes. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), on the formation of AGE, the expression RAGE and other associated components in the oxidative stress pathway in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). 2. Groups of SHR were treated with or without 10 mg/kg per day benazepril for 12 weeks. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and angiotensin (Ang) II levels were evaluated in SHR and control Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Renal function was investigated by determining levels of proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis. Furthermore, reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the rat renal cortex were analysed using an H(2)O(2)-based hydroxyl radical-detection assay and the renal content of AGE, RAGE, NADPH oxidase p47phox, nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB p65, phosphorylated (p-) NF-kappaB p65, vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 was determined by immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis. 3. Treatment with benazepril inhibited the formation of AngII, reduced SBP and alleviated renal lesions in SHR compared with both untreated SHR and control WKY rats. Benazepril treatment significantly suppressed the accumulation of AGE and expression of RAGE in the kidney of SHR. In addition, benazepril treatment reduced the upregulation of NADPH oxidase p47phox, ROS generation and NF-kappaB p65, p-NF-kappaB p65, VCAM-1 and TGF-beta1 expression in the kidney of SHR compared with both untreated SHR and control WKY rats. 4. The results of the present study provide new insights into the regulation by the renin-angiotensin system of AGE-RAGE, oxidative stress and nephropathy, increasing our understanding of the role of the RAS in nephropathy.
A 69-yr-old man underwent emergency laparotomy. He was in endotoxic shock. Preoperative evaluation including a full blood count, chest X-ray and ECG were normal. Body temperature was 37.4 degrees C. Preoperative arterial pressure was 140/80 mmHg and heart rate 65 bpm. Anesthesia was induced with ketamine 100 mg, propofol 20 mg, fentanyl 50 micrograms and vecuronium 4 mg and maintained with propofol 4 mg.kg-1.hr-1 and fentanyl. Soon after opening the abdominal peritoneum, severe bradycardia (< 20 bpm) occurred, but it was effectively treated by ephedrine 16 mg. After that, surgery was performed uneventfully. In the intensive care unit (ICU), the patient developed four episodes of severe atrioventricular (AV) block after stimulation of the trachea by suction drainage under sedation with propofol, although there was no AV block during sedation with ketamine and propofol. After stopping propofol, the AV block was no longer observed. He was discharged from the ICU on the 12th postoperative day. Postoperative Holter ECG and echocardiography showed no abnormalities. It is likely that stimulation of the trachea triggered vagovagal reflex and propofol prolonged AV conduction, causing the AV block.
Hyperexcitability of C-fiber bladder afferent pathways has been proposed to contribute to urinary frequency and bladder pain in chronic bladder inflammation including interstitial cystitis. However, the detailed mechanisms inducing afferent hyperexcitability after bladder inflammation are not fully understood. Thus, we investigated changes in the properties of bladder afferent neurons in rats with bladder inflammation induced by intravesical application of hydrochloric acid. Eight days after the treatment, bladder function and bladder sensation were analyzed using cystometry and an electrodiagnostic device of sensory function (Neurometer), respectively. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings and immunohistochemical staining were also performed in dissociated bladder afferent neurons identified by a retrograde tracing dye, Fast Blue, injected into the bladder wall. Cystitis rats showed urinary frequency that was inhibited by pretreatment with capsaicin and bladder hyperalgesia mediated by C-fibers. Capsaicin-sensitive bladder afferent neurons from sham rats exhibited high thresholds for spike activation and a phasic firing pattern, whereas those from cystitis rats showed lower thresholds for spike activation and a tonic firing pattern. Transient A-type K(+) current density in capsaicin-sensitive bladder afferent neurons was significantly smaller in cystitis rats than in sham rats, although sustained delayed-rectifier K(+) current density was not altered after cystitis. The expression of voltage-gated K(+) Kv1.4 alpha-subunits, which can form A-type K(+) channels, was reduced in bladder afferent neurons from cystitis rats. These data suggest that bladder inflammation increases bladder afferent neuron excitability by decreasing expression of Kv1.4 alpha-subunits. Similar changes in capsaicin-sensitive C-fiber afferent terminals may contribute to bladder hyperactivity and hyperalgesia due to acid-induced bladder inflammation.
The most frequently reported alteration of multidrug resistance (MDR) is the overexpression of the 170 kd membrane glycoprotein. An increased expression of the MDR-gene in pre-neoplastic and neoplastic liver lesions produced experimentally by different carcinogens has been reported. As shown in rat liver by stop experiments, specific carcinogen-induced alterations can be separated from non-specific, toxic changes. Therefore, we induced rat hepatocellular carcinomas with N-nitrosomorpholine and investigated whether expression of the MDR-gene also takes place in hepatocellular carcinomas after withdrawal of the carcinogen. Using mAb C219 against P-glycoprotein, both normal liver and hepatocellular carcinomas show specific immunoreactivity by means of immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry. In hepatocellular carcinomas, however, the reaction is increased if compared to normal liver of untreated control animals. These results were confirmed by immunoblotting. Using the cDNA probe 1.5, a significant increase in MDR-gene transcripts was found in hepatocellular carcinomas as compared to normal liver.
One hundred and eighty-one male and 48 female myocardial infarction (MI) survivors and 172 male and 194 female controls were studied with respect to a possible association between premature parental MI (before age 61 years in mothers and/or before age 56 years in fathers) and an insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism in the gene encoding angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE). In the total series, the frequency of premature parental MI was 14% in the DD (homozygotes for the deletion (D) allele) genotypic group, 10.6% in the ID (heterozygotes) genotypic group and 6.1% in the II (homozygotes for the insertion (I) allele) genotypic group. In all males (male MI survivors and male controls combined), and in the total series, there was a significant excess of DD individuals as compared to II individuals among those with a parental history of premature MI (odds ratio 3.1 (p = 0.03) and 3.1 (p = 0.009), respectively). The ACE polymorphism may be an important genetic marker of MI risk and contribute to clustering of premature MI in families.
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome following quinine ingestion is a newly described phenomenon, with just two previous descriptions of 4 cases in the literature. We describe a 5th case. The reaction may be mediated by the presence of antibodies reactive against platelets in the presence of quinine. Treatment has included use of plasma exchange, prednisone, aspirin, and dipyridamole. The patients have all regained some degree of renal function. However, it is unclear whether pharmacological treatment or spontaneous resolution is responsible for the improvement. Quinine-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome probably occurs more often than is recognized. It is important to recognize this reaction when it occurs and to avoid further quinine exposure, since the reaction seems to be recurrent.
Four to 10% of patients with Parkinson disease and chronically treated with levodopa undergo an addictionlike behavioral disturbance named dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS). This article suggests that patients with Parkinson disease could be especially prone to develop DDS due to the dopamine deficiency and the "priming" of neural networks by the chronic use of drugs with a short half-life, such as levodopa. These suggestions are based on the clinical and molecular similarities between levodopa-induced dyskinesias and behavioral alterations seen in DDS and addiction to illegal drugs. Motor and behavioral abnormalities can be seen as the consequence of common mechanisms involving anomalous forms of neural plasticity. These forms affect parts of the cortical-basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits that are topographically organized to differently modulate emotional and motor functions. Recent evidence using positron emission tomography provides support to this idea. By contrast, molecular data suggest that functional segregation may be lost in addiction, DDS, and dyskinesias. The existence of common pathogenic mechanisms for both phenomena could provide the basis for common therapeutic strategies.
We examined the ability of L-DOPA to induce dyskinesias in MPTP-treated and normal squirrel monkeys to establish whether the underlying neuropathology associated with parkinsonism is an absolute requirement or merely promotes the development of drug-induced dyskinesias. Administration of L-DOPA (5-40 mg/kg p.o., following a 60 min pretreatment with carbidopa 2.5-20 mg/kg p.o.) induced a range of dopamine-mediated behaviours including locomotor activity, stereotyped scratching, and climbing in both lesioned and nonlesioned animals. However, the dose-response curves showed a marked (three- to fourfold) shift to the left in lesioned animals, indicating behavioural supersensitivity. In contrast, L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias were only observed in MPTP-treated monkeys. Doses required for induction of dyskinesias were lower than those required to induce climbing. These findings provide further evidence that nigrostriatal damage is essential for the genesis of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias.
