Furan is a potent cholangiocarcinogen in rat by an as yet undefined mechanism. The risk to man remains unclear. Using a time-course stop study design, we have investigated the potential of furan to induce oxidative stress and DNA damage associated with inflammatory and regenerative responses in rat liver. Furan was administered via oral gavage (30 mg/kg b.w. 5 daily doses per week), and livers were analyzed at time points between eight hr and three months. A one-month recovery group previously treated for three months was also included. There was a marked association between CYP2E1 expression and DNA oxidation (8-oxo-dG) in areas of centrilobular hepatocyte necrosis seen after a single dose. After one-month recovery from three-month treatment, 8-oxo-dG was still observed in areas of furan-induced cholangiofibrosis. Furan-induced changes in the expression of various genes associated with oxidative stress, DNA damage, and cell cycle control were identified during treatment and recovery. We propose that furan-induced cholangiocarcinomas emerge from areas of cholangiofibrosis as a result of a combination of chronic, persistent indirect damage to DNA through oxygen radicals coupled with persistent proliferative signals, including loss of connexin 32, that act to convert this DNA damage to fixed mutations.
We studied three groups of 30 patients each, undergoing minor orthopaedic surgery, anaesthetized with alfentanil (30 micrograms/kg bolus followed by an infusion of 0.3 micrograms/kg/min), thiopental 3 mg/kg and 70% N2O via facial mask. Patients in group I were treated, three minutes before induction, with vecuronium 0.02 mg/kg i.v., while those in group II were premedicated with diazepam 0.15 mg/kg i.m. 30-45 minutes before induction. Group III served as control. Muscular rigidity was evaluated clinically with a subjective score based on a scale of 0 (no rigidity) to 3 (severe rigidity). Diazepam did not give significant protection from muscular rigidity. Vecuronium administration did not significantly reduced the number of patients who became rigid, but significantly decreased the incidence of severe rigidity (p less than 0.005), the mean rigidity score (p less than 0.05) and the incidence of rigidity at the induction of anaesthesia (p less than 0.0005). We also observed a progressively increasing incidence of rigidity with increasing age (not significantly) and body weight (p less than 0.05 total rigidity, p less than 0.01 severe rigidity).
A four-month-old infant with severe impetigo who had prolonged daily applications of lindane presented with two seizure episodes. His blood lindane level was 1.27 ppm. Caution should be exercised when using lindane in infants and children. Proper instruction and close supervision are essential.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia presents 5 to 12 days after heparin exposure, with or without arterial or venous thromboemboli. Delayed recognition and treatment of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia contribute to poor patient outcomes.
To describe and increase awareness of a clinical scenario in which the onset or manifestations of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia are delayed.
Retrospective case series.
Three large urban hospitals (with active cardiovascular surgery programs).
14 patients seen over a 3-year period in whom heparin-induced thrombocytopenia became apparent on delayed presentation with thromboembolic complications.
Platelet counts, onset of objectively determined thromboembolism, results of heparin-induced platelet factor 4 antibody tests, and outcomes.
Patients went home after hospitalizations that had included heparin exposure--in most cases, with no thrombocytopenia recognized--only to return to the hospital (median, day 14) with thromboembolic complications. Thromboemboli were venous (12 patients, 7 with pulmonary emboli) or arterial (4 patients) or both. Platelet counts were mildly decreased in all but 2 patients on second presentation. On readmission, 11 patients received therapeutic heparin, which worsened the patients' clinical condition and, in all 11 cases, decreased the platelet count (mean at readmission, 143 x 10(9) cells/L; mean nadir after heparin re-exposure, 39 x 10(9) cells/L). Results of serologic tests for heparin-induced antibodies were positive in all patients. Subsequent treatments included alternative anticoagulants (11 patients), thrombolytic drugs (3 patients), inferior vena cava filters (3 patients) and, eventually, warfarin (11 patients). Three patients died.
Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is increasingly being recognized. To avoid disastrous outcomes, physicians must consider heparin-induced thrombocytopenia whenever a recently hospitalized patient returns with thromboembolism; therapy with alternative anticoagulants, not heparin, should be initiated.
Epidemiologic studies have shown an association between elevated arsenic levels in drinking water and an increased risk of atherosclerosis and vascular diseases. The studies presented here were performed to evaluate the atherogenic potential of arsenic using a well-established and controlled animal model of human atherosclerosis, mice deficient in apolipoprotein E (ApoE), and in vitro systems including primary human vascular cells. Wild-type and ApoE-deficient mice were exposed to 20 or 100 microg/mL sodium arsenite in drinking water for 24 weeks. As assessed morphometrically, the size of grossly discernible lesions covering the intimal area of aorta were increased significantly in arsenic-treated ApoE-deficient mice compared with nontreated transgenic mice. This effect was not associated with increased levels of serum cholesterol but was accompanied by an accumulation of arsenic in the vessel wall. Introduction of cocoa butter into the diet for 2 weeks resulted in higher serum cholesterol levels and only slight increases in the lesion size in control or arsenic-exposed ApoE-deficient mice. There were no lesions observed in the wild-type C57BL6 mice, resistant to atherosclerosis, whether they received arsenic or control drinking water. In vitro studies, including primary aorta endothelial or smooth muscle cells, were conducted to evaluate whether arsenic induces cellular mechanisms relevant to atherogenesis such as endothelial dysfunction, lipid oxidation, and smooth muscle cell proliferation. Arsenic treatment does not modulate endothelial cell-mediated lipid oxidation or smooth muscle cell proliferation but induced the expression of genes coding inflammatory mediators, including interleukin-8. Induction of endothelial inflammatory activity may play a role in arsenic-related vascular effects.
Photodamaged skin typically displays lentigines, actinic keratoses, wrinkles, and textural alteration. Chemical peeling has been used to treat these, but few controlled studies have been performed to determine its efficacy.
Our purpose was to compare the efficacy of a medium-depth chemical peel with and without tretinoin before and after treatment.
Sixteen men with actinic damage including actinic keratoses were treated with a 40% trichloroacetic acid(TCA) chemical peel. Half were pretreated for 6 weeks with topical tretinoin; they also used tretinoin after the peel. Photographs were obtained at baseline and at 6 weeks and 6 months after treatment. Changes in specific features were rated by a panel of three examiners.
Some improvement was noted in all patients. More rapid and even frosting was observed in the patients pretreated with tretinoin. Solar lentigines, actinic keratoses, and skin texture were the features of photoaging most affected; wrinkles were least affected. No statistically significant difference was found between patients treated with TCA and tretinoin (before and after peel) and those with TCA alone.
A medium-depth chemical peel with 40% TCA alone produced moderate improvement in some manifestations of actinic damage but had little effect on wrinkles. Treatment with tretinoin before and after TCA did not significantly enhance the efficacy of the peel.
In a series of fifteen aggressive mentally subnormal patients treated with lithium carbonate, there was an improvement in aggressive behaviour in eleven cases, three patients showed no change and one patient became worse during lithium treatment. The response to lithium therapy was assessed by clinical observation and retrospective analysis of daily ward reports. Treatment had to be discontinued in one patient who developed tardive dyskinesia, but otherwise side effects were not a problem.
Twenty-five patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who developed toxicity while taking remission inducing drugs and 30 without toxicity were studied for possible associations with class I and II HLA antigens. A strong association has been found between nephritis and dermatitis due to Tiopronin (a D-Penicillamine like compound) and class I antigens B35-Cw4, and between dermatitis due to gold thiosulphate and B35. Compared to healthy controls a lower DR5 frequency was observed in patients with RA except for the Tiopronin related nephritis group.
TorsinA is the causative protein of DYT1 dystonia, a major representative of hyperkinetic movement disorders. In this study, the distribution of torsinA was investigated in the basal ganglia of hemiparkinsonian rats with or without levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). Two months after 6-hydroxydopamine (OHDA) treatment, Wistar-albino rats were subjected to intermittent intraperitoneal injection of levodopa/benserazid (LID-group, n=5) or vehicle (control, n=5) for 21 days. Immunohistochemical analysis disclosed that in the caudal portion of the entopeduncular nucleus (EP), homologous to the globus pallidus internus (GPi) in primates, on the parkinsonian side, there was a significant decrease of torsinA-immunopositive neurons in rats with LID, but not in those without LID. However, Nissl-staining showed no loss of GPi neurons in rats with LID. In both groups, there was no significant difference between ipsi- and contralateral sides with respect to the density of torsinA-positive neuronal cells in the striatum, globus pallidus externus, and subthalamic nucleus. Ours are the first data to demonstrate the specific modulation of torsinA expression in the basal ganglia of the hyperkinesia model, suggesting that GPi neurons containing torsinA possess pathologic plasticity for LID.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of flumazenil on bupivacaine-induced acute toxicity, 10 groups of mice were previously treated by a 1, 0.5, 0.25 and 0.125 mg/kg single dose of flumazenil or saline 15 minutes before an injection of bupivacaine (50 mg/kg: exp. 1 and 60 mg/kg: exp.2). The convulsant activity, the period of latency to convulse and the induced mortality were assessed in each group. The bupivacaine-induced mortality was increased by flumazenil. Also, the convulsant activity was increased by flumazenil and the period of latency to convulse was proportionally decreased with increasing doses of flumazenil for the two tested doses of bupivacaine.
Endothelin is a powerful vasoconstrictor peptide derived from the endothelium. We evaluated the contribution of endothelin to blood-pressure regulation in patients with essential hypertension by studying the effect of an endothelin-receptor antagonist, bosentan.
We studied 293 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. After a placebo run-in period of four to six weeks, patients were randomly assigned to receive one of four oral doses of bosentan (100, 500, or 1000 mg once daily or 1000 mg twice daily), placebo, or the angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor enalapril (20 mg once daily) for four weeks. Blood pressure was measured before and after treatment.
As compared with placebo, bosentan resulted in a significant reduction in diastolic pressure with a daily dose of 500 or 2000 mg (an absolute reduction of 5.7 mm Hg at each dose), which was similar to the reduction with enalapril (5.8 mm Hg). There were no significant changes in heart rate. Bosentan did not result in activation of the sympathetic nervous system (as determined by measurement of the plasma norepinephrine level) or the renin-angiotensin system (as determined by measurements of plasma renin activity and angiotensin II levels).
An endothelin-receptor antagonist, bosentan, significantly lowered blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension, suggesting that endothelin may contribute to elevated blood pressure in such patients. The favorable effect of treatment with bosentan on blood pressure occurred without reflexive neurohormonal activation.
In in vitro studies, a high phosphate concentration has been shown to directly stimulate parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion in a normal calcium concentration and to reduce PTH suppression in a high calcium concentration. In hemodialysis patients during dialysis-induced hypercalcemia, the effect of hyperphosphatemia on PTH secretion was less than in vitro studies. Our goal was to determine whether hyperphosphatemia retards PTH suppression during calcitriol-induced hypercalcemia in azotemic rats with hyperparathyroidism.
Rats underwent a two-stage 5/6 nephrectomy or sham operations. After surgery, rats received a high phosphate diet (P 1.2%, Ca 0.6%) for 4 weeks to induce hyperparathyroidism and then were placed on a normal diet (P 0.6%, Ca 0.6%) for two additional weeks to normalize serum calcium values in azotemic rats. At week 7, rats were divided into five groups and before sacrifice received at 24-hour intervals, three doses of calcitriol (CTR) or its vehicle. The five groups and dietary phosphate content were: group 1--normal renal function (NRF) + 0.6% P + vehicle; group 2--NRF + 0.6% P + CTR; group 3--renal failure (RF) + 0.6% P + vehicle; group 4--RF + 1.2% P + CTR; and group 5--RF + 0.6% P + CTR.
In the two CTR-treated groups with marked hypercalcemia (groups 2 and 5), 15.52 +/- 0.26 and 15.12 +/- 0.13 mg/dl, respectively, stepwise regression showed that hyperphosphatemia retarded PTH suppression. When the two azotemic groups treated with CTR (groups 4 and 5) were combined to expand the range of serum calcium values, stepwise regression showed that hypercalcemia suppressed and hyperphosphatemia modestly retarded PTH suppression. Similarly, in groups 4 and 5 combined, correlations were present between PTH and both serum calcium (r = -0.70, p < 0.001) and serum phosphate (r = 0.64, p = 0.001).
Hypercalcemia and high doses of calcitriol markedly reduced PTH secretion in azotemic rats despite severe hyperphosphatemia. Even though hyperphosphatemia did retard PTH suppression during hypercalcemia, its effect was small.
Oxidative stress is involved in many neurodegenerative diseases. Chronic ozone exposure causes a secondary increase of reactive oxygen species, which cause an oxidative stress state in the organism. Ozone is one of the main components of photochemical pollution. Our purpose was to test that oxidative stress caused by chronic low doses of ozone, by itself, alters adult neurogenesis and causes progressive neurodegeneration in the hippocampus, which actions lead to the loss of brain plasticity in the mature central nervous system of rats. Animals were exposed to an ozone-free air stream and for 15, 30, 60, and 90 days to low doses of ozone to cause oxidative stress. Each group was then tested by (1) a spectrophotometer test to quantify lipid peroxidation (LPO) levels; (2) immunohistochemistry testing against doublecortin, Neu-N, p53, microglia, and glial fibrillary acidic protein; (3) Western blot tests for doublecortin and Neu-N; and (4) a one-trial passive avoidance test. Our results indicated that ozone causes an increase of LPO levels, morphological changes in the nucleus and the cytoplasm, and cell swelling in neurons. The Western blot shows a decrease for Neu-N and doublecortin. Activated and later phagocytic microglia and an increased number of astrocytes were found. There was a memory deficiency positively related to the amount of ozone exposure. These alterations suggest that oxidative stress caused by low doses of ozone causes dysregulation of inflammatory processes, progressive neurodegeneration, chronic loss of brain repair in the hippocampus, and brain plasticity changes in the rat analogous to those seen in Alzheimer's disease.
Genetic factors are known to have a role in determining susceptibility to infectious diseases, although it is unclear whether they may also influence host efficiency in transmitting pathogens. We examine variants in HBB that have been shown to be protective against malaria and test whether these are associated with the transmission of the parasite from the human host to the Anopheles vector. We conducted cross-sectional malariological surveys on 3,739 human subjects and transmission experiments involving 60 children and 6,446 mosquitoes in Burkina Faso, West Africa. Protective hemoglobins C (HbC, beta6Glu-->Lys) and S (beta6Glu-->Val) are associated with a twofold in vivo (odds ratio 2.17, 95% CI 1.57-3.01, P = 1.0 x 10(-6)) and a fourfold ex vivo (odds ratio 4.12, 95% CI 1.90-9.29, P = 7.0 x 10(-5)) increase of parasite transmission from the human host to the Anopheles vector. This provides an example of how host genetic variation may influence the transmission dynamics of an infectious disease.
The Food and Drug Administration documents the receipt of 12 case reports of severe myopathy or rhabdomyolysis associated with concomitant use of lovastatin and gemfibrozil, including 10 voluntary postmarketing, and 2 required, reports. All patients had serum creatine kinase levels of more than 10,000 U/L, 4 tested showed myoglobinuria, and 5 had acute renal failure. The patients' symptoms resolved when both drugs were discontinued. For the first year of marketing of lovastatin, spontaneous reports of myopathy with documentation of creatine kinase level were reviewed for the use of lovastatin, gemfibrozil, and combination therapy. The median creatine kinase level in reports involving concomitant lovastatin and gemfibrozil use was 15,250 U/L, 20 times that in reports with gemfibrozil use alone and 30 times that in reports with lovastatin use alone. Because of the potential for severe myopathy and life-threatening rhabdomyolysis, and given alternative drug combinations for treating hyperlipoproteinemia, the use of lovastatin in combination with gemfibrozil is to be discouraged.
Methadone (Mtd) is a widely used opioid drug associated with the side effect of hyperprolactinemia. The mechanism of how Mtd induces prolactin secretion remains unclear. The effects of Mtd and its two main metabolites (EDDP: (±)-2-ethyl-1,5-dimethyl-3,3-diphenylpyrrolinium percholarate and EMDP: 2-ethyl-5-methyl-3,3-dipnehyl-1-pyrroline) on ion currents were investigated in GH₃ pituitary tumor cells. Hyperpolarization-elicited K+ currents in GH₃ cells bathed in a high-K(+), Ca(2+)-free solution were studied to evaluate the effects of Mtd and other related compounds on the ether-à-go-go-related-gene (erg) K(+) current (I(K(erg))). Mtd suppressed the amplitude of I(K(erg)) in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC(50) value of 10.4 μM. With the aid of a minimal binding scheme, the inhibitory action of Mtd on I(K(erg)) was estimated with a dissociation constant of 8.2 μM. Mtd tended to increase the rate of I(K(erg)) deactivation in a voltage-dependent fashion. EDDP (10 μM) had no effect on I(K(erg)), while EMDP (10μM) slightly suppressed it. In GH₃ cells incubated with naloxone (30 μM), the Mtd-induced inhibition of I(K(erg)) remained unaltered. Under cell-attached voltage-clamp recordings, Mtd increased the frequency of spontaneous action currents with no change in current amplitude. Similarly, Mtd can suppress I(K(erg)) in differentiated NG108-15 cells; dynorphin A(1-13) did not reverse Mtd-induced inhibition of I(K(erg)). This study shows that Mtd has a depressant effect on I(K(erg)), and suggests its ability to affect membrane excitability and prolactin secretion. The cyclization of Mtd, in which EDDP and EMDP are formed, tends to be critical in removal of the Mtd binding to erg K+ channel.
In this study, the data of eight new patients in conjunction with previously reported cases with piperacillin-induced immune hemolytic anemia (PIHA) are described.
Five patients with cystic fibrosis and three patients with other disorders developed massive hemolysis after administration of piperacillin. Serologic tests were carried out using standard techniques. Tests for drug-dependent antibodies (ddab) were performed in the presence and absence of piperacillin and its ex vivo antigens (urine of patients treated with piperacillin).
Hemolysis was acute and severe in all eight patients. The direct antiglobulin test was positive in all cases. Sera from four patients reacted with red blood cells (RBCs) in the presence of piperacillin as well as its ex vivo antigens. Sera from three patients showed positive reactivity with untreated RBCs in the presence of piperacillin, and the serum from the remaining patient was reactive only in the presence of piperacillin ex vivo antigens. Other patients with PIHA have been reported in the literature. Three of these patients also had cystic fibrosis.
To date approximately 26 patients with PIHA have been described and at least eight of these patients had cystic fibrosis. It is unclear whether patients with cystic fibrosis might be susceptible in developing PIHA.
The increase in blood flow evoked by synaptic activity is essential for normal brain function and underlies functional brain imaging signals. Nitric oxide, a vasodilator released by NMDA receptor activation, is critical for the flow increase, but the factors linking NMDA receptor activity to nitric oxide-dependent hyperemia are poorly understood. Here, we show that tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), a serine protease implicated in NMDA receptor signaling, is required for the flow increase evoked by somatosensory stimulation. tPA acts by facilitating neuronal nitric oxide release, but this effect does not involve enhancement of NMDA currents or the associated intracellular Ca(2+) rise. Rather, the evidence suggests that tPA controls NMDA-dependent nitric oxide synthesis by influencing the phosphorylation state of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. These findings unveil a previously unrecognized role of tPA in vital homeostatic mechanisms coupling NMDA receptor signaling with nitric oxide synthesis and local cerebral perfusion.
Visceral adiposity and insulin resistance are common pathophysiological denominators in patients with primary aldosteronism. Although we recently reported the antidiabetic effects of heme oxygenase (HO), no study has examined the effects of upregulating HO on visceral adiposity in uninephrectomized (UnX) deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA-salt) hypertensive rats, a model of human primary aldosteronism characterized by elevated endothelin (ET-1) and oxidative/inflammatory events. Here, we report the effects of the HO inducer heme arginate and the HO blocker chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP) on visceral adipose tissue obtained from retroperitoneal fat pads of UnX DOCA-salt rats. UnX DOCA-salt rats were hypertensive but normoglycemic. Heme arginate reduced visceral adiposity and enhanced HO activity and cGMP in the adipose tissue, but suppressed ET-1, nuclear-factor κB (NF-κB), activating-protein (AP-1), c-Jun-NH2-terminal kinase (JNK), macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and 8-isoprostane. These were associated with reduced glycemia, increased insulin, and the insulin-sensitizing protein adiponectin, with corresponding reduction in insulin resistance. In contrast, the HO inhibitor, CrMP, abolished the effects of heme arginate, aggravating insulin resistance, suggesting a role for the HO system in insulin signaling. Importantly, the effects of the HO system on ET-1, NF-κB, AP-1, JNK, MCP-1, and ICAM-1 in visceral or retroperitoneal adiposity in UnX-DOCA-salt rats have not been reported. Because 8-isoprostane stimulates ET-1 to enhance oxidative insults, and increased oxidative events deplete adiponectin and insulin levels, the suppression of oxidative/inflammatory mediators such as 8-isoprostane, NF-κB, AP-1, MCP-1, ICAM-1, and JNK, an inhibitor of insulin biosynthesis, may account for the potentiation of insulin signaling/glucose metabolism by heme arginate. These data indicate that although UnX DOCA-salt rats were normoglycemic, insulin signaling was impaired, suggesting that dysfunctional insulin signaling may be a forerunner to overt diabetes in primary aldosteronism.
It is generally accepted that the main action of glomerular prostanoids (GPs) on glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is to modulate the activity of different vasoconstrictors, specially in states of renal hypoperfusion. However it was also suggested that GPs may directly affect GFR. The present study was focused on this last hypothesis, in different experimental models, in rats. In adriamycin induced acute renal failure, the transient decrease of GFR is associated with higher levels of thromboxane B2. Later on, when GFR returns to normal, vasodilator prostaglandins synthesis was also increased. In captopril induced renal failure in Na depleted rats (where GPs synthesis remained normal), stimulation of PGE2 and PGI2 production by K and NaCl was associated with a significant improvement of GFR. Furthermore, the increase in GFR induced by NaCl was prevented by inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis. Infusion of atrial natriuretic peptide in euvolemic rats induce a marked elevation both of GFR and PGE2 synthesis. It was abolished by previous administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor. In conclusion, glomerular prostanoids may influence GFR, either directly, or as mediator or modulator of other vasoactive hormones.
Metformin has been well characterized in vitro as a substrate of liver-expressed organic cation transporters (OCTs). We investigated the gene expression and protein levels of OCT-1 and OCT-2 in adipose tissue and during adipogenesis and evaluated their possible role in metformin action on adipocytes.
OCT1 and OCT2 gene expressions were analyzed in 118 adipose tissue samples (57 visceral and 61 subcutaneous depots) and during human preadipocyte differentiation. To test the possible role of OCT1 mediating the response of adipocytes to metformin, cotreatments with cimetidine (OCT blocker, 0.5 and 5 mmol/l) and metformin were made on human preadipocytes and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT).
OCT1 gene was expressed in both subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue. In both fat depots, OCT1 gene expression and protein levels were significantly increased in obese subjects. OCT1 gene expression in isolated preadipocytes significantly increased during differentiation in parallel to adipogenic genes. Metformin (5 mmol/l) decreased the expression of lipogenic genes and lipid droplets accumulation while increasing AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation, preventing differentiation of human preadipocytes. Cotreatment with cimetidine restored adipogenesis. Furthermore, metformin decreased IL-6 and MCP-1 gene expression in comparison with differentiated adipocytes. Metformin (0.1 and 1 mmol/l) decreased adipogenic and inflammatory genes in SAT. OCT2 gene expression was not detected in adipose tissue and was very small in isolated preadipocytes, disappearing during adipogenesis.
OCT1 gene expression and protein levels are detectable in adipose tissue. Increased OCT1 gene expression in adipose tissue of obese subjects might contribute to increased metformin action in these subjects.
Caveolin-1 (Cav-1) is a membrane scaffolding protein, which functions to regulate intracellular compartmentalization of various signaling molecules. In the present studies, transgenic mice with a targeted disruption of the Cav-1 gene (Cav-1(-/-)) were used to assess the role of Cav-1 in acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity. Treatment of wild-type mice with acetaminophen (300 mg/kg) resulted in centrilobular hepatic necrosis and increases in serum transaminases. This was correlated with decreased expression of Cav-1 in the liver. Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity was significantly attenuated in Cav-1(-/-) mice, an effect that was independent of acetaminophen metabolism. Acetaminophen administration resulted in increased hepatic expression of the oxidative stress marker, lipocalin 24p3, as well as hemeoxygenase-1, but decreased glutathione and superoxide dismutase-1; no differences were noted between the genotypes suggesting that reduced toxicity in Cav-1(-/-) mice is not due to alterations in antioxidant defense. In wild-type mice, acetaminophen increased mRNA expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-1beta, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), as well as cyclooxygenase-2, while 15-lipoxygenase (15-LOX), which generates anti-inflammatory lipoxins, decreased. Acetaminophen-induced changes in MCP-1 and 15-LOX expression were greater in Cav-1(-/-) mice. Although expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, a potent hepatocyte mitogen, was up-regulated in the liver of Cav-1(-/-) mice after acetaminophen, expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and survivin, markers of cellular proliferation, were delayed, which may reflect the reduced need for tissue repair. Taken together, these data demonstrate that Cav-1 plays a role in promoting inflammation and toxicity during the pathogenesis of acetaminophen-induced injury.
A 2750-g female infant was born at 36 weeks' gestation to a 40-year-old woman treated with clonazepam throughout her pregnancy. The infant developed apnea, cyanosis, and hypotonia within a few hours of birth. The mother's serum clonazepam level at delivery was 32 ng/mL; the cord blood level was 19 ng/mL. The infant had no congenital malformations, evidence of infection, or seizures. Clinical episodes ceased by ten days of age. The woman elected to breastfeed; breast milk clonazepam levels were between 11 and 13 ng/mL. She was discharged with a cardiorespiratory monitor. The authors suggest that infants of mothers receiving this agent during pregnancy or while nursing have serum levels measured. Additionally, these infants should be monitored for central nervous system depression or apnea.
Currently, there are no conclusive results on the efficacy of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) plus lamivudine (LAM) in LAM-resistant patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). The aim of study was to evaluate the efficacy of rescue therapy with ADV plus LAM compared to ADV monotherapy in LAM-resistant CHB patients.
We searched PUBMED, EMBASE, Web of Science, CNKI (National Knowledge Infrastructure), VIP database, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Six eligible trials (442 patients in total) were included and evaluated for methodologic quality and heterogeneity. Greater virological response and lower emergence rate of ADV-associated mutants was observed in ADV plus LAM compared to ADV monotherapy (both P < 0.05). On the contrary, the rate of ALT normalization, HBeAg clearance and seroconversion were all similar between ADV plus LAM and ADV (all P > 0.05). Additionally, adding-on or switch-to ADV was both well tolerated.
The combination of ADV with LAM was superior in inhibiting HBV replication and preventing drug resistance as compared to ADV alone for LAM-resistant CHB patients.
The morphogenesis of anthracycline-induced dilated cardiomyopathy was studied after single sublethal dose of doxorubicin. Cardiomyocyte depopulation (up to 27%) and decrease in their regeneratory plastic reactions were the main mechanisms of cardiac failure development after anthracycline (doxorubicin) treatment, determining the type of heart remodeling by the dilatation variant. Cardiomyocyte elimination and atrophy during the development of anthracycline-induced regeneratory plastic cardiac insufficiency were paralleled by hypertrophy of remaining cardiomyocytes and diffuse and small focal sclerosis of the myocardium, which could be regarded as a correlated compensatory reaction of the connective tissue to the decrease in the number of muscle fibers.
In cases of treatment-resistant schizophrenic psychoses combined application of atypical antipsychotic drugs is an often-used strategy.
We report the case of a 35-year old man with paranoid schizophrenia, whose symptoms turned out to be resistant to the application of olanzapine, risperidone and quetiapine. After switch to clozapine paranoid delusions remitted, but schizophrenic negative symptoms persisted and side effects limited the patient's compliance. Augmentation with ziprasidone allowed a reduction of the clozapine dose and ameliorated the affective deficits.
Positive and negative symptoms were well controlled. In spite of a transient hyperprolactinaemia and sexual dysfunction the patient was highly content.
The combined application of ziprasidone and clozapine follows a neurobiological rationale, seems able to reduce side effects, and should be further evaluated with respect to risk and benefit in prospective studies.
Di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP), the most commonly used plasticizer in flexible polyvinylchloride formulations, is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant. To date, no information exists on the potential health hazards from exposure to DEHP and/or its main metabolite, mono-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (MEHP), in high-risk conditions, such as pregnancy and during the neonatal period. The aim of this study was to evaluate prenatal exposure to DEHP and/or MEHP and its possible biologic effects. We measured serum DEHP and MEHP concentrations in the cord blood of 84 consecutive newborns by high-performance liquid chromatography. Relationships between DEHP/MEHP and infant characteristics were tested using Fisher's exact test, unpaired t-tests, and univariate linear regression analyses, and significant differences on univariate analysis were evaluated using multiple logistic regression analysis. We found detectable cord blood DEHP and/or MEHP concentrations in 88.1% of the samples. Either DEHP or MEHP was present in 65 of 84 (77.4%) of the examined samples. Mean concentrations of DEHP and MEHP were 1.19 +/- 1.15 microg/mL [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.93-1.44, range = 0-4.71] and 0.52 +/- 0.61 microg/mL (95% CI, 0.39-0.66, range = 0-2.94), respectively. MEHP-positive newborns showed a significantly lower gestational age compared with MEHP-negative infants (p = 0.033). Logistic regression analysis results indicated a positive correlation between absence of MEHP in cord blood and gestational age at delivery (odds ratio = 1.50, 95% CI, 1.013-2.21; p = 0.043). These findings confirm that human exposure to DEHP can begin in utero and suggest that phthalate exposure is significantly associated with a shorter pregnancy duration.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the major pro-angiogenic factor for most tumors. VEGF expression has been shown to be associated with a poor prognosis in human pancreatic cancer. The purpose of our study was to determine the effect of blockade of VEGF receptor-2 activity with or without gemcitabine on tumor growth and metastasis in an orthotopic model of human pancreatic cancer in nude mice. Therapy with gemcitabine or DC101, a VEGF receptor-2 antibody, resulted in a significant reduction of primary pancreatic tumor growth compared to untreated controls. The combination of DC101 and gemcitabine inhibited primary pancreatic tumor growth and lymphatic metastasis to a greater degree than either agent alone. Treatment with DC101 decreased vessel counts and increased the area of hypoxic tumor tissue compared to controls. Immunofluorescent double staining for apoptotic endothelial cells demonstrated a significant increase in the number apoptotic endothelial cells 24 days after initiation of therapy with DC101 plus gemcitabine. DC101 plus gemcitabine also increased tumor cell death and decreased tumor cell proliferation in pancreatic tumors. These findings indicate that blockade of VEGF receptor activation interferes with the survival of tumor endothelial cells, resulting in a reduction of primary pancreatic tumor growth in nude mice. Furthermore, the data demonstrate that anti-VEGF receptor-2 therapy potentiates the tumoricidal effect of gemcitabine in this model. Anti-VEGF receptor-2 therapy in combination with gemcitabine may be a novel therapeutic approach for advanced pancreatic cancer.
