The ability of a nicotine vaccine to protect against nicotine-induced seizures was studied in rats. Groups of 10 rats were vaccinated with 3 doses of either a nicotine conjugate vaccine over 6 weeks to elicit high titers of nicotine-specific antibodies or with a control vaccine. Rats were then pretreated with a 1-week subcutaneous infusion of either nicotine 1 mg/kg/day or saline and then received a single 2 mg/kg ip dose of nicotine to provoke seizures. Vaccination reduced the incidence of seizures. The combination of vaccination and pretreatment with nicotine infusion was more effective than either treatment alone. These data suggest that vaccination is protective against this toxic effect of nicotine and that combining vaccination and chronic nicotine administration may provide a novel strategy for blocking some effects of nicotine.
The present study investigated the effect of curcumin on adriamycin (ADR) nephrosis in rats. The results indicate that ADR-induced kidney injury was remarkably prevented by treatment with curcumin. Treatment with curcumin markedly protected against ADR-induced proteinuria, albuminuria, hypoalbuminaemia and hyperlipidaemia. Similarly, curcumin inhibited ADR-induced increase in urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (a marker of renal tubular injury), fibronectin and glycosaminoglycan and plasma cholesterol. Curcumin restored renal function in ADR rats, as judged by the increase in GFR. The data also demonstrated that curcumin protected against ADR-induced renal injury by suppressing oxidative stress and increasing kidney glutathione content and glutathione peroxidase activity. In like manner, curcumin abolished ADR-stimulated kidney microsomal and mitochondrial lipid peroxidation. These data suggest that administration of curcumin is a promising approach in the treatment of nephrosis caused by ADR.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited progressive neurodegenerative disorder resulting from CAG repeat expansion in the gene that encodes for the protein huntingtin. To identify neuroprotective compound (s) that can slow down disease progression and can be administered long term with few side effects in Huntington's disease, we investigated the effect of sertraline, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) which has been shown to upregulate BDNF levels in rodent brains. We report here that in HD mice sertraline increased BDNF levels, preserved chaperone protein HSP70 and Bcl-2 levels in brains, attenuated the progression of brain atrophy and behavioral abnormalities and thereby increased survival. Sertraline also enhanced neurogenesis, which appeared to be responsible for mediating the beneficial effects of sertraline in HD mice. Additionally, the effective levels of sertraline are comparable to the safe levels achievable in humans. The findings suggest that sertraline is a potential candidate for treatment of HD patients.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a well-documented complication of lithium use. The association of central diabetes insipidus (CDI) with lithium use is rare. We report a patient receiving chronic lithium therapy who presented with a transient CDI occurring in the setting of underlying chronic NDI. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of lithium-associated CDI and NDI presenting concurrently. Potential mechanisms regarding the pathophysiology of lithium-associated CDI are discussed. This case emphasizes the importance of the evaluation of lithium-associated polyuria with a direct measurement of plasma vasopressin, interpreted with simultaneous plasma and urine osmolality to secure the correct diagnosis and ensure appropriate therapeutic management.
The objective of the study was to provide a comprehensive evaluation of chromium (Cr) supplementation on metabolic parameters in a cohort of type 2 diabetes mellitus subjects representing a wide phenotype range and to evaluate changes in "responders" and "nonresponders." After preintervention testing to assess glycemia, insulin sensitivity (assessed by euglycemic clamps), Cr status, and body composition, subjects were randomized in a double-blind fashion to placebo or 1000 microg Cr. A substudy was performed to evaluate 24-hour energy balance/substrate oxidation and myocellular/intrahepatic lipid content. There was not a consistent effect of Cr supplementation to improve insulin action across all phenotypes. Insulin sensitivity was negatively correlated to soleus and tibialis muscle intramyocellular lipids and intrahepatic lipid content. Myocellular lipids were significantly lower in subjects randomized to Cr. At preintervention, responders, defined as insulin sensitivity change from baseline of at least 10% or greater, had significantly lower insulin sensitivity and higher fasting glucose and A(1c) when compared with placebo and nonresponders, that is, insulin sensitivity change from baseline of less than 10%. Clinical response was significantly correlated (P < .001) to the baseline insulin sensitivity, fasting glucose, and A(1c). There was no difference in Cr status between responder and nonresponders. Clinical response to Cr is more likely in insulin-resistant subjects who have more elevated fasting glucose and A(1c) levels. Chromium may reduce myocellular lipids and enhance insulin sensitivity in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus who do respond clinically independent of effects on weight or hepatic glucose production. Thus, modulation of lipid metabolism by Cr in peripheral tissues may represent a novel mechanism of action.
The effects of diazepam on cardiovascular function were assessed in conscious rats. Intravenous administration of diazepam (1-30 mg kg-1) produced a dose-dependent decrease in both the mean arterial pressure and the heart rate. Also, reflex bradycardia was produced in rats by intravenous infusion of adrenaline (1.25-2.5 micrograms kg-1). Intravenous pretreatment of the rats with diazepam, although causing no change in the adrenaline-induced pressor effect, did enhance the adrenaline-induced reflex bradycardia. However, the diazepam enhancement of adrenaline-induced reflex bradycardia was antagonized by pretreatment of rats with an intravenous dose of picrotoxin (an agent blocks chloride channels by binding to sites associated with the benzodiazepine-GABA-chloride channel macromolecular complex). The data indicate that diazepam acts through the benzodiazepine-GABA-chloride channel macromolecular complex within the central nervous system to facilitate reflex bradycardia mediated through baroreceptor reflexes in response to an acute increase in arterial pressure.
Quinidine syncope and factors associated with it are well known among adult patients treated for cardiac arrhythmias. To define factors that may influence the occurrence of syncope in children taking quinidine, the clinical, anatomic, electrocardiographic, roentgenographic and pharmacologic data were compared in six patients with syncope (Group A) and 22 patients without syncope (Group B). There was a significant (chi-square = 10.2, p = 0.001) relation between heart disease and quinidine syncope: all six Group A (syncopal) patients had heart disease whereas 15 of the 22 Group B (non-syncopal) patients had no structural heart disease. In contrast, no significant difference was noted between Group A and Group B patients in mean age (11.4 versus 11.4 years), mean quinidine serum concentration (2.9 versus 2.3 micrograms/ml), mean corrected QT interval before quinidine (0.43 versus 0.40 second) or mean corrected QT interval during quinidine therapy (0.46 versus 0.46 second) or between those taking digitalis and those not. Two of the six Group A (syncopal) patients died during therapy, one 6 days after initiating therapy and one suddenly at home 6 months after beginning quinidine. Another two of the six Group A patients exhibited hypokalemia (both 2.9 mEq/liter) at the time of syncope, 2 weeks and 6 months, respectively, after initiation of quinidine therapy; both survived. Syncope occurred within 8 days of initiation of quinidine therapy in three of the six patients. Sustained ventricular tachycardia was observed during quinidine associated arrhythmia in three of six patients with syncope; nonsustained ventricular tachycardia or complex ventricular ectopic activity while on this therapy was observed before syncope in the other three patients in Group A.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Plasma and urinary levels of malondialdehyde-like products (MDA) and isoprostanes were identified as markers of in vivo lipid peroxidation in an animal model of CCl4 poisoning. We sought to determine the extent to which the formation of these oxidation products is influenced by inhibition of the cyclooxygenase enzymes which catalytically generate proinflammatory lipid peroxidation products known as prostaglandins and thromboxane. In the present studies, after induction of oxidant stress in rats with CCl4, lipid peroxidation products measured in plasma and urine demonstrate that isoprostanes and MDA can be partially inhibited by cyclooxygenase inhibitors, albeit to different extents. The lowering of isoprostane and MDA formation, however, may not to due primarily to the diminution of catalytic generation of isoprostanes or MDA by the cyclooxygenases but, rather, may be the result of the suppression of nonenzymatic lipid peroxidation. This is suggested since 8,12-iso-iPF2alpha-VI is also reduced by indomethacin, yet, unlike other isoprostanes and MDA, it is not generated catalytically by the cyclooxygenase. Thus, although the two cyclooxygenase inhibitors we tested have statistically significant effects on the measurements of both isoprostanes and MDA in this study, the results provide evidence that these lipid-degradation products primarily constitute markers of oxidative stress.
Hepatotoxicity, especially liver fibrosis, is the major concern with long-term, 'low-dose' oral methotrexate (MTX) therapy for psoriasis. The histological features are non-specific and resemble those of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Moreover, most of the risk factors of MTX-induced liver injury are also associated with NASH. In this study, we investigate whether NASH contributes to the prevalence and progression of MTX-induced liver injury in patients receiving MTX for psoriasis.
Clinical details, including MTX dosage schedules and risk factors for liver injury, was documented for 24 patients on long-term MTX therapy for psoriasis. Serial liver biopsies were graded according to the Roenigk classification scale and a recently proposed grading and staging system for NASH.
Thirteen of the 17 patients who had a NASH-like pattern of liver injury also had the risk factors for NASH obesity and/or diabetes, and all had progressive liver injury. The other four patients had no risk factors, but a mean cumulative dose of 6.5 g. Seven patients, who did not have a NASH-like pattern of injury, had a mean cumulative dose of 3.8 g. There was a positive correlation between the cumulative dose, risk factors and progression when the biopsies were scored by the modified grading and staging classification for NASH, but not with the Roenigk system.
Non-steatohepatitis, probably aggravated by MTX, is an important cause of liver injury in patients on long-term, 'low-dose' MTX treatment for psoriasis. In addition, MTX alone can cause a NASH-like pattern of injury that is at least, in part, caused by a higher cumulative dose.
Dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) has been implicated as mediating the rewarding effects of stimulant drugs; however, recent studies suggest that 5-HT release may also contribute. In an effort to assess the role of 5-HT in drug-mediated reward, this study analyzed the serotonergic innervation of NAc using immunocytochemistry for 5-HT and the 5-HT transporter (SERT). We report that in control rats the NAc receives two distinct types of 5-HT axons that differ in regional distribution, morphology, and SERT expression. Most regions of the NAc are innervated by thin 5-HT axons that express SERT, but in the caudal NAc shell nearly all 5-HT axons lack SERT and have large spherical varicosities. Two weeks after methamphetamine or p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) treatment, most 5-HT axons in dorsal striatum and NAc have degenerated; however, the varicose axons in the shell appear intact. These drug-resistant 5-HT axons that lack SERT densely innervate the caudal one-third of the accumbens shell, the same location where dopamine axons are spared after methamphetamine. Moreover, 4 hr after PCA, the varicose axons in the caudal shell retain prominent stores of 5-HT, whereas 5-HT axons in the rest of the NAc are depleted of neurotransmitter. The results demonstrate that two functionally different 5-HT projections innervate separate regions of the NAc and that selective vulnerability to amphetamines may result from differential expression of SERT. We postulate that action potentials conducted from the raphe nuclei can release 5-HT throughout the NAc, whereas transporter-mediated release induced by stimulant drugs is more restricted and unlikely to occur in the caudal NAc shell.
Intranasal exposure to cadmium has been related to olfactory dysfunction in humans and to nasal epithelial damage and altered odorant-guided behavior in rodent models. The pathophysiology underlying these deficits has not been fully elucidated. Here we use optical imaging techniques to visualize odorant-evoked neurotransmitter release from the olfactory nerve into the brain's olfactory bulbs in vivo in mice. Intranasal cadmium chloride instillations reduced this sensory activity by up to 91% in a dose-dependent manner. In the olfactory bulbs, afferents from the olfactory epithelium could be quantified by their expression of a genetically encoded fluorescent marker for olfactory marker protein. At the highest dose tested, cadmium exposure reduced the density of these projections by 20%. In a behavioral psychophysical task, mice were trained to sample from an odor port and make a response when they detected an odorant against a background of room air. After intranasal cadmium exposure, mice were unable to detect the target odor. These experiments serve as proof of concept for a new approach to the study of the neural effects of inhaled toxicants. The use of in vivo functional imaging of the neuronal populations exposed to the toxicant permits the direct observation of primary pathophysiology. In this study optical imaging revealed significant reductions in odorant-evoked release from the olfactory nerve at a cadmium chloride dose two orders of magnitude less than that required to induce morphological changes in the nerve in the same animals, demonstrating that it is a more sensitive technique for assessing the consequences of intranasal neurotoxicant exposure. This approach is potentially useful in exploring the effects of any putative neurotoxicant that can be delivered intranasally.
Telomeres protect the chromosome ends and consist of guanine-rich repeats coated by specialized proteins. Critically short telomeres are associated with disease, aging and cancer. Defects in telomere replication can lead to telomere loss, which can be prevented by telomerase-mediated telomere elongation or activities of the Werner syndrome helicase/exonuclease protein (WRN). Both telomerase and WRN attenuate cytotoxicity induced by the environmental carcinogen hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)), which promotes replication stress and DNA polymerase arrest. However, it is not known whether Cr(VI)-induced replication stress impacts telomere integrity. Here we report that Cr(VI) exposure of human fibroblasts induced telomeric damage as indicated by phosphorylated H2AX (gammaH2AX) at telomeric foci. The induced gammaH2AX foci occurred in S-phase cells, which is indicative of replication fork stalling or collapse. Telomere fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of metaphase chromosomes revealed that Cr(VI) exposure induced an increase in telomere loss and sister chromatid fusions that were rescued by telomerase activity. Human cells depleted for WRN protein exhibited a delayed reduction in telomeric and non-telomeric damage, indicated by gammaH2AX foci, during recovery from Cr(VI) exposure, consistent with WRN roles in repairing damaged replication forks. Telomere FISH of chromosome spreads revealed that WRN protects against Cr(VI)-induced telomere loss and downstream chromosome fusions, but does not prevent chromosome fusions that retain telomere sequence at the fusion point. Our studies indicate that environmentally induced replication stress leads to telomere loss and aberrations that are suppressed by telomerase-mediated telomere elongation or WRN functions in replication fork restoration.
The influence of seizures on phosphoinositide hydrolysis and protein kinase C activity was measured in rat hippocampus and cerebral cortex, primarily using a model in which generalized convulsive status epilepticus was induced by administration of LiCl (3 mmole/kg) 20 hr prior to pilocarpine (30 mg/kg). A short (5 min) period of seizures reduced phosphoinositide hydrolysis in hippocampal slices stimulated by norepinephrine or ibotenate, but did not alter the responses to carbachol, 50 mM K+, or NaF. Induction of seizures with diisopropylfluorophosphate caused a similar reduction in the response to norepinephrine without altering carbachol-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis. The inhibition of norepinephrine-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis after seizures generated by lithium plus pilocarpine administration was apparently not due to inhibitory influences of quisqualate or activation of protein kinase C since both of these treatments caused similar inhibitions in slices from control and treated rats. Seizures induced by lithium plus pilocarpine or by kainate did not alter the activity of protein kinase C or the distribution of protein kinase C between membrane and cytosolic fractions. Thus, seizures cause a neurotransmitter-selective impairment of phosphoinositide hydrolysis, and this response may play a role in the severity or duration of seizure activity.
Nineteen inbred mouse strains were tested for their relative sensitivity to nicotine's effects on respiratory rate, acoustic startle response, heart rate, Y-maze activity (crosses and rears) and body temperature. Separate animals were tested for their sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures following IP injection or IV infusion. Dose-response curves were constructed for each measure. Large strain differences were obtained for all of these measures. Nicotine's effects on heart rate, Y-maze activity and body temperature segregated together into the various mouse strains whereas seizure sensitivity segregated independently which suggests that these responses are under separate genetic control. Evidence was obtained which suggests that nicotine-induced seizures are regulated, in part, by the number of hippocampal nicotinic receptors measured with alpha-bungarotoxin (BTX). Strain differences in the development of tolerance to nicotine were also observed. Four mouse strains were tested and one of these strains (C3H) did not exhibit tolerance to nicotine. The binding of (3H)nicotine and (125I)BTX increased in the brains of all four mouse strains. These changes may relate to tolerance in some mouse strains, but since C3H mice did not exhibit tolerance even though brain nicotinic receptors changed following chronic treatment, other explanations for the role of receptor changes in tolerance to nicotine must be sought.
The effects of standardized and concentrated extract of Ginkgo biloba, Egb 761, were studied on estrogen deficiency-induced bone loss in ovariectomized (OVx) rats rendered osteopenic. Upon osteopenia development, Egb 761 was administered at a dose of 100mgkg(?1)day(?1) by oral gavage to OVx rats whereas control group received vehicle. Following 5 weeks of treatment, the OVx+Egb 761 group (n=12) of rats exhibited significantly higher whole body BMD and lower bone turnover markers (serum alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin) than OVx rats that were given vehicle (n=12). BMD levels in excised bones were also found to be higher in both trabecular (most robustly in lumbar vertebrae) and cortical bones of OVx+Egb 761 compared with OVx+vehicle group. Egb 761 did not exhibit estrogen agonistic activity at the uterine level. Microcomputed tomography demonstrated that OVx+Egb 761 group had better bone microarchitectural parameters compared with OVx+vehicle group. Moreover, OVx+Egb 761 group had higher femoral mRNA levels of osterix, type I collagen and osteocalcin compared with OVx+vehicle group. Determination of levels of three flavonoids of Egb 761, that are known to have bone conserving property, in serum and bone marrow suggests that kaempferol and quercetin, and not rutin, likely mediate the beneficial actions observed with Egb 761 treatment. These results show for the first time that oral administration of Egb 761 restores bone mass in aged OVx rats.
Liposomes can serve as a sustained-release carrier system, permitting the spinal delivery of large opioid doses restricting the dose for acute systemic uptake. We evaluated the antinociceptive effects of morphine encapsulated in liposomes of two isomeric phospholipids, L-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline (L-DPPC) and D-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline (D-DPPC), in comparison with morphine in saline. Sprague-Dawley rats with chronic lumbar intrathecal catheters were tested for their acute nociceptive response using a hindpaw thermal escape test. Their general behavior, motor function, pinna reflex, and corneal reflex were also examined. The duration of antinociception was longer in both liposomal morphine groups than in the free morphine group. The peak antinociceptive effects were observed within 30 min after intrathecal morphine, L-DPPC or D-DPPC morphine injection. The rank order of the area under the effect-time curve for antinociception was L-DPPC morphine > D-DPPC morphine > morphine. The 50% effective dose was: 2.7 microg (morphine), 4.6 microg (L-DPPC morphine), and 6.4 microg (D-DPPC morphine). D-DPPC morphine had less side effects for a given antinociceptive AUC than morphine. In conclusion, L-DPPC and D-DPPC liposome encapsulation of morphine prolonged the antinociceptive effect on acute thermal stimulation and could decrease side effects, compared with morphine alone.
Two isomers of liposome (L-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline and D-dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline) encapsulation of morphine prolonged the analgesic effect on acute thermal-induced pain when administered intrathecally and could decrease side effects, compared with morphine alone.
This study examines the effect of spinal ibuprofen on the behavioral manifestations associated with the opioid abstinence syndrome. Rats (n = 8 per group) were infused for 5 days with morphine and then pretreated with a spinal bolus dose of ibuprofen before systemic naloxone antagonism (300 microg). Groups included ibuprofen S(+) 1. 36, 13.6, and 136 nmol, and ibuprofen R(-) 136 nmol. A separate group of saline-infused rats was given ibuprofen S(+) 136 nmol before naloxone antagonism. Ibuprofen S(+), but not R(-), dose-dependently and stereospecifically blocked opioid withdrawal hyperalgesia but did not significantly alter other signs of the opioid abstinence syndrome. We conclude that hyperalgesia associated with opioid withdrawal can be blocked by spinally administered ibuprofen, and suggest that there may be a role for spinal prostaglandins in the enhancement of nociception observed in association with the opioid abstinence syndrome.
This study shows that spinal ibuprofen blocks opioid withdrawal hyperalgesia in the rat in a stereospecific fashion, implicating the likely release of spinal prostaglandins during withdrawal and their possible role as neuromodulators in the enhancement of nociception that accompanies this phenomenon.
Phaleria macrocarpa, also known as Mahkota dewa, is an Indonesian native plant that has been used as a remedy for many diseases. However, the molecular mechanism of Phaleria macrocarpa is still limited. In this study, we evaluate its molecular mechanism using a bioactivity-guided DLBS1425, an extract of Phaleria macrocarpa on MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line. DLBS1425 exhibited inhibition of proliferative, migratory and invasive potential of MDA-MB-231 in a dose-dependent manner, and significantly reduced phosphoinositide-3 (PI3)-kinase/protein kinase B (AKT) signalling by reducing PI3K transcript level and subsequent reduction in AKT phosphorylation. Further, it induced pro-apoptotic genes including BAX, BAD and PUMA and consequently induces cellular death signal by caspase-9 activation, promoting PARP cleavage and DNA fragmentation. Our results suggest that DLBS1425 is a potential anticancer agent which targets genes involved in both cell survival and apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells.
To study the psychedelic effects in healthy volunteers when given subanesthetic dose of ketamine.
Thirteen male healthy volunteers aged 24-39 years were enrolled. All subjects received subanesthetic doses of ketamine using target control infusion. A stepwise series of target plasma concentrations (0, 100, 200, and 300 ng/ml) were maintained for 20 minutes each. Visual analogue scale (VAS) of mechanical pain by von Frey hair was evaluated, and then the volunteers completed a VAS rating of 13 symptom scales. Pictures were shown to them at the same time. Heart rate, mean blood pressure, and SpO2 were monitored throughout the infusion.
During the process of analgesia, ketamine produced dose-related analgesic effects. With the increase of ketamine dose, some psychedelic effects became more obvious and the memory impairment became worse stepwisely.
Target control infusion of subanesthetic doses of ketamine produce obvious psychedelic effects in healthy volunteers.
1. Adriamycin, a commonly used antineoplastic antibiotic, induces glomerular lesions in rats, resulting in persistent proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis. 2. The effect of urine volume on the progression of adriamycin-induced nephropathy was studied in 70 male Wistar rats (180-200 g) observed for 30 weeks and separated into 4 groups: healthy control group (HCG, N = 10) inoculated i.v. with 1 ml of saline, and nephrotic groups inoculated iv with a single dose of adriamycin of 3 mg/kg body weight. The nephrotic rats were separated into 3 groups (N = 20): nephrotic control group (NCG) receiving only adriamycin; dehydrated nephrotic group (DNG) water deprived for 36 h within each 48-h period, and furosemide nephrotic group (FNG) treated with 12 mg/dl furosemide, and 0.9 g/dl NaCl in the drinking water. 3. The 30-week survival rates of the DNG (100%) and HCG (100%) were significantly higher than those of the NCG (85%) and FNG (55%). 4. The proteinuria observed in the HCG (range, 7.38 +/- 0.7 to 13.6 +/- 1.27 mg/24 h) was significantly lower than that observed for all the nephrotic groups throughout the experiment. The DNG presented significantly less proteinuria (range, 42.71 +/- 6.83 to 140.10 +/- 19.22 mg/24 h) than the NCG (range, 35.32 +/- 7.64 to 250.00 +/- 25.91 mg/24 h) from week 10 on. There was no significant difference between the mean 24-h proteinuria of the NCG (range, 35.32 +/- 7.64 to 250.00 +/- 25.91 mg/24 h) and the FNG (range, 35.82 +/- 7.91 to 221.54 +/- 26.74). 5. The mean frequency of damaged glomeruli was 0.3% +/- 0.3 for HCG, 42% +/- 6% for CNG, 40.8% +/- 8% for DNG, and 47% +/- 14% for FNG. The median value of the tubulointerstitial lesion, evaluated by a semiquantitative method, was 0 in HCG, 10 in CNG, 8.5 in DNG and 9.5 in FNG (P < 0.05 for all groups compared to HCG). 6. The data indicate that reduction of urine volume has a protective effect on adriamycin-induced nephropathy.
Clonidine and oxymetazoline (4.0 microgram/kg i.v. or i.a.) evoked a marked bradycardia in either methylatropine-pretreated conscious or pentobarbital-anesthetized (55 mg/kg i.p.), vagotomized rats. Urethane (1.2 g/kg i.p.) inhibited by more than 50% this effect which is mediated through the stimulation of peripheral and/or central neuronal alpha-2 adrenoceptors. However, in adrenalectomized rats only the inhibition of oxymetazoline by urethane was significantly less pronounced. In pithed rats in which the adrenal glands were either left untouched or surgically removed, urethane significantly attenuated the clonidine or oxymetazoline-induced decreases in experimental neural sympathetic tachycardia although it neither changed the base-line nor the experimentally elevated heart rate. Urethane, in contrast to pentobarbital, increased plasma epinephrine concentrations in intact but not in adrenalectomized or in pithed rats. Elevation of plasma epinephrine did not result from the low arterial pressure level associated with urethane anesthesia since the increase of this parameter with vasopressin did not abolish the effect of urethane. Furthermore, guanethidine-pretreated rats, when anesthetized with urethane, exhibited a higher heart rate and plasma adrenaline value than those anesthetized with pentobarbital. The elevated heart rate was decreased by either propranolol or adrenalectomy. The bradycardia produced by injecting clonidine into the lateral cerebral ventricles of either intact or adrenalectomized rats was markedly less in urethane- than in pentobarbital-anesthetized animals. Whereas in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats the peak heart rate effects of i.v. or i.c.v. clonidine were similar, in urethane-anesthetized animals the effects of clonidine were more inhibited when it was given centrally than when it was given peripherally. In pithed rats, the cumulative dose-pressor response curves elicited by the relatively selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists, B-HT 930 and M-7, were depressed by urethane significantly more than those produced by the relatively selective alpha-1 adrenoceptor agonists, phenylephrine and cirazoline, or by angiotensin II. Urethane also decreased the pressor responses evoked by clonidine, oxymetazoline and norepinephrine which stimulate both alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenoceptors. However, the extent of this inhibition was less than that of B-HT 920 and M-7 but greater than that of cirazoline and phenylephrine. These results show that urethane inhibits cardiovascular responses that are mediated by peripheral and central alpha-2 adrenoceptors. Furthermore, urethane increases the central drive to the adrenal medulla and this leads to the secretion of epinephrine. This may be partly responsible for the inhibitory activity of urethane on oxymetazoline-induced bradycardia. Although the basic mechanism by which urethane impairs responses mediated by alpha-2 adrenoceptors remains to be determined, it is advised that urethane anesthesia should be avoided, particularly for cardiovascular studies.
Although recent studies have demonstrated prenatal nicotine can increase cardiovascular risk in the offspring, it is unknown whether exposure to nicotine during pregnancy also may be a risk for development of arrhythmia in the offspring. In addition, in previous studies of fetal arrhythmia affected by smoking, only two patterns, bradycardia and tachycardia, were observed. The present study examined acute effects of maternal nicotine on the fetal arrhythmia in utero, and chronic influence on offspring arrhythmia at adult stage following prenatal exposure to nicotine. Nicotine was administered to pregnant ewes and rats. In the fetal sheep, intravenous nicotine not only induced changes of fetal heart rate, but also caused cardiac cycle irregularity, single and multiple dropped cardiac cycles. Although maternal nicotine had no influence on fetal blood pH, lactic acid, hemocrit, Na(+), K(+) levels and plasma osmolality, fetal blood PO(2) levels were significantly decreased following maternal nicotine in ewes. In offspring rats at 4-5 months after birth, prenatal exposure to nicotine significantly increased heart rate and premature ventricular contraction in restraint stress. In addition, arrhythmias induced by injection of nicotine were higher in the offspring prenatal exposure to nicotine in utero. The results provide new evidence that exposure to nicotine in pregnancy can cause fetal arrhythmia in various patterns besides tachycardia and bradycardia, the possible mechanisms for nicotine-induced fetal arrhythmia included in utero hypoxia. Importantly, following exposure to nicotine significantly increased risk of arrhythmia in the adult offspring. The finding offers new insight for development of cardiac rhythm problems in fetal origins.
The aim of the study was to evaluate and compare incidence and risk factors of left ventricular dysfunction (LVD) in early breast cancer patients receiving (E+) or not (E-) epirubicin-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
Among eight FASG trials, 3577 assessable patients were analyzed retrospectively: 2553 received epirubicin, 662 received hormonotherapy alone and 362 had no systemic treatment. Chemotherapy was FEC regimen in 86% of cases (fluorouracil, epirubicin, cyclophosphamide). Epirubicin cumulative dose was < 300 mg/m2 in 1040 patients, 300-600 in 1155, > or = 600 in 279, followed by radiotherapy in 96% of cases.
Twenty delayed LVD occurred: two in E- patients and 18 in E+ patients. In E+ patients, 14 patients normalized their cardiac function or did not require further investigations, one patient was stabilized with specific treatment, two patients worsened their functions and one died of congestive heart failure. The 7-year risk of LVD was 1.36% (95% CI 0.85-1.87) in E+ patients and 0.21% (95%CI: 0.00-0.52) in E- patients (P = 0.004). Two significant risk factors were identified: age > or = 65 years and body mass index > 27 kg/m2.
After a long-term follow-up, epirubicin-related LVD risk was acceptable (1.36%) with one toxic death (0.04%). In 78% of cases, LVD were transient or well controlled.
To investigate the association between osteoprotegerin (OPG), receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB (RANK), and RANK ligand (RANKL) gene polymorphisms and circulating OPG, soluble RANKL (sRANKL) levels, and bone mineral density (BMD) in Korean postmenopausal women.
The OPG gene A163G, G209A, T245G, and G1181C polymorphisms, the RANK gene C421T and C575T polymorphisms, and the RANKL rs12721445 and rs2277438 polymorphisms were analyzed in 385 Korean postmenopausal women. Levels of serum OPG, soluble RANKL, osteocalcin, C-telopeptide of type I collagen, parathyroid hormone, calcium, and phosphorus and BMD at the lumbar spine and femoral neck were measured.
The A163G, G209A, and T245G polymorphisms in the OPG gene were in complete linkage. The RANK C421T and C575T polymorphisms and the RANKL rs12711445 polymorphism were not observed. An association with BMD was found only for the OPG G1181C polymorphism, and BMD at the lumbar spine in women with the CC genotype was significantly higher than in women with the GC or GG genotype, with a C allele dose effect. In itself, the RANKL rs2277438 polymorphism was not related to BMD, but by combining the RANKL genotypes with the GC genotypes of the OPG G1181C polymorphism, the association with BMD at the lumbar spine became significant. No significant differences in the levels of any biochemical marker among genotypes of these polymorphisms were found.
The OPG gene G1181C polymorphism, alone and in combination with the RANKL rs2277438 polymorphism, was identified as a genetic factor associated with BMD of the lumbar spine in Korean women.
