We compared the efficacy and safety of amiodarone and dronedarone in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation (AF).
Five hundred and four amiodarone-naïve patients were randomized to receive dronedarone 400 mg bid (n = 249) or amiodarone 600 mg qd for 28 days then 200 mg qd (n = 255) for at least 6 months. Primary composite endpoint was recurrence of AF (including unsuccessful electrical cardioversion, no spontaneous conversion and no electrical cardioversion) or premature study discontinuation. Main safety endpoint (MSE) was occurrence of thyroid-, hepatic-, pulmonary-, neurologic-, skin-, eye-, or gastrointestinal-specific events, or premature study drug discontinuation following an adverse event.
Median treatment duration was 7 months. The primary composite endpoint was 75.1 and 58.8% with dronedarone and amiodarone, respectively, at 12 months (hazard ratio [HR] 1.59; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.28-1.98; P < 0.0001), mainly driven by AF recurrence with dronedarone compared with amiodarone (63.5 vs 42.0%). AF recurrence after successful cardioversion was 36.5 and 24.3% with dronedarone and amiodarone, respectively. Premature drug discontinuation tended to be less frequent with dronedarone (10.4 vs 13.3%). MSE was 39.3 and 44.5% with dronedarone and amiodarone, respectively, at 12 months (HR = 0.80; 95% CI 0.60-1.07; P = 0.129), and mainly driven by fewer thyroid, neurologic, skin, and ocular events in the dronedarone group.
In this short-term study, dronedarone was less effective than amiodarone in decreasing AF recurrence, but had a better safety profile, specifically with regard to thyroid and neurologic events and a lack of interaction with oral anticoagulants.
We have previously demonstrated that full-length heparin stimulates the synthesis and secretion of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) through an amyloidogenic pathway in neuroblastoma cells. In the present study, heparin was chemically depolymerized, and the effect of low-molecular-weight (LMW) heparin on APP secretion was investigated. In contrast to full-length heparin, LMW heparin had no significant effect on APP secretion. However, LMW heparin fragments, especially heparin disaccharides, were able to inhibit efficiently the stimulatory effect of heparin on APP secretion. LMW heparin derivatives also inhibit the binding of heparin to the beta-amyloid peptide (1-28). Using an in vitro model, we further demonstrated the passage of LMW heparin derivatives through the blood-brain barrier. This study suggests that LMW heparin derivatives or analogues may be effective as therapeutic agents to prevent or slow the process of amyloidogenesis in Alzheimer's disease.
Thrombolytic agents are routinely given to patients with acute myocardial infarction, often in combination with heparin. Genitourinary hemorrhage is an uncommon adverse effect of systemic thrombolysis, and acute azotemic complications are distinctly rare. We describe a case of genitourinary hemorrhage after combined thrombolytic and antithrombotic therapy leading to acute bilateral ureteral obstruction and then briefly review renal complications of systemic thrombolysis.
Mid-trimester therapeutic abortion is performed routinely in several clinics by using a combination of intra-amniotic instillation of prostaglandin F2 alpha, followed by intravenous infusion of oxytocin in 5% glucose. In doses as low as 10 mU/min, oxytocin has an antidiuretic action. Two cases of grand mal-like seizure in connection with this procedure of therapeutic abortion are reported and the background discussed.
The cases of 2 women undergoing induced abortions in the 16th week of gestation who developed hyponatremia and grand mal-like seizures during administration of oxytocin are described. The women, aged 22 and 16, received 50 mg synthetic prostaglandin F2alpha (PGF2alpha), Amoglandin, intraamniotically, as well as intravenous infusions of 5% glucose with synthetic oxytocin, Syntocinon, 100 I.U./1000 ml. 25 and 26 hours later the 2 patients had typical grand mal-like seizures followed by postictal sleep. The patients had received total doses of 400 and 200 I.U. of oxytocin. The oxytocin infusions were stopped and .9% NaC1 solution was administered intravenously. Both patients were discharged fully recovered after 4 days. Synthetic oxytocin is known to have a dose-dependent antidiuretic effect during intravenous infusion, even in doses as low as 10 mU/minute. The routine use of oxytocin for midtrimester abortion was discontinued by the authors after the cases occurred.
To find a better index for detecting myocardial lesion in patients with acute ammonia poisoning.
Cardiac troponin T (cTnT), creatine kinase (CK), creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme (CK-MB), and electrocardiogram (ECG) were determined and compared in patients with acute ammonia poisoning and healthy controls.
In severe ammonia poisoning patients, the levels of cTnT [(1.285 +/- 2.650) micro g/L], CK [(257.636 +/- 362.719) IU/L], CK-MB [(20.909 +/- 19.770) IU/L] were significantly higher than those in healthy control [(0.035 +/- 0.014) micro g/L, (82.050 +/- 36.302) IU/L, (8.350 +/- 2.455) IU/L respectively, P < 0.05]. The levels of cTnT, CK and CK-MB in mild ammonia poisoning patients [(0.039 +/- 0.016) micro g/L, (78.200 +/- 28.401) IU/L and (8.467 +/- 2.669) IU/L respectively], and moderate ammonia poisoning patients [(0.054 +/- 0.043) micro g/L, (99.786 +/- 71.941) IU/L and (9.429 +/- 3.857) IU/L were not significantly different from those of healthy controls (P > 0.05)]. cTnT positive detection rate (68.2%) was significantly higher than CK (36.4%), CK-MB (31.2%) and ECG (31.2%) (P < 0.05).
cTnT is a better index to detect myocardial lesion in severe ammonia poisoning.
The diencephalon is the caudal part of the forebrain and is organized into easily identifiable clusters of neurons called nuclei. Neurons in different nuclei project to discrete brain regions. Thus precise organization of the nuclei during forebrain development is necessary to build accurate neural circuits. How diencephalic development is regulated is poorly understood. BMP signaling participates in central nervous system patterning and development at many levels along the neural axis. Based on their expression we hypothesized BMPs play a role in diencephalic development. To test this hypothesis, we electroporated constitutively active and dominant negative forms of type I BMP receptors (Bmpr1a and Bmpr1b) into the embryonic chick forebrain. Ectopic induction of BMP signaling through constitutively active forms of the type I BMP receptors perturbs the normal gene expression patterns in the diencephalon and increases apoptotic cell death. These defects lead to disorganization of the diencephalic nuclei, suggesting BMP signaling is sufficient to modify diencephalic development. Loss-of-function studies, using dominant negative forms of Bmpr1a and Bmpr1b, indicate type I BMP receptors are necessary for normal eye and craniofacial development. However, they do not appear to be required for normal diencephalic development. In summary, our data indicate that while not necessary, BMP signaling via Bmpr1a and Bmpr1b, is sufficient to modify nuclear organization in the chick diencephalon.
Losartan, an AT1 angiotensin II (ANG II) receptor non-peptide antagonist, induces an increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP) when injected intracerebroventricularly (icv) into rats. The present study investigated possible effector mechanisms of the increase in MAP induced by icv losartan in unanesthetized rats. Male Holtzman rats (280-300 g, N = 6/group) with a cannula implanted into the anterior ventral third ventricle received an icv injection of losartan (90 micro g/2 micro l) that induced a typical peak pressor response within 5 min. In one group of animals, this response to icv losartan was completely reduced from 18 +/- 1 to 4 +/- 2 mmHg by intravenous (iv) injection of losartan (2.5-10 mg/kg), and in another group, it was partially reduced from 18 +/- 3 to 11 +/- 2 mmHg by iv prazosin (0.1-1.0 mg/kg), an alpha1-adrenergic antagonist (P<0.05). Captopril (10 mg/kg), a converting enzyme inhibitor, injected iv in a third group inhibited the pressor response to icv losartan from 24 +/- 3 to 7 +/- 2 mmHg (P<0.05). Propranolol (10 mg/kg), a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, injected iv in a fourth group did not alter the pressor response to icv losartan. Plasma renin activity and serum angiotensin-converting enzyme activity were not altered by icv losartan in other animals. The results suggest that the pressor effect of icv losartan depends on angiotensinergic and alpha1-adrenoceptor activation, but not on increased circulating ANG II.
The basolateral amygdala complex has been implicated in the formation and utilization of cocaine-cue associations in rat models of cue-induced reinstatement to cocaine-seeking behavior. We have previously demonstrated the importance of dopamine inputs to the basolateral amygdala complex in the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior following chronic cocaine self-administration. Here we show that selective blockade of amygdalar dopamine D1 and D2 receptors during acquisition of cocaine-cue associations has distinctive effects on subsequent conditioned-cued cocaine-seeking behavior. Male, Sprague-Dawley rats were first trained to self-administer i.v. cocaine on a fixed ratio 1 schedule for 5 days. Subjects then received bilateral, intra-basolateral amygdala complex infusions of a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist (SCH23390, 0.25-2.0 microg/side; experiment 1), a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (raclopride, 0.625-5.0 microg/side; experiment 2), or vehicle just prior to a single classical conditioning session, during which a light+tone cue was discretely paired with passive infusions of cocaine in the absence of lever responding. Following five additional days of cocaine self-administration and 7-10 days of extinction training, animals underwent multiple tests for cue-induced reinstatement. SCH23390 (2.0 microg/side), administered at the time of cocaine-cue association only, produced an attenuation of reinstatement to cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior. In contrast, low doses of raclopride potentiated, while a higher dose of raclopride attenuated cue-induced reinstatement. These results demonstrate unique contributions of D1 vs. D2 receptors in mediating dopamine inputs within the basolateral amygdala complex during the formation of cocaine-stimulus associations that are critical for cue-induced reinstatement.
Orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N), the endogenous ligand of the opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptor, blocks cocaine sensitization in rats. In this study, we tested whether OFQ/N would block sensitization to the motor stimulatory and conditioned rewarding actions of cocaine in mice. We also examined whether OFQ/N, given to cocaine-sensitized mice, would reverse the sensitized response and whether it would prevent the amplified sensitized response induced by a second cocaine-sensitizing regimen in sensitized mice.
ORL1 knockout and wild-type mice were treated with saline or OFQ/N before saline or cocaine on Days 1-3 and tested for sensitization on Day 8. Additionally, wild-type mice were treated similarly but tested for the conditioned rewarding action of cocaine, in which mice were tested for place preference before and after single conditioning with cocaine. Furthermore, mice were rendered sensitized, treated with saline or OFQ/N before saline or cocaine on Days 13-15, and received cocaine on Day 20 to test whether OFQ/N would reverse sensitization or block the amplified sensitized response induced by a second cocaine-sensitizing regimen in sensitized mice.
OFQ/N blocked cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization in wild-type but not knockout mice. It also blocked sensitization to the conditioned rewarding action of cocaine and reversed a preexisting locomotor sensitized response. Furthermore, OFQ/N prevented the amplified sensitized response that developed following a second cocaine sensitizing regimen given to sensitized mice.
These results illustrate that OFQ/N not only blocks but also reverses maladaptive behavioral changes induced by repeated cocaine treatment in mice.
We report three cases of women with breast cancer who developed renal impairment following treatment with high-dose ifosfamide. All the women underwent renal biopsy, which demonstrated severe interstitial damage with tubular changes by light and electron microscopy. Although reversible acute tubular dysfunction is well recognised with ifosfamide therapy, the long-term outcome of ifosfamide-induced renal injury remains unclear. The results of the current study suggest that ifosfamide can cause severe irreversible renal tubulointerstitial injury and should be used with caution even when there is initially normal renal function.
1) To determine the proportions of patients with visceral leishmaniasis who had various treatment outcomes when cared for under wartime conditions and with limited resources and 2) to identify patient characteristics associated with the outcomes.
Cohort study.
Médecins sans Frontières-Holland's treatment center in Duar, Western Upper Nile Province, an area in southern Sudan that has been severely affected by Sudan's civil war and a massive epidemic of visceral leishmaniasis.
3076 consecutive patients who had visceral leishmaniasis, were admitted to the treatment center the first year the center was operational (August 1990 to July 1991), and were treated with the pentavalent antimonial compound sodium stibogluconate.
Patient characteristics on admission and four mutually exclusive treatment outcomes (default during first admission, death during first admission, discharge and readmission for retreatment [relapse], and discharge and no readmission for retreatment [successful treatment]).
The patients had a median age of 15 years and were notably anemic (median hemoglobin level, 77g/L) and malnourished (median body mass index of adults [> or = 18 years of age], 15.2 kg/m2); most (91.0%) had been sick less than 5 months. Although patients could not be monitored after treatment to document cure, most (2562 [83.3%]) were successfully treated; 336 (10.9%) died during their first admission, and 79 are known to have relapsed (3.0% of those discharged alive [that is, those whose final treatment outcome was successful treatment or relapse]). In univariable analysis, young and older age (<5 or > or = 45 years of age), long duration of illness (> or = 5 months), markedly low hemoglobin level or body mass index, large spleen, high parasite density, and vomiting at least once during the treatment course were associated with death. In multiple logistic regression analysis of data for a subgroup of 1207 adults (those who did not default or relapse and for whom data were recorded on age, sex, duration of illness, hemoglobin level, body mass index, and spleen size), the approximate risk ratios for death were 2.2 (95% Cl, 1.4 to 3.6) for those with a long duration of illness, 3.6 (Cl, 2.1 to 5.9) for those 45 years of age or older, 4.6 (Cl, 2.2 to 9.4) for those with a hemoglobin level less than 60 g/L, and 12.2 (Cl, 3.2 to 47.2) for those with a body mass index less than 12.2 kg/m2. CONCLUSION; Despite the severe debility of the patients and the exceptionally difficult circumstances under which they were treated, most fared remarkably well.
Expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), proteolytic enzymes that degrade extracellular proteins, is altered after ischemia/reperfusion injury and may contribute to blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown. Neutrophils, a source of reactive oxygen species and MMP-9, infiltrate damaged tissue 6 to 24 hours after ischemia and have also been implicated in delayed secondary tissue damage. Here we examined the spatial-temporal relation between MMP-9 expression and neutrophil infiltration after stroke.
Knockout mice containing 50% manganese superoxide dismutase activity (SOD2-KOs), which are more susceptible to ischemic damage than wild-type (WT) littermates, underwent quantitative antigen (MMP-9, myeloperoxidase) immunohistochemistry (24 and 72 hours) analysis and protein expression by Western blotting (6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours) after transient focal cerebral ischemia. BBB breakdown was determined by Evans blue extravasation.
There was a clear spatial relation between MMP-9 expression and Evans blue extravasation. MMP-9-positive cell and vessel counts for SOD2-KOs (72 hours) were significantly different from SOD2-KO (24 hours, P=0.004), WT (24 hours, P=0.01), and WT (72 hours, P=0.007) mice. In contrast, MMP-9-positive neutrophil counts were comparatively low and did not differ by time or animal type. MMP-9 expression was biphasic in SOD2-KOs but not in WT littermates, with a significant increase observed 6 to 12 hours after ischemic insult and again at 48 to 72 hours. SOD2-KOs showed increased MMP-9 expression compared with WT littermates at all time points studied (P< or =0.05).
In this model, neutrophils are not the primary source of MMP-9 protein and thus are unlikely the key contributor to BBB breakdown observed in SOD2-KOs.
To evaluate the efficacy of treatment with allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for benzene-induced severe aplastic anemia.
HLA-compatible sibling (pregnancy) allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (Allo-PBSCT) was successfully performed for a patient with severe aplastic anemia caused by benzene poisoning. 9.41 x 10(8) nucleated cells/kg, 12.49 x 10(6) CD(34) positive cells/kg and CFU-GM 8.2 x 10(5)/kg were infused. The patient was treated with cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg), total body radiation (8 Gy) and anti-lymphocyte globulin (60 mg/kg) before transplantation. Donor buffy coat cells (9.02 x 10(8) nucleated cells/kg, 10.62 x 10(6) CD(34) positive cells/kg, 6.3 x 10(5) CFU-GM/kg) were infused again on day 18 after transplantation to prevent from graft failure. Graft versus host disease prophylaxis consisted of both methotrexate and cyclosporin A.
The lowest ANC was 0, the lowest platelet was 3 x 10(9)/L after transplantation. The patient achieved an ANC of greater than 0.5 x 10(9)/L from 21st day, and the platelet of greater than 50 x 10(9)/L from 28th day after transplantation. Grade I cGVHD was found the fourth month after grafting. Examination of recipient's bone marrow cells showed a normal 46, XX (presumably marrow donor) karyotype. Blood group changed from B to O.
This is the first case reported in China showing a successful treatment of benzene-induced severe aplastic anemia with allo-PBSCT. Allo-PBSCT may be an effective remedy for this kind of patients.
Renal pathology and dyslipidemia commonly coexist. Treatments that lower albuminuria/proteinuria may lower lipids, but it is not known whether lipid lowering independent of lessening albuminuria/proteinuria slows progression of kidney disease. We examined the association between LDL cholesterol levels and treatment with losartan on end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Lipid levels and albuminuria measurements were obtained at baseline and at year 1 in a post hoc analysis from the Reduction of Endpoints in NIDDM with the Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan (RENAAL) study, which compared the effects of losartan- versus placebo-based antihypertensive therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy. LDL cholesterol lowering was associated with a lower risk of ESRD; however, this seemed to be largely an association with the reduction in albuminuria.
Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is a genetic disorder caused by heterozygous mutations in the TSC1 or TSC2 genes and is associated with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) in 20-60% of cases. In addition, altered TSC/mTOR signaling is emerging as a feature common to a subset of ASD. Recent findings, in animal models, show that restoration of the underlying molecular defect can improve neurological dysfunction in several of these models, even if treatment is initiated in adult animals, suggesting that pathophysiological processes in the mature brain contribute significantly to the overall neurological phenotype in these models. These findings suggest that windows for therapeutic intervention in ASD could be wider than thought previously.
Angiotensin II, the effector peptide of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), has potent growth factor properties in a variety of organs. In the retina, a complete RAS exists, with components residing in the vasculature, neurons and glia. There is increasing interest in a pathogenetic role for angiotensin II in ischaemic retinopathies such as diabetic retinopathy and retinopathy of prematurity. In these situations, the retinal RAS becomes activated and stimulates growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor, which contribute to vascular leakage, pericyte migration, angiogenesis and fibrosis. Blockade of the RAS, with either angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or antagonists selective for angiotensin type 1 (AT1) and angiotensin type 2 (AT2) receptors, attenuates many of the vascular abnormalities that develop in diabetic retinopathy and retinopathy of prematurity. Eagerly awaited are the findings of the Diabetic Retinopathy Candesartan Trial (DIRECT), evaluating the effects of AT1 receptor antagonism in patients with different stages of diabetic retinopathy. This review examines the role of the RAS in diabetic retinopathy and retinopathy of prematurity, and the potential of RAS blockade as a treatment strategy for these vision-threatening diseases.
Hydroxyurea (HU) is an antitumor agent used to treat chronic myeloproliferative disorders. HU is usually well tolerated, but several cutaneous changes have been reported during long-term HU therapy. Although the occurrence of dermatomyositis-like changes during long-term HU therapy are well known, they are rarely described in patents with polycythemia vera. We report a 69 year-old-male with polycythemia vera who developed a dermatomyositis-like eruption on his face and dorsum of the hands following long-term HU therapy. Despite the cutaneous features, there were no clinical signs of muscular involvement, and muscle specific enzymes were within normal ranges. After interruption of HU administration, the skin lesions disappeared within two months. The improvement following withdrawal of HU implicated this drug as a possible etiological factor in the development of cutaneous features of dermatomyositis in our patient.
The role of potassium-sparing diuretics in the treatment of hypertension is discussed. The results of two newer case-control studies showing both an increased risk for sudden cardiac death in patients receiving non-potassium-sparing diuretics compared to those receiving potassium-sparing diuretics are presented. As a consequence of these studies thiazides should be given only at a low dose or in combination with a potassium-sparing agent. Data from several large intervention trials in elderly patients with hypertension show that treatment of high blood pressure with potassium-sparing diuretics is clearly beneficial since cerebral and cardiac events are both significantly reduced. Finally, potassium-sparing diuretics, especially spironolactone, play an important role in controlling high blood pressure in patients with primary aldosteronism. The presentation of a case report demonstrates, that development of resistance toward medical treatment may be due to elevated aldosterone levels and suppressed plasma renin activity and that the addition of spironolactone efficiently reduces elevated blood pressure values in this condition.
Trifluralin, a widely used herbicide, added to the diet before the p.o. administration of benzo(a)pyrene (BP) and fed continuously, significantly inhibited the induction of lung and forestomach tumors in female A/J mice. Dietary intake of trifluralin before the administration of BP resulted in a significant increase in glutathione in lung and forestomach but not in liver and glandular stomach. Trifluralin treatment also inhibited the binding of [3H]BP to liver and lung DNA, as well as to protein in the liver. Under these conditions, the protection against BP-induced lung tumors and perhaps forestomach tumors may be due to an elevation of tissue glutathione, resulting in a decreased binding of reactive metabolites of BP to macromolecules at these sites. The results indicate that trifluralin has a "blocking" effect in its inhibition of BP-induced tumors. Our studies show that trifluralin also inhibits chemical carcinogenesis in lung and forestomach when started in the diet 1 day after the administration of BP and fed continuously thereafter. In the case of lung, although maximum inhibition of tumors occurred when trifluralin was started 1 day after BP, there was significant protection at all time intervals (0 to 7 days) against lung tumors. The finding that trifluralin protects against BP tumorigenesis when started in the diet after the administration of the carcinogen clearly demonstrates that trifluralin also has a "suppressive" effect against BP-induced tumors.
Selenium is an essential micronutrient required for cellular antioxidant systems, yet at higher doses it induces oxidative stress. Additionally, in vertebrates environmental exposures to toxic levels of selenium can cause paralysis and death. Here we show that selenium-induced oxidative stress leads to decreased cholinergic signaling and degeneration of cholinergic neurons required for movement and egg-laying in Caenorhabditis elegans. Exposure to high levels of selenium leads to proteolysis of a soluble muscle protein through mechanisms suppressible by two pharmacological agents, levamisole and aldicarb which enhance cholinergic signaling in muscle. In addition, animals with reduction-of-function mutations in genes encoding post-synaptic levamisole-sensitive acetylcholine receptor subunits or the vesicular acetylcholine transporter developed impaired forward movement faster during selenium-exposure than normal animals, again confirming that selenium reduces cholinergic signaling. Finally, the antioxidant reduced glutathione, inhibits selenium-induced reductions in egg-laying through a cellular protective mechanism dependent on the C. elegans glutaredoxin, GLRX-21. These studies provide evidence that the environmental toxicant selenium induces neurodegeneration of cholinergic neurons through depletion of glutathione, a mechanism linked to the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease.
Ethambutol was administered to albino rats in their drinking water in doses of 105 to 2,500 mg. per kilogram per day for 18 to 102 days. Sixteen per cent developed bilateral lesions consisting of focal axonal swelling without demyelination, in their optic chiasms and the intracranial portions of their optic nerves.
Inflammation, and the subsequent proliferative activity of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), is one of the major pathophysiological mechanisms associated with neointimal hyperplasia following vascular injury. Although sulfasalazine (SSZ) has been used as an anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory agent in various inflammatory diseases, its primary targets and therapeutic effects on vascular disease have not yet been determined. We investigated whether SSZ could suppress VSMC growth and prevent neointimal hyperplasia.
SSZ was found to have pro-apoptotic and anti-proliferative activity in cultured VSMCs. Unexpectedly, these effects were not mediated by nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) inhibition, which has been suggested to be the anti-inflammatory mechanism associated with the effects of SSZ. Instead, cell-cycle arrest of the VSMCs was observed, which was mediated by induction of haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) followed by an increased expression of p21(waf1/Cip1). The underlying mechanism for SSZ-induced HO-1 expression was by reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent nuclear translocation and activation of nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). In a rat carotid artery balloon injury model, administration of SSZ significantly suppressed neointimal growth. In a series of reverse experiments, inhibition of HO-1 by shRNA, ROS by N-acetylcysteine (NAC) or Nrf2 by dominant-negative Nrf2 abrogated the beneficial effects of SSZ.
Our data demonstrate that SSZ inhibits VSMC proliferation in vitro and in vivo through a novel signalling pathway and may be a promising therapeutic option for the treatment of proliferative vascular disease.
In patients with a major coronary vessel occluded, the presence of good coronary collateral circulation increases vulnerability to myocardial ischemia induced by pharmacologic coronary vasodilation. The presence of good collaterals results in a greater frequency, severity, and extent of dipyridamole-induced regional left ventricular dysfunction, consistent with the hypothesis of angiographically assessed collaterals facilitating "steal phenomena" during dipyridamole-induced coronary vasodilation.
The development of focal and segmental glomerular hyalinosis and sclerosis (FSGHS) and its relation to mesangial accumulation of macromolecular substances, lipids in particular, were studied in two models of the nephrotic syndrome, induced by puromycin aminonucleoside and adriamycin. Rats with chronic nephrosis induced by multiple subcutaneous injections of puromycin aminonucleoside during 12 weeks showed FSGHS lesions in 7.8% of their glomeruli. Only 0.3% of the glomeruli from rats with chronic nephrosis of 12 weeks' duration induced by one intravenous dose of adriamycin showed FSGHS lesions (p = 0.0012). Body weight curves, proteinuria, and serum levels of total protein, cholesterol, and triglycerides were similar in both groups. The mesangial area in glomeruli of puromycin aminonucleoside-nephrotic rats showed significantly higher amounts of lipid as compared with glomeruli in adriamycin-nephrotic rats, and within FSGHS lesions in particular extensive accumulation of lipid was observed. In addition, increased lipid accumulation within the mesangial area was found in rats with acute (i.e., of 10 days' duration) puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis as compared with rats with acute adriamycin nephrosis. These differences in lipid accumulation between the two models may reflect differences in mesangial cell injury or, more likely, in function. In puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis the increased mesangial uptake of tracers is well known. Mesangial function in unilateral adriamycin nephrosis was studied using colloidal carbon as a tracer. No differences in mesangial handling of carbon were observed between adriamycin-perfused, contralateral nonperfused, and saline-perfused control kidneys. In chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis increased accumulation and incorporation of macromolecular substances, such as lipids in mesangial cells, may lead to overproduction of matrix substance with more trapping of lipids and eventually sclerosis. In adriamycin nephrosis normal mesangial activity and, consequently, low uptake of macromolecules and endogenous lipids may protect the glomerulus against sclerosis, notwithstanding increased serum lipid levels.
