Smokeless tobacco (ST) consumption is implicated in the pathogenesis of oral diseases, including cancer. However, its pathological effect in other organs is not well understood. In the present study, the effect of aqueous extract of smokeless tobacco (AEST) prepared from "gutkha" (a form of ST) on the xenobiotic drug-metabolizing enzymes, histopathological changes, and damage to the genetic material in lung, liver, and kidney of rats was evaluated. Animals were orally administered AEST at a low dose (L-AEST, 96 mg/kg body wt/day) for 2 (L-AEST(2)) and 28 weeks (L-AEST(28)) and at a high dose (H-AEST, 960 mg/kg body wt/day) for 2 weeks (H-AEST(2)). Real-time PCR and immunohistological studies showed that administration of L-AEST(2) did not induce the expression of phase I cytochrome P450s (CYP1A1, 1A2, and 2E1) and phase II mu-glutathione-s-transferase (GST-mu) drug-metabolizing enzymes in lung, liver, and kidney. Although H-AEST(2) administration significantly induced both gene and protein expression of CYP1A1, 1A2, and 2E1 in all of the above organs, it mildly expressed the phase II detoxifying enzyme, GST-mu, in type I and type II epithelial cells of lung and in proximal tubular cells of kidney. L-AEST(28) enhanced the gene and protein expression of CYP1A1, 1A2, and 2E1 in lung, liver, and kidney in a differential manner and induced the expression of GST-mu in lung and kidney. L-AEST(28) induced the micronuclei formation in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells, TNF-alpha in plasma, and myeloperoxidase activity in the organs. L-AEST(28) significantly enhanced Bax, p53, and NF-kappaB and decreased Bcl-2 gene expressions differentially in an organ-specific manner. The differential changes in these organs due to AEST might be due to their different physiological functions and variable sensitivities toward the metabolites of AEST, which create a microenvironment favorable for AEST-induced pathogenesis. This study broadens the insight into the different molecular mechanisms in various organs, which appear to be deregulated due to AEST. Understanding these processes may help in clinical treatment planning strategies for tobacco-related diseases.
We examined whether chronic systemic treatment with agonists for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα) influences neuroinflammation induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection into the somatosensory cortex in adult mice. Mice were pretreated with Wy-14643 or fenofibrate, both at 30 mg/kg, for 7 days. These treatment protocols increased the amount of PPARα mRNA and active form of PPARα protein in the brain. LPS injection reduced the PPARα mRNA level in the brain. On the contrary, TNFα, IL-1β, IL-6, iNOS, COX-2, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, and PECAM-1 were elevated at 6h after LPS. Wy-14643 and fenofibrate inhibited the elevations of TNFα, IL-1β, IL-6, COX-2, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1. Wy-14643, but not fenofibrate, also attenuated the iNOS elevation. At 3 days after LPS, Wy-14643 and fenofibrate showed similar inhibitions in these molecules. LPS injection also elevated IL-6 protein levels in the brain and serum at 6h, which was inhibited by fenofibrate. Histological analyses showed that Wy-14643 and fenofibrate profoundly attenuated microglia/macrophage activation, neutrophil recruitment, and neuronal injury at 3 days after LPS. These findings suggest that activation of PPARα attenuates neuroinflammation in the adult mouse brain, implicating that PPARα may be a potential therapeutic target for CNS diseases in which neuroinflammation plays a substantial role.
The airway epithelium participates in chronic airway inflammation by expressing adhesion molecules that mediate the transmigration of neutrophils into the inflamed airways. We hypothesize that, in patients with bronchiectasis, cytokines in their bronchial secretions enhance the expression of intercellular cell adhesion molecule (ICAM-1) in the bronchial epithelium and thus contribute to sustained recruitment of neutrophils into the inflamed airways. In the present study, we investigated the effect of bronchial secretions on the regulation of ICAM-1 in bronchial epithelial cells, and its modulation by pharmacologic agents. The expression of ICAM-1 mRNA and protein in human bronchial epithelial cells upon exposure to sputum sol from subjects with bronchiectasis were evaluated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and ELISA, respectively. Modulating effects of dexamethasone, ibuprofen, MK-663 or triptolide on ICAM-1 regulation were investigated in vitro. We demonstrated that changes in ICAM-1 expression correlated with levels of TNF-alpha in the sputum sol, and treatment of sol samples with TNF-alpha antibodies attenuated both the increase in ICAM-1 mRNA and protein. The role of TNF-alpha was further demonstrated when TNF-alpha elicited dose dependent increase in ICAM-1 expression. The sputum effect could also be suppressed dose-dependently by pre-incubation of bronchial epithelial cells with dexamethasone, ibuprofen, MK-663 or triptolide. Evidence is thus provided for the upregulation of bronchial epithelial ICAM-1 expression by airway secretions in bronchiectasis and a specific role for TNF-alpha in the secretions. The success of drug attenuation of this upregulation provides insight into possible therapeutic paradigms in the management of the disease.
The activities of orotate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT) and orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase (ODC) were significantly elevated (P less than 0.001) in erythrocytes (RBC) from five patients with prednisone-responsive congenital hypoplastic anaemia (CHA). (OPRT: patients - 10.1--64.2 nmol/h/10(9) RBC; controls - 2.8 +/- 0.3 (mean +/- SEM, n = 37); ODC: patients = 30--124 nmol/h/10(9) RBC; controls = 10.2 +/- 0.7 (mean SEM, n = 37).) Two patients had a less pronounced, but significant, increase of aspartate transcarbamylase activity and three patients had marginal increases of dihydroorotase activity. Dihydroorotate dehydrogenase activity was not detected in any CHA patient or control. In one patient prior to prednisone therapy, the OPRT and ODT activities were elevated 10-fold and remained elevated 3-fold after 16 months of therapy. An elevated enzyme pattern similar to that of RBC from CHA patients was observed in three parents of three CHA patients, but not in three parents of two other CHA patients. The activities of all five pyrimidine enzymes were normal for one patient with transient erythroblastopenia of childhood. In contrast, the activities of all the pyrimidine biosynthetic enzymes were elevated in blood from patients with a young RBC population: sickle cell anaemia, sickle-beta-thalassaemia, hereditary spherocytosis, and DiGuglielmo syndrome and from the newborn. It is postulated that factors which affect the activities of pyrimidine enzymes in CHA may also result in diminished erythropoiesis.
The contribution of serotoninergic mechanisms to motor dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD) has yet to be fully elucidated. Recent clinical observations increasingly suggest that drugs able to block serotonin 5HT2A/C receptors can benefit patients with certain extrapyramidal movement disorders. To further explore the roles of these and other neurotransmitter receptors in the pathogenesis of parkinsonian signs and levodopa-induced dyskinesias; we evaluated the effects of quetiapine, an atypical antipsychotic with 5HT2A/C and D2/3 antagonistic activity, on motor behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats and MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primates. In hemiparkinsonian rats, quetiapine (5 mg/kg, po) reversed the shortened motor response to levodopa challenge produced by 3 weeks of twice-daily levodopa treatment (P < 0.01). Quetiapine (5 mg/kg po) also normalized the shortened response to the acute injection of either a dopamine D1 receptor agonist (SKF 38392) or a D2 agonist (quinpirole) in rats that had received chronic levodopa treatment. Quetiapine had no effect on parkinsonian dysfunction when given alone or with levodopa to parkinsonian rats and monkeys. Quetiapine (4 mg/kg, po) did, however, substantially reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesias when coadministered with levodopa (P < 0.05). These results suggest that quetiapine could confer therapeutic benefits to patients with levodopa-induced motor complications. Moreover, our findings may indicate that 5HT2A/C receptor-mediated mechanisms, alone or in combination with other mechanisms, contribute to the pathogenesis of the altered motor responses associated with the treatment of PD.
A 74-year-old woman was admitted with jaundice. She was suffering from generalised liver failure with a highly prolonged prothrombin time, a low albumin level and ascites. Further anamnesis revealed that she had been taking nitrofurantoin as a prophylactic agent for recurrent urinary tract infections every day for 5 years. Because of the indications for liver damage due to nitrofurantoin, the drug was discontinued immediately on admission. After withdrawal of nitrofurantoin there was a very gradual clinical and biochemical improvement. Liver biopsies to confirm the diagnosis revealed extensive liver damage with cirrhosis such as may be seen following long-term use of nitrofurantoin. Nitrofurantoin should be prescribed with caution as a prophylactic agent in elderly women and patients with renal dysfunction because the risk of liver damage as a serious side effect of nitrofurantoin is greatly increased in these patients.
Autism is a common neurodevelopmental disorder with a complex mode of inheritance. It is one of the most highly heritable of the complex disorders, although the underlying genetic factors remain largely unknown. Here, we report mutations in the X-chromosome PTCHD1 (patched-related) gene in seven families with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and in three families with intellectual disability. A 167-kilobase microdeletion spanning exon 1 was found in two brothers, one with ASD and the other with a learning disability and ASD features; a 90-kilobase microdeletion spanning the entire gene was found in three males with intellectual disability in a second family. In 900 probands with ASD and 208 male probands with intellectual disability, we identified seven different missense changes (in eight male probands) that were inherited from unaffected mothers and not found in controls. Two of the ASD individuals with missense changes also carried a de novo deletion at another ASD susceptibility locus (DPYD and DPP6), suggesting complex genetic contributions. In additional males with ASD, we identified deletions in the 5' flanking region of PTCHD1 that disrupted a complex noncoding RNA and potential regulatory elements; equivalent changes were not found in male control individuals. Thus, our systematic screen of PTCHD1 and its 5' flanking regions suggests that this locus is involved in ~1% of individuals with ASD and intellectual disability.
To review the information necessary to assess the efficacy and safety of tamsulosin compared with other adrenergic antagonists for treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia.
A search was conducted of Cumulated Index Medicus, January 1993-August 1999, which was restricted to human trials and English-language journals.
Efficacy studies were included if the design was randomized and included a control group. Drug safety was assessed using data from any patient series or controlled study.
Tamsulosin, a uroselective alpha1A-adrenergic receptor antagonist, relaxes smooth muscle in the prostate and bladder neck, thereby enhancing bladder emptying. In randomized, controlled clinical trials using standardized instruments, tamsulosin improves obstructive voiding symptoms by at least 25% in 65-80% of patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia. Tamsulosin also improves peak urinary flow rate by 1.4-3.6 mL/sec in various studies and reduces post-void residual urine volume. The usual dosage of tamsulosin was 0.4 or 0.8 mg orally once a day in the studies performed in the US and Europe; daily doses of 0.1-0.4 mg were used in studies performed in Japan. The beneficial effects of tamsulosin on voiding symptoms, peak urinary flow rate, and bladder emptying appear to be dose-related, up to a ceiling dose of 0.4 mg. The most common adverse effects are headache, asthenia, dizziness, and rhinitis-like complaints. Retrograde or delayed ejaculation occurs in 4.5-14.0% of patients and has required discontinuation of treatment in a minority of these patients. At the usual dose of 0.4-0.8 mg/d, tamsulosin does not appear to significantly reduce blood pressure, increase heart rate, or cause first-dose syncope; therefore, dosage titration is not necessary when initiating treatment. Use of nifedipine, enalapril, atenolol, furosemide, or digoxin does not require dosage modification when tamsulosin is initiated concomitantly; hypotension has not been reported with combined use of tamsulosin and these commonly used agents.
Tamsulosin is an improvement over other alpha-adrenergic antagonists for the management of symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia. It is a more convenient alternative that does not require initial dosage titration, has a fast onset of action, and has a low potential to cause hypotension when used alone or in combination with commonly used antihypertensive agents. It is more costly than some of the other second-generation alpha-adrenergic antagonists.
We report on the case of a 42-year-old man suffering from an irresectable adenocarcinoma of the liver. The patient was treated with 5-fluorouracil for 6 months when the disease progressed and second line therapy with gemcitabine was started. After 4 months diastolic blood pressure increased and edema of the legs as well as vomiting occurred. Laboratory tests revealed anemia and thrombopenia accompanied by an elevation of plasma D-dimer, lactatdehydrogenase, creatinine, and urea levels in the serum. In addition, a pronounced proteinuria as well as renal hematuria were detected and subsequently a hemolytic uremic syndrome was diagnosed. After treatment with high-dose glucocorticoids, anticoagulants and transfusions of packed RBC the course of disease improved. Since Gemcitabine is now widely used for treatment of solid organ cancer (e.g. pancreatic adenocarcinoma, biliary tract cancer, lung cancer etc.), it is necessary to be aware of Gemcitabine-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome as a rare but potentially fatal side effect.
A genetic basis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been well-established and major signaling pathways, such as p53, Wnt-signaling, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and Ras pathways, have been identified to be essential to HCC development. Lately, the family of platelet-derived growth factors (PDGFs) has shifted to the center of interest. We have reported on spontaneously developing liver fibrosis in PDGF-B transgenic mice. Since HCC rarely occurs in healthy liver, but dramatically increases at the cirrhosis stage of which liver fibrosis is a preliminary stage, we investigated liver cancer development in chemically induced liver carcinogenesis in these mice. HCC induction was performed by treatment of the mice with diethylnitrosamine and phenobarbital. At an age of 6 months, the tumor development of these animals was analyzed. Not only the development of dysplastic lesions in PDGF-B transgenic mice was significantly increased but also their malignant transformation to HCC. Furthermore, we were able to establish a key role of PDGF-B signaling at diverse stages of liver cancer development. Here, we show that development of liver fibrosis is likely through upregulation of TGF-β receptors by PDGF-B. Additionally, overexpression of PDGF-B also leads to an increased expression of β-catenin as well as vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1/CD31), all factors with established roles in carcinogenesis. We were able to extend the understanding of key genetic regulators in HCC development by PDGF-B and decode essential downstream signals.
A 71-year-old man with chronic atrial fibrillation was treated with aspirin because of a right cerebral infarction. Oral anticoagulation was not initiated because of a secondary hemorrhagic transformation. Six years later after a left cerebral transient ischemic attack aspirin was replaced by ticlopidine. Two weeks after starting ticlopidine he experienced abdominal cramps and diarrhea. Also dark urine and gray-colored stools were noticed, so that the patient stopped taking ticlopidine. 40 days after starting ticlopidine he was admitted to our hospital because of cholestatic jaundice. Serum alkaline phosphatase (305 U/l) and gamma GT (143 U/l) were elevated, the total bilirubin was 18.6 mg/dl at peak. GOT and GPT were 2.7 fold increased. After exclusion of a viral infection and autoimmune disease liver biopsy was performed, which showed a centroacinar cholestasis compatible with a drug-induced liver damage. 79 days after discontinuation of the drug laboratory signs of cholestasis had disappeared. In patients in whom long-term therapy with ticlopidine is indicated regularly laboratory tests and clinical examinations should be done to recognize infrequent side effects such as the cholestatic hepatitis in time.
The purpose was to evaluate the incidence and risk factors of thromboembolism associated with lenalidomide therapy in newly diagnosed myeloma.
A pooled analysis was performed of patients with previously untreated multiple myeloma enrolled in clinical trials of lenalidomide-based therapy at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, and the Italian Myeloma Network, Italy. The incidence of thrombosis, the effect of risk factors such as steroid dose and erythropoietin supplementation, and the effect of prophylaxis were examined.
In all, 125 patients enrolled in 3 clinical trials were identified. Patients were stratified based on the concomitant corticosteroid dose. Fifty-two patients were in the high-dose group (dexamethasone 40 mg, 12 days a month); 73 patients were in the low-dose group (prednisone at any dose; or dexamethasone 40 mg, 4 days a month). A total of 110 patients were initiated on thromboprophylaxis; of these, 104 patients (95%) received aspirin. Ten patients (8%) developed deep vein thrombosis, including 4 who were not receiving any thromboprophylaxis at the time of the event. The rate of thromboembolic events was not different between patients who received concomitant erythropoietin therapy and those who did not, 4.8% and 8.6%, respectively (P= .54). A higher number of venous thrombotic episodes occurred in the high-dose corticosteroid group compared with the low-dose corticosteroid therapy group (12% vs 6%), but the difference was not statistically significant (P= .3).
The incidence of deep vein thrombosis is lower than previously reported in the literature. There was a trend to a higher incidence of thrombosis in patients receiving high-dose corticosteroid therapy.
Thirty-three patients seen in a urological department had taken large doses of analgesic for prolonged periods of time. In 9 cases a diagnosis of pyramidal necrosis was established, while 4 other had pyelographic evidence of pyelonephritis, and analgesic abuse was probably an important aetiological factor in their renal condition. Analgesic nephropathy is easily overlooked unless patients are questioned routinely regarding their intake of analgesic. It is important to identify the group of patients without evidence of serious renal disease who are taking excessive quantities of analgesic and to urge them to abandon the practice.
Azelaic acid (AzA), a nine-carbon dicarboxylic acid, is an agent for the topical treatment of acne. It has also been shown to be effective in rosacea; however, the mechanism of action has not been clarified. Because inflammation is a common feature of both conditions, we investigated the effects of azelaic acid on the inflammatory response of normal human keratinocytes to ultraviolet B light, which is a photosensitizer agent in rosacea. AzA, at 20 mM, a concentration achievable following topical application of a 15% gel, suppresses ultraviolet B light-induced interleukins-1beta, -6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA expression and protein secretion. Mechanistically, azelaic acid significantly reduced the ultraviolet B light-induced nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kB p65 subunit and the phosphorylation of the p38 mitogen and stress-activated protein kinase. Moreover, as peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor gamma, (PPARgamma) which has a crucial role in the control of inflammation, is activated by fatty acids and products of lipid peroxidation, we further investigated the effect of azelaic acid on the expression of this nuclear receptor. AzA induced peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor-gamma mRNA and its transcriptional activity. The PPARgamma antagonist GW9662 abrogated the inhibitory effects of AzA on the UVB-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines release and on the cell proliferation. Our study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms of the activity of azelaic acid and lands additional evidences for its therapeutic effects on inflammatory skin diseases, such as rosacea.
A link was proposed between human non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and exposure to 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (245T) and pentachlorophenol (PCP). To test this view and the hypothesis that immune suppression or stimulation could affect B-cell lymphoma (BCL) induction, we administered chronically to MRC-Wistar (MRC-W) rats of both sexes 98% pure 245T (600 mg/kg diet), 86% pure PCP (500 mg/kg diet), methylprednisolone (20 mg/kg ip weekly), and Freund's adjuvant (0.5 ml im every 3-6 wk) for 40 wk, together with 75 mg 2-hydroxyethylnitrosourea (HENU)/l drinking water, a system known to induce B-cell lymphoma. The 245T was shown to contain only 1-4 micrograms/kg each of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (TCDD) and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF), but the PCP contained 25 micrograms TCDD and 670 micrograms TCDF/kg. HENU given alone induced B-cell lymphoma and osteosarcoma as before, with higher incidences of both tumors in males than in females. The B-cell lymphoma diagnosis was confirmed by immunologic typing of cell-surface markers and by probes for gene rearrangements. Coadministration with HENU of three of the four test agents did not affect tumor incidence, but PCP acted synergistically with HENU to induce acute myelocytic leukemia. PCP given alone or with HENU induced a 40-67% incidence of liver cell adenomas in the female rats. These effects were probably not due to TCDD in the PCP. HENU induced acute myelocytic leukemia and lung tumors in Wistar rats and n-butylnitrosourea induced acute myelocytic leukemia in MRC-Wistar rats, indicating that B-cell lymphoma induction was specific to the HENU-MRC-Wistar rat model.
Curcumin, the active ingredient of the rhizome of Curcuma longa, promotes apoptosis and may have chemopreventive properties. This study investigates the effects of curcumin on apoptosis and tumorigenesis in male Apc(min) mice treated with the human dietary carcinogen, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP). Intestinal epithelial apoptotic index in response to PhIP treatment was approximately twice as great in the wild-type C57BL/6 APC(+/+) strain than in Apc(min) mice (3.7% Apc(+/+) versus 1.9% Apc(min); P < 0.001). PhIP promoted tumour formation in Apc(min) proximal small intestine (4.6 tumours per mouse, PhIP treated versus 2.1 tumours per mouse, control untreated; P < 0.05). Curcumin enhanced PhIP-induced apoptosis (4.0% curcumin + PhIP versus 2.1% PhIP alone; P < 0.01) and inhibited PhIP-induced tumorigenesis in the proximal small intestine of Apc(min) mice (2.2 tumours per mouse, curcumin + PhIP versus 4.6 tumours per mouse PhIP alone; P < 0.05). This study shows that the Apc(min) genotype is associated with resistance to PhIP-induced apoptosis in intestinal epithelium. Curcumin attenuates Apc(min) resistance to PhIP-induced apoptosis and inhibits PhIP-induced tumorigenesis in proximal Apc(min) mouse small intestine.
Epigenetic mechanisms are crucial to regulate the expression of different genes required for neuronal plasticity. Neurotoxic substances such as arsenic, which induces cognitive deficits in exposed children before any other manifestation of toxicity, could interfere with the epigenetic modulation of neuronal gene expression required for learning and memory. This study assessed in Wistar rats the effects that developmental arsenic exposure had on DNA methylation patterns in hippocampus and frontal cortex. Animals were exposed to arsenic in drinking water (3 and 36ppm) from gestation until 4 months of age, and DNA methylation in brain cells was determined by flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry and methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of the promoter regions of reelin (RELN) and protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) at 1, 2, 3 and 4 months of age. Immunoreactivity to 5 methyl-cytosine was significantly higher in the cortex and hippocampus of exposed animals compared to controls at 1 month, and DNA hypomethylation was observed the following months in the cortex at high arsenic exposure. Furthermore, we observed a significant increase in the non-methylated form of PP1 gene promoter at 2 and 3 months of age, either in cortex or hippocampus. In order to determine whether this exposure level is associated with memory deficits, a behavioral test was performed at the same age points, revealing progressive and dose-dependent deficits of fear memory. Our results demonstrate alterations of the methylation pattern of genes involved in neuronal plasticity in an animal model of memory deficit associated with arsenic exposure.
To describe a case of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) associated with lisinopril therapy.
A 76-year-old white woman who was being treated with lisinopril and metoprolol for hypertension presented with headaches accompanied by nausea and a tingling sensation in her arms. Her serum sodium was 109 mEq/L, with a serum osmolality of 225 mOsm/kg, urine osmolality of 414 mOsm/kg, and spot urine sodium of 122 mEq/L. Diclofenac 75 mg qd for osteoarthritic pain and lisinopril 10 mg qd for hypertension was begun in 1990. Lisinopril was increased to 20 mg qd in August 1994 and to 20 mg bid pm in August 1996 for increasing blood pressure; metoprolol 50 mg qd was added in July 1996. A diagnosis of SIADH was postulated and further evaluation was undertaken to exclude thyroid and adrenal causes. After lisinopril was discontinued and the patient restricted to 1000 mL/d of fluid, serum sodium gradually corrected to 143 mEq/L. The patient was discharged taking metoprolol alone for her hypertension; serum sodium has remained > or =138 mEq/L through April 1999, 32 months after discharge, despite daily use of diclofenac.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in antihypertensive doses may block conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II in the peripheral circulation, but not in the brain. Increased circulating angiotensin I enters the brain and is converted to angiotensin II, which may stimulate thirst and release of antidiuretic hormone from the hypothalamus, eventually leading to hyponatremia.
SIADH should be considered a rare, but possible, complication of therapy with lisinopril and other ACE inhibitors.
Dapsone (DDS) is currently used in the treatment of leprosy, malaria and in infections with Pneumocystis jirovecii and Toxoplasma gondii in AIDS patients. Adverse effects of DDS involve methemoglobinemia and hemolysis and, to a lower extent, liver damage, though the mechanism is poorly characterized. We evaluated the effect of DDS administration to male and female rats (30 mg/kg body wt, twice a day, for 4 days) on liver oxidative stress through assessment of biliary output and liver content of reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) glutathione, lipid peroxidation, and expression/activities of the main antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione S-transferase. The influence of DDS treatment on expression/activity of the main DDS phase-II-metabolizing system, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT), was additionally evaluated. The involvement of dapsone hydroxylamine (DDS-NHOH) generation in these processes was estimated by comparing the data in male and female rats since N-hydroxylation of DDS mainly occurs in males. Our studies revealed an increase in the GSSG/GSH biliary output ratio, a sensitive indicator of oxidative stress, and in lipid peroxidation, in male but not in female rats treated with DDS. The activity of all antioxidant enzymes was significantly impaired by DDS treatment also in male rats, whereas UGT activity was not affected in any sex. Taken together, the evidence indicates that DDS induces oxidative stress in rat liver and that N-hydroxylation of DDS was the likely mediator. Impairment in the activity of enzymatic antioxidant systems, also associated with DDS-NHOH formation, constituted a key aggravating factor.
Alfentanil is a high potency mu opiate receptor agonist commonly used during presurgical induction of anesthesia. This and other opiate receptor agonists have demonstrated proconvulsant effects in animals, but these properties have been less consistently demonstrated in humans. Most human scalp EEG studies have failed to demonstrate induction of epileptiform activity with these agents, which is inconsistent with findings using intracranial EEG. Simultaneous scalp and depth EEG recordings have yet to be performed in this setting. The relationship between opiate dose and proconvulsant activity is unclear.
Simultaneous scalp and depth electrode recordings were performed on five patients with complex partial epilepsy (CPE) who underwent alfentanil anesthesia induction before depth electrode removal. Consecutive equal bolus doses of alfentanil were administered to each patient according to strict time intervals so as to assess their correlation with any induced epileptiform activity.
Epileptiform activity was induced by alfentanil in three of five patients. Two of these patients had electrographic seizures. Epileptiform activity was only detected from the depth electrodes, occurring within 2 min of the first bolus dose in all three cases. Further increase or spread of epileptiform activity did not occur despite cumulative bolus doses of alfentanil.
Alfentanil is proconvulsant in patients with CPE. Induced seizures may be subclinical and lack a scalp EEG correlate. There is a complex dose-response relationship. Alfentanil induction of anesthesia should be approached with caution in patients with CPE.
The Heart and Estrogen/progestin Replacement Study was the first randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating whether hormone replacement therapy (HRT) reduces the incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) and coronary heart disease (CHD) death. The main conclusion was that HRT provided no benefit for secondary prevention. This paper examines the statistical evidence for a subsidiary analysis suggesting that the effects of HRT varied over time; that the HRT group had more cardiac events in year 1, but fewer by the last years of the study. An accurate reading of the HERS results indicates an increased incidence of MI and CHD death in the HRT group in year 1, but no evidence that the HRT group had fewer CHD events by the end of the study.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of L-N5-(1-iminoethyl)ornithine hydrochloride (L-NIO), an inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) formation, and [Phe1-psi(CH2NH)-Gly2]Nociceptin(1-13)-NH2 (Phe-NOC), a nociceptin receptor antagonist, on the systemic vasodepressor response to nociceptin in the anesthetized rat. The systemic vasodepressor response to bolus intravenous (i.v.) injections of nociceptin was significantly reduced by L-NIO and Phe-NOC. The present data suggest activation of nociceptin receptors dilates the systemic vascular bed through a NO-dependent pathway. These data also demonstrate Phe-NOC is an efficacious and selective nociceptin receptor antagonist in vivo.
Streptozotocin-induced diabetes (STZ-D) in rats has been associated with carnitine deficiency, bradycardia and left ventricular enlargement.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether oral carnitine supplementation would normalize carnitine levels and cardiac function in STZ-D rats.
Wistar rats (48) were made hyperglycemic by STZ at 26 weeks of age. Same age normal Wistar rats (24) were used for comparison. Echocardiograms were performed at baseline 2, 6, 10, and 18 weeks after STZ administration in all animals. HbA1c, serum carnitine and free fatty acids (FFA) were measured at the same times. Since STZ-D rats become carnitine deficient, 15 STZ-D rats received supplemental oral carnitine for 16 weeks.
The heart rates for the STZ-D rats (290 +/- 19 bpm) were less than control rats (324 +/- 20 bpm) (p < 0.05). After 4 weeks of oral carnitine supplementation, the serum carnitine and heart rates of the STZ-D rats returned to normal. Dobutamine stress increased the heart rates of all study animals, but the increase in STZ-D rats (141 +/- 8 bpm) was greater than controls (79 +/- 8 bpm) (p < 0.05). The heart rates of STZ-D rats given oral carnitine, however, were no different than controls (94 +/- 9 bpm). The left ventricular mass/body weight ratio (LVM/BW) in the diabetic animals (2.7 +/- 0.5) was greater than control animals (2.2 +/- 0.3) (p < 0.05) after 18 weeks of diabetes. In contrast, the LVM/BW (2.3 +/- .2) of the STZ-D animals receiving supplemental carnitine was the same as the control animals at 18 weeks.
Thus, supplemental oral carnitine in STZ-D rats normalized serum carnitine, heart rate regulation and left ventricular size. These findings suggest a metabolic mechanism for the cardiac dysfunction noted in this diabetic animal model.
Sympathetic activation has been suggested as a mechanism of acute nitrate tolerance, but the available literature is not definitive. We investigated the effects of prazosin, an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist, on acute nitroglycerin (NTG) hemodynamics and tolerance development in normal conscious rats. The effect of prazosin bolus injection (300 microg/kg) on NTG hemodynamics was first determined after acute dosing. The extent of maximal mean arterial pressure (MAP) response and the duration of drug-induced hypotension to NTG bolus doses (5, 15, and 30 microg) were measured before and after prazosin. In separate studies, the effects of prazosin on NTG tolerance development were examined. Rats received either 10 microg/min NTG or vehicle infusion for 5 hours after predosing with prazosin (300 microg/kg). Maximal MAP response to the hourly 30-microg NTG i.v. bolus challenge dose (CD) was determined before and after prazosin, and during NTG or vehicle infusion. Our results showed that bolus doses of NTG (at 5, 15, and 30 microg) dose-dependently decreased maximal MAP by 20.8 +/- 5.8, 26.1 +/- 5.0, and 30.6 +/- 5.7 mm Hg, respectively. Prazosin caused an average of 16 mm Hg depression in MAP, and it only slightly potentiated the hypotensive effects of bolus doses of NTG both after acute dosing and during continuous infusion. Prazosin treatment prolonged the duration of NTG-induced MAP response by about 4-fold for all NTG doses examined (P < 0.01 versus corresponding dose before prazosin, ANOVA). In both prazosin-treated and untreated groups, NTG infusion significantly attenuated the MAP response of the NTG CD starting from 1 hour of infusion (P < 0.001 versus 0 hour response, ANOVA), confirming tolerance development. In the presence of NTG tolerance development, prazosin no longer enhanced the apparent duration of NTG action. The hypotensive effect produced by the 30-microg NTG CD lasted for 7 +/- 2 and 10 +/- 2 seconds for prazosin-treated and untreated groups, respectively (P > 0.05, ANOVA). Our results showed that, in both NTG-tolerant and control animals, prazosin only slightly potentiated the maximum hypotensive effects of a challenge NTG dose, but did not significantly alter the pharmacodynamics of NTG-induced hemodynamic tolerance. Thus, in our animal model, sympathetic blockade by prazosin neither prevented nor attenuated in vivo tolerance induced by NTG.
To find factors associated with the development of renal colic during uricosuric therapy.
We performed a prospective cohort followup study of patients with gout and no previous history of kidney stones who had been treated with uricosurics. Clearance of creatinine and urate, 24-hour urinary uric acid (UA), undissociated urinary UA concentration, 24-hour undissociated urinary UA, and pH and urine sediment were obtained. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis was used to identify variables associated with renal colic as the outcome. The rate of renal colic was compared with that of control patients receiving allopurinol who had no previous history of renal stones.
We analyzed a 784 patient-year exposure from 216 patients: 206 with renal underexcretion of UA and 10 with normal excretion. There were 21 clinical events. Two variables showed increased risk hazard for developing lithiasis: clearance of UA at baseline and undissociated urinary UA concentration during followup. When only patients with underexcretion of UA were included in the analysis, undissociated urinary UA during followup remained the only statistically significant variable. Patients who showed an undissociated UA concentration < 20 mg/dl did not show an increase in the rate of lithiasis or events compared with patients receiving allopurinol.
Clearance of UA at baseline may be useful for selecting patients suitable for uricosuric treatment. The estimation of the concentration of undissociated urinary UA is useful for evaluating the risk of lithiasis during followup.
The cellular basis underlying the complex clinical symptomatology of bipolar disorder and the mechanisms underlying the actions of its effective treatments have not yet been fully elucidated. This study investigated the role of hippocampal synaptic AMPA receptors. We found that chronic administration of the antimanic agents lithium and valproate (VPA) reduced synaptic AMPA receptor GluR1/2 in hippocampal neurons in vitro and in vivo. Electrophysiological studies confirmed that the AMPA/NMDA ratio was reduced in CA1 regions of hippocampal slices from lithium-treated animals. Reduction in GluR1 phosphorylation at its cAMP-dependent protein kinase A site by the synthetic peptide TAT-S845, which mimics the effects of lithium or VPA, was sufficient to attenuate surface and synaptic GluR1/2 levels in hippocampal neurons in vitro and in vivo. Intrahippocampal infusion studies with the AMPA-specific inhibitor GYKI 52466 [4-(8-methyl-9H-1,3-dioxolo[4,5-h][2,3]benzodiazepin-5-yl)-benzenamine hydrochloride], a GluR1-specific TAT-S845 peptide, showed that GluR1/2 was essential for the development of manic/hedonic-like behaviors such as amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. These studies provide novel insights into the role of hippocampal GluR1/2 receptors in mediating facets of the manic syndrome and offer avenues for the development of novel therapeutics for these disorders.
