Farmers have increased risk for chronic bronchitis. Few investigators have considered pesticides.
We evaluated pesticides as risk factors for chronic bronchitis using the Agricultural Health Study enrollment data on lifetime pesticide use and history of doctor-diagnosed chronic bronchitis from 20,908 private pesticide applicators, primarily farmers.
A total of 654 farmers (3%) reported chronic bronchitis diagnosed after age 19. After adjustment for correlated pesticides as well as confounders, 11 pesticides were significantly associated with chronic bronchitis. Heptachlor use had the highest odds ratio (OR=1.50, 95% Confidence Interval (CI)=1.19, 1.89). Increased prevalence for chronic bronchitis was also seen for individuals who had a history of a high pesticide exposure event (OR=1.85, 95% CI=1.51, 2.25) and for those who also applied pesticides in off-farm jobs (OR=1.40, 95% CI=1.04, 1.88). Co-morbid asthma and current farm activities did not explain these results.
These results provide preliminary evidence that pesticide use may increase chronic bronchitis prevalence.
Methoxychlor (MXC) is an organochlorine pesticide that reduces fertility in female rodents by decreasing antral follicle numbers and increasing follicular death. MXC is metabolized in the body to mono-hydroxy MXC (mono-OH). Little is known about the effects of mono-OH on the ovary. Thus, this work tested the hypothesis that mono-OH exposure decreases production of 17β-estradiol (E₂) by cultured mouse antral follicles. Antral follicles were isolated from CD-1 mice (age 35-39 days) and exposed to dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), or mono-OH (0.1-10 μg/mL) for 96 h. Media and follicles were collected for analysis of sex steroid levels and mRNA expression, respectively. Mono-OH treatment (10 μg/mL) decreased E(2) (DMSO: 3009.72±744.99 ng/mL; mono-OH 0.1 μg/mL: 1679.66±461.99 ng/mL; 1 μg/mL: 1752.72±532.41 ng/mL; 10 μg/mL: 45.89±33.83 ng/mL), testosterone (DMSO: 15.43±2.86 ng/mL; mono-OH 0.1μg/mL: 17.17±4.71 ng/mL; 1 μg/mL: 13.64±3.53 ng/mL; 10 μg/mL: 1.29±0.23 ng/mL), androstenedione (DMSO: 1.92±0.34 ng/mL; mono-OH 0.1 μg/mL: 1.49±0.43ng/mL; 1 μg/mL: 0.64±0.31 ng/mL; 10 μg/mL: 0.12±0.06 ng/mL) and progesterone (DMSO: 24.11±4.21 ng/mL; mono-OH 0.1μg/mL: 26.77±4.41 ng/mL; 1 μg/mL: 20.90±3.75 ng/mL; 10 μg/mL: 9.44±2.97 ng/mL) levels. Mono-OH did not alter expression of Star, Hsd3b1, Hsd17b1 and Cyp1b1, but it did reduce levels of Cyp11a1, Cyp17a1 and Cyp19a1 mRNA. Collectively, these data suggest that mono-OH significantly decreases levels of key sex steroid hormones and the expression of enzymes required for steroidogenesis.
Lipocalin 2 is an iron-binding secreted protein that converts embryonic kidney mesenchyme to epithelia. Previously, we reported that lipocalin 2 could revert 4T1-ras-transformed mesenchymal tumor cells to a more epithelial phenotype, increase E-cadherin expression, and suppress cell invasiveness in vitro and in vivo, indicating that lipocalin 2 is a metastasis suppressor. Here, we show that lipocalin 2 can suppress the ras-induced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor in 4T1 cells via down-regulation of ras mitogen-activated protein kinase and ras phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase signaling. In addition, the expression of thrombospondin-1 (an antiangiogenic molecule) was increased in tumors formed by 4T1-ras cells into which lipocalin 2 was stably introduced. Tumor angiogenesis, assessed via an intradermal tumor angiogenesis assay, was also suppressed by lipocalin 2. We also show that caveolin-1 is a critical mediator of this activity. These data provide new insights into the action of lipocalin 2 and raise the possibility that the administration of lipocalin 2 may be useful for inhibiting tumor angiogenesis, in addition to suppressing tumor metastasis, in cancers which show ras activation.
Rabbit antithymocyte globulin (RATG) is recommended for central administration, and no evidence justifies the common practice of adding heparin to the bag, but the evaluation of thrombocytopenia may be complicated by coadministration. We recently phased out the use of heparin in RATG in our kidney and kidney-pancreas transplant recipients but subsequently observed several episodes of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), so we sought to determine the factors linked to DVT during RATG therapy.
A search of billing and diagnosis codes for RATG and DVT in one hospital revealed relevant admissions from January 2000 to April 2004.
Patients (n=288) received 330 courses of RATG (central or peripheral), and nine were diagnosed with DVT. Four patients were excluded because the diagnosis was not confirmed by Doppler ultrasound (n=1), DVT occurred more than 10 days after RATG discontinuation (n=2), or DVT occurred after switching to equine antithymocyte globulin (n=1). All patients (n=5) who developed DVT related to RATG exhibited prior infusion-related reactions, received peripherally administered RATG with premedication (methylprednisolone, diphenhydramine, and acetaminophen), and did not receive heparin. The DVT occurred near the site of the infusion in 60% of cases. Four of the patients were male, and 80% had diabetes (one developed posttransplant), and all included patients received infusions over at least 6 hours for the first dose, and at least 4 hours for subsequent doses.
These results provide justification for adding heparin to the RATG bag, especially when administered peripherally.
Two experiments were conducted to evaluate FD and C Red Dye #3 for its developmental toxicity and psychotoxicity. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were fed diets containing the dye for 2 weeks and were then bred. The diets were continued for the females throughout gestation and lactation and were provided continuously to their offspring thereafter. The treatment groups for Experiment 1 were Red Dye #3 as 0.0, 0.25, 0.5, or 1.0% of the diet (w/w), and a positive control group treated with the toxin hydroxyurea on days 2-10 of life (50 mg/kg/day, s.c.); Experiment 2 was a replication of Experiment 1 with the same dose groups, but without the positive control group. Parental animals were evaluated for weight and food consumption, and females for reproductive success. The offspring were assessed on a series of tests using the Cincinnati Psychoteratogenicity Screening Test Battery, plus weight, food consumption, physical landmarks of development, and brain weight. Red-3 produced no reductions in parental or offspring weight or food consumption. Red-3 significantly increased preweaning offspring mortality in the first experiment, but not in the second. Behaviorally, Red-3 produced no dose-dependent effects that replicated across the two experiments. It was concluded that no evidence was obtained that dietary exposure to FD and C Red Dye #3 (erythrosine) is psychotoxic to developing rats.
Mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain states are poorly understood. We have compared mechanisms mediating enhanced nociception of four established models of neuropathic pain produced by very different types of insults to the peripheral nervous system: streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia, a model of diabetic (metabolic) peripheral neuropathy, vincristine-induced hyperalgesia, a model of chemotherapeutic agent (toxic) peripheral neuropathy, and chronic constriction injury and partial nerve ligation, models of trauma-induced painful neuropathies. All four models resulted in prolonged mechanical hyperalgesia (>30% decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold) and allodynia (detected by 10-209-mN-intensity von Frey hairs). In vincristine- and streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia, the protein kinase A, protein kinase C and nitric oxide second messenger pathways in the periphery contributed to the hyperalgesia, while N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated events were not detected. None of these second messengers nor the NMDA receptor, which can contribute to peripheral sensitization of nociceptors, contributed to chronic constriction injury- and partial nerve ligation-induced hyperalgesia. In all four models the hyperalgesia was not antagonized by peripheral administration of a mu-opioid agonist.Our findings support the presence of a common abnormality in second messenger signaling in the periphery to the maintenance of two very different models of non-traumatic neuropathic pain, not shared by models of trauma-induced neuropathic pain.
The response of the systemic circulation to acute inhibition of the converting enzyme with 25 mg of oral Captopril (Squibb) was studied in six normal sodium-replete male volunteers at rest and during exercise, together with its effects on exercise capacity for graded uninterrupted exercise. In recumbent subjects at rest Captopril did not affect arterial pressure or heart rate, and plasma renin activity rose 2.5-fold (P less than 0.05). In subjects in the sitting position, at rest and during exercise until exhaustion, Captopril reduced mean brachial intra-arterial pressure by an average of 7 Torr in comparison to placebo (P less than 0.001). Captopril's hypotensive effect was caused by a reduction of systemic vascular resistance (P less than 0.01), without changes of cardiac output (measured by CO2 rebreathing), heart rate, or stroke volume. Plasma renin activity was significantly higher during Captopril (P less than 0.001). Peak oxygen uptake and exercise duration were the same after administration of Captopril or placebo. The data demonstrate that the renin-angiotensin system is not involved in the homeostasis of blood pressure in supine sodium-replete humans, but has a modest role in blood pressure regulation when posture is changed from supine to upright. The orthostatic effect of Captopril is maintained during upright exercise. Furthermore the reduction of systemic vascular resistance by Captopril does not affect peak oxygen uptake.
It is given a report about experiences with a maintenance lithium therapy in case of 57 patients with affective psychosis in the older age and about the peculiarities, that have to be taken a note of near by. In regarding the complications in therapy and course of these disorders and the good prophylactic effect of lithium the necessity of the prophylactic application of this psychopharmacological agent also to geropsychiatric patients is established. There are methods shown, reducing the risk of treatment in an acceptable minimum and the possibility of using lithium to a large group of affective psychosis in the older age, too.
A 73-year-old man was admitted with complaints of a 2-month history of generalized weakness and numbness. Laboratory examination revealed hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, and kidney injury, similar to the traditional milk-alkali syndrome. The clinical history and the response to therapy indicated that alphacalcidol and thiazide taken daily were the cause. Recently, it has been recommended the term "milk-alkali syndrome" be replaced by "calcium-alkali syndrome", which broadens the definition of the condition. This case suggests that the calcium-alkali syndrome can occur without calcium and alkali, but rather with alphacalcidol and a thiazide diuretic.
Men with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) wasting and hypogonadism are frequently treated with testosterone and oxandrolone, an orally administered anabolic-androgenic steroid hormone. We observed reductions in testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels, in association with complaints of erectile dysfunction, after prolonged exposure to this therapeutic regimen.
First description of an association between long-term receipt of oxandrolone with erectile dysfunction, low SHBG and testosterone.
Case report of three human immunodeficiency virus-infected hypogonadal male patients receiving treatment for wasting syndrome and hypogonadism, and highly active antiretroviral therapy. All three patients received long-term oxandrolone in addition to testosterone replacement therapy.
Testosterone and SHBG levels for patients 1, 2, and 3, respectively: total testosterone 183, 71, and 151 ng/dL (260-1,000 ng/dL); free testosterone (not done for patient 3) 58.3 and 26.9 pg/mL (50-210 pg/mL); SHBG 6, 9, and 6 nmol/L (7-50 nmol/L). No other hormonal abnormalities were detected. Following discontinuation of oxandrolone, levels of total testosterone rose, consistent with increase in SHBG. One patient received repeat SHBG assay documenting rise in SHBG level. Patient 2 reported return of libido and early morning erections several weeks after discontinuation of oxandrolone.
Patients had erectile dysfunction in association with low testosterone and SHBG, in spite of exogenous testosterone replacement. Discontinuation of oxandrolone led to the normalization or improvement of testosterone levels in all three patients with symptomatic improvement in one patient. First pass metabolism of orally administered oxandrolone may decrease hepatic synthesis of SHBG, allowing exogenously supplied testosterone to be excreted. Further work is necessary to elucidate the relationship.
Eight Cebus apella monkeys were treated with haloperidol for 2 years. Five monkeys had developed mild oral tardive dyskinesia and all were primed for neuroleptic induced dystonia, thus serving as a model for both chronic and acute extrapyramidal side effects. In this model, the partial dopamine D2 receptor agonists SDZ HDC-912, SDZ HAC-911, terguride, (-)-3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-propylpiperidine) ((-)-3-PPP) and SND 919 were tested for extrapyramidal side-effect liability. Their antipsychotic potential was also tested, using a dose of dextroamphetamine producing mild stereotypy and moderate motoric unrest. For comparison, the dopamine D2 receptor agonist, LY 171555 and antagonist, raclopride were used. In contrast to the other drugs tested, SDZ HAC-911 consistently reduced oral activity, P < 0.05 (at doses from 0.005 to 0.025 mg/kg). The relative dystonic potencies were raclopride > SDZ HDC-912 > SDZ HAC-911 = terguride. Neither (-)-3-PPP nor SND 919 produced dystonia, but had observable dopamine D2 receptor agonistic effects, (-)-3-PPP producing emesis at 1-4 mg/kg and SND 919 producing motoric unrest and stereotypy at 0.05-0.25 mg/kg. Comparing the antiamphetamine effects of the more antagonist-like drugs with raclopride, the relative potencies were terguride = SDZ HAC-911 > SDZ HDC-912 > raclopride. Comparing the antiamphetamine effects of the more agonist-like drugs with LY 171555, the relative potencies were SND 919 > (-)-3-PPP > LY 171555 in relation to motoric unrest, while neither (-)-3-PPP nor LY 171555 produced inhibition of stereotypy.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL)-associated paraoxonase (PON) activity may play an important role in the inhibition of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation. Previous studies have demonstrated that serum PON activity is decreased in patients with hyperlipoproteinaemia and coronary heart disease. The study presented here examined the effect of short-term treatment with simvastatin and atorvastatin on lipids and PON activity in patients with hyperlipoproteinaemia.
A prospective, non-blinded, single-group, cross-over, comparative trial was performed. Following an 8-week dietary run-in period, 49 patients (23 men and 26 women, mean age: 59.8 +/- 7.9 years) with Fredrickson type IIa. and IIb. hyperlipoproteinaemias were randomized to receive either simvastatin 20 mg/day or atorvastatin 10 mg/day for 3 months. Following an 8-week washout period, patients were crossed-over to receive the other drug for a further 3 months. Serum lipids were measured and serum PON activity was determined spectrophotometrically using paraoxon as a substrate.
Simvastatin treatment significantly reduced serum cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) and apolipoprotein (apo) B levels (p < 0.001). Atorvastatin had a more pronounced cholesterol, LDL-C- and apo B-lowering effect (p < 0.001) compared with simvastatin. Both statins also significantly reduced serum triglyceride levels (p < 0.01). Simvastatin and atorvastatin caused no significant change in the levels of HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) and apo A1. HDL-associated PON activity did not change significantly after simvastatin therapy, but significantly increased after atorvastatin treatment (p < 0.05).
Short-term administration of simvastatin did not increase PON activity. Atorvastatin treatment had a favourable effect on lipid profile and increased the activity of HDL-associated PON.
A mixture of dexamphetamine and chlordiazepoxide induces hyperactivity in both mice and rats. This type of hyperactivity has been proposed as an animal model of mania. Magnesium valproate itself had little influence on the activity of normal mice and rats. Acute pretreatment of mice with magnesium valproate (75-300 mg/kg p.o., 37.5-150 mg/kg i.v.) attenuated the mixture-induced hyperactivity. Pretreatment of rats with a single dose of magnesium valproate (75-300 mg/kg, p.o. or i.p.) also counteracted the locomotor hyperactivity caused by the mixture. The effects of magnesium valproate in the mixture-treated mice and rats could be abolished by bicuculline and picrotoxin, but not isoniazid. These findings suggest that the antimanic effect of valproate may be related to its ability to enhance the postsynaptic effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
In a titrated dose cross-over trial of debrisoquine and methyldopa in 38 hypertensive patients neither drug was superior in lowering supine or standing diastolic pressure with a minimum of side effects. Methyldopa caused significantly greater reduction of supine (P<0.001) and standing (P<0.02) systolic pressure but caused intolerable side effects in two patients. Tiredness was the most characteristic and troublesome side effect with methyldopa and postural hypotension was prominent in patients while on debrisoquine.
Recently, some cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) in demented patients have been reported, because the demented patients, who were administered neuroleptics due to their abnormal behaviors, have increased. We also experienced an 85-year-old male demented patient with NMS. His NMS was induced by haloperidol and disappeared by quitting the neuroleptic and a water supply. The post-NMS relapse of his abnormal behavior was ameliorated by a kind of herbal medicine "Ohren-Gedoku-Toh". We attempted to grasp the clinical characteristics of NMS in dementia by investigating the present case and reported cases. As the result, the following characteristics are suggested, (1) the NMS in dementia was seen more in vascular dementias than in Alzheimer's diseases, (2) in all the cases, the drug to be responsible to NMS was haloperidol, (3) a walking difficulty appeared at even the pre-stage or early stage of NMS, (4) the administration of dantrolene and/or bromocriptine was necessary to treat the patients with a high temperature. Moreover, examining our case, Levenson's criteria for NMS which regards a high serum CPK may be clinically more useful in the diagnosis of the NMS in dementia, because an early diagnosis and treatment can be done according to the criteria.
The analgesic and behavioral effects of butorphanol (0.22 mg/kg), flunixin (2.2 mg/kg), levorphanol (0.033 mg/kg), morphine (0.66 mg/kg), and xylazine (2.2 mg/kg), given IM were observed in 8 ponies. These ponies were instrumented to measure response objectively to painful superficial and visceral stimuli. Effects on the cardiopulmonary system and rectal temperature also were evaluated in 6 of these ponies. Observations were conducted before drug injection (base-line values) and after injection at 30, 60, 120, 180, and 240 minutes. Xylazine provided the highest pain threshold for the first 60 minutes and a sedative effect for 105 minutes. The effects for superficial pain and visceral pain persisted 3 hours and 4 hours, respectively. Morphine produced good analgesia for superficial pain (30 minutes), whereas butorphanol provided good effect for visceral pain (4 hours). A slight degree of analgesia for visceral pain was obtained after morphine (1 hour) and levorphanol (4 hours); flunixin did not induce analgesia. Butorphanol, levorphanol, and morphine stimulated motor activity. Behavioral effects did not occur after flunixin was given. Xylazine decreased systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressures. Marked increases in these pressures, heart rate, and respiratory rate were observed after morphine was given. Changes of central venous pressure, rectal temperature, and blood gas values remained within base-line limits after both drugs were given. Butorphanol increased heart rates for 1 hour; flunixin and levorphanol did not alter any of the above values.
Neonatally diethylstilbestrol (DES) treatment causes hypertrophy-hyperplasia in the interstitial tissue of mouse ovaries. To understand the induction mechanism of the hypertrophy, mRNA expression involved in steroidogenesis in the ovary of neonatally DES-treated mice was examined. The expression of StAR and Cyp11a1 was significantly reduced while Cyp19 and Sf-1 were stimulated in the ovary of neonatally DES-treated 3-month-old mice. Expression of those genes was not different between DES- and oil-treated mice after the gonadotropins treatment. Lhb in the pituitary of 3-month-old neonatally DES-treated mice was significantly decreased. Finally, ovaries from DES-treated mice transplanted to neonatally oil-treated hosts had developing follicles at several stages and corpora lutea, whereas grafted ovaries from neonatally oil-treated mice in 3-month-old neonatally DES-treated hosts showed lipid accumulation in the interstitial tissue. Thus, hypertrophy and accumulation of lipid droplets in interstitial cells of neonatally DES-treated mice is caused by impaired steroidogenesis due to the alterations of gonadotropins levels.
Mitochondrial toxicity is increasingly implicated in a host of drug-induced organ toxicities, including hepatotoxicity. Nefazodone was withdrawn from the U.S. market in 2004 due to hepatotoxicity. Accordingly, we evaluated nefazodone, another triazolopyridine trazodone, plus the azaspirodecanedione buspirone, for cytotoxicity and effects on mitochondrial function. In accord with its clinical disposition, nefazodone was the most toxic compound of the three, trazodone had relatively modest effects, whereas buspirone showed the least toxicity. Nefazodone profoundly inhibited mitochondrial respiration in isolated rat liver mitochondria and in intact HepG2 cells where this was accompanied by simultaneous acceleration of glycolysis. Using immunocaptured oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) complexes, we identified Complex 1, and to a lesser amount Complex IV, as the targets of nefazodone toxicity. No inhibition was found for trazodone, and buspirone showed 3.4-fold less inhibition of OXPHOS Complex 1 than nefazodone. In human hepatocytes that express cytochrome P450, isoform 3A4, after 24 h exposure, nefazodone and trazodone collapsed mitochondrial membrane potential, and imposed oxidative stress, as detected via glutathione depletion, leading to cell death. Our results suggest that the mitochondrial impairment imposed by nefazodone is profound and likely contributes to its hepatotoxicity, especially in patients cotreated with other drugs with mitochondrial liabilities.
To evaluate sodium channel genes as candidates for epilepsy susceptibility and their role in therapeutic efficacy, we screened coding single-nucleotide polymorphism of SCN1A p. Thr 1067 Ala or c.3184 A-->G (rs2298771) and SCN2A p.Arg19Lys or c.56 G-->A (rs17183814) in north Indian epilepsy patients.
The genotyping was performed in 160 control subjects and 336 patients with epilepsy, of whom 117 were drug resistant and 219 were drug responsive. Therapeutic drug monitoring for phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital and valproate was also performed in 20% of the patients to confirm compliance.
AG genotype of SCN1A 3184 A-->G polymorphism was significantly higher and associated in epilepsy patients [P= 0.005; odds ratio (OR) 1.76, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.19, 2.61], whereas A variant of SCN2A c.56 G-->A was associated with multiple drug resistance in north Indian patients with epilepsy (P= 0.03; OR 1.62, 95% CI 1.03, 2.56).
Overall, results indicate a differential role of genetic polymorphisms of sodium channels SCN1A and SCN2A in epilepsy susceptibility and drug response.
Simvastatin rapidly induced cataracts in young Chbb:Thom (CT) but not Sprague Dawley (SD) or Hilltop Wistar (HW) rats. Oral treatment for 14 but not 7 days committed CT rat lenses to cataract formation. The cholesterol to phospholipid molar ratio in lenses of treated CT rats was unchanged. Differences between strains in serum and ocular humor levels of simvastatin acid poorly correlated with susceptibility to cataracts. No significant differences were found between rat strains in the capacity of simvastatin acid to inhibit lens-basal sterol synthesis. Prolonged treatment with simvastatin comparably elevated HMG-CoA reductase protein and enzyme activity in lenses of both cataract resistant and sensitive strains. However, in contrast to SD and HW rats, where sterol synthesis was markedly increased, sterol synthesis in CT rat lenses remained at baseline. Discordant expression of sterol synthesis in CT rats may be due to inadequate upregulation of lens HMG-CoA synthase. HMG-CoA synthase protein levels, and to a much lesser extent mRNA levels, increased in lens cortex of SD but not CT rats. Because upregulation of the sterol pathway may result in increased formation of isoprene-derived anti-inflammatory substances, failure to upregulate the pathway in CT rat lenses may reflect an attenuated compensatory response to injury that resulted in cataracts.
In 30 isolated, spontaneously beating right atrial preparations of the rabbit, the arrhythmogenic actions of ouabain were studied with microelectrodes. Ouabain (10(-6) M) uniformly produced the following events: (1) a gradual increase in sinus rate with periods of alternation of beta-to-beat atrial intervals, (2) a rapid rate and regular rhythm, (3) severe irregularity of rhythm, (4) total atrial arrest. Cycle length decreased from 394 msec +/- 43 (mean +/- SD) during control to 229 msec +/- 26 during the period of rapid rate and regular rhythm (P less than 0.001). Pretreatment with atropine or propranolol did not abolish this positive chronotropic action of ouabain. Maps of the spread of activation in the area of the sinus node in eight experiments revealed that the speeding up of rate is accompanied by a shift of dominant pacemaker site toward the sinoatrial border. In explanation, it is shown that sinoatrial border fibers develop strong diastolic depolarization, whereas dominant pacemaker fibers do so to a lesser extent or not at all. The atrial arrhythmias--best to be described as "digitalis-induced sinus tachycardia"--may represent the experimental counterpart of the so-called "paroxysmal atrial tachycardia with block" described as a common manifestation of digitalis intoxication in man.
Cephalosporin antibiotics cause a variety of hematologic disturbances in man, the pathogeneses and hematopathology of which remain poorly characterized. There is a need for a well-defined animal model in which these blood dyscrasias can be studied. In four subacute toxicity studies, the intravenous administration of cefonicid or cefazedone to beagle dogs caused a dose-dependent incidence of anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia after 1-3 months of treatment. A nonregenerative anemia was the most compromising of the cytopenias and occurred in approximately 50% of dogs receiving 400-500 mg/kg cefonicid or 540-840 mg/kg cefazedone. All three cytopenias were completely reversible following cessation of treatment; the time required for recovery of the erythron (approximately 1 month) was considerably longer than that of the granulocytes and platelets (hours to a few days). Upon rechallenge with either cephalosporin, the hematologic syndrome was reproduced in most dogs tested; cefonicid (but not cefazedone)-treated dogs showed a substantially reduced induction period (15 +/- 5 days) compared to that of the first exposure to the drug (61 +/- 24 days). This observation, along with the rapid rate of decline in red cell mass parameters of affected dogs, suggests that a hemolytic component complicated the red cell production problem and that multiple toxicologic mechanisms contributed to the cytopenia. We conclude that the administration of high doses of cefonicid or cefazedone to dogs can induce hematotoxicity similar to the cephalosporin-induced blood dyscrasias described in man and thus provides a useful model for studying the mechanisms of these disorders.
Resveratrol, a dietary polyphenol with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity, has been shown to provide neuroprotection in models of ischemia. However, the mechanism of action of resveratrol-induced neuroprotection remains unclear. Previous work in our laboratory has provided evidence that acute, systemic administration of resveratrol is neuroprotective in a permanent model of cerebral ischemia, an effect that was blocked when animals received the non-selective estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI, 182,780. The present study was designed to investigate whether the source of neuroprotection afforded by resveratrol action within the cerebral cortex itself is mediated preferentially via selective activation of either α or β estrogen receptor subtype. Intracortical injection of resveratrol (0.1 and 1.0 μM) 10 min prior to 30 min of ischemia followed by 5.5h of reperfusion significantly reduced infarct volume in the prefrontal cortex. This neuroprotective effect was significantly attenuated when resveratrol injection (1.0 μM) was preceded by injection of a selective estrogen receptor α antagonist, 1,3-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-4-methyl-5-[4-(2-piperidinylethoxy)phenol]-1N-pyrozole dihydrochloride (MPP) or a selective estrogen receptor beta (ERβ) antagonist, 4-[2-phenyo-5,7-bis(trifluoromrthyl)pyrazolo(1,5-a)pyrimidin-3-yl]phenol (PHTPP). These results provide evidence for rapidly induced neuroprotection mediated by resveratrol activation of either estrogen receptor subtype within the ischemic cortex of rats.
Infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) are susceptible to ventilation-induced lung injury. Vitamin A may protect the lung from injury during ventilation. The authors investigated the effects of antenatal vitamin A on ventilation-induced lung injury in CDH lambs using lung myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity as an indicator of lung injury.
Left-sided diaphragmatic defects were created in 10 lambs at 79-81 days' gestation. Six CDH lambs had right jugular venous catheters inserted at 120 days' gestation and were given vitamin A until 135 days' gestation. Four CDH lambs were not treated. Twin littermates (n = 3) served as controls. All lambs were delivered at 136-139 days of gestation and ventilated for 2 hours. Lambs were sacrificed following ventilation and samples of left lung were snap frozen. MPO was extracted from lung tissue and MPO activity was assayed.
CDH lambs treated with antenatal vitamin A demonstrated significantly lower MPO activity than untreated CDH lambs (0.0477 +/- 0.0150 vs. 0.1106 +/- 0.0230 units/mg protein, p < 0.05).
This is the first study to look at the effect of vitamin A on lung injury in CDH. In the lamb model of CDH, antenatal vitamin A decreases ventilation-induced lung injury.
Docetaxel/estramustine is a known active regimen in hormonerefractory prostate cancer (HRPC). A phase II study was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of docetaxel/estramustine combined with exisulind, an apoptotic antineoplastic drug.
Eighty men with chemotherapy-naive HRPC were enrolled in a multicenter, cooperative group study. The treatment regimen consisted of oral estramustine (280 mg 3 times daily for 5 days), docetaxel 70 mg/m2, oral exisulind (250 mg twice daily), oral dexamethasone (8 mg twice daily for 3 days), and oral warfarin (2 mg daily).
Seventy-five eligible patients were treated with a median of 6 cycles of therapy. Fortyseven patients (62.7%; 95% CI, 50.7%-73.6%) had a > or = 50% decline in prostate-specific antigen levels. Forty-six patients had measurable disease with 6 partial responses (13%; 95% CI, 4.9%-26.3%). The main grade 3/4 toxicities were neutrophils (79%), fatigue (15%), and thrombosis/embolism (10%). The median time to first progression was 5.1 months (95% CI, 4.4-6.3 months) and the median survival time was 17.8 months (95% CI, 14.7-20.1 months).
The combination of estramustine/docetaxel/exisulind was associated with significant thomboembolic toxicity despite prophylactic warfarin. The contribution of exisulind to toxicity is uncertain. Prostate-specific antigen decline, response rates, and progression-free and overall survival are similar to those reported with docetaxel/estramustine.
Gabapentin and nortriptyline have not been compared in a randomized trial in post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). The present study was, therefore, undertaken to determine their comparative efficacy and tolerability in the treatment of post-herpetic neuralgia.
The study was a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group trial of 9 weeks duration. Adult PHN patients with history of > 8 weeks of PHN pain after healing of rash, a pain intensity of at least 40 mm on a 100 mm visual analog scale at screening and at randomization, and average pain score of at least 4 on the Likert scale during the baseline week were included in the study. Gabapentin and nortriptyline were given in incremental doses at 2-weekly intervals till a maximum tolerated dose was obtained. The primary efficacy parameter was change in pain score (11-point Likert scale) from baseline to the end of the study period.
70 patients were available for intention-to-treat analysis. The average pain scores on the Likert scale were significantly reduced at the end of study in both the treatment groups with 47.6% and 42.8% reduction in pain scores in nortriptyline and gabapentin groups, respectively. Patients showed significant improvement in sleep scores in both the treatment groups nortriptyline (46.0%) and gabapentin (52.0%). The VAS and the SF-MPQ scores for pain were significantly reduced in both the groups. Gabapentin was, however, better tolerated as compared to nortriptyline.
Gabapentin was shown to be equally efficacious but was better tolerated compared to nortriptyline and can be considered a suitable alternative for the treatment of PHN.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common chronic liver disorder in developed countries. Its pathogenesis is poorly understood, and therapeutic options are limited. Here, we show that SIRT7, an NAD(+)-dependent H3K18Ac deacetylase, functions at chromatin to suppress ER stress and prevent the development of fatty liver disease. SIRT7 is induced upon ER stress and is stabilized at the promoters of ribosomal proteins through its interaction with the transcription factor Myc to silence gene expression and to relieve ER stress. SIRT7-deficient mice develop chronic hepatosteatosis resembling human fatty liver disease. Myc inactivation or pharmacological suppression of ER stress alleviates fatty liver caused by SIRT7 deficiency. Importantly, SIRT7 suppresses ER stress and reverts the fatty liver disease in diet-induced obese mice. Our study identifies SIRT7 as a cofactor of Myc for transcriptional repression and delineates a druggable regulatory branch of the ER stress response that prevents and reverts fatty liver disease.
Bupropion is an effective smoking cessation therapy but its use in the UK has been limited by concerns that it may increase the risk of sudden death.
Data for all patients prescribed bupropion within The Health Improvement Network (a computerised general practice database) were extracted and the self-controlled case-series method was used to estimate the relative incidence of death during the first 28 days of treatment. The incidence of seizures, a recognised adverse effect of bupropion, was also investigated during this period.
A total of 9329 individuals had been prescribed bupropion (mean age 44 years, 48% male). The total person-time after the first prescription for bupropion was 17,586 years, and during this time 121 people died. Two people died within the first 28 days of treatment, which was less than expected in comparison with the remaining observation period by an incidence ratio of 0.50 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.12 to 2.05). Twenty eight people were recorded as having a total of 45 seizures (23 before starting bupropion, two in the first 28 days of treatment, and 20 at a later point). The relative incidence of seizures during the first 28 days of treatment was 3.62 (95% CI 0.87 to 15.09), equivalent to one additional seizure per 6219 first time bupropion users.
Bupropion use is probably associated with an increased risk of seizures, but no evidence was found to suggest that the drug is associated with an increased risk of sudden death.
