Caffeine, a widely consumed adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor antagonist, is valued as a psychostimulant, but it is also anxiogenic. An association between a variant within the ADORA2A gene (rs5751876) and caffeine-induced anxiety has been reported for individuals who habitually consume little caffeine. This study investigated whether this single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) might also affect habitual caffeine intake, and whether habitual intake might moderate the anxiogenic effect of caffeine. Participants were 162 non-/low (NL) and 217 medium/high (MH) caffeine consumers. In a randomized, double-blind, parallel groups design they rated anxiety, alertness, and headache before and after 100 mg caffeine and again after another 150 mg caffeine given 90 min later, or after placebo on both occasions. Caffeine intake was prohibited for 16 h before the first dose of caffeine/placebo. Results showed greater susceptibility to caffeine-induced anxiety, but not lower habitual caffeine intake (indeed coffee intake was higher), in the rs5751876 TT genotype group, and a reduced anxiety response in MH vs NL participants irrespective of genotype. Apart from the almost completely linked ADORA2A SNP rs3761422, no other of eight ADORA2A and seven ADORA1 SNPs studied were found to be clearly associated with effects of caffeine on anxiety, alertness, or headache. Placebo administration in MH participants decreased alertness and increased headache. Caffeine did not increase alertness in NL participants. With frequent consumption, substantial tolerance develops to the anxiogenic effect of caffeine, even in genetically susceptible individuals, but no net benefit for alertness is gained, as caffeine abstinence reduces alertness and consumption merely returns it to baseline.
We prospectively evaluated 1273 patients who received spinal (or combined spinal-epidural [CSE]) anesthesia with 1.5% mepivacaine (plain, no glucose) for ambulatory surgery. We hypothesized that analysis of a large series of patients would confirm previous findings that isobaric 1.5% mepivacaine is not frequently associated with transient neurologic symptoms (TNS). Patients were contacted twice after the anesthetic, at days 1-4 and days 6-9. One-thousand-two-hundred-ten patients were successfully contacted postoperatively (95% follow-up rate). None of the patients had permanent neurologic sequelae from the anesthetic. None of the 372 CSE anesthetics was inadequate for surgery. Fourteen of 838 (1.7%) of the spinal anesthetics were inadequate. TNS, defined as the new onset of back pain that radiated bilaterally to buttocks or distally, occurred in 78 patients (6.4%; 95% confidence intervals 5.1%-8%). The mean age of patients who developed TNS (48 +/- 14 yr) was older than that of patients without TNS (41 +/- 16 yr) (P < 0.001). TNS was not influenced by gender or intraoperative position. The frequent success rate and infrequent rates of complications such as TNS and postdural puncture headache suggest that spinal anesthesia with mepivacaine is likely to be a safe and effective anesthetic for ambulatory patients.
Propofol is frequently used for sedation, induction, and maintenance of anesthesia. It is, however, associated with pain on injection. Propofol-Lipuro has an oil phase that allows a larger proportion of propofol to be dissolved in it and, thereby, apparently reduces pain. However, studies investigating this have had methodological limitations. We devised a randomized, double-blind, crossover study comparing pain on injection between two preparations of propofol, Diprivan and Propofol-Lipuro, in subanesthetic doses. Sixty healthy patients received the drugs in random order via the same injection site separated by 10 min and a 0.9% saline flush. Pain was assessed using a verbal rating score (VRS) during and at 1-min time points after injection. Differences in VRS between the two propofol preparations at different time points in each patient were analyzed. In patients who were given Diprivan first followed by Propofol-Lipuro (group D-P), pain was significantly reduced with Propofol-Lipuro compared with Diprivan during initial injection (median difference in VRS = 2 [interquartile range 0-2], P = 0.002) and at 1 min (3 [0-4], P < 0.001). In patients who were given Propofol-Lipuro first followed by Diprivan (group P-D), no significant differences in VRS were shown. Propofol-Lipuro is associated with reduced injection pain compared with Diprivan and also seems to attenuate subsequent injection pain of Diprivan when administered first. The mechanism is unknown, but may be related to a reduction in the concentration of propofol in the aqueous phase.
Sirolimus is an immunosuppressive drug which has proved its effectivity to reduce the incidence of acute rejection in renal transplantation receptors. As this drug lacks nephrotoxic effects, its simultaneous use with other anticalcineurinic drugs allows the use of reduced doses. Thrombocytopenia and hyperlipidemia are the best known side-effects of sirolimus administration. Alterations in hepatic biochemistry results are also common. Some instances of interstitial pneumonitis associated to its use have been recently reported. In this paper we present a clinical case related to this rare but already confirmed adverse side-effect, which apart from the other more common nosologies occurring in immunosuppressed patients, should be taken into account in the differential diagnosis of interstitial pneumonitis in patients who are being administered this drug.
Traditionally, the treatment of viral hepatitis C (positive Polymerase Chain Reaction -PCR-) was with Interferon. A combination of Interferon plus Ribavirin has been producing better results in last years. Currently, Ribavirin is not indicated for patients with Chronic Kidney Disease because of a high risk of severe anaemia. In a few cases, this treatment is producing good results with previous dose adjustment. We show a case of a 28-year-old man with Chronic Kidney Disease on treatment with periodical hemodialysis and chronic hepatopathy HCV Positive RNA HCV (> 1,000,000 copies/ml) and persistent transaminase elevation. Before kidney transplantation, we decided to use Interferon (3,000,000 IU/48 hours) and Ribavirin (200 mg/24 hours) treatment. After 15 days, we saw normal transaminase values and HCV RNA was negative. The patient required temporary suspension of Ribavirin and two red blood cell transfusions due to severe anaemia. Ribavirin was reintroduced 200 mg/48 h posthemodialysis. The patient did not present any complication again, and could be treated for 14 months. After next 11 months of evolution the patient has normal rates of liver function and negative HCV RNA values.
Myoclonic movements and pain on injection are common problems during induction of anesthesia with etomidate. We investigated the influence of pretreatment with magnesium and two doses of ketamine on the incidence of etomidate-induced myoclonus and pain. A prospective double-blind study was performed on 100 ASA physical status I-III patients who were randomized into 4 groups according to the pretreatment drug: ketamine 0.2 mg/kg, ketamine 0.5 mg/kg, magnesium sulfate (Mg) 2.48 mmol, or normal saline. Ninety seconds after the pretreatment, anesthesia was induced with etomidate 0.2 mg/kg. Vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg was used as the muscle relaxant. An anesthesiologist, blinded to group allocation, recorded the myoclonic movements, pain, and sedation on a scale between 0-3. Nineteen of the 25 patients receiving Mg (76%) did not have myoclonic movements after the administration of etomidate, whereas 18 patients (72%) in the ketamine 0.5 mg/kg, 16 patients (64%) in the ketamine 0.2 mg/kg, and 18 patients (72%) in the control group experienced myoclonic movements (P < 0.05). We conclude that Mg 2.48 mmol administered 90 s before the induction of anesthesia with etomidate is effective in reducing the severity of etomidate-induced myoclonic muscle movements and that ketamine does not reduce the incidence of myoclonic movements.
Establishing the mechanism of action of general anesthetics at the molecular level is difficult because of the multiple targets with which these drugs are associated. Inbred short sleep (ISS) and long sleep (ILS) mice are differentially sensitive in response to ethanol and other sedative hypnotics and contain a single quantitative trait locus (Lorp1) that accounts for the genetic variance of loss-of-righting reflex in response to propofol (LORP). In this study, we used high-density oligonucleotide microarrays to identify global gene expression and candidate genes differentially expressed within the Lorp1 region that may give insight into the molecular mechanism underlying LORP. Microarray analysis was performed using Affymetrix MG-U74Av2 Genechips and a selection of differentially expressed genes was confirmed by semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Global expression in the brains of ILS and ISS mice revealed 3423 genes that were significantly expressed, of which 139 (4%) were differentially expressed. Analysis of genes located within the Lorp1 region showed that 26 genes were significantly expressed and that just 2 genes (7%) were differentially expressed. These genes encoded for the proteins AWP1 (associated with protein kinase 1) and "BTB (POZ) domain containing 1," whose functions are largely uncharacterized. Genes differentially expressed outside Lorp1 included seven genes with previously characterized neuronal functions and thus stand out as additional candidate genes that may be involved in mediating the neurosensitivity differences between ISS and ILS.
A phase II study of Paclitaxel in patients with ovarian cancer by 3-hour intravenous infusion was undertaken by a cooperative study group of 30 institutes. Of 66 cases enrolled, 57 cases were evaluable for efficacy, and 63 cases were evaluable for safety. In spite of the fact that all cases for efficacy evaluation were previously treated with chemotherapy including platinum-based drugs, 2 cases of complete response (CR) and 15 cases of partial response (PR) were observed, with a response rate of 29.8% (The 95% confidence interval of response rate was 18.4-43.4%). Paclitaxel also showed 28.2% (11/39) response rate in patients refractory to treatment by platinum-based drugs. Histologically, the response rates were 28.9% (11/38) in serous adenocarcinoma, 40.0% (2/5) in clear cell adenocarcinoma and 25.0% (1/4) in mucinous adenocarcinoma. As the major laboratory abnormalities, leukopenia, neutropenia and decrease in hemoglobin were observed with incidence rates of 98.4% (62/63), 95.2% (59/62) and 85.7% (54/63), respectively. However, these abnormalities were clinically manageable by either withdrawal of medication, administration of antibiotics, G-CSF or metachysis etc. In addition, thrombocytopenia, elevation in GOT and GPT were seen with moderate incidence. Peripheral neuropathy was a major adverse symptom with an incidence of 79.4% (50/63), followed by alopecia, myalgia, arthralgia and fever. However, the majority of these adverse reactions were less than grade 3. From these findings, we confirmed that 3-hour intravenous infusion of Paclitaxel was a clinically useful chemotherapeutic agent in patients with ovarian cancer.
The purpose of this study was to assess the results of therapy with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in children with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS) who were both steroid- and cyclophosphamide-resistant. Treatment lasted a minimum of 6 months, and follow-up data were collected over a 2-year period. The children were divided into two groups: Group 1 (n=34) comprised patients who had received cyclosporine A (CsA) before the initiation of MMF therapy; Group 2 (n=18) comprised patients who received only MMF. Among the 34 patients of Group 1, complete and partial remission were achieved in seven (20.6%) and 13 patients (38.6%), respectively; there was no response in 14 patients (41.2%). Among the 18 patients in Group 2, complete and partial remission occurred in five (27.8%) and six (33.3%) patients, respectively; there was no response in seven patients (38.9%). Eight patients developed chronic kidney disease. The main side-effects were gastrointestinal complaints (n=11, 21%), recurring severe infections (n=1, 1.9%), and mild thrombocytopenia/leucopenia (n=1, 1.9%). MMF proved to be therapeutically effective in 59.5% of the cases. These beneficial effects need to be confirmed in studies with a long-term follow-up after discontinuation of the treatment. Our statistical analysis of the results of therapy with MMF did not reveal any significant difference between its use alone or following CsA administration.
Entecavir is a potent inhibitor of hepatitis B virus (HBV) polymerase. The efficacy and safety of entecavir in nucleoside-naïve patients with hepatitis B virus e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B was established in a large, international, double-dummy study (ETV-022) where patients were randomized to entecavir 0.5 mg/day (n = 354) or lamivudine 100 mg/day (n = 355) once daily. ETV-022 had a 52-week blinded treatment phase, followed by an extended blinded treatment phase for up to 44 additional weeks (96 weeks total). Treatment was discontinued for patients achieving a protocol-defined response as determined by patient management criteria that intended to test the possibility of finite therapy, which has not previously been studied for entecavir or other anti-HBV agents in a large trial. Early results from this study have been previously presented/published separately. This paper compiles the results of up to 2 years of treatment for protocol-defined responders, virologic responders and nonresponders. For responders who discontinued therapy (per protocol), 24-week off-treatment evaluation is presented to provide a more 'complete picture' of what clinicians can expect when treating nucleoside-naïve HBeAg-positive patients with chronic hepatitis B. For patients who discontinued therapy because of nonresponse (nonresponders) and subsequently entered the rollover study ETV-901, follow-up results, including resistance profile, are provided.
We have previously demonstrated that tamoxifen enhanced the chemosensitivity of bladder cancer cells in vitro. In this pilot study, we tested the modulating effect of high-dose tamoxifen to conventional cisplatin, methotrexate, and vinblastine combination chemotherapy (CMV-T) for transitional cell carcinoma (TCC).
Between Nov. 1994 and Mar. 1999, 30 TCC patients were enrolled. Nine patients had muscle-invasive bladder TCC; 21 patients had either unresectable locally advanced diseases or distant metastases. CMV-T consisted of cisplatin 50 mg/m2/day, day 1 & 2; methotrexate 30 mg/m2/day, day 1 & 8; vinblastine 3 mg/m2/day, day 1 & 8; and tamoxifen 200 mg/m2/day, days 1 through 4.
A total of 98 courses had been given with an average of 3.27 courses per patient (range: 1-7). Grade III/IV leukopenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in 18% and 21% of total courses, respectively. There were 7 episodes of neutropenic fever, and 3 patients died of sepsis. Non-haematologic toxicities were generally mild. There was no venous thrombosis. Out of 26 patients eligible for evaluation of response, 1 complete and 14 partial responses with an overall response rate of 58% (95% confidence interval: 38-75%) were observed. The mean survival of all patients was 8 months.
The toxicity of CMV-T chemotherapy is moderate, but generally manageable. The response rate of CMV-T for patients with advanced TCC seems to be only comparable to most conventional cisplatin-based combinations. The possible benefit of tamoxifen to enhance chemosensitivity of TCC needs further investigation.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) recently has been publicly implicated as a cause of stroke and other neurologic events. In November of 2000, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requested a voluntary recall of the product from all manufacturers. However, medications containing PPA still can be found in many homes of those unaware of the voluntary recall. We present a case of stroke after PPA ingestion that occurred 4 months after the recall in an 8-year-old boy on chronic peritoneal dialysis. The patient developed occipital infarcts and was found to have extremely elevated levels of PPA in his blood and dialysis fluid. Though the voluntary recall was in effect, the family already had a bottle of the medication at home. Physicians must be aware that the public is still ingesting the drug and remain rigorous in including its toxicity in the differential diagnosis of acute neurologic events.
2-acetylbenzothiophene-S-oxide (2-ABT-S-oxide or M1) is a reactive metabolite of zileuton, a drug used in the treatment of asthma and is capable of conjugating with glutathione in vitro. Human serum albumin (HSA) is the most abundant protein in plasma and plays a critical role in detoxifying reactive oxygen species. The current research is focused on understanding the interaction between M1 and HSA. The stability studies revealed the half-life of M1 to be about 0.85 h in HSA, 1.82 h in human plasma, and 4.48 h in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) as determined by first-order approximation. The alkylation rate constant k for HSA was 20 M(-1) min(-1). After quenching with acetonitrile, the half-life of M1 did not change significantly, indicating that M1 is covalently bound to HSA. LC-MS and LC-MS/MS analysis of human plasma revealed the M1 alkylated peptide P (m/z 870) formed by HSA conjugation and concomitant water elimination. The specific amino acid on HSA bound to M1 was identified as Cys-34. This alkylation is observed to be concentration- and incubation-time-dependent in human plasma. HSA oxidized by N, N'-diacetyl-L-cystine exhibits a compromised ability of HSA to react with M1. The alkylated HSA diminished the binding affinity for warfarin. Furthermore, the alkylation was found to be irreversible in the dialysis experiment. In addition, M1 decomposes to 2-ABT in the presence of HSA, presumably acting as an oxidant. The formation of 2-ABT in the incubation and the self-condensation of M1 in PBS indicate that the alkylation of Cys-34 is only one of a number of reactions that occur in the presence of HSA. Irreversible protein modification may potentially lead to a loss of its function. HSA irreversible alkylation represents a model for other proteins to be potentially toxic and thus may help explain zileuton hepatotoxicity.
To study the changes of prodynorphin (PDyn) gene expression and dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) phosphorylation in rats with levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID), and to explore the mechanism of over-activation in direct pathway mediated by dopamine D₁ receptor.
Parkinson's disease (PD) rats were received levodopa (10 mg/kg, i.p.) for 28 d to get the LID rats. According to the behavior scale, LID rats were divided into mild (n = 8) and severe (n = 16) groups. On day 29, 8 rats in severe LID group were given an acute intraperitoneal injection of MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) 15 min before levodopa treatment (MK-801 group, n = 8). The normal rats received same course and dosage of levodopa as the control group (n = 8). Hybridization in situ was used to measure the expression of PDyn mRNA in striatum. Protein and mRNA levels of total DARPP-32 and phospho-Thr-34 DARPP-32 level were measured by immunoblotting and RT-PCR, respectively.
The levels of PDyn mRNA and phospho-Thr-34 DARPP-32 increased significantly in LID rats compared with control rats (P < 0.01), and they also increased markedly in severe LID group compared with mild group (P < 0.01).
Phospho-Thr-34 DARPP-32 level was increased in LID rats, which contributed to the over-activation of direct pathway mediated by dopamine D₁ receptor.
Dopamine D(2) antagonists are known to induce akathisia, the emergency management of which remains undetermined. We sought to evaluate the effectiveness of diphenhydramine in the treatment of akathisia induced by 10 mg intravenous prochlorperazine. This prospective, open-label, uncontrolled study evaluated a cohort of akathisic adult Emergency Department patients who were participating in a series of three studies of acute akathisia at an academic medical center. Each subject received intravenous diphenhydramine, with akathisia measurements (graded from 0-17 points) performed just before and 30 min after infusion. Mean scores were calculated using descriptive statistical analyses. The effect of treatment was evaluated using the paired t-test. For the 87 akathisic patients, the mean score before treatment was 9.8 +/- 3.6, and after treatment was 1.2 +/- 2.6, a mean reduction of 8.5 +/- 3.8 (95% confidence interval [CI], 7.8 to 9.4; p < 0.0001). In conclusion, intravenous diphenhydramine rapidly reduces signs and symptoms of acute akathisia induced by prochlorperazine.
To investigate the effect of the overall alkali of Traditional Chinese Medicine tongbiling(TBL) which comprises brucine and strychnine alkaloids on collagen induced-arthritis(CIA) and study its paharmacological mechanisms of cellular immunity.
Bovine CII was emulsified in Freund's incomplete adjuvant. Wistar rats were injected with Type II collagen intradermally at the base of the tail. After swelling, CIA groups were, randomly divided into physiological saline group and treatment group. Then the swelling of the rats' hindlimbs was evaluated. The whole body of the rats treated on 35 th days was photographed by mammography X-Ray. 96 joints in erosion scoring system and 100 joints in joint spacing narrow(JSN) scoring system were used to observe the joint destruction of CIA from X-Ray comprehensively and objectively. After the rats were killed, the third proximal claw pad of the right hindlimb and left forelimb were stained by HE dying, Neutrophil, lymphocyte, plasmacyte infiltration and hyperplasia of synoviocytes were assessed. Then MTT and Western blot were used to determine the effect of the overall alkali of TBL on proliferation of Jurkat cells and ERK1/2 phosphorylation of Jurkat cells, respectively.
Inflammation of CIA joints was aggravated quickly. The swelling of CIA rats treated by MTX and overall alkali of TBL for 35 days was relieved (P<0.05). MTX and overall alkali of TBL inhibited the hyperplasia of synoviocytes. Overall alkali of TBL inhibited the infiltration of lymphocyteS and plasmacytes. Overall alkali of TBL inhibited the proliferation and ERK1/2 phosphorylation of Jurkat cells.
Overall alkali of TBL could relieve joint inflammation and destruction of CIA rats by blocking the MAPK cell signalling pathway to inhibit the activation and proliferation of T cells. Our study might provide an experimental basis for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with overall alkali of TBL.
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia with apparent combined P450C17 and P450C21 deficiency is associated with accumulation of steroid metabolites, indicating impaired activity of 17alpha-hydroxylase and 21-hydroxylase. However, no mutations have been reported in the CYP17 and CYP21 genes, which encode these P450 enzymes. Affected girls are born with ambiguous genitalia, but their circulating androgens are low, and virilisation does not progress. We aimed to investigate the underlying molecular basis of congenital adrenal hyperplasia with apparent combined P450C17 and P450C21 deficiency in affected children.
We did sequence analysis of the human gene encoding P450 oxidoreductase, an enzyme that is important in electron transfer from NADPH to P450C17 and P450C21. We studied two unrelated families with a total of three affected children and 100 healthy controls. Wild-type and mutant P450 oxidoreductase proteins were bacterially expressed, purified, and assayed for cytochrome c reductase activity.
We identified four mutations encoding single aminoacid changes in P450 oxidoreductase. All patients were compound heterozygotes, whereas their parents and an unaffected sibling harboured a mutation in only one allele. By contrast, no mutations were noted in the controls. Bacterial expression of recombinant mutant proteins revealed deficient or reduced enzyme activity.
Molecular pathogenesis of this form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia is caused by mutations in the gene encoding P450 oxidoreductase. Deficiency of this enzyme could suggest an alternative pathway in human androgen synthesis, present only in fetal life, which explains the combination of antenatal androgen excess and postnatal androgen deficiency.
Rats were injected daily for 21 days with water or with chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride (10 mg/kg) and then tested in the elevated plus-maze 24-30 hr after the last of their chronic injections. At this time, rats withdrawn from chlordiazepoxide showed a significant decrease in the % of time spent on the open arms, compared with controls, thus indicating enhanced anxiety. The benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil (Ro 15-1788, 4 mg/kg, IP 20 min before test) significantly (p less than 0.01) reversed this withdrawal anxiety, and was without effect in the control group. The partial inverse agonist, FG 7142 (5 mg/kg IP 30 min before test) had no significant effect on the withdrawal anxiety. Possible mechanisms underlying the enhanced anxiety displayed by rats in withdrawal from chlordiazepoxide are discussed. It is concluded that a likely explanation is that chronic benzodiazepine treatment leads to an increased production and release of an endogenous ligand for the benzodiazepine receptor, with inverse agonist properties.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is known to be expressed in several cancers, and the treatment of these cancer cells with PPARgamma ligands often induces cell differentiation and apoptosis. Recently, the chemopreventive potential of PPARgamma ligands on colon carcinogenesis was reported, although the effect of PPARgamma on colon carcinogenesis and the mechanism of the effect remain controversial. In this study, we attempted to elucidate the role of PPARgamma in gastric carcinogenesis and explored the possible use of PPARgamma ligand as a chemopreventive agent for gastric cancer. N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU, 240 ppm) was given in drinking water for 10 weeks to induce gastric cancer in PPARgamma wild-type (+/+) and heterozygous-deficient (+/-) mice, followed by treatment with PPARgamma ligand [troglitazone, 0.15% (w/w) in powder food] or the vehicle alone for 42 weeks. At the end of the experiment, PPARgamma (+/-) mice were more susceptible to MNU-induced gastric cancer than wild-type (+/+) mice (89.5%/55.5%), and troglitazone significantly reduced the incidence of gastric cancer in PPARgamma (+/+) mice (treatment 55.5%/vehicle 9%) but not in PPARgamma (+/-) mice. The present study showed that (a) PPARgamma suppresses gastric carcinogenesis, (b) the PPARgamma ligand troglitazone is a potential chemopreventive agent for gastric carcinogenesis, and (c) troglitazone's chemopreventive effect is dependent on PPARgamma.
The present study examines the behavioral and psychophysiological effects of phenytoin (PHT) in individuals who display impulsive-aggressive outbursts. In a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design, individuals meeting previously established criteria for impulsive aggression were administered PHT and placebo during separate 6-week conditions. The efficacy measures used were the Overt Aggression Scale (OAS) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS). Psychophysiological measures (evoked potentials) were taken at baseline and at the end of each 6-week condition. Photic stimulation was used to evoke the mid-latency P1-N1-P2 waveform complex. Analysis indicated a significant decrease in the frequency of impulsive-aggressive outbursts during PHT administration compared to baseline and placebo. Analysis of the psychophysiological data showed significantly increased P1 amplitude and significantly longer N1 latency during PHT administration. In addition, a reduction in N1 amplitude during PHT administration was also suggested. These findings indicate reparation of physiological abnormalities previously observed in impulsive-aggressive individuals and imply more efficient sensory processing and effective orienting of attention. Taken together, these results provide insight as to the physiological mechanisms by which PHT serves to ameliorate impulsive-aggressive behavior.
We describe a patient in whom a manic episode was precipitated by use of panadeine forte, a preparation containing codeine and paracetamol.
The patient developed a discrete manic psychotic episode.
The treatment consisted of cessation of the Panadeine forte and antipsychotic medication.
The patient made a complete recovery after 1 week.
Mania can be induced by large doses of Panadeine forte, particularly if there is a biological predisposition.
There are pronounced interindividual differences in the neurotoxicity of theophylline in humans as reflected by the wide range of plasma theophylline concentrations associated with the occurrence of life-threatening, generalized seizures in patients treated with this widely used bronchodilator. The variability indicates that there may be a number of as yet unrecognized risk factors for theophylline neurotoxicity. After the development of an animal model of theophylline-induced seizures, renal failure was identified as one such risk factor. This investigation was designed to determine if experimental liver disease will alter the neurotoxic effect of theophylline. Studies were performed on rats with extrahepatic cholestasis produced by bile duct ligation and with hepatic necrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride administration and on respective controls. Theophylline was infused i.v. at 1.03 mg/min until the onset of maximal seizures. Theophylline and theophylline metabolite concentrations at that time were determined in serum (unbound and total drug), brain and cerebrospinal fluid. Extrahepatic cholestasis was associated with small increases in unbound theophylline concentration in serum, theophylline concentration in brain and serum free fraction in serum at onset of seizures. The concentrations of theophylline metabolites were negligible. There were no apparent effects of extrahepatic cholestasis or hepatic necrosis on theophylline concentrations at onset of seizures in cerebrospinal fluid, the fluid that was shown in a preceding study to be the best indicator of the theophylline concentration at the site of the neurotoxic effect. It is concluded that experimental liver disease had no apparent effect on the neurotoxicity of theophylline under the conditions of this investigation.
Cadmium (Cd), a harmful metal, exerts severe toxic effects on various tissues such as those in the kidney, liver, lung, and bone. In particular, renal toxicity with damage to proximal tubule cells is caused by chronic exposure to Cd. However, the molecular mechanism underlying chronic Cd renal toxicity remains to be understood. In this review, we present our recent findings since we examined to search for the target molecules involved in the renal toxicity of Cd using toxicogenomics. In NRK-52E rat renal tubular epithelial cells, we found using DNA microarrays that Cd suppressed the expression of the gene encoding Ube2d4, a member of the Ube2d family. The Ube2d family consists of selective ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes associated with p53 degradation. Moreover, Cd suppressed the expressions of genes encoding all Ube2d family members (Ube2d1/2/3/4) prior to the appearance of cytotoxicity in NRK-52E cells. Cd markedly increased p53 protein level and induced p53 phosphorylation and apoptosis in the cells. In vivo studies showed that chronic Cd exposure also suppressed Ube2d family gene expression and induced p53 accumulation and apoptosis in the renal tubules of the mouse kidney. These findings suggest that Cd causes p53-dependent apoptosis due to the inhibition of p53 degradation through the down-regulation of Ube2d family genes in NRK-52E cells and mouse kidney. Thus, the Ube2d family genes may be one of the key targets of renal toxicity caused by Cd.
We report three cases of drug-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). Three patients with advanced gastrointestinal cancer underwent a curative operation and adjuvant chemotherapy with Mitomycin C (MMC), 5FU and Ara-C. Later, progressive anemia, thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction and elevation of serum LDH were recognized. A diagnosis of HUS was made. As they had no symptoms of infectious diseases or relapse of cancer, the cause of HUS was thought to be MMC. Treatment with antiplatelet drugs and fresh frozen plasma was effective for two patients. However, one patient died of pulmonary edema.
Two cases of bradycardia following the intra-operative use of ketorolac given intravenously (i.v.) to children are reported. We examine why this may not have been previously reported and make recommendations regarding its use.
Among the numeruos adverse side effects of tacrolimus (TAC), de novo thrombotic microangiopathy stands out as an infrecuente but severe complication. Renal dysfunction is the only alteration that should lead to suspicion of thrombotic microangiopathy, because the clinical features of intravascular hemolysis are not always found. The definitive diagnosis can usually be made with kidney biopsy. Patientes with TAC induced thrombotic microangiopathy usually promptly recover after treatment withdrawal or reduction in the dose of TAC and a short course of plasma therapy, but the risk of rejection increases. Switching from TAC to cyclosporine has also been tried with resolution of the hemolysis but thrombotic microangiopathy has been noted with both and this condition may later recur. We present a 29-year-old man who received a kidney-pancreas transplant for end-stage diabetic nephropathy. After initial induction with basiliximab, the immunosuppression consisted of prednisone, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil. Twenty four days posttransplantation his renal function declined with a peak creatine level of 2.35 mg/dl. Laboratory studies showed thrombocytopenia and features of intravascular hemolysis. TAC associated hemolytic uremic syndrome was suspected and drug was immediately stopped and converted to sirolimus. Also he was treated with plasma infusion. The allograft biopsy showed focal glomerular and arteriolar acute thrombosis without evidence of rejection. Our experience demostrate that switching from tacrolimus to sirolimus could be an adecuate strategy for patients who develop FK506-associated de novo thrombotic microangiopathy without increase risk of acute rejection.
Exposure to arsenic in drinking water increases incidence of cardiovascular diseases. However, the basic mechanisms and genetic changes that promote these diseases are unknown. This study investigated the effects of chronic arsenic exposure on vessel growth and expression of angiogenic and tissue remodeling genes in cardiac tissues. Male mice were exposed to low to moderately high levels of arsenite (AsIII) for 5, 10, or 20 wk in their drinking water. Vessel growth in Matrigel implants was tested during the last 2 wk of each exposure period. Implant vascularization increased in mice exposed to 5-500 ppb AsIII for 5 wk. Similar increases were seen following exposure to 50-250 ppb of AsIII over 20 wk, but the response to 500 ppb decreased with time. RT-PCR analysis of cardiac mRNA revealed differential expression of angiogenic or tissue remodeling genes, such as vascular endothelial cell growth factor (VEGF), VEGF receptors, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, endothelin-1, and matrix metalloproteinase-9, which varied with time or amount of exposure. VEGF receptor mRNA and cardiac microvessel density were reduced by exposure to 500 ppb AsIII for 20 wk. These data demonstrate differential concentration and time-dependent effects of chronic arsenic exposure on cardiovascular phenotype and vascular remodeling that may explain the etiology for AsIII-induced disease.
