The in vitro antiproliferative and apoptosis inducing properties of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) like acetyl salicylic acid (aspirin) and indomethacin were investigated in T98G human glioblastoma cells to explore their potential role in the chemoprevention of human glioma. The biological effects induced by aspirin and indomethacin on T98G cells, in which the expression of cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were confirmed by RT-PCR and immunostaining, were investigated by studying cell proliferation and apoptosis assays. The antiproliferative effects occurred in a dose- and time-dependent manner on T98G cells by the treatment with 0.1 -2 mM aspirin and 25-100 microM indomethacin. Moreover, aspirin displayed the greatest growth inhibition within 24 h. Approximately 90% growth inhibition occurred following treatment either with 2 mM aspirin or 100 microM indomethacin by 72 h and induction of apoptosis was confirmed by DNA laddering and TUNEL assay. Our in vitro findings indicate that aspirin and indomethacin have an antiproliferative effect on T98G human glioblastoma cells at toxic concentrations.
Several epidemiological studies have shown that acute exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with increases in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and that these effects are especially exacerbated among individuals with pre-existing compromised cardiovascular function such as hypertension. This study was undertaken to determine the cardiovascular effect of diesel exhaust on TO mice made hypertensive by implanting osmotic minipump infusing angiotensin II or vehicle (control). On day 13, the animals were intratracheally instilled with either DEP (15 μg/mouse) or saline. 24 h later, pulmonary exposure to DEP had significantly decreased the systolic blood pressure (SBP) in hypertensive (HT) mice (P<0.01), but not in normotensive (NT) mice. The number of leukocytes and red blood cells, and the plasma interleukin 6 concentration in plasma, however, were not affected in any of the animals. The PaO₂ was decreased, and PaCO₂ increased in DEP-treated HT mice compared to NT mice treated with DEP (P<0.05). The number of circulating platelets was significantly increased in DEP-treated HT versus saline-treated HT and DEP-treated NT mice. Moreover, in NT mice, DEP exposure induced a prothrombotic effect in pial arterioles compared with saline-treated NT mice (P<0.05). Interestingly, in DEP-treated HT mice, the prothrombotic events were significantly aggravated compared with saline-treated HT and DEP-treated NT mice. The direct addition of DEP (0.1-1 μg/ml) to untreated mouse blood significantly induced in vitro platelet aggregation in a dose-dependent fashion, and these effects were more pronounced in blood of HT mice. In vitro exposure to DEP (0.25-1 μg/ml) led to activated intravascular coagulation, an effect that was confirmed by a shortening of both the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and the prothrombin time (PT). The effect of DEP on aPTT was potentiated in the plasma of HT mice. It can be concluded that the thrombotic events caused by DEP are exacerbated by hypertension in mice. Our findings, therefore, provide a possible plausible explanation for the cardiovascular morbidity and mortality accompanying urban air pollution.
We hypothesized that the mouse liver tumor response to non-genotoxic carcinogens would involve some common early gene and protein expression changes that could ultimately be used to predict chemical hepatocarcinogenesis. In order to identify a panel of genes to test, we analyzed global differences in gene and protein expression in livers from B6C3F1 mice following dietary treatment with two rodent carcinogens, the benzodiazepine anti-anxiety drug oxazepam (2500 p.p.m.) and the hypolipidemic agent Wyeth (Wy)-14,643 (500 p.p.m.) compared with livers from untreated mice. Male mice were exposed for 2 weeks and 1, 3 or 6 months to oxazepam or Wy-14,643 in an age-matched study design. By histopathological evaluation, no liver preneoplastic foci or tumors were detected at 6 months in treated or control groups. By cDNA microarray analysis [NIEHS Mouse Chip (8700 genes); n = 3 individual livers/group, four hybridizations/sample], expression of 36 genes or 220 genes were changed relative to control livers following 6 months of oxazepam or Wy-14,643 treatment, respectively. To obtain a more comprehensive picture of gene/protein expression changes, we also conducted a proteomics study by 2D-gel electrophoresis followed by matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization-mass spectrometry on cytoplasmic, nuclear, and microsomal subcellular fractions of the same liver samples utilized for the cDNA microarray analysis. Real-time PCR, western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry were utilized for validation and to expand the results to other time points. Cyp2b20, growth arrest- and damage-inducible gene beta (Gadd45beta), tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 2 and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 1 (Igfbp5) genes and proteins were upregulated by oxazepam, and Cyp2b20, Cyclin D1, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, Igfbp5, Gadd45beta and cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation factor alpha subunit-like effector A exhibited higher expression after Wy-14,643 treatment. Most of these genes/proteins were also deregulated at 2 weeks. There appeared to be more distinct than common changes in the expression of carcinogenesis-related genes/proteins between the two compounds, suggesting that the major carcinogenic pathways are different for these compounds and may be distinct for different chemical classes.
The flavonoid quercetin is a powerful iron chelator, capable of oxidizing heme iron in hemoglobin from Fe(2+) to Fe(3+). Moreover, quercetin crosses the placenta and accumulates in the fetus. Since adaptations made by the fetus to cope with inappropriate nutrition may lead to permanent changes, a relative high intake of quercetin may have detrimental affects later in life. Therefore, we investigated the effects of maternal exposure to quercetin (302 mg/kg feed), starting from 3 days before conception until the end of gestation, on erythropoiesis and iron homeostasis at embryonic day 14.5 and in 12-week old mice. During fetal development, quercetin exposure had no effect on the erythroid lineage switch and concomitant globin switch. However, adult mice prenatally exposed to quercetin had significant increase iron storage in the liver, by upregulating iron-associated cytokine expression (hepcidin, IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-10). These long term changes in gene expression could be mediated through epigenetic modifications, as prenatal quercetin exposure resulted in a modest hypermethylation of repetitive elements. Despite the increased iron levels, oxidative stress was significantly decreased in the liver of these animals as assessed by 8-oxo-dG levels. These data suggest that prenatal quercetin exposure results in increased iron storage, while decreasing oxidative stress induced DNA damage together with a shift towards increased expression of inflammation associated cytokines in the liver at adult age.
Mylotarg has moderate activity as a single agent in patients with CD33-positive refractory or relapsed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). A combination of an anthracycline and cytarabine (ara-C) is the core of most AML induction regimens. We conducted a pilot study of Mylotarg combined with idarubicin and ara-C in patients with refractory or relapsed AML.
Mylotarg was administered at 6 mg/m(2) intravenously on days 1 and 15, idarubicin 12 mg/m(2) daily on days 2 through 4, and ara-C at 1.5 g/m(2) daily on days 2 through 5 (MIA) RESULTS: Of 14 patients were treated, 4 (29%) had primary resistant AML, and 10 (71%) relapsed AML. The median age of the patients was 61 years (range 34-74 years). MIA induced complete remission (CR) in three patients (21%) and CR with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) in three patients (21%). The median survival was 8 weeks (range 2-64 weeks), and the median failure-free survival of CR patients was 27 weeks (range 11-64 weeks). All patients developed grade 3/4 myelosuppression - severe sepsis occurred in ten patients (71%). Other grade 3/4 nonhematologic toxicities included hepatic transaminitis, oral mucositis, and diarrhea. Two patients (14%) developed hepatic venoocclusive disease (VOD).
The addition of Mylotarg to idarubicin and ara-C is feasible. MIA has significant activity in patients with refractory AML. Hepatotoxicity and VOD are significant toxicities of Mylotarg-based combinations.
The recently promulgated Health Care Finance Administration guidelines regarding the use of neuroleptic medications for nursing home residents do not offer criteria for the frequency or nature of the required assessments of neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism (NIP). NIP has been poorly characterized in the elderly and empirical evidence on which to base guidelines for monitoring NIP is sparse. We examined the onset of NIP in 12 closely monitored, elderly psychiatric inpatients diagnosed with dementia being treated with perphenazine. Significant increases in the Simpson Extrapyramidal Side Effect Scale total score were detected by day 4 of treatment with perphenazine at a mean dose of 8.0 mg. This increase was highly correlated with the final NIP severity. This is the first report to demonstrate that routine screening of elderly patients can detect NIP within days of the initiation of neuroleptic treatment. Early detection of NIP may allow for effective intervention to reduce the ultimate severity and associated morbidity of NIP.
Diosgenin a steroidal saponin found widely in nature is reported to contain several biological activities in recent years. The present work elaborates the modulation of the lipid and antioxidant profile by Diosgenin in diabetic condition. Type 2 diabetes was induced in experimental animals by feeding high fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks followed by streptozotocin (STZ) injection (sub-diabetogenic dose; 35 mg/kg body weight). Diosgenin administered orally at two doses (40 and 80 mg/kg body weight) for 14 days reduced hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia (p<0.001). Oxidative stress a crucial marker of diabetes and obesity associated complications was analyzed and noteworthy changes were observed. Improved levels of the antioxidant enzymes SOD and GPx and a minimized level of lipid peroxidation were also observed in Diosgenin treated rats. Further, analyzing the lipid accumulation by Oil Red O staining in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes confirmed its adipogenic activity which was influenced by PPAR γ and PPAR α. This was also substantiated through docking studies of Diosgenin with the PPARs. Altogether, Diosgenin a phytochemical of natural origin is found to mitigate diabetes induced oxidative stress and dyslipidemia which is crucial in cardio-metabolic risks by modulating the PPARs.
In a frail, elderly, depressed patient, hyponatremia can present a difficult diagnostic and management challenge. We report the case of a severely depressed 83-year-old woman presenting with severe hyponatremia, eventually attributed to a syndrome of inappropriate, antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion induced by fluoxetine. This case is discussed in the context of the multiple potential causes of hyponatremia in an elderly depressed patient, with a focus on fluoxetine-induced SIADH, as reported in 9 other published cases.
Pegylated interferon (pegIFN) and ribavirin eradicates hepatitis C virus (HCV) in one third of liver recipients with recurrent disease. Side effects are frequent and potentially life threatening. Our aim was to define the long-term benefits of antiviral therapy in recurrent HCV. Eighty-nine (89) recipients (genotype 1: 86.5%) were treated with IFN (n = 31) or pegIFN (n = 58) plus ribavirin and 75 untreated contemporaneous disease-matched controls. The major end point was survival from transplantation. Survival, progression to cirrhosis and clinical decompensation since start of therapy were compared between sustained virologic responders (SVRs) and nonresponders (NRs). Results revealed 44 patients died during the follow-up (20% treated vs. 35% controls; p = 0.05). Patient survival was higher in treated compared to controls (7 years: 74% vs. 62%; p = 0.04). Among treated patients, an SVR was achieved in 37% (IFN 16% vs. peg-IFN 48%; p = 0.03). About 2/33 SVRs and 16/56 NRs died (p = 0.01) due to HCV-disease (56%), IFN-induced rejection (11%), both causes (11%) or others (22%). Five-year survival was greater in SVRs than in NRs (93% vs. 69%, p = 0.032). In patients without baseline cirrhosis, progression to cirrhosis occurred more frequently in NRs (27/42 vs. 6/16; p = 0.06). The 5-year risk of graft decompensation was higher in NRs (33% vs. 16%; p = 0.04). Antiviral therapy is associated with improved long-term outcome in recurrent HCV.
For more than two decades psychiatrists have known about and have promoted modafinil, a very promising stimulant that boosts wakefulness in cases of narcolepsy and also enhances cognitive functions. At present, however, we must conclude that modafinil is hardly ever used to treat illness other than narcolepsy.
To review current attitudes and practice with regard to the use and efficacy of modafinil in the treatment of psychiatric disorders.
Relevant placebo-controlled studies were retrieved via PubMed (Medline) and Web of Science.
Modafinil is used experimentally to treat ADHD, mood disorders, schizophrenia and substance-dependence. Compared to placebo, modafinil achieves positive but mainly variable results on different clinical and cognitive measures. It achieves results very rapidly, within a week, but over a period of time the results stabilise.
Modafinil is particularly successful in the treatment of ADHD, depression and cocaine-dependency on measures of attention and hyperactivity, fatigue and cocaine-use respectively. There is a need for further placebo-controlled trials with longer follow-up periods and larger sample size in order to ensure the safety of the product and to refine its area of efficacy.
Hydroethidine is reported to be selectively oxidized to ethidium by superoxide. Using digital imaging and fluorescence microscopy it is possible to evaluate neuronal ethidium accumulation in specific brain regions of rats damaged in the lithium-pilocarpine model of status epilepticus. Intravenous or intraperitoneal administration of hydroethidine prior to 1 h of status epilepticus produced diffuse cytosolic distribution of ethidium fluorescence suggesting an increased neuronal production of superoxide that was not observed in control animals. A significantly increased number of neurons with the enhanced ethidium fluorescence was observed in parietal cortex, piriform cortex, perirhinal cortex, lateral amygdala, mediodorsal thalamus and laterodorsal thalamus, suggesting superoxide as a mechanism of neuronal injury in those regions. Other regions injured by lithium-pilocarpine seizures, such as the basolateral amygdala and hippocampus, did not demonstrate the enhanced neuronal ethidium fluorescence. In such regions it is possible that superoxide is not a mechanism of injury or that 1 h of status epilepticus is not sufficient to produce superoxide or other reactive oxygen species.
This laboratory has shown that a human urothelial cell line (UROtsa) transformed by cadmium (Cd(2+)) produced subcutaneous tumor heterotransplants that resemble human transitional cell carcinoma (TCC). In the present study, additional Cd(2+) transformed cell lines were isolated to determine if independent exposures of the cell line to Cd(2+) would result in malignantly transformed cell lines possessing similar phenotypic properties. Seven independent isolates were isolated and assessed for their doubling times, morphology, ability to heterotransplant subcutaneously and in the peritoneal cavity of nude mice, and for the expression of keratin 7. The 7 cell lines all displayed an epithelial morphology with no evidence of squamous differentiation. Doubling times were variable among the isolates, being significantly reduced or similar to those of the parental cells. All 7 isolates were able to form subcutaneous tumor heterotransplants with a TCC morphology, and all heterotransplants displayed areas of squamous differentiation of the transitional cells. The degree of squamous differentiation varied among the isolates. In contrast to subcutaneous tumor formation, only 1 isolate of the Cd(2+) transformed cells (UTCd#1) was able to effectively colonize multiple sites within the peritoneal cavity. An analysis of keratin 7 expression showed no correlation with squamous differentiation for the subcutaneous heterotransplants generated from the 7 cell lines. Keratin 7 was expressed in 6 of the 7 cell lines and their subcutaneous tumor heterotransplants. Keratin 7 was not expressed in the cell line that was able to form tumors within the peritoneal cavity. These results show that individual isolates of Cd(2+) transformed cells have both similarities and differences in their phenotype.
Adenosine is an endogenous modulator that has an inhibitory effect on neuronal activity. The aim of this work was to investigate the role of aminophylline, an adenosine receptor antagonist, on the long-term effects of status epilepticus (SE) in the developing brain. Four groups of rats at the postnatal age of 12 days were intraperitoneally administered with saline, aminophylline (50 mg/kg), lithium-pilocarpine (Li-PC) (3 mEq/kg-60 mg/kg), and Li-PC plus aminophylline, respectively. The four groups were tested for spatial memory using the Morris water maze task at P80 and motor performance by the Rotarod test at P100. The brains were then analyzed with cresyl violet stain for histological lesions and evaluated for mossy fiber sprouting with the Timm stain. At the acute stage, all rats subjected to Li-PC developed SE and no seizures were elicited in the saline-treated or aminophylline-treated rats. The seizure duration was longer in the Li-PC plus aminophylline group (346.9+/-32.7 min) as compared with that in the Li-PC group (265.2+/-9.8 min). The difference of mortality was not significant. Rats without seizures exhibited no motor imbalance, spatial deficits, or morphological changes. The rats with Li-PC-induced SE demonstrated spatial memory deficits without motor incoordination or morphological changes. However, the rats subjected to Li-PC plus aminophylline exhibited motor impairment and morphological changes, including neuronal cell loss in CA1 area and increased mossy fiber sprouting in CA3 area. In addition, the rats of Li-PC plus aminophylline had greater spatial memory deficits than that seen in rats with Li-PC. We concluded that an adenosine receptor antagonist, such as aminophylline, had synergistic effects on the SE-induced long-term deficit of cognition and motor performance in the developing brain. The present study may provide experimental evidence and lead to novel therapeutic interventions.
In a pilot study the safety and therapeutic effects of an immunostimulatory intralymphatic treatment with natural human interleukin-2 (IL-2) in combination with zidovudine were evaluated in nine patients with AIDS. Therapy with IL-2 consisted of one subcutaneous injection of 0.1 microgram/kg IL-2, followed by four intralymphatic IL-2 infusions of 0.1 microgram/kg each within a period of up to 15 days. Enlargement of lymph nodes was seen in six and a transient increase of CD4 cells in five out of nine persons in association with the IL-2 therapy. An increase of HIV p24-antigenemia was observed only in the two patients in whom zidovudine dosage had to be reduced because of side effects. Moderate clinical side effects occurred in eight of the nine patients. Four patients developed zidovudine associated anemia. Six participants showed a favourable course of disease with survival of 25 to 54 months (median 30 months) despite a previous diagnosis of manifest AIDS before IL-2 therapy. This pilot study demonstrates that a combination therapy with intralymphatic IL-2 and zidovudine can induce positive immunomodulatory effects, even in the presence of manifest AIDS. Further studies should explore the tolerability and effects of a prolonged therapy with IL-2 in combination with a more potent antiviral drug combination therapy.
This study assesses the effects of dofetilide, a new selective Ikr blocker with class III properties, on left ventricular function and hemodynamics of heart failure and compares these effects with those of placebo and amiodarone. Because available antiarrhythmic drugs may depress myocardial performance, an invasive hemodynamic study was performed to assess the safety of this agent. Hemodynamic and angiographic data were obtained at baseline and after 30 minutes of double-blind infusion of dofetilide (8 microg/kg; n = 12), placebo (n = 12), or amiodarone (5 mg/kg; n = 6) in heart failure patients (New York Heart Association class II or III, ejection fraction <35%). Intravenous dofetilide preserved the inotropic indexes and the end-systolic volume index despite a slight but significant decrease in heart rate, whereas intravenous amiodarone increased end-diastolic and end-systolic volume indexes. Amiodarone induced a negative inotropic effect illustrated by a rightward shift of the pressure-volume loop and a reduction in pressure-derived indexes of contractility. Intravenous dofetilide acutely prolonged QT interval more than intravenous amiodarone; however, dofetilide did not slow the overall relaxation rate and reduced QT dispersion. In an acute setting, compared with intravenous amiodarone, intravenous dofetilide preserves cardiac function offering a hemodynamic advantage to treat arrhythmias in patients with impaired left ventricular function.
Parkinson disease (PD) is characterized by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and the presence of intracytoplasmatic inclusions known as Lewy bodies. Chronic administration of rotenone (RT) produces Parkinson's-like symptoms in rats. Because PD patients have disrupted sleep patterns, we determined if chronic RT administration produces similar changes in rat sleep. RT was administered for 28 days to rats. Basal and vehicle (VH) rats received saline or dimethyl sulfoxide and polyethylene glycol (1:1), respectively. VH infusion induced a progressive decrease in non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) during the 4-week period of VH infusion and REMS was reduced in the third and fourth week of VH infusion. VH infusion did not induce dopaminergic cell degeneration. Rats receiving RT infusion also showed decreased NREMS during the treatment. REMS was dramatically reduced on day 7 although subsequently on days 13 and 20 REMS was similar to basal values. After 4 weeks of RT infusion, time in REMS was decreased again. In RT-treated rats, progressive dopaminergic cell degeneration occurred in the SNc. After 4 weeks of daily injections of L-dopa in RT-infused rats, NREMS values remained similar to those values obtained after RT alone. L-dopa therapy did, however, induce a recovery of REMS in weeks 3 and 4 of RT infusion. Dopaminergic cell damage persisted in the L-dopa-RT-infused rats. We conclude that the RT-PD rat model is associated with large long-term sleep disruption, however, the vehicle, DMSO/PEG had as large an effect as RT on sleep, thus changes in sleep cannot be ascribed to loss of dopaminergic cells. Such results question the validity of the RT-PD rat model.
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9 is the principal enzyme responsible for the metabolism of numerous clinically important drugs. Two polymorphic alleles CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 have been documented which affect the metabolism and clinical toxicity of drugs such as phenytoin, warfarin, glipizide, and tolbutamide. The present study reports the first example of a null polymorphism in CYP2C9. This mutation dramatically affects the half-life and clinical toxicity of phenytoin. The study subject was a female African-American presented to the emergency department with phenytoin toxicity evidenced by mental confusion, slurred speech, memory loss and the inability to stand. She exhibited extremely poor clearance of phenytoin with an elimination half-life of approximately 13 days. Genotyping studies demonstrated that the patient did not possess any known variant CYP2C9 alleles. Phenytoin is metabolized to a minor extent by the polymorphic CYP2C19, but this individual did not possess any variant CYP2C19 alleles. Sequencing studies revealed that the individual was homozygous for a new CYP2C9 allele (CYP2C9*6) with the deletion of an adenine at base pair 818 of the cDNA. The clearance of phenytoin in this individual is estimated to be approximately 17% of that observed in normal patients. The frequency of this allele was 0.6% (95% confidence limits of 0.1 to 3.5%) in 79 African-Americans and 0% (95% confidence limits of 0 to 1.1%) in 172 Caucasians. The study also demonstrates the severe clinical consequences to patients with a null mutation in CYP2C9 after treatment with normal doses of phenytoin.
Duloxetine is a balanced and potent dual reuptake inhibitor of serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) that has previously been shown to be effective in the acute treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). This placebo-controlled study assesses the safety and efficacy of duloxetine (80 or 120 mg/day) and paroxetine (20 mg QD) during an initial 8-week acute phase and subsequent 6-month continuation phase treatment of MDD.
In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, adult outpatients (age >or= 18 years) meeting DSM-IV criteria for MDD received placebo (n = 93), duloxetine 80 mg/day (40 mg BID; n = 95), duloxetine 120 mg/day (60 mg BID; n = 93), or paroxetine (20 mg QD; n = 86) for 8 weeks. Patients who had a >or= 30% reduction from baseline in HAMD(17) total score during the acute phase were allowed to continue on the same (blinded) treatment for a 6-month continuation phase. Efficacy measures included the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD(17)) total score, HAMD(17) subscales, the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA), Visual Analog Scales (VAS) for pain, the Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) and Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) scales, the 28-item Somatic Symptom Inventory (SSI), and the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS). Safety and tolerability were assessed using treatment-emergent adverse events, discontinuations due to adverse events, vital signs, ECGs, laboratory tests, and the Arizona Sexual Experiences Scale (ASEX).
During the acute phase, patients receiving duloxetine 80 mg/day, duloxetine 120 mg/day, or paroxetine 20 mg QD had significantly greater reductions in HAMD(17) total score compared with placebo. Both duloxetine (80 and 120 mg/day) and paroxetine treatment groups had significantly greater improvement, compared with placebo, in MADRS, HAMA, CGI-S, and PGI-I scales. Estimated probabilities of remission at week 8 for patients receiving duloxetine 80 mg/day (51%), duloxetine 120 mg/day (58%), and paroxetine (47%) were significantly greater compared with those receiving placebo (30%). The rate of discontinuation due to adverse events among duloxetine-treated patients (80 and 120 mg/day) did not differ significantly from the rate in the placebo group. Treatment-emergent adverse events reported significantly more frequently by duloxetine-treated patients than by patients receiving placebo were constipation (80 and 120 mg/day), increased sweating (120 mg/day), and somnolence (120 mg/day). The incidence of acute treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction in duloxetine- and paroxetine-treated patients was 46.5% and 62.8%, respectively. During the 6-month continuation phase, duloxetine (80 and 120 mg/day) and paroxetine treatment groups demonstrated significant improvement in HAMD(17) total score. Treatment-emergent adverse events occurring most frequently in each active treatment group during the continuation phase were viral infection (duloxetine 80 mg/day), diarrhea (duloxetine 120 mg/day), and headache (paroxetine 20 mg QD).
These data support previous findings that duloxetine is safe, efficacious, and well tolerated in the acute treatment of MDD. Furthermore, these data provide the first demonstration under double-blind, placebo-controlled conditions that the efficacy and tolerability of duloxetine are maintained during chronic treatment.
Folate has long been implicated in both the metabolism of neurotransmitter molecules, and as an agonist with a direct effect upon neuronal tissue. Folates mediate transfer of one-carbon units into major biosynthetic pathways. From a developmental perspective, the most important reactions are de novo methionine and thymine synthesis, critical for DNA expression and elaboration, respectively. Dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) is the sole enzyme responsible for maintaining the reduced state of the vitamin needed for these two pathways. Here, we report that the 19bp-deletion polymorphism of DHFR acts independently (OR 2.69, 95% CI; 1.00-7.28, p<0.05) and in concert with related folate polymorphisms as a significant risk factor for autism. Possible consequences of this are discussed in the context of the interaction between folate and the glutamatergic nervous system, an area of promising candidate genes for contributing to autism.
The toxic effects of cocaine are enhanced in the presence of lidocaine.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 200 to 300 g.
Animals received intraperitoneal injections of cocaine (10, 20, 35, or 50 mg/kg), lidocaine (30 or 40 mg/kg), or a combination of all doses of cocaine given simultaneously with 30 or 40 mg/kg lidocaine. The incidence and time to seizure and death were recorded in these groups and compared by chi 2 and analysis of variance analyses, respectively.
At doses of 30 or 40 mg/kg, lidocaine does not induce seizures or death. The effect of simultaneous injection of both cocaine and lidocaine was to dramatically increase the incidence of both seizures and death over that of cocaine alone. The incidence of seizures in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone was 10%; this increased to 50% and 80% with the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine, respectively (P less than or equal to .05; P less than or equal to .01). Death did not occur in animals receiving 35 mg/kg cocaine alone; the addition of 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine resulted in death in 30% and 60% of animals, respectively (P less than or equal to .01 each group). Similarly, in rats receiving 50 mg/kg cocaine, the incidence of death increased from 0% to 60% and 80% with 30 and 40 mg/kg lidocaine, respectively (P less than or equal to .01).
In the rat, overall toxicity of cocaine is significantly increased with simultaneous exposure to lidocaine.
Epinephrine has numerous potent pharmacologic actions with protean manifestations. We have described a patient in whom inadvertent intra-aortic administration of a large dose of racemic epinephrine produced serious adverse effects, including hypertension, acidemia, tachycardia, and protracted but reversible renal failure. In view of the ubiquitous use of epinephrine in neonatal intensive care, we hope that this report heightens awareness of its more serious and potentially fatal toxic effects.
Cancers are driven by a population of cells with the stem cell properties of self-renewal and unlimited growth. As a subpopulation within the tumor mass, these cells are believed to constitute a tumor cell reservoir. Pathways controlling the renewal of normal stem cells are deregulated in cancer. The polycomb group gene Bmi1, which is required for neural stem cell self-renewal and also controls anti-oxidant defense in neurons, is upregulated in several cancers, including medulloblastoma. We have found that Bmi1 is consistently and highly expressed in GBM. Downregulation of Bmi1 by shRNAs induced a differentiation phenotype and reduced expression of the stem cell markers Sox2 and Nestin. Interestingly, expression of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3beta), which was found to be consistently expressed in primary GBM, also declined. This suggests a functional link between Bmi1 and GSK3beta. Interference with GSK3beta activity by siRNA, the specific inhibitor SB216763, or lithium chloride (LiCl) induced tumor cell differentiation. In addition, tumor cell apoptosis was enhanced, the formation of neurospheres was impaired, and clonogenicity reduced in a dose-dependent manner. GBM cell lines consist mainly of CD133-negative (CD133-) cells. Interestingly, ex vivo cells from primary tumor biopsies allowed the identification of a CD133- subpopulation of cells that express stem cell markers and are depleted by inactivation of GSK3beta. Drugs that inhibit GSK3, including the psychiatric drug LiCl, may deplete the GBM stem cell reservoir independently of CD133 status.
Azithromycin, an azalide antibiotic, rarely causes ototoxicity. According to the few reports in existence, azithromycin-induced ototoxicity occurred following prolonged high-dose therapy in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and resulted in a reversible sensorineural hearing loss. We present a case of irreversible sensorineural hearing loss due to azithromycin ototoxicity in an otherwise healthy woman following low-dose exposure to azithromycin.
Diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) is an incurable tumor that arises in the brainstem of children. To date there is not a single approved drug to effectively treat these tumors and thus novel therapies are desperately needed. Recent studies suggest that a significant fraction of these tumors contain alterations in cell cycle regulatory genes including amplification of the D-type cyclins and CDK4/6, and less commonly, loss of Ink4a-ARF leading to aberrant cell proliferation. In this study, we evaluated the therapeutic approach of targeting the cyclin-CDK-Retinoblastoma (Rb) pathway in a genetically engineered PDGF-B-driven brainstem glioma (BSG) mouse model. We found that PD-0332991 (PD), a CDK4/6 inhibitor, induces cell-cycle arrest in our PDGF-B; Ink4a-ARF deficient model both in vitro and in vivo. By contrast, the PDGF-B; p53 deficient model was mostly resistant to treatment with PD. We noted that a 7-day treatment course with PD significantly prolonged survival by 12% in the PDGF-B; Ink4a-ARF deficient BSG model. Furthermore, a single dose of 10 Gy radiation therapy (RT) followed by 7 days of treatment with PD increased the survival by 19% in comparison to RT alone. These findings provide the rationale for evaluating PD in children with Ink4a-ARF deficient gliomas.
Forty ASA1 patients presenting for minor gynaecological surgery were randomly allocated into four study groups to compare the haemodynamic effects of adding different doses of ephedrine to an induction dose of propofol. Heart rate, oxygen saturation and non-invasive arterial blood pressure were monitored before and for 5 min after induction. In those patients who received propofol alone, there was a significant decrease in both systolic (p < 0.001) and diastolic (p = 0.003) blood pressure. The addition of ephedrine 15 mg or 20 mg to 1% propofol 20 ml was very effective in maintaining blood pressure at pre-induction values. There was a statistically significant increase from baseline in systolic (p = 0.004) and diastolic (p = 0.031) pressures, but this only occurred at 1 min postinduction. The addition of ephedrine 10 mg was insufficient to prevent hypotension. There was no significant effect on either heart rate or oxygen saturation in any group. We conclude that ephedrine may be safely employed to reduce the degree of hypotension during induction with propofol in this patient group.
The contribution of beta-adrenoceptor subtypes to the catecholamine-mediated relaxations in gastric fundus from control and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats were investigated. Isolated organ bath studies and molecular techniques were used to characterize the beta-adrenoceptor subtypes mediating relaxation of rat gastric fundus. Isoprenaline-mediated relaxation was not significantly changed by nadolol (beta(1)-/beta(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist; 1 micromol/l) but only shifted to the right by SR59230A (3-(2-ethylphenoxy)-1-[[(1S)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphth-1-yl]amino]-(2S)-2-propanol oxalate salt, 0.1-1 micromol/l), a selective beta(3)-adrenoceptor antagonist, in a competitive manner. Relaxant responses to noradrenaline were antagonized in a concentration-dependent manner by SR59230A (0.1-1 micromol/l), but not by metoprolol (selective beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist; 0.1-1 micromol/l) and ICI-118551 (1-[2,3-(dihydro-7-methyl-1Hinden- 4-yl)oxy]-3-[(1-methylethyl)amino]-2-butanol hydrochloride, selective beta(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist; 0.1-1 micromol/l). SR59230A (1 micromol/l) also caused a significant rightward shift in fenoterol-induced relaxation while ICI-118551 (1 micromol/l) did not have any effect. Selective beta(3)-adrenoceptor agonist, BRL37344 ([4-[2-[[2-(3-chlorophenyl)-2-hydroxyethyl]amino]propyl]phenoxy]acetic acid), caused biphasic relaxation which was not affected by nadolol (1 micromol/l). SR59230A (1 micromol/l) abolished only the first phase of BRL37344 response. beta(1)-, beta(2)- and beta(3)-adrenoceptor mRNA expressions have been detected in a similar intensity in gastric fundus from control rats. Experimental diabetes caused a significant decrease in E(max) and pD(2) values of isoprenaline and noradrenaline. Diabetes also reduced E(max) but not pD(2) value of the first component of BRL37344-induced relaxation response. The band intensity of mRNA transcript of beta(3)-adrenoceptor was reduced in diabetics while no alteration has been found for beta(1)- and beta(2)-adrenoceptor mRNA transcripts between groups. These results show that functional beta-adrenoceptor subtype involved in catecholamine-mediated relaxations is beta(3)-adrenoceptor, and its function and mRNA expression are decreased in diabetes.
Severe hepatic veno-occlusive disease is still a potentially lethal complication after bone marrow transplantation. We here report the case of a patient who developed liver veno-occlusive disease with severe hemodynamic dysfunction and was successfully treated by means of a trans-jugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt. After three years, he is still disease-free with a functioning shunt and a normal laboratory liver profile. A trans-jugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt is a treatment option that has been used in very few patients affected by hepatic veno-occlusive disease; its indications and timing remain to be established.
Renal failure developed after a prolonged course of vancomycin therapy in 2 patients who were receiving tenofovir disoproxil fumarate as part of an antiretroviral regimen. Tenofovir has been implicated in the development of Fanconi syndrome and renal insufficiency because of its effects on the proximal renal tubule. Vancomycin nephrotoxicity is infrequent but may result from coadministration with a nephrotoxic agent. Clinicians should be aware that tenofovir may raise the risk of renal failure during prolonged administration of vancomycin.
