Antiarrhythmic property of a new adrenergic beta-blocking agent, dl-1-(tert.butylamino)-3[(2-propinyloxy) phenoxy]-2-propanol hydrochloride (Kö 1400-Cl) was studied, using 1) ouabain-induced arrhythmia in the guinea pig, 2) aconitine-induced arrhythmia in the rat, 3) arrhythmia induced by two-step ligation of coronary artery (Harris's method) in the dog and 4) halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia in the dog and was compared with those of propranolol, oxprenolol, procainamide and ajmaline. Procainamide and ajmaline produced a marked protective effect against aconitine-induced ventricular extrasystole, but were not so effective against aconitine-induced ventricular fibrillation, while oxprenolol and, to a lesser degree, propranolol were effective against the latter type of aconitine arrhythmias. Kö 1400-Cl proved to be ineffective. All the compounds tested produced a marked protective action against ouabain-arrhythmia. Whereas procainamide was most effective in abolishing the ventricular arrhythmia due to coronary-ligation even on the first postoperative day, Kö 1400-Cl and propranolol were almost ineffective on the first day. Even on the second postoperative day, the antiarrhythmic effects of these two beta-blockers were not remarkable, effective only in 2/4 animals in the case of Kö 1400-Cl and in 2/3 animals in the case of propranolol. On the contrary, all the beta-blockers tested produced a protective action against halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia at much lower doses than against coronary ligation arrhythmia. The potency ratio of Kö 1400-Cl and propranolol was 3 : 1, which paralleled with beta-blocking activity of these compounds.
Methamphetamine (MA) use among young people is of significant social, economic and public health concern to affected communities and policy makers. While responses have focused upon various perceived severe harms of MA use, effective public health interventions require a strong scientific evidence base.
We conducted a systematic review to identify scientific studies investigating health outcomes associated with MA use among young people aged 10-24 years. The International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) was used to categorize outcomes and determine the level of evidence for each series of harms.
We identified 47 eligible studies for review. Consistent associations were observed between MA use and several mental health outcomes, including depression, suicidal ideation and psychosis. Suicide and overdose appear to be significant sources of morbidity and mortality among young MA users. Evidence for a strong association between MA use and increased risk of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and other sexually transmitted infections is equivocal. Finally, we identified only weak evidence of an association between MA use and dental diseases among young people.
Available evidence indicates a consistent relationship between MA use and mental health outcomes (e.g. depression, psychosis) and an increased risk of mortality due to suicide and overdose. We found insufficient evidence of an association between MA use and other previously cited harms, including infectious diseases and dental outcomes. As such, future research of higher methodological quality is required to further investigate possible associations. Current interventions should focus attention upon MA-related health outcomes for which sound scientific evidence is available.
Alpha-lipoic acid has some neuroprotective properties, but this action has not been investigated in models of epilepsy. The aim of the present study was to investigate the protective efficacy of α-lipoic acid (lipoic acid) against pilocarpine-induced cell death through the caspase-dependent or -independent mitochondrial apoptotic pathways. Wistar rats were injected intraperitoneally with 0.9% saline (control group), pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, pilocarpine group) alone, or α-lipoic acid (20 mg/kg) in association with pilocarpine (400 mg/kg) 30 min before administration of α-lipoic acid. After the treatments all groups were observed for 24 h. Cell death was reduced in lipoic acid-treated rats. Cytosolic translocation of cytochrome c and subsequent activation of caspase-3 were reduced by lipoic acid treatment. AIF nuclear translocation and subsequent large-scale DNA fragmentation were also decreased in lipoic acid-treated rats. Our study suggests that lipoic acid inhibits both caspase-dependent and -independent apoptotic pathways and may be neuroprotective against hippocampal damage during pilocarpine-induced seizures.
Buprenophrine is a synthetic opioid with micro-agonist properties currently pending Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval as a maintenance agent for treating heroin-addicted individuals. Unlike methadone, a widely used opioid maintenance agent, buprenorphine is a kappa-receptor antagonist. Research linking the effects of acupuncture to the release of dynorphin, the endogenous ligand for the kappa-receptor, raised the possibility that buprenorphine may block acupuncture's effects. In this study, we sought to gather preliminary data on this issue in order to guide the clinical care of cocaine-abusing, buprenorphine-maintained patients.
Between-group analysis comparing buprenorphine- and methadone-maintained patients on ratings of acute effects after a single session of auricular acupuncture.
Thirty-four (34) cocaine-abusing, opioid-dependent patients, eighteen (18) maintained on buprenorphine, and sixteen (16) maintained on methadone.
A single, 40-minute session of auricular acupuncture; four needles were inserted in each auricle.
Acute effect ratings in four domains: pain, de qi sensations, relaxation effects, subjective experiences.
There were no significant differences in acute-effects ratings between the two groups. Patients in both groups reported positive effects.
These preliminary findings are consistent with the interpretation that buprenorphine does not block auricular acupuncture, supporting the provisional recommendation that cocaine-abusing patients maintained on buprenorphine should not be excluded from receiving auricular acupuncture or from participating in clinical studies of this treatment modality. Further, controlled research on this issue, with clinical outcomes, is needed.
Chromium supplements are widely used as an alternative remedy for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In vitro study findings show that chromium picolinate (CrPic) may improve insulin sensitivity by enhancing intracellular insulin receptor. In this study, we evaluated the metabolic effects of CrPic in a rat model of T2DM. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 45, 8 weeks old) were divided into 3 groups. The controls (group I) received a standard diet (12% of calories as fat); group II received a high-fat diet (HFD; 40% of calories as fat) for 2 weeks and then were intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin (STZ, 40 mg/kg; HFD/STZ) on day 14; group III rats were given group II diets with the addition of 80 microg CrPic per kilogram body weight per day. The addition of CrPic in the group III treatment lowered glucose by an average of 63% (P < .001), total cholesterol by 9.7% (P < .001), and triglycerides by 6.6% (P < .001) compared with group II treatment. Compared with group II, CrPic treatment also lowered free fatty acid levels by 24% (P < .001), blood urea by 33% (P < .05), and creatinine level by 25% (P < .01), and reduced the severity of glomerular sclerosis (P < .0001). Histopathologic findings suggest that the CrPic-treated group had normal renal tubular appearance compared with the HFD/STZ-treated group. Normal appearance of hepatocytes was observed in the CrPic-treated group. These results showed that CrPic has marked beneficial effects against microvascular complications. In conclusion, HFD/STZ rats provide a novel animal model for T2DM. Further treatment with CrPic for 10 weeks significantly ameliorated changes in metabolic risk factors including favorable changes in histopathology of the liver, kidney, and pancreas, suggesting its potential role in the management of diabetes.
In this study we determined the protective role of amifostine against the side effects of the combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Chemo-naive patients with NSCLC were eligible. Thirty-eight patients were randomized to receive paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 and carboplatin AUC = 6 with amifostine 910 mg/m2 (group B) or chemotherapy alone (group A). The occurrences of hematologic, neurologic, cardiologic toxicities, and ototoxicity were evaluated.
All patients completed the six scheduled cycles of therapy. A total of 114 cycles of chemotherapy was given in both groups. Neutropenia grade 3-4 was observed in 11 cycles (9.6%) in group A and 19 cycles (16.6%) in group B (p = 0.16). Paresthesia grade 1 or 2 was observed in 18 of 19 patients of group A and in 8 of 19 patients of group B, following the sixth cycle of chemotherapy (p = 0.018). Two patients of group B and nine patients of group A suffered from sensory motor impairment grade 2 (p = 0.029). There was no clinical evidence in any patient for deterioration in cardiac function. Asymptomatic and transient sinus bradycardia or ventricular premature beats developed in four patients. None of the patients reported vertigo, tinnitus, or hearing loss.
The addition of the amifostine to the combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin may prevent or reduce the incidence of neurotoxicity in the treatment of NSCLC. Amifostine does not appear to have a preventive role in neutropenia.
Ondansetron use for nausea and vomiting during pregnancy has increased in the last years, although its maternal and fetal safety is not conclusive.
We describe a case of intestinal obstruction in a pregnant woman with severe nausea and vomiting of pregnancy treated with ondansetron, which is known to slow gut motility.
The spontaneous reporting system of WHO confirms that this potentially life threatening complication is more common than what the peer review literature may suggest and needs to be looked into carefully, especially in view of the wide spread off-label use for NVP.
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia results from 21-hydroxylase deficiency in more than ninety percent of cases. The classical form of 21-hydroxylase deficiency presents in the neonatal period with virilization or adrenal insufficiency, with or without concurrent salt wasting. We report on a rare case of classic 21-hydroxylase deficiency diagnosed in late adulthood. A 39-year-old male patient presented for workup of infertility. Urologic investigation revealed small testes, bilateral testicular masses, and asthenozoospermia. The patient's steroid metabolism showed markedly increased levels of adrenal androgens, in particular of 17-hydroxyprogesterone amd 21-deoxycortisol. The gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) urinary steroid profile was dominated by metabolites of 17-hydroxyprogesterone, while the endogenous glucocorticoid production was subnormally low. ACTH levels in plasma were elevated. These hormonal findings were consistent with 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Therapy with dexamethasone was initiated. The CTP21A2 gene analysis revealed the mutation I172N (ATC --> AAC) in exon 4 of allele 1 and a large gene deletion in allele 2. Cases of 21-hydroxylase deficiency diagnosed in late adulthood are rare; however, clinicians should be alert of this possibility.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) represents a major public health problem accounting for > 1 million cases of new cancers and about half a million deaths worldwide. The risk of recurrence remains high despite curative surgery in early disease stages. The incremental benefit in absolute recurrence-free survival from 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based regimens in young patients with high-risk colon cancer is not insignificant. We present a case of a 57-year-old otherwise healthy white man who was treated with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of modified 5-FU/leucovorin/oxaliplatin (FOLFOX6) regimen for stage III colon cancer. He experienced significant cardiotoxicity related to infusional 5-FU. Because of his young age and high-risk cancer, the patient opted to continue with adjuvant bolus 5-FU-containing chemotherapy after a lengthy discussion. With close cardiac monitoring and treatment with calcium channel blocker to prevent coronary vasospasm, he was able to successfully complete adjuvant chemotherapy. Currently, there are no guidelines for predicting a patient's risk for 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity. Similarly, there is no uniform management of this 5-FU-related induced cardiotoxicity. We believe that our case report, with a brief review of related literature, might help fill some of this vacuum.
Long-term inhibition of D2 dopamine receptors using classic D2 dopamine receptor antagonists such as haloperidol often causes a compensatory up-regulation of the D2 dopamine receptors. We investigated whether the long-term inhibition of D2 dopamine receptors using an eukaryotic expression vector housing a cDNA sequence encoding an antisense RNA directed to the D2 dopamine receptor transcript (D2 antisense vector) would also produce up-regulation of the D2 receptors. Single, bilateral injections of the D2 antisense vector into the corpora striata of mice inhibited the stereotypy induced by acute challenge injections with the D2/D3 dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole but did not inhibit the grooming induced by acute challenge injections with the D1 agonist SKF 38393. Similar treatment with the D2 antisense vector produced a long-term (>1 month) cataleptic response without producing tolerance to challenge injections with haloperidol. By contrast, catalepsy induced by a single injection of haloperidol lasted only approximately 2 days, and tolerance developed to its effects after long-term treatment. Repeated treatment of mice with haloperidol resulted in an inhibition of apomorphine-induced climbing behavior throughout the time of treatment with haloperidol, but the climbing behavior markedly increased to levels significantly higher than that of the control mice immediately after withdrawal from haloperidol treatment. This increased climbing was accompanied by increased levels of D2 dopamine receptors in the striatum. By contrast, single, bilateral intrastriatal injections of the D2 antisense vector significantly inhibited apomorphine-induced climbing for approximately 30 days but failed to increase the climbing behavior or the levels of D2 dopamine receptors in striatum over those of the control values. These results suggest that a single injection of a D2 antisense RNA expression vector into mouse striatum produces specific, long-term inhibition of D2 dopamine receptor behaviors without causing a compensatory increase in the levels or function of D2 dopamine receptors.
Despite widespread use of colchicine, the evidence basis for oral colchicine therapy and dosing in acute gout remains limited. The aim of this trial was to compare low-dose colchicine (abbreviated at 1 hour) and high-dose colchicine (prolonged over 6 hours) with placebo in gout flare, using regimens producing comparable maximum plasma concentrations in healthy volunteers.
This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study compared self-administered low-dose colchicine (1.8 mg total over 1 hour) and high-dose colchicine (4.8 mg total over 6 hours) with placebo. The primary end point was > or = 50% pain reduction at 24 hours without rescue medication.
There were 184 patients in the intent-to-treat analysis. Responders included 28 of 74 patients (37.8%) in the low-dose group, 17 of 52 patients (32.7%) in the high-dose group, and 9 of 58 patients (15.5%) in the placebo group (P = 0.005 and P = 0.034, respectively, versus placebo). Rescue medication was taken within the first 24 hours by 23 patients (31.1%) in the low-dose group (P = 0.027 versus placebo), 18 patients (34.6%) in the high-dose group (P = 0.103 versus placebo), and 29 patients (50.0%) in the placebo group. The low-dose group had an adverse event (AE) profile similar to that of the placebo group, with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.5 (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 0.7-3.2). High-dose colchicine was associated with significantly more diarrhea, vomiting, and other AEs compared with low-dose colchicine or placebo. With high-dose colchicine, 40 patients (76.9%) had diarrhea (OR 21.3 [95% CI 7.9-56.9]), 10 (19.2%) had severe diarrhea, and 9 (17.3%) had vomiting. With low-dose colchicine, 23.0% of the patients had diarrhea (OR 1.9 [95% CI 0.8-4.8]), none had severe diarrhea, and none had vomiting.
Low-dose colchicine yielded both maximum plasma concentration and early gout flare efficacy comparable with that of high-dose colchicine, with a safety profile indistinguishable from that of placebo.
Many bedridden patients develop pressure ulcers, not only in hospital but also at home. Clinical studies have indicated cigarette smoking to be a risk factor for pressure ulcers. However, the contribution of nicotine to pressure ulcer formation has not been identified.
We aimed to clarify the effect of nicotine on pressure ulcer formation, and its mechanism.
Ischaemia-reperfusion (I/R) was performed in rat dorsal skin to induce pressure ulcers. The extent of the resulting necrotic area was determined. To clarify the mechanism of the effect of nicotine, mRNA levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6 and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and protein expression of COX-2 and iNOS in the necrotic area were investigated by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting, respectively. Furthermore, the effects of the COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 and the iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine on necrosis were examined.
Skin necrosis in the I/R-treated area was significantly increased by intraperitoneal administration of nicotine (0.175 mg kg(-1) daily). Repeated nicotine administration had little effect on systolic and diastolic blood pressure. I/R treatment increased mRNA levels of COX-2, IL-1beta, IL-6 and iNOS, which were further augmented by nicotine in a dose-dependent manner. Correspondingly, nicotine (0.35 mg kg(-1) daily) markedly enhanced the protein expression of COX-2 and iNOS. Moreover, NS-398 and aminoguanidine showed a tendency to abrogate the increase of I/R-induced skin necrosis caused by nicotine.
These results suggest that the increased risk of pressure ulcers due to cigarette smoking is mediated, in part, by nicotine. They also indicated that the effect of nicotine is not mediated by a change in blood pressure, but is elicited via an increase of inflammatory mediators in the I/R-treated skin.
This review of anticonvulsants for relapse prevention in substance abusers focuses on a series of clinical trials among cocaine abusers. Based on a preclinical rationale linking kindling with drug craving, several studies by Halikas et al. found reductions in cocaine use and craving among "compliant" subjects with blood levels above 4 mu/ml. Three independent randomized trials found no difference from placebo in cocaine use, although treatment retention may be higher during the first 6 weeks, and alcohol use might be less at follow-up after medication discontinuation.
This study investigated whether ranolazine reduces dofetilide-induced torsades de pointes (TdP) in a model of long QT syndrome with down-regulated K(+) currents due to hypertrophic remodeling in the dog with chronic atrioventricular block (cAVB).
Ranolazine inhibits the late Na(+) current (I(NaL)) and is effective against arrhythmias in long QT3 syndromes despite its blocking properties of the rapid component of delayed rectifying potassium current.
Ranolazine was administered to cAVB dogs before or after TdP induction with dofetilide and electrophysiological parameters were determined including beat-to-beat variability of repolarization (BVR). In single ventricular myocytes, effects of ranolazine were studied on I(NaL), action potential duration, and dofetilide-induced BVR and early afterdepolarizations.
After dofetilide, ranolazine reduced the number of TdP episodes from 10 +/- 3 to 3 +/- 1 (p < 0.05) and partially reversed the increase of BVR with no abbreviation of the dofetilide-induced QT prolongation. Likewise, pre-treatment with ranolazine, or using lidocaine as a specific Na(+) channel blocker, attenuated TdP, but failed to prevent dofetilide-induced increases in QT, BVR, and ectopic activity. In cAVB myocytes, ranolazine suppressed dofetilide-induced early afterdepolarizations in 25% of cells at 5 micromol/l, in 75% at 10 micromol/l, and in 100% at 15 micromol/l. At 5 micromol/l, ranolazine blocked 26 +/- 3% of tetrodotoxin-sensitive I(NaL), and 49 +/- 3% at 15 micromol/l. Despite a 54% reduction of I(NaL) amplitude in cAVB compared with control cells, I(NaL) inhibition by 5 micromol/l tetrodotoxin equally shortened relative action potential duration and completely abolished dofetilide-induced early afterdepolarizations.
Despite down-regulation of I(NaL) in remodeled cAVB hearts, ranolazine is antiarrhythmic against drug-induced TdP. The antiarrhythmic effects are reflected in concomitant changes of BVR.
This study was conducted to characterize the post-pubertal developmental aspects on seizure susceptibility and severity as well as calcium/calmodulin protein kinase type II (CaM kinase II) activity in status epilepticus (SE). Thirty- to ninety-day-old rats, in 10-day increments, were studied. This corresponds to a developmental age group that has not received thorough attention. The pilocarpine model of SE was characterized both behaviorally and electrographically. Seven criteria were analyzed for electrographical characterization: seizure severity, SE susceptibility, the average number of discrete seizures, average time until first seizure, average time to SE, average time from first discrete seizure to SE, and death. After 1 h of SE, specific brain regions were isolated for biochemical study. Phosphate incorporation into a CaM kinase II-specific substrate, autocamtide III, was used to determine kinase activity. There was no developmental effect on the average number of discrete seizures, average time until first seizure, average time to SE, average time from first discrete seizure to SE, and death; however, there was a significant effect on SE probability and seizure severity. Once SE was expressed, all animals showed a decrease in both cortical and hippocampal CaM kinase II activities. Conversely, seizure activity in the absence of SE did not result in a decrease in CaM kinase II activity. The data suggest that there is a gradual age-dependent modulation of SE susceptibility and seizure severity within the developmental stages studied. Additionally, once status epilepticus is observed at any age, there is a corresponding SE-induced inhibition of CaM kinase II.
In 18 consecutive patients without a history of myocardial infarction (MI), prolonged angina pectoris with persistent negative T waves in the precordial leads was associated with a high frequency of in-hospital spontaneous angina (14 of 18, 78%), usually accompanied by S-T segment elevation, and occasionally in-hospital MI (4 of 18, 22%). Angina and MI always involved the electrocardiographic leads with negative T waves. Coronary arteriography, performed in 16 patients, revealed greater than or equal to 90% proximal diameter reduction of the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery in 14 patients. No patient had severe narrowing of all 3 major coronary arteries, but the 3 who had 100% LAD occlusion lacked collateral circulation. The ejection fraction was greater than or equal to 50% in 13 patients. Atrial pacing performed in 11 patients at an average rate of 142 beats/min produced a 1.0 mm S-T segment change in only 5 patients (45%), 3 of whom had an associated lactate production. Arterial systemic hypertension induced by methoxamine in 14 patients caused reversal of negative T waves without significant S-T segment shifts or chest pain and failed to elicit lactate extraction abnormalities in each of the 5 patients in whom it was determined. Thus, prolonged angina with persistent negative T waves in the precordial leads is almost invariably associated with a critical and proximal LAD obstruction, severe narrowing of 1 or 2 coronary arteries, and poor or absent collateral vessels. The relatively preserved coronary reserve in 55% of our patients suggests that negative T waves do not represent active myocardial ischemia. The study also suggests that transient "positivization" of the negative T waves may not necessarily relate to myocardial ischemia when associated with acute systemic hypertension.
The role of renal angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) in blood pressure regulation is not well understood. In our studies, both acute and chronic treatment of hypertensive rats SHR and SHRSP with ACE inhibitors Enalapril and SA446 had a blood pressure lowering effect that coincided with an inhibition of renal cortical and aortic ACE, but not plasma ACE. Further, ACE activities in the renal cortex and aorta were found to increase with aging of the SHRSP, therefore concomitantly with hypertension development. In the kidney, brush border membranes (BBM) contained abundant ACE. We found that the activities of ACE in the renal cortex closely correlated to the activities in isolated BBM, in Wistar Kyoto rats and in the SHRSP. Thus, renal cortical ACE activity and blood pressure correlated in cases of ACE inhibition and hypertension development. Since the ACE activity in the renal cortex appeared to reflect the enzyme activity in BBM, the brush border ACE may have to be taken into account, in view of the relationship between renal ACE and blood pressure.
Many chemicals released into the environment display estrogenic activity including the oral contraceptive ethinyl estradiol (EE2) and the plastic monomer bisphenol A (BPA). EE2 is present in some aquatic systems at concentrations sufficient to alter reproductive function of fishes. Many concerns have been raised about the potential effects of BPA. The National Toxicology Program rated the potential effects of low doses of BPA on behavior and central nervous system (CNS) as an area of "some concern," whereas most effects were rated as of "negligible" or "minimal" concern. However, the number of robust studies in this area was limited. The current study was designed to determine if maternal exposure to relatively low oral doses of EE2 or BPA in utero and during lactation would alter the expression of well-characterized sexually dimorphic behaviors or alter the age of puberty or reproductive function in the female Long-Evans rat offspring. Pregnant rats were gavaged with vehicle, EE2 (0.05-50 microg/kg/day), or BPA (2, 20, and 200 microg/kg/day) from day 7 of gestation to postnatal day (PND) 18, and the female offspring were studied. EE2 (50 microg/kg/day) increased anogenital distance and reduced pup body weight at PND2, accelerated the age at vaginal opening, reduced F1 fertility and F2 litter sizes, and induced malformations of the external genitalia (5 microg/kg). F1 females exposed to EE2 also displayed a reduced (male-like) saccharin preference (5 microg/kg) and absence of lordosis behavior (15 microg/kg), indications of defeminization of the CNS. BPA had no effect on any of the aforementioned measures. These results demonstrate that developmental exposure to pharmacologically relevant dosage levels of EE2 can permanently disrupt the reproductive morphology and function of the female rat.
Groups of ten male Slc:ddY mice were fed a purified diet containing butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) at levels of 0, 1.35, 1.75, 2.28, 2.96, 3.85 or 5.00%. They were kept in cages with soft-wood chips as bedding for 30 days. Groups of five Slc:ddY male mice were kept in cages with stainless-steel wire-mesh bottoms (without wood-chip bedding) and fed BHT at 0, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0% in the diet for 21 days. Male Crj:Hartley guinea-pigs were given a purified ration containing BHT at levels of 0, 0.125 or 0.25% (five animals per group) for 14 days, or at 0, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0% for 17 days (six animals per group). When BHT was given to mice housed in the mesh-bottomed cages there were one, one and two deaths during the experiment in the 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0% dose groups, respectively. Lung haemorrhages were observed in these dead mice, but in all other mice and guinea-pigs no haemorrhages were found. Indices of prothrombin time and kaolin-activated partial thromboplastin time were significantly decreased by up to 30 and 40%, respectively, in the mice kept on wood-chip bedding, and by up to 40 and 60% in the mice kept in cages with wire bottoms. In guinea-pigs, the prothrombin index was significantly reduced only in the 1.0% BHT group. We conclude that the BHT-induced lung haemorrhages in mice are not caused by a severe reduction in the coagulation process, as they are in rats, and that BHT does not cause bleeding like that observed in rats. However, dose-related toxic nephrosis was found in mice given 1.35-5.0% BHT in the diet. The nephrotoxic ED50(1 month) was 2.3 g/kg body weight/day. The results suggest that an extremely large dose of BHT can cause renal toxicity in mice.
A case of disopyramide-associated cholestatic jaundice is presented, and all reported cases of disopyramide-associated liver dysfunction are reviewed. Manifestations of liver dysfunction usually appear during the first week of treatment. Discontinuing administration of the drug often results in prompt clinical resolution, although in rare instances, laboratory abnormalities persist up to 18 months. Physicians should be aware of this rare but serious complication of disopyramide therapy.
Numerous medical sequelae associated with illicit drug use have been reported. Nevertheless, there has been scarce documentation of the effects of these drugs on the eyes. Drug-induced ocular symptoms include decreased visual acuity, disturbances in perception, and even flashbacks. Methamphetamine (METH) is a highly addictive drug whose abuse has spread worldwide during the past two decades. METH abuse is associated with many adverse psychiatric and medical consequences including strokes and psychosis. METH-induced ophthalmic complications are rarely discussed but include retinal vasculitis, episcleritis, panophthalmitis, endophthalmitis, scleritis, retinopathy, corneal ulceration, and transient visual losses. Because the drug has shown a marked increase in the prevalence of its use amongst pregnant women, there has also been an increase of drug-induced complications in fetuses and newborn babies. These complications need to be further detailed and studied. Herein, the authors report on the ocular complications associated with METH abuse. They also discuss some potential mechanisms for the toxic effects of the drug on that system.
Previous studies have provided compelling evidence for the presence of oxidized proteins and lipids in advanced human atherosclerotic lesions. The catalyst responsible for such oxidation is unknown and controversial. We have previously provided evidence for elevated levels of iron in lesions. In this study we hypothesized that if iron ions catalyzed protein and lipid oxidation in the artery wall, then there should be a positive correlation between these parameters. Iron concentrations in ex vivo healthy human arteries and advanced carotid lesions were quantified by electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. Four specific side-chain oxidation products of proteins, and the lipid oxidation products 7-ketocholesterol and cholesterol ester alcohols and hydroperoxides, were quantified by HPLC in the same samples used for the iron measurements. Parent amino acids, cholesterol, and cholesterol esters were also quantified. Statistically elevated levels of iron, cholesterol, cholesterol esters, 7-ketocholesterol, and cholesterol ester alcohols and hydroperoxides were detected in advanced lesions compared with healthy control tissue. Iron levels correlated positively and strongly with all four markers of protein oxidation, but not with either marker of lipid oxidation. These data support the hypothesis that elevated levels of iron contribute to the extent of protein, but not lipid, oxidation in advanced human lesions.
Ghrelin, produced and secreted by the A-like cells of the stomach, stimulates growth hormone secretion, gastric motility, and food intake. Cysteamine inhibits the release of somatostatin and induces the formation of duodenal ulcers in rats. The present study was conducted to investigate the dynamics of ghrelin secretion in rats treated with cysteamine. Male Wistar rats (7 wk old) were administered three doses of cysteamine (400 mg/kg) orally; at 50 h after the first dose, duodenal ulcers were induced, and the plasma level of somatostatin and gastric density of somatostatin-immunoreactive cells were significantly reduced. The plasma total and active ghrelin levels were significantly higher in the cysteamine-treated rats than in the control rats, whereas the gastric ghrelin levels, number of gastric ghrelin-immunoreactive cells, and preproghrelin mRNA expression levels were significantly lower. Even at the time points of 2 and 10 h after the first dose of cysteamine, at which time no significant ulcer formation or antral neutrophil accumulation was yet noted, a significant increase in the plasma ghrelin level and decrease in the gastric ghrelin level were observed. Furthermore, although lansoprazole treatment attenuated the duodenal ulceration induced by cysteamine, the increase in the plasma level of ghrelin could still be demonstrated. Because an inverse correlation was found between the plasma ghrelin and somatostatin levels, the inhibition of somatostatin secretion may be associated with the increased ghrelin secretion. In conclusion, an increase in the plasma ghrelin level precedes the formation of duodenal ulcers in rats treated with cysteamine.
