Cadmium (Cd) is a potent nephrotoxicant that impairs the reabsorptive and secretory functions of the renal proximal tubule, leading to albuminuria.
To gain insights into the mechanisms of Cd-induced albuminuria, we investigated effects of Cd on the expression of megalin and chloride channel 5 (ClC5), two key players in albumin-receptor-mediated endocytosis.
We used quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, the albumin endocytosis assay, and confocal microscopy to evaluate effects of Cd on the expression and regulation of megalin and ClC5 in cultured LLC-PK1 cells, a pig proximal tubular cell model.
Ten micromolar cadmium chloride (CdCl2) caused a significant time- and dose-dependent decrease in both mRNA and protein levels of megalin and ClC5, whereas no changes resulted from exposure to other divalent metals (zinc chloride, manganese chloride, magnesium chloride, and nickel chloride). After inhibiting protein synthesis using cycloheximide (CHX), we found that levels of both megalin and ClC5 were lower in Cd-challenged cells than in cells treated with Cd or CHX only, which is consistent with reduced translation and/or posttranslational down-regulation. Moreover, Cd-induced degradation of megalin and ClC5 was abolished by the lysosomal pathway inhibitor bafilomycin A-1 but not by the proteasome system blocker MG-132, suggesting that the enhanced proteolysis was occurring via lysosomes. Using confocal microscopy, we observed a remarkable reduction of fluoroisothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled albumin uptake after Cd exposure.
We found that Cd reduced the transcriptional expression of megalin and ClC5 and, at the same time, increased the degradation of megalin and ClC5 proteins via the lysosomal pathway in an in vitro model of renal proximal tubular cells. Overall, these results provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms by which Cd impairs luminal protein reabsorption by renal proximal tubules.
The purpose of this investigation was to determine the effects of adrenalectomy and adrenalectomy with corticosterone replacement on pain sensitivity and on the pharmacodynamics of a central nervous system depressant, phenobarbital, and a central nervous system stimulant, theophylline. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, bilaterally adrenalectomized, were maintained on normal saline solution or normal saline solution with corticosterone, 160 micrograms/ml, as drinking water for 9 or 11 days. Sham-operated animals served as normal controls. They were then tested for pain sensitivity by the tail-flick method. Phenobarbital or theophylline was infused i.v. slowly until the onset of loss of righting reflex or of maximal seizures, respectively. Samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood (for serum) and the brain were obtained at that time and assayed for phenobarbital or theophylline by high-performance liquid chromatography. Compared to the controls, the adrenalectomized rats required a smaller dose and lower concentrations of phenobarbital in serum, brain and CSF (12% decrease) to produce loss of righting reflex. The opposite effect was observed in adrenalectomized rats supplemented with corticosterone. Adrenalectomy had no apparent effect on the dose and the serum, brain and CSF concentrations of theophylline at the onset of maximal seizures whereas adrenalectomized, corticosterone-supplemented animals required a larger dose and higher concentrations (17% increase in CSF) of theophylline than controls to produce seizures. Tail-flick latency was slightly (19%) but statistically significantly reduced in adrenalectomized rats and lengthened (18%) in adrenalectomized, corticosterone-supplemented animals.
The antinociceptive and anxiolytic consequences of smoking a nicotine-containing cigarette or a zero-nicotine cigarette were investigated in minimally deprived habitual smokers, using a within-subject design. Five subjects were studied in each of two experiments. In one, pain was induced using the cold pressor test; in the other, anxiety, using unsolvable anagrams. All subjects exhibited pain- and anxiety-reduction after smoking a nicotine-containing cigarette. The results support the hypothesis that nicotine from smoking can produce psychological changes that are independent of the state of nicotine withdrawal.
Bepridil is highly effective in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, but its clinical usefulness is limited by a potential risk for the drug-induced Torsades de pointes (TdP) in association with its Class III action.
Monophasic action potentials (MAPs) were recorded from the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) and apex (RVA) in 9 patients treated with bepridil (172 +/-26 mg/day) and 10 control patients. Bepridil significantly increased the steady-state MAP durations at 90% repolarization (MAPD(90S) in a rate-independent manner at pacing cycle lengths ranging from 330 to 750 ms. The bepridil-induced prolongation of the MAPD(90) was greater in RVOT (approximately 13%) than RVA (approximately 8%). Bepridil flattened the MAPD(90) restitution slope estimated by an S1-S2 protocol in both the RVOT (0.65 +/-0.22 vs 0.95 +/-0.38) and RVA (0.65 +/-0.14 vs 0.94 +/-0.29). The T(peak-end) interval in the ECG was increased by bepridil for S1 but not S2 at the shortest diastolic interval to produce a ventricular response.
Bepridil produces an inhomogeneous prolongation of the MAPDs, but flattens their restitution kinetics in the human ventricle. The former effect would favor the functional reentry predisposing to TdP, whereas the latter one would counteract that by reducing the dynamic instability of the repolarization.
Adipose and endothelial dysfunction is tightly associated with cardiovascular diseases in obesity and insulin resistance. Because perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) surrounds vessels directly and influences vessel functions through paracrine effect, and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) show similarities in modulation of metabolic pathway, we hypothesized that activation of AMPK and SIRT1 in PVAT might regulate the endothelial function in pathological settings. Thus, in this study, we focused on the regulation of AMPK and SIRT1 activities implicated in adipocytokine expression and endothelial homeostasis under inflammatory conditions by using salicylate, metformin, AICA riboside (AICAR) and resveratrol as AMPK activating agents. We prepared conditioned medium (CM) by stimulating PVAT with palmitic acid (PA) and observed the effects of AMPK activating agents on adipocytokine expression and vessel vasodilation in rats. Moreover, we explored the effects of resveratrol and metformin in fructose-fed rats. We observed that PA stimulation induced inflammation and dysregulation of adipocytokine expression accompanied with reduced AMPK activity and SIRT1 abundance in PVAT. AMPK activating agents inhibited NF-κB p65 phosphorylation and suppressed gene expression of pro-inflammatory adipocytokines, and upregulated adiponectin and PPARγ expression in PVAT in an AMPK/SIRT1-interdependent manner. Meanwhile, CM stimulation impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation in response to acetylcholine (ACh). Pretreatment of CM with AMPK-activating agents enhanced eNOS phosphorylation in the aorta and restored the loss of endothelium-dependent vasodilation, whereas this action was abolished by co-treatment with AMPK inhibitor compound C or SIRT1 inhibitor nicotinamide. Long-term fructose-feeding in rats induced dysregulation of adipocytokine expression in PVAT and the loss of endothelium-dependent vasodilation, whereas these alterations were reversed by oral administration of resveratrol and metformin. Altogether, pharmacological activation of AMPK beneficially regulated adipocytokine expression in PVAT and thus ameliorated endothelial dysfunction against inflammatory insult in an AMPK/SIRT1-interdependent manner.
Rats were given identical doses of lithium chloride, 4 mmol/kg body weight/day for 8 days, by different routes. Intraperitoneal administration led to a high serum lithium peak and the development of pronounced polyuria-polydipsia. Subcutaneous administration led to a lower serum peak and the development of less pronounced polyuria-polydipsia. Administration by gastric tube led to a nearly constant serum lithium concentration without any peak and the development of moderate polyuria-polydipsia. Our study shows that the route by which lithium is administered affects the lithium concentration pattern and may influence lithium effects.
These studies were designed to investigate the differences in blood plasma levels of ethynylestradiol (EE2) in women who developed hypertension while taking combined estrogen and progesterone oral contraceptives (OCs) and in normotensive OC users. Blood samples were collected in heparinized tubes 10 hours after OC ingestion, the plasma was separated, and EE2 was measured by radioimmunoassay. The results showed significantly higher plasma levels of EE2 in the hypertensive OC users as compared with the levels in normotensive OC users (P less than 0.01). In another study, blood samples from hypertensive and normotensive OC users were obtained for 3 consecutive days at fixed intervals following OC ingestion, and plasma levels of EE2 were measured. The results showed consistently higher EE2 blood levels during this 3-day period in the hypertensive subjects (P less than 0.01). It is postulated that the higher blood levels of EE2 in hypertensive OC users result from either decreased metabolism or excretion of synthetic estrogens.
To assess teratogenic effects of cocaine exposure and maternal psychological distress on birth outcomes, we conducted a longitudinal prospective study of 415 infants (218 cocaine-exposed--CE, 197 nonexposed--NE). Drug exposure was determined through a combination of maternal self-report, urine, and meconium screens. Maternal psychological distress postpartum was evaluated through a standardized, normative, self-report assessment. An extensive set of confounding variables was controlled, including severity of exposure to alcohol, tobacco, marijuana and other drugs, maternal age, race, parity, number of prenatal care visits, educational, marital, and socioeconomic status, and verbal and nonverbal intelligence. CE infants were smaller on all birth parameters and more likely to be preterm, small for gestational age, and microcephalic than NE infants. Forty-one percent of cocaine users had clinically significant psychological symptoms, compared to 20% of a high-risk comparison group of noncocaine users. Consistent with a teratologic model, cocaine exposure independently predicted offspring birthweight, length, and head circumference. Maternal psychological distress self-reported postnatally also independently predicted head circumference. Tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana exposures were also significant independent predictors of some fetal growth parameters. In addition, maternal distress symptoms, which may be reflective of maternal mental health disorders or responses to stress, added significantly to the risk for poorer fetal growth.
The effect of administration of carnitine on the severity of myocardial infarction in rats induced by isoproterenol was studied by following histopathological and biochemical parameters. Carnitine afforded partial protection against myocardial infarction. Serum aspartate amino transferase (GOT) and creative phospho kinase (CPK) values, serum, heart and aortic lipids, serum protein-bound hexose and sialic acid and glycosaminoglycans in the heart were lower in the carnitine-treated rats. Histopathological examination showed very little necrosis in the carnitine-treated rats when compared to the extensive necrosis in the untreated controls.
Aberrant reorganization of dentate granule cell axons, the mossy fibers, occurs in human temporal lobe epilepsy and rodent epilepsy models. Whether this plasticity results from the remodeling of preexisting mossy fibers or instead reflects an abnormality of developing dentate granule cells is unknown. Because these neurons continue to be generated in the adult rodent and their production increases after seizures, mossy fibers that arise from either developing or mature granule cells are potential substrates for this network plasticity. Therefore, to determine whether seizure-induced, mossy fiber synaptic reorganization arises from either developing or mature granule cell populations, we used low-dose, whole-brain x-irradiation to eliminate proliferating dentate granule cell progenitors in adult rats. A single dose of 5 Gy irradiation blocked cell proliferation and eliminated putative progenitor cells in the dentate subgranular proliferative zone. Irradiation 1 d before pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus significantly attenuated dentate granule cell neurogenesis after seizures. Two irradiations, 1 d before and 4 d after status epilepticus, essentially abolished dentate granule cell neurogenesis but failed to prevent mossy fiber reorganization in the dentate molecular layer. These results indicate that dentate granule cell neurogenesis in the mature hippocampal formation is vulnerable to the effects of low-dose ionizing irradiation. Furthermore, the development of aberrant mossy fiber remodeling in the absence of neurogenesis suggests that mature dentate granule cells contribute substantially to seizure-induced network reorganization.
The main goal of this work was to investigate the relationship between the effects of three new 1,3,4-thiadiazolium mesoionic derivatives on mitochondrial bioenergetics and their previously described chemical structure and antimelanoma activity. The 4-phenyl-5-(2'-Y, 4'-X or 4'-X-cinnamoyl)-1,3,4-thiadiazolium-2-phenylamine chlorides differed from each other only in the cinnamoyl ring substituent: MI-J, X=OH; MI-F, X=F; MI-2,4diF X=Y=F. The state 3 respiratory rate was strongly decreased by all derivatives, reaching total inhibition of MI-4F and MI-2,4diF (130nmolmg(-1) protein), when glutamate plus malate were used as substrate. State 3 inhibition was less accentuated with succinate as substrate. Analyses of segments of the respiratory chain indicated complexes I and IV as sites inhibited by the derivatives. State 4 respiration was strongly stimulated by the three derivatives, and was characterized as an uncoupling effect, which was more intense for MI-4F. This stimulus was so pronounced that the values of RCC and ADP/O ratio were only calculated for the lowest concentration (6.5nmolmg(-1) protein). In intact mitochondria, the ATPase activity was increased dramatically by approximately 120%, approximately 207% and approximately 261% for MI-J, MI-4F and MI-2,4diF (32.5nmolmg(-1) protein), respectively. In conclusion, the presence of fluorine substituent in the cinnamoyl ring intensifies the effect of mesoionic compounds on mitochondrial functions and, in this context, hydrophobicity is more important than the electronic effect, which was correlated to antimelanoma activity described previously for these compounds.
This study investigated the protective effects of curcumin on tetrachloro-p-benzoquinone (TCBQ)-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. TCBQ-treatment causes significant liver injury (the elevation of serum AST and ALT activities, histopathological changes in liver section including centrilobular necrosis and inflammatory cells), oxidative stress (the elevation of TBAR level and the inhibition of SOD and catalase activities) and inflammation (up-regulation of iNOS, COX-2, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α and NF-κB). However, these changes were alleviated upon pretreatment with curcumin. Interestingly, TCBQ has no effect on caspase family genes or B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2)/Bcl-2 associated X (Bax) protein expressions, which implied that TCBQ-induced hepatotoxicity is independent of apoptosis. Moreover, curcumin was shown to induce phase II detoxifying/antioxidant enzymes HO-1 and NQO1 through the activation of nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2-like 2 (Nrf2). In summary, the protective mechanisms of curcumin against TCBQ-induced hepatoxicity may be related to the attenuation of oxidative stress, along with the inhibition of inflammatory response via the activation of Nrf2 signaling.
The developmental effects of neonatal excitotoxic ventral hippocampal (VH) damage on behaviors related to dopaminergic (DA) transmission in the basal ganglia were investigated in the rat. Ibotenic acid (in Lesion) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (in Sham) was infused into the VH of 7-day-old (PD7) rat pups. Haloperidol-induced (1 mg/kg, i.p.) catalepsy and apomorphine-induced (0.75 mg/kg, s.c.) stereotypic behaviors as well as locomotion were assessed in Sham and Lesion rats prior to (PD35) and after puberty (PD56). On PD35, Lesion and Sham animals did not differ in induced catalepsy or stereotypy. On PD56, however, Lesion animals were less cataleptic following haloperidol injection and manifested supersensitivity to apomorphine as compared to Sham rats. At both, PD35 and PD56, locomotor activity after apomorphine was significantly increased in Lesion animals as compared with controls. These results indicate that the neonatal excitotoxic VH lesion results in a unique time-dependent pattern of behavioral changes related to striatal DA transmission. Moreover, the response to apomorphine differs qualitatively from that previously reported after the analogous lesion induced in adult animals in which stereotypy was reduced. These findings suggest that early hippocampal deafferentation affects the development of other brain regions, such as the medial prefrontal cortex, that are also involved in the regulation of striatal DA function.
Cables is a cyclin-dependent kinase-binding nuclear protein that maps to chromosome 18q11-12. Here, we assessed Cables expression in 160 colorectal cancers (CRCs), its role in colon cancer cell growth, and the potential mechanisms of Cables inactivation. Expression levels, promoter methylation, and mutational status of Cables were investigated in colon cancer cell lines and primary colon tumors. Chromosome 18q loss of heterozygosity (LOH) was evaluated with multiple polymorphic markers. Cables inhibited cellular proliferation and colony formation in colon cancer cell lines. Cables expression was reduced in 65% of primary CRCs. No mutations were detected in 10 exons of Cables in 20 primary colon tumors. Cables promoter was methylated in cell lines with decreased Cables expression and vice versa. 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine resulted in increased Cables expression in methylated cell lines. There was a significant correlation between promoter methylation and Cables gene expression in primary colon tumors. Sixty-five percent of primary colon tumors demonstrated chromosome 18q LOH. LOH involving the Cables region was observed in 35% of cases, including those in which more distal portions of chromosome 18q were retained, and Cables expression was decreased in all such cases. Loss of Cables expression in 65% of CRCs suggests that it is a common event in colonic carcinogenesis, with promoter methylation and LOH appearing to be important mechanisms of Cables gene inactivation.
Rodent cancer bioassays are part of a legacy of safety testing that has not changed significantly over the past 30 years. The bioassays are expensive, time consuming, and use hundreds of animals. Fewer than 1500 chemicals have been tested in a rodent cancer bioassay compared to the thousands of environmental and industrial chemicals that remain untested for carcinogenic activity. In this study, we used existing data generated by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) to identify gene expression biomarkers that can predict results from a rodent cancer bioassay. A set of 13 diverse chemicals was selected from those tested by the NTP. Seven chemicals were positive for increased lung tumor incidence in female B6C3F1 mice and six were negative. Female mice were exposed subchronically to each of the 13 chemicals, and microarray analysis was performed on the lung. Statistical classification analysis using the gene expression profiles identified a set of eight probe sets corresponding to six genes whose expression correctly predicted the increase in lung tumor incidence with 93.9% accuracy. The sensitivity and specificity were 95.2 and 91.8%, respectively. Among the six genes in the predictive signature, most were enzymes involved in endogenous and xenobiotic metabolism, and one gene was a growth factor receptor involved in lung development. The results demonstrate that increases in chemically induced lung tumor incidence in female mice can be predicted using gene biomarkers from a subchronic exposure and may form the basis of a more efficient and economical approach for evaluating the carcinogenic activity of chemicals.
Severe systemic toxicity and hemodynamic changes after isolated limb perfusion (ILP) with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and melphalan, with or without interferon-gamma, have been reported in several series. We studied whether these side effects could be precluded by preventing leakage from the isolated circuit into the systemic circulation.
Clinical and pharmacokinetic data for 20 consecutive patients with recurrent melanoma of the limbs who were treated by ILP with TNF-alpha (3-4 mg) and melphalan, with or without interferon-gamma, were studied. Leakage rates and TNF-alpha levels were determined during and after ILP and were correlated with systemic toxicity and hemodynamic changes.
Only two patients experienced leaks (2% and 13%) during ILP. For 18 patients without leakage, the mean peak systemic TNF-alpha level was 2.8 ng/ml at 10 minutes after ILP. After leakage, the peak systemic TNF-alpha levels were 31.9 and 88.3 ng/ml at 5 minutes. Toxicity was mild and consisted mainly of fever (n = 17) and nausea/vomiting (n = 19) during the first day after ILP. Some patients developed tachycardia (n = 6), hypotension (n = 3; responding immediately to fluid challenge), a decrease in the WBC count (n = 3; grade I) or thrombocyte count (n = 11; grade I/II, no hemorrhage or therapeutic intervention), or hepatotoxicity [cytolysis (n = 15; 14 grade I/II and 1 grade IV) or hyperbilirubinemia (n = 7; grade I/II, all resolving spontaneously)]. Patients with tachycardia or hepatotoxicity exhibited significantly higher TNF-alpha levels after ILP, compared with other patients.
Systemic toxicity after ILP with TNF-alpha is minimal and does not differ from that after ILP with melphalan alone when leakage is adequately controlled.
In conventional rodent toxicity studies the characterization of the adverse effects of a chemical relies primarily on gravimetric, and histopathological data. The aim of this study was to evaluate if the use of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis could generate protein accumulation profiles, which were in accordance with conventional toxicological findings by investigating a model antiandrogen, flutamide (FM), whose toxic effects, as measured using standard approaches, are well characterized. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were orally exposed to FM (0, 6, 30, and 150 mg/kg/day) for 28 days. The expected inhibition of androgen-dependent tissue stimulation, increased luteinizing hormone and testosterone plasma levels, and Leydig cell hyperplasia were observed. Changes in testicular protein accumulation profiles were evaluated in rats exposed to 150 mg/kg/day FM. Several proteins involved in steroidogenesis (e.g., StAR, ApoE, Hmgcs1, Idi1), cell cycle, and cancer (e.g., Ddx1, Hspd1) were modulated by FM, and these data provided molecular evidence for the hormonal and testicular histopathology changes recorded. Changes in proteins associated with spermatogenesis were also recorded, and these are discussed within the context of the testicular phenotype observed following FM treatment (i.e., normal spermatogenesis but Leydig cell hyperplasia). Overall, our data indicate that the combination of conventional toxicology measurements with omic observations has the potential to improve our global understanding of the toxicity of a compound.
This study compares the skin reactions to the niacin flushing test of 16 schizophrenic patients with those of 17 depressed patients and 16 healthy controls. Methyl nicotinate (niacin) in a concentration of 0.1 M was applied to the forearm for 5 min. Significant differences could be observed between the group of schizophrenic patients (less flushing) in comparison to the other groups. There were no statistical differences in niacin flushing between patients with depression and healthy controls. Gender, age and the use of antipsychotic agents did not appear to be confounders. The differences in flushing within the group of schizophrenic patients were striking, however. Most patients showed little or no flushing, but some patients reacted strongly. Although the three groups could be differentiated by the niacin flushing test, to develop a reliable clinical application of this test, further research is necessary.
Nifedipine is used in patients with stable angina of effort and any resulting change in symptoms is attributed to several effects of nifedipine. However, there have been indications in such patients that one effect of nifedipine could be an increase in the severity of myocardial ischaemia, and the present report involves a trial the results of which could explain this effect. In the present trial, the effect of nifedipine on myocardial ischaemia was assessed by using the maximal ST/heart rate slope. This slope was used as an index of myocardial ischaemia because, in our hands in patients with angina, an increase or a decrease in the value of the slope respectively indicated an increase or a decrease in the severity of myocardial ischaemia as assessed by coronary arteriography. The maximal ST/heart rate slope was obtained at least twice in each of 23 patients with stable angina, with and without nifedipine; two patients were examined twice and three other patients were examined after an increased dose. Nifedipine resulted in an increase in the slope in 24 of the 28 comparisons, no change in three and a decrease in one comparison; there was a statistically significant (P less than 0.005; n = 28; paired t-test) increase in the maximal ST/heart rate slope. A further increase in the slope was obtained by increasing the dose of nifedipine in two out of three patients. The increase in the maximal ST/heart rate slope occurred in the absence of any effect of nifedipine on the initial level of ST segment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study investigated the effect of the administration of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), on memory, on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and on lipid peroxidation in different brain structures in cadmium (Cd)-exposed rats. The rats received Cd (2 mg/kg) and NAC (150 mg/kg) by gavage every other day for 30 days. The animals were divided into four groups (n=12-13): control/saline, NAC, Cd, and Cd/NAC. The results showed a decrease in step-down latency in the Cd-group, but NAC reversed the impairment of memory induced by Cd intoxication. Rats exposed to Cd and/or treated with NAC did not demonstrate altered shock sensitivity. Decreased AChE activity was found in hippocampus, cerebellum and hypothalamus in the Cd-group but NAC reversed this effect totally or partially while in cortex synaptosomes and striatum there was no alteration in AChE activity. An increase in TBARS levels was found in hippocampus, cerebellum and hypothalamus in the Cd-group and NAC abolished this effect while in striatum there was no alteration in TBARS levels. Urea and creatinine levels were increased in serum of Cd-intoxicated rats, but NAC was able to abolish these undesirable effects. The present findings show that treatment with NAC prevented the Cd-mediated decrease in AChE activity, as well as oxidative stress and consequent memory impairment in Cd-exposed rats, demonstrating that this compound may modulate cholinergic neurotransmission and consequently improve cognition. However, it is necessary to note that the mild renal failure may be a contributor to the behavioral impairment found in this investigation.
High-dose cytarabine (HDARAC) therapy is an effective regimen in treating refractory leukemias. A typical regimen is cytarabine 3 g/m2 iv over one to three hours q 12h for a total of 8 to 12 doses. This case report illustrates the neurotoxicity unique to HDARAC. The patient received two cycles of HDARAC over the course of a ten-week period. During the first treatment, dysarthria and ataxia were seen after completion of the patient's eighth and final dose of HDARAC. These symptoms resolved over a period of five days. Six weeks later a more severe syndrome of dysarthria and ataxia developed during a second cycle of treatment. These symptoms worsened over 24 hours despite discontinuation of therapy, then gradually decreased in severity but persisted until his death two months later. The neurotoxicity seen with HDARAC is dose-related and has occurred in up to 60 percent of treated patients. The incidence of cerebellar toxicity approaches 30 percent, with irreversible ataxia reported in up to 16.7 percent. Because the cerebellar toxicity may be worsened by continuation of therapy after initial onset of symptoms, prompt termination of HDARAC is recommended.
We report on a 28-year-old AIDS patient who developed a rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis while being treated with foscarnet for cytomegalovirus retinitis. Renal biopsy showed crescentic proliferation related to crystals within the glomerular capillaries. The role of foscarnet in this unusual renal syndrome is discussed.
We studied the effect of adrenergic blockade on hepatic venous hyperglycemia and the activation of a hepatic glycogenolytic enzyme, phosphorylase-a, in response to cerebral cholinergic activation. Neostigmine was injected into the third cerebral ventricle of bilaterally adrenodemedullectomized (ADMX) rats, while somatostatin and insulin were administered intravenously. Hepatic venous plasma glucose concentrations and hepatic phosphorylase-a activity were measured. Intracerebroventricular injection of neostigmine (5 x 10(-8) mol) caused increases in hepatic venous glucose concentrations and hepatic phosphorylase-a activity. Both of these changes were prevented by intraperitoneal (IB) pretreatment with phentolamine (5 x 10(-7), 1 x 10(-6) mol) without the intervention of insulin secretion, but not by pretreatment with the alpha-adrenoreceptor antagonist phenoxybenzamine (1 x 10(-6) mol), the beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist propranolol (1 x 10(-6) mol), the alpha 1-antagonists prazosin or bunazosin (1 x 10(-6) mol), the alpha 2-antagonist yohimbine (1 x 10(-6) mol), or prazosin (5 x 10(-7) mol) plus yohimbine (5 x 10(-7) mol). These results suggest that phentolamine prevented brain-mediated hepatic glycogenolysis by a mechanism that may not be classified pharmacologically as involving either alpha 1- or alpha 2-receptors.
Immunological and electrophysiological features were investigated in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis who developed myasthenic symptoms after 10 months of treatment with D-penicillamine (D-pen). After an initial rise, acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies gradually fell from 24.4 nmole alpha-bungarotoxin bound/liter to 1.8 nmole/liter following withdrawal of the drug, and this was associated with clinical and electrophysiological improvement. Immunoglobuline synthesis by peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured with pokeweed mitogen and D-pen was significantly increased at D-pen concentrations of 10-100 micrograms/ml in 2 patients with D-pen associated myasthenia gravis and 1 out of 3 normal individuals. Furthermore, lymphocytes from 1 myasthenic patient synthesized detectable AChR antibodies in vitro, and the amount of receptor antibody produced was increased in the presence of the drug. This effect was most marked at a concentration of 10 micrograms/ml which is thought to approximate the concentration in vivo. Our results confirm the in vivo findings of others that D-pen may have different effects on immunoglobulin production in different individuals and may also enhance the snythesis of at least 1 autoantibody, the AChR antibody.
Hyponatremia is a significant complication of treatment with serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRI). We describe a case of a 53-year-old woman that was started on fluoxetine 20 mg/day for depression. Nine days later, the patient started with weakness, nausea, progressing to confusion, inappetence and vomit. Three hours later she became unresponsive and had a generalized seizure. She was brought to our emergency service. On admission, the patient was normovolemic, without focal motor deficits, but had mild generalized muscle rigidity and Babinski's sign bilaterally. Serum sodium was 105 mmol/L, serum osmolality, 220 mmol/L, and urinary osmolality, 400 mmol/L. The other laboratory exams, chest X-ray, cerebrospinal fluid and cranium tomography were normal. She was found to have fluoxetine-induced SIADH and it was discontinued. We started the hyponatremia correction and, in 5 days, the mental status of the patient gradually returned to a normal baseline, paralleling the resolution of her hyponatremia, without recurrence. Hyponatremia and SIADH should be considered if a patient experiences deterioration in his or her clinical condition while taking SSRI. The use of SSRI antidepressants should be remembered in the differential diagnosis of drug-induced hyponatremia.
