In addition to environmental exposures like UV radiation and, in some cases, arsenic contamination of drinking water, genetic factors may also influence the individual susceptibility to basal cell carcinoma of skin (BCC). In the present study, 529 cases diagnosed with BCC and 533 controls from Hungary, Romania and Slovakia were genotyped for one polymorphism in each of seven DNA repair genes. The variant allele for T241M (C>T) polymorphism in the XRCC3 gene was associated with a decreased cancer risk [odds ratio (OR), 0.73; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.61-0.88; P = 0.0007, multiple testing corrected P = 0.004]. The risk of multiple BCC was significantly lower among variant allele carriers than in non-carriers (P = 0.04). Men homozygous for the C-allele for E185Q (G>C) polymorphism in the NBS1 gene showed an increased BCC risk (OR, 2.19; 95% CI, 1.23-3.91), but not women (OR, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.49-1.47). In men, the age and nationality adjusted OR for the genotype CC (XRCC3)/CC (NBS1) was 8.79 (95% CI, 2.10-36.8), compared with the genotype TT (XRCC3)/GG (NBS1). The data from this study show overall risk modulation of BCC by variant allele for T241M polymorphism in XRCC3 and gender-specific effect by E185Q polymorphism in NBS1.
Ghrelin, a 28-amino-acid peptide, is mainly secreted by the stomach. Evidence has shown ghrelin to have neuroprotective effects. However, whether ghrelin protects hippocampal neurons against cell death in pilocarpine-induced seizures is unknown. We used Nissl staining to show that ghrelin attenuated the neuronal loss caused by pilocarpine-induced seizures in the hippocampus. Ghrelin exerted the protective action through regulating the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase and Akt pathway. Moreover, ghrelin treatment reversed the decreased ratio of Bcl-2 to Bax induced by seizures while inhibiting the activated caspase-3. Ghrelin can inhibit hippocampal neuronal damage caused by pilocarpine-induced seizures, which might have therapeutic value in seizures.
This study investigated the effect of astaxanthin (ASX; 3,3-dihydroxybeta, beta-carotene-4,4-dione), a water-dispersible synthetic carotenoid, on liver ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury. Astaxanthin (5 mg/kg/day) or olive oil was administered to rats via intragastric intubation for 14 consecutive days before the induction of hepatic IR. On the 15th day, blood vessels supplying the median and left lateral hepatic lobes were occluded with an arterial clamp for 60 min, followed by 60 min reperfusion. At the end of the experimental period, blood samples were obtained from the right ventricule to determine plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and xanthine oxidase (XO) activities and animals were sacrificed to obtain samples of nonischemic and postischemic liver tissue. The effects of ASX on IR injury were evaluated by assessing hepatic ultrastructure via transmission electron microscopy and by histopathological scoring. Hepatic conversion of xanthine dehygrogenase (XDH) to XO, total GSH and protein carbonyl levels were also measured as markers of oxidative stress. Expression of NOS2 was determined by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis while nitrate/nitrite levels were measured via spectral analysis. Total histopathological scoring of cellular damage was significantly decreased in hepatic IR injury following ASX treatment. Electron microscopy of postischemic tissue demonstrated parenchymal cell damage, swelling of mitochondria, disarrangement of rough endoplasmatic reticulum which was also partially reduced by ASX treatment. Astaxanthine treatment significantly decreased hepatic conversion of XDH to XO and tissue protein carbonyl levels following IR injury. The current results suggest that the mechanisms of action by which ASX reduces IR damage may include antioxidant protection against oxidative injury.
Short-term exposure of mice to high doses of perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS), an ubiquitous and highly persistent environmental contaminant, induces various metabolic changes and toxic effects, including immunotoxicity. However, extrapolation of these findings to the long-term, low-dose exposures to which humans are subject is highly problematic. In this connection, recent studies have concluded that sub-chronic (28-day) exposure of mice by oral gavage to doses of PFOS that result in serum levels comparable to those found in general human populations suppress adaptive immunity. Because of the potential impact of these findings on environmental research and monitoring, we have examined here whether sub-chronic dietary exposure (a major route of human exposure) to a similarly low-dose of PFOS also suppress adaptive immune responses. Dietary treatment of male B6C3F1 mice for 28 days with a dose of PFOS that resulted in a serum concentration of 11mug/ml (ppm) significantly reduced body weight gain and increased liver mass. However, this treatment did not alter the cellular compositions of the thymus and spleen; the number of splenic cells secreting IgM antibodies against sheep red blood cell (SRBC); serum levels of IgM and IgG antibodies specifically towards SRBC; or circulating levels of IgM antibodies against the T-cell-independent antigen trinitrophenyl conjugated to lipopolysaccharide (TNP-LPS). These findings indicate that such sub-chronic dietary exposure of mice to PFOS resulting in serum levels approximately 8-85-fold greater than those observed in occupationally exposed individuals does not exert adverse effects on adaptive immunity.
Although it has been reported that injections of gentamicin induces lipid peroxidation in rat renal cortex (Ramsammy et al. (1985) Biochem. Pharmacol. 34, 3895-3900), our results showed no modification of thiobarbituric-reagent substances (TBARS) or in analysis of the polyunsaturated fatty acid profile. Moreover, endogenous vitamin E and glutathione were not consumed. In in vitro systems, gentamicin incubated with microsomes, homogenates and kidney slices from the normal rat failed to induce lipid peroxidation. We show that the increase in TBARS in vivo detected by Ramsammy et al. was wrongly attributed to the oxidant power of gentamicin. As this antibiotic does react positively to thiobarbituric acid in the presence of a system generating free radicals, it is possible that these authors accidentally introduced such a system into their experiments.
Hepatic toxicity caused by propafenone is extremely rare. We here describe a case of acute cholestasis secondary to propafenone treatment in an elderly male with no history of preexistent liver disease. The clinical picture and time course of the symptoms seem to be compatible with a direct toxic reaction. Age-related delays in hepatic drug metabolism should explain the hazardous increase in the bioavailability of this drug. Despite the rarity of this complication, propafenone should be considered as a potential cause of drug-induced cholestasis in elderly patients. The literature on the hepatotoxicity of propafenone is also reviewed.
Methamphetamine (METH) addiction is prevalent among individuals with HIV infection. We hypothesize that HIV-positive individuals are more prone to METH use and to the development of METH dependence. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effects of METH (daily intraperitoneal injection 2.5 mg/kg for 6 days) on rearing and head movement in 12-13-week-old male HIV-1 transgenic (HIV-1Tg) rats compared to F344 control rats as an indicator of behavioral sensitization, also representing neural adaptation underlying drug dependence and addiction. Body and brain weights were also recorded. The involvement of the dopaminergic system was investigated by examining dopamine receptors 1 (D1R) and 2 (D2R) and dopamine transporter (DAT) expression in the striatum and prefrontal cortex. METH increased rearing number and duration in both F344 and HIV-1Tg rats. Rearing number was attenuated over time, whereas rearing duration remained constant. METH also induced a progressive increase in stereotypical head movement in both F344 and HIV-1Tg rats, but it was greater in the HIV-1Tg rats than in the F344 animals. The brain to body weight ratio was significantly lower in METH-treated HIV-1Tg rats compared to F344 controls. There was no significant difference in striatal D1R, D2R, or DAT messenger RNA in HIV-1Tg and F344 rats. However, D1R expression was greater in the prefrontal cortex of HIV-1Tg rats than F344 rats and was attenuated by METH. Our results indicate that METH-induced behavioral sensitization is greater in the presence of HIV infection and suggest that D1R expression in the prefrontal cortex may play a role in METH addiction in HIV-positive individuals.
To describe a case of sinus arrest after iv metoclopramide.
A 66-yr-old diabetic female with no cardiovascular disease was anesthetized for a partial mastectomy. While in the postanesthesia care unit, she suffered two episodes of asystole after iv metoclopramide 10 mg. The first episode lasted ten seconds and corrected spontaneously while the second episode, lasting less than one minute required closed chest massage and atropine iv 0.8 mg. The cardiac investigation that followed was inconclusive for ischemia and the patient did not experience any other episodes of dysrhythmia. No formal investigation was done to disclose diabetic autonomic neuropathy. However, based on the results of dipyridamole myocardial single photon emission computed tomography, if diabetic autonomic neuropathy was present, it was very mild.
The patient sustained two episodes of asystole after iv metoclopramide 10 mg in the immediate postoperative period in the absence of any predisposing cardiac history or medication. Diabetes, even without overt autonomic neuropathy, may have been a predisposing factor for sinus arrest after iv metoclopramide.
Fifty three (30 male and 23 female), previously untreated, patients with post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) were treated with sodium stibogluconate, at the dose of 20 mg/kg/bw/d/im/(with a maximum of 8.5 ml) for 120 days (or more, if necessary). All the patients were followed up for 12 months. The patients were assessed after 40 days and thereafter at an interval of 20 days. The mean age of onset was 24 yr, maximum number of patients developed the disease within 3 yr of apparent cure of kala-azar. Maximum number of patients sought treatment within 5 yr of the onset of PKDL. The disease affected the face (98%), trunk (83%), upper limb (72%), lower limb (40%), genetalia (6%), and mucus membrane of the tongue 40%. The lesions observed were nodules (19%), papules (30%), and hypopigmented (45%) and reddish macules (7%). The parasites could be demonstrated in the nodules (100%), papules (69%) and macules (59%). The response to treatment started in 72 per cent of patients in the first 20 days and in 40 days in all patients. All the nodules and papules disappeared in 120 days, and the macules within 200 days. The side effects of treatment noted were changes in S T and T in electrocardiogram (7%), arthralgia (11%), allergic rash (7%), swelling at the site of injection (5%), neuralgia (4%) and metalic taste (6%). The S T and T changes reverted to normal when the drug was discontinued for 20 days. Arthralgia improved with indomethacin. The higher dosages and longer course of treatment were well tolerated and resulted in a cure in all patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
During early postnatal development, between birth and postnatal days 8-11, mice start to achieve weight-bearing locomotion. In association with the progression of weight-bearing locomotion there are presumed developmental changes in the intrinsic electrical properties of spinal -motoneurons. However, these developmental changes in the properties of -motoneuron properties have not been systematically explored in mice. Here, data are presented documenting the developmental changes of selected intrinsic motoneuron electrical properties, including statistically significant changes in action potential half-width, intrinsic excitability and diversity (quantified as coefficient of variation) of rheobase current, afterhyperpolarization half-decay time, and input resistance. In various adult mammalian preparations, the maintenance of intrinsic motoneuron electrical properties is dependent on activity and/or transmission-sensitive motoneuron-muscle interactions. In this study, we show that botulinum toxin-induced muscle paralysis led to statistically significant changes in the normal development of intrinsic motoneuron electrical properties in the postnatal mouse. This suggests that muscle activity during early neonatal life contributes to the development of normal motoneuron electrical properties.
A transglutaminase cross-linked caseinate was designed for use in dairy products to increase the viscosity of food matrices. The difference in structure of cross-linked caseinate might have implications for the risk of developing cow's milk allergy. The sensitizing capacity and the allergenicity (the potency to induce an allergic effector response) of cross-linked sodium caseinate was investigated using a mouse model for cow's milk allergy. Mice were orally sensitized with cross-linked caseinate or caseinate using cholera toxin as adjuvant. Anaphylactic shock reactions, change in body temperature, acute allergic skin response, caseinate-, cross-linked caseinate-IgE and mMCP-1 concentrations were determined after challenge with cross-linked caseinate or caseinate. Sensitization with cross-linked caseinate did not result in anaphylactic shock symptoms, drop in body temperature or release of serum mMCP-1. A tendency toward decreased casein-specific IgE levels was observed. The allergenicity did not differ between both products. These results indicate that in already caseinate-sensitized mice, cross-linked caseinate did not provoke more pronounced allergenic reactions compared to sodium caseinate. On top of that, reduced sensitization to cross-linked caseinate was observed. Cross-linked caseinate might therefore be an interesting new dietary concept for humans at risk for food allergy although more mechanistic studies and clinical trials are needed for validation.
To investigate the effect and the mechanisms of selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor celecoxib in the growth inhibition of pancreatic cancer by gemcitabine.
Effects of gemcitabine combined with celecoxib on the proliferation in xenograft pancreatic carcinoma induced by SW1990 were investigated by immunohistochemistry of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and cyclin D1. Gemcitabine was administered intraperitoneally twice a week, and celecoxib was given via water daily. Effects of celecoxib and/or gemcitabine in pancreatic carcinoma cell SW1990 with different dose and time were investigated by MTT assay and soft agar assay. Effects on apoptosis and cell cycle were studied by flow cytometry. Effects on the protein expression of cyclin A, B(1) and D(1) were assessed by Western Blot.
The mean volume of xenograft tumor was significantly reduced in gemcitabine group, celecoxib group and combination group (0.41 cm(3) +/- 0.12 cm(3), 1.56 cm(3) +/- 0.17 cm(3), 0.05 cm(3) +/- 0.04 cm(3) vs 2.31 cm(3) +/- 0.41 cm(3), P < 0.05). The expression of PCNA and cyclin D(1) was significantly reduced in gemcitabine group and can hardly be detected in combination group, but without significant change in celecoxib group. Celecoxib and gemcitabine inhibited pancreatic carcinoma cell growth dose-dependently, and the combination of celecoxib with gemcitabine inhibited cell growth to a greater degree than either compound alone. Apoptosis were induced in SW1990 by celecoxib alone or in combined with gemcitabine. Treatment with celecoxib only or combined with gemcitabine altered the cell cycle phase distribution in SW1990, cells were mainly arrested in G(0)/G(1) phase, S phase and G(2)/M phase development were greatly inhibited. Expression of Cyclin A, B(1) and D(1) were closely related with the cell cycle distribution induced by different drug.
Selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib enhances the growth inhibition of pancreatic cancer induced by gemcitabine, which may be realized partly through the arrest of cell cycle and induction of cell apoptosis.
The effects of acute occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery on regional blood flow (microspheres) to the remote bed supplied by either an unstenosed or a stenosed circumflex coronary artery were assessed during the infusion of intravenous nitroglycerin in 11 open chest barbiturate-anesthetized mongrel dogs. Left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion in the presence of an unstenosed left circumflex artery during nitroglycerin infusion caused systolic aortic and distal circumflex pressure to decrease significantly from 98 +/- 4 to 91 +/- 3 and from 99 +/- 4 to 92 +/- 3 mm Hg, respectively. Remote circumflex bed flow was unchanged. The infusion of intravenous nitroglycerin in the presence of a left circumflex stenosis (gradient 31 +/- 3 mm Hg) reduced systolic aortic and distal circumflex pressure to 98 +/- 2 (p = 0.001) and 71 +/- 4 mm Hg (p = 0.001), respectively, and lowered remote circumflex bed endocardial flow from 1.00 +/- 0.08 to 0.79 +/- 0.07 ml/min per g (p = 0.001). When the left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded under these conditions, systolic aortic and distal left circumflex pressure decreased to 89 +/- 3 (p = 0.005) and 62 +/- 4 mm Hg (p = 0.08), respectively. Remote circumflex artery bed endocardial and transmural flow were significantly reduced to 0.58 +/- 0.07 (p = 0.01) and 0.65 +/- 0.07 ml/min per g (p = 0.03), respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The hepatoproliferative effects of 2 antiestrogens, tamoxifen and toremifene, were compared in a sequential 15-month study in which 2 doses of each compound were administered by daily gavage to female Sprague-Dawley rats for up to 12 months. The doses were 11.3 and 22.6 mg/kg for tamoxifen and 12 and 24 mg/kg for toremifene. There were scheduled sacrifices at 3, 6, 12, and 15 months, the latter including a 3-month recovery period from the 12th through the 14th month. In the chronic toxicity study, tamoxifen at 22.6 mg/kg produced 100% incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma at the 12- and 15-month sacrifice intervals and 67% and 71% incidences at the 11.3-mg/kg dose. Sequential observations showed an increased incidence of glutathione S-transferase-positive foci of hepatocellular alteration by 3 months with tamoxifen in the absence of hepatotoxicity, with the first liver carcinoma appearing by 6 months of treatment. Unscheduled deaths occurring beyond 7.5 months in the tamoxifen treated groups were due in almost all cases to liver cancer. In striking contrast, toremifene did not produce any hepatoproliferative effects at 12- and 24-mg/kg dose levels, nor in a pilot study at 48 mg/kg. The 24-mg/kg dose of toremifene exerted an inhibiting effect on foci of hepatocellular alteration in rat liver detectable by glutathione S-transferase immunohistochemistry at 3 months and by conventional histology at 12 months. An antiproliferative effect was also evident in mammary gland and anterior pituitary where both toremifene and tamoxifen suppressed tumor incidence in comparison to the control group. The ability of these drugs to modify rat liver DNA after p.o. administration was investigated using the 32P-postlabeling assay. Administration of tamoxifen at 45 mg/kg for 7 days produced liver DNA nucleoside modifications represented by 7 spots on the autoradiogram. Unlike tamoxifen, toremifene did not produce any modified bases in rat liver DNA detectable by the 32P-postlabeling technique. The dose levels of tamoxifen that are strongly hepatocarcinogenic in the rat are compared with doses used in humans in various applications. Taking internal drug exposure into account, we conclude that the margin of safety for use of tamoxifen as an endocrine prophylactic agent for healthy, but breast cancer prone, women is questionable.
Bisphosphonates are established as a supportive therapy for a number of malignancies that metastasize to bone. Previous reports have also suggested potent antitumor and anti-angiogenic properties. We investigated the in vitro activity of the 2 aminobisphosphonates pamidronate (Faulding Pharmaceuticals, Paramus, New Jersey) and zoledronic acid (Novartis, Basel, Switzerland) on the growth and survival of the 3 renal cell carcinoma cell lines Caki-2, 769-P (American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Virginia) and D69581.
Cell lines were exposed to bisphosphonates in vitro and evaluated by MTS (3-(4,5-dimethylahiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium) assay and cell cycle analysis. Mechanisms of apoptotic cell death were investigated by ApoDIRECT assay (BioVision, Mountain View, California) and Kinetworks analysis.
Zoledronic acid was consistently more potent than pamidronate for inducing apoptotic cell death. Zoledronic acid was capable of overcoming resistance to pamidronate in 1 cell line. Although it was ultimately less potent, the inhibitory effects of pamidronate appeared earlier than those of zoledronic acid. The pro-apoptotic effect of zoledronic acid was achieved through nonmitochondrial pathways and it was associated with the activation of caspase 6 and 3, and poly adenosine diphosphate-ribosyltransferase polymerase cleavage. Furthermore, we observed a marked decrease in and intracellular distribution of MSH2, a protein involved in DNA mismatch repair, as well as evidence of a greater cellular response to zoledronic acid as increased expression of superoxide dismutase.
These findings add further support to the clinical use of aminobisphosphonates, particularly zoledronic acid, in patients with renal cell carcinoma with disease metastatic to bone.
A hypertensive patient with a history of diabetes and ischemic heart disease was given propranolol before ECT and experienced cardiac arrest after subconvulsive electrical stimulation. The authors suggest exercising caution when combining beta-adrenergic blockade and ECT.
Peripheral neurotoxicity is a major complication associated with the use of chemotherapeutic agents such as platinum compounds, taxanes and vinca alkaloids. The neurotoxicity of chemotherapy depends not only on the anticancer agent(s) used, the cumulative dose and the delivery method, but also on the capacity of the nerve to cope with the nerve-damaging process. The sensory and motor symptoms and signs of neurotoxicity are disabling, and have a significant impact on the quality of life of cancer patients. Moreover, the risk of cumulative toxicity may limit the use of highly effective chemotherapeutic agents. Therefore, prophylaxis and treatment of peripheral neurotoxicity secondary to chemotherapy are major clinical issues. Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC), the acetyl ester of L-carnitine, plays an essential role in intermediary metabolism. Some of the properties exhibited by ALC include neuroprotective and neurotrophic actions, antioxidant activity, positive actions on mitochondrial metabolism, and stabilisation of intracellular membranes. ALC has demonstrated efficacy and high tolerability in the treatment of neuropathies of various aetiologies, including chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN). In several experimental settings, the prophylactic administration of ALC prevented the occurrence of peripheral neurotoxicity commonly induced by chemotherapeutic agents. In animal models of CIPN, ALC administration promoted the recovery of nerve conduction velocity, restored the mechanical nociceptive threshold, and induced analgesia by up-regulating the expression of type-2 metabotropic glutamate receptors in dorsal root ganglia. These results, plus the favourable safety profile of ALC in neuropathies of other aetiologies, have led to the effects of ALC on CIPN being investigated in cancer patients. Preliminary results have confirmed the reasonably good tolerability profile and the efficacy of ALC on CIPN. The present studies support the use of ALC in cancer patients with persisting neurotoxicity induced by paclitaxel or cisplatin treatment.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are a family of inducible enzymes that are important in carcinogen detoxification. GST-Mu class is showing the high activity towards most polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) epoxide. Our objective is to clarify the expression of GST-M2 in non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patients and to determine the role of GST-M2 in protecting against DNA damage. We detected changes in GST-M2 expression at mRNA levels with a panel of lung cell lines and clinical samples of malignant and paired adjacent non-malignant tissues from 50 patients with stage I or II non-small-cell lung carcinoma using real-time RT-PCR. Comet assay and gamma-H2AX were used to clarify whether DNA damaged was protected by GST-M2. Our data demonstrate that the expression of GST-M2 in tumor tissues is significantly lower than in paired adjacent non-malignant tissues (p=0.016). Loss of GST-M2 is closely associated with age, gender, T value, N value and cell differentiation (p<0.05) in early stage I/II patients. Downregulation of GST-M2 is mediated through aberrant hypermethylation in lung cancer cell lines. Protection against B[a]P-induced DNA damage by GST-M2 in lung cancer cells was detected by Comet assay and gamma-H2AX. In conclusion, DNA hypermethylation altered and reduced GST-M2 expression that resulted in susceptible to benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) induced DNA damage. It implies that GST-M2 reduction occurs prior to tumorigenesis.
Gorlin's or nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS) causes predisposition to basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the commonest cancer in adult human. Mutations in the tumor suppressor gene PTCH1 are responsible for this autosomal dominant syndrome. In NBCCS patients, as in the general population, ultraviolet exposure is a major risk factor for BCC development. However these patients also develop BCCs in sun-protected areas of the skin, suggesting the existence of other mechanisms for BCC predisposition in NBCCS patients. As increasing evidence supports the idea that the stroma influences carcinoma development, we hypothesized that NBCCS fibroblasts could facilitate BCC occurence of the patients. WT (n = 3) and NBCCS fibroblasts bearing either nonsense (n = 3) or missense (n = 3) PTCH1 mutations were cultured in dermal equivalents made of a collagen matrix and their transcriptomes were compared by whole genome microarray analyses. Strikingly, NBCCS fibroblasts over-expressed mRNAs encoding pro-tumoral factors such as Matrix Metalloproteinases 1 and 3 and tenascin C. They also over-expressed mRNA of pro-proliferative diffusible factors such as fibroblast growth factor 7 and the stromal cell-derived factor 1 alpha, known for its expression in carcinoma associated fibroblasts. These data indicate that the PTCH1(+/-) genotype of healthy NBCCS fibroblasts results in phenotypic traits highly reminiscent of those of BCC associated fibroblasts, a clue to the yet mysterious proneness to non photo-exposed BCCs in NBCCS patients.
In order to reveal the mechanism of the decreased ability of learning and memory induced by chronic fluorosis, nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and the pathway of extracellular signal regulated protein kinase (ERK1/2) were investigated by using the rats fed with different concentrations of sodium fluoride for 6 months. Spatial learning and memory of the rats were evaluated by Morris Water Maze test. The expressions of nAChRs, ERK1/2 and mitogen-induced extracellular kinase (MEK1/2) at protein and mRNA levels were detected by Western blotting and real-time PCR, respectively. The results showed that as compared with controls, the learning and memory capacity in the rats with fluorosis was decreased. The protein expressions of alpha7 and alpha4 nAChR subunits in rat brains with fluorosis were decreased by 35% and 33%, whereas the corresponding receptor subunit mRNAs did not exhibit any changes. The increases of phospho- and total-ERK1/2 as well as phospho-MEK1/2 at the protein levels were found in the brains of rats with fluorosis as compared to controls, and no difference of ERK1/2 mRNA was found. In addition, the activation rate of phospho-ERK1/2 was decreased in the brains affected with fluorosis. The modifications of nAChRs and ERK1/2 pathway might be connected with the molecular mechanisms in the decreased capacity of learning and memory of the rats with fluorosis.
Dyslipidaemia may be treated with a number of safe and effective pharmacological agents that target specific lipid disorders through a variety of mechanisms. The bile-acid sequestrants--cholestyramine and colestipol--primarily decrease LDL cholesterol by binding bile acids, thereby decreasing intrahepatic cholesterol, and by increasing the activity of LDL receptors. Nicotinic acid lowers LDL cholesterol and triglyceride by decreasing VLDL synthesis and by decreasing free fatty acid mobilization from peripheral adipocytes. The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors--fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin and simvastatin--lower LDL cholesterol by partially inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase (the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis) and by increasing the activity of LDL receptors. The fibric-acid derivatives--bezafibrate, ciprofibrate, clofibrate, fenofibrate and gemfibrozil--primarily decrease triglyceride by increasing lipoprotein lipase activity and by decreasing the release of free fatty acids from peripheral adipose tissue. Probucol decreases LDL cholesterol by increasing non-receptor-mediated LDL clearance; as an anti-oxidant, probucol also decreases LDL oxidation; oxidized LDL which is thought to lead to atherogenesis. Although these agents have been proven safe in clinical trials, like any drug, they carry the risk for adverse effects. The bile-acid sequestrants may cause constipation, reflux oesophagitis, and dyspepsia, and may bind coadministered medications such as digitalis glycosides, beta blockers, warfarin, and exogenous thyroid hormone. Nicotinic acid use is commonly associated with flushing and pruritus and may also cause non-specific gastrointestinal complaints, hepatotoxicity (hepatic necrosis, hepatitis, or elevated liver enzymes), gout, myolysis, decreased glucose tolerance and increased fasting glucose levels, and ophthalmological complications including decreased visual acuity, toxic amblyopia, and cystic maculopathy. The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may produce liver enzyme elevations, creatine kinase elevations and rhabdomyolysis. The combination of a reductase inhibitor and a fibrate increases the risk for rhabdomyolysis. Possible adverse effects of the fibric-acid derivatives include abdominal discomfort, nausea, flatulence, increased lithogenicity of bile, liver enzyme elevations and creatine kinase elevations. Probucol may increase the QTc interval and may cause non-specific gastrointestinal complaints.
A subacute necrotizing myopathy developed in a patient treated with epsilon amino-caproic acid (EACA) for subarachnoid hemorrhage. The muscle biopsy showed features suggesting that the muscle fiber necrosis might have been due to capillary damage. An attempt to induce EACA myopathy in the rat was made, but no abnormality developed.
The short-term efficacy of nitrendipine (N) as a first stage antihypertensive drug in black patients has been assessed and compared with acebutolol (A) in a double-blind study. Forty patients were randomized and after a 4 week run-in period on placebo, the active treatment was administered for 6 weeks starting with 20 mg N or 200 mg A once daily. The dose was increased up to 60 mg N or 600 mg A as needed. Nitrendipine appeared to be more efficient than acebutolol in reducing blood pressure and the N-induced fall in blood pressure was achieved after 2 weeks. After 2 and 6 weeks on N, the recumbent blood pressure was decreased by 13% and 12% for the systolic and by 14% and 11% for the diastolic pressure. The concurrent decreases in the A group averaged 4% and 5% for the systolic and 5% and 10% for the diastolic pressure after 2 and 6 weeks. Pulse rate and plasma renin activity in the N group were slightly increased and body weight was decreased at the end of the active treatment period.
Mice heterozygous for deletion of the transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) gene show an enhanced rate of lung tumorigenesis following carcinogen treatment. Since the growth inhibitory activity of TGF-beta1 in epithelial cells is associated with K-ras p21, and K-ras mutations commonly occur in chemically-induced mouse lung tumors, we postulated that tumors in heterozygous TGF-beta1 mice might be more likely to have K-ras mutations compared with tumors in wildtype TGF-beta1 mice. Urethane-induced lung tumors in AJBL6 TGF-beta1 +/- and +/+ mice were examined for K-ras mutations by polymerase chain reaction/single strand conformation polymorphism analysis and sequencing. Mutation frequencies were similar in both genotypes: 12/18 +/- tumors (67%) and 10/16 +/+ tumors (62%). Mutations occurred in 80% +/- and 75% +/+ carcinomas, but in only 50% of the adenomas of both TGF-beta1 genotypes. Codon 61 A-->G transition mutations were predominant, occurring in 61% +/- and 44% +/+ tumors. Three +/- (17%) and three +/+ (19%) tumors showed codon 12 mutations, mostly G-->A transitions. Two +/- tumors had both codon 61 and codon 12 mutations. Interestingly, carcinomas with mutations in codon 61 were larger than those with codon 12 changes. It appears that the mechanism of enhanced susceptibility of TGF-beta1+/- mice to urethane-induced lung carcinogenesis does not involve selective development of tumors with K-ras mutations.
A 39-year-old woman with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus developed chest pain and conduction abnormalities. An echocardiographic examination revealed systolic dysfunction and ventricular thickening. Because of the unclear nature of her cardiac disease, right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy was performed. Light microscopy showed diffuse myocyte vacuolization without myocarditis, and transmission electron microscopy demonstrated sarcoplasmic myelinoid and curvilinear bodies, diagnostic of hydroxychloroquine toxicity. Among patients with autoimmune connective disorders, cardiac dysfunction may be a result of the disease or occasionally of its treatment. Although the nature of the cardiac disease (myocardial, valvular, or pericardial) can generally be evaluated echocardiographically, endomyocardial biopsy may be indicated to rule out diseases with a specific microscopic appearance, such as myocarditis or hydroxychloroquine cardiotoxicity.
Investigations of MK-0927 and acetazolamide, both carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs), showed that urothelial hyperplasia develops in rats and mice, but not in rabbits, dogs, or monkeys. Rats given MK-0927 orally had a rapid onset of the change which regresses often completely despite continued treatment. Increased urinary pH and Na excretion, pharmacologic effects of CAIs, tended to be correlated with lesions. Rats given MK-0927 orally and fed either a 5% potassium phosphate meal or a 5% ammonium chloride meal had reduced urinary pH and/or urinary Na excretion and a reduced incidence of urothelial hyperplasia. Rats given MK-0927 orally and fed a low Na diet had very low urinary Na and essentially no urothelial hyperplasia. It was concluded that a clear relation exists between increased urinary Na excretion and pH, and urothelial hyperplasia induced by CAIs. These results in rats confirm the importance of increased Na and pH as stimuli for the development of urothelial hyperplasia.
1,3-Dinitropyrene (DNP) and 1,8-DNP (CAS: 42397-65-9) are very potent mutagens and induce a frameshift-type mutation in the Salmonella test system. Each compound was tested for tumorigenicity in BALB/c mice by sc inoculation of 0.05 mg of the compound once a week for 20 weeks. Tumors developed at the site of injection of 1,8-DNP in 6 of 15 mice up to 60 weeks after the first injection. The incidence of tumors was statistically significant at a P-value of less than .05 but not of less than .01. Therefore, the carcinogenicity of 1,8-DNP in BALB/c mice was concluded to be weaker than that of benzo[a]pyrene [(BP) CAS: 50-32-8], which induced a 100% tumor incidence when it was injected at the same dose as that of 1,8-DNP. No tumors occurred at the injection site in mice given 1,3-DNP. Most of the tumors induced by 1,8-DNP and BP showed histologic features characteristic of malignant fibrous histiocytoma.
