Administration of many antiepileptic drugs to patients with porphyria can precipitate an acute porphyric crisis. Information on the porphyrogenic activity of new antiepileptic drugs is still limited. In the presented study, the effects of tiagabine and topiramate on porphyrin metabolism were evaluated in an in vivo model of porphyria. Administration of the protoporphyrinogen oxidase inhibitor oxadiazon (12.5 mg/kg/day) for four days to male Wistar rats caused a partial block of porphyrin biosynthesis, thus mimicking the condition of quiescent variegate porphyria. Administration of phenobarbital (75 mg/kg/day) to oxadiazon-pretreated rats increased liver porphyrin content, liver porphobilinogen content (means 480 nmol/g, control less than 20 nmol/g) and urinary excretion of porphobilinogen (means 1,000 micromol/l, control less than 20 micromol/l). Tiagabine (75 mg/kg/day) and topiramate (75 mg/kg/day) increased liver porphobilinogen content (means 33 and 53 nmol/g respectively) and urinary porphobilinogen concentration (240 and 490 micromol/l respectively). Similar results were obtained in oxadiazon-treated BALB/c mice. In untreated rats, tiagabine and topiramate caused a moderate increase of hepatic pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylase activity (approximately 100 and 200 pmol/min./mg respectively, controls 15 pmol/min./mg). These data demonstrate that administration of tiagabine or topiramate to oxadiazon-treated animals can provoke a condition resembling an acute porphyric attack and suggest that administration of these drugs to patients with suspected porphyria should be avoided. However, 5-day administration of both tiagabine and topiramate (75 mg/kg) is considerably less porphyrogenic than phenobarbital administered at the same dose.
A 16-year-old girl who was treated with ceftriaxone developed two intravascular haemolytic attacks that led to acute renal failure and death. The direct antiglobulin test was positive only for C3d, and no ceftriaxone-dependent antibodies were detectable. Her serum reacted strongly positive with red blood cells in the presence of ex vivo antigen related to ceftriaxone (urine samples from patients receiving the drug). This is the first reported case in which the causative antibodies appeared to be stimulated solely by a degradation product of ceftriaxone.
In a rat 3-day survival model of 10-minute four-vessel occlusion, halothane anesthesia was used to attenuate the ictal blood pressure elevation of the cerebral ischemic response and thereby maintain an isoelectric EEG. Selectively vulnerable regions of the brain were protected by preischemia plus postischemia maintenance treatment with the calcium entry blocker nicardipine. Compared with untreated animals, repeated doses at 500 micrograms/kg IP were markedly more effective than doses of 50 micrograms/kg. Ongoing studies demonstrate a neurocytoprotective action of nicardipine when deferred treatment is given postischemia.
Development of tolerance and dependence has been reported to occur upon chronic administration of traditional benzodiazepines (BZDs). We compared the effect of chronic treatment with abecarnil, a beta-carboline derivative with high affinity for central BDZ receptors, and diazepam, the BDZ prototype, in mice. After acute administration, abecarnil was as potent and effective as diazepam in protecting from bicuculline-induced convulsion. The time-course analysis of two peak equieffective doses of abecarnil (1.9 mg/kg p.o.) and diazepam (2.7 mg/kg p.o.) showed a similar duration of action. The anticonvulsant potency of diazepam was reduced in mice given chronic diazepam (25 mg/kg p.o., 2 times a day for 17 days). No tolerance to abecarnil was apparent when the drug was administered for the same period using a comparable dose (20 mg/kg p.o.). Severe symptoms of precipitated withdrawal were observed upon administration of the BDZ partial inverse agonist Ro 15-3505 in mice treated chronically with diazepam but not abecarnil. In mice made tolerant to diazepam, maximum [3H]-flumazenil binding sites were reduced in both cerebral cortex (-50%) and cerebellum (-55.2%). No changes in [3H]-flumazenil binding were measured in chronic abecarnil-treated mice. These data indicate that abecarnil possesses a very low tolerance/dependence liability and does not affect BZD receptor density after chronic administration.
Recent studies have shown that arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) can induce complete remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). We tested the efficacy and safety of As(2)O(3) for the treatment of patients with APL who had relapsed from or become refractory to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and conventional chemotherapy in a prospective study. As(2)O(3) at a dose of 0.15 mg/kg was administered until the date of bone marrow remission to a maximum of 60 days. In patients who achieved complete remission (CR), one additional course of As(2)O(3) was administered using the same dose for 25 days. Of 14 patients, 11 (78%) achieved CR. Six of 10 patients who achieved CR showed disappearance of PML-RARalpha transcript by RT-PCR assay. The duration of As(2)O(3)-induced CR ranged from 4 to 22 months (median, 8 months) at a median follow-up of 17 months. Adverse events included 13 electrocardiogram abnormalities (13 QTc prolongation, eight ventricular premature contraction, four nonsustained ventricular tachycardia and two paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia), seven nausea and vomiting, four pruritus, three peripheral neuropathy, three fluid retention and one APL differentiation syndrome. Four patients received antiarrhythmic agents. Hyperleukocytosis developed in five patients and in three cytotoxic drugs were necessary. Other adverse events were relatively mild. As(2)O(3) treatment is effective and relatively safe in relapsed or refectory patients with APL. Cardiac toxicities in patients with QTc prolongation should be carefully monitored.
The A391E mutation in fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) is the genetic cause for Crouzon syndrome with Acanthosis Nigricans. Here we investigate the effect of this mutation on FGFR3 activation in HEK 293 T cells over a wide range of fibroblast growth factor 1 concentrations using a physical-chemical approach that deconvolutes the effects of the mutation on dimerization, ligand binding, and efficiency of phosphorylation. It is believed that the mutation increases FGFR3 dimerization, and our results verify this. However, our results also demonstrate that the increase in dimerization is not the sole effect of the mutation, as the mutation also facilitates the phosphorylation of critical tyrosines in the activation loop of FGFR3. The activation of mutant FGFR3 is substantially increased due to a combination of these two effects. The low expression of the mutant, however, attenuates its signaling and may explain the mild phenotype in Crouzon syndrome with Acanthosis Nigricans. The results presented here provide new knowledge about the physical basis behind growth disorders and highlight the fact that a single RTK mutation may affect multiple steps in RTK activation.
Myocardial infarction with normal coronary arteries is a syndrome resulting from numerous conditions but the exact cause in a majority of the patients remains unknown. Cigarette smokers and cocaine users are more prone to develop this condition. The possible mechanisms causing myocardial infarction with normal coronary arteries are hypercoagulable states, coronary embolism, an imbalance between oxygen demand and supply, intense sympathetic stimulation, non-atherosclerotic coronary diseases, coronary trauma, coronary vasospasm, coronary thrombosis, and endothelial dysfunction. It primarily affects younger individuals, and the clinical presentation is similar to that of myocardial infarction with coronary atherosclerosis. Thrombolytics, aspirin, nitrates, and beta blockers should be instituted as a standard therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Once normal coronary arteries are identified on subsequent angiography, the calcium channel blockers could be added since coronary vasospasm appears to play a major role in the pathophysiology of this condition. The beta blockers should be avoided in cocaine-induced myocardial infarction because the coronary spasm may worsen. In myocardial infarction with normal coronary arteries, complications such as malignant arrhythmia, heart failure, and hypotension are generally less common, and prognosis is usually good. Recurrent infarction, postinfarction angina, heart failure, and sudden cardiac death are rare. Stress electrocardiography and imaging studies are not useful prognostic tests and long-term survival mainly depends on the residual left ventricular function, which is usually good.
Long treatment regime with d-penicillamine is needed before it can exert clinically meaningful benefits in the treatment of copper toxicosis. The consequence of long-term d-penicillamine treatment is associated with numerous side effects. The limitations of d-penicillamine monotherapy prompted us to search for more effective treatment strategies that could decrease the duration of d-penicillamine therapy. The present study was designed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of d-penicillamine in combination with another hepatoprotective drug, andrographolide in treatment of copper toxicosis in rats. d-penicillamine treatment led to the excretion of copper through urine. Addition of andrographolide to d-penicillamine regime appeared to increase protection of liver by increasing the biliary excretion of copper and reduction in cholestatic injury. The early removal of the causative agent copper during combination treatment was the most effective therapeutic intervention that contributed to the early rectification of fibrosis in liver. Combination treatment reduced Kupffer cells accumulation and TNFα production in liver of copper exposed rats. In particular, andrographolide mediated the anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting the cytokine production. However, another possible mechanism of cytoprotection of andrographolide was decreasing mitochondrial production of superoxide anions that resulted in better restoration of mitochondrial dysfunction during combination therapy than monotherapy. Furthermore, ROS inhibition by combination regimen resulted in significant decline in activation of caspase cascade. Inhibition of caspases attenuated apoptosis of hepatocytes, induced by chronic copper exposure. In summary, this study suggested that added benefit of combination treatment over use of either agent alone in alleviating the hepatotoxicity and fibrosis associated with copper toxicosis.
To assess side effects of propranolol in the treatment of portal hypertension, we measured blood ammonia in 14 cirrhotics before and after administration of propranolol, and in six cirrhotics before and after placebo. We evaluated ammonia blood levels obtained from three sites: venous, arterial, and arterialized-venous, obtained by warming the forearm. Ammonia concentration of arterial and arterialized-venous blood were abnormal for all cirrhotics studied and significantly greater than the ammonia concentration of venous blood (p less than 0.01). When propranolol was administered to patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and marginal liver function, as reflected by ammonia levels above 60 microM, it caused a significant increase in ammonia levels in arterialized-venous and arterial, but not in venous, blood (p less than 0.05). Propranolol caused a significant increase in the time required to perform sensitive psychometric tests (p less than 0.05). Encephalopathy usually became clinically apparent when the mean of the arterial and arterialized-venous blood ammonia levels rose above 122 microM.
In Wistar rats, the ED-50 of kainic acid induced clonic seizures. In early and postponed periods of kindling, the ED-50 decreased by 2,0 to 1.5 times. Kyotorphin did not affect the ED-50 of kainic acid in postponed periods.
This retrospective study examined the common notion that neuroleptic-induced dystonia is less frequent in elderly patients. The hospital records of 45 young patients and 45 elderly patients were reviewed. Thirty-one percent of the young patients developed dystonia, compared to 2% of the elderly patients. This significant difference did not appear to be the result of types of neuroleptics used, dose, or concomitant administration of anticholinergic drugs.
Human temporal lobe epilepsy and experimental models of this disease are associated with loss of neurons and other structural alterations in several limbic brain structures including the hippocampal formation and adjacent parahippocampal cortical areas. The goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that seizure activity can produce damage to the retrosplenial granular b cortex (Rgb) which is known to be strongly connected with other limbic structures implicated in epilepsy. To test this hypothesis, we estimated, using stereological methods, the volumes and total neuronal numbers in Rgb cortex of rats that had experienced prolonged status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine (350 mg/kg), rats treated with six electroshock seizures (the first five seizures were spaced by 24-h intervals, whilst the last two were only 2 h apart), and control rats. Adult male Wistar rats were used in this experiment. Status epilepticus produced significant loss of neurons in Rgb cortical layers IV (22%) and V (44%), which was accompanied by volume reductions in layers I (17%), IV (11%), V (18%) and VI (24%). In electroshock-treated rats, the volume of Rgb cortical layer VI was reduced by 17% and the number of neurons estimated in layer V was smaller by 16% relative to control rats. Thus, the finding that status epilepticus and administration of brief generalized seizures both lead to degenerative morphological alterations in Rgb cortex provides the first experimental support for the hypothesis that this cortical area can be involved in seizure activity, as suggested by its anatomical connections.
Carbamazepine alone or carbamazepine plus neuroleptic was administered to 20 chronic schizophrenic patients. Upon abrupt discontinuation two of the 20 patients had exacerbations of their psychoses characterized by paranoia, hostility, and agitation. The authors discuss the possibility of a carbamazepine withdrawal syndrome.
The most striking of carboplatin's advantages (CBDCA) over cisplatin (CDDP) is its markedly reduced rate of neurotoxic effects. However, the use of CBDCA higher-intensity schedules and the association with other neurotoxic drugs in polychemotherapy may cause some concern about its safety with respect to peripheral nervous system damage.
Two different schedules of CBDCA administration (10 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg i.p. twice a week for nine times) were evaluated in Wistar rats. Neurotoxicity was assessed for behavioral (tail-flick test), neurophysiological (nerve conduction velocity in the tail nerve), morphological, morphometrical and analytical effects.
CBDCA administration induced dose-dependent peripheral neurotoxicity. Pain perception and nerve conduction velocity in the tail were significantly impaired, particularly after the high-dose treatment. The dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons and, to a lesser extent, satellite cells showed the same changes as those induced by CDDP, mainly affecting the nucleus and nucleolus of ganglionic sensory neurons. Moreover, significant amounts of platinum were detected in the dorsal root ganglia and kidney after CBDCA treatment.
CBDCA is neurotoxic in our model, and the type of pathological changes it induces are so closely similar to those caused by CDDP that it is probable that neurotoxicity is induced in the two drugs by the same mechanism. This model can be used alone or in combination with other drugs to explore the effect of CBDCA on the peripheral nervous system.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) agonist rosiglitazone has been suggested to exert cardiovascular protection through the improvement of lipid metabolism, anti-inflammation, anti-proliferation etc. However, whether renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is involved in the vascular protective effects of PPARγ agonists is not fully understood. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of the renin-angiotensin system in vascular protection mediated by PPARγ agonists.
To investigate the actions of the renin-angiotensin system in vascular protection mediated by activation of PPARγ in vivo and in vitro.
Rats were fed a regular diet (n = 8), a cholesterol-rich diet plus methylthiouracil (80 mg/Kg/day, n = 10), a cholesterol-rich diet plus methylthiouracil and rosiglitazone (4 mg/kg/day, n = 10). The rosiglitazone treatment was started from one month after the start of cholesterol-rich diet plus methylthiouracil, and lasted five months. Cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) were pretreated with 1 μmol/L angiotensin II (ANG II) for 6 h and randomly divided into the control group; the ANG II group (1 μmol/L ANG II); the groups respectively treated with different concentration rosiglitazone (20, 30, 50) μmol/L for 12 h; the groups treated with 30 μmol/L rosiglitazone for (6, 12, 24) h. Morphology changes of the aortic tissues were observed by hematoxylin and eosin stain. The VSMC growth was detected by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) colorimetric assay. Angiotensin II and expression of angiotensin receptors were determined by radioimmunoassay, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blot, and immunohistochemistry.
After 6 months, lipid deposition, VSMC proliferation and migration toward intima were observed in aortic tissues in the rats on a cholesterol-rich diet plus methylthiouracil, while these pathological changes induced by the cholesterol-rich diet were significantly suppressed by rosiglitazone. In addition, VSMC proliferation induced by ANG II was markedly inhibited by rosiglitazone. Rosiglitazone markedly down-regulated expression of angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R) and up-regulated expression of angiotensin type 2 receptor (AT2R) in the aortic tissues and ANG II-treated VSMCs.
The present study demonstrated that PPARγ agonist rosiglitazone suppressed ANG II-induced VSMC proliferation in vitro and early atherosclerotic formation evoked by cholesterol-rich diet in vivo. These vasculoprotective effects of rosiglitazone were mediated at least partially by reduction in local tissue ANG II concentration, down-regulation of AT1R expression and up-regulation of AT2R expression both at the mRNA and protein levels.
Cohorts of 4- to 5-wk-old female Fischer 344 rats received four biweekly 1.5-mg doses of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) intravesically and were sacrificed at various intervals. By 13 wk after initiation of the carcinogen, all animals have flat epithelial atypia and/or papillary transitional cell bladder carcinomas, and 67% of the lesions are histological Grade II or III. By 20 wk, 83% have gross bladder wall muscle-invasive tumors that eventually kill the host. There was no gross evidence of visceral metastases in any animal. This rat model of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder is useful because: (a) all animals develop progressive neoplastic changes in situ within 4 mo after initiation of MNU treatment; (b) these lesions progress to grossly detectable bladder tumors which invade the bladder wall and kill the host; (c) this full progression of bladder epithelial cells from atypical hyperplasia through flat carcinoma in situ to transitional cell carcinoma occurs at discrete time points; (d) the histology of the grossly detectable tumors is that of invasive transitional cell carcinomas; and (e) no leukemias, breast cancers, lymphomas, or other non-bladder tumors are induced. Six MNU-induced bladder wall-invasive tumors were karyotyped, and all tumors were diploid with 42 chromosomes. Three of the tumors had apparently normal karyotypes, while three tumors had karyotypes containing one or more cytogenetic structural markers. One of these markers (i.e., 8p+) was observed in two of the three tumors. The level of expression of total ras p21 (N-, Ki-, and Ha-ras p21) and codon 12-mutated c-Ha-ras p21 (i.e., glycine to glutamic acid mutation in codon 12) in a series of these MNU-induced bladder tumors was determined by Western blot analysis. No increase in the total ras p21 nor any expression of codon 12-mutated c-Ha-ras p21 was detected in any of these tumors.
We examined the sensitivity of AChE(+/-) mice to the amnesic effects of scopolamine and amyloid beta peptide. AChE(+/-) and AChE(+/+) littermates, tested at 5-9 weeks of age, failed to show any difference in locomotion, exploration and anxiety in the open-field test, or in-place learning in the water-maze. However, when treated with the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (0.5, 5mg/kg s.c.) 20 min before each water-maze training session, learning impairments were observed at both doses in AChE(+/+) mice, but only at the highest dose in AChE(+/-) mice. The central injection of Abeta(25-35) peptide (9 nmol) induced learning deficits only in AChE(+/+) but not in AChE(+/-) mice. Therefore, the hyper-activity of cholinergic systems in AChE(+/-) mice did not result in increased memory abilities, but prevented the deleterious effects of muscarinic blockade or amyloid toxicity.
Early-life experiences and environmental exposures have been associated with childhood asthma. To investigate further whether the timing of such experiences and exposures is associated with the occurrence of asthma by 5 years of age, we conducted a prevalence case-control study nested within the Children's Health Study, a population-based study of > 4,000 school-aged children in 12 southern California communities. Cases were defined as physician-diagnosed asthma by age 5, and controls were asthma-free at study entry, frequency-matched on age, sex, and community of residence and countermatched on in utero exposure to maternal smoking. Telephone interviews were conducted with mothers to collect additional exposure and asthma histories. Conditional logistic regression models were fitted to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Asthma diagnosis before 5 years of age was associated with exposures in the first year of life to wood or oil smoke, soot, or exhaust (OR = 1.74; 95% CI, 1.02-2.96), cockroaches (OR = 2.03; 95% CI, 1.03-4.02), herbicides (OR = 4.58; 95% CI, 1.36-15.43), pesticides (OR = 2.39; 95% CI, 1.17-4.89), and farm crops, farm dust, or farm animals (OR = 1.88; 95% CI, 1.07-3.28). The ORs for herbicide, pesticide, farm animal, and crops were largest among children with early-onset persistent asthma. The risk of asthma decreased with an increasing number of siblings (ptrend = 0.01). Day care attendance within the first 4 months of life was positively associated with early-onset transient wheezing (OR = 2.42; 95% CI, 1.28-4.59). In conclusion, environmental exposures during the first year of life are associated with childhood asthma risk.
Temporary inability to function without amphetamine and the experience of withdrawal syndrome enhance the tendency for repetitive use. The investigators proposed to examine the therapeutic effects of amineptine, an antidepressant with dopamine reuptake inhibition effect, for the treatment of amphetamine withdrawal. The 14-day study was carried out on a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. The authors assessed the severity of amphetamine withdrawal syndrome by using two measures and performed both end-point and intent-to-treat analyses. The results showed that amineptine helped relieve a depressed mood within one week and improved the general condition within 2 weeks. In conclusion, amineptine is effective in rapid relief of depressed mood and improves the general condition of patients with amphetamine withdrawal. Since the amphetamine withdrawal may last for several weeks, studies with longer duration should be conducted before incorporating amineptine into the clinical practice a of amphetamine withdrawal treatment.
For more than 20 years, the Danish Cholinesterase Research Unit (DCRU) has collected information about patients showing an abnormal response to succinylcholine. The purpose of this study was, on the basis of the 20 years' experiences with the Unit, to evaluate our clinical findings in patients referred because of prolonged response following succinylcholine. Also, we wanted to evaluate the results of our prospective controlled studies of the effect of succinylcholine in patients with normal and abnormal plasma cholinesterase genotypes. An explanation for the apparent abnormal response to succinylcholine was found in 61.1% of the 1,247 patients referred to the Unit. Of the 1,247 patients, 28.5% were genotypically normal and 46.5% had an abnormal genotype. In the remaining 24.9% of the patients, the genotype could not be established. The time to sufficient recovery of neuromuscular function following succinylcholine 1.0-1.5 mg kg-1 was 15-30 min in patients heterozygous for one abnormal gene, 35-45 min in patients heterozygous for two abnormal genes and 90-180 min in patients homozygous for the atypical gene. Patients with two newly discovered genotypes (AK (5 patients) and AH (1 patient) showed slightly prolonged (20 min) and markedly prolonged (90 min) duration of action of succinylcholine, respectively. Our results indicate that it is a problem for many anaesthetists to correctly diagnose a prolonged response to succinylcholine. We therefore urge the anaesthetist always to use a peripheral nerve stimulator when faced with a case of apparent abnormal response to succinylcholine.
Epirubicin induces an important noncytotoxic release of histamine from rat peritoneal cells in vitro. This exocytotic response is inhibited by sodium cromoglycate, similarly to that elicited by the classic mast cell secretagogue, compound 48/80. Mast cells obtained from the peritoneal cavities of rats treated with epirubicin in vivo were extensively degranulated; in contrast, samples obtained from rats pretreated with sodium cromoglycate showed normal appearing mast cells. When injected i.p., immediately before the antineoplastic agent, cromolyn significantly improved the survival time and the microscopic appearance of myocardial tissues of epirubicin-treated mice. The results indicate that histamine release could play an important role in the pathogenesis of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
There have been many reports of probable lithium-induced organic brain syndromes occurring when serum lithium levels are within or close to the therapeutic range. The authors report on five patients who developed clinical syndromes suggestive of severe neurotoxicity during lithium treatment. In all cases lithium levels were between .75 and 1.7 mEq/liter. The patients who developed neurotoxicity had markedly higher global ratings of psychotic symptomatology and anxiety in the pretoxic period than did patients who never deveoped neurotoxicity. When the acute manic state is characterized by marked psychotic symptoms and intense anxiety, it may be associated with increased vulnerability to the development of severe lithium neurotoxicity.
Injection of substance P (SP) in a rat hindpaw induced extravasation of 125I-labelled albumin in both hindpaws and salivation. Intravenous injection of SP dose-dependently increased vascular permeability. This latter effect was increased in rat paws by captopril, an inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), administered locally in combination with diprotin A, an inhibitor of an dipeptidyl(amino)peptidase IV (DAP IV) or phosphoramidon, an inhibitor of neutral endopeptidase (NEP). The increase in permeability induced by SP was inhibited by RP 67580, a NK-1-receptor antagonist. Intravenous injection of capsaicin induced labelled albumin extravasation in rat paws. This effect was increased by combination of captopril with diprotin A or phosphoramidon, but not by captopril associated with amastatin, an inhibitor of aminopeptidase M (AmM). It was suppressed by RP 67580. Injection of collagenase in rat paws triggered a swelling and a local plasma exudation. These responses were reduced by RP 67580 but not by RP 68651, its inactive enantiomer. They were increased by combination of captopril with diprotin A or phosphoramidon in normal rats. The potentiating effects of captopril and diprotin A were suppressed by RP 67580 in normal rats but did not develop in kininogen-deficient rats. The oedema induced by collagenase was also increased by lisinopril, another ACE inhibitor, administered locally in combination with apstatin, an inhibitor of aminopeptidase P (AmP). In rats pretreated by methysergide, collagenase-induced oedema was reduced and can be increased by captopril, by lisinopril, administered alone or by lisinopril associated with apstatin. It is concluded that SP is mainly inactivated in rat paws by ACE, DAP IV and NEP. In collagenase-induced oedema, a low amount of SP would be released from afferent nerve terminals by bradykinin formed in low amounts. Bradykinin is inactivated in rat paws by ACE and AmP. In collagenase-oedema, the pro-inflammatory effects of bradykinin are concealed by the effects of the other mediators.
Arsenic is an environmental toxicant that reduces the lifespan of circulating erythrocytes during chronic exposure. Our previous studies had indicated involvement of hypercholesterolemia and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in arsenic-induced apoptotic death of erythrocytes. In this study, we have shown an effective recovery from arsenic-induced death signaling in erythrocytes in response to treatment with atorvastatin (ATV) and N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) in rats. Our results emphasized on the importance of cholesterol in the promotion of ROS-mediated Fas signaling in red cells. Arsenic-induced activation of caspase 3 was associated with phosphatidylserine exposure on the cell surface and microvesiculation of erythrocyte membrane. Administration of NAC in combination with ATV, proved to be more effective than either of the drugs alone towards the rectification of arsenic-mediated disorganization of membrane structural integrity, and this could be linked with decreased ROS accumulation through reduced glutathione (GSH) repletion along with cholesterol depletion. Moreover, activation of caspase 3 was capable of promoting aggregation of band 3 with subsequent binding of autologous IgG and opsonization by C3b that led to phagocytosis of the exposed cells by the macrophages. NAC-ATV treatment successfully amended these events and restored lifespan of erythrocytes from the exposed animals almost to the control level. This work helped us to identify intracellular membrane cholesterol enrichment and GSH depletion as the key regulatory points in arsenic-mediated erythrocyte destruction and suggested a therapeutic strategy against Fas-activated cell death related to enhanced cholesterol and accumulation of ROS.
The triphenylethylene drug tamoxifen is a hepatocarcinogen in rats, has genotoxic potential and may produce carcinoma of the endometrium in humans, while the structurally closely related toremifene has no carcinogenic or genotoxic potential. We have investigated the effects of long-term treatment with tamoxifen and toremifene on the activities of drug metabolizing and antioxidant enzymes in rat liver. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were dosed with equimolar doses of tamoxifen (11.3 and 45 mg/kg) and toremifene (12 and 48 mg/kg) for 12 months and were killed after 2 days, 5 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months of treatment. After 12 months most rats treated with the high dose of tamoxifen had hyperplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas, while in rats given toremifene or the low dose of tamoxifen, only foci were observed. A striking observation was strong inhibition of the hexose monophosphate shunt (HMS) by tamoxifen and toremifene, which, except in the group given the high dose of tamoxifen, lasted throughout the treatment period. Both antiestrogens induced susceptibility to oxidative stress, as indicated by decreased hepatic contents of reduced glutathione and by increased peroxidation potential of microsomal preparations. The activity of glutathione S-transferase was permanently induced by the high dose of tamoxifen from 5 weeks onwards and was greater in tamoxifen-induced liver tumors than in corresponding macroscopically normal tissue. Similarly, the activity of HMS was elevated by the high dose of tamoxifen at the latest time points, and a further elevation was seen in tamoxifen-induced liver tumors. No such alteration in glutathione S-transferase or HMS activity was seen in animals treated with toremifene or with the low dose of tamoxifen. In conclusion, tamoxifen and toremifene differ markedly with respect to production of liver tumors, and this difference in hepatocarcinogenic potential is reflected in differential effects on glutathione-S-transferase and HMS activities in rat liver.
A case of fatal myeloencephalopathy secondary to accidental intrathecal administration of vincristine is reported in a 16-year-old boy. He underwent a progressive ascending chemical meningoencephalitis leading to coma, and died 36 days after the injection. Multiple samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum were assayed for vincristine sulfate. CSF levels of vincristine were consistently much higher than serum levels. At autopsy, all regions of the brain that had been in direct contact with the CSF were necrotic. The spinal cord was likewise necrotic throughout its length. Microscopically there was total neuronal loss with tissue destruction in the affected regions. The presence of numerous gemistocytic astrocytes, some in arrested mitosis, was a conspicuous feature in these areas. Three previous reports of intrathecal vincristine instillation are reviewed. No treatment for this devastating iatrogenic error exists, underscoring the importance of preventive measures in chemotherapy administration.
Earlier work in this laboratory showed that amiodarone induces apoptosis in alveolar epithelial cells by a mechanism inhibitable by angiotensin system antagonists. A variety of recent studies suggests a critical role for alveolar epithelial cell apoptosis in the pathogenesis of lung fibrosis. On this basis we hypothesized that amiodarone-induced alveolar epithelial cell apoptosis and lung fibrosis in vivo might be inhibitable by the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril or the angiotensin receptor antagonist losartan. Amiodarone-induced lung fibrosis was induced in male Wistar rats by oral administration over six months. Replicate groups of rats received captopril or losartan in addition to amiodarone. Apoptosis was detected by increased total lung activity of caspase 3 and in situ end labeling (ISEL) of fragmented DNA. Collagen was localized and quantitated by the picrosirius red technique. Alveolar epithelial cell apoptosis was detected in amiodarone-treated animals as early as three weeks after the start of amiodarone administration; by six months exposure, the incidence of alveolar epithelial cell apoptosis was significantly reduced by coadministration of captopril or losartan. Alveolar wall collagen accumulation also was significantly attenuated by captopril (100%) or losartan (74%), but neither agent blunted the accumulation of alveolar macrophages evoked by amiodarone (5.3-fold at 6 months). Lung neutrophil content was unchanged by amiodarone treatment for three weeks or six months. These results indicate that amiodarone induces alveolar epithelial cell apoptosis in vivo that is inhibitable by angiotensin antagonists. They also support the hypothesis that blockade of angiotensin formation or function attenuates amiodarone-induced lung fibrosis irrespective of the severity of alveolitis.
