This investigation examined the consequences of neonatal deafness and chronic electrical stimulation of the cochlea in the developing auditory system. Cats were bilaterally deafened by daily ototoxic drug administration for two weeks after birth. Electrical stimulation was initiated at 6-9 weeks of age and continued for up to 6 months, using monopolar round window electrodes that synchronously excited auditory neurons throughout the cochlea. Morphometric evaluation of the density of spiral ganglion cell somata within Rosenthal's canal demonstrated that chronic stimulation induced an increase of about 6% in neuronal survival. Although this difference was statistically significant, extracochlear stimulation in these cats was less effective in preventing neural degeneration than lower intensity, more restricted intracochlear stimulation that was shown in a previous study to induce an average increase of about 13% in neuronal survival. Electrophysiological recording experiments conducted in the inferior colliculus in these animals indicated that monopolar extracochlear stimulation can induce profound alterations in the spatial (frequency) selectivity of the auditory midbrain. On average, results were similar to those previously reported for bipolar intracochlear stimulation, showing about a two-fold expansion of the central representation of chronically stimulated electrodes. However, results with extracochlear stimulation showed much greater variability among individual animals. The results presented suggest that it is problematic to effect consistent 'whole' nerve stimulation using monopolar round window electrodes. Moreover, this mode of stimulation can induce profound functional alterations in the central nervous system and is substantially less effective in forestalling the degeneration of auditory neurons than intracochlear stimulation. Both these results contraindicate the implantation of such electrodes in young children for the purpose of maintaining the integrity of the auditory system for later application of a multichannel cochlear implant.
Histochemical alterations of acute and chronic doxorubicin (DOX) cardiotoxicity in the mouse were assessed by the localization of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), coenzyme Q10 (CoQ), cytochrome oxidase (COX), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), reduced glutathione (GSH), and intracellular calcium. Isolated myocytes intensely stained for calcium were found at 72 and 120 h under the acute protocol; altered staining patterns of SDH, CoQ, and COX, were evident at 120 h. Chronically, two patterns of intracellular calcium staining were evident: (1) intensely stained myocytes as found in the acute protocol; and (2) multiple discrete intracellular deposits suggestive of mitochondrial localization. Altered staining patterns of SDH, CoQ, COX, CPK, and LDH under the chronic protocol were only seen after abnormal staining was evident in trichrome stained sections. The presence of characteristic vacuolated myocardial cells in both acute and chronic protocols was confirmed by one micron epon-embedded toluidine blue stained sections and electron microscopy. These histochemical findings suggest that DOX alters the functional integrity of mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes in the myocardial cell.
Verapamil is used clinically in the treatment of various cardiac diseases including hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Its long term effects on ventricular mass are not well known. In 11 conscious dogs heart rate, aortic and left ventricular pressures, cardiac output, a methoxamine induced stress ventricular function test and left ventriculography were performed. These variables were measured prior to and following a mean 7.2 month infusion of verapamil at 0.005 or 0.01 mg.kg-1.min-1 using a subcutaneously implanted pump. Resting haemodynamic variables and left ventricular ejection fraction [60(SD 6) v 55(6)%] were unchanged between baseline and chronic verapamil studies, but the slope of the methoxamine induced stress ventricular function test decreased from 3.9(0.8) to 2.1 (1.3). After verapamil was discontinued the mean slope of the stress ventricular function test returned to the baseline 4.0(1.7). Total ventricular weight increased 22% from 176.1(17.5) g.m-2 in controls to 215.6(29.5) g.m-2 (p less than 0.01) in the verapamil animals. The right ventricular weight increased 25% from 46(5.9) to 57.6(9.1) g.m-2 (p less than 0.01); the septum weight increased 26% from 42.5(4.1) to 53.7(7.2) g.m-2 (p less than 0.001); and the left ventricular free wall weight increased 19% from 87.4(9.8) to 103.9(15.7) g.m-2 (p less than 0.01). The increase in ventricular weights was not due to fibrosis or oedema since hydroxyproline contents and wet/dry ratios were not increased. In conclusion, a chronic infusion of verapamil in conscious dogs caused no change in resting haemodynamic variables but produced reversible depression of stress ventricular function and biventricular and septal hypertrophy.
The effects of anaesthesia for major abdominal vascular surgery on coronary flow regulation and mechanisms of myocardial ischaemia were studied in 56 patients with CAD, using a randomized, partly double-blinded protocol. After induction with fentanyl (3 micrograms.kg-1) and thiopentone (2-4 mg.kg-1) and tracheal intubation, principal anaesthetics were nitrous oxide/oxygen (60/40) with isoflurane (n = 20), halothane (n = 19) or fentanyl (15-20 micrograms.kg-1) (n = 17). Conventional invasive techniques and coronary venous retrograde thermodilution were used to assess systemic and coronary haemodynamics. Coronary vascular resistance was estimated from myocardial oxygen extraction. Myocardial ischaemia was diagnosed by 12-lead ECG and/or anterior wall motion abnormalities by cardiokymography and/or myocardial lactate production. When adjustment of anaesthetic dose was insufficient for haemodynamic control, i.v. phenylephrine and nitroglycerine were administered to treat hypotension and hypertension or cardiac failure respectively. Measurements were performed at four specific intervals; awake, before surgery and 10 and 30 min after abdominal incision. Comparable changes of systemic haemodynamics and myocardial oxygen consumption were observed in the three groups. Coronary vasodilation was evidenced in isoflurane patients only and was linearly dose-dependent (P < 0.001). Partial Least Squares Projections to Latent Structures modelling with cross validation confirmed this dose-dependency and ruled out a clinically measurable influence by intervention drugs or simultaneous systemic haemodynamic abnormalities. The incidence of myocardial ischaemia during anaesthesia and surgery was comparable in the three groups (35, 37 and 24%, respectively) and there was an association with systemic haemodynamic aberrations in 19 of the 27 ischaemic episodes. In contrast to ischaemic halothane and fentanyl patients, isoflurane patients with ischaemia had significantly lower myocardial oxygen extraction (P = 0.008 and P = 0.001, respectively), indicating that the oxygen extraction reserve was not utilized in a normal way during ischaemia.
The tumor suppressor homeodomain-interacting protein kinase-2 (HIPK2) by phosphorylating serine 46 (Ser46) is a crucial regulator of p53 apoptotic function. HIPK2 is also a transcriptional co-repressor of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) restraining tumor angiogenesis and chemoresistance. HIPK2 can be deregulated in tumors by several mechanisms including hypoxia. Here, we sought to target hypoxia by restoring HIPK2 function and suppressing HIF-1alpha, in order to provide evidence for the involvement of both HIPK2 and p53 in counteracting hypoxia-induced chemoresistance.
Upon exposure of colon and lung cancer cells to hypoxia, by either low oxygen or cobalt, HIPK2 function was impaired allowing for increased HIF-1alpha expression and inhibiting the p53-apoptotic response to drug. Cobalt suppressed HIPK2 recruitment onto HIF-1alpha promoter. Hypoxia induced expression of the p53 target MDM2 that downregulates HIPK2, thus MDM2 inhibition by siRNA restored the HIPK2/p53Ser46 response to drug. Zinc supplementation to hypoxia-treated cells increased HIPK2 protein stability and nuclear accumulation, leading to restoration of HIPK2 binding to HIF-1alpha promoter, repression of MDR1, Bcl2, and VEGF genes, and activation of the p53 apoptotic response to drug. Combination of zinc and ADR strongly suppressed tumor growth in vivo by inhibiting HIF-1 pathway and upregulating p53 apoptotic target genes.
We show here for the first time that hypoxia-induced HIPK2 deregulation was counteracted by zinc that restored HIPK2 suppression of HIF-1 pathway and reactivated p53 apoptotic response to drug, underscoring the potential use of zinc supplementation in combination with chemotherapy to address hypoxia and improve tumor treatment.
Estrogens have been associated with risk for epithelial ovarian cancer (OVCA). Both IL-6 and IL-8 are also likely involved in the progression of OVCA. In order to discover the underline molecular mechanism, we investigated the modulation of estrogen and two cytokines in the growth and progression of epithelial OVCA. In these studies, the effect of 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) on the expression levels of IL-6, IL-8 and their receptors was investigated. The effect of IL-6 and IL-8 on activation of estrogen-responsive promoter as well as estrogen receptor (ER)alpha and ER beta expression was also analyzed. Gene expression profile analysis revealed that CAOV-3 and OVCAR-3 cells, which express ER, IL-6 and IL-8 receptors, are suitable model for this study. We found that E(2) not only enhanced IL-6 and IL-8 production via NF-kappaB signaling pathway, but also modulated their respective receptor expression. Tamoxifen (Txf), an ER antagonist, completely abolished E(2)-stimulated cell growth and the expression of IL-6 and IL-8. IL-6/IL-8-induced cell proliferation was completely blocked by their specific neutralizing antibodies, which partially inhibited E(2)-induced cell growth. In the absence of estrogen, both cytokines activated estrogen-responsive promoter, which was completely blocked by Txf, and caused a dose-dependent ER alpha increase and ER beta decrease. Pretreatment of OVCAR-3 with p38 MAPK, MEK1/2 or ErbB2 MAPK inhibitors, respectively, blocked IL-6-mediated induction of estrogen-responsive promoter while Src inhibitor blocked IL-8-induced activation of estrogen-responsive promoter. These results provide a novel mechanism that estrogens, IL-6 and IL-8 may form a common amplifying signaling cascade to modulate OVCA growth and progression. Estrogen-induced OVCA proliferation is partially occurring via enhanced IL-6 and IL-8 production and modulated their receptors, and IL-6/IL-8 could also promote OVCA growth through an ER alpha pathway.
Six-week-old male F344 rats were given a mixture of 0.01% diethylnitrosamine, 0.05% N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine and 0.02% N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine in their drinking water for 1 week. When 0.8%, 0.4%, or 0% of a mixture of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (acetaminophen, aspirin, dipyrone plus ethenzamide) was given after treatment with initiators in their food from weeks 2 to 68, the incidences of liver cell tumors in the rats were 68% (P < 0.001), 25% and 8%, respectively, but those of other tumors were not different. Administration of NSAIDs from weeks 2 to 104 without initiators showed no carcinogenicity. From the results of medium-term liver bioassay, it was suggested that dipyrone and ethenzamide had promoting effects and acetaminophen had an inhibitory effect on rat hepatocarcinogenesis.
Clozapine differs from other currently available antipsychotics in its prominent serotonin blockade. We explore the relationship between clozapine and obsessive compulsive symptoms, which have been linked to deficient serotonin.
We reviewed our experience in treating 49 chronic schizophrenic patients with clozapine.
Five patients were identified who experienced either de novo obsessive compulsive symptoms or exacerbation of preexistent symptoms. Clinical details are provided for each case.
Clozapine may produce or unmask obsessive compulsive symptoms. This may reflect a variation on the normal course of clinical improvement, or may more specifically result from clozapine's atypical pattern of CNS receptor antagonism. Further attention to this issue is warranted.
The treatment of bipolar disorders with mood stabilizing agents is complicated by breakthrough episodes of depression. Currently there are no consistently safe and effective medications for these episodes. The authors address the use of bupropion for this purpose.
Bupropion was added to the treatment regimens of 3 male and 8 female patients who had bipolar disorders as diagnosed by DSM-III-R criteria and were depressed and nonresponsive to current treatment. Ten of the 11 had previously cycled into manic episodes when treated with either a tricyclic antidepressant, fluoxetine, or phenelzine.
Seven of the 11 patients had moderate-to-marked improvement after 6 weeks of treatment. A moderate-to-marked improvement continued in 4 of the 11 patients after a mean of 12 months of treatment (range, 0-20 months), justifying the continuation of bupropion. Baseline Global Assessment of Functioning scores, history of previous response to other antidepressants, treatment refractoriness, comorbid diagnoses, bipolar subtype, family history, cycle length, and demographics did not discriminate between bupropion responders and nonresponders. However, 6 of the 11 patients experienced manic or hypomanic episodes that necessitated discontinuation of bupropion. Five of the 6 patients who had manic episodes had been stabilized on lithium and carbamazepine or valproate prior to the addition of bupropion.
These findings, based on consecutive cases, suggest that bupropion may pose the same risks as other antidepressants in precipitating manic episodes in depressed bipolar patients. The authors conclude that caution should be exercised when using bupropion in the treatment of bipolar disorders.
We have recently demonstrated that calcitonin, a putative neuromodulator, may influence extrapyramidal motor system by decreasing nigro-striatal dopaminergic function. Since calcitonin is extensively used in aged patients, we have investigated whether calcitonin might influence extrapyramidal motor behavior (haloperidol-induced catalepsy and apomorphine-induced hyperactivity) in rats of different ages. Intracerebroventricular injection of salmon calcitonin (1 micrograms/kg) prevented apomorphine-induced hyperactivity in 2, 7, 18 or 21 month old rats, but potentiated haloperidol-induced catalepsy only in 2 or 7 month old rats. In addition, in all the animals salmon calcitonin significantly decreased the secretion of prolactin, an anterior pituitary hormone that may act at central level enhancing nigro-striatal dopaminergic activity.
Recent studies in Saccharomyces cerevisiae suggest that the delivery of copper to Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is mediated by a cytosolic protein termed the copper chaperone for superoxide dismutase (CCS). To determine the role of CCS in mammalian copper homeostasis, we generated mice with targeted disruption of CCS alleles (CCS(-/-) mice). Although CCS(-/-) mice are viable and possess normal levels of SOD1 protein, they reveal marked reductions in SOD1 activity when compared with control littermates. Metabolic labeling with (64)Cu demonstrated that the reduction of SOD1 activity in CCS(-/-) mice is the direct result of impaired Cu incorporation into SOD1 and that this effect was specific because no abnormalities were observed in Cu uptake, distribution, or incorporation into other cuproenzymes. Consistent with this loss of SOD1 activity, CCS(-/-) mice showed increased sensitivity to paraquat and reduced female fertility, phenotypes that are characteristic of SOD1-deficient mice. These results demonstrate the essential role of any mammalian copper chaperone and have important implications for the development of novel therapeutic strategies in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
A significantly higher prevalence of a protective concentration of anti-HBs was achieved at 1 and 2 months among 132 healthy medical students who received an accelerated vaccination schedule with a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine (Engerix-B) than among 120 medical students who received a conventional regimen. With the accelerated schedule, however, 60% students at 1 month and 27% at 2 months were still unprotected (anti-HBs titre less than 10.0 IU/l). Additional passive immunisation should therefore continue to be offered if the accelerated schedule is adopted for post-exposure prophylaxis.
In 1989-1990, researchers placed healthy 1st year medical students either into the standard vaccine scheduled group (120) or the accelerated vaccine scheduled group (132) to compare early hepatitis B antibody (anti-HBs) titers to determine if accelerated postexposure prophylaxis without hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) can induce as effective protection as conventional postexposure prophylaxis with HBIG. The students attended the Liverpool Medical School in Liverpool, England. Fewer students in the accelerated group used oral contraceptives and smoked cigarettes than the conventional group (p.05). Among students who were on the accelerated schedule, many more Asian than European students and many more students with a body mass index 20 developed anti-Hbs 10 IU/1 at the 1st month (p.05). Other than the differences at 1 month, the differences did not affect anti-Hbs titers. considerably more students in the accelerated group attained anti-HBs titers 10 IU/1 at 1 month (p.001) and 2 months (p.05) than those in the standard group. Nevertheless 60% of the students in the accelerated group at 1 month and 27% at 2 months were still susceptible to hepatitis B infection since they had anti-HBs titers -or= 10 IU/1. Students on the accelerated schedule experienced similar side effects at a similar rate as those on the conventional schedule. The reactions usually lasted for 24 hours and included pain and/or redness and/or swelling and headache and/or fever. In conclusion, health practitioners should continue to suggest passive immunization with HBIG in concert with an accelerated hepatitis B vaccine schedule.
Evans blue dye, given i.c.v. in rats in a dose of 208 nmol, causes electrical and behavioural seizures which resemble those induced by the glutamate analogue, kainate, or by electrical kindling of the amygdala. Chicago sky blue, 201 nmol i.c.v., produces similar seizures. The principal elements of the seizures are wet-rat-shakes, facial and forelimb clonus, rearing and spike-and-waves in the EEG. A non-NMDA receptor antagonist, GYKI 52466 and a benzodiazepine, diazepam, significantly delay the onset to the occurrence of the first forelimb clonus. The cholinergic antagonist, scopolamine, significantly reduces the delay to onset of first facial clonus. The competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, D-CPPene, the non-specific dopamine antagonist, haloperidol, and the purinergic agonist, 2-chloroadenosine, have no effect on the measured parameters. During the induction of seizures by Evans blue, the average extracellular glutamate concentration in hippocampus or cortex does not increase statistically significantly in comparison to pre-seizure values. Histological examination of limbic areas indicates that the moderate to severe Evans blue-induced cell damage is similar to that seen after limbic seizures induced by pilocarpine and in the hippocampus is partially preventable by D-CPPene but not by diazepam or GYKI 52466. It is proposed that Evans blue-induced seizures may be useful as a new model for studying the mechanisms of intractable epilepsy of the complex partial seizure type.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive, debilitating and fatal lung disorder with high mortality rate. Unfortunately, to date the treatment for IPF remains unsatisfying and in severe cases lung transplantations are performed as a therapeutic measure. Thus, it becomes great interest to find novel agents to treat IPF. Berberine, a plant alkaloid known for its broad pharmacological activities remains a remedy against multiple diseases. This study was hypothesized to investigate the antifibrotic potential of berberine against bleomycin-induced lung injury and fibrosis, a tentative animal model. Male wistar rats were subjected to single intratracheal instillation of 2.5 U/kg of bleomycin on day 0. Berberine treatments were either provided in preventive or therapeutic mode respectively. Berberine administration significantly ameliorated the bleomycin mediated histological alterations and reduced the inflammatory cell infiltrate in BALF. Berberine significantly blocked collagen accumulations with parallel reduction in the hydroxyproline level. The immunological sign of bleomycin stimulated mast cell deposition and histamine release were considerably reduced by berberine. Berberine enhanced the antioxidant status, through upregulating the redox sensing transcription factor nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Berberine inhibited the bleomycin mediated activation of inflammatory mediator nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and suppressed its downstream target inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Strikingly, berberine exhibited target attenuation of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and key pro-fibrotic mediator, transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1). Taken together, this study reveals the beneficial effects of berberine against bleomycin mediated fibrotic challenge through activating Nrf2 and suppressing NF-κB dependent inflammatory and TGF-β1 mediated fibrotic events.
The modifying effects of 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (DDPM) (0.1% in diet) administration on liver carcinogenesis induced by 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) (0.02% in diet), 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-Me-DAB) ( 0.06% in diet), diethylnitrosamine (DEN) (0.001% in drinking water) and N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN) (0.1% in drinking water), EHEN-induced oesophagus and kidney carcinogenesis and forestomach carcinogenesis induced by butylated hydroxyanisole (1.0% in diet) were examined in F344 male rats. Mean survival time tended to be longer in DDPM-supplemented groups, the difference being significant in DEN + DDPM and EHEN + DDPM groups. Intake of carcinogens was slightly but not significantly reduced by DDPM. The incidences of hyperplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas were significantly decreased in 2-AAF or 3'-Me-DAB + DDPM groups. Pulmonary metastases were also less common in 3'-Me-DAB or EHEN + DDPM groups. Development of papillomas in the oesophagus but not in tumours in the forestomach was also inhibited by DDPM. Inhibition in the different organs was not significantly related to decrease in body weight or carcinogen intake, indicating a mechanism independent of non-specific toxic effects or reduction in food consumption. Some other factors possibly related to its ability to cause bile duct proliferation and/or altered activity of enzymes relevant to drug metabolism may be involved.
Ovarian cancer, the most deadly gynecologic malignancy, is often diagnosed late and at the advanced stage when the cancer cells have already migrated and invaded into other tissues and organs. Better understanding of the mechanism of metastasis in ovarian cancer cells is essential to the design of effective therapy. In this study, we investigated the function of scaffolding adaptor protein Gab2 in ovarian cancer cells. Gab2 is found to be overexpressed in a subset of ovarian tumors and cancer cell lines. Gab2 expression mainly regulates the migratory behaviors of ovarian cancer cells. Overexpression of Gab2 promotes the migration and invasion, and downregulates E-cadherin expression in ovarian cancer cells with low-Gab2 expression. Conversely, knockdown of Gab2 expression inhibits the migration and invasion, and promotes E-cadherin expression in ovarian cancer cells with high-Gab2 expression. By expressing Gab2 wild-type and Gab2 mutants that are defective in activation of the PI3K and Shp2-Erk pathways, we find that Gab2 inhibits E-cadherin expression and enhances the expression of Zeb1, a transcription factor involved in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and cell migration and invasion through the activation of the PI3K pathway. Knockdown of Zeb1 expression blocks Gab2-induced suppression of E-cadherin expression and increase in cell invasion. LY294002 and GDC-0941, inhibitors of PI3K, or Rapamycin, an inhibitor of PI3K downstream target mTOR, can reverse the effects of Gab2 on migration and invasion. Overall, our studies reveal that Gab2 overexpression, via activation of the PI3K-Zeb1 pathway, promotes characteristics of EMT in ovarian cancer cells.
Occupational exposure to certain polychlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons such as dioxins has been suggested to cause chloracne which is a kind of skin disease. The molecular mechanisms of dioxin-mediated chloracne have not been clarified. It is possible that dioxins contribute to the pathogenesis through activation of aryl-hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-mediated transcription and downstream genes such as CYP1A1, GSTA1 and TGF-alpha. The study on genes was through chloracne lesional skin, which has rarely been reported on previously. The expression levels of key genes, such as AhR, CYP1A1, GSTA1, c-fos and TGF-alpha in human epidermal tissue of chloracne cases and controls were detected by real-time PCR. Compared with controls, AhR, CYP1A1, GSTA1 and c-fos transactivations were significantly induced in the skins of chloracne patients who had long-term exposure to dioxins and dibenzofuranes. The TGF-alpha mRNA content of epidermal tissue was increased, but not significantly compared with controls. The study demonstrates that constitutive activation of the AhR pathway is probably a prerequisite of chloracne pathogenesis. The changes of genes expression may disturb normal proliferation and differentiation of human epidermis cells, and then lead to chloracne.
We report a patient with headaches meeting the criteria of chronic paroxysmal hemicrania, as defined by the International Headache Society classification. Headaches were fully responsive to indomethacin during the first 3 months of treatment but recurred when daily doses were lowered. Investigations revealed a macroprolactinoma. Headaches stopped after cabergoline treatment. This report further suggests that patients with paroxysmal hemicrania should be investigated for pituitary abnormalities.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a potent neurotoxin, and human beings are mainly exposed to this pollutant through fish consumption. We addressed the question of whether a diet mimicking the fish consumption of Wayanas Amerindians from French Guiana could result in observable adverse effects in mice. Wayanas adult men are subjected to a mean mercurial dose of 7 g Hg/week/kg of body weight. We decided to supplement a vegetarian-based mice diet with 0.1% of lyophilized Hoplias aimara fish, which Wayanas are fond of and equivalent to the same dose as that afflicting the Wayanas Amerindians. Total mercury contents were 1.4 ± 0.2 and 5.4 ± 0.5 ng Hg/g of food pellets for the control and aimara diets, respectively. After 14 months of exposure, the body parts and tissues displaying the highest mercury concentration on a dry weight (dw) basis were hair (733 ng/g) and kidney (511 ng/g), followed by the liver (77 ng/g). Surprisingly, despite the fact that MeHg is a neurotoxic compound, the brain accumulated low levels of mercury (35 ng/g in the cortex). The metallothionein (MT) protein concentration only increased in those tissues (kidney, muscles) in which MeHg demethylation had occurred. This can be taken as a molecular sign of divalent mercurial contamination since only Hg(2+) has been reported yet to induce MT accumulation in contaminated tissues. The suppression of the synthesis of the chemokine CCL2 in the corresponding knockout (KO) mice resulted in important changes in gene expression patterns in the liver and brain. After three months of exposure to an aimara-containing diet, eight of 10 genes selected (Sdhb, Cytb, Cox1, Sod1, Sod2, Mt2, Mdr1a and Bax) were repressed in wild-type mice liver whereas none presented a differential expression in KO Ccl2(-/-) mice. In the wild-type mice brain, six of 12 genes selected (Cytb, Cox1, Sod1, Sod2, Mdr1a and Bax) presented a stimulated expression, whereas all remained at the basal level of expression in KO Ccl2(-/-) mice. In the liver of aimara-fed mice, histological alterations were observed for an accumulated mercury concentration as low as 32 ng/g, dw, and metal deposits were observed within the cytoplasm of hepatic cells.
A 47- year-old woman presented with palpable purpura of both lower limbs after taking six tablets of clarithromycin for pneumonia.
Apart from mild microhematuria there were no other signs of organ involvement. Histology of a skin biopsy revealed a hypersensitivity vasculitis.
A hypersensitivity vasculitis due to clarithromycin was the cause of the purpura. The course of this hypersensitivity vasculitis was severe and protracted over weeks with formation of deep ulcerative skin lesions.
Clarithromycin may be the cause of a hypersensitivity vasculitis: often the course of the disease is mild, but it may also lead to severe local complications. The diagnosis of hypersensitivity vasculitis can be made in a patient over 16 years of age if there is the combination of a triggering substance, purpura and leukocytoclastic vasculitis. The most important step is immediate withdrawal of the causative agent. A beneficial effect of treatment with steroids on prognosis is not proven.
This paper reports the toxicity of OPEC/OJEC chemotherapy in stage 4 neuroblastoma patients over 1 year of age.
Ninety-five patients with stage 4 neuroblastoma received alternating courses of OPEC/OJEC--vincristine 1.5 mg/m2 (O), cisplatin 80 mg/m2 (P), etoposide 200 mg/m2 (E), cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 (C), and carboplatin 500 mg/m2 (J), every 21 days if there was haematological recovery.
Seventy out of ninety-five (74%) patients completed seven or more courses and were evaluable for toxicity. Of these 70 patients, 33% had more than three episodes of fever and sepsis, 35% required more than five blood or platelet transfusions, 36% had grade 2 or more gastrointestinal toxicity and 9% had neurotoxicity. There was a median reduction in GFR of 32 ml/min/1.73 m2 (-46 to 134) and there was one toxic death.
OPEC/OJEC is a well-tolerated therapy for stage 4 neuroblastoma over 1 year of age.
Growing evidence documents oxidative stress involvement in ALS. We previously demonstrated accumulation of a protein-bound form of the highly toxic lipid peroxidation product crotonaldehyde (CRA) in the spinal cord of sporadic ALS patients. In the present study, to the determine the role for CRA in the disease processes of superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) mutation-associated familial ALS (FALS), we performed immunohistochemical and semi-quantitative cell count analyses of protein-bound CRA (P-CRA) in the spinal cord of SOD1-mutated FALS and its transgenic mouse model. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed increased P-CRA immunoreactivity in the spinal cord of the FALS patients and the transgenic mice compared to their respective controls. In the FALS patients, P-CRA immunoreactivity was localized in almost all of the chromatolytic motor neurons, neurofilamentous conglomerates, spheroids, cordlike swollen axons, reactive astrocytes and microglia, and the surrounding neuropil in the affected areas represented by the anterior horns. In the transgenic mice, P-CRA immunoreactivity was localized in only a few ventral horn glia in the presymptomatic stage, in almost all of the vacuolated motor neurons and cordlike swollen axons and some of the ventral horn reactive astrocytes and microglia in the onset stage, and in many of the ventral horn reactive astrocytes and microglia in the advanced stage. Cell count analysis on mouse spinal cord sections disclosed a statistically significant increase in the density of P-CRA-immunoreactive glia in the ventral horns of the young to old G93A mice compared to the age-matched control mice. The present results indicate that enhanced CRA formation occurs in motor neurons and reactive glia in the spinal cord of SOD1-mutated FALS and its transgenic mouse model as well as sporadic ALS, sug- gesting implications for CRA in the pathomechanism common to these forms of ALS.
Fluvastatin, a new synthetic inhibitor of HMGCoA (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A) reductase, has been studied in several models to examine its effects when used in combination with other lipid-modifying agents such as derivatives of fibric acid (bezafibrate), resins (cholestyramine), and niacin. The combination of fluvastatin with bezafibrate has been studied in a double-blind trial involving patients with well-documented familial hypercholesterolaemia. Fluvastatin 40 mg/day, combined with either bezafibrate 400 mg/day or cholestyramine 8 g/day, resulted in reductions in levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), these being indistinguishable between the groups; however, significantly greater increases in levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (21.3%) and reductions in levels of triglycerides (25.1%) were seen with the fluvastatin-bezafibrate combination. No notable increases were seen in levels of serum creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, or alanine aminotransferase, and no cases of myopathy were observed. In a study model that examined low-dose combinations of fluvastatin with cholestyramine, reductions in levels of LDL-C of 15.8% and 19.3% were seen with fluvastatin 10 mg and 20 mg, respectively. After an 8-week interval in which a daily dosage of cholestyramine 8 g was added, from baseline, reductions of 26.3% in the 10 mg fluvastatin-cholestyramine group and 31.2% in the 20 mg fluvastatin-cholestyramine group were observed, whereas the placebo-cholestyramine group displayed a reduction of 14.9%. Doubling the resin dosage to 16 g/day for the final 8 weeks of the study provided little additional benefit. Myotoxicity has been observed when lovastatin is coadministered with niacin, and so the combination of niacin with fluvastatin has also been studied to examine the possibility of this effect occurring. Patients were randomised to either fluvastatin 20 mg or placebo for 6 weeks, after which time open-label niacin was administered to all patients and titrated to a final dosage of 3 g/day. After 6 weeks, fluvastatin produced a 20.8% reduction in LDL-C levels from baseline. When combined with niacin, a 43.7% reduction was noted at the week 15 endpoint, against the 26.5% reduction seen with niacin monotherapy. The combination was well tolerated, with no reports of myopathy or of significant elevations in creatine kinase or liver transaminase levels. Combinations of fluvastatin with a variety of other agents have been shown to have significant effects on lipid profiles, with no evidence to date of clinically remarkable safety findings. Thus, the use of combination therapies may result in optimal management of patients with moderately severe hypercholesterolaemia and mixed dyslipidaemic profiles.
