Although the efficacy of isotretinoin in the treatment of acne is unquestioned, improvement of patient tolerance and acceptance of the drug are desirable. Furthermore, no data on acne-induced scarring during isotretinoin treatment are available.
In the present study, we have evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of an initial stepwise incremental (n = 83) or an initial high dose (n = 11) and a subsequent medium maintenance dosing of isotretinoin in outpatients treated for acne over a 7 year period.
Ninety-four patients with moderate to severe acne were treated for a mean duration of 8.3 months, at a mean daily dose of 31.4 mg. Follow-up and final evaluation were done during outpatient visits and with a standardized patient questionnaire.
Response to treatment was very good in 62.8% and good in 31.9% of patients, with only one treatment failure. Of the patients, 21.3% required retreatment after a mean interval of 7.7 months. Four patients refused or dropped out from treatment, 27% noted initial mild worsening of their acne, and none experienced severe adverse effects. Scars were present in 89.4% of patients, with improvement occurring in 67.9% during treatment.
The altogether good to excellent clinical response of acne lesions and acne scars, with a low side effect profile, warrants further study of this simple, modified treatment regimen in patients with acne and acne-induced scarring.
Itraconazole is a large spectrum triazole with known efficacy in both continuous and pulse therapy for various mycoses.
Evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of itraconazole pulse therapy for onychomycosis of the toenails due to dermatophytes, in a prospective, open, non-comparative and multicentric investigation. Patients and methods The trial was completed by 72 patients of an initial total of 89. Treatment consisted of four cycles of itraconazole, 200 mg twice a day, for seven consecutive days each month. Patients were evaluated clinically, mycologically and biochemically before, during and at the end of the investigation, and were divided into two groups according to the measure of normal portion of the most affected nail (target nail), as follows: Group 1: 0-5.9 mm; and Group 2: more than 6 mm.
Improvement was satisfactory and progressive. Results were statistically significant, when comparing the three moments of the study: pre-treatment, end of therapy (fourth month) and follow-up (ninth month) in both groups.
Itraconazole pulse therapy was efficient and safe for the treatment of onychomycosis caused by dermatophytes, although a much higher daily dosage than the known continuous administration was used. Group 1, with nails initially more extensively affected, had a more evident improvement, by the mean variation in millimeters of normal portion of the target nail. This group showed a very satisfactory response, although not reaching total cure, thus demonstrating the great importance of early treatment of this disease. A residual therapeutic effect is maintained even after suspension of the drug. Group 2 obtained better total cure rates, and four pulses were, in general, sufficient, whereas more cycles would have been beneficial for the Group 1 patients with more extensive involvement.
Prolonged exposure to unopposed estrogens is a major risk factor for the development of endometrial cancer. Oxidative metabolism of estradiol (E(2)) into the catecholestrogens (CEs), 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE(2)) and 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-OHE(2)), may play an important role in estrogen carcinogenicity. CEs can be oxidized to the corresponding ortho-quinone derivatives with concomitant formation of the reactive oxygen species (ROS). Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is the major enzyme involved in the detoxification of CEs in extrahepatic tissues. We investigated the potential of E(2), 2-OHE(2) and 4-OHE(2) to induce microsatellite instability (MSI) and neoplastic transformation of immortalized human endometrial glandular (EM) cells. We also investigated the functional significance of COMT gene expression on modulating the effects of E(2) and CEs in EM cells. Our data indicated that E(2) and 4-OHE(2) induce MSI, ROS and neoplastic transformation in EM cells. The capacity of E(2) and its catechol metabolites to induce MSI, ROS and neoplastic transformation in EM cells is ranked as follows: 4-OHE(2) > E(2) > 2-OHE(2). Knockdown of COMT expression in EM cells resulted in increased estrogenic milieu and increased estrogen-induced cell proliferation. More importantly, knockdown of COMT increased the propensity of E(2) or CEs to induce ROS, MSI and neoplastic transformation of EM cells. In contrast, overexpression of COMT in EM cells significantly reduced the cellular estrogenic milieu and protected against E(2)- or CEs-induced, ROS, MSI and neoplastic transformation. The capacity of E(2) or CEs to induce neoplastic transformation of human endometrial glandular cells in vitro may suggest that E(2)-induced endometrial cancer is mediated by its metabolism into CEs. Our study clearly indicates that COMT gene expression plays a critical role in modulating the hormonal and carcinogenic effects of E(2) and CEs and, consequently, modifies the risk for E(2)-induced endometrial cancer. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to (i) demonstrate the potential capacity of estrogen and its catechol metabolites to induce neoplastic transformation of immortalized human endometrial glandular cells; and (ii) illustrate the important role of COMT gene expression in protecting against E(2)-induced endometrial cancer.
A 74-year-old man was diagnosed with nephrotic syndrome due to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and steroid therapy was initiated. Subsequently, he was affected by deep mycosis, and hence, voriconazole (VRCZ) was administered. On the 16th day, he was transferred to our hospital because of somnolence and malaise. His systolic blood pressure was approximately 80 mmHg, and he showed decreased skin turgor, indicating volume depletion. Laboratory analysis revealed hyponatremia and liver dysfunction. Discontinuation of VRCZ and drip infusion of normal saline improved the consciousness disorder, hyponatremia, and liver dysfunction. The levels of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) and plasma renin activity were elevated. This patient showed high excreted urine sodium, despite volume depletion and low serum osmolality. Therefore, this patient was diagnosed with salt-losing nephropathy (SLN). SLN should be considered for treatment of VRCZ-associated hyponatremia, together with syndrome of inappropriate secretion of ADH.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and its cognate receptors are important modulators of nociception and their expression is significantly altered following injury. In particular, previous studies have demonstrated that the Y1 subtype of NPY receptors inhibits nociceptive transmission from capsaicin-sensitive terminals in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. The present study evaluated the function of the Y1 receptor on peripheral terminals of primary afferent neurons by testing whether peripherally administered Y1 agonists and antagonists alter capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia in rats and capsaicin-evoked immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide (iCGRP) release from isolated superfused rat skin. Treatment with the Y1 agonist [Leu31,Pro34]-NPY (0.5, 1, or 10 nmol) significantly inhibited capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia in a dose-dependent manner. This effect was reversible by pretreatment with the Y1 antagonist BIBO3304 (10 nmol). The anti-allodynia produced by the Y1 agonist occurred at a peripheral site of action, because injection into the paw contralateral to the site of the capsaicin injection had no effect on paw withdrawal latencies. In isolated skin, application of [Leu31,Pro34]-NPY (300 nM) significantly inhibited capsaicin-evoked CGRP release. BIBO3304 reversed this inhibition, having itself no effect on capsaicin-evoked iCGRP release. These studies indicate that the activation of peripheral Y1 receptors produces anti-allodynia, possibly via the direct inhibition of capsaicin-sensitive fibers.
Rats cotreated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and ranitidine (RAN) but not LPS and famotidine (FAM) develop hepatocellular injury in an animal model of idiosyncratic drug reactions. Evaluation of liver gene expression in rats given LPS and/or RAN led to confirmation that the hemostatic system, hypoxia, and neutrophils (PMNs) are critical mediators in LPS/RAN-induced liver injury. We tested the hypothesis that unique gene expression changes distinguish LPS/RAN-treated rats from rats given LPS or RAN alone and from those cotreated with LPS/FAM. Rats were treated with a nonhepatotoxic dose of LPS (44.4 x 10(6) endotoxin units/kg, iv) or its vehicle. Two hours thereafter they were given RAN (30 mg/kg, iv), FAM (either 6 mg/kg, a pharmacologically equi-efficacious dose, or 28.8 mg/kg, an equimolar dose, iv), or vehicle. They were killed 2 or 6 h after drug treatment for evaluation of hepatotoxicity (2 and 6 h) and liver gene expression (2 h only). At a time before the onset of hepatocellular injury, hierarchical clustering distinguished rats treated with LPS/RAN from those given LPS alone. 205 probesets were expressed differentially to a greater or lesser degree only in LPS/RAN-treated rats compared to LPS/FAM or LPS alone, which did not develop liver injury. These included VEGF, EGLN3, MAPKAPK-2, BNIP3, MIP-2, COX-2, EGR-1, PAI-1, IFN-gamma, and IL-6. Expression of these genes was confirmed by real-time PCR. Serum concentrations of MIP-2, PAI-1, IFN-gamma, and IL-6 correlated with their respective gene expression patterns. Overall, the expression of several gene products capable of controlling requisite mediators of injury (i.e., hemostasis, hypoxia, PMNs) in this model were enhanced in livers of LPS/RAN-treated rats. Furthermore, enhanced expression of MAPKAPK-2 in RAN-treated rats and its target genes in LPS/RAN-treated rats suggests that p38/MAPKAPK-2 signaling is a regulation point for enhancement of LPS-induced gene expression by RAN.
Hyperammonemia or hyperammonemic leukoencephalopathy sometimes occurs as an adverse event after 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy. The actual mechanism responsible for hyperammonemia by 5-FU administration is not known. Patient 1, a 48-year-old woman with cervical esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) presented with transient hyperammonemic leukoencephalopathy after undergoing combined chemotherapy (750mg/body/day of 5-FU for 5 days+100mg/body/day of cisplatin). Patient 2, a 58-year-old man with oropharyngeal and lower esophageal SCCs presented with hyperammonemia without leukoencephalopathy while undergoing combined chemotherapy (1200mg/body/day of 5-FU for 5 days+120mg/body/day of cisplatin). The neural symptoms of both patients improved after the termination of 5-FU administration and the early administration of fluid replacement. Ammonia can accumulate in the body when catabolism is insufficient because of an impairment in the urea cycle. The excess production of ammonium from 5-FU catabolites in addition to aggravating factors, e.g., renal dysfunction, constipation and body weight loss, may explain the transient hyperammonemia seen in the present two cases. The incidence of hyperammonemia by 5-FU administration will be one of the adverse events to need care in future and may be decreased by being aware of the presence of renal dysfunction, taking measures to prevent constipation, and nutritional management.
The positive results of high-dose chemotherapy followed by rescue with bone marrow progenitor cell transplantation are generally ascribed to the high dose size (DS) of the drugs given. However, a concomitant marked increase in dose intensity (DI) is always involved. With the aim of comparing the role of DS and DI in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, a variant of Fisher's ProMACE-CytaBOM regimen was designed in which the projected cumulative drug DIs remained the same as in the original schedule but the DSs were tripled.
Dosages in mg/m(2), route and days of administration were the following: cyclophosphamide 1,950 i.v. on days 1, 64; methotrexate 360 i.v. days 15, 78; vincristine 1.4 iv days 15, 78, 43, 106; etoposide 360 i.v. days 29, 92; epirubicin 120 i.v. days 29, 92; bleomycin 15 i.v. days 43, 106; cytarabine 900 i.v. days 50, 113. Thirty-six outpatients with intermediate- and high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas entered the pilot study; 29 were untreated and 7 had relapse disease. Clinical stage was I in 1 patient, II in 7, III in 5 and IV in 23; 10 had B symptoms; the IPI score was 0-2 in 29 cases and > or =3 in the remaining 7.
Of the 29 previously untreated patients, 16 achieved complete remission, 8 partial remission, 4 developed progressive disease and 1 was withdrawn early from the study because of acute viral hepatitis; subsequently 4 relapsed and 3 died (2 of disease progression, 1 of causes unrelated to the disease). In the pre-treated group 3 patients obtained complete remission, 2 partial remission and in 1 patient the disease progressed; 3 of these pre-treated patients died (1 of progressive disease, 1 of a new relapse, 1 of myocardial infarction during therapy). With a 20-month median follow-up, the 30-month overall and relapse-free survival were 0.58 and 0.70, respectively. G-CSF was administered to all but 2 patients, with median delivery throughout the whole regimen of 8, 400 microg per patient. Actual cumulative DI was 0.82+/-0.11. Grade 3-4 hematologic toxicity consisted of anemia in 3 cases, of leukopenia in 8 and of thrombocytopenia in 2; the same grade of non-hematologic toxicity involved the liver in 2 cases, the heart in 1 (the above mentioned death), the digestive mucosa in 2 and the peripheral nerves in 1 patient.
The iso-DI sequential variant of the ProMACE-CytaBOM regimen can be considered feasibile, relatively non-toxic, and can be given on an out-patient basis. Limited use of G-CSF is required (about 3 vials after each drug administration). Thus, a randomized trial with the original ProMACE-CytaBOM regimen can be designed.
To describe two cases of retinal vasculitis shortly after the initiation of ticlopidine hydrochloride (Ticlid, Roche, Kingsland St, NJ) therapy.
Case reports of two patients. The first patient was a 43-year-old white woman complaining of spots, floaters, and flashes of lights in both eyes 3 weeks after the initiation of treatment with ticlopidine hydrochloride. The second patient was a 72-year-old woman complaining of decreased visual acuity in the left eye for 2 weeks, 4 weeks after initiating oral administration of ticlopidine hydrochloride.
Both patients had resolution of the vasculitis after the discontinuation of ticlopidine therapy.
The temporal relation and the resolution of symptoms after discontinuation of ticlopidine hydrochloride suggest that the vasculitis was related to the ticlopidine hydrochloride administration. Knowledge of this potential complication of ticlopidine hydrochloride is important for the early diagnosis of this possible drug-induced side effect and the cessation of ticlopidine hydrochloride.
Acute and chronic stress reinstates drug-seeking behavior. Current animal models show that these effects are contingent (temporally, contextually, or both) on the drug-conditioning environment. To date, no paradigm exists to model the common human situation in which stressors that are distinct from the experience of drugs can lead to relapse.
Rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine or saline over 8 days. They then underwent extinction training, during which responding was not reinforced with drug infusions. After 16 days of extinction, rats were submitted to a brief cold swim stress and then tested for seeking behavior (responding not reinforced with drug infusions) for 4 days.
All rats developed self-administration behavior. Following extinction, cold swim stress induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in cocaine-trained rats, an effect that was still present 3 days after stress exposure.
This study indicates that cold swim stress can have long-term effects on drug-seeking behavior and may provide us with a suitable model to study the latent effects of stress on relapse to drug abuse.
Recent evidence indicates that testosterone can modulate learning in males through an interaction with the cholinergic system. However, the mechanism for this interaction between testosterone and the cholinergic system on learning remains uncharacterized and may involve several of testosterone's active metabolites. In the present study, two of the active metabolites of testosterone, 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone and estradiol, were administered in combination with the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) to adult gonadectomized male rats that were trained to respond under a multiple schedule of repeated acquisition and performance of response sequences. In the acquisition component, subjects acquired a different three-response sequence each session, whereas in the performance component they responded on the same three-response sequence each session. When scopolamine was administered, it produced greater rate-decreasing and error-increasing effects in gonadally intact subjects than in gonadectomized subjects, even though gonadectomy had little or no effect on these measures under control conditions. In gonadectomized rats receiving 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone replacement, the disruptions produced by scopolamine were also smaller than those produced in gonadally intact subjects. In contrast, gonadectomized rats receiving estradiol replacement were as sensitive, or more sensitive, to scopolamine-induced disruptions of response rate and accuracy than those under the gonadally intact condition. These results suggest that testosterone's interactive effects with the cholinergic system on learning in gonadectomized male rats may not be mediated directly via androgen receptors, but rather by estrogen receptors following the aromatization of testosterone to estradiol.
Benzodiazepine withdrawal delirium is thought to be uncommon. Only two clear reports of alprazolam withdrawal appear in the literature, but the use of this drug is expected to increase because of its recent approval for the treatment of panic disorder. We report on a patient with severe alprazolam withdrawal delirium that developed immediately after an accidental reduction of the dose. This case demonstrates importance of clinician awareness of the previous use of alprazolam in individual patients, especially in hospital settings where free patient use of drugs is prohibited.
We cared for a 4-year-old patient who had undergone orthotopic liver transplantation and was placed on a ventilator for respiratory distress associated with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. The neuromuscular blocking agent pancuronium bromide 1.0-1.2 mg every hour as needed was used to facilitate artificial ventilation for 40 days. On discontinuation of pancuronium, the patient experienced severe, generalized neuromuscular dysfunction. Because no improvement was seen for 2 weeks, the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors edrophonium and pyridostigmine were instituted. Shortly thereafter the patient's condition began to improve. Gradual improvement occurred over 3-4 months and the patient has since returned to baseline neurologic function. We suggest that long-term pancuronium use was the cause of the patient's prolonged paralysis. The improvement experienced after the initiation of antidotal therapy strongly supports our proposal.
Hemifacial spasm features myoclonic-like, paroxysmal, unilateral muscle twitching, attributable to vascular compression at the facial pontine root entry zone. We present the case of an 85-year-old man who presented with idiopathic hemifacial spasm with onset 23 years before. For the last 5 years, he was successfully treated with botulinum toxin injections. However, occasional nitrate intake for precordial pain promptly triggered muscle twitching. Vasodilation may exacerbate not only cases of hemifacial spasm, but even of trigeminal neuralgia, both recognized as neurovascular compressive syndromes.
Current estimates establish that more than 30 million people in the United States use cocaine. Cardiovascular complaints commonly occur among patients who present to emergency departments(EDs) after cocaine use, with chest pain the most common complaint in several studies. Although myocardial ischemia and infarction account for only a small percentage of cocaine-associated chest-pain, physicians must understand the pathophysiology of cocaine and appropriate diagnostic and treatment strategies to best manage these patients and minimize adverse outcomes. This article reviews the pharmacology of cocaine, its role in the pathogenesis of chest pain with specific emphasis on inducing myocardial ischemia and infarction, and current diagnostic and management strategies for cocaine-associated chest pain encountered in the ED.
alpha-Methylacyl-CoA racemase (AMACR), an enzyme involved in oxidation of branched chain fatty acids and cholesterol metabolites, as well as ibuprofen metabolism, is overexpressed in colorectal adenomas and cancer. AMACR gene variants have been associated with hereditary prostate cancer, but no studies have evaluated their etiologic role in colorectal carcinogenesis.
We conducted a case-control study of 725 advanced distal colorectal adenoma cases and 729 frequency-matched controls from the screening arm of the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial. Seven AMACR polymorphisms were genotyped. Unconditional logistic regression models were used to evaluate the associations adjusting for age at randomization and gender.
The 201L allele of S201L [TT versus CC: odds ratio (OR), 1.74; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.15-2.62; TC versus CC: OR, 1.17; 95% CI, 0.93-1.49] and the 277E allele of K277E (GG versus AA: OR, 1.66; 95% CI, 1.03-2.68; GA versus AA: OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 0.96-1.53) were associated with increased risk of advanced distal colorectal adenoma (both P(trend) </= 0.02); the TGTGCG haplotype of six informative single nucleotide polymorphisms was also associated with increased risk (OR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.03-1.55). Regular ibuprofen users who were homozygous for the variant allele at either M9V or D175G were at reduced risk for adenoma (both P(interaction) < 0.05).
Our study identified variants in AMACR associated with advanced distal colorectal adenoma and pointed to potential interactions with ibuprofen use.
Using isolated perfused lungs of normal or monocrotaline (MCT: 50 mg/kg)-induced pulmonary hypertensive rats, we tested the hypothesis that the pulmonary vascular effects of propofol depend on activation of the alpha-adrenoreceptor.
Changes in pulmonary perfusion pressure induced by propofol (10(-5) to 10(-4) M) were measured with or without phenylephrine (10(-6) M) pretreatment. Before phenylephrine administration, we assessed the effects of inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase (N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methylester: 10(-4) M), cyclooxygenase (indomethacin: 10(-5) M), and protein kinase C inhibitor, bisindolylmaleimide I (10(-6) M) or calphostin C (10(-6) M).
Changes in pulmonary perfusion pressure by phenylephrine after pretreatment of nitric oxide synthase inhibitor and indomethacin in normal rats were significant (5 +/- 3 and 7 +/- 2 mm Hg), whereas that after pretreatment of bisindolylmaleimide I were small in MCT-rats (2 +/- 1 mm Hg). Propofol caused pulmonary vasoconstriction after phenylephrine pretreatment both in normal and MCT-treated rats. In normal rats, the propofol-induced increase in pulmonary perfusion pressure after indomethacin pretreatment was slightly smaller than that in the non-pretreated lungs (P < 0.05). In MCT-treated rats, the propofol-induced increases in pulmonary perfusion pressure after both protein kinase C inhibitors were smaller than that in the non-pretreated lungs (P < 0.05).
Propofol may increase pulmonary vascular resistance during alpha-adrenoreceptor activation.
To report the successful treatment of phenelzine-associated insomnia with low-dose quetiapine in a patient with refractory depression.
A 42-year-old white man with severe major depression unresponsive to selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors, bupropion, and tricyclic antidepressants improved following treatment with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) phenelzine. Insomnia, present to a moderate degree prior to antidepressant therapy, worsened markedly following phenelzine treatment and failed to respond to diphenhydramine, temazepam, triazolam, clonazepam, zolpidem, or trazodone given at high therapeutic doses. Sleep disturbance resolved with low-dose (50 mg) adjunctive quetiapine, with no adverse effects.
Major depression refractory to standard therapy is a common and serious condition. Some cases respond to MAOIs; however, orthostatic hypotension and insomnia frequently occur. Potentially serious MAOI interactions with psychotropic drugs have raised concerns about combining these agents. In this case, a failure of a number of other medications known to treat MAOI-associated insomnia safely prompted a trial of quetiapine. Despite the possibility that enhanced serotonergic activity might have resulted in serotonin syndrome, no adverse interactions between phenelzine and quetiapine were noted. The use of low-dose, once-daily quetiapine, along with its unique binding properties, may account for its increased safety in combination with phenelzine.
This case illustrates that low-dose quetiapine may be an alternative treatment for phenelzine-associated insomnia. Further case reports are needed to establish the safety and effectiveness of combining these agents.
We conducted a phase I/II trial, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of an intravenous liposomal formulation of busulphan (LBu) as a myeloablative agent for stem cell transplantation (SCT). The liposomal busulphan was administered as a 3 h infusion twice daily over 4 consecutive days. Six adults received 1.6-2 mg/kg/dose and 18 children received 1.8-3 mg/kg/dose. Pharmacokinetic parameters were studied after the first and the last dose of busulphan. No significant difference in clearance, AUC, elimination half-lives or distribution volume between the first and the last dose was found in either groups. A significantly (P < 0.005) higher clearance was observed in children after the first and the last dose (3.61 and 3.79 ml/min/kg, respectively) compared to adults (2.40 and 2.33 ml/min/kg, respectively). The elimination half-lives after the first and the last dose were significantly (P < 0.005) shorter in children (2.59 and 2.72 h, respectively) compared to adults (3.35 and 3.61 h, respectively). Clearance correlated significantly with age. However, no significant correlation with age was observed when clearance was adjusted to the body surface area. Two cases of VOD following a total dose of 24 mg/kg were observed. Six patients experienced mucositis. No other organ toxicity was observed. We conclude that intravenous liposomal busulphan pharmacokinetics is age dependent. A dosage schedule based on body surface area should be used especially in young children to reduce the age-dependent difference in kinetics. An intravenous liposomal dose of busulphan of 500 mg/m(2) is suggested to reach a similar systemic exposure and myeloablative effect in both children and adults. Moreover, the novel liposomal form of busulphan showed a favorable toxicity profile and seems safe as a part of the high-dose therapy prior to SCT.
d-Nicotine (1000 micrograms) applied into the cerebral ventricle of urethane anesthetized rats increased gastric acid secretion. When 50 micrograms of d-nicotine was concomitantly administered with 5 micrograms of 1-nicotine, the 1-nicotine-induced increases in gastric secretion was blocked. The appearance of convulsion induced by I-nicotine in mice was also inhibited by pretreatment with d-nicotine. These results suggest that d-nicotine has agonistic and antagonistic actions to I-nicotine in the central nervous system and that its agonistic potency varies with preparations.
Accumulated data have shown the neuroactive properties of oxytocin (OT), a neurohypophyseal neuropeptide, and its capability of reducing the abuse potential of drugs. The present study investigated the effect of OT on methamphetamine (MAP)-induced hyperactivity in mice and its possible mechanism of action. Locomotor activity was measured after administered with MAP using an infrared sensor. High-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD) was used to detect the content of monoamines and their metabolites in the striatum and accumbens and prefrontal cortex in mice after the behavioral test. OT (0.1, 0.5, and 2.5 microg/mouse, i.c.v.) had no effect on locomotor activity in naïve mice, but inhibited, in a dose-dependent manner, the hyperactivity induced by acute administration of MAP. Atosiban (Ato) (2.0 microg/mouse, i.c.v.), the selective inhibitor of OT receptor, attenuated the inhibitory effect of OT on MAP. A marked reduction of the ratios of 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) to dopamine (DA) was observed in the striatum and accumbens of mice after acute administration of MAP. OT (2.5 microg, i.c.v.) significantly inhibited the reduction of DOPAC/DA and HVA/DA ratios. However, Ato decreased the ratio of DOPAC/DA significantly in mice compared with OT (2.5 microg) in combination with MAP. There was no significant change in serotonin (5-HT) metabolism in mice after a single administration of MAP. These results suggested that OT inhibited the MAP-induced hyperactivity by altering the DA turnover in the mesolimbic region of mice.
Amphetamine withdrawal can induce a condition with the symptoms of major depression. We report the case of a 46-year-old woman with antecedents of abuse of amphetamines and amphetamine derivatives from age 16 to age 41, who in the 5 years since withdrawal presented recurrent depression resistant to treatment. She was treated with maximum doses of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and lithium, but there was no remission of symptoms. On being treated with reboxetine, a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, euthymia was achieved, without negative after effects. Several studies have shown that noradrenaline plays an important role in the modulation of the response to amphetamines. The findings in this case suggest that reboxetine may constitute an interesting alternative for the treatment of amphetamine withdrawal syndrome (AWS).
Tolerance to nicotine occurs in mice after its chronic administration. This tolerance is accompanied by an up-regulation of nicotinic receptors as assessed by the binding of (3H)-nicotine and alpha-(125I)-bungarotoxin (BTX). Past studies (Marks et al. 1983, 1986) have shown that the increase in BTX binding sites is most evident in the hippocampus. Mice that have a greater concentration of BTX binding sites in the hippocampus are more sensitive to the convulsant effects of nicotine (Miner et al. 1984, 1985, 1986). In the study reported here, mice from the DBA/2Ibg strain, which are relatively resistant to nicotine-induced seizures and have a relatively low concentration of hippocampal BTX binding sites (Miner et al. 1984), were infused with nicotine for 10 days. At various time points after cessation of nicotine administration, sensitivity to the convulsant effects of nicotine was assessed. Mice were then sacrificed and BTX binding was determined in three regions: cortex, midbrain, and hippocampus. As expected, chronic treatment with nicotine resulted in a significant up-regulation of BTX binding sites in the hippocampus. Chronic nicotine treatment also produced significant tolerance to nicotine-induced seizures. Hippocampal BTX binding sites returned to control levels within 2 days after stopping nicotine infusion, whereas tolerance was not lost until 5 days. These results suggest that factors other than the number of hippocampal BTX binding sites affect nicotine-induced seizure sensitivity, at least following chronic nicotine treatment.
The utility of vigabatrin in the treatment of epilepsy is partially offset by its retinal toxicity. The relationship between dosage and damage is obscure. This may be due to perimetric shortcomings. The new technique of rarebit ('microdot') perimetry might be more informative.
Twelve patients who had been treated with vigabatrin for various durations were examined by manual, kinetic perimetry and by rarebit perimetry.
Rarebit results differed significantly between patients and normal controls and rarebit deficits were directly proportional to cumulated vigabatrin doses (correlation coefficients were - 0.92 in the nasal field and - 0.82 in the temporal field). Manual perimetry results were less clearly related to dosage (r = - 0.54 and r = - 0.73, respectively).
Rarebit perimetry indicates that each treated subject will develop visual loss and that visual loss will be proportional to the accumulated dose. Conventional perimetry is less well suited to detecting and quantifying vigabatrin-associated visual loss.
To test the primary hypothesis that a newer antihypertensive treatment regimen (calcium channel blocker +/- an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor) is more effective than an older regimen (beta-blocker +/- a diuretic) in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (CHD). To test a second primary hypothesis that a statin compared with placebo will further protect against CHD endpoints in hypertensive subjects with a total cholesterol < or = 6.5 mmol/l.
Prospective, randomized, open, blinded endpoint trial with a double-blinded 2 x 2 factorial component.
Patients were recruited mainly from general practices.
Men and women aged 40-79 were eligible if their blood pressure was > or = 160 mmHg systolic or > or = 100 mmHg diastolic (untreated) or > or = 140 mmHg systolic or > or = 90 mmHg diastolic (treated) at randomization.
Patients received either amlodipine (5/ 10 mg) +/- perindopril (4/8 mg) or atenolol (50/ 100 mg) +/- bendroflumethiazide (1.25/2.5 mg) +K+ with further therapy as required to reach a blood pressure of < or = 140 mmHg systolic and 90 mmHg diastolic. Patients with a total cholesterol of < or = 6.5 mmol/l were further randomized to receive either atorvastatin 10 mg or placebo daily.
Non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) and fatal coronary heart disease (CHD).
19 342 men and women were initially randomized, of these 10297 were also randomized into the lipid-lowering limb. All patients had three or more additional cardiovascular risk factors.
The study has 80% power (at the 5% level) to detect a relative difference of 20% in CHD endpoints between the calcium channel blocker-based regimen and the beta-blocker-based regimen. The lipid-lowering limb of the study has 90% power at the 1% level to detect a relative difference of 30% in CHD endpoints between groups.
The volatile oil from Rhizoma Ligustici Chuanxiong Hort. (CXVO) is likely to be the mainly active ingredient of Chuangxiong in curing headache. In this study, oral administration of CXVO (45.0, 90.0, and 135.0 microl/kg) to mice significantly elevated the pain threshold in the hot-plate test and reduced the number of abdominal writhing caused by acetic acid. CXVO (90.0 and 135.0 microl/kg) not only reduced locomotor activity, but also prolonged the sleeping time induced by sodium pentobarbital (35 mg/kg), and the number of mice with sleeping time over 1 min by sodium pentobarbital (25 mg/kg) was markedly enlarged by CXVO (45.0, 90.0, 135.0 microl/kg) administration. The three doses of CXVO significantly increased the pain threshold of rabbits with headache due to hot radiation and the level of plasma ET of rats with headache due to nitroglycerin injection. Besides, for the nitroglycerin-induced headache rats, the c-fos gene expression in the brain stem and hypothalamus was remarkably inhibited and the level of plasma CGRP was reduced significantly after CXVO administration at both doses 90.0 and 135.0 microg/kg. The latter dosage could also raise the level of plasma 5-HT markedly. The study suggests that CXVO acts probably as the active ingredient of Rhizoma Ligustici Chuanxiong Hort. (CX) on treating headache and has potential to be an agent for treating headache.
We describe a case of severe hypertension, due to multiple malignant norepinephrine secreting paragangliomas. Neuroendocrine system tumours are responsible for 0.1-0.5% cases of hypertension. Their extra-adrenal localisation is about 10%. Only 20% of paragangliomas are catecholamine secreting, and causing a syndrome similar to that of pheochromocytoma. In our patient the diagnosis of retroperitoneal multiple paragangliomas was made two years after the beginning of the typical symptoms. At surgery 6 paragangliomas were removed; some vascular and muscular structures (inferior vena cava, ileopsoas) were infiltrated. A radiotherapy treatment was conducted for a total dose of 55.8 Gy. Immediately after the operation blood pressure decreased, but the administration of alpha and beta blockers was required to reach normotension. This treatment was confirmed at six months follow-up, in consideration of the persistently high norepinephrine plasma levels.
The effects of neonatal d-methamphetamine (MA) treatment on cued and spatial learning and memory were investigated. MA was administered to neonatal rats on postnatal days 11-20. All groups received four subcutaneous injections per day. Group MA40-4 received 40 mg. kg(-1). d(-1) of MA in four divided doses (10 mg/kg per injection). Group MA40-2 received 40 mg. kg(-1). d(-1) of MA in two divided (20 mg/kg/injection) and saline for the other two injections per day. Controls received saline for four injections per day. As adults, both MA groups showed no differences in swimming ability in a straight swimming channel. The MA40-4 group showed no differences in cued learning, but was impaired in hidden platform learning in the Morris water maze on acquisition. They also showed reduced memory performance on probe trials. Similar trends were seen on reversal learning and reversal probe trials. Reduced platform-size learning trials caused spatial learning impairments to re-emerge in the MA40-4 group. The MA40-2 group showed no differences in straight channel swimming, but was slower at finding the visible platform during cued learning. They were also impaired during acquisition and memory trials in the Morris hidden platform maze. They showed a similar trend on reversal learning and memory trials, but were not different during reduced platform-size learning trials. When the MA40-2 group's performance on hidden platform learning and memory trials was adjusted for cued trial performance, the spatial learning deficits remained. Deficits of spatial learning and memory are a selective effect of neonatal methamphetamine treatment irrespective of other learning and performance variables.
