The aim of the study was to investigate gonadal function and LH reserve in patients on chronic therapy with supraphysiological doses of GC. We clinically evaluated 17 male subjects (aged 23-56 years-old) on chronic GC therapy. In four subjects (aged 23-39 years-old) randomly selected, three basal blood samples were drawn and pooled for measurement of SHBG, total, free and bioavailable testosterone. Following baseline samples, a GnRH stimulation test was performed. Starting with a priming of 5 micrograms, a bolus of 50 micrograms of GnRH was injected intravenously and samples obtained every 30 minutes for assessment of LH. Four healthy men (aged 24-28 years-old) were used as controls. Patients on steroids referred decreased libido (58%) and impotence (52%) and lower back pain (41%). Total, free and bioavailable serum testosterone were significantly lower than controls (p < 0.01, p < 0.05 and p < 0.05, respectively) while SHBG levels persisted unchanged. Baseline LH and its rise after GnRH was normal. This study shows that chronic GC administration involves gonadal function reducing sexual steroids without changes in baseline and stimulated LH secretion. In addition, the priming with physiological doses of GnRH optimizes the pituitary response to higher GnRH doses.
Topiramate is a sulfamate-substituted monosaccharide anticonvulsant used as adjunctive therapy for intractable refractory seizures. It is report a case of topiramate-induced urolithiasis.
A 35-year-old man presented with acute, right-sided, colicky flank pain. He denied hematuria or dysuria. He was in use of phenytoin, risperidone, phenobarbital, and topiramate. The total daily dose of topiramate was 375 mg. A CT scan showed a 7 x 1 mm curvilinear density at the right ureterovesical junction with proximal hydrouretronephrosis. He was managed with rigid ureteroscopic stone extraction and the calculus metabolic analysis revealed the stone was composed of carbonate apatite (70%), calcium oxalate dihydrate (20%), and calcium oxalate monohydrate (10%).
The present case typifies many features of topiramate-induced urolithiasis. Those who care for patients with urinary stone disease should be aware of this association.
The efficacy and safety of topical 1.5% erythromycin solution and 1% clindamycin phosphate solution were compared in the treatment of acne. The number of inflammatory lesions was significantly reduced at 12 weeks by 62% and 59% and the number of noninflammatory lesions by 43% and 39% in the erythromycin and clindamycin groups, respectively. The reduction in lesions was also reflected in the clinical evaluation of the overall facial condition; 73% of the 74 patients treated with erythromycin solution and 62% of the 80 patients treated with clindamycin solution had excellent or good responses at 12 weeks. The results of this study show that topically applied 1.5% erythromycin and 1.0% clindamycin solutions are both effective and comparable in reducing the clinical manifestation of acne in patients with moderate disease.
Ingestion of acid-containing household products either accidentally or for suicide attempt is a common form of intoxication. Hydrochloric acid is widely used as an antirust compound or cleaner in homes and is highly corrosive and generally causes coagulation necrosis which could lead to perforation in the gastrointestinal system. Although hydrochloric acid ingestion is mainly harmful to the gastrointestinal system, it may also cause metabolic acidosis, hemolysis, renal failure, and fatality as well. Cardiovascular manifestations of hydrochloric acid ingestion are extremely rare, and we report a 48-year-old man who died of acute inferolateral myocardial infarction after hydrochloric acid ingestion in a suicide attempt who had no history of coronary artery disease. In conclusion, although cardiovascular manifestations of hydrochloric acid ingestion are extremely rare, the ingestion may still cause myocardial infarction which could be fatal. Physicians dealing with hydrochloric acid ingestion in the ED should be aware of this possibility and always obtain serial electrocardiograms even if the patient has no cardiac complaint.
Segmental antigen challenge (SAC) and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) have been proven useful for investigating IgE-mediated lung inflammation in volunteers with allergies.
This model was used to evaluate the pulmonary antiinflammatory effects of an experimental 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor (zileuton) in subjects allergic to ragweed. We hypothesized that decreased generation of leukotrienes by inhibition of the 5-lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism would diminish the subsequent inflammatory response resulting from antigen challenge.
Ten subjects with allergies received zileuton or placebo, 600 mg administered orally four times a day for 8 days, and then underwent bronchoscopy, BAL of a control segment, and SAC in the contralateral lung followed by BAL of the challenged segment 24 hours later in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover protocol. Urinary excretion of leukotriene E4 induced by antigen challenge plus total and differential cell counts and the amount of total protein, albumin, urea, and eosinophil cationic protein in BAL fluid were determined.
A significant inhibition of leukotriene production (approximately 86%) was observed in subjects receiving zileuton. In addition, there was a statistically significant increase in eosinophils after antigen challenge (0.6 +/- 0.2 x 10(4) eosinophils/ml increasing to 49.0 +/- 25.0 x 10(4) in subjects receiving placebo, whereas the influx of eosinophils in subjects receiving zileuton was not statistically different from baseline (1.1 +/- 0.7 x 10(4) eosinophils/ml increasing to 16.5 +/- 4.1 x 10(4); analysis of variance for repeated measures with post hoc comparisons).
Treatment with zileuton altered the inflammatory response after antigen challenge. Products of the 5-lipoxygenase pathway appear to be important in recruiting eosinophils to the lung after SAC.
To examine the causative relationship between aberrant histone acetylation changes and cocaine-induced reward.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=160) were tested by conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure, to evaluate the effects of inhibitors of histone deacetylase (HDAC) and histone acetyltransferase (HAT) on the conditioned effects of cocaine. Conditioning sessions were conducted twice daily for 2-4 days. For each conditioning session, rats were injected with either HDAC (or HAT) inhibitors or saline in home cages, followed by cocaine (intraperitoneally [ip]) or saline (ip) 30 minutes later, and then immediately confined for 50 minutes in the cue-specific chamber. On the day following the last conditioning session, the rats were tested for place preference for 15 minutes. The present study was carried out at the Department of Pharmacology of Jiaxing University, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, and Pharmacology Research Center of Fudan University, Shanghai, China between October 2007 and January 2009.
Our results showed that pretreatment with HDAC inhibitor (sodium butyrate), potentiated cocaine-induced CPP, but did not itself lead to conditioned preferences, or aversions. On the contrary, rats pretreated with curcumin (HAT inhibitor) markedly inhibited cocaine-induced CPP, but did not itself lead to conditioned preferences or aversions.
Histone modifications may be an important mechanism that underlies conditioned effects of cocaine. Moreover, HAT may be a potential therapeutic target for cocaine addiction.
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-I) treated hypertensive patients are well known to be at risk during general anesthesia, because of hypotension that can occur. We compared hemodynamic changes in these patients during induction of general anesthesia with propofol and etomidate - two intravenous anesthetics. Hypotension after propofol that we observed in ACE-I group versus normotension after etomidate (p < 0.001) in our opinion may be the result of additive effect of similar endothelium-dependent mechanism of action of propofol and ACE-I, i.e. increase in production and release of nitric oxide (NO). This very unique observation, however, needs further investigation to precisely define the mechanism of our finding.
Epidemiological, clinical and pre-clinical observations suggest that caffeine can potentiate the reinforcing and discriminative effects of nicotine.
The present study examined whether chronic exposure to moderate doses of caffeine affects the reinforcing and subjective effects of intravenously administered nicotine.
The effects of oral caffeine maintenance on the subjective and physiological effects of intravenously administered nicotine and caffeine were examined using double-blind methods in nine volunteers with current use of tobacco, caffeine, and cocaine. Each subject was exposed to two chronic drug phases (200 mg/70 kg oral caffeine t.i.d. and placebo t.i.d.), each of at least 12 days duration. Within each drug phase, the subject received intravenous injections of placebo, nicotine (1.0 and 2.0 mg/70 kg), and caffeine (200 and 400 mg/70 kg) in mixed order. Physiological and subjective data were collected before and repeatedly after drug or placebo injection.
Both intravenous nicotine and caffeine produced significant increases in ratings of drug effect, stimulated, rush, and bad effect, with only nicotine significantly increasing ratings of liking and good effect. Caffeine maintenance significantly increased ratings of drug effect and stimulated after the high dose of nicotine, and significantly decreased ratings of bad effect after the low dose of nicotine. Caffeine maintenance also significantly increased the identification of the low dose of nicotine as a stimulant. A drug versus money measure of reinforcement showed that subjects were willing to pay money to receive nicotine injections, but willing to forfeit money to avoid caffeine injections. Furthermore, subjects were willing to pay significantly more money to receive the high dose of nicotine in the caffeine maintenance phase than in the abstinence phase. Both intravenous nicotine and caffeine increased diastolic blood pressure and decreased skin temperature, and nicotine also increased heart rate. These physiological effects of intravenous nicotine and caffeine as well as the subjective effects of intravenous caffeine were not influenced by caffeine maintenance.
The results extend recent clinical and preclinical findings by showing that oral caffeine maintenance can potentiate the reinforcing and stimulant subjective effects of nicotine.
In situ hybridization techniques were used to analyse the spatiotemporal pattern of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA elevation associated with kainic acid-induced seizure activity in the rat. Pronounced increases in hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels were observed as early as 30 min following the onset of behavioral seizures. The greatest increase (10-fold) occurred in the dentate granule cell layer, while pyramidal layers CA1, CA3, and CA4 exhibited increases of two- to six-fold. Peak elevation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in CA1 hippocampal region was evident at 4 h in CA3, and in the dentate granule layer at 30 min postseizure. Elevations persisted in the dentate and hilar regions to four days, while the increases in CA1 and CA3 returned to control levels by 16 h following seizure. Significant increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA were also observed in the superficial layers of cortex (II and III) and in the piriform cortex which reached peak elevations by 8 h. No detectable changes were observed in the dorsomedial thalamus. Although histologically defined pyramidal and granule cell layers displayed relatively uniform increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in response to kainate, a closer examination of the labeling patterns using emulsion autoradiography revealed discrete areas of high grain densities overlapping uniform, moderate hybridization densities in the dentate granule cell layer and CA3, suggesting that the capacity to upregulate brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in these regions may differ among individual neurons. In conclusion, our studies revealed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA induction in response to systemic kainate administration differs in hippocampal and cortical areas, in magnitude, time of onset and duration. The observed temperospatial pattern does not correspond in a simple way to increases in metabolic or electrical activity associated with seizures or neuronal vulnerability coincident with the seizures.
Trivalent inorganic arsenic [As(III)] is an efficient anticancer agent used to treat patients suffering from acute promyelocytic leukemia. Recently, experimental studies have clearly demonstrated that this metalloid can also cure lymphoproliferative and/or pro-inflammatory syndromes in different murine models of chronic immune-mediated diseases. T helper (Th) 1 and Th17 lymphocytes play a central role in development of these diseases, in mice and humans, especially by secreting the potent pro-inflammatory cytokine interferon-γ and IL-17A, respectively. As(III) impairs basic functions of human T cells but its ability to modulate secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines by differentiated Th lymphocytes is unknown. In the present study, we demonstrate that As(III), used at concentrations clinically achievable in plasma of patients, has no effect on the secretion of interferon-γ from Th1 cells but almost totally blocks the expression and the release of IL-17A from human Th17 lymphocytes co-stimulated for five days with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, in the presence of differentiating cytokines. In addition, As(III) specifically reduces mRNA levels of the retinoic-related orphan receptor (ROR)C gene which encodes RORγt, a key transcription factor controlling optimal IL-17 expression in fully differentiated Th17 cells. The metalloid also blocks initial expression of IL-17 gene induced by the co-stimulation, probably in part by impairing activation of the JNK/c-Jun pathway. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that As(III) represses expression of the major pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-17A produced by human Th17 lymphocytes, thus strengthening the idea that As(III) may be useful to treat inflammatory immune-mediated diseases in humans.
This multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled study compares the effects of captopril treatment with those of digoxin treatment during maintenance diuretic therapy in patients with mild to moderate heart failure. Compared with placebo, captopril therapy resulted in significantly improved exercise time (mean increase, 82 s vs 35 s) and improved New York Heart Association class (41% vs 22%), but digoxin therapy did not. Digoxin treatment increased ejection fraction (4.4% increase) compared with captopril therapy (1.8% increase) and placebo (0.9% increase). The number of ventricular premature beats decreased 45% in the captopril group and increased 4% in the digoxin group in patients with more than ten ventricular premature beats per hour. Treatment failures, increased requirements for diuretic therapy, and hospitalizations were significantly more frequent in patients receiving placebo compared with those receiving either active drug. Transitory hypotension occurred more frequently with administration of captopril. Captopril treatment is significantly more effective than placebo and is an alternative to digoxin therapy in patients with mild to moderate heart failure who are receiving diuretic maintenance therapy.
Chemotherapy with cis-platinum, vinblastine and bleomycin for germ cell tumors of the testis has been highly effective but it also has been associated with acute and chronic vascular damage. We report the development of hypertension in a 38-year-old man after chemotherapy that was shown to be owing to nonatherosclerotic partial occlusion of the major branches of the left renal artery. Vascular complications following combination chemotherapy for germ cell tumors are reviewed.
Chronic arsenic exposure has been documented to be associated with various cardiovascular diseases. We aimed to investigate 1) the increased risk of QT prolongation in chronic arsenic exposure, and 2) the relationships of cardiac repolarization (QT interval duration) with ischemic heart disease and carotid atherosclerosis. We studied 280 men and 355 women living in the endemic area of arseniasis in southwestern Taiwan. QT intervals in electrocardiogram and carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) by ultrasonography were measured. Ischemic heart disease was diagnosed by history or abnormal electrocardiogram. Significant associations of the corrected QT interval (QTc) duration with ischemic heart disease and carotid intima-medium thickness and plaque were observed after adjustment for various risk factors in the multiple linear regression analysis (all p values <0.05). Three indices of chronic arsenic exposure were all significantly associated with the risk of QTc prolongation showing dose-response relationships (p<0.001). Chronic arsenic exposure was dose-dependently associated with the risk of QTc prolongation. Ischemic heart disease and carotid atherosclerosis were significantly associated with QTc intervals in chronic arsenic exposure. QTc prolongation might be suggested as an early biomarker for ischemic heart disease or carotid atherosclerosis in population with previous exposure to arsenic.
Diabetes and obesity are metabolic disorders induced by an excessive dietary intake of fat, usually related to inflammation and oxidative stress.
The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of the antioxidant coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) on hepatic metabolic and inflammatory disorders associated with diet-induced obesity and glucose intolerance.
C57bl6/j mice were fed for 8 weeks, either a control diet (CT) or a high-fat diet plus 21% fructose in the drinking water (HFF). CoQ10 supplementation was performed in this later condition (HFFQ).
HFF mice exhibit increased energy consumption, fat mass development, fasting glycaemia and insulinemia and impaired glucose tolerance. HFF treatment promoted the expression of genes involved in reactive oxygen species production (NADPH oxidase), inflammation (CRP, STAMP2) and metabolism (CPT1alpha) in the liver. CoQ10 supplementation decreased the global hepatic mRNA expression of inflammatory and metabolic stresses markers without changing obesity and tissue lipid peroxides compared to HFF mice. HFF diets paradoxically decreased TBARS (reflecting lipid peroxides) levels in liver, muscle and adipose tissue versus CT group, an effect related to vitamin E content of the diet.
In conclusion, HFF model promotes glucose intolerance and obesity by a mechanism independent on the level of tissue peroxides. CoQ10 tends to decrease hepatic stress gene expression, independently of any modulation of lipid peroxidation, which is classically considered as its most relevant effect.
A 69 year old man is described with a 12 year history of intermittent syncope associated with ingesting solid food, mainly after having fasted. He was taking enalapril, propranolol, bendrofluazide (bendroflumethiazide), omeprazole, finasteride, and aspirin. Detailed investigations, including gastrointestinal evaluation, measurement of various gut hormones, and autonomic testing, indicated no abnormality. A liquid meal, performed before fasting, failed to elicit an episode. However, a solid meal after an overnight fast provoked near-syncope. Continuous non-invasive haemodynamic monitoring (with a Portapres II) indicated a short lived rise in blood pressure and heart rate, followed by severe hypotension, a fall in stroke volume and cardiac output, and then bradycardia. This favoured an initial increase in sympathetic activity, followed by vasodepression due to sympathetic withdrawal or activation of humoral vasodilatatory mechanisms, with bradycardia secondary to impaired cardiac filling. Withdrawal of enalapril abolished the episodes. The unusual nature of this case, in which haemodynamic recordings continuously were made during and after swallow syncope, induced soon after food ingestion, is discussed.
A 55-year-old woman complained of neck pain ten years after undergoing surgery. She was diagnosed as having bone metastases and treated using pamidronate therapy with doxifluridine, tamoxifen and fadrozole, which was assessed as effective. She complained of neck pain 32 months after pamidronate infusion. CT revealed that the sclerosis had continued but new lytic lesions were detected in the cervical vertebra. Thus, we attempted incadronate and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) administration. After 2 months, incadronate therapy with MPA relieved her neck pain. CT revealed lytic lesions of cervical vertebra showing sclerosis 3 months after this treatment and the sclerosis has continued. Bisphosphonate therapy of sequential pamidronate and incadronate with MPA administration is a useful treatment for bone metastasis from breast cancer.
The relationship between the teratogenicity of EM12, 2-(2,6-dioxopiperiden-3'-yl) phthalimidine, a stable analogue of thalidomide, and zinc status in the maternal animal was investigated using pregnant rats on a low-zinc diet (1 ppm zinc, days 0--14 gestation) as the experimental model. Previous studies with this compound in rats fed a commercial diet at oral doses up to 250 mg/kg per day for three days and intravenous doses up to 10 mg/kg per day for three days failed to produce "typical" thalidomide malformations. However, when a dose of 150 mg/kg was given intraperitoneally to rats on a low-zinc diet, typical thalidomide malformations occurred with an incidence of 57.5%.
A 5-year-old child was referred to our clinic because of voiding difficulties. She had been continent for 2.5 years. She had a hesitation of the urinary flow and voided with variable residual volumes. She had been using ipratropium and salbutamol regularly for her asthma. The voiding difficulties disappeared when the inhalation medication was stopped. During provocation with both medications this adverse effect was successively confirmed. The airway complaints were adequately controlled with inhaled steroids and she manifested functional voiding. Voiding difficulties as an adverse effect of ipratropium and salbutamol have not yet been described in children. At the Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Centre Lareb a few cases in children have been reported. Interaction with the sympathetic and parasympathetic activity of the bladder and pelvic floor muscles is a possible explanation for the voiding difficulties. In the assessment of voiding problems one needs to question the patient on the use of asthma medication.
Effect of 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylserine (DOPS), a norepinephrine precurosr, on harmaline tremor was investigated in mice to elucidate the role of norepinephrine in the genesis of tremor. 1) Spontaneous motor activity was inhibited by L-threo-DOPS (200 mg/kg i.p.). 2) Tremor induced by harmaline (5 and 7 mg/kg i.p.) was enhanced by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosone (200 mg/kg i.p.). 3) The development and duration of tremor induced by harmaline (10 mg/kg i.p.) were inhibited significantly in a dose dependent manner by L-threo-DOPS (50, 70, 100, 150 and 200 mg/kg i.p.), but neither by D-threo-DOPS (200 mg/kg i.p.) nor DL-erythro-DOPS (200 mg/kg i.p.). 4) L-threo-DOPS (200 mg/kg i.-.) had no effect on the development of tremor induced by tremorine (5 and 10 mg/kg i.p.), while lacrimation and diarrhea caused by tremorine was markedly inhibited. 5) Administration of harmaline (10 mg/kg i.p.) produced an increase in brain 5-hydroxytryptamine content but not in that of norepinephrine. Administration of L-threo-DOPS (100 mg/kg i.p.) increased the norepinephrine content but not the 5-hydroxytryptamine content in the brain. Inhibition of harmaline tremor induced by L-threo-DOPS is attributed to the L-norepinephrine converted from L-threo-DOPS and the involvement of a noradrenergic mechanism in harmaline tremor has to be considered.
We reported a case of halothane-induced fulminant hepatitis with acute renal failure which developed 6 days after reexposure to halothane. The patient was a 58-year-old female. She had a history of liver dysfunction after exposure to halothane 6 years previously. She had surgical treatment of clubfoot under halothane anesthesia in other hospital. Preoperative physical examination and laboratory data were normal. On the 6th post-operative day she abruptly developed high fever and general fatigue. Next day, she was transferred to our hospital. At admission, fulminant hepatitis complicated with acute renal failure was diagnosed with severe liver and renal damage. She was immediately treated with plasma exchange, glucose-insulin therapy, and hemodialysis. Serum transaminase level returned to normal value within a week. However, despite repeated hemodialysis, renal function did not improve, and she died of P. aeruginosa sepsis on 28th day after the operation. It may be suggested that in this patient hypersensitivity to halothane has persisted during the six years.
Long-term observation over 3-8 postoperative years of cases of Parkinson disease operated by stereotactic thalamotomy using a microelectrode recording technique is reported. The procedure is specifically useful in the following four groups: (1) tremor-dominant cases, (2) hemiparkinsonism, (3) cases with marked asymmetry in motor symptoms and (4) juvenile parkinsonism presenting levodopa-induced dyskinesia.
Although visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in various parts of India, mainly Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa, and neighbouring countries such as Nepal and Bangladesh, it is rarely reported from the hilly areas of India. We report on nine male VL cases from the non-endemic Garhwal region of Uttarakhand who were treated successfully with sodium stibogluconate. We conclude that sodium stibogluconate-sensitive VL is emerging in this region and that urgent and effective vector control measures may be warranted to prevent the disease from becoming a major health problem and to ensure that resistance to sodium stibogluconate does not emerge.
A de novo 4.1-megabase microdeletion of chromosome 1p34.2p34.3 has been identified by array-based comparative genomic hybridization in a young male with severely delayed development, microcephaly, pronounced hypotonia, and facial dysmorphism. The deleted region encompasses 48 genes, among them the glucose transporter 1 (SLC2A1 or GLUT1) gene. The deletion of the GLUT1 gene was in line with the abnormal ratio of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose to blood glucose, indicative of GLUT1 deficiency syndrome (MIM #606777). GLUT1 deficiency syndrome is characterized by therapy-resistant infantile seizures, developmental delay, acquired microcephaly, spasticity, ataxia, and a low concentration of glucose in the CSF. It is known that a ketogenic diet can lead to better control of seizures. This case study shows that identifying a microdeletion as the cause of learning disability is not only important for genetic counselling but might also lead to therapeutic intervention.
The effects of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on local cerebral blood flow and CO2 reactivity were studied in 30 patients undergoing cerebral aneurysm surgery in eight of whom the aneurysm had not ruptured and was an incidental finding. The aneurysms were clipped at various intervals depending upon clinical conditions. Blood flow on the open brain surface was measured with a thermal gradient blood flow-meter. Hypotension was initially induced with 0.1 microgram kg-1 min-1 of PGE1 and subsequently adjusted to maintain the mean arterial blood pressure at about 70 mmHg. Local cerebral blood flow and CO2 reactivity were studied during and after PGE1 administration. Both were preserved, but CO2 reactivity values were lower in patients in whom the aneurysm had ruptured than in those in whom it had not ruptured. PGE1 may be an appropriate drug with which to induce hypotension during cerebral aneurysm surgery because cerebral blood flow and CO2 reactivity is preserved.
Silica nanoparticles are increasingly utilized in various applications including agriculture and medicine. In vivo studies have shown that liver is one of the primary target organ of silica nanoparticles. However, possible mechanisms of hepatotoxicity caused by silica nanoparticles still remain unclear. In this study, we explored the reactive oxygen species (ROS) mediated apoptosis induced by well-characterized 14nm silica nanoparticles in human liver cell line HepG2. Silica nanoparticles (25-200μg/ml) induced a dose-dependent cytotoxicity in HepG2 cells. Silica nanoparticles were also found to induce oxidative stress in dose-dependent manner indicated by induction of ROS and lipid peroxidation and depletion of glutathione (GSH). Quantitative real-time PCR and immunoblotting results showed that both the mRNA and protein expressions of cell cycle checkpoint gene p53 and apoptotic genes (bax and caspase-3) were up-regulated while the anti-apoptotic gene bcl-2 was down-regulated in silica nanoparticles treated cells. Moreover, co-treatment of ROS scavenger vitamin C significantly attenuated the modulation of apoptotic markers along with the preservation of cell viability caused by silica nanoparticles. Our data demonstrated that silica nanoparticles induced apoptosis in human liver cells, which is ROS mediated and regulated through p53, bax/bcl-2 and caspase pathways. This study suggests that toxicity mechanisms of silica nanoparticles should be further investigated at in vivo level.
