Dexmedetomidine is a centrally acting alpha2-adrenergic agonist which is currently Food and Drug Administration-approved for the short-term (less than 24 hours) sedation of adults during mechanical ventilation. Given its beneficial physiologic effects and limited adverse effect profile, there is growing interest regarding its potential applications in the Pediatric intensive care unit patient including sedation during mechanical ventilation, procedural sedation, the treatment of withdrawal, and prevention of emergence agitation. Although generally safe and effective, occasional hemodynamic effects including bradycardia and hypotension have been reported. Clinical experience has demonstrated that bradycardia may be more common when dexmedetomidine is administered with other medications that have negative chronotropic effects. We report 2 pediatric patients with traumatic brain injury who had good long-term neurologic outcomes, but developed clinically significant bradycardia when therapeutic hypothermia was added to a sedation regimen that included dexmedetomidine and remifentanil. The role of dexmedetomidine as a neuroprotective agent is explored as well as a review presented of previous reports of bradycardia related to dexmedetomidine.
Reduced respiratory sinus arrhythmia, measured as heart rate variability, is a reliable indicator of autonomic nervous dysfunction, reflecting a damage in vagal cardiac control. The authors studied the heart rate variability (HRV) of nine children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia during the different phases of cytostatic treatment utilizing heart rate processing techniques with a computer. The indices of HRV as well as the spectral components of heart rate were examined with special relation to vincristine administration. The heart rate variability was significantly reduced during the vincristine induction phases as compared to the consolidation and maintenance phases without vincristine administration. In particular, the respiratory components of the HRV during deep breathing tests were significantly reduced during vincristine treatment. The authors conclude that the measurement of the HRV is a suitable method for monitoring transient autonomic neuropathy, which these results show to be a frequent complication of vincristine treatment.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major safety concern in drug development and clinical practice. The pathogenesis of DILI usually involves the participation of the parent drug or metabolites that either affect cellular function or elicit an immune response. However, the mechanisms leading to DILI are unknown in most cases. Methimazole (MTZ) is used as an antithyroid drug and is well known to have induced liver injuries such as cholestatic hepatitis in a small number of human cases. Immune-mediated reactions were also suggested to play a role in MTZ-induced acute liver injury, but the mechanism underlying this process has not been elucidated. To address this issue, we measured plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, hepatic glutathione levels, hepatic expression of CD4⁺ Th cell-related transcriptional factors, cytokines and chemokines, plasma interleukin (IL)-4 levels and histopathological changes in the liver following MTZ (450 mg kg⁻¹ , p.o.) administration in mice. The hepatic expression of mRNA for Th2 cell-related factors, such as GATA-binding protein, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) and plasma IL-4 levels, as well as plasma AST and ALT levels, was significantly increased in mice treated with MTZ. These changes were markedly enhanced by pre-treatment with L-buthionine sulfoximine (3 mmol kg⁻¹, i.p.) and MTZ (15 mg kg⁻¹, p.o.). Neutralization of IL-4 using a monoclonal anti-mouse IL-4 antibody (100 µg/mouse, single i.p.) suppressed the hepatotoxic effect of MTZ. In conclusion, this report is the first to demonstrate that Th2 cytokine-mediated immune responses are involved in MTZ-induced acute liver injury in mice.
Intravenous diazepam is an excellent anxiolytic drug for dental patients. Thrombophlebitis associated with its use has prompted this review. Recognition and management of thrombophlebitis are discussed along with the causes of vascular injury after intravenous diazepam. In two histologic studies, Graham and others thought it unlikely that precipitated crystals of diluted diazepam caused postinjection vasculopathology. It seems to be an inherent property of the vehicle or the drug itself. The reviewed methods of minimizing thrombophlebitis after intravenous diazepam are with hepari flush or saline solution flush, steroids, vein size and venipuncture site, the use of a different vehicle, dilutions, and the use of other benzodiazepines. Lorazepam, midazolam, and flunitrazepam are relatively new benzodiazepines that produce less thrombophlebitis than diazepam after injection. These newer benzodiazepines are still being investigated and more clinical trials must be done to recommend any of them as alternatives to intravenous diazepam in dentistry.
Motor complications after chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) therapy occur partly because of the sensitization to dopaminergic agents resulting from pulsatile dopaminergic stimulation. The loss of presynaptic storage contributes to short duration of action by dopamine. Vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT-2) controls intraneuronal dopamine storage by packaging dopamine into synaptic vesicles, thereby allowing exocytotic release of dopamine. Using primary fibroblast doubly transduced with VMAT-2 and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) genes, we previously demonstrated the beneficial effects of such double gene transduction in the production, storage, and gradual release of dopamine in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we further evaluate the effect of achieving sustained level of dopamine within the striata by VMAT-2 gene on behavioral response of parkinsonian rats after chronic intermittent L-DOPA administration. Primary fibroblast (PF) cells were genetically modified with AADC and VMAT-2 genes. We grafted primary fibroblast cells, PF with AADC (PFAADC), or doubly transduced PF with AADC and VMAT-2 (PFVMAA) (n = 6 for each group) into parkinsonian rat striata and administered L-DOPA (25 mg/kg/day) intermittently for 4 weeks. For behavioral study, we employed a model of akinesia using forepaw adjusting steps (FAS) that have been well characterized to reflect the effect of the lesion and the antiparkinsonian effect of dopaminergic drugs and transplants. The duration of FAS response to L-DOPA was sustained for a longer duration in rats grafted with PFVMAA cells than in those grafted with either control cells or cells with AADC alone. In PFVMAA-grafted animals, prolonged duration of FAS responses to L-DOPA was sustained even 6 weeks after discontinuation of 4-week intermittent L-DOPA treatment. These findings suggest that the restoration of dopamine storage capacity could enhance the efficacy of L-DOPA therapy and attenuate the motor fluctuations that result from chronic intermittent L-DOPA administration. The gene therapy expressing AADC and VMAT-2 along with systemic L-DOPA therapy could provide a novel treatment strategy to prevent motor fluctuations.
To evaluate Amifostin's effect on protecting kidney from cisplatinum (DDP) injury and its adverse reactions and safety.
193 Patients were divided into two groups randomly: 102 in group A (treatment group) and 91 in group B (control group). Indexes such as blood routine, blood calcium, liver function, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), cretinine (C), and urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG)/C and micro-albumin (MAB/C) were monitored at different intervals before or after treatment.
In the two courses of treatment in both groups, the deviation (D) values of MAB/C before treatment and on D2 in group A were lower than those in grop B (P < 0.05), so were those before treatment and on D4, D6, D10 and D14 (P < 0.01). The D-values of NAG/C before treatment and on D4, D6, D10 and D14 in the first course of group A were obviously lower than those on the corresponding days in group B (P < 0.01), so were those before treatment and on D2, D4, D6, D10 and D14 in the second course (P < 0.01).
The reduction of MAB/C and NAG/C by Amifostin in group A demonstrates that: Amifostin is able to effectively protect the renal function, regardless of the type of tumor. In contrast with group B, Amifostin in group A shows no protection for tumor in lung cancer and ovarian cancer. The main side effects of Amifostin are mild hypotension, nausea, vomiting and hypocalcemia in some patients.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) is the major ingredient of many over-the-counter cold remedies and diet pills. Use or abuse of PPA may cause hemorrhagic stroke or cerebral vasculitis similar to the clinical and angiographic picture associated with amphetamine use or abuse. We report a 32-year-old Taiwanese women who developed sudden onset of severe headache, nausea and vomiting on the seventh day of oral ingestion of 75 mg PPA per day. Cerebral angiograms showed multiple areas of alternating focal constriction and dilatation ("beading" appearance) in the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries consistent with cerebral arteritis. This case should alert medical practitioners to the potential hazards of over-the-counter drugs like PPA.
Loss of TP53 function through gene mutation is a critical event in the development and progression of many tumour types including colorectal cancer (CRC). In vitro studies have found considerable heterogeneity amongst different TP53 mutants in terms of their transactivating abilities. The aim of this work was to evaluate whether TP53 mutations classified as functionally inactive (< or=20% of wildtype transactivation ability) had different prognostic and predictive values in CRC compared with mutations that retained significant activity.
TP53 mutations within a large, international database of CRC (n = 3583) were classified according to functional status for transactivation.
Inactive TP53 mutations were found in 29% of all CRCs and were more frequent in rectal (32%) than proximal colon (22%) tumours (P < 0.001). Higher frequencies of inactive TP53 mutations were also seen in advanced stage tumours (P = 0.0003) and in tumours with the poor prognostic features of vascular (P = 0.006) and lymphatic invasion (P = 0.002). Inactive TP53 mutations were associated with significantly worse outcome only in patients with Dukes' stage D tumours (RR = 1.71, 95%CI 1.25-2.33, P < 0.001). Patients with Dukes' C stage tumours appeared to gain a survival benefit from 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy regardless of TP53 functional status for transactivation ability.
Mutations that inactivate the transactivational ability of TP53 are more frequent in advanced CRC and are associated with worse prognosis in this stage of disease.
Morphine withdrawal is characterized by an increase in the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity. Here, by means of in situ hybridization, the changes in CRH and vasopressin (AVP) mRNAs have been analysed within the rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) during morphine dependence and after naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. CRH and AVP mRNA expression were analysed 30 min following administration of saline or naloxone to control groups and to morphine dependent rats. The data for in situ hybridization analysis of PVN neurons show that there were no changes in the total size of labelled area for CRH or AVP mRNA during morphine withdrawal, indicating that dependence on morphine does not involve alterations in the number of neurons expressing CRH or AVP mRNA. However, levels of mRNA encoding for CRH were decreased in the PVN during morphine dependence and withdrawal. By contrast, injection of saline or naloxone to morphine dependent rats did not affect the intensity of AVM mRNA expression. All these findings are discussed in term of cellular events that couple morphine dependence-increased HPA axis activity with changes in gene expression in selective neurons of the PVN.
The timely resolution of inflammation prevents continued tissue damage after an initial insult. In the brain, the death of activated microglia by apoptosis has been proposed as one mechanism to resolve brain inflammation. How microglial death is regulated after activation is still unclear. We reported that exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interleukin (IL)-13 together initially activates and then kills rat microglia in culture by a mechanism dependent on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). We show here that activation of the E prostanoid receptor 2 (EP2, PTGER2) for prostaglandin E2 mediates microglial death induced by LPS/IL-13, and that EP2 activation by agonist alone kills microglia. Both EP2 antagonists and reactive oxygen scavengers block microglial death induced by either LPS/IL-13 or EP2 activation. By contrast, the homeostatic induction of heme oxygenase 1 (Hmox1) by LPS/IL-13 or EP2 activation protects microglia. Both the Hmox1 inducer cobalt protoporphyrin and a compound that releases the Hmox1 product carbon monoxide (CO) attenuated microglial death produced by LPS/IL-13. Whereas CO reduced COX-2 protein expression, EP2 activation increased Hmox1 and COX-2 expression at both the mRNA and protein level. Interestingly, caspase-1 inhibition prevented microglial death induced by either LPS/IL-13 or low (but not high) concentrations of butaprost, suggestive of a predominantly pyroptotic mode of death. Butaprost also caused the expression of activated caspase-3 in microglia, pointing to apoptosis. These results indicate that EP2 activation, which initially promotes microglial activation, later causes delayed death of activated microglia, potentially contributing to the resolution phase of neuroinflammation.
The major component, called curcumin, of turmeric (Curcuma longa L.) (Family Zingiberaceae) powder is responsible for its biological actions. The present study aimed to prove the protective effect of turmeric extract against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiac, hepatic, and renal toxicity as evaluated in rats. Body weight and urine volume of the animal groups under investigation were recorded daily throughout the experimental period. Also, the cardiac, hepatic, and renal toxicities were determined by estimating the changes in serum activities of the enzymes lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK), serum levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, nitric oxide, albumin, and calcium, and kidney and liver tissue activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase, as well as the contents of glutathione and malondialdehyde. Hyperlipidemia was also determined, and protein and albumin changes in urine were estimated. Biochemical and histopathological findings demonstrate that turmeric extract has multiple therapeutic activities that are beneficially protective, and it has an ameliorative effect against DOX-induced cardiac toxicity and hepatotoxicity and blocks DOX-induced nephrosis. Similarly, turmeric extract inhibited the DOX-induced increase in plasma cholesterol, LDH, and CK. The present findings conclude that the turmeric extract has multiple therapeutic activities that block the cardiac, hepatic, and renal toxicities induced by DOX, and it also possibly acts as a free radical scavenger.
We induced spinal anaesthesia in 100 women presenting for elective Caesarean section with the mother in the right lateral position. Patients were allocated randomly to have the side eye of the 24-gauge Sprotte spinal needle pointing in one of four directions: group A, cephalad; group B, right lateral; group C, left lateral; group D, caudad. Isobaric bupivacaine 0.5% (2.5 ml) was injected over 30 s before the mother was placed supine with a 15 degree left lateral tilt. Onset time and height of the subsequent analgesic and anaesthetic blocks were assessed by a blinded observer. Onset of sensory block to T4 was significantly faster in group A (P = 0.001). There were no differences in final block height, incidence of hypotension, nausea and vomiting or ephedrine requirements.
We have investigated if alfentanil acts via peripheral opioid receptors to relieve the pain which occurs on injection of propofol. Thirty seconds before induction of anaesthesia and immediately after a tourniquet at 50 mm Hg greater than systolic pressure was inflated on the upper arm, patients were given either placebo (n = 22), alfentanil 1 mg (n = 22) or lignocaine 40 mg (n = 22) via an i.v. cannula in the dorsum of the hand. Pain during injection of propofol was assessed using a three-point verbal rating scale, recorded at 8-s intervals. We found a significant reduction in pain after lignocaine compared with the two other groups (P < 0.001), but there was no difference between the placebo and alfentanil groups. We conclude that alfentanil does not relieve pain on injection with propofol via an action on peripheral opioid receptors when alfentanil is limited to the forearm for 30 s before induction of anaesthesia.
The authors describe the case of a 56-year-old woman with chronic, severe heart failure secondary to dilated cardiomyopathy and absence of significant ventricular arrhythmias who developed QT prolongation and torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia during one cycle of intermittent low dose (2.5 mcg/kg per min) dobutamine. This report of torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia during intermittent dobutamine supports the hypothesis that unpredictable fatal arrhythmias may occur even with low doses and in patients with no history of significant rhythm disturbances. The mechanisms of proarrhythmic effects of Dubutamine are discussed.
A 50-year-old woman had been treated with propylthiouracil (PTU) for hyperthyroidism. She was admitted to our hospital because of hemosputum, and severe hypoxemia developed. The CT scan showed diffuse infiltration in both lung fields, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid revealed diffuse alveolar hemorrhage, and the level of myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (MPO-ANCA) was high; and therefore diffuse alveolar hemorrhage associated with MPO-ANCA positive vasculitis induced by PTU was diagnosed. Following corticosteroid therapy initiated after the termination of PTU, the pulmonary infiltration rapidly improved and the patient's MPO-ANCA level returned to normal. Recrudescence of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage occurred following a reduction in steroids, but no recurrence was found after cyclophosphamide therapy was combined with steroid therapy. During the course of therapy, various cardiac conducting system abnormalities which correlate with the course of steroid therapy were found, indicating that cardiac conducting system abnormalities may be associated with MPO-ANCA-positive vasculitis.
Volume loading with crystalloid solution results in more pronounced haemodilution in patients who develop arterial hypotension during induction of extradural anaesthesia than in those who remain normotensive. The aim of this study was to describe the time course of this increase in haemodilution. Heart rate, systolic arterial pressure and blood haemoglobin concentration were measured every 3 min during the onset of extradural anaesthesia in 22 elderly men undergoing short urological operations. Fluid therapy consisted of 15 ml/kg body weight of Ringer's acetate solution. Patients with a decrease in systolic pressure of > 25% retained 50% (SD 12%) of the infused fluid in the circulation, while the others retained 36 (8%) (P < 0.002). In both groups, arterial hypotension was followed by increased haemodilution after a delay of as much as 15 min. This suggests that, despite volume loading, there is relative hypovolaemia throughout the development of hypotension.
Multiple injections of methamphetamine (METH) produce long-lasting neurotoxic effects on the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system. The drug also causes increases in AP-1 DNA-binding activity in mice. In the present study, we tested the idea that toxic doses of METH might cause long-term increases in AP-1 DNA-binding. Mice were given 10 mg/kg of METH 2, 3 or 4 times at a 2 h interval in 1 day. Striatal DA levels were markedly decreased at 3 h and 24 h in all injection groups. After 1 week, striatal DA level recovered to near control in the METH x2 group, but were still significantly decreased in the METH x3 and x4 groups. Similar drug administration schedules caused increases in AP-1 DNA-binding activity at the 3 h time point in all groups. The AP-1-binding activity almost returned back to control level in the x2 and x3 injection groups at the 24 h and 1 week time point, but there were still increased levels of AP-1-binding activity in the METH x4 group. These findings raise the possibility that METH-induced neurotoxicity might involve prolonged activation of AP-1 transcription factor. This might be related to the report that c-fos or c-jun activation may be important in some models of neurodegeneration.
To investigate the relationship between liver-type fatty acid-binding protein (L-FABP), a biomarker of chronic kidney disease, in the kidney and the degree of tubulointerstitial damage, folic acid (FA)-induced nephropathy was studied in a mouse model system. As renal L-FABP is not expressed in wild-type mice, human L-FABP (hL-FABP) transgenic mice were used in this study. hL-FABP is expressed in the renal proximal tubules of the transgenic mice that were injected intraperitoneally with FA in NaHCO3 (the FA group) or only NaHCO3 (the control group) and oral saline solution daily during the experimental period. The FA group developed severe tubulointerstitial damage with the infiltration of macrophages and the deposition of type I collagen on days 3 and 7 and recovered to the control level on day 14. The gene and protein expression levels of hL-FABP in the kidney were significantly enhanced on days 3 and 7. Urinary hL-FABP in the FA group was elevated on days 3 and 7 and decreased to the control level on day 14. The protein expression levels of hL-FABP in both the kidney and urine significantly correlated with the degree of tubulointerstitial damage, the infiltration of macrophages, and the deposition of type I collagen. In conclusion, renal expression and urinary excretion of hL-FABP significantly reflected the severity of tubulointerstitial damage in FA-induced nephropathy.
We studied the incidence of fasciculations and postoperative myalgias in 100 female outpatients who had laparoscopy under thiopentone, N2O, isoflurane anaesthesia. Four groups of 20 patients each were pretreated with saline (group 1), tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg (group 2), vecuronium 0.006 mg/kg (group 3), or midazolam 0.025 mg/kg (group 4), followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg/kg. Group 5 received only vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg as relaxant (no suxamethonium). Fasciculations were graded, and postoperative myalgias rated on the first and third postoperative days. In groups 1-5 the incidence of fasciculations was 95, 15, 25, 95 and 0%; the incidence of myalgias on the first day after operation was 70, 45, 65, 75 and 60%, and on the third day after operation 20, 5, 20, 20, and 5%, respectively. We conclude that pretreatment with vecuronium, but not midazolam, decreases the incidence of fasciculations after suxamethonium (p less than 0.05) and that in this patient population, postoperative myalgias appear to be unrelated to the use of suxamethonium.
The aim of this study was to determine the effects of alpha-tocopherol on lipid peroxidation and total antioxidant status of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), comparing them with normal Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. SHR were divided into three groups and treated with different doses of alpha-tocopherol (alpha1, 17 mg/kg diet; alpha2, 34 mg/kg diet; and alpha3, 170 mg/kg diet). Normal WKY and untreated SHR were used as normal (N) and hypertensive control (HC). Blood pressures were recorded every 10 days for 3 months. At the end of the trial, animals were killed and measurement of plasma total antioxidant status, plasma superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and lipid peroxide levels in plasma and blood vessels was carried out following well-established methods. From our study it was found that lipid peroxides in thoracic aorta (N, 0.47 +/- 0.17; H, 0.96 +/- 0.37; P < .0001) and plasma (N, 0.06 +/- 0.01; H, 0.13 +/- 0.01) were significantly higher in hypertensives than in normal rats. SOD activity was significantly lower in hypertensive than normal rats (N, 172.93 +/- 46.91; H, 110.08 +/- 14.38; P < .005). Total antioxidant status was significantly higher in normal than hypertensive rats (N, 0.88 +/- 0.05; H, 0.83 +/- 0.02; P < .05). After the antioxidant trial, it was found that in the treated groups rise of blood pressure was prevented significantly (P < .001) and lipid peroxides in blood vessels were significantly reduced more than in the controls (P < .001). For plasma lipid peroxide it was only significant for groups alpha2 (P < .001) and alpha3 (P < .05). Although all three treated groups showed improved total antioxidant status, only groups alpha2 (0.87 +/- 0.04, P < .005) and alpha3 (1.20 +/- 0.18, P < .001) were statistically significant. All the three groups showed significant increases in their SOD activity (P < .001). Correlation studies showed that total antioxidant status and SOD were significantly negatively correlated with blood pressure in normal rats (P = .007; P = .008). Lipid peroxides in both blood vessel and plasma showed a positive correlation. In the treated groups, lipid peroxides in blood vessels maintained a significant positive correlation with blood pressure in all groups (alpha1, P = .021; alpha2, P = .019; alpha3, P = .002), whereas for plasma lipid peroxides the correlation was in groups alpha1 (P = .005) and alpha2 (P = .009). For SOD activity, significant negative correlations were found with blood pressure in the alpha2 (P = .017) and alpha3 (P = .025) groups. Total antioxidant status maintained a significant negative correlation with blood pressure in all three groups (alpha1, P = .012; alpha2, P = .044; alpha3, P = .014). In conclusion it was found that supplement of alpha-tocopherol may prevent development of increased blood pressure, reduce lipid peroxides in plasma and blood vessels, and enhance the total antioxidant status, including SOD activity.
The cellular expression of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA was examined in striatal (caudate nucleus and putamen) neurones of 9 Macaca fascicularis monkeys rendered parkinsonian by systemic injection of MPTP. Messenger RNA abundance was determined by quantitative in situ hybridization using human-specific 35S-labelled oligonucleotides. Control monkeys were untreated and received neither MPTP nor L-DOPA while the rest were rendered parkinsonian and received chronic levodopa therapy to induce dyskinesia. In the control brains a strong dopamine D2 receptor hybridization signal was detected overlying medium-sized and some large neurons in both the caudate nucleus and putamen. Neurons from the lateral and medial regions of the caudate nucleus, and from the dorsal and ventral regions of the putamen were analysed separately. A significant increase in the cellular abundance of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA was seen in the striatum of MPTP-treated monkeys; this increase being restricted to the population of medium-sized striatal cells. No such increase in dopamine D2 receptor mRNA was observed in (dyskinetic) L-DOPA-treated monkeys suggesting that levodopa-therapy normalises D2 receptor expression in post-synaptic striatal cells. The cellular abundance of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA expressed by large striatal neurons (putative cholinergic cells) was unaffected by either MPTP treatment or levodopa therapy. The implications of these findings for the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias is discussed.
Gene-targeted deletion of the immediate early responsive gene X-1 (IEX-1) results in a significant increase in systemic arterial blood pressure, but the underlying mechanism is not understood. Studies of arterial reactivity in isolated aortas revealed normal endothelium-dependent and -independent vasorelaxation and vasoconstriction but reduced cAMP-dependent vasorelaxation in the absence of IEX-1. This defect in cAMP signaling was also evident in endothelium-denuded aortic rings, consistent with the enhancement of mitochondrial O2·- production only in IEX-1-deficient vascular smooth muscle cells, not in endothelial cells. Excessive production of reactive oxygen species at mitochondria augmented the expression of Gα(i2), suppressing cAMP production in vascular smooth muscle cells. The role of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species in the upregulation of Gα(i2) leading to the development of hypertension was supported by the ability of antioxidant or pertussis toxin to restore the cAMP-dependent vasorelaxation to a normal level and reverse established hypertension in IEX-1 homozygous knockout mice. Our results suggest that hypertension in IEX-1 knockout mice may arise primarily from impaired cAMP signaling induced by overproduction of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species in vascular smooth muscle cells and demonstrate a causal relationship between mitochondrial dysfunction and cAMP-dependent vasorelaxation.
One of the less frequent idiosyncratic side effects of valproic acid (VPA) is encephalopathy. Here we report one case.
An 83-year-old female with no relevant past history, who received treatment with VPA following a post-traumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage and two convulsive seizures. A few days later, she was admitted to the Emergency Department because of a progressive clinical picture of mental slowness, nauseas and apathy. The systemic examination was normal. Neurologically, the most striking features were inattention and disorientation, despite her having a good level of consciousness, and mental confusion. Levels of VPA were within the below-therapeutic range and the basic lab findings (including hepatic profile) were normal, except for hyperammonaemia. Neuroimaging studies and cerebrospinal fluid analysis were also normal. An electroencephalogram (EEG) showed signs of severe diffuse encephalopathy with slow, triphasic waves and a non-convulsive epileptic status was therefore ruled out. After withdrawing the VPA, the patient's condition improved until her basal situation was reached in 48 hours and the EEG became normal, as did her ammonium levels.
When faced with a patient who has recently been taking VPA and who presents a clinical picture of mental confusion, the possibility of encephalopathy due to said drug must be taken into consideration.
A patient with severe myocardial disease and acute-on-chronic renal failure was undergoing a brachial plexus block for formation of an arteriovenous fistula when accidental intravascular injection of ropivacaine resulted in ventricular fibrillation. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was instituted immediately and the advanced life support algorithm was followed until the return of sinus rhythm. Although, in comparison with bupivacaine, ropivacaine appears to be a safer local anaesthetic agent in the setting of intravenous injection, the emphasis on safety should remain a priority. Awareness of the risk of central nervous system and cardiovascular toxicity and preparation for immediate commencement of resuscitation in the event of toxicity remain of paramount importance.
