Angiotensin II (ANG II) has been shown to play a role in the induction of glomerular injury. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of ANG II on mesangial cell apoptosis and the involved molecular mechanism.
The effect of ANG II on apoptosis of mouse mesangial cells (MC) was evaluated by morphologic, DNA fragmentation and TUNEL assays. To evaluate the role of oxidative stress and involved mechanisms, we studied the effect of antioxidants, anti-TGF-beta antibody, inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase and modulators of cytosolic calcium/heme oxygenase (HO) activity. In addition, we studied the effect of ANG II on the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by MCs.
ANG II promoted apoptosis of MCs in a dose dependent manner. This effect of ANG II was not only associated with ROS production, but also inhibited by antioxidants. Both Anti-TGF-beta antibody and propranolol inhibited ANG II-induced ROS generation and apoptosis. BAPTA inhibited both ANG II- and TGF-beta-induced apoptosis. On the other hand, thapsigargin stimulated MC apoptosis under basal as well as ANG II/TGF-beta stimulated states. ANG II receptor types 1 and 2 antagonists attenuated the proapoptotic effect of ANG II. Hemin inhibited but zinc protoporphyrin enhanced the proapoptotic effect of ANG II. Propranolol increased HO activity; whereas pre-treatment with propranolol prevented ANG II-induced apoptosis.
ANG II promotes MC apoptosis. This effect of ANG II is mediated through downstream signaling involving TGF-beta, phospholipase D, and Ca(2+), contributing to the activation of NADPH oxidase and generation of ROS. HO activity plays a modulatory role in ANG II- induced MC apoptosis.
The authors compared the systemic hemodynamic and renal vascular effects of hypotension induced by fenoldopam with those produced by the most commonly used hypotensive agent, sodium nitroprusside, in 10 dogs. Mean arterial pressure decreased 26% +/- 3% from control following infusion with fenoldopam, and 30% +/- 2% following infusion with sodium nitroprusside (these decreases were not significantly different between the groups). Renal blood flow (RBF) was preserved during fenoldopam-induced hypotension (214 +/- 16 mL/min at baseline and 197 +/- 16 mL/min after fenoldopam-induced hypotension). In contrast, RBF decreased from 223 +/- 17 mL/min to 167 +/- 12 mL/min during sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension (P less than 0.02). The differences in RBF between the two groups occurred in spite of the fact that cardiac output and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure were kept similar between the two groups. The authors conclude that fenoldopam, a selective dopamine1 (DA1) receptor agonist, preserves blood flow to the kidney during induced hypotension. On the other hand, sodium nitroprusside is a nonselective arteriolar and venous vasodilator that redistributes blood flow away from the kidneys during induced hypotension.
The authors report a case of biliary colic secondary to gallstones formed during a course of therapy with Ceftriaxone. Three weeks after cessation of therapy the gallstones dissolved.
Melanoma is a devastating skin cancer characterized by distinct biological subtypes. Besides frequent mutations in growth- and survival-promoting genes like BRAF and NRAS, melanomas additionally harbor complex non-random genomic alterations. Using an integrative approach, we have analysed genomic and gene expression changes in human melanoma cell lines (N=32) derived from primary tumors and various metastatic sites and investigated the relation to local growth aggressiveness as xenografts in immuno-compromised mice (N=22). Although the vast majority >90% of melanoma models harbored mutations in either BRAF or NRAS, significant differences in subcutaneous growth aggressiveness became obvious. Unsupervised clustering revealed that genomic alterations rather than gene expression data reflected this aggressive phenotype, while no association with histology, stage or metastatic site of the original melanoma was found. Genomic clustering allowed separation of melanoma models into two subgroups with differing local growth aggressiveness in vivo. Regarding genes expressed at significantly altered levels between these subgroups, a surprising correlation with the respective gene doses (>85% accordance) was found. Genes deregulated at the DNA and mRNA level included well-known cancer genes partly already linked to melanoma (RAS genes, PTEN, AURKA, MAPK inhibitors Sprouty/Spred), but also novel candidates like SIPA1 (a Rap1GAP). Pathway mining further supported deregulation of Rap1 signaling in the aggressive subgroup e.g. by additional repression of two Rap1GEFs. Accordingly, siRNA-mediated down-regulation of SIPA1 exerted significant effects on clonogenicity, adherence and migration in aggressive melanoma models. Together our data suggest that an aneuploidy-driven gene expression deregulation drives local aggressiveness in human melanoma.
Although the pathogenetic mechanisms of diabetic nephropathy (DN) have not been elucidated thoroughly, an inflammatory mechanism has been suggested to contribute to its development and progression. Moncyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 is a chemokine that can attract macrophages and T cells from the circulation to the local kidney, then activate them, and ultimately injure the renal tissue. Recent studies have demonstrated that thiazolidinediones decrease urinary albumin (ALB) excretion, which may be partly related to its anti-inflammatory action. Therefore, the effects of rosiglitazone on renal inflammation and renal injury were investigated in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats in this study. We examined the urinary excretion rates of ALB, retinal-binding protein (RBP), and MCP-1 of normal control group (Group C, n=8), STZ-induced diabetes mellitus group (Group D, n=8), and diabetes plus rosiglitazone (5 mg x kg-1 x day-1) treatment group (Group R, n=8) at the eighth week. The renal tissues of diabetic rats were obtained for reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction to examine the expression of MCP-1 mRNA. Our results showed that compared to normal control, urinary excretion rates of ALB, RBP, and MCP-1 were significantly increased in untreated diabetic rats at the eighth week. However, rosiglitazone treatment could markedly decrease all the parameters above. In addition, urinary excretion rate of MCP-1 showed positive correlations with urinary ALB excretion, urinary RBP excretion, and kidney/body weight. The expressions of MCP-1 mRNA in renal tissues were markedly up-regulated in untreated diabetic rats, and these could be notably reduced by rosiglitazone treatment. In conclusion, rosiglitazone may have a potential therapeutic target in DN, which may be partly attributed to lowering of the expression of MCP-1 in the local kidney and the urinary excretion of MCP-1.
Cytosolic sulfotransferases (SULT) are involved in detoxification pathways. A functional polymorphism in the SULT1A1 gene, leading to an Arg213His substitution (SULT1A1*2), is thought to confer susceptibility to various types of cancer. Upper urinary tract urothelial cell carcinomas (UUT-UCC) are rare (5% of all urothelial carcinomas). We genotyped 268 patients with UUT-UCC and 268 healthy controls matched for age, gender, tobacco consumption, and ethnicity. His213 (SULT1A1*2) allele frequency was significantly higher in patients than in controls (37.1% versus 28.9%; P=0.004). The His/His genotype corresponding to low-activity SULT1A1 enzyme conferred a significantly higher risk of UUT-UCC (odds ratio, 2.18; 95% confidence interval, 1.28-3.69; P=0.004
The TLX1 oncogene (encoding the transcription factor T cell leukemia homeobox protein-1) has a major role in the pathogenesis of T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). However, the specific mechanisms of T cell transformation downstream of TLX1 remain to be elucidated. Here we show that transgenic expression of human TLX1 in mice induces T-ALL with frequent deletions and mutations in Bcl11b (encoding B cell leukemia/lymphoma-11B) and identify the presence of recurrent mutations and deletions in BCL11B in 16% of human T-ALLs. Most notably, mouse TLX1 tumors were typically aneuploid and showed a marked defect in the activation of the mitotic checkpoint. Mechanistically, TLX1 directly downregulates the expression of CHEK1 (encoding CHK1 checkpoint homolog) and additional mitotic control genes and induces loss of the mitotic checkpoint in nontransformed preleukemic thymocytes. These results identify a previously unrecognized mechanism contributing to chromosomal missegregation and aneuploidy active at the earliest stages of tumor development in the pathogenesis of cancer.
Triptolide has shown antitumor activity in a broad range of solid tumors and on leukemic cells in vitro.
The THP1 cell line and primary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells were cultured with triptolide alone or in association with AraC or idarubicin in increasing concentrations. Apoptosis was measured by flow cytometry using DiOC6(3) for the cell line and fluorescein isothiocyanateAnnexin-V and CD45 labeling for fresh blast cells. Protein expression was measured by Western blot. Cell cycle distribution of apoptotic cells was measured by flow cytometry.
A synergistic effect was observed when triptolide was added to idarubicin or to AraC to induce apoptosis of THP-1 leukemic cells. The triptolide/AraC association was also investigated in vitro on primary blast cells from 25 AML patients. This combination induced significantly higher percentages of apoptosis vs treatment with each drug separately (p<0.005). The IkappaB and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein contents, which were altered by triptolide in idarubicin-treated cells, were not modified in AraC-treated cells. The association of AraC with triptolide increased the number of cells blocked in the S phase and most underwent apoptosis.
These results suggest that, by modifying the cell cycle kinetics, AraC sensitizes AML cells to apoptosis induced by low concentration triptolide. The in vitro proapoptotic effect of triptolide associated with the antiproliferative activity of AraC warrants further clinical investigation for treatment of AML patients, especially elderly patients for whom low-dose AraC treatment could be improved by the addition of triptolide.
The UPL rat is a newly developed hereditary cataract model. We previously found that the ATP content in UPL rat lenses decreases during cataract development, and the decrease in ATP content causes Ca(2+)-ATPase dysfunction resulting in an elevation in Ca(2+) and cataract development. In addition, we reported that the oral administration of disulfiram and aminoguanidine ameliorates the decrease in ATP content and the elevation in Ca(2+) content in UPL rat lenses. In this study, we demonstrate the effect of nitric oxide (NO) on the expression and activity of cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) in normal and UPL rat lenses during cataract development. We also determined the effects of the oral administration of disulfiram and aminoguanidine on the mRNA expression and activity of CCO and NO production in UPL rat lenses. The expression of CCO-1 mRNA in UPL rat lenses, determined by a quantitative real-time RT-PCR method, decreased during cataract development. CCO activity in UPL rat lenses also decreased with aging. On the other hand, the oral administration of disulfiram and aminoguanidine attenuated the decrease in CCO-1 mRNA expression and CCO activity. These results suggest that excessive NO causes the decrease in CCO-1 mRNA expression and CCO activity, and that the decrease in CCO may cause the decrease in ATP production in UPL rat lenses. Disulfiram and aminoguanidine may attenuate the decrease in ATP production, resulting in a delay in cataract development.
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors are the treatment of choice for depression and anxiety disorders due to its tolerability, safety and side effects profile. However, with the current and frequent use of these medications in patients with these disorders, new side effects have been reported. This case report describes the development of panic attacks in a 24-year-old-female patient with depressive and anxiety symptoms, and no previous predisposing history for panic attacks.
In temporal lobe epilepsy, loss of inhibitory neurons and circuit changes in the dentate gyrus promote hyperexcitability. This hyperexcitability is compensated to the point that dentate granule cells exhibit normal or even subnormal excitability under some conditions. This study explored the possibility that compensation involves enhanced tonic GABA inhibition. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were made from normotopic granule cells in hippocampal slices from control rats and from both normotopic and hilar ectopic granule cells in slices from rats subjected to pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. After status epilepticus, tonic GABA current was an order of magnitude greater than control in normotopic granule cells and was significantly greater in hilar ectopic than in normotopic granule cells. These differences could be observed whether or not the extracellular GABA concentration was increased by adding GABA to the superfusion medium or blocking plasma membrane transport. The enhanced tonic GABA current had both action potential-dependent and action potential-independent components. Pharmacological studies suggested that the small tonic GABA current of granule cells in control rats was mediated largely by high-affinity alpha(4)beta(x)delta GABA(A) receptors but that the much larger current recorded after status epilepticus was mediated largely by the lower-affinity alpha(5)beta(x)gamma(2) GABA(A) receptors. A large alpha(5)beta(x)gamma(2)-mediated tonic current could be recorded from controls only when the extracellular GABA concentration was increased. Status epilepticus seemed not to impair the control of extracellular GABA concentration by plasma membrane transport substantially. Upregulated tonic GABA inhibition may account for the unexpectedly modest excitability of the dentate gyrus in epileptic brain.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a syndrome characterized by repetitive involuntary movements induced by the administration of typical neuroleptics such as haloperidol. TD generally persists after haloperidol withdrawal indicating that haloperidol produces long-lasting changes in brain function. In contrast to the typicals, atypical medications, such as clozapine, have very low rates of TD. The mechanisms underlying drug-induced TD are poorly understood. We have investigated the role of nigral expression of the bcl-2 family of proteins on haloperidol-induced neurotoxicity. Rats were treated for 21 days with the following drugs: haloperidol (1 mg/kg), clozapine (1 mg/kg) or saline. After a 3-day washout period, apomorphine-induced stereotyped behavior was scored. Western blotting was performed to evaluate the nigral expression of the dopamine transporter (DAT), bax, bcl-x(L) and bcl-2 proteins. Haloperidol administration, but not clozapine, increased stereotyped behavior (p<0.01) in association with a decrease in striatal DAT expression (p<0.05). Haloperidol and clozapine treatment significantly decreased the nigral expression of bax (p<0.05, p<0.01, respectively). Neither treatment modified bcx(L) expression. Haloperidol increased (p<0.05), whereas clozapine did not significantly modify the nigral expression of bcl-2. Our results suggest that the increase in bcl-2 expression in the haloperidol-treated animals might be a compensatory mechanism that may reflect cellular damage induced by haloperidol in the dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra.
Benzo(a)pyrene and benzene are human carcinogens. The metabolic activation of these compounds into ultimate mutagenic and carcinogenic metabolites is prerequisite for their carcinogenic effects. In this report, the mutagenicity and carcinogenicity of hydroquinones of benzo(a)pyrene and benzene was investigated to address two important questions: (1) do hydroquinones contribute to benzo(a)pyrene and benzene carcinogenicity; and (2) how safe is it to increase the levels of NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), a key enzyme in the generation of hydroquinone. The supF tRNA of the plasmid pSP189 was used as the mutational target in a cell-free and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell system to study hydroquinone mutagenicity. RNA and protein-free pSP189 DNA was incubated in a cell-free system with benzo(a)pyrene-3,6-quinone and purified NQO1 or with benzoquinone hydroquinone to generate adducted pSP189 DNA. The adducted pSP189 DNA was transfected in human embryonic kidney cells Ad293. In the CHO cell system, monolayer cultures of CHO cells and CHO cells overexpressing NQO1 or P450 reductase were transfected with pSP189 vector DNA, treated with benzo(a)pyrene-3,6-quinone. The adducted and replicated pSP189 DNA was rescued from transfected Ad293 (cell-free system) and CHO cells (CHO cell system), digested with the restriction enzyme Dpn1 to remove unreplicated DNA followed by transformation in Escherichia coli MBM7070. The mutant colonies [white/pale blue on 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl beta-D-galactoside/isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactoside (X-gal/IPTG) plates] were selected, regrown and analysed by DNA sequencing. Mutagenesis experiments demonstrated that hydroquinones cause sequence-specific frameshift mutations involving deletion of a single cytosine from the DNA sequence 5'-172-CCCCC176-3' or a single guanosine from the complementary strand sequence 5'-GGGGG-3' in the supF tRNA gene. This mutation was specific to the hydroquinones, as it was not observed with quinones and other components of the redox cycling (semiquinones and reactive oxygen species). Exposure of BALBc/3T3 cells to hydroquinones resulted in cellular transformation leading to the loss of contact inhibition and regulation of cell growth. The transformation efficiency of BALBc/3T3 cells exposed to hydroquinones was significantly increased by the tumour promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), indicating that hydroquinones are excellent initiators that require additional co-carcinogens or promoters to exert an effect. The hydroquinone + TPA as well as hydroquinone-transformed BALBc/3T3 cells, when injected s.c. in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice, produced tumours at 100% frequency. These results establish that hydroquinones lead to mutagenicity and carcinogenicity.
The present investigation elucidates the deleterious effects of three prototypical antihypertensive drugs namely, propranolol, clonidine and captopril on the erectile physiology. In order to delineate the direct drug effects from vascular insufficiency inherent in hypertensive states, the study was conducted on a normotensive animal model. The adverse effects of these drugs were estimated as changes in sexual behaviour and intracavernous pressure response of electrical stimulation in the treated rats compared to normal age-matched controls (n = 10, each group). Copulation studies indicated significant impairment of sexual function in the groups on propranolol and clonidine. The cavernous pressure response to nerve stimulation at the end of sixteen weeks further reinforced the gross compromise on sexual function in these two treated groups. In contrast, the captopril administration produced only marginal alterations to the responses recorded. The results from this study clearly indicate that propranolol and clonidine interfere with sexual behaviour and nerve mediated response to erection whereas captopril which is devoid of significant effects on these parameters, may be a better therapeutic option.
We assessed whether alpha1-adrenoreceptor (alpha1-AR) stimulation contributes to activation of myocardial NADPH oxidase in a rat model of cocaine-induced cardiac dysfunction.
After 7 days of cocaine injection (2 x 7.5 mg/kg/day, i.p., Coc), NADPH activity assessed by chemiluminescence increases as well as phosphorylation of p47phox, one of the cytosolic components of NADPH oxidase. The alpha1-AR antagonist prazosin (Prz), administered 1 h before each cocaine injection (2 x 1 mg/kg/day, i.p., Coc+Prz), prevents these effects. Moreover, Prz pretreatment reduces left ventricular/body weight (LV/BW) ratio and partially prevents the cocaine-induced alterations in fractional shortening and cardiac index assessed by echocardiography. In order to confirm the involvement of alpha1-AR stimulation in NADPH oxidase up-regulation in vivo, we used phenylephrine (Phe) administration with the same protocol of injections as that used with cocaine (2 x 5 microg/kg/day, i.p.). After Phe administration, as expected, NADPH oxidase activity increases as well as phosphorylation of p47phox. These effects occur in the absence of sustained hemodynamic changes.
This study demonstrates the involvement of the alpha1-AR in NADPH oxidase activation and in cocaine-induced LV dysfunction. We suggest that alpha1-AR stimulation, at least in part via NADPH oxidase induction, plays a critical role in the events leading to the cardiomyopathy observed after cocaine abuse.
This paper reports on the investigation of the effect of medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) on foreign body tumorigenesis that resulted from sc implantation of a glass cylinder. Adult BALB/c mice of both sexes bearing the foreign body were separated into groups. Group 1 received 40 mg MPA sc every 2 months during 1 year, in the vicinity of the glass cylinder; group 2 received the same MPA treatment in the contralateral flank; and group 3 received no hormonal treatment. Sarcomas developed in 4 of 39, 9 of 41, and 17 of 39 mice, respectively. With the use of an evaluation based on the number of high-risk mice per time interval, the MPA inhibitory effect was found to be statistically significant in both groups: 26, 53, and 79% tumor incidence, respectively. A decrease in the rate of tumor development also was observed but only in mice treated with MPA in situ. An unexpected side effect of continuous MPA administration in females was the appearance of adenocarcinomas.
A 32-year-old man with doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy presented in cardiogenic shock. He underwent placement of a Novacor (WorldHeart, Inc., Oakland, CA) left ventricular assist device as a bridge to transplant. Post-operatively he developed a pump pocket infection and dehiscence of his abdominal wound with exposure of the pump. This was treated with irrigation and drainage, antibiotic bead placement and flap closure. Both pre- and post-operative panel-reactive antibodies (PRA) were elevated. He underwent desensitization with intravenous immune globulin (IVIg), rituximab, mycophenolate mofetil and pre-operative plasmapheresis. A donor heart was identified and found to be acceptable by virtual crossmatch. He was transplanted and is doing well with normal graft function at >1 year post-operatively.
Myelosuppressive anemia is a serious side effect associated with several drugs. Thus, there is an increasing demand for sensitive biomarkers for the early detection of myelosuppressive anemia during toxicological studies. We applied a toxicogenomic approach to identify useful biomarker genes reflecting myelosuppressive anemia in the rat liver. Expression of the hemoglobin beta chain complex (Hbb), aminolevulinic acid synthase 2 (Alas2), and cell division cycle 25 homolog B (Cdc25b) genes changed as a result of anemia induced by the myelosuppressive agents linezolid, cisplatin, and carboplatin, suggesting that these genes may be suitable biomarkers. Moreover, evaluation of perfused and unperfused livers indicated that changes in the expression of these genes originate in circulating reticulocytes in the liver. Erythroid differentiation-associated changes in expression of the Hbb, Alas2, and Cdc25b genes were confirmed in vitro using Friend leukemia cells. In conclusion, our current research provides novel evidence that gene expression in circulating reticulocytes contained in the liver changes dramatically under myelosuppressive conditions. While further large-scale validation studies are needed, our results indicate that the genes we identified might be useful biomarkers for the sensitive detection of myelosuppressive anemia in rats.
We evaluated the effects of bezafibrate, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) pan-agonist, and GW501516, a PPARdelta agonist, on mice fed a methionine- and choline-deficient (MCD) diet, a model of non-alcholic steatohepatitis (NASH), to investigate (a) the efficacy of bezafibrate against non-alcholic steatohepatitis and (b) the relation between non-alcholic steatohepatitis and the functional role of PPARdelta. Bezafibrate (50 or 100 mg/kg/day) and GW501516 (10 mg/kg/day) were administered by gavage once a day for 5 weeks. Hepatic lipid contents, plasma triglyceride, high density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) concentrations were evaluated, as were histopathological changes in the liver and hepatic mRNA expression levels. Bezafibrate and GW501516 inhibited the MCD-diet-induced elevations of hepatic triglyceride and thiobarbituric acid-reactants contents and the histopathological increases in fatty droplets within hepatocytes, liver inflammation and number of activated hepatic stellate cells. In this model, bezafibrate and GW501516 increased the levels of hepatic mRNAs associated with fatty acid beta-oxidation [acyl-CoA oxidase (ACO), carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1), liver-fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP) and peroxisomal ketothiolase], and reduced the levels of those associated with inflammatory cytokines or chemokine [transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1beta, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB1]. In addition, bezafibrate characteristically reduced the elevation in the level of plasma ALT, but enhanced that in plasma adiponectin and increased the mRNA expression levels of its receptors (adiponectin receptors 1 and 2). These results suggest that (a) bezafibrate (especially) and GW501516 might improve hepatic steatosis via an improvement in fatty acid beta-oxidation and a direct prevention of inflammation, (b) treatment with a PPARdelta agonist might improve non-alcholic steatohepatitis, (c) bezafibrate may improve non-alcholic steatohepatitis via activation not only of PPARalpha but also of PPARdelta, because bezafibrate is a PPAR pan-agonist.
This open-label clinical study was conducted for patients with schizophrenia in order to investigate the efficacy, safety and optimal dose of olanzapine. One hundred and fifty-six of the 159 enrolled patients were included in the analysis set. For the primary efficacy measure, the Final Global Improvement Rating (FGIR) score, 15.4% of patients had remarkable improvement, 58.3% of patients had moderate improvement or more, 79.5% of patients had slight improvement or more, and 10.3% of patients had increase in disease symptomatology (worsening). Results from the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) in all individual items were improved from baseline. Olanzapine was effective not only against positive psychotic symptoms but also against negative symptoms. This was consistent with results from the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). For the majority of patients, a dose range of 7.5-10.0mg/day, as a lower bound on the minimally effective dose, was suggested by the results of the dose to first response based on improvement in Global Improvement Rating (GIR) analyses. The ratio of olanzapine dose to equivalent haloperidol dose was estimated at 1.2 :1. The most commonly reported treatment-emergent signs and symptoms (TESS) occurring at a frequency of 10% or more were insomnia, weight increase, excitement, sleepiness, anxiety, malaise and dull headaches. There was a low incidence of extrapyramidal treatment-emergent signs and symptoms; the most commonly reported were akathisia (6.4%), tremor (5.8%) and muscle rigidity (2.6%).
The effects of nicotine on sulpiride-induced catalepsy in mice were investigated. Sulpiride (12.5-100 mg/kg) induced a low degree of catalepsy in mice which was dose dependent. Nicotine (0.0001-1 mg/kg) caused an even lower degree of catalepsy. When the drugs were co-administered a much higher cataleptogenic response was obtained. The potentiation of the effect of sulpiride by nicotine was elicited by 0.5 mg/kg or higher doses of the drug. The central nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine (1-3 mg/kg) and the peripheral antagonist hexamethonium (5 and 10 mg/kg) decreased the response induced by the combination of nicotine and sulpiride. Higher doses of the cholinoceptor antagonist atropine (10 mg/kg) also reduced the catalepsy induced by the drug combination. It is concluded that nicotine potentiates sulpiride-induced catalepsy through activation of cholinergic mechanism(s) and that the central nicotinic mechanism mediates nicotine's action.
Cholestatic jaundice developed in a 64-year-old woman who had received phenytoin sodium for more than 40 years. Discontinuation of phenytoin therapy resulted in resolution of the hepatic abnormalities, which recurred on rechallenge, strongly suggesting a causal relation to the drug. Phenytoin therapy was discontinued again, with complete resolution of the hepatic abnormalities. The liver biopsy specimen obtained during therapy showed cholestasis compatible with obstruction of the biliary tree, although an obstructive process was never demonstrated. The biochemical abnormalities and histologic features observed most likely represent an unusual response to phenytoin therapy.
The glucocorticoid receptor is a ubiquitous transcription factor mediating adaptation to environmental challenges and stress. Selective Nr3c1 (the glucocorticoid receptor gene) ablation in mouse dopaminoceptive neurons expressing dopamine receptor 1a, but not in dopamine-releasing neurons, markedly decreased the motivation of mice to self-administer cocaine, dopamine cell firing and the control exerted by dopaminoceptive neurons on dopamine cell firing activity. In contrast, anxiety was unaffected, indicating that glucocorticoid receptors modify a number of behavioral disorders through different neuronal populations.
Pseudotumor cerebri or benign intracranial hypertension is a syndrome of raised intracranial pressure without obvious explanation. Most patients are obese women at childbearing age. Symptoms and signs usually include headache, nausea, vomiting, edema of the papilla, visual obscurations and rarely palsy of the nervus abducens. The prognosis is generally good, but progressive visual loss and eventual blindness are major risks. We report the case of a 21-year-old non-obese young woman who developed pseudotumor cerebri while taking minocycline for acne therapy. Identical symptoms occurred upon inadvert rechallenge with minocycline for the second time.
Acute tubular necrosis (ATN) caused by renal ischaemia, renal hypo-perfusion, or nephrotoxic substances is the most common form of acute kidney injury (AKI). There are a few treatment options for this life-threatening disease and the mortality rate exceeds 50 per cent. In critical cases of AKI the only option is renal transplantation. In the present study we evaluated whether bone marrow cells (BMCs) are involved in regeneration of kidney tubules following acute tubular necrosis in the mouse.
Six to eight week old C57BL6/J and congenic enhanced green fluorescence protein (eGFP) mice were used. The relative contributions of eGFP-expressing BMCs were compared in two different approaches to kidney regeneration in the mercuric chloride (HgCl 2 )-induced mouse model of AKI: induced engraftment and forced engraftment. In vitro differentiation of lineage-depleted (Lin - ) BMCs into renal epithelial cells was also studied.
In the forced engraftment approach, BMCs were found to play a role in the regeneration of tubules of renal cortex and outer medulla regions. About 70 per cent of donor-derived cells expressed megalin. In vitro culture revealed that Lin - BMCs differentiated into megalin, E-cadherin and cytokeratin-19 (CK-19) expressing renal epithelial cells.
The present results demonstrate that Lin - BMCs may contribute in the regeneration of renal tubular epithelium of HgCl 2 -induced AKI. This study may also suggest a potential role of BMCs in treating AKI.
The aim of this study was to determine the induction and distribution of Mallory body (MB) and oval cells in carbon-tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced rat liver fibrosis.
MBs and oval cells expressing cytokeratins (CKs) 8 and 18 were monitored by immuno-histochemistry and immunoblotting.
MBs were mainly detected within hepatocytes near the fibrotic areas, and oval cells were located along or in the fibrotic areas. Both MBs and oval cells increased in size and number in the development of fibrosis. At cirrhotic liver, most of the oval cells were located in the fibrous septa and around newly formed bile ductules. Moreover, as hepatic injuries developed into fibrosis, a much more prominent single band of CK18 was detected.
The occurrence and distribution of MB and oval cells in CCl4-induced rat liver fibrosis are reported. This represents the first CCl4 experimental in vivo model of MB induction, which will be useful for further investigations on the pathogenesis of MB.
Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) is a transcriptional factor involved in detoxification responses to pollutants and in intrinsic biological processes of multicellular organisms. We recently described that Vav3, an activator of Rho/Rac GTPases, is an Ahr transcriptional target in embryonic fibroblasts. These results prompted us to compare the Ahr(-/-) and Vav3(-/-) mouse phenotypes to investigate the implications of this functional interaction in vivo. Here, we show that Ahr is important for Vav3 expression in kidney, lung, heart, liver, and brainstem regions. This process is not affected by the administration of potent Ahr ligands such as benzo[a]pyrene. We also report that Ahr- and Vav3-deficient mice display hypertension, tachypnea, and sympathoexcitation. The Ahr gene deficiency also induces the GABAergic transmission defects present in the Vav3(-/-) ventrolateral medulla, a main cardiorespiratory brainstem center. However, Ahr(-/-) mice, unlike Vav3-deficient animals, display additional defects in fertility, perinatal growth, liver size and function, closure, spleen size, and peripheral lymphocytes. These results demonstrate that Vav3 is a bona fide Ahr target that is in charge of a limited subset of the developmental and physiological functions controlled by this transcriptional factor. Our data also reveal the presence of sympathoexcitation and new cardiorespiratory defects in Ahr(-/-) mice.
