We used non-invasive high frequency ultrasound to screen N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenized mouse fetuses for congenital cardiovascular anomalies. We ultrasound scanned 7546 mouse fetuses from 262 mutagenized families, and identified 124 families with cardiovascular defects. Represented were most of the major congenital cardiovascular anomalies seen clinically. The ENU-induced mutations in several families were mapped using polymorphic microsatellite DNA markers. One family with forelimb anomalies and ventricular septal defects, phenotypes similar to Holt-Oram syndrome, and one family with transposition of the great arteries and heart situs anomalies were mapped to different regions of mouse chromosome 4. A third mutation causing persistent truncus arteriosus and craniofacial defects, phenotypes reminiscent of DiGeorge syndrome, was mapped to mouse chromosome 2. We note that mouse chromosomes 4 and 2 do not contain Tbx5 or Tbx1, genes previously linked to Holt-Oram and DiGeorge syndromes, respectively. In two other families, the ENU-induced mutation was identified--Sema3CL605P was associated with persistent truncus arteriosus with interrupted aortic arch, and the Gja1W45X connexin43 mutation caused conotruncal malformation and coronary aneurysms. Although our screen was designed as a recessive screen, a number of the mutations showed cardiovascular phenotypes in both heterozygote and homozygote animals. These studies show the efficacy of ENU mutagenesis and high-throughput ultrasound phenotyping in recovering mutations causing a wide spectrum of congenital heart defects. These ENU-induced mutations hold promise in yielding new insights into the genetic basis for human congenital heart disease.
Affected members of most kindreds with Albright hereditary osteodystrophy have a partial deficiency of functional Gs, the guanine nucleotide-binding protein that stimulates adenylyl cyclase. By use of the polymerase chain reaction to amplify genomic fragments with the attachment of a high-melting G + C-rich region (GC clamp) and analysis of these fragments by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, heterozygous mutations in the Gs alpha-subunit gene were found in two kindreds. These included a G----C substitution at the donor splice junction of intron 10 and a coding frameshift created by a single base deletion within exon 10. The findings illustrate the heterogeneity of genetic defects in Albright hereditary osteodystrophy and the usefulness of the polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis method to search rapidly for mutations in a large candidate gene.
Benzene (BZ) requires oxidative metabolism via cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP 2E1) to exert its hematotoxic and genotoxic effects. Male mice are two- to threefold more sensitive to the genotoxic effects of BZ as measured by micronuclei induction and sister chromatid exchanges. The purpose of our study was to investigate sex-related differences in the metabolism of BZ, phenol (PHE) and hydroquinone (HQ) in order to understand the metabolic basis for sex-dependent differences in BZ genotoxic susceptibility in mice. Rates of BZ oxidation were quantitated using closed chamber gas uptake studies with male and female B6C3F1 mice exposed to initial low (400-500 ppm), intermediate (1200-1300 ppm), and high (2600-2800 ppm) BZ concentrations. Acetone-pretreated and diethyldithiocarbamate-pretreated male mice were also studied to determine the extent to which induction and inhibition of CYP 2E1, respectively, would alter in vivo BZ oxidation rates. Elimination of PHE and HQ from blood was also compared in male and female mice to complement previously reported data on sex-related differences in urinary excretion of conjugated metabolites following iv administration of PHE. Based on PBPK model analysis, the optimized rate of metabolism (Vmax) of BZ was almost twofold higher in male mice (14.0 mumol/hr-kg) than in female mice (7.9 mumol/hr-kg); both male and female mice gas-uptake data were well fit with a KM of 3.0 microM. Pretreatment of male mice with 1% acetone in drinking water for 8 days to specifically induce CYP 2E1 enhanced the rate of BZ oxidation by approximately fivefold (Vmax = 75 mumol/hr-kg), while diethyldithiocarbamate pretreatment (320 mg/kg ip 30 min prior to uptake study) completely inhibited BZ oxidation (Vmax = 0 mumol/hr-kg). Thus, both pretreatment regimens are potentially useful investigative tools to study the metabolic basis for benzene toxicity. Elimination of PHE from blood was significantly faster in male mice, while elimination of HQ did not differ between male and female mice. Previous data indicated male mice produce more of the oxidized and conjugated metabolite, HQ glucuronide, after PHE administration, suggesting that HQ production from PHE is greater in male mice. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that the greater sensitivity of male mice to the genotoxic effects of BZ compared to females is a function of greater oxidative metabolism toward both BZ and PHE in male mice. These data also suggest that differences in hepatic human CYP 2E1 activity may be an important factor to consider when evaluating human risk for benzene-induced hematotoxic and genotoxic effects.
We performed a clinical study to evaluate the unawareness of dyskinesias in patients affected by Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Thirteen PD patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesias and 9 HD patients were enrolled. Patients were asked to evaluate the presence of dyskinesias while performing specific motor tasks. The Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) and Goetz dyskinesia rating scale were administered to determine the severity of dyskinesias. The Unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS) and Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS) were used in PD and HD patients, respectively. In PD we found a significant negative relationship between unawareness score at standing and AIMS score and between unawareness score at hand pronation-supination and AIMS score for upper limbs. In HD we found a significant positive relationship between total unawareness score and UHDRS score and between total unawareness score and disease duration. In PD the unawareness seems to be inversely related with severity of dyskinesias, while in HD it is directly related to disease duration and severity.
The effects of the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB inhibitor, dehydroxymethylepoxyquinomicin (DHMEQ), combined with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha were evaluated in PK-8 pancreatic cancer cells. NF-kappaB was activated by TNF-alpha; however, the administration of DHMEQ abrogated its transcriptional activity. The addition of DHMEQ to TNF-alpha markedly induced apoptosis in PK-8 cells with down-regulation of anti-apoptotic c-FLIP and survivin. Combined treatment significantly suppressed cell viability in vitro, and the anti-tumor effect of DHMEQ was also significant in vivo. We investigated the apoptosis signaling pathway involved in these cell killing effects. Truncated Bid was produced by activated caspase-8, and the subsequent depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential (Delta Psi m) peaked at 6 h. Then, the activity of caspase-3 was up-regulated 8-fold. Z-VAD-fmk (a pan-caspase inhibitor) perfectly inhibited the up-regulation of caspase-3 but failed to reverse the cell viability. The above findings indicated that the growth inhibitory effect of combined treatment largely depended on mitochondria-associated caspase-independent apoptosis. The intracellular behavior of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) following depolarization of Delta Psi m suggested that AIF executed such a caspase-independent apoptosis. Interestingly, caspase-dependent apoptosis appeared within 6 h, whereas the caspase-independent apoptosis lagged. Thus, the addition of DHMEQ to TNF-alpha was capable of inducing caspase-independent apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells. Once caspase-independent apoptosis was induced, the apoptosis demonstrated powerful cytotoxicity. Therefore, DHMEQ in combination with TNF-alpha may be a promising treatment for pancreatic cancer.
Chlorination destroys pathogens in swimming pool water, but by-products of chlorination can cause human illness. We investigated outbreaks of ocular and respiratory symptoms associated with chlorinated indoor swimming pools at two hotels.
We interviewed registered guests and companions who stayed at hotels X and Y within 2 days of outbreak onset. We performed bivariate and stratified analyses, calculated relative risks (RR), and conducted environmental investigations of indoor pool areas.
Of 77 guests at hotel X, 47 (61%) completed questionnaires. Among persons exposed to the indoor pool area, 22 (71%) of 31 developed ocular symptoms [RR = 24; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.5-370], and 14 (45%) developed respiratory symptoms (RR = 6.8; 95% CI, 1.0-47) with a median duration of 10 hr (0.25-24 hr). We interviewed 30 (39%) of 77 registered persons and 59 unregistered companions at hotel Y. Among persons exposed to the indoor pool area, 41 (59%) of 69 developed ocular symptoms (RR = 24; 95% CI, 1.5-370), and 28 (41%) developed respiratory symptoms (RR = 17; 95% CI, 1.1-260) with a median duration of 2.5 hr (2 min-14 days). Four persons sought medical care. During the outbreak, the hotel X's ventilation system malfunctioned. Appropriate water and air samples were not available for laboratory analysis. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE TO PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE: Indoor pool areas were associated with illness in these outbreaks. A large proportion of bathers were affected; symptoms were consistent with chloramine exposure and were sometimes severe. Improved staff training, pool maintenance, and pool area ventilation could prevent future outbreaks.
We previously reported an association between infant wheezing and residence < 100 m from stop-and-go bus and truck traffic. The use of a proximity model, however, may lead to exposure misclassification.
Results obtained from a land use regression (LUR) model of exposure to truck and bus traffic are compared with those obtained with a proximity model. The estimates derived from the LUR model were then related to infant wheezing.
We derived a marker of diesel combustion--elemental carbon attributable to traffic sources (ECAT)--from ambient monitoring results of particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter < 2.5 microm. We developed a multiple regression model with ECAT as the outcome variable. Variables included in the model were locations of major roads, bus routes, truck traffic count, and elevation. Model parameter estimates were applied to estimate individual ECAT levels at infants' homes.
The levels of estimated ECAT at the monitoring stations ranged from 0.20 to 1.02 microg/m(3). A LUR model of exposure with a coefficient of determination (R(2)) of 0.75 was applied to infants' homes. The mean (+/- SD) ambient exposure of ECAT for infants previously categorized as unexposed, exposed to stop-and-go traffic, or exposed to moving traffic was 0.32 +/- 0.06, 0.42 +/- 0.14, and 0.49 +/- 0.14 microg/m(3), respectively. Levels of ECAT from 0.30 to 0.90 mug/m(3) were significantly associated with infant wheezing.
The LUR model resulted in a range of ECAT individually derived for all infants' homes that may reduce the exposure misclassification that can arise from a proximity model.
Human follicular B-cell lymphomas possess a t(14;18) that translocates a putative protooncogene, BCL2, into the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. The normal BCL2 gene is quiescent in resting B cells, expressed in proliferating, but down-regulated in differentiated B cells. Inappropriately high levels of BCL2-immunoglobulin chimeric RNA are present in t(14;18) lymphomas for their mature B-cell stage. We examined the biologic effects of BCL2 deregulation in human B cells by introducing BCL2 into human B-lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) with retroviral gene transfer. Although deregulated BCL2 expression as a single agent was not sufficient to confer tumorigenicity to LCLs, it consistently produced a 3- to 4-fold increment in LCL clonogenicity in soft agar. In addition, BCL2 deregulation complements the transforming effects of the MYC oncogene in LCLs. BCL2 augmented the clonogenicity of LCLs bearing exogenous MYC and increased the frequency and shortened the latency of tumor induction in immunodeficient mice. These results demonstrate a role for BCL2 as a protooncogene that affects B-cell growth and enhances B-cell neoplasia.
A clinical retrospective study was carried out in a population of 366 Parkinson's disease (PD) outpatients, to analyse the efficacy and tolerability of nonergoline and ergoline dopamine agonist (DA), in monotherapy or in combination with L-dopa. Safety was comparable in both groups except for higher occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms in ergoline group and somnolence in nonergoline group. No significant difference concerning efficacy and tolerability was found during DA monotherapy. Mean age at PD onset was slightly higher in patients withdrawing DA monotherapy for adverse events comparing to patients who needed the addition of L-dopa (60.36 +/- 7.53 versus 54.88 +/- 10.75; p<0.05), suggesting that older age at the onset of the disease increases the risk for adverse events during DA monotherapy. The follow-up of the remaining patients still in monotherapy with DA will allow a better evaluation of these aspects.
Prostate cancer progression often occurs with overexpression of growth factors and receptors, many of which engage the Ras/mitogen-activated protein MAP kinase (MAPK) pathway.
In this study we used arsenic-transformed human prostate epithelial cells, which also show androgen-independent growth, to study the possibility that chronic activation of Ras/MAPK signaling may contribute to arsenic-induced prostate cancer progression.
Control and chronic arsenic-transformed prostate epithelial cells (CAsE-PE) were compared for Ras/MAPK signaling capacities using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses.
We found activation of HER-2/neu oncogene in transformed CAsE-PE cells, providing molecular evidence of androgen independence in the transformed cells. CAsE-PE cells displayed constitutively increased expression of unmutated K-Ras (6-fold), and the downstream MAP kinases A-Raf and B-Raf (2.2-fold and 3.2-fold, respectively). There was also increased expression of phosphorylated MEK1/2 and Elk1 in the transformant cells. The MEK1/2 inhibitor, U0126, blocked PSA overexpression in CAsE-PE cells.
Thus, arsenic-induced malignant transformation and acquired androgen independence are linked to Ras signaling activation in human prostate epithelial cells. Chronic activation of this pathway can sensitize the androgen receptor to subphysiologic levels of androgen. This may be important in arsenic carcinogenesis and provide a mechanism that may be common for prostate cancer progression driven by diverse agents.
It has been verified that asbestos induce neoplastic transformation of several rodent cell lines in vitro. Very little information is available, however, on asbestos-induced human cell line transformation and oncogene activation in the development of asbestos-induced cell transformation. This study was designed to investigate the induction of cell transformation and transcriptional changes of the c-myc oncogene by chrysotile asbestos fibers (CAF) in human embryo lung (HEL) cells. Surface-modified CAF soaked in aluminium citrate (AC), rare earth compounds (REC) or sodium selenite (SS) solutions were used to observe the effects of surface modification on chrysotile-induced cell transformation and transcriptional changes in the c-myc oncogene. The results showed that the natural CAF caused dose-dependent increases in transformed foci, along with increased transcription of the c-myc oncogene in HEL cells, while the pretreated CAF induced fewer transformed foci and less c-myc oncogene transcription than the natural CAF. The percent inhibition of equivalent AC, REC and SS were 38.9%, 50.0%, 33.3% (for transformation focus), 81.6%, 69.5%, 89.9% (for c-myc oncogene transcription), respectively. These results indicated that CAF may induce cell transformation and transcriptional changes and that the carcinogenicity of CAF might be reduced by pretreatment of CAF with the above-mentioned compounds.
Diabetic nephropathy is the most common cause of end-stage renal disease in the developed world. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been demonstrated to be renoprotective in type I diabetes and are now the standard of care for both hypertensive and non-hypertensive type I diabetic patients with any level of proteinuria. The role of blockade of the renin-angiotensin system in type II diabetic patients is not defined. The Collaborative Study Group has initiated the Irbesartan Type II Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT), studying the effect of the angiotensin II receptor antagonist irbesartan on progression of renal disease and mortality in type II diabetic patients with overt nephropathy and hypertension. Here we report the study design and baseline patient characteristics.
To qualify, hypertensive type II patients, age 30-70 years, must have a 24 h urinary protein excretion of >900 mg and a serum creatinine 90-265 micromol/l (1.0-3. 0 mg/dl) in women and 110-265 micromol/l (1.2-3.0 mg/dl) in men. Three treatment arms include irbesartan, placebo and amlodipine, with every attempt made to achieve similar blood pressure levels in all treatment arms. A total of 1650 patients will be enrolled utilizing approximately 225 clinics worldwide. The primary outcome measure is time to event to the composite end-point of doubling of serum creatinine, end-stage renal disease or death. The secondary outcome measure is time to composite end-point of fatal or non-fatal cardiovascular events. The average length of patient follow-up is expected to be approximately 36 months.
The baseline characteristics of the study subjects are: age 59+/-8 years, duration of diabetes 15+/-9 years, height 168+/-11 cm (5 ft 6 in), weight 87+/-19 kg (192 lb), body mass index 31+/-7 kg/m(2), blood pressure 156+/-18 mmHg/85+/-11 mmHg, serum creatinine 150+/-53 micromol/l (1.7+/-0.6 mg/dl), creatinine clearance 66+/-34 ml/min and 24 h urine protein 4.0+/-3.5 g/day.
The TIMI risk score has been validated as a risk stratification tool in emergency department (ED) patients with potential acute coronary syndrome. The goal of this study was to assess its ability to predict adverse cardiovascular outcomes in cocaine-associated chest pain.
This was a prospective cohort study of ED patients with chest pain with cocaine use. Data included demographics, medical history, and TIMI risk score. The main outcomes were acute myocardial infarction, revascularization, or death within 30 days of ED presentation.
There were 261 patient visits. Patients were 43.2+8 years old, 73% male, 92% black, and 75% smokers. There were 33 patients with the composite outcome. The incidence of 30-day outcomes according to TIMI score is as follows: TIMI 0, 3.7% (95% CI, 0.1-8.3); TIMI 1, 13.2% (5.7-20.7); TIMI 2, 17.1% (4.3-29.8); TIMI 3, 21.4% (4.4-38.4); TIMI 4, 20.0% (0.1-43.6); TIMI 5/6, 50.0% (0.1-100).
The TIMI risk score has no clinically useful predictive value in patients with cocaine-associated chest pain.
To evaluate the toxic extramedullary morbidity of the conditioning treatment with BuCy for BMT, as well as the usefulness of pentoxyphyllin (PTX) and methylprednisolone (MP) in the prophylaxis of mucositis.
Forty-eight patients with blood malignancies (AML, 19; ALL, 14; indifferentiated AL, 1; CML, 9; lymphoblastic lymphoma, 3; RAEB, 1; RAEBT, 1), subjected to BMT (16 autologous and 32 allo-BMT) were retrospectively revised. They all had been treated with BuCy as conditioning regimen. The GVHD prophylaxis was made in allo-BMT with cyclosporin and short-term methotrexate. Twelve patients received PTX-MP as mucositis prophylaxis.
Some kind of toxicity was found in 47 of the 48 patients, mostly grade I-II (45 cases). The commonest sites involved were the mouth (87.5%) and the liver (30.23%). Neither veno-occlusive liver disease nor pulmonary toxicity were present in any case. Heart toxicity was seen only in 2 cases, while 3 had haemorrhagic cystitis due to Cy. The severity of the mucositis was lesser in those patients receiving PTX-MP, so the requirements of NPT were lower in them (p = 0.02).
The toxicity of the BuCy conditioning regimen was lesser than that of Cy+total body irradiation, with the same eradicating capability. Prophylaxis with PTX-MP could prove effective in reducing mucositis.
Bv8, prokineticin-1 or EG-VEGF (endocrine gland-derived vascular endothelial growth factor), and prokineticin-2, are naturally occurring peptide agonists of two G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), prokineticin receptor 1 (PKR1) and PKR2. PKRs are expressed in neurons in the CNS and peripheral nervous system and many dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells expressing PKRs also express transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 (TRPV1). Mice lacking the pkr1 gene were generated to explore the role of the PKR1 receptor in nociceptive signaling and in nociceptor sensitization. When compared with wild-type littermates, mice lacking the pkr1 gene showed impaired responsiveness to noxious heat, mechanical stimuli, capsaicin, and protons. In wild-type mice, activation of PKRs by the PKR agonist Bv8 caused hyperalgesia and sensitized to the actions of capsaicin. pkr1-null mice exhibited impaired responses to Bv8 but showed normal hyperalgesic responses to bradykinin and PGE2 (prostaglandin E2). Conversely, trpv1-null mice showed a reduced pronociceptive response to Bv8. Additionally, pkr1-null mice showed diminished thermal hyperalgesia after acute inflammation elicited by mustard oil and reduced pain behavior after chronic inflammation produced by complete Freund's adjuvant. The number of neurons that responded with a [Ca2+]i increase to Bv8 exposure was five times lower in pkr1-null DRG cultures than in wild-type cultures. Furthermore, Bv8-responsive neurons from pkr1-null mice showed a significant reduction in the [Ca2+]i response to capsaicin. These findings indicate a modulatory role of PKR1 in acute nociception and inflammatory pain and disclose a pharmacological interaction between PKR1 and TRPV1 in nociceptor activation and sensitization.
Pirenperone, an antagonist of 5-HT2 but not 5-HT1 receptors, has been studied for its central antiserotonergic and antidopaminergic activity. Pirenperone (0.00525-0.1 mg/kg) antagonized dose-dependently stimulation of the hind limb flexor reflex in spinal rats induced by LSD, quipazine or fenfluramine, and hyperthermia induced by serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT)-like drugs (1-5-hydroxytryptophan, fenfluramine, p-chloroamphetamine, 1-/m-chlorophenyl/-piperazine, quipazine) in heat-adapted rats. Pirenperone also counteracted tryptamine-induced convulsions in rats (ID50 = 0.87 mg/kg); however, this action was weaker than that of metergoline (ID50 = 0.22 mg/kg). Pirenperone (0.1-1.6 mg/kg) produced sedation in mice and rats, and-in doses of 0.4-6.4 mg/kg-catalepsy in rats. Given in doses ranging from 0.1 to 1.6 mg/kg, pirenperone antagonized d-amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in mice and rats, the hyperactivity induced by apomorphine in rats, apomorphine- or d-amphetamine-induced stereotypy in rats and stimulation of the hind limb flexor reflex induced by the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist-clonidine. Pirenperone (6.4 mg/kg) significantly attenuated apomorphine (1 mg/kg)-induced hypothermia in mice. The results obtained indicate that pirenperone may be regarded as a relatively specific antagonist of the 5-HT2 receptor only when it is employed in very low doses (less than 0.1 mg/kg). Used in higher doses (greater than 0.1 mg/kg), it behaves like a typical neuroleptic, i.e. like a dopamine antagonist with antiserotonergic, antitryptaminergic and antiadrenergic properties.
To understand the basis of the effectiveness of carvedilol in heart failure by determining its specific properties at human heart beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptors.
The positive inotropic effects of noradrenaline (in the presence of the beta2-selective antagonist ICI118551) and adrenaline (in the presence of the beta1-selective antagonist CGP20712), mediated through beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptors, respectively, were investigated in atrial and ventricular trabeculae. The patch-clamp technique was used to investigate effects of noradrenaline and adrenaline on L-type Ca2+ current in human atrial myocytes.
Carvedilol was a 13-fold more potent competitive antagonist of the effects of adrenaline at beta2-adrenoceptors (-logKB=10.13+/-0.08) than of noradrenaline at beta1-adrenoceptors (-logKB=9.02+/-0.07) in human right atrium. Chronic carvedilol treatment of patients with non-terminal heart failure reduced the inotropic sensitivity of atrial trabeculae to noradrenaline and adrenaline 5.6-fold and 91.2-fold, respectively, compared to beta1-blocker-treated patients, consistent with persistent preferential blockade of beta2-adrenoceptors. In terminal heart failure carvedilol treatment reduced 1.8-fold and 25.1-fold the sensitivity of right ventricular trabeculae to noradrenaline and adrenaline, respectively, but metoprolol treatment did not reduce the sensitivity to the catecholamines. Increases of current (ICa,L) produced by noradrenaline and adrenaline were not different in atrial myocytes obtained from non-terminal heart failure patients treated with metoprolol or carvedilol, consistent with dissociation of both beta-blockers from the receptors.
Carvedilol blocks human cardiac beta2-adrenoceptors more than beta1-adrenoceptors, thereby conceivably contributing to the beneficial effects in heart failure. The persistent blockade of beta-adrenoceptors is attributed to accumulation of carvedilol in cardiac tissue.
We report a non-randomized Phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of liposomal daunorubicin (DaunoXome) in the treatment of AIDS related Kaposi's sarcoma. Eleven homosexual men with advanced Kaposi's sarcoma were entered in the trial. Changes in size, colour and associated oedema of selected 'target' lesions were measured. Clinical, biochemical and haematological toxicities were assessed. Ten subjects were evaluated. A partial response was achieved in four, of whom two subsequently relapsed. Stabilization of Kaposi's sarcoma occurred in the remaining six, maintained until the end of the trial period in four. The drug was generally well tolerated, with few mild symptoms of toxicity. The main problem encountered was haematological toxicity, with three subjects experiencing severe neutropenia (neutrophil count < 0.5 x 10(9)/l). There was no evidence of cardiotoxicity. In this small patient sample, liposomal daunorubicin was an effective and well tolerated agent in the treatment of Kaposi's sarcoma.
We report a patient with plasma cell leukaemia with systemic capillary leak syndrome, a rare disorder often associated with monoclonal gammopathy. In this patient, the manifestation of capillary leak syndrome antedated the diagnosis of plasma cell leukaemia by 5-6 months. During that time, he was repeatedly admitted to the hospital with weight gain, congestive cardiac failure, cough and anasarca in the presence of normal renal function, liver function and normal echocardiography. On presentation, a serum protein electrophoresis showed monoclonal IgG; the blood smear showed 60% plasma cells with a total count of 4.4 x 10(9)/l. A bone marrow aspirate showed replacement of the normal marrow by sheets of immature plasma cells. His systemic capillary leak syndrome initially responded to decongestive therapy with terbutaline and aminophylline but later on he became refractory to them and responded to vincristine, doxorubicin and dexamethasone (VAD) combination therapy only transiently. Danocrine and pentoxifylline, added during VAD chemotherapy, did not produce a durable response in capillary leak syndrome, which finally responded to autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). After PBSCT, he remained free of capillary leak for 10 months without terbutaline, pentoxifylline corticosteroids, aminophylline or danocrine. His disease relapsed without recurrence of the capillary leak. He died 15 months after PBSCT and 20 months after the diagnosis of plasma cell leukaemia.
We recently reported results of a cross-sectional investigation of intellectual function in 10-year-olds in Bangladesh, who had been exposed to arsenic from drinking water in their home wells.
We present results of a similar investigation of 301 randomly selected 6-year-olds whose parents participated in our ongoing prospective study of the health effects of As exposure in 12,000 residents of Araihazar, Bangladesh.
Water As and manganese concentrations of tube wells at each home were obtained by surveying all study region wells. Children and mothers were first visited at home, where the quality of home stimulation was measured, and then seen in our field clinic, where children received a medical examination wherein weight, height, and head circumference were assessed. We assessed children's intellectual function using subtests drawn from the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence, version III, by summing weighted items across domains to create Verbal, Performance, Processing Speed, and Full-Scale raw scores. Children provided urine specimens for measuring urinary As and were asked to provide blood samples for blood lead measurements.
Exposure to As from drinking water was associated with reduced intellectual function before and after adjusting for water Mn, for blood lead levels, and for sociodemographic features known to contribute to intellectual function. With covariate adjustment, water As remained significantly negatively associated with both Performance and Processing Speed raw scores; associations were less strong than in our previously studied 10-year-olds.
This second cross-sectional study of As exposure expands our concerns about As neurotoxicity to a younger age group.
Batter's syndrome characteristically exhibits the constellation of hypokalemic alkalosis, normotensive hyperreninism, hyperalodosteronism, hyporesponsiveness to pressor agent and juxtaglomerular cell hyperplasia. Recently, metabolic mimicry of Batter's syndrome by vomiting, diarrhea, laxatives and diuretics abuse has been reported. We had a 30 year-old female patient who developed so-called pseudo-Bartter's syndrome as the result of surreptitious self-administration of furosemide for about six years. In this case, calcification of bilateral renal medulla was demonstrated. Such adverse reaction has not been reported to date. Moreover, a total 14 cases of pseudo-Bartter's syndrome reported in Japanese literature is reviewed.
The recent discovery of the von Willebrand Factor (vWF) cleaving protease (ADAMTS13) and the association of its deficiency with thrombotic thrombocytopaenic purpura (TTP) has generated both enormous interest and considerable confusion. Ultra large von Willebrand Factor (UL vWF) multimers are present in the plasmas of patients with chronic relapsing TTP in remission but disappear during an attack. This observation led to the recognition that UL vWF multimers precipitate the thrombotic occlusion of arterioles, a feature that characterizes TTP. Multiple mutations in ADAMTS13 are associated with congenital TTP and neutralizing autoantibodies have been demonstrated in the acquired TTP syndrome. Although a number of functional assays for this enzyme have been described, the more rigorously evaluated assays are difficult to perform outside a research laboratory. There is also an enduring uncertainty about the specificity of ADAMTS13 deficiency for the diagnosis of acquired TTP and a perception that the result does not alter patient management. The cloning of the ADAMTS13 gene has also raised the prospect of recombinant enzyme therapy for the treatment of TTP, and this has heightened the need for a simple assay. In this review, we evaluate the value of measuring this enzyme in the management of TTP.
Cardiotoxicity induced by 2-, 3-, 5-, and 12-day dermal administration of 400 and 600 mg/kg/day of bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane to F344/N male and female rats was characterized. The severity and incidence of lesions were similar among males and females and in all three regions of the heart examined (atrium, ventricle, interventricular septum). Damage induced by bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane consisted of time-related development of myofiber vacuolation, necrosis, mononuclear-cell infiltration, fibrosis, and atrial thrombosis. Changes were pronounced at day 2, increased in severity at day 3, appeared to decrease at day 5, and resolved by study-day 16 that corresponded to 12 dosings. Ultrastructural analysis of 2- and 5-day 600 mg/kg/day-treated females elucidated the primary site of damage, the mitochondrion, and two types of vacuolation, one that formed as damaged mitochondria became devoid of cristae and their bounding double membranes became reduced to singleness, and the other manifested as distention of the sarcoplasmic reticulum. After the initial damage induced by bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane, or its metabolite, thiodiglycolic acid, protective mechanisms within the heart were apparently initiated, enabling it to cope with the continued exposure to the toxicant while eliminating some damaged myofibers.
The effects of lithocholic acid (LCA) on late prenatal and early postnatal development were studied. LCA was given in the diet (0.8% by weight) or administered in the drinking water (0.8%) throughout the entire period of pregnancy. The addition of LCA to the drinking water caused a significant reduction in the weight of 20-day-old fetuses as well as their placentas and livers. Feeding LCA to pregnant rats affected postnatal growth of the offspring: their weight was significantly lower than control values until 6 weeks of age. The pattern of postnatal growth was similar in the experimental and control rats. The retardation in growth and development of the offspring was accompanied by microscopic and biochemical changes in their livers.
MPTP-induced dopaminergic degeneration is an experimental model commonly used to explore Parkinson's disease. Cerebral drug transport by ABC transporters in MPTP models has never been reported.
We have investigated the transport of bromocriptine through the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in a MPTP model to understand the influence of the dopaminergic degeneration on ABCB1 and ABCG2.
We have shown that in MPTP treated mice, bromocriptine is widely distributed to brain (2.3-fold versus control, p less than 0.001) suggesting either disruption of BBB or alteration of active efflux of the drug. In situ brain perfusion of [14C]- sucrose and [3H]-inulin did not evidenced a BBB disruption. Studies of ABCB1 and ABCG2 activity showed that MPTP intoxication did not alter their functionality. Conversely, ABCG2 expression studied on brain capillaries from MPTP-treated mice was decreased (1.3-fold, p less than 0.05) and ABCB1 expression increased (1.43-fold, p less than 0.05) as an off-setting of brain transport.
These data demonstrate that MPTP intoxication does not alter the BBB permeability. However, bromocriptine brain distribution is increased in MPTP animals. Hence, MPTP may interact with another transport mechanism such as uptake and/or other efflux transporters. Inflammation and Parkinson's-like lesions induced by MPTP intoxication could lead to modification of drug pharmacokinetics and have clinical consequences, such as neurotoxicity.
Panax ginseng is known to have anti-diabetic activity, but the active ingredients have not been fully explored yet. Here, we test whether ginsenoside Rg2 has an inhibitory effect on hepatic glucose production and determine its mechanism of action. Rg2 significantly inhibits hepatic glucose production and induces phosphorylations of liver kinase B1 (LKB1), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) in time- and concentration-dependent manners in human HepG2 hepatoma cells, and these effects were abolished in the presence of compound C, a selective AMPK inhibitor. In addition, phosphorylated form of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB), a key transcription factor for hepatic gluconeogenesis, was decreased in time- and concentration-dependent manners. Next, gene expression of orphan nuclear receptor small heterodimer partner (SHP) was also examined. Rg2 markedly enhanced the gene expression of SHP and its direct interaction with CREB, which results in disruption of CREB·CRTC2 complex. Consequently, expressions of relevant genes such as peroxisome proliferation-activated receptor γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α), phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) were all significantly suppressed and these effects were also reversed in the presence of compound C. In conclusion, our results propose that ginsenoside Rg2 suppresses the hepatic glucose production via AMPK-induced phosphorylation of GSK3β and induction of SHP gene expression. Further studies are warranted to elucidate a therapeutic potential of Rg2 for type 2 diabetic patients.
Amiodarone is an anti-arrhythmic drug for life-threatening tachycardia, but various adverse effects have been reported. Reported herein is an autopsy case of valvular heart disease, in a patient who developed a lung mass (1.5 cm in diameter) and proteinuria (2.76 g/day) after treatment with amiodarone for a long time. The lung mass was highly suspected to be lung cancer on CT and positron emission tomography, but histologically the lesion was composed of lymphoplasmacytic infiltrates in alveolar walls and intra-alveolar accumulation of foamy macrophages containing characteristic myelinoid bodies, indicating that it was an amiodarone-related lesion. In addition, the lung tissue had unevenly distributed hemosiderin deposition, and abnormally tortuous capillaries were seen in the mass and in heavily hemosiderotic lung portions outside the mass. In the kidneys, glomeruli had membrane spikes, prominent swelling of podocytes and subepithelial deposits, which were sometimes large and hump-like. Autoimmune diseases, viral hepatitis, malignant neoplasms or other diseases with a known relationship to membranous glomerulonephritis were not found. The present case highlights the possibility that differential diagnosis between an amiodarone-related pulmonary lesion and a neoplasm can be very difficult radiologically, and suggests that membranous glomerulonephritis might be another possible complication of amiodarone treatment.
