The intracoronary injection of contrast media during coronary angiography occasionally results in ventricular fibrillation. Experimental studies have implicated the calcium sequestering agents, sodium citrate and EDTA in Renografin 76 (RG76), as contributing to this complication. Angiovist 370 (AV370) is a contrast medium similar to RG76 except that it contains disodium calcium EDTA instead of EDTA and sodium citrate. To determine if contrast media lacking sodium citrate and EDTA will result in a lower incidence of ventricular fibrillation in man, this investigation compared the incidence of contrast media-induced ventricular fibrillation in patients undergoing coronary angiography with RG76 to that with AV370. Group A consisted of 2,500 consecutive patients undergoing coronary angiography with RG76 and group B consisted of 2,000 subsequent consecutive patients in whom AV370 was employed as the contrast medium. There was no significant difference between groups A and B with respect to the volume of contrast media used per patient (153 +/- 49 ml vs 154 +/- 45ml), age (58.4 +/- 10 vs 58.6 +/- 10 years), sex (70% male vs 70% male), ejection fraction (59 +/- 17 vs 60 +/- 20), history of mitral valve disease (5.8% vs 7.1%), history of aortic valve disease (6.7% vs 6.5%), prior coronary artery bypass graft surgery (6.6% vs 7.3%), or extent of coronary artery disease. Fifteen episodes of contrast media-induced ventricular fibrillation occurred in group A (incidence 0.6%) whereas two episodes occurred in group B (incidence 0.1%) (p less than 0.02). Each patient was successfully defibrillated and no adverse sequelae resulted. Thus the present investigation suggests that the incidence of ventricular fibrillation during coronary angiography can be significantly decreased by using contrast media lacking sodium citrate and EDTA.
Experimental evidence suggests that interleukin (IL)-10 plays a pivotal role in generalized inflammation. Here we investigate the effects of IL-10 gene deletion on the acute phase of the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) caused by zymosan in the mouse. MODS was induced by zymosan administration (500 mg/kg, suspended in saline solution, i.p.) in IL-10 wild-type and knockout mice; sham groups were treated with vehicle. Mice were sacrificed 18 h after zymosan or saline administration. In another set of experiments, animals were monitored for 12 days to assess systemic toxicity and survival rate. Mice lacking IL-10 displayed increased peritoneal exudate volume and leukocytes. Also, we observed a significant increase in myeloperoxidase activity and lipid peroxidation in ileum and lung tissues, as well as augmented levels of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and nitrogen-derived species in the plasma. With regard to organ injury, absence of IL-10 enhanced the renal, hepatocellular and pancreatic dysfunction caused by zymosan administration. All of these parameters significantly influenced the systemic toxicity and the overall survival at 12 days, which was significantly lower in IL-10 knockout mice. Therefore, this study demonstrates that the absence of endogenous IL-10 enhances the MODS induced by zymosan in mice.
Although reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated in cadmium (Cd)-induced hepatotoxicity, the role of ROS in this pathway remains unclear. Therefore, we attempted to determine the molecular mechanisms relevant to Cd-induced cell death in HepG2 cells. Cd was found to induce apoptosis in the HepG2 cells in a time- and dose-dependent fashion, as confirmed by DNA fragmentation analysis and TUNEL staining. In the early stages, both rapid and transient ROS generation triggered apoptosis via Fas activation and subsequent caspase-8-dependent Bid cleavage, as well as by calpain-mediated mitochondrial Bax cleavage. The timing of Bid activation was coincided with the timing at which the mitochondrial transmembrane potential (MMP) collapsed as well as the cytochrome c (Cyt c) released into the cytosol. Furthermore, mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) pore inhibitors, such as cyclosporin A (CsA) and bongkrekic acid (BA), did not block Cd-induced ROS generation, MMP collapse and Cyt c release. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) pretreatment resulted in the complete inhibition of the Cd-induced apoptosis via catalase upregulation and subsequent Fas downregulation. NAC treatment also completely blocked the Cd-induced intracellular ROS generation, MMP collapse and Cyt c release, indicating that Cd-induced mitochondrial dysfunction may be regulated indirectly by ROS-mediated signaling pathway. Taken together, a rapid and transient ROS generation by Cd triggers apoptosis via caspase-dependent pathway and subsequent mitochondrial pathway. NAC inhibits Cd-induced apoptosis through the blocking of ROS generation as well as the catalase upregulation.
To elucidate the relationship between glutamatergic current and vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) expressions, we performed the comparative analyses of evoked potentials and VGLUT immunoreactivities in the dentate gyrus, and its response to antiepileptic drug treatments in a gerbil model. The EPSP slope that could be evoked in seizure sensitive (SS) gerbils was significantly greater than in seizure resistant (SR) gerbils. There was also a strong trend towards the larger population spike amplitude in SS gerbils. In addition, VGLUT immunoreactivities were markedly enhanced in the dentate gyrus of SS gerbils, as compared with the SR gerbils. Following valproic acid (VPA, 30 mg/kg), the population spike amplitude and the EPSP slope in response to the stimulus were markedly reduced in the dentate gyri both of SR and of SS gerbils, although this dosage of VPA had no effect in low stimulus currents in SS gerbils. Vigabatrin (VGB) and low dosage of VPA treatment did not affect the evoked responses. Similarly, VPA treatment reduced enhanced VGLUT immunoreactivities in the dentate gyrus of SS gerbils, whilst VGB did not. These findings suggest that up-regulation of VGLUT immunoreactivities may be related to the hyperexcitability of granule cells in SS gerbils, and altered VGLUT immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus may be independent of GABAergic transmission.
Recently published studies vary widely in the quantitative assessment of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in lithium-treated patients. Therefore, the authors tested 99 lithium-treated manic-depressive patients using several techniques to measure GFR. Ten of 86 patients who had no history of renal disease had mildly low creatinine clearance values. Significant correlations, which were not age-related, between the serum creatinine, Cockroft creatinine clearance, and duration of lithium therapy suggest a relationship between chronic lithium therapy and declining GFR. Since serum creatinine alone was insensitive, the authors recommend the use of duplicate classical creatinine clearances confirmed by Cockroft values to monitor GFR during lithium treatment.
Slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were identified in rat neocortical slices. Such potentials, resistant to blockade of glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptors, were partially antagonized by muscarinic or beta-adrenergic antagonists separately, and completely blocked when these agents were added in combination. Slow EPSPs were enhanced by a cholinesterase inhibitor or catecholamine reuptake blockers. Spontaneous epileptic discharges induced by picrotoxin also triggered slow EPSPs. Such potentials were pharmacologically identical to those induced by electrical stimulation under normal conditions. A non-conventional mechanism for synaptic transmission is postulated to account for triggering of slow EPSPs by epileptic discharges.
The intestinal epithelium is the first barrier against food contaminants and is highly sensitive to mycotoxins, especially de oxynivalenol (DON). Consumption of DON-contaminated food is associated with outbreaks of gastroenteritis. In cereals and their byproducts, DON is present together with two acetylated derivatives, 3-ADON and 15-ADON. The aim of this study was to compare the intestinal toxicity of DON and A-DONs, using noncytotoxic doses. The toxicity was assessed using in vitro (intestinal epithelial cell line), ex vivo (intestinal explants), and in vivo (animals exposed to mycotoxin-contaminated diets) models. The effects were studied on cell proliferation, barrier function, and intestinal structure. The mechanism of toxicity was investigated by measuring the expression of the tight junction proteins and of phosphorylated ERK1/2, p38, and JNK, which are effectors of signaling pathway involved in cellular programs including embryogenesis, proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. On proliferating cells, 3-ADON was less toxic than DON, which was less toxic than 15-ADON. On differentiated cells, 15-ADON impaired the barrier function, whereas DON and 3-ADON did not have a significant effect. Similarly, ex vivo and in vivo, 15-ADON caused more histological lesions than DON or 3-ADON. At the molecular level, the 15-ADON activated the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) ERK1/2, p38, and JNK in the intestinal cell line, explants, and the jejunum from exposed animals at lower dose than DON and 3-ADON. Our results show that the higher toxicity of 15-DON is due to its ability to activate the MAPK. Given that cereal-based foods are contaminated with DON and acetylated-DON, the higher toxicity of 15-ADON should be taken into account.
Curcuma longa (turmeric) has a long history of use in Ayurvedic medicine as a treatment for inflammatory conditions. Turmeric constituents include the three curcuminoids: curcumin (diferuloylmethane; the primary constituent and the one responsible for its vibrant yellow color), demethoxycurcumin, and bisdemethoxycurcumin, as well as volatile oils (tumerone, atlantone, and zingiberone), sugars, proteins, and resins. While numerous pharmacological activities, including antioxidant and antimicrobial properties, have been attributed to curcumin, this article focuses on curcumin's anti-inflammatory properties and its use for inflammatory conditions. Curcumin's effect on cancer (from an anti-inflammatory perspective) will also be discussed; however, an exhaustive review of its many anticancer mechanisms is outside the scope of this article. Research has shown curcumin to be a highly pleiotropic molecule capable of interacting with numerous molecular targets involved in inflammation. Based on early cell culture and animal research, clinical trials indicate curcumin may have potential as a therapeutic agent in diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, pancreatitis, arthritis, and chronic anterior uveitis, as well as certain types of cancer. Because of curcumin's rapid plasma clearance and conjugation, its therapeutic usefulness has been somewhat limited, leading researchers to investigate the benefits of complexing curcumin with other substances to increase systemic bioavailability. Numerous in-progress clinical trials should provide an even deeper understanding of the mechanisms and therapeutic potential of curcumin.
Controversy still exists about the pro- or antithrombotic side effects of contrast media used in daily medical practice. Recent reports have shown that various contrast media, including ionic compounds, have deleterious prothrombotic actions. A new evaluation of these adverse side effects is reported here, with the study of the dose-effect relationship. Two ionic (ioxaglate and diatrizoate) and two non-ionic contrast media (iopamidol and iohexol) were studied. Experiments were done on 22 groups of 5 Wistar male rats each, using a Laser Argon-induced thrombosis model in mesenteric microvessels. Three parameters were studied: the number of laser beams needed to induce platelet thrombus formation, the number of emboli, and the duration of embolization. Platelet count and platelet aggregation also were determined. Iopamidol and iohexol induced a significant rise in both the number of emboli and the duration of embolization in mesenteric microvessels at doses up to 1 mL/kg. Ioxaglate and diatrizoate also significantly increased these parameters at doses up to 2 mL/kg. All the products tested decreased platelet count, inducing a -17 to -30% variation from control values. Diatrizoate and ioxaglate inhibited platelet aggregation, while iopamidol and Iohexol behaved as activators. All non-ionic, and to a lesser extent, all ionic contrast media demonstrated prothrombotic properties.
After intravenous application of 1 mg digoxin in a 28-year-old patient with condition after myocarditis by means of premature atrial individual stimulation a SA-block I. type II was observed. Also in extremely premature stimuli the post-extrasystolic pauses remained compensating. After atrial double and multiple stimulation--a new method for the calculation of the sinuatrial conduction time--totally irregular poststimulation pauses appeared, which were regarded as an expression of a sinoauricular node initial block. Other possibilities of explanation are discussed.
To report a case of reversible ageusia in a patient with multiple myeloma receiving pegylated liposomal doxorubicin.
A 67-year-old man with a history of arterial hypertension and persisting left bundle-branch block was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. He was initially treated with cyclophosphamide 200 mg/m(2) (days 1-4), pegylated liposomal doxorubicin 20 mg/m(2) (day 1), and dexamethasone 40 mg (days 1-4) (CLAD). That treatment was followed by high-dose melphalan therapy and autologous peripheral stem-cell transplantation. The disease recurred 18 months later, and renal failure developed. The patient was again treated with the CLAD protocol. After the first cycle, almost complete ageusia occurred, along with weight loss and severe depression. Chemotherapy was continued, but pegylated liposomal doxorubicin was replaced by conventional doxorubicin. Within 12 weeks, the patient's sense of taste returned to normal.
Pegylated liposomal anthracyclines are increasingly being used as a less cardiotoxic alternative to conventional doxorubicin in first- and second-line therapy of multiple myeloma. Whereas cardiotoxicity and unspecific reactions are seen less frequently, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia is a common reaction to pegylated liposomal anthracyclines. No other reasons for ageusia in our patient could be identified. Based on the Naranjo probability scale, ageusia was rated as a probable reaction to pegylated liposomal doxorubicin.
As with all new and innovative drugs, thorough documentation of infrequent adverse events is necessary. We would like to raise awareness for ageusia, which appears to be a rare but severely impairing adverse reaction to a relatively new pharmacologic agent.
Previous studies have shown that hair arsenic (As) levels are associated with an increased prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS), which is a strong predictor for type 2 diabetes. The objective of this study was to evaluate whether urinary arsenic methylation is related to MetS in an arseniasis endemic area of southwestern Taiwan, taking genetic factors into account. Subjects were from a community-based cohort recruited in 1990 from three villages in Putai Township. In 2002-2003, we successfully followed 247 subjects and measured their urinary arsenic species including inorganic arsenic, monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), as well as the coding region polymorphisms of three genes known to involve in arsenic methylation. Results showed that subjects of MetS had a history of consuming well water of higher arsenic concentration as compared to those without MetS. We also found a significant association between urinary arsenic species and risk for MetS, where the odds ratio of MetS was increased with decreasing proportion of MMA and low rate of primary methylation (defined as MMA/inorganic As). The increased risk associated with low primary methylation rate was further modified by the GSTO1 A140D polymorphism, with the D allele carriers showing a slightly higher risk for MetS. Our results suggest that a low MMA% is associated with increased risk for MetS among As-exposed subjects and the genetic polymorphism of GSTO1, an enzyme responsible for the reduction of pentavalent arsenic species, may also play a modest modification role.
Cladribine or 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CDA) is a well-known purine nucleoside analog with particular activity against lymphoproliferative disorders, such as hairy cell leukemia (HCL). Its benefits in multiple myeloma (MM) remain unclear. Here we report the inhibitory effects of cladribine on MM cell lines (U266, RPMI8226, MM1.S), and its therapeutic potential in combination with a specific inhibitor of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3).
MTS-based proliferation assays were used to determine cell viability in response to cladribine. Cell cycle progression was examined by flow cytometry analysis. Cells undergoing apoptosis were evaluated with Annexin V staining and a specific ELISA to quantitatively measure cytoplasmic histone-associated DNA fragments. Western blot analyses were performed to determine the protein expression levels and activation.
Cladribine inhibited cell proliferation of MM cells in a dose-dependent manner, although the three MM cell lines exhibited a remarkably different responsiveness to cladribine. The IC50 of cladribine for U266, RPMI8226, or MM1.S cells was approximately 2.43, 0.75, or 0.18 μmol/L, respectively. Treatment with cladribine resulted in a significant G1 arrest in U266 and RPMI8226 cells, but only a minor increase in the G1 phase for MM1.S cells. Apoptosis assays with Annexin V-FITC/PI double staining indicated that cladribine induced apoptosis of U266 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Similar results were obtained with an apoptotic-ELISA showing that cladribine dramatically promoted MM1.S and RPMA8226 cells undergoing apoptosis. On the molecular level, cladribine induced PARP cleavage and activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3. Meanwhile, treatment with cladribine led to a remarkable reduction of the phosphorylated STAT3 (P-STAT3), but had little effect on STAT3 protein levels. The combinations of cladribine and a specific STAT3 inhibitor as compared to either agent alone significantly induced apoptosis in all three MM cell lines.
Cladribine exhibited inhibitory effects on MM cells in vitro. MM1.S is the only cell line showing significant response to the clinically achievable concentrations of cladribine-induced apoptosis and inactivation of STAT3. Our data suggest that MM patients with the features of MM1.S cells may particularly benefit from cladribine monotherapy, whereas cladribine in combination with STAT3 inhibitor exerts a broader therapeutic potential against MM.
Women with triple-negative breast cancer have the worst prognosis, frequently present with metastatic tumors and have few targeted therapy options. Notch-1 and Notch-4 are potent breast oncogenes that are overexpressed in triple-negative and other subtypes of breast cancer. PEA3, an ETS transcription factor, is also overexpressed in triple-negative and other breast cancer subtypes. We investigated whether PEA3 could be the critical transcriptional activator of Notch receptors in MDA-MB-231 and other breast cancer cells.
Real-time PCR and Western blot analysis were performed to detect Notch-1, Notch-2, Notch-3 and Notch-4 receptor expression in breast cancer cells when PEA3 was knocked down by siRNA. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed to identify promoter regions for Notch genes that recruited PEA3. TAM-67 and c-Jun siRNA were used to identify that c-Jun was necessary for PEA3 enrichment on the Notch-4 promoter. A Notch-4 luciferase reporter was used to confirm that endogenous PEA3 or AP-1 activated the Notch-4 promoter region. Cell cycle analysis, trypan blue exclusion, annexin V flow cytometry, colony formation assay and an in vivo xenograft study were performed to determine the biological significance of targeting PEA3 via siRNA, Notch signaling via a γ-secretase inhibitor, or both.
Herein we provide new evidence for transcriptional regulation of Notch by PEA3 in breast cancer. PEA3 activates Notch-1 transcription in MCF-7, MDA-MB-231 and SKBr3 breast cancer cells. PEA3 activates Notch-4 transcription in MDA-MB-231 cells where PEA3 levels are endogenously high. In SKBr3 and BT474 breast cancer cells where PEA3 levels are low, overexpression of PEA3 increases Notch-4 transcripts. Chromatin immunoprecipitation confirmed the enrichment of PEA3 on Notch-1 and Notch-4 promoters in MDA-MB-231 cells. PEA3 recruitment to Notch-1 was AP-1-independent, whereas PEA3 recruitment to Notch-4 was c-JUN-dependent. Importantly, the combined inhibition of Notch signaling via a γ-secretase inhibitor (MRK-003 GSI) and knockdown of PEA3 arrested growth in the G1 phase, decreased both anchorage-dependent and anchorage-independent growth and significantly increased apoptotic cells in vitro. Moreover, either PEA3 knockdown or MRK-003 GSI treatment significantly reduced tumor growth of MDA-MB-231 xenografts in vivo.
Taken together, the results from this study demonstrate for the first time that Notch-1 and Notch-4 are novel transcriptional targets of PEA3 in breast cancer cells. Targeting of PEA3 and/or Notch pathways might provide a new therapeutic strategy for triple-negative and possibly other breast cancer subtypes.
To analyze the frequency, clinical characteristics, and predictors of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) after intraarterial (IA) thrombolysis with recombinant pro-urokinase (r-proUK) in acute ischemic stroke.
The authors conducted an exploratory analysis of symptomatic ICH from a randomized, controlled clinical trial of IA thrombolysis with r-proUK for patients with angiographically documented occlusion of the middle cerebral artery within 6 hours from stroke onset. Patients (n = 180) were randomized in a ratio of 2:1 to either 9 mg IA r-proUK over 120 minutes plus IV fixed-dose heparin or IV fixed-dose heparin alone. As opposed to intention to treat, this analysis was based on "treatment received" and includes 110 patients given r-proUK and 64 who did not receive any thrombolytic agent. The remaining six patients received out-of-protocol urokinase and were excluded from analysis. The authors analyzed centrally adjudicated ICH with associated neurologic deterioration (increase in NIH Stroke Scale [NIHSS] score of > or =4 points) within 36 hours of treatment initiation.
Symptomatic ICH occurred in 12 of 110 patients (10.9%) treated with r-proUK and in two of 64 (3.1%) receiving heparin alone. ICH symptoms in r-proUK-treated patients occurred at a mean of 10.2 +/- 7.4 hours after the start of treatment. Mortality after symptomatic ICH was 83% (10/12 patients). Only blood glucose was significantly associated with symptomatic ICH in r-proUK-treated patients based on univariate analyses of 24 variables: patients with baseline glucose >200 mg/dL experienced a 36% risk of symptomatic ICH compared with 9% for those with < or =200 mg/dL (p = 0.022; relative risk, 4.2; 95% CI, 1.04 to 11.7).
Symptomatic ICH after IA thrombolysis with r-proUK for acute ischemic stroke occurs early after treatment and has high mortality. The risk of symptomatic ICH may be increased in patients with a blood glucose >200 mg/dL at stroke onset.
Hamsters repeatedly exposed to cocaine throughout adolescence display highly escalated offensive aggression compared to saline-treated littermates. The current study investigated whether adolescent cocaine exposure activated neurons in areas of hamster forebrain implicated in aggressive behavior by examining the expression of FOS, i.e., the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos shown to be a reliably sensitive marker of neuronal activation. Adolescent cocaine-treated hamsters and saline-treated littermates were scored for offensive aggression and then sacrificed 1 day later and examined for the number of FOS immunoreactive (FOS-ir) cells in regions of the hamster forebrain important for aggression control. When compared with non-aggressive, saline-treated controls, aggressive cocaine-treated hamsters showed persistent increases in the number of FOS-ir cells in several aggression regions, including the anterior hypothalamus, nucleus circularis, lateral hypothalamus (i.e., the hypothalamic attack area), lateral septum, and medial and corticomedial amygdaloid nuclei. Conversely, aggressive cocaine-treated hamsters showed a significant decrease in FOS-ir cells in the medial supraoptic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and central amygdala when compared with controls. However, no differences in FOS-ir cells were found in other areas implicated in aggression such as the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, or in a number of non-aggression areas. These results suggest that adolescent cocaine exposure may constitutively activate neurons in select forebrain areas critical for the regulation of aggression in hamsters. A model for how persistent activation of neurons in one of these brain regions (i.e., the hypothalamus) may facilitate the development of the aggressive phenotype in adolescent cocaine-exposed animals is presented.
The effectiveness of intraperitoneal phenobarbitone (4 mg/kg), pentobarbitone (6 mg/kg) and diazepam (2.5, 5 and 7.5 mg/kg) in preventing lignocaine-induced seizures was studied in rats. Although the barbiturates exerted a marked depressant action on wakefulness and gait of the rats, they were still associated with a very high incidence of convulsions and deaths following 100 mg/kg intraperitoneal lignocaine hydrochloride. Diazepam, however, even in doses (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) which did not produce marked sedation was able to completely prevent convulsions. Mortality was not completely prevented as one animal in each of the groups receiving these doses died without convulsing. Diazepam in the dose of 7.5 mg/kg completely prevented the seizures as well as the mortality but exerted a more profound effect on wakefulness and gait of the animals. The effectiveness of diazepam pretreatment in preventing lignocaine-induced seizures in rats is confirmed.
Insomnia afflicts many individuals, but particularly those in chronic methadone treatment. Studies examining sleep deprivation (SD) have begun to identify sleep restoration processes involving brain bioenergetics. The technique ([31])P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) can measure brain changes in the high-energy phosphates: alpha-, beta-, and gamma-nucleoside triphosphate (NTP). In the present study, 21 methadone-maintained (MM) and 16 control participants underwent baseline (BL), SD (40 wakeful hours), recovery1 (RE1), and recovery2 (RE2) study nights. Polysomnographic sleep was recorded each night and ([31])P MRS brain scanning conducted each morning using a 4T MR scanner (dual-tuned proton/phosphorus head-coil). Interestingly, increases in total sleep time (TST) and sleep efficiency index (SEI) commonly associated with RE sleep were not apparent in MM participants. Analysis of methadone treatment duration revealed that the lack of RE sleep increases in TST and SEI was primarily exhibited by short-term MM participants (methadone <12 months), while RE sleep in long-term MM (methadone >12 months) participants was more comparable to control participants. Slow wave sleep increased during RE1, but there was no difference between MM and control participants. Spectral power analysis revealed that compared to control participants; MM participants had greater delta, theta, and alpha spectral power during BL and RE sleep. ([31])P MRS revealed that elevations in brain beta-NTP (a direct measure of ATP) following RE sleep were greater in MM compared to control participants. Results suggest that differences in sleep and brain chemistry during RE in MM participants may be reflective of a disruption in homeostatic sleep function.
This study was carried out to compare echocardiographic findings of children taking tacrolimus and cyclosporin A (CsA) after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Echocardiograms of 19 children were reviewed during hospitalizations after OLT, and echocardiograms were performed on 23 children who returned to the clinic for a routine follow-up visit after OLT. Measurements were made of the left ventricle (LV) end-diastolic dimension, and of the thickness of the LV free wall (LVFW) and the inter-ventricular septum (IVS). From these measurements, the LV mass was calculated. LV outflow gradient was measured by using Doppler interrogation. Comparisons were made between patients on CsA and patients on tacrolimus. Children with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) were identified. Two patients from the in-patient tacrolimus group were found to have HCM. These two patients had asymmetric septal hypertrophy with dynamic LV outflow obstruction and were successfully treated with propranolol, with or without discontinuing tacrolimus. In the out-patient studies, there was no difference in LVFW and IVS thickness, or LV mass index, between children on CsA and children on tacrolimus. Hence, tacrolimus is associated with the development of HCM in children. The effect of tacrolimus on HCM development may be acute and temporary. More data are needed to determine the incidence of HCM in children on tacrolimus therapy and to establish guidelines for clinicians who follow-up these children.
In this study, we investigated hepatic fibrogenesis caused by long-term thioacetamide (TAA) administration in ob/ob mice, a naturally occurring leptin deficient animal. In the lean littermates, prominent hepatic fibrosis, as well as positive staining for alpha smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), was induced by treatment with TAA (200 microg/g, IP, 3 times per week) for 4 to 8 weeks as expected. In sharp contrast, almost no hepatic fibrosis developed in ob/ob mice given the equivalent doses of TAA, where specific staining for alpha-SMA barely was detected. Induction of alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA caused by TAA also was prevented in ob/ob mice almost completely. Further, transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) mRNA was increased in the liver after TAA treatment for 4 weeks in lean littermates, which also was prevented in ob/ob mice. Interestingly, fibrotic septa in the hepatic lobules, as well as increases in alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA, was observed in ob/ob mice, when they were injected with recombinant murine leptin (1 microg/g daily) in combination with TAA treatment. Leptin per se did not cause any fibrotic changes in the liver in ob/ob mice. These findings clearly indicated that leptin deficiency is responsible for the resistance to TAA-induced profibrogenic responses in ob/ob mice. In conclusion, leptin appears to promote profibrogenic responses in the liver, in part, by up-regulation of TGF-beta.
A series of 15 halogenated hydrocarbons of industrial and environmental importance were tested for carcinogenicity by chronic administration by one or more routes in Ha:ICR Swiss mice. Not all compounds were tested by the four routes of administration used. Allyl chloride, 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane, and vinylidene chloride were active as skin tumor initiators in the two-stage carcinogenesis assays; phorbol myristate acetate was used as a promoter. 1,2-Dibromoethane was the only compound that induced a significant incidence (p less than 0.05) of skin papillomas, skin carcinomas, and lung tumors by repeated skin application. 1,2-Dichloroethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrabromoethane, and 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane induced lung and/or stomach tumors by repeated skin application. Two compounds showed sarcomagenic activity by sc injection; they were cis-1,3-dichloropropene and 2-chloropropanal. By intragastric intubation, 1-chloropropene and 2-chloropropanal induced significant numbers of stomach tumors. Vehicle, no-treatment, and positive control groups were included in these tests. The following compounds were also tested by one or more of the four routes but were inactive by the criteria used; i.e., they showed P = 0.05 or greater than 0.05: trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, hexachlorobutadiene, chloroacetaldehyde, 1-chloropropene oxide (cis and trans), and trichloroethylene oxide.
Bisphosphonates are currently the most important class of antiresorptive drugs used for the treatment of diseases with excess bone resorption. Recent studies have shown that bisphosphonates can be divided into two groups with distinct molecular mechanisms of action depending on the nature of the R(2) side chain. Alendronate, like other nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates, inhibits bone resorption and causes apoptosis of osteoclasts and other cells in vitro by preventing post-translational modification of GTP-binding proteins with isoprenoid lipids. Clodronate, a bisphosphonate that lacks a nitrogen, does not inhibit protein isoprenylation but can be metabolized intracellularly to a beta-gamma-methylene (AppCp-type) analog of ATP, which is cytotoxic to macrophages in vitro. The detailed molecular basis for the cytotoxic effects of adenosine-5'-[beta,gamma-dichloromethylene]triphosphate (AppCCl(2)p) has not been determined yet. We addressed this question by studying the effects of alendronate, clodronate, and the clodronate metabolite AppCCl(2)p on isolated mitochondria, mitochondrial fractions, and mitochondrial membrane potential in isolated human osteoclasts. We found that AppCCl(2)p inhibits mitochondrial oxygen consumption by a mechanism that involves competitive inhibition of the ADP/ATP translocase. Alendronate or the native form of clodronate did not have any immediate effect on mitochondria. However, longer treatment with liposome-encapsulated clodronate caused collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential, although prominent apoptosis was a late event. Hence, inhibition of the ADP/ATP translocase by the metabolite AppCCl(2)p is a likely route by which clodronate causes osteoclast apoptosis and inhibits bone resorption.
The sevoflurane degradation product compound A is nephrotoxic in rats and undergoes metabolism to glutathione and cysteine S-conjugates, with further metabolism by renal cysteine conjugate beta-lyase to reactive intermediates. Evidence suggests that toxicity is mediated by renal uptake of compound A S-conjugates and metabolism by beta-lyase. Previously, inhibitors of the beta-lyase pathway (aminooxyacetic acid and probenecid) diminished the nephrotoxicity of intraperitoneal compound A. This investigation determined inhibitor effects on the toxicity of inhaled compound A.
Fischer 344 rats underwent 3 h of nose-only exposure to compound A (0-220 ppm in initial dose-response experiments and 100-109 ppm in subsequent inhibitor experiments). The inhibitors (and targets) were probenecid (renal organic anion transport mediating S-conjugate uptake), acivicin (gamma-glutamyl transferase), aminooxyacetic acid (renal beta-lyase), and aminobenzotriazole (cytochrome P450). Urine was collected for 24 h, and the animals were killed. Nephrotoxicity was assessed by histology and biochemical markers (serum BUN and creatinine; urine volume; and excretion of protein, glucose, and alpha-glutathione-S-transferase, a predominantly proximal tubular cell protein).
Compound A caused dose-related proximal tubular cell necrosis, diuresis, proteinuria, glucosuria, and increased alpha-glutathione-S-transferase excretion. The threshold for toxicity was 98-109 ppm (294-327 ppm-h). Probenecid diminished (P < 0.05) compound A-induced glucosuria and excretion of alpha-glutathione-S-transferase and completely prevented necrosis. Aminooxyacetic acid diminished compound A-dependent proteinuria and glucosuria but did not decrease necrosis. Acivicin increased nephrotoxicity of compound A, and aminobenzotriazole had no consistent effect on nephrotoxicity of compound A.
Nephrotoxicity of inhaled compound A in rats was associated with renal uptake of compound A S-conjugates and cysteine conjugates metabolism by renal beta-lyase. Manipulation of the beta-lyase pathway elicited similar results, whether compound A was administered by inhalation or intraperitoneal injection. Route of administration does not apparently influence nephrotoxicity of compound A in rats.
