In the present study, we investigated whether β-hydroxyisovalerylshikonin (β-HIVS) affects the production of proinflammatory mediators such as nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in BV2 microglial cells. Our data showed that β-HIVS inhibited secretion of NO and PGE2 and downregulated expression of their main regulatory genes, inducible NO synthesis (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). β-HIVS also reduced the LPS-induced DNA-binding activity of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) by suppressing nuclear translocation of the NF-κB subunits and inhibiting the degradation and phosphorylation of IκBα. Furthermore, an NF-κB inhibitor, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), attenuated LPS-stimulated iNOS and COX-2 expression, suggesting that NF-κB inhibition is a main effector in the expression of iNOS and COX-2. We also found that LPS-induced NF-κB activation is regulated through inhibition of PI3K/Akt phosphorylation in response to β-HIVS. Additionally, β-HIVS caused the induction of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) via upregulation of nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), both of which are involved in the secretion of proinflammatory mediators such as NO and PGE2. Taken together, our data indicate that β-HIVS diminishes the proinflammatory mediators NO and PGE2 and the expression of their regulatory genes, iNOS and COX-2, in LPS-stimulated BV2 microglial cells by inhibiting PI3K/Akt-dependent NF-κB activation and inducing Nrf2-mediated HO-1 expression.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is predominantly characterized by chromosomal translocations between the retinoic acid receptor, alpha (RARA) gene and the promyelocytic leukemia (PML) or promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger (PLZF) gene. In APL cells with PML/RARA fusions, arsenic trioxide and all-trans retinoic acid treatments specifically target the fusion protein for proteasome-dependent degradation, thereby promoting cellular differentiation and clinical remission of disease. In contrast, APL cells expressing PLZF/RARA fusion proteins are largely resistant to similar treatments and prognosis for patients with this translocation is poor. Understanding the molecular mechanisms regulating PLZF/RARA protein stability would provide novel therapeutic targets for PLZF/RARA-associated APL. Toward this end, we have performed an RNAi-based screen to identify factors affecting PLZF/RARA stability. Among the factors identified was the ubiquitin-specific peptidase 37 (USP37). We showed that USP37 interacted with PLZF/RARA through the PLZF moiety and sustained PLZF/RARA steady state levels. Domain mapping study revealed that N-terminal domain of USP37 is required for the PLZF/RARA interaction and protein regulation. Furthermore, overexpression or depletion of USP37 caused an increase or decrease of PLZF/RARA protein half-life, correlating with down- or upregulation of PLZF/RARA poly-ubiquitination, respectively. By PLZF/RARA-transduced primary mouse hematopoietic progenitor cells, we demonstrated that Usp37 knockdown alleviated PLZF/RARA-mediated target gene suppression and cell transformation potential. Altogether, our findings of USP37-modulating PLZF/RARA stability and cell transformation suggest that USP37 is a potential therapeutic target for PLZF/RARA-associated APL.
The authors conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effect of lithium on aggressive behavior. The 66 subjects, who were prisoners in a medium security institution, ranged in age from 16 to 24 years, were physically healthy and nonpsychotic, and had histories of chronic impulsive aggressive behavior. Subjects received lithium or placebo daily for up to 3 months. There was a significant reduction in aggressive behavior in the lithium group as measured by a decrease in infractions involving violence. The authors suggest that lithium can have a clinically useful effect upon impulsive aggressive behavior when this behavior is not associated with psychosis.
The estrogenic monomer bisphenol-A (BPA) is an endocrine-disrupting chemical used in the production of epoxy resins, plastic food and beverage containers, leading to ubiquitous human exposure. Environmentally relevant doses of BPA have profound effects on mice endocrine pancreas. It increases pancreatic insulin content and favors postprandial hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance in male mice. Skeletal muscle plays a crucial role in maintaining systemic glucose metabolism. In the present study, we investigated the possible effects of BPA on insulin-signaling molecules and glucose oxidation in skeletal muscle of male rat. Adult male Wistar albino rats were divided into three groups. Group I: control (vehicle treated) and groups II and III were administered with BPA orally (20 and 200 mg/kg bw/day, respectively). Although there was no change in the levels of insulin receptor (IR), Akt (protein kinase B) and glucose transporter-4 (GLUT4) messenger RNA, BPA significantly decreased the IR, Akt and GLUT4 protein levels (both plasma membrane and cytosolic fraction) of the gastrocnemius muscle. There was an increase in serum insulin and decrease in serum testosterone levels but fasting blood glucose level remained unaltered. In conclusion, BPA has adverse effects on phosphorylation of Akt, GLUT4 translocation and (14)C-glucose oxidation.
A patient developed transient exacerbation of a mitral insufficiency murmur and a reversible posterior wall perfusion defect during dipyridamole-thallium imaging. Coronary angiography showed significant stenoses of both the right and the circumflex coronary arteries that supply the posterior papillary muscle. Cardiac auscultation for transient mitral incompetence, a sign of reversible papillary muscle dysfunction, is a simple and practical adjunctive test for myocardial ischemia during dipyridamole-thallium imaging. It may confirm that an isolated reversible posterior wall myocardial perfusion defect is truly ischemic in nature as opposed to an artifact resulting from attenuation by the diaphragm.
To explore the role of expression of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in pulmonary vascular remodeling of pulmonary hypertensive rats, and investigate the regulation of CTGF expression by simvastatin in this animal model.
Eighty male Sprague-Dawley rats (350 to 400 g) were randomized to 7 groups. The rats in group PM(1 - 21) (n = 10) and PM(1 - 35) (n = 12) were treated with pneumonectomy + monocrotaline (MCT), and sacrificed at the 21st or 35th experimental day;those in groups PMS(1 - 35) (n = 12), PMS(21 - 35) (n = 12), PMV(1 - 35) (n = 12) and PMV(21 - 35) (n = 12) were given daily lavage of simvastatin (or vehicle) as intervention measure which began from the 1st and 21st experimental days, respectively; additional 10 rats were used as control without any intervention. The animals were sacrificed at the end of experiment (35 th day) as hemodynamic measurements and study on the morphological parameters relevant to pulmonary vascular remodeling were performed on each group of rats. The expression of ET-1 mRNA, CTGF mRNA and protein, and synthesis of collagen in these pneumonectomized, MCT-treated rats were compared between control and rats treated with simvastatin.
Rats in PM(1 - 35) Group developed severe PAH (mPAP = 39.75 +/- 3.62 mm Hg) (1 mm Hg = 0.133 kPa), right ventricular hypertrophy [RV/(LV + S) ratio = 0.627 +/- 0.040], and arterial medial hypertrophy (WT% = 61.73 +/- 5.39), these parameters of the control animals were 17.10 +/- 1.20 mm Hg, 0.262 +/- 0.018 and 14.71 +/- 1.16, respectively. CTGF mRNA and protein were mainly located in pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells and interstitial macrophage shown by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, respectively. The expression of ET-1 mRNA and CTGF mRNA detected by fluorescent quantitative RT-PCR in Group PM(1 - 35) were significantly increased in comparison with controls, and so did the CTGF protein expression determined by Western blotting in these diseased rats. The content of hydroxyproline (1.30 +/- 0.19 microg/mg wet lung) was remarkably higher than that of control animals (0.56 +/- 0.10 microg/mg wet lung). The up-regulation of ET-1 and CTGF gene expression, and elevated synthesis of hydroxyproline were reversed in rats intervened with simvastatin. The pulmonary hypertension, right ventricular hypertrophy and medial hypertrophy were attenuated in all simvastatin-treated rats no matter the intervention was initiated from the beginning or midway of the study.
The up-regulation of CTGF gene expression may play an important role in the development of pulmonary vascular remodeling in PAH. Simvastatin can prevent and, to some extent, reverse the vascular remodeling via down-regulation of CTGF gene expression.
A randomized double-blind multicenter study compared a new oral beta 1-adrenergic antagonist, betaxolol 10 to 40 mg (n = 71), with atenolol 25 to 100 mg (n = 75). Each drug was administered once daily for 24 weeks in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Blood pressure (BP) measurements were taken 24 hours after dosing. Each drug produced significant (p less than 0.01) reductions in mean supine diastolic BP. The mean decrease in supine diastolic BP with betaxolol was significantly greater at weeks 4, 6, 10 and 12 (p less than 0.05). Throughout the remainder of the trial (weeks 14 to 24), no significant differences in BP reduction were noted between treatment groups. Normotension (supine diastolic BP less than or equal to 90 mm Hg) was achieved in 72% of those given betaxolol compared with 52% of those given atenolol (p less than 0.05). The most common side effects noted were bradycardia, fatigue and headache. The incidence of these and of central nervous system side effects was similar between the betaxolol and atenolol groups. Both agents were well tolerated. At recommended doses, betaxolol once daily may be more effective than atenolol once daily in patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
In a prospective, randomized study, 75 infants and children were treated with methicillin sodium and 74 were treated with nafcillin sodium. The two groups were comparable with regard to age, sex, duration of therapy, types off illnesses, etiologic bacteria, and bacteremia. Clinical responses were also comparable. The frequencies of fever, rash, eosinophilia, neutropenia, anemia, and abnormal hepatic enzymes were the same in the two groups. Two patients in each group had transient hematuria early in their course that resolved despite continued antibiotic therapy. Definite urologic toxic effect did not occur in patients who received nafcillin, while four (5.3%) of the methicillin-treated patients were judged to have this complication. In addition, six patients (8%) who received methicillin had questionable evidence of urologic toxic effect. It is concluded that methicillin and nafcillin have comparable clinical efficacy and adverse effects, with the exception that definite urologic toxic effect has been observed with nafcillin therapy.
A parkinsonian syndrome developed 5 weeks after administration of phenelzine in a 42 year old woman with major depressive illness. Discontinuation of this agent resulted in gradual disappearance of the extrapyramidal syndrome. Possible underlying mechanisms for this unusual case are discussed.
Hepatotoxicity is one of the major complications of methotrexate (MTX) therapy. This study was carried out to evaluate the possible protective effect of resveratrol (trans-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene, RVT) against MTX-induced hepatotoxicity. Rats were randomly divided into four groups as control, MTX treated (7 mg/kg/day, intraperitoneally (i.p.), once daily for 3 consecutive days), MTX + RVT treated (20 mg/kg/day, i.p.), and RVT treated. First dose of RVT was administrated 3 days before the MTX injection and continued for 3 days. Histopathology of liver was evaluated by light microscopy. Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were used as biochemical markers of MTX-induced hepatic injury. The levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS, a marker of lipid peroxidation) and activities of hepatic antioxidant enzymes such as catalase (CAT) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were used to analyze the oxidative stress-mediated lipid peroxidation in liver sections. Our results showed that MTX administration significantly increased ALT, ASP, and ALP levels. TBARS, CAT, and GST levels were also markedly increased in liver after MTX administration. RVT treatment significantly prevented MTX-induced hepatotoxicity, as indicated by AST, ALT, and ALP levels and liver histopathology. Moreover, administration of RVT significantly decreased the elevated levels of TBARS and activities of CAT and GST in the liver compared to MTX-treated group. These results revealed that RVT may have a protective effect against MTX-induced hepatotoxicity by inhibiting oxidative stress-mediated lipid peroxidation. Consequently, RVT treatment might be a promising strategy against MTX-induced hepatotoxicity.
Ketogenic diet (KD) is used to manage intractable epilepsy; however, the mechanisms underlying its therapeutic effects are not known. Steroid hormones, such as progesterone and testosterone, are derived from cholesterol, and are readily 5alpha-reduced to dihydroprogesterone and dihydrotestosterone, which are subsequently converted to 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) and 3alpha-androstanediol, neuroactive steroids that can influence seizures. The present study examined the effects of the KD on circulating concentrations of these neuroactive steroids, and their precursors, in intact female rats. Thirty-six, 22-day-old female Sprague-Dawley rats (weaned at 21 days) were fasted for 8 hours prior to placement on one of three dietary regimens for 6 weeks: ad libitum chow, calorie-restricted chow, or KD. After 6 weeks of the diet, when six rats in each dietary condition were in diestrus and six were in behavioral estrus, all rats were administered pentylenetetrazole (PTZ, 70 mg/kg, i.p.). The latency and incidence of seizures were recorded by an observer who was uninformed of the estrous cycle and dietary treatment conditions of the rats. Immediately after each test, trunk blood was obtained for later measurement of pregnane (progesterone, dihydroprogesterone, 3alpha,5alpha-THP) and androstane (testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, 3alpha-androstanediol) neuroactive steroid concentrations in plasma by radioimmunoassay. KD tended to lengthen the latency to, and significantly reduced the number of, PTZ-induced barrel roll seizures. KD also significantly reduced plasma levels of the pregnane (dihydroprogesterone, 3alpha,5alpha-THP) and androstane (dihydrotestosterone, 3alpha-androstanediol) 5alpha-reduced metabolites. These data suggest that levels of pregnane and androstane neuroactive steroids, or their precursors, may underlie some of the antiseizure effects of KD.
The purpose of this study was to examine the role of chromosomal recombination in mediating p53 loss in benzene-induced thymic lymphomas in C57BL/6-Trp53 haploinsufficient (N5) mice (p53+/- mice). We characterized loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on chromosome 11 using seven microsatellite markers in 27 benzene-induced and 6 spontaneous thymic lymphomas. Eleven patterns of LOH were found between the induced and spontaneous tumors, with only one pattern being in common between the tumor groups. Nearly 90% (24 of 27) of benzene-induced tumors exhibited loss of the functional p53 allele locus, and 83% (20 of 24) of these tumors retained two copies of the disrupted p53 allele. The results indicate that benzene induces a high frequency of LOH on chromosome 11 in p53+/- mice, likely mediated by aberrant chromosomal recombination.
We aimed to investigate the clinical outcome of patients who develop lamivudine resistant hepatitis B virus mutants (YMDD mutants) after liver transplantation.
Patients who received liver transplantation for hepatitis B-related liver diseases from 1999 to 2002 were studied. All patients received lamivudine monotherapy before and after liver transplantation. HBsAg and HBV DNA were regularly monitored, and YMDD mutation was detected by direct sequencing.
Twenty patients were followed up for median 94 wk (range: 15-177 wk) post-liver transplantation. Six patients developed YMDD mutants, and the cumulative probability of developing YMDD mutations post-liver transplantation was 21% in 1 yr and 34% in 2 yr. One patient developed YMDD mutants before liver transplantation and died of hepatitis reactivation and liver failure 15 wk post-transplantation. The other five patients developed YMDD mutants 32-72 wk after liver transplantation. Two of them developed severe hepatitis which responded promptly to adefovir dipivoxil. The remaining three patients with YMDD mutants had minimal to mild hepatitis. The cumulative survival for patients with YMDD mutants was 83% and 28% at 1 and 2 yr, respectively. Only one patient who did not develop YMDD mutants died at week 119 due to chronic rejection. The post-transplant survival for patients with YMDD mutants was significantly poorer than those without YMDD mutants (log rank test p = 0.083).
The emergence of YMDD mutants after liver transplantation on lamivudine monoprophylaxis had wide range of clinical presentations and was associated with increased mortality.
Cigarette smoking in men has been associated with increased chromosomal abnormalities in sperm and with increased risks for spontaneous abortions, birth defects and neonatal death. Little is known, however, about the reproductive consequences of paternal exposure to second-hand smoke. We used a mouse model to investigate the effects of paternal exposure to sidestream (SS) smoke, the main constituent of second-hand smoke, on the genetic integrity and function of sperm, and to determine whether male germ cells were equally sensitive to mainstream (MS) and SS smoke. A series of sperm DNA quality and reproductive endpoints were investigated after exposing male mice for two weeks to MS or SS smoke. Our results indicated that: (i) only SS smoke significantly affected sperm motility; (ii) only MS smoke induced DNA strand breaks in sperm; (iii) both MS and SS smoke increased sperm chromatin structure abnormalities; and (iv) MS smoke affected both fertilization and the rate of early embryonic development, while SS smoke affected fertilization only. These results show that MS and SS smoke have differential effects on the genetic integrity and function of sperm and provide further evidence that male exposure to second-hand smoke, as well as direct cigarette smoke, may diminish a couple's chance for a successful pregnancy and the birth of a healthy baby.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a potentially serious complication of high-dose cyclophosphamide therapy administered before bone marrow transplantation. As standard practice at our institution, patients who are scheduled to receive a bone marrow transplant are treated prophylactically with forced hydration and bladder irrigation. In an attempt to obviate the inconvenience of bladder irrigation, we conducted a feasibility trial of uroprophylaxis with mesna, which neutralizes the hepatic metabolite of cyclophosphamide that causes hemorrhagic cystitis. Of 97 patients who received standard prophylaxis, 4 had symptomatic hemorrhagic cystitis. In contrast, two of four consecutive patients who received mesna uroprophylaxis before allogeneic bone marrow transplantation had severe hemorrhagic cystitis for at least 2 weeks. Because of this suboptimal result, we resumed the use of bladder irrigation and forced hydration to minimize the risk of hemorrhagic cystitis.
The aim of this study was to compare fluoxetine dosage titration to 40-60 mg/day with fixed fluoxetine 20-mg/day treatment for an additional 10 weeks in pediatric outpatients with major depressive disorder (MDD) who had not met protocol-defined response criteria after 9-week acute fluoxetine treatment.
Patients unresponsive (less than or equal to 30% decrease in Children's Depression Rating Scale-Revised [CDRS-R] score) after 9-week fluoxetine treatment were randomly reassigned to continue at 20 mg/day or to increase to 40 mg/day. After 4 weeks, patients unresponsive to 40 mg/day could receive 60 mg/day.
Twenty-nine (29) patients, 9-17 years of age, received fluoxetine 40-60 mg/day (n = 14) or 20 mg/day (n = 15). At the conclusion of this study phase, 10 patients (71%) on 40-60 mg/day met the response criteria, versus 5 patients (36%) on 20 mg/day (p = 0.128). Mean CDRS-R scores improved in both treatment groups (fluoxetine 40-60 mg/day, -9.4; fluoxetine 20 mg/day, -1.5; p = 0.099). Adverse events were similar in both groups. However, this study phase was statistically underpowered for detecting differences between treatment groups.
More than two thirds of patients whose dosage was increased responded within 10 weeks, suggesting dose escalation may benefit some patients. Approximately one third of patients unresponsive to initial treatment with fluoxetine 20 mg responded to this fixed dosage within another 10 weeks. Fluoxetine 20-60 mg/day was well tolerated.
There is still no animal model available that can mimic all the cognitive, behavioral, biochemical, and histopathological abnormalities observed in patients with Alzheimer&apos;s disease (AD). We undertook to consider the interaction between genetic factors, including amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1), and environmental factors, such as Aluminum (Al) in determining susceptibility outcomes when studying the pathogenesis of AD. In this article, we provide an AD model in APP/PS1 transgenic mice triggered by Al. The animal model was established via intracerebral ventricular microinjection of aluminum chloride once a day for 5 days in APP/PS1 transgenic mice. Twenty wild type (WT) mice and 20 APP/PS1 transgenic (TG) mice were separately divided into 2 groups (control and Al group), and a stainless steel injector with stopper was used for microinjection into the left-lateral cerebral ventricle of each mouse. The Morris water maze task was used to evaluate behavioral function of learning and memory ability on the 20th day after the last injection. This AD model&apos;s brain was analyzed by: (1) amyloid beta immunohistochemical staining; (2) Tunnel staining; (3) apoptotic rates; (4) caspase-3 gene expression. Here, decrease of cognitive ability and neural cells loss were shown in APP/PS1 transgenic mice exposed to Al, which were more extensive than those in APP/PS1 TG alone and WT mice exposed to Al alone. These findings indicate that there is a close relationship between over-expression of APP and PS1 genes and Al overload. It is also suggested that APP/PS1 TG mice exposed to Al have potential value for improving AD models.
The influence of diazepam treatment following prolonged ethanol administration was toxicologically examined in rhesus monkeys and rats. In the monkey, ethanol was intragastrically administered through a chronically implanted catheter by programmed infusions at doses of 1.5 g/kg 4 times daily every 6 hours over a period of 5 or 10 weeks and followed by intragastric administration of diazepam 4 mg/kg twice a day for 5 weeks. In the rat, ethanol was administered by gavage at doses of 8 g/kg once a day or 4 g/kg twice a day for 5 weeks after which diazepam 300 mg/kg was intragastrically administered once daily for 5 weeks. In the monkey, ethanol produced such toxic changes as hypertriglyceridaemia, fatty metamorphosis of the hepatocytes associated with megamitochondria, proliferation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and vacuolation in the hepatocytes, and gastritis. Diazepam did not aggravate but mostly alleviated these changes. In the rat, on the contrary, the serum GPT level slightly elevated due to the ethanol administration, and remained at the elevated level with the diazepam treatment in contrast with the complete recovery with non-treatment for 5 weeks after the ethanol administration. However, such changes as increase of fat droplets in the hepatocytes and the triglyceride concentration in the liver which had been developed by ethanol administration recovered during the diazepam treatment period. In spite of the recovery, the elevation of the serum GPT level being remained by diazepam may indicate possible influence of diazepam on the liver function when the drug is administered after prolonged administration of ethanol.
We assessed the effect of 1,3-butanediol on cerebral energy metabolism and edema after inducing multifocal brain infarcts in 108 rats by the intracarotid injection of 50-microns carbonized microspheres. An ethanol dimer that induces systemic ketosis, 25 mmol/kg i.p. butanediol was injected every 3 hours to produce a sustained increase in the plasma level of beta-hydroxybutyrate. Treatment significantly attenuated ischemia-induced metabolic changes by increasing the concentrations of phosphocreatine, adenosine triphosphate, and glycogen and by reducing the concentrations of pyruvate and lactate. Lactate concentration 2, 6, and 12 hours after embolization decreased by 13%, 44%, and 46%, respectively. Brain water content increased from 78.63% in six unembolized rats to 80.93% in 12 saline-treated and 79.57% in seven butanediol-treated rats 12 hours after embolization. (p less than 0.05). The decrease in water content was associated with significant decreases in the concentrations of sodium and chloride. The antiedema effect of butanediol could not be explained by an osmotic mechanism since equimolar doses of urea or ethanol were ineffective. Our results support the hypothesis that the beneficial effect of butanediol is mediated through cerebral utilization of ketone bodies arising from butanediol metabolism, reducing the rate of glycolysis and the deleterious accumulation of lactic acid during ischemia.
We treated a patient in whom a hepatocellular carcinoma and a hyperplastic nodule of the liver concomitantly grew in association with long term phosphate diethylstilbestrol therapy for a carcinoma of the prostate. A 72-year-old Japanese man was admitted for investigation of hepatic masses. A diagnosis of prostate carcinoma had been made seven years ago and phosphate diethylstilbestrol 200 mg daily had been prescribed. A small mass was first detected in the liver four years later and another mass appeared three years after the appearance of the first mass. Histology of the excised tissue showed the former mass to be a hyperplastic nodule and the latter one hepatocellular carcinoma. Findings of cirrhosis, hepatitis or fibrosis were nil but fatty metamorphosis of the hepatocytes was apparent. These histological changes were considered to be associated with long-term phosphate diethylstilbestrol therapy therefore careful follow-up using amazing diagnosis is recommended for patients on phosphate diethylstilbestrol therapy.
To investigate the influence of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) on the expression of transforming growth factor beta(1) (TGF-beta(1)), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and tissue inhibitor-1 of metalloproteinase (TIMP-1) in rats with pulmonary damage induced by paraquat (PQ).
Fifty-four healthy male SD rats were randomly assigned into the control group (normal saline), the PQ-treatment groups (4 groups) and the PDTC treatment groups (4 groups). Except the rats in the control group, the rats in the PQ group were gavaged only with 40 mg/kg PQ, and PDTC group with 40 mg/kg PQ plus immediate injection 120 mg/kg PDTC (i.p). On the 3rd, the 7th, the 14th and 28th day after treatments, one group rats of each treatments were sacrificed and lung and blood samples were collected. The level of TGF-beta(1) protein in the plasma, the mRNA expression of TGF-beta(1), MMP-2 and TIMP-1 were evaluated using RT-PCR and real-time quantitative PCR, while pathological changes of lung were examined under optical microscope and electrical microscope.
The TGF-beta(1) protein, TGF-beta(1) and MMP-2 mRNA expression were increased significantly in the earlier stage and then decreased after PQ administration (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01), while the mRNA level of TIMP-1 was augmented continuously (P < 0.01) throughout the study compared to the control group. In comparison with the PQ group, in the PDTC treatment group, the TGF-beta(1) mRNA expression on the 3rd and the 14th day, 0.54 +/- 0.08 and 0.72 +/- 0.04 respectively, the MMP-2 mRNA expression on the 7th and 14th day, 1.62 +/- 0.50 and 1.97 +/- 0.34 respective-ly, and the TIMP-1 mRNA on the 7th and 21st day, 1.79 +/- 0.21 and 2.00 +/- 0.34 respectively, were significantly decreased (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01).
PDTC could attenuate paraquat-induced up-regulation of TGF-beta(1) and its mRNA expression, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 mRNA levels, which indicates that PDTC may exert its protective effects on paraquat-induced pulmonary damage by alleviating the earlier inflammation damage and adjust-ing the balance between MMPs and TIMPs. However, further studies are still warranted to investigate and clarify the underlying mechanisms involved in this complicated process.
Cymbopogon winterianus (Poaceae) is used for its analgesic, anxiolytic and anticonvulsant properties in Brazilian folk medicine. This report aimed to perform phythochemical screening and to investigate the possible anticonvulsant effects of the essential oil (EO) from fresh leaves of C. winterianus in different models of epilepsy. The phytochemical analysis of EO showed presence of geraniol (40.06%), citronellal (27.44%) and citronellol (10.45%) as the main compounds. A behavioral screening demonstrated that EO (100, 200 and 400mg/kg; ip) caused depressant activity on CNS. When administered concurrently, EO (200 and 400mg/kg, ip) significantly reduced the number of animals that exhibited PTZ- and PIC-induced seizures in 50% of the experimental animals (p<0.05). Additionally, EO (100, 200 and 400mg/kg, ip) significantly increased (p<0.05) the latencies of clonic seizures induced by STR. Our results demonstrated a possible activity anticonvulsant of the EO.
To compare cardiovascular (CV) and other safety and efficacy parameters of etoricoxib 60 and 90 mg, and diclofenac 150 mg.
This double-blind study randomized OA patients to etoricoxib 90 mg, then to 60 mg once daily vs diclofenac 75 mg twice daily; RA patients were randomized to etoricoxib 90 mg once daily or diclofenac 75 mg twice daily. The primary endpoint was non-inferiority of etoricoxib vs diclofenac for thrombotic CV events (95% CI upper bound of hazard ratio <1.30). Other safety and efficacy parameters were evaluated in cohorts of patients based on etoricoxib dose and disease.
A total of 23 504 patients were randomized with mean treatment duration from 19.4 to 20.8 months. The thrombotic CV risk hazard ratio (HR) (etoricoxib to diclofenac) was 0.96 (95% CI 0.81, 1.15), consistent with non-inferiority of etoricoxib to diclofenac. The cumulative gastrointestinal (GI)/liver adverse events (AEs) discontinuation rate was significantly lower for etoricoxib than diclofenac in each patient cohort; HR (95% CI) of 0.46 (0.39, 0.54), 0.52 (0.42, 0.63) and 0.49 (0.39, 0.62) for the 60 mg OA, 90 mg OA and RA cohorts. The maximum average change in systolic blood pressure (BP) with etoricoxib was 3.4-3.6 mmHg (diastolic BP: 1.0-1.5 mmHg), while diclofenac produced a maximum average change of 0.9-1.9 mmHg (diastolic BP: 0.0-0.5 mmHg). Both agents resulted in similar efficacy regardless of etoricoxib dose.
Long-term etoricoxib use is associated with a risk of thrombotic CV events comparable with that of diclofenac. Compared with diclofenac, etoricoxib demonstrated a greater risk of renovascular AEs, but a more favourable GI/liver tolerability profile.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or "Ecstasy") and 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine hydrochloride (DOI) are hallucinogenic amphetamines with addictive properties. The hippocampus is involved in learning and memory and seems particularly vulnerable to amphetamine's neurotoxicity. We evaluated the neurotoxicity of DOI and MDMA in primary neuronal cultures of hippocampus obtained from Wistar rat embryos (E-17 to E-19). Mature neurons after 10 days in culture were exposed for 24 or 48 h either to MDMA (100-800 μM) or DOI (10-100 μM). Both the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and the tetrazolium-based (MTT) assays revealed a concentration- and time-dependent neuronal death and mitochondrial dysfunction after exposure to both drugs. Both drugs promoted a significant increase in caspase-8 and caspase-3 activities. At concentrations that produced similar levels of neuronal death, DOI promoted a higher increase in the activity of both caspases than MDMA. In the mitochondrial fraction of neurons exposed 24h to DOI or MDMA, we found a significant increase in the 67 kDa band of apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) by Western blot. Moreover, 24h exposure to DOI promoted an increase in cytochrome c in the cytoplasmatic fraction of neurons. Pre-treatment with an antibody raised against the 5-HT(2A)-receptor (an irreversible antagonist) greatly attenuated neuronal death promoted by 48 h exposure to DOI or MDMA. In conclusion, hallucinogenic amphetamines promoted programmed neuronal death involving both the mitochondria machinery and the extrinsic cell death key regulators. Death was dependent, at least in part, on the stimulation of the 5-HT(2A)-receptors.
Rosiglitazone, a potent agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma, exerts anti-inflammatory effects in vitro and in vivo. This study was designated to determine the effects of rosiglitazone on endotoxin-induced acute lung injury in rats.
Prospective, experimental study.
University research laboratory.
Thirty-six male Wistar rats.
All the animals were randomly assigned to one of six groups (n = 6 per group) and were given either lipopolysaccharide (6 mg/kg intravenously) or saline, pretreated with rosiglitazone (0.3 mg/kg intravenously) or vehicle (10% dimethyl sulphoxide) 30 mins before lipopolysaccharide. The selective PPAR-gamma antagonist GW9662 (0.3 mg/kg intravenously) or its vehicle (10% dimethyl sulphoxide) was given 20 mins before rosiglitazone.
Endotoxemia for 4 hrs induced evident lung histologic injury and edema, both of which were significantly attenuated by rosiglitazone pretreatment. The protective effects of rosiglitazone were correlated with the reduction by 71% of the increase of myeloperoxidase activity and the reduction by 84% of the increase of malondialdehyde in the lung tissue. The pulmonary hyperproduction of nitric oxide was reduced by 82% of the increase related to lipopolysaccharide challenge. Pretreatment with rosiglitazone also markedly suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA and protein in the lung, as demonstrated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction or Western blot analysis. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that rosiglitazone inhibited the formation of nitrotyrosine, a marker for peroxynitrite reactivity, in the lung tissue. In addition, the specific PPAR-gamma antagonist GW9662 antagonized the effects of rosiglitazone.
This study provides evidence, for the first time, that the PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone significantly reduces endotoxin-induced acute lung injury in rats.
Wilson disease, an autosomal recessive disorder of copper transport, is probably the most common inherited metabolic disorder in Korea. In Wilson disease, synthesis of a defective copper transporting enzyme leads to the accumulation of copper in the liver, brain, and kidney. The product of the Wilson disease gene is a copper transporting P-type ATPase (ATP7B). In this study, efforts were made to identify novel mutations and investigate the frequency of the common mutations in Korean patients with Wilson disease.
This study includes 37 patients from 33 unrelated Korean families with Wilson disease. Genomic DNA from peripheral leukocytes or skin fibroblasts and cDNA from liver tissue were polymerase chain reaction-amplified exon by exon and subsequently analyzed using heteroduplex or single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis. Specimens showing mobility shift on those studies were directly sequenced.
Twelve different mutations in 33 Korean families with Wilson disease were identified: Arg778Leu (R778L), Asn1270Ser (N1270S), Ala874Val (A874V), 2303-2305delC, 2630-2656del, 2460-2462insC, Cys656Stop (C656X), Pro768His (P768H), Leu1083Phe (L1083F), Ala1168Ser (A1168S), Leu1255Ile (L1255I), and Asp1267Ala (D1267A). Among these, six mutations (2630-2656del, 2460-2462insC, C656X, P768H, A1168S, and L1255I) are novel. The R778L mutation is known to be highly prevalent in Asian patients. The allele frequency of R778L in Korean patients with Wilson disease was 37.9%, which was significantly higher than those of Japanese and Taiwanese patients. The N1270S mutation, originally described in an Italian patient, was the next most common mutation in Korean patients, with an allele frequency of 12.1%, which was presumed to disrupt the ATP hinge domain of the ATP7B protein. The A874V mutation was the third most common mutation with an allele frequency of 9.4%, which was presumed to disrupt the Td domain of the ATP7B protein.
The R778L, N1270S, and A874V mutations are three major mutations representing approximately 60% of mutated alleles, although Korean patients with Wilson disease are genetically heterogeneous.
Digitoxin and other cardiac glycosides are important, centuries-old drugs for treating congestive heart failure. However, the mechanism of action of these compounds is still being elucidated. Calcium is known to potentiate the toxicity of these drugs, and we have hypothesized that digitoxin might mediate calcium entry into cells. We report here that digitoxin molecules mediate calcium entry into intact cells. Multimers of digitoxin molecules also are able to form calcium channels in pure planar phospholipid bilayers. These digitoxin channels are blocked by Al(3+) and La(3+) but not by Mg(2+) or the classical l-type calcium channel blocker, nitrendipine. In bilayers, we find that the chemistry of the lipid affects the kinetics of the digitoxin channel activity, but not the cation selectivity. Antibodies against digitoxin promptly neutralize digitoxin channels in both cells and bilayers. We propose that these digitoxin calcium channels may be part of the mechanism by which digitoxin and other active cardiac glycosides, such as digoxin, exert system-wide actions at and above the therapeutic concentration range.
An increase in preprodynorphin (ppdyn) mRNA was detected in the caudate putamen of chronically cocaine-treated and 3-h withdrawn rats. An increase in mu-opioid receptor (MOP) mRNA levels was observed in the frontal cortex of 3-h withdrawn rats. Naloxone had no effect on the increase of MOP or ppdyn mRNA levels. The results indicate that the opioid system is altered during early withdrawal from chronic cocaine administration.
In a conscious unrestrained rat model, it takes approximately 1 week for angiotensin II to increase blood pressure to maximum levels. We investigated the time required for hypertension to fully recover after acute angiotensin II receptor blockade in this angiotensin II dependent hypertensive model.
Conscious unrestrained rats (n = 8) infused with 10 ng/kg per min angiotensin II for 21 days received losartan (10 mg/kg) on day 17 of angiotensin II infusion. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate were monitored continuously. The acute pressor response to 50 ng/kg per min angiotensin II was monitored for 2 h on days 15, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of angiotensin II infusion. Plasma renin concentration (PRC) was measured daily.
Angiotensin II increased MAP acutely by 26 +/- 2 mmHg and by a further 23 +/- 4 mmHg between days 4 and 8. Losartan acutely reduced MAP by 75 +/- 2 mmHg; 24 h later MAP had partially recovered but remained suppressed by 47 +/- 3 mmHg. MAP had not fully recovered 4 days later. Some 2 h after losartan, the acute pressor response to angiotensin II had fallen from 24 +/- 2 mmHg to zero. This recovered to 13 +/- 5 and 28 +/- 2 mmHg 24 and 48 h post losartan. After losartan PRC rose from 0.1 +/- 0.05 to above 1 ng/ml per h for less than 24 h.
A single dose of losartan reverses both the fast and slow pressor effects of continuous angiotensin II infusions. While losartan is metabolized, the fast vasoconstrictor effect recovers quickly but the slow pressor effect takes almost a week to build up again to maximum levels. Since the slow pressor effect is mediated via the AT1 receptor, any means of blocking the renin-angiotensin system is likely to keep blood pressure below maximum hypertensive levels for several days after the drug has disappeared from the circulation.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is established as one of the most effective drugs for treatment of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia, as well as other types of malignant tumors. However, HL-60 cells are resistant to As(2)O(3), and little is known about the underlying resistance mechanism for As(2)O(3) and its biomethylation products, namely, monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) on the treatment of tumors. In the present study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying iAs(III) and its intermediate metabolite MMA(III)-induced anticancer effects in the HL-60 cells. Here, we show that the HL-60 cells exhibit resistance to inorganic iAs(III) (IC(50) = 10 μM), but are relatively sensitive to its intermediate MMA(III) (IC(50) = 3.5 μM). Moreover, we found that the multidrug resistance protein 1 (MRP1), but not MRP2, is expressed in HL-60 cells, which reduced the intracellular arsenic accumulation, and conferred resistance to inorganic iAs(III) and MMA(III). Pretreatment of HL-60 with MK571, an inhibitor of MRP1, significantly increased iAs(III) and MMA(III)-induced cytotoxicity and arsenic accumulations, suggesting that the expression of MRP1/4 may lead to HL-60 cells resistance to trivalent arsenic compounds.
