Although hyperprolactinemia is a common side effect during risperidone treatment in adult patients, no information is available on young children. The aim of this study is to report on serum prolactin levels in 25 young autistic children (22 males and 3 females, age range 3.9-7 years, mean age 4.10 years) during treatment with risperidone (dosage range 0.25-0.90 mg/day, mean dosage 0.52 mg/day). Prolactin levels were measured at baseline and after 10 weeks of treatment. The clinical outcome measure used was the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement. Serum prolactin was 9.77 +/- 3.94 ng/mL at baseline and 25.92 +/- 13.9 ng/mL during the 10th week of treatment (p < 0.001). Six children (24%) showed prolactin levels lower than 15 ng/mL, which is the upper normal level; eight children (28%) had prolactin levels higher than two times the upper limit (30 ng/mL). Hyperprolactinemia did not show significant correlations with age, weight, or risperidone dosage. There was no relation with clinical outcome. Dose reduction of risperidone resulted in a decrease of prolactin levels. None of the children showed clinical signs of hyperprolactinemia. Given the paucity of available data on potential effects of long-term hyperprolactinemia, a monitoring of prolactin during treatment with risperidone and other typical and atypical antipsychotics may be warranted.
Women with stage III/IV versus stage I/II endometriosis have lower implantation and pregnancy rates in natural and assisted reproduction cycles. To elucidate potential molecular mechanisms underlying these clinical observations, herein we investigated the transcriptome of eutopic endometrium across the menstrual cycle in the setting of severe versus mild endometriosis. Proliferative (PE), early secretory (ESE), and mid-secretory (MSE) endometrial tissues were obtained from 63 participants with endometriosis (19 mild and 44 severe). Purified RNA was subjected to microarray analysis using the Gene 1.0 ST Affymetrix platform. Data were analyzed with GeneSpring and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis and subsequently validated. Comparison of differentially regulated genes, analyzed by cycle phase, revealed dysregulation of progesterone and/or cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-regulated genes and genes related to thyroid hormone action and metabolism. Also, members of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathway were observed, with the greatest upregulation of EGFR in severe versus mild disease during the early secretory phase. The extracellular matrix proteoglycan versican (VCAN), which regulates cell proliferation and apoptosis, was the most highly expressed gene in severe versus mild disease. Upregulation of microRNA 21 (MIR21) and DICER1 transcripts suggests roles for microRNAs (miRNAs) in the pathogenesis of severe versus mild endometriosis, potentially through regulation of gene silencing and epigenetic mechanisms. These observed differences in transcriptomic signatures and signaling pathways may result in poorly programmed endometrium during the cycle, contributing to lower implantation and pregnancy rates in women with severe versus mild endometriosis.
Dystonia is a movement disorder characterized by sustained twisting movements and muscle contractions and abnormal postures. Dystonia is a symptom present in many diseases of the central nervous system. Anatomical data reveal that dystonia appears in diseases involving the basal ganglia, diencephalon, brain stem and cerebellum. Physiological studies revealed an abnormal facilitation of polysynaptic reflexes at the brain stem level. A common pathogenic mechanism for dystonia must be found in order to delineate in effective treatment. From clinical and biochemical data we suggest that dystonia is produced by abnormal shift to the norepinephrine/dopamine neurotransmission in favor of norepinephrine in different brain areas.
The present study is the first to utilize bacterial cocaine esterase (CocE) to increase elimination of a lethal dose of cocaine and evaluate its cardioprotective effects. Rats received one of 5 treatments: CocE 1 min after saline; CocE 1 min after a lethal i.p. dose of cocaine; saline 1 min after a lethal i.p. dose of cocaine; CocE immediately after observing a cocaine-induced convulsion; and CocE 1 min after observing a cocaine-induced convulsion. Measures were taken of ECG, blood pressure, and cardiac troponin I (cTnI). The specificity of CocE against cocaine was determined by evaluating its actions against the cocaine analogue, WIN-35,065-2, which lacks an ester attack point for CocE. In addition, CocE's effects were compared with those of midazolam, a benzodiazepine often used to manage cocaine overdose. Whereas CocE alone had negligible cardiovascular effects, it blocked or reversed cocaine-induced QRS complex widening, increased QTc interval, ST elevation, bradycardia, and hypertension. When administered 1 min after cocaine, CocE inhibited myocardial damage; however, administered 1 min after a cocaine-induced convulsion (approximately 40s before cocaine-induced death), CocE did not block cTnI release, but did restore cardiac function. Midazolam blocked convulsions, but exhibited inadequate protection against cocaine-induced cardiotoxicity. The majority of rats given cocaine plus midazolam died. CocE did not prevent the lethal cardiovascular effects of WIN-35,065-2. In all likelihood, CocE rapidly and specifically reduced the body burden of cocaine and inhibited or reversed the cardiovascular consequences of high-dose cocaine. These results support CocE as a potential therapeutic avenue in cocaine overdose.
Many dentists are unaware of the documented adverse drug reaction of doxycycline: induced dizziness. Because doxycycline is frequently prescribed in dentistry, it is important for dentists and patients to be aware of this significant adverse reaction to prevent medical complications. A clinical case is reported in which a patient developed dizziness after taking doxycycline that was prescribed following periodontal surgery. The dizziness resolved when the doxycycline was stopped. Patients and dentists should be educated to recognize the signs and symptoms of doxycycline's adverse reactions.
Risperidone, a potent antagonist of both serotonergic (5HT2A) and dopaminergic D2 receptors is associated with hyperprolactinemia in adults and children. Chronically elevated prolactin levels in children with prolactinomas may be associated with arrested growth and development resulting in either delayed puberty or short stature. These possibilities stress the importance of developing a safe and effective approach to drug-induced hyperprolactinemia in youth. We report the successful treatment of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia with cabergoline in youth.
We undertook a retrospective case review of four children with risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia treated with cabergoline.
Four males (age 6-11 years) with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (fourth edition) bipolar disorder or psychoses, with risperidone-induced elevations in serum prolactin levels (57.5-129 ng/mL, normal 5-15 ng/mL), were treated with cabergoline (mean dose 2.13 +/- 0.09 mg/week). When serum prolactin levels normalized in all four subjects (mean 11.2 +/- 10.9 ng/mL), the cabergoline dose was reduced to 1 mg/week in three of four subjects. The mean duration of therapy with cabergoline was 523.5 +/- 129.7 days, and the mean duration of therapy with risperidone was 788.5 +/- 162.5 days. Cabergoline was well tolerated without adverse effects.
Cabergoline may be useful for the treatment of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia in youth; however, further research is needed.
The kappa opioid receptor (KOR) antagonist, JDTic, was reported to prevent stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine-maintained responding and to have antidepressant-like effects.
Our objectives were to determine whether analogs of JDTic retained KOR antagonist activity and whether an orally effective analog prevented footshock-induced cocaine reinstatement.
RTI-194 (i.g. 1-30 mg/kg, s.c. 0.3-10 mg/kg, and i.p. 30 mg/kg), RTI-212 (s.c. 0.3-10 mg/kg and i.p. 30 mg/kg), and RTI-230 (i.g. 3-30 mg/kg and i.p. 1-30 mg/kg) were evaluated for their ability to block diuresis induced by 10-mg/kg U50,488 in rats. RTI-194 was additionally evaluated i.g. (3-100 mg/kg) for its ability to prevent footshock-induced reinstatement of responding previously reinforced with 0.5-mg/kg/inf cocaine.
RTI-194 significantly (p < 0.05) attenuated U50,488-induced diuresis when given i.g., s.c., and i.p. RTI-194s effectiveness increased 1 week following administration. RTI-212 was ineffective. RTI-230 was ineffective when given i.g., but blocked diuresis at 24 h and 8 days (1, 10, and 30 mg/kg), 15 days (10 and 30 mg/kg), 22 and 29 days (30 mg/kg) following i.p. administration. Footshock reinstated responding in vehicle-but not RTI-194 (30 and 100 mg/kg)-treated rats.
RTI-194 and RTI-230 are effective KOR antagonists, and RTI-194 is now included with JDTic as the only reported compounds capable of antagonizing the KOR following oral administration. The failure of stress to reinstate cocaine seeking in rats treated with RTI-194 is consistent with results reported with JDTic, although it had less efficacy in lowering response levels than JDTic, suggesting a diminished overall effectiveness relative to it.
Neuroanatomical studies suggest that neuronal atrophy and destruction occur over the course of many years in neurodegenerative conditions such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. In schizophrenia, early intervention with atypical neuroleptics such as olanzapine has been shown to prevent development of some of the more serious and debilitating symptoms in many patients. The mechanisms whereby olanzapine slows or prevents symptom progression in schizophrenia remain unclear. A previous study found that olanzapine increased mRNA for the copper/zinc isoform of the superoxide dismutase enzyme (SOD-1). We investigated the effects of olanzapine in PC12 cells exposed to hydrogen peroxide. We measured cell viability, observed evidence of necrosis and apoptosis, checked the SOD-1 mRNA by Northern blot analyses, and determined SOD-1 enzyme activity. We found that: (1) the decrease in cell viability induced by hydrogen peroxide was attenuated in PC12 cells pretreated with olanzapine; (2) olanzapine increased SOD enzyme activity in PC12 cells; (3) inhibiting SOD activity with diethyldithiocarbamic acid prevented the cytoprotective actions of olanzapine; and (4) the decrease in SOD-1 mRNA level induced by hydrogen peroxide was blocked by pretreatment with olanzapine. These data indicate that the neuroprotective action of olanzapine includes the upregulation of SOD.
Paranoia in the context of cocaine abuse is common and potentially dangerous. Several lines of evidence suggest that this phenomenon may be related to function of the dopamine transporter protein (DAT). DAT is the site of presynaptic reuptake of dopamine, an event that terminates its synaptic activity. The gene coding for dopamine transporter protein (DAT1) contains a variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) polymorphism in the 3' untranslated region that can be typed by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (Vandenbergh et al. 1992). Although this is not a coding region polymorphism, it is close to the coding region and could plausibly be in linkage disequilibrium with a mutation in the gene. Cocaine blocks the dopamine transporter and increases synaptic availability of dopamine. We examined DAT alleles in 58 white and 45 black cocaine users in order to test only two hypotheses: (1) Is there an allelic association between DAT and cocaine dependence? and (2) Is there an allelic association between DAT and cocaine-induced paranoia? We did not demonstrate an allelic association with cocaine dependence. However, within the white sample, DAT genotype was associated with cocaine-induced paranoia (allele frequency for allele 9 = .16 for those without paranoid experiences versus .35 for those with, chi 2 = 3.9 [2 x 2 table], p < .05). There was no significant difference for the same measure in the black sample. Certain DAT genotypes may therefore predispose to paranoia in the context of cocaine use in white populations. We caution that these results require independent replication.
Indapamide, an antihypertensive drug with diuretic and vasodilative effect, causes a reduction in plasmatic potassium concentration that is generally moderate and not such as to cause damages. In the present article two cases are described that showed severe changes due to hypokalaemia resulting from treatment with indapamide.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third most common cause of cancer related mortality worldwide. 9-Nitrocamptothecin (9NC) is a potent topoisomerase-I inhibitor with strong anticancer effect. To increase the solubility and stability, we synthesized a novel 9NC loaded liposomes (9NC-LP) via incorporating 9NC into liposomes. In the present study, we determined the effects of 9NC and 9NC-LP on in vitro and in vivo, and the underlying mechanisms.
We first analyzed the characteristics of 9NC-LP. Then we compared the effects of 9NC and 9NC-LP on the proliferation and apoptosis of HepG2, Bel-7402, Hep3B and L02 cells in vitro. We also investigated their anticancer properties in nude mice bearing HCC xenograft in vivo. 9NC-LP has a uniform size (around 190 nm) and zeta potential (∼-11 mV), and exhibited a steady sustained-release pattern profile in vitro. Both 9NC and 9NC-LP could cause cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in a dose-dependent and p53-dependent manner. However, this effect was not ubiquitous in all cell lines. Exposure to 9NC-LP led to increased expression of p53, p21, p27, Bax, caspase-3, caspase-8, caspase-9 and apoptosis-inducing factor, mitochondrion-associated 1 and decreased expression of Bcl-2, cyclin E, cyclin A, Cdk2 and cyclin D1. Furthermore, 9NC-LP exhibited a more potent antiproliferative effect and less side effects in vivo. Western blot analysis of the xenograft tumors in nude mice showed similar changes in protein expression in vivo.
In conclusion, 9NC and 9NC-LP can inhibit HCC growth via cell cycle arrest and induction of apoptosis. 9NC-LP has a more potent anti-tumor effect and fewer side effects in vivo, which means it is a promising reagent for cancer therapy via intravenous administration.
Nonalcoholic steatosis is an important hepatic complication of obesity linked to mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress. Lipoic acid (LA) has been reported to have beneficial effects on mitochondrial function and to attenuate oxidative stress. The sirtuin (SIRT) family has been demonstrated to play an important role in the regulation of mitochondrial function and in the activation of antioxidant defenses. In this study, we analyzed the potential protective effect of LA supplementation, via the modulation of mitochondrial defenses through the SIRT pathway, against oxidative stress associated with high-fat feeding. Wistar rats were fed a standard diet (control group (C), n = 10), a high-fat diet (obese group (OB), n = 10) and a high-fat diet supplemented with LA (OLIP, n = 10). A group pair-fed to the latter group (pair-fed OLIP group (PFO), n = 6) was also included. LA prevented hepatic triglyceride (TG) accumulation (-68.2%) and liver oxidative damage (P < 0.01) through the inhibition of hydroperoxide (H(2)O(2)) production (P < 0.001) and the stimulation of mitochondrial antioxidant defenses. LA treatment upregulated manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2) (60.6%) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) (100.2%) activities, and increased the reduced glutathione (GSH): oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio and UCP2 mRNA levels (P < 0.001-P < 0.01). Moreover, this molecule reduced oxidative damage in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and increased mitochondrial copy number (P < 0.001- P < 0.01). LA treatment decreased the acetylation levels of Forkhead transcription factor 3a (Foxo3a) and PGC1β (P < 0.001- P < 0.01) through the stimulation of SIRT3 and SIRT1 (P < 0.001). In summary, our results demonstrate that the beneficial effects of LA supplementation on hepatic steatosis could be mediated by its ability to restore the oxidative balance by increasing antioxidant defenses through the deacetylation of Foxo3a and PGC1β by SIRT1 and SIRT3.
Anomalous responses to morphine are common in patients with unexplained pain in the upper abdomen after cholecystectomy and may be linked to activation of the sympathetic nervous system. The hypothesis that sympathetic suppression would attenuate anomalous responses to morphine was tested by a randomized, cross-over trial using a standard challenge with morphine, with and without pretreatment with clonidine (300 micrograms orally, 1 h prior to the administration of morphine). In 13 of the 15 patients who completed the study, pre-treatment with clonidine decreased plasma concentrations of noradrenaline, dopamine and adrenaline by 56, 15 and 25% respectively. This was associated with a significant reduction in morphine-induced pain (p = 0.02) and nausea (p = 0.04) and attenuated increases in plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activity (p = 0.03). Clonidine attenuates anomalous responses to morphine, perhaps through effects on sympathetic nervous activity or plasma concentrations of catecholamines.
A method of carrying out contrast studies was considered for use in 124 persons with past histories of adverse reactions to contrast media. High-dosage steroid treatment was given before and during the contrast study to 37 patients with previous rash responses and 9 with prior anaphylactoid reactions; only 3 and 1 patients, respectively, of these groups had mild adverse reactions. Patients with past reactions deemed "vasomotor" underwent contrast study without preparative drug therapy without significant adverse effects. Although uncontrolled, this study suggests a possible protective role of steroids in patients with certain previous reactions to contrast media. We do not wish to imply that this is the only approach that can be used in the kind of patients reported here.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal disease of striated muscle deterioration resulting from the loss of the cytoskeletal protein dystrophin. Most patients develop significant cardiomyopathy, with heart failure being the second leading cause of death in DMD. Compared with the extensive studies on skeletal muscle defects and potential therapy in DMD, very little attention has been directed at the increasing incidence of heart failure in DMD. Here we show that a single systemic injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV2/6) harboring micro-dystrophin leads to extensive cardiac transduction, with micro-dystrophin correctly localized at the periphery of the cardiac myocytes and functionally associated with the sarcolemmal membrane. Significantly, micro-dystrophin gene transfer corrected the baseline end-diastolic volume defect in the mdx mouse heart and prevented cardiac pump failure induced by dobutamine stress testing in vivo, although several parameters of systolic function were not corrected. These results demonstrate that systemic gene delivery of micro-dystrophin can restore ventricular distensibility and protect the mdx myocardium from pump dysfunction during adrenergic stimulation in vivo.
Ventricular arryhythmias including ventricular fibrillation were produced with epinephrine in dogs induced to an anesthetic state with thiamylal and maintained with halothane. In dogs given (premedicated) xylazine 20 minutes prior to anesthesia, ventricular arrhythmias, including ventricular fibrillation, were induced with much smaller doses of epinephrine than in nonpremedicated dogs. Dogs premedicated with acetylpromazine 20 minutes prior to anesthesia with thiamylal and halothane displayed protection from epinephrine-induced arrhythmias. Caution is advised from using xylazine in the presence of halothane if epinephrine is to be administered.
The progression from preinvasive lesion to invasive carcinoma is a critical step contributing to breast cancer lethality. We identified downregulation of milk fat globule-EGF factor 8 (MFG-E8) as a contributor to breast cancer progression using microarray analysis of laser capture microdissected (LCM) tissues. We first identified MFG-E8 downregulation in invasive lesions in transgenic mammary tumor models, which were confirmed in LCM-isolated human invasive ductal carcinomas compared with patient-matched normal tissues. In situ analyses of MFG-E8 expression in estrogen receptor (ER) positive cases confirmed its downregulation during breast cancer progression and small inhibitory MFG-E8 RNAs accelerated ER(+) breast cancer cell proliferation. MFG-E8 also decreased in erbB2(+) human cancers and erbB2 transgenic mice lacking MFG-E8 showed accelerated tumor formation. In contrast, MFG-E8 expression was present at high levels in triple-negative (ER(-), PgR(-), erbB2(-)) breast cancers, cell lines, and patient sera. Knockdown, chromatin immunoprecipitation, and reporter assays all showed that p63 regulates MFG-E8 expression, and MFG-E8 knockdowns sensitized triple-negative breast cancers to cisplatin treatment. Taken together, our results show that MFG-E8 is expressed in triple-negative breast cancers as a target gene of the p63 pathway, but may serve a suppressive function in ER(+) and erbB2(+) breast cancers. Its potential use as a serum biomarker that contributes to the pathogenesis of triple-negative breast cancers urges continued evaluation of its differential functions.
Herein we present a case of a 9-month-old boy admitted to our hospital for acute femoral osteomyelitis and hip septic arthritis treatment. Acute hepatitis with concomitant skin rash developed on the sixth day of intravenous oxacillin therapy. No other known virus- or drug-related skin eruption or hepatitis was suspected. The boy recovered completely after antibiotics were shifted to teicoplanin, and no sequelae were noted. To our knowledge, this boy is the youngest case of reported oxacillin-related hepatitis in the literatures.
Quinacrine hydrochloride is toxic for the heart of F-344 rats. Rats treated with 500 ppm quinacrine hydrochloride in the diet all developed a high incidence of left atrial thrombosis. The lesion was associated with cardiac hypertrophy and dilatation and focal myocardial degeneration. Rats died from cardiac hypertrophy with severe acute and chronic congestion of the lungs, liver, and other organs. Seventy percent of rats given 250 ppm quinacrine hydrochloride and 1,000 ppm sodium nitrite simultaneously in the diet had thrombosis of the atria of the heart, while untreated control rats in this laboratory did not have atrial thrombosis. Sodium nitrite in combination with quinacrine hydrochloride appeared to have no additional effect.
Among the drugs used in conditioning regimens for stem cell transplantation, high-dose melphalan (HDM) plays an important role for both its strong myeloablative effect and for its favourable dose-response ratio. Here we report five cases of high frequency atrial fibrillation (AF) developing after HDM. Duration of the arrhythmia was always very short, beginning at variable intervals after the administration of HDM, in the absence of other factors potentially able to trigger AF. In all patients sinus rhythm was restored within 72 h and the follow-up did not show any cardiac damage. To the best of our knowledge, this side-effect has never been reported to occur after HDM.
Painful peripheral neuropathy is a major dose-limiting adverse effect of many cancer chemotherapeutic agents, such as the vinca alkaloids and taxanes. Recent studies demonstrate sexual dimorphism in second-messenger signaling for primary afferent nociceptor sensitization, and a role of second messengers in the models of metabolic and toxic painful peripheral neuropathies. This study tested the hypothesis that sexual dimorphism alters the severity and second-messenger signaling pathways for enhanced nociception in an animal model of vincristine-induced painful peripheral neuropathy.I.V. injection of vincristine induced mechanical hyperalgesia that was greater in female rats. Gonadectomy in the females but not the males abolished the sex-dependent difference in mechanical hyperalgesia; this effect of gonadectomy in females was reversed by estrogen replacement. Inhibition of protein kinase C epsilon (PKC epsilon ) attenuated vincristine-induced hyperalgesia in males and ovariectomized females, but not in normal females or in estrogen-replaced ovariectomized females. Inhibitors of protein kinase A, protein kinase G, p42 / p44-mitogen activated protein kinase and nitric oxide synthase also attenuated vincristine-induced hyperalgesia, but to a similar degree in both sexes. These data demonstrate an estrogen-dependent sexual dimorphism in vincristine-induced hyperalgesia (female>male) and an unexpected opposite sexual dimorphism in the contribution of PKC epsilon to the severity of this hyperalgesia (male>female).
Hexachlorobenzene (HCB) is a widespread organochlorine pesticide, considered a possible human carcinogen. It is a dioxin-like compound and a weak ligand of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). We have found that HCB activates c-Src/HER1/STAT5b and HER1/ERK1/2 signaling pathways and cell migration, in an AhR-dependent manner in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. The aim of this study was to investigate in vitro the effect of HCB (0.005, 0.05, 0.5, 5μM) on cell invasion and metalloproteases (MMPs) 2 and 9 activation in MDA-MB-231 cells. Furthermore, we examined in vivo the effect of HCB (0.3, 3, 30mg/kg b.w.) on tumor growth, MMP2 and MMP9 expression, and metastasis using MDA-MB-231 xenografts and two syngeneic mouse breast cancer models (spontaneous metastasis using C4-HI and lung experimental metastasis using LM3). Our results show that HCB (5μM) enhances MMP2 expression, as well as cell invasion, through AhR, c-Src/HER1 pathway and MMPs. Moreover, HCB increases MMP9 expression, secretion and activity through a HER1 and AhR-dependent mechanism, in MDA-MB-231 cells. HCB (0.3 and 3mg/kg b.w.) enhances subcutaneous tumor growth in MDA-MB-231 and C4-HI in vivo models. In vivo, using MDA-MB-231 model, the pesticide (0.3, 3 and 30mg/kg b.w.) activated c-Src, HER1, STAT5b, and ERK1/2 signaling pathways and increased MMP2 and MMP9 protein levels. Furthermore, we observed that HCB stimulated lung metastasis regardless the tumor hormone-receptor status. Our findings suggest that HCB may be a risk factor for human breast cancer progression.
Young female rats of the Wistar strain were fed a 20% soybean diet (approximately 8% soybean protein) with or without the supply of 0.3% methionine. Methionine supply caused an accumulation of triglycerides in the liver. In vitro incorporation of acetate-1-14C into the liver lipid fraction and its incorporation ratios of triglyceride/phospholipid were higher in the livers from rats fed the methionine-supplemented diet (Met diet) than in those of animals fed the 20% soybean diet (basal diet). In vivo incorporation of 32P into the phospholipid fraction was lower in the livers of rats fed the Met diet than in those of rats fed the basal diet. Injection of phospholipid (lecithin) through a tail vein increased the plasma level of esterified fatty acids in rats fed the Met diet only and not in those fed the basal diet. Injection of an apolipoprotein fraction produced no effect on the plasma esterified fatty acid levels. The effect of phospholipids in increasing triglyceride transport was confirmed in liver perfusion experiments. These results indicate that supplying methionine to the low soybean protein diet induced disproportionation of synthesis and transport of triglycerides by the shortage of phospholipids.
The relationship between ambient air pollution exposure and mortality of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases in human is controversial, and there is little information about how exposures to ambient air pollution contribution to the mortality of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases among Chinese. The aim of the present study was to examine whether exposure to ambient-air pollution increases the risk for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study among humans to examine the association between compound-air pollutants [particulate matter <10 µm in aerodynamic diameter (PM(10)), sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) and nitrogen dioxide (NO(2))] and mortality in Shenyang, China, using 12 years of data (1998-2009). Also, stratified analysis by sex, age, education, and income was conducted for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular mortality. The results showed that an increase of 10 µg/m(3) in a year average concentration of PM(10) corresponds to 55% increase in the risk of a death cardiovascular disease (hazard ratio [HR], 1.55; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.51 to 1.60) and 49% increase in cerebrovascular disease (HR, 1.49; 95% CI, 1.45 to 1.53), respectively. The corresponding figures of adjusted HR (95%CI) for a 10 µg/m(3) increase in NO(2) was 2.46 (2.31 to 2.63) for cardiovascular mortality and 2.44 (2.27 to 2.62) for cerebrovascular mortality, respectively. The effects of air pollution were more evident in female that in male, and nonsmokers and residents with BMI<18.5 were more vulnerable to outdoor air pollution.
Long-term exposure to ambient air pollution is associated with the death of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases among Chinese populations.
Neuropathy target esterase (NTE) is a phospholipase/lysophospholipase associated with organophosphorus (OP) compound-induced delayed neurotoxicity (OPIDN). Distal degeneration of motor axons occurs in both OPIDN and the hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs). Recently, mutations within the esterase domain of NTE were identified in patients with a novel type of HSP (SPG39) designated NTE-related motor neuron disease (NTE-MND). Two of these mutations, arginine 890 to histidine (R890H) and methionine 1012 to valine (M1012V), were created in human recombinant NTE catalytic domain (NEST) to measure possible changes in catalytic properties. These mutated enzymes had decreased specific activities for hydrolysis of the artificial substrate, phenyl valerate. In addition, the M1012V mutant exhibited a reduced bimolecular rate constant of inhibition (k(i)) for all three inhibitors tested: mipafox, diisopropylphosphorofluoridate, and chlorpyrifos oxon. Finally, while both mutated enzymes inhibited by OP compounds exhibited altered time-dependent loss of their ability to be reactivated by nucleophiles (aging), more pronounced effects were seen with the M1012V mutant. Taken together, the results from specific activity, inhibition, and aging experiments suggest that the mutations found in association with NTE-MND have functional correlates in altered enzymological properties of NTE.
The current use of doxorubicin is regarded as an absolute contraindication for hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) therapy because of the increased risk of cardiotoxicity. The aim of this study was to investigate whether additional exposure to HBO2 during the course of doxorubicin treatment would further increase the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin in rats. Female Wistar rats were treated with either HBO2 (n = 10) or doxorubicin (n = 8) or a combination of both treatments (n = 10) for 4 consecutive weeks and followed up for an additional 4 weeks. Cardiomyopathy was evaluated using two-dimensional and M-mode echocardiography at baseline, at the fourth, sixth and eighth weeks, and by histopathological investigation of the rat hearts at the eighth week. Doxorubicin treatment significantly reduced ejection fraction and fractional shortening (P < 0.001) and caused severe histopathological injury (P < 0.05) indicating development of cardiotoxicity. Although the combination of doxorubicin and HBO(2) also markedly reduced ejection fraction and fractional shortening (P < 0.001), this reduction was significantly less than that of doxorubicin treatment (P < 0.05). HBO2 therapy also attenuated doxorubicin-induced histopathological changes in rat hearts (P < 0.05). HBO2 alone did not alter echocardiographic parameters or histopathological findings (P > 0.05). In conclusion, HBO2 therapy does not potentiate doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in rats. Cardioprotection conferred by HBO2 against doxorubicin warrants further investigation.
