Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and erlotinib have been widely used in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. Unfortunately, the efficacy of EGFR-TKIs is limited because of natural and acquired resistance. As a novel cytoprotective mechanism for tumor cell to survive under unfavorable conditions, autophagy has been proposed to play a role in drug resistance of tumor cells. Whether autophagy can be activated by gefitinib or erlotinib and thereby impair the sensitivity of targeted therapy to lung cancer cells remains unknown. Here, we first report that gefitinib or erlotinib can induce a high level of autophagy, which was accompanied by the inhibition of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway. Moreover, cytotoxicity induced by gefitinib or erlotinib was greatly enhanced after autophagy inhibition by the pharmacological inhibitor chloroquine (CQ) and siRNAs targeting ATG5 and ATG7, the most important components for the formation of autophagosome. Interestingly, EGFR-TKIs can still induce cell autophagy even after EGFR expression was reduced by EGFR specific siRNAs. In conclusion, we found that autophagy can be activated by EGFR-TKIs in lung cancer cells and inhibition of autophagy augmented the growth inhibitory effect of EGFR-TKIs. Autophagy inhibition thus represents a promising approach to improve the efficacy of EGFR-TKIs in the treatment of patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.
We report three cases of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease which developed following treatment for malignant neoplasms. Two patients received single agent BCNU chemotherapy for malignant gliomas. The third patient underwent combination radiation and chemotherapy for Hodgkin's disease. Isolated case reports of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease following therapy for malignant disease are reviewed and clinical features summarized. Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease in this setting is thought to be rare. However, the diagnosis is rarely suspected clinically and is difficult to diagnose pathologically. Therefore, the true incidence of this complication is unknown and may be higher than believed. It is important that both clinician and pathologist be aware of this entity; otherwise, elastic tissue stains may not be performed and the diagnosis missed.
Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) was performed as the initial therapy for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, no effective chemotherapy has been established for patients who did not respond to TACE, and for those the therapy was not suitable. Since 2004, transcatheter arterial infusion (TAI) chemotherapy using fine-powder cisplatin has been applied at our department to such cases mentioned before. This report described the therapeutic results of TAI therapy and presented a case of HCC accompanied by portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) for which the therapy was effective.
TAI was performed using cisplatin in 16 patients with inoperable advanced HCC between 2004 and 2010. Cisplatin was infused into the proper hepatic artery at a dose of 65 mg/m2 for 30 minutes.
TAI was performed in each patient 1.8 times on average, ranging from 1 to 8 times. Therapeutic Effect 4 (TE4) was obtained in 1 case, TE3 in 2, TE2 in 1, and TE1 in 11 cases. The only severe adverse event rated as grade 3 or above during the study were nausea and anorexia reported in 6.3% of the patients, and adverse events rated as less than grade 2 were increased serum hepato-biliary enzyme levels in 68.8%, nausea in 68.8% of the patients. The overall 1-year survival rate was 31.2%, and the 50% survival period was 314 days.
As a treatment option following the initial TACE therapy for advanced HCC, TAI using cisplatin can improve the prognosis of HCC.
Four deaths related to the drug 4-methylmethcathinone (mephedrone) are reported. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of mephedrone was performed by high-performance liquid chromatography-diode-array detection. Of the four deaths, one was attributed to the adverse effects of mephedrone, with cardiac fibrosis and atherosclerotic coronary artery disease as a contributing factor. A 49-year-old female insufflated mephedrone; analysis disclosed mephedrone in femoral venous blood (0.98 mg/L). The second death was attributed solely to mephedrone. A 19-year-old male took mephedrone as well as alcohol and "ecstasy"; analysis disclosed mephedrone (2.24 mg/L femoral venous blood) and 3-trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (3-TFMPP). In the third fatality, a 55-year-old female was found dead in bed; the death was attributed to the combined effects of mephedrone and methadone. Analysis of femoral venous blood revealed the prescribed drugs diazepam, nordiazepam, olazepine, and chlorpromazine metabolites together with methadone (0.3 mg/L) and mephedrone (0.13 mg/L). In the fourth case, a 17-year-old male car driver was involved in a vehicular collision and died of multiple blunt force injuries. Analysis revealed mephedrone in femoral venous blood (0.24 mg/L).
We evaluated the short-term safety and efficacy of aspirin-plus-clopidogrel as antithrombotic therapy in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (AF).
Thirty patients (11 women, 45 to 75 years of age) with non-high-risk permanent (n = 12) or persistent AF awaiting cardioversion (n = 18) underwent transesophageal echocardiography to exclude left heart thrombi and were then randomly assigned to receive warfarin (international normalized ratio, 2 to 3 for 3 weeks) or aspirin (100 mg/d alone for 1 week)-plus-clopidogrel (75 mg/d added to aspirin for 3 weeks). Bleeding time and serum thromboxane B2 were measured at entry and at 3 weeks. Bleeding time, not affected by warfarin, was prolonged by 71% by aspirin (P <.05) and further, by 144%, by adding clopidogrel (P <.01 vs aspirin alone; +319%, P <.01, vs baseline). Thromboxane B2, not affected by warfarin, was reduced by aspirin (-98%, P <.01) but not further by clopidogrel. No thrombi or dense spontaneous echo-contrast were found at the 3-week transesophageal echocardiography. Seven of 9 patients receiving warfarin and 7 of 9 patients receiving aspirin-plus-clopidogrel, undergoing electrical cardioversion, achieved sinus rhythm. No thromboembolic or hemorrhagic events occurred in both arms throughout the 3-week treatment and a further 3-month follow-up.
Aspirin-plus-clopidogrel and warfarin were equally safe and effective in preventing thromboembolism in this small group of patients with non-high-risk AF.
Adults in a therapeutic workplace working on a computerized keyboarding training program earned vouchers for typing correct characters. Typing technique was evaluated on review steps. Participants could pass the review and earn a bonus, or skip the review and proceed with no bonus. Alternatively, participants could continue practicing on the same step. Participants persistently repeated the same step, which halted progress through the program but allowed them to increase their rate of responding and, as a result, their earnings. Blocking the initiation of practice on review steps and removing payment for practice initiated after prompts (extinction) both produced rapid progress through the program. These results underscore the importance of careful arrangement of the contingencies in adult education programs.
This randomized controlled trial was to determine whether a combination chemotherapy regimen that contains anthracycline (doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide [AC]) is superior to the conventional cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil [CMF] combination in premenopausal women with axillary lymph node positive Stage II breast carcinoma.
Premenopausal women with lymph node positive breast carcinoma were stratified according to age (younger than 35 or 35 years or older) and the number of positive axillary lymph nodes (1-3, 4-9, or >/= 10) and then randomly assigned to receive either doxorubicin 40 mg/m(2) and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m(2) intravenously (i.v.) every 3 weeks or cyclophosphamide 100 mg/m(2) orally on Days 1 through 14, methotrexate 40 mg/m(2) and 5-fluorouracil 500 mg/m(2) i.v. on Days 1 and 8 every 4 weeks. Both arms were scheduled for six cycles.
The median follow-up was 57 months. Eighteen of the 55 AC patients developed recurrence compared with 16 of the 69 CMF patients. The corresponding 5-year recurrence free survival rates were 64% and 78%, respectively (P = 0.12). The site of the first recurrence for AC patients was locoregional in 7%, distant in 22%, and combined in 4%. The corresponding data for the CMF arm were 4%, 16%, and 3%, respectively. Six AC patients died compared with 9 CMF patients. The corresponding 5-year survival rates were 90% and 86%, respectively (P = 0.96). More leukopenia (52%, mostly Grade 1-2) occurred in the CMF arm than in the AC arm (33%, P = 0.001), but no febrile episode was accompanied with leukopenia.
This study showed no difference between AC and CMF with respect to both disease free and overall survival rates in premenopausal women with axillary lymph node positive breast carcinoma.
A series of studies was carried out in infants and children suffering from gastro-oesophageal reflux to assess the therapeutic efficacy and tolerability of alizapride, a recently developed dopaminergic-receptor blocker. Investigational techniques such as manometry, pH monitoring, endoscopy and scintigraphy were used to evaluate a prokinetic activity of the drug and its effects on oesophageal and gastric motility when given by the intravenous and oral routes. Preliminary findings indicate that alizapride had a significant effect on lower oesophageal sphincter pressure and peristaltic wave amplitude, but the evidence for an effect on gastric motility was less clear. Long-term treatment with oral alizapride (usually in a dosage of 5 mg/kg/day) suggests that it produced marked symptomatic improvement and was very well tolerated in the majority of the patients studied. A double-blind controlled trial is now in progress to provide more objective evidence of the usefulness of alizapride in the management of digestive tract motor disorders in paediatric patients.
Imipramine is an antidepressant drug that is rarely associated with mild liver function abnormalities. These are usually minor and transient liver enzyme elevations which return to normal levels upon discontinuation of the drug. We describe a 48-year-old male who developed subfulminant hepatic failure after imipramine usage, with complete recovery within three months after discontinuation of the drug.
Liposomal pegylated doxorubicin is an encapsulation form of doxorubicin, with an improved pharmacokinetic profile and the ability to selectively accumulate into tumor tissue. As a result, the tolerated dose of the drug can be increased, followed by a reduced incidence of neutropenia and cardiotoxicity in comparison to doxorubucin treatment. However, a common adverse dose-schedule limiting effect of the treatment is palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome. In this retrospective study we included six patients hospitalised in the University Hospital of Zurich during the last 2 years, in connection with side effects caused by pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. These patients received this chemotherapeutic agent for treatment of various malignancies such as breast cancer, ovarian cancer, mycosis fungoides and cutaneous B-cell lymphoma. Three of six patients in this study developed classical palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia, one developed palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia associated with extensive bullous disease, one developed eruption of lymphocyte recovery syndrome and one developed intertrigo like dermatitis with stomatitis. Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin induces various skin reactions including palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome. However, the exact clinical presentation might depend on pre-existing skin diseases.
Thromboaspiration was performed in a young adult in a coma because of acute basilar artery occlusion associated with cocaine and ecstasy abuse 30 hours after symptom onset. There was complete recanalization of the basilar artery and favorable recovery. Because cocaine and ecstasy abuse has been reported to be a risk factor for ischemic stroke and fatal brain hemorrhage, thromboaspiration may be an alternative therapy to thrombolysis.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether didanosine (ddI) directly causes morphological and ultrastructural abnormalities of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in vitro. Dissociated DRG cells and organotypic DRG explants from embryonic 15-day-old Wistar rats were cultured for 3 days and then exposed to ddI (1 microg/ml, 5 microg/ml, 10 microg/ml, and 20 microg/ml) for another 3 days and 6 days, respectively. Neurons cultured continuously in medium served as normal controls. The diameter of the neuronal cell body and neurite length were measured in dissociated DRG cell cultures. Neuronal ultrastructural changes were observed in both culture models. ddI induced dose-dependent decreases in neurite number, length of the longest neurite in each neuron, and total neurite length per neuron in dissociated DRG cell cultures with 3 days treatment. There were no morphological changes seen in organotypic DRG cultures even with longer exposure time (6 days). But ddI induced ultrastructural changes in both culture models. Ultrastructural abnormalities included loss of cristae in mitochondria, clustering of microtubules and neurofilaments, accumulation of glycogen-like granules, and emergence of large dense particles between neurites or microtubules. Lysosome-like large particles emerged inconstantly in neurites. ddI induced a neurite retraction or neurite loss in a dose-dependent manner in dissociated DRG neurons, suggesting that ddI may partially contribute to developing peripheral neuropathy. Cytoskeletal rearrangement and ultrastructural abnormalities caused by ddI in both culture models may have a key role in neurite degeneration.
(1) Dimemorfan, an antitussive for more than 25 years, has previously been reported to be a relative high-affinity ligand at sigma-1 (sigma(1)) receptor with the K(i) value of 151 nM. (2) To test whether dimemorfan has anti-amnesic effects similar to a sigma(1) receptor agonist, this study examined its effects on scopolamine- and beta-amyloid peptide-(25-35)-induced amnesia in mice. (3) Dimemorfan (10-40 mg kg(-1), i.p.) administered 30 min before the training trial, immediately after the training trial, or 30 min before the retention test significantly improved scopolamine (1 mg kg(-1), i.p.)- or beta-amyloid peptide-(25-35) (3 nmol mouse(-1), i.c.v.)-induced amnesia in a step-through passive avoidance test. Dimemorfan (5-40 mg kg(-1), i.p.) pretreatment also attenuated scopolamine (8 mg kg(-1), i.p.)-induced amnesia in a water-maze test. And, these anti-amnesic effects of dimemorfan, like the putative sigma(1) receptor agonist (+)-N-allylnormetazocine ((+)-SKF-10047), were antagonized by a sigma receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.25 mg kg(-1), i.p.). (4) These results indicated that dimemorfan has anti-amnesic effects and acts like a sigma(1) receptor agonist.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a serious complication confronted by patients with diabetes. Available data indicate that the development of DN is linked to hyperglycemia. Tocotrienol rich fraction (TRF) from palm oil (PO) and rice bran oil (RBO) has been shown to lower the blood glucose level in patients and preclinical animal models. This study was designed to investigate if TRF from PO and RBO could improve the renal function in DN by the virtue of their hypoglycemic and antioxidant activities. Male Wistar rats having an average body weight (bw) 250g were divided into four groups of six each .The first group served as diabetic control [injected with 55mg/kg bw of streptozotocin (STZ), intraperitoneally], while the second and third group received PO-TRF and RBO-TRF, respectively, by gavage at a dose of 200mg/kg bw/day, over a period of 8 weeks post-induction of diabetes. The fourth group comprised of age-matched male Wistar rats that received single intraperitoneal injection of normal saline only and served as control. After 8 weeks of STZ injection and TRF treatment, 24h urine was collected and animals were sacrificed. Fasting blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, biochemical markers of renal function and oxidative stress were evaluated in serum, urine and kidney tissue. The results show that treatment with PO-TRF as well as RBO-TRF significantly improved the glycemic status and renal function in type 1 diabetic rats but PO-TRF afforded greater efficiency at similar dose as compared to RBO-TRF. In conclusion, PO-TRF was found to be more effective hypoglycemic and nephroprotective agent in DN than RBO-TRF.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH)-related protein (PTHrP) is present in many normal tissues, including the kidney. Current evidence supports that PTHrP is involved in renal pathophysiology, although its role on the mechanisms of renal damage and/or repair is unclear. Our present study examined the changes in PTHrP and the PTH/PTHrP receptor (type 1) in folic acid-induced acute renal failure in rats. The possible role of PTHrP on the process of renal regeneration following folic acid administration, and potential interaction between angiotensin II (Ang II) and endothelin-1, and PTHrP, were examined in this animal model.
PTHrP, PTH/PTHrP receptor, ACE, and preproendothelin-1 (preproET-1) mRNA levels in the rat kidney were analyzed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and/or RNase protection assay. Immunohistochemistry also was performed for PTHrP, the PTH/PTHrP receptor, and Ang II in the renal tissue of folic acid-injected rats. The role of PTHrP on tubular cell proliferation following folic acid injury was investigated in vitro in rat renal epithelial cells (NRK 52E). PTHrP secretion in the medium conditioned by these cells was measured by an immunoradiometric assay specific for the 1-36 sequence.
Using RT-PCR, PTHrP mRNA was rapidly (1 hour) and maximally increased (3-fold) in the rat kidney after folic acid, decreasing after six hours. At 72 hours, renal function was maximally decreased in these rats, associated with an increased PTHrP immunostaining in both renal tubules and glomeruli. In contrast, the PTH/PTHrP receptor mRNA (RNase protection assay) decreased shortly after folic acid administration. Moreover, PTH/PTHrP receptor immunostaining dramatically decreased in renal tubular cell membranes after folic acid. A single subcutaneous administration of PTHrP (1-36), 3 or 50 microg/kg body weight, shortly after folic acid injection increased the number of tubular cells staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen by 30% (P < 0.05) or 50% (P < 0.01), respectively, in these rats at 24 hours, without significant changes in either renal function or calcemia. On the other hand, this peptide failed to modify the increase (2-fold over control) in ACE mRNA, associated with a prominent Ang II staining into tubular cell nuclei, in the kidney of folic acid-treated rats at this time period. The addition of 10 mmol/L folic acid to NRK 52E cells caused a twofold increase in PTHrP mRNA at six hours, without significant changes in the PTH/PTHrP receptor mRNA. The presence of two anti-PTHrP antibodies, with or without folic acid, in the cell-conditioned medium decreased (40%, P < 0.01) cell growth.
Renal PTHrP was rapidly and transiently increased in rats with folic acid-induced acute renal failure, featuring as an early response gene. In addition, changes in ACE and Ang II expression were also found in these animals. PTHrP induces a mitogenic response in folic acid-damaged renal tubular cells both in vivo and in vitro. Our results support the notion that PTHrP up-regulation participates in the regenerative process in this model of acute renal failure and is a common event associated with the mechanisms of renal injury and repair.
Perfluorobutanesulfonate (PFBS) is a surfactant and degradation product of substances based on perfluorobutanesulfonyl fluoride. A two-generation reproductive rat study has been conducted with potassium PFBS (K(+)PFBS). Parental-generation (P) rats were dosed orally by gavage with 0, 30, 100, 300 and 1000mg K(+)PFBS/kg/day for 10 weeks prior to and through mating (males and females), as well as during gestation and lactation (females only). First generation (F1) pups were dosed similarly, beginning at weaning. Second generation (F2) pups were not directly dosed but potentially exposed to PFBS through placental transfer and nursing, and the study was terminated 3 weeks after their birth. Endpoints evaluated included body weight, food consumption, clinical signs, estrus cycling, sperm quality, pregnancy, natural delivery, litter outcomes, and developmental landmarks. The no-observable-adverse effect dose level (NOAEL) in the parental generations (P and F1) was 100mg/kg/day. In the 300 and 1000mg/kg/day dose group rats, there were (1) increased liver weight (absolute or relative) and corresponding increased incidence of adaptive hepatocellular hypertrophy (male only) and (2) increased incidence of minimal to mild microscopic findings in the medulla and papilla of the kidneys (male and female). There were no K(+)PFBS treatment-related effects on fertility or reproduction among the P or the F1 rats. There were no microscopic changes in male or female reproductive organs, and no biologically relevant effects on sperm parameters, mating, estrous cycles, pregnancy, and natural delivery in the P- or F1-generations. There were no K(+)PFBS treatment-related effects on survival of pups in the two-generation study. Litter size and average pup birth weight per litter were not statistically significantly different from controls in any dose group. In the F1-generation, terminal body weight was reduced in males at 1000mg/kg/day. Preputial separation was slightly delayed (approximately 2 days) at this dose, a finding consistent with the body weight reduction. Essentially no effects were observed in the F1 females. F2 pups had normal body weights. The reproductive NOAEL was >1000mg/kg/day in both generations.
Phenolic compounds (PCs) are considered to possess anti-inflammatory properties and therefore were proposed as an alternative natural approach to prevent or treat chronic inflammatory diseases. However their effects are not fully understood, particularly at the intestinal level. To further understand their mode of action at the molecular level during intestinal inflammation, an in vitro model of inflamed human intestinal epithelium was established. Different representative dietary PCs, i.e. resveratrol, ellagic and ferulic acids, curcumin, quercetin, chrysin, (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) and genistein, were selected. To mimic intestinal inflammation, differentiated Caco-2 cells cultivated in bicameral inserts, in a serum-free medium, were treated with a cocktail of pro-inflammatory substances: interleukin (IL)-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, interferon-γ and lipopolysaccharides. The inflammatory state was characterized by a leaky epithelial barrier (attenuation of the transepithelial electrical resistance) and by an over-expression at the mRNA and protein levels for pro-inflammatory markers, i.e. IL-6, IL-8 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), quantified by ELISA and by gene expression analysis using a low-density array allowing the evaluation of expression level for 46 genes relevant of the intestinal inflammation and functional metabolism. Treatment with PCs, used at a realistic intestinal concentration, did not affect cell permeability. In inflamed cells, the incubation with genistein reduced the IL-6 and MCP-1 overproduction, to ca. 50% of the control, whereas EGCG provoked a decrease in the IL-6 and IL-8 over-secretion, by 50 and 60%, respectively. This occurred for both flavonoids without any concomitant inhibition of the corresponding mRNA expression. All the PCs generated a specific gene expression profile, with genistein the most efficient in the downregulation of the expression, or over-expression, of inflammatory genes notably those linked to the arachidonic metabolism pathway. In conclusion, this study provides evidence that genistein and EGCG downregulate the inflammatory response in inflamed intestinal epithelial cells by a pathway implicating largely a post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism.
Levodopa therapy remains the major form of treatment for the symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, there has been a suspicion that its use may hasten the progression of nigral cell degeneration. This concept is based on the ability of levodopa to generate reactive oxygen species and the apparent involvement of oxidative stress as a component of the degenerative process that occurs in PD. Indeed, in vitro autoxidation of levodopa causes oxidative stress, leading to neuronal destruction by necrosis or apoptosis. However, its chronic administration to normal rats or primates has not been associated with clear evidence for destruction of the nigrostriatal pathway. In contrast, in situations in which the nigrostriatal tract is already damaged, there is some evidence to suggest that levodopa treatment can produce further cell destruction associated with oxidative processes. However, levodopa does not appear to be toxic to the development of fetal nigral neurons or to the survival of fetal cell transplants. There is no clinical evidence to suggest that levodopa has adverse effects on dopamine cells in normal humans or on the viability of remaining dopaminergic cells in patients with PD. However, it is only now that specific clinical trials designed to examine the potential neurotoxicity of levodopa are being undertaken.
The present study was aimed to investigate the chemopreventive potential of carnosic acid in 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)-induced hamster buccal pouch carcinogenesis. The chemopreventive potential was assessed by analyzing the tumor incidence, tumor volume and burden as well as by measuring the status of lipid peroxidation, non-enzymatic and enzymatic antioxidants and phase I and phase II detoxification enzymes. Oral squamous cell carcinoma was developed in the buccal pouch of golden Syrian hamsters by painting with 0.5% DMBA in liquid paraffin three times a week for 14 weeks. In the present study, 100% tumor formation was observed in hamsters treated with DMBA alone. Also, the status of lipid peroxidation, antioxidants and phase I and phase II detoxification enzymes were significantly altered during DMBA-induced oral carcinogenesis. Oral administration of carnosic acid at a dose of 10mg/kg body weight/day to DMBA-treated animals completely prevented the tumor formation in the hamsters' buccal pouches. Also, carnosic acid exerted potent anti-lipid peroxidative function and stimulated the detoxification cascade during DMBA-induced hamster buccal pouch carcinogenesis. The results of the present study suggest that the chemopreventive potential of carnosic acid is probably due to its anti-lipid peroxidative potential and modulating effect on carcinogen detoxification enzymes during DMBA-induced oral carcinogenesis.
Many reports show that red blood cells of people exposed to lead have a decreased ATP concentration, decreased adenylate energy charge value and many metabolic and morphological abnormalities. Since the synthesis of nucleotides in erythrocytes occurs only through salvage pathways, we hypothesized that a decrease in nucleotide concentrations may be caused by lead-induced inhibition of erythrocyte phosphoribosyltransferases: adenine APRT (EC 2.4.2.7) and hypoxanthine-guanine HPRT (EC 2.4.2.8). These enzymes enable the reutilization of purine bases (adenine, guanine, hypoxanthine) converting them to mononucleotides (AMP, GMP, IMP), substrates for the synthesis of high-energy nucleotides. To confirm the hypothesis two experiments were performed: (i) in vitro, using a lysate of human erythrocytes incubated (5, 10, 30min) with lead ions (100microM, 10microM, 1microM, 500nM, 100nM lead acetate) and 100microM sodium acetate for the control, (ii) in vivo, using a lysate of rat erythrocytes taken from rats chronically exposed to lead (0.1% lead acetate in drinking water for 9 months, resulting in whole blood lead concentration 7microg/dL). The activities of APRT and HPRT were determined using HPLC method, which allowed concurrent determination of the activity of both enzymes in erythrocyte lysates. We have shown that, lead ions: (i) moderately inhibit both phosphoribosyltransferases in erythrocytes, this influence being detectable even at very low concentrations (ii) participate in hemolysis, the intensity of which negatively correlates with the activity of phosphoribosyltransferases. Our results indicate the necessity of further research on the role of lead-induced APRT and HPRT inhibition as one of the mechanisms of lead toxicity.
Clerodane diterpenes have demonstrated cytotoxic, antiplasmodial and anti-ulcer properties. In the present work, we determined the cytotoxic effect of casearin L (Cas L), O (Cas O) and X (Cas X) and (-)-hardwickiic acid isolated from Casearia sylvestris leaves, and investigated the underlying mechanisms involved in in vitro cell death induced by Cas X in HL-60 leukemia cells (0.7, 1.5 and 3.0μM). Cytotoxicity tests demonstrated that Cas X was the most active compound studied, showing greater cytotoxic effects against CEM and HL-60 lines (IC(50) of 0.4μM) and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC, IC(50) of 1.2μM). After 24h exposure, Cas X caused a decrease in 5-bromo-20-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation (36.6 and 24.5% labeling at 0.7 and 1.5μM, respectively), reduction in viability, and increase in apoptotic and necrotic leukemia cells in a dose-dependent manner evidenced by the trypan blue and AO/EB (acridine orange/ethidium bromide) assays. Moreover, Cas X-treated cells exhibited nuclear fragmentation and cytoplasmic vacuolization depending on the concentration tested. These characteristics of apoptosis or secondary necrosis were confirmed by flow cytometry which revealed DNA fragmentation, phosphatidylserine externalization, activation of the effector caspases 3/7 and mitochondrial depolarization. We then found evidence that Cas X causes cell death via apoptotic pathways, corroborating the potential of casearins as compounds with promising antitumor-related properties.
Coenzyme A (CoA) is the major acyl group carrier in intermediary metabolism. Hopantenate (HoPan), a competitive inhibitor of the pantothenate kinases, was used to chemically antagonize CoA biosynthesis. HoPan dramatically reduced liver CoA and mice developed severe hypoglycemia. Insulin was reduced, glucagon and corticosterone were elevated, and fasting accelerated hypoglycemia. Metabolic profiling revealed a large increase in acylcarnitines, illustrating the role of carnitine in buffering acyl groups to maintain the nonesterified CoASH level. HoPan triggered significant changes in hepatic gene expression that substantially increased the thioesterases, which liberate CoASH from acyl-CoA, and increased pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1, which prevents the conversion of CoASH to acetyl-CoA. These results identify the metabolic rearrangements that maintain the CoASH pool which is critical to mitochondrial functions, including gluconeogenesis, fatty acid oxidation, and the tricarboxylic acid and urea cycles.
The effect of the aqueous extract of Sapindus trifoliatus (ST) on chemical, thermal-induced pain, nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia and pain on inflamed tissue was investigated. The extract (20 and 100 mg x kg(-1), i.p.) significantly inhibited acetic-acid-induced abdominal constrictions, formalin-induced pain licking and hotplate-induced pain in mice. Furthermore, the extract significantly increased the response latencies of nitroglycerin-induced hyperalgesia by the tail-flick method and mechanical pain on carrageenan-induced inflamed paw in rats. The data suggest that ST has an inhibitory activity on both peripheral and central pain mechanisms and has a modulatory role in NO-mediated nociceptive transmission.
Increasing evidence indicates that Parkinson's disease (PD) and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) share dysregulated molecular networks. We identified 84 genes shared between PD and T2DM from curated disease-gene databases. Nitric oxide biosynthesis, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism, insulin secretion and inflammation were identified as common dysregulated pathways. A network prioritization approach was implemented to rank genes according to their distance to seed genes and their involvement in common biological pathways. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays revealed that a highly ranked gene, superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2), is upregulated in PD patients compared to healthy controls in 192 whole blood samples from two independent clinical trials, the Harvard Biomarker Study (HBS) and the Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarkers in Parkinson's disease (PROBE). The results from this study reinforce the idea that shared molecular networks between PD and T2DM provides an additional source of biologically meaningful biomarkers. Evaluation of this biomarker in de novo PD patients and in a larger prospective longitudinal study is warranted.
To document differences in the outcome of vancomycin therapy in patients managed through a therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) service and patients managed empirically, without the participation of a TDM service.
Prospective, cohort study.
An 1100-bed, tertiary-care, teaching hospital.
Those who received vancomycin for more than four days, were at least 18 years old, had an estimated creatinine clearance of more than 0.33 mL/s (20 mL/min), were not neutropenic at the start of vancomycin therapy, and were not treated in a critical care unit were enrolled in the study. A total of 116 patients (61 TDM; 55 non-TDM) were monitored prospectively from June 1990 through March 1991.
Patients in the TDM group had vancomycin drug therapy monitored daily by a pharmacist and vancomycin dosages adjusted following a pharmacokinetic analysis of vancomycin serum concentrations. For patients in the non-TDM group, the pharmacist only completed a data collection form. The patients and physicians were unaware of the monitoring.
Duration of therapy, total vancomycin dosage, infection site, concomitant antibiotics, body temperature, and white blood cell counts were compared between the two groups. Length of stay data were also compared. Nephrotoxicity was evaluated by comparing serum creatinine concentration and estimated creatinine clearance.
TDM of vancomycin appeared to reduce the incidence of vancomycin-related renal insufficiency (TDM 7 percent; non-TDM 24 percent). Patients managed through the TDM service received an average of 5 g less of vancomycin than did the patients in the non-TDM group. The duration of vancomycin therapy was an average of 2 days less for patients in the TDM group. Mean length of stay was 38.0 days for the TDM group and 44.5 days for the non-TDM group. Other measures of efficacy, infection site, and concomitant antibiotics were the same for both groups.
TDM of vancomycin was associated with fewer cases of vancomycin-related renal insufficiency. Vancomycin efficacy was not compromised by TDM. Provision of TDM for vancomycin therapy aided in patient management.
Three cases are presented on patients on an MAOI who developed a transient syndrome of myoclonus, hyperreflexia, jaw quivering, teeth chattering and diaphoresis after L-Tryptophan was added. Caution is advised when considering the addition of a serotonergic agent to MAOI's.
Hypertension, a major complication in kidney transplant recipients, is associated with premature death and graft loss. However, an optimal antihypertensive therapy for these patients has not been established [Chinese Clinical Trial Registry No. ChiCTR-TRC-10001071].
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of amlodipine and valsartan on BP control in renal transplant patients and to analyze the correlation between cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A5 or multidrug resistance-1 gene (MDR1) genotype and the antihypertensive effect of these two regimens.
150 renal transplant patients with stage 1 or 2 hypertension were enrolled in the trial. Patients were randomly assigned to amlodipine or valsartan. Metoprolol was added if BP was not under control after 4 weeks. BP and plasma levels of ciclosporin were monitored during the 24-week trial. CYP3A5 and MDR1 genotypes were determined using a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method.
The demographic features and baseline BP were similar between these two groups. During the 24-week trial, the reduction of systolic BP (SBP) was similar between the amlodipine and valsartan groups. However, the reduction of diastolic BP (DBP) was significantly greater in the amlodipine group compared with the valsartan group at 12, 16, and 24 weeks of treatment. The plasma level of ciclosporin at 2 hours of medication was significantly higher in the amlodipine group than in the valsartan group after 4 weeks of the trial. The reduction of DBP at 24 weeks was greater in the subjects with CYP3A5 *3/*3 variant than in those with CYP3A5*1/*1 variant (-13.5 ± 1.9 mmHg vs -8.7 ± 1.6 mmHg, p < 0.05).
The present study demonstrated that amlodipine produced a greater reduction of DBP than valsartan, although both amlodipine and valsartan resulted in satisfactory control of BP in patients with renal transplantation. Administration of amlodipine significantly increased the plasma concentration of ciclosporin, and its effects on BP control and ciclosporin concentration may be associated with the CYP3A5 genotype in these subjects [Chinese Clinical Trial Registry No. ChiCTR-TRC-10001071].
