Neurofunctional effects produced by gestational all-trans retinoic acid (all-trans RA) treatment were investigated in the offspring of Sprague-Dawley rats. Reproduction data, onset of reflexive behavior, locomotor activity, motor coordination and motor learning were examined. Moreover, possible changes in size and morphology of the cerebellum were evaluated. The results show that all-trans RA treatment (2.5 mg/kg, by gavage) on gestational days (GD) 11-13 significantly increased postnatal mortality and decreased pup weight gain. Moreover, all-trans RA-treated rats showed a significant delay in eyes opening, hair growth as well as in the maturation of righting reflex, cliff aversion and pole grasping. All-trans RA treatment significantly impaired the ambulatory activity in adult rats without altering the number of rearings. All-trans RA-treated rats subjected to the rotarod/accelerod task showed significant impairment in both motor coordination and motor learning ability. The morphological analysis revealed a significant reduction in the cerebellar size and impairment in foliation profile, at PND 3 with subsequent recovery at PNDs 8 and 40. The evidence that functional alterations increase with age and persist in adulthood whereas the morphological changes decline with age, strongly supports the view that, besides the cerebellum morphology, the organization of the cerebellar circuitry, and in particular of cortico-cerebellar connections, are also affected by all-trans RA treatment.
In diabetes, intracellular accumulation of sorbitol resulting from the high extracellular levels of glucose leads to depletion of intracellular compounds including taurine. This is associated with the development of late diabetic complications such as cardiomyopathy. The development of myocyte hypertrophy has been largely attributed to angiotensin II, whose growth properties are antagonized by taurine. However, the interaction between taurine, angiotensin II type2 receptor (AT2) and cardiomyopathy related to angiotensin II is still unknown. This study investigates the roles of taurine and AT2 in rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Of 60 female 4-week-old Wistar rats, 8 were treated with common diet and the other 52 with high sugar/fat diet (during the whole experiment) to induce insulin resistance. At the 4th week, of the 52 rats, 7 treated with sodium citrate buffer (pH = 4.5) were grouped into control group1 (con1) and the other 45 were treated by intraperitoneal injection (I.P) with STZ to develop type 2 diabetes. At the 28th week, the maximal velocity decrease of pressure per second in left ventricle within the period of isovolumic relaxation (-dp/dt(max)) was detected by a cannula through right carotid artery. After the cannula operation, of the 45 rats, all the living 24 with -dp/dt(max)< or = 5250 mmHg/s, who had developed diabetic cardiomyopathy, were grouped as follows: 7 treated with double distilled H2O (I.P) were grouped into control group2 (con2). 8 treated with AT2 agonist (CGP42112A) (I.P) were grouped into experimental group1 (exp1). Another 9 treated with taurine (I.P) were grouped into experimental group2 (exp2). All injections lasted 4 weeks (Q.D) and the heart weight (HW) was recorded. To examine cardiomyocyte apoptosis index (CAI), mRNA and protein of AT2 and Bcl-2 in cardiomyocytes, methods of terminal-deoxynucltidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling (TUNEL), reversal transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunoblot (Western Blot) were used, respectively.
Values of -dp/dt(max) in exp1, exp2 or con2 were much less than those in con1, respectively (p < 0.01). CAI (= stained cell number/total cell number x 100%) and AT2 values both in mRNA and protein levels in con1 were less than those in the other three groups, respectively (p < 0.01). The three parameters above were more in exp1 but less in exp2 than those in con2, respectively (p < 0.01). The three parameters and HW in exp1 were much higher than those in exp2, respectively (p < 0.01). Changes of Bcl-2 were opposed to those of AT2.
A high expression of AT2 may accelerate the apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in diabetic rats and play a role in precipitating diabetic cardiomyopathy; taurine may protect diabetic rats from developing cardiomyopathy also by downregulating AT2 receptors.
Many studies have correlated the consumption of soy-rich diets with a decreased risk of developing hormone-dependent cancers, including prostate cancer. Genistein is a candidate prostate cancer preventive phytochemical found at high levels in soybean and soy foods. To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of genistein on prostate cancer prevention, we used a DNA microarray approach to examine the effects of genistein at concentrations in the physiologic range on global gene expression patterns in androgen-responsive cancer cells. Microarray analyses were performed on androgen-responsive LNCaP human prostate cancer cells exposed to 0, 1, 5, or 25 microM genistein. We found a concentration-dependent modulation of multiple cellular pathways that are important in prostate carcinogenesis. Interestingly, the androgen receptor (AR)-mediated pathways, in particular, appeared to be modulated by genistein at the lowest concentrations. Based on these results, we propose that the regulation of AR-mediated pathways is potentially the most relevant chemopreventive mechanism for genistein administered at physiologic levels.
5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-AZA-CdR, Decitabine) is a nucleoside analog and an active drug for the therapy of acute leukemia. The incorporation of 5-AZA-CdR into DNA blocks DNA methylation and can result in the activation of specific genes, such as tumor suppressor genes. This novel mechanism of action of 5-AZA-CdR stimulated our interest in its potential for cancer therapy in patients with lung cancer. Using a colony assay we observed that 5-AZA-CdR showed a potent antineoplastic effect against two human lung carcinoma cell lines. The objective of this preliminary phase I-II study was to evaluate the toxicity and clinical efficacy of 5-AZA-CdR in patients with stage IV non-small cell lung carcinoma. There were 15 patients that entered the clinical study. For nine assessable patients that received 5-AZA-CdR by a single 8 h i.v. infusion of 200-660 mg/m2 for one or more cycles, the median survival duration was 6.7 months, with three patients surviving more than 15 months. The steady-state plasma concentration of 5-AZA-CdR during the infusion was estimated in some patients and was in the same range that produced activation of a tumor suppressor gene in human lung tumor cell lines as reported by other investigators. The major side effect of 5-AZA-CdR was hematopoietic toxicity which required a 5-6 week recovery period before the next cycle of therapy. This study suggests that 5-AZA-CdR may have some clinical activity against metastatic lung carcinoma using this type of dose schedule.
Male mice and rats were fed a diet containing four bisphenol antioxidants, 2,2'-methylenebis(4-ethyl-6-tert-butylphenol) (ME), 2,2'-methylenebis(4-methyl -6-tert-butylphenol) (MM), 4,4'-butylidenebis(3-methyl-6-tert-butylphenol) (BM), or 4,4'-thiobis(3-methyl-6-tert-butylphenol) (TM) at levels of 0.06-0.25% for 2 months. BM and TM decreased epididymal, seminal vesicular, prostate and preputial weights, and injured seminiferous tubules in mice in a dose-dependent fashion. BM and TM also reduced sex accessory organ weights and sperm production capacity in rats, but MM and ME were more toxic to rats than BM and TM. ME and MM did not bind ERalpha up to 10(-3) M, while BM and TM competitively bound ERalpha against beta-estradiol (E2). Fifty percent inhibitory concentrations (IC50 s) of BM, TM, and bisphenol A (positive control) against E2-binding were 7.3 x 10(-6) M, 1.8 x 10(-5) M, and 1.4 x 10(-5) M, respectively. When ovariectomized (OVX) mice were sc administered TM at doses of 60 and 300 mg/kg/day for 4 days, or when OVX mice were fed BM in the diet at a level of 0.25% for 2 months, uterine weight was significantly increased. These results suggest that BM and TM are weakly toxic, possibly through an estrogenic mechanism to male reproductive organs in mice as well as rats, while MM and ME may be the direct testicular toxins in rats but not mice.
Thromboembolic complications may develop in patients with heparin-associated thrombocytopenia, presumably due to the formation of platelet aggregates. An unexpectedly high incidence of pulmonary embolism following coronary artery bypass surgery occurred during a brief period of time at a single institution, and all of these cases were found to be associated with thrombocytopenia. All patients tested during thrombocytopenia (five of five) had an increase in platelet-associated antibody. Serum samples from all five patients tested caused normal platelets to aggregate in vitro in the presence of one specific lot of beef lung heparin, which was in use in the operating room at the time; none of six other lots of beef lung heparin mediated in vitro platelet aggregation. Heparinase digestion of the heparin abolished the aggregating activity. It is concluded that thrombocytopenia and platelet activation caused by heparin may vary greatly even among different lots of heparin prepared from the same source.
Sulfur mustard (SM), also termed mustard gas, is a potent vesicant that elicits an inflammatory response upon exposure of the skin. Evaluation of mouse ear 3 h after SM exposure revealed acute inflammatory-cell aggregates in the vascular beds accompanied by strongly TNF-alpha-positive neutrophils. Eight hours after SM exposure, this phenomenon became intensified and associated with infiltration into the adjacent dermis. In ear skin topically treated with iodine, however, no inflammatory cells were observed 3 h after SM exposure; 8 h postexposure, blood vessels contained very few TNF-alpha-positive inflammatory cells. Since TNF-alpha induction was shown to be associated with reactive oxygen species production, we studied the effect of iodine on activated peritoneal mouse neutrophils. Iodine elicited a concentration-dependent reduction in the oxidative burst of activated neutrophils. Iodine also scavenged hydroxyl radicals generated by glucose oxidase in a concentration-dependent manner. The involvement of TNF-alpha in SM-induced skin toxicity was confirmed by reduction of 49 and 30% in ear edema following administration of 1 and 2 mug anti-TNF-alpha antibodies, respectively. These findings were corroborated by quantitative analysis of the histological findings showing 46% reduction in acute inflammation and no signs of subacute inflammation in the treated group, in contrast to the control group treated with SM only. Other epidermal (microblister formation, ulceration, and necrosis) and dermal (neutrophilia, hemorrhage, and necrosis) parameters also showed marked reductions in the antibodies-treated group in comparison to controls. The combination of iodine and antiTNF-alpha antibodies might constitute a new approach for treatment of SM-exposed individuals.
Clonidine hydrochloride may be a factor in producing a high-grade atrioventricular block. Therefore, careful follow-up with repeated ECG monitoring seems to be indicated when clonidine is given to a patient with suspected cardiac conduction disease, especially if the patient is concurrently receiving digitalis therapy.
Performance on finger-tapping and handsteadiness, tasks opposite in response requirements, was compared between male smokers and nonsmokers (n = 10 each) on two occasions, once following intake of nicotine (15 micrograms/kg) by measured-dose nasal spray and once following placebo. Compared with nonsmokers, smokers had significantly greater increase in finger-tapping speed due to nicotine. On the other hand, smokers tended to have improved performance on handsteadiness (i.e., less involuntary movement) due to nicotine, while nonsmokers had impaired performance, although this difference was not significant. Nicotine-induced changes in performance on each task were inversely related, suggesting specificity of the behavioral effects of nicotine depending on task demands, rather than a generalized effect. These effects of nicotine on behavioral performance may be important in understanding the reinforcing value of nicotine intake, and differences in effects as a function of smoking history may suggest chronic adaptation to nicotine.
Beryllium (Be)-antigen presentation to Be-specific CD4(+) T cells from the lungs of patients with chronic beryllium disease (CBD) results in T cell proliferation and TNF-alpha secretion. We tested the hypothesis that Be-induced, CBD bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) T cell, transcription-dependent, TNF-alpha secretion was accompanied by specific transcription factor upregulation. After 6 h of Be stimulation, CBD BAL cells produced a median of 883 pg/ml TNF-alpha (range, 608-1,275 pg/ml) versus 198 pg/ml (range, 116-245 pg/ml) by unstimulated cells. After 12 h CBD BAL cells produced a median of 2,963 pg/ml (range, 99-9,424 pg/ml) TNF-alpha versus 55 pg/ml (range, 0-454) by unstimulated cells. Using real-time RT-PCR, Be-stimulated TNF-alpha production at 6 h was preceded by a 5-fold increase in TNF-alpha pre-mRNA copy number:beta-actin copy number (Be median ratio 0.21; unstimulated median ratio 0.04). The median ratio of mature TNF-alpha mRNA:beta-actin mRNA was upregulated 1.4-fold (Be median ratio 0.17; unstimulated median ratio 0.12). Be exposure in the presence of the transcription inhibitor pentoxifylline (PTX) decreased CBD BAL cell TNF-alpha pre-mRNA levels > 60%, whereas treatment with the mRNA splicing inhibitor 2-aminopurine (2AP) decreased levels 40% relative to Be exposure alone. PTX treatment decreased mature TNF-alpha mRNA levels 50% while 2AP decreased levels > 80%, relative to Be exposure alone. Beryllium exposure specifically upregulated transcription factors AP-1 and NF-kappaB. The data suggest that Be exposure induces transcription-dependent TNF-alpha production, potentially due to upregulation of specific transcription factors.
To report a case of nonoliguric acute renal failure secondary to use of celecoxib in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.
A 43-year-old Hispanic woman started receiving celecoxib 200 mg/d for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Fourteen days after initiating therapy, she developed nonoliguric acute renal failure. Celecoxib was discontinued. Renal function improved, but had not returned to normal 30 days after presentation.
Only 2 cases of reversible oliguric acute renal failure and volume overload have been reported 13 and 14 days after initiating therapy with celecoxib. Renal function in the 2 patients returned to baseline after treatment with diuretics. To our knowledge, the development of nonoliguric acute renal failure secondary to treatment with celecoxib has not previously been reported.
Celecoxib can probably result in reversible, or nonoliguric, acute renal failure. Although renal function improves after discontinuation of celecoxib, it may not return to baseline. Celecoxib should be used cautiously in individuals at risk of developing acute renal failure.
Acute lithium intoxication is a frequent complication of this treatment used for manic depressive disorders. Because lithium has a narrow therapeutic index and widespread use, its neuropsychiatric side effects are more prevalent than those of other psychotropic medications. There are only few reports about it within therapeutic serum levels. The question of toxic interactions resulting from combinations of lithium and neuroleptic drugs is largely based on anecdotal reports.
We report here a case of a patient with schizophrenia with severe delirium developed shortly after initiation of a lithium-quetiapine combination therapy, despite therapeutic doses of both medications.
The psychiatric symptoms disappeared when lithium was stopped. We interpret these symptoms as delirium with pseudodementia at therapeutic lithium serum levels. Our conclusion is that lithium-induced neurotoxicity should be suspected in any patient receiving lithium in combination with neuroleptics or any other clinical variable. In such cases, regardless of lithium serum levels, the clinician should consider immediate discontinuation of the medication.
The aim of this study was to determine the long-term safety of risperidone as maintenance therapy in children and adolescents with disruptive behavior disorders (DBDs) and normal intelligence.
An open-label, 1-year extension study was conducted from January, 2002, to July, 2004, in 232 subjects with DBDs (5-17 years) previously randomized to risperidone (RIS) (n = 115, RIS/RIS) or placebo (PLA) (n = 117, PLA/RIS) in a double-blind, 6-month withdrawal study. Adverse events (AEs) and clinical laboratory test results were recorded. Efficacy was assessed using Nisonger Child Behavior Rating Form. Safety and efficacy were evaluated in the intent-to-treat population.
A total of 169/232 (73%) subjects completed the study. Subjects were predominantly male, with a diagnosis of oppositional defiant disorder. Risperidone was generally well tolerated. Weight gain and extrapyramidal symptoms were each reported as AEs by 10 subjects (4.3%). Mean weight z-scores decreased for RIS/RIS subjects (-0.04 +/- 0.28) and increased for PLA/RIS subjects (0.11 +/- 0.43). No subject developed tardive dyskinesia. Prolactin tended to increase with risperidone, although this effect diminished with prolonged use and was infrequently associated with AEs. There were no clinically relevant changes in glucose or lipid metabolism. Clinical improvement in DBD symptoms was observed with flexible risperidone doses, regardless of previous treatment and whether subjects had experienced symptom recurrence.
Risperidone reinitiated for DBD in children with normal intelligence quotients (IQ) was safe and well tolerated over an additional year of treatment. Patients demonstrated clinical benefits, including those who previously experienced symptom recurrence.
Of five patients in who sciatic paresis developed as the result of hemorrhage and hematoma following hip surgery, four were receiving prophylactic or therapeutic anticoagulants. The patient who was managed expectantly still had disabling motor and sensory deficity at follow-up. Three patients who had early operative decompression showed more complete return of nerve function. The fifth patient died three weeks after onset with the neuropathy still present. Severe low-back and buttock pain, ecchymosis over these regions, marked swelling in the thigh, sciatic-nerve tenderness, and a distal sciatic neural deficit in the ipsilateral lower limb of a patient who has had hip surgery are evidence of hemorrhage in the vicinity of the sciatic nerve. Early recognition and prompt surgical decompression can prevent irreversible nerve damage.
Uremia is characterized by inadequately increased sympathetic activity. Sympathetic overactivity is involved in the genesis of hypertension in uremia, but its potential role on progression has not been well investigated. To address this issue, the effect of subantihypertensive doses of an alpha blocker and a beta blocker, and their combination on renal morphology and on albuminuria were investigated in the model of the subtotally nephrectomized rat.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to surgical ablation (SNX) or sham operation (sham). Three days after surgery groups were treated either with phenoxybenzamine (PBZ, 5 mg/kg body weight/day), metoprolol (MET, 150 mg/kg body weight/day) or their combination (PBZ 2.5 mg/kg body weight/day + MET, 50 mg/kg body weight/day). Renal morphology was evaluated after 12 weeks by quantitative histology, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. Urine albumin excretion and kidney endothelin-1 (ET-1), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) mRNA expression were assessed.
Systolic blood pressure was significantly higher in all SNX groups compared with sham-operated controls with no difference in the SNX groups. The number of glomeruli per left kidney was reduced from 30,904 +/- 3212 to 17,480 +/- 2341 by SNX (-43.5%). Mean glomerular volume increased from 2.63 +/- 0.7 in untreated sham operated to 4.11 +/- 0.48 microm 3 x 10(6) in untreated SNX (56.3%). The glomerulosclerosis index did not change in SNX + PBZ rats, but was significantly lower in SNX + MET (0.56 +/- 0.14) and particularly SNX + PBZ + MET rats (0.49 +/- 0.11) than in untreated SNX (0.74 +/- 0.24). Glomerular capillary length density (LV) as a sensitive index of capillary obliteration was significantly lower in SNX and almost normalized in the three intervention groups. The same was true for the mean podocyte number per glomerulus. Glomerular ultrastructure in SNX was largely preserved by all treatments. The albumin excretion rate was significantly higher in untreated SNX than in sham; it was significantly lower in all treated SNX groups.
The beneficial effect of non-hypotensive doses of alpha and beta blockers and their combination on renal morphology and albuminuria in the model of renal ablation argue for a blood pressure-independent role of sympathetic overactivity in the genesis of progression. In addition, the beneficial effect of adrenergic receptor blockade indicates that a substantial part is not mediated by sympathetic cotransmitters such as adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY).
Although there are several published demonstrations that exogenous butyrylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.8) works to antagonize cocaine in vivo, a systematic characterization of the enzyme-drug interaction is lacking as is confirmation of the mechanism of effect. This has been addressed using cocaine-induced locomotor activity in mice as a behavioral endpoint. The enzyme was effective, but the enzyme dose-antagonist effect relationship revealed an asymptotic partial maximum effect. This effect was not due to dose-dependent enzyme pharmacokinetics or to a stimulant effect of the cocaine metabolites but rather to partial metabolism of cocaine. Since neither metabolite of cocaine inhibited enzyme activity as potently as cocaine, partial metabolism is not likely due to end-product inhibition. The enzyme reduced the maximum effect of cocaine on locomotor activity. The mechanistic data are generally consistent: the enzyme was inactive against the nonester dopamine/norepinephrine uptake inhibitor, nomifensine, and a paraoxon-inactivated sample of enzyme was ineffective. However, the enzyme was effective against bupropion, a nonester dopamine uptake inhibitor.
Previous studies have demonstrated a deficiency in mitochondrial function in Parkinson's disease. We measured the ability of mitochondrial inhibitors of complexes I (rotenone, MPP(+), and HPP(+)), II (amdro), IV (Na cyanide), and an uncoupler (dinoseb) to release preloaded dopamine from murine striatal synaptosomes. These compounds were potent dopamine releasers, and the effect was calcium-dependent. The striatum also contains a significant density of K(ATP)(+) channels, which play a protective role during ATP decline. Blockage of these channels with glibenclamide only potentiated the dopamine release by complex I inhibitors, and a selective potentiating effect of glibenclamide on the toxicity of MPTP was also observed, in vivo, using C57BL/6 mice. Western blots of striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) proteins demonstrated that 30 mg/kg of glibenclamide alone did not affect the expression of DAT and TH after two weeks of daily treatments, but it significantly enhanced the reduction of DAT and TH by a single dose of 20 mg/kg of MPTP. Amdro or dinoseb alone, or in conjunction with glibenclamide did not alter the expression of DAT and TH. The possible mechanisms underlying dopamine release and the selectivity of glibenclamide were further evaluated, in vitro. (86)Rb efflux assay showed that glibenclamide inhibited rotenone-induced K(+) efflux, but not dinoseb-induced K(+) efflux. Analysis of ATP titers in treated synaptosomes did not support a correlation between mitochondrial inhibition and K(ATP)(+) channel activation. However, assay of reactive oxygen species (ROS) showed that greater amounts of ROS generated by complex I inhibitors was a contributory factor to K(ATP)(+) channel activation and glibenclamide potentiation. Overall, these findings suggest that co-exposure to mitochondrial complex I inhibitors and glibenclamide or a genetic defect in K(ATP)(+) channel function, may increase neurotoxicity in the striatal dopaminergic system.
Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, has been found recently to possess anti-inflammatory properties. The present study investigates the effects of fluoxetine on inflammatory tissue destruction in a rat model of ligature-induced periodontal disease.
Thirty male Wistar rats were randomly assigned into three groups (n = 10 animals per group): 1) control rats (without ligature); 2) rats with ligature + placebo (saline; oral gavage); and 3) rats with ligature + fluoxetine (20 mg/kg/day in saline; oral gavage). Histologic analyses were performed on the furcation region and mesial aspect of mandibular first molars of rats sacrificed at 15 days after ligature-induced periodontal disease. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and zymography were performed to analyze the mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-1β, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and inducible nitric oxide synthase and the MMP-9 activity, respectively, in gingival tissues samples.
Compared to the ligature + placebo group, alveolar bone loss was reduced in the fluoxetine group (P <0.05), and the amount of collagen fibers in the gingival tissue was maintained. Moreover, in gingival tissue sampled 3 days after ligature attachment, fluoxetine administration reduced IL-1β and COX-2 mRNA expression. Fluoxetine downregulated MMP-9 activity, without affecting MMP-9 mRNA expression induced by ligature, compared to the ligature + placebo group (P <0.05). These data suggest that fluoxetine suppressed proinflammatory responses, as well as proteolytic enzyme activity, induced by ligature.
In the present study, fluoxetine suppresses the inflammatory response and protects against periodontal bone resorption and destruction of collagen fibers, suggesting that fluoxetine can constitute a promising therapeutic approach for periodontal diseases.
The involvement of opiatergic mechanisms on the antiamnestic effects of piracetam was investigated in mice. First, the effects of piracetam and naloxone on the amnesia induced by scopolamine, electroconvulsive shock and morphine were evaluated by using elevated plus maze apparatus. Second, the effects of electroconvulsive shock and piracetam on the antinociceptive action of morphine were tested by means of radiant heat tail-flick experiment. Piracetam and naloxone reversed the drug- or electrically-induced amnestic effects. On the other hand, electroconvulsive shock treatment enhanced the antinociceptive effect of morphine while piracetam decreased the same activity. These results suggest an important role of the opiatergic system on the learning and memory process as well as on the antiamnestic effect of piracetam.
This study compared the efficacy in terms of pain of injection, time of onset and duration of action of digital blocks of bupivacaine 0.5% alone and lidocaine 1% with epinephrine (1:100,000).
A randomised double-blind prospective study was performed in a single self-controlled group of 12 healthy volunteers (4 women, 8 men). Each participant was randomised to receive either lidocaine 1% with epinephrine (1:100,000) or bupivacaine 0.5% in either the right or left middle finger. Pain of injection was measured as the primary outcome using a 0-100 mm visual analogue scale. The time before anaesthesia to pinpricks was recorded and the duration of anaesthesia was reported by all volunteers. Statistical analysis was conducted using the non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test.
Median visual analogue scale scores were significantly different between the lidocaine + epinephrine and bupivacaine groups (26.00 mm (4-52) vs 40.50 mm (10-71), p<0.05). The median time before anaesthesia to pinpricks was not significantly different between the two drugs (3.45 min (3-8) vs 3.30 min (3-8), p = 0.84). The median time needed for return of pinpricks was significantly different between the two drugs (321 min (228-463) vs 701 min (245-913), p<0.05). Follow-up was completed at 24 h.
Lidocaine (1%) with epinephrine (1:100 000) was significantly less painful and had a shorter duration of action than bupivacaine (0.5%), which had a similar onset of action for digital nerve block.
ISRCTN45121950.
Peroxisome-biogenesis disorders (PBD) are genetically heterogeneous and can be classified into at least ten complementation groups. We recently isolated the cDNA for rat peroxisome assembly factor-2 (PAF-2) by functional complementation using the peroxisome-deficient Chinese-hamster-ovary cell mutant, ZP92. To clarify the novel pathogenic gene of PBD, we cloned the full-length human PAF-2 cDNA that morphologically and biochemically restores peroxisomes of group C Zellweger fibroblasts (the same as group 4 in the Kennedy-Krieger Institute) and identified two pathogenic mutations in the PAF-2 gene in two patients with group C Zellweger syndrome. The 2,940-bp open reading frame of the human PAF-2 cDNA encodes a 980-amino-acid protein that shows 87.1% identity with rat PAF-2 and also restored the peroxisome assembly after gene transfer to fibroblasts of group C patients. Direct sequencing of the PAF-2 gene revealed a homozygous 1-bp insertion at nucleotide 511 (511 insT) in one patient with group C Zellweger syndrome (ZS), which introduces a premature termination codon in the PAF-2 gene, and, in the second patient, revealed a splice-site mutation in intron 3 (IVS3+1G-->A), which skipped exon 3, an event that leads to peroxisome deficiency. Chromosome mapping utilizing FISH indicates that PAF-2 is located on chromosome 6p21.1. These results confirm that human PAF-2 cDNA restores peroxisome of group C cells and that defects in the PAF-2 produce peroxisome deficiency of group C PBD.
Diesel exhaust particulate material (DPM) was assayed for induction of chromosomal aberrations (CA), micronucleus (MN) formation, and 6-thioguanine-resistant (TG9 gene mutation in V79 cells as a dispersion in dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine (DPPC) in physiological saline, a simulated pulmonary surfactant. Filter-collected automobile DPM provided for the study was not organic solvent extracted, but was directly mixed into DPPC in saline dispersion as a model of pulmonary surfactant conditioning of a soot particle depositing in a lung alveolus. A statistically significant difference was found between treated and control groups at all concentrations tested in a CA assay. Assay for MN induction also gave a positive response: Above 50 microg/ml, the frequencies of micronucleated cells (MNC) were about 2 times higher than those in the control group. The forward gene mutation assay did not show a positive response when cells were treated with up to 136 microg DPM/ml for 24 h, as dispersion in DPPC in saline. Some comparison assays were run on direct dispersions of the DPM into dimethyl sulfoxide, with results equivalent to those seen with a DPPC-saline preparation: DPM in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) was positive for MN induction but was negative for forward gene mutation in V79 cells. The positive clastogenicity results are consistent with other studies of DPM dispersed into DPPC-saline surfactant that have shown activity in mammalian cells for sister chromatid exchange, unscheduled DNA synthesis, and MN induction. The forward gene mutation negative results are consistent with studies of that assay applied to V79 cells challenged with DPM solvent extract.
Earlier experiments performed in this laboratory have demonstrated that naloxone infusion (1 mg/kg/min i.v.) into conscious rats results in a bradycardia that has a peripheral component, is dependent on a certain level of sympathetic activity and is sensitive to alpha adrenoceptor blockade (5 mg/kg of phentolamine i.v.). The main objective of this investigation was to examine the underlying mechanism(s) responsible for the peripherally mediated naloxone-induced bradycardia, and to test the hypothesis that naloxone interacts with peripheral inhibitory alpha adrenoceptors associated with depression of peripheral sympathetic activity. Naloxone infusion (1 mg/kg/min i.v.) in pithed rats, in the absence of sympathetic nerve activation, resulted in a bradycardia that could not be blocked by 1 mg/kg (i.v.) of atropine, 5 mg/kg (i.v.) of phentolamine, 0.1 mg/kg (i.v.) of prazosin or 0.5 mg/kg (i.v.) of rauwolscine. Isoproterenol or norepinephrine-induced tachycardia was not blocked by naloxone infusion, suggesting that naloxone does not antagonize the postjunctional activation of cardiac adrenoceptors to cause bradycardia. In the presence of sympathetic nerve activity, naloxone depresses neurogenic tachycardia. This effect was blocked completely by 5 mg/kg (i.v.) of phentolamine or 0.5 mg/kg (i.v.) of rauwolscine, but not 0.1 mg/kg (i.v.) of prazosin or 1 mg/kg (i.v.) of atropine. The results of this investigation suggest that the naloxone-induced bradycardia in pithed rats is mediated postjunctionally and prejunctionally, and that this prejunctional effect is dependent on sympathetic nerve activity and inhibitory alpha-2 adrenoceptors. Furthermore, these results confirm results obtained from conscious rats in an earlier investigation.
Our aim was to evaluate the influence of a calcium channel blocking agent of the dihydropyridine group (nicardipine) on coronary vasomotion during dynamic exercise.
Coronary vasomotion plays an important role in the pathophysiology of myocardial ischemia.
Twenty-nine patients with coronary artery disease were studied at rest and during bicycle exercise with the use of biplane quantitative coronary angiography. Twelve patients without pretreatment (group 1) served as control subjects. Seventeen patients (group 2) received nicardipine, either 0.2 mg by intracoronary injection (n = 9) or 2.5 mg intravenously (n = 8) before exercise.
In the control group there was exercise-induced vasoconstriction (-29%, p < 0.001) of the stenotic segment but coronary vasodilation (+22%, p < 0.05) of the normal vessel segment. In group 2, nicardipine induced coronary vasodilation of both the normal (+16%, p < 0.001) and the stenotic vessel segment (+35%). During subsequent exercise there was some additional vasodilation of normal (+4%, p = NS) and stenotic arteries (+5%, p = NS). There was no difference between either intracoronary or intravenous nicardipine with regard to vasodilation. Application of sublingual nitroglycerin was associated with significant vasodilation of the normal vessel segment in groups 1 (+18%, p < 0.05) and 2 (+15%, p < 0.001). The stenotic vessels showed a significant increase in percent cross-sectional area after nitroglycerin in groups 1 (+12%, p = NS) and 2 (+51%, p < 0.001). Exertional angina pectoris occurred less frequently in group 2 (18%) than in group 1 (67% [p < 0.005 vs. group 2]); group 2 also had a smaller increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure (+14 vs. +21 mm Hg, p < 0.05).
Exercise induces vasoconstriction of stenotic, but vasodilation of normal, coronary vessel segments. Intravenous and intracoronary nicardipine prevent vasoconstriction of stenotic coronary arteries during exercise and exert a significant anti-ischemic effect. The combination of two anti-ischemic drugs, nitroglycerin and nicardipine, has an additive effect on coronary vasomotion that is seen only in the stenotic vessel segment. Thus, the anti-ischemic action of nicardipine is mainly due to a primary effect on coronary vasomotor response rather than to secondary effects such as changes in loading conditions.
We previously found that administration of ascorbic acid (AA) enhances the liver tumor-promoting activity of kojic acid (KA) in mice. To examine the reproducibility of these results in rats and the underlying mechanism of this effect, we employed a two-stage liver carcinogenesis model using male F344 rats. Two weeks after initiation with diethylnitrosamine (DEN), the animals received a diet containing 2% KA and drinking water with or without 5,000 ppm AA for a period of 7 weeks. A DEN-alone group was also established as a control. One week after the commencement of the administration, the animals were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy. At the end of the experiment, the livers were analyzed immunohistochemically, and the mRNA expression level and extent of lipid peroxidation were measured. AA treatment enhanced the KA-induced tumor-promoting activity in terms of the number and area of liver cell foci that were positive for glutathione-S-transferase placental form. AA coadministration increased the number of hepatocytes positive for proliferating cell nuclear antigen and inversely decreased the number of TUNEL-positive cells. However, the increased level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances resulting from KA treatment was suppressed by coadministration of AA. Gene expression analyses using low-density microarrays and real-time RT-PCR showed that coadministration of AA resulted in upregulation of genes related to cell proliferation and downregulation of those involved in apoptosis and/or cell cycle arrest. These results indicate that the concerted effects of AA on cell proliferation and apoptosis/cell cycle arrest probably through its antioxidant activity are involved in this enhancement.
