A 73 year old man developed chest pains 5 minutes after fibreoptic bronchoscopy. The procedure had been performed without sedation following an intratracheal injection of 5 ml 2.5% cocaine solution and xylocaine spray to the pharynx for topical anaesthesia. A 12-lead electrocardiogram showed an evolving anterior myocardial infarction. Cardiac catheterisation revealed coronary artery spasm in the proximal left anterior descending artery at the site of non-significant plaque disease. The risk factors, mechanisms, and treatment of cocaine induced myocardial infarction following intratracheal injections are discussed.
The effects of excitatory amino acid antagonists on increased cortical acetylcholine release and behavioral hyperactivity induced by naloxone in morphine tolerant guinea pigs and mice were studied. The results show that the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) injected 30 min before naloxone (3 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently prevented the neurochemical and behavioral signs of morphine withdrawal in guinea pigs and mice. The non-selective antagonist glutamic acid diethylester only at 100 mg/kg i.p. reduced the naloxone-induced increase of cortical acetylcholine release without affecting the behavioral changes. These findings indicate that the activation of excitatory amino acid receptors, mainly the NMDA receptors, plays a relevant role in the expression of opiate abstinence.
Pergolide, an experimental dopamine agonist, was administered to 56 patients with advanced Parkinson disease who were no longer satisfactorily responding to levodopa, including 45 patients with diurnal oscillations in performance: "on-off" phenomena. Lisuride, an experimental dopamine agonist was administered to 63 patients with advanced Parkinson disease. Pergolide or lisuride, when added to levodopa, resulted in a significant decrease in disability in both the "on" and the "off" period, and an increase in the number of hours in which patients were "on". Forty-one of 56 patients (73%) improved on Pergolide. Thirty-seven of 63 patients (59%) improved on lisuride. Mean dose of pergolide was 2.5 mg. (range 0.2 to 10.0 mg.). Mean dose of lisuride was 2.6 mg. (range 0.2 to 5.0 mg.). Pergolide was discontinued in 18 patients because of adverse effects, including an organic confusional syndrome (six patients), dyskinesias (four patients) and cardiovascular abnormalities (three patients). Lisuride was discontinued in 26 patients because of adverse effects, including an organic confusional syndrome (15 patients), dyskinesias (five patients) and vasospasm (two patients). Pergolide was discontinued in nine patients and lisuride in 12 because of a lack of effect or a declining effect. Both drugs are equally useful in patients with advanced Parkinson disease.
Constitutively activated pathways contribute to apoptosis resistance in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Little is known about the metabolism of lipids and function of lipases in CLL cells. Performing gene expression profiling including B-cell receptor (BCR) stimulation of CLL cells in comparison to healthy donor CD5+ B cells, we found significant overexpression of lipases and phospholipases in CLL cells. In addition, we observed that the recently defined prognostic factor lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is induced by stimulation of BCR in CLL cells but not in CD5+ normal B cells. CLL cellular lysates exhibited significantly higher lipase activity compared to healthy donor controls. Incubation of primary CLL cells (n=26) with the lipase inhibitor orlistat resulted in induction of apoptosis, with a half-maximal dose (IC(50)) of 2.35 microM. In healthy B cells a significantly higher mean IC(50) of 148.5 microM of orlistat was observed, while no apoptosis was induced in healthy peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs; P<0.001). Orlistat-mediated cytotoxicity was decreased by BCR stimulation. Finally, the cytotoxic effects of orlistat on primary CLL cells were enhanced by the simultaneous incubation with fludarabine (P=0.003). In summary, alterations of lipid metabolism are involved in CLL pathogenesis and might represent a novel therapeutic target in CLL.
4-Amino-N-(2,4 bis-methylamino-pyrimidin-4-yl) benzene sulphonamide (Ro 04-6790) is a potent, selective and competitive antagonist for the 5-HT6 receptor which can be detected in the cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) of rats following intraperitoneal administration. Since 5-HT6 receptor mRNA and 5-HT6 receptor-like immunoreactivity have been shown to be present in the striatum, the purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of 5-HT6 receptor antagonism on haloperidol- and SCH 23390-induced catalepsy in mice and on the turning behaviour of rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the medial forebrain bundle. Ro 04-6790 (3, 10 and 30 mg kg(-1) i.p.) did not induce catalepsy and had no effect on catalepsy induced by either haloperidol or SCH 23390. Ro 04-6790 (3, 10 and 30 mg kg(-1) i.p.) did not itself induce rotational behaviour in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the medial forebrain bundle nor did it affect the rotational behaviour induced by either L-Dopa or amphetamine. 5-HT6 receptor antagonism inhibited the rotational behaviour of 6-OHDA lesioned rats induced by treatment with the muscarinic antagonists scopolamine and atropine. The data support earlier conclusions from experiments with antisense oligonucleotides that the 5-HT6 receptor is involved in the control of acetylcholine neurotransmission in the rat brain.
A 77 year-old man, who had received total gastrectomy and splenectomy 11 years ago for gastric cancer was transferred to our hospital because of severe macrocytic anemia. He had been treated with vitamin B1, B2, C and iron preparations for several weeks. Ten days before admission numbness developed in his legs. On physical examination he appeared severely anemic. Laboratory findings revealed severe macrocytic anemia with poikilocytosis, anisocytosis, polychromasia, red cell fragmentation, Howell-Jolly bodies, Cabot rings and marked erythroblastosis (421/100 WBC). Hypersegmented neutrophils and immature granulocytes were also seen in the blood. The bone marrow picture showed marked erythroid hyperplasia, but erythroblasts revealed only slight megaloblastic changes. On bone marrow iron staining all erythroblasts were classified as type III sideroblasts and 15% of them were ringed-form. Serum vitamin B12 was low (44 pg/ml). Methylcobalamin given intramuscularly led to the rapid improvement of all hematological abnormalities including leukoerythroblastosis. Two weeks after vitamin B12 administration, ringed sideroblasts could no longer be detected in the bone marrow. Post-gastrectomy vitamin B12 deficiency anemias combined with erythroblastosis and ringed sideroblasts is a rare condition. Splenectomy is thought to play an important role in the pathogenesis of these conditions.
We investigate the role of M(2)-muscarinic receptors in maintaining neurogenic bladder contraction during hyperglycemia. Mice were injected with a single dose of streptozotocin (125 mg/kg), and neurogenic contraction of urinary bladder from wild type and M(2)-muscarinic receptor knockout (M(2) KO) mice was measured at 8 to 24 weeks after treatment. In wild-type bladder lacking urothelium, the summation of the cholinergic (64%) and purinergic (56%) components of the electrical-field-stimulated response exceeded 100%, indicating a reserve capacity. Although the cholinergic component was slightly less in the M(2) KO mouse, the total electrical-field-stimulated contraction was the same as wild type. The cholinergic and purinergic components of contraction in wild-type bladder were minimally affected by streptozotocin treatment. In M(2) KO bladder, streptozotocin treatment reduced both the cholinergic (after 8-9 and 20-24 weeks) and purinergic (after 20-24 weeks only) components. The loss of function was approximately 50 to 70%. Similar results were observed in bladder with intact urothelium. M(2) KO bladder was more sensitive to the relaxant effect of isoproterenol compared with wild type, and this difference significantly increased at the early and late time points after streptozotocin treatment. In the presence of urothelium, however, this difference in isoproterenol sensitivity was smaller with streptozotocin treatment, but this trend reversed over time. Our results show that M(2) receptors oppose urinary bladder distension in wild-type bladder and inhibit streptozotocin-induced neuropathy.
Sepsis is a major cause of mortality worldwide. Acute or chonic ethanol exposure typically suppresses innate immunity and inflammation and increases the risk of mortality in patients with sepsis. The study described here was designed to address the mechanism(s) by which acute ethanol exposure alters the course of sepsis. Ethanol administered to mice shortly before Escherichia coli (injected ip to produce sepsis) decreased production of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines for several hours. Bacteria in the peritoneal cavity decreased over time in control mice and were mostly cleared by 21 h, but in ethanol-treated mice, bacteria increased over time to more than 2 × 10(8) at 21 h. Killing of bacteria in macrophages and neutrophils was apparently compromised by ethanol, as the percentage of these cells that had cleared phagocytosed bacteria increased over time in control mice but not in ethanol-treated mice. The roles of TLR4, MyD88, and myeloperoxidase (MPO) were evaluated using mutant or knockout mice, and these experiments indicated that mice with hyporesponsive TLR4 survived better than those with normal TLR4. Lack of MyD88 or MPO did not significantly alter survival in the presence or absence of ethanol. Ethanol decreased survival in all groups. This indicates that the antimicrobial activities induced though TLR4 are dispensable for survival but contribute to lethality late in the course of sepsis. Thus, the effects of ethanol responsible for lethal outcome in sepsis are not dependent on inhibition of TLR4 signaling, as we and others had previously suspected.
A 52-year-old man had laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) for treatment of a post-keratoplasty refractive error. At the 6-week postoperative visit, haziness was noted in the donor cornea and Snellen visual acuity had decreased to 20/400. Goldmann applanation tonometry revealed an intraocular pressure (IOP) of 2 mm Hg at the center of the cornea but an elevated IOP at the periphery. Visante optical coherence tomography (OCT) and corneal topography were performed, and steroid-induced lamellar keratitis (SILK) was diagnosed. Topical antiglaucoma medications were started, and steroid treatment was switched to fluorometholone. At the last follow-up visit, 2 weeks after treatment was started, the visual acuity was 20/60 and the IOP was controlled at 18 mm Hg centrally and at the periphery. The use of Visante OCT and corneal topography were helpful in diagnosing SILK and monitoring its resolution.
We report a case of a severe hypersensitivity syndrome reaction to clopidogrel that resolved with dechallenge and recurred on rechallenge. The reaction included neutropenia, rash, fever, tachycardia, nausea, and vomiting. This presentation is very similar to the frequently reported hypersensitivity syndrome reactions to the structurally similar drug ticlopidine and is very similar to a case involving clopidogrel reported previously in this Journal. We could find no other reports of similar cases related to clopidogrel.
To define the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and the maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) of topotecan in combination with epirubicin in pretreated patients with small-cell lung cancer (SCLC).
Twenty-seven SCLC patients with performance status (WHO) of 0-2 and adequate renal, hepatic, and bone marrow function who had failed EP-containing front-line chemotherapy entered the study. Patients received escalated doses of topotecan (starting dose 0.5 mg/m(2)) for 5 days and epirubicin (starting dose 40 mg/m(2)) on day 8, every 28 days.
All patients were assessable for toxicity and 20 for response. The MTD was topotecan 0.90 mg/m(2) and epirubicin 40 mg/m(2) with neutropenia being the most common dose-limiting event. Seventy-three courses were administered. Grade 3-4 neutropenia occurred in 22 (30%) courses, grade 3-4 anemia in 7 (10%), and grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia in 11 (15%). Seven courses were complicated with fever and one patient died of neutropenic sepsis. Grade 3-4 non-hematologic toxicity was mild and infrequent with only grade 2-3 asthenia occurring in 16 (22%) courses. Among 20 patients who were evaluable for response, 16 (80%) were refractory to prior treatment. One patient with refractory disease (5%) achieved a complete response of 14 weeks duration and four experienced stabilization of the disease.
The combination of topotecan 0.90 mg/m(2) on days 1-5, with epirubicin 40 mg/m(2) on day 8, administered every 28 days is a feasible outpatient regimen which merits further evaluation in patients with chemosensitive disease.
The paper presents the results of treatment of 488 patients with primary endometrial carcinoma. All patients received adjuvant hormonotherapy (oxyprogesterone caproate, and some patients previously oestrogens) in combination with surgery and postoperative irradiation. The study of tumor morphology on ultrastructural level and by histochemical methods provided additionally useful findings. Depending on the degree of changes in the tumor structure after hormone therapy it appeared possible to distinguish the following varieties of results: 1) Complete regression of tumor. 2) An increase in structural and functional differentiation as compared with the initial level differentiation of tumor. 3) Absence or doubtful effect. In the paper the working classification of malignant adrenogenic tumors of the uterus is presented.
In 43 persons with increased intraocular pressure (IOP) Timolol maleate eye drops (0.25% and 0.5%) were used as a single and combined treatment. A significant decrease in IOP was noticed in 34 persons (P less than 0.001) initially. No diminished effect of treatment was apparent after 9 weeks in 34 subjects or after 15 weeks in 23 subjects with Timolol alone. In nine persons with high IOP, Timolol had a significant (P less than 0.001) but insufficient lowering effect. Epinephrine (1%) and acetazolamide appeared to have an additive effect in these cases. No serious local or systemic adverse effects were discovered.
Cyclophosphamide is used extensively to treat malignancies. A 5-year-old boy with stage IV neuroblastoma is described who developed a fatal syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (ADH) secretion after high dose cyclophosphamide therapy.
In a prospective and randomized study comprising 540 primary endometrial carcinoma patients the influence of adjuvant hormone therapy by Oxyprogesterone caproate (OPC) and by its combination with Tamoxifen on the corrected survival rates after surgical and combined (surgical and irradiation) therapy was investigated. As was shown OPC administered preoperatively and after surgical and combined therapy from 6 up to 36 months increased the corrected survival rates as compared with that in patients who did not receive hormone treatment. Combination of OPC and Tamoxifen administered additionally to surgical and combined therapy increase the corrected survival rate at the 5th year by 19%. One can conclude that adjuvant hormone therapy in endometrial carcinoma patients who have unfavourable prognosis of the disease must be administered for not less than 3 years in order to obtain prolongation of remission of the disease.
The mechanism of arsenic detoxification in humans remains unclear. Data are especially lacking for low-level arsenic exposure. We hypothesize that arsenic methylation ability, defined as the ratios of monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V))/inorganic arsenic (primary arsenic methylation index, PMI) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V))/ MMA(V) (secondary arsenic methylation index, SMI), may modify the association between cumulative arsenic exposure (CAE, mg/L-year) and the risk of bladder cancer. In this study we investigated the relationship among arsenic methylation ability, CAE, and the risk of bladder cancer in a hospital-based case-control study in southwestern Taiwan.
From January 1996 to December 1999 we identified 49 patients with newly diagnosed cases of bladder cancer at the National Cheng-Kung University (NCKU) Medical Center; controls consisted of 224 fracture and cataract patients selected from the same medical center. The levels of four urinary arsenic species: arsenite (As(III)), arsenate (As(V)), MMA(V), and DMA(V)) were determined in all subjects by using the high-performance liquid chromatography hydride-generation atomic absorption spectrometry (HPLC-HGAAS). CAE was estimated by using published data collected in a survey from 1974 to 1976.
Compared to a CAE < or = 2 mg/L-year, CAE > 12 mg/L-year was associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer (multivariate odds ratio (OR) 4.23, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.12-16.01), in the setting of a low SMI (< or = 4.8). Compared to women, smoking men (OR 6.23, 95% CI 1.88-20.62) and non-smoking men (OR 3.25, 95% CI 0.95-11.06) had higher risks of bladder cancer. Given the same level of PMI, smoking men (OR 9.80, 95% CI 2.40-40.10) and non-smoking men (OR 4.45, 95% CI 1.00-19.84) had a higher risk of bladder cancer when compared to women. With the same level of SMI, both smoking men (OR 6.28, 95% CI 1.76-22.39) and non-smoking men (OR 3.31, 95% CI 0.84-12.97) had a higher risk of bladder cancer when compared to women.
Subjects with low SMI have a substantially increased risk of bladder cancer, especially when combined with high CAE levels.
Coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease are leading causes of death in the United States. In 2002, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) strongly recommended that clinicians discuss aspirin with adults who are at increased risk for coronary heart disease.
To determine the benefits and harms of taking aspirin for the primary prevention of myocardial infarctions, strokes, and death.
MEDLINE and Cochrane Library (search dates, 1 January 2001 to 28 August 2008), recent systematic reviews, reference lists of retrieved articles, and suggestions from experts.
English-language randomized, controlled trials (RCTs); case-control studies; meta-analyses; and systematic reviews of aspirin versus control for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) were selected to answer the following questions: Does aspirin decrease coronary heart events, strokes, death from coronary heart events or stroke, or all-cause mortality in adults without known CVD? Does aspirin increase gastrointestinal bleeding or hemorrhagic strokes?
All studies were reviewed, abstracted, and rated for quality by using predefined USPSTF criteria.
New evidence from 1 good-quality RCT, 1 good-quality meta-analysis, and 2 fair-quality subanalyses of RCTs demonstrates that aspirin use reduces the number of CVD events in patients without known CVD. Men in these studies experienced fewer myocardial infarctions and women experienced fewer ischemic strokes. Aspirin does not seem to affect CVD mortality or all-cause mortality in either men or women. The use of aspirin for primary prevention increases the risk for major bleeding events, primarily gastrointestinal bleeding events, in both men and women. Men have an increased risk for hemorrhagic strokes with aspirin use. A new RCT and meta-analysis suggest that the risk for hemorrhagic strokes in women is not statistically significantly increased.
New evidence on aspirin for the primary prevention of CVD is limited. The dose of aspirin used in the RCTs varied, which prevented the estimation of the most appropriate dose for primary prevention. Several of the RCTs were conducted within populations of health professionals, which potentially limits generalizability.
Aspirin reduces the risk for myocardial infarction in men and strokes in women. Aspirin use increases the risk for serious bleeding events.
Abnormal function of NMDA receptor has been suggested to be correlated with the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) as well as with the development of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia. Here we show that NMDA receptor NR2 subunits display specific alterations of their subcellular distribution in striata from unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned, L-DOPA-treated dyskinetic, and L-DOPA-treated nondyskinetic rats. Dyskinetic animals have significantly higher levels of NR2A subunit in the postsynaptic compartment than all other experimental groups, whereas NR2B subunit shows a significant reduction in both dopamine-denervated and dyskinetic rats. These events are paralleled by profound modifications of NMDA receptor NR2B subunit association with interacting elements, i.e., members of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) protein family postsynaptic density-95, synapse-associated protein-97 and synapse-associated protein-102. Treatment of nondyskinetic animals with a synthetic peptide (TAT2B) able to affect NR2B binding to MAGUK proteins as well as synaptic localization of this subunit in nondyskinetic rats was sufficient to induce a shift of treated rats toward a dyskinetic motor behavior. These data indicate abnormal NR2B redistribution between synaptic and extrasynaptic membranes as an important molecular disturbance of the glutamatergic synapse involved in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Unlike steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), one of the cholesterol transport protein, little attention is given to StarD6 which belongs to a family of StAR-related lipid transfer domain proteins. Although we undertook previous works with StarD6 in the nervous system, the characteristics are in controversy to date. Therefore, we attempted to investigate the morphological characteristics of StarD6 in the nervous system are the same as StAR in vitro and in vivo. The number of immunoreactive cells was significantly different by StAR or StarD6 in the cultured glioblastoma cell lines and dopaminergic neuronal cell lines. StarD6 immunoreactivity was changed by the presence of DNA-dependent protein kinase, while the dependency was not observed in StAR immunoreactivity. Besides, StarD6 was mainly observed in the stratum pyramidale and StAR in the other strata of normal rat hippocampus proper. Increased immunolocalization of StAR and StarD6 was seen in the stratum pyramidale and the strata lacunosum-moleculare, respectively, 3h after pilocarpine-induced epilepsy. Taken together, morphological aspects of StarD6 were significantly different from those of StAR in cultured glial and neuronal cells, as well as the distribution in the normal and epileptic rat hippocampus. These results suggested that StarD6 did not mark the same as StAR in vitro and in vivo.
This study addresses unresolved questions about cocaine withdrawal by prospectively assessing monitored cocaine abstinence over 28 days in a sample of 24 male and female cocaine-dependent outpatients. Based on results from urine drug screens and self-reported substance use, it is likely that these patients were abstinent from cocaine during the assessment period. Abstinence-related symptoms were monitored at 2, 5, 10, 14, 21, and 28 days following last cocaine use. For patients who were known to relapse, assessments began again after the last day of cocaine use. Consistent with findings from inpatient studies of cocaine abstinence, linear improvements in negative affect, low cocaine craving, and increases in cognitive skills were reported over the 28 days. Also consistent with inpatient studies of cocaine withdrawal, a phasic withdrawal syndrome was not observed in this outpatient sample. Unlike inpatient studies, no disturbances in sleep were reported.
The aim of this study was to develop an objective test for superficial endometrial vascular fragility at hysteroscopy, and to apply this test to women using Norplant((R)) for contraception and to women with ovulatory dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB). A prospective observational study was carried out in 34 Norplant users and 20 women with menorrhagia due to ovulatory DUB. Superficial endometrial vascular fragility was assessed at hysteroscopy by observing the source and extent of frank and subepithelial bleeding during controlled collapse and redistension of the uterine cavity. Superficial endometrial blood vessels were more fragile in Norplant users compared to women with DUB (chi(2) = 11.60, P = 0.02). Superficial endometrial petechiae (chi(2) = 37.9, P < 0.0001) and ecchymoses (chi(2) = 42.2, P = 0.0001) were more frequently observed in the Norplant users than in the menorrhagia group. In Norplant users, superficial endometrial vascular fragility was increased in those with frequent bleeding or spotting during the past 30 days (chi(2) = 6.15, P = 0.01), and in those who were examined during a bleeding episode (chi(2) = 5.3, P = 0.02). Fragility was increased in the menorrhagia group during the perimenstrual period (days 24 to 05; chi(2) = 12.83, P = 0.01). There was no obvious relationship between subepithelial bleeding and circulating concentrations of oestradiol and progesterone.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a common psychiatric disorder defined by the presence of obsessive thoughts and repetitive compulsive actions, and it often encompasses anxiety and depressive symptoms. Recently, the corticostriatal circuitry has been implicated in the pathogenesis of OCD. However, the etiology, pathophysiology and molecular basis of OCD remain unknown. Several studies indicate that the pathogenesis of OCD has a genetic component. Here we demonstrate that loss of a neuron-specific transmembrane protein, SLIT and NTRK-like protein-5 (Slitrk5), leads to OCD-like behaviors in mice, which manifests as excessive self-grooming and increased anxiety-like behaviors, and is alleviated by the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine. Slitrk5(-/-) mice show selective overactivation of the orbitofrontal cortex, abnormalities in striatal anatomy and cell morphology and alterations in glutamate receptor composition, which contribute to deficient corticostriatal neurotransmission. Thus, our studies identify Slitrk5 as an essential molecule at corticostriatal synapses and provide a new mouse model of OCD-like behaviors.
A 73-year-old, ASA I patient scheduled for transurethral resection of the prostate under subarachnoid anesthesia received, prior to the beginning of the surgery, intravenous imipenem/cilastatin 1 g for a urinary infection with multiresistant Escherichia coli. The patient developed seizures during the surgical procedure. Central nervous toxicity of imipenem/cilastatin might have been the cause of the seizures. After appropriate management, the patient recovered well and was discharged without complications. The differential diagnosis between systemic toxicity of local anesthetics and imipenem-related seizures is discussed.
Smoking is a common risk factor for many diseases. We conducted genome-wide association meta-analyses for the number of cigarettes smoked per day (CPD) in smokers (n = 31,266) and smoking initiation (n = 46,481) using samples from the ENGAGE Consortium. In a second stage, we tested selected SNPs with in silico replication in the Tobacco and Genetics (TAG) and Glaxo Smith Kline (Ox-GSK) consortia cohorts (n = 45,691 smokers) and assessed some of those in a third sample of European ancestry (n = 9,040). Variants in three genomic regions associated with CPD (P < 5 x 10(-8)), including previously identified SNPs at 15q25 represented by rs1051730[A] (effect size = 0.80 CPD, P = 2.4 x 10(-69)), and SNPs at 19q13 and 8p11, represented by rs4105144[C] (effect size = 0.39 CPD, P = 2.2 x 10(-12)) and rs6474412-T (effect size = 0.29 CPD, P = 1.4 x 10(-8)), respectively. Among the genes at the two newly associated loci are genes encoding nicotine-metabolizing enzymes (CYP2A6 and CYP2B6) and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits (CHRNB3 and CHRNA6), all of which have been highlighted in previous studies of smoking and nicotine dependence. Nominal associations with lung cancer were observed at both 8p11 (rs6474412[T], odds ratio (OR) = 1.09, P = 0.04) and 19q13 (rs4105144[C], OR = 1.12, P = 0.0006).
