Aluminum-containing adjuvants increase the effectiveness of vaccination, but their ability to augment immune responsiveness also carries the risk of eliciting non-target responses, especially in genetically susceptible individuals. This study reviews the relevant actions of aluminum adjuvants and sources of genetic risk that can combine to adversely affect a vulnerable sub-population. Aluminum adjuvants promote oxidative stress and increase inflammasome activity, leading to the release of IL-1β, IL-18, and IL-33, but not the important regulatory cytokine IL-12. In addition, they stimulate macrophages to produce PGE₂, which also has a role in regulating immune responses. This aluminum-induced cytokine context leads to a T(H)2 immune response, characterized by the further release of IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-9, IL-13, and IgE-potentiating factors such as sCD23. Genetic variants in cytokine genes, such as IL-4, IL-13, IL-33, and IL-18 influence the response to vaccines in children and are also associated with atopy. These genetic factors may therefore define a genetically-vulnerable sub-population, children with a family history of atopy, who may experience an exaggerated T(H)2 immune response to aluminum-containing vaccines. IL-4, sCD23, and IgE are common factors for both atopy and the immune-stimulating properties of aluminum adjuvants. IL-4 is critical in the production of IgE and total IgE up-regulation. IL-4 has also been reported to induce the production of sCD23 and trigger resting sIgM+, sIgD+ B-cells to switch to sIgE+ B-cells, making them targets for IgE-potentiating factors. Further, the actions of IgE-potentiating factors on sIgE+ B-cells are polyclonal and unrestricted, triggering their differentiation into IgE-forming plasma cells. These actions provide a mechanism for aluminum-adjuvant promotion and enhancement of non-target IgE in a genetically vulnerable sub-population. Identification of these individuals may decrease the risk of adverse events associated with the use of aluminum-containing vaccines.
Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) is a volatile organic chemical, which causes tissue damage, especially to the liver and kidney. In experimental animals it has been shown to be carcinogenic. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of exogenous melatonin administration on the CCl4-induced changes of some biochemical parameters in rat blood. Twenty-four male Wistar rats were randomly divided into three equal groups: Control, CCl4 and CCl4 plus melatonin (CCl4+MEL). Rats in CCl4 group were injected subcutaneously with CCl4 0.5 ml/kg in olive oil while rats in CCl4+MEL group were injected with CCl4 (0.5 ml/kg) plus melatonin (25 mg/kg in 10% ethanol) every other day for one month. Control rats were treated with olive oil. Serum urea, creatinine, total protein, albumin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total and conjugated bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyl transferase (gamma-GT), total iron, and magnesium levels were determined. Serum AST, ALT, total and conjugated bilirubin, ALP, gamma-GT, and total iron levels were significantly higher in CCl4-treated rats than in the controls, while urea, total protein, and albumin levels were significantly lower. Melatonin treatment did not cause a significantly change in serum urea, total protein, and albumin levels. However, the elevations in AST, ALT, total and conjugated bilirubin, ALP, gamma-GT, and total iron levels induced by CCl4 injections were significantly reduced by melatonin. On the other hand, melatonin administration significantly decreased serum magnesium levels. These results indicate that melatonin could be a protective agent against the CCl4 toxicity in rats, most likely through its antioxidant and free radical scavenger effects.
Cinnabar (HgS) is used in traditional medicines, and total Hg content is used for risk assessment of cinnabar-containing traditional medicines such as Zhu-Sha-An-Shen-Wan (ZSASW). Is ZSASW or cinnabar toxicologically similar to common mercurials? Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were gavaged with ZSASW (1.4 g/kg), cinnabar (0.2g/kg), HgCl(2) (0.02 g/kg), MeHg (0.001 g/kg), or saline daily for 60 days, and toxicity was determined. Animal body-weight gain was decreased by HgCl(2) and MeHg. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was increased by MeHg. Histology showed severe kidney injury following MeHg and HgCl(2) treatments, but mild after ZSASW and cinnabar. Renal Hg contents were markedly increased in the HgCl(2) and MeHg groups but were not elevated in the ZSASW and cinnabar groups. The expression of kidney injury molecule-1 was increased 50-fold by MeHg, 4-fold by HgCl(2), but was unaltered by ZSASW and cinnabar; the expression of matrilysin was increased 3-fold by MeHg. In contrast, the expression of N-cadherin was decreased by HgCl(2). Thus, ZSASW and cinnabar are much less nephrotoxic than HgCl(2) and MeHg, indicating that chemical forms of mercury underlie their disposition and toxicity.
Interleukin-4 (IL-4) is known to activate mononuclear cells as well as fibroblasts, all of which are important in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis. To investigate the potential role of this cytokine, lung IL-4 expression was examined in a murine model of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Lung fibrosis was induced in CBA/J mice by endotracheal injection of bleomycin on day 0. On selected days after treatment, lungs were harvested for reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Northern, in-situ hybridization and immunohistochemical analyses. RT-PCR and Northern analyses revealed significant increases in lung IL-4 mRNA content between days 3 and 14 after induction of lung injury, which decreased toward control level after day 21. Both in-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed low or undetectable IL-4 expression in control lungs and in injured lungs before day 3 after bleomycin injection. There was however elevated expression in mononuclear cells and macrophages between days 3 and 14, localized to areas of active fibrosis. These results demonstrate that IL-4 is upregulated significantly in this model. They suggest a potential role for this cytokine in pulmonary fibrosis, perhaps via its ability to stimulate and amplify the inflammatory response, stimulate collagen synthesis in fibroblasts, and thus promote the progression to fibrosis and end stage lung disease.
Polymeric micelles made of copolymer of N-isopropylacrylamide (NIPAAM), vinyl pyrrolidone (VP) and acrylic acid (AA) having cross-linkage with N,N'-methylene bis-acrylamide (MBA) were used as host carrier in which up to 30%w/w ketorolac (free acid) was entrapped to make the formulation. The lyophilised powder was used for physical characterisation. The drug entrapment was found to be about 80% and the formulation was stable for 8-10 days at room temperature. The smaller the amount of ketorolac dissolved into the micelles, the longer was the formulation shelf life. The size of the particles as measured by dynamic light scattering was found to be around 35 nm diameter at 25 degrees C. TEM picture showed spherical particles. The structure of the polymer and its morphology were characterised by FTIR, NMR and XRD measurements. IR data indicated weak interaction between polymer and ketorolac in the encapsulated system. NMR spectra indicated rigid polymer backbone with intermittent iso-propyl group in the chain. XRD spectra showed significant loss of crystallinity of the drug while being entrapped in the polymeric micelles. The release of drug in aqueous buffer (pH 7.2) from the polymeric micelles at 25 degrees C were 20 and 60% after 2 and 8 h respectively and is temperature and pH dependent. In vitro corneal permeation studies through excised rabbit cornea indicated two fold increase in ocular availability with no corneal damage compared to an aqueous suspension containing same amount of drug as in nanoparticles. The formulation showed significant inhibition of lid closure up to 3 h and PMN migration up to 5 h compared to the suspension containing non-entrapped drug, which did not show any significant effect.
A 67 year old woman with a history of chronic atrial fibrillation presented with asthma cardiale. She took no medication and there was no family history of long QT syndrome. She was treated with furosemide, nitroprusside, acenocoumarol, and digoxin. Two days later excessively prolonged RR intervals, which were terminated by escape beats with a right bundle branch block morphology, suggested impending total AV block. There was also severe QT (0.48 s) and QTc (0.56) interval prolongation with bizarre inverted TU waves and multifocal premature ventricular complexes within the U waves. The patient experienced angina pectoris followed by episodes of torsades de pointes, which were interpreted as the result of bradycardia, and the bradycardia as the result of high grade AV block induced by increased vagal tone caused by ischaemia in the presence of digoxin intoxication (serum digoxin was 2.5 micrograms/l). Subsequent atropine infusion sped up the ventricular rate and shortened the QT (0.39) and QTc (0.51) intervals. Digoxin was replaced by metoprolol to control ventricular rate and angina pectoris. Within days, QT and QTc intervals became normal and the U waves disappeared. Neither torsades de pointes nor angina pectoris recurred. Based on a review of the literature, it is suggested that the electrophysiological mechanism of this effect is not only an increase of the heart rate, but also a direct action of muscarinic receptor antagonism on Purkinje cells and ventricular refractoriness.
We describe a case of acute myocardial ischemia following carmustine treatment during the BEAM regimen. Despite this, full completion of the autologous peripheral stem-cell transplant was possible.
Antiretroviral toxic neuropathy (ATN) has become a common peripheral neuropathy among HIV/AIDS patients, for which the underlying pathogenesis is uncertain. Indeed, no models exist for ATN that assess the interaction between retroviral infection and antiretroviral therapy. Herein, we developed ex vivo and in vivo models of ATN induced by didanosine (ddI) following infection by the lentivirus, feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), permitting us to address the working hypothesis that ddI mediates ATN through mitochondrial injury in neurons. We investigated neuronal morphology, neurobehavioural testing, viral load, mitochondrial and neurotrophic factor gene expression after ddI treatment of FIV-infected and uninfected animals or dorsal root ganglia (DRG) cultures. ddI caused concentration-dependent neuronal injury in cultured feline DRGs (P < 0.05), together with reduced viral replication and diminished expression of mitochondrial cytochrome C oxidase subunit I gene (mtCOX I) and the neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Indeed, BDNF treatment reversed neuronal injury caused by FIV infection in the presence or absence of ddI exposure (P < 0.05). In vivo FIV infection revealed delays in withdrawal latency to a noxious stimulus, which were exacerbated by ddI treatment. Epidermal density of nerve endings was reduced after FIV infection (P < 0.05), especially with ddI treatment. Although viral replication in blood was suppressed in ddI-treated animals (P < 0.05), ddI had a limited effect on viral abundance in DRGs of the same animals. ddI decreased mtCOX I expression in DRG neurons of FIV-infected animals (P < 0.05). BDNF expression was downregulated by ddI in DRG Schwann cells following FIV infection. Thus, ddI treatment during FIV infection resulted in additive pathogenic effects contributing to the development of ATN, which was associated with mitochondrial injury on neurons and reduced BDNF production by Schwann cells in DRGs, highlighting the convergent pathogenic effects that antiretroviral drugs might have in patients with HIV infection.
We hypothesized that regular use of long-acting beta-agonists could delay recognition of ("mask") increasing airway inflammation. We studied steroid-sparing and "masking" effects of salmeterol versus placebo in 13 asthmatic individuals requiring >= 1,500 microgram inhaled corticosteroid daily. Corticosteroid doses were reduced weekly until criteria were met for an exacerbation or the corticosteroid was fully withdrawn. Subjects were restabilized on their original dose of inhaled corticosteroid for 4 wk before crossover to the alternative treatment. Subjects maintained symptom and peak expiratory flow (PEF) diaries, and underwent weekly spirometric, methacholine challenge, sputum eosinophil, and serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) measurements. Mean corticosteroid dose was reduced by 87% during salmeterol treatment, versus 69% with placebo (p = 0.04). Sputum eosinophils increased before exacerbation despite stable symptoms, FEV1, and PEF. In the week before clinical exacerbation, sputum eosinophil counts were higher in the salmeterol-treatment arm (19.9 +/- 29.8% [mean +/- SD], versus placebo 9.3 +/- 17.6%; p = 0.006). Five subjects showed > 10% sputum eosinophilia before exacerbation during salmeterol treatment, as compared with two receiving placebo. In this model, salmeterol controlled symptoms and lung function until inflammation became significantly more advanced. We conclude that the bronchodilating and symptom-relieving effects of salmeterol can mask increasing inflammation and delay awareness of worsening asthma.
The present study has been carried out to investigate the role of taurine (2-aminoethanesulfonic acid), a conditionally essential amino acid, in ameliorating cadmium-induced renal dysfunctions in mice. Cadmium chloride (CdCl(2)) has been selected as the source of cadmium. Intraperitoneal administration of CdCl(2 )(at a dose of 4 mg/kg body weight for 3 days) caused significant accumulation of cadmium in renal tissues and lessened kidney weight to body weight ratio. Cadmium administration reduced intracellular ferric reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP) of renal tissues. Levels of serum marker enzymes related to renal damage, creatinine and urea nitrogen (UN) have been elevated due to cadmium toxicity. Cadmium exposure diminished the activities of enzymatic antioxidants, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) as well as non-enzymatic antioxidant, reduced glutathione (GSH) and total thiols. On the other hand, the levels of oxidized glutathione (GSSG), lipid peroxidation, protein carbonylation, DNA fragmentation, concentration of superoxide radicals and activities of cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP P450s) have been found to increase due to cadmium intoxication. Treatment with taurine (at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight for 5 days) before cadmium intoxication prevented the toxin-induced oxidative impairments in renal tissues. The beneficial role of taurine against cadmium-induced renal damage was supported from histological examination of renal segments. Vitamin C, a well-established antioxidant was used as the positive control in the study. Experimental evidence suggests that both taurine and vitamin C provide antioxidant defense against cadmium-induced renal oxidative injury. Combining all, results suggest that taurine protects murine kidneys against cadmium-induced oxidative impairments, probably via its antioxidative property.
The inflammatory responses after exposure to zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZNPs) are known, however, the molecular mechanisms and direct consequences of particle uptake are still unclear. Dose and time-dependent increase in the uptake of ZNPs by macrophages has been observed by flow cytometry. Macrophages treated with ZNPs showed a significantly enhanced phagocytic activity. Inhibition of different internalization receptors caused a reduction in uptake of ZNPs in macrophages. The strongest inhibition in internalization was observed by blocking clathrin, caveolae and scavenger receptor mediated endocytic pathways. However, FcR and complement receptor-mediated phagocytic pathways also contributed significantly to control. Further, exposure of primary macrophages to ZNPs (2.5 μg/ml) caused (i) significant enhancement of Ras, PI3K, (ii) enhanced phosphorylation and subsequent activation of its downstream signaling pathways via ERK1/2, p38 and JNK MAPKs (iii) overexpression of c-Jun, c-Fos and NF-κB. Our results demonstrate that ZNPs induce the generation of reactive nitrogen species and overexpression of Cox-2, iNOS, pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-17 and regulatory cytokine IL-10) and MAPKs which were found to be inhibited after blocking internalization of ZNPs through caveolae receptor pathway. These results indicate that ZNPs are internalized through caveolae pathway and the inflammatory responses involve PI3K mediated MAPKs signaling cascade.
Nisoldipine is a calcium antagonist with potent coronary vasodilating effects in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris. In an initial study we showed that intravenous nisoldipine, given 24-72 hours after uncomplicated myocardial infarction, was a safe and feasible intervention that had beneficial effects on global and regional myocardial function. We subsequently studied the acute effects of nisoldipine in six patients within 24 hours (mean 14 +/- 4 hours) after the onset of myocardial infarction. Nisoldipine was administered as a 4.5 micrograms/kg intravenous bolus over 3 minutes, followed by intravenous infusion of 0.2 microgram/kg over 60 minutes. Radionuclide angiography, cardiac output, and intraarterial blood pressure measurements were performed before and during nisoldipine. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 48.3 +/- 10.3% to 55.3 +/- 11.8% (p = 0.034) during nisoldipine infusion. Regional wall motion score changed during nisoldipine infusion from 3.3 +/- 2.5 to 1.8 +/- 2.6 (p = 0.027). Cardiac output increased from 5.5 +/- 1.0 to 7.3 +/- 1.3 l/min (p = 0.0001). Heart rate increased from 78 +/- 12 to 88 +/- 11 min-1 (p = 0.004). Mean arterial blood pressure decreased from 92 +/- 20 to 79 +/- 13 mmHg (p = 0.038). The rate-pressure product did not change significantly during nisoldipine infusion. It is concluded that nisoldipine improves global and regional left ventricular function in patients with acute myocardial infarction within the first 24 hours.
The objective of this study was to evaluate an intervention program, implemented in year 1999, of wearing rubber gloves in addition to engineering control, and to follow-up the hematological effects of 2-ethoxyethanol acetate (2-EEA) exposure among workers in a silk-screening factory. All workers from the printing department with direct exposure to 2-EEA were recruited as the exposed group. Workers from the other departments were recruited as the comparison group. Hematological parameters were measured during health surveys conducted 3 times every two years. Information on personal characteristics and working habits was obtained through a structured questionnaire. More female workers were involved in manual printing resulting in higher exposure to 2-EEA. Hemoglobin and haematocrit levels in female exposed workers were significantly lower than those of female comparison workers in the 1st (1998) health survey, but not in the 2nd (2000) and 3rd (2002) health surveys. No difference was found between male exposed and comparison workers for all three surveys. Longitudinal analysis after adjusting for confounders using the general estimating equation model showed the hemoglobin, haematocrit, and RBC count were significantly higher for 2-EEA exposed workers than comparison workers across the 3 surveys (n=42). The results show that wearing rubber gloves in addition to local ventilation was effective at preventing direct dermal exposure to 2-EEA and ameliorated the hematological effects of 2-EEA exposure.
This is a report of three cases of epidural abscess occurring after use of intraoperative epidural methylprednisolone in 31 patients who had undergone lumbar microdiscectomy. The possible role of epidural steroids in the cause of these abscesses is discussed, and a review the literature concerning its value is provided.
To evaluate experiences with the efficacy and safety of perioperative methylprednisolone.
No previous study has described a high infection rate with the use of epidural methylprednisolone. The literature supporting epidural steroids is equivocal, and reports supporting their perioperative use are scant.
In an 8-month period, 31 patients received 1 mL (40 mg) epidural methylprednisolone at the conclusion of microdiscectomy. Therapy was discontinued after an increased postoperative deep infection rate was noted. Results in these patients were compared with those in more than 400 others who did not receive intraoperative steroids during a 7-year period.
In the steroid group, three epidural abscesses were encountered. There were no deep infections in the nonsteroid group.
The use of perioperative epidural methylprednisolone in the currently reported cases was associated with three incidences of infection. A prospective study is needed to examine its use.
Daily rhythms of spontaneous locomotor activity (SLA) in rats were studied before and after an episode of pilocarpine-induced convulsive status epilepticus (SE). A pronounced increase in activity levels during both the light and dark phases was found 1 week after SE as compared with baseline SLA and controls administered saline. Rats with bilateral lesions of the nucleus accumbens (shell) did not exhibit any significant change in SLA 1 week after SE compared with controls. We suggest that during the first week after SE the increase in SLA was induced by abnormal neuronal activity in the hippocampus driving a descending limbic-motor pathway via the nucleus accumbens. EEG recordings revealed high-amplitude interictal spikes in hippocampal CA1. During subsequent weeks, SLA rhythms of nonlesioned chronic epileptic rats remained elevated but progressively normalized over a period of 12 weeks. Although both chronic epileptic and control groups displayed near-24-hour activity patterns under light-dark conditions, significant delays (>4 hour) in acrophase were observed after spontaneous seizures had developed. The phase delay was positively correlated with seizure history and likely the result of postictal hyperactivity associated with seizures during the normal rest period. Despite these changes, cell density in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) did not differ significantly between epileptic and control groups. In the absence of damage to brain areas directly involved with the regulation of behavioral rhythms, chronic seizure activity presumably alters the timing of activity patterns through a nonphotic mechanism, perhaps involving activation of the SCN or IGL during limbic seizures.
Deficient activities of multiple steroidogenic enzymes have been reported without and with Antley-Bixler syndrome (ABS), but mutations of corresponding cytochrome P450 enzymes have not been found. We identified mutations in POR, encoding P450 oxidoreductase, the obligate electron donor for these enzymes, in a woman with amenorrhea and three children with ABS, even though knock-out of POR is embryonically lethal in mice. Mutations of POR also affect drug-metabolizing P450 enzymes, explaining the association of ABS with maternal fluconazole ingestion.
Drugs with addictive liability have a high probability of co-abuse in many addicts. For example, cocaine users are several times more likely to smoke cigarettes than non-cocaine users, and smoking increases during cocaine use. Previous work has provided evidence that nicotine and cocaine have interactive neurochemical effects, particularly with regard to dopamine (DA) transmission.
The present study examined the impact of nicotine treatment on the reinforcement efficacy of self-administered cocaine and non-reinforced responding for cocaine in rats.
Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (i.v.) on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement. Self-administration training continued until stable responding was obtained. Acute nicotine pretreatment consisted of a subcutaneous injection (0.15, 0.3 and 0.6 mg/kg) 3 min prior to cocaine access. In the repeated treatment condition, a separate group of animals was given nicotine (0.6 mg/kg, s.c.) 3 min prior to cocaine access for 14 consecutive days. During extinction trials, these animals were injected with nicotine (0.6 mg/kg, s.c.) after 45 min of non-reinforced responding.
Acute nicotine treatment produced an inverted U-shaped dose-response function with lower doses increasing and the highest dose decreasing the number of cocaine infusions obtained during a session. Animals treated repeatedly with the highest dose of nicotine showed a significant increase in the number of cocaine infusions by day 8 of nicotine treatment. During extinction sessions when cocaine was not available, injections of nicotine in these animals caused a reinstatement of the previously rewarded lever-press behavior.
These findings indicate that nicotine can facilitate cocaine reinforcement, may contribute to the transition from moderate drug-taking to an escalation of drug intake which is characteristic of addiction, and may trigger relapse.
Evidence for the etiology of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) has consistently pointed to a strong genetic component complicated by substantial locus heterogeneity. We sequenced the exomes of 20 individuals with sporadic ASD (cases) and their parents, reasoning that these families would be enriched for de novo mutations of major effect. We identified 21 de novo mutations, 11 of which were protein altering. Protein-altering mutations were significantly enriched for changes at highly conserved residues. We identified potentially causative de novo events in 4 out of 20 probands, particularly among more severely affected individuals, in FOXP1, GRIN2B, SCN1A and LAMC3. In the FOXP1 mutation carrier, we also observed a rare inherited CNTNAP2 missense variant, and we provide functional support for a multi-hit model for disease risk. Our results show that trio-based exome sequencing is a powerful approach for identifying new candidate genes for ASDs and suggest that de novo mutations may contribute substantially to the genetic etiology of ASDs.
Neuropeptides act on most of the components of the bronchial environment. They influence bronchomotor tone and bronchial vascular caliber and permeability. To investigate the nonadrenergic, noncholinergic system within the airways in asthma and chronic bronchitis, we performed endobronchial biopsies in 16 normal human volunteers, 49 patients with asthma of varying severity, including 16 patients treated with oral corticosteroids, and 13 patients with chronic bronchitis. Frozen sections of biopsies stained with specific antibodies against the neural marker PGP 9.5, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and neuropeptide Y (NPY) were analyzed for the presence of nerves through indirect immunofluorescence. Nerves were present in most of the biopsies and were found within and below the epithelium and adjacent to smooth muscle, glands, and blood vessels. By comparison with those in normal subjects, the numbers of VIP-immunoreactive nerves were not significantly decreased in patients with asthma and chronic bronchitis, but NPY-immunoreactive nerves were significantly decreased in the smooth muscle of these latter two groups of patients (p < 0.005). There was no correlation between disease severity and the number of nerves found in the biopsies. This study does not confirm previous findings in autopsy material of some defects in sensory and VIP-containing nerves in severe asthma.
Inhaled glucocorticoids, such as beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP), are the mainstay treatment of asthma. However, ≈ 30% of patients exhibit little to no benefit from treatment. It has been postulated that glucocorticoid resistance, or insensitivity, is attributable to individual differences in glucocorticoid receptor-mediated processes. It is possible that variations in cytochrome P450 3A enzyme-mediated metabolism of BDP may contribute to this phenomenon. This hypothesis was explored by evaluating the contributions of CYP3A4, 3A5, 3A7, and esterase enzymes in the metabolism of BDP in vitro and relating metabolism to changes in CYP3A enzyme mRNA expression via the glucocorticoid receptor in lung and liver cells. CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 metabolized BDP via hydroxylation ([M4] and [M6]) and dehydrogenation ([M5]) at similar rates; CYP3A7 did not metabolize BDP. A new metabolite [M6], formed by the combined action of esterases and CYP3A4 hydroxylation, was also characterized. To validate the results observed using microsomes and recombinant enzymes, studies were also conducted using A549 lung and DPX2 liver cells. Both liver and lung cells produced esterase-dependent metabolites [M1-M3], with [M1] correlating with CYP3A5 mRNA induction in A549 cells. Liver cells produced both hydroxylated and dehydrogenated metabolites [M4, M5, and M6], but lung cells produced only the dehydrogenated metabolite [M5]. These studies show that CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 metabolize BDP to inactive metabolites and suggest that differences in the expression or function of these enzymes in the lung and/or liver could influence BDP disposition in humans.
Conditional gene inactivation in mice using the bacteriophage P1 Cre-loxP recombination system requires transgenic expression of Cre-recombinase driven by a tissue-specific or inducible promoter.
Using the cardiac alpha-myosin-heavy-chain promoter, the most commonly used myocardial-specific transgenic promoter, we created transgenic mice expressing Cre-recombinase in the heart. Seven transgenic lines developed dilated cardiomyopathy and premature death from congestive heart failure. One founder line that survived long enough to propagate had extremely high-level Cre recombinase expression. Transgenic lines that expressed low levels remained healthy. The high-expressing strain developed heart failure over a very predictable and reproducible time course. Detailed examination of the high-expressing strain revealed important molecular, cellular, and pharmacologic hallmarks of cardiomyopathy. First, "fetal genes" such as atrial natriuretic factor and brain natriuretic protein were expressed, a marker of pathologic cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. Second, an increased incidence of cardiac myocyte apoptosis was present. Third, treatment of mice with captopril or metoprolol, drugs that delay the progression of heart failure, improved survival.
Cre-recombinase when expressed at high levels may cause organ dysfunction, which could be mistaken for an effect of conditional gene inactivation. In addition, the stereotypic cardiomyopathy and disease progression in the characterized, high-expressing transgenic strain suggests its utility as a model to study the effects of pharmacologic or genetic manipulations in heart failure.
An association between the dietary suppressants fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine and valvular heart disease was first described in patients from North Dakota and Minnesota in 1997. Limited data are available on the natural history of this valvulopathy after discontinuation of drug therapy.
To follow the progression of fenfluramine-associated valvular heart disease after discontinuation of therapy by using serial echocardiography.
Retrospective cohort study.
Regional medical center in Fargo, North Dakota.
50 patients with previous exposure to fenfluramines who had at least mild mitral regurgitation or aortic regurgitation after exposure to fenfluramines on serial echocardiography between December 1994 and February 1999 (96% were female, mean body mass index was 36.6 kg/m(2), and mean duration of drug exposure was 447 days).
Serial echocardiograms were reviewed by two echocardiographers who were blinded to the order of image acquisition. The severity of valvular regurgitation and presence or absence of valve leaflet restriction were assessed.
As described in the initial report, significant valvular disease on initial postexposure echocardiography was common in this cohort; 38 patients (76%) had at least mild mitral regurgitation and 43 patients (86%) had at least mild aortic regurgitation. On serial echocardiograms obtained an average of 356 days apart, mitral regurgitation improved by at least one grade in 17 patients (P = 0.001) and aortic regurgitation improved by at least one grade in 19 patients (P = 0.004). Nineteen and 22 patients, respectively, experienced no change in severity of mitral and aortic regurgitation. Two patients in each group experienced worsening of regurgitation by at least one grade. Results were similar for tricuspid (P = 0.002) and pulmonic (P = 0.012) regurgitation.
On serial echocardiography, fenfluramine-associated valvular regurgitation improved or remained stable in most patients after therapy ended. Worsening of valvular regurgitation was uncommon. The potential for stabilization or regression of valvular regurgitation should be taken into account when counseling patients and considering the need for and timing of valve surgery.
The mastic (Pistacia lentiscus var. chia) tree is native throughout the Mediterranean region and has long proved a source of food additives and medical treatments. To investigate the modifying effects of Chios Mastic Gum on rat liver carcinogenesis, 6-week-old male F344 rats were subjected to the established rat liver medium-term carcinogenesis bioassay (Ito-test). At the commencement, rats (groups 1-4) were intraperitoneally injected with 200 mg/kg body weight of diethylnitrosamine (DEN). After two weeks, mastic was added to CRF (Charles River Formula)-1 powdered basal diet at doses of 0, 0.01, 0.1 and 1% in groups 1-4, respectively. At week 3, all rats were underwent two-thirds partial hepatectomy. The experiment was terminated at week 8. As results show, liver weights were significantly increased in a mastic dose-dependent manner among groups 1-4. The numbers (/cm(2)) and the areas (mm(2)/cm(2)) of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive cell foci (>or=0.2 mm in diameter) were significantly increased in the DEN-1% group compared to the DEN-alone group, along with the average areas per foci and larger-sized foci (>or=0.4 mm). 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)+GST-P double-immunohistochemistry showed the highest BrdU-labeling indices within GST-P foci in the DEN-1% group. 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels in liver DNA did not vary, while real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of livers revealed many up- or down-regulated genes in the DEN-1% group. In conclusion, this is the first report to display a promotion potential of Chios Mastic Gum on the formation of preneoplastic lesions in the established rat liver medium-term carcinogenesis bioassay.
Theophylline can cause life-threatening seizures when administered in excessive doses. The plasma concentrations associated with this neurotoxic effect vary widely among patients. To determine the reasons for the wide variation, an animal model of theophylline-induced seizures was developed and has now been used to determine the effect of pre-exposure to caffeine on theophylline-induced neurotoxicity. Male adult rats received an iv infusion of either caffeine citrate or sodium citrate solution for 15 min. Theophylline was then infused at a relatively rapid rate until onset of maximum seizures. A third group of rats received a rapid infusion of caffeine only until onset of seizures. Samples of blood, brain, and cerebrospinal fluid were obtained at that time for determination of caffeine and theophylline concentrations by HPLC. Prior exposure to caffeine was associated with a statistically significant reduction in the total amount of theophylline required to produce seizures and caused theophylline concentrations at all sampling sites to be significantly lower than in controls. Caffeine alone required a larger total dose and higher concentrations than theophylline alone to produce seizures. It is concluded that acute exposure to caffeine can increase the risk of theophylline-induced neurotoxicity.
In order to investigate the influence of the application time of the day on skin reactions, test persons were treated with various substances inducing experimental inflammation in human skin. Additional tests provided us with data regarding the antiinflammatory activity of topical glucocorticoids on the experimental inflammation as well as the vasoconstrictive activity dependent on the application time of the day. Although all tests showed great individual scattering ranges, statistical evaluation did not reveal any clear evidence for the supposition that pharmacological responses of the skin may be influenced by the hour of the topical application. Thus, it seems not likely that the success of topical treatment of toxic dermatitis by means of glucocorticoids depends on the hour of application.
