To evaluate the effect of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) as treatment for chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy in an experimental animal model and in a randomized, double-blinded, controlled trial in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Forty male Wistar rats were randomized in 5 groups: group A, control; groups B and C, treated with cisplatin; and groups D and E, treated with paclitaxel. ATRA (20 mg/kg PO) was administered for 15 days in groups C and E. We evaluated neuropathy and nerve regeneration-related morphologic changes in sciatic nerve, the concentration of nerve growth factor (NGF), and retinoic acid receptor (RAR)-α and RAR-β expression. In addition, 95 patients with NSCLC under chemotherapy treatment were randomized to either ATRA (20 mg/m(2)/d) or placebo. Serum NGF, neurophysiologic tests, and clinical neurotoxicity were assessed.
The experimental animals developed neuropathy and axonal degeneration, associated with decreased NGF levels in peripheral nerves. Treatment with ATRA reversed sensorial changes and nerve morphology; this was associated with increased NGF levels and RAR-β expression. Patients treated with chemotherapy had clinical neuropathy and axonal loss assessed by neurophysiology, which was related to decreased NGF levels. ATRA reduced axonal degeneration demonstrated by nerve conduction velocity and clinical manifestations of neuropathy grades ≥2.
ATRA reduced chemotherapy-induced experimental neuropathy, increased NGF levels, and induced RAR-β expression in nerve. In patients, reduction of NGF in serum was associated with the severity of neuropathy; ATRA treatment reduced the electrophysiologic alterations.
This study provides Class II evidence that ATRA improves nerve conduction in patients with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Two cases are reported of combined renal and hepatic failure following exposure to halothane anesthesia. Both patients presented with postoperative fever and rapidly deteriorating liver and kidney function. Both required peritoneal dialysis. Both patients died, and in both cases this was the second exposure to halothane. The pathologic features of the 2 cases were similar in that the liver changes were typical of those seen with halothane hepatitis and the renal lesion was similar to that of methoxyflurane nephritis. This is, to our knowledge, the third report of renal failure occurring after halothane anesthesia. Possible mechanisms regarding its toxicity are discussed.
Resveratrol has been proposed to act as a chemopreventive agent in numerous epidemiologic studies and has been shown to inhibit proliferation of various tumor cells in vitro. In the present study, we investigated the antitumor effects of resveratrol on multiple myeloma (MM) cells and the mechanisms involved. Our findings indicated that resveratrol inhibited proliferation of tumor cells in a dose- [corrected] dependent manner by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and [3H]thymidine incorporation assay. Resveratrol also enhanced the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on the growth of MM cells by MTT assay. Flow cytometric analysis demonstrated that resveratrol arrested the cells at the G1 and S phases of the cell cycle. Because nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a key role in cell survival and proliferation of human MM cells, we tested the effect of resveratrol on NF-kappaB expression by Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence. NF-kappaB was constitutively active in all human MM cell lines examined, and resveratrol down-regulated NF-kappaB expression in all cell lines. Resveratrol also down-regulated the expression of NF-kappaB-regulated gene products by Western blot analysis, gelatin zymography, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, including interleukin-6, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, XIAP, c-IAP, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which modulates an array of signals controlling cellular survival and proliferation and tumor promotion. Indeed, annexin V-fluoroisothyocyanate and Transwell invasion analyses revealed that incubation of MM cells with resveratrol resulted in apoptotic cell death and inhibition of invasion. In conclusion, these data suggest that resveratrol is an effective in vitro inhibitor of NF-kappaB in human MM cells. Resveratrol plays a role in suppressing the proliferation of MM cells and induces apoptosis, thus providing the molecular basis for the treatment of MM patients with this compound.
The activities of telavancin and vancomycin were compared in vitro and in the rabbit model of aortic valve endocarditis against a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus strain, COL, and a vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) strain, HIP 5836. Telavancin was bactericidal in time-kill studies at a concentration of 5 microg/ml against both COL and HIP5836. Vancomycin was bacteriostatic at 5 microg/ml and bactericidal at 10 microg/ml against COL and was bacteriostatic at 10 microg/ml against VISA strain HIP 5836. Compared to untreated controls, a twice-daily regimen of 30 mg/kg of telavancin reduced mean aortic valve vegetation titers of the COL strain by 4.7 log(10) CFU/g after 4 days of therapy and sterilized 6/11 vegetations compared to 3.4 log(10) CFU/g with 3/10 vegetations sterilized for a regimen of twice-daily vancomycin, 30 mg/kg; these differences were not statistically significant. Telavancin was significantly more effective than vancomycin in the VISA model, producing a 5.5 log(10) CFU/g reduction versus no reduction in CFU with vancomycin. In experiments comparing 2-day regimens of telavancin at 30 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg twice daily, organisms were rapidly eliminated from vegetations, but the effect was not different between the two doses. These results suggest that telavancin may be an effective treatment for endocarditis and other serious staphylococcal infections accompanied by bacteremia, including infections caused by staphylococci not susceptible to vancomycin.
Bupropion was the first alternative to nicotine replacement therapy in the pharmacological treatment for smoking cessation. Its safety profile has been monitored in France via spontaneous reporting.
To describe all serious adverse reactions (SARs) reported in France since the marketing authorization for bupropion in September 2001, and to analyse risk factors for these SARs.
We collected all spontaneous reports of adverse reactions to bupropion received by all French Regional Pharmacovigilance Centres and by GlaxoSmithKline, the manufacturer of bupropion, during the first 3 years of marketing of this agent. We identified the characteristics of the population to whom bupropion was prescribed from the Thales database, which contains information obtained from a representative sample of general practitioners in France. We then compared the population with SARs with the population prescribed the drug (exposed population) to identify possible risk factors such as sex, age and daily dose for the most frequent SARs.
Bupropion was prescribed to 698 000 patients during the first 3 years of marketing in France. In these patients, 1682 cases of adverse reactions were reported; 28% of these involved SARs, mainly cutaneous or allergic reactions (31.2%), including angioedema and serum sickness-like reactions. Serious neurological reactions were frequent (22.5%), mostly comprising seizures; however, questioning revealed that almost half of these patients had a history of seizures or other risk factors. Of the serious neuropsychiatric adverse events reported (17.3%), suicide attempts/suicides were a cause for concern, although risk factors (history of depression, suicide attempts, etc.) were described for 66% of patients experiencing these events. Patients reporting angioedema and serum sickness-like reactions, and those involved in suicide attempts/suicides, were significantly younger than the exposed population. A dose-dependent effect was also apparent for angioedema and for seizures. Cardiovascular SARs, such as ischaemic heart disease (10.1%) or sudden death (2.3%), were very often associated with pre-existing coronary artery disease induced by smoking. All these SARs occurred within a median of 12-14 days after drug initiation.
To ensure safer use of bupropion, health professionals must respect the strict contraindications and warnings about use of this drug in patients with a history of seizures. Seizures, angioedema and serum sickness-like reactions were the most frequently reported SARs to bupropion treatment in our study. Moreover, younger people appeared to be more at risk for cutaneous SARs generally, and younger women for angioedema in particular, perhaps because of weight-related differences in pharmacokinetics. A dose-dependent effect for angioedema and the results of skin tests were suggestive of a histamine liberation mechanism. Our analysis showed that taking more notice of the contraindications to use of bupropion could have prevented half the seizures reported to the database. The sex and age characteristics of patients with ischaemic heart disease and suicide attempts in the study population were similar to those of the French population as a whole. Whether bupropion is associated with an increase in these potential adverse effects of therapy can be determined only by epidemiological studies that take into account specific risk factors in the smoking population. Finally, the median time to onset of the SARs identified in this study suggests that prescribers should monitor patients exposed to bupropion more carefully during the first 2 weeks of treatment.
Neuroexcitation is an uncommon but well recognized side effect of propofol anesthesia and sedation. We present a patient who, despite an intact mental status and without any preexisting movement disorder, experienced delayed onset of involuntary dystonic movements involving head, neck and shoulder for 11 h following emergence from propofol/nitrous oxide anesthesia.
Rats were trained to run in a spatial, radial arm maze using a procedure to determine two memory functions, working and reference memory. The muscarinic antagonist, not the nicotinic antagonist, impaired both working and reference memory of rats. Scopolamine (0.125, 0.15, and 0.2 mg/kg, IP, 30 min before a session) significantly impaired choice accuracy in the eight-arm maze. In contrast, mecamylamine (5, 10, and 15 mg/kg) did not affect the performance. Huperzine A (0.1, 0.2, and 0.3 mg/kg, IP, 30 min before testing) and physostigmine (0.3 mg/kg, IP, 20 min before testing) could reverse scopolamine-induced deficits in the task. Chronic treatment with huperzine A (0.25 mg/kg, PO, once a day) for 8 consecutive days was as potent as acute treatment on attenuating the scopolamine-induced amnesia.
Experimental and observational studies have reported biological consequences of phthalate exposure relevant to neurodevelopment.
Our goal was to examine the association of prenatal phthalate exposure with behavior and executive functioning at 4-9 years of age.
The Mount Sinai Children's Environmental Health Study enrolled a multiethnic prenatal population in New York City between 1998 and 2002 (n = 404). Third-trimester maternal urines were collected and analyzed for phthalate metabolites. Children (n = 188, n = 365 visits) were assessed for cognitive and behavioral development between the ages of 4 and 9 years.
In multivariate adjusted models, increased loge concentrations of low molecular weight (LMW) phthalate metabolites were associated with poorer scores on the aggression [beta = 1.24; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.15- 2.34], conduct problems (beta = 2.40; 95% CI, 1.34-3.46), attention problems (beta = 1.29; 95% CI, 0.16- 2.41), and depression (beta = 1.18; 95% CI, 0.11-2.24) clinical scales; and externalizing problems (beta = 1.75; 95% CI, 0.61-2.88) and behavioral symptom index (beta = 1.55; 95% CI, 0.39-2.71) composite scales. Increased loge concentrations of LMW phthalates were also associated with poorer scores on the global executive composite index (beta = 1.23; 95% CI, 0.09-2.36) and the emotional control scale (beta = 1.33; 95% CI, 0.18- 2.49).
Behavioral domains adversely associated with prenatal exposure to LMW phthalates in our study are commonly found to be affected in children clinically diagnosed with conduct or attention deficit hyperactivity disorders.
Exposure to estrogens is suggested to be a risk factor in human breast cancer development. The mechanisms underlying estrogen-induced cancer have not been fully elucidated. Both estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated proliferative processes and ER-independent generation of oxidative stress are suggested to play important roles in estrogen-induced breast carcinogenesis. In the current study, we investigated the role of oxidative stress in breast carcinogenesis using the ACI rat model of mammary tumorigenesis. Female ACI rats were treated with 17beta-estradiol (E(2)), butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), or a combination of E(2) + BHA for up to 240 days. Cotreatment of rats with E(2) + BHA reduced estrogen-induced breast tumor development with tumor incidence of 24%, a significant decrease relative to E(2) where tumor incidence was 82%. Proliferative changes in the breast tissue of E(2) + BHA-treated animals were similar to those observed in E(2)-treated animals. Tissue levels of 8-isoprostane, a marker of oxidant stress, as well as the activities of antioxidant enzymes including glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, and catalase were quantified in the breast tissues of rats treated with E(2) + BHA and compared to activity levels found in E(2)-treated animals and respective age-matched controls. Cotreatment with BHA inhibited E(2)-mediated increases in 8-isoprostane levels as well as activities of antioxidant enzymes. In summary, these data suggest that estrogen-mediated oxidant stress plays a critical role in the development of estrogen-dependent breast cancers and BHA inhibits E(2)-dependent breast carcinogenesis by decreasing oxidant stress.
Cocaine is often used while consuming ethanol despite evidence that this combination may enhance the toxicity of cocaine. In the present study, we examined the cardiovascular effects of ethanol (475 or 950 mg/kg, i.v.) alone and in combination with cocaine (5 mg/kg, i.v.) in conscious rats. Ethanol or cocaine administration produced a consistent pressor response but highly variable cardiac output and systemic vascular resistance responses. The hemodynamic response patterns in individual rats to either drug were similar and related within rats. After ethanol pretreatment, cocaine produced greater decreases in cardiac output. We have proposed that this pattern of responses may reflect a predisposition in individual rats to cocaine-induced cardiomyopathies and hypertension. Furthermore, these data suggest that ethanol administration elicits a similar pattern of hemodynamic responses as previously reported for cocaine or amphetamine administration or acute behavioral stress.
Amiodarone (AM) is an efficacious antidysrhythmic agent that can cause numerous adverse effects, including potentially life-threatening pulmonary fibrosis. The current study was undertaken to investigate potential protective mechanisms of vitamin E against AM-induced pulmonary toxicity (AIPT) in the hamster. Three weeks after intratracheal administration of AM (1.83 micromol), increased pulmonary hydroxyproline content and histological damage were observed, indicative of fibrosis. These effects were preceded by increased pulmonary levels of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 mRNA at 1 week post-AM, which remained elevated 3 weeks post-AM. Dietary supplementation with vitamin E resulted in rapid pulmonary accumulation of the vitamin, and prevention of AM-induced increases in TGF-beta1, hydroxyproline, and histological damage. Although dietary supplementation also markedly elevated lung mitochondrial vitamin E content, it did not attenuate AM-induced inhibition of mitochondrial respiration or disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential in vitro, or lung mitochondrial respiratory inhibition resulting from in vivo AM administration. These results suggest that vitamin E reduces the extent of pulmonary damage after AM administration via down-regulating TGF-beta1 overexpression but that it does not modify AM-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, a potential initiating event in AIPT.
Cardiotoxicity manifesting as myocardial ischemia is not generally recognized as a side effect of amphetamine use or abuse. However, at least 9 cases have been reported since 1987. In this report a case of acute myocardial infarction due to oral amphetamine therapy is presented. The patient was treated with thrombolytic therapy but there were no signs of reperfusion. His coronary cine-angiograms were normal. The literature regarding amphetamine use or abuse is also reviewed, and the possible mechanisms of this pathology are analyzed.
There are only a few studies on the molecular mechanisms underlying the peripheral antihyperalgesic effect of opioids. The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular bases of the peripheral antihyperalgesic effect of fentanyl in a model of prostaglandin-induced chemical hyperalgesia. Prostaglandin E2 (1.4 nmol) injected into one hind paw of male Wistar rats (200-250 g, N = 6 in each experimental or control group) pretreated with indomethacin (2.5 mg/kg) potentiated the nocifensive response to formalin (1%) injection made 60 min later. Drugs applied locally 30 min after prostaglandin E2 induced the following effects: fentanyl (0.1-1.0 nmol) caused a dose-dependent reversal of the hyperalgesic state, naloxone (2 nmol) co-injected with fentanyl (1 nmol) completely reversed the antihyperalgesic effect, Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (NOARG, 0.05-0.2 mol) in combination with fentanyl (1.0 nmol) caused a dose-dependent inhibition of the antihyperalgesic effect of fentanyl, co-administration of L-arginine (0.5 mol) with NOARG (0.2 mol) plus fentanyl (1.0 nmol) fully restored the antihyperalgesic effect, and the cyclic-GMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor UK-114,542-27 (5-[2-ethoxy-5-(morpholinylacetyl) phenyl]-1,6-dihydro-1-methyl-3-propyl-7H-pyrazolo [4,3-d]-pyrimidin-7-one methanesulfonate monohydrate; 0.5-2.0 mol) potentiated a subeffective dose of fentanyl (0.1 nmol) in a dose-dependent manner. However, UK-114,542-27 (2.0 mol) injected alone did not produce this antihyperalgesic effect. Systemically administered fentanyl (1.0 nmol, sc) did not cause antinociception. Taken together, these results support the view that fentanyl reverses prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia, probably by activating an opioid receptor at the periphery, and furthermore the L-arginine/nitric oxide/cyclic-GMP pathway may mediate this peripheral effect of fentanyl.
Tachykinins have been implicated in inflammatory responses such as those occurring in inflammatory bowel disease. Accordingly, we investigated the effect of a selective neurokinin (NK) 2 receptor antagonist, nepadutant, on proto-oncogene expression in the L(6)-S(1) spinal cord as well as in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after either non-noxious colorectal distension (CRD) or trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in the adult rat. In both preparations, c-fos was expressed in similar spinal cord regions, including medial and lateral dorsal horn, dorsal commissure (DCM; laminae X above the central canal), and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus (SPN, laminae V-VII). However, TNBS-induced colitis produced significantly larger numbers (8-10-fold increase over control) of Fos-positive spinal cord neurons. In addition, there was also a significant increase (3-4-fold) in the number of Jun-positive colon DRG neurons after colitis compared with CRD. Nepadutant had no significant effect on proto-oncogene expression induced by CRD in either spinal cord neurons or DRG neurons. In contrast, nepadutant significantly decreased (70%) the number of Fos-positive neurons in dorsal horn, DCM, and SPN spinal cord regions and significantly decreased (75%) the number of Jun-positive DRG neurons after TNBS-induced irritation of the colon. These findings indicate that nepadutant suppresses the responses of colonic afferent neurons to nociceptive stimuli and that NK2 receptor antagonists may be beneficial in the treatment of sensory symptoms of colitis.
Right bundle branch block with coved ST-segment elevation in leads V1 through V3 is the electrocardiographic (ECG) marker of the Brugada syndrome. We describe a healthy young man with a normal baseline ECG in whom a transient Brugada pattern was observed repeatedly after recreational cocaine use. Intravenous administration of procainamide and subsequent intravenous propranolol followed by noradrenaline failed to reproduce the Brugada sign. An electrophysiologic study performed in the presence of the Brugada ECG pattern showed no inducible arrhythmias. This case illustrates that, in susceptible individuals, cocaine may provoke the Brugada sign. The clinical importance of this cocaine-induced ECG abnormality is currently unknown.
Suppositories containing ergotamine can cause anorectal lesions and even fistulae. We therefore carried out prospective investigations on 20 patients (17 female, 3 male) who had been prescribed ergotamine suppositories for migraine therapy. No serious ulceration was found. There was one case of reduced local blood circulation and three patients showed signs of increased blood circulation in the anterior rectal wall. In two further cases we found local hyperemia with minor bleeding. In our opinion anorectal ergotism is a possible, although rare consequence of ergotamine suppository abuse. For longterm treatment alternative routes of ergotamine administration or other groups of substances should therefore be used.
Encephalopathy occurs in 10-40% of patients treated with high-dose ifosfamide. Proposed risk factors for encephalopathy include hepatic or renal dysfunction, brain metastases, electrolyte imbalances and drug-drug interactions.
The purpose of this retrospective cohort study and literature review was to estimate the prevalence of encephalopathy, identify characteristics associated with encephalopathy and evaluate the effectiveness of methylthioninium chloride (methylene blue) in its prevention.
A total of 19 patients received high-dose ifosfamide for soft tissue sarcoma during a 4-year period at our medical centre. Eight patients developed encephalopathy based on adverse drug event (ADE) reports submitted by a clinical pharmacist. These reports incorporate the Naranjo probability scale, which is used to assess the likelihood that a change in clinical status is the result of an ADE rather than the result of other factors, such as progression of disease. The demographics, concurrent medication therapy, co-existing illnesses and laboratory parameters were documented from the medical records. We also conducted a review of the literature by searching MEDLINE (1996-October 2007).
A total of 19 patients received high-dose ifosfamide; eight patients experienced encephalopathy (group I, 42%) and 11 patients did not experience encephalopathy (group II, 58%). More women than men developed encephalopathy (group I, 87.5% vs group II, 27.3%). Serum albumin (group I, 3.1 +/- 0.3 vs group II, 3.6 +/- 0.3 g/dL), haemoglobin (10.5 +/- 1.5 vs 12.4 +/- 1.7 g/dL) and total bilirubin (0.5 +/- 0.2 vs 0.8 +/- 0.3 mg/dL) levels were substantially lower in patients with encephalopathy, whereas the ratio of actual bodyweight to the ideal bodyweight (1.4 +/- 0.3 vs 1.1 +/- 0.2) was substantially higher in these patients. Five (62.5%) patients received a subsequent cycle of high-dose ifosfamide; all of these patients received methylthioninium chloride to minimize the risk of encephalopathy. All of these patients developed encephalopathy. Other reports have found that hypoalbuminaemia is associated with encephalopathy and that methylthioninium chloride does not prevent ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy.
In summary, female sex, low total bilirubin, albumin and haemoglobin levels, and obesity appear to be associated with ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy. Methylthioninium chloride did not appear to prevent encephalopathy with subsequent doses of high-dose ifosfamide.
Chromium (Cr) depletion may exacerbate hyperglycemia and negative outcomes of pregnancy in the streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic pregnant rat model through the regulation of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system. To test this hypothesis, 40 female rats, all fed a low Cr diet (i.e., 70 microgram Cr/kg diet ) from 21 d of age, were randomly assigned one of four treatments, applied on Day 1 of pregnancy, in a 2 x 2 factorial design: 1) very low Cr diet (40 microgram Cr/kg diet) + citrate buffer injection, 2) very low Cr diet + STZ injection (30 mg STZ/kg body wt in citrate buffer), 3) adequate Cr diet (2 mg Cr [from added CrK(SO4)2]/kg diet) + citrate buffer injectionand 4) adequate Cr diet + STZ injection. Blood and tissues were collected on Day 20 of pregnancy. Chromium depletion increased (P < 0.05) urinary hydroxyproline excretion, 22-kDa IGF binding protein (IGFBP) concentration and litter size but decreased (P < 0. 05) placental wt, percentage of protein per fetus, and fetal IGF-I and -II concentrations. Chromium had no effect (P > 0.10) on maternal hormones, 32-kDa IGFBP, glucose, or placental and fetal hydroxyproline concentrations. Diabetes decreased (P < 0.05) maternal wt gain, embryonic survival, litter size, mean pup wt and maternal insulin concentrations, increased (P < 0.05) maternal blood glucose, IGF-I concentrations and maternal hydroxyproline excretion but did not affect fetal concentrations of hormones, IGFBP, glucose or hydroxyproline. Interaction between chromium and diabetes tended (P < 0.10) to affect maternal IGF-II concentrations, but had no effect on other maternal or fetal variables. In conclusion, maternal chromium depletion did not exacerbate hyperglycemia or pregnancy outcome in STZ-induced diabetic rats, but may negatively affect fetal protein content by decreasing fetal IGF-II concentrations. Diabetes may negatively affect fetal growth through its effect on maternal glucose, insulin and IGF-I.
We experienced a case of convulsion following the combination of single oral administration of enoxacine before an emergency operation and single postoperative intravenous administration of flurbiprofen axetil. The patient was an 87-year-old female referred to our hospital for severe abdominal pain. She was diagnosed as having the strangulation ileus, then underwent the emergent operation of partial resection of the necrotic small intestine under general anesthesia. Unfortunately we did not know that she had temporarily received oral enoxacine 200 mg, a new quinolone, administered by the previous doctor on the day before the operation. After the operation, flurbiprofen axetil 50 mg, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, was given intravenously in thirty seconds due to postoperative pain. One minute after administration of the drug, she immediately developed a convulsive fit, severe disturbance of consciousness and apnea. We then administered at once, a single dose of diazepam intravenously for convulsion treatment, kept her airway open and controlled her ventilation. Convulsion disappeared in a minute and her condition improved gradually. We suspect that convulsive seizure may have been induced by the drug interaction between single oral dose of enoxacine before the operation and single intravenous dose of flurbiprofen axetil after the operation. We also suspect that the serum concentration of enoxacine was kept high because of metabolic disturbance and renal dysfunction resulting from her old age and dehydration. This case suggests that medication before the emergency operation must be considered in anesthetic management because of the possible side effect such as convulsion induced by the drug interaction between neuquinolones and anti-inflammatory drugs.
To evaluate the renal safety of traditional disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) in early rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
One hundred and ninety-five DMARD-naïve patients with recent-onset RA were randomised to receive combination DMARD therapy (n=97) starting with sulfasalazine, methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine, and prednisolone (COMBI) or monotherapy (n=98), initially with sulfasalazine, with or without prednisolone (SINGLE). After two years, the choice and dosing of DMARDs and prednisolone were not restricted, but the treatment was still targeted to achieve or maintain remission. Urinalysis, serum creatinine and glomerular filtration rate (GFR; estimated according to the Cockcroft-Gault formula [eGFRCG]) were analysed at baseline and at months 6, 9, 12, 18, 24 and thereafter yearly up to 11 years.
The cumulative incidence of repeated (>or=3 times) abnormal renal findings during the 11-year follow-up period were as follows (COMBI versus SINGLE; p-values adjusted for age and sex): proteinuria (dipstick positive) 4.8% (95%CI 1.8-12.2) vs. 5.3% (95%CI 2.0-13.7, p=0.93), haematuria (dipstick positive) 14.1% (95%CI 8.0-24.2) vs. 22.1 % (95%CI 14.5-33.0, p=0.14), raised serum creatinine (>or=100 micromol/l in females and >or=115 micromol/l in males) 4.4% (95%CI 1.7-11.4) vs. 6.7% (3.0-14.3, p=0.87) and eGFRGC<60 ml/min/1.73 m2 11.9% (95%CI 6.8-20.5) vs. 10.5% (95%CI 5.8-18.7, p=0.85).
Initial remission targeted therapy with the FIN-RACo DMARD combination in early RA is safe for kidneys and does not induce more short- or long-term renal complications compared to traditional therapy with a single DMARD.
Angiotensin-(1-7) [ANG-(1-7)], one of the bioactive peptides produced in the renin-angiotensin system, plays a pivotal role in cardiovascular physiology by providing a counterbalance to the function of ANG II. Recently, it has been considered as a potential candidate for therapeutic use in the treatment of various types of cardiovascular diseases. The aim of the present study is to explain the modulatory role of ANG-(1-7) in atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) secretion and investigate the functional relationship between two peptides to induce cardiovascular effects using isolated perfused beating rat atria and a cardiac hypertrophied rat model. ANG-(1-7) (0.01, 0.1, and 1 muM) increased ANP secretion and ANP concentration in a dose-dependent manner at high atrial pacing (6.0 Hz) with increased cGMP production. However, at low atrial pacing (1.2 Hz), ANG-(1-7) did not cause changes in atrial parameters. Pretreatment with an antagonist of the Mas receptor or with inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (Akt), or nitric oxide synthase blocked the augmentation of high atrial pacing-induced ANP secretion by ANG-(1-7). A similar result was observed with the inhibition of the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger-1 and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII). ANG-(1-7) did not show basal intracellular Ca(2+) signaling in quiescent atrial myocytes. In an in vivo study using an isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy animal model, an acute infusion of ANG-(1-7) increased the plasma concentration of ANP by twofold without changes in blood pressure and heart rate. A chronic administration of ANG-(1-7) increased the plasma ANP level and attenuated isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy. The antihypertrophic effect was abrogated by a cotreatment with the natriuretic peptide receptor-A antagonist. These results suggest that 1) ANG-(1-7) increased ANP secretion at high atrial pacing via the Mas/PI3K/Akt pathway and the activation of Na(+)/H(+) exchanger-1 and CaMKII and 2) ANG-(1-7) decreased cardiac hypertrophy which might be mediated by ANP.
A direct comparison of the cardiac and extracardiac effects of repeated daunorubicin administration in the rat and rabbit demonstrated a basic similarity in the cardiac myocyte response. The rat, however, appears to develop a more severe drug-related nephropathy, resulting in widespread soft tissue mineralization that includes vessels and the myocardium. These findings suggest that the severity and development of acute and chronic anthracycline-induced cardiac lesions may, in the rat, be related or dependent, in part, on concomitant nephrotoxicity.
Ketamine's role in clinical anaesthesia is developing as a result of the evolving concepts of its mechanism of action and the advantages of its alternative routes of administration. In this study, we aimed to investigate the frequency and severity of adverse effects, specifically emergence phenomena and vomiting, when ketamine with or without midazolam used as a sole anaesthetic.
One hundred children, aged between 3 and 10 years, scheduled for adenotonsillectomy were studied. Fifty ASA physical status I-II patients were administered ketamine and atropine intramuscularly (group K, n=50). The remaining 50 children were given ketamine, atropine and midazolam by as the same route (group KM, n=50). Noninvasive hemodynamic and oxygenation variables were monitored. Operative conditions and recovery profiles such as hallucinations, nightmares, awakening by crying agitation and retching-vomiting were investigated in 1st, 2nd, 15th, 30th and 60th days after the operation.
A significant reduction in emergence reactions was demonstrated especially in group KM during the early postoperative period (p<0.05). Retching-vomiting also reduced significantly in the group KM during the same time (p<0.05).
As a sole anaesthetic ketamine with or without midazolam provided a calm and safe anaesthesia for paediatric patients in short term procedures. In addition, it must be noted that, a better postoperative early period was achieved by ketamine with midazolam.
In the present study, we explored the hypothesis that initiation of PH involves the upregulation of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) in acute PTE. We evaluated the effects of resveratrol and the role of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in this process.
A rat model of acute PTE was established by infusion of an autologous blood clot into the pulmonary artery through a polyethylene catheter. Rats were randomly divided into 1, 4, and 8 hour time groups. Resveratrol, C1142 (a rodent chimeric mAb that neutralizes rat MCP-1) or SB203580 (a p38MAPK specific inhibitor) was administered to the animals beginning 1 h prior to the start of the acute PTE protocol. At each time point, the mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP), mRNA and protein expressions of MCP-1 were measured. The phosphorylation of p38 MAPK (p-pMAPK) was also detected.
Acute PTE elicited significant increases in mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP), and up-regulated the expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p-p38 MAPK). Administration of C1142 markedly reduced mPAP. Furthermore, pre-treatment of rats with resveratrol significantly reduced mPAP and down-regulated the expression of MCP-1, which was associated with robustly suppressed acute PTE-induced p-p38MAPK expression.
These findings suggested that MCP-1 was involved in the formation of acute PTE-induced PH, and resveratrol down-regulated the expression of MCP-1 by inhibiting acute PTE-induced p-p38MAPK activation, which contributed to the decrease in PH.
The influence of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of 1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD), an agonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors, on the activity of the central nervous system was examined in rats. 1S,3R-ACPD at the i.c.v. doses of 100 and 200 nmole significantly decreased apomorphine-induced stereotypy, and at a dose 200 nmole significantly diminished catalepsy caused by haloperidol, two behavioral symptoms controlled mainly by central dopaminergic system. The tested compound had no influence on the locomotor and exploratory activity of rats estimated in open field. 1S,3R-ACPD significantly improved acquisition at the i.c.v. dose of 100 nmole, and consolidation of information at the i.c.v. doses of 100 and 200 nmole. The tested compound had no influence on retention processes in passive avoidance situation. This compound also did not improve recognition memory tested in the object recognition test. These results indicated that 1S,3R-ACPD improved memory motivated affectively but had no influence on recognition memory and the diminished dopaminergic transmission.
The effect of raloxifene, a selective estrogen-receptor modulator, on coronary heart disease (CHD) and breast cancer is not established.
We randomly assigned 10,101 postmenopausal women (mean age, 67.5 years) with CHD or multiple risk factors for CHD to 60 mg of raloxifene daily or placebo and followed them for a median of 5.6 years. The two primary outcomes were coronary events (i.e., death from coronary causes, myocardial infarction, or hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome) and invasive breast cancer.
As compared with placebo, raloxifene had no significant effect on the risk of primary coronary events (533 vs. 553 events; hazard ratio, 0.95; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.84 to 1.07), and it reduced the risk of invasive breast cancer (40 vs. 70 events; hazard ratio, 0.56; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.38 to 0.83; absolute risk reduction, 1.2 invasive breast cancers per 1000 women treated for one year); the benefit was primarily due to a reduced risk of estrogen-receptor-positive invasive breast cancers. There was no significant difference in the rates of death from any cause or total stroke according to group assignment, but raloxifene was associated with an increased risk of fatal stroke (59 vs. 39 events; hazard ratio, 1.49; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.00 to 2.24; absolute risk increase, 0.7 per 1000 woman-years) and venous thromboembolism (103 vs. 71 events; hazard ratio, 1.44; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.06 to 1.95; absolute risk increase, 1.2 per 1000 woman-years). Raloxifene reduced the risk of clinical vertebral fractures (64 vs. 97 events; hazard ratio, 0.65; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.47 to 0.89; absolute risk reduction, 1.3 per 1000).
Raloxifene did not significantly affect the risk of CHD. The benefits of raloxifene in reducing the risks of invasive breast cancer and vertebral fracture should be weighed against the increased risks of venous thromboembolism and fatal stroke. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00190593 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).
Inhalation of numerous fibrogenic agents causes interstitial pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) in humans and in a number of animal models. Several of these models provide evidence that certain peptide growth factors (GF) are playing a role in the disease process. Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1) is a potent inducer of extracellular matrix production by mesenchymal cells, and we have shown that this peptide is produced in the lung after asbestos exposure. We used in situ hybridization to demonstrate that the mRNA for TGF-beta1 is rapidly expressed post-exposure at sites of initial asbestos-induced lung injury in both rats and mice. The TGF-beta1 is expressed by bronchiolar-alveolar epithelial cells as well as by mesenchymal cells and lung macrophages in exposed animals. Normal rats and mice express little TGF-beta1, as we have demonstrated previously for PDGF-A and -B, TGF-alpha, and TNF-alpha. TGF-beta1 expression is accompanied by collagen and fibronectin production in asbestos-exposed animals. Most interesting, TGF-beta1 expression is largely absent in the lungs of TNF-alpha receptor knockout mice that fail to develop asbestos-induced IPE We have shown previously that the mRNAs and cognate peptides of PDGF-A and -B and TGF-alpha, but not TNF-alpha, are reduced in the fibrosis-resistant knockout mice. In this article, we show that TGF-beta1 is included in this group of cytokines, supporting the postulate that TNF-alpha is necessary for the expression of other, more downstream growth factors, and the consequent development of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
We evaluated the effects of mancozeb (Dithane M4-5), a protective carbamate fungicide, on transplacental carcinogenesis in Swiss albino mice. Mancozeb, a polymeric complex of ethylene bis (dithiocarbamate) manganese with zinc salt, is reported to possess carcinogenic and cocarcinogenic activity in various tumor models. In the present study, pregnant Swiss albino mice were administered mancozeb intraperitoneally on the 14th day of gestation. The first filial generation (F1 progeny) was promoted with a well-known tumor promoter 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA). The results revealed a significantly high tumor incidence (72%) in the F1 progeny of the animals initiated with mancozeb or a well known carcinogen 7,12-dimethyl benzanthracene (DMBA) and promoted with TPA in comparison to animals that were either from mothers given only the vehicle (DMSO) and promoted with TPA in F1 progeny or not promoted with TPA in F1 progeny. No significantly higher tumor incidence was observed in any other experimental groups. These results suggest that mancozeb or its metabolites are capable of crossing the placental barrier and can exert DNA damage and tumor initiating consequences in the fetal cells that, after promotion with TPA, get converted into neoplastic cells.
