To prepare chitosan-polyaspartic acid-5-fluorouracil (CTS-Pasp-5Fu) nanoparticles and investigate its anti-carcinoma effect and toxicity.
CTS-Pasp-5Fu nanoparticles were synthesized by ionic gelatification. Male BABL/c nude mice were injected with SGC-7901 gastric carcinoma cell line mass to establish a human gastric carcinoma model. They were randomly allocated into 4 groups: CTS-Pasp-5Fu (containing 5-Fu 1.25 mg/kg), 5-Fu (1.25 mg/kg), CTS-Pasp and normal saline groups. Tumor weight was measured and assay of colony forming unit-granulocyte and macrophage (CFU-GM) was performed. The structural change of cells and tissues was observed and the Bax and Bcl-2 genes were detected.
Compared with normal saline, the inhibition rates of tumor growth for the CTS-Pasp, 5-Fu and CTS-Pasp-5Fu groups were 5.58%, 58.69% and 70.82%, respectively. The tumor inhibition rates for the CTS-Pasp, 5-Fu and CTS-Pasp-5Fu groups were 5.09%, 65.3% and 72.79%, respectively. There was a significant decrease in the number of CFU-GM formation and increase of total bilirubin, and alanine aminotransferase in the 5-Fu group, but no change in those of the other three groups. There was no change in white blood cell count and creatinine among the four groups. Pathological section of liver and nephridial tissues showed that the damage in the 5-Fu group was more severe than that in the CTS-Pasp-5Fu group. 5-Fu and CTS-Pasp-5Fu groups could both down-regulate the Bcl-2 expression and up-regulate the Bax expression to different extent, and the accommodate effect of CTS-Pasp-5Fu was more obvious than 5-Fu.
The tumor inhibition rate of CTS-Pasp-5Fu nanoparticles is much higher than that of 5-Fu alone.
Metformin is the most commonly used pharmacological therapy for type 2 diabetes. We report a genome-wide association study for glycemic response to metformin in 1,024 Scottish individuals with type 2 diabetes with replication in two cohorts including 1,783 Scottish individuals and 1,113 individuals from the UK Prospective Diabetes Study. In a combined meta-analysis, we identified a SNP, rs11212617, associated with treatment success (n = 3,920, P = 2.9 × 10(-9), odds ratio = 1.35, 95% CI 1.22-1.49) at a locus containing ATM, the ataxia telangiectasia mutated gene. In a rat hepatoma cell line, inhibition of ATM with KU-55933 attenuated the phosphorylation and activation of AMP-activated protein kinase in response to metformin. We conclude that ATM, a gene known to be involved in DNA repair and cell cycle control, plays a role in the effect of metformin upstream of AMP-activated protein kinase, and variation in this gene alters glycemic response to metformin.
Physical urticaria (PU) includes a heterogeneous group of urticarias whose etiopathogenic aspects are still obscure and whose therapeutical management is often difficult. We have previously demonstrated the efficacy of a sequential treatment with nimesulide, a unique nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and ketotifen in various forms of PU.
The expression of some inflammatory parameters was evaluated in 10 patients affected with some forms of PU. In particular, serum levels of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, adhesion molecules (sELAM, sICAM-1 and sVCAM), soluble receptors (sIL-2R, sCD30, sCD23) and IgE were assessed. Moreover, the cutaneous expression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and ICAM-1 was studied on biopsy specimens taken from nonlesional skin of patients. The same parameters were further evaluated in both skin and serum following treatment with nimesulide and ketotifen, in order to better understand the possible effects of these agents on the inflammatory network of PU.
Before therapy we could detect significantly higher serum levels of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha (P < 0.001) and of circulating adhesion molecules in comparison with controls (sELAM, sICAM: P < 0.001; sVCAM: P < 0.02); after treatment, a significant reduction of each was observed (P < 0.05). Simultaneously, a high expression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and ICAM-1 was detected in all skin specimens at the baseline, with a relevant decrease following therapy.
These results confirm the therapeutical value of treatment with nimesulide and ketotifen in PU and suggest that these agents are able to reduce the release and the expression of some inflammatory molecules that are up-regulated in PU.
Halothane hepatitis is now a well-recognized distinct entity in adults, but there prevails an often-taught "axiom" that halothane hepatitis "does not occur" in children. We describe 2 children who developed cholestatic hepatitis following halothane anesthesia. The first patient had no antecedent liver disease, and presented with anorexia, abdominal pain and delayed onset of jaundice after multiple halothane exposures. Halothane-specific antibodies were positive, and liver tests resolved completely. The second patient had antecedent liver disease and presented with delayed onset of unexplained high fevers for 10 days following a single halothane exposure. Gradually increasing cholestasis ensued in the absence of other causes of liver disease. Halothane antibodies were negative. These cases illustrate different clinical presentations of halothane hepatitis, such as delayed onset of jaundice or fever following halothane exposure. The difficulties in making a definitive diagnosis and the need to exclude other causes of liver disease are detailed. Risk factors and other presentations are discussed. While halothane hepatitis appears to be an uncommon entity in children, it does occur, and may present with manifestations less than fulminant hepatic failure. A high index of suspicion and a detailed history of the time sequence of events are necessary as the diagnosis is primarily clinical. Halothane-specific antibodies are helpful if positive. In any child developing unexplained jaundice or high fevers following halothane anesthesia, further exposures should be avoided and halothane-specific antibodies obtained.
Reperfusion of ischemic intestine results in acute liver dysfunction characterized by hepatocellular enzyme release into plasma, reduction in bile flow rate, and neutrophil sequestration within the liver. The pathophysiology underlying this acute hepatic injury is unknown. This study was undertaken to determine whether oxidants are associated with the hepatic injury and to determine the relative value of several indirect methods of assessing oxidant exposure in vivo. Rats were subjected to a standardized intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury. Hepatic tissue was assayed for lipid peroxidation products and oxidized and reduced glutathione. There was no change in hepatic tissue total glutathione following intestinal ischemia-reperfusion injury. Oxidized glutathione (GSSG) increased significantly following 30 and 60 min of reperfusion. There was no increase in any of the products of lipid peroxidation associated with this injury. An increase in GSSG within hepatic tissue during intestinal reperfusion suggests exposure of hepatocytes to an oxidant stress. The lack of a significant increase in products of lipid peroxidation suggests that the oxidant stress is of insufficient magnitude to result in irreversible injury to hepatocyte cell membranes. These data also suggest that the measurement of tissue GSSG may be a more sensitive indicator of oxidant stress than measurement of products of lipid peroxidation.
Reduced parasympathetic activity has been reported in essential hypertension. Converting enzyme inhibition seems to increase parasympathetic tone. In order to evaluate the effects of enalapril on parasympathetic control of heart rate, the authors studied ten mild-to-moderate essential hypertensive patients (7 F, 3 M), treated for 2 weeks with placebo and for 1 month with enalapril. Compared to placebo, enalapril significantly reduced blood pressure (p less than 0.005 at least, both systolic and diastolic), without any change in heart rate. Enalapril enhanced parasympathetic activity as judged by the increased variation of heart period (VHP) during regular breathing. VHP was derived during continuous ECG recording by the difference between the mean of all maximum and minimum R-R intervals, taken as a measure of respiratory sinus arrhythmia: the higher the VHP, the higher the parasympathetic cardiac influence and vice versa. The response to exercise, used as an index of sympathetic stimulation, was not modified by enalapril: the heart rate peak reached during either static (hand grip) or dynamic (bicycle ergometer) exercise and the slope of the increase in blood pressure were unchanged. Therefore, enalapril appears to increase parasympathetic tone in essential hypertension, without any interference with sympathetic adaptation to stress.
Many glomerular diseases are associated with changes in the expression and distribution in the components of extracellular matrix. A remarkable feature in acute renal failure induced by mercuric chloride in rats was large fibronectin (Fn) deposits in kidneys 1 h post-HgCl2 injection (5 mg/kg body wt., s.c.). Our study examined some mechanisms as potential explanation of the early Fn deposits in mercuric chloride induced acute renal failure. Total tissue mRNA of livers and kidneys of control and treated rats were used in Northern blot to determine whether accumulation of Fn in kidney is associated with increases in the expression of this protein in the kidney and/or in the liver. Analysis of Fn levels by Western blot were also performed. Northern blot did not show significant difference between control and treated rats, while the abundance of polymerized-Fn in kidney tissue was increased 1 h and 5 h post HgCl2 injection. HgCl2 influence on Fn folding was studied in vitro to detect possible conformational changes that could altered its normal pattern of matrix assembly and/or binding to different ligands. In this context HgCl2 binding to Fn was measured following native tryptophan fluorescence of Fn in the presence of HgCl2 (0.5-250 mM). Binding parameters for the HgCl2-Fn complex formation were Kd = (1.6 +/- 0.2) 10(-4) M; n = 1 +/- 0.3, indicating a low apparent affinity and one type binding site. Thermal denaturation of Fn showed, between 30-60 degrees C, a soft reversible conformational change, while between 75-80 degrees C a highly and irreversible transition is produced suggesting a modification of the tertiary structure. HgCl2 abolished this transition. The kinetic of thermal unfolding of Fn was also measured and the effects observed due to HgCl2 presence reinforced the previous data. Finally, the effect of HgCl2 on Fn binding to denatured collagen (gelatin) was also measured as an index of the effect of this cation on biological properties of Fn. Fn binds gelatin strongest in the presence of HgCl2. Our results suggest that higher Fn deposits in kidney-treated rats seems not to be associated to augmented mRNA-Fn neither in kidney nor in liver. On the other hand, increased levels of polymerized Fn abundance was observed in kidney tissue from mercury-treated rats. We also describe that HgCl2 promotes, in vitro, conformational changes on Fn structure, inducing its denaturation and increasing its binding to gelatin, all events that could be related to the Fn deposits in renal tissues of HgCl2 treated rats, and could be expected in other situations that promoted interstitial fibrosis, not associated to overexpression of matrix-proteins.
Adenine arabinoside monophosphate (ARA-AMP) is a new antiviral agent with significant activity against DNA viruses of the herpes group. It appears to be superior to cytosine arabinoside and iodoxuridine in severe herpes simplex infections. Unlike cytosine arabinoside and idoxuridine ARA-AMP has only minimal myelosuppressive and immunosuppressive properties. The original compound, adenine arabinoside (ARA-A) which has been used in the United States in the last years had the disadvantage of poor solubility and tissue penetrance. Compared to adenine arabinoside the monophosphate ester of this compound has the advantage of better solubility and is more slowly metabolized in humans. In eight children with virus induced encephalitis ARA-AMP was well tolerated, we could not observe any severe side effects. A case of herpes simplex encephalitis showed a complete recovery. However it has to be pointed out that in herpes simplex encephalitis ARA-AMP should be given early in the course of infection to have a beneficial effect, therefore an early diagnosis is of utmost importance. A case of generalized herpes zoster healed up within about a week. Of course these are very preliminary results which must be confirmed by further experiences.
Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in seizure-induced neurodegeneration, and there is a correlation between free radical level and scavenger enzymatic activity in the epilepsy. It has been suggested that pilocarpine-induced seizures is mediated by an increase in oxidative stress. Current research has found that antioxidant may provide, in a certain degree, neuroprotection against the neurotoxicity of seizures at the cellular level. Alpha-tocopherol has numerous nonenzymatic actions and is a powerful liposoluble antioxidant. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of alpha-tocopherol (TP) in rats, against oxidative stress caused by pilocarpine-induced seizures. 30 min prior to behavioral observation, Wistar rats were treated with, 0.9% saline (i.p., control group), TP (200 mg/kg, i.p., TP group), pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p., P400 group), or the combination of TP (200 mg/kg, i.p.) and pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p.). After the treatments all groups were observed for 6 h. The enzymatic activities, lipid peroxidation and nitrite concentrations were measured using speccitrophotometric methods and these data were assayed. In P400 group mice there was a significant increase in lipid peroxidation and nitrite levels. However, no alteration was observed in superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities. In the TP and pilocarpine co-administered mice, antioxidant treatment significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation level and nitrite content, as well as increased the SOD and catalase activities in rat hippocampus after seizures. Our findings strongly support the hypothesis that oxidative stress occurs in hippocampus during pilocarpine-induced seizures, indicate that brain damage induced by the oxidative process plays a crucial role in seizures pathogenic consequences, and imply that strong protective effect could be achieved using alpha-tocopherol.
The purpose of this study is to investigate the haemodynamic effects of 1 MAC and 2 MAC of sevoflurane in children in comparison with halothane. Thirty-eight children (aged from one to six years, average age; 3.6 +/- 0.2 yr) were randomly assigned to four groups, depending on the dose and agent (1 and 2 MAC of sevoflurane: S1 and S2; 1 and 2 MAC of halothane: H1 and H2, respectively). After collecting control data during 0.2 MAC of either anaesthetic, end-expired anaesthetics were kept at 1 MAC or 2 MAC for 15 min. Mean blood pressure (mBP) and stroke volume index (SVI), measured by impedance cardiometry, decreased in all groups without differences between groups. Heart rate (HR) increased in groups S1, S2 and H2 but not in group H1. The HR in S2 was higher than that in H2. The cardiac index (CI), a product of SVI and HR, tended to decrease but not significantly in all groups. These results suggested that the haemodynamic depressant effects of sevoflurane in children were similar to those of equipotent halothane concentration except for HR.
Androgens play a major role in promoting the development and progression of prostate cancer. As a result, androgen ablation or blockade of androgen action through the androgen receptor (AR) has been the cornerstone of treatment of advanced prostate cancer. Different strategies involving this hormonal therapy produce a significant clinical response in most of the patients, but most responders eventually lose dependency, resulting in mortality. Thus, whether hormonal therapy contributes to the improvement of overall survival rates, especially in patients with advanced prostate cancer, remains controversial. However, patients with advanced disease clearly have a benefit from androgen deprivation-based treatment for palliating their symptoms and for improving the quality of their lives. In order to improve overall survival, novel treatment strategies that prolong the androgen-dependent state and that are useful for androgen-independent disease based on specific molecular mechanisms need to be identified.
Seven psychiatric inpatients receiving carbamazepine 600 mg/day were coadministered clarithromycin 400 mg/day for 5 days to treat atypical pneumonia. Blood samples were taken after clarithromycin coadministration and at 1 and 4 weeks after its discontinuation. Plasma concentrations of carbamazepine and carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography. During clarithromycin coadministration, four out of the seven patients developed moderate-to-severe toxic symptoms of carbamazepine, such as drowsiness, dizziness, and ataxia, which resolved within 5 days after clarithromycin discontinuation. In these four patients, plasma carbamazepine concentrations after clarithromycin coadministration were approximately twice as high as those after its discontinuation. In the seven patients, the mean plasma concentration of carbamazepine, but not of carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide, after clarithromycin coadministration was significantly (p < 0.01) higher than those at 1 and 4 weeks after its discontinuation. The present report suggests that clarithromycin coadministration induces increased plasma carbamazepine concentrations, which may result in carbamazepine toxicity. Therefore, care should be given to prescribing clarithromycin for patients receiving carbamazepine.
Drug addiction is a multifactorial disorder resulting from an interaction between genetic and environmental factors, and negative and positive environmental conditions may increase or reduce, respectively, vulnerability to drug addiction.
The influence of different social experiences on the acquisition, extinction, and reinstatement of a cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) was evaluated.
In experiment 1, adolescent and adult male OF1 mice housed under four different conditions (grouped, isolated, crowded, and cohabitating with a female) were conditioned with 50, 12.5, or 3.125 mg/kg of cocaine. All mice underwent extinction sessions until the CPP was extinguished. The effects of cocaine priming injections on the reinstatement of CPP were then evaluated. In experiment 2, the effect of different social experiences on the maintenance and reinstatement of cocaine-CPP in adult mice was studied.
Although housing conditions did not affect the acquisition of cocaine-CPP, it did modify reinstatement after extinction. Adolescent mice living in crowded conditions or cohabitating with a female did not present reinstatement after cocaine priming. Similarly, neither isolated adult mice nor adults cohabitating with a female presented reinstatement. In grouped adult mice, isolation after acquisition of the CPP and social defeat before reinstatement increased the vulnerability to reinstatement induced by cocaine priming. Conversely, both exposure to females and a brief social interaction undermined cocaine-induced reinstatement.
Social experiences modify vulnerability to reinstatement, acting as prevention or risk factors in the development of drug addiction.
The purpose of this article is to report the case of a patient who developed prolonged neuromuscular block after a large dose of clindamycin (2400 mg). A 58-yr-old, 65 kg woman with severe rheumatoid arthritis was admitted for wrist arthrodesis. After d-tubocurarine (3 mg) and fentanyl (1.5 micrograms.kg-1), anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone (4 mg.kg-1) followed by succinylcholine (1.5 mg.kg-1) and was maintained with N2O in O2 and isoflurane (0.75-1.0% end tidal) and ventilation was controlled. No further neuromuscular relaxants were given although full return of neuromuscular activity in response to train-of-four and 100 Hz tetanic stimulation was observed after succinylcholine. An overdose of clindamycin (2400 mg, instead of the intended 600 mg) was given i.v. soon after the start of surgery. At the end of surgery, 75 min later, the patient made no attempt at spontaneous ventilation, was unresponsive to painful stimuli and naloxone (0.2 mg i.v.) was ineffective. Controlled ventilation was continued in the Recovery Room where neuromuscular testing showed a train-of-four ratio of 0.27 which improved to only 0.47 five minutes after calcium chloride (1.5 mg.kg-1 i.v.), and to 0.62 after edrophonium (20 mg) and neostigmine (2 mg). Nine hours later the patient began to cough, the TOF had returned to 1.0 and two hours later the trachea was extubated and spontaneous ventilation was resumed. Large doses of clindamycin can induce profound, long-lasting neuromuscular blockade in the absence of non-depolarizing relaxants and after full recovery from succinylcholine has been demonstrated.
The liver has a great reserve capacity for hepatobiliary bile salt transport. This study was performed to elucidate the significance of this capacity in ethinyl estradiol-induced cholestasis by direct visualization of the zonal involvement in taurocholate transport. The acinar distribution of [3H]taurocholate was determined by histoautoradiographical study of cryopreserved liver slices in normal rats and rats treated with ethinyl estradiol for 5 days. Silver grain densities over the different acinar zones were estimated on digitized image analysis. In control animals, histoautoradiographical study performed 4 min after the start of perfusion showed restriction of taurocholate to acinar zone 1. In contrast, in ethinyl estradiol-treated animals, taurocholate was also found in zone 2 and, in smaller concentrations, in zone 3. In control animals, the relative blackenings by silver grains of acinar zones 1, 2 and 3 were 66% +/- 1.2%, 25% +/- 1.6% and 5% +/- 0.6%, respectively. After 5 days of ethinyl estradiol treatment, blackenings were 58% +/- 1.5%, 36% +/- 2.1% and 12% +/- 0.8%, respectively. As early as 15 sec after injection of [3H]taurocholate, the bile canalicular areas of the cell plates and the bile ductules of ethinyl estradiol-treated animals were labeled as intensely as those of control animals. Our results demonstrate ethinyl estradiol-induced recruitment of the acinar zones 2 and 3 for hepatobiliary taurocholate transport. This recruitment may largely compensate for reduction of transport capacity of periportal hepatocytes in early cholestasis.
Naltrexone is a competitive opioid antagonist and is often used to maintain abstinence in detoxified opioid dependent patients. However, it can precipitate an accelerated withdrawal when ingested by an individual with concurrent opioid use.
We report the case of a 28 year old male with opioid dependence syndrome presenting with chaotic symptoms following ingestion of naltrexone. Symptomatology, management is described and literature in this area is reviewed.
Accidental or surreptitious ingestion of naltrexone in a patient with concurrent opioid use can precipitate symptoms typical of opioid withdrawal in addition to other varying symptomatology. Most cases would require sedation and management of concurrent vomiting and diarrhoea.
Clinicians, especially those providing substance abuse and emergency care, need to be aware of the possibility of an accelerated and possibly life threatening withdrawal associated with naltrexone ingestion in an incompletely detoxified patient with opioid dependence.
The aim of this article is to report weight loss in patients with schizophrenia after switching from olanzapine standard oral tablet (SOT) to olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets (ODT). In the first case report, the patient was switched to olanzapine ODT in daily dosage of 20 mg, while in the second case report, the patient was switched to olanzapine ODT in daily dosage of 15 mg, and weight loss was similar (14 kg vs. 15 kg). Switching patients from olanzapine SOT to olanzapine ODT treatment resulted in significant weight loss that was maintained during 12 months in both case reports. Further controlled clinical investigations are necessary to evaluate change in weight during treatment with olanzapine ODT, and to improve our understanding of this change.
Ergotamine is used today for the symptomatic treatment of migraine. It is known that the intake of ergotamine-containing medicaments in cases of migraine causes disturbance of the blood-flow to the peripheral arteries of the extremities. Most of these spastic occlusions are due to medicaments containing ergotamine tartrate. Thus, ergotism is one of the frequent causes of spastic occlusion. The symptoms of blood-flow disturbances due to ergotamines do not differ from other geneses. Extreme cases develop gangrene of the finger tips, leading to a wrong diagnosis and subsequent amputation. A careful history and arteriography showing smooth stenoses usually give the correct diagnosis. An antidote to ergotamine is not known but the spastic occlusion and the neuropsychiatric complications are usually gone some days after the ergotamine-containing substance is discontinued. Anticoagulants and low-molecular dextran are indicated in order to prevent irreversible thrombosis.
The course of illness in a 76-year-old woman with a history of dyspnea being treated with medigoxin, 0.1 mg daily, is presented. Five days before the symptoms of acute psychosis developed she had used medigoxin, 0.2 mg per day. On the fifth day of that therapy, the patient developed acute psychosis and was admitted to the Department of Psychiatry. An electrocardiogram recorded monomorphous ventricular premature beats at a frequency of 50%, the S-T segment depression of the anterolateral location with the diphasic T-wave and the corrected Q-T interval of 0.377 to 0.355 seconds. Five days after the discontinuation of medigoxin therapy, serum digoxin concentration was 2.2 nmol/L, out of which follows that two days after digitalis was stopped it was 4.0 nmol/L and that concentration was probably higher at the moment when acute psychosis developed. The patient was free of symptoms of acute psychosis after a single promazine dose and discontinuation of medigoxin.
A patient with primary hepatoma, treated with doxorubicin and presenting with atypical electrocardiographic findings, was investigated with myosin-specific monoclonal antibody radiolabelled with indium-111. Despite a normal ejection fraction, myosin-specific scintigraphy was positive, indicating doxorubicin cardiotoxicity.
Corticosteroids, well known to increase susceptibility to infection, are often administered to atopic patients. Atopy may be associated with lymphocyte abnormalities and increased susceptibility to infections caused by intracellular organisms. We sought to determine whether atopic and nonatopic subjects respond in a similar manner to corticosteroids administered both systemically and locally. We compared the response of peripheral blood leukocytes of 15 atopic asthmatics and 10 nonatopic control subjects to prednisone or beclomethasone dipropionate. We determined leukocyte number, total eosinophil count, T-cell number, complement receptor lymphocyte number, and concanavalin A (Con A)- and phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-induced lymphocyte proliferation before and 5 hr after administration of 20 mg of prednisone orally or 336 micrograms of beclomethasone dipropionate by aerosol inhalation. Baseline values of the groups differed. The atopic asthmatic group had higher total eosinophil count, lower percent lymphocyte count, and slightly lower Con A- and PHA (high concentration)-induced lymphocyte proliferation. T-cell and complement receptor lymphocyte number were equivalent in both groups. Prednisone caused a profound eosinopenia, monocytopenia, T lymphopenia, depression of mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation, and increase in leukocyte number and complement receptor lymphocyte percent. Beclomethasone dipropionate was associated with little or no change in these parameters. We conclude that atopic asthma is not associated with a defect in corticosteroid-sensitive leukocyte populations and that beclomethasone dipropionate aerosol, as opposed to prednisone, does not alter peripheral blood mononuclear cell populations.
Twenty patients undergoing abdominal surgery under general anaesthesia were studied to determine whether beta 2-adrenergic receptor sensitivity and adrenaline-induced hypokalaemia are related to preceding adrenergic stress. Half of the patients were given epidural analgesia with bupivacaine-adrenaline before starting surgery and then a booster dose after 60 min of surgery. The others were given only the epidural dose of bupivacaine-adrenaline at 60 min. Despite marked increases in the plasma adrenaline concentration after the intra-operative epidural dose, there was no decrease in the serum potassium concentration in either group. In the patients who received only the 60 min dose, the plasma adrenaline concentrations increased more, but the plasma level of cyclic AMP (a marker for beta 2-stimulation) increased similarly, which suggests that beta 2-adrenoceptor responsiveness was somewhat reduced. After the intraoperative bupivacaine-adrenaline, the T wave amplitude decreased, but neither U waves nor tachycardia developed. In conclusion, adrenergic stimulation during surgery does not decrease the serum potassium concentration, regardless of whether the surgical stress response has been modified by epidural analgesia. This lack of a hypokalaemic effect might be partly due to reduced responsiveness of beta 2-adrenoceptors to adrenaline.
A Chinese beta +-thalassemia gene in a new haplotype was chosen for cloning and sequencing. The mutation identified was an A-G transition at position -29 in the TATA box of the beta-globin gene. This mutation has not been seen previously in Chinese but has been documented in American blacks on a different chromosomal background. This observation provides further evidence for independent origins of the same mutation in distinct ethnic groups.
Cluster headache is the third most frequent type of primary cephalgia only exceeded in frequency by tension-type headache and migraine. Cluster headache is characterized by periodic attacks of unilateral excruciating pain and accompanying autonomic features. It is arguably the most disabling form of primary headache. Therefore, prompt recognition of this disorder is necessary to provide an opportunity for effective treatment. We report on a patient with cluster headache, who complained about an atypical interval of dull headache between the cluster attacks, thus excluding the differential diagnosis of hemicrania continua. The common drugs for acute cluster attacks proved to be ineffective as well as prophylactic treatment with steroids and verapamil. Only administration of topiramate led to relief of pain.
We carried out a meta-analysis of data from three genome-wide association (GWA) studies of type 1 diabetes (T1D), testing 305,090 SNPs in 3,561 T1D cases and 4,646 controls of European ancestry. We obtained further support for 4q27 (IL2-IL21, P = 1.9 x 10(-8)) and, after genotyping an additional 6,225 cases, 6,946 controls and 2,828 families, convincing evidence for four previously unknown and distinct risk loci in chromosome regions 6q15 (BACH2, P = 4.7 x 10(-12)), 10p15 (PRKCQ, P = 3.7 x 10(-9)), 15q24 (CTSH, P = 3.2 x 10(-15)) and 22q13 (C1QTNF6, P = 2.0 x 10(-8)).
An otherwise healthy 8-year-old neutered male, mixed breed dog was anesthetized for surgical removal of multiple uroliths. Pre-anesthetic medication was midazolam, glycopyrrolate, and morphine. Anesthesia was induced with propofol and maintained with isoflurane in oxygen. One hour after induction, the patient moved and propofol was administered. Subsequently, the patient developed hypotension. Dobutamine administered at this time produced a rapid and profound decrease in heart rate that was treated successfully with atropine. The bradycardia in this case may be the result of the Bezold-Jarisch reflex, an intracardiac parasympathetic nervous reflex. Discontinuation of dobutamine and/or administration of a parasympatholytic drug should be performed if bradycardia occurs during dobutamine infusion.
