We report a case of bilateral cerebral ischemia with frequent painful tonic spasms involving face, both upper and sometimes both lower extremities. The spasms subsided after treatment with diazepam.
Vasoconstriction is a major pathophysiologic finding in preeclampsia due to hyperactivity of the sympathetic nervous system and a consequent increase in concentration of plasmatic catecholamine. Thus, vasodilatation produced by secondary sympathetic block to lumbar epidural blockade favors control of high blood pressure in patients with severe preeclampsia.
Our objective was to evaluate whether lumbar epidural blockade with bupivacaine 0.25% decreases high blood pressure of patients with severe preeclampsia within a lapse of 6 h in comparison with customary antihypertensive treatment.
An open, randomized, controlled trial was carried out in 24 pregnant patients with 30 weeks of gestational age or more and diagnosis of severe preeclampsia who entered the Intensive Care Uni of the IMEIM Hospital of Gynecology and Obstetrics for hemodynamic stabilization and resolution of pregnancy. Group 1 (n = 12) was managed with customary antihypertensive treatment and group 2 (n = 12), with lumbar epidural blockade and bupivacaine 0.25%: 10 mg in bolus and 5 mg/h continuous epidural infusion. Patients were monitored non-invasively and with continuous clinical monitoring with MAP, SAP, and DAP during 6 h. Statistical analysis employed consisted of ANOVA measurement repeats.
In MAP and SAP, there were no significant differences between the two groups; DAP in first and second h of treatment had significant differences between the two groups (p value of < or = 0.05).
Lumbar epidural blockade with bupivacaine 0.25% can be used as a therapeutic alternative in high blood pressure control in patients with severe preeclampsia during the the first 6 h of hemodynamic stabilization.
Metoclopramide (MCP) in doses of 2.2 mg kg-1 body weight, being administered intraperitoneally to rats for 14 d, provokes a premature release of germ cells in the testes. The number of spermatozoa is reduced. In addition the spermatozoa exhibit defects of head and tail structures. After the administration of MCP for 14 d, followed by a 14-d break in applying the drug, the number of spermatozoa in the lumen of the epididymal duct continues to be low. Many spermatozoa are damaged. Only after a 66-d-break in MCP administration is the morphology of the seminiferous epithelium restored, and a large number of spermatozoa appear in the lumen of the epididymal duct.
Anthracyclin-treated tumor cells are particularly effective in eliciting an anticancer immune response, whereas other DNA-damaging agents such as etoposide and mitomycin C do not induce immunogenic cell death. Here we show that anthracyclins induce the rapid, preapoptotic translocation of calreticulin (CRT) to the cell surface. Blockade or knockdown of CRT suppressed the phagocytosis of anthracyclin-treated tumor cells by dendritic cells and abolished their immunogenicity in mice. The anthracyclin-induced CRT translocation was mimicked by inhibition of the protein phosphatase 1/GADD34 complex. Administration of recombinant CRT or inhibitors of protein phosphatase 1/GADD34 restored the immunogenicity of cell death elicited by etoposide and mitomycin C, and enhanced their antitumor effects in vivo. These data identify CRT as a key feature determining anticancer immune responses and delineate a possible strategy for immunogenic chemotherapy.
The authors examined associations between exposure to aluminum or silica from drinking water and risk of cognitive decline, dementia, and Alzheimer's disease among elderly subjects followed for 15 years (1988-2003). They actively searched for incident cases of dementia among persons aged 65 years or over living in 91 civil drinking-water areas in southern France. Two measures of exposure to aluminum were assessed: geographic exposure and individual exposure, taking into account daily consumption of tap water and bottled water. A total of 1,925 subjects who were free of dementia at baseline and had reliable water assessment data were analyzed. Using random-effects models, the authors found that cognitive decline with time was greater in subjects with a higher daily intake of aluminum from drinking water (>or=0.1 mg/day, P=0.005) or higher geographic exposure to aluminum. Using a Cox model, a high daily intake of aluminum was significantly associated with increased risk of dementia. Conversely, an increase of 10 mg/day in silica intake was associated with a reduced risk of dementia (adjusted relative risk =0.89, P=0.036). However, geographic exposure to aluminum or silica from tap water was not associated with dementia. High consumption of aluminum from drinking water may be a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease.
We present a retrospective, case-controlled study of the degree of over-warfarinisation and the frequency of International Normalized Ratio (INR) monitoring in patients with spontaneous intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) compared with a control group without ICH. A higher proportion of patients with ICH were taking warfarin than patients in the control group (33/221 [15%] versus 16/201 [8%], p<0.05). There was no significant difference between the ICH group and the controls in the mean INR of warfarinised patients on presentation, the mean INR when last measured prior to presentation, or in the number of days since the INR was last tested. There was no correlation between the time since the INR was last measured and the INR on presentation. Only 2 (6%) of patients were excessively anticoagulated at the time of ICH. Thus, in this study, warfarin use was associated with an increased risk of ICH despite appropriate community INR monitoring and therapeutic anticoagulation.
Sensory peripheral neuropathy developed in 5 patients treated with almitrine dimesylate, 60-100 mg/day. Onset was insidious, beginning symmetrically in the legs with stocking sensory loss and loss of ankle-jerks. Cerebrospinal fluid protein levels were slightly increased and there was electrophysiological and histological evidence of distal axonopathy. The interval between the first dose of almitrine dimesylate and onset of symptoms ranged from 2 to 4 months in 4 patients. All patients had noted a recent weight loss of 4-15 kg which may have resulted in release of previously bound drug.
Hypothetically, K-ras mutations can be used as a marker of disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) in patients with K-ras mutated primary carcinoma. This study focused on the development of a useful assay for detecting low numbers of DTCs in potential target tissues of metastatic K-ras codon 12 mutated colorectal cancer. Tumor, liver, lymph node and bone marrow tissues from 46 colorectal carcinoma patients were examined for K-ras codon 12 mutations with a new double enriched nested (DEN)-PCR and the incidence of mutations was compared to those obtained from three established assays. DEN-PCR followed by sequencing found one mutated cell within 107 K-ras codon 12 wild-type cells and was more sensitive than other methods (1:106-1:102). Colon carcinomas (26/46) and adenomas (1/3) harbored mutations in K-ras codon 12. Sixteen of these 27 mutated tumors were found with all assays, two with three methods and one with the two most sensitive assays. In 8 cases, only DEN-PCR identified the K-ras mutation, and thus prevailed over the other methods used (p<0.002). Eight of 26 patients with K-ras mutated colorectal carcinoma also harbored K-ras mutated DTCs in liver and lymph nodes, respectively, and 4 in bone marrow. For liver and lymph node samples, DTC-mutations were identical to those in the primary carcinoma but those in bone marrow differed from the respective mutation in the primary carcinoma. In conclusion, DEN-PCR is a highly sensitive method for detecting K-ras mutations as marker of early and late tumor cell dissemination in tissues potentially harboring colorectal carcinoma metastases.
1. We investigated the glomerular expression of three types of myosin heavy-chain isoforms, including S-myosin heavy-chain 40 (SM1), S-myosin heavy-chain 29 (SM2) and FS-myosin heavy-chain 34 (SMemb) in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. 2. There was little change in SM1 and SM2 mRNA levels throughout the experiment. In contrast, glomerular SMemb mRNA increased on days 2 and 4 (before and soon after the onset of proteinuria, respectively), but declined on day 8 (the peak of proteinuria). 3. Histological myosin heavy-chain expression was examined using three antibodies against SM1, SM2 and SMemb. Immunohistochemically, SM1 and SM2 were absent in the glomeruli associated with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis until day 20. The SMemb isoform was barely detectable in normal glomeruli, but substantial amounts of SMemb were demonstrated in the glomeruli of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. In the puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats, the number of SMemb-positive glomerular cells increased on days 2 and 4. 4. We examined whether levels of alpha-smooth-muscle actin or proliferating cell nuclear antigen correlated with myosin heavy-chain levels in the glomeruli of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. None of the cellular components in the glomeruli was positive for either alpha-smooth-muscle actin or proliferating cell nuclear antigen in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. 5. Administration of methylprednisolone to puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats resulted in the rapid disappearance of proteinuria. However, methylprednisolone did not affect SMemb mRNA or immunostaining in a glomeruli of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report symptomatic asthma, associated with objective and highly significant increases in both airway responsiveness and airflow limitation, presenting de novo in a male patient 6 weeks after suddenly discontinuing lithium carbonate therapy.
The aim of this research is, to show the action mechanism of metyloprednizolon and the side--effects of the Solu-Medrol application in the treatment of demyelinization neuritis of ophtalmic nerve in sclerosis multiplex. In research, there were described the side-effects after second Solu-Medrol bolus dose given to a 44-year-old patient. She has suffered from SM and demyelinization neuritis of ophtalmic nerve with rapid deterioration of visual acuity for 14 years. In the years 1995-2002 there has not been any case of side-effects similar to this patient's, among all the 30 other patients treated with Solu-Medrol. It confirms the usefulness of bolus dose metyloprednizolon therapy applied to patients suffering from ophtalmic nerve demyelinization with rapid deterioration of visual acuity.
Felbamate, a novel anticonvulsant that binds to the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, has been shown to have neuroprotective properties in vitro and in vivo. In a rat pup model of hypoxia-ischemia, felbamate selectively reduced delayed death in hippocampal granule cells. The present study explores its neuroprotective potential in a gerbil model of global ischemia, in which good evidence exists that ischemia triggers apoptosis of CA1.
Gerbils were subjected to bilateral carotid occlusion for 5 minutes and then treated with felbamate (100 or 200 mg/kg IV) or vehicle. They were killed 3 days later, and the numbers of live and dead neurons in the CA1 sector of the hippocampus were counted at sterotaxically defined levels.
Felbamate (200 mg/kg IV) administered after the release of carotid clamping did not change brain temperature but reduced neuronal death in CA1 from 332 +/- 60 cells per section of dorsal hippocampus in unmedicated gerbils to 62 +/- 12 cells in felbamate-treated animals (P<.001). A lower dose of felbamate (100 mg/kg post hoc) showed only a nonsignificant reduction of neuronal death. In the 200-mg/kg group, felbamate serum concentrations peaked at 162 microg/mL and were above 100 microg/mL for at least 3 hours, and brain levels reached 150 microg/mL at 1 hour. In the 100-mg/kg group, blood serum levels were well below 100 microg/mL.
These results suggest that felbamate given post hoc is remarkably effective in preventing delayed apoptosis secondary to global ischemia but that effective neuroprotection requires doses higher than those used for anticonvulsant treatment.
Unlike the highly porphyrinogenic fungicide hexachlorobenzene, hexabromobenzene was a poor inducer of porphyria. Similarly, 1,2-dibromobenzene and 1,2,4-tribromobenzene, while causing small increases in hepatic porphyrins, did not increase ALA synthetase or the urinary excretion of porphobilinogen (PBG), aminolevulinic acid (ALA) or porphyrins.
Ten patients with ocular hypertension or glaucoma were treated over 4 months with the betablocker Metoprolol tartrate as 3% eye drops twice daily. Intraocular pressures were significantly lowered by the drug in all patients throughout the study. The mean initial IOP response was 36% relative decrease, the maintenance IOP decrease ranged between 23 and 30%. There was partial loss of the initial response within the first weeks of treatment. Topical Metoprolol treatment possibly affects systolic blood pressure and heart rate. There had been no objective side effects of Metoprolol treatment. The most common subjective side effects were burning, itching and tearing. The therapeutic significance of the results is discussed.
To investigate the effect of 0.25% betaxolol (Betoptic S) in the normal myopia eye, on steroid-induced intraocular pressure (IOP) elevations in patients undergoing radial keratotomy.
Radial keratotomy was performed on 27 patients (43 eyes). All these patients during the period of 3 months after surgery were treated with 0.1% dexamethasone drops in decreasing doses and 0.25% betaxolol (Betoptic S) drops twice a day. Ophthalmic examination and IOP measurements were made on 1, 2, 3, 14, 30, 60 day after operation.
During 3 months of postoperative period 27.9% of eyes had IOP exceeding 25 mm Hg, or had an increase of IOP of 10 mm Hg or more.
The results of the current study and the study published by the author previously lead to conclusion, that 0.25% betaxolol (Betoptic S) in the normal myopia eye, decreases the risk of steroid-induced IOP elevation in patients after radial keratotomy, but does not prevent it.
Leucovorin and extracorporeal removal of methotrexate (MTX) have limited efficacy in delayed MTX elimination after high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) therapy. Glucarpidase (carboxypeptidase G2) cleaves MTX into nontoxic metabolites, but experience with this enzyme is limited in adult patients. We evaluated the effects of glucarpidase intervention in adult and elderly patients with delayed MTX elimination.
Forty-three patients (age, 18-78 years) with MTX serum concentrations (sMTX) of 1-1,187 micromol/l received glucarpidase, leucovorin rescue guided by MTX immunoassay, and standard supportive care. MTX and MTX metabolites were quantified in serum (24 patients) and urine (8 patients) by high-performance liquid chromatography. Contributory risk factors, toxicities, and survival were recorded in all patients.
Glucarpidase was well tolerated and resulted in an immediate >97% reduction in sMTX, with a 0.2%-35% urinary recovery of the total MTX dose as inactive MTX metabolites. Forty (93%) of 43 patients had normalization (n = 25) or improvement (n = 15) of their serum creatinine. Frequent grade III-IV MTX toxicities were hematological (60%) and mucositis (35%); only eight (19%) patients developed grade III-IV nephrotoxicity. Ten (23%) of 43 patients experienced fatal complications associated with HD-MTX therapy. Patients with three or more contributory risk factors for delayed MTX elimination had a significantly poorer survival than patients with fewer than three risk factors (hazard ratio, 3.64; confidence interval, 1.14-17.54).
Glucarpidase is well tolerated and produces a rapid inactivation of substantial amounts of MTX. However, overall results are still unsatisfactory in adult and elderly patients, suggesting that earlier recognition of delayed MTX elimination and more rapid intervention are needed.
Human exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) remains widespread. PCBs have been associated with adverse reproductive health outcomes including reduced fecundability and increased risk of pregnancy loss, although the human data remain largely inconclusive.
Our goal was to explore the relationship between serum PCB concentrations and early pregnancy loss among a large cohort of women undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) between 1994 and 2003.
Concentrations of 57 PCB congeners were measured in serum samples collected during 827 IVF/intracytoplasmic sperm injection cycles from 765 women. Joint statistical models that accommodate multiple outcomes and multiple cycles per woman were used to assess the relationship between serum PCB quartiles and implantation failure, chemical pregnancies (human chorionic gonadotropin level > 5.0 mIU/mL) that did not result in clinical pregnancy, or spontaneous abortion, while also adjusting for confounders.
PCB-153 was the congener present in the highest concentration (median, 46.2 ng/g lipid). Increasing quartiles of PCB-153 and the sum of all measured PCB congeners (ΣPCBs) were associated with significantly elevated dose-dependent odds of failed implantation. Adjusted odds ratios (95% confidence interval) for highest versus lowest quartile were 2.0 (1.2-3.4) for PCB-153 and 1.7 (1.0-2.9) for ΣPCBs. There were suggestive trends for increased odds of implantation failure for PCB-118 and cytochrome P450-inducing congeners (p-values for trend = 0.06). No statistically significant associations between PCBs and chemical pregnancy or spontaneous abortion were found.
Serum PCB concentrations at levels similar to the U.S. general population were associated with failed implantation among women undergoing IVF. These findings may help explain previous reports of reduced fecundability among women exposed to PCBs.
Cisplatin (CP) induced acute renal failure (ARF) has previously been associated with decreased urinary prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) excretion and reduced aquaporin 2 (AQP2) expression in kidney collecting duct. In this study we examined the expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and -2 as well as AQP2 and the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter in kidneys from rats with CP induced ARF.
Rats were treated with either CP or saline and followed for 5 days. Kidneys were dissected into three zones and prepared for immunoblotting, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) and immunohistochemistry. Renal content and urinary PGE2 excretion was measured.
Cisplatin treatment was associated with polyuria and a significant decreased creatinine clearance. Inner medullary PGE2 content and urinary PGE2 excretion was decreased in CP-treated rats. QPCR and semiquatitative immunoblotting demonstrated that CP treatment reduced COX-2, AQP2 and Na-K-2Cl cotransporter abundance in the different kidney zones, whereas no change in COX-1 was observed. Results were confirmed by immunohistochemistry.
Cyclooxygenase-2 expression is decreased in inner medulla and cortex. Consistent with this urinary PGE2 levels were reduced. These data suggest that downregulation of COX-2 is responsible for impaired de novo generation of vasodilatory prostaglandins which may play an important role for the CP induced renal vasoconstriction and development of nephropathy.
An 11-month-old male infant with recurrent supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) was treated with oral verapamil. Shortly thereafter he developed marked changes in behavior including lethargy, intensely increased thirst and urination, and irritability when denied fluids. "Primary" polydipsia was diagnosed following an evaluation which showed no evidence of adrenal insufficiency, diabetes insipidus, diabetes mellitus, hypercalcemia, hyperosmolality, or renal disease. The symptoms resolved 1 week after verapamil was discontinued.
Effects of intravenous injection of 0.6 mg/kg sotalol, a beta-blocking agent with additional class III properties, were studied by means of electrophysiologic techniques in 14 patients, seven with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and seven with concealed atrioventricular (AV) accessory pathways. Sotalol brought about a significant increase in the retrograde effective refractory period of the anomalous pathway, whereas changes in the antegrade effective refractory period were more variable. In five of nine patients with electrically induced reciprocating tachycardia sotalol prevented the initiation of sustained reentry. In most cases the suppression of the circus movement was the result of the development of AV nodal block. Thus our data support the use of sotalol for the treatment of tachycardias incorporating anomalous AV conduction pathways.
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of combining propafenone with procainamide or quinidine for treating ventricular arrhythmias in patients in whom procainamide or quinidine therapy alone failed to suppress arrhythmias. In 30 patients, the addition of propafenone resulted in a significant reduction of premature ventricular contraction (PVC) frequency compared to drug-free baseline (406 PVC/hr vs 33, p less than 0.001) and to procainamide or quinidine monotherapy (211 PVC/hr vs 27, p less than 0.01). Propafenone alone was also more effective than either procainamide or quinidine and resulted in significant suppression of PVC compared to the drug-free state (406 PVC/hr vs 38, p less than 0.001). However, higher propafenone doses were necessary during monotherapy as compared to propafenone therapy combined with procainamide or quinidine (730 mg/day vs 480 mg/day, p less than 0.001). Of the 30 patients, 22 required an increase in propafenone dose during monotherapy as compared to combination therapy. Thus, propafenone is an effective antiarrhythmic agent when used in combination with type IA antiarrhythmic drugs. With these combinations, lower doses of propafenone can be utilized effectively than with propafenone alone.
A congenital deficiency of the coagulation Factor XIII A subunit (F XIII A) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that is characterized by a life-long bleeding tendency complicated by a difficulty in healing. Thus far, no molecular genetic analysis of this disorder has been reported. In this study, we demonstrate the molecular abnormalities in a family with this disorder. We performed Northern blot analysis of peripheral blood monocytes obtained from the propositus and found a 4-kb single band of F XIII A mRNA whose size was identical with that of normal subjects. Exons II-XV, which encode all the amino acids, were individually amplified by a polymerase chain reaction (PCR). All PCR products from the propositus had lengths indistinguishable from those of the wild type on agarose gel, suggesting that this defect results from either a point mutation or a short deletion/insertion. The sequencing of F XIII A cDNA from the propositus revealed a deletion of the dinucleotide AG within the AGAG repeat at the position of 210 to 213. Concerning the genomic sequence, a deletion of dinucleotide AG was also demonstrated in the intron B-exon III boundary. This deletion appeared to cause a frameshift mutation making a new stop codon shortly thereafter, and leading to a deficiency of plasma F XIII A. The heterozygosity of the F XIII A deficiency in the patient's offspring was documented by the nucleotide sequences of their exon III.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are ligand-gated cation channels found throughout the body, and serve to mediate diverse physiological functions. Muscle-type nAChRs located in the motor endplate region of muscle fibers play an integral role in muscle contraction and thus motor function. The toxicity and teratogenicity of many plants (which results in millions of dollars in losses annually to the livestock industry) are due to various toxins that bind to nAChRs including deltaline and methyllycaconitine (MLA) from larkspur (Delphinium) species, and nicotine and anabasine from tobacco (Nicotiana) species. The primary result of the actions of these alkaloids at nAChRs is neuromuscular paralysis and respiratory failure. The objective of this study was to further characterize the motor coordination deficiencies that occur upon exposure to a non-lethal dose of nAChR antagonists MLA and deltaline as well as nAChR agonists nicotine and anabasine. We evaluated the effect of nAChR agonists and antagonists on the motor function and coordination in mice using a balance beam, grip strength meter, rotarod, open field analysis and tremor monitor. These analyses demonstrated that within seconds after treatment the mice had significant loss of motor function and coordination that lasted up to 1 min, followed by a short period of quiescence. Recovery to normal muscle coordination was rapid, typically within approximately 10 min post-dosing. However, mice treated with the nAChR agonist nicotine and anabasine required a slightly longer time to recover some aspects of normal muscle function in comparison to mice treated with the nAChR antagonist MLA or deltaline.
