The En2 gene, coding for the homeobox-containing transcription factor Engrailed-2 (EN2), has been associated to autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Due to neuroanatomical and behavioral abnormalities, which partly resemble those observed in ASD patients, En2 knockout (En2(-/-)) mice have been proposed as a model for ASD. In the mouse embryo, En2 is involved in the specification of midbrain/hindbrain regions, being predominantly expressed in the developing cerebellum and ventral midbrain, and its expression is maintained in these structures until adulthood. Here we show that in the adult mouse brain, En2 mRNA is expressed also in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Hippocampal En2 mRNA content decreased after seizures induced by kainic acid (KA). This suggests that En2 might also influence the functioning of forebrain areas during adulthood and in response to seizures. Indeed, a reduced expression of parvalbumin and somatostatin was detected in the hippocampus of En2(-/-) mice as compared to wild-type (WT) mice, indicating an altered GABAergic innervation of limbic circuits in En2(-/-) mice. In keeping with these results, En2(-/-) mice displayed an increased susceptibility to KA-induced seizures. KA (20 mg/kg) determined more severe and prolonged generalized seizures in En2(-/-) mice, when compared to WT animals. Seizures were accompanied by a widespread c-fos and c-jun mRNA induction in the brain of En2(-/-) but not WT mice. Long-term histopathological changes (CA1 cell loss, upregulation of neuropeptide Y) also occurred in the hippocampus of KA-treated En2(-/-) but not WT mice. These findings suggest that En2(-/-) mice might be used as a novel tool to study the link between epilepsy and ASD.
The effects of drugs affecting GABA and glutamic acid receptors on theophylline-induced seizures were investigated in mice. Theophylline elicited tonic seizures in mice in a dose dependent manner. Muscimol, DABA and AOAA significantly prolonged the onset and significantly decreased the incidence of theophylline-induced seizures. Baclofen significantly delayed the onset of the tonic seizures induced by theophylline. Bicuculline and picrotoxin significantly shortened the onset and significantly increased the incidence of seizures induced by a low dose of theophylline and also significantly antagonized muscimol-attenuating effect against theophylline seizures. N-methyl-DL-aspartic acid significantly shortened the onset and significantly increased the incidence of seizures elicited by a low dose of theophylline. D-(-)-2-amino-phosphonopentanoic acid effectively delayed the onset and significantly decreased the incidence of seizures elicited by theophylline and also significantly antagonized the potentiating effect of N-methyl-DL-aspartic acid on seizures induced by a low dose of theophylline. Dextromethorphan and ketamine profoundly shortened the onset of theophylline-induced seizures. Clonidine effectively prolonged the onset and significantly decreased the incidence of theophylline-induced seizures. These data indicate that GABA(A) and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors may mediate theophylline-elicited tonic seizures in mice.
To improve radioiodine treatment of metastasized differentiated thyroid carcinomas, substances that increase iodide uptake are needed. Many tumors are not responsive to retinoic acid as a differentiating agent. Therefore, identification of other differentiating substances is needed. Arsenic trioxide (ATO) was investigated for its potential to increase iodide uptake.
The action of ATO on proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis was evaluated in follicular and papillary thyroid carcinoma cell lines. To get insight into the mode of action of ATO, coincubations with inhibitors of the phosphoinositide 3 (PI3) kinase pathway (V-Akt Murine Thymoma Viral Oncogene Homolog 1, Akt inhibitors) were performed; glutathione (GSH) levels were determined, as well as synergistic effects of ATO with inhibitors of GSH metabolism, inductors of oxidative stress. As a potential additional target of the pleiotropic action of ATO, its effect on glucose uptake was investigated. The expression of sodium iodide symporter, pendrin, phospho-Akt, and glucose transporter 1 was studied to reveal a potential effect of ATO on the transcription of specific genes.
ATO reduced proliferation, increased iodide uptake and apoptosis, and, as an additional new mechanism, decreased glucose uptake in transformed thyrocytes. The pharmacological reduction of the amount of reduced GSH was effective in enhancing the differentiating action of ATO, whereas the combination of ATO with Akt-1 inhibitors reduced cell number but did not increase differentiation.
Our study suggests a new therapeutic option for postoperative treatment of radioiodine nonresponsive differentiated thyroid carcinomas.
Effects of prefrontal cortical or hippocampal excitotoxic lesions on behavioral parameters related to dopaminergic transmission in the basal ganglia were investigated in the rat. We examined haloperidol-induced catalepsy and apomorphine-induced stereotypic behaviors after ibotenic acid lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), dorsal (DH), or ventral hippocampus (VH) in adult rats. Haloperidol-induced (1 mg/kg) catalepsy was decreased in rats with either MPFC or VH but not DH lesions. While both DH and VH lesioned animals demonstrated a reduction in apomorphine-induced (0.75 mg/kg) stereotypic behaviors, the VH lesioned animals also showed an enhancement of locomotor activity. MPFC lesioned rats tended towards potentiation of stereotypic behaviors and reduced locomotion after apomorphine administration. These data indicate that loss of prefrontal cortical or hippocampal modulation leads to an enhancement of DA transmission within the basal ganglia, though the pattern of augmentation depends on the area lesioned.
Rats were injected intraperitoneally with loreclezole (R 72063), diazepam, or scopolamine 60 min prior to acquisition of a passive avoidance task and tested 18 h later for retention of the learned (passive) behavior. The known impairment of performance produced by diazepam in this test is believed to be a model for the clinically observed diazepam-induced anterograde amnesia in humans. We report in this study that (1) consistent with the literature, pretreatment with diazepam (2.0-16.0 mg/kg i.p.) or scopolamine (3.0 mg/kg i.p.) produced impairment in passive avoidance performance of rats (anterograde amnesia), but (2) pretreatment with loreclezole (R 72063) (2.0-80.0 mg/kg i.p.) did not impair the acquisition, retention, or the retrieval (tested 18 h later) of passive avoidance behavior by rats at any dose. The results suggest that the anticonvulsant activity of loreclezole is mediated by a mechanism distinct from the one coupled to diazepam-like disruption of cognitive functions involved in the acquisition or posttraining information processing of passive avoidance behavior.
Human MMP-1 is a matrix metalloproteinase repeatedly associated with many pathological conditions, including cancer. Thus, MMP1 overexpression is a poor prognosis marker in a variety of advanced cancers, including colorectal, breast, and lung carcinomas. Moreover, MMP-1 plays a key role in the metastatic behavior of melanoma, breast, and prostate cancer cells. However, functional and mechanistic studies on the relevance of MMP-1 in cancer have been hampered by the absence of an in vivo model. In this work, we have generated mice deficient in Mmp1a, the murine ortholog of human MMP1. Mmp1a(-/-) mice are viable and fertile and do not exhibit obvious abnormalities, which has facilitated studies of cancer susceptibility. These studies have shown a decreased susceptibility to develop lung carcinomas induced by chemical carcinogens in Mmp1a(-/-) mice. Histopathological analysis indicated that tumors generated in Mmp1a(-/-) mice are smaller than those of wild-type mice, consistently with the idea that the absence of Mmp-1a hampers tumor progression. Proteomic analysis revealed decreased levels of chitinase-3-like 3 and accumulation of the receptor for advanced glycation end-products and its ligand S100A8 in lung samples from Mmp1a(-/-) mice compared with those from wild-type. These findings suggest that Mmp-1a could play a role in tumor progression by modulating the polarization of a Th1/Th2 inflammatory response to chemical carcinogens. On the basis of these results, we propose that Mmp1a knock-out mice provide an excellent in vivo model for the functional analysis of human MMP-1 in both physiological and pathological conditions.
Potent aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonists like PCB 126 (3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl) cause oxidative stress and liver pathology, including fatty liver. Our question was whether dietary supplementation with N-acetylcysteine (NAC), an antioxidant, can prevent these adverse changes. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a standard AIN-93G diet (sufficient in cysteine) or a modified diet supplemented with 1.0% NAC. After one week, rats on each diet were exposed to 0, 1, or 5μmol/kg body weight PCB 126 by i.p. injection (6 rats per group) and euthanized two weeks later. PCB-treatment caused a dose-dependent reduction in growth, feed consumption, relative thymus weight, total glutathione and glutathione disulfide (GSSG), while relative liver weight, glutathione transferase activity and hepatic lipid content were dose-dependently increased with PCB dose. Histologic examination of liver tissue showed PCB 126-induced hepatocellular steatosis with dose dependent increase in lipid deposition and distribution. Dietary NAC resulted in a reduction in hepatocellular lipid in both PCB groups. This effect was confirmed by gravimetric analysis of extracted lipids. Expression of CD36, a scavenger receptor involved in regulating hepatic fatty acid uptake, was reduced with high dose PCB treatment but unaltered in PCB-treated rats on NAC-supplemented diet. These results demonstrate that NAC has a protective effect against hepatic lipid accumulation in rats exposed to PCB 126. The mechanism of this protective effect appears to be independent of NAC as a source of cysteine/precursor of glutathione.
Multienzyme branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex (BCKDH) catalyzes the regulatory step of oxidative catabolism of indispensable branched-chain amino acids (BCAA). The activity of the BCKDH complex is regulated by a reversible phosphorylation, end-product inhibition and by changes in the gene expression of BCKDH component enzymes. It has been shown previously that a high dose of bezafibrate (an agent added to rat chow at final concentration of 0.5%) changes mRNA levels of BCKDH-related enzymes and increases dephosphorylation of the complex leading to stimulation of liver BCKDH activity and the enhanced BCAA catabolism. The aim of the present study was to determine an in vivo effect of low, clinically relevant doses of bezafibrate on BCKDH activity in rat liver. Bezafibrate was administrated for 14 days by gastric gavage to Wistar male rats (fed low-protein chow; 8% protein) at one of the following daily doses of 5, 10 and 20mg/kgb.wt. The control group was given the vehicle (0.3% methylcellulose) only. The actual BCKDH and total BCKDH activities were assayed spectrophotometrically before and after incubation with a broad-specificity phosphatase, respectively. The mRNA levels of the selected genes (BCKDH catalytic subunits and regulatory enzymes) were quantified by means of semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Current catalytic activity of BCKDH (described as BCKDH activity state - the proportion of the BCKDH complex in its active dephosphorylated form) increased by 2.1 ± 0.2, 2.3 ± 0.2 and 2.7 ± 0.2 fold (p<0.01). Changes in BCKDH activity did not correspond with changes in mRNA levels of the complex catalytic subunits. Moreover, mRNA levels of regulatory enzymes remained unaltered. Initially bezafibrate caused a transient insignificant reduction in body weight, but it had no effect on the final body weight. The highest dose of bezafibrate induced hepatomegaly. In conclusion, these data indicate that under conditions of dietary protein restriction low, clinically relevant doses of bezafibrate have a similar adverse effect on rat liver BCKDH activity and BCAA degradation rate as the high experimental dose. Up-regulation of liver BCKDH activity by low doses of bezafibrate appears to result mainly from changes in phosphorylation status of the complex (increased dephosphorylation) and is not associated with elevations in mRNA levels of BCKDH enzymatic components.
VP 16-213 (etoposide, abbr. to VP), an oncostatic drug, was administered intravenously to Crj : CD (Sprague-Dawley) rats of both sexes at dose levels of 0.05, 0.15, 0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg/day for three months with the object of examining its toxicity and the reversibility of toxic effects. For the purpose of comparison, vincristine (abbr. to VCR) was administered in the same manner at a dose level of 0.02 mg/kg/day. The summarized results obtained are as follows: VP 1.5 mg/kg brought anemia as well as suppression of body weight increase and food intake, and 0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg increased water consumption. However, no drug-related deaths occurred. VP 0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg predominantly decreased red blood cell count and white blood cell count accompanied with lowered lymphocyte fraction which was agreeable to the findings on bone marrow. VP 1.5 mg/kg increased platelet count. VP 1.5 mg/kg lowered total serum protein content and elevated A/G ratio. VP 0.15 mg/kg and higher decreased testicular weight; 0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg brought thymic atrophy, suppression of spermatogenesis, tubular atrophy and hydropic change in testis. VP 1.5 mg/kg induced decrease of sperms in number and appearance of giant cells in epididymis. Above-described changes excluding the findings on testis and epididymis were shown to be generally reversible. Most of the findings for a reference drug, VCR, were qualitatively comparable to those for VP. Based on these results, the non-effect dose level of VP under the present experimental condition was estimated to be 0.05 mg/kg/day against male rats and 0.15 mg/kg/day against female rats.
Randomized clinical trials testing aspirin in relatively low-risk, middle-aged people have consistently shown small increases in stroke associated with aspirin use. We analyzed the relationship between the regular use of aspirin and incident ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke among people aged 65 years or older participating in the Cardiovascular Health Study.
We conducted a multivariate analysis of incident stroke rates in a prospectively assessed, observational cohort of 5011 elderly people followed for a mean of 4.2 years.
Participants had a mean age of 72 years, and 58% were women. Twenty-three percent used aspirin frequently, and 17% used aspirin infrequently at study entry. Frequent aspirin use was associated with an increased rate of ischemic stroke compared with nonusers (relative risk= 1.6; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2 to 2.2; P=0.001). After adjustment for other stroke risk factors, women who used aspirin frequently or infrequently at study entry had a 1.8-fold (95% CI, 1.2 to 2.8) and 1.6-fold (95% CI, 0.9 to 3.0) increased risk of ischemic stroke, respectively (P<0.01, test for trend), compared with nonusers. In men, aspirin use was not statistically significantly associated with stroke risk. Findings were similar when aspirin use in the years before the incident stroke was used in the modeling. Aspirin use at entry was also associated with a 4-fold (95% CI, 1.6 to 10.0) increase in risk of hemorrhagic stroke for both infrequent and frequent users of aspirin (P=0.003).
Aspirin use was associated with increased risks of ischemic stroke in women and hemorrhagic stroke overall in this elderly cohort, after adjustment for other stroke predictors. The possibility exists of confounding by reasons for aspirin use rather than cause and effect. Whether regular aspirin use increases stroke risk for elderly people without cardiovascular disease can only be determined by randomized clinical trials.
Triadimefon, propiconazole and myclobutanil are conazoles, an important class of agricultural and therapeutic fungicides. Triadimefon and propiconazole are mouse liver tumorigens, while myclobutanil is not. All three conazoles are generally inactive in short-term genotoxicity tests. We studied the in vivo mutagenicity of these three conazoles using the Big Blue mouse assay system. Groups of mice were fed either control diet or diet containing 1800 p.p.m. triadimefon, 2500 p.p.m. propiconazole or 2000 p.p.m. myclobutanil. After 4 days of feeding, mice were immediately euthanized, livers were removed, DNA isolated and lacI genes recovered into infectious bacteriophage lambda particles by in vitro packaging. Bacteriophage with mutations in the lacI gene was detected by infecting into Escherichia coli, and mutant frequencies were determined using a colorimetric plaque assay. Propiconazole induced a 1.97-fold increase in mutant frequency compared to concurrent controls (P = 0.018) and triadimefon induced a 1.94-fold increase compared to concurrent controls (P = 0.009). Myclobutanil did not induce any change in mutant frequency (P = 0.548). These results provide the first evidence that the hepatotumorigenic conazoles are capable of inducing mutations in liver in vivo while the non-tumorigen myclobutanil is not, suggesting that mutagenicity may represent a key event in conazoles tumorigenic mode of action.
Epidural clonidine produces effective postoperative analgesia in humans. Observed side effects include hypotension, bradycardia, sedation, and dryness of the mouth. A recent clinical study demonstrated that 150 micrograms intrathecal clonidine administered postoperatively as the sole analgesic agent was effective but produced hypotension and sedation. Animal studies have provided evidence of a biphasic effect on blood pressure after intrathecal clonidine administration, but no data concerning this effect in humans currently exist. This study was performed to evaluate the dose-response hemodynamic and analgesic profiles of intrathecal clonidine administered after a standard surgical intervention, without perioperative administration of additional analgesics, local anesthetics, or tranquilizers.
In a randomized prospective double-blind study, 30 women who underwent elective cesarean section during general anesthesia with thiopental, nitrous oxide, and halothane were studied. Forty-five minutes after tracheal extubation, a lumbar intrathecal puncture was performed, and the patients received 150 (group 1), 300 (group 2), or 450 (group 3) micrograms clonidine. Postoperative analgesia was assessed on a visual analog scale at rest and after deep cough at standard time points up to 24 h. At the same time points, blood pressure, heart rate, sedation, and respiratory rate also were recorded.
Intrathecal clonidine decreased pain in all three groups both at rest and with coughing very shortly after injection, in a dose-dependent fashion. Clonidine 450 and 300 micrograms reduced pain scores significantly earlier (3rd and 6th min after intrathecal injection respectively), compared with 150 micrograms clonidine. Pain relief, defined as the time to first request for supplemental analgesic by patients, lasted 402 +/- 75 min in group 1, 570 +/- 76 min in group 2, and 864 +/- 80 min in group 3; significant differences among all groups; P < 0.01-0.001). Clonidine reduced mean arterial pressure compared with baseline only in group 1 (21 +/- 13%, P < 0.05). Delayed hypotension or bradycardia were not encountered after any of the three dose studies. Sedation was evident in all groups, but group 3 patients were significantly more sedated than group 1 and 2 patients. Respiratory rate and motor activity of the lower extremities were unaffected in all three groups (differences not significant).
These results demonstrate dose-dependent analgesia after intrathecal clonidine at doses as great as 450 micrograms. The nearly immediate analgesic effect observed after intrathecal injection of 300 and 450 micrograms clonidine strongly argues for a spinal rather than a systemic site of action of this alpha 2-adrenergic agonist. After 300 and 450 micrograms intrathecal clonidine a relative hemodynamic stability is observed, suggesting a pressor effect at peripheral sites.
Our purpose was to study the effect of inhaled corticosteroids on asthma exacerbations in pregnancy.
We prospectively studied 84 pregnant women with 105 asthma exacerbations. Women were hospitalized if the forced expiratory volume in 1 second was < 70% after sequential bronchodilator therapy. They were randomly assigned to receive either intravenous aminophylline and inhaled beta 2-adrenergic receptor agonist or intravenous methylprednisolone and a beta 2-adrenergic receptor agonist. At discharge women were randomly assigned to receive either inhaled beclomethasone, beta 2-adrenergic receptor agonist, and an oral corticosteroid taper or a beta 2-adrenergic receptor agonist and a corticosteroid taper.
Sixty-five (62%) of 105 women with exacerbation required hospitalization. Aminophylline did not shorten response time or decrease hospital stay. Readmission rate was decreased by 55% in women given inhaled beclomethasone (33% vs 12%, p < 0.05, odds ratio 3.63, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 13.08). Pregnancy-induced hypertension and cesarean delivery were increased over those of the general population.
Intravenous aminophylline offers no therapeutic advantages. Continuous inhaled corticosteroids reduced the need for subsequent admissions.
We investigated the mechanisms whereby peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonism affects glucose and lipid metabolism in brown adipose tissue (BAT) by studying the impact of PPARgamma activation on BAT glucose uptake and metabolism, lipogenesis, and mRNA levels plus activities of enzymes involved in triacylglycerol (TAG) synthesis. Interscapular BAT of rats treated or not with rosiglitazone (15 mg*kg(-1).day(-1), 7 days) was evaluated in vivo for glucose uptake and lipogenesis and in vitro for glucose metabolism, gene expression, and activities of glycerolphosphate acyltransferase (GPAT), phosphatidate phosphatase-1 (PAP or lipin-1), and diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT). Rosiglitazone increased BAT mass without affecting whole tissue glucose uptake. BAT glycogen content (-80%), its synthesis from glucose (-50%), and mRNA levels of UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (-40%), which generates UDP-linked glucose for glycogen synthesis, were all reduced by rosiglitazone. In contrast, BAT TAG-glycerol synthesis in vivo and glucose incorporation into TAG-glycerol in vitro were stimulated by the agonist along with the activities and mRNA levels of glycerol 3-phosphate-generating phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and glycerokinase. Furthermore, rosiglitazone markedly increased the activities of GPAT and DGAT but not those of lipin-1-mediated PAP-1, enzymes involved in the sequential acylation of glycerol 3-phosphate and TAG synthesis. Because an adequate supply of fatty acids is essential for BAT nonshivering thermogenesis, the enhanced ability of BAT to synthesize TAG under PPARgamma activation may constitute an important mechanism by which lipid substrates are stored in preparation for an eventual thermogenic activation.
Systemic chemotherapy has limited success in treating liver metastasis of colorectal cancer. Alternative approaches such as hepatic arterial infusion or trans arterial chemoembolisation aim to deliver the chemotherapy locally to address the predominant liver disease. Chemoembolisation with drug eluting beads (DEB) designed to deliver drug at the target over a protracted period of time is a new strategy to reduce the tumor burden of liver metastases. To test this hypothesis, DEB possessing anionic groups capable of ionically complexing with cationic drugs were synthesised by a suspension polymerisation method and were fractionated to produce an average size of 75 microm. The DEB were loaded with the desired concentration of either doxorubicin hydrochloride or irinotecan hydrochloride prior to administration by immersion in the drug solution, yielding essentially 100% loading efficiency. To determine their effect in vivo, a transplantable orthotopic and isogenic rat liver metastasis model was used which is based on intraportal injection of 4 x 10(6) beta-galactosidase transfected CC531 rat colorectal cancer cells into male WAG/Rij rats. By MTT assay, the cells were shown to be sensitive to both drugs in vitro with the IC(50) being by two orders of magnitude lower for doxorubicin (110 nM after 72 h) compared to irinotecan (25 microM after 72 h). For the in vivo phase, a differential expression of the ERK MAP kinase between tumor cells cultured in vitro and those inoculated in vivo was noted using Western blotting techniques. This was considered to be indicative of passage-induced cell senescence that reduced the sensitivity of the tumor cells to DEB chemoembolisation. This notwithstanding, administration of DEB loaded with irinotecan or doxorubicin by single injection into the hepatic artery showed significant anticancer activity, as measured by a reduction in the tumor burden of the liver and a corresponding reduction in liver weight. Comparing the two agents, irinotecan appears more advantageous because of its significant activity and excellent tolerability following administration at two dosages of either 20 or 30 mg/kg. Doxorubicin showed a narrower window of activity, being effective at 4 mg/kg but ineffective at the lower dose of 2 mg/kg. We conclude that chemoembolisation with DEB with either agent may have potential for treating patients with colorectal liver metastasis, although irinotecan DEB appeared to have a more favourable safety profile.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is prevalent in adult cocaine abusers. Yet, it remains to be determined how the response to cocaine differs in cocaine abusers with ADHD compared to cocaine abusers without ADHD. Further, since ADHD is commonly treated with stimulants, such as methylphenidate (MPH), it is important to examine whether MPH maintenance alters the response to cocaine in cocaine abusers with ADHD. Thus, the first phase of this study compared the response to cocaine in adult cocaine abusers with ADHD to those without ADHD. The second phase assessed the effects of oral sustained-release methylphenidate (MPH-SR) maintenance (40 and 60 mg) on the response to cocaine only in those with ADHD. Cocaine abusers with ADHD (N=7) and without ADHD (N=7) who were not seeking treatment remained inpatient initially for 1 week, when the effects of cocaine alone were tested (Phase 1). Cocaine abusers with ADHD remained inpatient for an additional 3 weeks, during which the effects of cocaine during oral MPH-SR maintenance were tested (Phase 2). During cocaine fixed dosing sessions, participants received four injections of i.v. cocaine (0, 16 or 48 mg/70 kg), spaced 14 min apart. During cocaine choice sessions, participants had a choice between receiving i.v. cocaine (16 or 48 mg/70 kg) or two tokens, each exchangeable for 2 US dollars. Subjective effects related to ADHD symptoms (e.g. ratings of "Able to Concentrate") were significantly lower in cocaine abusers with ADHD compared to those without ADHD when placebo cocaine was administered. Active cocaine produced similar increases in cardiovascular and positive subjective effects in both groups and there was no difference in cocaine choice between the two groups. These data suggest that the response to cocaine is not different between cocaine abusers with ADHD compared to those without ADHD. When the cocaine abusers with ADHD were maintained on MPH-SR, cardiovascular effects were increased, however, this did not warrant termination of any test session. Maintenance on MPH-SR decreased some of the positive subjective effects of cocaine. Further, maintenance on a high dose of MPH-SR decreased cocaine choice. Thus, oral MPH-SR is safe in combination with repeated cocaine doses and decreases some of the positive and reinforcing effects of cocaine in cocaine abusers with ADHD.
BACKGROUND Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) exhibit elevated serum advanced glycation end-products (AGE) compared with healthy subjects. Short-term administration of orlistat has been shown to reduce the postmeal increase in serum AGE levels in women with PCOS and in controls.
To evaluate the long-term effect of orlistat and a low-calorie diet on serum AGE levels, and on the hormonal and metabolic profile of obese PCOS and normal women.
A clinical trial of 6 months of orlistat administration with an energy-restricted diet [basic metabolic rate (BMR) 600 kcal/day] in all subjects.
Twenty-nine women with PCOS [aged 27.52 +/- 5.77 years; body mass index (BMI) 35.43 +/- 5.31 kg/m(2)] and 18 controls (aged 32.06 +/- 5.64 years; BMI 36.39 +/- 6.47 kg/m(2)).
Serum AGE levels (U/ml), hormonal and metabolic profile.
PCOS and controls did not differ in BMI (P = 0.58), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) (P = 0.44), fasting insulin concentration (P = 0.45) and glucose-to-insulin ratio (GIR) (P = 0.34). PCOS women exhibited statistically higher AGE (P < 0.001) and testosterone levels (P < 0.001) compared with controls. After 6 months of orlistat treatment, AGE levels showed a statistically significant decrease in both groups (PCOS: baseline 9.08 +/- 1.84, post-orlistat 8.56 +/- 1.95, P = 0.001; controls: baseline 5.02 +/- 0.62, post-orlistat 4.91 +/- 0.69, P = 0.03), independently of the BMI reduction in the PCOS group. A significant reduction was observed in BMI (PCOS: P < 0.001; controls: P < 0.001), WHR (PCOS: P = 0.002; controls: P = 0.04), fasting insulin (PCOS: P < 0.001; controls: P = 0.008), and testosterone concentrations in PCOS (P < 0.001). SHBG concentration (PCOS: P = 0.004; controls: P = 0.008) and GIR (PCOS: P < 0.001; controls: P = 0.03) were significantly increased. A significant improvement was also observed in insulin resistance indices post-treatment in both groups.
Our data suggest that orlistat has a beneficial effect in reducing elevated AGE levels and improving the hormonal and metabolic profile in women with PCOS after 6 months of treatment, independently of BMI changes.
Antipsychotic drugs may cause extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), such as dyskinesia and dystonia. These effects are believed to involve dysfunctional striatal dopamine transmission. Patients with schizophrenia show increased prevalence of cannabis abuse and this has been linked to severity of EPS. Endocannabinoids modulate striatal dopamine activity via type 1 cannabinoid (CB(1)) receptors, and studies in rats and humans suggest beneficial effects of CB(1) ligands on EPS. The present study explored the effects of CB(1) receptor ligands on oral dyskinesia induced by the dopamine D(1) receptor agonist SKF81297 (SKF) and acute dystonia induced by the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist haloperidol in Cebus apella monkeys. The monkeys were sensitised to EPS by prior exposure to D(2) receptor antagonists. SKF (0.3 mg/kg) was administered alone and in combination with the CB(1) agonist CP55,940 (0.0025-0.01 mg/kg) or the CB(1) antagonist SR141716A (0.25-0.75 mg/kg). Haloperidol (individual doses at 0.01-0.02 mg/kg) was administered alone and in combination with CP55,940 (0.005 or 0.01 mg/kg) or SR141716A (0.5 or 0.75 mg/kg). Subsequently, the monkeys were videotaped, and the recordings were rated for oral dyskinesia or dystonia. SKF-induced oral dyskinesia was dose-dependently reduced by CP55,940, with no effect of SR141716A. Haloperidol-induced dystonia was not affected by either CP55,940 or SR141716A.
In an effort to find an alternative nontoxic means of inducing the apoptosis potential in both androgen-dependent and hormone refractory prostate cancer cells, attention was focused on curcumin (turmeric), traditionally used in medicine and cuisine in India and other south-east Asian countries. The results indicate that curcumin is a novel and potent inducer of apoptosis in both androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer cells. This was accomplished by down-regulating apoptosis suppressor proteins and other crucial proteins such as the androgen receptor. It is concluded that curcumin may provide an alternative, nontoxic modality by which the clinician may prevent the progression of prostate cancer to its hormone refractory state or to treat advanced prostate cancer by forcing them to undergo apoptosis. Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases (2000) 3, 84-93
Previous studies demonstrated that both ketamine and morphine induced analgesia and catalepsy in the rat. Pre-treatment with ketamine produced cross-tolerance to morphine, whereas pretreatment with morphine did not induce cross-tolerance to ketamine but rather augmented the cataleptic response; this augmentation was attributed to residual morphine in the brain. The present studies explored the duration of the loss of righting reflex induced by sub-effective doses of ketamine and morphine, administered simultaneously. There was mutual potentiation between sub-effective doses of ketamine and morphine, but sub-effective doses of ketamine partly antagonized fully-effective doses of morphine. Latency to the loss of righting reflex, rigidity and behavior on recovery, reflected the relative predominance of ketamine or morphine in each combination. Naloxone inhibited the induced cataleptic effects. The degree and time course of development of tolerance to daily administration of sub-effective dose combinations of ketamine and morphine were similar. Rats, tolerant to ketamine-dominant combinations, were cross-tolerant to both drugs, while those tolerant to morphine-dominant combinations were cross-tolerant to morphine but showed either no cross-tolerance or an augmented response to ketamine. While the mutual potentiation, antagonism and tolerance suggest common mechanisms for the induced catalepsy, differences in latency, rigidity and behavior, asymmetry of cross-tolerance and a widely-different ID50 for naloxone would argue against an action at a single opioid site.
B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) is an antiapoptotic protein known to be important in the regulation of apoptosis in various cell types. However, its role in malignant transformation and tumorigenesis of human lung cells is not well understood. We previously reported that chronic exposure of human lung epithelial cells to the carcinogenic hexavalent chromium Cr(VI) caused malignant transformation and Bcl-2 upregulation; however, the role of Bcl-2 in the transformation is unclear. Using a gene silencing approach, we showed that Bcl-2 plays an important role in the malignant properties of Cr(VI)-transformed cells. Downregulation of Bcl-2 inhibited the invasive and proliferative properties of the cells as well as their colony forming and angiogenic activities, which are upregulated in the transformed cells as compared to control cells. Furthermore, animal studies showed the inhibitory effect of Bcl-2 knockdown on the tumorigenesis of Cr(VI)-transformed cells. The role of Bcl-2 in malignant transformation and tumorigenesis was confirmed by gene silencing experiments using human lung carcinoma NCI-H460 cells. These cells exhibited aggressive malignant phenotypes similar to those of Cr(VI)-transformed cells. Knockdown of Bcl-2 in the H460 cells inhibited malignant and tumorigenic properties of the cells, indicating the general role of Bcl-2 in human lung tumorigenesis. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) revealed potential effectors of Bcl-2 in tumorigenesis regulation. Additionally, using IPA together with ectopic expression of p53, we show p53 as an upstream regulator of Bcl-2 in Cr(VI)-transformed cells. Together, our results indicate the novel and multifunctional role of Bcl-2 in malignant transformation and tumorigenesis of human lung epithelial cells chronically exposed to Cr(VI).
We report a case of reversible myoclonic encephalopathy which appeared after intravenous acyclovir treatment in a patient in CAPD for which pharmacological dosages have been made in serum, peritoneal dialysate and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Encephalopathy appeared after two intravenous doses of 7.33 mg/kg (doses higher than recommended), administered on admission and 16 hours later. Pharmacological dosages indicated that acyclovir peritoneal clearance was negligible, and that acyclovir persisted a long time in plasma and CSF. Neurological symptoms persisted although serum concentrations returned to normal value. The diagnostic value of pharmacological dosages in serum and CSF is discussed. In addition, neurological symptoms disappeared following two consecutive hemodialysis procedures. Hence we suggest that hemodialysis could be used for drug removal in case of acyclovir overdose in CAPD patients.
A phase I study of 13-cis-retinoic acid was done in 16 patients with head and neck malignancies using a modified Fibonacci search scheme, with individual doses ranging from 20 to 120 mg/m2. Drug doses greater than 60 mg/m2 induced intense headaches, urethritis, desquamative dermatitis, vertigo, and ataxia. The severity of these side effects precludes the use of 13-cis-retinoic acid as a potential chemopreventive agent at doses greater than 60 mg/m2.
Cocaine is a nonselective monoamine reuptake inhibitor that is widely abused. Useful pharmacotherapies for cocaine dependence may include substitution medications that produce cocaine-like effects but have a slower onset and longer duration of action. Accordingly, the present study examined the effects of the long-acting, nonselective monoamine reuptake inhibitor indatraline in assays of cocaine discrimination and cocaine self-administration that have been used to evaluate other candidate treatment medications. In rhesus monkeys trained to discriminate cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) from saline, indatraline (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) produced a dose- and time-dependent substitution for cocaine. The effects of 1.0 mg/kg indatraline peaked after 30 min and lasted up to 24 h. In monkeys trained to self-administer 0.032 mg/kg/injection cocaine and food pellets during alternating daily sessions of cocaine and food availability, indatraline (0.0032-0.032 mg/kg/injection) maintained lower rates of responding than cocaine. Repeated treatments with indatraline (0.1-0.56 mg/kg/day) for 7 days produced dose-dependent and sustained decreases in cocaine self-administration across a broad range of cocaine doses (0.0032-0.1 mg/kg/injection), and the highest dose of indatraline (0.56 mg/kg/day) nearly eliminated cocaine-maintained responding. However, doses of indatraline that decreased cocaine self-administration also usually decreased rates of food-maintained responding and produced behavioral stereotypies and trends toward weight loss and mild anemia. These findings suggest that although indatraline may decrease cocaine-taking behavior in rhesus monkeys, it also produces undesirable side effects that may limit its clinical utility in the treatment of cocaine dependence.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of local dry cold application on the occurrence of bruising, haematoma and pain at the injection site in subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin injections. The research involved 63 patients who had received 2 x 20 mg enoxaparine and who were divided into four treatment groups. In the first group, cold was not applied. Cold was applied to the injection site for 5 min before the injection in the second group, and for 5 min after the injection in the third group. In the fourth group, it was applied to the injection site for 5 min pre and post injection. Following each injection, the patients' pain intensity and duration were measured, and the presence of bruise and haematoma were measured at 48 and 72 h after the injection. Results showed that a haematoma did not occur at the injection site of any subject, and there was no significant difference in the incidence or size of bruise among the groups; however, the subjects' perception of pain was significantly less with ice application.
The use of antipsychotics is associated with metabolic side effects, which put patients with schizophrenia or related disorders at risk for cardiovascular morbidity. The high interindividual variability in antipsychotic-induced metabolic abnormalities suggests that genetic makeup is a possible determinant. In this cross-sectional study, we investigated whether genotypes of the HTR2C receptor are associated with the metabolic syndrome in patients using antipsychotics. Patients were identified from a schizophrenia disease management program. In this program, patients' blood pressure, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, and waist circumference are measured regularly during follow-up. The primary end point of our study was the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome as classified by a modified version of the National Cholesterol Education Program's Adult Treatment Panel III. Primary determinants were polymorphisms in the HTR2C receptor gene (HTR2C:c.1-142948[GT]n, rs3813928 [-997 G/A], rs3813929 [-759 C/T], rs518147 [-697 G/C], and rs1414334 [C > G]). The included patients (n = 112) mainly (>80%) used atypical antipsychotics (clozapine, olanzapine, and risperidone). Carriership of the variant alleles of the HTR2C polymorphisms rs518147, rs1414334, and HTR2C:c.1-142948(GT)n was associated with an increased risk of the metabolic syndrome (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 2.62 [95% confidence interval {CI}, 1.00-6.85]; OR, 4.09 [95% CI, 1.41-11.89]; and OR, 3.12 [95% CI, 1.13-8.16]), respectively. Our findings suggest that HTR2C genotypes are associated with antincreased risk of metabolic syndrome in patients taking antipsychotics.
Amiodarone (AM) is a potent antidysrhythmic agent that can cause potentially life-threatening pulmonary fibrosis, and N-desethylamiodarone (DEA), an AM metabolite, may contribute to AM toxicity. Apoptotic cell death in nontransformed human peripheral lung epithelial 1A (HPL1A) cells was assessed by annexin V-fluorescein isothiocyanate (ann-V) staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL), and necrotic cell death was assessed by propidium iodide (PI) staining. The percentage of cells that were PI-positive increased more than six times with 20 μM AM and approximately doubled with 3.5 μM DEA, relative to control. The percentage of cells that were ann-V-positive decreased by more than 80% after 24-h exposure to 10 μM AM but more than doubled after 24-h incubation with 3.5 μM DEA. Incubation for 24 h with 5.0 μM DEA increased the percentage of cells that were TUNEL-positive more than six times. Incubation with AM (2.5 μM) or DEA (1-2 μM) for 24 h did not significantly alter angiotensinogen mRNA levels. Furthermore, angiotensin II (100 pM-1 μM) alone or in combination with AM or DEA did not alter cytotoxicity, and pretreatment with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and antioxidant captopril (3-6 μM) did not protect against AM or DEA cytotoxicity. In conclusion, AM activates primarily necrotic pathways, whereas DEA activates both necrotic and apoptotic pathways, and the renin-angiotensin system does not seem to be involved in AM or DEA cytotoxicity in HPL1A cells.
In a 65-year old man complaining of myalgias and loss of muscular strength, the creatine phosphokinase level was found to be 35 times higher than normal values. The electromyogram was of the diffuse myogenic type. Muscle biopsy showed necrotic lesions of the muscle fibres associated with perivascular infiltrates of mononuclear cells, leading to the diagnosis of polymyositis. This patient had been treated for 10 years with fenofibrate for hyperlipidaemia; during the last 32 months he had taken this drug in doses of 600 mg per day. Eight days after fenofibrate was discontinued, all clinical and laboratory abnormalities had disappeared. A reintroduction test performed 6 weeks later raised the creatine phosphokinase level up to 43 times the normal value. Withdrawal of fenofibrate therapy resulted in rapid and lasting recovery. This case shows that fenofibrate should be added to the list of drugs that are responsible for iatrogenic polymyositis.
Forty chemotherapy naive patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer were treated in a randomized trial comparing mitozantrone 14 mg/m2 with epirubicin 75 mg/m2 given intravenously at 3-weekly intervals. There was a 40% (95% confidence interval (CI) 8-72; P = 0.013) higher partial response rate with epirubicin (11/18) than with mitozantrone (4/19). Epirubicin caused significantly more alopecia (difference 76%; 95% CI 57-96; P < 0.0001) and nausea/vomiting (difference = 38%; 95% CI 10-67; P = 0.01). Three patients who received long courses of epirubicin experienced cardiac failure; two were proved to have cardiomyopathy. The median survival for the epirubicin and mitozantrone groups were 9.5 and 8 months respectively. Thus, although epirubicin gave a higher response rate it also caused more toxicity.
