Lidocaine and thiopental improve recovery when administrated during hypoxia and ischemia; however, the effect of pre- or postinsult treatment alone is unknown. We applied either lidocaine or thiopental to hippocampal slice cultures from 20-day-old rats either before or after 10 min of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). Propidium iodide (PI) fluorescence was used as an indicator of neuronal death for 7 days after OGD. OGD-induced neuronal death, in both the Cornus Ammonis 1 (CA1) and the dentate gyrus regions, peaked the first day after ischemia. Preinsult administration of either lidocaine (10, 100 microM) or thiopental (250, 600 microM) significantly reduced the damage measured on the first and second days after OGD; these drugs also significantly decreased the summed daily post-OGD PI fluorescence in both regions. Postinsult administration of lidocaine (10, 100 microM) or thiopental (250, 600 microM) significantly decreased the PI fluorescence on the first day after OGD; postinsult administration of these drugs also attenuated the summed daily post-OGD PI. These data indicate that the administration of lidocaine or thiopental either before or directly after OGD reduced neuronal damage in this in vitro model of cerebral ischemia. Postischemic administration is frequently the first opportunity for treatment.
Lidocaine or thiopental applied either 10 min before or 10 min directly after oxygen-glucose deprivation reduced neuronal cell death in rat hippocampal slice cultures. Postinsult administration is often the first opportunity for treatment after stroke; lidocaine and thiopental reduced damage caused by oxygen-glucose deprivation, an in vitro model of stroke.
Assessment of the effects of orlistat 120 mg three times daily vs placebo on weight loss and serum lipids in obese hypercholesterolemic patients.
A 24 week multicentre, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. After a 2-week single-blind run-in period (placebo+diet (-600 kcal/day; < or =30% of calories as fat)), 294 patients were submitted to the hypocaloric diet and randomly assigned to either orlistat 120 mg or placebo three times daily. Patients who completed the double-blind study (n=255) were eligible for participation in a subsequent 24 week open-label orlistat extension phase.
Patients with body mass index (BMI) 27-40 kg/m2 and hypercholesterolemia (low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, LDL-C, 4.1-6.7 mmol/l).
Efficacy assessments included weight loss, lipid levels, other cardiovascular risk factors and anthropometric parameters. Safety assessments.
Weight loss during run-in was similar in both groups. After randomization, orlistat-treated patients lost significantly more weight than placebo recipients: mean percentage weight loss from start of run-in to week 24 was-6.8% in the orlistat group and -3.8% in the placebo group (P<0.001). Moreover, more patients in the orlistat group than in the placebo group achieved clinically meaningful weight loss of > or =5% (64 vs 39%) or > or =10% (23 vs 13%) at week 24. Treatment with orlistat was associated with significantly greater changes in total cholesterol (-11.9% vs -4.0%; P<0.001) and LDL-C (-17.6 vs -7.6%; P<0.001). For any category of weight loss during the double-blind treatment period, change in LDL-C was more pronounced in orlistat-treated patients than in placebo recipients, indicating that orlistat had a direct cholesterol-lowering effect that was independent of weight reduction (P<0.001). Adjunction of orlistat during the extension phase in patients who initially received placebo induced a further decrease in weight, total cholesterol and LDL-C. Orlistat was generally well tolerated with a safety profile comparable to placebo, with the exception of a higher incidence of gastrointestinal events (> or =1 event in 64 vs 38% of patients).
Orlistat as an adjunct to dietary intervention promotes weight loss and reduces LDL-C beyond the effect of weight loss in overweight or obese patients with concomitant hypercholesterolemia.
A dramatic and specific induction of c-fos was observed in identifiable neuronal populations in vivo after administration of the convulsant Metrazole. This effect was time- and dose-dependent and was abolished by prior treatment with the anticonvulsant drugs diazepam or pentobarbital. About 60 minutes after administration of Metrazole, c-fos messenger RNA reached a maximum and declined to basal levels after 180 minutes. A further decrease below that in normal brain was observed before a return to basal levels after 16 hours. While Metrazole still elicited seizures during this period, reinduction of c-fos was largely refractory. At 90 minutes, c-fos protein was observed in the nuclei of neurons in the dentate gyrus, and in the pyriform and cingulate cortices. Subsequently, c-fos protein appeared throughout the cortex, hippocampus, and limbic system. Thus, seizure activity results in increased c-fos gene expression in particular subsets of neurons.
Alcoholic fatty liver is associated with inhibition of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and AMP-activated kinase (AMPK), two critical signaling molecules regulating the pathways of hepatic lipid metabolism in animals. Resveratrol, a dietary polyphenol, has been identified as a potent activator for both SIRT1 and AMPK. In the present study, we have carried out in vivo animal experiments that test the ability of resveratrol to reverse the inhibitory effects of chronic ethanol feeding on hepatic SIRT1-AMPK signaling system and to prevent the development of alcoholic liver steatosis. Resveratrol treatment increased SIRT1 expression levels and stimulated AMPK activity in livers of ethanol-fed mice. The resveratrol-mediated increase in activities of SIRT1 and AMPK was associated with suppression of sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP-1) and activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator alpha (PGC-1alpha). In parallel, in ethanol-fed mice, resveratrol administration markedly increased circulating adiponectin levels and enhanced mRNA expression of hepatic adiponectin receptors (AdipoR1/R2). In conclusion, resveratrol treatment led to reduced lipid synthesis and increased rates of fatty acid oxidation and prevented alcoholic liver steatosis. The protective action of resveratrol is in whole or in part mediated through the upregulation of a SIRT1-AMPK signaling system in the livers of ethanol-fed mice. Our study suggests that resveratrol may serve as a promising agent for preventing or treating human alcoholic fatty liver disease.
To detect the serum autoantibodies against the cardiac beta(1)-adrenergic receptor and observe the clinical characteristics and response to carvedilol use in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF).
Cardiac function was examined by echocardiography and levels of autoantibodies against cardiac beta(1)-adrenergic receptor were detected in 65 patients with CHF by means of enzyme linked immune assay. Carvedilol was added on ACEI, diuretics and digitalis regimen for a target dose of 50 mg/d. All patients were followed up for 6 months.
Autoantibodies against cardiac beta(1)-adrenergic receptor were detected in 30 patients (group 1) and not detected in the remaining 35 patients (group 2). The achieved target dose of carvedilol was significantly higher in group 1 than that in group 2 [(36.25 +/- 14.31) mg/d vs. (25.97 +/- 8.83) mg/d, P < 0.01]. Heart rate was significantly higher in group 1 compared to group 2 [(94.19 +/- 14.46) beats/min vs. (86.56 +/- 15.88) beats/min, P < 0.05] before treatment and heart rate and blood pressure of both groups decreased significantly (P < 0.01) and there was no significant difference between two group (P > 0.05) after 6 months treatment. LVEDD and LVESD were significantly larger while LVEF significantly lower in group 1 patients than those in group 2 patients (all P < 0.05) before treatment and LVEDD and LVESD decreased and LVEF increased significantly in both groups (all P < 0.01 vs. before treatment) and there was on significant difference in LVEDD, LVESD and LVEF between two groups (all P > 0.05) post 6 months treatment. Moreover, average titer of autoantibodies against the cardiac beta(1)-adrenergic receptors significantly decreased after 6 months treatment (1:119.35 vs. 1:72.21, P < 0.01).
The detection of autoantibodies against the cardiac beta(1)-adrenergic receptors is related to severer cardiac dysfunction and autoantibodies title decrease was found with improved cardiac function after standard therapy (ACEI, digitalis, betablocker) in patients with CHF.
8-Oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (OGG1) plays an important role in repairing oxidative DNA damage induced by chemical agents, such as tobacco. This study examined the effects of OGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism and cigarette smoking, alone or combined, on sperm oxidative DNA damage and the risk of male infertility. A total of 620 idiopathic infertile subjects and 480 fertile controls were recruited in this study. Sperm 8-hydroxydeoxyguanine (8-OHdG) was measured by immunofluorescent assay using flow cytometry and genotypes were determined by OpenArray platform with a chip-based Taq-Man genotyping technology. Our results demonstrated that both cigarette smoking and OGG1 polymorphism can affect the sperm 8-OHdG levels. Individuals with variant Cys/Cys homozygote showed higher levels of sperm 8-OHdG than wide-type homozygote carriers (Ser/Ser). Stratified analysis found that the association between OGG1 polymorphism and sperm 8-OHdG levels was only observed among smokers with pack-years ≥5 but not among those subjects with pack-years<5 (pack-years=packs smoked per day×years as a smoker). Further analysis based on the case-control study revealed that variant allele (Cys) of OGG1 was significantly associated with male infertility risk in a dominant model (OR=1.35, 95% CI: 1.01-1.82; trend P<0.001). Furthermore, we found a significant gene-environment interaction between OGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism and cigarette smoking in relation to male infertility risk (Pinteration=0.0003). These findings provided the first evidence about potential interactive effects of OGG1 polymorphism and cigarette smoking on male infertility risk.
We investigated whether inhaling peak concentrations of aldehydes several times daily is more damaging than semi-continuously inhaling low-dose aldehydes. We exposed Xpa-/-p53+/- knock-out mice either intermittently or semi-continuously to mixed acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, and acrolein. The intermittent regimen entailed exposure to the aldehydes 7 min every 45 min, 12 times/day, 5 days/week, corresponding to concentrations inhaled by smokers. Semi-continuously exposed animals received half the dose of aldehydes in 8h/day, 5 days/week. Some mice in each group were sacrificed after 13 weeks of exposure; the rest breathed clean air until the end of 1 year. Mice injected intratracheally with benzo[a]pyrene formed a positive control group. The nasal cavity, lungs, and any macroscopically abnormal organs of all mice were analysed histopathologically. After 13 weeks of exposure, the subacute, overall, histopathological changes induced by the inhalation differed noticeably between the intermittently and semi-continuously treated Xpa-/-p53+/- knock-out mice. After 13 weeks of mixed aldehyde exposure, atrophy of the olfactory epithelium generally appeared, but disappeared after 1 year (adaptation and/or recovery). Respiratory epithelial metaplasia of the olfactory epithelium occurred at a higher incidence at 1 year. Except for a significantly greater number of tumours observed in knock-out mice compared to wild mice (semi-continuous aldehyde exposure and controls), no differences between the semi-continuous and intermittent exposure groups were observed.
The hydrocodone/acetaminophen combination is one of the most commonly used analgesic preparations. Isolated incidences of suspected association between hydrocodone abuse and rapidly progressive hearing loss have been reported. In this study, we describe the clinical characteristics of 5 patients presenting with progressive hearing loss and a history of hydrocodone use.
Patients presenting with rapidly progressive bilateral hearing loss who had a documented history of hydrocodone use were selected for the study. The presentation, audiologic findings, associated comorbidities, and treatment outcomes were reviewed.
All patients displayed rapidly progressive sensorineural hearing loss without vestibular symptoms. Hearing loss was asymmetric in 3 patients at initial presentation, but progressed to profound loss, usually within months. Steroid treatment has no effect on the progression of the hearing loss. The admitted quantity of hydrocodone consumed ranged from 10 to 300 mg per day. Hepatitis C was the most common comorbidity, present in 60% of the patients. All patients underwent cochlear implantation with satisfactory results.
The chronic use of hydrocodone can be associated with progressive sensorineural hearing loss. Successful auditory rehabilitation can be achieved with cochlear implantation. Genetic polymorphisms of drug metabolizing enzymes as well as associated comorbidities such as hepatitis C infection may be significant in the development of hydrocodone ototoxicity, though additional investigations are necessary.
Uncontrolled tumor cell proliferation and robust neovascularization are prominent features of aggressive ovarian cancers. Although great efforts in anti-ovarian cancer therapy have been made in the past 4 decades, the 5-year survival rates for ovarian cancer patients are still poor, and effective drugs to cure ovarian cancer patients are absent. In this study, we evaluated the anti-cancer effects of lycorine hydrochloride (LH), a novel anti-ovarian cancer agent, using the highly-invasive ovarian cancer cell line, Hey1B, as a model. Our data showed that LH effectively inhibited mitotic proliferation of Hey1B cells (half maximal inhibitory concentration=1.2μM) with very low toxicity, resulting in cell cycle arrest at the G2/M transition through enhanced expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p21 and marked down-regulation of cyclin D3 expression. Moreover, LH suppressed both the formation of capillary-like tubes by Hey1B cells cultured in vitro and the ovarian cancer cell-dominant neovascularization in vivo when administered to Hey1B-xenotransplanted mice. LH also suppressed the expression of several key angiogenic genes, including VE-cadherin, vascular endothelial growth factor, and Sema4D, and reduced Akt phosphorylation in Hey1B cells. These results suggest that LH selectively inhibits ovarian cancer cell proliferation and neovascularization and is a potential drug candidate for anti-ovarian cancer therapy.
Methamphetamine causes persistent damage to dopamine nerve endings of the striatum. Repeated, intermittent treatment of mice with low doses of methamphetamine leads to the development of tolerance to its neurotoxic effects. The mechanisms underlying tolerance are not understood but clearly involve more than alterations in drug bioavailability or reductions in the hyperthermia caused by methamphetamine. Microglia have been implicated recently as mediators of methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. The purpose of the present studies was to determine if a tolerance regimen of methamphetamine would attenuate the microglial response to a neurotoxic challenge. Mice treated with a low-dose methamphetamine tolerance regimen showed minor reductions in striatal dopamine content and low levels of microglial activation. When the tolerance regimen preceded a neurotoxic challenge of methamphetamine, the depletion of dopamine normally seen was significantly attenuated. The microglial activation that occurs after a toxic methamphetamine challenge was blunted likewise. Despite the induction of tolerance against drug-induced toxicity and microglial activation, a neurotoxic challenge with methamphetamine still caused hyperthermia. These results suggest that tolerance to methamphetamine neurotoxicity is associated with attenuated microglial activation and they further dissociate its neurotoxicity from drug-induced hyperthermia.
To study the effects of prenatal and postnatal perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) exposure on spatial learning and memory, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 2B (NR2B) mRNA and protein level in frontal cortex and hippocampus of rat pups and to explore the mechanism of developmental neurotoxicity induced by PFOS.
Twenty-eight pregnant rats were randomly divided into three groups in proportion of 3:2:2, including control group (C), low dose group (L) and high dose group (H) by means of randomized number table, which respectively received 0, 7.2, 14.4 mg/kg PFOS feed from pregnancy day 0 to postnatal day (PND) 30 by free feedings. The animal models of prenatal and postnatal non-exposure (CC), prenatal exposure (LC and HC), postnatal exposure (CL and CH), and prenatal and postnatal exposure (LL and HH) to PFOS were established by cross-fostering method. The spatial learning and memory were measured by water maze experiment,the NR2B mRNA levels in frontal cortex of rat pups was determined with semi-quantitative RT-PCR, NR2B protein express in cerebral cortex (frontal and temporal cortex) and hippocampus (CA1, CA3, CA4 and DG regions) of rat pups was detected by immunohistochemistry.
The escape latency of CL, CH, LL and HH groups pups in water maze experiment were (99.83 +/- 25.77) s, (111.30 +/- 17.82) s, (106.40 +/- 18.71) s, (107.70 +/- 16.85) s, and longer as compared with CC group [(54.90 +/- 26.69) s] (q value were 4.349, 4.773, 6.026 and 5.641, respectively, P <0.01). The number of errors of HH group rat pups entering dead end was (22.30 +/- 7.56) at the training day 4, and it was significantly higher than that of CC group (9.80 +/- 4.64) (q = 5.173, P < 0.01). The NR2B mRNA levels of frontal cortex of pups in HC group at PND1, and LC group, HC group and HH group at PND14 were (0.167 +/- 0.008), (0.364 +/- 0.035), (0.341 +/- 0.030) and (0.328 +/- 0.045) respectively,which were significantly lower than CC group (0.271 +/- 0.060) and (0.465 +/- 0.067) (q values were 3.547, 3.739, 4.597 and 5.006, respectively, P< 0.05 ). The results of immunohistochemistry indicated that NR2B protein express of the hippocampus CA1 region of pups in LC group was (0.091 +/- 0.005), and showed significant lower than CC group which was (0.123 +/- 0.009) at PND1 (q = 5.209, P <0.05). At PND14, the effect of PFOS extended to cerebral cortex and hippocampus regions. At PND28, the effects of PFOS were showed in hippocampus CA1, CA3 and temporal cortex regions.
Prenatal and postnatal exposure to PFOS should result in the spatial learning and memory damage,and the mechanism might be possibly involved in the decrease of NR2B level in cerebral cortex and hippocampal formation regions.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract for which there are few safe and effective therapeutic options for long-term treatment and disease maintenance. Here, we applied a computational approach to discover new drug therapies for IBD in silico, using publicly available molecular data reporting gene expression in IBD samples and 164 small-molecule drug compounds. Among the top compounds predicted to be therapeutic for IBD by our approach were prednisolone, a corticosteroid used to treat IBD, and topiramate, an anticonvulsant drug not previously described to have efficacy for IBD or any related disorders of inflammation or the gastrointestinal tract. Using a trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced rodent model of IBD, we experimentally validated our topiramate prediction in vivo. Oral administration of topiramate significantly reduced gross pathological signs and microscopic damage in primary affected colon tissue in the TNBS-induced rodent model of IBD. These findings suggest that topiramate might serve as a therapeutic option for IBD in humans and support the use of public molecular data and computational approaches to discover new therapeutic options for disease.
Acute lung injury and its more severe form, acute respiratory distress syndrome, are clinical syndromes of progressive hypoxemia and ventilation-perfusion mismatch with decreasing pulmonary compliance in the absence of congestive heart failure. Epidermal growth factor is involved in the pathogenesis of airway inflammation as well as a proinflammatory effect in other tissues. Furosemide has been shown to improve pulmonary gas exchange and intrapulmonary shunt by a nondiuretic mechanism in animal models of acute respiratory distress syndrome. The current study was undertaken to clarify whether furosemide attenuates the inflammatory response by changing the epidermal growth factor level in patients with acute lung injury. A prospective, randomized clinical trial involving 30 patients with acute lung injury was designed and conducted over 7 days. The measured outcomes included hemodynamics, acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE II) scores, and oxygenation. The serum specimens were analyzed with enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) for epidermal growth factor at baseline, then 3 and 7 days after acute lung injury. The ratio of partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) to fraction of inspired oxygen (FIO2) improved in the furosemide-treated group within 24 hours (from 180 to 264; P = .01). The mean arterial pressure and heart rate was greater in this group than in the control group (that received no furosemide) on day 7 (P = .027). The mean arterial pressure increased and the heart rate decreased over time in the treatment group, but not significantly. Serum epidermal growth factor levels also were not significantly different between the furosemide treatment group and the control group (P > .05). Continuous furosemide infusion improves oxygenation and hemodynamics in patients with acute lung injury, but not through a change in the serum epidermal growth factor level. Further study is needed to determine the exact mechanism of furosemide action in patients with acute lung injury and acute respiratory distress syndrome.
Resveratrol is a natural compound that affects energy metabolism and is also known to possess an array of cardioprotective effects. However, its overall effects on energy metabolism and the underlying mechanism involved in cardioprotection require further investigation. Herein we hypothesize that ATP-sensitive potassium (K-ATP) channels as molecular sensors of cellular metabolism may mediate the cardioprotective effects of resveratrol.
Kir6.2 knockout, Kir6.1 heterozygous and wild-type (WT) mice were subjected to ischemia/reperfusion injury and were injected with resveratrol (10 mg/kg, i.p). Myocardial infarct size, serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK) activities were determined. Neonatal cardiomyocytes were used in in vitro assays to investigate the underlying mechanism of resveratrol in cardioprotection.
Resveratrol treatment significantly reduced myocardial infarct size and serum LDH and CK activity and inhibited oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation - induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis in WT and Kir6.1 heterozygous mice, but Kir6.2 deficiency can abolish the cardioprotective effects of resveratrol in vivo and in vitro. We further found that resveratrol enhanced 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and promoted the association of AMPK with Kir6.2. Suppression of AMPK attenuated and activation of AMPK mimicked the cardioprotective effects of resveratrol in cardiomyocytes. Notably, Kir6.2 knockout also reversed the cardioprotection of AMPK activator.
Our study demonstrates that resveratrol exerts cardioprotective effects through AMPK -Kir6.2/K-ATP signal pathway and Kir6.2-containing K-ATP channel is required for cardioprotection of resveratrol.
Midazolam hydrochloride is commonly used for dental or endoscopic procedures. Although generally consisted safe when given intramuscularly, intravenous administration is known to cause respiratory and cardiovascular depression. This report describes the first published case of cardiorespiratory arrest and death associated with intramuscular administration of midazolam. Information regarding midazolam use is reviewed to provide recommendation for safe administration.
Vitamins contain reactive functional groups necessary to their established roles as coenzymes and reducing agents. Their reactive potential may produce injury if vitamin concentration, distribution, or metabolism is altered. However, identification of vitamin toxicity has been difficult. The only well-established human vitamin neurotoxic effects are those due to hypervitaminosis A (pseudotumor cerebri) and pyridoxine (sensory neuropathy). In each case, the neurological effects of vitamin deficiency and vitamin excess are similar. Closely related to the neurological symptoms of hypervitaminosis A are symptoms including headache, pseudotumor cerebri, and embryotoxic effects reported in patients given vitamin A analogs or retinoids. Most tissues contain retinoic acid (RA) and vitamin D receptors, members of a steroid receptor superfamily known to regulate development and gene expression. Vitamin D3 effects on central nervous system (CNS) gene expression are predictable, in addition to the indirect effects owing to its influence on calcium and phosphorus homeostasis. Folates and thiamine cause seizures and excitation when administered in high dosage directly into the brain or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of experimental animals but have rarely been reported to cause human neurotoxicity, although fatal reactions to i.v. thiamine are well known. Ascorbic acid influences CNS function after peripheral administration and influences brain cell differentiation and 2-deoxyglucose accumulation by cultured glial cells. Biotin influences gene expression in animals that are not vitamin-deficient and alters astrocyte glucose utilization. The multiple enzymes and binding proteins involved in regeneration of retinal vitamin A illustrate the complexity of vitamin processing in the body. Vitamin A toxicity is also a good general model of vitamin neurotoxicity, because it shows the importance of the ratio of vitamin and vitamin-binding proteins in producing vitamin toxicity and of CNS permeability barriers. Because vitamin A and analogs enter the CNS better than most vitamins, and because retinoids have many effects on enzyme activity and gene expression, Vitamin A neurotoxicity is more likely than that of most, perhaps all other vitamins. Megadose vitamin therapy may cause injury that is confused with disease symptoms. High vitamin intake is more hazardous to peripheral organs than to the nervous system, because CNS vitamin entry is restricted. Vitamin administration into the brain or CSF, recommended in certain disease states, is hazardous and best avoided. The lack of controlled trials prevents us from defining the lowest human neurotoxic dose of any vitamin. Large differences in individual susceptibility to vitamin neurotoxicity probably exist, and ordinary vitamin doses may harm occasional patients with genetic disorders.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To observe the effects of combined beta(1) adrenergic receptor (AR) antagonist with beta(2)AR agonist therapy on cardiac function and cardiomyocyte apoptosis in heart failure rats.
Heart failure was induced by isoproterenol and rats were randomly divided into metoprolol group (50 mg/kg twice daily/gavage, n = 11), combined treatment group (fenoterol 125 microg/kg and metoprolol 50 mg/kg twice daily/gavage, n = 11) and placebo group (saline, n = 10), another normal 9 male Wistar rats served as control group. After 8 weeks' treatment, cardiac function, apoptosis index (AI), Caspase-3 activity, expression levels of bcl-2 and bax protein, organ weight/body weight and collagen volume fraction (CVF) were evaluated.
(1) Left ventricular end diastolic dimension, left ventricular end systolic dimension and E/A ratio were significantly increased and fractional shortening, ejection fraction significantly reduced post isoproterenol (all P < 0.05 vs. control) and these changes were significantly attenuated by metoprolol alone (all P < 0.05 vs. placebo) and further attenuated by the metoprolol and fenoterol combination therapy (all P < 0.05 vs. placebo and metoprolol). (2) Left ventricular weight to body weight ratio, lung weight to body weight ratio and CVF were also significantly reduced in metoprolol and combined treatment group than those in placebo group (all P < 0.01). (3) Compared with placebo group, AI and Caspase-3 activity were significantly lower in metoprolol group (all P < 0.01 vs. placebo) and further reduced in combined treatment group (all P < 0.01 vs. metoprolol). (4) The expression level of bax protein was significantly lower in metoprolol group while bcl-2/bax significantly higher than those in placebo group. These changes were more significant in combined treatment group (all P < 0.01 vs. metoprolol).
beta(1)AR antagonist in combination with beta(2)AR agonist further improved the cardiac function and prevented cardiac remodeling compared with using beta(1)AR antagonist alone in heart failure rats. Downregulated bax and upregulated bcl-2/bax expressions might contribute to the observed beneficial therapy effects by reducing cardiomyocyte apoptosis in these animals.
We report a 23 years old woman exhibiting localized chronic venous insufficiency of the forefeet after cocaine and heroin application into the foot veins. The diagnosis was confirmed by capillaroscopy (characteristic microangiopathy).
We examined radionuclide-determined left ventricular ejection fractions (LVEF) at rest and during graded exercise in 37 patients receiving doxorubicin (Adriamycin) therapy in whom the risk of developing congestive heart failure (CHF) was precisely defined by endomyocardial biopsy and right heart catheterization. Echocardiographic (Echo %FS) and phonocardiographic (PEP/LVET) measurements of LV function were also determined. An abnormal LVEF at rest (less than or equal to 45%) had a sensitivity of 53% and a specificity of 75% for detecting patients at moderate or high risk of developing CHF. The addition of exercise LVEF increased the sensitivity of detection of moderate or high-risk patients to 89% but lowered the specificity to 41%. Exercise LVEF improved the sensitivity of detection of high-risk patients from 58% to 100%. Echo %FS and PEP/LVET yielded lower sensitivities than rest or exercise LVEF. As a single test, exercise LVEF possesses the sensitivity for use as a screening method for anthracycline cardiotoxicity, but the lack of specificity prevents the use of single values as a definitive test. Single rest LVEF determinations, although more specific than exercise LVEF, do not possess the sensitivity for use as screening or definitive tests.
A patient with pain associated with metastatic leiomyosarcoma received escalating doses of opioids. Upon discontinuation of intravenous morphine, transdermal fentanyl was initiated, and after several days, the dose was increased to 200microg/hour for persistent, severe pain. The patient became somnolent, and further dose adjustments and route change were carried out. She then exhibited severe allodynia, myoclonus, and delirium thereafter fentanyl was stopped. All symptoms resolved with discontinuation of fentanyl and subsequent introduction of a weak opioid. Pain was well controlled. Gradually increasing standard doses of fentanyl may lead to severe neurotoxicity, which may respond to opioid discontinuation and/or rotation. Vigilant scrutiny of all possible causes of apparent analgesic failure followed by consideration of opioid reduction and rotation is warranted in cases of neurotoxicity accompanying opioid treatment.
The biocide triclosan (TCS) is commonly used in personal care, acrylic, plastic, and textiles products. TCS has been detected in surface water in several countries, and its ecological impact is largely unknown. In this work, the toxicity of TCS in zebrafish (Danio rerio), embryos and adults was studied. Several lethal and sub-lethal endpoints were analysed in organisms exposed to TCS such as mortality, embryo development and behaviour, hatching, micronuclei and biochemical markers (cholinesterase (ChE), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)).
Embryo/larvae assay followed the OECD guideline on Fish Embryo Toxicity Test. Embryos were exposed at nominal concentrations of 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7 and 0.9 mg/l of TCS for 6 days and were inspected daily with the help of a stereomicroscopy for mortality, developmental parameters (otolith formation, eye and body pigmentation, somite formation, heart beat, tail circulation, detachment of the tail-bud from the yolk sac) and hatching. A similar test was run to obtain larvae for ChE, GST and LDH analysis. The adult test followed the OECD Guideline TG 203 in semi-static conditions. Adult zebrafish of similar length and age were exposed to nominal concentrations of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5 mg/l of TCS for 96 h and were inspected daily for mortality and behaviour alterations. A second test was run to obtain organs for biomarkers analysis: Heads, muscles and gills were isolated and snap-frozen in eppendorfs and used for ChE, LDH and GST determinations, respectively. Adult zebrafish testing also comprised a third test for micronucleus analysis in which the nominal concentrations of 0, 0.175 and 0.350 mg/l were used. Peripheral blood was obtained by cardiac puncture and used for the analysis.
TCS showed acute toxicity for embryo/larvae (96 h LC(50) = 0.42 mg/l) and delayed hatching. Moreover, embryo toxicity was evident: Delay on the otolith formation and eye and body pigmentation were found, and malformations were also evident, including spine malformations, pericardial oedema and undersize. Biomarkers levels were affected: ChE and LDH activity were increased in larvae exposed to 0.25 mg/l, and GST activity was increased in larvae exposed to 0.25 and 0.35 mg/l. TCS also demonstrated acute toxicity to adult zebrafish (96 h LC(50) = 0.34 mg/l). However, TCS did not change biomarkers levels and did not elicit a micronucleus in adults.
Despite the fact that similar 96 h LC(50) values have been found for D. rerio embryos and adults (0.42 and 0.34 mg/l, respectively), the embryo assay was much more informative, showing important effects at several levels, including teratogenic response, hatching delay and alteration of biomarker levels. TCS does not seem to be genotoxic for adult fish or to interfere with biomarkers levels at the concentrations tested.
TCS has deleterious effects on zebrafish adults and during early stages, (including embryotoxicity, hatching delay and alterations of biomarkers levels). The range of endpoints used on the embryo test allows an integrated analysis that contributes to a better understanding of the toxicity and mode of action of TCS.
Future works should focus on a deeper investigation of TCS modes of action on zebrafish early-life stages. As embryo testing was revealed to be so informative, a refinement of the test could be made, including other endpoints such as different biochemical markers as well as DNA microarrays to assess a gene expression level for the effect of exposure to TCS. In the perspective of risk assessment, these endpoints should be explored in order to assess their usefulness as early warning signs and links should be sought between these short-term tests and effects of long-term exposures as it is observed in more realistic scenarios.
The aim of the present study was to quantify the release of proinflammatory biomarkers by dermal microdialysis after topical exposure with irritant chemicals, Jet fuel (JP-8) and xylene in rat skin. Occlusive dermal exposure (2h) was carried out with 230microl of JP-8 or xylene using Hill top chambers((R)). Linear microdialysis probes (10mm) were inserted in the dermis under urethane anesthesia. The dialysis fluid was pumped at a flow rate of 2microl/min and the dialysate was collected for 7h following probe insertion. The expression of substance P (SP), calcitonin-gene related peptide (CGRP) and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in the dialysate following microdialysis was measured by enzyme immunoassay (EIA). The effect of pretreatment with an SP antagonist (SR-140333) and a PGE(2) inhibitor (celecoxib), 6 and 18h before the application of JP-8 was also assessed to further establish the sensitivity of the microdialysis set up. On similar lines, untreated and capsaicin treated control experiments were performed to compare with the SP release following JP-8 treatment. Further, we also investigated the SP release following topical application of xylene. The mean concentrations of SP after the application of JP-8 (90.01+/-3.31) and 3h after its removal (58.66+/-9.36) indicated that JP-8 induced significantly higher release of SP as compared to the baseline value (P<0.05). The release of SP following JP-8 treatment (58.66+/-9.36pg/ml) was comparable to capsaicin (58.18+/-11.29pg/ml). JP-8 exposure resulted in a significant increase (P<0.001) in PGE(2) levels over the baseline control at the end of 1 and 2h of exposure. JP-8 treatment also produced significant increase (P<0.001) in PGE(2) levels as compared to the untreated control during occlusion and 1h following its removal. There was a significant drop (P<0.05) in the PGE(2) levels by the end of 3h following exposure. Pretreatment with SR-140333 and celecoxib significantly reduced (P<0.05) SP and PGE(2) release induced by JP-8. The mean concentrations of SP following xylene exposure (25.50+/-8.80pg/ml) and 3h after its removal (34.37+/-5.61pg/ml) indicated its skin irritation potential. Unlike JP-8, xylene produced a significant increase in SP release only after the removal of occlusion. Pretreatment with SR-140333 significantly blocked the xylene induced SP release. CGRP was not detected in any of the samples. This study demonstrates that dermal microdialysis can be used to quantify skin irritation potential of JP-8 and related irritant chemicals.
To report rhabdomyolysis (RML) causing third-degree atrioventricular block secondary to a possible interaction between atorvastatin, esomeprazole, and clarithromycin.
A 51-year-old white woman presented to the emergency department with severe weakness, near syncope, shortness of breath, and chest pain. On admission, her electrocardiogram demonstrated bradycardia (40 beats/min) and third-degree heart block. A creatine kinase (CK) level was >7000 U/L. Her medication history was significant for long-term use of atorvastatin (>1 y), a 6-week history of esomeprazole use, and three 500-mg doses of clarithromycin just prior to admission. Her symptoms of weakness, shortness of breath, and chest pain coincided with starting the esomeprazole. During her hospitalization, the woman required pacemaker placement and her CK continued to rise to >40,000 U/L. Screening for other causes of RML, such as thyrotoxicosis, infection, and immune or hepatic diseases, was negative. She gradually improved over a 26-day hospitalization.
This is a case of RML resulting in third-degree atrioventricular blockade. An objective causality assessment of the adverse reaction via the Naranjo probability scale revealed a probable association with atorvastatin and a possible association with esomeprazole and clarithromycin. The pharmacokinetic profiles of these agents suggest that a possible contribution to this reaction was P-glycoprotein (PGP) inhibition by esomeprazole altering atorvastatin's normally significant first-pass clearance.
PGP drug interactions with atorvastatin and other hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) may be associated with unreported risks for RML. Further investigation into PGP impact on HMG-CoA appears warranted.
The capacity of an oil, containing gamma-linolenic acid (GLA), to reduce the severity of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity has been investigated in a rat model. Groups of 12-week-old, male, Sprague-Dawley rats were injected intravenously (i.v.) with single doses (3 mg/kg body weight) of doxorubicin (DOX). Daily for 1 week prior to DOX administration and for up to 20 weeks afterwards groups of rats received either an oil containing both GLA and linoleic acid (So-1100, Scotia Pharmaceuticals), at two dose levels, or an oil containing linoleic acid, but no GLA (So-1129) by oral gavage. Other groups of rats received water as a control. One of the groups of rats that received water also received i.v. ICRF-187 (60 mg/kg) 15 min prior to DOX. A group of animals acted as age-matched controls. The maximum reduction in body weight in the first 2 weeks after the administration of DOX. was used as a measure of acute toxicity. This was most severe in the group receiving a combination of DOX and ICRF-187 (5.6+/-0.43%). Animals receiving 2 ml of either So-1100 or So-1129 were the least affected ( approximately 2.5%). Measurements of cardiac volume output made at various intervals after DOX administration indicated a approximately 35% reduction in cardiac function in the control and So-1129 oil group after 20 weeks. The corresponding reduction in the groups receiving ICRF-187 and 2 ml of So-1100 was approximately 16%. The group receiving daily doses of 1 ml So-1100 showed an intermediate response. The death of an animal with signs of congestive cardiac failure occurred in 40% of the animals in the DOX only control (water) group. There were no deaths in the groups of rats receiving either ICRF-187 or pre- and post-administration of 2 ml of So-1100. It was concluded that an oil containing GLA (So-1100) has similar cardioprotective properties against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity as ICRF-187, but with less general toxicity in this rat model.
To evaluate the effects of histamine-induced hypotension on plasma catecholamine levels, eight normal men, aged 20 to 40 years, were infused with incremental doses of histamine starting at 0.2 microgram/kg/min at a 30 degree tilt position with monitoring of blood pressure (BP) and heart rate. Histamine dosage was increased every 5 minutes by 0.1 to 0.2 microgram/kg/min until mean BP fell greater than 15 mm Hg or a dosage of 1.6 micrograms/kg/min was reached. Plasma catecholamine samples were taken between the fourth and fifth minute of each histamine dosage. Identical measurements were made during nitroglycerin-induced hypotension in these subjects. Histamine produced threefold greater increases in heart rate and plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels than did nitroglycerin for comparable decreases in BP. Although NE levels increased twofold to fivefold from baseline with histamine infusion, epinephrine levels increased minimally at the highest doses or not at all. Our data demonstrate that histamine selectively releases NE from adrenergic nerve terminals without significant adrenal catecholamine release. We suggest that neural NE release plays an important role in the cardiac effects of histamine.
An 83-year-old patient was admitted to our hospital because of gastrointestinal symptoms, mental confusion and dysarthria. The patient suffered from type 2 diabetes mellitus and was taking metformin. A mild renal insufficiency was known. On admission, we found impaired consciousness, Kussmaul breathing, a body temperature of 32.1 degrees C, and hemodynamic instability. Laboratory testing revealed lactic acidosis (pH 6.71, base excess--30, standard bicarbonate 4.0 mmol/l, lactate 24.4 mmol/l) and acute renal failure with a creatinine of 10.6 mg/dl and blood urea nitrogen of 134 mg/dl. Electrolytes were not altered; the blood glucose was elevated (147 mg/dl). According to history, physical examination, and laboratory testing the diagnosis metformin-induced lactic acidosis with acute renal failure was made. This diagnosis was confirmed by an elevated level of metformin. As soon as possible a bicarbonate hemodialysis was initiated. After 8 hours of hemodialysis the acid-base metabolism was almost balanced and the vigilance of the patient normalized. No further sessions of hemodialysis were needed and insulin therapy was started.
Metformin-induced lactic acidosis is a common side effect in patients with renal insufficiency. For an early diagnosis, clinical symptoms of intoxication should be well known by physicians and patients. First-line therapy for correction of lactic acidosis and effective elimination of metformin is bicarbonate hemodialysis. Sodium bicarbonate infusions are not able to correct the acid-base metabolism sufficiently. For prevention the renal function should be monitored closely and metaformin therapy should be stopped, if a deterioration of renal function is observed.
Vaginal prostaglandin pessaries are considered safe and effective method of abortion within the first two trimesters of pregnancy. We present a case of a young woman, with no known risk factors for cerebrovascular events, who developed a cryptogenic stroke following administration of intravaginal Misoprostol. Case report and review of the relevant literature. A 30-year-old woman presented with right hemiparesis and aphasia after having received three 600 microg tablets of intravaginal Misoprostol for an elective abortion earlier in the day. A brain MRI revealed an acute ischemic infarction in the left middle cerebral artery territory. An extensive workup for possible etiologies was negative. Intravaginal Misoprostol may be associated with stroke in young women. Further study is required to determine if this case represents an isolated incident, or a true association.
The administration of amphotericin B in the conventional prolonged infusion over 4 to 6 hours is complicated by the acute toxicities of fevers and chills in 50% to 90% of patients and the chronic toxicities of increased creatinine levels and hypokalemia in 60% to 80% of patients. To determine the safety and toxicity of rapid infusions, we conducted a prospective, nonrandomized study in patients with clinical indications for antifungal therapy.
Twenty-five granulocytopenic adults with acute leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes were enrolled in a phase I trial using four sequentially shorter infusion durations: a standard infusion over 4 hours (n = 3) and shortened infusion durations at 3 hours (n = 3), 2 hours (n = 4), and 1 hour (n = 15). Toxicity was assessed by daily examinations of study subjects by one of the study investigators, by documentation of all infusion-related fevers and chills, and by daily monitoring of serum levels of creatinine, potassium, magnesium, and aspartate aminotransferase.
Temperatures greater than 38 degrees C occurred in 16 of 25 (64%) patients, but only two had temperatures exceeding 40 degrees C. Chills were observed in 13 of 25 (56%) patients, but only one had severe symptoms. Serum creatinine increased more than 0.5 mg/dL (44.20 mumol/L) above the pretreatment baseline in 17 of 25 (68%) patients, and the absolute creatinine level was greater than or equal to 2.0 mg/dL (176.8 mumol/L) in 10 of 25 (40%) patients. Serum potassium levels dropped below the normal limit of 3.5 mEq/L (3.5 mmol/L) in all patients, but no patient had potassium levels below 2.5 mEq/L (2.5 mmol/L). Intravenous potassium supplementation was administered to all patients and exceeded 100 mEq/d in 12 of 25 (48%) patients.
Rapid infusions of amphotericin B are safe, are associated with similar toxicity as prolonged infusions, and facilitate inpatient care by decreasing nursing time needed for administration and minimizing scheduling conflicts with other necessary intravenous medications. Shorter infusions also facilitate outpatient and home administration of amphotericin B.
5 mg/kg mipafox [N,N'-bis(1-methylethyl)phosphordiamidic fluoride] was administered s.c. daily for 60 days in rats. The animals developed motor dysfunction-muscle twitchings, fasciculations and slight ataxia towards the end of the experimental period; the motor dysfunction was accompanied by neurochemical changes in the corpus striatum which included significantly reduced levels of cholinesterase, neurotoxicesterase, dopamine and GABA. The neurochemical imbalance in the corpus striatum may be related to motor dysfunction in mipafox-treated animals.
