The aim of our study was to determine if strain (S) and strain rate (SR) imaging are more sensitive indices with respect to standard echocardiographic parameters to assess cardiac function in an experimental model of doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy. DOX was administered intraperitoneally 4x/wk at the dose of 1.25 mg/kg/d over four weeks in Wistar rats (n = 26). Other 14 Wistar rats were used as controls. Echocardiographic studies were performed before DOX treatment (baseline), after two and four weeks of treatment. At two and four weeks of DOX treatment, rat hearts were collected for histologic analysis. After two weeks of DOX treatment, there were no significant changes in standard echocardiographic parameters and in myocardial velocities, but after four weeks of treatment, ejection fraction significantly decreased and left ventricle dimensions significantly increased. Also, myocardial velocities were significantly reduced after four weeks of treatment. Conversely, S and SR values changed significantly already after two weeks of treatment. At baseline, S and SR values were 27 +/- 7% and 7.4 +/- 1.7, respectively, and they significantly decreased to 12 +/- 6% (p < 0.0001) and 6 +/- 1.5 (p < 0.005) at two weeks of treatment. These changes were also significant compared with control rat parameters (p < 0.001). At four weeks of DOX treatment, a progressive worsening occurred. Strain and SR further significantly decreased to 10 +/- 4% (p < 0.0001 vs. baseline) and 4.6 +/- 1.6 (p < 0.0001 vs. baseline), respectively. These changes were supported by histologic findings. Indeed, damage in myocardial tissue was demonstrated by histology already after two weeks of DOX treatment, with a damage progression after four weeks of treatment. Our data demonstrate that S and SR imaging are more sensitive indices in identifying early myocardial systolic changes induced by DOX than standard echocardiographic parameters and myocardial velocities. We believe that our model will be very supportive to further assess these new diagnostic strategies to provide a precocious diagnosis of LV dysfunction with a unique opportunity to initiate preventive cardioactive therapy. (E-mail: giodisal@yahoo.it).
Previous clinical trials have clearly shown the superiority of olanzapine to haloperidol in the improvement of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in schizophrenic patients. The primary purpose of this study was to compare EPS profiles in Japanese schizophrenic patients treated with an atypical antipsychotic, olanzapine, or a typical antipsychotic, haloperidol, as measured by the Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Symptoms Scale (DIEPSS). The DIEPSS, which consists of eight individual parameters and one global assessment (overall severity), was used to evaluate 182 patients enrolled in this 8-week study. The primary safety analysis was maximum change (that could be either a decrease or increase) from baseline in DIEPSS total score. Secondary analyses included change from baseline to maximum in DIEPSS total score, change from baseline to endpoint (LOCF) in DIEPSS total score, and the rank sum of the maximum change (that could be either a decrease or increase) from baseline in the DIEPSS individual items. Incidence of treatment-emergent EPS adverse events using the DIEPSS scale was also analyzed. The olanzapine group showed statistically significant superiority to the haloperidol group on the primary analysis (p<0.001). Secondary analyses also demonstrated olanzapine's superiority in DIEPSS total, parkinsonism, akathisia and overall severity scores (all p< or =0.014). Categorical analysis of treatment-emergent akathisia and parkinsonism syndromes at endpoint showed improvement in the olanzapine group but worsening in the haloperidol group. The results from this study suggest that olanzapine, as in Caucasian populations, is a safe treatment in Japanese patients chronically ill with schizophrenia.
Imatinib mesylate (Gleevec) is widely-used in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) and gastrointestinal stromal tumour. Up to four percent of patients treated with imatinib may develop hepatotoxicity, which usually resolves with discontinuation of the drug. We report a 45-year-old Chinese man with CML and chronic hepatitis B virus infection, on imatinib treatment, presenting with herpetic rash and acute liver failure. This case illustrates the diagnostic challenges in the management of such a patient, as well as the need for greater vigilance in the monitoring of liver function tests for patients treated with imatinib. A short review on imatinib-related hepatotoxicity is also presented.
The aim of the study was to test the hypothesis that the requirement of sufentanil is reduced in elderly patients when the opiate is primarily used to facilitate mechanical ventilation in a medical intensive care unit. A further aim was to study whether elderly patients developed withdrawal symptoms after discontinuing prolonged sufentanil administration. We have studied prospectively two groups of patients requiring mechanical ventilation for more than 96 h; group 1 age < 60 years (n = 316 or 68%) and group 2 age > 70 years (n = 150 or 32%). In all patients sufentanil and midazolam were administered continuously in order to facilitate ventilatory support. After an initial intravenous bolus injection of sufentanil 3.0-8.0 micrograms kg-1, the dosage was adjusted to the patients needs (0.75-1.0 microgram-1 kg-1 h) using a modified Ramsey score by accepting between 3b and 4a as the end point. The amount of sufentanil administered and side effects were recorded at 24-h intervals. Seventy-two hours following the start of sedation with sufentanil/midazolam the dose of sufentanil required for sedation increased significantly (P < 0.05) in both groups when compared with the first 24 h. There was no statistical difference between the two groups in sufentanil requirement at any time during the study. This suggests that tachyphylaxis develops to a similar degree in patients in both age groups. In addition, weaning in the elderly was characterized by a similar degree of withdrawal-like symptoms suggesting that independent of age, there are similar receptor related reactions once the opiate is withdrawn.
Tricyclic antidepressants rarely cause peripheral neuropathy. In fact, this class of drugs has been used to control the symptoms of pain and paresthesia that accompany peripheral neuropathy. We report peripheral paresthesias that occurred in a 39-year-old female during five years of amitriptyline administration. The patient's symptoms were relieved by oral pyridoxine hydrochloride, associated with elevated plasma pyridoxal phosphate.
The study was carried out to assess the role of zinc (Zn) in mitigating the biochemical alterations induced by aluminum (Al) in rat liver. Rats were divided into four groups: normal control, Al treated (AlCl3, 100 mg/kg b.wt./day), Zn treated (ZnSO4, 227 mg/L drinking water), and combined Al + Zn treated. Al and zinc treatments were given for a total duration of 2 months. Al treatment caused a significant increase in the activity of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), but decreased aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotranferase (ALT) activities, which showed the reverse trend following Zn supplementation. Levels of lipid peroxidation (LPx) and activities of catalase and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were significantly decreased following Al treatment, which, however, were increased significantly in Zn co-treated rats. Further Al exposure showed a significant increase in reduced glutathione (GSH) content as well as activities, of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione reductase (GR). However, Zn supplementation to Al-treated rats brought down the raised levels of reduced (GSH) and SOD to within normal limits, but caused no effect on GR activity. Furthermore, Al treatment also resulted in alterations in liver histoarchitecture with disruption of hepatic cords and increased vacuolization, which were close to normal following Zn supplementation. The present study reveals that Zn is effective in attenuating the liver damage inflicted by Al toxicity.
We report the case of an 82-year-old male patient with a > 8-year history of prostate cancer (PrCa), who developed breast adenocarcinoma (BrCa) (Ki-67+ and negative for ER, PR, PSA and HER2/neu) after prolonged (approximately 7-year) anti-androgen (flutamide) monotherapy for locally advanced PrCa. Biochemical and molecular analyses showed hyperestrogenemia (serum estradiol = 266 pg/ml, with normal range < 74 pg/ml), germline BRCA-1 mutation (T to C at nucleotide 3232, in exon 11, causing Glu to Gly change at codon 1038) and chromosome 9 inversion (karyotype of 46,XY with inv(9) (p11q21)). Following bilateral mastectomy without adjuvant systemic therapy, the patient has been disease-free (from both BrCa and PrCa) for > 3 years. In contrast to LHRH-based hormonal therapies for PrCa, anti-androgen monotherapy causes hyper-estrogenemia due to the suppressed negative feedback loop of androgens on LHRH and LH production, stimulation of testicular androgen production and their intracrine transformation to estrogens in peripheral target tissues. In this case report, the hyperestrogenemia may have further increased the BrCa risk in a patient with other risk factors (BRCA-1 mutation and chromosome 9 inversion, which has been previously shown to impinge upon testicular function and intracrine balance of androgens vs. estrogens). This case report illustrates that PrCa patients receiving anti-androgen monotherapy may be at risk of BrCa, in the event of the concomitant presence of other genetically-determined predisposing factors, and indicates the importance of exercising caution against indiscriminate and prolonged use of anti-androgen monotherapy in patients with risk factors for male BrCa.
We report a case of ductopenia associated with cholestatic hepatitis in a 59-year-old woman treated for 41 years for temporal epilepsy. The patient developed jaundice, without any clinical or biochemical features of hypersensitivity, 10 months after the beginning of treatment with sulpiride. Liver biopsy showed ballooning and acidophilic degeneration of the hepatocytes, macrophages packed with lipofuscin, biliary pigment in Kupffer cells, some biliary plugs, confluent necrosis and absence of biliary ducts in all the portal tracts. These features and the presence of foci of cholangiolitis suggest a destructive cholangitis as the pathogenetic mechanism causing ductopenia. Other causes of ductopenia were excluded. Sulpiride is known to produce severe cholestatic jaundice, which we believe is due to ductopenia. The absence of hypersensitivity and the 10-month latency suggest that sulpiride may cause liver damage through a toxic mechanism in genetically susceptible subjects.
The quaternary benzo[c]phenanthridine alkaloid, chelerythrine (CHE), is of great practical and research interest because of its pronounced, widespread physiological effects, primarily antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory, arising from its ability to interact with proteins and DNA. Although CHE was originally shown to possess anti-inflammatory properties, its effects on acute gastric ulcer have not been previously explored. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the protective effect of CHE on ethanol induced gastric ulcer in mice. Administration of CHE at doses of 1, 5 and 10mg/kg bodyweight prior to ethanol ingestion dose-dependently inhibited gastric ulcer. The gastric mucosal lesion was assessed by ulcer area, gastric juice acidity, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities, macroscopic and histopathological examinations. CHE significantly reduced the gastric ulcer index, myeloperoxidase activities, macroscopic and histological score in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, CHE also significantly inhibited nitric oxide (NO) concentration, pro-inflammatory interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) level in serum and gastric mucosal in the mice exposed to ethanol induced ulceration in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, immunohistochemical analysis revealed that CHE markedly attenuated the overexpression of nuclear factor-κB in gastric mucosa of mice. It was concluded that CHE represents a potential therapeutic option to reduce the risk of gastric ulceration. In addition, acute toxicity study revealed no abnormal sign to the mice treated with CHE (15mg/kg). These findings suggest that the gastroprotective activity of CHE might contribute in adjusting the inflammatory cytokine by regulating the NF-κB signalling pathway.
A case of irreversible renal failure during treatment with enalapril in bilateral renal artery stenosis is described. In the use of converting enzyme inhibitors, caution and monitoring of renal function during treatment is advised.
This study analyses the anti-hyperalgesic properties of the hydroalcoholic extract (HE) and the sesquiterpene polygodial isolated from the barks of Drymis winteri (Winteraceae). The HE (10 to 60 mg kg(-1), i.p. or 100 to 600 mg kg(-1), p.o.), 4 h prior, produced significant inhibition of abdominal constrictions caused by i.p. injection of acetic acid, kaolin and zymosan in mice. The mean ID50s were: 21.4, 33.7 and 36.6 mg kg(-1); 173.0, 123.0 and 366.0 mg kg(-1), by i.p. and by oral route, respectively. This effect lasted for up to 8 h. The HE at the same range of doses produced dose-related inhibition of both phases of the formalin-induced licking. The calculated mean ID50s values for the early phase were: 26.1 and 43.0 mg kg(-1), while for the late phase they were 7.3 and 72.7 mg kg(-1), respectively, when given by i.p. and by oral route. The HE (10 to 60 mg kg(-1), i.p. or 25 to 200 mg kg(-1), p.o.), 4 h prior, produced significant inhibition of capsaicin-induced neurogenic pain with mean ID50 values of 18.0 and 68.0 mg kg(-1), respectively. The HE (3 to 100 mg kg(-1), p.o., 1 h) inhibited in a graded manner, the hyperalgesia induced by bradykinin (3 nmol/paw) or substance P (10 nmol/paw) in rat paw, with mean ED50 values of 54.5 and 53.7 mg kg(-1), respectively. However, the HE did not affect the hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan or PGE2. When assessed in the hot-plate test, the HE (200 mg kg(-1), p.o.) was inactive. Naloxone (1 mg kg(-1), i.p.) significantly reversed the antinociceptive effects caused by either morphine (5 mg kg(-1), s.c.) or by HE (60 mg kg(-1), i.p.). Polygodial (0.1 to 10 mg kg(-1), i.p.) produced significant inhibition of acetic acid, kaolin and zymosan-induced writhing in mice, being about 14 to 27-fold more potent than the HE at the ID50 level. Together these data provide support for a long-lasting anti-hyperalgesic property for the active principle(s) present in the barks of D. winteri when assessed in several models of inflammatory or neurogenic pain. Its actions involve, at least in part, an interaction with opioid pathway through a naloxone-sensitive mechanism, seeming not to be related with a non-specific peripheral or central depressant actions. Finally, the sesquiterpene polygodial isolated from this plant, appears to be mainly responsible for the anti-hyperalgesic properties of the extract.
To examine the effect of didanosine (2',3'-dideoxyinosine, ddI) on surrogate markers of HIV infection (CD4+ lymphocyte count, p24 antigen) and to evaluate the incidence of adverse effects from ddI.
This study was performed as a retrospective chart review of patients who were enrolled in Bristol-Myers Squibb's expanded-access program for ddI.
Patient records were obtained from primary care physicians' offices.
Twenty-five HIV-infected patients diagnosed with AIDS or AIDS-related complex (ARC) who were intolerant of zidovudine (ZDV) therapy or deteriorating clinically despite ZDV therapy and were eligible for inclusion in the ddI expanded-access program.
ddI was administered orally in a citrate-phosphate buffer every 12 hours. Patients were followed by their private physician on a monthly basis.
Laboratory analysis at each month included CD4+ lymphocyte count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, serum amylase, uric acid, serum triglycerides, and p24 antigen. Mean CD4+ cell count, serum amylase, hemoglobin, and uric acid at each month during ddI therapy were compared with baseline concentrations for nine months.
Patients had received prior ZDV therapy for an average of 15.5 months before starting ddI. Mean CD4+ cell counts increased from 53.9/mm3 at baseline to 72.4/mm3 after 4 months of therapy (p = 0.04) but returned to concentrations comparable with those at baseline after 5 months. One case of documented pancreatitis, two cases of suspected pancreatitis, and nine cases of peripheral neuropathy occurred during ddI therapy. The estimated mean cumulative dose for the development of neuropathy was 1.16 g/kg, which is lower than previously reported.
Patients who have received prolonged therapy with ZDV or who have low initial CD4+ counts may not have sustained increases in CD4+ counts from ddI therapy. Also, development of peripheral neuropathy may occur at lower cumulative doses in these patient populations.
Several cases of recurrent respiratory depression progressing to apnoea and unconsciousness after apparent recovery from sufentanil have been reported recently. Alfentanil has the shortest elimination half-time of the narcotics used in anaesthesia, suggesting that it should be the least likely to cause postoperative respiratory depression. A case of recurrent unconsciousness and respiratory arrest after apparent recovery from alfentanil-isoflurane-nitrous oxide anaesthesia is reported. A total dose of 137 micrograms.kg-1 alfentanil was given over a 3.25-hr period to a 45-year-old female undergoing partial gastrectomy. Naloxone, 0.16 mg IV, rapidly restored spontaneous ventilation and consciousness. This case demonstrates that apnoea and unconsciousness can also recur after apparent recovery from alfentanil. Recovery room personnel should be aware of this phenomenon. Earlier detection may permit treatment before apnoea occurs. Patients given narcotic-supplemented anaesthesia should be monitored by capnography and/or pulse oximetry in the early postoperative period.
Alvimopan, a peripherally acting Mu-opioid receptor antagonist, has been shown to enhance recovery of gastrointestinal (GI) function in open bowel resection. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of Alvimopan on patients undergoing laparoscopic right colectomies in preventing postoperative ileus (POI). A prospective, nonrandomized trial of laparoscopic right colectomies was carried out with and without perioperative Alvimopan. The length of stay (LOS), time to first flatus, bowel movement, and tolerance of solid foods were recorded. Additionally, any occurrences of POI defined as the need for insertion of a nasogastric tube (NGT) were also noted. Student t tests were used for statistical analysis. A total of 33 patients underwent laparoscopic right colectomies for both benign and malignant diseases from October 2008, to December 2009. Sixteen patients received Alvimopan, whereas 17 patients did not. The demographics of both patient groups were similar. Patients receiving Alvimopan had an accelerated return of bowel function in terms of first flatus (2.37 vs 3.34; P = 0.03), tolerance of solid food (2.75 vs 3.94; P = 0.03), and first stool (2.53 vs 3.80; P = 0.04). There was a trend toward shorter LOS in patients receiving Alvimopan (P = 0.07). Two patients with POI requiring NGT did not receive Alvimopan. Alvimopan was successful in enhancing return of GI function in laparoscopic right colectomies and avoiding POI. The decreased LOS trended but did not approach statistical significance. A large randomized prospective trial will be needed to determine the validity of this study.
Use of chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin is limited because of its toxicity. Therefore, efforts continue for the discovery of novel combination therapies with cisplatin to reduce its effective treatment dose. This study evaluates the potential of fisetin, a flavonoid, to increase cisplatin cytotoxicity in human embryonal carcinoma NT2/D1 cells. Addition of fisetin to cisplatin enhanced cisplatin cytotoxicity in vitro at four times lower dose than that required by cisplatin monotherapy for similar cytotoxic effects. Cisplatin, fisetin monotherapy, and addition of fisetin to cisplatin in a combination increased FasL expression. Cisplatin and fisetin as single agents activated caspases-8 and -3 and caspases-9 and -7, respectively, whereas combination treatment activated all 4 caspases. Increases in p53 and p21 and decreases in cyclin B1 and survivin occurred, all effects being more exaggerated with the combination. Fisetin, with or without cisplatin, increased expression of proapoptotic protein Bak and induced its mitochondrial oligomerization. Bid truncation and mitochondrial translocation of Bid and p53 was induced by fisetin in the presence or absence of cisplatin. Downregulation of p53 by short hairpin RNA during drug treatment decreased p21 levels but caused survivin increase, thus reducing cell death. Upstream to p53, inhibition of p38 phosphorylation reduced p53 phosphorylation and cell death. In a NT2/D1 mouse xenograft model, combination therapy was most effective in reducing tumor size. In summary, findings of this study suggest that addition of fisetin to cisplatin activates both the mitochondrial and the cell death receptor pathway and could be a promising regimen for the elimination of embryonal carcinoma cells.
We showed that transposon P(GUS.p53.259H), mapped to chromosome 3 and carrying a dominant mutation p53(259)H.GUS, has a positive effect on the frequency of spontaneous and carcinogen-induced tumor mosaic clones warts- in Drosopila melanogaster heterozygotes for the tumor suppressor gene warts located in the same chromosome. The transposon effect could be explained either by the arrest of apoptosis in the cells expressing mutant p53(259)H.GUS gene and containing carcinogen-induced pre-mutations, and/or by genetic instability introduced into chromosome 3 by the P(GUS.p53.259H) transposon itself. The effect of the P(GUS.p53.259H) appeared to be carcinogen-specific. It substantially increased the frequency of tumors induced by supermutagenic platinum complex, oxoplatin, and did not increase the frequencies of tumors induced by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, benzo(alpha)pyrene and pyrene. In the spectrum of mutations induced by all carcinogens tested, somatic recombination events prevailed over somatic mutations. Hence, carcinogen-specificity of the P(GUS.p53.259H) effect cannot be explained by preferential induction of somatic mutations or somatic recombination by one of the carcinogens. Organ-specificity of the increased frequency of mosaic warts- clones induced by P(GUS.p53.259H) was established.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind clinical trial of an experimental mammalian cell-derived DNA hepatitis B vaccine (Betagen, Connaught Laboratories Ltd, Toronto, Canada) to determine its efficacy in infants born to mothers who were carriers of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). Four groups of 55 infants received injections as follows: (1) a licensed plasma-derived vaccine (Lanzhou, Lanzhou Institute for Biological Products, Lanzhou, People's Republic of China), 20 micrograms; (2) Betagen, 20 micrograms; (3) Betagen, 20 micrograms+hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG); and (4) Betagen, 10 micrograms+HBIG. Vaccine injections were given at birth and at 1 and 6 months and HBIG was given at birth. The vaccines were compared to a historical placebo control group. The efficacy of Betagen alone was 82.6% compared to 51.0% for the Lanzhou. Efficacy of Betagen increased with the concomitant use of HBIG. No infants who were HBsAg negative at birth and/or were born to hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) negative mothers became carriers. The rate of HBsAg in infants receiving Betagen alone, and born to mothers who were HBeAg positive, decreased from 60% at birth to 20% by the ninth month, compared to 62.5% and 50% (respectively) for Lanzhou. The percentage of infants with protective levels of antiHBs was significantly higher for Betagen alone than for Lanzhou, but the geometric mean titre of antiHBs for responders was not significantly different. We have shown that Betagen alone is highly efficacious in preventing the development of hepatitis B in infants born to mothers who are carriers of HBsAg and is also highly effective in reducing the carriage of HBsAg in infants who are HBsAg positive at birth and/or born to HBeAg positive mothers.
Researchers assigned 220 infants born at 5 participating hospitals in Shanghai, China to receive either a 20mcg of an experimental recombinant DNA hepatitis B vaccine (Betagen), a licensed plasma derived hepatitis B vaccine (Lanzhou), 20 mcg of Betagen and hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG), or 10mcg of Betagen and HBIG to determine the efficacy of Betagen in infants born to mothers with hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive. Since China is a hyperendemic hepatitis B carrier area (in Shanghai, for example, prevalence rate is 57%), China hopes to reduce the carrier state via a low cost, safe, immunogenic, and efficacious recombinant vaccine. 20mcg of Betagen resulted in 82.6% efficacy which was significantly higher than that of Lanzhou (51%). The efficacy increased when HBIG was administered with the 20mcg of Betagen (92%). None of the infants born HBsAg negative and/or born to hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) mothers later became carriers. Further the HBsAg positive fell from 60-2-% in 9 months whereas these corresponding figures for those who received only Lanzhou were 62.5% and 50%. Even though the percentage of infants with protective levels of antiHBs stood much higher in those who received only Betagen than for those who received Lanzhou in all the months of follow up, except the 1st, their geometric mean titre of antiHBs was not statistically significant. Since Betagen prompted a quick antibody response which probably helped decrease HBsAg in the serum of those infants already positive for HBsAg at birth, it had an advantage over Lanzhou. In conclusion, Betagen given alone proved to be very efficacious in preventing hepatitis B in infants born to carriers of HBsAg. Further it was effective in reducing carriage of HBsAg in infants born HBsAg positive and/or born to HBeAg positive mothers.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in ageing and age-related neurodegenerative changes including Parkinson's disease (PD). PD is characterized by signs of major oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Present study was designed to investigate whether the Centella asiatica extract (CAE) would prevent 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced neurotoxicity in aged Sprague-Dawley rats. Adult, male Sprague-dawley rats of 300-350 g were divided into control, C. asiatica alone, MPTP alone (20 mg/kg, for 21 days) and MPTP with C. asiatica (300 mg/kg for 21 days) groups. Effect of aqueous extract of C. asiatica on oxidative biomarker levels in corpus striatum and hippocampus homogenate was examined. MPTP-challenged rats elicited a significant increase in lipid hydroperoxides (LPO) (p < 0.01), protein-carbonyl-content (PCC) (p < 0.01) and xanthine oxidase (XO) (p < 0.01) when compared with control rats. There was a significant decrease in total antioxidants (TA) (p < 0.001), superoxide dismutase (SOD) (p < 0.001), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) (p < 0.01) and catalase (CAT) (p < 0.001) levels with MPTP treatment. Supplementation of CAE reduced LPO and PCC and significantly increased (p < 0.01) TA and antioxidant enzyme levels (p < 0.01) in corpus striatum and hippocampus. These results show that administration of C. asiatica was effective in protecting the brain against neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinsonism.
Glucocorticoids are involved in psychostimulant-induced hyperactivity, but the exact mechanism is not known. This study used the selective glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, RU-43044, to determine whether prefrontal neurotransmission is involved in glucocorticoid-mediated modulation of methamphetamine (METH)-induced hyperactivity in mice. Pretreatment with RU-43044 (10-30 mg/kg) attenuated the increased spontaneous locomotor activity induced by METH (1-2 mg/kg). The psychostimulant effect of METH was also attenuated by adrenalectomy. RU-43044 inhibited METH-induced increases in extracellular dopamine (DA), but not serotonin (5-HT), levels in the prefrontal cortex, but did not affect METH-induced increases in extracellular DA levels in the nucleus accumbens shell, although it inhibited increases in extracellular 5-HT levels. Adrenalectomy also attenuated the METH-induced increases in extracellular DA levels in the prefrontal cortex. RU-43044 did not affect METH-induced increases in plasma corticosterone levels. These findings suggest that glucocorticoid receptors are involved in METH-induced hyperactivity, and that prefrontal dopaminergic neurotransmission plays a role in glucocorticoid-mediated modulation of METH-induced behavioral changes.
Adenosine appears to be an important mediator of hypotension and bradycardia in certain subsets of patients with vasodepressor syncope. Adenosine receptor blockage with methylxanthines may hypothetically prevent the vasodepressor spell. We studied the chronotropic, hemodynamic, and cardiac autonomic responses to head-up tilt in patients (mean age 40.7 +/- 18.1 years) with vasodepressor syncope before and after treatment with oral theophylline. At baseline, hypotension and syncope or near syncope were induced at 11.7 +/- 2.3 minutes of 60 degrees head-up tilt in all patients. Cardiac vagal and sympathetic tone showed biphasic and directionally opposite changes during tilt. Repeat tilt during oral theophylline therapy (6-12 mg/kg/day for 14 +/- 6 days) did not provoke symptomatic hypotension in 82% of patients. During 10.7 +/- 6.1 months of follow-up, seven patients had no recurrence of vasodepressor syncope and seven patients discontinued theophylline because of adverse reactions. Low-dose theophylline prevents tilt-induced vasodepressor syncope and may prevent spontaneous vasodepressor syncope in selected patients who can tolerate theophylline.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 mRNA and protein expression were found to be frequently elevated in human pancreatic adenocarcinomas and cell lines derived from such tumors. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated cytoplasmic COX-2 expression in 14 of 21 (67%) pancreatic carcinomas. The level of COX-2 mRNA was found to be elevated in carcinomas, relative to histologically normal pancreas from a healthy individual, as assessed by reverse transcription-PCR. COX-2 protein expression was detected by the Western blot assay in three of five pancreatic carcinoma cell lines (BxPC-3, Capan-1, and MDAPanc-3), whereas COX-1 protein was detected in two of the five cell lines (BxPC-3 and Capan-1). Increased levels of COX-2 mRNA were found in four of five cell lines, and only in PANC-1 cells was the low level of transcript comparable to that in the normal pancreas. The level of COX-2 mRNA was positively correlated with the differentiation status of the tumor of origin for each cell line, COX-2 protein expression was up-regulated by epidermal growth factor when the cells were grown in absence of serum. Finally, two nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, sulindac sulfide and NS398, produced a dose-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation in all pancreatic cell lines tested. No correlation was found between the level of COX-2 or COX-1 expression and the extent of growth inhibition. Treatment of BxPC-3 cells with sulindac sulfide and NS398 resulted in an induction of COX-2 expression. Our findings indicate that COX-2 up-regulation is a frequent event in pancreatic cancers and suggest that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may be useful in the chemoprevention and therapy of pancreatic carcinoma.
Previous studies indicate that the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist, N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-met hyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide HCl (SR141716A), inhibits the anandamide- and delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol- (THC) induced hypotension and bradycardia in anesthetized rats with a potency similar to that observed for SR141716A antagonism of THC-induced neurobehavioral effects. To further test the role of CB1 receptors in the cardiovascular effects of cannabinoids, we examined two additional criteria for receptor-specific interactions: the rank order of potency of agonists and stereoselectivity. A series of cannabinoid analogs including the enantiomeric pair (-)-11-OH-delta9-THC dimethylheptyl (+)-11-OH-delta9-THC dimethylheptyl were evaluated for their effects on arterial blood pressure and heart rate in urethane anesthetized rats. Six analogs elicited pronounced and long lasting hypotension and bradycardia that were blocked by 3 mg/kg of SR141716A. The rank order of potency was (-)-11-OH-delta9-THC dimethylheptyl > or = (-)-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethyl-heptyl)phenyl]-4-[3-hydroxy-propyl]c yclohexan-1-ol > (-)-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethyl-heptyl)phenyl]-4-[3-hydroxy-propyl]c yclohexan-1-ol > THC > anandamide > or = (-)-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethyl-heptyl)phenyl]-4-[3-hydroxy-propyl]c yclohexan-1-ol, which correlated well with CB1 receptor affinity or analgesic potency (r = 0.96-0.99). There was no hypotension or bradycardia after palmitoylethanolamine or (+)-11-OH-delta9-THC dimethylheptyl. An initial pressor response was also observed with THC and anandamide, which was not antagonized by SR141716A. We conclude that the similar rank orders of potency, stereoselectivity and sensitivity to blockade by SR141716A indicate the involvement of CB1-like receptors in the hypotensive and bradycardic actions of cannabinoids, whereas the mechanism of the pressor effect of THC and anandamide remains unclear.
The combination of monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tryptophan--a recognized antidepressant regimen--has been reported to cause behavioral or neurologic toxicity. The authors present eight cases of delirious syndromes apparently attributable to this combination of agents.
Rac, a small, GTP-binding protein in the Rho family, regulates several cellular functions, including the activation of NADPH oxidase, a major intracellular producer of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) isolated from mice that are genetically deficient in NADPH oxidase produce less ROS, and their activation during chronic liver injury is abrogated, resulting in decreased liver fibrosis. Therefore, we hypothesized that HSC ROS production and activation would be enhanced, and fibrosis worsened, by increasing Rac expression in HSCs. To achieve this, we used transgenic mice that express constitutively active human Rac1 under the control of the alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-sma) promoter, because alpha-sma expression is induced spontaneously during HSC activation. Transgene expression was upregulated progressively during culture of primary Rac-transgenic HSCs, and this increased HSC ROS production as well as expression of activation markers and collagen. Similarly, Rac mice treated with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) accumulated greater numbers of activated HSCs and had more liver damage, hepatocyte apoptosis, and liver fibrosis-as well as higher mortality-than CCl(4)-treated wild-type mice. In conclusion, sustained activation of Rac in HSCs perpetuates their activation and exacerbates toxin-induced liver injury and fibrosis, prompting speculation that Rac may be a therapeutic target in patients with cirrhosis.
