The potential benefits of hormone therapy (HT) in treating depressed postmenopausal women are controversial, and data on depression (re)emergence in the context of HT discontinuation are lacking.
To determine whether HT is associated with a modified risk of new-onset depressive symptoms in elderly women.
Current depressive symptomatology was evaluated in 4,069 community-dwelling postmenopausal women aged 65 years and over who were randomly recruited from 3 French cities between 1999 and 2001. Depressive symptomatology was assessed using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale at baseline and as part of the 2- and 4-year follow-up.
Over the follow-up period, multivariate logistic regression analyses adjusted for sociodemographic variables, measures of physical health, and cognitive impairment failed to find a significant association between HT at baseline and the incidence of depressive symptoms. However further analysis indicated an increased risk of incident depressive symptoms for women using transdermal estradiol treatment combined with synthetic progestin specifically (odds ratio [OR] = 1.59; 95% CI, 1.01-2.50; P = .046). In addition, while women taking HT continuously over the 4-year follow-up did not show an increased risk of depressive symptoms, women who stopped their treatment early after study inclusion, had a significantly higher risk (OR = 2.63; 95% CI, 1.52-4.55; P = .0005).
Hormone therapy was not associated with a protective effect against the emergence of depressive symptoms in elderly postmenopausal women. However, discontinuing treatment could increase the risk of depressive symptoms. Data on the appropriate management of depression in the context of HT discontinuation among postmenopausal women require further investigation.
The mutant allelic series of the mouse quaking gene consists of the spontaneous quaking(viable) (qk(v)) allele, which is homozygous viable with a dysmyelination phenotype, and four ENU-induced alleles (qk(kt 1), qk(k2), qk(kt3/4), and qk(l-1)), which are homozygous embryonic lethal. Here we report the isolation of qk(e5), the first ENU-induced viable allele of quaking. Unlike qk(v)/qk(v), qk(e5)/qk(e5) animals have early-onset seizures, severe ataxia, and a dramatically reduced lifespan. Ultrastructural analysis of qk(e5)/qk(e5) brains reveals severe dysmyelination when compared with both wild-type and qk(v)/qk(v) brains. In addition, Calbindin detection in young adult qk(e5)/qk(e5) mice reveals Purkinje cell axonal swellings indicative of neurodegeneration , which is not seen in young adult qk(v)/qk(v) mice. Although the molecular defect in the qk(e5) allele is not evident by sequencing, protein expression studies show that qk(e5)/qk(e5) postnatal oligodendrocytes lack the QKI-6 and QKI-7 isoforms and have reduced QKI-5 levels. The oligodendrocyte developmental markers PDGF alpha R, NG 2, O4, CNP, and MBP are also present in the qk(e5)/qk(e5) postnatal brain although CNP and MBP levels are considerably reduced. Because the qk(v) allele is a large deletion that affects the expression of three genes, the new neurologic qk(e5) allele is an important addition to this allelic series.
Goldenseal has been used for the treatment of a wide variety of ailments including gastrointestinal disturbances, urinary tract disorders, and inflammation. The five major alkaloid constituents in goldenseal are berberine, palmatine, hydrastine, hydrastinine, and canadine. When goldenseal was evaluated by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) in the standard 2-year bioassay, goldenseal induced an increase in liver tumors in rats and mice; however, the mechanism of goldenseal-associated liver carcinogenicity remains unknown. In this study, the toxicity of the five goldenseal alkaloid constituents was characterized, and their toxic potencies were compared. As measured by the Comet assay and the expression of γ-H2A.X, berberine, followed by palmatine, appeared to be the most potent DNA damage inducer in human hepatoma HepG2 cells. Berberine and palmatine suppressed the activities of both topoisomerase (Topo) I and II. In berberine-treated cells, DNA damage was shown to be directly associated with the inhibitory effect of Topo II, but not Topo I by silencing gene of Topo I or Topo II. In addition, DNA damage was also observed when cells were treated with commercially available goldenseal extracts and the extent of DNA damage was positively correlated to the berberine content. Our findings suggest that the Topo II inhibitory effect may contribute to berberine- and goldenseal-induced genotoxicity and tumorigenicity.
The authors describe four cases of toxic hepatitis due to ketoconazole. All patients were female and were given the drug from 8 to 16 weeks (200mg/day). The clinical condition of the four patients was similar to that of viral hepatitis. Normalization of clinical and laboratory findings occurred 60 to 90 days after discontinuation of the drug and no patient died. One patient received ketoconazole again after her clinical and laboratory results were normalized, and a new toxic hepatitis appeared within 15 days; the second discontinuation of the drug lead to cure of the hepatitis.
Investigation of the pathophysiology of psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD), as well as the assessment of potential novel therapeutics, has been limited by the lack of a well-validated animal model. MPTP-lesioned primates exhibit abnormal behaviors that are distinct from dyskinesia and parkinsonism and may represent behavioral correlates of neural processes related to psychosis in PD. Here we assess four types of behavior--agitation, hallucinatory-like responses to nonapparent stimuli, obsessive grooming, and stereotypies that are termed "psychosis-like"--and define their pharmacology using a psychosis-like behavior rating scale. By assessing the actions of drugs known to enhance or attenuate psychosis in PD patients, we find that the pharmacology of these behaviors recapitulates, in several respects, the pharmacology of psychosis in PD. Thus, levodopa and apomorphine elicited psychosis-like behaviors. Amantadine significantly decreased levodopa-induced dyskinesia but exacerbated psychosis-like behaviors. Haloperidol reduced psychosis-like behaviors but at the expense of increased parkinsonian disability while the atypical neuroleptics clozapine and quetiapine reduced psychosis-like behaviors without significant effect on parkinsonian disability. The response of different components of the psychotomimetic behavior suggested the involvement of both dopaminergic and nondopaminergic mechanisms in their expression.
Although unfractionated heparin is the most commonly used anticoagulant for hemodialysis and has been associated with bleeding episodes, a more devastating complication that can occur is heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). It is believed that HIT type II is much more dangerous than type I, because HIT type II is associated with thromboembolic complications whereas there are no such complications in HIT type I. However, increased clot formation in the extracorporeal circuit during hemodialysis with unfractionated heparin is sometimes experienced by not only patients with HIT type II but also those with HIT type I. Three patients with HIT type I are presented who suffered from clot formation during hemodialysis, and in whom 81 mg of aspirin and/or cessation of heparin was prescribed. All three patients had received recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo). Both heparin and rHuEpo induce enhanced platelet aggregation; therefore, it is possible that even HIT type I patients may suffer clot formation in the extracorporeal circuit due to platelet activation via the synergistic effects of unfractionated heparin and rHuEpo.
A high-throughput screen utilizing a depolarization-triggered thallium influx through KCNQ1 channels was developed and used to screen the MLSMR collection of over 300,000 compounds. An iterative medicinal chemistry approach was initiated and from this effort, ML277 was identified as a potent activator of KCNQ1 channels (EC(50)=260 nM). ML277 was shown to be highly selective against other KCNQ channels (>100-fold selectivity versus KCNQ2 and KCNQ4) as well as against the distantly related hERG potassium channel.
Cytokines and reactive oxygen species are inflammatory mediators that lead to increased sensitivity to painful stimuli, and their inhibition represents a therapeutic approach in controlling acute and chronic pain. The water-soluble flavonone hesperidin methyl chalcone (HMC) is used in the treatment of venous diseases, but its bioactivity as anti-inflammatory and analgesic is poorly understood. The present study evaluated the protective effects of HMC in widely used mouse models of acute and prolonged inflammation and pain. Male Swiss mice were treated with HMC (3-100 or 30 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) or vehicle (saline) 1h before inflammatory stimuli. In overt pain-like behavior tests, HMC inhibited acetic acid- and phenyl-p-benzoquinone-induced writhing, and capsaicin-, Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA)- and formalin-induced paw flinching and licking. HMC also inhibited carrageenan-, capsaicin- and CFA-induced mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia. Mechanistically, HMC inhibited carrageenan-induced cytokine (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-10) production, oxidative stress and NF-κB activation. Furthermore, HMC did not cause gastric or hepatic injury in a 7 days treatment protocol. Thus, this is the first report that HMC reduces inflammation and inflammatory pain by targeting TRPV1 (transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1) receptor activity, oxidative stress, cytokine production, and NF-κB activity, which suggests its potential applicability in inflammatory diseases.
Acetazolamide is a weak diuretic used to decrease production of aqueous humor in the eye. Hemodialysis patients undergoing ocular surgery may benefit from acetazolamide; however, no pharmacokinetic data are available for this group of patients. We report a patient who received acetazolamide 250 mg every 6 hours after ophthalmic surgery and developed reversible neurological side effects associated with very high plasma concentrations. Using pharmacokinetic analysis, we suggest an alternate administration of acetazolamide for end-stage renal patients.
The efficacy and tolerability of a new dispersible formulation of diclofenac were evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-centre study in patients aged 60 to 80 years suffering from osteoarthritis. A total of 314 elderly patients with a mean age of 68.9 years received either 50 mg diclofenac dispersible or placebo 3-times daily for a period of 4 weeks, with paracetamol being allowed as rescue analgesic for both treatment groups. The study consisted of a baseline evaluation and two follow-up visits after 14 and 28 days of treatment. The following clinical parameters were assessed: pain at rest, on movement and on local pressure; global severity of pain; effect of pain on daily activity; duration of stiffness after immobility; rescue analgesic consumption; overall opinion of the investigator on efficacy; and occurrence of adverse events. At either one or both post-treatment assessments, diclofenac dispersible was found to be significantly superior to placebo for almost all measures of efficacy (p less than or equal to 0.05). Thirty (14.4%) patients out of 208 assessed in the diclofenac group reported adverse events compared to 18 (17%) out of 106 who received placebo; therapy was discontinued prematurely due to poor tolerability in 4.8% and 5.7% of patients, respectively. The adverse events were predominantly related to the gastro-intestinal system and were mostly mild to moderate in severity. The results of this 4-week study thus demonstrate that diclofenac dispersible is not only effective in treating osteoarthritis in the elderly but also has an acceptable tolerability profile in a patient population which is especially vulnerable to adverse effects induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a common microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus (DM) that worsens its morbidity and mortality. There is evidence that camel milk (CM) improves the glycemic control in DM but its effect on the renal complications especially the DN remains unclear. Thus the current study aimed to characterize the effects of CM treatment on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DN. Using STZ-induced diabetes, we investigated the effect of CM treatment on kidney function, proteinuria, renal Smad1, collagen type IV (Col4), blood glucose, insulin resistance (IR), lipid peroxidation, the antioxidant superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione (GSH). In addition renal morphology was also examined. The current results showed that rats with untreated diabetes exhibited marked hyperglycemia, IR, high serum urea and creatinine levels, excessive proteinuria, increased renal Smad1 and Col4, glomerular expansion, and extracellular matrix deposition. There was also increased lipid peroxidation products, decreased antioxidant enzyme activity and GSH levels. Camel milk treatment decreased blood glucose, IR, and lipid peroxidation. Superoxide dismutase and CAT expression, CAT activity, and GSH levels were increased. The renoprotective effects of CM were demonstrated by the decreased serum urea and creatinine, proteinuria, Smad1, Col4, and preserved normal tubulo-glomerular morphology. In conclusion, beside its hypoglycemic action, CM attenuates the early changes of DN, decreased renal Smad1 and Col4. This could be attributed to a primary action on the glomerular mesangial cells, or secondarily to the hypoglycemic and antioxidant effects of CM. The protective effects of CM against DN support its use as an adjuvant anti-diabetes therapy.
Seizure-induced damage elicits a loss of hippocampal neurons mediated to a great extent by the p75 neurotrophin receptor (NTR). Proneurotrophins, which are potent apoptosis-inducing ligands for p75(NTR), were increased in the hippocampus, particularly in astrocytes, by pilocarpine-induced seizures; and infusion of anti-pro-NGF dramatically attenuated neuronal loss after seizures. The p75(NTR) is expressed in many different cell types in the nervous system, and can mediate a variety of different cellular functions by recruiting specific intracellular binding proteins to activate distinct signaling pathways. In this study, we demonstrate that neurotrophin receptor-interacting factor (NRIF) mediates apoptotic signaling via p75(NTR) in hippocampal neurons in vitro and in vivo. After seizure-induced injury, NRIF(-/-) mice showed an increase in p75(NTR) expression in the hippocampus; however, these neurons failed to undergo apoptosis in contrast to wild-type mice. Treatment of cultured hippocampal neurons with proneurotrophins induced association of NRIF with p75(NTR) and subsequent translocation of NRIF to the nucleus, which was dependent on cleavage of the receptor. Neurons lacking NRIF were resistant to p75(NTR)-mediated apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. In addition, we demonstrate some mechanistic differences in p75(NTR) signaling in hippocampal neurons compared with other cell types. Overall, these studies demonstrate the requirement for NRIF to signal p75(NTR)-mediated apoptosis of hippocampal neurons and that blocking pro-NGF can inhibit neuronal loss after seizures.
Patients with unstable coronary syndromes are more likely to have a lesion containing thrombus and have a higher procedural complication and restenosis rate. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of an ionic (ioxaglate) and a nonionic (iohexol) low osmolality contrast media on thrombus generation using percutaneous intracoronary angioscopy in patients with unstable angina undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). Thirty patients with unstable angina pectoris randomized to either ioxaglate or iohexol (15 patients in each group), underwent percutaneous intracoronary angioscopy before and after PTCA and 15 minutes after PTCA. Angioscopically visible thrombus was defined using the Ermenonville classification and the lesion divided into 3 zones-proximal, mid, and distal. Angiographic filling defects were seen in 3 patients before PTCA, and in 10 after PTCA. Angioscopically visible thrombus was seen in 10 patients before PTCA in the ioxaglate group and 8 in the iohexol group. After PTCA 5 patients (33.3%) in the ioxaglate and 11 (73.6%) in the iohexol group developed new thrombus, p = 0.028. Total thrombi before PTCA were 16 versus 13, after PTCA 25 versus 27, and at 15 minutes after PTCA 23 versus 25, ioxaglate versus iohexol respectively, p = NS. There was no correlation between type or extent of intimal dissection and angioscopically visible new thrombus formation. Angiography underestimated the incidence of intracoronary thrombus before and after PTCA. Nonionic low osmolality contrast medium was associated with significantly more patients developing angioscopically visible new thrombus. This has clinical implications in the choice of contrast medium used in PTCA, particularly in the setting of unstable angina.
Levacetylmethadol was withdrawn from the U.S. market as a treatment for opioid-dependent patients in 2003 due to QT prolongation, leaving methadone as the primary therapy for over 200,000 individuals. Methadone was subsequently shown to prolong the QT interval as well. We hypothesized that opioid treatment program physicians are unaware of these safety concerns.
To assess awareness of methadone's QT-prolonging properties, we conducted a national mail survey of physicians licensed as medical directors for accredited U.S. opioid treatment programs in 2006. The primary outcome was knowledge of methadone's QT-prolonging effects. Awareness of the cardiac effects of levacetylmethadol and buprenorphine were also assessed.
The survey response rate was 66% (692 physicians) of whom 35% were family practitioners, 25% internists, 22% psychiatrists, and 8% self-identified as addiction specialists. While 75% (95% CI, 72-78) correctly identified levacetylmethadol as a QT-prolonging drug, only 41% (95% CI, 37- 45) were aware of methadone's QT-prolonging properties. Just 24% (95% CI, 21-27) were aware of methadone's association with torsade de pointes. In addition, 52% (95% CI, 48- 56) correctly reported the absence of an association between buprenorphine and QT prolongation. Larger program census and academic setting tended to predict greater awareness of methadone's QT-prolonging effects; yet even in these subgroups awareness did not exceed 54%.
Scientific publication alone has been inadequate in raising awareness regarding methadone's QT-prolonging properties, even among those who most often prescribe the drug. Universal education initiatives for all accredited opioid treatment programs seem warranted to enhance the safety of this essential therapy.
A major clinical feature in multiple myeloma is the development of osteolytic bone disease. The increase in bone destruction is due to uncontrolled osteoclastic bone resorption. Until recently the factors responsible for mediating the increase in osteoclast formation in myeloma have been unclear. However, recent studies have implicated a number of factors, including the ligand for receptor activator of NFkappaB (RANKL) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha. The demonstration that increased osteoclastic activity plays a central role in this process and the identification of molecules that may play a critical role in the development of myeloma bone disease have resulted in studies aimed at identifying new approaches to treating this aspect of myeloma.
Studies have been performed to determine the ability of recombinant osteoprotegerin (Fc.OPG), a soluble decoy receptor for RANKL, and potent new bisphosphonates to inhibit the development of myeloma bone disease in the 5T2MM murine model of multiple myeloma.
Fc.OPG was shown to prevent the development of osteolytic bone lesions in 5T2MM bearing animals. These changes were associated with a preservation of the cancellous bone loss induced by myeloma cells and an inhibition of osteoclast formation. Bisphosphonates, including ibandronate and zoledronic acid, were also shown to inhibit the development of osteolytic bone lesions in the 5T2MM model and alternative models of myeloma bone disease.
Bisphosphonates and Fc.OPG are effective inhibitors of the development of osteolytic bone lesions in pre-clinical murine models of myeloma bone disease.
Pain is commonly associated with inflammation. Several mediators including prostaglandins have been implicated in pain and inflammation. However, the recent reports indicated the role of leukotrienes as signaling molecules in pain. The present study was aimed to evaluate the effect of 5-LOX inhibitor, zileuton in nociceptive paradigms including inflammatory pain. Acetic acid-induced writhing, tail flick and hot plate tests to assess pain response were used. The effect on carrageenan-induced mechanical hyperalgesia, and acetic acid-induced vascular permeability was also determined. Zileuton (ED50=31.81 mg/kg p.o.), zafirlukast (ED50=6.19 mg/kg p.o.), montelukast (ED50=7.17 mg/kg p.o.) inhibited acetic acid-induced writhing in mice. Further, zileuton and ZK 158252, leukotriene B4 receptor antagonist did not alter basal response against tail flick and hot plate assays. Acetic acid-induced vascular permeability was significantly inhibited by zileuton. Oral administration of zileuton showed efficacy against carrageenan-induced mechanical hyperalgesia and also reversed histological changes in paw biopsies. These data suggest that zileuton, a 5-LOX inhibitor, exhibited antinociceptive effect in paradigms of inflammatory pain.
The clinical outcome of diisocyanate-induced asthma has been found to be poor despite cessation of exposure. Our aim was to study the outcome of diisocyanate-induced asthma after initiation of inhaled steroid treatment at a mean period of 7 months (range 2-60 months) after cessation of exposure by following up lung function and bronchial inflammation.
Bronchoscopy was performed on 17 patients 2 days after a positive inhalation challenge test, after which budesonide 1600 mug a day was started. Bronchoscopy, spirometry, and histamine challenge tests were repeated at 6 months and on average 3 years. The results were also compared with those obtained from 15 healthy control subjects.
Nonspecific bronchial hyperreactivity diminished significantly (P = 0.006); however, forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) values decreased, with a median yearly reduction of FEV1 of 79 ml. The count of mast cells in bronchial mucosa decreased (P = 0.012) and that of macrophages increased (P = 0.001). Interleukin-4 level in mucosa was during the first year significantly higher than in controls but its level decreased in the follow-up. Interleukin-6, interleukin-15, and tumour necrosis factor alpha messenger-RNA levels were significantly higher in hyperreactive patients than in nonhyperreactive patients at the end of the follow-up.
Our results indicate that inflammation may persist in diisocyanate-induced asthma despite inhaled steroid medication. However, TH2-type inflammation diminished. Persistent nonspecific bronchial hyperreactivity was associated with proinflammatory acting cytokines produced mainly by macrophages. Considering the poor prognosis of the disease the findings could be utilized to develop the follow-up and treatment of diisocyanate-induced asthma.
We compared the lethal toxicity of cocaine with that of three of its metabolites to determine the contribution of these metabolites to the lethal potential from cocaine infusion. Equimolar quantities of cocaine, norcocaine, benzoylecgonine, and ecgonine methyl ester were infused in conscious rats to determine onset of convulsions and respiratory arrest. In addition, the convulsive and respiratory toxicity for cocaine and norcocaine were evaluated in anesthetized rats and their circulatory toxicity in anesthetized and ventilated rats. Norcocaine infusion resulted in earlier onset of convulsions and respiratory arrest in conscious rats than cocaine and earlier onset of circulatory arrest. Plasma concentrations of norcocaine and cocaine were not different at these times. Benzoylecgonine and ecgonine methyl ester were less potent convulsants and respiratory depressants than norcocaine and cocaine, with ecgonine methyl ester more respiratory depressant than benzoylecgonine. Pentobarbital anesthesia enhanced the respiratory depression and suppressed or delayed the onset of convulsions from norcocaine and cocaine infusion. Prolonged infusion of cocaine to circulatory arrest resulted in benzoylecgonine concentrations approximately 60%, and norcocaine concentrations approximately 5%, of the cocaine concentration, but no detectable ecgonine methyl ester formation. We conclude that although norcocaine, ecgonine methyl ester, and benzoylecgonine administered separately have lethal potential in massive dosages, death from cocaine overdose primarily results from the parent compound and not from metabolite formation.
We report a 72 years old hypertensive female, treated with enalapril 10 mg/day and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg/day during three years. She presented a depressive disorder and cytalopram was prescribed in a dose of 10 mg/day. Two weeks before admission, a serum electrolyte analysis disclosed normal results and the cytalopram dose was increased to 20 mg/day. The patient was admitted with a hyponatremic encephalopathy with a plasma sodium of 100 mEq/L and a plasma potassium of 2.0 mEq/L. Cytalopram, enalapril and hydrochlorothiazide were discontinued, hypertonic NaCl and KCl were administered. The patient had a favorable evolution with a remarkable improvement of her symptoms.
In guinea pigs the radioactivity in the vascular beds was washed out by a cardiac perfusion of saline 15 min after the injection of 50 microCi of radioiodinated human serum albumin (RISA). The brain and temporal bones were dissected and a blood sample was obtained. To examine the degree of extravasation of RISA, the extravascular radioactivity in the tissues was measured and expressed as a ratio to that of the blood. Intravenous injection of amphetamine sulfate increased the extravasation in the brain and the temporal bone of the rat but did not increase it in either tissue of the guinea pig. It was proposed that this was because amphetamine did not cause the blood pressure of the guinea pig to reach the "critical level" which would cause the opening of the blood-tissue barrier. In the rat the degrees of extravasation in both the brain and the temporal bone paralleled the maximal mean arterial pressure caused by amphetamine. It is proposed on the basis of these data that there may exist a blood-inner ear barrier and that this barrier has the same characteristics as the blood-brain barrier.
Most studies having shown respiratory health effects from traffic exhaust were conducted in urban areas with a complex mixture of air pollution sources. This study has investigated the potential impact of traffic exhaust on respiratory symptoms among adults living along a Swiss alpine highway corridor, where traffic exhaust from the respective trans-Alpine highway is the predominate source of air pollution.
In summer 2005, we recruited 1839 adults aged 15 to 70 from a random sample of 10 communities along the Swiss alpine highway corridors. Subjects answered a questionnaire on respiratory health (asthmatic and bronchitic symptoms), risk factors, and potential confounding variables. We used logistic regression models to assess associations between respiratory symptoms and traffic exposure being defined a) as living within 200 m of the highway, and b) as a bell-shaped function simulating the decrease of pollution levels with increasing distance to the highway.
Positive associations were found between living close to a highway and wheezing without cold (OR = 3.10, 95%-CI: 1.27-7.55) and chronic cough (OR = 2.88, 95%-CI: 1.17-7.05). The models using a bell-shaped function suggested that symptoms reached background levels after 400-500 m from the highway. The association with chronic cough was driven by a subgroup reporting hay fever or allergic rhinitis.
Highway traffic exhaust in alpine highway corridors, in the absence of other industrial sources, showed negative associations with the respiratory health of adults, higher than those previously found in urban areas.
Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder mainly affecting females. It is principally caused by mutations in the MECP2 gene. Seizures occur in about 80% of subjects but there has been little research into the factors contributing to their frequency.
To investigate seizure frequency in Rett syndrome and its relationship with other factors, including genetic characteristics and the use of anti-epileptic drugs.
Information on daily seizure occurrence and health service utilization and monthly anti-epileptic drug use was provided on 162 Rett syndrome cases for a calendar year. Age at onset of seizures, developmental history and other clinical and genetic characteristics were obtained from a contemporaneously completed questionnaire and from the Australian Rett Syndrome Database. Negative binomial regression was used to investigate factors associated with seizure rates.
Seizure rates were highest in the 7-12 year age group. They were lower in those with p.R294X, p.R255X mutations and C terminal mutations. Those who had early developmental problems and poorer mobility had higher seizure rates as did those with greater clinical severity and poorer functional ability. Many different combinations of medications were being used with carbamazepine, sodium valproate and lamotrigine either singly or in combination with another being the most common.
Seizure frequency in Rett syndrome is age-dependent, more common in those with more severe early developmental problems and influenced by mutation type.
Poliomyelitis remains endemic in many developing nations. Patients may develop residual muscle weakness in one or more limbs after an attack of poliomyelitis in childhood. We report an adult patient who presented for right temporal cortical grid placement. He had childhood poliomyelitis and, while showing no evidence of postpolio syndrome, demonstrated excessive sensitivity to nondepolarizing muscle relaxants and developed prolonged muscle weakness during the postoperative period.
CD5(+) B cells comprise a unique subset of B cells that modulates innate as well as autoimmune systems. The aim of this study was to investigate alterations of the circulating CD5(+) B-cell subset in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) by evaluating various clinical parameters, including therapeutic regimens.
Thirty-four patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), 19 patients with Crohn's disease (CD), and 46 healthy control subjects were enrolled in this study. CD5(+) B cells in peripheral blood collected from each subject were analyzed by flow cytometry. Multiple regression analysis was carried out to evaluate the factors related to the circulating CD5(+) B-cell subset in the IBD patients. In an in vitro examination, dexamethasone-induced apoptosis in peripheral blood B cells was examined by detecting cell surface binding of the annexin-V antibody.
Age and gender in the control subjects did not influence the circulating CD5(+) B-cell subset. Multiple regression analysis showed that the presence of UC, corticosteroid therapy, and number of white blood cells in peripheral blood each had a significant influence in decreasing the number of circulating CD5(+) B cells in the IBD patients. Furthermore, in vitro results showed that dexamethasone treatment significantly induced apoptosis in CD5(+) B cells, though apoptosis was similarly observed in CD5(-) B cells.
CD5(+) B cells may be involved in the pathogenesis of UC, and modulation of this subset by corticosteroid therapy may play a role in the treatment of IBD patients.
Two groups of female cats (6 each) were used: (1) a seizure group which received a minimum convulsive dose (MCD) of cocaine i.v., and (2) a subseizure group which received a subconvulsive dose of cocaine i.v., for 13 successive days. Determination of the MCD across 13 days in the seizure group and on Day 14 in the subseizure group revealed significant tolerance to cocaine-induced convulsions. However, reverse tolerance to cocaine-induced abnormal behavior developed as dystonic posture and speed of stereotyped movement increased during the 13-day treatment period in the subseizure group. These data are discussed in terms of local anesthetic and catecholaminergic effects of cocaine, as well as possible differential effects of various routes of administration.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is closely associated with reduced levels of testosterone, which may affect fertility. Herein, we investigated whether NAFLD impairs the reproductive function of male rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a high fat diet (HFD) until they developed NAFLD. N-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) was then given for 4 weeks to prevent hepatic steatosis. Testes weight and serum and testicular testosterone were significantly lower in rats with NAFLD compared with healthy controls. Testicular pathological changes in NAFLD rats included markedly reduced sperm number and motility, and the number of apoptotic spermatogenic cells was higher, which was consistent with a reduction in the number of tetraploid cells. Breeding experiments indicated that paternal NAFLD affected neither the sperm morphology nor the development of fetuses and offspring, but did prolong the days required for insemination. However, administration of N-3 PUFA alleviated the impairment of reproductive function. These results suggest that NAFLD impairs reproductive function in male rats by decreasing testicular testosterone synthesis, and N-3 PUFA treatment may have a beneficial therapeutic effect.
