Mizoribine (MZR) is an imidazole nucleoside used as a therapeutic immunosuppressive agent. Though a previous report showed that MZR ameliorates proteinuria in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephropathy, the effect of MZR on podocytes has not been clarified. In this study, we determined whether MZR directly prevents PAN-induced podocyte injury.
Rats were intravenously injected once on day 0 with 100 mg/kg of PAN and received daily subcutaneous injections of MZR at a dose of 10 mg/kg from days 0 to 14. Cultured podocytes were pretreated with 50 microg/ml of MZR and then treated with 30 microg/ml of PAN.
In rat PAN nephrosis, treatment with MZR from days 0 to 14 almost completely inhibited proteinuria. Immunofluorescence staining of nephrin was diminished, showing a discontinuous pattern in saline-treated PAN rats. In contrast, MZR treatment resulted in maintenance of a normal linear pattern. In cultured podocytes exposed to PAN, the percentages of viable cells were significantly increased with MZR treatment. The protective effect of MZR on PAN-induced podocyte injury was independent of inosine 5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase that is a known target enzyme of MZR as an immunosuppressant. MZR reduced PAN-induced integrin-linked kinase activation (ILK) and phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta) in vivo and in vitro.
MZR directly prevents PAN-induced podocyte injury, possibly by affecting signaling cascades involving ILK and GSK3beta.
The growing problem of drug resistance among respiratory pathogens in community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), particularly Streptococcus pneumoniae, (S. pneumoniae) has complicated initial empiric therapy of CAP. This study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of a 3-day course of azithromycin in adults with mild to moderately severe CAP, and to determine whether in vitro macrolide resistance among strains of S. pneumoniae is related to clinical efficacy/failure.
An open-label, non-comparative study was undertaken at 3 university-affiliated hospitals in Japan. Patients were eligible if they were 18 years or older and had mild or moderately severe CAP. All patients received azithromycin 500 mg/day for three days, and clinical and microbiological responses were evaluated 1 and 2 weeks after initiating therapy.
A total of 78 patients received the study medication, 59 of whom had sufficient data available for efficacy analysis. Overall, a good clinical response with azithromycin was achieved in 49 patients (83.1%) and a microbiological response was achieved in 78.3%. Azithromycin resistance, based on CLSI criteria, was demonstrated in 85.7% (12/14) of S. pneumoniae isolates, and the presence of ermB genes was found in 50.0% (7/14). However, among patients in whom S. pneumoniae was isolated (n=17), a good clinical response was achieved in 76.5% (13/17), and the microbiological response rate was 64.3% (9/14). Furthermore, 6 of 7 patients in whom high-level resistance was documented (MICs >256 microg/mL and carrying ermB genes) exhibited good clinical responses. Azithromycin was well tolerated; adverse events, mainly of a gastrointestinal nature, were recorded in 6 patients (7.7%).
Most patients responed well to azithromycin, indicating that azithromycin might be clinically effective for the treatment of CAP with macrolide-resistant S. pneumoniae. However, a larger study is necessary to prove the efficacy against macrolide-resistant S. pneumoniae.
Glufosinate (GLF) at high levels in mammals causes convulsions and amnesia through a mechanism that is not completely understood. The structural similarity of GLF to glutamate (GLU) implicates the glutamatergic system as a target for GLF neurotoxicity. The current work examined in vitro GLF interaction with N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype GLU receptors (NMDARs) and GLT-1 transporters via [(3)H]CGP 39653 binding experiments and [(3)H]GLU uptake assays, respectively. GLF effects on neuronal network activity were assessed using microelectrode array (MEA) recordings in primary cultures of cortical neurons. GLF and its primary metabolite N-acetylglufosinate (NAcGLF) bind to the NMDAR; the IC50 value for GLF was 668 μM and for NAcGLF was about 100 μM. Concentrations of GLF greater than 1000 μM were needed to decrease GLU uptake through GLT-1. In MEA recordings from networks of rat primary cortical neurons, the concentration-responses for NMDA, GLF and NAcGLF on network mean firing rates (MFR) were biphasic, increasing at lower concentrations and decreasing below control levels at higher concentrations. Increases in MFR occurred between 3-10 μM NMDA (290% control, maximum), 100-300 μM NAcGLF (190% control, maximum) and 10-1000 μM GLF (340% control, maximum). The NMDAR antagonist MK801 attenuated both NMDA and GLF increases in MFR. The GLF concentration required to alter GLU transport through GLT-1 is not likely to be attained in vivo, and therefore not relevant to the neurotoxic mode of action. However, toxicokinetic data from reports of intentional human poisonings indicate that GLF concentrations in the CNS after acute exposure could reach levels high enough to lead to effects mediated via NMDARs. Furthermore, the newly characterized action of NAcGLF at the NMDAR suggests that both the parent compound and metabolite could contribute to neurotoxicity via this pathway.
To determine the safety of thrombolytic use in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction.
Retrospective cross-sectional survey.
Twenty-nine acute care institutions.
Patients who sustained cocaine-associated myocardial infarction from 1987 to 1993 were identified through medical record review. Those who received thrombolytic therapy (n = 25) were compared with those who met electrocardiographic TIMI criteria but did not receive thrombolytic therapy (n = 41).
None.
Both groups of patients were similar with respect to age, gender, race, cardiac risk factors, time from last cocaine use until presentation, and duration of chest pain at the time of presentation (p > 0.20). There were no major complications or deaths in patients who received thrombolytic therapy (95% confidence interval, 0 to 12%). Minor complications occurred in only two patients. The presence or absence of clinical criteria for reperfusion was noted in the charts of 21 patients who received thrombolytic therapy: 67% were believed to reperfuse. The patients who did and did not receive thrombolytic therapy had similar median peak creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) levels (180 vs 154 mg/dL, p = NS) and time until peak CK-MB (11.3 vs 13.6 h; p = NS).
Thrombolytic therapy for cocaine-associated myocardial infarction appears to be safe. It remains unclear whether thrombolytic therapy is an important therapeutic intervention for patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction. Further study on efficacy is recommended prior to routine use.
The development of neuromuscular blockade of the adductor pollicis muscle following vecuronium 0.1, 0.15 and 0.2 mg kg-1, was compared with the development of intubating conditions and respiratory paralysis. From this relationship, the optimal time after injection required for ideal tracheal intubation was calculated for the three doses of vecuronium. The effects of these doses of vecuronium on the onset, the duration of action and rate of recovery were studied. Vecuronium and "light" thiopentone anaesthesia produced ideal intubation conditions only when complete neuromuscular blockade had been established for at least 30 s. Intubation could be carried out with minimal reaction 3.5 and 2.5 min after the injection of vecuronium 0.1 mg kg-1 and 0.2 mg kg-1, respectively. Pancuronium 0.1 mg kg-1 produced good conditions about 3.8 min after injection. Suxamethonium 1.5 mg kg-1 (preceded by gallamine 20 mg 2 min earlier), produced excellent conditions in under 1 min. Hypopnoea occurred when the peripheral neuromuscular blockade was about 20-40% established with vecuronium or 50% established with pancuronium. Increasing the dose of vecuronium from 0.1 mg kg-1 to 0.2 mg kg-1 prolonged significantly the duration of action (from 21 to 48 min) but did not shorten significantly the onset time nor prolong the rate of recovery.
Anticholinesterases were administered in an attempt to antagonize prolonged neuromuscular blockade following the administration of succinylcholine in a patient later found to be homozygous for atypical plasma cholinesterase. Edrophonium 10 mg, given 74 min after succinylcholine, when train-of-four stimulation was characteristic of phase II block, produced partial antagonism which was not sustained. Repeated doses of edrophonium to 70 mg and neostigmine to 2.5 mg did not antagonize or augment the block. Spontaneous respiration recommenced 200 min after succinylcholine administration. It is concluded that anticholinesterases are only partially effective in restoring neuromuscular function in succinylcholine apnoea despite muscle twitch activity typical of phase II block.
The heterocyclic amines 2-amino-9H-pyrido[2,3-b]indole (AalphaC) and 2-amino-3-methyl-9H-pyrido[2,3-b]indole (MeAalphaC) are carcinogenic in several organs in rodents, but not in the intestinal tract. However, AalphaC induces DNA adducts, mutations and preneoplastic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) in rodent colons. The purpose of this study was to examine whether AalphaC and MeAalphaC could affect intestinal tumorigenesis in C57BL/6J-Min/+ (multiple intestinal neoplasia) mice. These mice are heterozygous for a germline nonsense mutation in codon 850 of the tumor suppressor gene adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc), producing a truncated non-functional Apc protein. They develop multiple intestinal adenomas, and are particularly susceptible to intestinal carcinogens that affect the Apc gene, especially when exposed neonatally. Whole litters consisting of Min/+ and +/+ (wild-type) mice of both sexes were given a single s.c. injection of 0.22 mmol/kg AalphaC (40.3 mg/kg) or MeAalphaC (43.4 mg/kg) or the vehicle 1:1 dimethylsulfoxide:0.9% NaCl on days 3-6 after birth, and were terminated at 11 weeks. AalphaC increased the number and diameter of small intestinal tumors, but not the number of colonic tumors or dysplastic ACF, in female and male Min/+ mice separately. In pooled data from females and males, colonic tumors and ACF found after AalphaC exposure appeared to be smaller than the spontaneous lesions, indicating later induction, slower growth or both. In contrast to AalphaC, MeAalphaC did not affect intestinal tumorigenesis in Min/+ mice. No effects were found by any of the amino-alpha-carbolines in the +/+ mice. AalphaC was less potent than the heterocyclic amine 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine.
We identified for the first time two genetically selected strains of rats that differ markedly in sensitivity to cocaine-induced life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias and arrest. The two strains of rats, designated as Fast and Slow, were bred for sensitivity (Fast) or resistance (Slow) to electrically kindled seizures. Studies were performed on halothane-anesthetized, mechanically ventilated rats. Animals were given cocaine (3 or 4 mg/kg/min i.v.) until they died. Arrhythmias (atrioventricular conduction block) developed at much lower cumulative cocaine doses in Slow-kindling rats than in Fast-kindling rats (15 +/- 1 versus 42 +/- 3 mg/kg, p <.01). The lethal cocaine dose (the dose that caused cardiac arrest) was also markedly lower in Slow than in Fast strains (32 +/- 2 versus 62 +/- 6 mg/kg, p <.01). These differences between the two strains were not significantly altered by pretreatment of animals with either ganglionic blockers, hexamethonium (20 mg/kg i.v.) or chlorisondamine (5 mg/kg i.v.), or a nonselective beta adrenergic receptor blocker, propranolol (1 mg/kg i.v.). A nonselective alpha adrenergic receptor blocker, phentolamine (10 mg/kg i.v.), however, abolished the differences between the Fast and Slow strains in the doses of cocaine required to produced atrioventricular conduction block and cardiac arrest. The results provide the first evidence of genetically determined susceptibility or resistance to cocaine-induced cardiotoxicity. There appears to be a genetically determined difference in the alpha adrenergic receptor system between the two strains that is responsible for the differential sensitivity to cocaine-induced arrhythmias and cardiac arrest.
The amounts of myocardial metallothionein (MT) and heavy metal (Zn, Cu) levels during the early stage of the experimental myocardial infarction model induced by isoproterenol (Isp) administration were measured by an atomic absorption spectrophotometry. MT was measured by the Cd-hem method. Myocardial infarction was induced by the administration of 75 mg/kg i.p. of Isp to rats weighing 270 +/- 10 g. Thirty minutes after Isp injection, Zn and Cu levels began to decrease and 12 h later, reached the minimal values compared with the control value. The level of MT began to increase 3 h after the Isp injection and reached the maximal value at 12 h, although MT remained undetectable in the control myocardial tissue by the Cd-hem method. MT levels in the liver increased and total Zn and Cu were elevated compared with the control value 12 h after Isp administration. These results suggest that MT is produced in the myocardium after Isp administration, and that the roles of MT in the heart and the liver are different. It was thought that a rise in MT was induced for the protection of the myocardial cells to injury.
Arsenic is a well-documented human carcinogen, and contamination with this heavy metal is of global concern, presenting a major issue in environmental health. However, the mechanism by which arsenic induces cancer is unknown, in large part due to the lack of an appropriate animal model. In the present set of experiments, we focused on dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), a major metabolite of arsenic in most mammals including humans. We provide, for the first time, the full data, including detailed pathology, of the carcinogenicity of DMA in male F344 rats in a 2-year bioassay, along with the first assessment of the genetic alteration patterns in the induced rat urinary bladder tumors. Additionally, to test the hypothesis that reactive oxygen species (ROS) may play a role in DMA carcinogenesis, 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) formation in urinary bladder was examined. In experiment 1, a total of 144 male F344 rats at 10 weeks of age were randomly divided into four groups that received DMA at concentrations of 0, 12.5, 50 and 200 p.p.m. in the drinking water, respectively, for 104 weeks. From weeks 97-104, urinary bladder tumors were observed in 8 of 31 and 12 of 31 rats in groups treated with 50 and 200 p.p.m. DMA, respectively, and the preneoplastic lesion, papillary or nodular hyperplasias (PN hyperplasia), was noted in 12 and 14 rats, respectively. DMA treatment did not cause tumors in other organs and no urinary bladder tumors or preneoplastic lesions were evident in the 0 and 12.5 p.p.m.-treated groups. Urinary levels of arsenicals increased significantly in a dose-responsive manner except for arsenobetaine (AsBe). DMA and trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO) were the major compounds detected in the urine, with small amounts of monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) and tetramethylarsonium (TeMa) also detected. Significantly increased 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling indices were observed in the morphologically normal epithelium of the groups treated with 50 and 200 p.p.m. DMA. Mutation analysis showed that DMA-induced rat urinary bladder tumors had a low rate of H-ras mutations (2 of 20, 10%). No alterations of the p53, K-ras or beta-catenin genes were detected. Only one TCC (6%) demonstrated nuclear accumulation of p53 protein by immunohistochemistry. In 16 of 18 (89%) of the TTCs and 3 of 4 (75%) of the papillomas, decreased p27(kip1) expression could be demonstrated. Cyclin D1 overexpression was observed in 26 of 47 (55%) PN hyperplasias, 3 of 4 (75%) papillomas, and 10 of 18 (56%) TCCs. As a molecular marker of oxidative stress, increased COX-2 expression was noted in 17 of 18 (94%) TCCs, 4 of 4 (100%) papillomas, and 39 of 47 (83%) PN hyperplasias. In experiment 2, 8-OHdG formation in urinary bladder was significantly increased after treatment with 200 p.p.m. DMA in the drinking water for 2 weeks compared with the controls. The studies demonstrated DMA to be a carcinogen for the rat urinary bladder and suggested that DMA exposure may be relevant to the carcinogenic risk of inorganic arsenic in humans. Diverse genetic alterations observed in DMA-induced urinary bladder tumors imply that multiple genes are involved in stages of DMA-induced tumor development. Furthermore, generation of ROS is likely to play an important role in the early stages of DMA carcinogenesis.
Clinically, ethambutol (EMB)-induced psychosis is rare. In our review of the literature, most cases of antituberculosis agent-associated psychoses were caused by isoniazid (INH). We report the case of a 51-year-old man with suspected tuberculosis (TB) pleurisy. An anti-TB trial with INH, rifampicin and EMB was given initially. Dizziness, disorientation, and auditory and visual hallucinations developed after seven days of therapy. Laboratory examinations, including routine biochemistry tests, serum titer of antinuclear antibodies, cerebrospinal fluid analysis and computerized tomography of the head showed no abnormal findings. Following discontinuation of anti-TB agents, the psychiatric symptoms subsided. When the patient was challenged with EMB, the same psychiatric symptoms recurred, but resolved again after discontinuation of EMB. It is important to be aware that EMB can induce psychosis when anti-TB medications are prescribed.
PTEN, a tumour suppressor gene located on chromosome 10q23, develops somatic mutations in various tumours and tumour cell lines including brain, endometrium, prostate, breast, kidney, thyroid, liver, and melanoma.
To investigate the mutational profile of this gene further, as well as its role in tumour progression in melanoma. DESIGN, SETTINGS: We examined 21 metastatic melanoma samples for 10q23 allelic losses and PTEN sequence alterations. Additionally, we screened these samples for mutations in CDKN2A, a gene in which alterations are well documented in primary melanoma as well as in the germline of familial melanoma.
Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at 10q23 was observed in 33% (7/21) of the samples tested. We identified four sequence alterations in PTEN (19%) and two in CDKN2A (9.5%). Of interest, only one case showed mutations in both genes.
These data support the notion that PTEN alterations occur in some metastatic melanomas, and that mutation of this gene plays a role in the progression of some forms of melanoma.
Impaired proprioception has been previously reported in patients with Parkinson's disease. It was hypothesised that dopaminergic medications transiently depress proprioception, with amplification of adventitious movements as a result. This study tested for effects on proprioception of dopaminergic drugs, and for associations between such effects and drug induced dyskinesias.
In 17 patients with Parkinson's disease, arm proprioception was tested in the practically defined "off" state, and retested 1 hour after taking levodopa or dopamine agonist. Testing consisted of side to side comparison of elbow angle, matching the contralateral elbow angle, and spatial recall of an unrestrained arm.
Proprioception deteriorated as hypothesised, reaching significance by one tailed t test for each of the three tasks. The relative deterioration (and the 95% lower confidence bound for estimated deterioration) was 31% (4%) for side to side elbow comparison, was 27% (11%) for accuracy in matching the contralateral elbow angle, and was 11% (0%) for spatial recall. Dyskinetic (n=6) and non-dyskinetic (n=11) patients did not differ significantly in these effects on proprioception. Control subjects (n=6) and untreated parkinsonian subjects (n=5) did not significantly differ from the parkinsonian patients in the off state.
Administration of levodopa and dopamine agonists were associated with a modest acute suppression in central responsiveness to joint position. It is speculated that compensatory exaggerated movement could account in part for the phenomenon of drug induced dyskinesias.
A 5-year-old girl with a kidney transplant developed post-transplant Epstein-Barr virus-induced lymphoproliferative disease. She was treated with acyclovir, alpha-interferon, and gamma globulin. A transplant nephrectomy was performed on day 4 due to acute rejection and she was started on hemodialysis. The acyclovir dose was decreased at this time. However, 6 days following the start of acyclovir she developed progressively worsening neurological symptoms resulting in a coma on day 8. Fourteen days after acyclovir was begun pre- and post-dose serum concentrations were 7.02 microM and 182.5 microM, respectively. Acyclovir was then discontinued and 2 days later the child's neurological status began to improve. We conclude that acyclovir in children with end-stage renal failure may lead to severe and reversible neurotoxicity, despite acyclovir dosage adjustment based on renal impairment.
Ifosfamide is widely used in the treatment of pediatric solid tumors. Its main adverse effects are various forms of renal tubular and glomerular damage. The authors sought to determine factors that predict the risk for the development and severity of ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity in children and to examine the long-term outcome of this complication. A total of 174 children who had received ifosfamide for various cancers were studied. Nephrotoxicity was assessed by laboratory markers of glomerular and tubular function and a grading score (none, mild, moderate, severe). Patients were assessed 4 to 12 weeks after each ifosfamide course, 3 months after completion of chemotherapy, and 5 years later. Of 174 children, 72 (41.4%) developed tubular dysfunction, whereas only 11 (6.3%) demonstrated glomerular dysfunction; 40 (23.0%) demonstrated mild toxicity, 16 (9.2%) demonstrated moderate toxicity, and 16 (9.2%) developed severe nephrotoxicity. The four severity subgroups (none, mild, moderate, severe) received comparable doses/m2/cycle of ifosfamide and mesna. Children exhibiting severe toxicity were significantly younger compared to those with moderate, mild, or no nephrotoxicity (median age: 2.2, 7.0, 8.2, and 10.5 years, respectively; p < 0.001) and received significantly higher cumulative doses of ifosfamide (49.6 +/- 12.3, 46.0 +/- 13.1, 36.2 +/- 9.7, and 33.8 +/- 7.6 g/m2, respectively; p < 0.001). Cumulative doses of cisplatin were higher among children with severe nephrotoxicity compared to those with moderate, mild, or no toxicity, although this difference did not reach statistical significance. Of all risk factors analyzed by multiple regression analysis, age was the most significant predictor for the grade of nephrotoxicity (p < 0.001), followed by the cumulative dose of ifosfamide (p = 0.005). Seven out of 16 children (44.0%) with severe nephrotoxicity and 4 out of 16 children (25.0%) with moderate nephrotoxicity demonstrated severe chronic tubular toxicity over a follow-up period of 5 years. Since severe ifosfamide-induced renal toxicity tends to be chronic in a substantial number of treated children, it should be balanced carefully against efficacy. Cumulative ifosfamide doses of 45 g/m2 and above should be carefully considered, especially in children younger than age 3.
'Spike-wave stupor' was observed in a 58-year-old male patient with manic-depressive psychosis. Almost continuous atypical spike-wave activity was seen in conjunction with a stuporous episode with stereotyped automatism. Intravenous diazepam ended both the electroencephalographic epileptiform discharges and the clinical stupor. Before and during this episode the patient was treated with an average-dose amitriptyline monotherapy. There was no family history of epileptic seizures. The patient had had electroconvulsive therapy. The history suggests that the analeptic property of amitriptyline induced the 'spike-wave stupor' in this patient.
Overwhelming systemic inflammation has been implicated in the progression of acute lung injury (ALI) leading to multiple organ failure (MOF) and death. Previous studies suggest that mechanical ventilation (MV) may be a key mediator of MOF through an upregulation of the systemic inflammatory response.
It was the aim of this study to investigate mechanisms whereby mechanical stress induced by different tidal volumes may contribute to the development of systemic inflammation and maladaptive peripheral organ responses in the setting of ALI.
An acid aspiration model of ALI was employed in 129X1/SVJ mice through an intratracheal administration of hydrochloric acid followed by MV employing either a low (5 ml/kg) or high (12.5 ml/kg) tidal volume ventilation for 120 min. The isolated perfused mouse lung setup was used to assess the specific contribution of the lung to systemic inflammation during MV. Furthermore, lung perfusate collected over the course of MV was used to assess the effects of lung-derived mediators on activation (expression of a proadhesive phenotype) of liver endothelial cells.
High tidal volume MV of acid-injured lungs resulted in greater physiologic and histological indices of lung injury compared to control groups. Additionally, there was an immediate and significant release of multiple inflammatory mediators from the lung into the systemic circulation which resulted in greater levels of mRNA adhesion molecule expression in liver endothelial cells in vitro.
This study suggests that MV, specifically tidal volume strategy, influences the development of MOF through an upregulation of lung-derived systemic inflammation resulting in maladaptive cellular changes in peripheral organs.
Nicardipine is the first intravenously administered dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker. Its primary physiologic actions include vasodilatation with limited effects on the inotropic and dromotropic function of the myocardium. Nicardipine has been used to control blood pressure intraoperatively in response to tracheal intubation and in the postoperative period. Various patient populations have been included such as major vascular and cardiovascular surgery. It has also been used as an agent for controlled hypotension. Preliminary experience suggests that nicardipine provides safe and effective control of perioperative blood pressure. The basic pharmacology and physiology of the most recently released calcium channel antagonist, nicardipine, is reviewed, and its applications in clinical anesthesia and interaction with other anesthetic drugs are discussed.
1. Treatment with spironolactone is reported to be useful when combined with loop diuretics and an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor in severe congestive heart failure (CHF). However, the effects of the addition of spironolactone on exercise capacity and neurohormonal variables have not been demonstrated. This study determined the effects of additive spironolactone on exercise capacity and neurohormonal factors in patients with mild CHF. 2. Oxygen uptake (VO2), plasma norepinephrine (NE), renin activity (PRA), angiotensin II (AII), aldosterone (ALD), and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) were measured at rest and after peak exercise in nine patients with CHF (six idiopathic and three ischemic cardiomyopathy; New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes II and III) who were already taking furosemide (mean 29 +/- 5 mg/day) and enalapril (mean 4.7 +/- 0.8 mg/day). Studies were repeated after 16 weeks of treatment with additive single daily dose of 25 mg of spironolactone. In four of nine patients, the exercise test was repeated after a 4-weeks washout of spironolactone. 3. Treatment with spironolactone caused natriuresis, decreased cardiothoracic ratio in chest X-ray (before vs. after treatment: 53.7 +/- 1.2 vs. 50.7 +/- 1.4%, P < 0.01), and improved NYHA functional class. Peak VO2 (17.1 +/- 1.6 vs. 17.5 +/- 2.2 ml/min/kg, NS) and heart rate and blood pressure responses to exercise were not altered. Resting NE (215 +/- 41 vs. 492 +/- 85 pg/ml, P < 0.01) and resting PRA (8.2 +/- 2.3 vs. 16.2 +/- 4.1 ng/ml/hr, P < 0.01) as well as peak NE (1618 +/- 313 vs. 2712 +/- 374 pg/ml, P < 0.01) and peak PRA (12.8 +/- 3.2 vs. 28.1 +/- 11.8 ng/ml/hr, P = 0.17) were augmented after additive spironolactone. ALD and AII were insignificantly increased, and ANP was insignificantly decreased at peak exercise after spironolactone treatment. Spironolactone washout was associated with a trend of the neurohormones to return toward pretreatment values. 4. In conclusion, chronic additive treatment with spironolactone was associated with neurohormonal activation both at rest and during exercise without changing the exercise capacity of patients with mild CHF who were already on loop diuretics and ACE inhibitor therapy.
Although atherothrombotic complications due to ovulation induction are well known in the literature, there is no previous report specifically on the presentation of a lateral medullary infarction. Recently, we have encountered a 36 years old woman with primary infertility having acute vertiginous attack after ovulation induction. Audiovestibular test battery revealed bilateral normal hearing, bilateral gaze nystagmus, rebound nystagmus beating toward the right side, loss of visual suppression with augmentation of caloric nystagmus in light on the left side, and delayed vestibular evoked myogenic potentials on the left side, which was subsequently confirmed as lateral medullary syndrome by MRI scan. In this patient, polycystic ovary syndrome plus high levels of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estrogen, together with S protein deficiency may precipitate the occurrence of lateral medullary infarct after ovulation induction. Thus, in vitro fertilization treatment protocol has been terminated.
This study aimed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of the herbicide Diuron in a two-stage rat medium-term mammary carcinogenesis model initiated by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA). Female seven-week-old Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were allocated to six groups: groups G1 to G4 received intragastrically (i.g.) a single 50 mg/kg dose of DMBA; groups G5 and G6 received single administration of canola oil (vehicle of DMBA). Groups G1 and G5 received a basal diet, and groups G2, G3, G4, and G6 were fed the basal diet with the addition of Diuron at 250, 1250, 2500, and 2500 ppm, respectively. After twenty-five weeks, the animals were euthanized and mammary tumors were histologically confirmed and quantified. Tumor samples were also processed for immunohistochemical evaluation of the expressions of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), cleaved caspase-3, estrogen receptor-α (ER-α), p63, bcl-2, and bak. Diuron treatment did not increase the incidence or multiplicity of mammary tumors (groups G2 to G4 versus Group G1). Also, exposure to Diuron did not alter tumor growth (cell proliferation and apoptosis indexes) or immunoreactivity to ER-α, p63 (myoephitelial marker), or bcl-2 and bak (apoptosis regulatory proteins). These findings indicate that Diuron does not have a promoting potential on mammary carcinogenesis in female SD rats initiated with DMBA.
A randomised crossover study in eleven diabetic patients with arteritis compared the effects of nicergoline (2,5 mg i.v.) or placebo on haemodynamic and metabolic parameters after exercise tests. Haemodynamic modifications after effort following placebo administration were typical: raised systolic blood pressure, and increased heart rate and myocardial oxygen requirements (systolic BP x heart rate). Modifications after similar effort following nicergoline involved an increase in systolic B.P. only, heart rate and myocardial oxygen requirements remaining unchanged. Blood lactic acid levels after effort and treatment were significantly higher (p. less than 0.01) than after effort without treatment. Overall metabolic and haemodynamic results demonstrate an increase in effort tolerance in diabetic patients with arteritis after nicergoline, this having been previously observed in healthy subjects.
Arsenic is a toxic metalloid that exists ubiquitously in the environment, and exhibits carcinogenicity. Conversely, arsenic trioxide (AsTO) has successfully been employed in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). It has been shown that AsTO efficiently induces apoptosis in the malignant cells of APL in vitro. Although the mechanisms underlying AsTO-induced apoptosis in certain types of cancer cells, such as APL cells, have been delineated, the mechanism underlying AsTO-induced cell death in non-cancer cells remains unknown. In the present study, we examined AsTO-provoked cytotoxicity and cell death mechanism(s) in TM4 Sertoli cells. Exposure of these cells to AsTO generates reactive oxygen species and alters mitochondrial apoptosis, inducing cell death via both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent pathways. AsTO-induced apoptosis was concomitant with the downregulation of p53, phosphorylation of p53 at serine residues, and G2/M cell cycle arrest. Particularly, the interaction of p21 with caspase-3 proteins during AsTO treatment suggested an antiapoptotic role of p21 against genotoxic stresses in TM4 Sertoli cells. However, clinically relevant concentrations of AsTO failed to induce cell death in TM4 Sertoli cells, indicating that these cells could be resistant to cancer treatment. The results presented herein may not represent the actual effect of AsTO on Sertoli cells in vivo. Thus, further studies on the exposure effects of AsTO on the morphology and function of Sertoli cells in animal experiments will provide a more precise knowledge of AsTO cytotoxicity on male reproduction.
Doxorubicin at a dose of 470 mg/m2 body surface, was administered to a 15-year-old boy with metastasising osteosarcoma. The cumulative dose caused severe "secondary congestive cardiomyopathy", which ended fatally, although the cumulative dose was below the recommended limit of 550 mg/m2. No other treatment for the tumour had been given. Postmortem examination revealed obliterative lesions in the intramural coronary vessels and electron-microscopy showed all the features of a cardiomyopathy at cellular level.
A [(18)F]-FDG PET study was performed in a 44 year old man with proximal kinesigenic choreoathetosis (PKC) secondary to idiopathic primary hypoparathyroidism (IPH) before and 1 year after calcium/calcitriol therapy. The [(18)F]-FDG PET performed before the start of the therapy disclosed a significant bilateral hypometabolism in the ventral striatum. One year later, with the patient still under calcium/calcitriol therapy and free of any occurrence of PKC episodes, the [(18)F]-FDG PET did not show the previously detected hypometabolism. The hypometabolism of the ventral striatum secondary to hypocalcaemia seems to play a crucial part in the pathogenesis of paroxysmal kinesigenic choreoathetosis associated with IPH.
To evaluate the hypothalamus as a possible site of metabolic modulation of GH secretion, we studied the GH response to insulin hypoglycemia (IHG) and nicotinic acid (NA)-induced FFA depression in the absence and presence of third ventricular (ivt) infusions of glucose, oleic acid (Ol-Ac), or beta-hydroxybutyrate (beta OHB). Four rhesus monkeys had been prepared for chronic remote iv and ivt infusions as well as blood sampling from the adjacent room. Statistical evaluation used a two-way analysis of variance and individual comparisons with Tukey's Studentized range test. The GH response (area under the curve +/- SE) to IHG was significantly reduced by a concomitant ivt glucose infusion (control, 1.0 +/- 0.1; IHG, 12.1 +/- 3.3; IHG plus ivt glucose, 7.0 +/- 1.2 microgram/L.120 min). The GH response to FFA depression was significantly reduced by ivt Ol-Ac or beta OHB infusion (control, 6.0 +/- 1.0; NA, 51.5 +/- 4.1; Na plus Ol-Ac, 81.2 +/- 1.3; NA plus beta OHB, 38.6 +/- 3.5 microgram/L.300 min). Introcerebroventricular infusions of glucose, Ol-Ac, or beta OHB alone had no effect on plasma GH, glucose, FFA, or beta OHB concentrations. These results provide evidence for a hypothalamic site of metabolic modulation of GH secretion in the rhesus monkey. This does not exclude an additional effect directly at the pituitary gland.
Adult male laboratory mice were exposed for 6 months to a combination of four anabolic-androgenic steroids of the kinds and at the relative levels to which human athletes and body builders expose themselves. The four steroids included testosterone, two 17-alkylated steroids, and an ester, and they were given at doses that totaled either 5 or 20 times normal androgenic maintenance levels for mice. By the time the survivors were 20 months old (1 yr after the termination of steroid exposure), 52% of the mice given the high dose of steroids had died compared with 35% of the mice given the low dose and only 12% of the control mice given no exogenous hormones (P < 0.001). Autopsy of the steroid-treated mice typically revealed tumors in the liver or kidney, other kinds of damage to these two organs, broadly invase lymphosarcomas, or heart damage, and usually more than one of these conditions. It can be concluded that the life span of male mice is decreased dramatically by exposing them for 6 months to the kinds and relative levels of anabolic steroids used by many athletes and body builders.
