An exposure of rats to gamma-radiation at different stages of prenatal development produces brain dysplasias of different degree displaying also different susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures. Following irradiation on prenatal day 13 (E13), the susceptibility is minimal and significantly lower even in relation to non-irradiated rats [Setkowicz, Z., Janeczko, K., 2003. Long-term changes in susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus following neocortical injuries in the rat at different developmental stages. Epilepsy Res. 53, 216-224]. On the other hand, the rat brain injured on postnatal day 30 presents very high susceptibility to seizures in the same pilocarpine model of epilepsy [Setkowicz, Z., Kluk, K., Janeczko, K., 2003. Long-term changes in postnatal susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures in rats exposed to gamma radiation at different stages of prenatal development. Epilepsia 44, 1267-1273]. It could, therefore, be hypothesised that the congenital brain dysplasia produced by irradiation on E13 would minimize the highly increased susceptibility to seizures observed in the injured brain. Wistar rats were exposed to gamma-rays on E13 and they received a mechanical brain injury on postnatal day 30 (P30). On postnatal day 60, pilocarpine was injected to evoke status epilepticus. During a 6-h period following the injection, motor manifestations of seizure activity were recorded and rated. Seven days after pilocarpine injection, the animals were sacrificed and their brains were fixed. Pilocarpine injections in non-irradiated rats with brains injured on P30 evoked seizures of very high intensity and extremely high mortality in relation to non-injured controls. This high susceptibility to seizures following the brain injury was considerably decreased in rats irradiated on E13. The data provide evidence that the brain dysplasia in the rat acquired at this stage of prenatal development can significantly reduce the increased susceptibility to seizures evoked by the postnatal brain injury.
To study the influence of angiotensin (Ang) II receptor antagonist (AT1) valsartan and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor fosinopril on the cardiac hypertrophy induced by catecholamine.
A cardiac hypertrophy model was produced by i.p. norepinephrine (NE) 1.5 mg.kg-1.d-1 x 15 d. The animals were divided into four groups: 1) control (sodium chloride), 2) NE, 3) NE + fosinopril, 4) NE + valsartan. Fosinopril ig 15 mg.kg-1.d-1 x 15 d, valsartan ig 30 mg.kg-1.d-1 x 15 d.
Valsartan ig 30 mg.kg-1.d-1 x 15 d and fosinopril ig 15 mg.kg-1.d-1 x 15 d prevented left ventricular hypertrophy induced by NE and decreased the content of collagen in myocardium; valsartan and fosinopril both elevated the myosin ATPase activity, Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity in membrane, and Ca(2+)-ATPase activity in mitochondrias. Apoptosis was induced in cardiomyocytes by catecholamine. Valsartan and fosinopril both inhibited apoptosis, and no significant differences were found in the apoptotic index between the two treatment groups.
Valsartan and fosinopril prevent the remodeling of cardiac hypertrophy induced by norepinephrine. Cardiac myocyte apoptosis may play a key role in the heart remodeling.
The long-term administration of low doses of rotenone has been used to produce a model of Parkinson disease (PD) in rats. However, only about 50% of similarly treated rats develop the PD-like syndrome, with many dying during the first few days of treatment. The lesions in male Lewis rats that became moribund or died after short-term, low-dose rotenone administration are described. Dosed rats had fibrinoid change and acute hemorrhage involving small arteries and arterioles of the brain and lungs. The thalamus, hypothalamus, and medulla oblongata were most frequently and severely affected. Blood vessels in the brain of some male Lewis rats appeared acutely susceptible to the effects of rotenone. Understanding the selective nature of the fibrinoid change and hemorrhage might explain how rotenone produces PD-like signs and lesions in rats, and it might also provide the basis for a model of intraparenchymal hemorrhagic cerebrovascular disease (i.e., hemorrhagic strokes) in humans.
Several authors have reported the occurrence of renal and hepatic tumours in mice and rats exposed to ochratoxin A in long-term studies. The compound was not mutagenic, however, in various microbial and mammalian gene mutation assays, either with or without metabolic activation. Contradictory results were obtained for induction of unscheduled DNA synthesis and sister chromatid exchange. We showed previously that ochratoxin A causes DNA damage, manifested as single-strand breaks in mouse spleen cells and in vivo. These findings, which suggest that ochratoxin A is weakly genotoxic to mammalian cells, prompted us to search for DNA adducts using a modified 32P-postlabelling method, the sensitivity of which was improved by treatment with nuclease P1. DNA was isolated from liver, kidney and spleen excised from mice 24, 48 and 72 h after oral treatment with ochratoxin A at 0.6, 1.2 and 2.5 mg/kg body weight. Several adducts were found in the DNA of the three organs, the levels varying greatly. After administration of 2.5 mg/kg body weight, 40 adducts per 10(9) nucleotides were found in kidney DNA and 7 adducts per 10(9) nucleotides in liver after 72 h. The levels of most of the adducts increased from 24 to 72 h, but those of others diminished after 24 or 48 h. Adducts were found in spleen only at 24 and 48 h. These results confirm the genotoxicity of ochratoxin A.
We present the cases of two children with lidocaine-induced seizures resulting from the use of oral viscous lidocaine. In the first case, the drug was prescribed for herpetic gingivostomatitis. In the second, a child was treated for teething pain by the mother, who used a relative's medication.
Combination chemotherapy has become increasingly important as synergistic drugs enable to achieve therapeutic effects at substantially lower doses and limited spectrum of side effects. Irinotecan as a one of the camptothecin analogues has shown a broad spectrum of antitumor activity against various malignancies. It is commonly used in treatment of gastrointestinal and pulmonary cancer. In this study were measured the effect of the novel platinum(II) complexes: cis-[PtCl(2)(4-pmOpe)(2)] and trans-[PtCl(2)(4-pmOpe)(2)], with diethyl (pyridine-4-ylmethyl)phosphates (4-pmOpe) as non-leaving ligands, on genotoxicity of irinotecan in human cancer cells. Irinotecan showed genotoxic activity in combination with the new platinum(II) derivatives in cancer cells. Combination of irinotecan with cis-[PtCl(2)(4-pmOpe)(2)] or trans-[PtCl(2)(4-pmOpe)(2)] resulted in significant increase in DNA damage in A549 and HT29 cells when compared to effects of irinotecan or platinum(II) complexes used separately. The highest degree of DNA migration in the comet tails was found after the cancer cells were treated with irinotecan and trans-[PtCl(2)(4-pmOpe)(2)]. In addition, the analysis of DNA repair revealed that irinotecan in combination with trans-[PtCl(2)(4-pmOpe)(2)] induced unrepairable DNA damage suggesting the poor recognition of the damage by HMG proteins and other repair mechanisms. Thus, genotoxicity of irinotecan was modulated by the structurally different DNA-platinum adducts formed by novel platinum(II) complexes. These data suggest that the use of irinotecan with novel platinum(II) complexes may represent a new strategy for pharmacotherapy in cancer.
To determine the effect of diabetes mellitus on gentamicin nephrotoxicity we treated male F344 rats with streptozotocin 22 mg/kg (DM rats). DM rats were compared to controls (C) and nondiabetic rats ingesting the osmotic diuretic isosorbide administered to simulate glycosuric diuresis (C/I). Base-line C/I renal function and histology did not differ from C. However, in DM rats base-line inulin clearance (CIN) was 20% lower, and renal cortical slice uptake of p-aminohippurate was reduced compared to C and C/I. DM rats also had foci of renal tubular epithelial dysplasia not seen in C or C/I. Gentamicin was administered at 40 mg/kg-day to C and C/I and 32 mg/kg-day to DM rats to adjust for base-line CIN. Acute tubular necrosis, associated with depression of CIN and renal cortical p-aminohippurate and N-methylnicotinamide uptake, developed in all three groups. There were no differences between C and C/I. However, the degree of acute tubular necrosis and dysfunction was less in DM rats than C and C/I. Renal cortical gentamicin accumulation was also slower in DM than either C or C/I, and changes in renal cortical gentamicin over time followed a different pattern in DM rats. These results indicate that 1) attenuation of gentamicin injury in DM rats may be related to reduced accumulation of gentamicin by the renal cortex, 2) this reduced accumulation may be due to subtle baseline tubular injury mediated by streptozotocin or the diabetic state, and 3) osmotic diuresis does not account for attenuation of renal injury in DM.
Phenytoin (PHT) increases high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and reduces coronary artery disease mortality in humans. We report the results of PHT treatment on atherosclerosis susceptibility and lipid profile in four different types of mouse: control C57BL/6 mice and cholesteryl ester transfer protein transgenic mice as models of fatty streak, and LDL receptor-deficient mice and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice as models of mature atherosclerosis. Each mouse type was fed an appropriate diet to induce atherosclerosis and prevent liver toxicity. PHT treatment demonstrated a protective effect in all models. Reduction in aortic atherosclerotic area by PHT treatment was more evident in early atherosclerosis (2.3-fold) than in mature atherosclerosis (decreases of 40 and 23%, respectively, but only in mice in the upper 50% percentile of plasma PHT concentration). Atherosclerosis prevention was not concomitant with a consistent increase in HDL-C or any other protective change in the lipid profile. Different analyses of potential antiatherogenic HDL functions did not provide additional information. Microarray liver gene expression analyses identified a potential atheroprotective mechanism characterized by decreased expression of syndecan-4, RhoA2, double LIM protein-1, zeta-chain-associated protein kinase-70 and interleukin 6 receptor-alpha. However, to demonstrate that these changes are part of a PHT-antiatherogenic effect, they will need to be found also in arteries, maintained at protein level and proved to be causal rather than reactive.
In eleven intact mechanically ventilated dogs anaesthetized with pentobarbitone, mean arterial pressure was reduced to 55% of the control value by ventilating with 1-1.5% halothane. At normocapnia this resulted in decreases in myocardial blood-flow and oxygen consumption to 47% and 55% of their respective control values and an increase in myocardial vascular resistance to 123% of control value. When hypocapnia (mean PaCO2=26 mm Hg) was superimposed on hypotension, myocardial blood-flow was further decreased to 38% of control value whereas oxygen consumption did not alter significantly. When halothane was discontinued, allowing recovery from hypotension, the rate of recovery of myocardial blood-flow and cardiac output was much slower than that of arterial pressure.
A 63-year-old male was admitted to hospital for a cholecystectomy, vagotomy and gastro-enterostomy. Muscle paralysis was induced with 70 micrograms/kg vecuronium, followed by increments of 20 micrograms/kg when the initial twitch height returned to 25% of control. The patient received 3 doses of 10 mg disopyramide intravenously, on account of supraventricular ectopic beats, followed by an infusion of 25 mg/hour. Paralysis was reversed using 0.75 mg atropine and 2.5 mg neostigmine once the twitch height had returned spontaneously to 25% of its initial value. Fifteen minutes later, twitch height had returned to control value and the train-of-four was above 85%, but the responses to tetanic stimulation at 100 Hz and 50 Hz remained severely depressed (10% and 45%, respectively). The patient's trachea was extubated after 20 minutes, but residual fade was still observed. This impairment of neuromuscular transmission, detected only with high frequency stimulation, was present with a measured concomitant plasma level of disopyramide of 5.1 micrograms/ml.
The nephrotic syndrome presumably caused by an immune complex glomerulonephritis constitutes a major side effect attendant upon chronic administration of penicillamine. The possible induction of an immune-complex glomerulonephritis by penicillamine and its further development after stopping the drug was investigated in rats. --60 rats were fed perorally 2000 mg D-Penicillamine/kg BW/die resp. for a period of 8--44 days. Following unilateral nephrectomy the animals were observed for further 5 weeks. --Dependent to the time of penicillamine application there was an increasing deposition of IgG and C3 in a granular pattern along the glomerular basement membrane and within the mesangium. The IgG deposits initially were focal and segmental later on diffuse and global in distribution. 5 weeks after stopping the penicillamine the immune globulin deposits had disappeared completely or at least in part as did the mild focal glomerulonephritis and the moderate proteinuria which developed in some animals after a 44 day treatment with penicillamine. --The results confirm the hitherto presumed immune complex pathogenesis of the penicillamine induced nephropathy. The disappearance of the immunoglobulins deposited and of proteinuria stopping penicillamine alludes the good prognosis of this kind of nephropathy.
The influence of nifedipine induced hypotension on intracranial pressure (ICP) and intracranial compliance (ICC) was investigated in dogs without (group I, n = 8) and with (group II, n = 8) intracranial hypertension. ICP in group II was raised by gradual inflation of an epidurally placed balloon catheter. A volume-pressure-response curve (VPR) was established before and during the administration of nifedipine. In group II dogs angiotensin was infused before and during infusion of nifedipine in a dose sufficient to raise mean arterial pressure (MAP) by 30-40 mm Hg. An infusion of nifedipine (2 micrograms X kg-1 X min-1) subsequent to a bolus injection of nifedipine (10 micrograms X kg-1) resulted in a significant and sustained decrease in MAP (p less than 0.05) by 25% and 35% resp. due to a significant reduction in total peripheral resistance (p less than 0.05). ICP increased from 8.7 +/- 3.0 mm Hg to a maximum of 12.5 +/- 5.2 mm Hg in group I animals (p less than 0.05) and from 19.8 +/- 2.6 mm Hg to 24.8 +/- 7.2 mm Hg not significantly in group II dogs. The pressure-volume-index revealed a slight reduction of ICC in group I and a slight increase of ICC in group II resp. during nifedipine as compared to before nifedipine. When angiotensin was being administered in group II dogs before nifedipine was given, MAP increased by 40 +/- 5.8 mm Hg while ICP did not change significantly (+2 +/- 2.4 mm Hg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) contain a number of bioactive metabolites or their precursors including retinoids in their characteristic lipid droplets. The loss of lipid droplets and retinoids is a hallmark of HSC activation, but it remains unclear whether this loss promotes HSC activation, liver fibrogenesis or carcinogenesis.
Spontaneous and experimental fibrogenesis as well as a diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis were investigated in lecithin-retinol acyltransferase (LRAT)-deficient mice which lack retinoid-containing lipids droplets in their HSCs.
Following HSC activation, LRAT expression was rapidly lost, emphasising its importance in lipid droplet biology in HSCs. Surprisingly, there was no difference in fibrosis induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) or by eight injections of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) between wild-type and LRAT-deficient mice. To exclude the possibility that the effects on fibrogenesis were missed due to the rapid downregulation of LRAT following HSC activation, acute as well as spontaneous liver fibrosis was investigated. However, there was no increased fibrosis in 3-, 8- and 12-month-old LRAT-deficient mice and in LRAT-deficient mice after a single injection of CCl4 compared with wild-type mice. To determine whether the absence of retinoids in HSCs affects hepatocarcinogenesis, wild-type and LRAT-deficient mice were injected with diethylnitrosamine. LRAT deficiency decreased diethylnitrosamine-induced injury and tumour load and increased the expression of the retinoic acid responsive genes Cyp26a1, RARb and p21, suggesting that the lower tumour load of LRAT-deficient mice was a result of increased retinoid signalling and subsequent p21-mediated inhibition of proliferation.
The absence of retinoid-containing HSC lipid droplets does not promote HSC activation but reduces hepatocarcinogenesis.
Ototoxicity and efficacy of netilmicin was evaluated in 76 consecutive patients with moderate to severe infections with Gram-negative rods and Staphylococcus aureus. Netilmicin alone was efficacious in 47 patients and in another 23 patients cure or improvement was seen with netilmicin combined with another antibiotic, usually penicillin. Therapeutic failure was seen in 4 cases, 2 of which were regarded as netilmicin failures. Vestibular function and hearing acuity was thoroughly examined by electronystagmography and audiometry. In spite of the extensive examination of the audiovestibular function it was possible to detect only one probable case of ototoxicity related to netilmicin, a reversible vestibular dysfunction. The importance of pre-therapeutic audiovestibular examination is stressed.
Out of a total of 126 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, including 69 children aged less than 15 years, and 57 adults aged less than 60 years, who were treated with daunomycin (D.N.R.) initially and with several courses of reinduction, we noted 4 cases of decompensated heart failure (3.1%). 3 cases occurred in children aged 4, 5 and 5 years, and in the last case, in a young adult, of 19 years. Three of these patients were in complete remission of the blood and were only undergoing courses of reinduction. The 4th was in incomplete remission. When symptoms first occurred, about 2 months after the last injection of D.N.R. the total dose administered varied between 14 and 31 mg/kg, extending over periods of 5 to 16 months (average monthly dose 1.9 to 2.8 mg/kg). Except in one case, the course only mildly influenced by the symptomatic treatment and death occurred in 3 patients within from 15 days to 5 months after the onset of the first symptoms. The last patient is still alive and seems stabilised with a follow up period of 9 months. The responsibility of D.N.R. in the development of this myocarditis appears very likely. The unforeseable character of such complications, which are independent of age, and not necessarily linked to any excessive dosage, should be taken into consideration in the indications for D.N.R. in spite of their relative rarity.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of green tea in inhibiting and reversing the nephrotoxicity of reserpine--a potent oxidative stress inducer--which induced cellular kidney damage. Serum biochemical parameters, antioxidant enzyme levels, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and serum transaminases (glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and glutamic pyruvic transaminase (GPT)) values and histopathology were systematically evaluated. Reserpine exposure led to increase the oxidative stress and organ injury was significantly observed through biochemical parameters and ultrastructural evaluation. Sprague-Dawely (S.D.) rats were intraperitonealy administered reserpine to induce oxidative kidney damage. Experimental rats were given green tea extract according to the protocol given below. Sixty rats were randomly divided into six groups, with 10 rats in each group. Reserpine was found to cause kidney proximal tubule damage, such as stripping and clustering of ribosomes from the rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER) and demolishing of mitochondrial christae with elevated level of oxidative stress markers, such as TBARS. While the ultrastructural study showed a revival of kidney proximal tubule cells as a result of the administration of green tea extract to rats. We suggest that green tea might elevate antioxidant defense system, clean up free radicals, lessen oxidative damages and protect kidney against reserpine-induced toxicity and thus had a potential protective effect.
A new focus of localised cutaneous leishmaniasis has emerged along the Satluj River valley in the mountainous region of north west Himachal Pradesh. The main endemic region extends from Pooh subdivision of Kinnaur district to Kumarsain subdivision of Shimla district with adjoining Nirmand subdivision of Kullu District comprising 86 villages. The climate of the affected areas varies from temperate to subtropical. A total of 285 cases were recorded from 1988 to January, 2005. The age of these patients varied from 10 months to 75 years, with 63 children (<12Years), and a male to female ratio of 1: 0.9. The duration of disease was 15 days to 48 months with majority (85%) presenting between 1-6 months. The number of lesions varied from 1-8, and were mostly seen on exposed parts of the body. Morphologically, lesions were asymptomatic, dry, nodular or crusted nodulo-ulcerative plaques. Tissue smear positivity for amastigotes was 43%. The characterization of 14 strains of these Leishmania revealed presence of both Leishmania tropica (n=3) and Leishmania donovani (n=11). Identification of the 42 sandflies collected from the peridomestic environment of the patients, revealed Phlebotomus longiductus - 29, P. major 8, P. kandelaki 2, while 2 remained unidentified. The patients were treated with intralesional sodium stibogluconate and majority showed excellent response.
The role of leukotrienes in the pathogenesis of acute gastric ulceration induced by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs was investigated using a rat model. One part of the study involved oral pretreatment with a leukotriene synthesis inhibitor 1 h prior to administration of indomethacin (20 mg/kg per os). Three hours after indomethacin, the extent of macroscopically visible gastric damage was determined, and gastric LTB4 synthesis was determined. The compounds tested were PF-5901, A-64077, nordihydroguaiaretic acid, and L-698,037. Each compound produced dose-related inhibition of gastric LTB4 synthesis and a parallel reduction in the severity of indomethacin-induced damage. The antioxidant properties of these compounds was assessed using an in vitro assay. There was no correlation between the antioxidant properties of the compounds and their ability to reduce the severity of indomethacin-induced gastric damage. In the second part of the study, the effects of intravenous, administration of LTD4 and LTB4 receptor antagonists on indomethacin-induced gastric epithelial damage (measured by permeability to [51Cr]EDTA) were assessed. The two LTD4 receptor antagonists (MK-571 and ICI-204,219) significantly reduced the permeability changes induced by indomethacin, while the two LTB4 antagonists (SC-41930 and LY-255,283) were without significant effect. Despite the reduction of gastric epithelial injury, blockade of LTD4 receptors did not markedly affect the extent of macroscopically visible injury. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that leukotrienes contribute to the epithelial injury and macroscopically visible damage induced by NSAIDs. However, it remains unclear to what extent leukotrienes are involved in the initiation of the injury, as opposed to its amplification.
A 72-year-old male being treated with chlorpropamide for diabetes mellitus had an emergency operation for a perforated gastric ulcer. Hypoglycaemic coma occurred after the operation.
In a patient suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, we report the first simultaneous occurrence of two side effects of low-dose methotrexate: an acute megaloblastic anaemia and a pneumonitis. A combination of methotrexate suspension, folinic acid and corticosteroids led to recovery. The correlation between the haematologic and pneumologic toxicity is discussed.
Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency is a disorder of the catabolism of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) with a very variable clinical phenotype ranging from mild intellectual disability to severe neurological defects. We report here on a large Iranian family with four affected patients presenting with severe intellectual disability, developmental delay and generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Molecular genetic analysis revealed a missense mutation c.901A>G (p.K301E, RefSeq number NM_001080) in ALDH5A1 co-segregating with the disease in the family. The missense mutation affects an amino acid residue that is highly conserved across the animal kingdom. Protein modeling showed that p.K301E most likely leads to a loss of NAD(+) binding and a predicted decrease in the free energy by 6.67 kcal/mol furthermore suggests a severe destabilization of the protein. In line with these in silico observations, no SSADH enzyme activity could be detected in patient lymphoblasts.
