The retroviruses human T-cell lymphotrophic virus-I (HTLV-I) and HTLV-III/LAV (lymphadenopathy-associated virus) are clearly linked to human diseases. Patients with HTLV-I-positive neoplasms may respond transiently to traditional chemotherapy, but are not cured. For patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) there is no curative therapy. In retroviruses of different species, viral propagation crucially depends on reverse transcriptase, an enzyme not present in normal mammalian cells and different from mammalian DNA polymerases, making it a target for specific inhibition. Reverse transcriptase has been well conserved through evolution: an LAV isolate contained a 250-amino-acid-long domain, presumably the reverse transcriptase core sequence, which has 21% homology to Moloney murine leukaemia virus (MoMLV). Because HTLV-III infects only humans and chimpanzees, we substituted murine retroviruses for in vivo evaluation of candidate anti-AIDS drugs after ascertaining similar inhibition in vitro of HTLV-III and MLVs, which were chosen for their short incubation time. The triphosphate of 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) is incorporated into complementary DNA by retroviral reverse transcriptase, causing premature chain termination. Here we show that chronic AZT treatment of mice infected with Rauscher murine leukaemia virus complex (RLV) prevents infection of splenocytes and development of splenomegaly, and suppresses viraemia if started soon after inoculation. Starting AZT late in the course of disease still leads to significant prolongation of life; anaemia, however is a significant side-effect. By analogy, AZT may have a role in preventing retroviral disease in humans if started early after infection, and it may lead to significant survival gains even if started later in the course of disease.
Dicyclomine (1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg), scopolamine (1 mg/kg), or saline was administered intraperitoneally to rats 15 min prior to moderate fluid percussion brain injury. A variety of reflexes and responses were measured up to 60 min following injury, and body weight and several neurological measures were taken daily up to 10 days following injury. All 3 antimuscarinic treatments reduced the duration of transient behavioral suppression as assessed by these measures. It appears that blockade of the M1 muscarinic receptor can attenuate transient behavioral suppression associated with concussive brain injury. Thus, stimulation of M1 muscarinic receptors may mediate components of reversible traumatic unconsciousness following cerebral concussion. No differences were observed between saline and antimuscarinic treatments in the incidence or duration of apnea following injury. Scopolamine pretreatment significantly elevated heart rate prior to injury, but had no significant effect on the responses of heart rate and blood pressure to experimental concussion. Both doses of dicyclomine significantly reduced resting heart rate, but unlike scopolamine, significantly enhanced the cardiovascular response to fluid percussion injury. Antimuscarinic treatment significantly reduced body weight loss and certain motor deficits, including beam balance and beam walk performance, following concussive head injury. Scopolamine and both doses of dicyclomine appeared to be equally effective in reducing long-term deficits. Data from these experiments indicate that at least some of the long-term behavioral deficits following moderate levels of brain injury may involve the binding of acetylcholine to M1 muscarinic receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Phenytoin (PT) and carbamazepine (CBZ) are the two most prescribed anticonvulsants in Finland. Their effect on the cognitive functions of 43 newly diagnosed epileptic patients was examined. The medication was randomly assigned. The patients were tested before the medication was started, and after half a year's therapy. In order to estimate the practice effect in repeated testing a control group of 21 volunteers was similarly tested and retested. Both anticonvulsants, PT in particular, decrease the normal practice effect observed in neuropsychological testing. Compared to the CBZ group, patients with PT became somewhat slower, and their visual memory decreased. Within the PT group the motor slowing was more marked in female patients, and in patients having higher PT serum levels. In PT and CBZ groups there was an equal decrease in negative mood i.e. tension, depression, bewilderment and irritability.
Ketoconazole was introduced in the United Kingdom in 1981. By November 1984 the Committee on Safety of Medicines had received 82 reports of possible hepatotoxicity associated with the drug, including five deaths. An analysis of the 75 cases that had been adequately followed up suggested that 16, including three deaths, were probably related to treatment with the drug. Of the remainder, 48 were possibly related to treatment, five were unlikely to be so, and six were unclassifiable. The mean age of patients in the 16 probable cases was 57.9, with hepatotoxicity being more common in women. The average duration of treatment before the onset of jaundice was 61 days. None of these well validated cases occurred within the first 10 days after treatment. The results of serum liver function tests suggested hepatocellular injury in 10 (63%); the rest showed a mixed pattern. In contrast, the results of histological examination of the liver often showed evidence of cholestasis. The characteristics of the 48 patients in the possible cases were similar. Allergic manifestations such as rash and eosinophilia were rare. Hepatitis was usually reversible when treatment was stopped, with the results of liver function tests returning to normal after an average of 3.1 months. In two of the three deaths probably associated with ketoconazole treatment the drug had been continued after the onset of jaundice and other symptoms of hepatitis. Clinical and biochemical monitoring at regular intervals for evidence of hepatitis is advised during long term treatment with ketoconazole to prevent possible serious hepatic injury.
Androgen receptor (AR)-mediated signaling plays an important role in the development and progression of prostate cancer (PCa). Hormonal therapies, mainly with combinations of antiandrogens and androgen deprivation, are the mainstay treatment for advanced disease. However, emergence of androgen resistance largely due to inefficient antihormone action limits their therapeutic usefulness. Here, we report that fisetin, a novel dietary flavonoid, acts as a novel AR ligand by competing with the high-affinity androgen to interact with the ligand binding domain of AR. We show that this physical interaction results in substantial decrease in AR stability and decrease in amino-terminal/carboxyl-terminal (N-C) interaction of AR. This results in blunting of AR-mediated transactivation of target genes including prostate-specific antigen (PSA). In addition, treatment of LNCaP cells with fisetin decreased AR protein levels, in part, by decreasing its promoter activity and by accelerating its degradation. Fisetin also synergized with Casodex in inducing apoptosis in LNCaP cells. Treatment with fisetin in athymic nude mice implanted with AR-positive CWR22Rupsilon1 human PCa cells resulted in inhibition of tumor growth and reduction in serum PSA levels. These data identify fisetin as an inhibitor of AR signaling axis and suggest that it could be a useful chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic agent to delay progression of PCa.
This paper presents our research on metabolic and enzymatic changes in the experimental, Isoproterenol-induced (ISO) hypertensive myocardium of rats. We analyze the effects produced by the simultaneous administration of adenosinetriphosphate (fosfobion) (FOS) and Isoproterenol on the changes in the body weight/heart weight ratio, and on the biochemical changes of cardiac metabolism. We studied the following parameters in the myocardium tissue and blood: plasmatic and tissular creatinin-phosphokinase, Na+K+ ATP-ase in the sarcolemma and the sarcoplasmic reticulum, Ca+2 ATP-ase in the mitochondrial membrane, sarcoplasmic reticulum and sarcolemma, as well as plasmatic and tissular lactate. Our data show an increase of heart weight to 939 mg, compared to 752 mg in the control group, while the heart weight/body weight ratio (mg/g), which was 3.8 in the control group, increased to 5.8 in the group to which Isoproterenol (ISO) was administered, and to 5.2 when fosfobion was associated. Investigation of myocardial metabolism has also shown the fact that under the influence of Isoproterenol, plasma creatinin-phosphokinase rises by 20%, while the association of fosfobion reduces it, in the myocardium tissue, down to 73%, in comparison with the values in the control group. Significant changes were found in the myocardium lactate that decreased by 26% under ISO influence, in comparison with normal values, and that decreased by 90% when FOS and ISO were administered together. This study produces arguments about metabolism-induced cardiac changes under the action of ISO and also contributes to the identification of ways that lead to cardiac hypertrophy. The experiment also demonstrates that the ATP-ases responsible for ion transportation across the membrane are actively involved in myocardium hypertrophy. The disturbances occurring in the investigated enzymatic systems are closed related with the myocardial metabolic ones. Fosfobion does not prevent the appearance and development of Isoproterenol-induced myocardial hypertrophy, but diminishes the increase of myocardial lactate produced by this synthesised catecholamine. At the same time, fosfobion significantly decreases the activity of Ca+2 ATP-ase in the plasmalemma and increases the activity of the Na+ - K+ ATP-ase both in the plasmalemma and in the sarcoplasmic reticulum, indirectly favouring the mechanical processes of cardiac myocytes relaxation. The study of the enzymatic activity of Na+K+ and Ca+2 ATP-ases in our experimental conditions contributes to a better understanding of the mechanisms that produce myocardial and coronary disturbances in myocardial hypertrophy.
The DAPK1 gene works as a regulator of apoptosis and is frequently inactivated in cancer by aberrant promoter hypermethylation. Loss of DAPK1 expression is associated with a selective advantage for tumor cells to resist apoptotic stimuli, allowing them to separate from the original tumor; from this point of view, DAPK1 could be considered a tumor metastases inhibitor gene. To verify the participation of DAPK1 silencing in cerebral invasion, we analyzed its promoter methylation status in a series of 28 samples from cerebral metastases using MSP and sequencing of the MSP-product. We have found hypermethylation in 53.6% (15/28) metastatic tumor samples as well as in 27.8% (5/18) of its peripheral blood samples. Our data suggest an important role of DAPK1 for silencing through promoter CpG island hypermethylation in the development of brain metastases from solid tumors. The detection of aberrant hypermethylation on DAPK1 promoter from peripheral blood samples has potential clinical implications as a tumor prognosis marker.
To detect whether the nephrotoxicity of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (DDP) is acute and can be demonstrated at an early stage in man, a method for estimating the function of the kidneys during intensive hydration was devised. The method includes a calculation of the clearance of 125I-orthoiodohippurate and an estimation of the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) from fast changes of the extracellular volume (ECV) and the mean transit time of 99mTc-DTPA in this volume. We examined nine patients with testicular cancer on 2 consecutive days for acute nephrotoxicity while they were undergoing treatment with cis-platinum. Placebo was given on day 1, cis-platinum on day 2. On both days the patients were hydrated with 4 l saline, glucose, and mannitol (0.51) over a period of 4 h, which resulted in an increase of 125I-orthoiodohippurate clearance on both days (P less than 0.01). The increase was, however, lower on the day of treatment with cis-platinum than on the day with placebo (P less than 0.05). There were no acute changes in the GFR. This indicates that treatment with DDP inhibits the active transport of 125I-orthoiodohippurate in the tubules; that is to say there is an acute effect on the kidney function. There were no acute changes in the GFR, but in the long-term followup study we found that the GFR had decreased significantly (P less than 0.05) after 2 months of treatment. During the first year after the initiation of treatment the GFR changes were found to progress. A significant increase in se-creatinine was not observed until 6 months after the initiation of treatment (P less than 0.05). The degree of chronic nephrotoxicity did not correlate in individual patients with the acute changes in kidney function.
We report earlier that isoniazid and foot-shock stress individually increase the maximal number of [35S]TBPS binding sites (Bmax) measured "ex vivo" in unwashed membranes from rat cerebral cortex and that the increase due to both treatments are prevented by pretreatment "in vivo" with diazepam which alone induced a significant decrease in the total number of [35S]TBPS binding sites. In the present paper, the effect of stress was studied on both the increase in [35S]TBPS binding and the convulsant activity induced by isoniazid in unstressed rats. Isoniazid induced a time dependent increase in [35S]TBPS binding. The isoniazid-induced increase in [35S]TBPS binding was markedly potentiated by foot-shock stress. Moreover, foot-shock stress markedly reduced the latency to the appearance of generalized seizures induced by isoniazid (300 mg/kg s.c.). The results provide evidence that the "in vivo" inhibition of GABAergic transmission elicited by isoniazid results in an increase of [35S]TBPS binding in the rats cerebral cortex. The finding that stress, like isoniazid, enhances [35S]TBPS binding suggests that this treatment also inhibits the function of GABAergic synapses.
It has been investigated, based on a rat model of human exposure to cadmium (Cd), whether zinc (Zn) supplementation may prevent Cd-induced alterations in lipid metabolism. For this purpose, the concentrations of free fatty acids (FFA), phospholipids (PL), triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TCh), and high and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL and LDL, respectively) as well as the concentrations of chosen indices of lipid peroxidation such as lipid peroxides (LPO), F2-isoprostane (F2-IsoP) and oxidized LDL (oxLDL) were estimated in the serum of male Wistar rats administered Cd (5 or 50mg/l) or/and Zn (30 or 60mg/l) in drinking water for 6 months. The exposure to 5 and 50mg Cd/l resulted in marked alterations in the lipid status reflected in increased concentrations of FFA, TCh, LDL, LPO, F2-IsoP and oxLDL, and decreased concentrations of PL and HDL in the serum. The concentrations of LDL, LPO, F2-IsoP and oxLDL were more markedly enhanced at the higher Cd dosage. The supplementation with Zn during the exposure to 5 and 50mg Cd/l entirely prevented all the Cd-induced changes in the serum concentrations of the estimated lipid compounds and indices of lipid peroxidation, except for the F2-IsoP for which Zn provided only partial protection. Based on the results it can be concluded that Zn supplementation during exposure to Cd may have a protective effect on lipid metabolism consisting in its ability to prevent hyperlipidemia, including especially hypercholesterolemia, and to protect from lipid peroxidation. The findings seem to suggest that enhanced dietary Zn intake during Cd exposure, via preventing alterations in the body status of lipids may, at least partly, protect against some effects of Cd toxicity, including oxidative damage to the cellular membranes and atherogenic action. The paper is the first report suggesting protective impact of Zn against proatherogenic Cd action on experimental model of chronic moderate and relatively high human exposure to this toxic metal.
Thymoglobulin is an antithymocyte globulin preparation used in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) to prevent rejection and graft-versus-host disease. Because natural killer (NK)-cell alloreactivity improves HSCT outcome, but only in patients receiving thymoglobulin, we investigated the in vitro effects of thymoglobulin on purified NK cells. Thymoglobulin binding to NK cells and NK-cell activation were assessed by flow cytometry. NK surface targets for thymoglobulin were determined by competition inhibition assays using monoclonal antibodies. Chromium 51 (Cr) release assay, Annexin V combined with 7-amino-actinomycin D staining, and carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester staining were used to study cytotoxic activity, apoptosis/cell death, and NK-cell proliferation, respectively. Interferon (IFN)-gamma production was determined by ELISA. Thymoglobulin, thymoglobulin derived-F(ab')2 fragments as well as rabbit IgG bound NK cells, and competed strongly with anti-CD16. Thymoglobulin enhanced the expression of activation (CD69 and NKG2D) and degranulation (CD107a) markers on NK cells. It competed with CD18 binding and decreased NK activity, but not interleukin-15-induced killer activity. Effects on apoptosis/cell death and proliferation were minimal. F(ab')2 fragments and rabbit IgG strongly induced IFN-gamma production by NK cells. Thymoglobulin binds to NK cells by CD16 by its variable and constant regions. The decrease in NK-cell cytotoxic activity is restored by interleukin-15, and contrasts sharply with the induction of activation, degranulation, and IFN-gamma production. These data support the hypothesis that thymoglobulin treatment is required to observe the improvement in HSCT outcome by NK-cell alloreactivity.
The ethanol extract of Curculigo orchioides was evaluated for antiasthmatic activity by using various in vitro and in vivo animal models. In vitro models like isolated goat tracheal chain preparation and isolated guinea pig ileum preparation were studied to know basic mechanism by which extract shows relaxant activity. The study showed that extract is effective against histamine-induced contraction. In isolated goat tracheal chain preparation and isolated guinea pig ileum preparation extract exhibits maximum relaxant effect (p< 0.01) against histamine at concentrations 100mug/ml and 25mug/ml respectively. Animal studies involved use of histamine induced bronchoconstriction in guinea pigs, egg albumin induced passive paw anaphylaxis in rats and haloperidol-induced catalepsy in mice. These studies showed significant (p< 0.01) protection at lower doses while further increase in the dose level showed reduced activity. Biochemical estimations in milk-induced total leukocytes count and milk-induced differential leukocyte count were also studied. In this study there was maximum increase in leucocytes and lymphocytes (99%) and maximum decrease in eosinophils up to 0% at dose 375mg/kg p.o. body weight was observed. The results of these studies indicated usefulness of ethanol extract of Curculigo orchioides in asthma.
Toxicity from 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure results in severe metabolic imbalances leading to a loss of fat stores in many animal species, a phenomenon known as the wasting syndrome. In this paper, we report that TCDD treatment at very low doses (0.03-1 micrograms/kg, single intraperitoneal injection) causes a profound reduction of glucose uptake by guinea pig adipose tissue, pancreas and brain. This effect of TCDD is dose-dependent, with a dose as small as 0.03 micrograms/kg resulting in a significant decrease. In adipose tissue, the decrease begins within 6 h of treatment and persists at least 28 days. The Vmax of glucose transport was decreased by TCDD treatment, whereas the Km was unchanged. Liver behaves oppositely to adipose tissue. At early stages of treatment (6-12 h) glucose uptake was depressed, while at later stages (24-96 h) it was increased. In situ (explant tissue culture) treatment with TCDD yields similar trends as in vivo studies for glucose uptake in all three tissues. In adipose tissue culture TCDD starts reducing glucose uptake after 30 minutes. The inhibitory potencies of three dioxin congeners on adipose glucose transporting activities follows the same order of their toxicities in vivo. TCDD's effect on glucose transport is sensitive to cytochalasin B, a specific inhibitor of glucose transporter proteins. Based on these observations and the importance of glucose transporters to cellular energy maintenance, we conclude that at least in guinea pigs the reduction of glucose transporters in various tissues is one of the major causes for TCDD-induced wasting syndrome, which is so prominent in this species.
Insulin regulates ovarian phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3 K) signaling, important for primordial follicle viability and growth activation. This study investigated diet-induced obesity impacts on: (1) insulin receptor (Insr) and insulin receptor substrate 1 (Irs1); (2) PI3K components (Kit ligand (Kitlg), kit (c-Kit), protein kinase B alpha (Akt1) and forkhead transcription factor subfamily 3 (Foxo3a)); (3) xenobiotic biotransformation (microsomal epoxide hydrolase (Ephx1), Cytochrome P450 isoform 2E1 (Cyp2e1), Glutathione S-transferase (Gst) isoforms mu (Gstm) and pi (Gstp)) and (4) microRNA's 184, 205, 103 and 21 gene expression. INSR, GSTM and GSTP protein levels were also measured. Obese mouse ovaries had decreased Irs1, Foxo3a, Cyp2e1, MiR-103, and MiR-21 but increased Kitlg, Akt1, and miR-184 levels relative to lean littermates. These results support that diet-induced obesity potentially impairs ovarian function through aberrant gene expression.
The use of low molecular weight heparin sometimes leads to major life threatening complications, such as acute abdominal haemorrhages. We report two cases of major haematoma of rectus abdominis. Computed tomography was very helpful to confirm the diagnosis in these cases.
We conducted a retrospective mortality study in an Inner Mongolian village exposed to well water contaminated by arsenic since the 1980s. Deaths occurring between January 1, 1997 and December 1, 2004 were classified according to underlying cause and water samples from household wells were tested for total arsenic. Heart disease mortality was associated with arsenic exposure, and the association strengthened with time exposed to the water source. Cancer mortality and all-cause mortality were associated with well-water arsenic exposure among those exposed 10-20 years. This is the first study to document increased arsenic-associated mortality in the Bayingnormen region of Inner Mongolia.
Residents of the Bayingnormen region of Inner Mongolia have been exposed to arsenic-contaminated well water for over 20 years, but relatively few studies have investigated health effects in this region. We surveyed one village to document exposure to arsenic and assess the prevalence of arsenic-associated skin lesions and self-reported morbidity. Five-percent (632) of the 12,334 residents surveyed had skin lesions characteristics of arsenic exposure. Skin lesions were strongly associated with well water arsenic and there was an elevated prevalence among residents with water arsenic exposures as low as 5 microg/L-10 microg/L. The presence of skin lesions was also associated with self-reported cardiovascular disease.
Many studies have found that caffeine consumed after overnight caffeine abstinence improves cognitive performance and mood. Much less is known, however, about the effects of caffeine after shorter periods of caffeine abstinence.
The aim of this study was to measure the effects on psychomotor and cognitive performance, mood, hand steadiness, blood pressure and heart rate of caffeine administration after periods of 4, 6, and 8 h of caffeine abstinence.
Participants (n = 49, 27 female) were moderate to moderate-high caffeine consumers (mean daily intake 370 mg/day). Following overnight caffeine abstinence, a 'pre-dose' of caffeine (1.2 mg/kg) was administered at 9 A.M, 11 A.M or 1 P.M. The participants started a baseline battery of measurements at 4 P.M.: before receiving caffeine (1.2 mg/kg) or placebo at 5 P.M.: They then performed the battery of tests again, starting at 5:30 P.M. This was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised study.
Performance and mood measurements confirmed a psychostimulant action of caffeine (versus placebo), but only after 8 h of caffeine abstinence. Caffeine also increased blood pressure after 8-h abstinence, whereas hand steadiness was decreased and perception of task demand was increased by caffeine after 4 h, but not after 6- and 8-h abstinence.
A second cup-of-coffee equivalent dose of caffeine only reliably affected cognitive performance and mood after an 8-h interval between doses, but not after shorter intervals (when caffeine had some adverse effects). These results show that, apart from caffeine consumption soon after waking, the daily pattern of caffeine intake of many typical caffeine consumers is not well explained by the short-term psychostimulant effects of caffeine.
Insulin resistance is recognized as a common metabolic factor which predicts the future development of both type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic disease. Resveratrol (RSV), an agonist of estrogen receptor (ER), is known to affect insulin sensitivity, but the mechanism is unclear. Evidence suggests that caveolin-3 (CAV-3), a member of the caveolin family, is involved in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. Our recent work indicated that estrogen via ER improves glucose uptake by up-regulation of CAV-3 expression. Here, we investigated the role of CAV-3 in the effect of RSV on insulin resistance in skeletal muscle both in vivo and in vitro. The results demonstrated that RSV ameliorated high-fat-diet (HFD)-induced glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in ovariectomized rats. RSV elevated insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in isolated soleus muscle in vivo and in C2C12 myotubes in vitro by enhancing GLUT4 translocation to the plasma membrane rather than increasing GLUT4 protein expression. Through ERα-mediated transcription, RSV increased CAV-3 protein expression, which contributed to GLUT4 translocation. Moreover, after knockdown of CAV-3 gene, the effects of RSV on glucose uptake and the translocation of GLUT4 to the plasma membrane, as well as the association of CAV-3 and GLUT4 in the membrane, were significantly attenuated. Our findings demonstrated that RSV via ERα elevated CAV-3 expression and then enhanced GLUT4 translocation to the plasma membrane to promote glucose uptake in skeletal muscle, exerting its protective effects against HFD-induced insulin resistance. It suggests that this pathway could represent an effective therapeutic target to fight against insulin resistance syndrome induced by HFD.
Oxidative stress is an important pathogenic factor in diabetes. Bilirubin may serve a cytoprotective function as an anti-oxidant. The Gunn rat lacks the enzyme uridine-diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase that is responsible for conjugation of bilirubin, exhibiting elevation of plasma bilirubin. We examined the effect of hyperbilirubinemia on the pancreatic damage caused by streptozotocin (STZ) in the Gunn rat. Male Wistar rats and male Gunn rats were treated with STZ (WS and GS groups, respectively) or vehicle (WC and GC groups, respectively). All 5 rats in the WS group developed diabetes, defined as fasting blood glucose 300 mg/dL or more, at 3 days, whereas only 2 of the 5 GS rats became diabetic at 7 days after STZ injection. Without insulin supplement at 7 days after STZ injection, the WS group displayed higher levels of fasting blood glucose (510.3 ± 50.3 vs. 236.4 ± 42.5 mg/dL, p = 0.003) and HbA1c (5.0 ± 0.1 vs. 3.9 ± 0.1, p = 0.001), compared to those of GS group. In Wistar rats, STZ induced apoptosis of the pancreatic islet cells, accompanied with activation of NADPH oxidase and increased production of reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide, but not in Gunn rats. Moreover, in a rat insulinoma cell line (RIN-m5F), pre-treatment with bilirubin (0.1 mg/dL) decreased cell death and apoptosis caused by STZ, and also reduced H₂O₂ production. Considering the protective effect of hyperbilirubinemia against STZ-induced injury, we postulate that bilirubin could be a potential therapeutic modality for oxidative stress of pancreas islets.
Safety pharmacologists from the Japanese pharmaceutical industries and contract laboratories made a database to evaluate drug effects on the QT interval in 2005. This QT PRODACT project was a prospective study of 12 QT-prolonging (positive) drugs and 10 non-prolonging (negative) drugs to evaluate the specificity and sensitivity of several in vivo and in vitro animal models: in vitro guinea pig papillary muscle action potential recordings and in vivo ECG recordings in unanesthetized or anesthetized beagle dogs, cynomolgus monkeys and miniature pigs. In guinea pig papillary muscle action potential recordings, positive drugs showed lengthening of the action potential duration (APD). By using a new measure to detect triangulation of the action potential configuration, an IKr blocking activity of drugs with Ca channel blocking action was detected. All in vivo studies showed a QT-prolonging effect of greater than 10% for the positive drugs. These in vivo models were useful to distinguish positive from negative drugs. The QT PRODACT project showed reliability and sensitivity of the experiments to detect positive drugs. The proarrhythmic effects of these positive drugs could not be detected even though, in some animal models (e.g., unanesthetized monkey), torsades de pointes (TdP)-type arrhythmias were shown by terfenadine. We compared in vivo arrhythmia models for proarrhythmia. The halothane-anesthetized open chest coronary occlusion-reperfusion canine model, the halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia model and the chronic AV block dog models seemed to be useful to detect the arrhythmogenic potential of QT-prolonging drugs.
Increased excitatory output from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is thought to play a key role in the development of sensitization to cocaine. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibits this excitatory output.
The present studies were designed to determine the effects of intra-mPFC injections of the GABA(B) agonist baclofen on cocaine-induced motor activity and on the development of sensitization to cocaine.
Rats received bilateral cannula implants above the ventral mPFC. Initial studies examined the dose-response effects of injection of baclofen (0.05-0.5 nmol/side) into the mPFC on the acute motor-stimulant response to cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.). Additional studies determined whether coadministration of intra-mPFC baclofen (0.5 nmol/side) and systemic cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) could alter the initiation and/or expression of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization.
Intra-mPFC baclofen dose-dependently blocked cocaine-induced motor activity. In sensitization studies, intra-mPFC baclofen was able to prevent the initiation, but not the expression of cocaine-induced sensitization.
The data suggest that the ability of GABA to modulate excitatory output from the mPFC may be attenuated in animals sensitized to cocaine.
Increasing application of engineered nanomaterials within occupational, environmental, and consumer settings has raised the levels of public concern regarding possible adverse effects on human health. We applied a tiered testing strategy including (i) a first in vitro stage to investigate general toxicity endpoints, followed by (ii) a focused in vivo experiment. Cytotoxicity of laboratory-made functionalized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (CNTs) (i.e., MW-COOH and MW-NH2), compared to pristine MWCNTs, carbon black, and silica, has been assessed in human A549 pneumocytes by MTT assay and calcein/propidium iodide (PI) staining. Purity and physicochemical properties of the test nanomaterials were also determined. Subsequently, pulmonary toxic effects were assessed in rats, 16 days after MWCNTs i.t. administration (1 mg/kg b.w.), investigating lung histopathology and monitoring several markers of lung toxicity, inflammation, and fibrosis. In vitro data: calcein/PI test indicated no cell viability loss after all CNTs treatment; MTT assay showed false positive cytotoxic response, occurring not dose dependently at exceedingly low CNT concentrations (1  μ g/mL). In vivo results demonstrated a general pulmonary toxicity coupled with inflammatory response, without overt signs of fibrosis and granuloma formation, irrespective of nanotube functionalization. This multitiered approach contributed to clarifying the CNT toxicity mechanisms improving the overall understanding of the possible adverse outcomes resulting from CNT exposure.
Apoptosis is very common during various stages of mammalian germ cell development and differentiation, and the BCL2 gene is one of the most important apoptotic regulators. Although its genetic variants are reported to be involved in cancers and autoimmune diseases, little information is available regarding BCL2 polymorphisms in male spermatogenesis. In the present study, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in coding regions of the BCL2 gene were examined in a hospital-based, case-control study including 198 infertile patients with idiopathic azoospermia and 183 fertile controls. Subsequently, a functional study was conducted for comparison of paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis between the BCL2 variant and the wild type in vitro. Three SNPs were found in exon 2--A21G (rs1801018), G127A (rs1800477), and C300T (rs61733416)--with the latter first reported in the Han-Chinese population. The frequency of G127A (GA+AA) genotype was significantly lower in azoospermic, infertile men compared to the age-matched controls (P = 0.01). This genotype may confer a lower risk of azoospermia (adjusted odd ratio [OR] = 0.448, 95% confidence interval = 0.226-0.889). In addition, HeLa cells expressing the BCL2 Ala43Thr (G127A), similar to the control cells, were more sensitive to paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis than those expressing wild-type BCL2. Consistently, the cleaved PARP and p-BCL2 proteins were subsequently increased after paclitaxel treatment, as also predicted by the bioinformatics analysis. Considering the decreased antiapoptotic function of BCL2, these results suggest that the Ala43Thr variant is associated with protection against azoospermia in the Han-Chinese population.
Targeting the estrogen pathway has been proven effective in the treatment for estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. There are currently two common groups of anti-estrogenic compounds used in the clinic; Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators (SERMs, e.g. tamoxifen) and Selective Estrogen Enzyme Modulators (SEEMs e.g. letrozole). Among various naturally occurring, biologically active compounds, resveratrol and melatonin have been suggested to act as aromatase inhibitors, which make them potential candidates in hormonal treatment of breast cancer. Here we used a co-culture model in which we previously demonstrated that primary human breast adipose fibroblasts (BAFs) can convert testosterone to estradiol, which subsequently results in estrogen receptor-mediated breast cancer T47D cell proliferation. In the presence of testosterone in this model, we examined the effect of letrozole, resveratrol and melatonin on cell proliferation, estradiol (E2) production and gene expression of CYP19A1, pS2 and Ki-67. Both melatonin and resveratrol were found to be aromatase inhibitors in this co-culture system, albeit at different concentrations. Our co-culture model did not provide any indications that melatonin is also a selective estrogen receptor modulator. In the T47D-BAF co-culture, a melatonin concentration of 20 nM and resveratrol concentration of 20 μM have an aromatase inhibitory effect as potent as 20 nM letrozole, which is a clinically used anti-aromatase drug in breast cancer treatment. The SEEM mechanism of action of especially melatonin clearly offers potential advantages for breast cancer treatment.
Clonidine stimulation test is widely used to evaluate growth hormone secretion. Side effects are somnolence (35%) and arterial hypotension (AH) (5%). The aims of this paper were to evaluate the tolerance to this test regarding blood pressure (BP) decrease, sedation and the efficacy of saline resuscitation to prevent AH. BP was measured at basal, 60 and 120 min. Sedation was determined by the Ramsay scale. Patients were divided into two groups: Group 1 (n = 80) received saline resuscitation only upon severe AH (drop of mean BP [MBP] > 20% from initial MBP) and/or postural hypotension; Group 2 (n = 100) received saline resuscitation from the beginning of the test. Both groups presented a significant MBP fall and 75% presented somnolence at 60 min. MBP drop did not correlate with either sedation or the clonidine dose. Group 1 presented more hypotension (59% x 28%) and greater MBP drop at 60 min. Only one patient had an asthma attack. We conclude that the hypotension effects caused by oral clonidine diminish with saline resuscitation since the beginning of the test. This test must have specialized medical support with strict BP evaluation and precocious intervention when needed.
Sesamin (Ses), one of the major lignans in sesame seeds and oil, has been reported to have many benefits and medicinal properties. However, its protective effects against nickel (Ni)-induced injury in liver have not been clarified. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of sesamin on hepatic oxidative DNA injury and apoptosis in mice exposed to nickel. Kunming mice were exposed to nickel sulfate with or without sesamin coadministration for 20 days. The data showed that sesamin significantly prevented nickel-induced hepatotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner, indicated by both diagnostic indicators of liver damage (serum aminotransferase activities) and histopathological analysis. Moreover, nickel-induced profound elevation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and oxidative stress, as evidenced by an increase of the lipid peroxidation level and depletion of the intracellular reduced glutathione (GSH) level in liver, were suppressed by treatment with sesamin. Sesamin also restored the activities of antioxidant enzymes (T-SOD, CAT, and GPx) and decreased 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels in nickel-treated mice. Furthermore, a TUNEL assay showed that nickel-induced apoptosis in mouse liver was significantly inhibited by sesamin. Exploration of the underlying mechanisms of sesamin action revealed that activities of caspase-3 were markedly inhibited by the treatment of sesamin in the liver of nickel-treated mice. Sesamin increased expression levels of phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) and phosphorylated protein kinase B (PBK/Akt) in liver, which in turn inactivated pro-apoptotic signaling events, restoring the balance between pro- and anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins in the liver of nickel-treated mice. In conclusion, these results suggested that the inhibition of nickel-induced apoptosis by sesamin is due at least in part to its antioxidant activity and its ability to modulate the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway.
