Clinical observations indicate that cocaine use during pregnancy is a major health concern in the United States and may result in seizure-like behavior in the offspring. In the present study, we investigated whether prenatal cocaine exposure altered seizure thresholds measured in Sprague-Dawley rats, 60-90 days postnatal. In vitro postnatal studies, focusing on hippocampal tissue, revealed a reduced threshold for both electrical stimulation- and potassium-induced epileptiform discharges in slices from cocaine-exposed animals. Modest elevation of extracellular potassium concentration from 3 to 6 mM KCl elicited spontaneous epileptiform discharges in the majority of slices from cocaine-exposed animals (13/20) but rarely in slices from saline-exposed animals (2/18). In vivo studies on awake, freely behaving adult rats indicated a significant reduction in thresholds for both flurothyl- and kainic acid-induced seizures in cocaine-exposed animals. Video-EEG monitoring during administration of kainic acid revealed reduced latencies to first 'electrographic seizure' and first 'electrographic seizure with behavior' in rats exposed to cocaine in utero compared to saline-treated controls. These studies provide strong experimental evidence that adult animals exposed to cocaine during gestation are at high risk for the development of seizure activity.
Heart block and Q-Tc interval prolongation have been reported with several agents used in anesthesia, and the US Food and Drug Administration mandates evaluation of the Q-T interval with new drugs. Drug-induced Q-T interval prolongation may precipitate life-threatening arrhythmias, is considered a precursor for torsades de pointes, and may predict cardiovascular complications. In the patient described in this article, heart block occurred and the Q-Tc interval became prolonged after muscle relaxant reversal with neostigmine; both were considered to be related to the combination of agents used in the case, as well as to other predisposing factors such as morbid obesity. The agents used that affected cardiac conduction were neostigmine, desflurane, droperidol, dolasetron, and dexmedetomidine. Although the heart block was resolved after 2 doses of atropine, prolonged P-R and Q-Tc intervals persisted into the immediate postoperative period but returned to baseline within 4 hours. Clinical implications of this report include increasing awareness of the multitude of factors affecting Q-T interval prolongation during anesthesia.
The hypnotic zolpidem and the hormone melatonin were evaluated and directly compared for their effects on performance when subjects sleeping under their influence were prematurely awakened from daytime sleep.
Non-sleep deprived volunteers (eight men and five women) received single oral doses of 5 or 10 mg melatonin (Mel-5; Mel-10), 10 or 20 mg zolpidem (Zol-10; Zol-20), or placebo immediately before retiring at 13:00. Performance testing and subjective evaluations occurred prior to dosing and following forced awakening at 15:00, 2 h after dosing.
Compared with placebo, on being awakened under Zol-20, significant performance decrements were prevalent on 9 of 10 cognitive tasks, including grammatical reasoning, mathematical processing, and word memory. Recovery required up to 6 h post-awakening for the more complex tasks. Loss of coordination and nausea were also present on awakening under Zol-20. On being awakened under Zol-10, significant but relatively less severe and shorter duration performance decrements occurred for 4 of the 10 tasks and recovered by 4 h post-awakening. Under Mel-5 or Mel-10, performance decrements seldom occurred and were considerably less severe, briefer, and less systematic than for zolpidem.
Findings indicated that when operational personnel sleeping with the aid of either 10 or 20 mg zolpidem are prematurely awakened, it would be prudent to evaluate their general well-being and possible need for assistance prior to their being permitted to depart crew-rest or to perform tasks and duties. In contrast, we found little to no evidence of deteriorated well-being or need for assistance when awakened while sleeping under the influence of melatonin.
Data on seizure-like phenomena (SLP) in patients receiving propofol were systematically reviewed. Reports had to provide detailed information on SLP in individual patients who received propofol. Phenomena were classified according to the time point of their occurrence during anesthesia or sedation (induction, maintenance, emergence, delayed [>30 minutes after emergence]) and their clinical presentation (generalized tonic-clonic seizures, focal motor seizures, events presented as increased tone with twitching and rhythmic movements not perceived as generalized tonic-clonic seizures, opisthotonos, involuntary movements). In 70 patients without epilepsy, SLP happened during induction in 24 (34%), during maintenance in two (3%), during emergence in 28 (40%), and was delayed in 16 (23%). Most frequent clinical presentations of SLP were generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 30 patients (43%), events presented as increased tone with twitching and rhythmic movements not perceived as generalized tonic-clonic seizures in 20 (36%), and involuntary movements in 11 (16%). Of 11 patients with epilepsy, seven (64%) had generalized tonic-clonic seizure during emergence. Of all 81 patients, 26 (32%) only had an EEG, and 12 (15%) only a neurologic consultation. SLP may happen in patients with or without epilepsy receiving propofol. The time point of the occurrence of SLP suggests that a change in cerebral concentration of propofol may be causal. To confirm this hypothesis, to estimate the prevalence of propofol-related SLP, and to identify patients at risk, data of higher quality are needed.
We reviewed the records of 283 cocaine abusers consecutively admitted to a municipal hospital, and identified eight patients (2.8%) who presented with seizures. Four (1.4%) had focal or generalized seizures temporally associated with cocaine use. Based on these four cases and five previous reports, we conclude that although seizures are relatively rare in hospitalized cocaine users, they are provoked by all major routes of administration, and may be partial or generalized.
Three young patients developed strokes of rostral midbrain and thalamus shortly following cocaine abuse. Two had infarctions and one had a hemorrhage, but none had clear risk factors other than cocaine for this relatively uncommon type of stroke. Toxicologic analysis confirmed isolated cocaine use in each patient. In the two cases of infarction studied angiographically, one had normal findings and the other had focal narrowing of the P1 segments of the posterior cerebral arteries bilaterally. Since the P1 segment has a uniquely sparse perivascular sympathetic supply, we suggest that direct adrenergic-mediated vasoconstriction is not critical to the production of cocaine-associated stroke.
The safety and tolerance of four intravenous formulations of Timentin (ticarcillin + clavulanic acid) have been evaluated in 1659 patients (1512 adults and 147 paediatric) included in clinical trials conducted in Europe and U.S.A. Timentin 3.2 and 5.2 g were administered respectively to 877 and 635 adults and Timentin 1.6 and 2.6 g to 117 and 30 paediatric patients three, four or six times daily for between 7.7 and 9.0 days in adults and 8.0 and 12.0 days in paediatric cases. Patients with septicaemia were 16%, 14% and 28% respectively of the Timentin 3.2, 5.2 g and paediatric groups, which together with respiratory tract and other serious miscellaneous infections accounted for the majority of cases treated within these three groups. Of the 1659 patients studied, 161 adverse reactions were reported from 151 patients (9.1%), 36 of which (2.2%) resulted in discontinuation of treatment. The reactions were at the injection site in 86 cases (5.2%), hypersensitivity in 35 (2.1%) and miscellaneous systemic symptoms in 40 cases (2.4%). Local reactions, i.e. phlebitis, pain and erythema, were self-limiting and did not necessitate early cessation of treatment. Hypersensitivity reactions occurred equally in all groups and necessitated cessation of treatment in about half of the patients. Gastro-intestinal disturbances were observed in eight, four and one patient within the Timentin 3.2, 5.2 g and paediatric groups. Changes in haemostatic status were reported in nine patients treated with Timentin. In all cases they were associated with contributory pathology and/or concurrent use of anticoagulants. Laboratory monitoring revealed transient variations in haemoglobin, blood cellular or plasma composition and plasma enzymatic activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Physicians increasingly prescribe cyclosporine as an immunosuppressive agent for both organ-transplant and non-organ-transplant recipients. Investigators have reported a high incidence of drug-induced hypertension even when clinical nephrotoxicity was not present. We wanted to determine the reason.
A comparison was made of hypertension in 15 cyclosporine-treated transplant recipients with that in a similar group of 15 azathioprine-treated transplant recipients.
Hypertension in the cyclosporine group responded differently from that seen in the azathioprine group and from previously described forms of post-transplantation hypertension. Hypertensive cyclosporine-treated patients show a sodium acquisitive renal state that responds to sodium restriction. Unlike rat models, which suggest cyclosporine-induced stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system, or previous forms of post-transplant hypertension in humans, plasma renin levels were not elevated and blood pressure did not respond to a test dose of captopril.
Hypertension in cyclosporine-treated patients is an iatrogenic form of hypertension that may be associated with an early, subtle, renal defect in sodium excretion, a genesis of hypertension that is consistent with Guyton's view of essential hypertension.
The records of 24 patients with malignant gliomas treated with carotid infusion of cisplatin and 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) are reviewed for risk factors that might suggest the development of a permanent neurological deficit after infusion. Permanent neurological deficits were seen with doses of cisplatin as low as 69 mg/m2, although doses as high as 100 mg/m2 were tolerated by other patients. All 3 patients who developed permanent neurological deficits received fixed doses of cisplatin of 150 mg and supplied only 2 major intracranial branches from the infused carotid artery. In none of these patients was a filter used in the infusion line. Other risk factors identified in 2 of the 3 patients were diffuse neoplasm involving the region of the internal capsule and the use of an infusion pump rather than a pulsatile bolus infusion technique. The development of a permanent neurological deficit appeared unrelated to the dose of BCNU within the range utilized, and preinfusion administration of corticosteroids did not prevent neurological deficit. These possible risk factors should be considered in the future development of protocols for arterial infusion therapy of malignant gliomas.
The effects of lindane, administered either IP (4, 6 or 8 mg/kg in dimethylsulfoxide, 0.5 ml/kg) or PO (30, 40 or 50 mg/kg in oil, 1 ml/kg), were compared in male rats. Effects appeared later and lasted longer after PO administration. After either route, convulsant effects occurred first and were over before hypothermic effects were maximal. Also, hypothermia subsided before hypophagia ended. After IP administration, hypothermia had the lowest threshold and convulsions the next lowest; reduced food intake was produced only by the highest dose, which also produced 43% deaths. By contrast, after PO administration, all doses reduced food intake and produced hypothermia, but deaths did not occur after even the highest dose. The different time courses and thresholds for the different indices of toxicity suggest that different target sites or mechanisms may be involved. Thus, effects on the gut, in addition to effects on the brain, may account for the longer duration and greater sensitivity of reduced food intake, compared to lethal and hypothermic effects, after PO administration of lindane. After administration of lindane IP, peripheral vasodilation (as demonstrated by an increase in tail temperature) preceded colonic hypothermia. This could be explained if lindane inappropriately activated heat-loss mechanisms.
Cognitive functions of Long Evans (N=30) and Wistar rats (N=32) were compared using a Morris water maze. Under control conditions the Long Evans rats were more efficient in this test, their average escape latency after 5 days of training (6.4+/-0.1 s, mean+/-S.E.M.) was significantly shorter than that of the Wistar rats (11.0+/-0.1 s). When the training was completed seizures were induced by an intraperitoneal injection of pilocarpine (330 mg/kg in the Long Evans strain and 350 mg/kg in the Wistar rats) 30 min after pretreatment with N-methylscopolamine (1 mg/kg i.p.). Clonazepam (1 mg/kg i.p.) was used to interrupt clonic seizures after 2 hours of continuous activity. Approximately one quarter of rats in both strains did not develop seizures. Severe convulsive status epilepticus was common in Long Evans rats (23 out of 30). In contrast, only 12 Wistar rats generated convulsive status epilepticus and the same number of animals exhibited only bursts of motor seizures separated by periods without convulsions (temporary seizures). Mortality after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus was considerably higher in the Long Evans rats than in the Wistar rats. After a latency of 2-3 weeks spontaneous recurrent seizures appeared in all animals surviving status. Cognitive memory was tested during the 'silent period' between status and recurrent seizures. The Long Evans rats were unable to find the platform at the 3rd and 6th day after status but then their performance rapidly improved. The performance of the Wistar rats undergoing status epilepticus was seriously deteriorated and it never normalized, whereas the animals with temporary seizures exhibited only a transitory marginal prolongation of latencies. The hippocampal formation was damaged by status epilepticus in rats of both strains - the Long Evans rats exhibited more extensive damage of subfields CA1 and CA3, whereas in the Wistar rats a complete destruction of hilar neurons was observed in addition to partial CA1 and CA3 damage.
To present a case of nafcillin-induced interstitial nephritis.
Case report and literature review.
Hospital.
Three days following initiation of nafcillin therapy for staphylococcal pneumonia, an 80-year-old woman developed allergic manifestations and progressive renal impairment suggestive of acute allergic interstitial nephritis. These manifestations were completely reversed within 96 hours of cessation of nafcillin therapy.
In the clinical setting of acute renal failure in a patient on nafcillin therapy, acute interstitial nephritis should be considered. Prompt cessation of nafcillin therapy has generally been associated with reversal of symptoms and an improvement in renal function.
As an antidiabetic agent, rosiglitazone (ROSI) binds and activates peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor gamma (PPARγ), altering the expression of genes involved in glucose uptake and disposal, ultimately affecting glucose regulation. ROSI might therefore be a potential treatment to ameliorate age-related decline in cognitive function, particularly on an insulin-resistant background, where improvements in peripheral insulin sensitivity and central nervous system (CNS) glucose utilization may facilitate recovery of cognitive function. We therefore examined the amelioration potential of ROSI for neurocognitive deficits resulting from aging in an animal model. Behaviorally, acute and chronic ROSI treatments enhanced acquisition of learning in the water plus maze, a modified version of the Morris water maze task. In parallel, restoration of synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus of ROSI-treated middle-aged rats was evident after a single dose intake. Additionally, the spatial receptive fields of hippocampal CA1 place cells were significantly improved by chronic ROSI administration. ROSI treatment reversed basal plasma insulin abnormalities and increased hippocampal glucose transporter (GLUT)-3 expression in middle-aged rats. Taken together, these results suggest that ROSI modulates hippocampal circuitry effectively to promote an improvement in cognitive function, possibly via a glucose transporter-3 mechanism.
Thimerosal (TH), an ethylmercury complex of thiosalicylic acid has been used as preservative in vaccines. In vitro neurotoxicity of TH at high nM concentrations has been reported. Although a number of toxicological experiments demonstrated high affinity of mercury to thiol groups of the extracellular amino acids and proteins that may decrease concentration of free TH in the organism, less is known about the role of interactions between proteins and amino acids in protection against TH neurotoxicity. In the present study we examined whether the presence of serum proteins and of l-cysteine (Cys), d,l-homocysteine (Hcy), N-acetyl cysteine (NAC), l-methionine (Met) and glutathione (GSH) in the incubation medium affects the TH-induced changes in the viability, the intracellular levels of calcium and zinc and mitochondrial membrane potential in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells. The cells were exposed to 500 nM TH for 48 h or to 15-25 μM TH for 10 min. Our results demonstrated a decrease in the cells viability evoked by TH, which could be prevented partially by serum proteins, albumin or in a dose-dependent manner by 60, 120 or 600 μM Cys, Hcy, NAC and GSH, but not by Met. This neuroprotection was less pronounced in the presence of proteins. Incubation of neurons with TH also induced the rise in the intracellular calcium and zinc concentration and decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, and these effects were abolished by all the sulfur containing compounds studied and administered at 600 μM concentration, except Met. The loss of the ethylmercury moiety from TH as a result of interaction with thiols studied was monitored by (1)H NMR spectroscopy. This extracellular process may be responsible for the neuroprotection seen in the cerebellar cell cultures, but also provides a molecular pathway for redistribution of TH-derived toxic ethylmercury in the organism. In conclusion, these results confirmed that proteins and sulfur-containing amino acids applied separately reduce TH neurotoxicity, while their combination modulates in more complex way neuronal survival in the presence of TH.
Results of a previous report showed that, if administered by intraventricular injection to access tissue normally protected by the blood-brain barrier, gadopentetate dimeglumine produced acute excitation, persistent ataxia, and widespread brain lesions in rats at 5-micromol/g brain but not at 3.8-micromol/g brain. The present study using gadodiamide was undertaken to see whether the effects were agent-specific.
Rats, surgically prepared with a lateral ventricular cannula, were administered a slow injection at 2 microL/min of gadodiamide into the lateral ventricle, and behavioral and neuropathologic changes were noted.
Both gadodiamide and gadopentetate dimeglumine produced focal and generalized myoclonus over several hours. Gadodiamide did not produce the medium-term tremor or persistent ataxia seen after treatment with gadopentetate dimeglumine. Neuropathologic changes developed over 1 to 3 days and took three distinct forms: vacuolated thalamic lesions closely resembling those produced by gadopentetate dimeglumine; small but similar vacuolated symmetrical caudate lesions not produced by gadopentetate dimeglumine; and severe swelling and astrocytic hypertrophy and hyperplasia in the cerebellar vermis, again not produced by gadopentetate dimeglumine. Unlike gadopentetate dimeglumine, gadodiamide produced no spinal cord lesions. The cerebellar changes were seen at 1.25-micromol/g brain and above, behavioral changes at 2.5-micromol/g brain and above, and thalamic and caudate lesions at 10-micromol/g brain, the maximal dose used. Markedly reducing the rate of injecting the same volume over 28 hours prevented the acute excitation but did not reduce the severity of the morphologic effects.
The acute excitatory effects of high intraventricular doses of gadopentetate dimeglumine and gadodiamide are similar and appear to be attributable to local action at the infusion site, but differences exist between the two agents in the character and topography of the distant morphologic changes. The cerebellum was the brain area most sensitive to gadodiamide in this experimental model. It is unlikely that gadodiamide would gain access to the brain at these tissue doses when used intravenously for conventional clinical imaging, but our experimental model suggested that it had some unexpectedly specific neuropathologic potential.
Emerging literature suggests that hypomanic behaviour may be clinically more important than elated mood in spontaneous hypomania. This report describes dysfunctional behavioural activation as a milder expression of antidepressant-associated hypomania.
Five outpatients with mood disorders developed problem behaviours following antidepressant treatment. These behaviours include gambling, excessive spending, increased sexual activity, excessive shopping and socially inappropriate verbal aggression. These behaviours were not accompanied with noticeable euphoria or persistent dysphoria and were not characteristics of the individual's personality functioning. They were reported by significant others and patients had no history of primary impulsive, substance abuse or personality disorders.
The observed antidepressant-associated behavioural activation was suggestive of hypomanic behaviours not of impulse control disorders because of; (a) absence of other accountable mental or medical disorders characterized by impulsivity, (b) the evidence of close association between impulsivity and hypomanic/manic states, (c) increasing awareness of the diagnostic importance of behavioural disturbances in hypomania, (d) the substantial evidence relating antidepressant treatment to the emergence of hypomania, but not to impulse control disorders, (e) the well documented therapeutic effect of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in impulse control disorders.
In accordance with the recent proposed revision in the diagnostic criteria of hypomania, the observed dysfunctional behavioural activation during antidepressant treatment may represent milder expression of antidepressant-associated hypomania. More research is warranted to study the behavioural expression of hypomania secondary to antidepressants.
To assess the characteristics and clinical course of nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease treated with azathioprine, so as to estimate the frequency of this complication and search for risk factors.
Cases were identified through a systematic survey of patients followed at 11 centres. At one centre, the cumulative risk of NRH was estimated and a case-control study was undertaken to identify risk factors.
37 cases of NRH (30 male, 7 female) were identified between 1994 and 2005. The median dose of azathioprine was 2 mg/kg/d (range 1.5 to 3.0). The median time between the start of azathioprine and the diagnosis of NRH was 48 months (range 6 to 187). After a median follow up period of 16 months (range 1 to 138), 14 patients developed complications of portal hypertension. Using multivariate analysis, male sex and stricturing behaviour were the two risk factors associated with NRH in patients treated with azathioprine. The cumulative risk calculated from the database (one centre) was 0.5% at 5 years (95% confidence interval, 0.11 to 0.89) and 1.25% at 10 years (0.29 to 2.21).
NRH is a rare but potentially severe complication of azathioprine in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Clinicians should be aware of this complication, and should monitor liver function tests and platelet counts closely in their patients.
The effect of selective dopamine receptor blockade on epileptic activity was tested in rats, using the lithium-pilocarpine seizure model. One day after lithium pretreatment, systemic administration of the dopamine D1 antagonist, SCH 23390, prevented the convulsive activity induced by either 10 or 15 mg/kg of pilocarpine in a dose-dependent manner as revealed by behavioral and electroencephalographic alterations. No anticonvulsant effect was observed when SCH 23390 was injected at the same time as lithium and 24 h prior to pilocarpine. Furthermore, the D2 antagonists, raclopride and haloperidol, potently reduced the threshold for convulsions induced by 10 mg/kg of pilocarpine, following lithium pretreatment. Neither dopamine D1 nor D2 antagonists altered the limbic stereotypies induced by pilocarpine, supporting the view that the dopamine system is primarily involved in the mechanisms of convulsion generation and seizure spreading. These results indicate that dopamine receptor subtypes exert opposite functions on the regulation of convulsive activity.
Alteration in transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling pathway is one of the main causes of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). The human runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), an important component of TGF-beta pathway which is located at 1p36, is commonly deleted in a variety of human cancers, including ESCC. Hypermethylation of RUNX3 promoter was frequently found in gastrointestinal cancers, including those of stomach, liver, colon and pancreas. However, RUNX3 promoter methylation status in ESCC has not been studied. The aim of this study was to determine whether promoter methylation of the RUNX3 gene correlates with ESCC tumor progression.Accordingly, we first determined RUNX3 mRNA expression and methylation status of its promoter region in 42 primary tumors with ESCC and Eca-109, an ESCC cell line. Loss of RUNX3 mRNA expression was detected by RT-PCR in 23 out of 42 (54.8%) ESCC specimens and Eca-109 cells. The Promoter hypermethylation was detected by Methylation Specific Polymerase Chain Reaction (MS-PCR) in 27 out of 42 (64.3%) ESCC specimen and Eca-109 cells. Importantly, we found positive correlations, not only between the promoter hypermethylation and tumor clinical pathologic stages (P = 0.003), but also between the loss of RUNX3 mRNA expression and the tumor progression (P = 0.016). Finally, we observed that the loss of RUNX3 mRNA expression is statistically correlated with the promoter hypermethylation in these tumors (P < 0.001). Our results suggest that epigenetic silencing of RUNX3 gene expression by promoter hypermethylation may play an important role in ESCC development.
Selection of antihypertensive therapy is often empiric, and use of genetic information to guide drug therapy selection holds future promise.
The objective of this trial is to identify the genetic determinants of the antihypertensive and adverse metabolic responses to a thiazide diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide), a beta-blocker (atenolol), and their combination. This will be accomplished through candidate gene and genome-wide association approaches. Individuals with uncomplicated hypertension (N = 800), with ages 17 and 65 years, are being enrolled. Current antihypertensive therapy is discontinued, and hypertension is confirmed, along with collection of other baseline data. Subjects are then randomized to either hydrochlorothiazide or atenolol, with 1 dose titration step, followed by assessment of response to therapy after at least 6 weeks on the target dose. Those with blood pressure >120/70 mm Hg have the second drug added, with similar dose titration and response assessment procedures. Data collected include home, office, and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure. Biological samples collected in the fasting state include plasma, serum, DNA (buffy coat), and urine. Epstein-Barr virus transformed lymphocyte cell lines are also being created.
Pharmacogenetic-guided therapy holds clinical potential for hypertension, but the literature in the field is limited. This trial will add substantially to our understanding of the genetic determinants of antihypertensive and adverse metabolic responses to 2 commonly used antihypertensive drug classes.
We have attempted to clinically define the therapeutic usefulness of ceftizoxime suppository (CZX-S) in children with bacterial pneumonia, in a randomized trial. Intravenous injection of ceftizoxime (CZX) was used as the control. The results are summarized below. Subjects were inpatients with bacterial pneumonia, ranging in age from 9 months to 7 years and 10 months. As a rule, the daily dose was either four 250 mg (in potency) suppositories given at 6-hour intervals or 60 mg/kg body weight intravenous CZX (control) given in 4 injections at 6-hour intervals over a period of 7 days. The number of children in the study was 67. These children were divided into 2 dosage groups (suppository, 35; injection, 32) with matching pretreatment background factors. The severity of the target disease in the majority of the children was "moderate". The rate of therapeutic effectiveness was 97.1% for the suppository and 93.8% for the injection, and did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. Rates of efficacy by severity, presence or absence of underlying diseases, daily dose and/or complications were high without exception, and did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. Eradication rates for causative microorganisms, as studied in 16 children of each group, were both 93.8%. The 2 most frequently isolated causative organisms were Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Side effects were examined for 36 children of each group. The frequency of side effects did not differ significantly between the suppository group (2 with diarrhea and 1 with abdominal pain) and the injection group (1 with urticaria), and 8.3% and 2.8%, respectively. The frequency of abnormal laboratory test findings differed significantly (P less than 0.01) with respect to eosinophilia which occurred in 7 (20.6%) of the injected subjects but was not encountered in the subjects treated with suppositories. Other abnormal laboratory findings included thrombocytosis in 3 (14.3%) of the injection group and increased GOT in 1 (3.2%) of the suppository group. The suppository formulation of CZX appears to be a highly useful substitute for the injectable form, and should find a special use in children whose treatment with injections experiences some difficulty.
We have recently shown that curcumin induces apoptosis in prostate cancer cells through Bax translocation to mitochondria and caspase activation, and enhances the therapeutic potential of TRAIL. However, the molecular mechanisms by which it causes growth arrest are not well-understood. We studied the molecular mechanism of curcumin-induced cell cycle arrest in prostate cancer androgen-sensitive LNCaP and androgen-insensitive PC-3 cells. Treatment of both cell lines with curcumin resulted in cell cycle arrest at G1/S phase and that this cell cycle arrest is followed by the induction of apoptosis. Curcumin induced the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors p16(/INK4a), p21(/WAF1/CIP1) and p27(/KIP1), and inhibited the expression of cyclin E and cyclin D1, and hyperphosphorylation of retinoblastoma (Rb) protein. Lactacystin, an inhibitor of 26 proteasome, blocks curcumin-induced down-regulation of cyclin D1 and cyclin E proteins, suggesting their regulation at level of posttranslation. The suppression of cyclin D1 and cyclin E by curcumin may inhibit CDK-mediated phosphorylation of pRb protein. The inhibition of p21(/WAF1/CIP1) by siRNA blocks curcumin-induced apoptosis, thus establishing a link between cell cycle and apoptosis. These effects of curcumin result in the proliferation arrest and disruption of cell cycle control leading to apoptosis. Our study suggests that curcumin can be developed as a chemopreventive agent for human prostate cancer.
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorododibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a highly persistent trace environmental contaminant and is one of the most potent toxicants known. Exposure to TCDD has been shown to cause oxidative stress in a variety of animal models. In this study, pregnant Long Evans rats were dosed with 1 microg TCDD/kg on gestational day (GD) 15 so as to investigate oxidative stress in the liver of male pups following gestational exposure to TCDD. Lipid peroxidation (TBARS), production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and total glutathione (GSH) were assayed to identify changes in oxidative stress parameters in the pup liver at GD 21 and postnatal days (PND) 4, 25, 32, 49, and 63. Mean ROS levels in pups were elevated at all time points tested with a significant elevation at PND 4 and PND 25. However, pup hepatic lipid peroxidation was unchanged throughout the time course. In addition, hepatic total GSH levels were not significantly changed although the means for the TCDD-treated groups were less than those of the controls at all time points except PND 49. The results indicate that although the levels of ROS are increased following gestational/lactational exposure, this increase does not translate to direct oxidative damage or significant changes to endogenous antioxidant defense mechanisms. Further investigation into the effect of gestational/lactational exposure in pups should include additional endpoints for further characterization of the time course of the response, the effect upon extrahepatic tissues, and investigation of differences between male and female offspring.
Faciogenital dysplasia (FGDY), also known as Aarskog-Scott syndrome, is an X-linked developmental disorder characterized by disproportionately short stature and by facial, skeletal, and urogenital anomalies. Molecular genetic analyses mapped FGDY to chromosome Xp11.21. To clone this gene, YAC clones spanning an FGDY-specific translocation breakpoint were isolated. An isolated cDNA, FGD1, is disrupted by the breakpoint, and FGD1 mutations cosegregate with the disease. FGD1 codes for a 961 amino acid protein that has strong homology to Rho/Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), contains a cysteine-rich zinc finger-like region, and, like the RasGEF mSos, contains two potential SH3-binding sites. These results provide compelling evidence that FGD1 is responsible for FGDY and suggest that FGD1 is a Rho/RacGEF involved in mammalian development.
Serine/threonine protein phosphatases regulate several key cellular events in the brain, including learning and memory. These enzymes, when over-activated, are known to function as a constraint on learning and memory. We investigated whether these phosphatases are implicated in lead (Pb)-induced deficits in learning and memory. Wistar rat pups were exposed to 0.2% Pb-acetate via their dams' drinking water from postnatal day (PND) 1-21 and directly in drinking water until PND 30. Pb levels in blood, brain and hippocampus were measured and expression of PP1, PP2A, PP2B and PP5 in hippocampus was analyzed. Total phosphatase activity, and PP1 and PP2A activities were determined. Tau phosphorylation at various epitopes was determined by Western blot. Spatial learning and memory was determined by Morris water maze test. Pb exposure significantly increased levels of Pb in blood, brain and hippocampus, reduced the number of synapses in hippocampus and impaired learning and long-term memory (LTM). Short-term memory (STM) was only affected in rats at PND21. Pb exposure increased the expression and activity of PP1 and decreased phosphorylation of tau at threonine-231 in hippocampus at both PND21 and PND30. Pb-induced phosphorylation of tau at serine-199/202 (AT8) paralleled with PP2A activity; at PND21 PP2A activity increased and AT8 phosphorylation decreased; at PND30 PP2A activity decreased and AT8 phosphorylation increased. Increased PP1 activity in hippocampus by Pb is associated with learning and LTM impairment, whereas, increased PP2A activity is associated with STM impairment. These findings suggest the overactivation of PP1 and PP2A, together with changes in tau phosphorylation, as a potential mechanism of lead-induced deficits in learning and memory.
The inhibitory effect of oral administration of betel-leaf extract (BLE) and 2 of its constituents, beta-carotene and alpha-tocopherol, as single agents or in combination with dietary turmeric on methyl(acetoxymethyl)nitrosamine (DMN-OAC)-induced oral carcinogenesis in Syrian hamsters was studied. DMN-OAC was administered twice monthly for 6 months. The chemopreventive effect of BLE or its constituents with turmeric was determined by comparing tumor incidence observed in treated groups with that seen in control animals. The apparent site-specific chemopreventive effect of BLE or its constituents was demonstrated by inhibition of tumor incidence, reduction of tumor burden, extension of the tumor latency period and regression of established, frank tumors. The inhibitory effect of BLE or its constituents combined with turmeric was higher than that of the individual constituents. The study suggests that BLE could be developed as a potential chemopreventive agent for human oral cancer.
