Many patients with drug addiction are reported to have comorbid mood disorders. One of the suggested pathophysiological mechanisms for mood disorders is disruption of circadian rhythms. Several animal studies have shown that methamphetamine altered the expression of circadian clock molecules in the brain. Therefore, it is possible that mood disorders and drug addiction have common susceptibility genes. Recently, we reported that the prokineticin 2 receptor gene (PROKR2) was associated with mood disorders including major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder in the Japanese population. In the present study, therefore, we conducted an association analysis of tagging SNPs in PROKR2 with Japanese methamphetamine dependence patients.
Using five tagging SNPs in PROKR2, we conducted a genetic association analysis of case-control samples (199 methamphetamine dependence patients and 337 healthy controls). The age and sex of the control subjects did not differ from those of the methamphetamine dependence patients.
We detected a significant association between PROKR2 and methamphetamine dependence patients in allele/genotype-wise and haplotype-wise analysis.
Our results suggest that PROKR2 may play a role in the pathophysiology of methamphetamine dependence in the Japanese population. However, because we did not perform a mutation scan of PROKR2, a replication study using a larger sample may be required for conclusive results.
The cardinal haemodynamic disturbance in established hypertension is an increased total peripheral resistance and a subnormal blood flow, particularly during exercise. The spontaneously occurring changes in central haemodynamics have been followed in young males with essential hypertension over a 17-year period: a gradual increase in total peripheral resistance and blood pressure, and a gradual fall in cardiac output and stroke volume, have been demonstrated. Labetalol is a unique antihypertensive agent which induces both alpha- and beta-blockade. Numerous studies have shown that when labetalol is given intravenously to patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension, blood pressure falls within a few minutes-partly due to reduction in cardiac output and heart rate and partly due to reduction in total peripheral resistance. In most series the average reduction in blood pressure was 17 to 22%, the reduction in total peripheral resistance 11 to 14%, and the reduction in cardiac output 2 to 10%. Thus, the reduction in cardiac output with labetalol is less than that seen after single-dose injection of beta-blockers without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. After intravenous injection, the blood pressure-lowering effect is most marked in the upright position and during muscular exercise when cardiac output is usually significantly reduced. Labetalol reduces blood pressure in severe hypertension. Intravenous doses of 0.2 to 0.8 mg/kg bodyweight reduce blood pressure by approximately 20%. This hypotensive effect is partly due to a reduction in total peripheral resistance and partly due to a fall in cardiac index. When the reduction in blood pressure is gradual and moderate (less than 20%), it is mainly produced by a reduction in total peripheral resistance. During long term use labetalol induces haemodynamic changes rather similar to those seen after bolus injection. However, during prolonged use there is a tendency to normalisation in cardiac output and stroke volume; the sustained decrease in blood pressure is mainly due to a reduction in total peripheral resistance. In a recent 6-year follow-up study where 15 patients were studied before treatment and after 1 and 6 years on long term labetalol treatment, a tendency to normalisation of central haemodynamics was found. Over the years total peripheral resistance was gradually reduced by 15 to 20% at rest as well as during exercise. Stroke volume gradually increased and after 6 years of treatment was approximately 10% higher than the pretreatment value. This compensated for the reduced heart rate and no significant reduction in cardiac output was seen either during exercise or at rest.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Hemorrhagic cholecystitis is a rare and potentially fatal complication of biliary tract disease. Nontraumatic hemorrhagic cholecystitis is related to a variety of etiologies. Here, the authors reported an elderly patient who developed hemorrhagic cholecystitis after heparin and aspirin usage for unstable angina. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was performed with the histopathology report disclosing adenocarcinoma in situ. As demonstrated in this case, underlying malignant changes in its early stage increase the risk of bleeding concomitant with anticoagulation usage.
Ischaemia/reperfusion induces systemic inflammation and oxidative stress and thereby remote organ injury in the kidney. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 30 patients undergoing knee arthroplasty with tourniquet, this study evaluated the effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) infusion on renal function by measuring urine alpha-1-microglobulin, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), glutathione-S-transferase-alpha and -phi and serum creatinine and cystatin C concentrations up to 24 h post-operatively. Compared to the baseline, urine alpha-1-microglobulin/creatinine increased in both groups and was higher in the NAC group than in the placebo group at tourniquet deflation and at 3 h thereafter. Urine NAG/creatinine increased at deflation and at 3 h thereafter in the NAC group and the ratio was higher than in the placebo group. The two sensitive indicators of proximal tubular damage and function used in the present study suggest that use of NAC in clinical setting of ischaemia/reperfusion injury may increase the risk of remote kidney injury.
In our study we use nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), the naturally occurring lignan, to investigate whether it plays a role in the prevention and treatment of cancer by epigenetic modifications. The growth inhibitory effect of NDGA on human breast cancer cell lines was determined using the MTT assay (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay). It substantially inhibited the growth of human breast cancer cell lines SKBR3 and MDA-MB-435 with an estimated IC50 of 31.09+/-1.6 and 38.8+/-2.1 micromol/l respectively, after 4 days incubation with different NDGA concentrations. The in-vivo anticancer activity of NDGA was evaluated by calculating the tumor growth inhibition value. NDGA substantially inhibited the growth of human breast carcinoma cells in both animal and cell-based models. We also found that a single treatment with NDGA reactivates methylation-silenced E-cadherin gene in vitro and in vivo, suggesting an intriguing concept that lignans may act as natural effective epigenetic modifiers in the prevention and treatment of cancer.
Hepatic fibrin(ogen) has been noted to occur after acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver injury in mice. Deficiency in plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), an endogenous inhibitor of fibrinolysis, increases APAP-induced liver injury in mice. However, the roles of fibrinogen and fibrinolysis in APAP-induced liver injury are not known. We tested the hypothesis that hepatic fibrin(ogen) deposition reduces severity of APAP-induced liver injury. APAP-induced (300 mg/kg) liver injury in mice was accompanied by thrombin generation, consumption of plasma fibrinogen, and deposition of hepatic fibrin. Neither fibrinogen depletion with ancrod nor complete fibrinogen deficiency [via knockout of the fibrinogen alpha chain gene (Fbg(-/-))] affected APAP-induced liver injury. PAI-1 deficiency (PAI-1(-/-)) increased APAP-induced liver injury and hepatic fibrin deposition 6 hours after APAP administration, which was followed by marked hemorrhage at 24 hours. As in PAI-1(-/-) mice, administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (tenecteplase, 5 mg/kg) worsened APAP-induced liver injury and hemorrhage in wild-type mice. In contrast, APAP-induced liver injury was reduced in both plasminogen-deficient mice and in wild-type mice treated with tranexamic acid, an inhibitor of plasminogen activation. Activation of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) paralleled injury, but MMP-9 deficiency did not affect APAP-induced liver injury. The results indicate that fibrin(ogen) does not contribute to development of APAP-induced liver injury and suggest rather that plasminogen activation contributes to APAP-induced liver injury.
To evaluate the effects of beta(3)-adrenoreceptor (AR) agonist (BRL-37344) on the expression of beta(3)-AR in a isoproterenol (ISO)-induced heart failure (HF) rat model and to investigate the influence on the levels of beta(3)-AR in failing heart.
The rats were randomly divided into four groups: I group (control group, n=10); II group (normal with BRL group, n=10); III group (HF group, n=30); IV group (HF with BRL group, n=35).II and IV groups received BRL 0.4 nmol.kg-1.min-1 through caudal vein for 10 minutes twice a week. I and III groups received saline at the same time. The measure included hemodynamics, the expression of beta3-AR in left ventricular myocytes by the techniques of immunohistochemistry, beta3-AR proteins by western blot, expression levels of beta3-AR mRNA in myocardium by reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and the levels of apoptotic cells with a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling(TUNEL) kit.
(1)Hemodynamic: The tendency of left ventricular end systolic pressure (PES), maximal rates of rise of ventricular pressure(dp/dtmax), maximal rates of decline of ventricular pressure (dp/dtmin) in II, III and IV groups were lower (P<0.01), time constant of left ventricular relaxation (Tc) and left ventricular end diastolic pressure (PED) were higher than those of the I group (all P<0.01). There was no difference between I and II group except PED (P<0.05). Compared with III group, PES, dp/dtmax, dp/dtmin in IV group were dramatically decline (P<0.05): Tc, PED were markedly increased (Tc P<0.05, PED P<0.01). (2)The levels of beta3-AR mRNA and beta3-AR proteins were higher in III and IV groups when compared with I and II groups. There was no difference between I and II group. IV group's levels were higher than III group's. (3)The apoptotic rates in III group and IV group were significantly higher than those in I and II group (all P<0.01). When compared with III group's apoptotic cell rate, IV group's was higher (P<0.01).
The levels of beta(3)-AR mRNA and proteins show an increase in failing heart compared with nonfailing heart. The effect of beta(3)-AR agonist aggravate markedly cardiac function and stimulate cardiac myocytes apoptosis in failing heart. If the levels of beta(3)-AR were too high, they might contribute to the loss of cardiac function and be the foundation of the functional degradation of HF.
To study the predictive role of HER-2 and Topoisomerase IIalpha (TOP2A) in response to primary doxorubicin.
Two hundred and thirty-two patients with operable breast cancer were treated with doxorubicin prior to surgery. ER, PgR, grade, Ki-67 and HER-2 status were prospectively assessed. HER-2 overexpression was evaluated with immunohistochemistry; positive cases were then studied for gene copy number of HER-2, TOP2A and chromosome 17 centromere by chromogenic in situ hybridisation. Clinical response was assessed by mammography. Pathological response was evaluated as the percentage of tumour replaced by changes due to chemotherapy.
HER-2 amplification was associated with clinical response (p=0.04). ER and PgR negativity, high Ki-67 and HER-2 amplification significantly correlated to pathological response (p<0.05). Tumours with coamplification of HER-2 and TOP2A showed a higher percentage of pathological changes (p=0.6). However, in the multivariate analysis for complete pathological response, ER negativity and high Ki-67 index were the only parameters that maintained statistical significance.
HER2 and Topoisomerase IIalpha amplification failed to show an association with pathological response to doxorubicin, whereas ER negativity and a high proliferation rate were predictive of complete pathological response to this regime.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is an important pathogen of pneumonia in human. Human alveolar epithelium acts as an effective barrier and is an active participant in host defense against invasion of bacterial by production of various mediators. Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), the prototypic class III histone deacetylase, is involved in the molecular control of lifespans and immune responses. This study aimed at examining the role of SIRT1 in mediating S. pneumoniae-induced human β-defensin-2 (hBD2) and interleukin-8(IL-8) expression in the alveolar epithelial cell line A549 and the underlying mechanisms involved. A549 cells were infected with S. pneumoniae for indicated times. Exposure of A549 cells to S. pneumoniae increased the expressions of SIRT1 protein, hBD2 and IL-8 mRNA, and protein. The SIRT1 activator resveratrol enhanced S. pneumoniae-induced gene expression of hBD2 but decreased IL-8 mRNA levels. Blockade of SIRT1 activity by the SIRT1 inhibitors nicotinamide reduced S. pneumoniae-induced hBD2 mRNA expression but increased its stimulatory effects on IL-8 mRNA. S. pneumoniae-induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). SIRT1 expression was attenuated by selective inhibitors of ERK and p38 MAPK. The hBD2 mRNA production was decreased by pretreatment with p38 MAPK inhibitor but not with ERK inhibitor, whereas the IL-8 mRNA expression was controlled by phosphorylation of ERK. These results suggest that SIRT1 mediates the induction of hBD2 and IL-8 gene expression levels in A549 cell by S. pneumoniae. SIRT1 may play a key role in host immune and defense response in A549.
Dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHOD) is a pyrimidine biosynthetic enzyme which is usually directly linked to the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Antimalarial naphthoquinones such as atovaquone (566c80) inhibit malarial DHOD by inhibiting electron transport. Since atovaquone also has therapeutic activity against Pneumocystis carinii, the P. carinii DHOD may also be an important drug target. Organisms were obtained from immunosuppressed rats, incubated for 24 h in a short-term in vitro culture system, and then lysed. P. carinii lysates catalyzed the generation of orotate from dihydroorotate at a rate of 852 pmol/mg of protein per min. Control preparations made from uninfected mice showed much less total enzymatic activity and enzyme specific activity. As expected, P. carinii DHOD activity was susceptible to respiratory inhibitors such as cyanide, antimycin A, and salicylhydroxamic acid (SHAM). Susceptibility to SHAM suggests the presence of an alternative oxidase. In contrast, neither pentamidine nor 5-hydroxy-6-demethylprimaquine (5H6DP), a quinone metabolite of primaquine, inhibited the enzyme. Atovaquone inhibited DHOD by 76.3% at 100 microM and 36.5% at 10 microM. A similar degree of inhibition was found when the organisms were preincubated with the drug. Atovaquone inhibited P. carinii growth in vitro at a somewhat lower concentration (between 0.3 and 3 microM). In contrast, Plasmodium falciparum growth and enzyme activity are susceptible to nanomolar concentrations of atovaquone. Thus, while it is possible that atovaquone acts by inhibiting the P. carinii electron transport chain, the possibility of another drug target cannot be excluded.
Methoxyacetic acid (MAA) causes fetal limb abnormalities when the substance is administrated on gestation day (GD) 11 in mice. Limb abnormalities are caused mainly by extensive cell death in the mesoderm of the limb plate. This investigation focused on identifying a protein that is linked with mouse limb teratogenicity.
A single dose of MAA at 10 mmol/kg body weight was administered by gavage on GD 11; controls were administered vehicle only. Dams were killed by cervical dislocation 4 hr after treatment and forelimb buds were isolated from both the control and treated embryos. Proteins in forelimb buds GD 11 + 4 hr were precipitated out using 40-60% ammonium sulfate and were then analyzed by 2D SDS-PAGE. Excised protein spots were identified by mass spectrometry and amino acid internal sequence analysis. Identified protein was further confirmed by Western blotting.
Two-dimensional gel analysis indicated that 1 protein spot of 81.7 kDa/pI 7.3 was overexpressed, and the protein matched heat shock protein 70 (HSP70; accession no. P08109, SwissProt).
The results suggest that MAA, when administered to pregnant mice, upregulates HSP70 in the forelimb buds.
We have compared the effects of scalp infiltration with 0.5% lignocaine, 0.5% lignocaine with adrenaline 1:200,000, 0.9% saline and 0.9% saline with adrenaline 1:200,000, in a prospective, randomized, double-blind study. Direct arterial pressure, heart rate and bleeding at incision were recorded in 80 patients undergoing craniotomy or craniectomy. Arterial pressure decreased by more than 20% from preinfiltration values in 40% of patients in the saline with adrenaline group, and in 55% of patients in the lignocaine with adrenaline group. It did not decrease in patients who did not receive adrenaline.
Halothane as a cause of hepatitis is rare and may be overlooked when evaluating a patient with sudden onset jaundice. A 34-year-old lady, a nurse, presented to the liver clinic with sudden onset non-pruritic jaundice. Viral and collagen serological tests were all normal, malaria and sickling tests were negative, but transaminases were elevated. She reported inadvertent exposure to halothane in surgical theatre where she works. She improved on conservative management, then had a re-exposure to halothane after three weeks and developed a similar clinical picture, which improved on conservative management. In an area endemic of malaria, hepatitis and haemolysing conditions like sickle cell anaemia, the diagnosis of halothane hepatitis requires high index of suspicion. The mechanism of halothane-induced hepatic damage in this patient is very likely idiosyncratic. This is because of the modest dose at first exposure and more severe clinical picture at re-exposure.
Based on reported synergy of the topoisomerase-I (topo-I) inhibitor irinotecan with antimetabolites, irinotecan and cytarabine (Ara-C) were administered sequentially to patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) refractory to or relapsed following high-dose Ara-C and anthracycline therapy. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies were performed with the first irinotecan dose.
In vitro synergy of irinotecan followed by Ara-C was confirmed in a human AML cell line as a basis for the clinical trial. Irinotecan was administered daily for 5 days, with Ara-C 1 g/m2 12 h after each irinotecan dose. Irinotecan was initiated at 5 mg/m2, and the dose was escalated by 5 mg/m2 increments in cohorts of three patients and in individual patients. Pre-treatment samples were studied for topo-I activity and serial samples after the first irinotecan dose were analyzed for pharmacokinetics and for pharmacodynamic effects, including DNA damage and DNA synthesis rate.
The irinotecan dose reached 15 mg/m2 in three-patient cohorts without reaching the maximum tolerated dose, and reached 30 mg/m2 in individual patients. The AUC and Cmax of both irinotecan and its active metabolite SN38 increased linearly in proportion to dose, and the mean half-lives of irinotecan conversion to SN38 and SN38 elimination were 6.2 h (CV 171%) and 7.2 h (CV 48%). Irinotecan rapidly induced DNA damage, and DNA synthesis inhibition varied among patients and treatment cycles. All courses resulted in rapid cytoreduction, and two patients achieved complete remission. Topo-I activity did not predict response.
Irinotecan can be safely administered with Ara-C. This combination is active in refractory AML and warrants further study.
Paclitaxel (Taxol) is a new antimicrotubule plant product, which not only stabilizes the microtubules by inhibiting their disassembly but also promotes the assembly of microtubules. This causes a block in the G2-M phase of the cell cycle known to be a radiosensitive phase of the cycle. Previously we demonstrated that 10 nM paclitaxel accumulated the cells of laryngeal carcinoma cell lines in the G2-M phase as measured by flow cytometry. Time-lapse videomicroscopy demonstrated that the cells died morphologically by apoptosis after a premitotic block. Agarose gel electrophoresis showed the DNA-laddering typical of apoptosis. To investigate the effects of irradiation and paclitaxel separately and concomitantly, we used five newly established laryngeal carcinoma cell lines. The effects were recorded with time-lapse videomicroscopy over 96 hours on controls, cells irradiated with 2 Gy, cells exposed to 1 nM or 5 nM paclitaxel and cells irradiated with 2 Gy after incubating in 1 nM or 5 nM paclitaxel for 24 hours. Spontaneous apoptoses were seen in all cell lines tested. The 2 Gy irradiation dose induced a propagated apoptotic response in two of these cell lines. In all cell lines paclitaxel induced a premitotic block only in some cells at the tested concentrations and these cells died morphologically by apoptosis, whereas irradiation and paclitaxel concomitantly caused an additive inhibition in mitotic activity and caused an additive apoptotic response. An additive effect of paclitaxel and radiation was seen with doses readily achievable in clinical treatment. This additive effect seems to be due to other mechanisms of action than the premitotic block.
Zinc is an essential nutrient that can also be toxic. We have previously reported that zinc-related renal toxicity is due, in part, to free radical generation in the renal epithelial cell line, LLC-PK(1) cells. We have also shown that an MEK1/2 inhibitor, U0126, markedly inhibits zinc-induced renal cell injury. In this study, we investigated the role of an upstream MEK/ERK pathway, Raf-1 kinase pathway, and the transcription factor and ERK substrate Elk-1, in rat renal cortical slices exposed to zinc. Immediately after preparing slices from rat renal cortex, the slices were incubated in medium containing Raf-1 and MEK inhibitors. ERK1/2 and Elk-1 activation were determined by Western blot analysis for phosphorylated ERK (pERK) 1/2 and phosphorylated Elk-1 (pElk-1) in nuclear fractions prepared from slices exposed to zinc. Zinc caused not only increases in 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) modified protein and lipid peroxidation, as an index of oxidant stress, and decreases in PAH accumulation, as that of renal cell injury in the slices. Zinc also induced a rapid increase in ERK/Elk-1 activity accompanied by increased expressions of pERK and pElk-1 in the nuclear fraction. A Raf-1 kinase inhibitor and an MEK1/2 inhibitor U0126 significantly attenuated zinc-induced decreases PAH accumulation in the slices. The Raf-1 kinase inhibitor and U0126 also suppressed ERK1/2 activation in nuclear fractions prepared from slices treated with zinc. The present results suggest that a Raf-1/MEK/ERK1/2 pathway and the ERK substrate Elk-1 are involved in free radical-induced injury in rat renal cortical slices exposed to zinc.
Induction of myocardial necrosis by isoproterenol produces resistance to the necrogenic effects of subsequent doses of the drug. A series of experiments were performed to further define the determinants of resistance. Myocardial necrosis was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by sc injection of isoproterenol at 50 micrograms/kg daily for 10 consecutive days or as a single dose at 50, 5, or 0.5 micrograms/kg. These preconditioning doses were followed, at various times, by a challenge dose of 50 micrograms/kg. The rats were killed 48 hr after the challenge dose, and their hearts were analyzed morphometrically to determine the amount of acute necrosis and scarring. The amount of scar tissue was a reflection of necrosis caused by the preconditioning dose whereas acute necrosis reflected response to the challenge dose. Resistance occurred and lasted longer than 19 to 20 weeks after both single or multiple isoproterenol injections of 50 micrograms/kg, but it was not observed 5 days after administration of a single preconditioning dose. Isoproterenol at 0.5 micrograms/kg produced only very minimal or no myocardial necrosis and did not produce resistance. The resistance was not dependent on the size of the area of necrosis produced during the preconditioning period, showing that it was not due to destruction of all vulnerable muscle by the preconditioning dose(s). The preexistence of lesions, however, was necessary for the development of resistance. It is concluded that development of resistance to the necrogenic effects of isoproterenol reflects an adaptive alteration in the myocardium which survives after a necrogenic dose.
Adrenal gland hormones have been shown to have a role in the antiinflammatory effect mechanism of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. This study investigates whether the analgesic effects of indomethacin, diclofenac sodium, aspirin, and nimesulide (IDAN; upper case letters of the four drugs we used) are also related to adrenal gland hormones.
The analgesic effects of IDAN were studied in the carrageenan-induced inflammatory pain model using both intact and adrenalectomized rats. Paw withdrawal tests were performed in adrenalectomized rats that had been pretreated with phenoxybenzamine, propranolol, and metoprolol.
This study was performed in Pharmacology and Biochemistry Laboratories of Faculty of Medicine.
A total of 306 (114 intact and 192 adrenalectomized) male Albino Wistar rats were used.
Adrernalectomy, drug administrations, pain model induction and pain threshold measurements were performed during the study.
Although the analgesic effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs were lost in adrenalectomized rats, they exerted significant analgesia in adrenalectomized rats that had been pretreated with prednisolone and adrenalin. All these drugs were found to decrease serum adrenalin concentration but did not change serum cortisole (corticosterone in rats) concentration. Prednisolone and adrenalin inhibited carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia in adrenalectomized rat groups pretreated with metoprolol or phenoxybenzamine, but not in rats given propranolol. Propranolol also negated the analgesic effects of IDAN in intact rats. The analgesic effects provided by either prednisolone or adrenalin could not be inhibited by the alpha1, alpha2, or beta1 blockers but disappeared when beta2 receptors were blocked.
The analgesic effects of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs appear to be related to endogenous adrenalin and cortisole. We have demonstrated that adrenalin and prednisolone play important roles in the analgesic effect mechanism of IDAN. Prednisolone and adrenalin produce analgesic effects through beta2-adrenergic receptors, suggesting an indirect role for beta2-adrenergic receptors in the analgesic effect mechanism of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs mentioned.
Aggressive polychemotherapy, intrathecal cytostatic prophylaxis and cranial irradiation have contributed to the remarkable improvement in the prognosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and subtypes of high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and the reduction of central nervous system (CNS) relapses. Early and late neurologic changes have been observed after different CNS-directed therapies. We report on the rare event of an acute tetraparesis after methotrexate (MTX) without other CNS-directed therapy. A young female with a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma developed signs of meningeal irritation a few hours after intrathecal prophylaxis with MTX, cytosine-arabinoside and dexamethasone. She recovered quickly. Ten days after her last course of systemic chemotherapy including high dose MTX she was admitted with a tetraparesis and motoric aphasia. A computer assisted tomography (CT) scan was normal. On magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) hyperintense white matter lesions were visible in the periventricular white matter. Initially, the radiologic signs were progressive while the patient's clinical condition improved. MRI controls after complete neurologic normalization revealed delayed partial regression of the white matter abnormalities. The patient has now been free of neurologic symptoms for 16 months. This case report demonstrates acute and subacute neurotoxic effects of MTX in the same patient and illustrates that radiologic CNS changes can persist irrespective of the disappearance of clinical symptoms.
Furan, a potent rodent liver carcinogen, is found in many cooked food items and thus represents a human cancer risk. Mechanisms for furan carcinogenicity were investigated in male F344 rats using the in vivo Comet and micronucleus assays, combined with analysis of histopathological and gene expression changes. In addition, formamidopyrimidine DNA glycosylase (Fpg) and endonuclease III (EndoIII)-sensitive DNA damage was monitored as a measure of oxidative DNA damage. Rats were treated by gavage on four consecutive days with 2, 4, and 8mg/kg bw furan, doses that were tumorigenic in 2-year cancer bioassays, and with two higher doses, 12 and 16mg/kg. Rats were killed 3h after the last dose, a time established as producing maximum levels of DNA damage in livers of furan-treated rats. Liver Comet assays indicated that both DNA strand breaks and oxidized purines and pyrimidines increased in a near-linear dose-responsive fashion, with statistically significant increases detected at cancer bioassay doses. No DNA damage was detected in bone marrow, a non-target tissue for cancer, and peripheral blood micronucleus assays were negative. Histopathological evaluation of liver from furan-exposed animals produced evidence of inflammation, single-cell necrosis, apoptosis, and cell proliferation. In addition, genes related to apoptosis, cell-cycle checkpoints, and DNA-repair were expressed at a slightly lower level in the furan-treated livers. Although a mixed mode of action involving direct DNA binding cannot be ruled out, the data suggest that furan induces cancer in rat livers mainly through a secondary genotoxic mechanism involving oxidative stress, accompanied by inflammation, cell proliferation, and toxicity.
A case of priapism is described which complicated treatment of impotence with local injections of papaverine. A review is presented of the pertinent literature on the principles and complications of local pharmacotherapy of erection disturbances.
This study tested the hypothesis that treatment with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug will not alter the hypotensive effect of a dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist. Fifteen essential hypertensives (ages 58-80 years) had a supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) < 100 mmHg after 4 weeks monotherapy with nitrendipine 5-20 mg twice daily. They entered a double-blind randomised crossover study in which the addition of indomethacin 25 mg three times daily was compared with placebo in treatment phases each of 4 weeks duration. Subjects were seen weekly and measurements in the last 2 weeks of each phase were compared. Supine blood pressure (mean +/- SE) was higher in the indomethacin phase (158 +/- 4/80 +/- 2) than in the placebo phase (154 +/- 4/76 +/- 3) (p < 0.01 for DBP). In 6/15 (40%) of subjects the increase in supine diastolic blood pressure with indomethacin was > 5 mmHg. Plasma urea was also increased in the indomethacin phase: 7.6 +/- 0.6 mmol/l compared with placebo: 6.3 +/- 0.5 mmol/l (p < 0.001). The study has demonstrated that concurrent treatment with the NSAID indomethacin impairs the blood pressure lowering effect of the dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist nitrendipine. This increase in blood pressure with indomethacin in subjects treated with nitrendipine may represent either an independent pressor effect of indomethacin or a reduced vasodilator prostanoid contribution to the hypotensive effect of nitrendipine. This blood pressure increase may be sufficient to interfere significantly with clinical blood pressure control in some subjects.
To study the effect of intracorporeal injection (IC) of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and phentolamine mesylate (PM) on men with erectile dysfunction (ED) of nonpsychogenic aetiology.
The study comprised 236 men with primarily nonpsychogenic ED attending sexual dysfunction clinics at eight institutions. In an initial dose-assessment phase, the men were given IC injections of 25 micrograms VIP combined with PM 1.0 mg (VIP/P-1) or 2.0 mg (VIP/P-2) in a prefilled, single-use auto-injector. The main aetiologies of ED were arteriogenic (38), diabetes mellitus (DM) (39), neurogenic (35), mixed (90), and venous leakage (30). In a placebo-controlled phase, 171 patients were subsequently treated and self-administered up to 12 injections over a 6-month interval.
In the dose-assessment phase there was an overall response rate of 82%, with responses by aetiology as follows: arteriogenic (82%), DM (85%), neurogenic (86%), mixed (80%), and venous leakage (77%). In a subgroup of 159 patients who withdrew from previous IC therapies for ED, 64% responded with an erection suitable for intercourse. Of the 171 patients treated in the placebo-controlled phase, 75% responded to VIP/P-1 and 12% to placebo (P<0.001); 66% responded to VIP/P-2 and 18% to placebo (P<0. 001), with a median duration of erection of 56 min. The principal adverse event was transient facial flushing accompanying 40% of 1711 injections. There was no pain after injection and one episode of priapism (0.06%); only seven patients withdrew because of adverse events. Over 88% and 92% of patients were satisfied with the drug and auto-injector, respectively. More than 85% of patients and 77% of partners reported an improved quality of life.
The combination of VIP and PM at the dose used is a safe and effective means of treating male ED of primarily nonpsychogenic aetiology.
