Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonists inhibit vascular smooth muscle proliferation and migration and improve endothelial function. It is unknown whether PPAR-gamma agonists favorably modulate bone marrow (BM)-derived angiogenic progenitor cells (APCs) to promote endothelial lineage differentiation and early reendothelialization after vascular intervention.
C57/BL6 mice, treated with or without rosiglitazone (8 mg/kg per day), a PPAR-gamma agonist, underwent femoral angioplasty. Rosiglitazone treatment attenuated neointimal formation (intima/media ratio: 0.98+/-0.12 [rosiglitazone] versus 3.1+/-0.5 [control]; P<0.001; n=10 per group). Using a BM transplantation model, we identified that 58+/-12% of the cells within the neointima at 4 weeks were derived from the BM. Pure endothelial marker-positive, pure alpha-smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA)-positive, or double-positive APCs could be found both in mouse BM and in human peripheral blood after culture in conditional medium enriched with vascular endothelial growth factor. Rosiglitazone caused a 6-fold (P<0.001) increase in colony formation by human endothelial progenitor cells, promoted the differentiation of APCs toward the endothelial lineage in mouse BM in vivo (0.66+/-0.06% [control] to 0.95+/-0.08% [rosiglitazone]; P<0.05) and in human peripheral blood in vitro (13.2+/-1.5% [control] to 28.4+/-3.3% [rosiglitazone]; P<0.05), and inhibited the differentiation toward the smooth muscle cell lineage. Within the neointima, rosiglitazone also stimulated APCs to differentiate into mature endothelial cells and caused earlier reendothelialization compared with controls (31+/-5 versus 8+/-2 CD31-positive cells per millimeter of neointimal surface on day 14; P<0.01).
Similar to embryonic stem cell-derived progenitors, the adult BM and peripheral blood harbor APCs that are at least bipotential and able to differentiate into endothelial and smooth muscle lineages. The PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone promotes the differentiation of these APCs toward the endothelial lineage and attenuates restenosis after angioplasty.
Thirty-five hypertensive black patients were randomized in a double-blind fashion to receive either atenolol 100 mg per day (n = 17) or nitrendipine 20 mg daily (n = 18) for six weeks. Atenolol and nitrendipine significantly reduced blood pressure (P less than 0.05 or less). However, the magnitude of the decrease in supine systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), and in standing diastolic pressure was more pronounced (P less than 0.05 or less) in the nitrendipine than in the atenolol group. Neither of the drugs significantly affected the erythrocyte sodium and potassium concentrations or the ouabain-sensitive efflux of sodium. In multiple regression analysis the changes in supine SBP and DBP with nitrendipine were independently and negatively correlated with the patients' age and initial blood pressure, and positively with the change in supine pulse rate; the change in supine SBP was also negatively correlated with initial erythrocyte sodium concentration. Our results suggest that nitrendipine is more efficient than atenolol in hypertensive blacks and that besides older age and higher pre-treatment. BP levels, a higher intracellular sodium concentration could predict a greater response to nitrendipine.
In our earlier communication we have shown that Lupeol inhibits early responses of tumour induction in murine skin. The free radical mediated damage to the cellular macromolecules such as DNA, proteins, lipids and alteration in the activities of quinone reductase and xanthine oxidase are important biochemical parameters of tumor development. The suppression of free radical mediated damage to cellular macromolecules and induction of quinone reductase along with depletion of xanthine oxidase are prominent characteristics of chemopreventive agents. In the present investigation, we have elucidated the mechanism of action of lupeol (Lup-20 (29)-en-3beta-ol), a triterpene found in moderate amount in many vegetables, fruits and anti-tumor herbs. In the present investigation, lupeol significantly reduced the free radical mediated DNA-sugar damage and microsomal lipid peroxidation in an iron/ascorbate free radical generating system in vitro. Benzoyl peroxide, a known free radical generating tumor promoter mediated oxidation of proteins and modulation in the activities of quinone reductase as well as xanthine oxidase was significantly prevented by lupeol when tested on murine skin in vivo. It was concluded from this study that lupeol acts as an effective chemopreventive agent against cutaneous toxicity.
In vivo 31P-NMR was used to measure the effects of the anti-tumor drug adriamycin on the energy metabolism of rat heart. The exclusive acquisition of NMR signal from cardiac muscle was assured by positioning a solenoidal radio-frequency NMR coil around the heart. Appropriate control experiments verified that 31P-NMR spectra solely originated from this organ. Acute effects occurring shortly after adriamycin administration are expressed in 31P spectra as a dose-dependent decline in the cardiac levels of phosphocreatine, after which stabilization at a new steady-state level occurs. These acute effects of a single dose are complete in 30-60 min and no significant further changes take place within 150 min after drug introduction. Longer-term effects of single high doses and of multiple lower doses were measured up to a week after the initiation of treatment. It seemed that at a total dose of 20 mg/kg, drug-induced interference with cardiac energy metabolism was more pronounced than at the same dose in the acute phase. These 31P-NMR data demonstrate that adriamycin treatment is accompanied by a decrease of the cardiac phosphocreatine/ATP ratio which might be an expression of the well-established cardiotoxicity of the drug.
TCDD (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin) has a variety of toxic effects on a number of organs, including the hematopoietic system. The importance of TCDD-induced oxidative stress has been evaluated in several target organs. However, its role in hematotoxicity remains poorly understood, although bone marrow is known to produce reactive oxygen species. The aim of this study is to evaluate not only the contribution of oxidative stress to TCDD-induced hematotoxicity but also the protective function of TRX/ADF, a known anti-oxidative stress agent, on the hematotoxicity of TCDD in ADF wild-type (WT) and transgenic (Tg) mice. WT and Tg mice received a single intraperitoneal injection of 20 microg TCDD/kg. One day after the treatment, blood and bone marrow cellularity was measured and bone marrow levels of granulotyce/macrophage colony-forming units were determined in the in vitro colony assay. The expression of human TRX transgene by their bone marrow cells was analyzed by Western blot electrophoresis. Our results showed that overexpression of TRX/ADF protects against TCDD-induced hematotoxicity, indicating that induction of oxidative stress that results in disruption of redox regulation may be an important mechanism in TCDD-induced bone marrow toxicity. Moreover, we detected a significant decrease of AhR mRNA levels in bone marrow cells of Tg mice following TCDD treatment, suggesting a biological role of TRX/ADF in the AhR-mediated pathway through which TCDD induces oxidative stress.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicenter study was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a new controlled-onset, extended-release formulation of verapamil hydrochloride called physiologic pattern release (PPR) verapamil. The study was conducted at 24 sites (13 United States, 5 Canada, 6 overseas; see Appendix). Following a 1- to 3-week single-blind placebo lead-in period, 278 patients with chronic stable angina pectoris (247 males, 31 females, mean age 60.8 years, range 32 to 78) were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 once-daily, fixed-dose treatment groups: verapamil 180, 360, or 540 mg, or placebo. PPR verapamil at all doses significantly increased (p < 0.05) time to moderate angina and symptom-limited exercise duration, and verapamil 360 mg significantly increased (p < 0.05) time to > or = 1 mm ST-segment depression, after 4 weeks of treatment when assessed 24 hour after the previous dose. Larger doses of verapamil were associated with proportionately greater improvements in exercise tolerance. Frequency of anginal attacks was also reduced by verapamil. The most frequently observed adverse events were dizziness, headache, constipation, and nausea. The incidence of constipation was high (20.9%) within the 540 mg treatment group. This verapamil formulation can be clinically titrated within a 180 to 540 mg dosing range, permitting effective once-daily administration for the treatment of chronic stable angina.
This study aimed to investigate previously observed side effects, i.e. increased epileptic activity during clonidine medication. The safety and effectiveness of clonidine as spike inducing agent compared to sleep deprivation were tested.
Patients suffering from drug-resistant localization related epilepsy took part in 3 magnetoencephalography (MEG) sessions. One session was recorded without any activating measures. The other two sessions were either performed after sleep deprivation or after medication with clonidine. Target parameter was the number of spikes or sharp-waves during a 30 min recording period.
About 67% of the patients showed increased spike activity after clonidine, whereas sleep deprivation increased the number of spikes in 33%, and 29% of the patients did not show any activation at all. Clonidine was most effective in temporal lobe epilepsy, when the focus was located in the right hemisphere, and when clonidine serum concentrations were ranging between 0.6 and 1.0 ng/ml.
This study showed for the first time that clonidine can be considered an effective spike or sharp-wave inducing drug that is superior to the potency of sleep deprivation.
The administration of clonidine increases the probability of recording ictal and interictal epileptic activity during limited acquisition time.
Drug resistance in malignant gliomas contributes to poor clinical outcomes. We determined the in vitro drug response profiles for 478 biopsy specimens from patients with the following malignant glial histologies: astrocytoma (n = 71), anaplastic astrocytoma (n = 39), glioblastoma multiforme (n = 259), oligodendroglioma (n = 40), and glioma (n = 69).
Samples were tested for drug resistance to 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), cisplatin, dacarbazine, paclitaxel, vincristine, and irinotecan. Biomarkers associated with drug resistance were detected by immunohistochemistry, including multidrug resistance gene-1, glutathione S-transferase pi (GSTP1), O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), and mutant p53.
In vitro drug resistance in malignant gliomas was independent of prior therapy. High-grade glioblastomas showed a lower level of extreme drug resistance than low-grade astrocytomas to cisplatin (11% versus 27%), temozolomide (14% versus 27%), irinotecan (33% versus 53%), and BCNU (29% versus 38%). A substantial percentage of brain tumors overexpressed biomarkers associated with drug resistance, including MGMT (67%), GSTP1 (49%), and mutant p53 (41%). MGMT and GSTP1 overexpression was independently associated with in vitro resistance to BCNU, whereas coexpression of these two markers was associated with the greatest degree of BCNU resistance.
Assessment of in vitro drug response and profiles of relevant tumor-associated biomarkers may assist the clinician in stratifying patient treatment regimens.
Long-term lamivudine therapy is required for patients with chronic hepatitis B, because hepatitis reappears frequently after it has withdrawn. However, hepatitis B virus (HBV) mutants resistant to lamivudine emerge frequently accompanied by breakthrough hepatitis.
Effects of entecavir were evaluated in 19 patients who had developed breakthrough hepatitis during lamivudine therapy for longer than 5 years. This study is a subgroup analysis of a previously reported study. Entecavir, in either 0.5 or 1.0 mg/day doses, was given to 10 and nine patients for 52 weeks, respectively, and then all received 1.0 mg/day entecavir for an additional 68-92 weeks.
There were no differences in biochemical and virological responses in the two groups of patients with respect to the two different initial doses of entecavir. Serum levels of alanine aminotransferase were normalized in 17 (90%) patients, and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) disappeared from the serum in two (14%) of the 14 patients who were HBeAg-positive before. Furthermore, a decrease in histological activity index score greater than 2 points was achieved in nine of the 11 (82%) patients in whom annual liver biopsies were performed during 3 years while they received entecavir. HBV mutants resistant to entecavir emerged in five of the 19 (26%) patients, and hepatitis flare occurred in two of them (40%).
Entecavir in the long term would be useful for histological improvement of breakthrough hepatitis induced by lamivudine-resistant HBV mutants in patients with chronic hepatitis B. However, the relatively high rate of entecavir resistance is a concern, and other strategies need to be considered when available.
Disulfiram has emerged as a promising treatment for cocaine dependence, but it has not yet been evaluated in general populations of cocaine users.
To compare the effectiveness of disulfiram therapy with that of a placebo condition in reducing cocaine use and to compare the effectiveness of 2 active behavioral therapies-cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) and interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT)-in reducing cocaine use.
Randomized, placebo-controlled, double-masked (for medication condition), factorial (2 x 2) trial with 4 treatment conditions: disulfiram plus CBT, disulfiram plus IPT, placebo plus CBT, and placebo plus IPT.
A community-based outpatient substance abuse treatment program.
A total of 121 individuals meeting the criteria for current cocaine dependence.
Patients received either disulfiram (250 mg/d) or placebo in identical capsules. Medication compliance was monitored using a riboflavin marker procedure. Both behavioral therapies (CBT and IPT) were manual guided and were delivered in individual sessions for 12 weeks.
Random regression analyses of self-reported frequency of cocaine use and results of urine toxicology screens.
Participants assigned to disulfiram reduced their cocaine use significantly more than those assigned to placebo, and those assigned to CBT reduced their cocaine use significantly more than those assigned to IPT (P<.01 for both). Findings were consistent across all study samples (eg, intention to treat, treatment initiators, and treatment completers). Benefits of disulfiram use and CBT were most pronounced for participants who were not alcohol dependent at baseline or who fully abstained from drinking alcohol during treatment. Adverse effects experienced by participants who received disulfiram were mild and were not considerably different from those experienced by participants who received placebo.
Disulfiram and CBT are effective therapies for general populations of cocaine-dependent individuals. Disulfiram seems to exert a direct effect on cocaine use rather than through reducing concurrent alcohol use.
As a competitive adenosine antagonist, caffeine affects dopamine transmission and has been reported to worsen psychosis in people with schizophrenia and to cause psychosis in otherwise healthy people. We report of case of apparent chronic caffeine-induced psychosis characterized by delusions and paranoia in a 47-year-old man with high caffeine intake. The psychosis resolved within 7 weeks after lowering caffeine intake without use of antipsychotic medication. Clinicians might consider the possibility of caffeinism when evaluating chronic psychosis.
In utero exposure to the antivirals acyclovir and ganciclovir has been reported to induce gross structural defects in rat offspring. The present study investigated the effects of maternal antiviral treatment on gestation day 10 on reproductive and nonreproductive organs in male rat offspring with a particular focus on the testes. Vehicle and two doses of acyclovir and ganciclovir, 75 and 300 mg/kg, were administered to rat dams. The total doses were fractioned into three subcutaneous applications (3 × distilled water, 3 × 25 mg/kg, and 3 × 100 mg/kg) that were administered on gestation day 10 at 8:00 a.m., 1:00 p.m., and 6:00 p.m. The antiviral concentrations were measured in the serum of the dams 1 h after the last administration. Exposure to 300 mg/kg ganciclovir induced germ cell deficiency in both fetal and adult testes, an effect that was not seen in any other treatment group. Adult rats exposed in utero to this high ganciclovir dose exhibited Sertoli cell-only tubules intermingled with seminiferous tubules that displayed a normal size and normal cell counts, alterations that resemble focal Sertoli cell-only syndrome in humans. The serum concentrations of ganciclovir were markedly higher than those of acyclovir, particularly at the high dose tested. However, although 300 mg/kg acyclovir did not induce germ cell deficiency, other specific effects were seen in exposed animals, including incomplete eye opening and reduced thymus weight.
Loss of genomic imprinting (LOI) of insulin-like growth factor II gene (IGF2) involves abnormal activation of the normally silent maternally inherited allele. LOI of IGF2 has been associated with personal and family history of colorectal neoplasia (CRN), supporting a role for LOI in colorectal carcinogenesis. Whether LOI of IGF2 is associated with known environmental risk factors for CRN is unknown.
We performed quantitative hot-stop PCR for imprinting analysis of IGF2 on normal peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) of individuals. Environmental exposures including tobacco, alcohol, NSAIDs, and nutrient consumption (calcium, folate, selenium, fiber, and fat) were correlated with LOI expression in PBL. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% CI were calculated.
The prevalence of LOI of IGF2 was examined in 172 individuals. Persons with CRN (adenomas/cancer) had 5.1-fold (95% CI: 1.92-13.6) increased risk of having LOI of IGF2 in PBL compared with those without CRN. In contrast, tobacco smoking (OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.36-2.55), alcohol consumption (OR = 1.22, 95% CI: 0.45-3.3), and NSAIDs use (OR = 1.21, 95% CI: 0.38-3.94) were not significantly associated with LOI of IGF2. Nutrient ingestion including calcium (P = 0.61), folate (P = 0.23), selenium (P = 0.19), fiber (P = 0.63), and fat (P = 0.14) was not statistically correlated with LOI of IGF2.
Abnormal imprinting of IGF2 gene was strongly associated with CRN but not with any of the environmental exposures examined. LOI of IGF2 does not appear to be an environmentally acquired phenomenon but rather a hereditary risk factor for CRN.
The ligand-dependent transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is expressed in hepatic stellate cells (HSC), and its transcriptional activity is reduced during cell transdifferentiation in culture. PPARgamma transcriptional activation decreases platelet-derived growth factor-induced proliferation and inhibits alpha-smooth muscle actin expression in cultured HSC. The aim of our study was to evaluate whether oral administration of synthetic PPARgamma ligands, thiazolidinediones (TZD), might affect collagen deposition in animal models of liver fibrosis.
The effect of 2 TZD (pioglitazone or rosiglitazone) was tested on liver fibrosis induced in rats by either toxin administration (dimethylnitrosamine or carbon tetrachloride) or bile duct ligation. In vivo PPARgamma activation was evaluated by gel shift assay using nuclear extracts from HSC isolated from control and treated rats.
Oral administration of TZD reduced extracellular matrix deposition and HSC activation in both toxic and cholestatic models of liver fibrosis. PPARgamma-specific DNA binding was significantly impaired in nuclear extracts of HSC isolated from fibrotic rats compared with HSC from control rats. TZD administration restored PPARgamma DNA binding in HSC nuclei. In vitro, TZD-induced PPARgamma activation inhibited collagen and fibronectin synthesis induced by transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 in human HSC, as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Northen blotting. TZD also reduced the TGF-beta1-induced activity of a 3.5-kilobase procollagen type I promoter transfected in human HSC.
These findings indicate that PPARgamma activation in HSC retards fibrosis in vivo and suggest the use of TZD for the treatment of liver fibrosis.
Dithiocarbamates (DTC), a sulfhydryl group containing compounds, are extensively used by humans that include metam and thiram due to their pesticide properties, and disulfiram (DSF) as an alcohol deterrent. We screened these DTC in an osteoblast viability assay. DSF exhibited the highest cytotoxicity (IC50 488nM). Loss in osteoblast viability and proliferation was due to induction of apoptosis via G1 arrest. DSF treatment to osteoblasts reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and exogenous addition of GSH prevented DSF-induced reactive oxygen species generation and osteoblast apoptosis. DSF also inhibited osteoblast differentiation in vitro and in vivo, and the effect was associated with inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity. Out of various ALDH isozymes, osteoblasts expressed only ALDH2 and DSF downregulated its transcript as well as activity. Alda-1, a specific activator of ALDH2, stimulated osteoblast differentiation. Subcutaneous injection of DSF over the calvarium of new born rats reduced the differentiation phenotype of calvarial osteoblasts but increased the mRNA levels of Runx-2 and osteocalcin. DSF treatment at a human-equivalent dose of 30 mg/kg p.o. to adult Sprague Dawley rats caused trabecular osteopenia and suppressed the formation of mineralized nodule by bone marrow stromal cells. Moreover, DSF diminished bone regeneration at the fracture site. In growing rats, DSF diminished growth plate height, primary and secondary spongiosa, mineralized osteoid and trabecular strength. Substantial decreased bone formation was also observed in the cortical site of these rats. We conclude that DSF has a strong osteopenia inducing effect by impairing osteoblast survival and differentiation due to the inhibition of ALDH2 function.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a high production volume industrial chemical to which there is widespread human oral exposure. Guideline studies used to set regulatory limits detected adverse effects only at doses well above human exposures and established a no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of 5 mg/kg body weight (bw)/day. However, many reported animal studies link BPA to potentially adverse effects on multiple organ systems at doses below the NOAEL. The primary goals of the subchronic study reported here were to identify adverse effects induced by orally (gavage) administered BPA below the NOAEL, to characterize the dose response for such effects and to determine doses for a subsequent chronic study. Sprague Dawley rat dams were dosed daily from gestation day 6 until the start of labor, and their pups were directly dosed from day 1 after birth to termination. The primary focus was on seven equally spaced BPA doses (2.5-2700 μg/kg bw/day). Also included were a naïve control, two doses of ethinyl estradiol (EE2) to demonstrate the estrogen responsiveness of the animal model, and two high BPA doses (100,000 and 300,000 μg/kg bw/day) expected from guideline studies to produce adverse effects. Clear adverse effects of BPA, including depressed gestational and postnatal body weight gain, effects on the ovary (increased cystic follicles, depleted corpora lutea, and antral follicles), and serum hormones (increased serum estradiol and prolactin and decreased progesterone), were observed only at the two high doses of BPA. BPA-induced effects partially overlapped those induced by EE2, consistent with the known weak estrogenic activity of BPA.
We report on the first case of acute renal failure related to obstructive urinary tract lithiasis involving sulfadiazine crystals in a kidney transplant recipient. This patient had disseminated toxoplasmosis which was treated by sulfadiazine (4 g/day) and pyrimethamine (50 mg/day). In the fourth week of anti-toxoplasmosis therapy, he presented with obstructive acute renal failure: the plasma creatinine level increased from 220 micromol/l to 547 micromol/l. Apercutaneous pyelography was conducted showing the presence of a lithiasis located at the junction between the graft ureter and the bladder. Six days later, he underwent surgery to retrieve an orange-colored, friable stone. Its spectrophotometric analysis confirmed that the stone consisted of N-acetyl sulfadiazine crystals.
To assess whether Angiotensin II (Ang II) and carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) used in combination could accelerate the process of fibrosis and whether Ang II play a role in exagerating hepatic fibrosis in rats.
Ang II was injected into the abdominal cavity of Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats together with subcutaneous injection of CCl(4). Rats were killed after 14 and 28 d. Blood serum and liver specimen were collected. The extent of fibrosis in the stained liver tissue sections was determined with the KS 400 Image Analysis System.
Rats receiving Ang II and CCl(4) for 28 d showed extensive liver fibrosis. Along with the increase of hepatic fibrosis, the serum concentration of Ang II went up gradually.
A combination of Ang II and CCl(4) would accelerate the process of hepatic fibrosis. Ang II probably took part in the occurrence of heparic fibrosis.
The therapeutic potency of 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroneopterin (NPH4) was investigated in ischemic paw edema, Adriamycin (ADR)-induced cardiotoxicity, and endotoxin [lipopolysaccharide (LPS)]- and carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. Ischemic paw edema was completely suppressed by pre-administration of NPH4. ADR-induced cardiotoxicity and LPS-induced hepatotoxicity were significantly decreased by post-administration of NPH4. Furthermore, NPH4 ameliorated CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity. These results suggest that NPH4 may be useful for the treatment of free radical, especially superoxide radical, -related tissue injury.
More efficient models are needed to assess potential carcinogenicity hazard of environmental chemicals based on early events in tumorigenesis. Here, we investigated time course profiles for key events in an established cancer mode of action. Using a case study approach, we evaluated two reference phthalates, di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) and its stereoisomer di-n-octyl phthalate (DNOP), across the span of a two-year carcinogenicity bioassay. Male B6C3F1 mice received diets with no phthalate added (control), DEHP at 0.12, 0.60, or 1.20%, or DNOP at 0.10, 0.50, or 1.00% (n = 80-83/group) for up to 104 weeks with six interim evaluations starting at week 4. Mean phthalate doses were 139, 845, and 3147 mg/kg/day for DEHP and 113, 755, and 1281 mg/kg/day for DNOP groups, respectively. Incidence and number of hepatocellular tumors (adenoma and/or carcinoma) were greater at ≥ 60 weeks for all DEHP groups with time and dose trends, whereas DNOP had no significant effects. Key events supported a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) mode of action for DEHP, with secondary cytotoxicity at the high dose, whereas DNOP induced modest increases in PPARα activity without proliferative or cytotoxic effects. Threshold estimates for later tumorigenic effects were identified at week 4 for relative liver weight (+24%) and PPARα activity (+79%) relative to the control group. Benchmark doses (BMDs) for these measures at week 4 clearly distinguished DEHP and DNOP and showed strong concordance with values at later time points and tumorigenic BMDs. Other target sites included testis and kidney, which showed degenerative changes at higher doses of DEHP but not DNOP. Our results highlight marked differences in the chronic toxicity profiles of structurally similar phthalates and demonstrate quantitative relationships between early bioindicators and later tumor outcomes.
Two hundred seventy-nine patients with previously untreated nonresectable adenocarcinoma of the lung (ACL) entered a prospective randomized trial, comparing vindesine (VDS) to a combination of lomustine (CCNU), cyclophosphamide (CTX), and methotrexate (MTX), and to a regimen including all four drugs. Response assessment was possible in 218 patients, while 259 were evaluable for survival. Response rates were similar (22%, 23%, and 27%, respectively) as were median durations of response (15 weeks overall) and survival (29 weeks overall). Patients with dose-limiting toxicity had significantly higher response rate and longer survival than patients without toxicity. The major toxicity was peripheral neuropathy with VDS treatment and myelosuppression with the other two regimens. The VDS single-agent activity in ACL was confirmed, but addition of VDS to the three-drug regimen did not increase activity. Future studies of VDS in combination with other active agents, and comparison to a matched control group on supportive care, are indicated.
Superoxide dismutases (SODs) have been found to decrease tumor formation and angiogenesis. SOD gene therapy, as with many other gene transfer strategies, may not completely inhibit tumor growth on its own. Thus, concomitant therapies are necessary to completely control the spread of this disease. We hypothesized that intratumoral injection of AdSOD in combination with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) chemotherapy would synergistically inhibit breast cancer growth. Our data indicate that BCNU when combined with SOD overexpression increased oxidative stress as suggested by elevated glutathione disulfide (GSSG) production in one of three breast cancer cell lines tested, at least in part due to glutathione reductase (GR) inactivation. The increased oxidative stress caused by BCNU combined with adenovirally expressed SODs, manganese or copper zinc SOD, decreased growth and survival in the three cell lines tested in vitro, but had the largest effect in the MDA-MB231 cell line, which showed the largest amount of oxidative stress. Delivery of MnSOD and BCNU intratumorally completely inhibited MDA-MB231 xenograft growth and increased nude mouse survival in vivo. Intravenous (iv) BCNU, recapitulating clinical usage, and intratumoral AdMnSOD delivery, to provide tumor specificity, provided similar decreased growth and survival in our nude mouse model. This cancer therapy produced impressive results, suggesting the potential use of oxidative stress-induced growth inhibitory treatments for breast cancer patients.
The purpose of this study was to compare the perioperative effects of the intramuscular (i.m.) alpha 2 agonist, dexmedetomidine (DEX), and midazolam (MID) premedication. The study comprised 192 women (64 per group) scheduled for abdominal hysterectomy. The doses of the study drugs were chosen to obtain equal sedative effects. The three groups were: 1) i.m. DEX (2.5 micrograms/kg) and intravenous (i.v.) placebo (DexPla group), 2) i.m. DEX and i.v. fentanyl (FENT) (1.5 micrograms/kg) (DexFent group), and 3) i.m. MID (0.08 mg/kg) and i.v. FENT (MidFent group). I.m. drugs were administered 45-90 min before induction of anesthesia. Preoperative sedation and anxiolysis after DEX was comparable to that after MID. The maximum arterial blood pressure response to endotracheal intubation was blunted in the DexFent group, while in the two other groups blood pressure increased 30-34 mm Hg after endotracheal intubation. The mean isoflurane concentration during surgery was 0.14% in the DexFent group, 0.24% in the DexPla group, and 0.34% in the MidFent group (P < 0.001). During surgery, bradycardia (heart rate < 40 bpm) was observed in 6.2% of DEX patients, and no MID patients, whereas postoperatively 14.1% of DEX patients and 1.6% of MID patients had bradycardia. Fewer patients suffered from postoperative shivering after DEX (10%) than after MID (52%). We conclude that DEX has many desirable effects, but side effects such as bradycardia may limit its routine use in ASA physical status I-II patients.
We reported that an embryonic type of non-muscle-type myosin heavy-chain isoform (SMemb) may be a molecular marker for phenotypic alteration in initial glomerular injury and that methyl-prednisolone has no effect on SMemb expression in glomeruli of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis. The present study was designed to assess whether SMemb mRNA and protein expression in glomeruli are affected by a low-protein diet in rats with PAN-induced nephrosis and in control rats.
Rats were divided into four groups: group 1, PAN-injected rats fed a standard diet containing 22% protein; group 2, PAN-injected rats fed a low-protein diet containing 6% protein, starting on the day of PAN injection; group 3, control rats fed a standard diet; group 4, control rats fed a low-protein diet for the same period. We prepared glomerular RNA and performed Northern blot analysis and immunohistochemistry in all groups.
Glomerular SMemb mRNA increased on days 2 and 4 (prior to and soon after the onset of proteinuria), but declined on day 8 (the peak of proteinuria). Myosin heavy-chain protein expression was evaluated immunohistochemically by use of three antibodies against SM1, SM2, and SMemb. SM1 and SM2 were absent from the glomeruli of rats with PAN nephrosis until day 20. The SMemb isoform was barely detectable in normal glomeruli, but substantial amounts of SMemb were demonstrated in the glomeruli of rats with PAN nephrosis. In the latter condition, the number of SMemb-positive glomerular epithelial cells increased on days 3 and 4, then decreased in subsequent days. Moreover, some mesangial cells became SMemb-positive transiently, returning to barely detectable levels on day 20. In addition, alpha-smooth-muscle actin, type I and III collagens were absent from the glomeruli of rats with PAN nephrosis until day 20. Urinary protein excretion was markedly suppressed by the 6% protein diet in PAN nephrosis. The low-protein diet reduced the increased mRNA expression of SMemb as well as the increased number of SMemb-positive cells in the glomeruli of rats with PAN nephrosis. However, the low-protein diet did not affect SMemb mRNA and protein levels in the glomeruli of control rats.
In rats with PAN nephrosis, findings suggest that restriction of dietary protein leads to a reduction in glomerular SMemb expression.
