An intravenous injection of 40 or 65 mg/kg streptozotocin induced not only diabetes but also severe hypertension in rats. Whereas the hyperglycemia developed fully within a few days after the injection of streptozotocin, the hypertension progessively advanced and reached maximum level several weeks after the treatment and lasted more than 20 weeks. Twenty mg/kg streptozotocin did not induce hyperglycemia but significantly increased blood pressure several weeks after the treatment. Arrest of growth, polyuria, glycosuria, hyperlipemia and lenticular cataracts developed in the animals treated with 40 or 65 mg/kg streptozotocin, but in none of the animals treated with 20 mg/kg. In histological examinations in the 24th week after the treatment, degranulation and necrosis in the pancreatic beta-cells, and vacuolization and deposition of PAS-positive materials in the renal proximal tubules were found in the animals treated with 40 or 65 mg/kg streptozotocin.
The effects of oral doses of diazepam (single dose of 10 mg and a median dose of 30 mg/day for 2 weeks) and propranolol (single dose of 80 mg and a median dose of 240 mg/day for 2 weeks) on psychological performance of patients with panic disorders and agoraphobia were investigated in a double-blind, randomized and crossover design. Both drugs impaired immediate free recall but the decrease was greater for diazepam than propranolol. Delayed free recall was also impaired but the two drugs did not differ. Patients tapped faster after propranolol than diazepam and they were more sedated after diazepam than propranolol. After 2 weeks of treatment, patients tested 5-8 h after the last dose of medication did not show any decrement of performance. These results are similar to those previously found in healthy subjects. Accumulation of drugs was not reflected in prolonged behavioral impairment.
Electroencephalographic and clinical effects of baclofen were investigated in 46 neurological patients and 7 healthy volunteers. 27 cases showed an increase of slow EEG activity. Patients with spinal disease, brain-stem disease, disturbed vibratory sensation and also with renal insufficiency showed pronounced EEG-slowing. Baclofen depresses the activity in primary afferents and reticulocortical afferents. These effects can lead to EEG slowing. One patient developed a reversible organic brain syndrome and myoclonias with marked EEG-slowing and bilateral synchronous sharp and slow waves. This was interpreted as an epileptic stupor induced by Baclofen. The patient had renal insufficiency and accumulated Baclofen. Both conditions may have contributed to the epileptic manifestation.
A synergistic effect of etoposide and cyclosporin A was observed in a patient with acute T-lymphocytic leukemia in relapse. The concomitant administration of etoposide and cyclosporin A resulted in eradication of hitherto refractory leukemic infiltration of bone marrow. Severe side effects in terms of mental confusion and progressive hyperbilirubinemia, however, point to an enhancement not only of antineoplastic effects but also of toxicity in normal tissues. This report demonstrates for the first time that the pharmacodynamic properties of cyclosporin A may not be confined strictly to suppression of normal T-cell functions.
The potential modifying effect of retinyl acetate (RA) on butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA)-induced rat forestomach tumorigenesis was examined. Male F344 rats, 5 weeks of age, were maintained on diet containing 1% or 2% BHA by weight and simultaneously on drinking water supplemented with RA at various concentrations (w/v) for 52 weeks. In groups given 2% BHA, although marked hyperplastic changes of the forestomach epithelium were observed in all animals, co-administration of 0.25% RA significantly (P less than 0.05) increased the incidence of forestomach tumors (squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma) to 60% (9/15, 2 rats with carcinoma) from 15% (3/20, one rat with carcinoma) in the group given RA-free water. In rats given 1% BHA, RA co-administered at a dose of 0.05, 0.1, 0.2 or 0.25% showed a dose-dependent enhancing effect on the development of the BHA-induced epithelial hyperplasia. Tumors, all papillomas, were induced in 3 rats (17%) with 0.25% RA and in one rat (10%) with 0.05% RA co-administration. RA alone did not induce hyperplastic changes in the forestomach. These findings indicate that RA acted as a co-carcinogen in the BHA forestomach carcinogenesis of the rat.
The effects of cotinine and nicotine-N'-oxides on tumor development in F344 rats initiated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide [(FANFT) CAS: 24554-26-5] were evaluated. When rats were 6 weeks old, FANFT in an agar diet was administered for a 6-week period. Subsequently, cotinine, trans-nicotine-N'-oxide, and a mixture of cis-nicotine-N'-oxide and trans-nicotine-N'-oxide in drinking water were given as promoters in concentrations of 0.1, 0.02, and 0.02%, respectively. These nicotine metabolites were offered ad libitum for 78 weeks. Control groups consisted of rats that received tap water with or without prior administration of FANFT. Cotinine, trans-nicotine-N'-oxide, and the mixture of cis- and trans-nicotine-N'-oxides were neither carcinogens nor promoters of urinary bladder tumors in rats initiated with FANFT. A reduced incidence of urinary bladder tumors was observed in FANFT-pretreated animals that also received a mixture of cis- and trans-nicotine-N'-oxides. FANFT administration increased the incidences of mesothelioma of the peritoneum and thyroid tumors. Tumor formation in the tongue and palate observed in FANFT-treated rats was not affected by administration of these nicotine metabolites. There was, however, a significant increase in the incidence of forestomach tumors in rats that were initiated with FANFT and subsequently received either trans-nicotine-N'-oxide or a mixture of cis- and trans-nicotine-N'-oxides.
SQ 14,225 (D-3-mercapto-2-methylpropanoyl-L-proline) markedly lowered the blood pressure of the renin-dependent aortic-ligated and two-kidney Goldblatt hypertensive rat and failed to reduce blood pressure in the one-kidney Goldblatt hypertensive rat. In the two-kidney Goldblatt rat, SQ 14,225 (p.o.) was about 10 times as potent as teprotide, the nonapeptide SQ 20,881 (s.c.). Oral doses of SQ 14,225 moderately reduced the blood pressure of the Wistar-Kyoto spontaneously hypertensive rat but not that of the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rat. Bilateral nephrectomy abolished the antihypertensive activity of SQ 14,225 in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. SQ 14,225 and SQ 20,881 elicited parallel dose-response curves in the two-kidney renal hypertensive rat. Post-treatment of spontaneously hypertensive rats with either agent failed to augment the antihypertensive effect produced by effective doses of the other agent. The results suggest that SQ 14,225 acts primarily by inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system to reduce elevated blood pressure, especially in presumably renin-dependent models of hypertension.
Effects of phenobarbital [(PB) CAS: 50-06-6], a systemic tumor promoter, on carcinogenesis initiated by the broad-spectrum carcinogen N-nitroso-N-methylurea [(NMU) CAS: 684-93-5] were investigated in F344/NCr rats. Single and divided doses of NMU were evaluated for this purpose in 4-week-old rats of both sexes. Rats received iv injections of either 0.2 mmol NMU/kg (body wt) once or 0.05 mmol NMU/kg (body wt) for 4 weeks (1 injection/wk), followed by or concurrently with PB (0.05% in drinking water) that was continued until the termination of the experiment. Half the rats were killed at 52 weeks and survivors at 80 weeks. At 52 weeks, PB given subsequent to NMU or concurrently with divided doses of NMU significantly enhanced the incidence of thyroid follicular tumors only in male rats. This sex difference in thyroid tumorigenesis was somewhat less pronounced in animals killed at 80 weeks. Only 1 liver cell adenoma occurred in males and none in females given NMU alone. PB given concurrently with divided doses of NMU enhanced the yield of hepatocellular foci/cm2 but had no significant effect on hepatic tumor development. Subsequent exposure to PB, however, significantly promoted hepatocarcinogenesis in rats of both sexes given NMU in divided doses; 50% of males and 40% of females given NMU (0.05 mmol/kg, administered four times) followed by PB had hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas by 80 weeks. PB did not affect the incidence of any other kind of neoplasms seen in NMU-initiated or control rats. These lesions included squamous cell neoplasms of the skin, oropharynx, and forestomach; nonsquamous epithelial tumors of mammary gland, pituitary body, intestinal mucosa, and urinary bladder; tumors of the central and peripheral nervous system; and mesenchymal tumors of the kidney. A sequence of multiple low doses of NMU appeared to be a convenient and useful systemic, multitissue, tumor-initiation regimen for systematic investigation of organ-specific tumor promotion in rats.
To investigate the histological changes in liver biopsy tissues taken from chronic hepatitis B patients with HBsAg and HBeAg positive and ALT abnormal after lamivudine therapy for one year.
Lamivudine was given orally at the dose of 100 mg once a day for one year. 101 patients were enrolled into this open-label study. Paired liver biopsies from patients with hepatitis B before and after therapy with lamivudine were studied. Blinded biopsies were evaluated by a histopathologist and scored according to Knodell's histology activity index(HAI).
53.5% (54/101), 51.5% (52/101) and 31.7% (32/101) patients had a reduction of their total hepatic HAI score, necroinflammation and fibrosis scores by >or=2 points or 1 points at the end of one year of lamivudine therapy, compared with their pretreatment values, respectively. There were significant reduction of HAI score, necroinflammation and fibrosis scores from 8.0+/-4.7 to 5.2+/-3.3 (t=7.358, P<0.01), from 5.9+/-3.8 to 3.6+/-2.5 (t=7.298, P<0.01), and from 2.1+/-1.2 to 1.6+/-1.2 (t=3.827, P<0.01), respectively. The histological improvement was independent on the HBeAg seroconvertion during the therapy.
Significant improvement in liver histology, both necroinflammation and fibrosis, can be obtained in the majority of patients treated with lamivudine for one year.
During ritodrine (UtoparR) treatment for premature labor, a chronic heroin-addicted patient developed supraventricular tachycardia which was treated by direct current (d.c) conversion, d.c. conversion did not affect the fetus, as judged by the cardiotocogram. As heroin addicts run an increased risk or developing cardiac arrhythmia, caution is advised when treating these patients with beta-mimetics.
The concentrations of norepinephrine in amniotic fluid and maternal plasma were measured in 71 third trimester pregnancies, 31 of which were uncomplicated and 40 complicated. The amniotic fluid norepinephrine concentration (mean +/- SD) in cases of hypertension treated with clonidine (0.4 +/- 0.1 ng/ml, n = 12) and in insulin-dependent diabetes (0.5 +/- 0.2 ng/ml, n = 7) was lower, and in renal insufficiency (1.7 +/- 0.8 ng/ml, n = 8) higher than in control subjects (0.7 +/- 0.4 ng/ml, n = 31). In fetal-growth retardation (0.6 +/- 0.2 ng/ml, n = 8) and in latent diabetes (0.7 +/- 0.2 ng/ml, n = 5) the values were similar to those in the control subjects. There was a significant positive correlation between mature lecithin-sphingomyelin (L/S) ratio and norepinephrine concentration. Clonidine-treated hypertension was associated with decreased (0.2 +/- 0.1 ng/ml) and renal insufficiency with increased (0.9 +/- 0.7 ng/ml) maternal plasma norepinephrine concentrations (control group, 0.3 +/- 0.1 ng/ml). The present results indicate that measurement of catecholamines in amniotic fluid can be useful in the evaluation of fetal sympathoadrenal function.
Recent studies indicate that an excessive production of oxidants plays an important role in the pathogenesis of glomerular disease. Grape seed extract (GSE) is a potent antioxidant, and the aim of this pilot study was to evaluate its effect on puromycin-aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis in rats. Fifty Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups. Groups 1 and 2 rats received water from day 0 to day 30. Rats in groups 3, 4, and 5 received GSE at 10 mg/100g of body weight (BW), which was started on day 0, 6, and 3 of the experiment, respectively. In group 5 animals the GSE dose was increased (40 mg/100g BW) on day 9. Intraperitoneal dextrose (group 1) or PAN 15 mg/100g BW (groups 2-5) was administered on day 3. Urine and blood specimens were collected at regular intervals, and the comparison between the various groups was made by analysis of variance (ANOVA). Rats in all study groups (groups 3-5) showed a decrease in urine protein and serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels, which was statistically significant in group 3 animals. No significant changes were noted in serum albumin and creatinine levels. In conclusion, GSE administration decreases urine protein excretion and serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels in rats with PAN-induced nephrosis.
We treated with thalidomide seven patients with primary MDS and observed reduction of the transfusion requirement in three cases and reduction of bone marrow blasts in one case. The apoptotic rate of bone marrow cells diminished significantly from a mean of 43.8% to a mean of 17.5%, whereas the proliferative activity did not change. Plasma TNF-alpha, bFGF, IL-1beta levels decreased variably, whereas VEGF levels tended to increase. Matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 expression decreased in bone marrow cells of responders. A reduction of CD4 cells and an increase of NK cells was observed in the peripheral blood. Thus, thalidomide may produce a fairly good hematological improvement in erythroid series in MDS, with complex biological mechanisms.
After one dose of adriamycin, a subacute cardiomyopathy was observed in the mouse by both light and electron microscopy. The microscopic alterations were characterized by single-cell necrosis and mitochondrial degeneration. These lesions were similar to those seen in man and shortly preceded fatal toxicity.
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) plays a crucial role in tumor metastasis. Previous studies showed that polyunsaturated fatty acids exhibit an anti-cancer effect in various human carcinoma cells, but the effect of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and linoleic acid (LA) on metastasis of breast cancer cells is not fully clarified. We studied the anti-metastasis potential of DHA and LA in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced MCF-7 cells. We found that TPA (100 ng/ml) induced MMP-9 enzyme activity both dose- and time-dependently, and 200 μM DHA and LA significantly inhibited MMP-9 mRNA and protein expression, enzyme activity, cell migration, and invasion. Treatment with PD98059 (10 μM), wortmannin (10 μM), and GF109203X (0.5 μM) decreased TPA-induced MMP-9 protein expression and enzyme activity. TPA-induced activation of ERK1, Akt, and PKCδ was attenuated by DHA, whereas LA attenuated only ERK1 activation. GF109203X also suppressed ERK1 activation. EMSA showed that DHA, LA, PD98059, and wortmannin decreased TPA-induced NF-κB and AP-1 DNA-binding activity. Furthermore, DHA rather than LA dose-dependently increased HO-1 expression. HO-1 siRNA alleviated the inhibition by DHA of TPA-induced MMP-9 protein expression and enzyme activity in MCF-7 cells, and HO-1 knockdown reversed the DHA inhibition of cell migration. These results suggest that DHA and LA have both similar and divergent signaling pathways in the suppression of TPA-induced MCF-7 metastasis.
Previous investigators have noted that patients with cocaine associated chest pain frequently have abnormal electrocardiograms, including ST segment elevation, in the absence of ongoing myocardial ischemia. The effects of these nonischemic ST segment elevations have not been evaluated. We report two patients with cocaine associated chest pain and ST segment elevations who received thrombolytic agents in the absence of myocardial ischemia. Neither patient sustained a myocardial infarction, nor had clinical evidence of reperfusion. The ST segment elevations persisted after resolution of chest pain in both patients, and both of the patients experienced complications of thrombolytic therapy. One patient sustained a hemorrhagic stroke and one had minor oral-pharyngeal bleeding. Given the lack of documented efficacy, concerns about safety, and poor specificity of the electrocardiogram for myocardial ischemia in patients with cocaine associated chest pain, thrombolytic therapy should be used with caution in these patients.
Certain classes of antihypertensive drugs have been associated with intraoperative hypotension, and frequently, patients are receiving multiple classes of antihypertensive medications. We sought to determine whether one class of antihypertensive medication either alone, or in combination with other classes of antihypertensive medications, increased the probability of intraoperative hypotension, determined by the amount of vasopressor required during carotid endarterectomy (CEA) performed under general anesthesia with specific arterial blood pressure management.
This is a post hoc analysis of 252 patients scheduled for elective CEA under general anesthesia, all of whom participated in a prospective evaluation of cognitive dysfunction. Patients were characterized by class and number of preoperative antihypertensive medications taken. A predetermined anesthetic regimen was administered to all patients, with a phenylephrine infusion titrated to maintain mean arterial blood pressure at baseline before clamping the carotid artery, and approximately 20% above baseline during clamping. Computerized anesthesia records were used to record hemodynamics and to quantify medication administered intraoperatively.
Patients taking diuretics as part of their antihypertensive regimen required significantly more (1.6 times) total intraoperative phenylephrine than those not taking diuretics, independently of the number of other antihypertensive medications. This difference in the phenylephrine requirement occurs only during the preclamp period, i.e., from induction to application of carotid artery clamping for the maintenance of preoperative blood pressure. However, in contrast to this result, there is no difference in pressor requirement comparing classes of antihypertensive medications to increase the mean arterial blood pressure 20% above baseline during the period when the carotid artery is clamped.
Diuretics are associated with increased vasopressor requirements in patients having a CEA under general anesthesia in the preclamp period, which is likely true for any patient having a general anesthetic.
Cowden disease (CD) is an autosomal dominant cancer predisposition syndrome associated with an elevated risk for tumours of the breast, thyroid and skin. Lhermitte-Duclos disease (LDD) cosegregates with a subset of CD families and is associated with macrocephaly, ataxia and dysplastic cerebellar gangliocytomatosis. The common feature of these diseases is a predisposition to hamartomas, benign tumours containing differentiated but disorganized cells indigenous to the tissue of origin. Linkage analysis has determined that a single locus within chromosome 10q23 is likely to be responsible for both of these diseases. A candidate tumour suppressor gene (PTEN) within this region is mutated in sporadic brain, breast and prostate cancer. Another group has independently isolated the same gene, termed MMAC1, and also found somatic mutations throughout the gene in advanced sporadic cancers. Mutational analysis of PTEN in CD kindreds has identified germline mutations in four of five families. We found nonsense and missense mutations that are predicted to disrupt the protein tyrosine/dual-specificity phosphatase domain of this gene. Thus, PTEN appears to behave as a tumour suppressor gene in the germline. Our data also imply that PTEN may play a role in organizing the relationship of different cell types within an organ during development.
Peripheral neuropathy and optic neuritis occurring in alcoholics are sometimes due to the toxic effects of disulfiram rather than to alcohol. Unless this is considered in the management of such patients it is likely that administration of the drug will be continued. In the past there have been reports of 16 cases of peripheral neuropathy and six cases of optic neuritis, possibly caused in this way; these reports are reviewed and a further six cases are described. The effects of disulfiram on the nervous system are briefly discussed.
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome is a clinico-radiological entity characterized by neurologic symptoms in association with usually reversible bilateral posterior hemispheric oedema on neuroimaging. Many pathological conditions and treatments have been associated with this syndrome.
We report a 19-year-old woman, followed-up for hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis, who presented with a posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome induced by the intake of an over-the-counter cold remedy containing pseudoephedrine. Clinical manifestations and radiological abnormalities resolved after anti-hypertensive therapy and withdrawal of sympathomimetic drug.
The diagnosis of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome should be considered in patients with compatible clinical and radiological presentation because of its potential reversibility with an appropriate management. Intake of drugs, including over-the-counter cough and cold drugs, should be looked for in the history as well as autoimmune disorders.
The effects of antisecretory agents, pirenzepine, atropine and cimetidine, on gastric mucosal lesions induced in rats by ethanol, HCI (0.6 N), HCI-acidified 50% ethanol and HCI-acidified 50 mM sodium taurocholate (TCA) were comparatively studied with PGE2. The involvement of gastric acid in the formation of ethanol-induced necrosis was also studied. PGE2 and pirenzepine inhibited necrosis induced by all necrotizing agents at the non-antisecretory doses, and the cytoprotective effect of pirenzepine was not abolished by indomethacin. Atropine and cimetidine did not inhibit HCI-induced necrosis even at the antisecretory dose. Atropine and cimetidine at the antisecretory dose inhibited necrosis induced by ethanol, but did not inhibit the red streaks. The ethanol-induced necrosis was also inhibited by neutralizing intragastric H+ with Tris buffer. In gastric fistula rats, alkalinization of the lumen was observed by exposure to ethanol, but necrosis was not produced. There is a close relationship between the necrosis and intragastric acid. Thus it is assumed that gastric acid is involved in the formation of ethanol-induced necrosis. It was suggested that pirenzepine possesses cytoprotective action which is not related to endogenous PGs. On the other hand, the antiulcer actions of atropine and cimetidine may be due, in a part, to antisecretory effects.
A variety of exfoliative cheilitis has been observed in reactive HIV-1 patients subjected to high activity antiretroviral therapy (HAART). The lesions exhibit exfoliation, crater formation, fissuring, erosions and/or the formation of papules, vesicles and blisters associated to erythema and edema. The condition is not included in the 1993 EEC Clearinghouse classification (1) of oral lesions associated with HIV infection. In an earlier series of 1899 patients (2), we failed to observe this pathology and have only found one similar case described in the literature to date (3).
We present a series of 6 patients with HIV infection and morpho-histological alterations of the labial semimucosa, subjected to HAART.
The 6 patients were selected from among 20 HIV-positive individuals treated in our Infectious Diseases Unit with a combination of nucleoside and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors and protease inhibitors requiring stomatological care for painful lesions of the lips and oral cavity. The study was conducted over a 6-month period between May and October 1998. An analysis was made of the case histories, CD4-positive cell counts and viral load. The stomatological explorations were completed with biopsies, hematoxylin-eosin staining and immunohistochemical studies involving AE1 and AE3 monoclonal antibodies, vimentin, protein S-100, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), laminin, CD8, HLA-DR, BM-1 and CD31 markers. At the time of detection of the oral lesions, the patients had received different combinations of the following antiretroviral treatments: stavudine (D4T), zalcitabine (DDC), didanosine (DDI), zidovudine (AZT), lamivudine (3TC), nelfinavir (NFV), saquinavir (SQV), ritonavir (RTV), hydroxyurea (HU), indinavir (IDN) and efavirenz (EFV).
There were four males and two females (age range 31-42 years). The CD4-positive and viral load ranges were 70-330 cells/mm3 and 200-500,200 copies, respectively. Stomatologic manifestations: The oral clinical manifestations consisted of desquamation, cracks, fissures, scabs, ulcerations, edema, erythema, multiple punctate xanthomas (1 case), dryness and labial semimucosal thickening. Microscopic study: Microscopically, the lesions consisted of ulcerations with adjacent hyperkeratosis and suprabasal vacuolization accompanied by a dense lymphocyte infiltrate within the chorion. Inmunohistochemistry: The immunohistochemical study in turn revealed surface epithelial alterations with AE1-AE3 monoclonal antibody labeling. Membrane glycoprotein activation (laminin) was detected, along with the presence of cytotoxic lymphocytes (CD8) and activated lymphocytes (BM-1). CD31 labeling in turn indicated endothelial activation.
The cytochrome enzyme P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) is thought to play a role in the human metabolism of fluvoxamine. Levomepromazine is a potent inhibitor of CYP2D6. We coadministered a low dosage of levomepromazine and fluvoxamine in 15 patients and found that the low dosage of levomepromazine was effective in counteracting the fluvoxamine-induced insomnia and did not increase plasma fluvoxamine levels. These results suggest that the inhibition of CYP2D6 by levomepromazine has little effect on fluvoxamine metabolism. Therefore, a low dosage of levomepromazine, used as a hypnotic agent, appears to be effective and safe when coadministered with fluvoxamine. Since this was a pilot study without a placebo control, a double-blind placebo-controlled study is needed to confirm our preliminary findings.
Tacrolimus (TAC), a widely used nephrotoxic calcineurin inhibitor, is associated with renal vasoconstriction possibly through adenosine receptor activation. Theophylline (THEO), an adenosine receptor inhibitor, protects against the nephrotoxicity of drugs associated with renal vasoconstriction. We hypothesized that coadministration of low dose THEO in rats would prevent TAC-induced nephrotoxicity. Sprague-Dawley rats pair-fed a low-sodium diet were randomized into three groups ( n=10/group): the control (CONTROL) group received the vehicle for both medications; the TAC group received TAC 6 mg/kg/day and vehicle; and the TAC+THEO group received TAC and THEO 17 mg/kg/day. On day 21, a timed urine collection was obtained for creatinine clearance. On day 22, serum creatinine, THEO and whole blood TAC concentrations were determined. One kidney was removed for formalin fixation and histological assessment. In the TAC group, serum creatinine increased while creatinine clearance decreased compared to CONTROL (0.3+/-0.0 vs. 0.4+/-0.0 mg/dl and 0.53+/-0.06 vs. 0.34+/-0.04 ml/min/100 g body weight respectively, p<0.05), while TAC+THEO did not differ from control. There were no significant differences in renal histology. Concurrent administration of low-dose THEO prevented the TAC-induced decline in renal function, consistent with a role for adenosine in TAC-induced nephrotoxicity.
