The aim of this study was to determine whether sesamin, a component from Acanthopanax senticosus HARMS (ASH) pharmacologically offers protection against Parkinson's disease (PD) and its related depressive behavior in rats administered rotenone. We also examined how sesamin affected the rotenone-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)-positive neurons in the midbrain of rats. Rats were orally administered sesamin (3, 30 mg/kg) once a day for 2 weeks before an intraperitoneal injection of rotenone (2.5 mg/kg). The pole test and catalepsy test were used to evaluate the effects of sesamin administration on bradykinesia and depressive behaviors in the PD model of rats given rotenone for 5 weeks. Those effects were compared with the ASH administrated group (250 mg/kg). Treatment with sesamin for seven weeks resulted in prophylactic effects on rotenone-induced parkinsonian bradykinesia and catalepsy, and the effects were equivalent to ASH effects. Immunohistochemistical analysis using TH or GDNF antibody showed that sesamin provided cytoprotective effects against rotenone-induced loss of DA cells. The results suggest that it may be possible to use the ASH and sesamin for the prevention of nigral degenerative disorders, e.g., PD with depression, caused by exposure to pesticide or environmental neurotoxins in general.
The aim of the present investigation was to determine whether pharmacological doses of corticosteroid can be used safely in the treatment of haemorrhagic shock during major hepatic resection. Following two-thirds hepatectomy in the rat the administration of dexamethasone, 4 mg/kg of body weight, produced higher morbidity and mortality compared with that in the control groups. This was considered to be mainly due to substantial suppression and retardation of liver regeneration. In addition, the steroid therapy exaggerated the degree and time of liver steatosis with marked elevation of serum fatty acid, triglyceride, phospholipid, and cholesterol concentrations. It appears therefore that it would be very hazardous to treat haemorrhagic shock as a result of major hepatic resection with pharmacological doses of corticosteroids.
Control subjects and patients with liver diseases (cirrhosis, fatty liver) were given an oral methionine load with 100 mg L-Met/kg body weight. Amino acid chromatography was made by a short-program particularly suitable for the diagnosis of hereditary disorders of methionine metabolism. Met-tolerance in blood plasma as well as cystathionine, homocystine and the mixed disulfide homocysteine-cysteine in plasma and urine were investigated. Methylmalonic acid excretion in the urine was determined by gas chromatography. Patients with liver diseases showed some pathological changes of methionine tolerance after the load. However, cystathionine and homocysteine could not be demonstrated. No methylmalonic acid excretion occurred in normal subjects and patients with liver diseases after the methionine load.
A case of fulminant hepatic failure leading to death in a patient receiving DTIC for metastatic melanoma is presented. Autopsy revealed widespread centrilobular necrosis secondary to a veno-occlusive process. There was no evidence of a similar process in other organs, and common causes of similar pathology were ruled out. It is likely that in this patient the hepatic failure was due to DTIC alone. Similar cases have been reported in patients receiving other chemotherapeutic agents. Physicians using these drugs should be aware of this side-effect of therapy, since it is often fatal.
To reduce radiotherapy (XRT) induced toxicity of treatment of children with Hodgkin disease (HD) while maintaining a high cure rate, we introduced a risk-adapted protocol consisting of chemotherapy (CT) alone in 1984.
The outcome of 46 children treated for HD from 1984 until 2000 according to the Rotterdam-HD-84-protocol was determined. Children with stage I-IIA disease (n = 23), were treated with six courses of epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (EBVD). Children with stage IIB-IV disease (n = 23), were treated with three to five alternating cycles of EBVD and mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP).
At a median follow-up time of 8.6 years (range 2.6-18.3 years), the 10-year overall survival (OS) is 95% and the event-free survival (EFS) 91%. In 5/46 patients XRT was administered because of residual mediastinal mass. Four children relapsed, two of them died. Up until now only one patient developed hypothyroidism; no symptomatic cardiac or pulmonary dysfunction, no second malignancy has been diagnosed.
Risk-adapted treatment consisting of CT alone is highly efficacious for children with HD and toxicity is low. XRT was administered in only a small minority of children with HD. CT should be the first choice for HD in children and XRT should preferably be used for those with refractory or histologically proven residual disease or relapse.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether orchiectomy or administration of flutamide an antagonist of the testosterone receptor can reduce oxidative stress and histologic damage in the rat small bowel subjected to mesenteric ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. A total of 32 Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups. Group 1 was control (sham), group 2 was I/R, group 3 was I/R plus orchiectomy (orchiectomy was performed 14 days before I/R), group 4 was I/R plus flutamide (flutamide was given throughout 14 days before mesenteric IR). Rats were subjected to 45 min of mesenteric ischemia followed by 3 h of reperfusion. The levels of ileal malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitric oxide (NO) were found to be significantly lower in orchiectomy and flutamide treatment groups compared with I/R group (P < 0.05). The histopathological injury scores were consistent with the MDA and NO levels. These results suggest that castration or testosterone receptor blockade decreases the level of intestinal I/R injury in male rats and it is an another example for disease variations based on gender differences.
Methods most commonly used for detecting susceptibility to orthostatic hypotension in humans include head-up tilt and the application of lower body negative pressure (LBNP). The objective of this study was to evaluate the use of LBNP for detecting drug-induced changes in susceptibility to orthostatic hypotension in conscious monkeys (Macaca fascicularis).
Orthostatic responses were produced using an airtight chamber, which sealed around the stomach (umbilical area) and enclosed the lower body, to which were applied successive decrements of 10 mmHg chamber pressure every 5 min until the orthostatic response was observed. Cardiovascular measurements, involving arterial pressures, heart rate, and left ventricular pressures were recorded. The hypotensive agents prazosin and minoxidil were administered to evaluate the ability of the procedure to detect drug-induced changes in the susceptibility to orthostatic hypotension.
A rapid decrease in systolic arterial pressure of >20 mmHg occurring within a 30 s time period was determined to be the best indicator of an orthostatic response. The application of LBNP produced an orthostatic response in all monkeys and on all occasions (100% response). The onset, rate and magnitude of the decrease in systolic blood pressure were also consistent for each monkey. Prazosin (>or=0.16 mg/kg, iv) produced an increase in the susceptibility to the orthostatic response, whereas minoxidil (10 mg/kg, po) had no effect. These results are consistent with previous findings in humans, where similar decreases in arterial pressures occur following the administration of prazosin and minoxidil, whereas increased susceptibility to orthostatic hypotension only occurs with prazosin.
The results of this study demonstrate that the application of the LBNP is a reliable method for producing an orthostatic hypotensive response in conscious monkeys. In addition, the use of positive (prazosin) and negative (minoxidil) controls demonstrated that the use of LBNP is a valid method for evaluating the effect of drug treatment on susceptibility to orthostatic hypotension.
The authors studied the duration of intragastric acid production at 20 mg of pariet in patients with hypergastric gastritis after determination of the individual type of parietal gastric cell reception. The study included 40 patients (12 women and 28 men aged 33.3 +/- 6.7 years). Predominant activity of H2 receptors was detected in 32 patients, while M-cholinoreceptor activity prevailed in six patients; in two patients receptor type was not defined. Latent period (3.1 +/- 0.5 hours), pH(max) (5.4 +/- 0.7), pH24h (3.5 +/- 0.4), pH(stimulated24h) (3.0 +/- 0.7) did not depend on the predominant sensitivity of either receptor type and was significantly higher in patients taking pariet than in patients receiving standard doses of omeprazole (2.2 +/- 0.5 h, 4.0 +/- 0.3, 2.4 +/- 0.3, and 1.2 +/- 0.3, respectively) or lansoprazole (2.2 +/- 0.6, 4.3 +/- 0.6, 2.6 +/- 0.3, and 1.3 +/- 0.3, respectively). The clinical effectiveness of pariet was evaluated in 20 patients (15 men and 5 women aged 51.6 +/- 5.4) after gastric resection, needing antisecretory therapy. Individual reception type was studied. The effects of pirenzepine and ranitidine (or famotidine) given in standard doses at the beginning of the week were studied in patients with predominant H2-hystaminergic, M-cholinergic, or unclear type. After that all patients received pariet 20 mg a day. None of the patients displayed predominant H2 receptor activity. In 14 patients predominant M-cholinoreceptor activity was noted; in six patients receptor type remained unclear. All the patients were administered ranitidine (or famotidine) during one week with no clinical effect. Six patients with unclear reception type were given gastrozepine for one more week, with no effect either. After the beginning of pariet 20 mg a day complaints disappeared in all patients within one or two days. The conclusion is that pariet in a standard dose possesses higher antisecretory effect vs. other proton pump inhibitors, unlike that of H2 histamine blockers, the latter not depending on the individual type of gastric parietal cell reception.
Doxorubicin is an anthracycline antibiotic with a broad spectrum of antineoplastic activity. Cardiotoxicity is a serious long-term complication of the drug. Simultaneous administration of carnitine has been proposed to prevent cardiotoxicity. We aimed to monitor the serum carnitine levels during the treatment of doxorubicin and to determine a relationship between serum carnitine levels and cardiac dysfunction. Fifteen patients were evaluated prospectively. Measurement of carnitine levels and evaluation of cardiac function were performed prior to treatment, and after cumulative doses of 180 and 300 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. A group of 20 healthy children served as control group to obtain reference values. We found subclinical abnormalities in cardiac function, while the cumulative doses of the doxorubicin was increasing. The mean end diastolic and end systolic left ventricular dimensions of the patient group after completion of the treatment were significantly increased compared with initial values. The ejection and shortening fraction of the patient group after cumulative doses of 300 mg/m2 of doxorubicin were significantly lower than those of the control group. A statistically significant augmentation was observed in mitral A, with a decrease in mitral E/A ratio. There was a trend towards lower serum carnitine levels with higher cumulative doses of doxorubicin, although it was not statistically significant. Our results invite new detailed investigations depending on the measurement of serum and urinary free and acyl carnitine and myocardial carnitine levels to evaluate possible roles of carnitine in the prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
A relatively mild nonoliguric acute renal failure developed early in the course of daily rifampin treatment in a 54-year-old man who was receiving concomitant steroid therapy. The renal lesion was an acute interstitial nephritis characterized by tubular dysfunction:inability to concentrate urine, increase in fractional excretion of sodium and uric acid, and glycosuria with normal blood glucose values. All abnormalities resolved promptly upon withdrawal of rifampin while steroid therapy was gradually reduced. The documents the fact that rifampin-induced nephropathy can occur in the course of a continuous daily regimen and may be favorably influenced by steroid administration.
Numerous human syndromes are the result of abnormal cranial neural crest development. One group of such defects, referred to as CATCH-22 (cardiac defects, abnormal facies, thymic hypoplasia, cleft palate, hypocalcemia, associated with chromosome 22 microdeletion) syndrome, exhibit craniofacial and cardiac defects resulting from abnormal development of the third and fourth neural crest-derived branchial arches and branchial arch arteries. Mice harboring a null mutation of the endothelin-1 gene (Edn1), which is expressed in the epithelial layer of the branchial arches and encodes for the endothelin-1 (ET-1) signaling peptide, have a phenotype similar to CATCH-22 syndrome with aortic arch defects and craniofacial abnormalities. Here we show that the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, dHAND, is expressed in the mesenchyme underlying the branchial arch epithelium. Further, dHAND and the related gene, eHAND, are downregulated in the branchial and aortic arches of Edn1-null embryos. In mice homozygous null for the dHAND gene, the first and second arches are hypoplastic secondary to programmed cell death and the third and fourth arches fail to form. Molecular analysis revealed that most markers of the neural-crest-derived components of the branchial arch are expressed in dHAND-null embryos, suggesting normal migration of neural crest cells. However, expression of the homeobox gene, Msx1, was undetectable in the mesenchyme of dHAND-null branchial arches but unaffected in the limb bud, consistent with the separable regulatory elements of Msx1 previously described. Together, these data suggest a model in which epithelial secretion of ET-1 stimulates mesenchymal expression of dHAND, which regulates Msx1 expression in the growing, distal branchial arch. Complete disruption of this molecular pathway results in growth failure of the branchial arches from apoptosis, while partial disruption leads to defects of branchial arch derivatives, similar to those seen in CATCH-22 syndrome.
Doxorubicin (DXR) is an anthracycline glycoside with a broad spectrum of therapeutic activity against various tumors. However, the clinical use of DXR has been limited by its undesirable systemic toxicity, especially in the heart and kidney. This study was designed to test the effectiveness of dietary intake of pirfenidone (PD) against DXR-induced cardiac and renal toxicity.
Male Sprague Dawley rats were placed into four treatment groups: saline injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) plus regular diet (SA+RD); DXR i.p. plus regular diet (DXR+RD); saline i.p. plus the same diet mixed with 0.6% PD (SA+PD); and DXR i.p. plus the same diet mixed with 0.6% PD (DXR+PD). The animals were fed regular or regular plus PD diets 3 days prior to i.p. injections of either saline or DXR and continuing throughout the study. A total dose of DXR (16.25 mg/kg) or an equivalent volume of saline was administered in seven injections (2.32 mg/kg per injection) three times per week with an additional dose on the 12th day. At 25 days following the last DXR or saline injection, some animals were anesthetized for the measurement of cardiac and pulmonary function, and others were killed by an overdose of pentobarbital. At the time the animals were killed, abdominal fluid was collected. Kidney and heart were removed, weighed, fixed with 10% formalin or frozen in liquid nitrogen. The fixed tissues were used for histological examination and the frozen tissues were used for biochemical studies.
The average volumes of abdominal fluid in the DXR+RD and DXR+PD groups were 9.42 ml and 3.42 ml and the protein contents of abdominal fluid in the DXR+RD and DXR+PD groups were 218 mg and 70 mg, respectively. A 12.5% mortality occurred in the DXR+RD group as compared to 0% in DXR+PD group. There were no changes in any of the cardiac or pulmonary physiological parameters in any of the four groups. The changes in the heart and kidney of the DXR+RD group included reduction in organ weight, increase in hydroxyproline content of heart, increase in hydroxyproline, and lipid peroxidation in the kidney and plasma, and increase in protein concentration in urine as compared to rats in the control, SA+RD and SA+PD groups. Treatment with PD abrogated the DXR-induced increases in hydroxyproline content in the heart and kidney, lipid peroxidation of the kidney and plasma, and protein content of the urine in the DXR+PD group. DXR treatment alone caused disorganization of cardiac myofibrils, vacuolization of the myofibers, and renal tubular dilation with protein casts in both the cortical and medullary regions. Treatment with PD minimized the DXR-induced histopathological changes of heart and kidney in the DXR+PD group.
Treatment with PD reduced the severity of DXR-induced toxicity as assessed by reduced mortality, diminished volume of recovered fluid in the abdominal cavity, and severity of cardiac and renal lesions at both the biochemical and morphological levels. These results indicate that PD has the potential to prevent DXR-induced cardiac and renal damage in humans on DXR therapy.
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that blockade of the renin-angiotensin system improves cardiac function in congestive heart failure by preventing changes in gene expression of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) proteins. We employed rats with myocardial infarction (MI) to examine effects of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, imidapril, on SR Ca(2+) transport, protein content, and gene expression. Imidapril (1 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) was given for 4 wk starting 3 wk after coronary artery occlusion. Infarcted rats exhibited a fourfold increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, whereas rates of pressure development and decay were decreased by 60 and 55%, respectively. SR Ca(2+) uptake and Ca(2+) pump ATPase, as well as Ca(2+) release and ryanodine receptor binding activities, were depressed in the failing hearts; protein content and mRNA levels for Ca(2+) pump ATPase, phospholamban, and ryanodine receptor were also decreased by approximately 55-65%. Imidapril treatment of infarcted animals improved cardiac performance and attenuated alterations in SR Ca(2+) pump and Ca(2+) release activities. Changes in protein content and mRNA levels for SR Ca(2+) pump ATPase, phospholamban, and ryanodine receptor were also prevented by imidapril treatment. Beneficial effects of imidapril on cardiac function and SR Ca(2+) transport were not only seen at different intervals of MI but were also simulated by another angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, and an ANG II receptor antagonist, losartan. These results suggest that blockade of the renin-angiotensin system may increase the abundance of mRNA for SR proteins and, thus, may prevent the depression in SR Ca(2+) transport and improve cardiac function in congestive heart failure due to MI.
Limited human data suggest an association of organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) with adverse effects on children's growth.
We evaluated the associations of OCPs with longitudinally assessed growth among peripubertal boys from a Russian cohort with high environmental OCP levels.
A cohort of 499 boys enrolled in the Russian Children's Study between 2003 and 2005 at 8-9 years of age were followed prospectively for 4 years. At study entry, 350 boys had serum OCPs measured. Physical examinations were conducted at entry and annually. The longitudinal associations of serum OCPs with annual measurements of body mass index (BMI), height, and height velocity were examined by multivariate mixed-effects regression models for repeated measures, controlling for potential confounders.
Among the 350 boys with OCP measurements, median serum hexachlorobenzene (HCB), β-hexachlorocyclohexane (βHCH), and p,p´-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (p,p´-DDE) concentrations were 159 ng/g lipid, 168 ng/g lipid, and 287 ng/g lipid, respectively. Age-adjusted BMI and height z-scores generally fell within the normal range per World Health Organization standards at entry and during follow-up. However, in adjusted models, boys with higher serum HCB, βHCH, and p,p´-DDE had significantly lower mean [95% confidence interval (CI)] BMI z-scores, by -0.84 (-1.23, -0.46), -1.32 (-1.70, -0.95), and -1.37 (-1.75, -0.98), respectively, for the highest versus lowest quintile. In addition, the highest quintile of p,p´-DDE was associated with a significantly lower mean (95% CI) height z-score, by -0.69 (-1.00, -0.39) than that of the lowest quintile.
Serum OCP concentrations measured at 8-9 years of age were associated with reduced growth, particularly reduced BMI, during the peripubertal period, which may affect attainment of optimal adult body mass and height.
Reporting a case of adverse pharmacological reaction to Enalapril ingestion with severe respiratory obstruction, as outcome of lingual edema owing to tongue edema. The incidence of this condition among the population consumers of this drug accounts more or less to 1 per thousand. The cases appear at the fifth life's decade in the black population, even at the first month of treatment is when the adverse course appears and can produce a severe respiratory obstruction.
Switching to adefovir (ADV) monotherapy is effective in patients with lamivudine (LAM)-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) mutations (rtM204 I/V). However, it was recommended to continue LAM therapy for months after starting ADV therapy for safety concern. The safety and efficacy of switching to ADV monotherapy was examined in compensated and decompensated patients with liver cirrhosis. The clinical, biochemical and virological responses were compared between ADV monotherapy in 18 cirrhotic patients and ADV add-on LAM therapy in 10 comparable cirrhotic patients with LAM-resistant rtM204 I/V. After switching to ADV monotherapy, Child-Pugh's score, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), bilirubin, albumin and HBV DNA levels improved significantly (P < 0.01). Serum HBV DNA response, defined as HBV DNA decreased to below 10(5) copies/mL or > or =2 log(10) reduction form baseline, was achieved in all patients. A transient ALT flare without concurrent changes in serum bilirubin or prothrombin time was observed in only two patients (11%). The efficacy and safety profile was similar to those with ADV add-on LAM therapy. In conclusion, switching to ADV monotherapy after emergence of LAM-resistant rtM204 I/V is effective and safe in cirrhotic patients, even in those with hepatic decompensation. To stop LAM and switch to ADV in patients with breakthrough is a reasonably safe and cost-effective approach.
Latanoprost, a prostaglandin F(2alpha) analogue, has become one of the most widely used medications for the treatment of glaucoma. The authors hypothesized that organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATPs) are responsible for the uptake of latanoprost into ocular tissues and, hence, that they contribute to the interindividual differences in drug concentrations and effects.
Expression of prostaglandin (PG) transporters (OATP2A1, OATP2B1) in human ocular tissues was determined using real-time RT-PCR and immunofluorescence. The inhibitory interactions between latanoprost and its active metabolite (the free acid) and the uptake of prototypical substrates (PGE(2) and bromosulfophthalein) were tested in stably transfected human embryonic kidney cells overexpressing either OATP2A1 or OATP2B1. These cells were also used to investigate whether latanoprost and latanoprost acid are substrates of OATP2A1 or OATP2B1.
OATP2A1 and OATP2B1 mRNA expression was highest in the choroid/retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) complex and ciliary body. OATP2A1 protein expression was most prominent in the RPE and in epithelial and endothelial cell layers of anterior segment tissues, such as cornea, conjunctiva, iris, and ciliary body, whereas OATP2B1 protein was additionally expressed in trabecular meshwork, Schlemm canal, and choroidal vasculature. Latanoprost and latanoprost acid significantly inhibited both OATP2A1 and OATP2B1. Uptake experiments demonstrated that latanoprost acid is effectively transported by OATP2A1 (affinity constant [K(m)], 5.4 microM; maximum uptake rate [V(max)], 21.5 pmol/mg protein/min) and less effectively by OATP2B1.
The results presented herein suggest that at least OATP2A1 plays a role in the intraocular disposition of the therapeutically used prostanoid latanoprost.
We investigated the protective effects of lucidone, a naturally occurring cyclopentenedione isolated from the fruits of Lindera erythrocarpa Makino, against free-radical and inflammation stimulator 2,2'-azobis (2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride (AAPH)-induced oxidative stress in human keratinocyte (HaCaT) cells, with the aim of revealing the possible mechanisms underlying the protective efficacy. Lucidone pretreatment (0.5-10 μg/mL) markedly increased HaCaT cell viability and suppressed AAPH-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, lipid peroxidation, and DNA damage. Notably, the antioxidant potential of lucidone was directly correlated with the increased expression of an antioxidant gene, heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1), which was followed by the augmentation of the nuclear translocation and transcriptional activation of NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2), with or without AAPH. Nrf2 knockdown diminished the protective effects of lucidone. We also observed that lucidone pretreatment inhibited AAPH-induced inflammatory chemokine prostaglandin E₂ (PGE₂) production and the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in HaCaT cells. Lucidone treatment also significantly inhibited AAPH-induced nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation and suppressing the degradation of inhibitor-κB (I-κB). Furthermore, lucidone significantly diminished AAPH-induced COX-2 expression through the down-regulation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38 MAPK signaling pathways. Therefore, lucidone may possess antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties and may be useful for the prevention of free radical-induced skin damage.
The case of a 54-year-old man with delirium secondary to phenytoin and disulfiram administration is presented. The pharmacology, interaction, and resulting toxicity of these two drugs are explored. The patient made an uneventful recovery when the medications were withheld.
The incidence, clinical manifestations, and contributory factors in ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy (EON) have not been widely studied.
A retrospective chart review of 857 patients who took ethambutol for treatment of tuberculosis identified 89 patients who complained of decreased vision after initiation of treatment and were therefore referred to the ophthalmology clinic of Seoul National University Hospital, Korea, between January 2003 and December 2005. Information was extracted in regard to systemic illnesses, duration and dose of ethambutol therapy, visual acuity, color vision, ophthalmoscopic examination, visual fields, and visual evoked potentials (VEPs).
EON was diagnosed in 13 (1.5%) patients during a follow-up period of 12.54 +/- 9.97 months. The average dose of ethambutol was 17.85 +/- 2.21 mg/kg/day, and the duration of therapy was 9.38 +/- 10.12 months. Ophthalmic findings included decreased visual acuity (65.4%), abnormal visual fields (65.4%), abnormal color vision (61.5%), optic disc pallor (38.5%), or increased latency on VEP tests (65.4%). Slightly less than one third of patients showed improvement in visual function after discontinuing ethambutol. The latency for recovery was 5.38 +/- 1.71 months. No patient with optic disc pallor at the time of diagnosis of EON showed visual function improvement. Renal dysfunction and the daily dose of ethambutol, but not the duration of treatment, contributed to EON.
Based on this study, the incidence of EON in Koreans is estimated to be <2%. However, visual function after discontinuation of ethambutol is reversible in only a minority of patients and does not occur if optic disc pallor is present. Renal dysfunction and daily dose of ethambutol, but not duration of ethambutol treatment, seem to be related to development of EON.
The zebrafish (Danio rerio) has become an attractive vertebrate model for studying developmental processes, and is emerging as a model system for studying the mechanisms by which toxic compounds perturb normal development. When exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) shortly after fertilization, zebrafish embryos exhibit pericardial edema and reduced blood flow by 72 h post fertilization (hpf). To better understand the progression of dioxin toxicity in zebrafish, we have examined the effects of TCDD on heart development. At 72 hpf, TCDD-treated embryos exhibited altered looping, with the atria positioned distinctly posterior to the ventricles, contrary to the looping of control hearts, where the two chambers lied side by side. Moreover, the ventricles in dioxin-exposed hearts became more compact, and the atria elongated in comparison to controls. These defects are not secondary to pericardial edema because they were observed when edema formation was suppressed with osmotic support. In addition to morphological changes, TCDD produced functional deficits in the developing hearts, including blood regurgitation and a striking ventricular standstill that became prevalent by 120 hpf. We also assessed the effect of TCDD on the heart size using stereological measurements, which demonstrated significant reduction in heart tissue volume at 72 hpf. Perhaps our most significant finding was a decrease in the total number of cardiomyocytes in TCDD-exposed embryos by 48 hpf, one day prior to observable effects on peripheral blood flow. We conclude that the developing heart is an important target for TCDD in zebrafish.
To assess, before and during oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug coadministration, latanoprost's and brimonidine's hypotensive action in eyes at risk of glaucomatous progression, assessing the effect of each drug on ocular perfusion and visual function.
Twenty consenting adults with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension underwent a double-masked, bilateral, randomized prospective study. Treatment started with either latanoprost 0.005% in the morning and placebo in the evening, or brimonidine 0.2% twice daily in one eye; after 1 week starting the other in the fellow eye. After another week, oral indomethacin 25 mg four times a day, commenced for 2 more weeks. Intraocular pressure, ocular circulation, and visual function were monitored pretreatment, after unilateral monotherapy (day 7), bilateral ocular therapy (day 14), and coadministered oral indomethacin (day 28). Intrasubject differences (interocular and intraocular relative to baseline) were determined by two-tailed paired t test.
A loss of the significance of intraocular pressure reduction with brimonidine was noted after oral indomethacin coadministration (-14%; P =.004 for brimonidine alone versus -11%; P =.3 with indomethacin). Significant intraocular pressure reduction with latanoprost persisted despite indomethacin (-25%; P <.0001 for latanoprost alone versus -30%; P <.0001 with indomethacin). Pulsatile ocular blood flow increased 40% with latanoprost, but was unchanged with brimonidine (interdrug difference, P =.004). Midperipheral retinal microcirculation increased 23% (P =.03) with latanoprost. Humphrey perimetry and contrast sensitivity remained consistently at or above baseline with both latanoprost and brimonidine. Indomethacin had no significant effect on ocular perfusion or visual function measures.
Circulatory and hydrodynamic findings differed substantially for the two drugs. The loss of significance of intraocular pressure reduction with brimonidine during indomethacin treatment may be clinically important.
The death under general anaesthesia of a child with Adriamycin cardiomyopathy is reported. The acute, subacute and chronic cardiotoxic effects of Adriamycin are discussed and the risk factors for chronic Adriamycin cardiomyopathy presented, with particular reference to cumulative dosage of Adriamycin. The insidious onset of impairment of cardiac function is stressed and suggestions for anaesthetic management outlined.
The most common coagulation disorder associated with warfarin use is bleeding, but compressive femoral neuropathy is an unusual presentation. A 63-year-old man with compressive femoral neuropathy from an iliacus haematoma is reported. The diagnosis was confirmed on magnetic resonance imaging and treated conservatively with good clinical response and radiological evidence of resolution.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a rare complication observed after liver transplantation and only a handful of cases have been reported until now. We report a case of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) after liver transplantation in a 50-year-old man. The case presentation was postodontectomy bleeding with an associative abnormal coagulation test 85 months after liver transplantation. A routine blood test, bone marrow test, chromosome analysis and examination of PML/RARα chimeric gene confirmed the diagnosis of APL and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Induction chemotherapy with all-trans retinoic acid, arsenic trioxide and daunorubicin was given to this patient and complete remission was achieved. The patient was subjected to DA (daunorubicin combined with cytarabine) and MA (mitoxantrone combined with cytarabine) regimens after remission induction to consolidate the chemotherapy for two courses of treatment, and subsequently subjected to arsenous acid chemotherapy on a periodic basis. Twenty-two months into the follow-up, sustained bone marrow remission was observed with the adapted treatment regimen.
Effects and interaction of nifedipine (Ca channel blocker) and xylazine (mixed alpha agonist) during halothane anesthesia were examined in 6 dogs. After achievement of steady-state halothane (1.35%) anesthesia, blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) were recorded in these dogs during 3-minute saline or nifedipine (20 micrograms/kg) infusion periods. Seven minutes after the end of saline or nifedipine infusion, xylazine (1.1 mg/kg of body weight) was infused over a 2-minute period. After saline pretreatment, xylazine administration increased diastolic BP (33.67 +/- 3.91 mm of Hg) and decreased HR. Nifedipine infusion induced a transient reduction in BP, accompanied by a more persistent increase in HR. Compared with saline pretreatment, nifedipine pretreatment significantly decreased the acute increase in diastolic BP (33.67 +/- 3.91 vs 14.00 +/- 2.94 mm of Hg) which occurred during xylazine injection. After saline and nifedipine infusions, xylazine administration decreased HR 30 +/- 15.02 and 36.5 +/- 10.36 beats/min, respectively. A pronounced sinus arrhythmia and/or 2nd-degree atrioventricular block developed in all dogs during xylazine injection after saline infusion. Arrhythmias were not observed in the dogs after nifedipine infusion. Nifedipine's Ca blocking action depressed xylazine-induced acute vasoconstriction and concomitant increase in diastolic BP. Because alpha 2-, but not alpha 1-adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction is Ca-dependent, these results indicate that a portion of the acute pressor response induced by IV xylazine in halothane-anesthetized dogs may be alpha 2-mediated. Seemingly, nifedipine-induced hypotension and damping of xylazine-induced increases in BP attenuated xylazine's actions on cardiac rate and rhythm.
The effects of different doses (1, 10, 30, and 100 micrograms/kg, IP) of a new 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist, 3-alpha-tropanyl)1H-benzimidazolone-3-carboxamide chloride (DAU 6215), on memory and performance deficits induced by SC 0.2 mg/kg scopolamine were assessed in the Morris water maze task. No effect was observed on the performance of rats treated with DAU 6215 alone. The doses of 10 and 30 micrograms/kg DAU 6215 attenuated these scopolamine-induced behavioral deficits.
Human paraoxonase 1 (PON-1) is a serum high-density lipoprotein-associated enzyme mainly secreted by the liver. It has endogenous and exogenous substrates and displays protective properties with respect to cardiovascular disease and organophosphate intoxication. In the HuH7 human hepatoma cell line, PON-1 activity and mRNA levels were increased by dietary polyphenolic compounds such as quercetin but also by toxic ligands of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) such as 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC). However, the 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorobenzo(p)dioxin (TCDD) was a poor inducer. Transient and stable transfection assays indicated that these compounds increased the PON-1 gene promoter activity in an AhR-dependent manner, since their effect was inhibited by 7-keto-cholesterol and AhR-directed short interfering RNA. Deletions and mutations studies showed that a xenobiotic responsive element (XRE)-like sequence within the PON-1 promoter mediated the effect of 3-MC and quercetin. In contrast with consensus XREs from the cytochrome P450 1A1 gene, the PON-1 XRE-like element mediated preferentially the effect of quercetin compared to the results seen with TCDD. Furthermore, AhR binding to this element was preferentially activated by quercetin. These observations provide a molecular mechanism for the regulation of the cardioprotective enzyme PON-1 by polyphenols. They suggest also that AhR ligands may differentially regulate gene expression depending on the DNA target sequence.
Heme oxygenase-1 is inducible in cardiomyocytes in response to stimuli such as oxidative stress and plays critical roles in combating cardiac hypertrophy and injury. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 plays a pivotal role in heme oxygenase-1-mediated protection against liver and lung injuries under oxidative stress. We hypothesized that propofol, an anesthetic with antioxidant capacity, may attenuate hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress in cardiomyocytes via enhancing heme oxygenase-1 activation and ameliorate hyperglycemia-induced cardiac hypertrophy and apoptosis via heme oxygenase-1/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 signaling and improve cardiac function in diabetes.
Treatment study.
Research laboratory.
Sprague-Dawley rats.
In vivo and in vitro treatments.
At 8 weeks of streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetes in rats, myocardial 15-F2t-isoprostane was significantly increased, accompanied by cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and apoptosis and impaired left ventricular function that was coincident with reduced heme oxygenase-1 activity and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 activation despite an increase in heme oxygenase-1 protein expression as compared to control. Propofol infusion (900 μg/kg/min) for 45 minutes significantly improved cardiac function with concomitantly enhanced heme oxygenase-1 activity and signal transducer and activator of transcription activation. Similar to the changes seen in diabetic rat hearts, high glucose (25 mmol/L) exposure for 48 hours led to cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and apoptosis, both in primary cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes and in H9c2 cells compared to normal glucose (5.5 mmol/L). Hypertrophy was accompanied by increased reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde production and caspase-3 activity. Propofol, similar to the heme oxygenase-1 inducer cobalt protoporphyrin, significantly increased cardiomyocyte heme oxygenase-1 and p-signal transducer and activator of transcription protein expression and heme oxygenase-1 activity and attenuated high-glucose-mediated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and apoptosis and reduced reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde production (p < 0.05). These protective effects of propofol were abolished by heme oxygenase-1 inhibition with zinc protoporphyrin and by heme oxygenase-1 or signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 gene knockdown.
Heme oxygenase-1/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 signaling plays a critical role in propofol-mediated amelioration of hyperglycemia-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and apoptosis, whereby propofol improves cardiac function in diabetic rats.
