Arsenic trioxide (ATO) has been proven to be highly effective in adults with newly diagnosed or relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Only very limited data are published on the use of ATO as a single agent for first-line therapy of relapsed APL. The authors present a case of a 8-year-old boy with a bone marrow relapse of APL 7 years after first diagnosis, who achieved durable molecular remission with ATO as single agent: induction therapy for 12 weeks, consolidation for 4 weeks, then 6 cycles of 10 days over a period of 6 months. In total, 140 doses of ATO (0.15 mg/kg/day) were given (21 mg/kg). Consecutive promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor α (PML-RARα) RT-PCR analyses were negative with a follow-up of 48 months. Acute or late side effects of arsenic were not observed. At present, the boy is in complete remission 4 years after the diagnosis of the relapse.
The study aimed to observe the influence of estradiol on rat models with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) and understand the potential mechanism.
Eleven pregnant female Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 3 groups on day 9.5 of gestation: group C (n = 2) was administered 2 mL of olive oil, whereas group N (n = 3) and group E (n = 6) were administered 200 mg of nitrofen. Antenatal estradiol was given subcutaneously to group E on days 18.5, 19.5, and 20.5 of gestation. Histologic evaluations, incidence of CDH, and the immunoreactivity of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 in lung were observed. In addition, the mRNA levels of TGF-β1, type I TGF-β receptor (TβRI), and type II TGF-β receptor (TβRII) were determined.
Histologically, the lungs of group N fetuses were hypoplastic compared with those of group C and had thick-walled septa with poorly developed saccules. Group E showed improved mesenchymal differentiation with well-developed saccules. There was no significant difference between the incidence of CDH in group N and that in group E. The expression of TGF-β1 in lung tissue and arterioles in group N were significantly higher than those in group C and E. Moreover, relative mRNA expression levels of TGF-β1 and TβRI in group N were markedly higher than those in group C, whereas those in group E were significantly decreased compared with group N.
Estradiol can promote lung development in rats with CDH. The down-regulation of TGF-β1 and its signaling pathway may play a role in this effect.
Spontaneous electrical activity, interpreted as motor endplate activity, has been reported at muscle trigger points. This study examined whether the motor endplate region, identified by electromyography, is more sensitive to noxious stimuli than other muscle sites. We induced pain in the brachial biceps muscles of 21 healthy subjects by injecting capsaicin (30 microg/0.1 ml) and NaCl (5%/0.2 ml) in the motor endplate region and at electrically silent muscle sites. Needle and evoked pain were measured by a visual analogue scale (VAS) (0-10) and the short form of the McGill Pain Questionnaire. The needle pain in the motor endplate region differed both in intensity and quality from that at other sites. The maximal pain after NaCl 5% was higher, and the VAS area-under-the-curve for NaCl 5% and capsaicin were larger, in the motor endplate region than in other sites. A higher density of muscle nociceptors in the vicinity of the motor endplate region may account for the observed differences in pain. These findings may have clinical implications for the treatment of musculoskeletal pain conditions.
Most previous observational studies assessing cardiovascular risk associated with Cox-2 inhibitors (Cox-2is) used a case control approach, limiting the assessment of absolute risk by disease group and effect of duration of exposure. We conducted a retrospective cohort study in patients with osteoarthritis.
Using the Life-link US claims database, all subjects had at least five years history in the database. Exposure was defined as the first chronic period of Cox-2i (celecoxib, rofecoxib or valdecoxib) or naproxen use. Non-users and non-chronic users of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)/Cox-2i within the osteoarthritis cohort served as the reference. The primary outcome was myocardial infarction and ischaemic stroke.
A cohort of 16,580 subjects were chronically exposed to celecoxib, 9800 received rofecoxib, 2907 received naproxen and 51,539 were non-chronically exposed controls. With a median follow up of 506 days, there were 2116 ischaemic events for the entire cohort. The strongest predictors of AMI/ ischaemic stroke risk were history of ischaemic stroke (HR 2.34, 2.12-2.59) and age 65+ years (HR 2.28, 2.07-2.52). For rofecoxib, (HR 1.25,1.04-1.50), the attributable risk varied from 3 per 1000 patients years in individuals aged under 65 years with no history of CVD to 19 per 1000 patients years in older individuals with a history of CVD. The hazard ratios did not change over time. Celecoxib and naproxen were not associated with increased risks.
The attributable risk for rofecoxib varied substantially with the underlying cardiovascular risk profile, being lower in clinical trial than in clinical practice populations.
Zidovudine-based antiretroviral therapies (ARTs) for treatment of HIV-infected pregnant women have markedly reduced mother-to-child transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) from approximately 25% to <1%. However, zidovudine (ZDV; AZT), a nucleoside analogue, induces chromosomal damage, gene mutations, and cancer in animals following direct or transplacental exposure. To determine if chromosomal damage is induced by ZDV in infants exposed transplacentally, we evaluated micronucleated reticulocyte frequencies (%MN-RET) in 16 HIV-infected ART-treated mother-infant pairs. Thirteen women received prenatal ART containing ZDV; three received ART without ZDV. All infants received ZDV for 6 weeks postpartum. Venous blood was obtained from women at delivery and from infants at 1-3 days, 4-6 weeks, and 4-6 months of life; cord blood was collected immediately after delivery. Ten cord blood samples (controls) were obtained from infants of HIV-uninfected women who did not receive ART. %MN-RET was measured using a single laser 3-color flow cytometric system. Tenfold increases in %MN-RET were seen in women and infants who received ZDV-containing ART prenatally; no increases were detected in three women and infants who received prenatal ART without ZDV. Specifically, mean %MN-RET in cord blood of ZDV-exposed infants was 1.67 +/- 0.34 compared with 0.16 +/- 0.06 in non-ZDV ART-exposed infants (P = 0.006) and 0.12 +/- 0.02 in control cord bloods (P < 0.0001). %MN-RET in ZDV-exposed newborns decreased over the first 6 months of life to levels comparable to cord blood controls. These results demonstrate that transplacentalZDV exposure is genotoxic in humans. Long-term monitoring of HIV-uninfected ZDV-exposed infants is recommended to ensure their continued health.
1. Characterization of the beta-adrenoceptors mediating inhibition of gastric acid secretion in the conscious Heidenhain pouch dog has been investigated by determination of the effects of propranolol, (+)-propranolol, practolol and H35/25 on salbutamol and isoprenaline-induced inhibition of gastric acid secretion. 2. The gastric antisecretory effect of salbutamol was significantly blocked by propranolol and H35/25 but not by practolol or (+)-propranolol. The effect of isoprenaline was significantly blocked by propranolol and practolol but not by H35/25 or (+)-propranolol. 3. It is concluded that both beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptors can mediate inhibition of pentagastrin-induced gastric secretion in conscious dogs with a Heidenhain pouch. Salbutamol exerts its antisecretory effect through beta2-adrenoceptors, whereas isoprenaline mediates its effects primarily through beta1-adrenoceptors. 4. The results are discussed with regard to the sub-classification of beta-adrenoceptors and to the possible role of adrenoceptors in the physiological control of gastric secretion. 5. In this study it is concluded that the tachycardia induced by isoprenaline or salbutamol is mediated primarily through reflexes activated by beta2-adrenoceptor mediated vasodilatation.
Although the voluntary intake of drugs of abuse is a behavior largely preserved throughout phylogeny, it is currently unclear whether pathological drug use ("addiction") can be observed in species other than humans. Here, we report that behaviors that resemble three of the essential diagnostic criteria for addiction appear over time in rats trained to self-administer cocaine. As in humans, this addiction-like behavior is present only in a small proportion of subjects using cocaine and is highly predictive of relapse after withdrawal. These findings provide a new basis for developing a true understanding and treatment of addiction.
Among 470 patients with metastatic breast cancer treated with tamoxifen, ten patients (2.3%) developed hypercalcemia. All patients with hypercalcemia had osteolytic or mixed lytic and blastic bone metastases. Hypercalcemia developed after a median period of seven days (range 4-11 days) of tamoxifen administration. Hypercalcemia was treated with conventional measures and serum calcium levels normalized in nine patients, either with a brief interruption of tamoxifen therapy or in spite of continued treatment. Four patients experienced partial remissions with continued tamoxifen therapy. These results indicate that hypercalcemia is a potentially serious complication of tamoxifen therapy but is generally short-lived, and can be controlled with supportive measures, thus allowing continued tamoxifen administration.
We studied the effect of prednisone on urinary protein excretion in 19 patients with a nephrotic syndrome, who were treated with prednisone (125-150 mg) on alternate days. We found a typical, fluctuating pattern of proteinuria resulting from an increased protein excretion rate on prednisone days and a decreased protein excretion rate on nonprednisone days. The urinary protein excretion on prednisone days was 9.9 +/- 3.3 g/24 h, as compared to 5.7 +/- 3.8 g/24 h on nonprednisone days (mean +/- SD). In the whole group of patients the percentual change in proteinuria was significantly correlated with the endogenous creatinine clearance. However, systematic differences between creatinine excretion rates on prednisone and nonprednisone days were not found in individual patients. In 6 patients, renal hemodynamics were studied more precisely, using a single injection technique. Only a slight and nonsignificant decrease in glomerular filtration rate was found on nonprednisone days (delta = -9.6 +/- 16.3%; mean +/- SD). Filtration fraction remained unchanged. It is therefore suggested that the effects of prednisone on proteinuria are not simply mediated by overall changes in renal hemodynamics.
The chronotherapeutic effects of 1-alpha-(OH) vitamin D3, a pro-drug of 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3), were evaluated by repeated dosing of the drug in aged stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive male rats, a model of osteoporosis. Animals (7 months old) were kept in rooms with a 12-h light/dark cycle. Drug (0.5 microg/kg) or vehicle was given once daily at 2 or 14 h after lights on for 3 months. The severity of adverse effects such as body weight loss, hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia was significantly less when the drug was given at 14 h after lights on (14 HALO). Serum 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 concentrations of 2 h after lights on (2 HALO) group and 14 HALO group did not differ significantly after dosing. The decrease in parathyroid hormone (PTH) level 12 weeks after the start of the study was greater in the 14 HALO group than in the 2 HALO group. Urinary excretion of inorganic Ca and P in the 2 HALO group was greater than that in the 14 HALO group. Urinary excretion of deoxypyridiniline, an index of the bone resorption capacity of osteoclasts, was much suppressed in the 14 HALO group, suggesting that the efficacy of vitamin D3 for suppressing bone resorption might vary with the dosing time. The increase in bone density of both femurs, determined by dual-energy X-ray absorption at the end of the study, was greater in the 14 HALO group than in the 2 HALO group. This is the first study to show the dosing time-dependent efficacy and toxicity of active vitamin D3 in an animal model of osteoporosis. These results indicate that a chronopharmacological approach is beneficial for establishing a more effective and/or safer regimen of active vitamin D3 for the treatment of osteoporosis.
Ghrelin is a brain-gut peptide with growth hormone-releasing and appetite-inducing activities. A growing body of evidence suggests that ghrelin may affect the central reward system and modulate the activity of the mesolimbic system. Recent clinical studies also showed a significant positive correlation between plasma ghrelin levels and craving in alcoholics. Accordingly, the present study investigated the potential role of serum ghrelin levels in the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behaviour triggered by cocaine-associated cues. In addition, serum corticosterone levels were determined in the light of evidence suggesting that corticosterone plays a modulatory role in cocaine-seeking behaviour. Male Lister Hooded rats under a restricted diet regime were first trained to intravenously self-administer cocaine under a fixed ratio-1 schedule of reinforcement. Conditioned stimuli (CS: tone and cue-light on for 5 seconds) were presented contingently with cocaine delivery. Once a stable baseline of cocaine self-administration was observed, lever presses were extinguished to less than 30% of baseline rates by removing both cocaine and CS. Reinstatement of responding was then induced by re-exposure to cocaine-associated CS. Blood samples for the enzyme immunoassay determination of serum ghrelin and the radioimmunoassay determination of serum corticosterone levels were collected 30 minutes before the beginning of reinstatement sessions. Rats significantly reinstated their responding when exposed to CS. A positive and significant correlation was observed between ghrelin levels (r = 0.64; P < 0.05), but not corticosterone (r = 0.37; NS), and the increased active lever presses only in animals exposed to CS. These findings suggest a potential role of ghrelin in the modulation of cue-triggered reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behaviour.
Solanum nigrum L. (SN) is an herbal plant that has been used as hepatoprotective and anti-inflammation agent in Chinese medicine. In this study, the protective effects of water extract of SN (SNE) against liver damage were evaluated in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced chronic hepatotoxicity in rats. Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were orally fed with SNE (0.2, 0.5, and 1.0 g kg(-1) bw) along with administration of CCl4 (20% CCl4/corn oil; 0.5 mL kg(-1) bw) for 6 weeks. The results showed that the treatment of SNE significantly lowered the CCl4-induced serum levels of hepatic enzyme markers (GOT, GPT, ALP, and total bilirubin), superoxide and hydroxyl radical. The hepatic content of GSH, and activities and expressions of SOD, GST Al, and GST Mu that were reduced by CCl4 were brought back to control levels by the supplement of SNE. Liver histopathology showed that SNE reduced the incidence of liver lesions including hepatic cells cloudy swelling, lymphocytes infiltration, hepatic necrosis, and fibrous connective tissue proliferation induced by CCl4 in rats. Therefore, the results of this study suggest that SNE could protect liver against the CCl4-induced oxidative damage in rats, and this hepatoprotective effect might be contributed to its modulation on detoxification enzymes and its antioxidant and free radical scavenger effects.
To determine the maximum-tolerated dose for the combination paclitaxel and carboplatin administered every 4 weeks and to gain more insight into the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this combination in previously untreated ovarian cancer patients.
Thirty-five chemotherapy-naive patients with suboptimally debulked stage III (tumor masses > 3 cm) and stage IV ovarian cancer were entered onto this phase I trial in which paclitaxel was administered as a 3-hour intravenous (IV) infusion at dosages of 125 to 225 mg/m2 immediately followed by carboplatin over 30 minutes at dosages of 300 to 600 mg/m2. A total of six courses was planned, followed by a second-look laparoscopy/laparotomy. Patients with a response and/or minimal residual disease at second-look laparoscopy received three additional courses. Twenty-six patients participated in the pharmacokinetic part of the study.
The most important hematologic toxicity encountered was neutropenia. Neutropenia was more pronounced for the higher dose levels (DLs) and was cumulative. Thrombocytopenia was mild in the first eight DLs, but increased during the treatment courses. Nonhematologic toxicities consisted mainly of vomiting, neuropathy, fatigue, rash, pruritus, myalgia, and arthralgia. Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) in this trial were neutropenic fever, thrombocytopenia that required platelet transfusions, and cumulative neuropathy. Of 33 patients assessable for response, 26 major responders (78%, 20 complete response [CR] and six partial response [PR]) were documented. The maximal concentration (Cmax) of paclitaxel and the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) were not different from the historical data for paclitaxel as a single agent. Retrospective analysis using a modified Calvert formula showed that the measured carboplatin AUCs in plasma ultrafiltrate (pUF) were 30% +/- 3.4% less than the calculated carboplatin AUC. Neutropenia was more pronounced than could be expected on the basis of the historical times above a threshold concentration greater than 0.1 mumol/L (T > or = 0.1 mumol/L) or 0.05 mumol/L (T > or = 0.05 mumol/L), and thrombocytopenia was less than could be expected from historical sigmoidal Emax models.
The combination of paclitaxel 200 mg/ m2 and carboplatin 550 mg/m2 every 4 weeks is a well-tolerated treatment modality. The paclitaxel-carboplatin combination is highly active in stage III (bulky) and stage IV ovarian cancer. No indications for a pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction between carboplatin and paclitaxel were found.
Amineptine and imipramine were compared in a double-blind controlled trial carried out in 52 depressed patients over a period of 30 days, with daily doses of amineptine ranging from 100 to 300 mg or of imipramine ranging from 50 to 150 mg. Global assessment of response to treatment and Hamilton rating scale scores showed no significant difference between amineptine and imipramine. Both drugs were effective as soon as the 7th day of treatment, and their efficacy constantly increased during the 30 days of the observation. The clinical acceptability of amineptine is superior to that of imipramine: in the amineptine group acceptability was considered excellent in 67% of the cases; in the imipramine group acceptability was considered excellent in 48%. 8% of the patients in the imipramine group were withdrawn from the trial because of intolerance.
To determine the maximum-tolerable dose (MTD) of paclitaxel in a phase I dose-escalation study when combined with cisplatin in patients with advanced ovarian cancer receiving filgrastim for prophylaxis of myelosuppression.
A total of 23 patients with stage II (bulky residual), III, or IV epithelial ovarian cancer were treated (following debulking surgery) with paclitaxel as a 3-hour infusion followed by cisplatin (75 mg/m2) administered over 4 hours on day 1, repeated every 21 days for six cycles. Filgrastim (5 micrograms/kg/d) was administered subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 2 of each cycle through neutrophil recovery (absolute neutrophil count [ANC] > 10,000/microL). Patients were assigned to one of six escalating dose levels of paclitaxel: 150 (n = 3), 175 (n = 3), 200 (n = 3), 225 (n = 4), 250 (n = 4), and 275 mg/m2 (n = 6).
At each paclitaxel dose level (150, 175, 200, 225, 250, and 275 mg/m2), the numbers of patients who completed six cycles without dose reduction were three (100%), three (100%), two (66%), two (50%), three (75%), and zero (0%), respectively. The numbers of patients who experienced a grade III/IV adverse event (hematologic or nonhematologic) were zero (0%), two (66%), two (66%), one (25%), four (100%), and five (80%), respectively. Reasons for dose reduction included neurotoxicity (225 mg/m2, n = 1; 275 mg/m2, n = 2), neutropenia (225 mg/m2, n = 2), diarrhea (275 mg/m2, n = 2), and nephrotoxicity (225 mg/m2, n = 1). Reasons for not completing six cycles at full or reduced dose included neuropathy (200, 225, and 275 mg/m2, n = 1 each) physician request (275 mg/m2, n = 1), and death (275 mg/m2, n = 1). Hematopoietic toxicity was minimal. Six patients developed grade III/IV neutropenia. No patient developed thrombocytopenia below a level of 50,000/microL.
The MTD of paclitaxel was determined to be 225 mg/m2 when administered as a 3-hour infusion and combined with cisplatin (75 mg/m2). Nonhematologic dose-limiting toxicities were neuropathy and diarrhea. The neuropathy often had a rapid onset, especially at the higher dose levels.
Multidrug resistance protein-6 (MRP6) is a membrane transporter whose deficiency leads to the connective tissue disorder Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE). In vitro dermal fibroblasts from normal and PXE subjects, homozygous for the R1141X mutation, were compared for their ability to accumulate and to release fluorescent calcein, in the absence and in the presence of inhibitors and competitors of the MDR-multidrug resistance protein (MRP) systems, such as 3-(3-(2-(7-choro-2 quinolinyl) ethenyl)phenyl ((3-dimethyl amino-3-oxo-propyl)thio) methyl) propanoic acid (MK571), verapamil (VPL), vinblastine (VBL), chlorambucil (CHB), benzbromarone (BNZ) and indomethacin (IDM). In the absence of chemicals, calcein accumulation was significantly higher and the release significantly slower in PXE cells compared to controls. VBL and CHB reduced calcein release in both cell strains, without affecting the differences between PXE and control fibroblasts. VPL, BNZ and IDM consistently delayed calcein release from both control and PXE cells; moreover, they abolished the differences between normal and MRP6-deficient fibroblasts observed in the absence of chemicals. These findings suggest that VPL, BNZ and IDM interfere with MRP6-dependent calcein extrusion in in vitro human normal fibroblasts. Interestingly, MK571 almost completely abolished calcein release from PXE cells, whereas it induced a strong but less complete inhibition in control fibroblasts, suggesting that MRP6 is not inhibited by MK571. Data show that MRP6 is active in human fibroblasts, and that its sensitivity to inhibitors and competitors of MDR-MRPs' membrane transporters is different from that of other translocators, namely, MRP1. It could be suggested that MRP1 and MRP6 transport different physiological substances and that MRP6 deficiency cannot be overcome by other membrane transporters, at least in fibroblasts. These data further support the hypothesis that MRP6 deficiency may be relevant for fibroblast metabolism and responsible for the metabolic alterations of these cells at the basis of connective tissue clinical manifestations of PXE.
We previously reported an association between dysbindin gene (DTNBP1) variants and bipolar I disorder (BID). This paper expands upon previous findings suggesting that DTNBP1 variants may play a role in the response to acute mood stabilizer treatment.
A total of 45 BID patients were treated with antimanic agents (lithium, valproate, or carbamazepine) for an average of 36.52 (+/-19.87) days. After treatment, the patients were evaluated using the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale and the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) and genotyped for their DTNBP1 variants (rs3213207 A/G, rs1011313 C/T, rs2005976 G/A, rs760761 C/T and rs2619522 A/C).
There was no association between the variants investigated and response to mood stabilizer treatment, even after considering possible stratification factors.
Although the small number of subjects is an important limitation in our study, DTNBP1 does not seem to be involved in acute antimanic efficacy.
The expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1, CD54) was examined in 16 surgically removed colonic tumours and two colonic carcinoma cell lines. Immunohistochemistry showed a varying percentage of ICAM-1 positive colonic carcinoma cells in 9/16 tissue specimens, while normal colonic tissue (apart from a slight reactivity of endothelial cells) was not stained. The presence of the ICAM-1 molecule on the cell surface and the expression of ICAM-1 mRNA were investigated for two colonic carcinoma cell lines. It was possible to enhance the expression of ICAM-1 considerably by incubating the cells in the presence of inflammatory cytokines in HT-29 and CaCo-2 cells. The responsiveness to either interferon alpha (IFN-alpha), tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), or interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) treatment was different in each cell line. Interestingly, ICAM-1 is shed by colonic carcinoma cells because soluble sICAM-1 was detected in the cell culture supernatants. In comparison with normal serum samples, the mean value of sICAM-1 in 63 samples of patients with colonic carcinoma and in 20 cases of active inflammatory bowel disease is raised about twofold. It remains to be clarified what part both forms of ICAM-1 play in the course of colonic cancer, ulcerative colitis, and Crohn's disease.
A plasmid construct was designed in which the gene of antimicrobial peptide melittin is controlled by the tetracycline-responsive promoter of human cytomegalovirus, aided by a constitutively expressed trans-activator protein gene. Its vaginal administration and induction of melittin gene transcription with doxycycline markedly suppressed subsequent genital tract infection of mice by Mycoplasma hominis and Chlamydia trachomatis. At least half of the melittin-protected animals proved free of either pathogen within 3-4 weeks. Recombinant plasmids expressing genes of antimicrobial peptides hold much promise as agents for prevention and control of urogenital latent infections.
Platelet-fibrin thrombi in the lumen of atherostenotic carotid arteries may underlie transient ischemic attacks and cerebral infarction. For this reason, we investigated the antiplatelet and antithrombotic effects of a novel and potent platelet fibrinogen receptor (glycoprotein IIb/IIIa) antagonist (SK&F 106760).
The effects of 0.1-3.0 mg/kg i.v. SK&F 106760 on platelet aggregation were examined ex vivo in canine platelet-rich plasma (n = 20). In addition, the antithrombotic effects of SK&F 106760 were compared with those of aspirin in an acute canine model of extracranial carotid artery thrombosis with high-grade stenosis. Sham-operated (n = 4), vehicle-treated (n = 6), SK&F 106760-treated (n = 8), aspirin-treated (n = 9), and SK&F 106760+aspirin-treated (n = 5) dogs were examined.
The intravenous administration of SK&F 106760 caused a dose-related inhibition of ex vivo platelet aggregation. In the carotid artery thrombosis model, an occlusive thrombus formed at stenotic sites in the region of the carotid bifurcation. The thrombogenic process caused a progressive reduction in carotid blood flow and reduced the cortical microvascular perfusion and electroencephalographic power. Based on nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, the occlusive events depleted the stores of high-energy phosphates (adenosine triphosphate and phosphocreatine) and increased the lactate concentration in the forelimb somatosensory area of the parietal cortex. In this model, the administration of 1 mg/kg i.v. SK&F 106760 prevented thrombosis of the stenotic carotid artery. Consequently, neurophysiological, cerebral hemodynamic, and metabolic parameters were all improved significantly in the SK&F 106760-treated group. No dog receiving SK&F 106760 reoccluded during the 1-hour posttreatment observation period. In contrast, thrombosis of the carotid artery was associated with neurophysiological deterioration in six of the nine dogs treated with 5 mg/kg i.v. aspirin. Both spontaneous and evoked (increased carotid stenosis) aspirin-resistant thrombosis were abolished by SK&F 106760 treatment.
These results suggest that antagonism of fibrinogen binding to platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (the final common pathway for aggregation) may represent a new and more effective antithrombotic approach to the treatment of cerebral transient ischemic attacks and infarction associated with extracranial carotid artery disease.
Three patients with severe recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa were treated with oral phenytoin and palliative and supportive measures for variable periods. Their progress was compared with that of three milder cases managed only with palliative and supportive measures. The phenytoin-treated group showed marked decrease in blister count, increase in trauma tolerance, a rise in hemoglobin level, and considerable weight gain. The results support earlier reports that collagenase inhibitors are useful in controlling blister formation in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa.
We have shown that the oval cell line OC/CDE 22 can be transformed by the highly carcinogenic fjord-region diol epoxides of benzo[c]phenanthrene. Mutational activation of the ras proto-oncogene family has been proposed to be a critical event in the formation of tumors induced by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Therefore, we investigated whether in the earlier transformed OC/CDE 22 cells any point mutations were detected in the ras proto-oncogene. The results indicate that the malignant transformation of OC/CDE 22 cells by the 4 stereoisomeric benzo[c]phenanthrene diol epoxides in vitro is independent of activation of the Ha-ras proto-oncogene. In addition, Northern and Western blot analyses revealed no overexpression of the Ha-ras protooncogene in the transformed OC/CDE 22 cell lines. However, transfection of the OC/CDE 22 cells with an activated Ha-ras oncogene malignantly transformed the OC/CDE 22 cells, and the transfected cells served as precursor cells of tumors with a cholangiocellular morphology and phenotype. Our latter finding reinforces the view that OC/CDE 22 cells are committed to the bile duct epithelial cell lineage.
Hemoglobin concentration (Hb) was measured at 6 week intervals for up to a year in 84 patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with dapsone. During the first 6 weeks, mean Hb decreased from 12.0 to 11.0 g/dl (p less than 0.001). Falls in Hb occurred in 81% of patients but exceeded 2 g/dl in only 10%. After more than 6 weeks of treatment mean Hb increased, though a few individuals became anemic during this period. Anemia led to discontinuation of dapsone in 5 (6%) patients. Men and patients receiving corticosteroids had higher pretreatment Hb values; after falls in mean Hb at 6 weeks, recovery was more rapid in these 2 subgroups. Changes in Hb produced by 100 mg and 150 mg dapsone daily were similar.
Epididymal sperm was examined using the Hamilton-Thorne Sperm analyzer (HTM-IVOS, version 10.6) in male rats treated with known male reproductive toxicants that act by different mechanisms to detect effects on sperm motion. Three agents known to produce changes in sperm motion at high exposure levels were administered at lower levels. Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE), sulfasalazine (SASP), and 2,5-hexandione (2,5-HD) were administered by oral gavage to adult male Sprague-Dawley rats at 250 or 500 mg/kg/day, at 300 or 600 mg/kg/day, or at 100 or 250 mg/kg/day, respectively. The males were treated with EGEE, SASP, and 2,5-HD for 35, 28, and 28 days, respectively. The males treated with EGEE and SASP were mated with untreated females to assess male fertility. All males were examined for body weight, testicular and epididymal weight, epididymal sperm count, and sperm motion. The sperm motion parameters included percentage of motile sperm, percentage of progressively motile sperm (progressive motility), curvilinear velocity (VCL), average path velocity (VAP), straight line velocity (VSL), amplitude of lateral head displacement (ALH), beat cross frequency (BCF), linearity (LIN), and straightness (STR). For the male rats treated with SASP, no treatment-related effects on percentages of motile sperm or sperm count were observed despite impaired male fertility. However, abnormal motion of epididymal sperm from the SASP treated males was detected by a significant reduction in mean progressive motility, VAP, and ALH, and an increase in BCF and STR. For the males treated with 2,5-HD for 4 weeks, most parameters generated by the HTM-IVOS indicated decreased sperm motion despite no remarkable changes in testicular weight, epididymal weight, or sperm count. In the EGEE-treated males at 250 mg/kg/day for 5 weeks, abnormal motion of epididymal sperm was detected by decreased progressive motility and increased BCF, although there were no treatment-related effects on testicular weight or male fertility. Progressive motility was decreased in all treated groups and the difference from the control value was of the greatest magnitude among the sperm motion parameters generated by the HTM-IVOS. Velocity parameters (VAP, VSL, VCL) responded sensitively to abnormal sperm motion in the SASP and 2,5-HD studies. In spite of decreased sperm motion, BCF values were significantly increased in all treated groups except the 7-week EGEE high-dose group, where there were no motile sperm to evaluate. ALH was significantly decreased in the treated groups in which remarkable effects on sperm motion were noted. There were no significant changes in ALH at the low-dose of EGEE at which only mild effects on sperm motion were observed. STR was increased for epididymal sperm from the males treated with SASP when compared with the controls. For the males treated with EGEE and 2,5-HD, however, STR was decreased when compared with the controls. There were no significant differences in LIN in any of the groups treated with SASP, in which remarkably reduced sperm motion was detected by the other parameters. In conclusion, among the parameters generated by the HTM-IVOS, progressive motility was significantly decreased in all treated groups and the most valuable for detecting slight changes in sperm motion induced by these three different target toxicants. Further investigation with a larger set of compounds is needed to evaluate which IVOS parameters are the most sensitive in detecting motion changes.
Because the effects of calcium supplementation on arterial tone in nitric oxide-deficient hypertension are unknown, we investigated the influence of elevating dietary calcium from 1.1 to 3.0% in Wistar rats treated with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 20 mg. kg(-1). day(-1)) for 8 wk. A high-calcium diet attenuated the development of hypertension induced by L-NAME and abrogated the associated impairments of endothelium-independent mesenteric arterial relaxations to nitroprusside, isoproterenol, and cromakalim. Endothelium-dependent relaxations to acetylcholine during nitric oxide synthase inhibition in vitro were decreased in L-NAME rats and improved by calcium supplementation. The inhibition of cyclooxygenase by diclofenac augmented the responses to acetylcholine in L-NAME rats but not in calcium + L-NAME rats. When hyperpolarization of smooth muscle was prevented by KCl precontraction, the responses to acetylcholine during combined nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase inhibition were similar in all groups. Furthermore, superoxide dismutase enhanced the acetylcholine-induced relaxations in L-NAME rats but not in calcium + L-NAME rats. In conclusion, calcium supplementation reduced blood pressure during chronic nitric oxide synthase inhibition and abrogated the associated impairments in endothelium-dependent and -independent arterial relaxation. The augmented vasorelaxation after increased calcium intake in L-NAME hypertension may be explained by enhanced hyperpolarization and increased sensitivity to nitric oxide in arterial smooth muscle and decreased vascular production of superoxide and vasoconstrictor prostanoids.
Cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors have different selectivity for inhibitory action on the isoforms of the enzyme. Our purpose was to compare the tocolytic and maternal toxic effects of various cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors in the lipopolysaccharide-induced preterm birth in pregnant mice.
We randomly assigned 50 ICR pregnant mice into five groups of 10 mice each and treated them intraperitoneally with either phosphate-buffered saline solution or lipopolysaccharide (50 microg) on day 15 of pregnancy. Of the four groups that received lipopolysaccharide, three groups also were treated either with nonselective cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors (indomethacin [1 mg/kg/d] or diclofenac [2 mg/kg/d]) or with the cyclo-oxygenase-2 preferential inhibitor, meloxicam (2 mg/kg/d), with a gavage tube on days 15 through 18 of pregnancy or until maternal death. The mice were killed immediately after preterm birth or on day 21 of pregnancy. Preterm birth rates and maternal side effect profiles were evaluated.
Preterm birth occurred in 90% of mice after intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide injection and in 20% of mice after phosphate-buffered saline solution injection. Indomethacin and meloxicam, but not diclofenac, significantly decreased the incidence of preterm birth that was induced by lipopolysaccharide (33.3% and 33.3%, respectively; P =.028). Although the overall incidence of maternal gastric and/or renal toxicities was not significantly increased in the indomethacin or meloxicam groups, a significant increase was noticed in the diclofenac group compared with the lipopolysaccharide-treated control group (P =.006).
Indomethacin and meloxicam, but not diclofenac, inhibit the lipopolysaccharide-induced preterm birth in an animal model. Meloxicam appears to have no advantage over indomethacin with regard to tocolysis and maternal side effects.
The increasing use of oral or IV acyclovir to treat infections caused by herpesviridae family involves a rise in the number of observed adverse effects. Neuro- and nephrotoxicity are most serious observed and reported secondary effects. The monitoring of renal function is essential to detect these cases since it develops as a non-oliguric renal failure. Because of this, the outpatient and oral use of the drug can result in an underestimation of the number of cases reported. We report two patients with genital herpes and viral encephalitis that required IV acyclovir. Both inpatients developed an acute renal failure that resolved after the drug was withdrawn.
