Erectile dysfunction (ED) is common in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). ED reduces quality of life, and it may affect compliance, thereby impairing the success of CHF treatment.
In the first phase (fixed-dose double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-way crossover study), we studied in 23 men with CHF the effects of 50 mg sildenafil on exercise and neurohormonal activation. Patients underwent a treadmill 6-minute cardiopulmonary walking (6'WT) test followed by a maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test (ET). In the second phase, patients received sildenafil, taken as required for ED. Sildenafil reduced the heart rate (HR) (bpm) before the 6'WT (from 75+/-15 to 71+/-14, P=0.02) and ET (from 75+/-15 to 71+/-15, P=0.02); the systolic blood pressure (mm Hg) before the 6'WT (from 116+/-18 to 108+/-18, P=0.004) and ET (from 116+/-15 to 108+/-17, P=0.001); the diastolic blood pressure before the 6'WT (from 69+/-9 to 63+/-11, P=0.01) and ET (from 70+/-8 to 65+/-10, P=0.004); and the Ve/VCO2 slope during the 6'WT (from 32+/-7 to 31+/-6, P=0.04) and ET (from 33+/-8 to 31+/-5, P=0.03). Sildenafil attenuated the HR increment during the 6'WT (P=0.003) and ET (P=0.000). Sildenafil increased the peak *O2 from 16.6+/-3.4 to 17.7+/-3.4 mL/kg per min (P=0.025) and the exercise time from 12.3+/-3.4 to 13.7+/-3.2 minutes (P=0.003). Sildenafil improved most scores of International Index of Erectile Function.
Sildenafil was tolerated and effective for ED treatment in CHF, and improved the exercise capacity. The reduction of HR during exercise with sildenafil could theoretically decrease the myocardial oxygen consumption during sexual activity.
Oral sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) is widely used to treat acidosis in patients with renal failure. However, no data are available in man on the effects on proximal renal tubular protein catabolism or markers of tubular injury. We have developed methods to allow such studies, and both increased tubular catabolism of 99mTc-labelled aprotinin (Apr*), as well as tubular damage were found in association with increased ammonia (NH3) excretion in patients with nephrotic range proteinuria. We now examine the effects of reducing renal ammoniogenesis, without altering proteinuria, using oral NaHCO3 in 11 patients with mild/moderate renal impairment and proteinuria. Renal tubular catabolism of Apr* was measured before and after NaHCO3 by renal imaging (Kidney uptake, K% of dose) and urinary excretion of free 99mTcO4- (metabolism, Met% of dose/h) over 26 h. Fractional degradation (Frac) was calculated from Met/K (/h). Fresh urine was also analyzed for NH3 excretion every fortnight from 6/52 before treatment. Total urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucose-aminidase (NAG) and the more tubulo-specific NAG "A2" were measured. 51CrEDTA clearance and 99mTc-MAG 3 TER were also assessed. After NaHCO3 Met over 26 h was significantly reduced (from 1.3 +/- 0.2% of dose/h to 0.9 +/- 0.1% dose/hr, p < 0.005), as was Frac of Apr* (from 0.06 +/- .006/h to 0.04 +/- 0.005/hr, p < 0.003). NH3 excretion also fell significantly (from 0.9 +/- 0.2 mmol/h to 0.2 +/- 0.05 mmol/h, p < 0.007), as did both total urinary NAG (from 169 mumol/24 h, 74-642 mumol/24 h to 79 mumol/ 24 h, 37-393 mumol/24 h, p < 0.01), and the NAG 'A2' isoenzyme (from 81.5 mumol/24 h, 20-472 mumol/24 h to 35.0 mumol/24 h, 6-388 mumol/24 h, p < 0.001). Proteinuria remained unaltered, and there was no change in blood pressure nor in glomerular haemodynamics. Oral NaHCO3 may thus pro-tect the proximal renal tubule and help delay renal disease progression.
A case with lower extremity phlebothrombosis and pulmonary embolism caused by progesterone is reported in this paper. The patient is a 64-year-old woman who had been operated on for right breast cancer 22 years before. It was noticed that there was a relapsing cancer on her right shoulder 6 months before this episode. After effective treatment of 5-FU, she had received 1,200mg of Medroxyprogesterone acetate and 30mg of Tamoxifen daily for 4 months. With the complaint of dyspnea and left leg swelling 4 months after above treatment, she was admitted in our hospital. Laboratory data and angiograms showed venous thrombosis in her left leg and pulmonary embolism. Relapsing cancer had already disappeared by the time she was admitted. After discontinuance of these medicines, her condition had improved. Considering these observations, the patient's phlebothrombosis and embolism seem to have been caused by Medroxyprogesterone acetate.
Two cases of paracetamol (acetaminophen) poisoning resulting in acute oliguric renal failure requiring dialysis in one case are described. There were signs of hepatotoxicity with no marked hepatic failure in either of cases. Neither was treated with N-acetylocystein due to late referral to a dialysis center. It is concluded that acute renal failure during paracetamol poisoning may not necessarily be followed by an evident hepatic failure.
To investigate the effect of balsalazide on intestinal mucosal permeability of experimental colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium(DSS) in a mouse model and its possible mechanism.
Forty-five C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into five groups. Normal group was only fed with distilled water, DSS group and Balsalazide groups at doses of 42,141,423 mg/kg were fed with 5% DSS. Balsalazide was given by intragastric administration. DAI was evaluated daily. At the end of the experiment, colon tissue was collected for assessment of histological changes, MDA content, MPO, SOD and GSH-PX activity. Small intestinal mucosa was collected for assessment of transmission electron microscope(TEM), and detection of permeability by Evans blue.
Compared with normal group, DSS group mice all manifested severe weight loss associated with hematochezia and diarrhea with significant increase of DAI and HI score(P<0.01). MDA content and MPO activity was increased with the reverse result of SOD and GSH-PX(P<0.01) in DSS group. Intestinal mucosa showed a focal reduction in thinning of microvillous carpet and even a total disarrangement of epithelial surface, with decurtated and broaden junctional complex and enlarged intercellular space under TEM observations in DSS group. The amount of Evans blue permeated into intestinal wall was obvious in DSS group. Compared with DSS group, balsalazide improved gross findings, decreased MPO activity and MDA content, but increased the activity of SOD and GSH-PX(P<0.05). The amount of Evans blue permeated into intestinal wall was less(P<0.05). Ileal microvillous carpet was ameliorated in dose-dependent manner by balsalazide.
Intestinal mucosal permeability is increased in DSS group. Balsalazide can significantly ameliorate intestinal mucosal permeability in colitis model.
To determine the safety and efficacy of saline-linked surface radiofrequency ablation (SLSRFA) in a clinical setting.
We have previously identified safe and effective parameters for use of SLSRFA in a porcine model.
An initial study was conducted to determine if parameters defined in the porcine model were safe and effective in human livers. In 16 patients undergoing liver resection, normal areas of liver were treated with SLSRFA using various power/diameter combinations (10 W/1 cm; 15 W/2 cm; 45 W/4 cm) for 9 minutes with and without inflow occlusion. In a second study, superficial hepatic colorectal cancer (CRC) metastases were treated at 45 W/4 cm for 9 minutes without inflow occlusion in 11 patients. Ablation depth was measured and samples were examined for cell viability by nicotine adenine dinucleotide stain. This study was registered in the ClinicalTrials.gov database and has the following ID number, NCT00869843.
Ablation depth in normal liver varied from 3 to 20 mm. Depth was significantly dependent on power, lesion size, and inflow occlusion. Nicotine adenine dinucleotide stains showed total cell necrosis to the full depth of ablation. In the second study, large hepatic CRC metastases showed total cell necrosis to a mean depth of 12 mm. Two tumors less than 7 mm in depth showed complete necrosis. Metastases were more susceptible to SLSRFA than normal liver.
SLSRFA completely and safely ablates normal liver to a depth of at least 4 mm at 45 W/4 cm treatment parameters. Remarkably, it is even more effective in ablating metastatic CRC. SLSRFA is an effective tool for extending resection margins and for ablating superficial small tumors or superficial parts of large tumors.
To review the literature describing female orgasmic disorder and impaired sexual desire disorder by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and their treatment, including the use of sildenafil.
Literature reviews of all available published articles on this topic from 1989 to 1996 were done. This paper also includes a sample case of a 38-year old woman who suffers from fluoxetine-induced arousal and orgasmic disturbance.
Treatment approaches include the use of "antidotes," such as cyproheptadine, yohimbine, amantadine, granisetron and ginkgo biloba. This article also reports a case of successful female use of sildenafil, which was released by the Food and Drug Administration in March 1998 for erectile dysfunction in men.
Sildenafil is beneficial in reversing female sexual dysfunction induced by SSRIs. This paper also discusses sildenafil's action in the background of nitric oxide and cyclic guaninosine monophosphate in penile/clitoral erection.
The role of estrogens during myocardial ischemia has been extensively studied. However, effects of a standard hormone replacement therapy including 17β-estradiol (E2) combined with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) have not been assessed, and this combination could have contributed to the negative outcomes of the clinical studies on hormone replacement. We hypothesized that adding MPA to an E2 treatment would aggravate chronic heart failure after experimental myocardial infarction (MI). To address this issue, we evaluated clinical signs of heart failure as well as left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and remodeling in ovariectomized rats subjected to chronic MI receiving E2 or E2 plus MPA. After eight weeks MI E2 showed no effects. Adding MPA to E2 aggravated LV remodeling and dysfunction as judged by increased heart weight, elevated myocyte cross-sectional areas, increased elevated left ventricle end diastolic pressure, and decreased LV fractional shortening. Impaired LV function in rats receiving MPA plus E2 was associated with increased cardiac reactive oxygen species generation and myocardial expression levels of NADPH oxidase subunits. These results support the interpretation that adding MPA to an E2 treatment complicates cardiovascular injury damage post-MI and therefore contributes to explain the adverse outcome of prospective clinical studies.
A variety of investigations on peroxiredoxins (Prxs) in different types of cancer have been carried out, but the estrogen-related function of Prxs in breast cancer has not yet been studied. In order to study the involvement of Prxs in the growth of breast cancer cells by estrogen, we evaluated the effect of mitogenic estrogen metabolites on the expression of Prx isoforms (I to VI) in MCF-7 cells and found that the transcript/protein expression of Prx IV was significantly induced by 16alpha-hydroxyestrone (OHE1) under both serum-free and serum conditions. In addition, treatment with Prx IV-specific siRNA significantly inhibited the 16alpha-OHE1-induced proliferation of MCF-7 cells. These results suggested that Prx IV involved in the 16alpha-OHE1-induced proliferation of MCF-7 cells has a proliferative effect and may be related to cancer development or progression.
Contrast medium-induced nephropathy (CIN) is the third leading cause of acute renal failure in hospitalized patients. The exact mechanism by which contrast media induce renal failure is complex and not completely understood. Alteration in renal hemodynamics and direct toxicity to tubular cells have been proposed. The most important risk factor for development of CIN is preexisting renal insufficiency. Identification of patients with risk factors for development of CIN is essential, as measures for prevention of CIN can be instituted. Administration of fluids such as sodium chloride has been the traditional cornerstone of preventive therapy. Alkalization of tubular fluid with intravenous sodium bicarbonate has dramatically reduced the frequency of CIN in patients with baseline impaired renal function. Based on available evidence, use of sodium bicarbonate constitutes the most reliable and effective option. Prevention of CIN has also been achieved with periprocedural use of N-acetylcysteine, but not as consistently as with sodium bicarbonate. Although many studies evaluated different N-acetylcysteine dosages and routes of administration, the optimal regimen has yet to be determined. Combinations of these preventive therapies are just emerging and require further research.
Acyclovir is an effective, frequently used antiviral agent. Adverse effects of this drug are well known and are especially seen with high doses and/or dehydration. In this article, we report a 6-year-old boy with leukemia with nonoliguric acute renal failure in normal hydration status after using acyclovir treatment. He had no preexisting renal impairment, and there were no additional symptoms. Dimercaptosuccinic acid radionucleid scyntigraphy and other laboratory findings revealed impairment of proximal tubule function, in addition to distal tubule. We emphasize that renal functions should be monitored carefully during treatment with acyclovir, and asymptomatic nephrotoxicity must be kept in mind.
A general predisposition for vincristine-related neuropathy has been observed in persons with a family history of hereditary neuropathies.
In a retrospective case series, we investigated the possible association between the DNA rearrangement found in patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease Type 1A (CMT1A) and susceptibility to the neurotoxicity of vincristine. In selected patients and family members, we performed electrodiagnostic studies and analyzed DNA samples for 17p11.1-12 duplication associated with CMT1A.
We describe three families with autosomal dominant CMT1, among whom a family member with a neoplastic disease suffered rapid onset, severe neuropathy after receiving initial doses of vincristine as a part of a routine chemotherapy protocol. All three families had at least one affected family member with 17p11.2-12 duplication.
These cases show that 17p11.2-12 duplication predisposes patients to severe neurotoxicity from vincristine and that this drug should be avoided with patients with CMT1A. It is therefore essential to obtain a detailed family history for all oncology patients to screen for possible hereditary neuropathies. In patients with unexplained or preexisting familial neuropathy, testing for 17p11.2-12 duplication should be carried out prior to initiating vincristine therapy. Patients with other hereditary neuropathies may also be at risk for severe neurotoxic reactions.
To study the effect of 3 months of treatment with zileuton, an inhibitor of the enzymatic pathway (5-lipoxygenase) leading to leukotriene formation, on disease control in patients with mild to moderate asthma.
Randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study in 401 patients. A 10-day placebo lead-in was followed by a double-blind treatment period of 13 weeks.
Asthma study clinics in university hospitals and private practices.
Patients with mild to moderate asthma (forced expiratory volume in the first second [FEV1], 40% to 80% of predicted) whose only treatment was inhaled beta-agonists.
Treatment with 600 mg or 400 mg of zileuton or placebo (each taken four times daily.)
Frequency of asthma exacerbation requiring treatment with corticosteroids, use of inhaled beta-agonists, pulmonary function tests, asthma symptom assessment, and quality-of-life evaluation. Safety was evaluated by monitoring adverse events.
Only eight (6.1%) of 132 patients receiving 600 mg of zileuton four times a day required corticosteroid treatment for asthma vs 21 (15.6%) of 135 patients receiving placebo (P=.02), giving a relative risk of 2.6. At the time of expected peak drug concentration, the average FEV1 improved 15.7% in the 600-mg zileuton group vs 7.7% in the placebo group (P=.006). Quality-of-life assessments significantly improved in the 600-mg zileuton group and not in the placebo group (P=.007 for the overall score). Elevations in liver function tests (more than three times normal), all of which reversed with drug withdrawal, occurred in five patients (P=.03 vs placebo), three patients (P=.12 vs placebo), and no patients treated with 600 mg of zileuton, 400 mg of zileuton, or placebo, respectively.
Three months of 5-lipoxygenase inhibition produced a significant improvement in asthma control. These data indicate that 5-lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid metabolism are mediators of inflammation with an important role in the biology of asthma.
The effect of melatonin on the neurotoxicity induced by mercuric chloride was studied. Adult rats were fed orally with two different doses of mercuric chloride (2 mg; 4 mg/kg body weight) to evaluate brain toxicity with respect to cerebral hemisphere, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata regions for 60 days with or without supplementation with melatonin (5 mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally. The results suggest that the graded doses of mercury elicit the depletion of enzymatic activities, such as adenosine triphosphatase, succinate dehydrogenase, phosphorylase, alkaline phosphatase, acid phosphatase, altered glycogen, total protein, and lipid peroxidation levels in the cerebral hemisphere, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata of the brain, thereby affecting their respective functions. Blood glucose and mercury levels increased, followed by a reduction in body and organ weights. All these effects seemed to be severe in the cerebral hemisphere of the brain. Further affected indices were, to some extent, maintained in the brain of animals cotreated with melatonin, showing its protective role against mercury-exerted neurotoxicity.
The mechanism of torsades de pointes as a proarrhythmic response to antiarrhythmic drugs is not clear. We hypothesized that the difference in the corrected QT interval (QTc, Bazett's formula) with varying autonomic tone and heart rate during 24-hour ambulatory ECG would help identify patients at risk. Ten patients with antiarrhythmic drug-induced torsades de pointes were compared with 28 controls. The QTc at maximal and minimal heart rate during antiarrhythmic drug-free ambulatory ECGs were measured. The mean QTc at minimal heart rates for patients was 0.413 +/- 0.102 seconds and 0.420 +/- 0.072 seconds and for controls (P = 0.715). The mean QTc at maximal heart rates for patients was 0.555 +/- 0.022 seconds and for controls was 0.439 +/- 0.011 seconds (P = 0.001). Mean QTc between minimal and maximal heart rates were significantly different for patients (P = 0.015) but were not for controls (P = 0.151). Using an arbitrary QTc difference cutoff of 0.075 seconds, this approach identified patients at risk for antiarrhythmic drug-induced torsades de pointes with a sensitivity of 70% (7 of 10) and a specificity of 89% (P < or = 0.003 by Chi-square analysis with Yates' correction). In conclusion, patients with antiarrhythmic drug-induced torsades de pointes had a greater rise in QTc from minimal to maximal heart rate during ambulatory ECG than controls. Further larger prospective trials will be required to establish the value of this approach to identify patients at risk for this type of proarrhythmia.
Abstract Serum aminotransferase elevations are a commonly known adverse effect of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy. However, hepatotoxic events have not been widely published with ezetimibe or the combination agent simvastatin-ezetimibe. We describe a 70-year-old Hispanic woman who developed fulminant hepatic failure necessitating liver transplantation 10 weeks after conversion from simvastatin 40 mg/day to simvastatin 10 mg-ezetimibe 40 mg/day. The patient's lipid panel had been maintained with simvastatin for 18 months before the conversion without evidence of hepatotoxicity. A routine laboratory work-up 10 weeks after conversion revealed elevated serum aminotransferase levels. Simvastatinezetimibe and escitalopram (which she was taking for depression) were discontinued, and other potential causes of hepatotoxicity were excluded. A repeat work-up revealed further elevations in aminotransferase levels, and liver biopsy revealed evidence of moderate-to-severe drug toxicity. She underwent liver transplantation with an uneventful postoperative course. Her aminotransferase levels returned to normal by postoperative day 23, and her 2-year follow-up showed no adverse events. Ezetimibe undergoes extensive glucuronidation by uridine diphosphate glucoronosyltransferases (UGT) in the intestine and liver and may have inhibited the glucuronidation of simvastatin hydroxy acid, resulting in increased simvastatin exposure and subsequent hepatotoxicity. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of simvastatin-ezetimibe-induced liver failure that resulted in liver transplantation. We postulate that the mechanism of the simvastatinezetimibe-induced hepatotoxicity is the increased simvastatin exposure by ezetimibe inhibition of UGT enzymes. Clinicians should be aware of potential hepatotoxicity with simvastatin-ezetimibe especially in elderly patients and should carefully monitor serum aminotransferase levels when starting therapy and titrating the dosage.
Restraint-induced stress potentiated morphine catalepsy in rats. This potentiation was partially antagonized by pharmacologic treatments decreasing central serotonin, acetylcholine, prostaglandins and by naloxone. Selective increase in central dopamine also inhibited the potentiation.
Antioxidants have been shown to be effective in attenuating acute lung injury. In this study, we determine the effects of various antioxidants by different mechanisms on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced changes. LPS was administered intravenously at a dose of 10 mg/kg to anesthetized rats. LPS induced a significant decrease in blood pressure (P < 0.01) and increased exhaled nitric oxide (NO) from 3.60+/-0.18 to 35.53+/-3.23 ppb (P < 0.01) during an observation period of 4 h. Plasma nitrate concentrations also increased from 0.61+/-0.06 to 1.54+/-0.22 micromol/l (P < 0.05). LPS-induced oxygen radical release from white blood cells isolated from rat peripheral blood also increased significantly (P < 0.001). After the experiment, the lung weight was obtained and lung tissues were taken for the determination of mRNA expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). Histological examination of the lungs was also performed. In the control group injected with saline solution, mRNA expressions of iNOS, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and MnSOD were absent. Four hours after LPS administration, mRNA expressions of iNOS, IL-1beta, and MnSOD were significantly enhanced, but TNF-alpha was not discernibly expressed. LPS also caused a twofold increase in lung weight. Pathological examination revealed endothelial cell damage and interstitial edema. Various antioxidants were given 1 h after LPS administration. These agents include SOD, catalase (CAT), SOD + CAT or vitamin C (ascorbic acid). These antioxidants effectively reversed the systemic hypotension, reduced the quantity of exhaled NO and plasma nitrate concentration, and prevented acute lung injury. Administration of various antioxidants also significantly attenuated LPS-induced oxygen radical release by rat white blood cells. LPS induced mRNA expressions of MnSOD and iNOS were significantly depressed by these antioxidants. However, only SOD + CAT and vitamin C inhibited the mRNA expression of IL-1beta. These results suggest that oxygen radicals are responsible for LPS-induced lung injury. Antioxidants can attenuate the lung injury by inhibiting mRNA expressions of iNOS and IL-1beta.
A 51-year-old female patient died of Budd-Chiari syndrome during treatment with adjuvant DTIC mono-chemotherapy for malignant melanoma. We report on clinical course and laboratory findings in detail. Differentiating BCS from VOD, we describe the liver damages referring to the latest findings about the effect of DTIC in fibrinolysis. In order to prevent further lethal complications, we suggest to regard pre-existing liver damage as a contra-indication for DTIC therapy; to prefer intraspinal anesthesia for malignant melanoma of the lower extremities; to avoid hepatotoxic drugs and alcohol during chemotherapy; to protect DTIC from light; to extend the interval between first and second cycle. Laboratory data, the "finger-prints" of DTIC, are unreliable. Great attention should be paid to clinical findings which may justify immediate and high dose corticosteroid therapy as well as intensive care monitoring.
We encountered two chemotherapy (CDDP and 5-FU) cases related to mesenteric thrombotic occlusion. Case 1 was a 26 yo male with adrenal carcinoma recurrence. He had been treated by CDDP and 5-FU. Five days after completion of the second course, he suffered from acute abdomen. Laparotomy revealed thrombotic occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery. Most of the small intestine and a part of the ascending colon were necrotic. Case 2 was a 60 yo female with lung and hepatic metastasis from uretal tumor. CDDP based chemotherapy was initiated. Severe abdominal pain and melena occurred one day after completion of the second course of chemotherapy. The inferior mesenteric artery was occluded and the descending colon was necrotic. Recently, a variety of chemotherapy-induced vascular lesions, including thrombotic microangiopathy, myocardial infarction and cerebral infarction, have been reported. CDDP and 5-FU were shown to be related to the acute thrombotic occlusion of the major vessels. Although the incidence is rare, the prognosis is poor. Acute vascular obstruction should be taken into consideration as a possible course of chemotherapy-related complications.
Little is known of the effects of blood pressure reduction by specific classes of antihypertensive drugs on the association between proteinuria reduction and progression of kidney insufficiency and development of end-stage kidney disease in patients with overt diabetic nephropathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Associations between baseline proteinuria and proteinuria reduction by either irbesartan, amlodipine, or control for similar decrements in blood pressure and the cumulative incidence of renal end points were examined using the Kaplan-Meier method in patients enrolled in the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial.
Risk for kidney failure doubled for each doubling of baseline proteinuria level (hazard ratio, 2.04; 95% confidence interval, 1.87 to 2.22; P < 0.001). For each halving of proteinuria level between baseline and 12 months with treatment, risk for kidney failure was reduced by more than half (hazard ratio, 0.44; 95% confidence interval, 0.40 to 0.49; P < 0.001). For the same proportional change in proteinuria, the reduction in risk for kidney failure was significantly greater for irbesartan compared with amlodipine ( P = 0.048), but not control ( P = 0.245). Proteinuria reduction in the first 12 months of therapy with irbesartan is associated with 36% of the total renoprotective effect observed.
Baseline proteinuria is an important risk factor for kidney failure and provides a means to identify patients at greatest risk. Halving proteinuria halves the kidney risk. Proteinuria reduction using an angiotensin receptor-blocking agent, such as irbesartan, should be regarded as an important therapeutic goal in renoprotective strategies.
The activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway plays an important role in the induction of cell apoptosis. We previously reported that magnesium tanshinoate B (MTB), a compound purified from a Chinese herb danshen (Salvia miltiorrhiza), could inhibit ischemia/reperfusion-induced myocyte apoptosis in the heart. The objective of the present study was to investigate whether MTB can prevent oxidized lipoprotein-induced apoptosis in endothelial cells. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were incubated with copper-oxidized very low density lipoprotein (Cu-OxVLDL) or copper-oxidized low density lipoprotein (Cu-OxLDL). Treatment of cells with Cu-OxVLDL or Cu-OxLDL resulted in a 3-fold increase in the JNK activity. The amount of cytochrome c released and the activity of caspase-3 in cells treated with Cu-OxVLDL or Cu-OxLDL were significantly elevated, indicating the occurrence of apoptosis. The presence of MTB was able to abolish the JNK activation, cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 activation induced by Cu-OxVLDL or Cu-OxLDL, resulting in a marked reduction in apoptosis in endothelial cells. The data from this study indicate that oxidized lipoproteins induce apoptosis in endothelial cells. We postulate that the inhibition of the JNK signaling pathway by MTB is a key mechanism that protects these cells from oxidized lipoprotein-induced apoptosis.
An experimental animal model designed specifically to simulate liver fibrosis and cirrhosis in childhood is described. Phenobarbitone was administered continuously from the 4th day of life and carbon tetrachloride intermittently from the 13th day to developing rats for 10 weeks. Treated animals showed hepatic necrosis, hepatic regeneration and a progressive increase in hepatic fibrosis; cirrhosis developed before the animals reached sexual maturity at 72 days or were fully grown. Hepatic prolyl hydroxylase activity increased to a maximum level after 20 days of treatment, before increased hepatic collagen could be detected, and fell to a lower level as cirrhosis became established. Serum activities of alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase gave a similar pattern, a marked increase at 20 days of age followed by a fall to near normal levels as hepatic damage became more severe. By the 26th day of life hepatic collagen levels were increased significantly and rose thereafter progressively as fibrosis became more widespread throughout the liver. Cirrhosis developed between the 38th and 75th days. Cirrhosis remained 10 weeks after discontinuation of treatment with phenobarbitone and carbon tetrachloride treatment.
The present study evaluated whether enalaprilat (the active form of enalapril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor) activates B(1) receptors. We observed that the levels of B(1) receptor mRNA and protein expression were upregulated in the kidneys of diabetic rats. Bradykinin (BK)-induced renal vasodilation decreased in isolated perfused kidneys of diabetic rats, but des-Arg(9)-BK-induced renal vasodilation increased. Enalaprilat also produced vasodilation in the isolated perfused kidneys of control and diabetic rats. The response to des-Arg(9)-BK or enalaprilat was blocked by Lys-(des-Arg(9), Leu(8))-BK (a B(1) receptor antagonist) and N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase). These results suggest that enalaprilat activates B(1) receptors and stimulates the production of nitric oxide in the kidneys of both control and diabetic rats.
Topical calcipotriene ointment has been approved for the treatment of plaque-type psoriasis.
This article explores the possible use of topical calcipotriene ointment in the treatment of nail and intertriginous psoriasis, palmoplantar and pustular psoriasis, Reiter's syndrome, pityriasis rubra pilaris, and disorders of keratinization.
The recent literature is reviewed.
Recent reports suggest that certain ichthyoses (particularly the hyperproliferative variants) and keratodermas may respond to topical calcipotriene ointment. The activity of calcipotriene relates to a dose-dependent decrease in proliferation and an increase in terminal differentiation of keratinocytes.
Patients with other disorders characterized by epidermal hyperproliferation may also be candidates for treatment. The use of calcipotriene in treating congenital hyperproliferative disorders is limited by the theoretical risk of hypercalcemia from absorption of the drug after application to extensive areas of skin.
Adjuvant chemo- and immuno-therapy with dacarbazine (1st to 5th day 250 mg/m2 daily) and BCG (6th day 0.01 ml intracutaneously)was administered to a 50-year-old male patient in a three-week cycle after surgical removal of a superficially spreading malignant melanoma. Metoclopramide was used as an antiemetic. During the second therapy cycle sudden severe vascular collapse with increasing hepatomegaly and signs of acute hepatic failure occurred leading to death after two days. At necropsy a Budd-Chiari syndrome with thombosed hepatic veins and congestive liver parenchyma necroses was found. The cause was hyperergic endophlebitis combined with severe infiltration of the vascular walls by eosinophilic granulocytes. In association with 5 more similar cases from other clinics (personal communications) this picture must be assumed to be a complication of dacarbazine treatment.
Withdrawal emergent syndrome (WES) is a subtype of tardive dyskinesia that has been reported in children who were taken off antipsychotic therapy. We present the first case of WES in an infant born to a mother taking haloperidol during her pregnancy. The infant developed repeated tongue thrust, abnormal hand posturing, and tremor of all extremities. Most symptoms resolved within several days, but tongue thrust continued until 6 months of age.
The Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger is a protein present in the cell membrane of many cell types. In heart it plays important roles in Ca homeostasis and ionic current generation. Recently, it has been reported that the beta-adrenergic agonist isoprenaline (ISO) can increase directly Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger activity in guinea-pig ventricular myocytes. Adenosine (ADO) exerts anti-adrenergic properties that make it effective against some arrhythmias and the aim of the present study was to determine whether or not ADO can antagonize the direct modulatory effect of ISO on the exchanger.Whole-cell patch clamp measurements of Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger current (I(NaCa)) were made from guinea-pig ventricular myocytes, with major interfering currents inhibited. I(NaCa) was measured at 378 degrees C as current sensitive to external nickel (Ni(2+), 10 mM) during an applied descending voltage ramp. ISO (1 microM) significantly increased both inward and outward I(NaCa). This effect was abolished in the presence of ADO (200 microM). ADO alone did not significantly alter the amplitude of I(NaCa). The effect of ADO on the response of I(NaCa) to ISO was mimicked by the A(1)ADO receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 10 microM), whereas the effect of ADO on the response of I(NaCa) to ISO was inhibited by the A(1)ADO receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX, 2 microM). These data suggest that the A(1)ADO receptor mediated the response. The anti-adrenergic effects on I(NaCa) of ADO were not affected by the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, chelerythrine (CLT, 1 microM), nor by the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, N (G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester((L)-NAME, 0.5 mM). Moreover, in the presence of PKC activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, 1 microM) or exogenous NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 100 microM), ISO preserved its stimulatory effect on I(NaCa). However, prior incubation of myocytes with pertussis toxin (PTX, 5 microg ml(-1) did prevent the effect of ADO. The anti-adrenergic effect of ADO on I(NaCa) was mimicked by externally applied carbachol (CCh, 10 microM), a muscarinic receptor agonist. We conclude that ADO antagonized the effect of beta-adrenergic stimulation of I(NaCa) by directly activating inhibitory G-protein (G(i))-linked A(1) receptors in guinea-pig ventricular myocytes. These findings may suggest a novel mechanism by which adenosine exerts some of its antiarrhythmic effects.
