Neurotoxicity is the principal limiting side effect of the widely used antitumor agent, vincristine. Following evaluation of glutamic acid as a potential modifier of vincristine toxicity in preclinical studies in mice and a preliminary clinical trial, a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial was conducted by the Piedmont Oncology Association. Of 87 patients entered into the study, 84 were evaluable, including 42 patients who were randomly assigned to receive vincristine 1.0 mg/m2 weekly for six doses and 42 patients who were assigned to receive glutamic acid 500 mg orally three times daily plus vincristine. The following neurotoxic signs and symptoms were evaluated before each dose of vincristine: reflex changes, paresthesias, constipation, strength, and mental changes. Loss of the Achilles tendon reflex, an objective parameter, was noted in 19 percent of patients receiving glutamic acid and 42 percent of control subjects (p = 0.03). Development of moderate to severe paresthesias, a subjective parameter, occurred in 19 percent of the glutamic acid group and 36 percent of the placebo group (p = 0.09). Overall moderate neurotoxicity (6 units or more), determined by adding the grade of each neurotoxic parameter for the weekly clinic visit in which maximum neurotoxicity occurred, was observed in 21 percent of patients receiving glutamic acid and 43 percent of those in the control group (p = 0.04). Hematologic and gastrointestinal side effects occurred with similar frequency in the two groups. The administration of glutamic acid has decreased vincristine-induced neurotoxicity without any attendant side effects.
To investigate the effects of two levels of dietary corn oil on tumorigenesis, semipurified diets containing 5% or 10% corn oil were fed during the promotion stage of a mouse skin carcinogenesis model. Sencar mice were initiated with 10 nmol dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) and promoted with either 1 microgram 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) or 40 mg benzoyl peroxide twice weekly for 24 or 52 weeks, respectively. No significant differences in kilocalories of food consumed or body weights were observed between the diet groups during the study. Fatty acid profiles of the epidermal phospholipids reflected dietary fat intake. For example, high levels of linoleate and low levels of arachidonate were found in the phosphatidylcholine fraction from mice fed the 10% corn oil diet compared with 5% corn oil. When the diets were fed during TPA promotion, the papilloma incidence after 11 weeks of treatment for the 5% corn oil group was 77% and 37% for the 10% corn oil group. By 15 weeks of TPA treatment, papilloma incidence between the diet groups was similar, and later, carcinoma incidence and yield were not different between the two groups. For the animals treated with benzoyl peroxide, there was only a slight but not significant difference in papilloma and carcinoma appearance. In parallel studies, ornithine decarboxylase activity, vascular permeability, hyperplasia, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) levels were elevated in the epidermis after promoter treatment, but only hyperplasia and PGE2 synthesis tended to reflect the dietary effects on tumor appearance. These data suggest that the quantity of dietary corn oil at the two levels tested, 5% and 10%, altered epidermal phospholipid fatty acid composition and PGE2 levels and had modest effects on the modulation of tumorigenesis in this skin model.
After feeding with 0.188% N-[4-(5-nitro-2 furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT), transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder was induced in all female Wistar rats tested. Histological changes of the urothelium consisted of various degrees of hyperplasia and dysplasia. An infiltrating transitional cell carcinoma first appeared after 8 months. These results are compared with the findings of other authors, and divergencies of the tumour induction rates are discussed with respect to strain, sex and weight of experimental animals as well as concentration and amount of ingested carcinogen. Electron microscopy shows microvillous transformation of the luminal plasma membrane and appearance of a thick fluffy cell coat (glycocalyx). These changes are explained by an altered function of the Golgi complex occurring during malignancy and leading to a loss of the specific discoid vesicles of the urothelial cells.
Doxorubicin is a potent anticancer agent effective in a wide range of malignancies, but its use is limited by dose-dependent late cardiotoxicity. Severe doxorubicin cardiotoxicity has been associated with a poor prognosis and a high mortality rate, and until recently has been thought to be irreversible. We describe the cases of three patients with well-documented severe left ventricular dysfunction due to doxorubicin who had complete clinical recovery with return of cardiac function to normal. Because severe doxorubicin cardiotoxicity is reversible in some patients, aggressive supportive therapy is warranted.
The expression pattern of a global set of Hsps in the adult rat cerebral cortex was examined during the first week following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). Hsp70 and Hsp32 protein were induced at 1 day post-SE and decreased thereafter, whereas Hsp25 exhibited a prolonged induction with increased levels at 3 and 7 days post-SE. Hsp70 was induced in neurons, while Hsp25 and Hsp32 localized to GFAP-positive hypertrophied astrocytes. The induction of Hsp25, Hsp32 and Hsp70 at 1 day following SE suggests the involvement of these Hsps in early events after SE. Interestingly, while Hsp32 and Hsp70 expression was transient, Hsp25 demonstrated a sustained induction pattern, which may reflect an additional role of Hsp25 in subsequent remodeling events in the days following SE.
1 The haemodynamic effects of labetalol have been studied in 11 hypertensive patients after 1 month of oral administration at a fixed dose of 800 mg/d. 2 Heart rate blood pressure and cardiac output were measured at rest and at two levels of exercise. 3 Labetalol significantly reduced heart rate and blood pressure at rest and after exercise but cardiac output remained unchanged. 4 The results suggest that labetalol is an effective anti-hypertensive agent acting by competitive adrenoreceptor blockade.
AV block after arsenic trioxide (As2O3) treatment for refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia is very rare. In this patient, the block was at A-H level and manifested with complete AV block and Wenckebach second-degree type 3:2 block. The junctional recovery time during complete AV block did not significantly prolong after administration of more arsenic trioxide. The effect of heart block of arsenic trioxide seemed reversible after the discontinuation of arsenic trioxide and was not correlated to the leukemic status as observed in this patient.
The dog is the most commonly used laboratory animal for heart surgery research. It has been difficult, however, to develop a canine chronic heart failure model, particularly without associated significant tachycardia. Our objective is to utilize intracoronary doxorubicin at various doses to evaluate a chronic model of left ventricular dysfunction and develop a dose-response relationship.
In 18 dogs, we evaluated their hemodynamic function, placed an in-dwelling intracoronary catheter, and then administered four weekly infusions of doxorubicin at 5 mg (n = 6), 10 mg (n = 6), or 15 mg (n = 6). Hemodynamic measurements were taken again at 4-5 weeks after infusion, and a final measurement at 14-18 weeks. RESULTS (See table): In the low dose group, all six animals survived the post-infusion period. Cardiac output changed from 2.9 +/- 0.2 to 2.2 +/- 0.5. The medium dose group had a mortality of 33% (2/6 dogs), with a moderate decrease in cardiac output (3.1 +/- 0.4 to 2.3 +/- 0.3 L/min). The high dose group had a mortality of 67% (4/6 dogs), with a dramatic decrease in cardiac output (3.0 +/- 0.2 L/min to 1.6 +/- 0.7 L/min (p < 0.05). None of the dogs developed a significant tachycardia.
This study reconfirms that doxorubicin, when given into the coronary arteries, induces cardiac dysfunction. It appears to be dose-dependent, but more importantly, in doses where the LV dysfunction yields overt heart failure; the mortality over 14 weeks is significant and likely unacceptable for most chronic heart failure studies.
Cerebral perfusion abnormalities and neuropsychological impairment are common sequelae of chronic cocaine abuse. While perfusion abnormalities have been shown to relate to cognitive deficits in this substance abuse population, the relationship between cognitive performance and the magnitude of perfusion abnormality has yet to be fully determined.
Thirty-seven abstinent cocaine abusers and 13 normal controls were administered resting 99m-Tc-HMPAO single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans followed by a neuropsychological assessment battery tapping executive skills, attention, memory, and motor performance. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM99) techniques were used to analyze the SPECT data to detect significant regional perfusion abnormalities in the cocaine group relative to normal controls, and resulting abnormal SPECT counts were employed for comparison with the assessment measures to examine the relationship between cocaine-induced perfusion abnormalities and cognitive performance.
SPECT data analysis revealed significant regional perfusion abnormalities in the cocaine abuse sample relative to controls and significant differences in neuropsychological functioning on measures of executive functioning, complex attention, memory, and manual dexterity. For chronic cocaine abusers, however, within-group comparisons of the magnitude of abnormal perfusion and neuropsychological performance were largely nonsignificant, with the exception of complex attention and motor speed.
Perfusion abnormalities and neuropsychological impairments readily distinguished cocaine abusers from normal controls. However, when the magnitude of cocaine-induced perfusion abnormalities is examined in relation to cognitive performance, motor speed and complex attention appear to be the best behaviorial indicants of the severity of perfusion dysfunction within this substance abuse population.
The incidence of venous complications following intravenous diazepam administered to 190 dental out-patients was investigated in a prospective, randomized study. The administration into the smaller veins of the hand and forearm resulted in a significant increase in the incidence of thrombophlebitis. Use of a plastic catheter in place of an infusion needle or flushing with 150 ml of saline did not alter the incidence of venous complications. These results suggest that use of the larger veins of the antecubital fossa can lower the incidence of venous complications encountered in clinical practice following the intravenous administration of diazepam. These findings also suggest that use of a plastic catheter or post-drug administration flushing with saline does not affect the incidence of venous complications.
The receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) Met is known to be over-expressed in canine osteosarcoma (OSA). In human cancers, the RTKs Met, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and Ron are frequently co-expressed and engage in heterodimerization, altering signal transduction and promoting resistance to targeted therapeutics. We found that EGFR and Ron are expressed in canine OSA cell lines and primary tissues, EGFR and Ron are frequently phosphorylated in OSA tumour samples, and Met is co-associated with EGFR and Ron in canine OSA cell lines. Transforming growth factor alpha (TGFα) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) stimulation induced amplification of ERK1/2 and STAT3 phosphorylation in OSA cells and Met was phosphorylated following TGFα stimulation providing evidence for receptor cross-talk. Lastly, treatment of OSA cells with combined gefitinib and crizotinib inhibited cell proliferation in an additive manner. Together, these data support the notion that Met, EGFR and Ron interact in OSA cells and as such, may represent viable targets for therapeutic intervention.
Although several reports have stated that even therapeutic levels of lithium can induce sinus node dysfunction, the mechanism has not been fully elucidated. We present here two patients with sinus node dysfunction after long-term lithium therapy. Following lithium discontinuation, sinus node function recovered completely. After resuming lithium, however, irreversible sinus node dysfunction recurred and a permanent pacemaker was implanted in one patient. The serum concentration of lithium was within therapeutic levels. Nevertheless, hypothyroidism was associated with the sinus node dysfunction in both patients. Thus, thyroid function may play an important role in sinus node dysfunction induced by lithium.
MutLα plays an essential role in DNA mismatch repair (MMR) and is additionally involved in other cellular mechanisms such as the regulation of cell cycle checkpoints and apoptosis. Therefore, not only germline MMR gene defects but also the subcellular localization of MutLα might be of importance for the development of Lynch syndrome. Recently, we showed that MutLα contains functional nuclear import sequences and is most frequently localized in the nucleus. Here, we demonstrate that MutLα can move bidirectionally towards the nuclear membrane. Using MutLα transfected HEK293T cells we observed a significant shift of MLH1 and PMS2 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm after irradiation or cisplatin treatment. We analyzed both proteins for potential nuclear export sequences (NES) and identified one functional Rev-type NES (⁵⁷⁸LFDLAMLAL) in the C-terminal part of MLH1 that facilitates export via the CRM1/exportin pathway. Moreover, an MLH1-NES mutation detected in a patient with Lynch syndrome showed normal MMR activity but led to significantly impaired cytoplasmic transport after actinomycin D treatment. These results indicate that MutLα is able to shuttle from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, probably signaling DNA damages to downstream pathways. In conclusion, not only a defective MMR but also impaired nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling might result in the onset of Lynch syndrome.
The development of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy involves apoptosis of cardiac muscle cells. This study was carried out to define the roles of two heat-shock proteins, Hsp10 and Hsp60, on doxorubicin-induced apoptosis in primary cardiomyocytes. Doxorubicin induces apoptosis of cardiomyocytes by activating mitochondria apoptosis signaling. Transducing cardiomyocytes with Hsp10 or Hsp60 with adenoviral vector suppressed the occurrence of apoptosis in the doxorubicin-treated cardiomyocytes. Overexpression of Hsp10 and Hsp60 increased the abundance of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-xl and Bcl-2, and reduced the protein content of the pro-apoptotic Bax. Hsp60 overexpression also significantly reduced doxorubicin induction of Bad, whereas overexpression of Hsp10 did not alter the expression of Bad in the doxorubicin-treated cells. Overexpression of Hsp10 and Hsp60, respectively, stabilized mitochondrial cross-membrane potential, inhibited Caspase 3, and suppressed PARP. These findings indicate that overexpression of Hsp10 and Hsp60 differentially modulated Bcl-2 family and in turn attenuate doxorubicin-induced cardiac muscle death. The effects of Hsp10 and Hsp60 on Bcl-2 family could not be explained by the abundance of Bcl-2 family mRNA levels. Hsp60 interacted with Bcl-xl and Bax in the cardiomyocytes in vivo. The effect of Hsp10 and Hsp60 on the abundance of Bcl-xl could not be blocked by cycloheximide. Moreover, Hsp10 and Hsp60 inhibited ubiquitination of Bcl-xl. These findings suggest that Hsp10 and Hsp60 modulated post-translational modification of Bcl-xl. Antisense Hsp60 reduced the abundance of endogenous Hsp60 in cardiomyocytes and amplified the cytotoxicity of doxorubicin. These data provide a novel link between Hsp10/Hsp60 and cardiac protection in doxorubicin cardiomyopathy.
Inflammation is a multi-staged process whose expansive phase is thought to be driven by acutely released arachidonic acid (AA) and its metabolites. Inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX), lipoxygenase (LOX), or soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) is known to be anti-inflammatory. Inhibition of sEH stabilizes the cytochrome P450 (CYP450) products epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs). Here we used a non-selective COX inhibitor aspirin, a 5-lipoxygenase activation protein (FLAP) inhibitor MK886, and a sEH inhibitor t-AUCB to selectively modulate the branches of AA metabolism in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-challenged murine model. We used metabolomic profiling to simultaneously monitor representative AA metabolites of each branch. In addition to the significant crosstalk among branches of the AA cascade during selective modulation of COX, LOX, or sEH, we demonstrated that co-administration of t-AUCB enhanced the anti-inflammatory effects of aspirin or MK886, which was evidenced by the observations that co-administration resulted in favorable eicosanoid profiles and better control of LPS-mediated hypotension as well as hepatic protein expression of COX-2 and 5-LOX. Targeted disruption of the sEH gene displayed a parallel profile to that produced by t-AUCB. These observations demonstrate a significant level of crosstalk among the three major branches of the AA cascade and that they are not simply parallel pathways. These data illustrate that inhibition of sEH by both pharmacological intervention and gene knockout enhances the anti-inflammatory effects of aspirin and MK886, suggesting the possibility of modulating multiple branches to achieve better therapeutic effects.
We describe herein 3 patients who developed rosacea-like dermatitis eruptions while using 0.03% or 0.1% tacrolimus ointment for facial dermatitis. Skin biopsy specimens showed telangiectasia and noncaseating epithelioid granulomatous tissue formation in the papillary to mid dermis. Continuous topical use of immunomodulators such as tacrolimus or pimecrolimus should be regarded as a potential cause of rosaceiform dermatitis, although many cases have not been reported.
Recent studies have suggested that the kallikrein-kinin system regulates tissue fibrogenesis. We hypothesize that bradykinin (BK), the main effector peptide of this system, regulates hepatic fibrogenesis.
Kallikrein-kinin system components were studied by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting. The effect of bradykinin on liver injury was studied by infusing saline or bradykinin (1 and 100 ng/kg/min) through a subcutaneous pump into carbon tetrachloride-treated rats and mice treated with Fas-stimulating antibody. Bradykinin effects were studied in cultured hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and hepatocytes.
Bradykinin receptors and kallikrein-1 were detected in both normal and fibrotic human livers and HSCs. BK receptors were up-regulated in fibrotic livers and activated HSCs. Bradykinin infusion reduced liver damage, as indicated by decreased aminotransferase serum levels and reduced histologic necroinflammatory score without inducing changes in arterial pressure. Moreover, bradykinin attenuated hepatic fibrosis, as indicated by reduced collagen accumulation, smooth muscle alpha-actin content, as well as decreased pro-collagen-alpha1(I) and transforming growth factor-beta1 gene expression. Bradykinin infusion reduced hepatocellular apoptosis induced by anti-Fas-receptor antibody. HSCs responded to bradykinin with intracellular calcium mobilization. Bradykinin reduced procollagen-alpha1(I) and transforming growth factor-beta1 gene expression and induced matrix metalloproteinase-2 activation. Finally, BK induced prosurvival and proliferative intracellular signaling in primary hepatocytes.
Bradykinin attenuates liver damage and fibrosis development in a rat model of chronic liver injury. Therefore, activation of the kallikrein-kinin system may be a new therapeutic approach to the management of chronic liver disease.
Most cardiac surgical patients have had previous exposure to heparin for diagnostic or therapeutic interventions and hence have an increased susceptibility to developing heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) postoperatively. HIT is an immune-mediated adverse drug reaction that may be associated with limb or life-threatening thrombosis. Heparin cessation is a vital first step in treatment; however, alternative anticoagulant therapy is essential. Recombinant hirudin (lepirudin), a thrombin-specific inhibitor, provides safe and effective anticoagulation in such patients. We describe a case of delayed onset HIT with resulting massive pulmonary embolism postcardiac surgery that was successfully managed with lepirudin.
Tourniquet pain frequently complicates the use of pneumatic tourniquets during surgical procedures involving the extremities. The mechanisms of tourniquet pain are not understood and therefore the treatment is nonspecific. An animal model was sought to provide an ethical means to study the neurophysiologic and neuropharmacologic mechanisms of tourniquet pain. Neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla are involved in the nociceptive-and circulatory-responsive neuronal networks. The goal of this study was to determine the activity of neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla in response to the maintenance of tourniquet inflation in the rat as a component of an investigation of the neurophysiologic mechanisms of tourniquet-induced pain.
In 18 male, pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, heart rate, systolic blood pressure (SBP), and cell firing rates (CFR) of nociceptive-responsive rostral ventromedial medulla neurons, characterized as having an OFF or ON cell response to noxious heat, were monitored. CFR was monitored continuously at baseline, during an IV infusion of phenylephrine sufficient to increase SBP by 50%, during the application of a pneumatic tourniquet to the hind limb thigh and inflated to 300 mmHg for a period of 60 min, and during a 30-min recovery period.
Phenylephrine-induced hypertension resulted in an increase in OFF CFR. Maintenance of tourniquet inflation resulted in a progressive decrease in OFF CFR and a progressive increase in ON CFR. An increase in SBP in response to tourniquet pain paralleled the changes in CFR. Mean SBP at 5 min preinflation, 5 min postinflation, 55 min postinflation, and 10 min postdeflation were 101 +/- 11, 103 +/- 9, 118 +/- 14, and 103 +/- 12 mmHg, respectively.
The changes in SBP and CFR observed during tourniquet inflation were consistent with previously reported responses to nociceptive stimuli. Phenylephrine-induced hypertension caused an opposite effect on the CFR of rostral ventromedial medulla neurons as compared with a noxious stimulus such as heat or maintenance of tourniquet inflation. This experimental design is presented as an animal model to study the neurophysiologic and neuropharmacologic aspects of tourniquet pain.
Urothelial cell carcinoma is the most common type of malignancy found in long-term dialysis patients and kidney transplant recipients in Taiwan. Surgical specimens of tumorous and non-tumorous bladder tissues were collected from 12 patients with bladder cancer. Increased expressions of Ras, RhoA, Akt, PI-3K were demonstrated in the tumors as compared to adjacent control tissues. To understand the impact of Ras over-expression on bladder cancer progression, human bladder cancer TSGH 8301 cells were transfected with Ras DNA. The Ras-transfected cells were then treated with either a PI-3K inhibitor (wortmannin) or Rho kinase inhibitor (Y-27632) and the expressions of Ras, PI-3K, Akt, NF-kappaB, and RhoA were analyzed. Fluorescent phalloidin staining demonstrated more intense F-actin staining in the Ras over-expressed cells than in the control cells, and the intensity of F-actin was inhibited by Y-27632. A gelatin zymography study demonstrated that the MMP-2 and MMP-9 expressions of the Ras-transfected cells were enhanced, and Y-27632 treatment reduced the levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Similarly, a wound healing assay revealed that the ability of cell migration was markedly increased by Ras transfection and the healing rate after treatment of Y-27632 was delayed. Our results provide evidence that Ras-induced RhoA and NF-kappaB activation was involved in the invasion/migration of bladder cancer. Through Ras and/or RhoA inhibition, there might be an opportunity for new therapeutic interventions in bladder cancer.
The effects of recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO) on haematological parameters were studied in rats in which uraemia and anaemia had been induced by gentamicin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic and a nephrotoxic agent. After the occurrence of slight polycythaemia, the red blood cell count, haematocrit and haemoglobin concentration decreased by 20-30% compared with those of the control (saline-injected) rats. At the end of gentamicin treatment, the endogenous serum EPO level had decreased to about 40% compared with that of control rats. Gentamicin-treated rats showed marked elevation of blood urea nitrogen, extensive tubular necrosis in the kidney and haemosiderin deposition in the spleen. In the osmotic fragility test, the fragility of erythrocytes significantly increased compared with that of control rats. These findings indicate that the anaemia induced by gentamicin is due not only to a deficiency of EPO but also to an enhancement of fragility of erythrocytes in an azotaemic environment. The administration of r-HuEPO during anaemia markedly increased red blood cell count, haematocrit and haemoglobin concentration. It is suggested that a gentamicin-treated rat is a useful and convenient anaemic model and r-HuEPO is useful for treatment of anaemia in acute renal failure.
We present a case of unusual chemotherapy-induced neurotoxicity in a patient who had undergone radical cystoprostatectomy and ileal conduit diversion for invasive bladder cancer. On routine computed tomography scan several years later, he was diagnosed with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma involving the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. The patient received systemic chemotherapy, including a combination of paclitaxel (Taxol) and gemcitabine (Gemzar). During this treatment, the patient developed spasmodic pain and dysesthesia in the stoma area, with no apparent skin irritation or any other local finding. These symptoms resolved about 3 months after completion of the therapy.
Although the use of oral contraceptives has been frequently associated with an increased risk of thromboembolic events, definitive prothrombotic mechanisms have not so far been fully elucidated. The aim of our investigation was the evaluation of the activities of antithrombin, protein C, protein S and the resistance to activated protein C in 137 healthy users of third-generation oral contraceptives and in 170 healthy women who were not consuming oral contraceptives. Women on oral contraceptives showed a marked prothrombotic pattern, characterized by reduced activities of antithrombin and protein S, and increased resistance to activated protein C. Nearby 50% of oral contraceptive users displayed activities of protein S below the lower value of the reference range (controls, 10%; P < 0.001). No significant differences were observed between two progestagens (desogestrel or gestodene) on the coagulation parameters tested. We believe that, due to the adverse effect on haemostasis, the administration of third-generation oral contraceptives should be carefully considered in women carrying prothrombotic abnormalities.
Acute experimental models of renal damage to the proximal tubular, glomerular, and papillary regions of the rat were produced by administration of hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (HCBD), puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN), and 2-bromoethylamine (BEA), respectively. Several routine indicators of nephrotoxicity, the enzymes alkaline phosphatase and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, and the molecular weight of protein excretion were determined on urine samples. Tubular damage produced by HCBD or BEA was discriminated both quantitatively and qualitatively from glomerular damage produced by PAN. The latter was characterized by a pronounced increase in protein excretion, especially proteins with molecular weight greater than 40,000 Da. In contrast, protein excretion in tubular damage was raised only slightly and characterized by excretion of proteins of a wide range of molecular weights. Proximal tubular damage caused by HCBD and papillary damage caused by BEA were distinguished both by conventional urinalysis (volume and specific gravity) and by measurement of the two urinary enzymes. Alkaline phosphatase and glucose were markedly and transiently elevated in proximal tubular damage and N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase showed a sustained elevation in papillary damage. It is concluded that both selective urinary enzymes and the molecular weight pattern of urinary proteins can be used to provide diagnostic information about the possible site of renal damage.
