The pathogenesis of alcoholic pancreatitis may involve the metabolism of ethanol (via oxidative and non-oxidative pathways) within the pancreas. The aims of this study were to determine the rate of non-oxidative metabolism in isolated rat pancreatic acini and to compare this to the rate of ethanol oxidation.
Pancreatic acini were isolated from male Sprague-Dawley rats and incubated with (14)C-ethanol. Radiolabelled fatty acid ethyl esters (non-oxidative metabolites) were isolated from lipid extracts by thin-layer chromatography. Radiolabelled acetate (oxidative metabolite) was isolated from the incubation medium by ion-exchange chromatography.
Non-oxidative metabolism by isolated pancreatic acini was demonstrated. At 50 and 100 mmol/l ethanol, fatty acid ethyl ester concentrations were 49.6 +/- 13.3 and 199 +/- 93 micromol/l, respectively. These levels have previously been shown to result in tissue injury. Non-oxidative metabolism was increased 9-fold by addition of oleic acid and inhibited by the lipase inhibitor, tetrahydrolipstatin, by 91.05 +/- 1.99%. The rate of oxidative metabolism was 21-fold higher than that of non-oxidative metabolism.
Intact pancreatic cells metabolize ethanol by the non-oxidative pathway, generating fatty acid ethyl esters at a rate sufficient to cause pancreatic damage. Oxidative metabolism of ethanol occurs at a much higher rate and may also play a role in pancreatitis.
Tetracycline (Achromycin, Lederle) solution was used to produce sclerosis of 37 hydroceles and 18 epididymal cysts in patients over the age of 50 years. All but one of the epididymal cysts were sclerosed satisfactorily at 9 months; 35 hydroceles sclerosed satisfactorily, although four patients required re-treatment at 3 months. One patient required orchiectomy for an infected haematocele. Pain after instillation of tetracycline was an occasional complication which could be prevented by prophylactic spermatic cord block. Tetracycline sclerotherapy is a safe and effective alternative to surgery for hydroceles and epididymal cysts in older patients.
Cardiotoxicity is a rare complication occurring during 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) treatment for malignancies. We herein report the case of a 70-year-old man with 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity, in whom a high serum level of alpha-fluoro-beta-alanine (FBAL) was observed. The patient, who had unresectable colon cancer metastases to the liver and lung, was referred to us for chemotherapy from an affiliated hospital; he had no cardiac history. After admission, the patient received a continuous intravenous infusion of 5-FU (1000 mg/day), during which precordial pain with right bundle branch block occurred concomitantly with a high serum FBAL concentration of 1955 ng/ml. Both the precordial pain and the electrocardiographic changes disappeared spontaneously after the discontinuation of 5-FU. As the precordial pain in this patient was considered to have been due to 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity, the administration of 5-FU was abandoned. Instead, oral administration of S-1 (a derivative of 5-FU), at 200 mg/day twice a week, was instituted, because S-1 has a strong inhibitory effect on dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, which catalyzes the degradative of 5-FU into FBAL. The serum FBAL concentration subsequently decreased to 352 ng/ml, the same as the value measured on the first day of S-1 administration. Thereafter, no cardiac symptoms were observed. The patient achieved a partial response 6 months after the initiation of the S-1 treatment. The experience of this case, together with a review of the literature, suggests that FBAL is related to 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity. S-1 may be administered safely to patients with 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity.
Daunomycin, like its anthracycline analog adriamycin, is a cardiotoxic antitumor antibiotic. Reports on 5,613 patients receiving daunomycin were reviewed for cardiotoxicity. Two distinct patterns of cardiotoxicity were defined, congestive heart failure (cardiomyopathy) and electrocardiographic changes. Dose-response curves were constructed using the percent incidence of cardiomyopathy versus the total dose of daunomycin in mg/m2. There was a dose-response relationship between the total dose of daunomycin and the development of cardiomyopathy, both in children and adults. The children seem more susceptible to the drug-induced cardiomyopathy. The electrocardiographic changes in the children and adults did not show a dose-dependent relationship, were present consistently even at the lowest dosage levels, and did not predict for subsequent development of cardiomyopathy. The dose-response curves constructed enable the clinician to judge the relative risk of developing cardiomyopathy at a given total dosage level and allows comparison of the human experience with the experimental animal model data.
Sulfur mustard (SM)-induced lung injury has been associated with protease activation, oxidative injury and inflammatory response culminating in tissue necrosis. The protease inhibitors aprotinin and ilomastat and the antioxidant trolox were evaluated for efficacy in ameliorating SM-induced lung injury. Anesthetized spontaneously breathing rats (N=6-8/group) were intratracheally intubated and exposed to 1.4 mg/kg SM (0.35 mg SM in 0.1 ml of ethanol) or ethanol alone by vapor inhalation for 50 min. At 1 min before the exposure rats were treated with one of the following: intravenous aprotinin, 4.4 mg/kg; intraperitoneal (ip) ilomastat, 25mg/kg; or ip trolox, 500 microg/kg. Aprotinin-treated animals received supplemental 2.2mg/kg doses at 1 min and 6h post-exposure (PE). A whole body plethysmograph system was used to monitor pulmonary function (PF) parameters for 1h before exposure (baseline), and from 5-6 and 23-24h post-exposure. SM inhalation caused significant increases in several PF parameters, including tidal volume, peak inspiratory flow, peak expiratory flow, end expiratory pause and enhanced pause. Consistent with the reported development of SM-induced pathology, these changes were minimal at the 5-6-h time and significant at the 23-24-h timepoint. At the later time it is known from previous work that airways are becoming obstructed with loose cellular debris, damaged cells and exudate, which contributed to the changes in PF parameters. Treatment with aprotinin or ilomastat eliminated these PF changes, yielding results comparable with controls for each of these parameters. Lung lavage fluid analysis showed that SM caused a significant increase in total protein (TP) and in the cytokines IL-1alpha and IL-13. Aprotinin treatment prevented the increases in TP and IL-1alpha production, ilomastat prevented the increased production of IL-13, and trolox treatment did not significantly prevent the SM-related increases in TP, IL-1alpha or IL-13. Histopathologic examination of lung tissue 24h post-exposure showed minimal alveolar effects caused by SM, while damage to bronchiolar regions was much more severe due to the highly reactive nature of SM. While aprotinin and ilomastat both alleviated the PF perturbations, surprisingly only aprotinin reduced the observed pathology, both grossly and histologically. These early results indicate that treatment with aprotinin and to a lesser extent ilomastat reduces some of the direct inflammatory response and damage associated with SM-induced lung injury. This research was supported by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency - Joint Science and Technology Office, Medical S&T Division.
In France, prescription of micronized progesterone at high doses of 900 to 1200 mg/day is common practice in the case of preterm delivery, even though this is neither an indication nor a posology given for marketing authorisation. A few cases of gestational pruritus have been reported during such use, associated with cholestasic and/or cytolytic hepatic disorders. We report here the results of a controlled, double-blind study versus a placebo, aimed at assessing the effects on the liver of micronized progesterone administered orally at high doses (900-1200 mg/day), conducted in a population of 201 women presenting moderate menace of preterm delivery during the third trimester of pregnancy. 85 patients received micronized progesterone and 116 the placebo. The increase above normal levels of total biliary acids (TBA) and aminotransferases (ASAT, ALAT), was significantly more frequent in the micronized progesterone than in the placebo group. Among the 26 patients (14%) with a level of TBA superior to 10 mumoles/l during treatment, 18 belonged to the progesterone and 8 to the placebo group (p = 0.004); the 6 patients (3.4%) with increased ASAT were all under micronized progesterone (p < 0.001), as were the 10 patients (5.6%) with increased ALAT (p < 0.001). However, there is no statistically significant difference between the two groups regarding the occurrence of clinical manifestations (icterus, pruritus) which could be attributed to gravid cholestasis. We may conclude from this prospective study that, during the third trimester of pregnancy, micronized progesterone is associated with a significant risk of biological cholestasis. This would suggest that in patients genetically predisposed towards gravid cholestasis, micronized progesterone could be a factor favoursing this disease.
Bromocriptine is a dopamine agonist with potential mental side effects. The authors report a case involving a patient with neuroleptic-induced remission of psychiatric symptoms in whom bromocriptine was associated with temporary exacerbation of schizophrenic symptoms. Other treatment approaches than bromocriptine are suggested for amenorrhea-galactorrhea induced by neuroleptic medication. The use of bromocriptine requires monitoring for changes in mental status.
We report the development of stridor and dysphagia in a 5-month-old-infant with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia after the administration of four weekly doses of vincristine during induction therapy. Because direct laryngoscopy revealed bilateral vocal cord paralysis, the patient underwent elective intubation. Extubation was performed 7 days later, after direct laryngoscopy confirmed recovery of vocal cord mobility. Vincristine-induced bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis is a rare but potentially life-threatening complication. Therefore, it should be suspected when stridor is present, and clinicians should consider visualization of the airway to establish the cause of upper airway compromise in infants receiving vincristine.
Dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) is a critical enzyme in folate metabolism and an important target of antineoplastic, antimicrobial, and antiinflammatory drugs. We describe three individuals from two families with a recessive inborn error of metabolism, characterized by megaloblastic anemia and/or pancytopenia, severe cerebral folate deficiency, and cerebral tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency due to a germline missense mutation in DHFR, resulting in profound enzyme deficiency. We show that cerebral folate levels, anemia, and pancytopenia of DHFR deficiency can be corrected by treatment with folinic acid. The characterization of this disorder provides evidence for the link between DHFR and metabolism of cerebral tetrahydrobiopterin, which is required for the formation of dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine and for the hydroxylation of aromatic amino acids. Moreover, this relationship provides insight into the role of folates in neurological conditions, including depression, Alzheimer disease, and Parkinson disease.
The importance of intracellular folate metabolism is illustrated by the severity of symptoms and complications caused by inborn disorders of folate metabolism or by folate deficiency. We examined three children of healthy, distantly related parents presenting with megaloblastic anemia and cerebral folate deficiency causing neurologic disease with atypical childhood absence epilepsy. Genome-wide homozygosity mapping revealed a candidate region on chromosome 5 including the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) locus. DHFR sequencing revealed a homozygous DHFR mutation, c.458A>T (p.Asp153Val), in all siblings. The patients' folate profile in red blood cells (RBC), plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, was compatible with DHFR deficiency. DHFR activity and fluorescein-labeled methotrexate (FMTX) binding were severely reduced in EBV-immortalized lymphoblastoid cells of all patients. Heterozygous cells displayed intermediate DHFR activity and FMTX binding. RT-PCR of DHFR mRNA revealed no differences between wild-type and DHFR mutation-carrying cells, whereas protein expression was reduced in cells with the DHFR mutation. Treatment with folinic acid resulted in the resolution of hematological abnormalities, normalization of CSF folate levels, and improvement of neurological symptoms. In conclusion, the homozygous DHFR mutation p.Asp153Val causes DHFR deficiency and leads to a complex hematological and neurological disease that can be successfully treated with folinic acid. DHFR is necessary for maintaining sufficient CSF and RBC folate levels, even in the presence of adequate nutritional folate supply and normal plasma folate.
Nitric oxide (NO) causes vasodilation by stimulation of guanylate cyclase in vascular smooth muscle to produce cGMP. The resultant vasodilator effect is regulated by a family of cGMP phosphodiesterases (PDEs). Sildenafil, a selective inhibitor of PDE5 used for treatment of erectile dysfunction, has been found to cause relaxation of isolated epicardial coronary artery segments. The present study examined the effects of sildenafil on coronary blood flow and hemodynamics during exercise in normal and ischemic heart.
In chronically instrumented normal dogs, sildenafil 2 mg/kg PO caused a slight but significant increase in left anterior descending (LAD) coronary blood flow during resting conditions, with a nonsignificant trend toward increased coronary flow during treadmill exercise. Exercise in the presence of LAD stenosis that decreased distal coronary pressure to 57+/-2 mm Hg reduced LAD flow during exercise from 69+/-8 to 41+/-7 mL/min (P:<0. 05), with hypoperfusion most severe in the subendocardium. At the same distal coronary pressure, sildenafil increased LAD flow in the ischemic region to 50+/-11 mL/min (P:<0.05). Increase in ischemic region blood flow produced by sildenafil was uniform across the LV wall, given that no change occurred in the transmural distribution of perfusion.
Inhibition of PDE5 with sildenafil caused vasodilation of coronary resistance vessels with an increase of blood flow into an ischemic myocardial region during exercise in the presence of coronary artery stenosis.
The present study was designed to examine the effect of 5-HT1B receptor ligands microinjected into the subregions of the nucleus accumbens (the shell and the core) on the locomotor hyperactivity induced by cocaine in rats. Male Wistar rats were implanted bilaterally with cannulae into the accumbens shell or core, and then were locally injected with GR 55562 (an antagonist of 5-HT1B receptors) or CP 93129 (an agonist of 5-HT1B receptors). Given alone to any accumbal subregion, GR 55562 (0.1-10 microg/side) or CP 93129 (0.1-10 microg/side) did not change basal locomotor activity. Systemic cocaine (10 mg/kg) significantly increased the locomotor activity of rats. GR 55562 (0.1-10 microg/side), administered intra-accumbens shell prior to cocaine, dose-dependently attenuated the psychostimulant-induced locomotor hyperactivity. Such attenuation was not found in animals which had been injected with GR 55562 into the accumbens core. When injected into the accumbens shell (but not the core) before cocaine, CP 93129 (0.1-10 microg/side) enhanced the locomotor response to cocaine; the maximum effect being observed after 10 microg/side of the agonist. The later enhancement was attenuated after intra-accumbens shell treatment with GR 55562 (1 microg/side). Our findings indicate that cocaine induced hyperlocomotion is modified by 5-HT1B receptor ligands microinjected into the accumbens shell, but not core, this modification consisting in inhibitory and facilitatory effects of the 5-HT1B receptor antagonist (GR 55562) and agonist (CP 93129), respectively. In other words, the present results suggest that the accumbal shell 5-HT1B receptors play a permissive role in the behavioural response to the psychostimulant.
Anesthetic agents have different effects on hemodynamic and cardiac functional parameters. The influence of these changes on valvular function has not been studied in small animals. For this purpose, 48 male Wistar rats were divided into three equal groups. An echocardiogram was performed under inhaled isoflurane 2% gas (group I) or under intraperitoneal pentobarbital 50 mg/kg (group II) or ketamine/xylazine (group III) 40/8 mg/kg. Aortic regurgitation was only found in group III (80%, p < 0.0001 vs. groups I and II). Pulmonary and mitral regurgitation (PR, MR) were observed in all groups but were more frequent in group III (PR 67%, MR 100%) compared with group I (PR 13%, p = 0.003; MR 44%, p = 0.001 vs. group III) and group II (PR 19%, p = 0.011; MR 25%, p < 0.0001 vs. group III). Moreover, valvular regurgitations in group III (except tricuspid regurgitation) were more severe compared with groups I and II. The findings in group III were the result of increased blood pressure and afterload, left ventricular (LV) dilation and decreased function. Also in group III, the regurgitations diminished over time as the blood pressure decreased and LV function recovered. Isoflurane and pentobarbital had less pronounced effects on valvular function (5 and 10 min after induction, respectively) compared with ketamine/xylazine and, therefore, might be the anesthetics of choice for valvular evaluation in male Wistar rats. In conclusion, anesthesia causes hemodynamic changes that may result in functional valvular regurgitations in normal rats.
A total of 21 patients with a diagnosis of chronic idiopathic urticaria were assessed in a fully randomized, double-blind, crossover study to investigate the efficacy of 8 mg acrivastine versus 20 mg hydroxyzine and placebo administered three times daily. Both acrivastine and hydroxyzine were found to be effective, and significantly better than placebo, in controlling signs and symptoms of urticaria. No significant differences were found between the active preparations. Hydroxyzine was associated with significantly more reports of drowsiness than was placebo.
Twenty patients of mean age 41.3 years, with a diagnosis of chronic idiopathic urticaria were assessed in a fully randomized, double-blind, crossover study to investigate the efficacy of acrivastine at two doses (8 mg and 4 mg) versus 1 mg clemastine and placebo, given three times per day. All active preparations were found to be effective, and significantly better than placebo, in controlling the signs and symptoms of urticaria. There was a higher incidence of sedation with clemastine than with either acrivastine or placebo, although this difference did not achieve statistical significance in this small study.
A total of 20 patients with a diagnosis of chronic idiopathic urticaria were entered into a fully randomized, double-blind, crossover study to investigate the efficacy of 8 mg acrivastine versus 4 mg chlorpheniramine three times daily. Data from 16 patients were available for analysis. Both acrivastine and chlorpheniramine were found to be effective in relieving the signs and symptoms of urticaria. There were no significant differences between the two treatments, although efficacy trends were generally in favour of acrivastine over chlorpheniramine throughout the study.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of subconjunctivally administered mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) on corneal wound healing in the acute stage of an alkali burn. A corneal alkali burn model was generated by placing a piece of 3-mm diameter filter paper soaked in NaOH on the right eye of 48 Sprague-Dawley female rats. 24 rats were administered a subconjunctival injection of a suspension of 2×10(6) MSCs in 0.1 ml phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) on day 0 and day 3 after the corneal alkali burn. The other 24 rats were administered a subconjunctival injection of an equal amount of PBS as a control. Deficiencies of the corneal epithelium and the area of corneal neovascularization (CNV) were evaluated on days 3 and 7 after the corneal alkali burn. Infiltrated CD68(+) cells were detected by immunofluorescence staining. The mRNA expression levels of macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1α), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were analyzed using real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR). In addition, VEGF protein levels were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). MSCs significantly enhanced the recovery of the corneal epithelium and decreased the CNV area compared with the control group. On day 7, the quantity of infiltrated CD68(+) cells was significantly lower in the MSC group and the mRNA levels of MIP-1α, TNF-α, and VEGF and the protein levels of VEGF were also down-regulated. However, the expression of MCP-1 was not different between the two groups. Our results suggest that subconjunctival injection of MSCs significantly accelerates corneal wound healing, attenuates inflammation and reduces CNV in alkaline-burned corneas; these effects were found to be related to a reduction of infiltrated CD68(+) cells and the down-regulation of MIP-1α, TNF-α and VEGF.
Patients (n = 56) with a diagnosis of chronic idiopathic urticaria were assessed in a fully randomized, double-blind, crossover study to investigate the efficacy of acrivastine at two doses (8 and 4 mg) versus 60 mg terfenadine and placebo administered three times daily. All three active preparations were found to be effective, and significantly better than placebo, in controlling the signs and symptoms of urticaria. No significant differences were found between the active preparations, although in some cases efficacy trends favoured 8 mg acrivastine and terfenadine over 4 mg acrivastine. No significant differences were noted between the active treatments and placebo with regard to reports of drowsiness.
Recent evidence from our laboratory has demonstrated that alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists doxazosin and terazosin induced apoptosis in prostate epithelial and smooth muscle cells in patients with benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH; J. Urol., 159: 1810-1815, 1998; J. Urol., 161: 2002-2007, 1999). In this study, we investigated the biological action of three alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists, doxazosin, terazosin, and tamsulosin, against prostate cancer cell growth. The antigrowth effect of the three alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists was examined in two human prostate cancer cell lines, PC-3 and DU-145, and a prostate smooth muscle cell primary culture, SMC-1, on the basis of: (a) cell viability assay; (b) rate of DNA synthesis; and (c) induction of apoptosis. Our results indicate that treatment of prostate cancer cells with doxazosin or terazosin results in a significant loss of cell viability, via induction of apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner, whereas tamsulosin had no effect on prostate cell growth. Neither doxazosin nor terazosin exerted a significant effect on the rate of cell proliferation in prostate cancer cells. Exposure to phenoxybenzamine, an irreversible inhibitor of alpha1-adrenoceptors, does not abrogate the apoptotic effect of doxazosin or terazosin against human prostate cancer or smooth muscle cells. This suggests that the apoptotic activity of doxazosin and terazosin against prostate cells is independent of their capacity to antagonize alpha1-adrenoceptors. Furthermore, an in vivo efficacy trial demonstrated that doxazosin administration (at tolerated pharmacologically relevant doses) in SCID mice bearing PC-3 prostate cancer xenografts resulted in a significant inhibition of tumor growth. These findings demonstrate the ability of doxazosin and terazosin (but not tamsulosin) to suppress prostate cancer cell growth in vitro and in vivo by inducing apoptosis without affecting cell proliferation. This evidence provides the rationale for targeting both drugs, already in clinical use and with established adverse-effect profiles, against prostatic tumors for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer.
A 19 year-old woman complained of headache and nausea occurring while she was taking minocycline for acne. Examination showed bilateral papilloedema and a bilateral VIth nerve palsy. Symptoms and signs rapidly resolved after the drug was stopped. Benign intracranial hypertension due to tetracyclines is well known in infants. It is rare in adults. Its pathophysiology remains unknown. The role of vitamin A is inconsistent. Others biological factors or personal susceptibility could be involved.
1. To report the case of a 53-year-old patient who developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) - a rare but potentially life-threatening complication of neuroleptic therapy - 4 days after treatment with risperidone was initiated. 2. To review previously reported cases of NMS associated with risperidone.
A computerized search of several databases, including MEDLINE, was conducted to find all previously reported cases of NMS with risperidone.
Five reported cases of risperidone-induced NMS were found in the literature. All cases including the one reported here displayed typical clinical features of NMS and all 6 patients had a prior history of extrapyramidal side effects and/or NMS. Age and duration of exposure to risperidone did not seem to be of significance.
These cases illustrate that clinicians should be on the lookout for risperidone-induced NMS.
Lethal yellow (Ay) is a mutation at the mouse agouti locus in chromosome 2 that causes a number of dominant pleiotropic effects, including a completely yellow coat color, obesity, an insulin-resistant type II diabetic condition, and an increased propensity to develop a variety of spontaneous and induced tumors. Additionally, homozygosity for Ay results in preimplantation lethality, which terminates development by the blastocyst stage. The Ay mutation is the result of a 170-kb deletion that removes all but the promoter and noncoding first exon of another gene called Raly, which lies in the same transcriptional orientation as agouti and maps 280 kb proximal to the 3' end of the agouti gene. We present a model for the structure of the Ay allele that can explain the dominant pleiotropic effects associated with this mutation, as well as the recessive lethality, which is unrelated to the agouti gene.
Naloxone, an injectable opiate antagonist, can immediately reverse an opiate overdose and prevent overdose death. We sought to determine injection drug users' (IDUs) attitudes about being prescribed take-home naloxone. During November 1999 to February 2000, we surveyed 82 street-recruited IDUs from the San Francisco Bay Area of California who had experienced one or more heroin overdose events. We used a questionnaire that included structured and open-ended questions. Most respondents (89%) had witnessed an overdose, and 90% reported initially attempting lay remedies in an effort to help companions survive. Only 51% reported soliciting emergency assistance (calling 911) for the last witnessed overdose, with most hesitating due to fear of police involvement. Of IDUs surveyed, 87% were strongly in favor of participating in an overdose management training program to receive take-home naloxone and training in resuscitation techniques. Nevertheless, respondents expressed a variety of concerning attitudes. If provided naloxone, 35% predicted that they might feel comfortable using greater amounts of heroin, 62% might be less inclined to call 911 for an overdose, 30% might leave an overdose victim after naloxone resuscitation, and 46% might not be able to dissuade the victim from using heroin again to alleviate withdrawal symptoms induced by naloxone. Prescribing take-home naloxone to IDUs with training in its use and in resuscitation techniques may represent a life-saving, peer-based adjunct to accessing emergency services. Nevertheless, strategies for overcoming potential risks associated with the use of take-home naloxone would need to be emphasized in an overdose management training program.
A 6-year-old fit girl experienced convulsions 44 h after an otherwise uneventful anaesthesia with propofol, alfentanil and nitrous oxide. As an underlying pathology was suspected, the child was kept sedated for 6.5 h for further investigations. During this period she received a continuous infusion of propofol amounting in total to 1600 mg. After having regained consciousness, she was strikingly ataxic and remained so for 5 days. During this period she also experienced two episodes of hallucinations lasting about 2 h. Investigations including lumbar puncture, EEG, cerebral CT and MR scan could not explain the neurological symptoms. She recovered without long-term sequelae.
A case of a 30-year-old man who developed a myocardial infarction after self-administering an Epi-Pen for an episode of idiopathic anaphylaxis is reported. The patient had numerous risk factors for coronary artery disease, and it was suspected that epinephrine-induced coronary spasm caused the infarct. The Epi-Pen Junior may be indicated in such adults with numerous risk factors for coronary artery disease who are at risk for recurrent anaphylaxis.
Amiodarone has many severe side-effects and can cause keratopathy and neuropathy. We report the case of a 79-year-old male patient with progressive visual loss and papilloedema of the right eye during therapy with amiodarone. To reduce papilloedema he was treated with corticosteroids. Amiodarone therapy was then discontinued, but there was no considerable improvement and after 6 weeks visual loss occurred in the left eye as well.
With regard to the findings we consider this case to be an amiodarone-induced optic neuropathy. According to our knowledge only 19 cases have been reported in the literature but the results of one study indicate that the incidence of optic neuropathy is as high as 1.79%. The pathophysiology of the optic nerve damage remains unclear and an effective treatment is not available. It might be possible that the accelerated elimination of amiodarone with colestyramine could be suitable to prevent optic neuropathy of the second eye.
