A comprehensive database inquiry at our institutions identified 11 patients with echocardiogram-documented idiopathic cardiomyopathy that post-dated a diagnosis of either polycythemia vera or essential thrombocythemia. Anagrelide therapy was temporally associated with the particular complication in 6 patients, all of whom experienced symptomatic and/or objective improvement after drug discontinuation.
Beta-adrenergic blockade is established therapy in the management of both hypertension and angina pectoris. This review evaluates the use of combined alpha-adrenergic and beta-adrenergic blockade for these conditions, with reference to labetalol. There are three major differences between labetalol and propranolol or similar conventional beta-blockers. First, in the mechanism of the antihypertensive effect, peripheral vasodilation plays a prominent role during the use of labetalol. In particular, acute therapy with labetalol rapidly reduces the blood pressure because of this reduction in the systemic vascular resistance. During prolonged therapy with labetalol over many years, blood pressure remains reduced with a sustained fall in the systemic vascular resistance. Second, in patients with combined hypertension and angina pectoris, fixed doses of labetalol (200 mg twice daily) gave the same blood pressure values, effort tolerance, and nitrate usage as did atenolol 100 mg once daily in a double-blind, double-dummy, crossover study. Labetalol gave higher heart rates at rest and during exercise (both p less than 0.01). The higher heart rate with labetalol could be an advantage in some patients with effort angina and a disadvantage in others. Third, in hypertensive asthmatics, labetalol appears to have a relative bronchosparing effect, when compared with propranolol. The possession by labetalol of beta2-stimulating qualities (intrinsic sympathomimetic activity) may explain part of the dilating effect and the bronchosparing quality. Thus labetalol 1) lowers blood pressure by a mechanism involving vasodilation, 2) has an equiantianginal effect to atenolol yet a higher heart rate, and 3) may be bronchosparing. Differences among various beta-blockers may be important in matching the properties of the beta-blocker chosen to the requirements of the individual patient.
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is a non-malignant enlargement of the prostate that results in obstructive lower urinary tract symptoms. Saw palmetto (Serenoa repens), the dwarf American palm (Arecaceae family), is commonly used to treat BPH. The Cuban royal palm (Roystonea regia) also belongs to the Arecaceae family, and 200-400mg of D-004, a lipid extract from its fruits, administered orally for 14 days has been shown to prevent testosterone- but not dihydrotestosterone-induced prostatic hyperplasia in rats. D-004 (125-250 microg/mL) added to preparations of rat vas deferens caused a marked, dose-dependent and significant inhibition of noradrenaline-induced smooth muscle contraction, a response mediated through alpha(1)-adrenoceptors, and was more effective in these respects than Saw palmetto. However, the in vivo effects of D-004 and Saw palmetto on the hypertensive response induced by noradrenaline were modest (albeit significant), and neither treatment affected resting blood pressure or heart rate in rats. The differential effects of D-004 in in vitro and in vivo models could be related to a differential affinity for adrenoceptor subtypes or to different bioavailabilities in vascular and urogenital targets. Phenylephrine injected into rodents induces prostatic hyperplasia with all the characteristic morphological changes of the condition but does not result in enlargement of the prostate. Therefore, this phenylephrine-induced change in rat prostate tissue is called atypical prostatic hyperplasia. It serves as an in vivo model of prostatic hyperplasia induced by stimulation of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. The objective of this study was to determine whether D-004 can inhibit induction of atypical prostatic hyperplasia by phenylephrine in rats.
Rats were randomly distributed into five groups (ten rats/group). One group was a negative control and received oral vehicle only. The other four groups were injected subcutaneously with phenylephrine (2 mg/kg): of these groups, one was a positive control receiving the vehicle, and the other three groups were treated with D-004 or Saw palmetto (both 400 mg/kg) or tamsulosin 0.4 mg/kg. All active treatments were given orally for 28 days. After completion of treatment, rats were placed unrestrained in metabolic cages and micturition studies were performed. The rats were later killed and their prostates removed and weighed. Prostate samples were processed for histological study, with histological changes being assessed according to a scoring system. Bodyweight was measured at baseline and at weekly intervals.
Histological examination of positive control rats revealed features of atypical prostatic hyperplasia, with piling-up, papillary and cribiform patterns and budding-out of epithelial cells. Micturition assessment revealed that phenylephrine significantly lowered both the total volume of urine in 1 hour and the volume per micturition; the latter was considered the main efficacy variable. D-004 and Saw palmetto extracts significantly prevented this reduction in volume per micturition by 70.5% and 68.6%, respectively, while tamsulosin totally abolished the reduction in micturition induced by phenylephrine (100% inhibition). Tamsulosin, D-004 and Saw palmetto significantly reduced the histological changes of atypical prostatic hyperplasia induced by phenylephrine by 73.1%, 61.2% and 50.0%, respectively.
Administration of D-004 resulted in marked and significant prevention of phenylephrine-induced impairment of micturition and histological changes in rat prostate. These findings indicate that, in vivo, D-004 effectively opposes these responses to phenylephrine, which are mediated through urogenital alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. In this respect, D-004 was moderately more effective than Saw palmetto, a phytotherapeutic standard used to treat BPH, but less effective than tamsulosin, a selective alpha(1A)-adrenoceptor antagonist.
Three cases of acute renal insufficiency in pregnant women who were treated with indomethacin for premature labor are reported. At the time of presentation, all three women had normal renal function but within 30 hours of indomethacin therapy they were noted to have significant decreases in urine output and rising serum creatinines. The average time to recovery of renal function was 5 days. A consistent feature in all three women was the development of dyspnea associated with hypoxemia.
Amantadine is an effective drug for treatment of both, Parkinson's disease and viral infections. Side effects of amantadine include anemia, which may limit its therapeutic use. The cause of amantatine induced anemia is ill defined. At least in theory, the anemia could partially result from suicidal erythrocyte death or eryptosis, which accelerates the clearance of circulating erythrocytes. Eryptosis is characterized by cell shrinkage and cell membrane scrambling leading to phosphatidylserine exposure at the cell surface. Triggers of erythrocyte membrane scrambling include an increase of cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) resulting from activation of Ca2+-permeable cation channels. The present study has been performed to test for an effect of amantadine on eryptosis. Erythrocytes from healthy volunteers were exposed to amantadine and annexin V binding (disclosing phosphatidylserine exposure), forward scatter (reflecting cell volume), and Fluo3-dependent fluorescence (reflecting [Ca2+]i) were determined by flow cytometry. Exposure of erythrocytes to amantadine (> or =0.2 microg/ml) increased [Ca2+]i and triggered annexin V binding, and increased forward scatter. The effect on annexin V binding was virtually abolished in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. The present observations disclose mechanisms presumably contributing to amantadine induced anemia.
Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) and juvenile retinitis pigmentosa (RP) are the most common hereditary causes of visual impairment in infants and children. Using homozygosity mapping, we narrowed down the critical region of the LCA3 locus to 3.8 Mb between markers D14S1022 and D14S1005. By direct Sanger sequencing of all genes within this region, we found a homozygous nonsense mutation in the SPATA7 gene in Saudi Arabian family KKESH-060. Three other loss-of-function mutations were subsequently discovered in patients with LCA or juvenile RP from distinct populations. Furthermore, we determined that Spata7 is expressed in the mature mouse retina. Our findings reveal another human visual-disease gene that causes LCA and juvenile RP.
The McCune-Albright syndrome is a sporadic disease characterized by polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, café au lait spots, sexual precocity, and hyperfunction of multiple endocrine glands. These manifestations may be explained by a somatic mutation in affected tissues that results in activation of the signal-transduction pathway generating cyclic AMP (cAMP). We analyzed DNA from tissues of patients with the McCune-Albright syndrome for the presence of activating mutations of the gene for the alpha subunit of the G protein (Gs alpha) that stimulates cAMP formation.
Genomic DNA fragments encompassing regions (exons 8 and 9) previously found to contain activating missense mutations of the Gs alpha gene (gsp mutations) in sporadically occurring pituitary tumors were amplified in tissues from four patients with the McCune-Albright syndrome by the polymerase chain reaction. The amplified DNA was analyzed for mutations by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization.
We detected one of two activating mutations within exon 8 of the Gs alpha gene in tissues from all four patients, including affected endocrine organs (gonads, adrenal glands, thyroid, and pituitary) and tissues not classically involved in the McCune-Albright syndrome. In two of the patients, histidine was substituted for arginine at position 201 of Gs alpha, and in the other two patients cysteine was substituted for the same arginine residue. In each patient the proportion of cells affected varied from tissue to tissue. In two endocrine organs, the highest proportion of mutant alleles was found in regions of abnormal cell proliferation.
Mutations within exon 8 of the Gs alpha gene that result in increased activity of the Gs protein and increased cAMP formation are present in various tissues of patients with the McCune-Albright syndrome. Somatic mutation of this gene early in embryogenesis could result in the mosaic population of normal and mutant-bearing tissues that may underlie the clinical manifestations of this disease.
Post-prandial lipaemia is prolonged and exaggerated in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, with an accumulation of atherogenic triglyceride-rich lipoprotein remnants. We postulate that orlistat, a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor, may cause changes in post-prandial lipoprotein metabolism by reducing dietary triglyceride absorption.
The acute effect of a single dose of 120 mg orlistat on post-prandial glucose, lipids, remnant lipoproteins and free fatty acids (FFA) was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over study of 63 overweight patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (body mass index 30.4 +/- 3.8 kg/m2). Either a single dose of orlistat or placebo was given before a standard mixed meal containing 70 g of fat and plasma triglyceride (TG), remnant-like particles cholesterol (RLP-C) and FFA were sampled at 2-h intervals for 8 h. RLP-C was measured by an immunoseparation assay and FFA by an enzymatic colorimetric method.
The concentrations of plasma TG (P < 0.0001), RLP-C (P = 0.003), and FFA (P < 0.0001) were significantly lower at 2 h after orlistat compared with placebo. Both plasma RLP-C (P = 0.04) and FFA (P < 0.0001) remained lower after orlistat than placebo at 4 h. The incremental area under the curve (iAUC) above baseline fasting level for both TG and RLP-C was significantly more reduced after orlistat than placebo (iAUC-TG 5.8 (3.7-8.2) mmol/l x h-1 vs. 5.7 (4.1-10.9), respectively, P = 0.04; iAUC-RLP-C: 0.53 (0.23-1.04) mmol/l x h-1 vs. 0.56 (0.35-1.40), respectively, P = 0.02). The test meal was well tolerated by all subjects, with only three subjects reporting faecal urgency after orlistat.
Orlistat has a beneficial effect on post-prandial lipaemia in overweight Type 2 diabetic patients and lowers plasma TG, RLP-C and FFA in the early post-prandial period.
Clobazam (0.5 to 7.5 mg/kg i.p.) was tested against motor seizures elicited by pentylenetetrazol in rats 7, 12, 18, 25 and 90 days old. Minimal, predominantly clonic seizures with preserved righting ability were reliably induced by pentylenetetrazol and suppressed by clobazam in rats aged 18 days or more. The incidence of minimal seizures after clobazam pretreatment was not increased in 7- and 12-day-old rat pups. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures were markedly suppressed by clobazam in all age groups. In 18-day-old and older animals clobazam doses suppressing generalized seizures were always lower than those necessary for exerting an effect on minimal seizures. The differences in clobazam action appearing at various levels of maturation are only quantitative.
New topical immunomodulators have been reported to cause repigmentation of vitiligo lesions. However, time-kinetics of such repigmentation in different anatomic locations is not well known. We performed a randomized double-blind placebo control study with tacrolimus versus the vehicle and a nonrandomized control study with pimecrolimus to evaluate the time to reach significant pigmentation, its duration and extent in treated areas. Antioxidant status of serum was also assessed. Twenty patients, in the tacrolimus study, had one pair of lesions on different localizations, and 20 on face and/or upper limbs for pimecrolimus. The extent of repigmentation was evaluated by slides and mapmakings at baseline and every 4 weeks during 7 months. Adverse events were recorded. The derivatives of oxygen metabolites, the ferric reducing ability of serum and vitamin E were assessed. Three groups of patients were identified with the tacrolimus study. Eight had no significant change in response characterized by a parallel increase of repigmentation or none in treated and control areas. Nine had a better repigmentation to tacrolimus at fifth month of treatment. Three had a marked repigmentation in control areas at the end of treatment. Repigmentation was significant on the face compared to upper-limbs with pimecrolimus from fourth to seventh month. A significant reduction of oxidative stress and an increase in antioxidant capacity in serum of patients treated with topical tacrolimus was observed, while those treated with pimecrolimus did not show any significant changes but an increase in vitamin E. Our work defines three periods in repigmentation, triggering during the first 4 months, increase in pigmentation with tacrolimus and a plateau or a sustained repigmentation. The continuity of the treatment seems necessary to ensure a prolonged repigmenting effect and even an enhanced one, such as the one we observed on the face with pimecrolimus. The extent of repigmentation was more significant on the face compared to other locations probably due to differences in melanocyte density. Furthermore, we did not find any relationship between repigmentation and the duration of vitiligo. Tacrolimus was able to reduce the systemic oxidative stress independently from its repigmenting capacity. Both drugs were well tolerated.
Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH, pseudotumor cerebri) was diagnosed in 4 patients who had been treated with tetracycline. The main symptom was headache, and in all there was papilledema. Symptoms and signs improved after tetracycline was discontinued and acetazolamide treatment started. When a patient receiving tetracycline develops IIH, the medication should be stopped as it may be the cause of the IIH, as appeared to be the case in our 4 patients.
The authors present a case of a 62-year-old woman who was hospitalized with severe medical problems that included congestive heart failure secondary to mitral stenosis and atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, chronic renal failure, and a recent history of a right cerebral lacunar infarction. She also had a 2-year history of anxiety and depression, manifested in the hospital by frequent crying spells, sleeplessness, and ruminating about her illnesses. The patient received buspirone 5 mg three times a day for her anxiety and depression. Approximately 12 hours after her first dose, she developed dramatic myoclonus, dystonias, and akathisia. She was given 25 mg of intramuscular diphenhydramine and 1 mg of intramuscular benztropine mesylate, which resulted in little relief; however, 1 mg clonazepam caused both the myoclonic jerks and dystonias to resolve completely.
In order to investigate the clinical value of ATPase family AAA domain containing 3A (ATAD3A), a potential anti-apoptotic factor in prostate cancer (PCa), immunohistochemistry was used to measure ATAD3A expression in pathological specimens from 86 Chinese patients and in 183 tissue-array samples from American patients. The effect of ATAD3A on the expression of prostate specific antigen (PSA) and drug resistance in PCa cell lines was determined by in vitro experiments. ATAD3A was detected in 74 of 86 (86.0%) Chinese specimens and in 145 of 183 (79.2%) American patient samples. No difference was found in ATAD3A expression between these two patient groups. In vitro, silencing of ATAD3A expression reduced PSA secretion and cisplatin resistance, suggesting that ATAD3A was associated with PSA secretion and drug resistance in PCa.
Isoniazid (INH) continues to be an effective drug used for chemoprophylaxis and treatment of tuberculosis. Unfortunately, INH is associated with significant hepatotoxicity in up to 2% of individuals exposed, and if this adverse event is not recognized early it can be fatal. Research on INH-induced hepatotoxicity has been hampered by the lack of a suitable animal model that closely resembles the toxicity in humans. The mechanism of INH-induced hepatotoxicity is still unknown. The present study describes the development of a reliable model of INH-induced hepatotoxicity in rabbits. The protocol involves repeated injections of INH over a 2-day period, resulting in significant hepatic necrosis as indicated by elevations of plasma argininosuccinic acid lyase activity. Pretreatment with phenobarbital increased the occurrence of INH-induced hepatic necrosis from approximately 60% (9 out of 15 rabbits) with INH alone to more than 90% (13 out of 14 rabbits). Morphological indices were used to demonstrate the presence of INH-induced hepatotoxicity, and biochemical indices were used to demonstrate both the presence and severity of INH-induced hepatotoxicity in this model. This model may prove useful for further investigations into the mechanism of INH-induced hepatotoxicity.
Polyuria and polydipsia developed in two cases during amphotericin B therapy for deep mycoses. Neither patient could concentrate his urine in response to water deprivation or exogenous vasopressin. Other causes of vasopressin-resistant nephrogenic diabetes insipidus were not present. Three months after amphotericin B therapy had been discontinued, concentrating ability improved toward normal. A third patient was further observed and demonstrated normal diluting capacity but impaired free-water reabsorption, suggesting a distal tubular defect consistent with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Four months after discontinuing therapy, renal concentrating ability was normal. Amphotericin B can induce a reversible form of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
This study was conducted to investigate the potential neuroprotective effect of IL-6 on chemotherapy induced neuropathy (CIN). IL-6 was compared to four-methylcatechol (4-MC)-a known inducer of NGF secretion previously shown to exhibit neuroprotective effects in CIN models.
Three CIN models were used; two in rats (cisplatin and vincristine) and one in mice (paclitaxel). IL-6 was delivered in four different doses in rats (0.3, 1, 3, 10 microg/kg, sc) every day from the first day of chemotherapeutic agent intoxication until the end of the study (day 37 for cisplatin protocol and day 30 for vincristine procedure). In mice, IL-6 was delivered at 10 microg/kg, sc either daily or three times a week from the first day of intoxication until the end of the study (day 19). Behavioral testings (hot plate and rotarod), nerve conduction studies (CMAP, SNCV, H-wave) and histo-morphometric analysis were done for all models. In addition, we tested whether IL-6 interfered with the tumor-reducing effects of the chemotherapeutic agents.
IL-6 treatment prevented the behavioral and electrophysiological abnormalities produced by vincristine, cisplatin and Taxol intoxication, and similarly prevented the pathological changes in peripheral nerves. The neuroprotective action of chronic IL-6 treatment was at least equal to that of 4-MC. In addition, IL-6 neither inhibited the antitumour activity of cisplatin, nor stimulated tumour growth.
IL-6 at low doses (10 microg/kg) provided protection against the development of CIN without demonstrating interference with the anti tumoural activity of these anti-mitotic drugs.
SB 277011-A (trans-N-[4-[2-(6-cyano-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)ethyl]cyclohexyl]-4-quinolinecarboxamide) and S 33084 [(3aR,9bS)-N[4-(8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro-3H-benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrole-2-yl)-butyl](4-phenyl)benzamide] were already shown to lack cataleptogenic actions. Further to that, we report that SB 277011 exerted a dose-dependent dampening on the development of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in the dose-range of 13.5-30 mg/kg p.o. while S 33084, at the dose of 0.625 mg/kg sc. significantly inhibited catalepsy induced by haloperidol; had no effect at 1.25 mg/kg, and further augmented the effect of haloperidol after 2.5 mg/kg. The compounds also produced effective inhibition when administered 2 hours after haloperidol. The results underline that dopamine D3 receptor antagonist action may have therapeutic value in the treatment of schizophrenia.
The occurrence and irreversibility of tardive dyskinesia (TD), a motor disorder of the orofacial region, resulting from chronic neuroleptic treatment has been considered a major clinical issue in the treatment of schizophrenia. The molecular mechanism underlying the pathophysiology of TD is not completely known. Several animal studies have demonstrated an enhancement of oxidative damage and increased glutamatergic transmission after chronic administration of neuroleptics. The present study investigated the effect of rutin, an antioxidant in haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia by using different behavioural (orofacial dyskinetic movements, stereotypic rearing, locomotor activity, percent retention), biochemical [lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione levels, antioxidant enzyme levels (SOD and catalase)] and neurochemical (neurotransmitter levels) parameters. Chronic administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p. for 21 days) significantly increased vacuous chewing movements, tongue protrusions and facial jerking in rats, which were significantly inhibited by rutin. Chronic administration of haloperidol also resulted in dopamine receptor sensitivity as evident by a well-shaped response (initial decrease followed by increase) in locomotor activity and stereotypic rearing and also decreased percent retention time on elevated plus maze paradigm. Pretreatment with rutin reversed these behavioural changes. Besides, haloperidol also induced oxidative damage in all regions of brain which was prevented by rutin, especially in the subcortical region containing striatum. Although turnover of dopamine and noradrenaline decreased in both cortical and subcortical regions after chronic administration of haloperidol, it was significantly reversed by high-dose rutin treatment. The findings of the present study suggested the involvement of free radicals in the development of neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia, a putative model of TD, and rutin as a possible therapeutic option to treat this hyperkinetic movement disorder.
A 72-year-old female had undergone mastectomy at the age of 67 for right breast cancer (T2a, n1 alpha, positive for ER). In the surgery the pectoralis muscle was preserved. For adjuvant therapy, 20 mg/day of tamoxifen was orally administered for 5 years. Six years after surgery, relapse was detected in the right major pectoralis muscle. Irradiation at this site and oral administration of 120 mg/day of toremifene citrate were started. The patient had a medical history of diabetes, and the control of her blood sugar was poor. About 2 months after oral administration of toremifene citrate was started, flares with blebs and swelling were observed in the right lower leg, suggesting acute phlebothrombosis of the right lower limb. The symptoms were ameliorated by intravenous administration of heparin and an antibiotic. In administering a high dose of toremifene citrate to patients with complications, careful follow-up is needed.
Due to the low bioavailability of resveratrol, determining whether its metabolites exert any beneficial effect is an interesting issue.
3T3-L1 maturing pre-adipocytes were treated from day 0 to day 8 of differentiation and mature adipocytes for 24 h on day 12 with 1, 10, or 25 μM of resveratrol or its metabolites. Triacylglycerols were assessed by spectrophotometry and gene expression by real time RT-PCR. Resveratrol, trans-resveratrol-4'-O-glucuronide and trans-resveratrol-3-O-sulfate reduced triacylglycerol content in maturing pre-adipocytes at 25 μM. In mature adipocytes, both resveratrol and its glucuronide metabolites, though not sulfate metabolite, reduced triacylglycerol content, although resveratrol was more effective than them. Resveratrol and the three metabolites reduced C/EBPβ mRNA levels. Trans-resveratrol-3-O-sulfate also reduced C/EBP-α, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPAR-γ), and lipoprotein lipase (LPL) expression. In mature adipocytes, resveratrol increased ATGL, CPT-1, deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT-1), and PGC1-α expression. Trans-resveratrol-3-O-glucuronide reduced mRNA levels of FASN and increased those of SIRT-1. Trans-resveratrol-4'-O-glucuronide increased HSL and SIRT-1 mRNA levels. Trans-resveratrol-3-O-sulfate did not change gene expression.
The present study shows for the first time the delipidating effect of (i) resveratrol metabolites in maturing pre-adipocytes and (ii) glucuronide metabolites in mature adipocytes. This suggests that both resveratrol and resveratrol metabolites may be involved in the anti-obesity effect of this polyphenol.
Nicotine, the principal alkaloid in tobacco, is generally considered to be an active pharmacological agent responsible for lung-related disorders. The actions of nicotine have been extensively investigated in animal and variety of cell systems. Nicotine is known to induce the lipid peroxidation by producing reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of hesperidin on nicotine toxicity. The parameters studied were marker enzymes and antioxidant status in blood, tissues, BAL (bronchoalveolar lavage cells) and BALF (bronchoalveolar lavage fluid). Lung damage was induced by subcutaneous injection of nicotine at a dosage of 2.5 mg/kg body weight for 5 days a week. Hesperidin was administered orally at a dose of 25 mg/kg body weight. The results showed an increase in the level of marker enzymes and decrease in the antioxidant status in nicotine-treated rats. Hesperidin treatment resulted in a decreased level of all the marker enzymes and the antioxidant status was brought back to near normal. Thus the study shows that hesperidin offers protection against the lung damage caused by nicotine.
We describe the first reported case of a syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) induced by low-dose tacrolimus in a patient with autoimmune disease. A 41-year-old man with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) developed hyponatremia induced by SIADH after administration of tacrolimus (0.06 mg/kg per day). In this case, the hyponatremia promptly resolved upon withdrawal of tacrolimus. This case strongly suggests that SIADH is a potentially important complication of tacrolimus administration, irrespective of dosage, and should be borne in mind whenever the drug is used.
A case is reported of atrioventricular conduction trouble (Möbitz I block) during propofol-fentanyl anaesthesia in a healthy 22 year old patient. All troubles disappeared after IV atropine and isoflurane administration instead of propofol infusion.
We report on two teenage girls presenting following significant paracetamol overdoses (>28 g paracetamol). Both presented within 4 h of the overdose and both were treated with N-acetylcysteine, in accordance with the National Poisons Information Service protocol. Within 8 h of presentation both had developed significant hypokalaemia with serum potassium concentrations <3.0 mmol/L and were treated with intravenous potassium chloride. Potassium concentrations returned to within reference limits (>3.5 mmol/L) after commencing potassium chloride supplementation. An audit of potassium concentrations in 254 patients presenting with significant paracetamol overdose (paracetamol >0.5 mmol/L) admitted through four A&E departments in the West of Scotland showed a significant decline in mean serum potassium from 3.9 mmol/L on admission to 3.6 mmol/L (P = <0.001) over the next 36 h. The mechanism for this hypokalaemia in these two individuals is unclear, however regular monitoring of potassium is advocated in such patients during their initial treatment.
To build up the research models of hepatic fibrosis in mice.
Inbred wild-type FVB/N mice were either treated with alpha-naphthyl-isothiocyanate (ANIT), allyl alcohol (AA), carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)), 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydrocollidine (DDC), and silica, or subjected to common bile duct ligation (CBDL) to induce hepatic injury. Liver biopsies were performed every 4 wk to evaluate hepatic fibrosis over a period of 6 mo. Cumulative cirrhosis and survival curves were constructed by life table method and compared with Wilcoxon test.
Under the dosages used, there was neither mortality nor cirrhosis in AA and silica-treated groups. DDC and ANIT caused cirrhosis within 4-12 and 12-24 wk, respectively. Both showed significantly faster cirrhosis induction at high dosages without significant alteration of survival. The duration for cirrhosis induction by CCl(4) ranged from 4 to 20 wk, mainly dependent upon the dosage. However, the increase in CCl(4) dosage significantly worsened survival. Intraperitoneal CCl(4) administration resulted in better survival in comparison with gavage administration at high dosage, but not at medium and low dosages. After CBDL, all the mice developed liver cirrhosis within 4-8 wk and then died by the end of 16 wk.
CBDL and administrations of ANIT, CCl(4), and DDC ensured liver cirrhosis. CBDL required the least amount of time in cirrhosis induction, but caused shortened lives of mice. It was followed by DDC and ANIT administration with favorable survival. As for CCl(4), the speed of cirrhosis induction and the mouse survival depended upon the dosages and the administration route.
To investigate the effects of leptin (1-20 microg/kg) on acidified ethanol (AE)- and indomethacin (Indo)-induced gastric lesions in rats and compare it with ranitidine, lanso-prazole, and omeprazole and to determine its mechanisms of actions.
Gastric ulcers, which were approximately 1 mm in width, formed in the glandular portion of the gastric mucosa produced by oral administration of either AE or Indo were taken as ulcer index. The inhibitory effect of subcutaneous administration of leptin, two proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) lansoprazole and omeprazole, or H(2)-receptor antagonist ranitidine 30 min before AE or Indo was evaluated. A radioimmunoassay was used to determine the PGE(2) concentration in the homogenate of the glandular portion of the stomach. We performed histological study of the glandular stomach for the evaluation of total, acidic, and sulfated mucus content.
Subcutaneous administration of leptin, two PPIs lansoprazole and omeprazole or H(2)-receptor antagonist ranitidine 30 min before AE or Indo produced a dose-dependent and reproducible inhibition of gastric ulcers (GUs). This inhibition was found to be more potent than other antagonists used. In N(G)-nitro L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)-pretreated animals, the ulcer prevention ability of leptin in AE-induced ulcer was significantly reduced, compared to rats without L-NAME pretreatment. However, the ulcer prevention ability of leptin was not altered by L-NAME treatment in Indo-induced ulcers. Leptin produced a dose-dependent increase in PGE(2) level in the gastric glandular tissues. Leptin also increased mucus secretion.
The results of the present study show that leptin inhibits GU formation by AE or Indo in a dose-dependent and reproducible manner in rats. The results also suggest that leptin prevents ulcer formation by increasing the activities of the cyclo-oxygenase and/or nitric oxide pathways and by increasing mucus secretion.
