Treating cancer patients with chemotherapeutics, such as doxorubicin (Dox), cause dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure because of oxidative stress. On the other hand, heat shock factor-1 (HSF-1), a transcription factor for heat shock proteins (Hsps), is also known to be activated in response to oxidative stress. However, the possible role of HSF-1 activation and the resultant Hsp25 in chemotherapeutic-induced heart failure has not been investigated. Using HSF-1 wild-type (HSF-1(+/+)) and knock-out (HSF-1(-/-)) mice, we tested the hypothesis that activation of HSF-1 plays a role in the development of Dox-induced heart failure. Higher levels of Hsp25 and its phosphorylated forms were found in the failing hearts of Dox-treated HSF-1(+/+) mice. More than twofold increase in Hsp25 mRNA level was found in Dox-treated hearts. Proteomic analysis showed that there is accumulation and aggregation of Hsp25 in Dox-treated failing hearts. Additionally, Hsp25 was found to coimmunoprecipitate with p53 and vice versa. Further studies indicated that the Dox-induced higher levels of Hsp25 transactivated p53 leading to higher levels of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax, but other p53-related proteins remained unaltered. Moreover, HSF-1(-/-) mice showed significantly reduced Dox-induced heart failure and higher survival rate, and there was no change in Bax upon treating with Dox in HSF-1(-/-) mice. From these results we propose a novel mechanism for Dox-induced heart failure: increased expression of Hsp25 because of oxidant-induced activation of HSF-1 transactivates p53 to increase Bax levels, which leads to heart failure.
To characterize the acute and chronic behavioral, electrographic and histologic effects of sustained seizures induced by pilocarpine in mice.
After status epilepticus, the surviving animals were continuously monitored for 24 h/day for < or = 120 days. The brains were processed by using neo-Timm and Nissl stains.
The first spontaneous seizures occurred between 4 and 42 days after status epilepticus. The mean "seizure-silent period" lasted for 14.4 +/- 11.9 days. During the chronic phase, recurrent spontaneous seizures were observed 1-5 times per animal per week and were associated with sprouting in the supragranular layer of the dentate gyrus.
Structural brain damage promoted by pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus may underlie or be associated with recurrent spontaneous seizures in mice.
Clinical studies have suggested that cognitive impairment due to chemotherapy persists long after treatment cessation. While animal studies have similarly found impairments in cognition due to chemotherapy, these studies are limited as they only assess the acute or extremely short-term effects of chemotherapy on cognition (e.g. within 1month of treatment). Male hooded Wistar rats (N=22) received either a high dose of methotrexate (MTX: 250mg/kg i.p.) or physiological saline. Cognitive performance was evaluated acutely at 2weeks, and up to 8months post injection using the Morris water maze, Novel object recognition task, and an instrumental go/no-go task to assess discrimination learning. MTX-treated rats displayed impaired novel object recognition compared to controls at 11, 95, and 255days after treatment. MTX rats were able to learn the hidden spatial location of a platform 22days after treatment. When tested again after a 95-day retention interval, MTX rats showed impaired spatial memory compared to controls, but were subsequently able to re-learn the task. Finally, MTX-treated rats showed considerable difficulty learning to inhibit their behaviour in an instrumental discrimination task. These results show that chemotherapy produces persistent but subtle cognitive deficits in laboratory rodents that vary with time post treatment.
To determine the incidence of early and late arrhythmogenic effects of doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy regimens.
A prospective study including 29 patients who were treated with doxorubicin-containing regimens. Cardiac evaluation was based on 24-hour electrocardiographic monitorization (Holter), which was performed during the first cycle of doxorubicin-containing regimens, as well as after the last cycle of chemotherapy.
The mean age of the patients was 45.8 +/- 15.1 (range 18-69). Holter records obtained during the first cycle of treatment revealed varying arrhythmias in 19 patients (65.5%) and in 18 (62.1%) patients after completion of therapy. One patient presented with syncope and both Mobitz Type 2 atrioventricular block and complete atrioventricular block were demonstrated. The patient subsequently underwent permanent pacemaker implantation.
Doxorubicin may result in arrhythmias both in early and late periods of treatment. These arrhythmias are rarely life threatening.
The Bad signaling pathway contributes to the regulation of apoptosis after a variety of cell death stimuli, and Bad plays a key role in determining cell death or survival. We have reported that overexpression of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) reduces apoptotic cell death after transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI). However, both the role of the Bad pathway after tFCI and the role of oxygen free radicals in the regulation of apoptosis remain unknown. To clarify these issues, we used an in vivo tFCI model of SOD1 transgenic mice and wild-type mice. Moreover, to examine the role of protein kinase A (PKA) in the Bad pathway after tFCI, we administered the PKA inhibitor, H89, into the mouse brain after tFCI. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis showed that dephosphorylation and translocation of Bad were detected early after tFCI and that they were promoted by H89 treatment but prevented by SOD1. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed that the dimerization of Bad progressed with 14-3-3 (Bad/14-3-3) and with Bcl-x(L) (Bad/Bcl-x(L)) after tFCI. Moreover, Bad/14-3-3 was prevented by H89 treatment but promoted by SOD1. Bad/Bcl-x(L) was prevented by SOD1 but promoted by H89 treatment. A cell death assay revealed that apoptotic-related DNA fragmentation was aggravated by H89 treatment but reduced by SOD1. These results suggest that the Bad pathway mediated by PKA is involved in apoptotic cell death after tFCI and that overexpression of SOD1 may attenuate this apoptotic cell death.
Dapsone syndrome is a rare hypersensitivity reaction to dapsone and is characterized by high fever, papular or exfoliative dermatitis, progressing to liver toxicity and generalized lymphadenopathy, resembling a mononucleosis infection. We report a patient who developed acute renal failure, as well as other complications characteristic of dapsone syndrome, during leprosy treatment. Renal involvement had not been previously described as a dapsone syndrome feature.
Damage to endothelial cells may be an important factor in the complications of acute liver failure, resulting in multi-organ failure. The aim of this study was to assess endothelial cell function in patients with severe hepatotoxicity due to paracetamol ingestion.
Fifty-eight patients with paracetamol-induced hepatotoxicity were studied for up to 7 days. Serum hyaluronic acid (HA), as a marker of hepatic sinusoidal endothelial cell function, was determined using an enzyme-linked binding assay. Plasma von Willebrand Factor, thrombomodulin and interleukin-8 were also determined using ELISA.
Serum HA on admission was significantly increased (median 6777 ng/ml, range 24-50 967 ng/ml) as compared to normal controls (n = 10, median 21 ng/ml, range 0-50 ng/ml; P < 0.001). In non-survivors (n = 21) HA levels peaked on day 2 after admission (P = 0.044), and then decreased. In the survivors (n = 37) the levels of HA did not increase further. Plasma von Willebrand Factor, plasma thrombomodulin and serum interleukin-8 were significantly increased in the patients as compared to the normal controls (P < 0.001). Serum interleukin-8 was significantly higher in non-survivors in the first 2 days.
Endothelial function is abnormal in paracetamol-induced hepatotoxicity. Damage to hepatic sinusoidal endothelial cells assessed by serum HA was greater in non-survivors than survivors.
The cardiotoxicity of cytostatic drugs reported in the literature is marked for some (adriamycin), rather rare for others. Cases of angina, infarction, and atrial arrhythmia have been reported during treatment with cisplatin. The case is reported of a 65-year-old patient with no risk factors for cardiovascular disease who had two attacks of high-frequency atrial arrhythmia during combined treatment with cisplatin and etoposide. The first attack came after the first cycle and disappeared spontaneously; the second, after the second cycle, required antiarrhythmic treatment. The potential myocardial toxicity of cisplatin, especially when combined with other potentially cardiotoxic drugs or administered after cycles of adriamycin is discussed.
We studied the effect of fentanyl pretreatment on alleviating pain during the injection of Propofol-Lipuro. One hundred and seventy patients were randomly allocated to receive either 100 mcg of intravenous fentanyl or normal saline (placebo) followed by intravenous Propofol-Lipuro premixed with 20 mg lignocaine. The incidence of injection pain was 32% and 13% in the placebo and fentanyl groups, respectively. We found a statistically significant reduction in incidence of injection pain in the fentanyl group when compared with the placebo group (p<0.003). The number needed to treat was 6 (3.2< 95% CI <15.1). In conclusion, fentanyl pretreatment is effective in alleviating pain during injection of Propofol-Lipuro.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use reduces the risk of colorectal cancer by 40-50%. Previous studies suggest that effective inhibition of colorectal cancer by NSAIDs may be dependent on the presence or absence of a K-ras mutation. This study was aimed at determining the relationship between inhibition of colorectal cancer by sulindac and sulindac sulfone and the presence of activating K-ras mutations in the 1,2-dimethylhydrazine dihydrochloride rat model. Sulindac (20 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)), sulindac sulfone (40 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)), or vehicle was administered orally to male Sprague-Dawley rats for a 4-wk period beginning 20 wk after tumor induction. Tumor number and volume were measured before treatment by laparotomy and colonoscopy and again after treatment. Sulindac and sulindac sulfone treatment significantly reduced the number and volume of colorectal tumors compared with control rats. For K-ras (codon 12) mutation detection, frozen tumor tissue was collected at the endpoint. We found K-ras codon 12 mutations in 11 of 21 (52%) control tumors. The proportion of tumors with K-ras mutations in the sulindac-treated group [5 of 8 (62%); odds ratio = 1.51 (95% confidence interval = 0.29, 8.33)] and the proportion of sulindac sulfone-treated tumors [9 of 14 (64%); odds ratio = 1.63 (95% confidence interval = 0.41, 6.66)] were not significantly different from controls. Tumor inhibition did not correlate with K-ras (codon 12) mutation status, which suggests that the mechanism of inhibition of rat colorectal cancer by sulindac and sulindac sulfone is independent of K-ras mutation.
Magnesium exerts a physiological block of the ion channel on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, and may therefore prevent the induction of central sensitization. The purpose of this study was to assess whether systemic magnesium can prevent long-lasting hyperalgesia induced by sc fentanyl administration in uninjured rats.
Long-lasting hyperalgesia was induced in male Sprague Dawley rats with sc fentanyl (four injections, 60 microg x kg(-1) per injection at 15-min intervals). Magnesium sulphate (100 mg x kg(-1)) was injected ip 30 min prior to the first sc fentanyl injection. Sensitivity to nociceptive stimuli (paw-pressure test) was assessed for several days after injections.
Subcutaneous fentanyl led to delayed hyperalgesia associated with a decrease in the nociceptive threshold lasting two days (35% decrease for the maximum effect). Intraperitoneal magnesium sulphate partially but significantly (P < 0.05) prevented the delayed decrease in the nociceptive threshold following sc administration of fentanyl.
This study shows that magnesium may prevent the delayed and prolonged hyperalgesia following fentanyl administration in rats.
A relatively newer class of chemotherapy agents, known as the epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGF-RIs), is being used to treat advanced stages of solid tumors. Acneiform eruptions are a frequent adverse effect and one which has been associated with increased survival in some studies. We describe 3 patients who presented shortly after initiation of EGF-RI therapy. Characteristics included an absence of comedones, facial and truncal involvement, and a perifollicular lymphoneutrophilic infiltrate detected on biopsy. Lesion counts were reduced with topical adapalene and oral tetracyclines in two patients. Patient 3 had dramatic clearance with low-dose isotretinoin (20 mg daily) until completion of EGF-RI therapy. Acneiform eruptions are a common adverse reaction to EGF-RI therapy and can be treated with traditional acne therapy. This should not be considered a drug hypersensitivity eruption or allergy, and patients should continue therapy. For patients with severe eruptions, oral isotretinoin is a consideration.
Alfuzosin, a selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist which is effective in the symptomatic treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), was compared with prazosin, another drug commonly used for the same purpose. After a 1-week placebo run-in period, 103 patients with day-time frequency > or = 7 or nocturia > or = 2 and peak flow rate < 15 ml/s were randomised to receive either alfuzosin (2.5 mg tid) or prazosin (2 mg bid) for 3 weeks, with a gradual dose increase during the first week, in a double-blind, parallel group, multicentre study. Voiding symptoms, assessed on the basis of the Boyarsky scale and a micturition diary, were significantly improved in both groups, as were urinary flow rates. However, neither the clinical improvement nor the increase in flow rates differed significantly between the 2 groups. The peak flow rate increased similarly with alfuzosin (2.6 +/- 0.6 ml/s) and prazosin (2.9 +/- 0.7 ml/s); the mean flow rate and voided volume increase tended to be more marked with alfuzosin (30 and 22.2% respectively) than with prazosin (20.6 and 6.5%). Clinical safety was good in both groups. All 4 adverse events in the prazosin group but only 1 of the 4 adverse events in the alfuzosin group were related to a decrease in blood pressure. It was concluded that alfuzosin was at least as effective as prazosin in the treatment of symptomatic patients with BPH and the incidence of adverse events related to their vasodilatory properties was lower with alfuzosin.
The induction of cancer of the urinary bladder is a multi-stage process involving multiple exogenous and endogenous factors. Based on the classical initiation-promotion model, we have used N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) as initiator and sodium saccharin (SAC) or tryptophan as promoters. These latter chemicals have the properties expected of promoters: induction of hyperplasia, reversibility and nonmutagenicity. Also, tumors were induced whether the promoter was administered immediately after FANFT or beginning 6 weeks after FANFT was discontinued, but no tumors resulted if either promoter was given without initiation with FANFT. Factor(s) present in normal urine also are involved in the promotion process, in addition to the role of urine as a carrier of carcinogens. However, administration of SAC to animals with a rapidly proliferating bladder mucosa, induced by ulceration, pellet insertion, or in utero, resulted in bladder tumor induction, even without prior initiation with FANFT. To better understand the complex interaction of the multiple variables in bladder carcinogenesis, a stochastic computer model has been formulated based on long-term carcinogenicity and tissue kinetic studies in vivo. This model indicates the importance of cell proliferation and the development of hyperplasia in carcinogenesis.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 is an incretin hormone from the gastrointestinal tract, which enhances insulin secretion, slows gastric emptying, and reduces food intake. GLP-1 receptor agonists are being developed for Type 2 diabetes mellitus. GLP-1 is rapidly degraded by serum dipeptidyl peptidase IV, so analogues with a prolonged serum half-life are used clinically. Exenatide was the first GLP-1 agonist approved and is a synthetic version of exendin-4 derived from the Gila monster. Liraglutide was approved for clinical use in 2010. GLP-1 receptor agonists have been shown to increase calcitonin secretion and stimulate C-cell hyperplasia and neoplasia in rats and mice of both sexes. Rat C-cells are more sensitive to the effects of GLP-1 agonists than mice. The effects of GLP-1 agonists on C-cell proliferation or neoplasia have not been documented in nonhuman primates or humans. The proliferative C-cell effects may be rodent-specific. GLP-1 receptors have been demonstrated on normal rodent C-cells, but are either not present or occur in low numbers on C-cells of nonhuman primates and humans. Hyperplasia and neoplasia of C-cells in rodents treated with GLP-1 agonists represent a unique example of an on-target species-specific effect that may not have relevance to humans.
Autism is a severe behavioral disorder characterized by pervasive impairments in social interactions, deficits in verbal and non-verbal communication, and stereotyped behaviors, with a four times higher incidence in boys than in girls. The core symptoms are frequently accompanied by a spectrum of neurobehavioral and immunological derangements, including: aberrant sensitivity to sensory stimulation, anxiety, and decreased cellular immune capacity. Recently, a new potential rodent model of autism induced by prenatal exposure to valproic acid (VPA rats) has been proposed. In order to determine if gender has an influence on alterations observed in VPA rats, male and female rats have been evaluated in a battery of behavioral, immunological, and endocrinological tests. A plethora of aberrations has been found in male VPA rats: lower sensitivity to pain, increased repetitive/stereotypic-like activity, higher anxiety, decreased level of social interaction, increased basal level of corticosterone, decreased weight of the thymus, decreased splenocytes proliferative response to concanavaline A, lower IFN-gamma/IL-10 ratio, and increased production of NO by peritoneal macrophages. Female VPA rats exhibited only increased repetitive/stereotypic-like activity and decreased IFN-gamma/IL-10 ratio. Sexual dimorphism characteristics for measured parameters have been observed in both groups of animals, except social interaction in VPA rats. Our results confirm existence of similarities between the observed pattern of aberrations in VPA rats and features of disturbed behavior and immune function in autistic patients, and suggest that they are gender-specific, which is intriguing in light of disproportion in boys to girls ratio in autism.
Levosimendan is a new inodilator, whose mechanism of action includes calcium sensitization of contractile proteins and the opening of ATP-dependent potassium channels. The combination of positive inotropy with anti-ischemic effects of K-channel opening offers many potential benefits in comparison to currently available intravenous inotropes, that are more or less contraindicated in patients with ongoing myocardial ischemia. Levosimendan has been extensively studied in various animal models of heart failure, in which the drug has increased contractility without adverse effects on diastolic function. These results have been repeated in patients with heart failure, by whom levosimendan dose-dependently increases cardiac output and reduces pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. On higher doses, the drug can induce tachycardia and hypotension. In clinical trials, drug-induced ventricular arrhythmia have been rare. Recently, trials in patients with decompensated heart failure have suggested that short-term intravenous treatment with levosimendan might improve the survival of these critical patients. These results highlight the importance of adequate treatment of the acute heart failure patients for their long-term outcome.
To identify mutations in the AIPL1, CRB1, GUCY2D, RPE65, and RPGRIP1 genes in patients with juvenile retinitis pigmentosa.
Mutation analysis was carried out in a group of 35 unrelated patients with juvenile autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (ARRP), Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA), or juvenile isolated retinitis pigmentosa (IRP), by denaturing high performance liquid chromatography followed by direct sequencing.
All three groups of patients showed typical combinations of eye signs associated with retinitis pigmentosa: pale optic discs, narrow arterioles, pigmentary changes, and nystagmus. Mutations were found in 34% of
in CRB1 (11%), GUCY2D (11%), RPE65 (6%), and RPGRIP1 (6%). Nine mutations are reported, including a new combination of two mutations in CRB1, and new mutations in GUCY2D and RPGRIP1. The new GUCY2D mutation (c.3283delC, p.Pro1069ArgfsX37) is the first pathological sequence change reported in the intracellular C-terminal domain of GUCY2D, and did not lead to the commonly associated LCA, but to a juvenile retinitis pigmentosa phenotype. The polymorphic nature of three previously described (pathological) sequence changes in AIPL1, CRB1, and RPGRIP1 was established. Seven new polymorphic changes, useful for further association studies, were found.
New and previously described sequence changes were detected in retinitis pigmentosa in CRB1, GUCY2D, and RPGRIP1; and in LCA patients in CRB1, GUCY2D, and RPE65. These data, combined with previous reports, suggest that LCA and juvenile ARRP are closely related and belong to a continuous spectrum of juvenile retinitis pigmentosa.
Development of single-dose tolerance to diazepam-induced neurologic deficits was assessed in mice by means of a rotarod test. Diazepam suspended in corn oil was administered orally in doses 5-20 mg/kg. Tolerance was found following a second administration of diazepam 24 h after a first dose. It decayed gradually over 4-5 weeks. Hence tolerance persists considerably longer than measurable amounts of diazepam or its metabolites are likely to be present in mice.
Glucocorticoid treatment in preterm babies to prevent chronic lung disease causes myocardial hypertrophy and increased myocardial protein content. Although these changes are thought to be transient, there is evidence that dexamethasone (DEX) induces permanent myocardial abnormalities as well. We investigated whether a therapeutic course of neonatal DEX in rat pups produces anatomic and biochemical alterations in rat hearts during adult life. Twenty-four rat pups were treated with DEX on d 1, 2, and 3 (0.5, 0.3, and 0.1 micro g/g) of life, with doses proportional to those used in preterm babies. Twenty-four control pups were treated with saline. At d 7, wk 8, or wk 45 (n = 8 per group) rats were killed. The anatomic parameters measured were body weight (Bw, in grams), heart (myocardial) weight (Hw, in milligrams), and the Hw:Bw ratio. Myocardial total protein (Prot) and DNA content were determined, and the Prot:DNA ratio was calculated. Histopathology and morphometry were performed on 45-wk-old rat hearts. In DEX-treated rat pups, at d 7, Bw and Hw were lower and the Hw:Bw ratio was increased. DNA content was lower, Prot higher, and Prot:DNA ratio was increased. In 8-wk-old rats Bw, Hw, DNA content, Prot content or Prot:DNA ratio did not differ between groups, but the Prot:DNA ratio still tended to be higher in DEX-treated rats. In 45-wk-old rats Hw and Hw:Bw ratio were significantly lower and Prot:DNA ratio higher in DEX-treated rats. Histopathologic analysis showed larger cardiomyocyte volume, length, and width, indicating hypertrophy, and increased collagen, indicating early degeneration of individual myocytes. In conclusion, neonatal DEX treatment in rat pups causes a permanent decrease in heart weight, as well as hypertrophy and early degeneration of cardiomyocytes during adulthood.
Retinoids, which are derivatives of vitamin A, induce differentiation of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cells in vitro and in patients. However, APL cells develop resistance to retinoic acid treatment. Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) can induce clinical remission in patients with APL, including those who have relapsed after retinoic acid treatment, by inducing apoptosis (programmed cell death) of the leukemia cells. In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms by which As2O3 induces apoptosis in retinoic acid-sensitive NB4 APL cells, in retinoic acid-resistant derivatives of these cells, and in fresh leukemia cells from patients.
Apoptosis was assessed by means of DNA fragmentation analyses, TUNEL assays (i.e., deoxyuridine triphosphate labeling of DNA nicks with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase), and flow cytometry. Expression of the PML/RAR alpha fusion protein in leukemia cells was assessed by means of western blotting, ligand binding, and immunohistochemistry. Northern blotting and ribonuclease protection assays were used to evaluate changes in gene expression in response to retinoic acid and As2O3 treatment.
As2O3 induces apoptosis without differentiation in retinoic acid-sensitive and retinoic acid-resistant APL cells at concentrations that are achievable in patients. As2O3 induces loss of the PML/RAR alpha fusion protein in NB4 cells, in retinoic-acid resistant cells derived from them, in fresh APL cells from patients, and in non-APL cells transfected to express this protein. As2O3 and retinoic acid induce different patterns of gene regulation, and they inhibit the phenotypes induced by each other. Understanding the molecular basis of these differences in the effects of As2O3 and retinoic acid may guide the clinical use of arsenic compounds and provide insights into the management of leukemias that do not respond to retinoic acid.
An increase of delta and fast beta activity in schizophrenic patients when compared with normal controls has been consistently reported. Topography of these abnormalities, in particular a possible frontal localization of delta, and their relationship to drug treatment and clinical status are still debated. In order to assess these issues, a multilead CEEG investigation was carried out in a group of 20 DSM-III-R schizophrenics, both before and after haloperidol treatment. All findings are described in terms of amplitude and relative power. Drug-free schizophrenics, when compared with a group of normal controls, showed a generalized increase of delta and fast beta, and a decrease of alpha 2 relative power. After acute treatment, patients showed a significant decrease of delta, and an increase of theta 2, beta 1, and beta 2. After 28 days of haloperidol treatment, similar changes were observed for delta, together with an increase of alpha 1, and a decrease of fast beta.
We report an undiagnosed case of myotonia congenita in a 24-year-old previously healthy primigravida, who developed life threatening masseter spasm following a standard dose of intravenous suxamethonium for induction of anaesthesia. Neither the patient nor the anaesthetist was aware of the diagnosis before this potentially lethal complication occurred.
We aimed to characterize neuronal and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) pathways at the acute phase of a model of colitis in rats. Male rats received an intracolonic injection of either vehicle (controls) or trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) and were killed 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 12, or 24 h later. Coronal frozen sections of the brain were cut and mRNAs encoding the rat c-fos, CRF1 receptor, and CRF2alpha,beta receptors were assayed by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Localization of these transcripts within CRF-immunoreactive (CRF-ir) neurons of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus was also determined. Intracolonic TNBS induced c-fos mRNA expression in brain nuclei involved in the autonomic, behavioral, and neuroendocrine response to a stimulus (PVN, amygdala, locus coeruleus, parabrachial nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract) and in circumventricular organs (lamina terminalis, subfornical organ, area postrema). CRF pathways, particularly in the PVN, were activated in this model as represented by a robust signal of c-fos and CRF1 receptor transcripts in the PVN and numerous CRF-ir neurons expressed c-fos or CRF1 receptor transcripts in the PVN of TNBS-treated animals. No expression of CRF2 receptor transcripts was observed in the PVN, either in basal conditions or after TNBS. These neuroanatomical data argue for an involvement of CRF pathways, through CRF1 receptor, within the PVN in TNBS-induced colitis.
We investigated the effects of three anesthetics on the size of myocardial infarction and on blood flow distribution within the myocardial wall. Myocardial infarcts were induced in 34 dogs by ligating a coronary artery for 90 minutes, and permitting reflow for 90 minutes. The anesthetics used were fentanyl, Na-pentobarbital, and halothane. Under halothane the mean blood pressure (BP) during coronary artery ligation was 113 +/- 2/82 +/- 2 mm Hg and the heart rate (HR) was 135 +/- 2/min. Under fentanyl, the BP was 143 +/- 3/91 +/- 2 mm Hg and HR 99 +/- 3/min. Under Na-pentobarbital, BP was 141 +/- 2/104 +/- 2 mm Hg and HR 146 +/- 2/min. A higher mean BP combined with a slower HR, as seen under fentanyl, was associated with the smallest infarct (24 +/- 8%). Low BP and higher HR, as seen under halothane, was associated with the largest infarct (51 +/- 5%). Na-pentobarbital, with a higher BP but also a faster HR, resulted in an infarct size of 32 +/- 5%. We conclude that a higher mean BP combined with a slower HR might favor the preservation of a larger mass of vulnerable myocardial tissue in a totally occluded coronary artery.
Reactive nitrogen species (RNS) have a number of inflammatory actions and the production of these molecules has been reported to be increased in the airways of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which suggests that they may be involved in the inflammatory and obstructive process in COPD.
The relationship between the reduction in RNS and the improvement in pulmonary function was studied in 18 patients with COPD following steroid treatment (800 micro g beclomethasone dipropionate inhalation for 4 weeks). Twelve patients were treated with inhaled steroids and the others received placebo treatment. Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV(1)) and airway responsiveness to histamine were measured before and after treatment. Induced sputum cells were stained with anti-nitrotyrosine antibody, a footprint of RNS, and RNS formation was assessed by measuring nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity. The immunoreactivity of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in induced sputum and exhaled NO levels were also measured.
Treatment with steroids resulted in a significant reduction in both nitrotyrosine and iNOS immunoreactivity in sputum cells compared with pretreatment levels (both p<0.01). The reduction rates in both parameters were significantly related (p<0.05). The reduction in nitrotyrosine and iNOS immunoreactivity was correlated with the improvement in FEV(1) (p<0.05) and airway responsiveness to histamine (p<0.01). None of the parameters was significantly changed by placebo administration.
These results suggest that RNS may be involved in the reversible component of inflammation in COPD that is suppressed by steroids. Further studies using specific inhibitors for RNS are needed to clarify their effects on the long term progression of COPD.
Spinal anesthesia with lidocaine is ideal for ambulatory surgery because of its short duration of action. However, transient neurologic symptoms (TNS) occur in 0-40% of patients. The incidence of TNS with mepivacaine, which has a similar duration of action, is unknown.
Sixty ambulatory patients undergoing knee arthroscopy received spinal anesthesia in a randomized, double-blinded manner, with either 45 mg 1.5% mepivacaine or 60 mg 2% lidocaine. An L3-L4 midline approach was used with a 27-gauge Whitacre needle and a 20-gauge introducer. The local anesthetic was injected over approximately 30 s with the aperture of the Whitacre needle in a cephalad direction. Two to 4 days after operation, each patient was questioned about the development of TNS. In addition, the two groups were compared for time to regression of sensory and motor blockade and time to discharge milestones.
Three patients receiving lidocaine were lost to follow-up. None of the 30 patients in the mepivacaine group developed TNS, whereas 6 of 27 (22%) in the lidocaine group did (P = 0.008). Time to regression to the L5 sensory level and to complete resolution of motor block were similar in both groups. The times to discharge milestones were also comparable.
The incidence of TNS is greater with 2% lidocaine than with 1.5% mepivacaine for patients having unilateral knee arthroscopy under spinal anesthesia. Mepivacaine seems to be a promising alternative to lidocaine for outpatient surgical procedures because of its similar duration of action. Further studies are warranted to determine the optimal dose of intrathecal mepivacaine for ambulatory surgery and the incidence of TNS with other doses and concentrations of intrathecal mepivacaine.
