We present in this paper two cases of auto-immune hemolytic anemie caused by ingestion of alpha-metildope Coombs' test positive. We suggest to make Coombs test to every patient in whose treatment has been included the use of alpha-metildope.
Seven patients developed hepatitis after receiving amodiaquine for malaria prophylaxis for 4 to 15 weeks. Four patients had a minor form of hepatitis: jaundice was mild or absent, serum aminotransferase levels were moderately increased, and recovery was prompt. Three patients had a severe form: jaundice was intense, serum aminotransferase levels were markedly increased, jaundice persisted for 3 to 6 months, and liver tests were still abnormal 7 to 27 months after the onset of hepatitis. In two patients, serum aminotransferase levels increased promptly after readministration of the drug, which is consistent with an immunoallergic mechanism for amodiaquine-induced hepatitis.
The aim of this study was to explore the expression of cytokines by Th17 cells and their mechanisms of action in a mouse model of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). ELISA was used to detect the expression of the Th17 cytokine interleukin, (IL)-17, and that of the Th1 cytokine, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), in colon tissues. Western blot analysis was used to detect IL-17 expression in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), spleen mononuclear cells (SMCs), mesenteric lymph node cells and colon tissues of the colitic mice. RT-PCR analysis was used to detect the effect of anti-IL-17 antibody application on the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, IFN-γ and IL-6 mRNA levels in the SMCs of the colitic mice. The Th17 cytokine, IL-17, and the Th1 cytokine, IFN-γ, were expressed at high levels in the TNBS-induced colitic mice. In addition, the expression of the Th17 cytokine appeared earlier than that of the Th1 cytokine. The IL-17 levels in the SMCs, mesenteric lymph node cells and colon tissues of the disease model group were significantly different from those of the normal control group (p<0.01), while the IL-17 levels in the PBMCs of the disease model group were not significantly different (p>0.05) from those of the control group. Following the application of 10 µg/ml anti-IL-7 antibody, the TNF-α, IL-6 and IFN-γ mRNA levels in the SMCs of the model group demonstrated no significant differences from those of the non-antibody-treated control group (p>0.05). In conclusion, Th17 and Th1 cells are involved in TNBS-induced IBD and the effect of the Th17 cells may be mediated through the induction of the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
We report a case of idiopathic hypoparathyroidism, maintained on alphacalcidol who developed hypercalcaemia during treatment with danazol for endometriosis.
Manganese (Mn)-induced neurotoxicity can occur due to environmental exposure (air pollution, soil, water) and/or metabolic aberrations (decreased biliary excretion). High brain manganese levels lead to oxidative stress, as well as alterations in neurotransmitter metabolism with concurrent neurobehavioral deficits. Based on the few existing studies that have examined brain regional Mn concentration, it is likely that in pathological conditions, Mn concentration can reach between 100 and 500 microM. Environmental Mn exposure as a result of methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT) combustion is in the form of phosphate or sulfate (MnPO4, MnSO4, respectively). Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that the Mn salt will determine the rate of transport into the brain: MnCl2 > MnSO4 > MnPO4. The salt-specific neurotoxicity of these species is unknown. The primary goal of this study was to examine gene expression of glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST), taurine transporter (tau-T), and metallothionein-I (MT-I) in astrocytes exposed to manganese chloride (MnCl2), manganese sulfate (MnSO4), and manganese phosphate (MnPO4). We hypothesized that the effects of MnPO4 and MnSO4 exposure on GLASTexpression in astrocytes would be similar to those induced by MnCl2, since irrespective of salt species exposure, once internalized by astrocytes, the Mn ion would be identically complexed. At the same time, we hypothesized that the magnitude of the effect would be salt-dependent, since the chemical speciation would determine the rate of intracellular uptake of Mn. MnCl2 caused a significant overall decrease (P < 0.0001) in astrocytic GLAST mRNA levels with MnSO4 causing a moderate decrease. MnPO4 exposure did not alter GLAST mRNA in astrocytes. We also sought to examine astrocytic metallothionein and taurine transporter gene expression as markers of manganese exposure. Our findings suggest that manganese chloride significantly decreased (P < 0.0001) astrocytic metallothionein mRNA compared to both the sulfate and phosphate species. However, astrocytic taurine transporter mRNA was not affected by Mn exposure, irrespective of the salt species. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that astrocytic neurotoxicity due to Mn exposure is dependent upon its species, with solubility, and by inference, intracellular concentration, representing a major determinant of its neurotoxicity.
Nicotine is known to have deleterious effects on the cardiovascular system, causing vasoconstriction and increased blood pressure. A drop in blood-flow velocity in humans, endothelial damage in rats, and inhibition of platelet aggregation in rabbits' blood have all been shown experimentally. In this article two studies are described that investigate the effects of nicotine on microvascular anastomotic patency. In experiment 1, electromagnetic blood-flow recordings were made in the saphenous artery of the saphenous flap after intraarterial installation of nicotine. Decreased blood flow was consistently recorded up to a maximum of 72% of normal flow. In experiment 2, rabbit femoral arteries were anastomosed and the patency rates at three weeks checked after various combinations of pre- and postoperative intraperitoneal nicotine had been injected. There was no significant increase in thrombosis between the groups treated with nicotine and the control. Although no thrombosis occurred in these experiments, decreased blood flow was noted in the saphenous flap in the dog. This slowing of flow should predispose to thrombosis, especially if other factors associated with the vascular repair were suboptimal. It is concluded in view of this study and the observed clinical effects in 2 patients with microvascular transfer that smoking in the perioperative period should be avoided.
Agricultural risk factors for lymphohematopoietic cancers (LHC) in Hispanic farm workers in California were examined in a nested case-control study embedded in a cohort of 139,000 ever members of a farm worker labor union in California.
Crop and pesticide exposures were estimated by linking county/month and crop specific job history information from union records with California Department of Pesticide Regulation pesticide use reports during the 20-year period prior to cancer diagnosis.
A total of 131 LHC diagnosed in California between 1988 and 2001 were included in the analysis. Analyses were conducted by gender and subtype of non-Hodgkins lymphoma (nodal, extra nodal) and by leukemia histology (lymphocytic, granulocytic). Odds ratios were calculated by stratification and by unconditional logistic regression. Risk for all LHC was elevated in workers cultivating vegetables (OR = 1.67, 95% CI = 1.12-2.48). Risk of leukemia was associated with exposure to the pesticides mancozeb (OR = 2.35, 95% CI = 1.12-4.95) and toxaphene (OR = 2.20, 95% CI = 1.04-4.65) while NHL risk was increased in association with 2,4-D (OR = 3.80, 95% CI=1.85-7.81). Risk of leukemia was particularly elevated among female workers and for granulocytic versus lymphocytic leukemia for several chemicals. No associations were noted for multiple myeloma.
California farm workers employed where mancozeb and toxaphene were used had an increased risk of leukemia compared to farm workers employed elsewhere. Employment in farms using 2,4-D was associated with an increased risk of NHL.
Cutaneous vasculitis is a rare complication of propylthiouracil therapy. We describe a patient who presented with lower extremity subcutaneous nodules, hemorrhagic bullae, and necrotic ulcers during treatment with this agent. Examination of a skin biopsy specimen revealed nodular vasculitis. This type of vasculitis has not been described in association with propylthiouracil therapy before. Nodular vasculitis not associated with the drug is characterized by a chronic protracted course, whereas in the patient reported the lesions rapidly regressed when use of the drug was discontinued.
Glutamate excitotoxicity is strongly implicated as a major contributing factor in motor neuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Excitotoxicity results from elevated intracellular calcium ion (Ca(2+)) levels, which in turn recruit cell death signaling pathways. Recent evidence suggests that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit (GluR) stoichiometry is a dominant factor leading to excess Ca(2+) loading in neurodegeneration. In particular, the Ca(2+) permeable glutamate receptor subunit 3 (GluR3) has been implicated in several neurologic conditions such as bipolar disorder and epilepsy. Recent proteomic analysis within our group on the copper zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1)(G93A) transgenic mouse model of familial ALS (FALS) reveals a potentially deleterious upregulation of GluR3 in spinal cord compared to that in wild-type littermates. Based on this finding we designed a 12mer antisense peptide nucleic acid (PNA) directed against GluR3. This sequence significantly reduced levels of GluR3 protein and protected neuroblastoma x spinal cord (NSC-34) cells against death induced by the AMPA receptor-specific agonist (S)-5-fluorowillardiine. We subsequently treated SOD1(G93A) mice thrice weekly with intraperitoneal injections of the antisense PNA (2.5 mg/kg) commencing at postnatal day 50. Mice treated with the antisense sequence had significantly extended survival compared to mice injected with a nonsense sequence. Western blot analysis, however, did not reveal a significant reduction in GluR3 protein levels in whole extracts of the lumbar spinal cord. These results suggest that interference with the GluR3 component of the AMPA receptor assembly may be a novel strategy for controlling excitotoxic destruction of motor neurons and may lead to new therapeutic opportunities for the treatment of human ALS.
A 42-year-old woman presented with acute bullous skin lesions and angio-oedema that had developed 3 months after initiation of treatment with carbamazepine for epilepsy. Chromatographic analysis of urinary porphyrins was compatible with variegate porphyria. This was manifested initially by neurological symptoms that were mistaken for epilepsy and later by cutaneous symptoms also. Histological findings excluded hepatic porphyria, but revealed severe fatty changes thought to be caused by idiosyncratic metabolism of carbamazepine. While the porphyrinogenicity of carbamazepine is well known, the presence of variegate porphyria has not been reported. The toxic hepatic effects of the drug on hepatic cytochrome P-450, which is involved in haem metabolism, could have aggravated the pre-existent porphyria, provoking the onset of skin lesions.
Historically, limited trials evaluating biotherapy in treating metastatic neuroendocrine tumours have yielded mixed results. In this study, the efficacy of a novel combination therapy featuring longacting Sandostatin LAR plus alpha-interferon was evaluated. In a prospective case series, 12 patients with unresectable metastatic neuroendocrine tumours refractory to treatment initiated therapy with Infergen and Sandostatin LAR. Radiological response was followed serially at 3-month intervals. A biochemical response was considered significant if marker levels decreased by > or = 50% compared with baseline. Inhibition of tumour growth lasting for greater than 3 months (mean response 22.6+/-17.7 months) was seen in eight patients. Complete tumour regression was observed in one patient, lasting for 40 months; three patients exhibited partial tumour regression (mean response 29.3+/-24.0 months), and four patients maintained a stable tumour response (mean response 13.3+/-9.2 months). Four patients showed no response to therapy (mean response 5.0+/-6.0 months). All enrolled patients are alive currently. The biochemical response seen in seven patients did not correlate with the radiological response. These results suggest that the novel combination of longacting Sandostatin LAR with an alpha-interferon may be at least as effective as either combination therapy with short-acting octreotide or monotherapy with Sandostatin LAR.
Inflammation plays an integral role in the development of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs), and the expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 is increased in aneurysmal tissue compared with normal aorta. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which inhibit the activity of COX-1 and COX-2, decrease AAA expansion in humans and animal models of the disease. In the current study, we investigated the effectiveness of selective inhibition of COX-1 or COX-2 in attenuating AAA formation.
Eight-week-old male apolipoprotein E-deficient mice were treated with selective inhibitors of COX-1 or COX-2, SC-560 (approximately 25 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)), or celecoxib (approximately 125 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)), respectively. COX inhibitors were administered 1 week before angiotensin II (Ang II; 1000 ng.kg(-1).min(-1)) or saline infusion and throughout the time course of the experiment. COX-1 inhibition had no effect on incidence (control: 90% [9:10] versus SC-560: 89% [8:9]) or severity of Ang II-induced AAA formation. In contrast, celecoxib decreased the incidence (control: 74% [22:30] versus celecoxib: 11% [2:19]; P<0.001) and severity (P=0.001) of AAA formation. Celecoxib also decreased the incidence and severity of AAAs in nonhyperlipidemic mice.
COX-2-derived prostanoids play a fundamental role in the development of Ang II-induced AAAs in both hyperlipidemic and nonhyperlipidemic mice.
An 83 year old woman with depression, while receiving maprotiline, developed a vasculitic skin eruption which resolved on discontinuing the drug. Vasculitis has not previously been reported with this drug.
Seventy-three patients were studied during and after anaesthesia with either alfentanil or halothane for surgical procedures of short duration. The procedures were minor gynaecological or minor urological procedures, involving males and females between the ages of 21 and 86 years. After pre-medication with lorazepam, anaesthesia was induced with methohexitone and continued with nitrous oxide and oxygen, supplemented with halothane (34 patients) or alfentanil (39 patients). Anaesthesia was generally smooth and uncomplicated except that at induction 22 of the patients receiving alfentanil became apnoeic for longer than 30 seconds. Spontaneous respiration resumed without the need for naloxone in any patients. After surgery, recovery of consciousness was significantly more rapid after alfentanil than after halothane (5.6 minutes versus 10.1 minutes). This study demonstrates that alfentanil can be a suitable alternative to conventional general anaesthesia for short cases and may have a useful place when rapid recovery and turnover of cases is important.
LB11058 is a new synthetic cephalosporin with good affinity for staphylococcal penicillin-binding protein 2a (PBP2a). LB11058 was tested in vitro and in rats with experimental aortic endocarditis against three methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) strains, one penicillinase-negative strain (strain COL), and two penicillinase-producing strains (COL-Bla+ and P8-Hom). The MICs of LB11058 for the organisms were 1 mg/liter. The MICs of vancomycin and ceftriaxone were 1 and >/=64 mg/liter, respectively. In population analysis profiles, none of the MRSA strains grew at >/=2 mg of LB11058/liter. Rats with endocarditis were treated for 5 days. LB11058 was highly bound to serum proteins in rats (>/=98%). However, binding was saturable above a threshold of 250 mg/liter. Therefore, continuous concentrations of 250 mg/liter in serum were infused to ensure a free fraction (>/=5 mg/liter) above the drug's MIC for the entire infusion period. Control treatments included simulation of human serum kinetics produced by intravenous vancomycin (1 g twice daily, free drug concentration above MIC, >/=90% of infusion period) or ceftriaxone (2 g/24 h, free drug concentrations above the MIC, 0% of infusion period). LB11058 successfully treated 10 of 10 (100%) and 13 of 14 (93%) of rats infected with COL-Bla+ and P8-Hom, respectively. This was comparable to vancomycin (sterilization of 8 of 12 [66%] and 6 of 8 [75%] rats, respectively). Ceftriaxone was inactive. Low concentrations of LB11058 (5 and 10 mg/liter, continuously infused) in serum were ineffective, as predicted by the pharmacodynamic parameters. At appropriate doses, LB11058 was highly effective both in vitro and in vivo. This finding supports the development of this beta-lactam with high PBP2a affinity for the treatment of MRSA infections.
The aim of this study was to assess the side effects and the efficacy of thalidomide alone or in combination with dexamethasone in relapsed multiple myeloma (MM) and to evaluate possible predictive factors for response rate and survival. Twenty-nine pretreated patients were enrolled, including 13 patients with a relapse after high-dose chemotherapy. The median number of relapses was 3 (range: 1-7). Twenty-two patients received thalidomide in combination with dexamethasone and seven patients thalidomide alone. The dosage of thalidomide was 400 mg/day and the dosage of dexamethasone 20 mg/m2 daily for 4 consecutive days every 3 weeks. Cycles of dexamethasone were given until maximal decline of myeloma protein was achieved, whereas therapy with thalidomide was maintained until disease progression. Responses occurred in 62% of patients, including 5 (17%) complete remissions and 13 (45%) partial remissions. The median event-free survival (EFS) was 7.2 months and the median overall survival (OS) 26.1 months. In multivariate analysis, pretreatment serum levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) were a significant prognostic factor for EFS, and those of beta2-microglobulin (beta2M) and sIL-2R for OS. Serum levels of sIL-2R significantly increased after 3 weeks of treatment in 89% of patients, possibly representing lymphocyte activation induced by thalidomide. Two patients died of septic complications within 3 months after starting treatment with thalidomide and dexamethasone and one patient of herpes encephalitis after 26 months of treatment with thalidomide alone. Also, one case of pneumonia and one case of deep venous thrombosis of the lower limb occurred. Other side effects were somnolence, peripheral neuropathy, and bradycardia occurring in 35, 55, 38 and 55% of patients, respectively. The combination of thalidomide and dexamethasone is an effective therapy in heavily pretreated myeloma patients with a high response rate and acceptable toxicities. A powerful predictive factor both for EFS and OS was the pretreatment serum level of sIL-2R.
Conray, Renografin-60, and Reno-M-60 were compared in 40 patients undergoing cerebral angiography. Pain during injection, as evidenced by head motion, was documented using subtraction. Conray produced less had head motion and therefore a superior subtraction study than either Renografin-60 or Reno-M-60 and was also subjectively the least painful of the three.
Buprenorphine is a partial mu-opiate agonist and kappa-opiate antagonist with established efficacy in the treatment of opiate dependence. Its efficacy for cocaine dependence is uncertain. This study evaluated buprenorphine for the treatment of concomitant cocaine and opiate dependence.
Two hundred outpatients currently dependent on both cocaine and opiates were randomly assigned to double-blind groups receiving a sublingual solution of buprenorphine (2, 8, or 16 mg daily, or 16 mg on alternate days, or placebo), plus weekly individual drug abuse counseling, for 13 weeks. The chief outcome measures were urine concentrations of opiate and cocaine metabolites (quantitative) and proportion of urine samples positive for opiates or cocaine (qualitative). Group differences were assessed by use of mixed regression modeling.
The target dose of buprenorphine was achieved in 179 subjects. Subjects receiving 8 or 16 mg buprenorphine daily showed statistically significant decreases in urine morphine levels (P =.0135 for 8 mg and P <.001 for 16 mg) or benzoylecgonine concentrations (P =.0277 for 8 mg and P =.006 for 16 mg) during the maintenance phase of the study. For the 16-mg group, mean benzoylecgonine concentrations fell from 3715 ng/mL during baseline to 186 ng/mL during the withdrawal phase; mean morphine concentrations fell from 3311 ng/mL during baseline to 263 ng/mL during withdrawal. For the 8-mg group, mean benzoylecgonine concentrations fell from 6761 ng/mL during baseline to 676 ng/mL during withdrawal; mean morphine concentrations fell from 3890 ng/mL during baseline to 661 ng/mL during withdrawal. Qualitative urinalysis showed a similar pattern of results. Subjects receiving the highest dose showed concomitant decreases in both urine morphine and benzoylecgonine concentrations. There were no significant group differences in treatment retention or adverse events.
A sublingual buprenorphine solution at 16 mg daily is well tolerated and effective in reducing concomitant opiate and cocaine use. The therapeutic effect on cocaine use appears independent of that on opiate use.
Cerebellar toxicity is a severe, therapy-limiting adverse reaction of cytarabine given in high doses. The Food and Drug Administration received a report of an increased frequency of cerebellar toxicity at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics after a switch from the product (Cytosar-U) manufactured by The Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, Mich., to the generic form made by Quad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Indianapolis, Ind.
To compare the incidence of cerebellar toxicity in Quad-treated patients with Upjohn-treated patients, a record-based cohort study was conducted at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics between January 1986 and August 1989.
The incidence of cerebellar toxicity was studied in 63 leukemia patients according to the manufacturer of the product received (34 Upjohn only, 25 Quad only, and four both manufacturers). The relative risk of cerebellar toxicity was adjusted for other known risk factors.
Patients in the manufacturer-defined treatment groups did not differ significantly with respect to age, sex, type of leukemia, disease stage, calculated creatinine clearance, presence of abnormal liver function tests, or total dose received. The crude relative risk of cerebellar toxicity comparing the Quad product with the Upjohn product was 5.0 (95% confidence interval = 1.8-13.7). Adjustment for potential confounders did not alter the association. Other risk factors for cerebellar toxicity, independent of manufacturer, were age greater than 50 years, type of leukemia, disease stage, total dose greater than or equal to 20 g/m2, abnormal pretreatment liver function, and reduced creatinine clearance.
This study found a significantly higher incidence of cerebellar toxicity with high-dose cytarabine manufactured by Quad Pharmaceuticals when compared with the incidence of cerebellar toxicity with the Upjohn product. Further research at independent institutions would be necessary to allow generalization of this finding. In addition, our findings suggest that a dose reduction in high-dose cytarabine therapy may be indicated for patients with reduced glomerular filtration rates.
Intolerance or idiosyncrasy to acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is a crucial problem because these drugs are frequently used in medical treatment. In this study, we tested whether nimesulide, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, might be a valid alternative for patients with histories of adverse reaction to ASA or NSAIDs. A single-blind, placebo-controlled oral challenge procedure was applied to 60 adult patients (19 male, 41 female; with a mean age of 40.31 +/- 10.44 years, range 20-68 years) with a reliable history of ASA/NSAIDs-intolerance. According to history, the clinical presentations of intolerance were urticaria/angioedema in 32 patients, anaphylactoid reaction in 2 patients, respiratory reaction in 19 patients, and respiratory and cutaneous reaction in 7 patients. Atopy was confirmed by means of skin prick test with inhalant allergens. Oral challenge protocol was started with 25 mg of nimesulide and the remaining 75 mg was given 1 hr later. During the challenge procedure, blood pressure, pulse, nasoocular, pulmonary, and cutaneous symptoms were monitored. Of the 60 patients tested, 55 (91.7%) tolerated the drug with no adverse reaction. Only five (8.3%) patients demonstrated a positive response to oral challenge. The clinical presentations of intolerance to nimesulide were urticaria/angioedema in three patients, mild rhinitis in one patient, and mild dyspnea in one patient. The atopy prevalence was higher, with a ratio of 41.7%, in patients with ASA/NSAIDs intolerance than that of the healthy adult population in Turkey (p < 0.05). We believe that nimesulide can be used as an alternative drug for patients with ASA/NSAIDs intolerance.
This randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study compared the efficacy and safety of famciclovir administered at 250 mg thrice daily with acyclovir 800 mg 5 times daily for the treatment of acute uncomplicated herpes zoster in immunocompetent adults. A total of 55 patients participated in this trial. Twenty seven patients (49.1%) were randomized into the famciclovir plus placebo treatment group and 28 (50.9%) into the acyclovir plus placebo group. Six of the 55 patients did not complete the study. Two of these patients were in the famciclovir plus placebo group and dropped out due to deviation from the study protocol. Four patients in the acyclovir plus placebo group did not complete the study protocol due to adverse events (n = 2), deviation from the protocol (n = 1), or loss to follow-up (n = 1). Treatment was initiated within 72 h of onset of the zoster rash and was continued for 7 days. When treatment was initiated within 72 h, famciclovir was as effective as acyclovir for healing the cutaneous lesion, as indicated by the time to full crusting, loss of acute phase pain, loss of vesicles, and loss of crusts. Famciclovir was well tolerated and had a more favorable adverse event profile compared to acyclovir. Constipation, hematuria, and glycosuria were the most commonly reported adverse events, but only constipation was considered to have a possible relationship to the treatment. In conclusion, famciclovir, administered less frequently and at lower unit doses than acyclovir, is an effective treatment for uncomplicated herpes zoster.
Aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) refers to the development of bronchoconstriction in asthmatic individuals following the ingestion of aspirin or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE), a membrane-bound peptidase present in the lung, plays a pivotal role in the metabolism of the endogenous peptides involved in the pathogenesis of asthma.
We screened a Korean asthma cohort (581 asthmatics including 81 aspirin-intolerant asthmatics and 231 aspirin-tolerant asthmatics, and 181 normal controls) for four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs; -262 A>T and -115 T>C in the 5'-flanking region and +5467 T>C [Pro450Pro] and+11860 A>G [Thr776Thr] in the coding region) and one ins/del (+21288 CT) in the ACE gene.
None of the SNPs or haplotypes showed any association with the development of asthma, but they were significantly associated with the risk of AIA. Logistic regression indicated that the frequency of the rare alleles of -262 A>T and -115 T>C was higher in subjects with AIA than in subjects with aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) (P=0.003-0.01, P( corr)=0.015-0.05). Subjects homozygous for the rare alleles of -262 A>T and -115 T>C showed a greater decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1)) after aspirin provocation than those homozygous for the common alleles (P<0.05). A luciferase reporter assay indicated that ACE promoters containing the rare -262 A>T allele possessed lower activity than did those containing the common allele (P=0.009). In addition, ACE promoters bearing the rare -115 T>C allele had no luciferase activity. DNA-protein binding assays revealed a band containing the ACE promoter region (including -262 A) and a protein complex.
The -262 A>T polymorphism in the promoter of the ACE gene is associated with AIA, and the rare allele of -262 A>T may confer aspirin hypersensitivity via the down-regulation of ACE expression.
Previous studies of acrylamide (ACR) neuropathy in rat PNS [Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 151 (1998) 211] and cerebellum [Neurotoxicology, 2002a] have suggested that axon degeneration was not a primary effect and was, therefore, of unclear neurotoxicological significance. To continue morphological examination of ACR neurotoxicity in CNS, a cupric silver stain method was used to define spatiotemporal characteristics of nerve cell body, dendrite, axon and terminal degeneration in brainstem and spinal cord. Rats were exposed to ACR at a dose-rate of either 50 mg/kg per day (i.p.) or 21 mg/kg per day (p.o.), and at selected times brains and spinal cord were removed and processed for silver staining. Results show that intoxication at the higher ACR dose-rate produced a nearly pure terminalopathy in brainstem and spinal cord regions, ie. widespread nerve terminal degeneration and swelling were present in the absence of significant argyrophilic changes in neuronal cell bodies, dendrites or axons. Exposure to the lower ACR dose-rate caused initial nerve terminal argyrophilia in selected brainstem and spinal cord regions. As intoxication continued, axon degeneration developed in white matter of these CNS areas. At both dose-rates, argyrophilic changes in brainstem nerve terminals developed prior to the onset of significant gait abnormalities. In contrast, during exposure to the lower ACR dose-rate the appearance of axon degeneration in either brainstem or spinal cord was relatively delayed with respect to changes in gait. Thus, regardless of dose-rate, ACR intoxication produced early, progressive nerve terminal degeneration. Axon degeneration occurred primarily during exposure to the lower ACR dose-rate and developed after the appearance of terminal degeneration and neurotoxicity. Spatiotemporal analysis suggested that degeneration began at the nerve terminal and then moved as a function of time in a somal direction along the corresponding axon. These data suggest that nerve terminals are a primary site of ACR action and that expression of axonopathy is restricted to subchronic dosing-rates.
Based on evidence from morphometric studies of PNS, we suggested that acrylamide (ACR)-induced distal axon degeneration was a secondary effect related to duration of exposure [Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 151 (1998) 211]. To test this hypothesis in CNS, the cupric-silver stain method of de Olmos was used to define spatiotemporal characteristics of nerve somal, dendritic, axonal and terminal degeneration in rat cerebellum. Rats were exposed to ACR at either 50 mg/kg per day (i.p.) or 21 mg/kg per day (p.o.) and at selected times (i.p. = 5, 8 and 11 days; p.o. = 7, 14, 21, 28 and 38 days) brains were removed and processed for silver staining. Results demonstrate that intoxication at the higher ACR dose-rate produced early (day 5) and progressive degeneration of Purkinje cell dendrites in cerebellar cortex. Nerve terminal degeneration occurred concurrently with somatodendritic argyrophilia in cerebellar and brainstem nuclei that receive afferent input from Purkinje neurons. Relatively delayed (day 8), abundant axon degeneration was present in cerebellar white matter but not in cortical layers or in tracts carrying afferent fibers (cerebellar peduncles) from other brain nuclei. Axon argyrophilia coincided with the appearance of perikaryal degeneration, which was selective for Purkinje cells since silver impregnation of other cerebellar neurons was not evident in the different cortical layers or cerebellar nuclei. Intoxication at the lower ACR dose-rate produced simultaneous (day 14) dendrite, axon and nerve terminal argyrophilia and no somatic Purkinje cell degeneration. The spatiotemporal pattern of dendrite, axon and nerve terminal loss induced by both ACR dose-rates is consistent with Purkinje cell injury. Injured neurons are likely to be incapable of maintaining distal processes and, therefore, axon degeneration in the cerebellum is a component of a "dying-back" process of neuronal injury. Because cerebellar coordination of somatomotor activity is mediated solely through efferent projections of the Purkinje cell, injury to this neuron might contribute significantly to gait abnormalities that characterize ACR neurotoxicity.
Lower extremity arterial insufficiency, a relatively common complication of ergotamine ingestion, is a rare complication of methysergide therapy for migraine headaches. Methysergide causes one of two typical angiographic patterns: intra-abdominal extrinsic compression of the aorto-iliac vessels in patients with retroperitoneal fibrosis, or marked diffuse bilateral spasm of the superficial femoral arteries in those without retroperitoneal fibrosis. We report a patient with methysergide-induced bilateral lower extremity arterial spasm and review the relevant literature. When one of the above arteriographic patterns is recognized, methysergide ingestion should be considered as a possible etiology.
Targeted intervention of the B-Raf V600E gene product that is prominent in melanoma has been met with modest success. Here, we characterize the pharmacological properties of PLX4032, a next-generation inhibitor with exquisite specificity against the V600E oncogene and striking anti-melanoma activity. PLX4032 induces potent cell cycle arrest, inhibits proliferation, and initiates apoptosis exclusively in V600E-positive cells in a variety of in vitro experimental systems; follow-up xenograft studies demonstrate extreme selectivity and efficacy against melanoma tumors bearing the V600E oncoproduct. The collective data support further exploration of PLX4032 as a candidate drug for patients with metastatic melanoma; accordingly, validation of PLX4032 as a therapeutic tool for patients with melanoma is now underway in advanced human (Phase III) clinical trials.
