A 74 year old woman became progressively confused and developed visual hallucinations and delusions over a six day period, after the institution of routine oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy for a urinary tract infection. The medication was discontinued, and a marked improvement was noted 36 hours later. There was a complete return to normal mental functioning 60 hours after therapy was discontinued. The relationship between the patient's symptoms with the initiation and discontinuation of the medication suggests that the drug had a causal effect.
Fluoxetine has been reported to have interactions with antipsychotics and other antidepressants with symptoms of toxicity of these drugs. We report a case of a possible interaction with pimozide which led to a potentially life threatening bradycardia. Careful monitoring should be done when these two drugs are prescribed at the same time, especially in the elderly and in patients with cardiac disease.
The glutathione peroxidase 1 gene (GPX1) and the manganese superoxide dismutase gene (MnSOD) encode the main antioxidant enzymes that detoxify endogenous reactive oxygen species involved in carcinogenesis. Polymorphisms of GPX1 and MnSOD genes, and the risk of transitional cell cancer of the bladder were tested.
Genotypes of the leucine (Leu) to proline (Pro) polymorphism at codon 198 of GPX1, the alanine (Ala) to Valine (Val) polymorphism in exon 2 and the isoleucine to threonine polymorphism at codon 56 of MnSOD were determined by a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism technique in 213 patients and 209 normal controls.
There was a significant difference in GPX1 genotype frequency between the case and control groups (p = 0.001). The adjusted OR for bladder cancer was 2.63 for the Pro/Leu genotype compared with the Pro/Pro genotype (95% CI 1.45 to 4.75, p = 0.001). Compared with the Pro/Pro genotype the Pro/Leu genotype was significantly associated with advanced tumor stage (Ta-1 vs T2-4, OR 2.58, 95% CI 1.07 to 6.18, p = 0.034) but not with tumor grade. Analysis of the MnSOD polymorphism provided no significant results. However, in men with at least 1 Ala MnSOD allele the risk associated with the Pro/Leu GPX1 genotype increased up to 6.31 (95% CI 1.28 to 31.24, p = 0.024).
The GPX1 Pro/Leu genotype may significantly increase the risk of bladder cancer and the increased risk may be modified by the Ala-9Val MnSOD polymorphism. The GPX1 genotype may further affect the disease status of bladder cancer.
To investigate the effect of icariin on erectile function and the expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms in castrated rats.
Thirty-two adult male Wistar rats were randomly divided into one sham-operated group (A) and three castrated groups (B, C and D). One week after surgery, rats were treated with normal saline (groups A and B) or oral icariin (1 mg/[kg.day] for group C and 5 mg/[kg.day] for group D) for 4 weeks. One week after treatment, the erectile function of the rats was assessed by measuring intracavernosal pressure (ICP) during electrostimulation of the cavernosal nerve. The serum testosterone (ST) levels, the percent of smooth muscle (PSM) in trabecular tissue, and the expression of mRNA and proteins of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and phosphodiesterase V (PDE5) in corpus cavernosum (CC) were also evaluated.
ICP, PSM, ST and the expression of nNOS, iNOS, eNOS and PDE5 were significantly decreased in group B compared with those in group A (P 0.01). However, ICP, PSM and the expression of nNOS and iNOS were increased in groups C and D compared with those in group B (P 0.05). Changes in ST and the expression of eNOS and PDE5 were not significant (P 0.05) in groups C and D compared with those in group B.
Oral treatment with icariin ( 98.6 % purity) for 4 weeks potentially improves erectile function. This effect is correlated with an increase in PSM and the expression of certain NOS in the CC of castrated rats. These results suggest that icariin may have a therapeutic effect on erectile dysfunction.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin(IL)-1beta is a main component in inflammatory pathways and is overexpressed in the brain of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Several studies report associations between IL-1beta polymorphisms and AD, but findings from different studies are controversial. Our aim was to verify the correlation between the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the IL-1beta, at sites -511 and +3953, and AD by meta-analysis. Computerized bibliographic searches of PUBMED and AlzGene database (http://www.alzgene.org) were supplemented with manual searches of reference lists. There is evidence for association between IL-1beta +3953 SNP and AD, with an OR=1.60 (95% C.I.: 1.16-2.22; Z=2.83 p=0.005) for TT genotype. No significant difference in genotype distribution of the IL-1beta -511 SNP in AD was obtained, but high between-study heterogeneity was found. To reduce heterogeneity, subgroup analyses were performed using, as stratifying variables, characteristics of the population under study (age, gender, type of AD diagnosis, Mini Mental State Examination of the controls) and characteristics related to the study design (statistical power of individual studies). The frequency of the IL-1beta -511 TT genotype resulted significantly higher than other genotypes only when the Caucasian studies with the highest statistical power were included in the subgroup analysis (OR=1.32; 95% C.I.: 1.03-1.69; p=0.03), with no evidence of between-study heterogeneity. Our data support an association between the TT genotype of IL-1beta +3953 SNP and AD, and suggest a possible association of the -511 TT genotype. Unreplicability of the results seems to be due mainly to the lack of statistical power of the individual studies.
Ciprofloxacin has been reported to cause theophylline toxicity by inhibiting theophylline metabolism. A 93-year-old woman without a known seizure history, while on ciprofloxacin and theophylline combined therapy, experienced a grand mal seizure. Her serum theophylline concentration at the time was 20 micrograms/mL. On previous occasion of theophylline toxicity, she had a serum theophylline concentration of 27 micrograms/ml but the patient did not experience any seizure. Several reports suggest that the combination of theophylline and ciprofloxacin has an additive inhibitory effect on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) sites. Inhibition of the binding of GABA to its receptor sites has been related to the convulsant effects of other drugs. The seizure in our patient may have been caused by altered pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics brought about by combined therapy of theophylline and ciprofloxacin.
Chloroform is a liver carcinogen in mice and a kidney carcinogen in rats. It is thought to act through a non-genotoxic-cytotoxic mode of action. Changes in expression of growth control genes accompanying chloroform-induced cytolethality and regeneration may play a part in the development of chloroform-induced tumors. In this experiment, we examined the levels of the myc, fos, Ha-ras, met and hepatocyte growth factor mRNA in livers of female B6C3F(1) mice and kidneys of male F-344 rats to detect changes in gene expression following a single, cytotoxic gavage dose of chloroform in corn oil. Poly A+ RNA was purified from homogenates of livers of mice treated with 350mg/kg chloroform and kidneys of rats treated with 180 mg/kg chloroform and used for Northern blot analysis. Livers of female mice showed large transient increases in levels of myc and fos mRNA while levels of Ha-ras, met and the hepatocyte growth factor gene mRNA remained near control levels. In the male rat kidney, levels of myc mRNA increased after treatement, while levels of mRNA of all other genes examined remained near control levels. This pattern of gene expression is consistent with that induced by other cytotoxic carcinogens and suggest that alteration of the myc and fos genes could be involved in the regenerative cell proliferation that ultimately could play a role in chloroform-induced tumors.
Thalidomide (TD) displays remarkable species specificity, causing birth defects (teratogenesis) in humans and rabbits, but not rats or mice; yet, few determinants of species susceptibility have been identified. Also, certain mouse strains are susceptible to the embryopathic effects of some teratogens in embryo culture despite their resistance in vivo. Herein we show that CD-1 mouse embryos in culture are resistant to limb embryopathies caused by TD and two of its hydrolysis products, 2-phthalimidoglutaramic acid and 2-phthalimidoglutaric acid, although all three compounds cause these embryopathies in rabbit embryo culture. These results show that the resistance of CD-1 mice to TD teratogenesis is inherent to the embryo and is not dependent upon maternal factors, including differential in vivo exposure to the many hydrolysis products of TD. In utero TD exposure of rabbit but not mouse embryos elevates levels of the teratogenic oxidative DNA lesion 8-oxoguanine, which is repaired by oxoguanine glycosylase 1 (OGG1). However, DNA repair-deficient ogg1 knockout mice proved resistant to TD-initiated embryopathies in culture and teratogenesis in vivo, indicating that the resistance of mice is not due to a higher level of DNA repair.
Cimetidine, a histamine2-receptor antagonist, is used in the treatment and prophylaxis of peptic ulcer disease. Its use is relatively free of serious adverse reactions and only a few accounts of hypersensitivity exist. We report a case of intravenous cimetidine-associated adverse reaction characterized by junctional rhythm, bradycardia, and hypotension apparently not secondary to rapid intravenous cimetidine infusion. The adverse reaction was reproduced upon rechallenge. No previous accounts of this reaction appear clearly defined in the literature nor have such reactions been confirmed by rechallenge.
The expanding therapeutic uses of thalidomide (TD) are limited by its teratogenic side effects. Although the therapeutic and teratogenic effects may be stereoselectively separable, rapid in vivo racemization of the TD isomers confounds the corroboration of this distinction. Herein we evaluated the potential of fluorothalidomide (FTD), the closest structural analog of TD with stable, nonracemizing isomers, as a model compound for studying stereoselectivity in TD teratogenesis. In contrast to TD, FTD was a potent maternal and fetal toxicant in both rabbits and mice in vivo. Furthermore, FTD rapidly degraded in vivo, presumably via hydrolysis, which in vitro was up to 22-fold faster for FTD than TD. Most critically, in an established rabbit embryo culture model for TD teratogenesis, FTD did not initiate the limb bud embryopathies observed with TD. The chemical instability and strikingly different maternal and developmental toxicological profiles of FTD and TD make FTD an unsuitable compound for studying stereoselective mechanisms of TD teratogenesis.
Mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) is the main characteristic of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), which is highly correlated with the frequencies of recurrent seizures as well as degrees of severity of TLE. A recent MRI technique, referred to as diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI), can resolve crossing fibers and investigate the intravoxel heterogeneity of water molecular diffusion. Being able to achieve higher accuracy in depicting the complex fiber architecture, DSI may help improve localization of the seizure-induced epileptic foci. In this study, two indices of DSI, which represented the mean diffusivity (MSL) and diffusion anisotropy (DA), were proposed. A correlative study between diffusion characteristics and the severity of MFS was investigated in the pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) rat model. Nine SE rats and five control rats were studied with MRI and histological Timm's staining. For MSL, no significant correlation was found in the dentate gyrus (DG), r=-0.36; p=0.2017, and positive correlation was found in cornu ammonis (CA3), r=0.62; p=0.0174. The correlation between DA and Timm's score showed positive correlation in DG, r=0.71; p=0.0047, and negative correlation in CA3, r=-0.63; p=0.0151. Our results were compatible with the previous reports on fiber architecture alterations in DG and CA3 subregions. In conclusion, the histological correspondence of DSI indices was demonstrated. With DSI indices, longitudinal follow-up of hippocampal fiber architecture can be achieved to elucidate the pathophysiology of TLE, which might be helpful in disease localization.
The polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) and dibenzo[a,l]pyrene (DB[a,l]P) are well-studied environmental carcinogens, however, their potency within a complex mixture is uncertain. We investigated the influence of urban dust particulate matter (UDPM) on the bioactivation and tumor initiation of B[a]P and DB[a,l]P in an initiation-promotion tumorigenesis model. SENCAR mice were treated topically with UDPM or in combination with B[a]P or DB[a,l]P, followed by weekly application of the promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13 acetate. UDPM exhibited weak tumor-initiating activity but significantly delayed the onset of B[a]P-induced tumor initiation by two-fold. When cotreated with UDPM, DB[a,l]P-treated animals displayed no significant difference in tumor-initiating activity, compared with DB[a,l]P alone. Tumor initiation correlated with PAH-DNA adducts, as detected by (33)P-postlabeling and reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP)1A1 and 1B1 proteins was also detected following UDPM treatment or cotreatment with B[a]P or DB[a,l]P, indicating PAH bioactivation. Further genotoxicity analyses by the comet assay revealed that cotreatment of UDPM plus B[a]P or DB[a,l]P resulted in increased DNA strand breaks, compared with PAH treatment alone. The metabolizing activities of CYP1A1 and CYP1B1, as measured by the 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation (EROD) assay, revealed that UDPM noncompetitively inhibited CYP1A1 and CYP1B1 EROD activity in a dose-dependent manner. Overall, these data suggest that components within complex mixtures can alter PAH-induced carcinogenesis by inhibiting CYP bioactivation and influence other genotoxic effects, such as oxidative DNA damage. These data further suggest that in addition to the levels of potent PAH, the effects of other mixture components must be considered when predicting human cancer risk.
Manganese (Mn) neurotoxicity in adults can result in psychological and neurological disturbances similar to Parkinson's disease, including extrapyramidal motor system defects and altered behaviors. Iron (Fe) deficiency is one of the most prevalent nutritional disorders in the world, affecting approximately 2 billion people, especially pregnant and lactating women, infants, toddlers, and adolescents. Fe deficiency can enhance brain Mn accumulation even in the absence of excess Mn in the environment or the diet. To assess the neurochemical interactions of dietary Fe deficiency and excess Mn during development, neonatal rats were exposed to either a control diet, a low-Fe diet (ID), or a low-Fe diet supplemented with Mn (IDMn) via maternal milk during the lactation period (postnatal days [PN] 4-21). In PN21 pups, both the ID and IDMn diets produced changes in blood parameters characteristic of Fe deficiency: decreased hemoglobin (Hb) and plasma Fe, increased plasma transferrin (Tf), and total iron binding capacity (TIBC). Treated ID and IDMn dams also had decreased Hb throughout lactation and ID dams had decreased plasma Fe and increased Tf and TIBC on PN21. Both ID and IDMn pups had decreased Fe and increased copper brain levels; in addition, IDMn pups also had increased brain levels of several other essential metals including Mn, chromium, zinc, cobalt, aluminum, molybdenum, and vanadium. Concurrent with altered concentrations of metals in the brain, transport proteins divalent metal transporter-1 and transferrin receptor were increased. No significant changes were determined for the neurotransmitters gamma aminobutyric acid and glutamate. The results of this study confirm that there is homeostatic relationship among several essential metals in the brain and not simply between Fe and Mn.
We report the occurrence of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion in 3 patients with breast carcinoma metastatic to the liver who received hepatic arterial infusion of vinblastine at lower doses than those previously associated with this effect. Leukopenia was severe in all patients, who additionally experienced hypokalemia with excessive kaliuresis. The etiology of the observed hypokalemia is unclear. We suspect that vinblastine may induce renal tubular dysfunction. These toxicities appear dose-related.
The effect of adriamycin (doxorubicin)-induced proteinuria, which is characterized by a defect in the glomerular size selective filter with intact charge barrier function, was studied on the glomerular localization of immune aggregates and protamine-heparin aggregates. For that purpose, passive Heymann's nephritis and protamine-heparin aggregates were induced in rats with adriamycin nephrosis (mean proteinuria 311 mg/24 hours at 4 weeks after intravenous administration of adriamycin, 6.5 mg/kg). The distribution of immune aggregates and protamine-heparin aggregates in the proteinuric rats was studied by immunofluorescence and electron microscopy and compared with glomerular aggregate localization in untreated control rats. The amount of glomerular aggregates was measured by semiquantative immunofluorescence. The results showed that glomerular localization of immune aggregates in nephrotic rats was similar to that in control rats. The aggregates were present in a granular distribution along the epithelial side of the glomerular basement membrane and also in areas of widespread foot process obliteration, in a slightly lesser amount than in controls. The localization of protamine-heparin aggregates in the glomerular capillary wall of nephrotic rats was identical with that in controls. No mesangial accumulation of immune or protamine-heparin aggregates was found. The results indicate that increased permeability per se has no effect on the glomerular distribution of macromolecular aggregates. In addition, this study shows that in adriamycin-induced nephrosis--in contrast to what has been reported in aminonucleoside nephrosis--(a) the glomerular capillary wall has maintained the antigens that take part in in situ immune complex formation in passive Heymann's nephritis, (b) the intact glomerular charge barrier is capable of binding protamine-heparin aggregates, and (c) no mesangial accumulation of aggregates occurs, suggesting a normal mesangial function in this model.
Glutamatergic overactivity might be involved in L-dopa-induced motor complications since glutamate antagonists reverse and prevent L-dopa-induced shortening in motor response duration in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned (6-OHDA) rats and improve L-dopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian monkeys and in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). An increase in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) glutamatergic activity is believed to contribute to the pathophysiology of PD. However, the role of STN activity in L-dopa-induced motor complications is not so clear. In this study, the effect of STN lesions on L-dopa-induced motor response complications was investigated in rats with a nigrostriatal pathway lesion induced by 6-OHDA. Animals were injected with 6-OHDA in the medial forebrain bundle and treated with L-dopa or saline for 22 days. On day 16, animals were randomly distributed in groups that underwent surgery in the STN ipsilateral or contralateral to 6-OHDA lesion, or bilateral. Rotational behavior was measured on days 1, 15, and 22. Attenuation of STN activity by contralateral and bilateral, but not ipsilateral, STN lesion reversed the shortening in motor response duration induced by L-dopa. L-dopa administration, but not saline, induced prominent dyskinesias in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats with additional bilateral STN lesions. The results indicate that bilateral lesions of STN potentiate the duration of L-dopa-induced motor response and facilitate chronic L-dopa-induced abnormal involuntary movements in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The characteristics of the abnormal involuntary movements observed in these animals are similar to L-dopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian patients and might be useful as an experimental model for the study of L-dopa-induced dyskinesia.
This study aims to define the influence of chlorhexidine on taste, considering either its concentration in mouthwashes or time of rinsing.
Suprathreshold taste acuity of 40 healthy subjects tasting variously concentrated solutions of sucrose, sodium chloride, citric acid and quinine hydrochloride was determined. Subjects were divided into four groups. Three groups rinsed their mouths during one minute, twice a day, for seven days, with a selected mouthwash (respectively 0.12%, 0.20%, and 0.30% chlorhexidine solutions). The fourth group rinsed in the same manner with a 0.30% chlorhexidine mouthwash, and time of rinsing was 15".
All the mouthwashes reduced taste acuity for salt and bitter; the perception of sweet and sour was not significantly modified. Chlorhexidine acted on taste in different ways: salt perception reached the lowest value on the second day of treatment and the degree of hypogeusia changed no more till mouthrinses were interrupted. Bitter perception was progressively reduced and reached the lowest value on the seventh day. In both cases taste reduction lasted some days after the interruption of mouthrinses. Quality of all tastes was altered by mouthwashes, but incidence of dysgeusia was not related to chlorhexidine concentration.
Hypogeusia induced by chlorhexidine concerns specifically salt and bitter. Chlorhexidine concentration in mouthwashes till 0.12% and mucosa exposure not exceeding 60" twice a day, seem the best procedure to protect tastes in clinical practice.
Investigation of the transcription profile of cells transformed by Cr(6+) in vivo was undertaken. The objective was to elucidate genomic changes underlying the mechanism of action of the carcinogenic dose of Cr(6+)and their prevention using metabolic antioxidant lipoic acid (LA). Cr(6+) was administered intraperitoneally to LPS+TPA challenged Swiss albino mice in host mediated cell transformation assay using peritoneal macrophages in vivo. The cell transforming potential of Cr(6+) test doses was validated by gain of anchorage independent growth potential in soft agar and loss of Fc receptor on target cells. LA was administered in equimolar doses. Compared to non-transformed cells, the gene expression profile of transformed cells was found to be dysregulated substantially and in dose dependent manner. Genes showing down regulation were found to be involved in tumour suppression, apoptosis, DNA repair, and cell-cycle. A similar response was noted in the genes pertaining to immune system, morphogenesis, cell-communication, energy-metabolism, and biosynthesis. The co-administration of lipoic acid prevented the transcription dysregulation and cell transformation by Cr(6+) in vivo. The influenced pathways seem to be crucial for progression as well as mitigation of Cr toxicity; and their response to LA indicated their critical role in mechanism of anti-carcinogenic action of LA. Results are of importance to mitigate Cr(6+) induced occupational cancer hazard.
Continuous administration of 500 ppm hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) in the diet induced 100% liver tumors in mice, but none were observed in rats and hamsters treated with the same dose of HCH. In Swiss male mice, tumor incidence at earlier ages was greater than that observed in corresponding age groups of Swiss female mice. It was further observed that in Swiss females, sex hormones retarded the tumorigenic effect of HCH; in BALB/c mice a similar phenomenon was not observed.
To determine changes in serum prolactin levels in outpatients with DSM-IV-diagnosed major depressive disorder (MDD) following a 12-week open-label trial of fluoxetine.
87 outpatients enrolled in the trial had serum prolactin levels determined at baseline and during their final visit (week 12 or discontinuation visit). In addition, serum testosterone levels were measured in 44 of the 46 men during these 2 visits. Hyperprolactinemia was defined as a serum prolactin level greater than 16.5 ng/mL or 18.9 ng/mL for men and women, respectively. The study was conducted from September 1997 to March 2002.
Of 80 patients with normal prolactin levels at baseline, 10 (12.5%) developed hyper-prolactinemia following fluoxetine treatment. Specifically, 2 (4.5%) of 44 men and 8 (22.2%) of 36 women with normal prolactin levels at baseline developed hyperprolactinemia following treatment with fluoxetine (p = .0174 for between-gender difference). In addition, there was a significant increase in mean +/- SD serum prolactin levels following treatment with fluoxetine in all patients with normal baseline prolactin levels (6.4 +/- 3.4 to 10.0 +/- 7.0 ng/mL, p = .002). There were no significant changes from baseline in testosterone levels in men following fluoxetine treatment (448.4 +/- 139.6 to 439.5 +/- 142.1 ng/dL, p > .05; normal above 245 ng/dL), while none of the 44 men developed low testosterone levels following fluoxetine treatment.
4.5% of men and 22.2% of women with MDD developed new onset hyper-prolactinemia following fluoxetine treatment.
The potential risk of spina bifida (SB) after fetal exposure to Valproate led the authors to apply the following protocol: in case of first trimester exposure to Valproate, prenatal diagnosis is offered and consists of both amniotic fluid examination and fetal ultrasound to detect open spina bifida. In the period 1983 to June, 1986, this program allowed early detection of three cases of SB and pregnancy termination. Another case escaped the programme: neural tube defect was detected lately and the child had to be operated upon. These four cases of SB underline the necessity of prenatal diagnosis with combined use and confrontation of ultrasound examination and biochemical amniotic fluid tests.
This study was aimed to evaluate the preventive role of naringin on heart weight, blood glucose, total proteins, albumin/globulin (A/G) ratio, serum uric acid, serum iron, plasma iron binding capacity and membrane bound enzymes such as sodium potassium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase (Na(+)/K(+) ATPase), calcium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase (Ca(2+) ATPase) and magnesium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase (Mg(2+) ATPase) and glycoproteins such as hexose, hexosamine, fucose and sialic acid in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction (MI) in rats and in vitro free radical scavenging assay. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with naringin (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, respectively) for a period of 56 days. After the treatment period, ISO (85 mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected to rats at an interval of 24 h for 2 days. ISO-induced rats showed a significant (P<0.05) increase in the heart weight, blood glucose, serum uric acid, serum iron and a significant (P<0.05) decrease in the levels of total proteins, A/G ratio and iron binding capacity. A significant (P<0.05) decrease in the activity of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase and increase in the activities of Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) ATPase in the heart and a significant (P<0.05) increase in the levels of glycoproteins in serum and the heart were also observed in ISO-induced rats. Pretreatment with naringin for a period of 56 days exhibited a significant (P<0.05) effect and altered these biochemical parameters positively in ISO-induced rats. Naringin also scavenges 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2'-azinobis-(3-ethyl-benzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) and nitric oxide (NO) radicals in vitro. Thus, our study shows that naringin has cardioprotective role in ISO-induced MI in rats.
Raloxifene therapy is associated with a three-fold increase in the risk for venous thromboembolism; however, its effects on the hemostatic system in postmenopausal women have not been well defined.
To determine the effects of raloxifene therapy on the levels of natural anticoagulant proteins in postmenopausal women.
Sixteen healthy postmenopausal women were enrolled in this prospective longitudinal study. The patients were treated with raloxifene hydrochloride (60 mg/day) for a period of 6 months. Antithrombin and protein C activities and protein S antigen levels were measured in all users at baseline, and after 1, 3 and 6 months of treatment. Statistical analysis included one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and the Bonferroni test for multiple comparisons among the study periods.
Statistically significant 5.1% and 6.5% reductions of plasma antithrombin activity were observed at 3 and 6 months of therapy, respectively (p < 0.05). Compared with baseline, raloxifene did not significantly affect protein C activity or protein S level.
The results of this prospective study show for the first time that raloxifene use is associated with a significant reduction in plasma antithrombin activity. This effect may contribute to a procoagulant state and partly explain the increased risk of venous thromboembolism in raloxifene users.
A variety of forms of painful stimulation were delivered to human subjects in order to determine whether therapeutic dosages of systemic morphine might produce significant attenuation of some forms of phasic pain that are tolerable for experimental usage. Consistent with previous reports, simple application of thermal or electrical energy to the skin (for 3 sec) produced sensations of pain that were not significantly reduced by prior administration of morphine. Similarly, subjects that were trained to focus their attention on the magnitude of the immediate (first) pain sensation evoked by brief electrical or mechanical stimulation did not report reduction by morphine of pain attributed to conduction in myelinated peripheral nociceptors. In contrast, the magnitude of late (second) pain sensations produced by brief pulses of electrical, thermal or mechanical stimuli to the same subjects was consistently reduced significantly by doses of 5 or 10 mg of morphine. The simplest interpretation of the effect on second pain intensity is that morphine preferentially attenuates input from unmyelinated nociceptors. This conclusion was reinforced by an experiment in which chemicals were applied to the skin. Morphine reduced pain produced by capsaicin (presumed to selectively excite unmyelinated peripheral afferents) but did not diminish pain elicited by bradykinin (presumed to excite A delta and C nociceptors). Comparing long duration pains from chemical stimulation (lasting in excess of 5 min) with briefer pains elicited by 50 msec to 3 sec of stimulation did not support the notion that morphine acts selectively on tonic pain. Also, after-sensations that could be discerned following second pain were not eliminated by morphine, and paired pulse facilitation of first pain sensations remained after administration of morphine, indicating that temporal summation is not preferentially reduced. Regardless of duration, frequency or latency, pain arising exclusively from unmyelinated nociceptors was attenuated substantially, but other elicited sensations were not reliably affected. For example, detection thresholds for warmth were unaffected by morphine, demonstrating that input from all unmyelinated afferents is not reduced.
Diesel exhaust (DE), which is emitted from on- and off-road sources, is a complex mixture of toxic gaseous and particulate components that leads to triggered adverse cardiovascular effects such as arrhythmias.
We hypothesized that increased risk of triggered arrhythmias 1 day after DE exposure is mediated by airway sensory nerves bearing transient receptor potential (TRP) channels [e.g., transient receptor potential cation channel, member A1 (TRPA1)] that, when activated by noxious chemicals, can cause a centrally mediated autonomic imbalance and heightened risk of arrhythmia.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats implanted with radiotelemeters were whole-body exposed to either 500 μg/m³ (high) or 150 μg/m³ (low) whole DE (wDE) or filtered DE (fDE), or to filtered air (controls), for 4 hr. Arrhythmogenesis was assessed 24 hr later by continuous intravenous infusion of aconitine, an arrhythmogenic drug, while heart rate (HR) and electrocardiogram (ECG) were monitored.
Rats exposed to wDE or fDE had slightly higher HRs and increased low-frequency:high-frequency ratios (sympathetic modulation) than did controls; ECG showed prolonged ventricular depolarization and shortened repolarization periods. Rats exposed to wDE developed arrhythmia at lower doses of aconitine than did controls; the dose was even lower in rats exposed to fDE. Pretreatment of low wDE-exposed rats with a TRPA1 antagonist or sympathetic blockade prevented the heightened sensitivity to arrhythmia.
These findings suggest that a single exposure to DE increases the sensitivity of the heart to triggered arrhythmias. The gaseous components appear to play an important role in the proarrhythmic response, which may be mediated by activation of TRPA1, and subsequent sympathetic modulation. As such, toxic inhalants may partly exhibit their toxicity by lowering the threshold for secondary triggers, complicating assessment of their risk.
Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats and New Zealand white rabbits were exposed to vapors of epichlorohydrin (ECH) at concentrations of 0, 2.5 or 25 ppm or to allyl chloride (AC) at concentrations of 0, 30, or 300 ppm. Exposures were for 7 hr/day on days 6 through 15 (rats) or 6 through 18 (rabbits) of gestation. Maternal effects including decreased body weight and food consumption were observed among rats inhaling 25 ppm of ECH. No evidence of an adverse effect to the embryo or fetus was observed among rats or rabbits following exposure to ECH. In the AC study maternal toxicity occurred in both rats and rabbits treated at 300 ppm. These consisted of depressed weight gain during gestation and increases in liver weight (both species) and kidney weights (rats only). Fetuses from rats exposed to 300 ppm of AC had a slight delay in skeletal development but there were no other signs of embryotoxicity. Thus, ECH and AC were not teratogenic or embryolethal in rats or rabbits following inhalation exposure to concentrations which induced effects in the maternal animals.
