A case of acute myocarditis associated with the commencement of clozapine is described, highlighting the onset, course and possible contributing factors. There is an urgent need to raise awareness about this potentially fatal complication of clozapine use.
A 20-year-old male with schizophrenia developed a sudden onset of myocarditis after commencement of clozapine. The patient recovered with intensive medical support. The symptoms occurred around 2 weeks after starting clozapine in an inpatient setting. Possible contributing factors may have been concomitant antidepressant use and unaccustomed physical activity.
Myocarditis is an increasingly recognized complication associated with the use of clozapine. It can be fatal if not recognized and treated early. Considering that clozapine remains the gold standard in treatment of resistant psychosis, there is an urgent need to raise awareness among medical and paramedical staff involved in the care of these patients. There are also implications for recommendations and regulations regarding the use of clozapine.
This prospective study contains clinical and experimental parts. In the clinical study, 125 patients given intramuscular chloroquine for malaria were followed for 2 months in order to detect local injection site complications. Adequate local antiseptic conditions were ensured before giving the injection. Twenty-three patients (18.4%) had minimal local reaction in the form of redness, induration and/or a lump. No pyogenic abscess was noted in contrast to a previous report. In the second part of the study, an experimental animal (Green monkey) was given either chloroquine phosphate, Ampiclox or normal saline intramuscularly. The injection site was later biopsied and histologically examined. Intramuscular chloroquine was found to cause severe inflammatory reactions and muscle necrosis, whereas other injections had very minimal local effects. It is concluded that intramuscular chloroquine causes muscle necrosis which may lead to acute pyogenic abscess if minimal contamination takes place.
Cocaine ingestion has been associated with thrombosis of coronary as well as peripheral arteries, but the mechanism by which cocaine promotes thrombus formation is unknown. Accordingly, we determined whether cocaine activates human platelets by flow cytometric analysis of whole blood to which cocaine was added.
Activated platelets were detected by "two-color" flow cytometric analysis of the binding of fluorescently labeled antibodies directed against either platelet-associated fibrinogen or P-selectin, which are found on the surface of platelets only after stimulation. Platelets were distinguished from other constituents of whole blood by their ability to bind an anti-glycoprotein Ib antibody bound to both activated and resting platelets. Incubation of whole blood with cocaine, in concentrations of 10 microM to 13 mM, induced significant increases in both platelet-associated fibrinogen (range of increase, 45 +/- 12% to 125 +/- 40%) and P-selectin expression (36 +/- 15% to 112 +/- 24%). In platelets suspended in either buffer or plasma, however, P-selectin expression was detected only at the highest cocaine concentration (85 +/- 13% increase in plasma and 59 +/- 7% in buffer). Neither aspirin nor the ADP scavenger apyrase inhibited cocaine-induced P-selectin expression. Cocaine inhibited the uptake of 14C-radiolabeled serotonin by platelets (IC50, 8.7 microM). P-selectin expression and fibrinogen binding were found after the addition of cocaine alone to blood taken from some but not all donors; however, platelet activation in response to submaximal concentrations of the agonists ADP or epinephrine was enhanced by a low concentration of cocaine added to blood from every donor.
Cocaine, in concentrations similar to those found clinically, induces activation of individual platelets studied in whole blood from some but not all donors, and platelet response to physiological agonists is enhanced by cocaine. Thus, cocaine-induced platelet activation may contribute to thrombosis following cocaine ingestion.
Veno-occlusive disease continues to be a significant cause of morbidity and early mortality following bone marrow transplantation. This study retrospectively analyzes the incidence and risk factors for severe VOD in 350 patients treated with 4 days of busulfan (total 16 mg/kg) and 2 days of cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg) at four marrow transplant centers. Using the criteria defined by McDonald et al (Hepatology 1984; 4: 116-122), 93/350 (27%) developed VOD (11% mild, 5% moderate and 11% severe). Multivariate analysis revealed the following risk factors to be significantly associated with severe VOD: pretransplant transaminase and alkaline phosphatase elevation, ciprofloxacin antibiotic prophylaxis, use of estrogen/progestins or vancomycin during the peritransplant period and methotrexate for GVHD prophylaxis. Mild to moderate grades of VOD were not associated with significantly increased mortality but mortality was higher in patients with severe VOD (31%, P = 0.0013). These data suggest that risk factors for VOD may depend on the preparative regimen used and suggest that use of these risk factors may identify a subgroup of patients that can be targetted for studies of prevention of VOD.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of H(1) (antazoline and astemizole) or H(2) (cimetidine and famotidine) histamine receptor antagonists on the clonic phase, tonic seizures and morality of mice challenged with aminophylline to induce convulsions in mice. Moreover, the total plasma and brain concentrations of theophylline were evaluated. Astemizole (1 mg/kg) did not affect the threshold for aminophylline-induced seizures, but when administered at a dose of 2 mg/kg, it significantly reduced the CD(50) value of aminophylline from 249 mg/kg to 211 mg/kg (p < 0.01). The remaining histamine receptor antagonists studied i.e., antazoline (up to 1 mg/kg), cimetidine (up to 40 mg/kg) and famotidine (up to 10 mg/kg) had no impact on seizure susceptibility in aminophylline-induced convulsions. Furthermore, astemizole (2 mg/kg) decreased latency to the clonic phase of aminophylline-induced convulsions from 51.1 +/- 4.5 to 32.1 +/- 4.3 min (p < 0.01). It is noteworthy that astemizole, a novel H(1) receptor antagonist, did not alter the brain and plasma levels of theophylline, so the existence of pharmacokinetic interactions was excluded. Our results indicate that some interactions between methylxanthines and histamine receptor antagonists may be clinically important since these drugs are usually combined during the treatment of status asthmaticus.
Levosimendan, a novel calcium-dependent calcium sensitizer of the myocardial contractile proteins, also enhances diastolic relaxation and induces peripheral vasodilation by opening potassium channels. To assess the combined energetical effects of levosimendan infusion in vivo, we performed positron emission tomography in patients with decompensated chronic heart failure.
Eight hospitalized patients with New York Heart Association functional class III or IV heart failure received levosimendan or placebo intravenously in a randomized double-blind cross-over study. During steady-state, dynamic positron emission tomography with [11C]acetate was used to assess myocardial oxygen consumption and [15O]H2O to measure myocardial blood flow. Cardiac performance and dimensions were assessed by pulmonary artery catheterization and echocardiography. Compared with healthy volunteers, myocardial oxygen consumption during placebo was elevated in the right ventricle but comparable in the left ventricle. During administration of levosimendan, cardiac output increased by 32% (P = .002) mainly because of higher stroke volume. Coronary, pulmonary, and systemic vascular resistance values were significantly reduced. Mean myocardial blood flow increased from 0.76 to 1.02 mL/min/g (P = .033). Levosimendan was neutral on myocardial oxygen consumption and left ventricular efficiency, but it improved right ventricular mechanical efficiency by 24% (P = .012).
Levosimendan has an energetically favorable short-term profile in the treatment of congestive heart failure. It enhances cardiac output without oxygen wasting, particularly by improving efficiency in the right ventricle.
In contrast to previous reports, the authors were impressed by the frequency of myocarditis in the endomyocardial biopsy specimens of patients treated with anthracyclines. To examine this, they reviewed the histologic and electron microscopic results and immunoperoxidase stains of myocardial biopsy specimens from 11 patients with doxorubicin cardiotoxicity grades 1.0-3.0. Immunoperoxidase stains for lymphocytes, macrophages, and endothelial cells and induced expression of Class II antigen were performed using the avidin-biotin complex procedure. A full panel of monoclonal antibodies was employed on fresh-frozen tissue; a smaller panel was used with formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded material. Four of the 11 endomyocardial biopsy specimens showed myocarditis, and 2 showed borderline myocarditis by the Dallas criteria. The infiltrating lymphocytes were generally characterized as T lymphocytes and were associated with induced Class II antigen expression by arterial endothelial cells. In addition, foci of replacement fibrosis, suggesting a chronic process, were identified. Although this association does not prove a causal relationship, these results suggest that myocarditis can be a component of doxorubicin-induced myocardial injury.
To determine the changes in haemodynamics, tolerability and pharmacokinetics that may occur when a combination of tolcapone and levodopa/carbidopa are given with desipramine.
In a crossover study, 22 healthy subjects received desipramine during two 13-day treatment periods (25 mg t.i.d. for 3 days and 50 mg t.i.d. for 10 days), with a washout period of 10-15 days. Subjects received levodopa/carbidopa (100 mg/25 mg t.i.d. for 5 days, days 9-13) and concomitant, double-blind, randomized treatment with either tolcapone (200 mg t.i.d.) or placebo.
No significant pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions occurred between tolcapone and desipramine. Adverse events were predictable based on the known effects of the individual drugs.
Tolcapone can be combined with levodopa/carbidopa and desipramine in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Although the combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin has a better therapeutic index than the combination of paclitaxel and cisplatin, peripheral neuropathy often occurs and remains the most chronic toxicity of this therapy.
Six patients with ovarian or peritoneal carcinoma who developed grade 2 peripheral neuropathy during chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin had decreased or resolution of their neuropathy after their therapy was changed to docetaxel and carboplatin.
Changing the taxane from paclitaxel to docetaxel in combination with carboplatin resulted in decreased or resolution of established peripheral neurotoxicity. This is one strategy to allow continued taxane therapy in the face of progressing peripheral neuropathy.
Wistar rats were exposed to 2-methoxypropylacetate-1 (2-MPAc-1) vapours in concentrations of 0, 110, 560 and 2800 ppm for (equiv. to 0; 0.6; 3.0 and 14.9 mg/L) for 4 weeks in chambers (6 hours/day; 5 days/week; five male and five female animals per group). The top concentration was equivalent to a 95% vapour saturation at 20 degrees C and the animals reacted to this with a moderate respiratory irritation during the 6 hours exposure times; at 560 ppm these effects were only slight. The top dose was also associated with a significantly reduced body weight development and some hematologic and biochemical alterations of little specificity. The most prominent effect was thymic atrophy. No effects were noted on the testes or on the cellularity in blood or bone marrow. 560 ppm were without systemic effects. Furthermore, 2-methoxypropanol-1 (2-MP-1), 2-MPAc-1 and 2-ethoxyethanol (EE) were administered in parallel by gavage to groups of five male Wistar rats daily for 10 days at near equimolar dose levels (1800, 2600 and 1800 mg/kg per day, respectively). At the end of the administration period the testes were investigated. There was a pronounced testicular atrophy in animals exposed to EE, whereas no adverse effects were observed with 2-MP-1 and 2-MPAc-1. The results of these studies indicate that 2-MP-1 and 2-MPAc-1 which previously had been shown to exert pronounced prenatal toxicity in rabbits and weak prenatal effects in rats are devoid of other forms of systemic toxicity in rats that are typically observed with ethoxyethanol and methoxyethanol.
The present report describes a case of sinus node arrest in a manic-depressive patient being treated with lithium carbonate with a therapeutic serum level of lithium. A permanent rate-modulated ventricular pacemaker was inserted and lithium therapy was continued. A review of literature revealed several other similar case reports in which both therapeutic and toxic levels of serum lithium levels were associated with sinus node dysfunction and bradyarrhythmias. Because lithium is a potent blocker of cardiac sodium channels, and given the critical importance of sodium channels in pacemaker activity, lithium-induced sodium channel blockade is likely an important mechanism in sinus node dysfunction.
In present study, hydroalcoholic extract of C. mukul significantly improved the cardiac function and prevented myocardial ischemic impairment manifested in the form of increased heart rate, decreased arterial pressure, increased left ventricular end diastolic pressure, and altered myocardial contractility indices. C. mukul treatment additionally also produced a significant increase in lactate dehydrogenase levels and prevented decline of protein content in heart. C. mukul preserved the structural integrity of myocardium. Reduced leakage of myocyte enzyme lactate dehydrogenase and maintenance of structural integrity of myocardium along with favorable modulation of cardiac function and improved cardiac performance indicate the salvage of myocardium with C. mukul treatment. Guggulsterones which are considered to be responsible for most of the therapeutic properties of C. mukul may underlie the observed cardioprotective effect of C. mukul against cardiac dysfunction in isoproterenol-induced ischemic rats.
Chronic effects of captopril were studied in 29 patients (age, 4 months to 16 years; mean, 6.9 years) suffering from digitalis and diuretic resistant congestive heart failure (CHF) or hypertension of different etiology. Twenty two patients with CHF (13 dilated, 4 restrictive cardiomyopathy, 5 congenital heart defects) and 7 cases with hypertension were treated for 1 to 31 months (mean, 9 months). The dose of captopril varied from 1 to 3 mg/kg/day (mean, 2.2 mg) in CHF and from 1.1 to 6.8 mg/kg/day (mean, 3.7 mg) in hypertension. In CHF digoxin therapy was maintained while the dose of diuretics could be reduced or discontinued. In 4 severely hypertensive patients the addition of a diuretic or beta blockers was necessary. In CHF clinical improvement was observed in 13 patients (59%), while there was no response in 4 and 5 patients died. The survivors exhibited a significant decrease of the cardiothoracic index (p less than 0.05), the PEP/LVET ratio (p less than 0.05) and an increase of the echocardiographic linear ejection fraction (p less than 0.001). If hypertension was present, blood pressure decreased in all patients (p less than 0.05). Captopril was well tolerated by all patients except one who developed anaemia. This side effect disappeared after having discontinued the drug. These findings suggest that captopril is of benefit in controlling chronic CHF. Captopril alone or in combination with other drugs is effective in the management of severe hypertension.
A monkey (Macaca fascicularis) model was previously used to assess infant hyperexcitability after prenatal exposure to phenytoin (PHT), stiripentol (STP) or PHT+STP. To explore this issue further, we studied additional monkey infants in those groups, as well as groups prenatally exposed to carbamazepine (CBZ) in monotherapy (n = 5) or CBZ+STP polytherapy (n = 10).
The drug-exposed groups were compared with a group of control infants (n = 10) for whom procedures were matched except that there was no prenatal drug exposure. All adult female monkeys were equipped with tether systems and stomach catheters so that drug administration (or water for controls) could be initiated before they were mated and continued throughout pregnancy. During pregnancy, PHT, STP, and CBZ plasma levels were maintained between 4-12, 4-10, and 1-6 micrograms/ ml, respectively (for both monotherapy and polytherapy). At birth, infants were separated from mothers and transferred to the University of Washington's (Seattle, WA, U.S.A.) Infant Primate Research Laboratory (IPRL) for postnatal care and follow-up testing. During tests of recognition memory administered between 2 weeks and 3 months of age, infants were rated on a hyperexcitability scale.
Previously reported data indicated that infants prenatally exposed to PHT, in monotherapy or polytherapy with STP, were at increased risk for hyperexcitability (screeching, refusing to attend to stimuli, lack of visual orientation). This was not the case for infants prenatally exposed to STP monotherapy.
Our results confirm previous findings and also demonstrate that infants prenatally exposed to CBZ or CBZ+STP, like controls, are not hyperexcitable during testing.
Mopidamol (RA-233), a derivative of dipyridamole, is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor that has been shown previously to limit progression of malignancy in certain experimental animal models and in a pilot study in humans. RA-233 plus chemotherapy was compared with chemotherapy alone in a 5-year double-blind trial involving 719 patients with advanced carcinomas of the lung and of the colon. RA-233 treatment was associated with a statistically significant prolongation of survival in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (N-SCLC) limited to one hemithorax and with reduction in mean plasma fibrogen concentration. RA-233 was not toxic. The favorable effects on survival could not be explained by any factor other than the RA-233 treatment. In other tumor categories tested, no differences in survival were observed. These results suggest that RA-233 is useful in the treatment of N-SCLC of limited extent. They also suggest that therapeutic intervention aimed at modified intracellular pathways might constitute a novel investigative approach to the treatment of cancer.
The first purpose of this study is to propose a new clinical entity, acute encephalitis with refractory, repetitive partial seizures (AERRPS), which satisfy the following five criteria: 1. a prolonged acute phase of more than 2 weeks; 2. partial seizures of the same seminology persisting from the acute phase to the convalescence; 3. seizures frequently evolving into convulsive status especially during the acute phase; 4. marked intractableness of seizures; 5. exclusion of related disorders such as known viral encephalitis or metabolic disorders. The second purpose is to evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic agents on AERRPS. We reviewed 21 cases reported previously, as well as one patient seen by us. Based on the data, we recommend that patients with AERRPS should be under a high dose intravenous barbiturate during the acute phase, followed by a high dose of phenobarbital or phenytoin in the convalescence. Clonazepam, zonisamide, and potassium bromide were sometimes effective during the recovery phase.
Previous studies have reported relationships between adverse respiratory health outcomes and residential proximity to traffic pollution, but have not shown this at a personal exposure level.
We compared, among inner-city children with asthma, the associations of adverse asthma outcome incidences with increased personal exposure to particulate matter mass ≤ 2.5 μm in aerodynamic diameter (PM(2.5)) air pollution versus the diesel-related carbonaceous fraction of PM2.5.
Daily 24-hr personal samples of PM(2.5), including the elemental carbon (EC) fraction, were collected for 40 fifth-grade children with asthma at four South Bronx schools (10 children per school) during approximately 1 month each. Spirometry and symptom scores were recorded several times daily during weekdays.
We found elevated same-day relative risks of wheeze [1.45; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.03-2.04)], shortness of breath (1.41; 95% CI, 1.01-1.99), and total symptoms (1.30; 95% CI, 1.04-1.62) with an increase in personal EC, but not with personal PM(2.5) mass. We found increased risk of cough, wheeze, and total symptoms with increased 1-day lag and 2-day average personal and school-site EC. We found no significant associations with school-site PM(2.5) mass or sulfur. The EC effect estimate was robust to addition of gaseous pollutants.
Adverse health associations were strongest with personal measures of EC exposure, suggesting that the diesel "soot" fraction of PM(2.5) is most responsible for pollution-related asthma exacerbations among children living near roadways. Studies that rely on exposure to PM mass may underestimate PM health impacts.
Smoking, probably due to nicotine, has a bivalent effect on inflammatory bowel disease, ameliorating disease activity in ulcerative colitis and with a deleterious effect on Crohn's disease. The effect of nicotine patches in ulcerative colitis is controversial.
To investigate the effect of chronic nicotine use in a rat model of colitis.
Colitis was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by rectal administration of 30 mg trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS) in 50% ethanol. Nicotine was dissolved in drinking water (2.5, 12.5, 25 and 250 microg/ml), with rats drinking ad libitum. Nicotine administration started 10 days prior to damage induction and had no effect on weight gain or daily food intake of rats. Rats were sacrificed 1 and 5 days after TNBS administration, their colons resected, rinsed, weighed, damage assessed macroscopically (mm2) and microscopically and tissue processed for myeloperoxidase (MPO) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activities, leukotriene B4 (LTB4), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) generation and interleukin-1 (IL-1) serum levels.
Nicotine, by itself, caused no damage to the colon. Nicotine had a dose-dependent bivalent effect on colitis, significantly reducing macroscopic damage from 983 +/- 10 mm2 on TNBS alone to 429 +/- 118 mm2 on TNBS plus 12.5 microg/ml of nicotine, and escalating to 1086 +/- 262 mm2 on 250 microg/ml of nicotine. Segmental weight declined significantly (from 2.4 +/- 0.2 to 1.65 +/- 0.20 g/10 cm), on 12.5 microg/ml nicotine, as did MPO activity (from 3.2 +/- 0.4 to 0.7 +/- 0.1 units/g). All these parameters returned to the levels of TNBS alone when the dose of nicotine was increased to 250 microg/ml. Nicotine had no effect on NOS activity, PGE2 generation and serum IL-1 levels, but increased LTB4 generation.
Nicotine has a dose-dependent bivalent effect on TNBS-induced colitis which is not due to reduction in IL-1 serum levels or PGE2 generation, and is not NOS-mediated.
Numerous case reports have documented that phenylpropanolamine (PPA) stimulates the central nervous system with symptoms ranging from anxiety and hallucinations to grand mal seizures produced by overdoses. Most of these reports have occurred following concomitant use of caffeine which in high doses is known to cause seizures and psychotic episodes. The purpose of this investigation was to determine if PPA could potentiate caffeine-induced seizures in the rat. First, the input rate dependence of caffeine-induced neurotoxicity was determined by infusing rats intravenously with caffeine at one of three different rates (1.65-8.12 mg/min) until the onset of maximal seizure. This occurred after an average of 12 to 60 min of infusion. The PPA concentrations in serum, brain, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at this pharmacologic endpoint were independent of infusion rate. In another experiment, rats were pretreated with an anorexiant dose of PPA (30 mg/kg ip) either acutely or chronically for 6 d, while control animals received saline solution. All groups were then infused with caffeine at a rate of 4.18 mg/min until onset of seizures. Caffeine concentrations at that time in serum, brain, and CSF were significantly lower in the PPA-pretreated animals than in the control group. It is concluded that both acute and chronic pretreatment with PPA increases the sensitivity of rats to the neurotoxic effects of caffeine.
The induction of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions by the widely used antiestrogen Tamoxifen was studied in female mice. Outbred CD-1 mice were treated with Tamoxifen (1, 2, 5, 10, 25 or 50 microg/pup/day) for the first 5 days after birth. At 14-17 months, reproductive tract tissues were examined for pathological changes. In the ovary, corpora lutea were lacking while cysts were quite common in Tamoxifen-exposed mice at all doses; cystadenomas were seen in two mice. Structural malformations and epithelial hyperplasia of the oviduct were seen in 100% of the treated mice. Malformations of the uterus, cervix, and vagina were also seen. Excessive vaginal keratinization was not a common feature although vaginal adenosis was observed more often after Tamoxifen treatment than previously reported after similar treatment with diethylstilbestrol (DES). The most striking histological features, however, were seen in the uterus. One hundred percent of the Tamoxifen-treated mice at all doses exhibited uterine hypoplasia with focal areas of basal cell hyperplasia in the lining endometrium. Progressive cellular atypias were seen in the lining endometrium ranging from atypical hyperplasia to uterine adenocarcinoma; the highest incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma was 7/14 (50%) observed in the Tamoxifen 10 microg/pup/day dose group. No similar tumors were observed in corresponding control mice. The induction of atypical uterine hyperplasia and adenocarcinoma combined with other abnormalities observed in genital tract structure following neonatal treatment with Tamoxifen suggests the developing reproductive tract is exquisitely sensitive to perturbation by compounds with hormonal activity. These studies provide the basis for future investigation into the mechanisms of Tamoxifen's carcinogenic effects in experimental animals, and to the risk benefit analysis for the prophylactic use of Tamoxifen in healthy women who are at risk of developing breast cancer.
The aim of this research was to examine the effects of perindopril on cardiac function in patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD).
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, an inherited X-linked disease, is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and myocardial involvement.
In phase I, 57 children with DMD and a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) >55% (mean 65.0 +/- 5.4%), 9.5 to 13 years of age (mean 10.7 +/- 1.2 years), were enrolled in a three-year multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial of perindopril, 2 to 4 mg/day (group 1), versus placebo (group 2). In phase II, all patients received open-label perindopril for 24 more months; LVEF was measured at 0, 36, and 60 months.
Phase I was completed by 56 (27 in group 1 and 29 in group 2) and phase II by 51 patients (24 in group 1 and 27 in group 2). There was no difference in baseline characteristics between the treatment groups. At the end of phase I, mean LVEF was 60.7 +/- 7.6% in group 1 versus 64.4 +/- 9.8% in group 2, and was <45% in a single patient in each group (p = NS). At 60 months, LVEF was 58.6 +/- 8.1% in group 1 versus 56.0 +/- 15.5% in group 2 (p = NS). A single patient had an LVEF <45% in group 1 versus eight patients in group 2 (p = 0.02).
Early treatment with perindopril delayed the onset and progression of prominent left ventricle dysfunction in children with DMD.
DTPA functional renal camera scintigraphy (DTPA-FS) was performed in 220 patients with moderately severe and severe hypertension after an initial 7-14-day Captopril + thiazide-type diuretic treatment. If, comparing it with the DTPA-FS prior to treatment, appearance or increase of a side difference were observed and it was also indicated by the clinical picture, nephroangiography was performed. Using this method, 15 cases of unilateral, 3 bilateral renal arterial stenoses were recognized, and in one case restenosis was diagnosed, in all cases of positive DTPA-FS with Captopril. In negative case of DTPA-FS sensitized with Captopril, there was no positive angiographic finding. The method of DTPA-FS performed under Captopril effect is considered to be a simple, harmless, specific out-patient examination for screening genuine renovascular hypertension. To perform several angiographies likely to be negative can be avoided by this method. The hypotensive effect of Captopril may, at the same time, be a useful guide in differentiating patients with renovascular hypertension being suitable most of all for surgical intervention or angioplasty.
SL25.1131 [3(S),3a(S)-3-methoxymethyl-7-[4,4,4-trifluorobutoxy]-3,3a,4,5-tetrahydro-1,3-oxazolo[3,4-a]quinolin-1-one] is a new, nonselective, and reversible monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, belonging to a oxazoloquinolinone series. In vitro studies showed that SL25.1131 inhibits rat brain MAO-A and MAO-B with IC50 values of 6.7 and 16.8 nM and substrate-dependent Ki values of 3.3 and 4.2 nM, respectively. In ex vivo conditions, the oral administration of SL25.1131 induced a dose-dependent inhibition of MAO-A and MAO-B activities in the rat brain with ED50 values of 0.67 and 0.52 mg/kg, respectively. In the rat brain, duodenum, and liver, the inhibition of MAO-A and MAO-B by SL25.1131 (3.5 mg/kg p.o.) was reversible, and the recovery of MAO-A and MAO-B activities was complete 16 h after administration. SL25.1131 (3.5 mg/kg p.o.) increased tissue levels of dopamine (DA), norepinephrine, and 5-hydroxytryptamine and decreased levels of their deaminated metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid, and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid. In mice, SL25.1131 induced a dose-dependent potentiation of 5-hydroxytryptophan-induced tremors and phenylethylamine-induced stereotypies with ED50 values of 0.60 and 2.8 mg/kg p.o., respectively. SL25.1131 was able to reestablish normal striatal dopaminergic tone and locomotor activity in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned mice. In addition, when coadministered with L-DOPA, SL25.1131 increased the available DA in the striatum and the duration of L-DOPA-induced hyperactivity. The duration of the effect of L-DOPA on circling behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats was also increased. The neurochemical profile of SL25.1131 demonstrates that this compound is a mixed, potent, and reversible MAO-A/B inhibitor in vitro, in vivo, and ex vivo. SL25.1131 has therapeutic potential as a symptomatic treatment during the early phase of Parkinson's disease and as an adjunct to L-DOPA therapy during the early and late phases of the disease.
A variety of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides appear to participate in the central control mechanisms of arterial blood pressure. Our knowledge of these mechanisms is limited as yet. In the present study the involvement of the opioid peptide beta-endorphin in circulatory homeostasis was studied. Under conditions in which beta-endorphin does not affect basal blood pressure and heart rate this peptide had a pronounced prohypotensive influence in normotensive rats. This was found for two conditions during which circulatory homeostasis was challenged. Firstly, during blood letting in a rat model employed to test blood pressure regulation during hemorrhage, and secondly, for the central hypotensive action of alpha-methyldopa. In the first model hypotension was produced by stepwise bleeding to respectively 80, 60 and 40 mmHg mean arterial pressure. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of an antiserum raised against beta-endorphin or of naloxone (s.c. or i.c.v.) caused a significant increase in the required bleeding volume, whereas an opposite action was observed after the injection of morphine (s.c.) or of beta-endorphin (i.c.v.). The role of beta-endorphin in the hypotensive action of alpha-methyldopa, given intracisternally (i.c.) was evaluated in conscious rats equipped with chronic cannulas. Pretreatment with the opiate antagonist naltrexone (i.c.) caused an inhibition of the hypotension and bradycardia induced by alpha-methyldopa. This effect of the receptor antagonist was mimicked by i.c. administration of a beta-endorphin antiserum. Taken together, these data point to a hypotensive influence exerted by endogenous beta-endorphin under conditions during which circulatory homeostasis are challenged.
