The dose-limiting toxicity of the widely used anticancer agent, doxorubicin, is a destructive, irreversible and progressive cardiomyopathy. Prevention of this cardiotoxicity without reduction of antitumour efficacy or the production of new toxicities has therefore been a long-time therapeutic goal. It has now been largely achieved by prior administration of dexrazoxane (DXRz; Cardioxane in Europe; Zinecard in North America; ICRF 187). Six randomized, controlled clinical trials in breast and lung cancer and in soft tissue sarcomas of children have shown a 90% reduction in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. The results of all these trials lead to the conclusion that DXRz permits: (1) cardiotoxic doses of doxorubicin to be given without cardiotoxicity; (2) patients with increased cardiac risk factors to be treated with full doses of dioxorubicin; (3) second-line treatment with other cardiotoxic drugs.
The function of the lysosomal degradative pathway of autophagy in cellular injury is unclear, because findings in nonhepatic cells have implicated autophagy as both a mediator of cell death and as a survival response. Autophagic function is impaired in steatotic and aged hepatocytes, suggesting that in these settings hepatocellular injury may be altered by the decrease in autophagy. To delineate the specific function of autophagy in the hepatocyte injury response, the effects of menadione-induced oxidative stress were examined in the RALA255-10G rat hepatocyte line when macroautophagy was inhibited by a short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated knockdown of the autophagy gene atg5. Loss of macroautophagy sensitized cells to apoptotic and necrotic death from normally nontoxic concentrations of menadione. Loss of macroautophagy led to overactivation of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/c-Jun signaling pathway that induced cell death. Death occurred from activation of the mitochondrial death pathway with cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) depletion, mitochondrial cytochrome c release, and caspase activation. Sensitization to death from menadione occurred despite up-regulation of other forms of autophagy in compensation for the loss of macroautophagy. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) also mediated resistance to menadione. CMA inhibition sensitized cells to death from menadione through a mechanism different from that of a loss of macroautophagy, because death occurred in the absence of JNK/c-Jun overactivation or ATP depletion.
Hepatocyte resistance to injury from menadione-induced oxidative stress is mediated by distinct functions of both macroautophagy and CMA, indicating that impaired function of either form of autophagy may promote oxidant-induced liver injury.
The paper describes pathohistological events after damaging of fetal blastemas by the cytotoxic agent cyclophosphamide in the rat. Fetuses were investigated at 24 hours intervals after application of cyclophosphamide (20 mg/kg body weight) on day 15 p. c. to detect the time of injury and reparation. During the first 24 hours heavy degenerations are seen in the central nervous system. Especially, dorsal parts of brain regions (alar plate derivatives) and certain mesenchymal structures (skin of the trunk, eye lids, auricle, mesenchyme of touch hairs) are affected. Moreover, 48 hours after damaging repairing processes are parallel to necrobiotic events. Resorption of necrotic cell detritus takes place by fetal macrophages and the primitive cerebral liquor. After 72 hours only repairing processes are to be seen. Structural defects in certain brain regions and in mesenchymal parts of the body (skin, palatal processes, eye lids, auricle) are the final results of cell injury and determine the typical malformation syndrome in the rat.
Autosomal dominant type IIa hypercholesterolaemia (ADH) is characterised by an elevation of total plasma cholesterol associated with increased LDL particles. Numerous different molecular defects have been identified in the LDL receptor (LDLR) and few specific mutations in the apolipoprotein B (APOB) gene resulting in familial hypercholesterolaemia and familial defective apoB-100 respectively. To estimate the respective contribution of LDLR, APOB and other gene defects in this disease, we studied 33 well characterised French families diagnosed over at least three generations with ADH through the candidate gene approach. An estimation of the proportions performed with the HOMOG3R program showed that an LDLR gene defect was involved in approximately 50% of the families (P = 0.001). On the other hand, the estimated contribution of an APOB gene defect was only 15%. This low estimation of ADH due to an APOB gene defect is further strengthened by the existence of only two probands carrying the APOB (R3500Q) mutation in the sample. More importantly and surprisingly, 35% of the families in the sample were estimated to be linked to neither LDLR nor APOB genes. These data were confirmed by the exclusion of both genes through direct haplotyping in three families. Our results demonstrate that the relative contributions of LDLR and APOB gene defects to the disease are very different. Furthermore, our results also show that genetic heterogeneity is, generally, underestimated in ADH, and that at least three major groups of defects are involved. At this point, the contribution of the recently mapped FH3 gene to ADH cannot be assessed nor its importance in the group of 'non LDLR/non APOB' families.
To investigate the inhibitory influence on esophageal motility of prolonged beta-2-adrenergic stimulation, esophageal peristalsis was studied in 10 volunteers. The beta-2 agonist terbutaline was given orally, 5 mg three times daily, for 10 days, and the subjects were studied before medication (basal), on days 3 and 10 during the medication, and 1 week after withdrawal of the drug. At each session esophageal peristaltic pressure, heart rate, and finger tremor were assessed. On the 3rd day of medication the peristaltic pressure was significantly decreased and heart rate and finger tremor significantly increased compared with basal values on day 0. On the 10th day of medication there was still a decrease in peristaltic pressure but less pronounced than on day 3 despite similar blood levels of terbutaline. It is concluded that oral medication with a beta-2 agonist initially inhibits esophageal peristalsis, but during continued medication the inhibitory effect on the esophagus decreases. The results indicate development of esophageal tolerance to beta-2-receptor stimulation in accordance with development of tolerance shown in extraintestinal organs.
A patient is described who, while on valproic acid monotherapy, developed reversible shrinkage of the brain, documented by computerized tomography with associated cognitive deficit. Although pseudoatrophy has been reported with steroid therapy, this is the first implication of an anticonvulsant drug in the etiology of that condition.
More than half of the U.S. population has a body mass index of 25 kg/m2 or more, which classifies them as overweight or obese. Obesity is often associated with comorbidities such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer. CLA and chromium have emerged as major dietary supplements that reduce body weight and fat mass, and increase basal metabolic rate in animal models. However, studies show that CLA induces insulin resistance in mice and in humans, whereas Cr improves insulin sensitivity. Hence, we designed the present study to examine the combined effect of CLA and Cr on body composition and insulin sensitivity in a Balb/c mice (n = 10/group) model of high-fat-diet-induced obesity. CLA alone lowered body weight, total body fat mass, and visceral fat mass, the last of which decreased further with the combination of CLA and Cr. This effect was accompanied by decreased serum leptin levels in CLA-fed and CLA + Cr-fed mice, and by higher energy expenditure (EE) and oxygen consumption (OC) in CLA + Cr-fed mice. Serum levels of glucose, insulin, the pro-inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin-6 (IL-6), as well as insulin resistance index (IRI), decreased with CLA, whereas CLA and Cr in combination had significant effects on insulin and IL-6 concentrations and IRI. In summary, CLA + Cr decreased body weight and fat mass in high-fat-diet-fed mice, which may be associated with decreased leptin levels and higher EE and OC.
Thalidomide has anti-inflammatory, anti-tumour necrosis factor-alpha and anti-collagen activities. Cirrhosis is characterized by inflammation and fibrosis. Thus, thalidomide was evaluated in an experimental model of liver cirrhosis.
Male Wistar rats were used. Group 1 (n = 8) received mineral oil i.p. (control); group 2 (n = 15) received CCl(4) i.p. for 8 weeks to induce cirrhosis; group 3 (n = 15) consisted of rats receiving CCl(4) plus thalidomide (200 mg/kg/12 h); animals in group 4 (n = 8) received thalidomide only. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were measured in serum, while collagen (hydroxyproline), glycogen and lipid peroxidation were determined in liver samples. A liver histopathological analysis was performed by using Gomori's trichromic staining.
Intoxication with CCl(4) induced 33.3% mortality, while thalidomide co-treatment reduced it to 13.3%. The serum activities of ALT, gamma-GTP and ALP increased 3, 2 and 4-fold by CCl(4) treatment; thalidomide completely prevented elevation of these enzymes. In the liver, lipid peroxidation increased about 20-fold and glycogen was abolished in CCl(4) cirrhotic rats; thalidomide completely prevented the former and partially (P < 0.05) the latter. CCl(4) treated rats revealed a loss of normal architecture and nodules of hepatocytes surrounded by thick bands of collagen. Thalidomide + CCl(4) treated rats showed minor histological alterations and thinner bands of collagen. The anti-fibrotic effect estimated by hydroxyproline was partial but significant (P < 0.05).
Thalidomide prevented necrosis, cholestasis and fibrosis induced by CCl(4). Its mechanism of action may be related to its anti-inflammatory, anti-tumour necrosis factor-alpha and anti-fibrotic activities reported previously.
Difficulties associated with current intensive induction regimens for multiple myeloma and uncertainty as to how to achieve optimal peripheral blood progenitor cell mobilisation (PBPC) prompted this study of an oral induction regimen, Z-Dex (oral idarubicin and dexamethasone) followed by PBPC mobilisation using four different regimens. Thirty-patients received Z-Dex (median age 56 years, range 46-66 years) including 24 patients with previously untreated disease. The overall response rate was 75% with a CR rate of 16.7% and PR rate of 75.7% in patients with previously untreated disease. We compared four mobilisation regimens: low-dose (LD) cyclophosphamide, high-dose (HD) cyclophosphamide, cis-platin/VP16 and cis-platin, Ara-C and dexamethasone (DHAP). Failure to mobilise optimal numbers of PBPCs (>1.0 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg and >20 x 10(4) CFU-GM/kg) was seen in two patients who received LD cyclophosphamide, in two patients who received HD cyclophosphamide and three patients who received cis-platin/VP16. No patient failed to mobilise adequate numbers of PBPCs following DHAP. In previously untreated patients, DHAP mobilised significantly more PBPC than LD cyclophosphamide (P=0.02), HD cyclophosphamide (P=0.0015) and cis-platin/VP16 (P=0.021). This study demonstrates the efficacy of Z-Dex in inducing tumour responses in patients with multiple myeloma without limiting PBPC mobilisation in subsequent dose-intensive schedules. Furthermore, we also demonstrate that DHAP is superior to cyclophosphamide (low- and high-dose) and cis-platin/VP16 in mobilising PBPCs and demonstrated a degree of tumour control.
Following conventional chemotherapy, eight myeloma patients presenting with advanced tumor stages were treated with an intensified high-dose regimen and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. High-dose chemotherapy consisted of idarubicin 20 mg/m2 on days -13, -12 and -11, melphalan 100 mg/m2 on days -5 and -4 and cyclophosphamide 60 mg/kg (plus mesna 60 mg/kg) on days -3 and -2 (IMC). Seven patients achieved a complete remission or a very good partial remission (reduction of M-component > or =90%). There were no toxic deaths. Severe mucositis and fever of unknown origin were seen in all patients. Reversible supraventricular tachycardias without clinical signs of cardiac failure occurred in five patients. One patient developed a persistent deterioration of cardiac function. We surmise that high-dose chemotherapy with IMC is very effective and well tolerated in myeloma patients.
Potential antipsychotic effects of a selective non-competitive antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5), 2-methyl-6-phenylethynylpyridine (MPEP), was examined in two commonly used screening tests: (1) the hyperactivity induced by an NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP), and (2) the hyperactivity induced by an indirect dopamine agonist, D-amphetamine. PCP was administered at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg s.c. and D-amphetamine was given at a dose of 1 mg/kg s.c. MPEP (5 mg/kg i.p.) significantly enhanced the locomotor activity increased by PCP, but inhibited amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. The opposite effect of MPEP in the two above-mentioned models questions significance of the blockade of mGluR5 receptors to antipsychotic effects.
1. Treatment with enalapril induces smooth muscle cell apoptosis and regression of aortic hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), whereas combined blockade of angiotensin II AT(1) and AT(2) receptors does not. We postulated that vascular apoptosis with enalapril involves enhanced half-life of bradykinin (BK) and kinin B(2) receptor stimulation. 2. SHR, 11-weeks old, were treated for 4 weeks with enalapril (30 mg kg(-1) day(-1)), Hoe 140 (500 microg kg(-1) day(-1); B(2) receptor antagonist), alone or in combination. Controls received vehicle. 3. The half-life of hypotensive responses to intra-arterial bolus injections of BK were significantly increased in SHR anesthetized after 4 weeks of enalapril, an effect prevented by Hoe 140. The magnitude of BK-induced hypotension was significantly attenuated in all rats treated with Hoe 140. 4. As compared to placebo, enalapril treatment significantly reduced blood pressure (-34+/-2%), aortic hypertrophy (-20+/-3%), hyperplasia (-37+/-5%) and DNA synthesis (-61+/-8%), while it increased aortic DNA fragmentation by two-fold. Hoe 140 given alone or in combination with enalapril affected none of these parameters. 5. As a possible alternative mechanism, aortae isolated during the second week of enalapril treatment showed a transient upregulation of contractile responses to des-Arg(9)BK (EC(50)<1 nM), which were significantly reduced by [Leu(8)]des-Arg(9)BK (10 microM). Moreover, in vitro receptor autoradiography revealed an increase in expression of B(1) and B(2) receptor binding sites by 8-11 days of enalapril treatment. 6. Aortic apoptosis induction and hypertrophy regression with enalapril do not involve kinin B(2) receptors in SHR. Kinins acting via B(1) receptors remains a candidate mechanism.
This is a report about a 14-year old girl who, following chemotherapy for malignant teratoma, developed a clinical state of SIADH (syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone). The causative agent was most likely vincristine (VCR). The important feature in this case was that the urinary kallikrein activity was high when she was affected by SIADH and decreased when her hyponatremia improved. Sodium clearance was significantly correlated with the increase in urinary kallikrein activity. It is considered that the kallikrein-kinin system may in part participate in the excessive natriuresis of SIADH.
To observe the changes of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and nitric oxide (NO) content of hippocampus including their time course and region distribution character in rat during the process of formalin-induced inflammatory pain as well as the pain behavior of rat.
The pain threshold (PT) was determined by radiant heat-induced tail flick test. NOS expression in the hippocampus was determined by using NADPH-d histochemical staining. NO production in hippocampus was determined by assaying NO3- and NO2-.
Subcutaneous injection of formalin elicited nociceptive behavioural response and led to decrease in PT of rat. The number and staining degree of NADPH-d positive neurons began to increase at 6 h after the formalin injection in CA1, CA2 - 3 and DG of hippocampus as well as NO content, which increased most obviously at 12 h and returned to control level at 48 h.
Formalin-induced inflammatory pain could induce the elevation of NOS activity in CA1, CA2 - 3 and DG of hippocampus with a certain time course, which further led to a increase of NO production in hippocampus.
Cytochrome P4502E1 (CYP2E1) has been suggested to play critical roles in the pathogenesis of alcoholic fatty liver (AFL), but the underlying mechanisms remains unclear. The current study was designed to evaluate whether CYP2E1 suppression by chlormethiazole (CMZ) could suppress AFL in mice, and to explore the underlying mechanisms.
Mice were treated with or without CMZ (50 mg/kg bw, i.p.) and subjected to liquid diet with or without ethanol (5%, w/v) for 4 weeks. Biochemical parameters were measured using commercial kits. The protein and mRNA levels were detected by western blot and qPCR, respectively. Histopathology and immunohistochemical assay were performed with routine methods.
CYP2E1 inhibition by CMZ completely blocked AFL in mice, shown as the decline of the hepatic and serum triglyceride levels, and the fewer fat droplets in the liver sections. Chronic ethanol exposure led to significant decrease of the mRNA and protein levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPAR-α), which was blocked by CMZ co-treatment. CMZ co-treatment suppressed ethanol-induced oxidative stress, overproduction of tumor necrosis α (TNF-α), and decrease of protein levels of the PPAR-α co-activators including p300 and deacetylated PGC1-α. Furthermore, CMZ co-treatment led to the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and PI3K/Akt/GSK3β pathway. However, chronic ethanol-induced decline of acyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and fatty acid synthase (FAS) protein levels was partially restored by CMZ, while the activation of autophagy appeared to be suppressed by CMZ.
These results suggested that CMZ suppressed chronic ethanol-induced oxidative stress, TNF-α overproduction, decline of p300 protein level and deacetylation of PGC1-α, and activated AMPK, MAPK, and PI3K/Akt/GSK3β pathway, which might contribute to the activation of PPAR-α and account for the protection of CMZ against AFL.
Acute renal impairment secondary to interstitial nephritis is a rare complication of omeprazole. We describe a 50-year-old woman who took 20 mg omeprazole twice daily for endoscopically proved ulcerative esophagitis. At the same time, Duke's C colonic cancer was diagnosed and completely resected. Five fluorouracil/folinic acid adjuvant chemotherapy was tolerated without diarrhea or mouth ulceration. Renal function was normal before her first monthly cycle but markedly deteriorated immediately before the second cycle was due. The patient was symptomatic with lethargy, nausea, and mild vomiting, but she was clinically normotensive and only mildly dehydrated. Her serum creatinine concentration increased despite prolonged intravenous hydration, peaking at 4.4 mg/dl 1 week later. Results of a renal ultrasound were normal, and urinary microscopic findings were unremarkable. Renal biopsy showed interstitial nephritis, and renal function improved on cessation of omeprazole, eventually returning to normal. We describe the 12 cases of omeprazole-induced interstitial nephritis reported previously.
Thalidomide is today an increasingly used therapy in advanced and refractory myeloma patients, especially in patients relapsing after high dose therapy. One important and well-known side effect of thalidomide is polyneuropathy (PNP). The purpose of this study was to investigate 1) how severe the thalidomide-induced PNP is in patients treated for myeloma 2) which neurophysiological tests and parameters are most sensitive in detecting the thalidomide-induced PNP and 3) how neuropathic symptoms correlate with neurophysiological changes. Twelve patients received thalidomide for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma for at least 5 months. Prior to the thalidomide treatment, all patients had been treated with chemotherapy including vincristine, and seven patients had also received cisplatin. PNP symptoms, clinical findings and neurophysiological tests before and after the therapy were evaluated. Prior to thalidomide treatment, 7 patients had minimal and one patient slight PNP. After thalidomide treatment, 4 patients had minimal, 4 patients slight, and 3 patients moderate PNP. Thalidomide-induced PNP mainly affected sensory myelinated axons, but also alpha motor neuron axons were affected to some extent. Thermal thresholds were not altered, indicating that thin myelinated and unmyelinated axons are spared. The most sensitive parameter for detecting thalidomide-induced PNP was the sensory nerve compound action potential amplitude. The neuropathic symptoms deteriorated significantly during the therapy, but clinically, no patient developed a disabling PNP that would have required interrupting the therapy. The neuropathic side effects of thalidomide seem to be acceptable in myeloma patients.
Rapamycin is a new immunosuppressive agent approved for maintenance therapy after kidney transplantation. It may allow calcineurin-inhibitor-free, non-nephrotoxic immunosuppression. We report, however, on four kidney-transplant recipients who developed post-transplantation glomerulonephritis after conversion from a calcineurin-inhibitor-based immunosuppression to rapamycin. In all four patients nephrotic-range proteinuria occurred 2-9 months after conversion to rapamycin. Renal biopsy confirmed membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis type 1 in one case, membranous glomerulonephritis in another and IgA-nephropathy in two cases, respectively. Calcineurin-inhibitor-based immunosuppression was reintroduced and resulted in complete remission of proteinuria and in stabilised renal function in all patients. We conclude that in the case of rapamycin-associated post-transplantation glomerulonephritis an attempt should be made to replace rapamycin by a calcineurin inhibitor.
Mutations in the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD-1) gene are found in approximately 20% of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS), or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 1. Here we describe a 25-year-old male patient who died from FALS after a rapid disease course of 11 mo. Sequencing of the SOD-1 gene revealed a heterozygous T-->G exchange at position 1513 within exon 5, coding for a V-->G substitution at position 148 of the mature protein. Genetic analysis of this family revealed the same mutation in both his healthy 35-year-old sister and his mother, who did not develop the disease before age 54 years. Screening for candidate modifier genes that might be responsible for the early onset and severe course of the disease in the 25-year-old patient revealed an additional homozygous mutation of the CNTF gene not found in his yet unaffected sister. hSOD-1G93A mice were crossbred with CNTF(-/-) mice and were investigated with respect to disease onset and duration, to test the hypothesis that CNTF acts as a candidate modifier gene in FALS with mutations in the SOD-1 gene. Such hSOD-1G93A/CNTF-deficient mice develop motoneuron disease at a significantly earlier stage than hSOD-1G93A/CNTF-wild-type mice. Linkage analysis revealed that the SOD-1 gene was solely responsible for the disease. However, disease onset as a quantitative trait was regulated by the allelic constitution at the CNTF locus. In addition, patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis who had a homozygous CNTF gene defect showed significantly earlier disease onset but did not show a significant difference in disease duration. Thus, we conclude that CNTF acts as a modifier gene that leads to early onset of disease in patients with FALS who have SOD-1 mutations, in patients with sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and in the hSOD-1G93A mouse model.
The role of nickel in causing hand dermatitis in some occupations has been difficult to assess due to problems with reliable measurement of the exposure to nickel in the workplace and lack of a definitive threshold for nickel allergic contact dermatitis. It is not uncommon to find nickel allergy on patch testing but it is difficult to determine whether this is of relevance to occupational nickel exposure or simply a reflection of past exposure to nickel-plated jewellery or other nonoccupational nickel exposure.
To devise a simple and reproducible method to quantify the amount of nickel on the skin and to apply the technique to measure dermal nickel exposure in various occupational settings.
A rapid and simple sampling procedure was developed for determination of nickel on the skin of workers potentially exposed to nickel by exposing individuals to nickel-releasing coins and measuring exposure by immersing the exposed thumbs and index fingers directly into graduated sample tubes containing ultrapure water and aqueous nickel extracts. The solutions were analysed by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry after stabilization with nitric acid. The method shows advantages over alternatives such as wipe testing and tape stripping in terms of extraction efficiency, speed and ease of operation in the field. A pilot survey of dermal nickel exposure for workers in several occupational settings was conducted.
The study suggested that a 'normal' level of nickel on the skin is <10 ng cm(-2). Coin handling induced an appreciable increase in the amount of nickel on the skin within 2 min. Experiments indicated a linear relationship between coin handling (exposure time) and measured dermal nickel levels following standardized coin handling. A pilot survey, conducted among cashiers, shop assistants, bar staff, hairdressers and workers in the nickel industry revealed dermal nickel concentrations ranging from <0.9 to 7160 ng cm(-2). The levels of nickel on the skin of cashiers, shop assistants, bar staff and hairdressers were below the threshold level for water-soluble ionic nickel for occluded exposure at which 10% of nickel-allergic subjects react (0.01% or 100 parts per million, equivalent to 530 ng cm(-2)) and the five-times higher threshold for unoccluded exposure (500 parts per million). The levels in some nickel platers and nickel refinery workers approached or exceeded these levels. However, few cases of nickel dermatitis are observed in plating and refinery facilities, perhaps due to immune tolerance, self-selection or, for refinery workers, exposure to water-insoluble rather than water-soluble nickel compounds. The elicitation threshold for water-soluble nickel compounds cannot be compared directly with dermal exposure to water-insoluble nickel compounds as the latter release a significantly lesser amount of nickel ions.
We describe a reproducible, simple and rapid procedure for the assessment of nickel levels in occupationally exposed individuals.
Advances in treatment for testicular cancer that include the coadministration of bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin (BEP) have brought the cure rate to higher than 90%%. The goal of this study was to elucidate the impact of BEP treatment on gene expression in male germ cells. Brown-Norway rats were treated for 9 wk with vehicle (0x) or BEP at doses equivalent to 0.3x and 0.6x the human dose. At the end of treatment, spermatogenesis was affected, showing altered histology and a decreased sperm count; spermatozoa had a higher number of DNA breaks. After 9 wk of treatment, round spermatids were isolated, and RNA was extracted and probed on Rat230-2.0 Affymetrix arrays. Of the 31 099 probe sets present on the array, 59%% were expressed in control round spermatids. BEP treatment significantly altered the expression of 221 probe sets, with at least a 1.5-fold change compared with controls; 80% were upregulated. We observed a dose-dependent increase in the expression of oxidative stress response genes and no change in the expression of genes involved in DNA repair. BEP upregulated genes were implicated in pathways related to Jun and Junb protooncogenes. Increased mRNA levels of Jun and Junb were confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR; furthermore, JUN protein was increased in elongating spermatids. Thus, BEP exposure triggers an oxidative stress response in round spermatids and induces many pathways that may lead to the survival of damaged cells and production of abnormal sperm.
In humanized UDP glucuronosyltransferase-1 (hUGT1) mice that express the entire UGT1 locus, the maternal hepatic UGT1A genes are dramatically induced 12-14 days after conception. Steroid induction of the UGT1A1 gene indicates that xenobiotic sensors, such as the pregnane X receptor (PXR) and constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), may underlie the induction process. In contrast, neonatal hUGT1 mice display severe hyperbilirubinemia, with limited expression of the UGT1A genes. This study identifies PXR as both a positive and negative regulator of the UGT1A1 gene. Pregnancy hormones, in particular the glucocorticoids, target PXR as a positive regulator of human glucuronidation. Employing reverse genetics, where PXR has been genetically deleted, hUGT1/Pxr(-/-) mice show limited induction of the liver UGT1A genes during pregnancy, whereas the exact opposite occurs in newborn mice. Neonatal hUGT1 mice show delayed expression of hepatic UGT1A1 and are severely hyperbilirubinemic. However, in hUGT1/Pxr(-/-) mice, hyperbilirubinemia is greatly reduced due to induction of hepatic UGT1A1. Thus, PXR serves to repress UGT1A1 gene expression during development. Transcriptional silencing of the UGT1A1 gene was relieved in neonatal hUGT1 hepatocytes through interruption of PXR by small interfering RNA.
PXR is a key regulator of pregnancy induced glucuronidation capacity in addition to modulating the severity of neonatal jaundice.
Plasma concentrations of atrial and brain natriuretic peptides (ANP and BNP) are high in patients with hypertension and congestive heart failure. The present study examined changes in plasma ANP and BNP concentrations during 1 year of monotherapy with enalapril in elderly hypertensive patients with left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy. Eight elderly hypertensive patients with LV hypertrophy were treated with enalapril for 1 year, during which time serial changes were recorded in LV mass index, LV systolic function, and plasma concentrations of ANP and BNP. Enalapril maintained systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the normal range for over 1 year. Treatment significantly reduced posterior wall thickness at 6 months, and more so at 1 year, and tended to reduce septal wall thickness and LV mass index at 1 year. LV ejection fraction was slightly but significantly increased at 1 year. Plasma ANP and BNP, which were markedly elevated at study entry, both decreased after 1 year of enalapril. These results suggest that 1 year of treatment with enalapril caused both a modest regression of LV hypertrophy and a modest improvement in LV systolic function in our selected group of elderly hypertensive patients. The drug reduced elevated plasma ANP and BNP levels but did not alter BUN and serum creatinine levels. Enalapril appears to be useful for the treatment of elderly hypertensive patients with LV hypertrophy.
Nanoparticles (NPs) have been shown to accumulate in organs, cross the blood-brain barrier and placenta, and have the potential to elicit developmental neurotoxicity (DNT). Here, we developed a human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived 3-dimensional (3-D) in vitro model that allows for testing of potential developmental neurotoxicants. Early central nervous system PAX6(+) precursor cells were generated from hESCs and differentiated further within 3-D structures. The 3-D model was characterized for neural marker expression revealing robust differentiation toward neuronal precursor cells, and gene expression profiling suggested a predominantly forebrain-like development. Altered neural gene expression due to exposure to non-cytotoxic concentrations of the known developmental neurotoxicant, methylmercury, indicated that the 3-D model could detect DNT. To test for specific toxicity of NPs, chemically inert polyethylene NPs (PE-NPs) were chosen. They penetrated deep into the 3-D structures and impacted gene expression at non-cytotoxic concentrations. NOTCH pathway genes such as HES5 and NOTCH1 were reduced in expression, as well as downstream neuronal precursor genes such as NEUROD1 and ASCL1. FOXG1, a patterning marker, was also reduced. As loss of function of these genes results in severe nervous system impairments in mice, our data suggest that the 3-D hESC-derived model could be used to test for Nano-DNT.
Our previous studies have suggested that digital blood pressure response to cooling could provide a measure of the efficacy of treatments that are administered to patients with Raynaud phenomenon (RP). This method was used on 158 primary RP patients participating in a multicenter, randomized clinical trial that compared the efficacy of sustained-release nifedipine with temperature biofeedback in the treatment of RP. A pill placebo and electromyography served as controls. The response to local finger cooling was measured at 30 degrees, 20 degrees, 15 degrees and 10 degrees C in a temperature-controlled room under standardized conditions. The results showed that, at the 15 degrees C and 10 degrees C local cooling temperatures, the patients in the nifedipine group had a higher mean digital systolic blood pressure, a higher relative digital systolic blood pressure (RDSP), a smaller proportion of subjects with RDSP < 70% and a smaller proportion of subjects with a zero reopening pressure than the patients in the three other treatment groups. These results were statistically significant at 10 degrees C, the nifedipine group being significantly different from all others (p < 0.05); no significant difference was found between the three other treatment groups.
