Both phenacetin and paracetamol produce acute centrilobular liver necrosis in the homozygous Gunn rat. Paracetamol is more hepatotoxic than phenacetin, and both are more hepatotoxic to the homozygous Gunn rat than to the heterozygous Gunn rat or to the albino rat. These findings have relevance to the role of the compounds in the clinical syndromes of paracetamol induced liver necrosis and analgesic nephropathy.
UM-272 (N,N-dimethylpropranolol), a quaternary antiarrhythmic agent, was administered sublingually to dogs with ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardias. Both anti-arrhythmic efficacy and bioavailability were compared to oral drug. Sublingual UM-272 converted ventricular tachycardia to sinus rhythm in all 5 dogs. The area under the plasma concentration time curve at 90 min was 4-12 times greater than for oral drug, suggesting the existence of an absorption-limiting process in the intestine, and providing an alternate form of administration for quaternary drugs.
The effect of mixidine fumarate on myocardial chronotropic responses to various stimulants was examined. Mixidine decreased elevated heart rate in the anesthetized dog to basal levels. It produced a dose-related decrease in heart rate elevated reflexly by aminophylline, by beta adrenergic stimulation induced by isoproterenol, by sympathetic nerve stimulation and by intravenous infusion of glucagon. Mixidine attenuated the increase in contractile force produced by sympathetic nerve stimulation but not that induced by isoproterenol. The compound antagonized the increase in rate of isolated guinea-pig atria induced by both isoproterenol and histamine. In the conscious dog, mixidine caused no decrease in resting heart rate, mean arterial pressure and cardiac output. It reduced atropine-induced sinus tachycardia as well as that induced by treadmill exercise. Experiments in the dog heart-lung preparation indicated that attenuation of an epinephrine-induced sinus tachycardia led to a decrease in myocardial oxygen consumption and an increase in myocardial efficiency. These studies suggest that mixidine fumarate induces an antichronotropic activity by a direct effect on the sinoatrial node and by attenuating sympathetic nervous system input to the heart.
To compare early (<3 days) with late (>15 days) steroid therapy and dexamethasone with inhaled budesonide in very preterm infants at risk of developing chronic lung disease.
Five hundred seventy infants from 47 neonatal intensive care units were enrolled. Criteria for enrollment included gestational age <30 weeks, postnatal age <72 hours, and need for mechanical ventilation and inspired oxygen concentration >30%. Infants were randomly allocated to 1 of 4 treatment groups in a factorial design: early (<72 hours) dexamethasone, early budesonide, delayed selective (>15 days) dexamethasone, and delayed selective budesonide. Dexamethasone was given in a tapering course beginning with 0.50 mg/kg/day in 2 divided doses for 3 days reducing by half until 12 days of therapy had elapsed. Budesonide was administered by metered dose inhaler and a spacing chamber in a dose of 400 microg/kg twice daily for 12 days. Delayed selective treatment was started if infants needed mechanical ventilation and >30% oxygen for >15 days. The factorial design allowed 2 major comparisons: early versus late treatment and systemic dexamethasone versus inhaled budesonide. The primary outcome was death or oxygen dependency at 36 weeks and analysis was on an intention-to-treat basis. Secondary outcome measures included death or major cerebral abnormality, duration of oxygen treatment, and complications of prematurity. Adverse effects were also monitored daily.
There were no significant differences among the groups for the primary outcome. Early steroid treatment was associated with a lower primary outcome rate (odds ratio [OR]: 0.85; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.61,1.18) but even after adjustment for confounding variables the difference remained nonsignificant. Dexamethasone-treated infants also had a lower primary outcome rate (OR: 0.86; 95% CI: 0.62,1.20) but again this difference remained not significant after adjustment. For death before discharge, dexamethasone and early treatment had worse outcomes than budesonide and delayed selective treatment (OR: 1.42; 95% CI: 0.93,2.16; OR: 1.51; 95% CI: 0.99,2.30 after adjustment, respectively) with the results not quite reaching significance. Duration of supplementary oxygen was shorter in the early dexamethasone group (median: 31 days vs 40-44 days). Early dexamethasone was also associated with increased weight loss during the first 12 days of treatment (52 g vs 3 g) compared with early budesonide, but over 30 days there was no difference. In the early dexamethasone group, there was a reduced incidence of persistent ductus arteriosus (34% vs 52%-59%) and an increased risk of hyperglycemia (55% vs 29%-34%) compared with the other 3 groups. Dexamethasone was associated with an increased risk of hypertension and gastrointestinal problems compared with budesonide but only the former attained significance.
Infants given early treatment and dexamethasone therapy had improved survival without chronic lung disease at 36 weeks compared with those given delayed selective treatment and inhaled budesonide, respectively, but results for survival to discharge were in the opposite direction; however, none of these findings attained statistical significance. Early dexamethasone treatment reduced the risk of persistent ductus arteriosus. Inhaled budesonide may be safer than dexamethasone, but there is no clear evidence that it is more or less effective.
Recent campaigns on having infants sleep on their back has decreased the rate of sudden infant death. Other risk factors have also been identified, including maternal smoking during pregnancy. While many studies have methodological biases, most demonstrate a two to three-fold increase in the risk of sudden infant death among mothers who smoked during pregnancy. The effect of smoking is basically caused by nicotine which is toxic for the brain. This compound has specific trophicity for the respiratory centers rich in nicotinic cholinergic receptors. Deficiencies which could result could lead to greater vulnerability of the infant to episodes of hypoxia. The risk would be dose dependent and more marked in women smoking more than nine cigarettes per day. After birth, certain factors would increase the risk, including passive smoking and sleeping in the mother's bed.
Data from 12 patients (in two control study groups) provide preliminary results of an ongoing double-blind comparison of clonazepam and imipramine in the treatment of panic disorder. In both treatment groups, the patients' global improvement was substantial over the first few weeks and persisted over the 6-month treatment period based on assessments by the therapist and the patient; side effects were mild. Faintness was slightly more prevalent among patients on clonazepam treatment but disappeared after the first few weeks. Mild, persistent tachycardia was reported among patients receiving imipramine. No tolerance emerged, and discontinuation was successful in 2 patients from each group after 6 months of treatment. Eight patients needed continued medication (25-50 mg/day of imipramine, 0.5-2.0 mg/day of clonazepam) to maintain substantial improvement. Findings confirm earlier reports from open studies that low doses of both drugs eliminate panic attacks (about 50 mg/day for imipramine and 1.5 mg/day for clonazepam).
The use of cocaine has become largely obsolete in modern medical practice; however, it is still used by otolaryngologists for topical anesthesia in head and neck surgeries. We present the case of a 68-year-old woman who developed a myocardial infarction after the use of topical cocaine during nasal sinus surgery, and review the literature regarding the use of cocaine as a topical anesthetic in otolaryngologic practice. Awareness is raised of a possible complication of myocardial infarction following topical cocaine anesthetic use.
Buprenorphine, an opioid mixed agonist-antagonist, is a potent analgesic that appears to be effective for the treatment of opiate abuse. Recent preclinical studies have shown that buprenorphine also significantly reduces cocaine self-administration by rhesus monkeys for periods up to 120 days. This unexpected finding has led to clinical trials to evaluate buprenorphine's effectiveness for the treatment of dependence on both cocaine and opiates, as defined by DSM-III-R criteria. Buprenorphine's safety in combination with cocaine and opiates and its effects on electroencephalographic sleep patterns and regional cerebral blood flow were evaluated during inpatient studies. Buprenorphine (4 or 8 mg/day given sublingually) did not accentuate the cardiovascular and respiratory changes induced by an acute challenge dose of cocaine (30 mg given intravenously) or morphine (10 mg given intravenously) alone. In an outpatient open trial, buprenorphine significantly reduced both opiate and cocaine abuse by patients who had abused these drugs for more than 10 years. Most of these patients had failed in other drug abuse treatment programs. Reports of needle sharing also decreased significantly, and no patient tested positive for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The apparent safety and effectiveness of buprenorphine, combined with a high level of patient acceptance, led the Food and Drug Administration to grant a compassionate extension of the approved period for outpatient buprenorphine treatment from 26 to 52 weeks. Clinical trials of buprenorphine are ongoing. Possible mechanisms underlying buprenorphine-cocaine interactions are now under investigation.
In vitro studies suggest that collecting duct-derived (CD-derived) endothelin-1 (ET-1) can regulate renal Na reabsorption; however, the physiologic role of CD-derived ET-1 is unknown. Consequently, the physiologic effect of selective disruption of the ET-1 gene in the CD of mice was determined. Mice heterozygous for aquaporin2 promoter Cre recombinase and homozygous for loxP-flanked exon 2 of the ET-1 gene (called CD-specific KO of ET-1 [CD ET-1 KO] mice) were generated. These animals had no CD ET-1 mRNA and had reduced urinary ET-1 excretion. CD ET-1 KO mice on a normal Na diet were hypertensive, while body weight, Na excretion, urinary aldosterone excretion, and plasma renin activity were unchanged. CD ET-1 KO mice on a high-Na diet had worsened hypertension, reduced urinary Na excretion, and excessive weight gain, but showed no differences between aldosterone excretion and plasma renin activity. Amiloride or furosemide reduced BP in CD ET-1 KO mice on a normal or high-Na diet and prevented excessive Na retention in salt-loaded CD ET-1 KO mice. These studies indicate that CD-derived ET-1 is an important physiologic regulator of renal Na excretion and systemic BP.
The renoprotective effects of agents inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system in renal transplant recipients have been supposed but not finally proven. To shed more light on this issue, we performed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study to evaluate the influence of the AT-1 angiotensin II receptor blocker, losartan, on the surrogate marker of kidney injury, albuminuria, in patients after renal transplantation. The safety of this therapy was also evaluated.
Fourteen of 16 patients (nine male, five female), age 45.36 +/- 3.04 years, 65.5 +/- 10.0 months after kidney transplantation, with hypertension and stable serum creatinine 123 +/- 4 micromol/L without proteinuria, completed the protocol. Each patient underwent two 8-week treatment periods (one with losartan 50-100 mg and one with carvedilol 12.5-25 mg) in random order, allowing an 8-week placebo washout between treatments. The target office trough blood pressure was below 130/85 mmHg.
The ambulatory blood pressure did not differ in the treatment periods. Losartan significantly reduced albuminuria relative to placebo and carvedilol (27.62+/-17.58 vs. 49.55 +/- 25.33 v. 44.77 +/- 21.9 mg/g creatinine; P < 0.01). A significant but not clinically relevant decrease in hemoglobin level after losartan was observed (losartan: 129 +/- 3.1 g/l, placebo: 134.2 +/- 3.2, carvedilol: 137.1 +/- 3.7; P < 0.001). Serum potassium, creatinine, creatinine clearance, and trough blood cyclosporine levels were unaffected.
Losartan decreases microalbuminuria in renal transplant recipients with clinically minimal side effects.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a well-recognized complication after transplantation. The purpose of this study was to describe our center's experience with this complication after lung transplantation.
We retrospectively reviewed cases of TMA among patients who underwent lung transplantation between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2003 (n = 257). The cases were characterized and the outcomes were analyzed. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression models were constructed to identify potential risk factors for TMA.
Twenty-four cases of TMA developed in 20 recipients. Thirteen cases occurred in the setting of another illness and 11 cases were isolated complications. Multivariate Cox regression models identified female gender, history of TMA, and the immunosuppressive regimen as independent predictors of TMA. Maintenance immunosuppression with the combination of a calcineurin inhibitor and sirolimus carried a significantly higher risk of TMA than a calcineurin inhibitor alone. After the diagnosis of TMA, calcineurin inhibitors were stopped in 18 cases; however, in 6 cases in which the onset of TMA coincided with the addition of sirolimus to a calcineurin inhibitor, only sirolimus was discontinued. Plasmapheresis was performed for severe cases (n = 10). TMA remitted in all cases, and an alternate calcineurin inhibitor was introduced in 14 cases. TMA recurred in 4 recipients, a median 253 days after the initial episode. The median survival after the onset of TMA was 377 days.
TMA is a serious complication after lung transplantation, and the risk is highest when sirolimus is used in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor.
Amphetamine, a CYP2D6 substrate, is widely used by truck drivers, and the extent to which different people metabolize the drug has only been determined in an isolated or reduced number of samples. A gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method is implemented to simultaneously determine amphetamine, methamphetamine, and hydroxyamphetamine in the urine of drug users. This method is a useful contribution to a well-established field. The main improvements are the use of liquid-liquid extraction, the trapping of the amphetamines as their hydrochloride salt, as a solution to the volatility of these analytes, and its application to assess the CYP2D6 metabolic phenotype of amphetamine users, which is innovative. Calibration curves ranged from 125 to 1000 ng/mL and had an r(2) greater than 0.99. The validation data (precision, accuracy, and recovery) shows the reproducibility and selectiveness of the method. The method is applied to determine the metabolic ratio (MR) in 121 urine specimens of federal highway drivers who underwent random mandatory roadside testing for drugs. The statistical analysis of the MR shows the presence of three different groups, which according to the established groups for CYP2D6 and the amount of the drug metabolized, are classified into extensive metabolizers (EM), intermediate metabolizers (IM), and poor metabolizers (PM). The biological consequences of these differences in amphetamine metabolism, such as impaired driving, a risk to develop Parkinson's disease, or an addiction, need to be further studied.
There are still many uncertainties regarding the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes associated with exposure to drinking water disinfection by-products. In Montréal, Québec, Canada, we carried out a hospital-based case-control study including 493 cases of intrauterine growth restriction defined as birth weight below the 10th percentile for gestational age and sex, according to Canadian standards. Controls were babies (n = 472) delivered at the same hospital whose birth weight was at or above the 10th percentile, matched for gestational age, race, and sex. Exposure to total and specific trihalomethanes was measured using regulatory data collected by municipalities and the provincial Ministry of Environment. Residential history, water drinking, and shower habits during pregnancy, as well as known risk factors for intrauterine growth restriction, were measured with a face-to-face interview with all mothers. Mothers and newborns were characterized for two genetic polymorphisms, one in the CYP2E1 gene (G1259C), and another in the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene (C677T). Exposure to specific and total trihalomethanes from drinking water, determined for 458 cases and 426 controls, did not result in an increased risk of intrauterine growth restriction. However, significant effect modification was observed between newborns with and without the CYP2E1 variant; among newborns with the variant, the adjusted odds ratio for intrauterine growth restriction associated with exposure to average total trihalomethanes above the 90th percentile (corresponding to 29.4 microg/L) was 13.20 (95% confidence interval, 1.19-146.72). These findings suggest that exposure to trihalomethanes at the highest levels can affect fetal growth but only in genetically susceptible newborns.
Fluoxetine appears to cause a low incidence of adverse cardiac effects. An uncommon but potentially hazardous effect of fluoxetine therapy, however, is bradycardia accompanied by faintness or syncope. The authors report two cases in which this adverse effect occurred. They hypothesize that the mechanism of bradycardia in these cases represents a direct central nervous system effect of increased serotonin on medullary cardiovascular regulation.
In this paper we describe a case of endometrial carcinoma observed in a post-menopausal patient who was treated with tamoxifen for 5 years after a mastectomy for cancer. She came to our department because of vaginal bleeding 2 years after the end of tamoxifen treatment.
She underwent hysteroscopy and a D and C. A polypoid endometrium completely filled the uterine cavity and was carefully removed by curettage; histology showed a highly undifferentiated neoplasia with a component of serous adenocarcinoma, which was likely to originate from endometrial polyps.
The patient underwent radical hysterectomy, but no residual tumor was found in the uterus or in the tubes, ovary, or pelvic nodes, in spite of its low differentiation grade and high potential aggressiveness, and even though the patient was already symptomatic. Two years after surgery the patient is disease free, which is consistent with the evaluation of the surgical specimen, but unusual in poorly differentiated neoplasms.
A randomized, double-blind study was undertaken to compare atenolol and captopril as second-step agents in the treatment of essential hypertension resistant to 5 mg bendrofluazide daily. Using a cross-over technique 28 patients were administered each drug sequentially for periods of 8 weeks with an intervening washout period of 2 weeks. Both drugs produced a significant reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure (P less than 0.01). Captopril was more effective than atenolol at reducing diastolic pressure (P less than 0.05), but there was no significant difference in the systolic pressure. Neither drug produced side effects of a serious nature, but untoward symptoms were more frequent with atenolol. The effect of the drugs on myocardial function was assessed by comparing pre-treatment with post-treatment left ventricular ejection fractions, both at rest and with exercise, measured by MUGA scan. The resting ejection fraction was unaffected by either drug. During exercise, on captopril, the ejection fraction showed the normal increase over the resting baseline, but on atenolol there was no such increase.
The authors report two cases of ejaculatory dysfunction induced by fluoxetine. Cyproheptadine, an antihistaminic and antiserotonergic drug, restored sexual function in each case. Possible mechanisms of fluoxetine-induced anorgasmia are presented and treatment options are reviewed.
We tested the hypothesis that a chronically active muscle, such as the rat diaphragm, would be more resistant to glucocorticoid-induced myopathy than a less active locomotor skeletal muscle (plantaris). Furthermore, we sought to determine whether endurance exercise could antagonize the glucocorticoid-induced atrophy in the diaphragm. Rats were assigned to one of seven experimental groups (n = 10 per group) and injected daily over a 10-day period with either a sham solution or prednisolone acetate: group 1: control; sedentary and sham injected; group 2: control; exercise trained and sham injected; group 3; sedentary; prednisolone (0.5 mg.kg-1 x day-1); group 4: sedentary; prednisolone (1.0 mg.kg-1 x day-1); group 5: sedentary; prednisolone (2.0 mg.kg-1 x day-1); group 6: sedentary; prednisolone (5.0 mg.kg-1 x day-1); group 7: exercise trained; prednisolone (5.0 mg.kg-1 x day-1). Slope differences in the dose-response curves suggest that prednisolone-induced muscle atrophy in the plantaris was more severe than that in the diaphragm. Furthermore, high doses of prednisolone resulted in a differential effect on muscle bioenergetic enzyme activities in the plantaris and diaphragm. Prednisolone treatment (> or = 2 mg.kg-1 x day-1) resulted in a significant reduction in phosphofructokinase activity (expressed as microM substrate.min-1 x mg protein-1) and an increase in 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity in the plantaris muscle. In contrast, prednisolone treatment did not influence phosphofructokinase activity (P > 0.05) in the diaphragm but decreased (P < 0.05) relative citrate synthase activity. Finally, 90 min daily of endurance exercise did not antagonize prednisolone-induced myopathy in either the diaphragm or the plantaris.
The authors examined the verbal memory and visual memory of 19 patients with methamphetamine dependence and 18 normal controls to assess the memory impairment due to the use of methamphetamine. There was no significant difference in the verbal memory, but a significant difference was detected in the visual memory. The results that the methamphetamine selectively impairs visual memory seem to be because visual memory tasks are more sensitive to the damage of the executive function.
Influence of dosing time on pharmacological effects and toxicity of acetylsalicylic acid was investigated in ICR male mice under light-dark (12:12) cycle. Significant circadian rhythms (day-night rhythms) were demonstrated for hypothermal and analgesic effects at 1 h after an injection of acetylsalicylic acid (200 mg/kg, i.p.) (P < 0.01, respectively). The rhythmic patterns of acetylsalicylic acid induced analgesia and hypothermia resembled overall the rhythms occurring in the non-drugged state. Injection of acetylsalicylic acid resulted in a parallel increase in latency to hot plate and a parallel decrease in rectal temperature. The relationship between plasma salicylate concentrations and responses was not clear. There was also a significant circadian rhythm in acetylsalicylic acid (850 mg/kg, i.p.) induced toxicity with the highest mortality at 17:00 and the lowest one at 05:00 (P < 0.05). Dosing time dependent kinetics of salicylate seems to be related to the rhythm of toxicity of the drug. The time in circadian stage at which acetylsalicylic acid is administered is essentially important in the actions of acetylsalicylic acid.
The active metabolite of vitamin D known as 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] is a major physiologic regulator of mineral metabolism in man. The compound is also a potent inducer of differentiation of a human promyelocytic leukemia cell line known as HL-60. The induction of differentiation of myeloid leukemia cells to functional end cells offers an appealing therapeutic prospect. We investigated the ability of 1,25(OH)2D3 both to induce in vitro the differentiation of blast cells taken from patients with acute myelogenous leukemia and to improve hematopoiesis in vivo in patients with the myelodysplastic syndromes (preleukemia). We found that high concentrations (10-6 M) of 1,25(OH)2D3 significantly induced the in vitro differentiation of blast cells as measured by morphology, phagocytosis, and superoxide production. A concentration of 10-9 M 1,25(OH)2D3 had no effect on blast cell differentiation. We gave 2 microgram/day of 1,25(OH)2D3 to 18 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (preleukemia) in an attempt to improve their hematopoiesis. During therapy, their peak peripheral blood granulocyte, platelet, and macrophage concentrations were slightly elevated as compared to their baseline, starting levels. Eight patients had a partial or minor peripheral blood response to the compound during the administration of 1,25(OH)2D3. However, no patient showed significant improvement of peripheral blood cell or marrow blast cell counts by the end of the study (greater than or equal to 12 weeks) as compared to their starting levels. Seven of the patients developed leukemia before or by 12 weeks of treatment. Nine of the 18 patients developed hypercalcemia. Taken together, the study shows that high concentrations (10-6M) of 1,25(OH)2D3 can induce differentiation of leukemia blast cells in vitro, but the administration of 1,25(OH)2D3 to patients with the myelodysplastic syndromes (preleukemia) does not have an enduring therapeutic effect. Hypercalcemia prevented administering greater amounts of 1,25(OH)2D3. In the future, the use of new vitamin D analogs that induce hematopoietic cell differentiation without inducing hypercalcemia might allow the achievement of higher blood levels of the inducing compound and might be medically useful for selected preleukemic and leukemic patients.
Drug therapy should be individualised according to criteria of efficacy, adverse effects, and treatment adherence. This is particularly important at the interface of inpatient and ambulatory care. Aspects of drug approval (labelling) and individual refunding by health care insurances should also be taken into account.
A patient (male, 61, painter) showed elevated transaminases after treatment with phenprocoumon because of a deep vein thrombosis in 1999. Transaminases normalized completely after discontinuation of excluded. After a recurrent thrombosis in 2003 phenprocoumon was prescribed again followed by recurrent elevation of transaminases and subsequent cholestatic hepatitis progressing to fulminant hepatic failure that required liver transplantation. After transplantation the patient's general state of health was good and liver function nearly normal. Anticoagulation was indicated beyond the postoperative phase because of recurrent deep vein thrombosis and atrial fibrillation. A low molecular weight heparin was chosen for long-term treatment.
A low molecular weight heparin appears to be the most appropriate way to maintain effective and safe anticoagulation in this patient. Coumarins carry a residual risk of an extrahepatic, immunologically mediated cross sensitization. Long-term use of ximelagatran (which has been withdrawn meanwhile) may also cause liver damage. For heparinoids, hirudines, and other drugs affecting coagulation like platelet aggregation inhibitors, therapeutic evidence is not sufficient. Though subcutaneous application of heparin is a disadvantage for the patient, therapeutic alternatives do not have better documented efficacy or less hepatotoxic potential. The low molecular weight heparin fulfils the criteria for refunding set by federal jurisdiction.
1. Metabolism of tryptophan along the oxidative pathway via kynurenine results in the production of quinolinic acid and kynurenic acid, which can act on glutamate receptors in peripheral tissues. We have now measured the concentrations of kynurenine pathway metabolites in the plasma of patients with osteoporosis before treatment with drugs, throughout and after 2 years of treatment with the drugs raloxifene or etidronate. Oxidative stress was assessed by measuring levels of the lipid peroxidation products malondialdehyde and 4-hydroxynonenal. Kynurenines were analysed by HPLC. Bone density was measured using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scans. 2. Patients with osteoporosis showed significantly lower baseline levels of 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid compared with healthy controls, but significantly higher levels of anthranilic acid and lipid peroxidation products. After 2 years treatment with etidronate and calcium, we observed significant therapeutic responses quantified by bone densitometric scanning. Significant improvements were not seen in patients treated with raloxifene. 3. In parallel, the levels of 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid, anthranilic acid and lipid peroxidation products were restored to control values by both drug treatments studied and tryptophan levels were increased significantly compared with baseline values. 4. The results suggest that tryptophan metabolism is altered in osteoporosis in a manner that could contribute to the oxidative stress and, thus, to progress of the disease. The oxidative metabolism of tryptophan (the kynurenine pathway) could represent a novel target for the development of new drugs for the treatment of osteoporosis. In addition, we noted that etidronate is a more effective drug than raloxifene, but that the simultaneous use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may reduce the efficacy of etidronate.
The present study evaluated the cardioprotective potential of bosentan, a mixed endothelin type A and B receptor antagonist, in the myocardial ischaemia-reperfusion model of myocardial infarction. Adult male wistar rats (175-225 g) were divided into three groups: sham operated, non-myocardial ischaemia-reperfusion (SHAM); saline-treated myocardial ischaemia-reperfusion control (CON); bosentan-treated myocardial ischaemia-reperfusion (BOS). All animals were anaesthetized and subjected to 40 min. occlusion of left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 120 min. of reperfusion. Saline or drug was administered to the CON or BOS group, respectively, 20 min. after the left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion. Haemodynamic parameters viz. systolic arterial pressure, diastolic arterial pressure and heart rate were recorded throughout the experimental period. Hearts were subsequently excised and processed for histopathological and infarct size evaluation and for biochemical estimation of cardiac specific enzyme creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) and myocardial malondialdehyde, a lipid peroxidation marker. Myocardial ischaemic reperfusion resulted in severe myocardial injury, depression of haemodynamic function, significant increase in malondialdehyde levels and decline in CK-MB isoenzyme activity in the heart tissue. Administration of bosentan (3 mg/kg, intravenously) slightly improved haemodynamic effects, decreased myocardial oxygen consumption, significantly (P<0.01) attenuated the rise in malondialdehyde levels and loss of myocardial CK-MB isoenzyme activity compared to the CON group, whereas bosentan administration significantly reduced the percentage area of fiber loss and infarct area. It is therefore concluded that endothelin-1 may mediate myocardial damage produced by ischaemia and reperfusion and that dual blockade of endothelinA and endothelinB receptors may have potential as a mode of therapy for myocardial infarction.
Dopaminergic modulation of the DNA binding activity of AP-1, Sp1, CREB and AP-2 transcription factors was examined in rat striatal nuclear extracts by gel shift assay. AP-1 binding was selectively increased in the striatum following depletion of dopamine by 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway or after reserpine treatment. The D1 agonist SKF 38393 dose-dependently increased AP-1 binding; this effect was significantly increased in reserpine-treated rats and even more markedly enhanced in denervated striatum. The D2/D3 agonist quinpirole, administered alone, did not affect striatal activator protein-1 binding; in combination, quinpirole and SKF 38393 acted synergistically in normal and reserpine-treated rats but not in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, suggesting that mechanisms underlying D1-D2/D3 interactions are altered after dopamine denervation. Most, but not all, of the changes in AP-1 binding activity observed in this study are consistent with changes in levels of Fos/Jun family proteins observed after similar treatments. These results support the hypothesis that D1 receptor stimulation activates striatonigral neurons and modulates expression of AP-1-related genes in these neurons, while D2 receptor stimulation mediates tonic inhibition of AP-1 expression and activity in the striatopallidal neurons. Moreover, the findings provide evidence that the loss of dopaminergic input to the striatum, as occurs in Parkinson's disease, induces long-lasting alterations in the regulation of striatal gene expression which may contribute to the disease's progress.
