Hyperpigmentation, pulmonary infiltration, and erythema nodosum occurred in a patient receiving long-term minocycline therapy. Bronchoalveolar lavage revealed both a neutrophilic and an eosinophilic alveolitis. The pulmonary and systemic symptoms promptly resolved after discontinuation of minocycline.
The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of long-term ambient particulate matter (PM) on risk of fatal coronary heart disease (CHD). A cohort of 3,239 nonsmoking, non-Hispanic white adults was followed for 22 years. Monthly concentrations of ambient air pollutants were obtained from monitoring stations [PM < 10 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM10), ozone, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide] or airport visibility data [PM < 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5)] and interpolated to ZIP code centroids of work and residence locations. All participants had completed a detailed lifestyle questionnaire at baseline (1976), and follow-up information on environmental tobacco smoke and other personal sources of air pollution were available from four subsequent questionnaires from 1977 through 2000. Persons with prevalent CHD, stroke, or diabetes at baseline (1976) were excluded, and analyses were controlled for a number of potential confounders, including lifestyle. In females, the relative risk (RR) for fatal CHD with each 10-microg/m3 increase in PM2.5 was 1.42 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.06-1.90] in the single-pollutant model and 2.00 (95% CI, 1.51-2.64) in the two-pollutant model with O3. Corresponding RRs for a 10-microg/m3 increase in PM(10-2.5) and PM10 were 1.62 and 1.45, respectively, in all females and 1.85 and 1.52 in postmenopausal females. No associations were found in males. A positive association with fatal CHD was found with all three PM fractions in females but not in males. The risk estimates were strengthened when adjusting for gaseous pollutants, especially O3, and were highest for PM2.5. These findings could have great implications for policy regulations.
Propofol, a central-acting sedative agent, has been implicated in the development of rhabdomyolysis in children. We describe two adults who developed rhabdomyolysis after receiving high rates of propofol infusion. Rhabdomyolysis of both skeletal and cardiac muscle was suggested in both patients by marked increases of creatine kinase (>170 000 U/L) and cardiac troponin I (11 and 46 microg/L in patients one and two, respectively). Creatine kinase and cardiac troponin I values were highly correlated in each patent (r = 0.786 and 0.988 in patients one and two, respectively). Autopsy of one patient confirmed the diagnosis of skeletal and cardiac rhabdomyolysis.
A method is presented for converting the relative refractory period to a linear form which can be used for quantifying changes in peripheral nerve conduction and membrane excitability. Since the relative refractory period is very consistent in nerves taken from animals of a given age, strain, and size, small alterations due to exposure by neurotoxic agents can readily be detected. In the present study rat sciatic nerves exposed to phenol developed a peripheral neuropathy which was detected by an increased relative refractory period. Diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), another neuropathic agent, produced a shift in the relative refractory period which was also consistent with the time course of its known neurotoxicity. On the other hand, acrylamide did not change the relative refractory period although the rats exhibited deficits when measured behaviorally (roto-rod and inclined screen tests). This observation is consistent with the view that the acrylamide toxicity initially affects nerve endings and spares the nerve axon. Erythrosin B, an agent which enhances nerve excitability, produced a shift in the relative refractory period which indicated that the nerve was less refractory. These examples point to the value of the relative refractory period as an index of the extent and type of neurotoxicity induced by agents which affect peripheral nerve axons, and suggest that this method may be useful in determining the mechanism of action of neurotoxic agents.
Changes within the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) cellular signaling pathway were evaluated in adolescent mice exposed to 50 ppb arsenic during gestation. Previously, we reported increased basal plasma corticosterone levels, decreased hippocampal GR levels and deficits in learning and memory performance in perinatal arsenic-exposed mice. The biosynthesis of members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, known to be involved in learning and memory, is modulated by the binding of GR to glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) in the gene promoters. Two genes of the MAPK pathway, Ras and Raf, contain GREs which are activated upon binding of GRs. We evaluated the activity of GRs at Ras and Raf promoters using chromatin immunoprecipitation and real-time PCR and report decreased binding of the GR at these promoters. An ELISA-based GR binding assay was used to explore whether this decreased binding was restricted to in vivo promoters and revealed no differences in binding of native GR to synthetic GREs. The decreased in vivo GR binding coincides with significantly decreased mRNA levels and slight reductions of protein of both H-Ras and Raf-1 in perinatally arsenic-exposed mice. Nuclear activated extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK), a downstream target of Ras and Raf, whose transcriptional targets also play an important role in learning and memory, was decreased in the hippocampus of arsenic-exposed animals when compared to controls. GR-mediated transcriptional deficits in the MAPK/ERK pathway could be an underlying cause of previously reported learning deficits and provide the link to arsenic-induced deficiencies in cognitive development.
Previous reports on halothane-induced injury have included patients treated with corticosteroids. Therapy has often been initiated before there has been the opportunity for spontaneous resolution of the process. The patient reported here developed typical acute halothane hepatitis following the second exposure to the anesthetic; she remained ill and failed to show evidence of improvement during a five-week period. Clinical improvement was noted shortly after therapy with prednisone. The laboratory studies returned to normal, and the severe morphological lesion resolved. This experience supports the use of corticosteroids in halothane-induced liver injury in the absence of prompt spontaneous resolution, since therapy appears to decrease the morbidity and hasten resolution of the process.
Studies were performed to examine the mechanisms for the protective effects of free radical scavengers on gentamicin (GM)-mediated nephropathy. Administration of GM at 40 mg/kg sc for 13 days to rats induced a significant reduction in renal blood flow (RBF) and inulin clearance (CIn) as well as marked tubular damage. A significant reduction in urinary guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) excretion and a significant increase in renal cortical renin and endothelin-1 contents were also observed in GM-mediated nephropathy. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) or dimethylthiourea (DMTU) significantly lessened the GM-induced decrement in CIn. The SOD-induced increase in glomerular filtration rate was associated with a marked improvement in RBF, an increase in urinary cGMP excretion, and a decrease in renal renin and endothelin-1 content. SOD did not attenuate the tubular damage. In contrast, DMTU significantly reduced the tubular damage and lipid peroxidation, but it did not affect renal hemodynamics and vasoactive substances. Neither SOD nor DMTU affected the renal cortical GM content in GM-treated rats. These results suggest that 1) both SOD and DMTU have protective effects on GM-mediated nephropathy, 2) the mechanisms for the protective effects differ for SOD and DMTU, and 3) superoxide anions play a critical role in GM-induced renal vasoconstriction.
Leuprorelin acetate is an agonist of gonadotropin-releasing hormone, used as a first choice treatment in patients with prostate carcinoma. The impact of leuprorelin therapy in liver function and metabolism is largely unknown. We report about a patient who had been treated for 32 months with leuprorelin acetate, who developed a nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), associated with a focal lesion at the IV hepatic segment where histologic features appeared to be more severe. The patient, in addition to NAFLD, presented a marked iatrogenic hypotestosteronemia and full-criteria meeting the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome, including insulin resistance. The radiologic and clinical findings, the histopathologic features, and the absence of any hepatic abnormalities before treatment, support a causal role of leuprorelin in inducing metabolic derangement that, most likely secondary to androgen-deprivation, were, in turn, responsible for the development of NAFLD. In conclusion, this is the first case report of NAFLD with focal fatty liver associated with leuprorelin therapy. Patients in leuprorelin should be carefully monitored for the development of liver disease.
An 83-year-old black woman with previously diagnosed essential thrombocythemia was treated with thiotepa to control the excessive number of platelets. Approximately 10 years later, multiple myeloma developed. This appears to be the first case of multiple myeloma occurring after alkylating agent therapy for essential thrombocythemia. Although the mechanism of the development of multiple myeloma has yet to be defined, continuing progress in cell biology may prove a strong association between multiple myeloma and other hematologic malignancies.
Three cases of ischaemic cardio-vascular accidents are reported under progestative treatment; the drug used was chlormadinone acétate (0,5 mg daily) in one patients, and noréthistérone (5 mg daily) in two others. The accident was observed in two cases at the end of the second menstrual cycle and in one case after three years. Lipid abnormalities have been detected in the three cases: minor type IV (two patients) and mixed hyperlipidaemia (one patient).
Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) IX and XII are enzymes with newly validated potential for the development of personalized, first-in-class cancer chemotherapies. Here we present the design and synthesis of novel carbohydrate-based CA inhibitors, several of which were very efficient inhibitors (K(i)<10 nM) with good selectivity for cancer-associated CA isozymes over off-target CA isozymes. All inhibitors comprised a carbohydrate core with one hydroxyl group derivatized as a sulfamate. Five different carbohydrates were chosen to present a selection of molecular shapes with subtle stereochemical differences to the CA enzymes active site. Variable modifications of the remaining sugar hydroxyl groups were incorporated to provide an incremental coverage of chemical property parameters that are associated with biopharmaceutical performance. All sulfamate inhibitors displayed ligand efficiencies that are consistent with those reported for good drug lead candidates.
Tranexamic acid as an antifibrinolytic agent has been investigated in a controlled study in patients with recent subarachnoid haemorrhage. It is concluded that tranexamic acid improves neither rebleeding rates, nor mortality. Predominantly thrombotic complications have been noted as a more serious side effect of tranexamic acid.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) is a major occupational health hazard and causes occupational medicamentosa-like dermatitis (OMLDT) and liver damage. Recent evidence suggests immune response as a distinct mode of action for TCE-induced liver damage. This study aimed to explore the role of the key complement activation product C3a and its receptor C3aR in TCE-induced immune liver injury. A mouse model of skin sensitization was induced by TCE in the presence and absence of the C3aR antagonist SB 290157. Liver function was evaluated by alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) in conjunction with histopathological characterizations. C3a and C3aR were detected by immunohistochemistry and C5b-9 was assessed by immunofluorescence. IFN-γ and IL4 expressions were determined by flow cytometry and ELISA. The total sensitization rate was 44.1%. TCE sensitization caused liver cell necrosis and inflammatory infiltration, elevated serum ALT and AST, expression of C3a and C3aR, and deposition of C5b-9 in the liver. IFN-γ and IL-4 expressions were up-regulated in spleen mononuclear cells and their serum levels were also increased. Pretreatment with SB 290157 resulted in more inflammatory infiltration in the liver, higher levels of AST, reduced C3aR expression on Kupffer cells, and decreased IL-4 levels while IFN-γ remained unchanged. These data demonstrate that blocking of C3a binding to C3aR reduces IL4, shifts IFN-γ and IL-4 balance, and aggravates TCE-sensitization induced liver damage. These findings reveal a novel mechanism whereby modulation of Th2 response by C3a binding to C3a receptor contributes to immune-mediated liver damage by TCE exposure.
Previous research has suggested that the social impairments exhibited by individuals with autism are associated with changes in plasma oxytocin (OT) levels. The physiologic effects of oxytocin are mediated through its specific receptors (OTRs), and numerous studies have implicated OTRs in the regulation of social cognition and behavior. Animal models and linkage data from genome screens indicate that the oxytocin receptor gene (OXTR) is an excellent candidate for research concerning psychiatric disorders, particularly those involving social impairments, such as autism.
We genotyped four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located within the OXTR gene of 195 Chinese Han autism trios, using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.
The family-based association test (FBAT) revealed a significant genetic association between autism and two of the SNPs tested (rs2254298 A: Z = 2.287, p = .0222; rs53576 A: Z = 2.573, p = .0101). When haplotypes were constructed with two, three, and four markers, the haplotype-specific FBAT revealed that a number of haplotypes, particularly those involving rs53576, were significantly associated with autism. Furthermore, haplotypes constructed with all markers showed a significant excess transmission for the specific and global haplotype analyses (p = .0020 and .0289, respectively).
These data suggest an involvement of OXTR in the susceptibility to autism, and replication is important.
Signal transducers and activators of transcription 6 (STAT6) play a crucial role in the transactivation of IL-4 and IL-13, which might be involved in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD). We herein reported that the IgE-mediated late-phase reaction significantly decreased in STAT6-deficient (STAT6(-/-)) mice in AD model mice induced by intravenous injection of monoclonal anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP)-IgE antibody and subsequent skin testing with dinitrofluorobenzene. We therefore hypothesized that synthetic double-stranded DNA with a high affinity for STAT6 could be introduced in vivo as decoy cis elements to bind the transcriptional factor and block the gene activation contributing to the onset and progression of AD, thus providing effective therapy for AD. Treatment by the transfection of STAT6 decoy oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs), but not scramble decoy ODN after sensitization by anti-DNP-IgE antibody, had a significant inhibitory effect on not only STAT6 binding to nuclei but also on the late-phase response. A histological analysis revealed that both edema and the infiltration of neutrophils and eosinophils significantly decreased in STAT6 decoy ODN-transfected mice. To examine the mechanism of the in vivo effect of STAT6 decoy ODN, we employed an in vitro mast cells culture system. After IgE receptor engagement, mast cells transfected by STAT6 decoy ODN exhibited normal histamine release, but their cytokine release (TNF-alpha, IL-6) markedly decreased. We herein report the first successful in vivo transfer of STAT6 decoy ODN to reduce the late-phase reaction, thereby providing a new therapeutic strategy for AD.
Galectins are characterized by specific affinity for beta-galactoside sugars, and they play a role in diverse biological processes, including cell adhesion, cell proliferation, and apoptosis. Galectin-1, -3, and -9 have been implicated in modulating the immune response.
Nephrotoxic serum nephritis, which is characterized by crescent formation and glomerular influx of CD8+ cells into glomerular capillaries, was induced in Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats by injecting rabbit antiglomerular basement membrane serum. Following induction, the rats were treated either with phosphate-buffered saline or dexamethasone, galectin-1, galectin-3, or galectin-9 on alternate days and were sacrificed at day 14. At day 8, splenic lymphocytes were isolated and employed for terminal deoxytransferase-mediated uridine triphosphate nick end-labeling (TUNEL) assay to assess the degree of apoptosis, and the kidneys were utilized to determine the extent of influx of CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells and glomerular damage.
Dexamethasone induced a marked apoptosis of splenic CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells, and it inhibited the production of anti-rabbit IgG and the influx of CD8+ cells and macrophages into the renal glomeruli. Crescent formation and excretion of urinary proteins were also reduced. Galectin-9 failed to induce apoptosis in the CD4(+) cells; however, it induced apoptosis in the CD8(+) cells and inhibited the infiltration of CD8(+) cells. Although galectin-1 and -3 did not induce the apoptosis in the T cells, they inhibited the accumulation of macrophages in the renal glomeruli. Like dexamethasone, the galectins also reduced the crescentic formation, proliferation of glomerular cells, and excretion of urinary proteins.
Galectin-9 selectively induces apoptosis of the activated CD8(+) cells, while the macrophage influx into the kidney is modulated by all three galectins. This finding raises an interesting possibility for the utility of galectins in the modulation of macrophages that are involved in immune-mediated glomerular diseases.
The osmotic water permeability (Pf) of the rabbit proximal tubule brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV) increases during maturation and is mediated by an increase in aquaporin-1 (AQP1) protein expression. Serum thyroid hormone levels increase after birth and have been shown to play a role in the maturation of other renal transport functions. We examined the hypothesis that thyroid hormone plays a role in the maturational increase in osmotic water permeability. Hypothyroidism was induced by addition of 0.1% propylthiouracil (PTU) to the drinking water of pregnant rabbits (starting 9 d before delivery) and was continued until the rabbits were studied as adults (9-11 wk). Some animals received thyroid hormone replacement by daily injection with triiodothyronine (T3; 10 microg/100 g body weight) for three days before study. Pf was found to be higher in BBMV from hypothyroid (82.7 +/- 5.5 microm/s) than from euthyroid (60.6 +/- 4.0 microm/s) and T3-replacement rabbits (69.0 +/- 5.0 microm/s) (p < 0.05). The activation energy (Ea; in kcal/deg.mol) of Pf was not different among the three experimental groups (euthyroid 5.6 +/- 0.9, hypothyroid 4.9 +/- 0.8, T3-replacement 5.0 +/- 1.0; p = NS), nor was the percentage mercury inhibition of Pf (euthyroid 66.5 +/- 5.3, hypothyroid 74.2 +/- 3.2 and T3-replacement 73.1 +/- 4.3; p = NS). AQP1 expression, measured by immunoblotting, was highest in BBMV from hypothyroid rabbits (p < 0.05). Membrane fluidity, measured as steady-state generalized polarization (GP) of Laurdan, which is inversely related to membrane fluidity, was significantly different between the three groups (GP: euthyroid 0.307 +/- 0.004, hypothyroid 0.271 +/- 0.004 and T3-replacement 0.287 +/- 0.003; for all p < 0.05). These data demonstrate that the maturational increase in thyroid hormone levels is not responsible for the maturational increase in water transport. Surprisingly, congenital hypothyroidism in rabbits is associated with an increased Pf when rabbits are studied as adults. The higher Pf in hypothyroid adult rabbits is due to a higher expression of AQP1 protein as well as a greater membrane fluidity than in euthyroid rabbits.
The toxicology of the cyanobacterial alkaloid cylindrospermopsin (CYN), a potent inhibitor of protein synthesis, appears complex and is not well understood. In exposed mice the liver is the main target for the toxic effects of CYN. In this study primary mouse hepatocyte cultures were used to investigate the mechanisms involved in CYN toxicity. The results show that 1-5 microM CYN caused significant concentration-dependent cytotoxicity (52%-82% cell death) at 18 h. Protein synthesis inhibition was a sensitive, early indicator of cellular responses to CYN. Following removal of the toxin, the inhibition of protein synthesis could not be reversed, showing behavior similar to that of the irreversible inhibitor emetine. In contrast to the LDH leakage, protein synthesis was maximally inhibited by 0.5 microM CYN. No protein synthesis occurred over 4-18 h at or above this concentration. Inhibition of cytochrome P450 (CYP450) activity with 50 microM proadifen or 50 microM ketoconazole diminished the toxicity of CYN but not the effects on protein synthesis. These findings imply a dissociation of the two events and implicate the involvement of CYP450-derived metabolites in the toxicity process, but not in the impairment of protein synthesis. Thus, the total abolition of protein synthesis may exaggerate the metabolite effects but cannot be considered a primary cause of cell death in hepatocytes over an acute time frame. In cell types deficient in CYP450 enzymes, protein synthesis inhibition may play a more crucial role in the development of cytotoxicity.
Evidence for temporal variation in the nephrotoxicity of amphotericin B was recently reported in experimental animals. The role of food in these variations was determined by studying the effect of a short fasting period on the temporal variation in the renal toxicity of amphotericin B. Twenty-eight normally fed and 28 fasted female Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Food was available ad libitum to the fed rats, while the fasted animals were fasted 12 h before and 24 h after amphotericin B injection to minimize stress for the animals. Water was available ad libitum to both groups of rats, which were maintained on a 14-h light, 10-h dark regimen (light on at 0600 h). Renal toxicity was determined by comparing the levels of excretion of renal enzyme and the serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels at the time of the maximal (0700 h) or the minimal (1900 h) nephrotoxicity after the intraperitoneal administration of a single dose of dextrose (5%; control group) or amphotericin B (50 mg/kg of body weight; treated group) to the rats. The nephrotoxicities obtained after amphotericin B administration at both times of day were compared to the nephrotoxicities observed for time-matched controls. In fed animals, the 24-h urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and beta-galactosidase was significantly higher when amphotericin B was injected at 0700 and 1900 h. The excretion of these two enzymes was reduced significantly (P < 0.05) in fasting rats, and this effect was larger at 0700 h (P < 0.05) than at 1900 h. The serum creatinine level was also significantly higher (P < 0.05) in fed animals treated at 0700 h than in fed animals treated at 1900 h. Fasting reduced significantly (P < 0.05) the increase in the serum creatinine level, and this effect was larger in the animals treated at 0700 h. Similar data were obtained for BUN levels. Amphotericin B accumulation was significantly higher (P < 0.05) in the renal cortexes of fed rats than in those of fasted animals, but there was no difference according to the time of injection. These results demonstrated that fasting reduces the nephrotoxicity of amphotericin B and that food availability is of crucial importance in the temporal variation in the renal toxicity of amphotericin B in rats.
Treatment with cyclophosphamide, a commonly used anticancer drug, may result in oligozoospermia or azoospermia. The objective of this study was to determine whether exposure of male rats to cyclophosphamide induces apoptosis in male germ cells, and if so, when the peak of apoptosis occurs and at what specific stages of spermatogenesis. The presence of apoptosis was determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) detection in situ and by an increase in DNA fragmentation (DNA ladder). To determine the time course of drug-induced apoptosis, male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with a single dose (70 mg/kg BW) of cyclophosphamide, and the testes were fixed 0, 4, 8, 12, 18, 24, and 48 h after treatment. To determine the dose response, rats were treated with doses of cyclophosphamide (0, 2, 7, 20, and 70 mg/kg), and the testes were fixed 12 h after treatment. A low spontaneous incidence of apoptosis was observed in controls, in particular in premeiotic germ cells of stages I-IV and XI-XIV of the seminiferous tubules. In cyclophosphamide-exposed rats, the incidence of apoptosis increased progressively at 4 h and 8 h, reached a peak at 12 h (about 3.5-fold above control), and then decreased rapidly to control levels by 48 h. A 70-mg/kg dose of cyclophosphamide induced a significant increase in apoptosis; lower doses did not. Although drug-induced apoptosis occurred in all stages of germ cells, it was most pronounced in spermatogonia and spermatocytes in stages I-IV and XI-XIV. Thus, apoptosis may be involved in the occurrence of oligozoospermia or azoospermia after cyclophosphamide treatment. Apoptosis of damaged premeiotic germ cells may serve a critical role in protecting subsequent generations from the diverse effects of toxicants.
Many clinicians believe that doxepin is the safest tricyclic with respect to cardiovascular effects. This belief has persisted for two decades despite the absence of rigorous prospective evaluation.
To address this issue, the authors studied the cardiovascular effects of doxepin in 32 depressed patients with preexisting left ventricular impairment, ventricular arrhythmias, and/or conduction disease.
Doxepin (1) did not have a robust effect on heart rate, (2) did not adversely affect left ventricular function, (3) did have a significant antiarrhythmic effect, (4) slowed cardiac conduction, and (5) caused a significant increase in orthostatic hypotension. Five (16%) of the 32 patients dropped out due to cardiovascular side effects. The overall dropout rate was 41%.
The cardiovascular effects of doxepin in depressed patients with heart disease are comparable to those documented for imipramine and nortriptyline. Doxepin afforded no greater margin of cardiovascular safety; in fact, the drug was poorly tolerated by this patient population.
To validate pharmacologically the feline model of steroid-induced ocular hypertension.
Serial studies were conducted in domesticated adult female cats trained to accept topical ocular drug administration and pneumotonometry. To establish intraocular pressure (IOP) values for each study, measurements were performed at the same time of day for 6 consecutive days. Beginning on day 7, cats received either steroid or vehicle administered topically to both eyes three times a day for approximately 28 days. The IOP measurements were performed daily.
After 5 to 7 days of treatment with 0.1% dexamethasone or 1.0% prednisolone acetate, IOP began to increase, reaching peak values within 2 weeks. These values were sustained throughout dosing but declined rapidly to baseline upon cessation of treatment. Maximum IOPs for the dexamethasone- and prednisolone-treated groups averaged 4.5 +/- 0.3 mm Hg (n = 12) greater than the mean IOP value obtained in vehicle-treated cats. Cats treated with 0.25% fluorometholone, 1.0% loteprednol etabonate, and 1.0% rimexolone exhibited increases of 0.6, 1.2, and 1.7 mm Hg, respectively. These values were significantly lower than those observed following treatment with dexamethasone or prednisolone.
The ocular hypertensive effects of selected anti-inflammatory topical ocular steroids in this model are consistent with clinical findings.
This feline model is a useful tool for assessing the potential IOP liability of novel anti-inflammatory steroids.
To evaluate the in vivo efficacy and toxicity of the 1,25-dihydroxy-16-ene-23-yne-vitamin D3 (16,23-D3) analogue in athymic nude mice injected with Y-79 human retinoblastoma cells and to compare the efficacy and toxicity of this compound with those of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (D3, calcitriol).
Thirty athymic nude mice (4-6 weeks old) were injected subcutaneously with 1 x 10(7) Y-79 human retinoblastoma cells suspended in a 1:1 mixture of Iscove culture medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum and basement membrane matrix suspension. Five days after tumor injection, the mice were randomized to 3 groups of 10 mice each. The first group served as a control group and received intraperitoneal injections of 0.25 mL of mineral oil (vehicle) 5 times a week. The second group received intraperitoneal injections of 0.05 microg of calcitriol in 0.25 mL of mineral oil intraperitoneally 5 times a week. The third group received intraperitoneal injections of 0.5 microg of 16,23-D3 in 0.25 mL of mineral oil 5 times a week. Injections were continued for 5 weeks, during which tumor size and mouse weight were individually measured. Toxicity was assessed by clinical measures such as lethargy, weight loss, and death. The mice were then killed and the size, volume, and weight of each tumor were determined. Also, in representative animals in each group, kidneys were evaluated for calcification and serum calcium concentration was measured.
All experimental and control animals developed tumors subcutaneously. The 16,23-D3-treated mice had significantly smaller average tumor size (1.55 cm3) than the control mice (3.45 cm3) (P = .02), less gain in average body weight from the beginning of treatment (2.4 g vs 5.5 g) (P= .06), and a 40% mortality. The calcitriol-treated mice did not have significantly smaller average tumor size (1.26 cm3) than the 16,23-D3-treated mice (P = .35), had significant body weight loss compared with the control animals (calcitriol-treated mice lost 4.03 g) (P =.001), and had a mortality of 90% by the completion of the experiment. Histologically, there was no difference in the degree of tumor necrosis and calcification between control and experimental mice. Serum calcium concentrations were equivalent between the control (2.15 mmol/L [8.6 mg/dL]) and experimental groups (calcitriol, 1.88 mmol/L [7.5 mg/dL] [P = .97]; 16,23-D3, 2.15 mmol/L [8.6 mg/dL] [P = .42]). Mild bilateral renal tubular calcification occurred in 3 of 4 mice in the calcitriol-treated group and in 2 of 4 mice in the 16,23-D3-treated group.
The growth of subcutaneous Y-79 human retinoblastoma cells in athymic nude mice is significantly reduced by treatment with intraperitoneal injections of 16,23-D3. The antineoplastic effect of calcitriol is not statistically significantly different but is associated with significantly more toxicity. 1,25-Dihydroxy-16-ene-23-yne-vitamin D3 may be a useful chemotherapeutic adjunct in the treatment of retinoblastoma.
Patients with end-stage liver disease due to chronic hepatitis B infection in whom a YMDD escape hepatitis B virus (HBV) mutant has emerged under lamivudine treatment are generally denied liver transplantation (OLT).
We report the case of a male patient who was started on prophylactic treatment with lamivudine in the context of recurrent episodes of HBV reactivation during high dose immunosuppressive therapy for relapsing severe pulmonary sarcoidosis.
Following the emergence of a YMDD escape mutant virus under lamivudine treatment, he developed subacute liver failure requiring liver transplantation. The patient was treated with a combination of intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) which was started perioperatively and also continued lamivudine after OLT. Twelve months after OLT, there was no evidence of HBV reinfection of the liver graft with the use of HBIG and lamivudine.
This observation suggests that emergence of the YMDD mutation is not a contra-indication to OLT, providing adequate immunoprophylaxis using HBIG and lamivudine combination therapy.
Thirty patients undergoing abdominal surgery were randomly assigned postoperatively into two groups for a double-blind evaluation of the analgesic potency and cardiorespiratory effects of either 50 micrograms sufentanil or 5 mg morphine injected epidurally. After sufentanil injection, good postoperative analgesia was obtained, with a linear analog score (LAS) of less than 5 starting 5 min after injection and lasting for more than 6 hr. Linear analog scores obtained during coughing (LASC) and during movement (LASM) were less than 5 after 10 min and lasted for more than 4 hr. Respiratory rate decreased significantly for 2 hr after sufentanil injection. After morphine, pain relief started after 20 min and lasted for more than 12 hr. Respiratory rate decreased after 30 min. Sedation was greater after sufentanil than after morphine. PaCO2, which increased significantly 1 hr after sufentanil, did not change after morphine. Peak expiratory flow significantly improved for 2 hr after both sufentanil and morphine, whereas forced vital capacity improved for 4 hr after sufentanil and 8 hr after morphine administration. Forced expiratory volume did not change with either drug. It is concluded that 5 mg morphine injected epidurally provides longer lasting analgesia than does 50 micrograms sufentanil, but that in the first hours analgesia is better after sufentanil. Injection of either drug was accompanied by remarkable cardiovascular stability.
