This report describes three patients who experienced transient neurologic events associated with intraarterial papaverine infusion in the vertebrobasilar system. Two of these involved respiratory depression and underscore the need for careful monitoring and, when required, cardiopulmonary support.
Low, micromolar concentrations of aluminum (in the presence of NaF) were shown to strongly activate human platelet adenylate cyclase and provided a useful probe for evaluating cyclic AMP second messenger function distal to the receptor: The effect of normal aging and disease state on second messenger activity in man was studied by measurements of the aluminum-activated enzyme. A significant decline in aluminum-stimulated platelet adenylate cyclase activity in older, healthy subjects was observed. An age-associated decline in NaF-stimulated cyclic AMP synthesis was also demonstrated for normal, non-demented subjects. These findings suggest an age-associated lesion at the level of the guanine nucleotide regulatory protein/catalytic subunit of the adenylate cyclase complex. However, for patients with Alzheimer's disease no such decline in platelet adenylate cyclase activity was detected, and increased sensitivity to both aluminum and NaF was demonstrated.
Flecainide has been shown to be effective in short-term, controlled studies for prevention of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF). However, it is unknown whether this beneficial response is maintained during long-term chronic therapy. Forty-nine patients were studied who enrolled in double-blind, placebo-controlled, short-term studies of safety and efficacy and subsequently received long-term, open-label therapy for > or = 6 months (mean duration of therapy, 17 months). To evaluate chronic efficacy, events during long-term therapy were documented by a transtelephonic monitor for either 4 or 8 weeks, comparable to the corresponding 4- or 8-week placebo-baseline periods in the same patients. Results during chronic therapy were compared with those at baseline and after the initial (short-term) treatment period. Compared with placebo-baseline results, the number of patients free of arrhythmic attacks increased significantly for both patients with SVT (from 24% to 82%, p = 0.013, n = 17) and patients with AF (from 12% to 68%, p < 0.001, n = 25). Mean time to first attack and mean number of days between attacks also showed significant and parallel increases during the chronic efficacy period. In patients with paired short- and long-term efficacy evaluations with the same dose of flecainide, end points were maintained at equivalent levels or showed further improvement (i.e., mean rate of AF attacks decreased further with chronic therapy, p = 0.036). No proarrhythmic events, death, or myocardial infarction occurred.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Four cases of extrapyramidal hypertonic syndrome were observed in 82 children who had been premedicated with small i.m. doses of droperidol. The frequency, time of onset, clinical description and treatment of this complication are discussed.
Sulfasalazine, a drug common in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, may cause liver damage. We present a patient with documented granulomatous hepatitis which resolved on liver biopsy 6 weeks after discontinuation of the drug.
Prostate cancer (CaP) metastases selectively develop in bone as opposed to other sites through unknown mechanisms. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is considered to contribute to CaP progression and is produced at high levels in osteoblasts. We hypothesized that osteoblast-derived IL-6 in the bone microenvironment contributes to the fertile soil for CaP growth. Accordingly, human CaP cells, LNCaP, C4-2B and VCaP, were treated with conditioned medium (CM) collected from human osteoblast-like HOBIT cells grown in androgen-depleted medium. We found that CM induced proliferation, prostate-specific antigen (PSA) protein and mRNA expression in a dose-dependent manner in these cell lines as determined by ELISA and real-time PCR, respectively. CM also activated the PSA promoter in these cells. Both HOBIT and primary osteoblast (POB) cells produced high levels of IL-6 measured by bioassay. LNCaP, C4-2B and VCaP cells expressed IL-6, but at much lower levels then the HOBIT and POB and they also expressed the IL-6 receptor mRNA, indicating they can respond to IL-6. Anti-IL-6 antibody added to HOBIT or POB CM dose-dependently inhibited the CM-induced cell proliferation and PSA expression in these CaP cell lines. HOBIT CM induced nuclear translocation of the AR and this was inhibited by anti-IL-6 antibody. Additionally, the antiandrogen bicalutamide inhibited HOBIT CM-induced cell proliferation. These results demonstrate that osteoblasts promote CaP growth through IL-6-mediated activation of the AR. Furthermore, these data underscore the importance of cross-talk between tumor and the bone microenvironment in the development of CaP bone metastases.
In four of 14 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who received induction chemotherapy containing weekly injections of vincristine and simultaneous antifungal prophylaxis with itraconazole, unusually severe and early vincristine-induced neurotoxicity was observed. In these patients (three female, one male) paresthesia and muscle weakness of the upper/lower extremities and paralytic ileus occurred after the first or second vincristine injection. In one patient a laryngeal nerve paresis required mechanical ventilation. The neurotoxic complications were more serious than those seen in a previous series of 460 ALL patients under the identical cytostatic regimen but without itraconazole prophylaxis. The underlying mechanism is unclear. Interaction with the cytochrome P-450 system, reversal of multidrug resistance, and influence of estrogens are to be considered.
The periodic paralyses are a group of autosomal dominant muscle diseases sharing a common feature of episodic paralysis. In one form, paramyotonia congenita (PC), the paralysis usually occurs with muscle cooling. Electrophysiologic studies of muscle from PC patients have revealed temperature-dependent alterations in sodium channel (NaCh) function. This observation led to demonstration of genetic linkage of a skeletal muscle NaCh gene to a PC disease allele. We now report the use of the single-strand conformation polymorphism technique to define alleles specific to PC patients from three families. Sequencing of these alleles defined base pair changes within the same codon, which resulted in two distinct amino acid substitutions for a highly conserved arginine residue in the S4 helix of domain 4 in the adult skeletal muscle NaCh. These data establish the chromosome 17q NaCh locus as the PC gene and represent two mutations causing the distinctive, temperature-sensitive PC phenotype.
The safety of chemotherapy combining TS-1 and pirarubicin (THP) for treatment of recurrent or locally advanced gastric cancer was evaluated. THP was administered by intravenous drip infusion at a dose of 14 mg/m2 every other week. TS-1 was administered orally at a dose of 40 mg/m2 twice a day for 2 weeks followed by 2 weeks of rest (level 1), for 3 weeks followed by 2 weeks of rest (level 2), and for 4 weeks followed by 2 weeks of rest (level 3). Three patients were treated with the level 1 schedule. One patient with peritoneal dissemination received 22 courses of the treatment, and benefited from a long-term NC. However the remaining 2 cases were diagnosed as PD after 4 courses and were withdrawn from further treatment. Two patients in this group suffered from grade 2 adverse events according to the NCI-CTC. Only 1 patient who had liver metastasis was treated at level 2. Fourteen courses were administered, and a PR was achieved while grade 2 adverse events were observed. One of 3 patients who were treated with level 3 had grade 3 adverse events. Consequently, 3 more cases were added to this dose level, and no additional grade 3 adverse events were observed, while grade 2 adverse events were seen in 4 cases. Urinary urgency had completely disappeared in 1 patient with peritoneal recurrence. Myelosuppression, which was the main observed adverse event, was well controlled and of brief duration. The response, including alleviation of clinical symptoms, was confirmed in 3 of 5 chemo-naive patients.
A patient with an SCN5A p.W822X nonsense mutation, localized in the transmembrane region DII-S4 of the Na(v)1.5 sodium channel and leading to a non-expression of the mutant allele, was prescribed the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluvoxamine (Floxyfral), 100 mg per day. His normal baseline ECG changed to a characteristic Brugada-Type-1-ECG pattern. To investigate whether fluvoxamine may reduce the cardiac sodium current, the effect of this drug was studied on the wild-type voltage-gated cardiac sodium channel Na(v)1.5 stably expressed in HEK293 cells. Patch-clamp recording showed a 50% inhibition of the current at a concentration of 57.3 microM. In our patient, no arrhythmia occurred but the proarrhythmic potential of SSRI in patients with SCN5A mutations cannot be excluded. Therefore, we advise 12-lead ECG control after administering SSRI in these patients.
Pharmacological treatment of chronic (neuropathic) pain is often disappointing. In order to enhance our insight in the complex interaction between analgesic drug and chronic pain relief, we performed a pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) modeling study on the effect of S(+)-ketamine on pain scores in Complex Regional Pain Syndrome type 1 (CRPS-1) patients.
Sixty CRPS-1 patients were randomly allocated to received a 100-h infusion of S(+)-ketamine or placebo. The drug infusion rate was slowly increased from 5 mg/h (per 70 kg) to 20 mg/h based upon the effect/side effect profile. Pain scores and drug blood samples were obtained during the treatment phase and pain scores were further obtained weekly for another 11 weeks. A population PK-PD model was developed to analyze the S(+)-ketamine-pain data.
Plasma concentrations of S(+)-ketamine and its metabolite decreased rapidly upon the termination of S(+)-ketamine infusion. The chance for an analgesic effect from ketamine and placebo treatment was 67±10% and 23±9% (population value±SE), respectively. The pain data were well described by the PK-PD model with parameters C(50)=10.5±4.8 ng/ml (95% ci 4.37-21.2 ng/ml) and t½ for onset/offset=10.9±4.0 days (5.3-20.5 days).
Long-term S(+)-ketamine treatment is effective in causing pain relief in CRPS-1 patients with analgesia outlasting the treatment period by 50 days. These data suggest that ketamine initiated a cascade of events, including desensitization of excitatory receptor systems in the central nervous system, which persisted but slowly abated when ketamine molecules were no longer present.
The 5HT2C receptor (HTR2C) has been hypothesized to represent an important modulator in feeding behavior. Evidence was based on the observation that knock-out mice for the HTR2C receptor gene develop obesity and that many antipsychotics (AP) with potent HTR2C antagonism may induce weight gain in susceptible individuals. Pharmacogenetic studies focusing either on the Cys23Ser polymorphism or on the -759C/T promoter polymorphism of the X-linked HTR2C receptor gene revealed significant findings for the -759C/T polymorphism, however, no study has performed haplotype analyses for both polymorphisms.
We analyzed three functional polymorphisms (Cys23Ser, -759C/T, and (GT)12-18/(CT) 4-5) of the HTR2C in 139 schizophrenic patients mainly treated with clozapine. Weight gain was assessed over a time course of 6-14 weeks (mean 8.2 weeks).
Single marker and haplotype analysis revealed no significant associations with AP-induced weight gain. The haplotype Long-C-Ser was protective against weight gain, but the number of subjects available for that analysis was small.
Our pilot study did not detect any significant haplotype conferring risk for antipsychotic-induced weight gain although the statistical model took into account the X-linked heterogeneity and did correct for confounding factors (i.e., ethnicity, medications, clinical response, time of assessment).
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of garlic (Allium sativum L.) on the diabetic nephropathy and oxidative stress induced by STZ (streptozotocin) in rats. Diabetes was induced in Male Sprague-Dawley rats by administering a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ (60 mg/kg of body weight). Administration of garlic, prepared as FGH (fresh garlic homogenate) significantly attenuated STZ-induced diabetic nephropathy as evaluated by assessment of serum glucose, insulin, total TAG (triacylglycerol), TC (total cholesterol) and Ccr (creatinine clearance) in control and STZ-induced diabetic rats. Urinary excretions of albumin and NAG (N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase) were also reduced following the treatment with FGH. In addition, significant inhibition of TBARSs (thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances) with a marked improvement of GSH content in the kidney homogenates was also observed. Moreover, renal tissue content and urinary excretion of nitrites were markedly decreased in this model, and virtually enhanced to the same levels as in the non-diabetic kidney following FGH supplementation. These data revealed that FGH has the ability to ameliorate STZ-induced diabetic nephropathy possibly through participation in the inhibition of oxidative damage to kidney and/or increased kidney nitric oxide bioavailability.
This study evaluates the efficacy of agomelatine, the first antidepressant to be an agonist at MT(1)/MT(2) receptors and an antagonist at 5-HT(2C) receptors, versus sertraline with regard to the amplitude of the circadian rest-activity cycle and depressive and anxiety symptoms in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD).
Outpatients with DSM-IV-TR-defined MDD received either agomelatine 25 to 50 mg (n = 154) or sertraline 50 to 100 mg (n = 159) during a 6-week, randomized, double-blind treatment period. The study was conducted from 2005 to 2006. The main outcome measure was the relative amplitude of the individual rest-activity cycles, expressed as change from baseline to week 6 and collected from continuous records using wrist actigraphy and sleep logs. Secondary outcome measures were sleep efficiency and sleep latency, both derived from actigraphy, and efficacy on depression symptoms (17-Item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale total score and Clinical Global Impressions scale scores) and anxiety symptoms (Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale total score and subscores).
A significant difference in favor of agomelatine compared to sertraline on the relative amplitude of the circadian rest-activity cycle was observed at the end of the first week (P = .01). In parallel, a significant improvement of sleep latency (P <.001) and sleep efficiency (P <.001) from week 1 to week 6 was observed with agomelatine as compared to sertraline. Over the 6-week treatment period, depressive symptoms improved significantly more with agomelatine than with sertraline (P <.05), as did anxiety symptoms (P <.05).
The favorable effect of agomelatine on the relative amplitude of the circadian rest-activity/sleep-wake cycle in depressed patients at week 1 reflects early improvement in sleep and daytime functioning. Higher efficacy results were observed with agomelatine as compared to sertraline on both depressive and anxiety symptoms over the 6-week treatment period, together with a good tolerability profile. These findings indicate that agomelatine offers promising benefits for MDD patients.
www.isrctn.org: ISRCTN49376288.
In the present study we examined the effects of cocaine seizure kindling on the expression of NMDA receptors and levels of extracellular glutamate in mouse brain. Quantitative autoradiography did not reveal any changes in binding of [³H] MK-801 to NMDA receptors in several brain regions. Likewise, in situ hybridization and Western blotting revealed no alteration in expression of the NMDA receptor subunits, NR1 and NR2B. Basal overflow of glutamate in the ventral hippocampus determined by microdialysis in freely moving animals also did not differ between cocaine-kindled and control groups. Perfusion with the selective excitatory amino acid transporter inhibitor, pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (tPDC, 0.6 mM), increased glutamate overflow confirming transport inhibition. Importantly, KCl-evoked glutamate overflow under tPDC perfusion was significantly higher in cocaine-kindled mice than in control mice. These data suggest that enhancement of depolarization stimulated glutamate release may be one of the mechanisms underlying the development of increased seizure susceptibility after cocaine kindling.
A 37-year-old patient had migraine without aura over a six year period. He developed tolerance and dependency to ergotamine tartrate defined as the irresistible and dependable use of the drug. This is contingent upon a self-sustaining, rhythmic headache/medication cycle. The diagnosis of this entity is clinical and is supported by the typical and expected evolution of the migraine in response to the sudden interruption of ergotamine tartrate use.
Males are much more susceptible to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced kidney injury when compared with females. Recently we reported that the presence of testosterone, rather than the absence of estrogen, plays a critical role in gender differences in kidney susceptibility to I/R injury in mice. Although reactive oxygen species and antioxidant defenses have been implicated in I/R injury, their roles remain to be defined. Here we report that the orchiectomized animal had significantly less lipid peroxidation and lower hydrogen peroxide levels in the kidney 4 and 24 h after 30 min of bilateral renal ischemia when compared with intact or dihydrotestosterone-treated orchiectomized males. The post-ischemic kidney expression and activity of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) in orchiectomized mice was much greater than in intact or dihydrotestosterone-administered orchiectomized mice. Four hours after 30 min of bilateral ischemia, superoxide formation was significantly lower in orchiectomized mice than in intact mice. In Madin-Darby canine kidney cells, a kidney epithelial cell line, 1 mm H(2)O(2) decreased MnSOD activity, an effect that was potentiated by pretreatment with dihydrotestosterone. Orchiectomy prevented the post-ischemic decrease of catalase activity. Treatment of male mice with manganese(III) tetrakis(1-methyl-4-pyridyl)porphyrin (MnTMPyP), a SOD mimetic, reduced the post-ischemic increase of plasma creatinine, lipid peroxidation, and tissue hydrogen peroxide. These results suggest that orchiectomy accelerates the post-ischemic activation of MnSOD and reduces reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxidation, resulting in reduced kidney susceptibility to I/R injury.
We report a case of lovastatin-induced rhabdomyolysis and resulting life-threatening renal failure. Lovastatin, a hypocholesterolemic agent, decreases endogenous cholesterol synthesis by inhibiting 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (EC 1.1.1.88). This agent has been implicated in causing rare serious side effects in various clinical settings; however, the mechanism of these adverse reactions is not understood. The clinical course of our patient was characterized by profound muscle weakness with marked increases in serum creatine kinase and myoglobin. Light- and electron-microscopic studies of skeletal muscle of our patient demonstrated a noninflammatory myopathy suggestive of ongoing rhabdomyolysis with vacuolization and focal degeneration of myocytes. The patient's symptoms and the laboratory values referable to rhabdomyolysis resolved after discontinuation of the drug. We speculate that the rhabdomyolysis was due to mitochondrial damage secondary to inadequate synthesis of coenzyme Q and heme A, members of the electron-transport system of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Peripheral neuropathy is a rare complication of the commonly used cytotoxic drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). We report a case of 5-FU-induced peripheral neuropathy in a patient with metastatic colorectal carcinoma. Discontinuation of 5-FU therapy is recommended in case of 5-FU-related neurotoxicity.
Nerve agent-induced seizures cause neuronal damage in brain limbic and cortical circuits leading to persistent behavioral and cognitive deficits. Without aggressive anticholinergic and benzodiazepine therapy, seizures can be prolonged and neuronal damage progresses for extended periods of time. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of the nerve agent soman on expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), the initial enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of the proinflammatory prostaglandins and a factor that has been implicated in seizure initiation and propagation. Rats were exposed to a toxic dose of soman and scored behaviorally for seizure intensity. Expression of COX-2 was determined throughout brain from 4h to 7 days after exposure by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. Microglial activation and astrogliosis were assessed microscopically over the same time-course. Soman increased COX-2 expression in brain regions known to be damaged by nerve agents (e.g., hippocampus, amygdala, piriform cortex and thalamus). COX-2 expression was induced in neurons, and not in microglia or astrocytes, and remained elevated through 7 days. The magnitude of COX-2 induction was correlated with seizure intensity. COX-1 expression was not changed by soman. Increased expression of neuronal COX-2 by soman is a late-developing response relative to other signs of acute physiological distress caused by nerve agents. COX-2-mediated production of prostaglandins is a consequence of the seizure-induced neuronal damage, even after survival of the initial cholinergic crisis is assured. COX-2 inhibitors should be considered as adjunct therapy in nerve agent poisoning to minimize nerve agent-induced seizure activity.
Eighty-three patients with malignant lymphoma of intermediate and high histologic subtypes were randomly assigned to receive induction chemotherapy with either of two intensive regimens: CHOP-Bleo (cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine, prednisone and bleomycin) or m-BACOD (low-dose methotrexate, bleomycin adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and dexamethasone). The median follow-up study is 5 years. The two therapies were not significantly different in regard to response rates (52 to 59%), duration of complete remission (27 months vs 24 months) and survival, but m-BACOD was significantly more toxic than CHOP-Bleo. The relative small proportion of long-term disease free-survivors with both regimens underscores the need for other therapeutic approaches.
