The effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and its analog, N-[[(3R,6R)-6-methyl-5-oxo-thiomorpholinyl] carbonyl]-L-histidyl-L- prolinamide tetrahydrate (NS-3, CG3703) on disturbance of memory of a passive avoidance response (PAR) and an escape response in rats were investigated. NS-3 improved amnesia caused by scopolamine, electroconvulsive shock (ECS), and cycloheximide (CXM), but TRH improved only the ECS-induced amnesia. NS-3 reversed learning deficits caused by hypercapnia, but TRH had no effect. These differences in the effect between NS-3 and TRH may be due to their biological half-life in rat plasma. These results suggest that NS-3 possesses more potent antiamnestic effects than TRH in rats.
We report the case of a 25-year-old female patient with severe aggravation of myasthenia gravis due to azithromycin which was prescribed for an influenza syndrome. One hour after the intake of 500 mg azithromycin the patient developed weakness of the legs and respiratory distress due to respiratory muscle failure. She was hospitalized in a comatose state and required intubation and mechanical ventilation for six days. Acute worsening of myasthenia gravis was observed in this patient in 1986 after parenteral administration of erythromycin. Erythromycin causing aggravation of myasthenia gravis by interfering with neuromuscular transmission is reported in the literature. The close temporal relationship between the intake of azithromycin and severe worsening of myasthenia gravis in our patient suggests that azithromycin, a new azalid-antibiotic of the macrolid group, can exacerbate myasthenia gravis. We conclude that azithromycin should be added to the list of drugs to be used with caution in patients with myasthenia gravis.
The Flinders sensitive (FSL) and Flinders resistant (FRL) line rats have been selectively bred for hyper- and hyposensitivity to the hypothermic effect of cholinergic agonists respectively. In this study, pilocarpine (250 mg/kg) and physostigmine (0.8 mg/kg) doses that are subconvulsant to outbread Sprague-Dawley rats were systemically injected to the FSL and FRL rats and a heterogenous F2 cross. All of the FRL rats developed severe motor limbic seizures in response to pilocarpine, while none of the FSL animals did. The F2 crosses showed intermediate reaction. The FRL rats were also more affected by physostigmine than the other two groups. However, the FSL rats were confirmed to be more sensitive to the hypothermic effects of pilocarpine (20 mg/kg) and physostigmine (0.6 mg/kg). Picrotoxin and kainic acid produced similar responses in the both lines, i.e., induced clonic convulsions in some animals when applied in subthreshold doses (2 and 10 mg/kg, respectively). Thus, the normally cholinergic-insensitive rats are more sensitive to the convulsant effects of high doses of cholinergic agonists, but this increased sensitivity does not extend to noncholinergic convulsants.
Methotrexate is an effective treatment in Crohn's disease, which may induce liver fibrosis with high cumulative doses. Transient elastography (FibroScan, Echosens, Paris, France) is a new non-invasive rapid, allowing assessment of liver fibrosis by measurement of liver stiffness.
A prospective study to evaluate liver fibrosis with FibroScan and non-invasive biochemical methods in Crohn's disease patients treated with methotrexate.
Consecutive Crohn's disease patients had evaluation of liver fibrosis with non-invasive methods. Two subgroups of patients were compared: cumulative dose of methotrexate of more than 1500 mg (group 1) and naive for methotrexate (group 2). Liver biopsy was performed in patients with persistent liver enzyme abnormalities or FibroScan value >8.7 kPa.
Fifty-four consecutive Crohn's disease patients were fully investigated (45 females, mean age 41 +/- 14 years). Median FibroScan values were similar in group 1 (n = 21) and in group 2 (n = 33), 5.5 and 4.5 kPa, respectively. FibroScan values were not correlated with the cumulative dose of methotrexate.
In Crohn's disease patients treated with a high dose of methotrexate, significant liver fibrosis is rare and not accurately detected with liver enzymes abnormalities. FibroScan could be recommended and liver biopsy could be performed only with patients with high values and/or with chronic liver enzymes abnormalities.
Modifying effects of dietary exposure of seven naturally occurring products on the development of colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) induced by azoxymethane (AOM) were investigated in male F344 rats. The effects of these compounds on proliferation biomarkers such as the number of silver-stained nucleolar organizer region protein, ornithine decarboxylase activity, and polyamine concentration in the colon were also estimated. The naturally occurring products tested included four terpenoids (rebaudioside A, oleanolic acid, costunolide, and soyasaponin A2), one flavonoid (liquiritin), and two isocoumarins (phyllodulcin and hydrangenol). Animals were given 3 weekly s.c. injections of AOM (15 mg/kg body weight) to induce ACF. These rats were fed the diet containing 200 ppm of each test chemical for 5 weeks, starting 1 week before the first dosing of AOM. All rats were sacrificed 2 weeks after the last AOM injection to estimate their modulatory effects on the occurrence of ACF and the cell proliferation biomarkers in the colon. In groups of rats given AOM and hydrangenol, oleanolic acid, or costunolide, the frequencies of ACF/colon were significantly lower than that of AOM alone (P < 0.05, P < 0.005, and P < 0.05, respectively). In groups of rats given AOM and costunolide and those treated with AOM and soyasaponin A2, both ornithine decarboxylase activity and polyamine concentration of the colonic mucosal tissue were significantly decreased compared with those in rats given AOM alone (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001 for costunolide and P < 0.001 and P < 0.05 for soyasaponin A2, respectively). In groups of rats given AOM and liquiritin, oleanolic acid, or costunolide, the numbers of silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions/nucleus were significantly lower than that of AOM alone (P < 0.05, P < 0.01, and P < 0.05, respectively). Costunolide decreased four AOM-induced biomarkers, such as the frequencies of ACF/colon, ornithine decarboxylase activity, polyamine concentration level, and silver-stained nucleolar organizer region number in the colon. These results indicate that, among the test chemicals, costunolide has blocking effects against rat colon carcinogenesis and is a possible chemopreventive agent against colon tumorigenesis. Also, the short-term model described here could be a very useful prescreening tool for chemopreventive agents against colon cancer.
Nuclear factor-κB activation is implicated in chronic inflammatory disorders and it is a key regulator of genes involved in the response to infection, inflammation and stress. Interstitial cystitis and painful bladder syndrome are common inflammatory disorders of the bladder characterized by frequent urination and bladder pain. The role of nuclear factor-κB activation in bladder inflammation is not well defined.
Female transgenic nuclear factor-κB-luciferase Tag mice (The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine) were used to perform serial, noninvasive in vivo and ex vivo molecular imaging of nuclear factor-κB activation in the whole body after administering arsenic trioxide (5 mg/kg), lipopolysaccharide (2 mg/kg) or cyclophosphamide (Sigma®) (200 mg/kg) to initiate acute transient bladder inflammation. Pretreatment with dexamethasone (Sigma) (10 mg/kg) was used to modulate cyclophosphamide induced nuclear factor-κB dependent luminescence in vivo.
Treatment of nuclear factor-κB-luciferase Tag mice with chemicals increased luminescence in a time and organ specific manner in vivo and ex vivo. The highest levels of bladder nuclear factor-κB dependent luminescence were observed 4 hours after cyclophosphamide administration. Pretreatment with dexamethasone 1 hour before cyclophosphamide injection significantly down-regulated cyclophosphamide induced bladder nuclear factor-κB dependent luminescence, ameliorated the grossly evident pathological features of acute inflammation and decreased cellular immunostaining for nuclear factor-κB in the bladder.
Nuclear factor-κB activity may have an important role in the pathophysiology of bladder inflammation. Nuclear factor-κB-luciferase mice can serve as a useful model in which to screen potential candidate drugs for cystitis associated with aberrant nuclear factor-κB activity. Such screening may significantly aid the development of therapeutic strategies to manage inflammatory bladder disorders.
In this study, we present a case of renal failure in a patient who was on a tenofovir-containing regimen, resulting in extremely high tenofovir exposure and prolonged tenofovir monotherapy. We considered this case report important because exposure to tenofovir monotherapy might have consequences for future discontinuation strategies in cases of renal failure.
The antidepressant-like effect of repeated administration of diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2 in rats exposed to malathion is reported. The role of Na+K+ ATPase, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) activities and oxidative stress in antidepressant behavior were investigated in cerebral cortex of rats. Rats were exposed once a day for 3 consecutive days to malathion (50mg/kg, intraperitoneal) and (PhSe)2 (50mg/kg, oral). To investigate the antidepressant-like behavior rats were submitted to the forced swimming test (FST) and open-field test (OFT). Thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) levels, enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant defenses were carried out in cerebral cortex of rats. The results confirmed that malathion increased immobility time in the FST without altering the locomotor performance in the OFT. Treatment with (PhSe)2 ameliorated performance in the FST without altering the crossing numbers in the OFT. The inhibition of Na+K+ ATPase activity caused by malathion was prevented by treatment with (PhSe)2. Exposure to malathion did not alter parameters of oxidative stress as well as AChE and MAO activities in cerebral cortex of rats. In conclusion, (PhSe)2 exerted antidepressant-like effect in rats exposed to malathion. Na+K+ ATPase activity is, at least in part, involved in (PhSe)2 antidepressant-like behavior.
There is widespread use of spironolactone in medical practice and the indications for its use well established and side effect profile well known. Herein, we present a case of drug-induced hepatitis occurring in a 50-year-old woman using spironolactone for the treatment of androgenetic alopecia. Six weeks after commencement of spironolactone the patient became unwell, complained of an extensive itch, but no icterus or jaundice. Liver function tests found abnormally elevated bilirubin and enzymes levels. After withdrawal of spironolactone, the patient's symptoms resolved and liver function improved. To date, there has only been one other report of spironolactone-induced hepatitis.
The effect of chloroquine on open-field behaviour, apomorphine induced stereotypies and haloperidol and pimozide-induced catalepsy was studied in rats. Chloroquine (2.5-10 mg/kg, ip) significantly increased the locomotion frequently of rats in the open-field and also markedly enhanced apomorphine (0.4 mg/kg, sc)-induced locomotion. Haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg, ip) antagonised the increased locomotion frequency produced by chloroquine (5 mg/kg, ip), apomorphine (0.4 mg/kg, sc) and chloroquine plus apomorphine. L-Dopa (50 mg/kg, sc) and benserazide (12.5 mg/kg, ip) plus L-Dopa (50 mg/kg,sc) significantly increased chloroquine (5 mg/kg, ip)-induced locomotion. SCH 23390 (0.2 mg/kg, sc) and sulpiride (30 mg/kg, ip), on the other hand, attenuated chloroquine (5 mg/kg, ip)-induced locomotion. Chloroquine (2.5-5 mg/kg, ip) elicited stereotyped behaviour in rats and significantly potentiated apomorphine (2 mg/kg, sc)-induced stereotypies. Haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg, ip) markedly reduced the stereotypies produced by both chloroquine (5 mg/kg, ip) and apomorphine (2 mg/kg, sc). Both chloroquine (2.5-10 mg/kg, ip) and apomorphine (0.4 mg/kg, sc) significantly delayed the onset and decreased the intensity of catalepsy induced by haloperidol (0.25mg/kg, ip) and pimozide (2mg/kg, ip) respectively. These findings indicate that chloroquine, in low doses, produces excitatory effects and that dopaminergic mechanisms may be involved in the observed effects of chloroquine.
Despite modern chemotherapy, advanced breast cancer remains a significant cause of cancer morbidity and mortality in women. Patients with disease involvement of multiple lymph nodes represent a subgroup with a high risk of relapse. In particular, 50% of patients with 4 to 9 axillary lymph nodes involved will relapse after standard chemotherapy. In an effort to improve the survival of patients with 4 to 9 involved nodes, we performed a phase II study in which 61 patients with surgically diagnosed stage II or III breast cancer and 4 to 9 positive lymph nodes received 3 cycles of doxorubicin and 5-fluorouracil followed by high-dose chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, and carmustine and infusion of autologous hematopoietic progenitor cells. All patients received posttransplantation localized radiotherapy unless contraindicated, and all patients with hormone receptor-positive disease received tamoxifen. After a median patient follow-up of 6.7 years (range, 4.6-8.6 years), the 5-year overall survival rate was 79% (95% CI, 69%-90%), with relapse-free survival of 73% (95% CI, 62%-85%). Treatment-related mortality was 3%. Interstitial pneumonitis occurred in 69% of patients but did not contribute to mortality. Our study presents long-term favorable results regarding the use of consolidative HDC with autologous hematopoietic support in previously untreated patients with high-risk primary breast cancer.
Mutations in TERC, the gene for the RNA component of telomerase, cause short telomeres in congenital aplastic anemia and in some cases of apparently acquired hematopoietic failure. We investigated whether mutations in genes for other components of telomerase also occur in aplastic anemia.
We screened blood or marrow cells from 124 patients with apparently acquired aplastic anemia and 282 control subjects for sequence variations in the TERT, DKC1, NHP2, and NOP10 genes; an additional 81 patients and 246 controls were examined for genetic variations in TERT. Telomere lengths and the telomerase activity of peripheral-blood leukocytes were evaluated in patients carrying genetic variants. Identified mutations were transfected into telomerase-deficient cell lines to examine their effects and their mechanism of action on telomerase function.
Five heterozygous, nonsynonymous mutations (which cause an amino acid change in the corresponding protein) were identified in TERT, the gene for the telomerase reverse transcriptase catalytic enzyme, among seven unrelated patients. Leukocytes from these patients had short telomeres and low telomerase enzymatic activity. In three of these patients, the mutation was also detected in buccal mucosa cells. Family members carrying the mutations also had short telomeres and reduced telomerase activity but no evident hematologic abnormality. The results of coexpression of wild-type TERT and TERT with aplastic anemia-associated mutations in a telomerase-deficient cell line suggested that haploinsufficiency was the mechanism of telomere shortening due to TERT mutations.
Heterozygous mutations in the TERT gene impair telomerase activity by haploinsufficiency and may be risk factors for marrow failure.
To examine the relationship of the serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and endothelial function and their associations with coronary artery calcification, lipid profile and cardiac changes.
The analyses for serum lipids and CRP, echocardiography, spiral computed tomography scans and endothelial function assay were performed in 53 participants with a history of chronic cocaine use.
There were no statistically significant differences in demographic characteristics and drug use between CRP normal (<1.9 mg/l) and abnormal groups. The brachial artery diameter percentage changes in the third scan (immediately after deflation of cuff) and the fourth scan (90 s after deflation of cuff) were significantly associated with the CRP levels (the third: beta=-0.054, S.E.=0.027; P=0.028; the fourth: beta=-0.065, S.E.=0.026; P=0.016). The multiple regression models showed that CRP was the only significant predictor of artery diameter changes (%) in these two scans. The CRP abnormal group had more coronary artery calcification (calcium scores >5, 16.7 vs. 0%; P=0.036) and more cardiac diastolic dysfunction expressed as deceleration time >240 ms (16.7 vs. 0%; P=0.036).
Elevated serum CRP levels are associated with endothelial dysfunction, coronary artery calcification and cardiac diastolic dysfunction in chronic cocaine users.
Increased risk of hypertension after methylmercury (MeHg) exposure has been suggested. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well explored. In this paper, we have analyzed whether sub-chronic exposure to MeHg increases systolic blood pressure even at very low levels. In addition, we analyzed if the methylmercury-induced hypertension is associated with a decreased plasmatic nitric oxide levels and with a dysregulation of the activities of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), as well as the levels of MDA and glutathione. For this study, Wistar rats were treated with methylmercury chloride (100 microg/kg per day) or vehicle. Total treatment time was 100 days. Malondialdehyde (MDA) and circulating NOx levels and superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities were determined in plasma, whereas glutathione levels were determined in erythrocytes. Our results show that long-term treatment at a low level of MeHg affected systolic blood pressure, increasing and reducing the levels of plasmatic MDA and NOx, respectively. However, the activity of SOD did not decrease in the MeHg exposed group when compared to the control. We found a negative correlation between plasmatic nitrite/nitrate (NOx) levels and systolic blood pressure (r = -0.67; P = 0.001), and a positive correlation between MDA and systolic blood pressure (r = 0.61; P = 0.03), thus suggesting increased inhibition of NO formation with the increase of hypertension. In conclusion, long-term exposure to a low dose of MeHg increases the systolic pressure and is associated, at least in part, with increased production of ROS as judged by increased production of malondialdehyde and depressed NO availability.
A diffuse exanthema in a patient receiving varenicline is reported.
A 71-year-old white woman, who was initially admitted to the hospital for elective vascular bypass surgery, had a three-day history of a diffuse rash, severe itching, and moderate headache. Her symptoms started two days before her admission. She denied having a fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and flulike symptoms. She also denied having had contact with anyone who was ill, tick or insect bites, exposure to cats, or any changes in her diet, habits, or personal hygiene. Her medical problems included peripheral vascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), dyslipidemia, hypertension, and hypothyroidism. In addition to several medications she had been taking for over 2 years, she had been taking varenicline as an aid for smoking cessation for eight days. The patient had been smoking for 40 years. The bright-red rash covered 70% of her torso and four extremities. She had mild swelling in her cheeks, but not on the eyelids or lips. Both of her lungs were clear on auscultation, with distant breath sounds caused by her COPD. Varenicline was discontinued, and her symptoms had completely resolved by the eighth day following discontinuation of the medication. While it is possible that other medications caused her symptoms, she had been taking most of them for over 2 years and all of them for over 1 year. Also, continuation of these drugs did not prevent her symptoms from resolving, nor did it cause a recurrence of the skin reaction.
A patient developed diffuse exanthema after being treated with varenicline.
Various cardiac lesions such as hypertrophy, disarray and fibrosis similar to HCM, were often found in the heart of methamphetamine (MA) abusers. Myolysis, eosinophilic changes, contraction band necrosis and small round cell infiltration were also observed. Male ddy mouse were administered MA 1 mg/kg subcutaneously every day for 4 weeks. Their hearts revealed many cardiac changes such as hypertrophy, myolysis, contraction band necrosis, disarrangement of myofibers, saw-like cytoplasm, side-to-side connection of cardiac cells and vascuolative degeneration microscopically, and crysterosis of mitochondria, enlargement of sarcoplasmic reticulum and hypercontraction electronmicroscopically. These changes are thought to be similar to that of MA abusers, so it is certified that MA has toxic effect on the heart. Moreover, these changes could not be found when beta-blocker or calcium antagonist was premedicated. To elucidate the mechanisms of MA cardiac toxicity, we have designed some experiments. When MA (15 mg or 20 mg/kg) was administered on rats, cardiac lipid peroxidates, as a marker of free radical, increased rapidly. When rats were feeded for 7 weeks with Vitamin E deficient diet, 10 mg/kg MA administration was enough to increase lipid peroxidates. Simultaneous ECG observation revealed various arrhythmia such as VPB, A-V block and intraventricular conduction delay. In the investigation of contractile protein, although we could not find differences in the isozyme pattern of myosin heavy chain between MA groups (1 mg/kg for 8 and 12 weeks) and control group, Mg2+ ATPase activity of myocardial actomyosin at 0.1 microM Ca2+ increased significantly in 12 weeks MA group. We also found MA induced cardiac toxicity in cultured myocytes. Primary cultured adult rat myocytes were exposed to MA (1 x 10(-5) M and 1 x 10(-3) M) for 1 to 24 h in the presence and absence of 1 x 10(-5) M propranolol. After 24-h MA treatment, cellular granulation, swelling and hypercontraction and release of CPK were observed both with and without propranolol treatment. These findings suggest that MA may exert direct toxic effects on the heart.
Type 2 diabetes is caused by insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction. The Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rat is an established animal model of human type 2 diabetes that exhibits chronic and slowly progressive hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia and is accompanied by progressive fibrosis in the islets. The aim of the present study was to examine whether worsening of hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, and histologic alterations of the islets in OLETF rats is related to hyperlipidemia by treating these animals with a lipid-lowering drug, bezafibrate. The bezafibrate-treated groups of OLETF and their control counterpart Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) rats received a bezafibrate-rich diet (150 mg/100 g normal chow) for 16 weeks, from 12 to 28 weeks of age, while the other groups of rats received standard rat chow. Bezafibrate treatment significantly reduced serum triglyceride (TG) and free fatty acid (FFA) levels, suppressed the increase in islet size, and inhibited the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin, a marker for activated pancreatic stellate cells that are involved in the fibrosis of the pancreas, in the islets in OLETF rats, but had no influences on food intake, body weight gain, abdominal adipose depots, and pancreatic insulin content in both strains of rats. Although bezafibrate significantly reduced circulating lipid levels and suppressed the increase in insulin secretion evaluated by area under the curve (AUC) analysis in response to an intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) until the end of the experiment, improvement of insulin resistance was observed only for the first 8 weeks after the onset of bezafibrate treatment. These results suggest that dyslipidemia is not responsible for the reduced insulin sensitivity, but the impairment of glucose tolerance is the primary defect in the OLETF rats, although improvement of dyslipidemia suppressed histologic alterations in the islets and temporally improved insulin resistance.
Minoxidil is a potent antihypertensive drug widely used in severe arterial hypertension and in that refractory to treatment. Its effectiveness in less severe forms of hypertension was evaluated in 15 patients who had either a severe to moderate arterial hypertension not previously treated, or who did not tolerate the side effects of other antihypertensive drugs. The usefulness of methyldopa and chlortalidone to prevent a potential minoxidil-induced tachycardia and fluid retention, respectively, was also tested. The patients were initially treated with chlortalidone 100 mg/day, and methyldopa 500 mg/day. Minoxidil was then given in increasing doses until the diastolic blood pressure was equal to or inferior to 90 mmHg. This occurred consistently at doses which ranged from 5 to 50 mg/day (average, 29 mg). Treatment with minoxidil was continued for four months; tolerance to the drugs was not observed. Low doses of methyldopa and chlortalidone were effective in controlling the tachycardia and the retention of sodium and water induced by minoxidil. The three associated drugs were well tolerated and the life quality improved in most patients. Hypertrichosis was the most consistent side effect. Two patients were withdrawn from the study after the blood pressure was controlled by minoxidil, because of the appearance of angor in one, and edema and heart failure in the other.
Three adult schizophrenic patients without a previous history of epilepsy are reported who, during clozapine treatment, developed paroxysmal EEG patterns and generalized myoclonic jerks without alteration of consciousness. These seizures were phenomenologically identical to those occurring in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and were classified as generalized epileptic seizures. We tentatively conclude that generalized myoclonic epileptic seizures may be induced by clozapine.
In adult rats, the partial D(2)-like agonist terguride acts as an antagonist at normosensitive D(2)-like post-synaptic receptors, while it acts as an agonist at the same receptors during states of low dopaminergic tone.
The purpose of the present study was to determine whether partial D(2)-like agonists exhibit both antagonistic and agonistic actions during the preweanling period.
In experiments 1 and 2 (examining the agonistic actions of terguride), preweanling rats were either given an escalating regimen of amphetamine to induce a state of amphetamine withdrawal or pretreated with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor AMPT. Distance traveled was measured after rats were injected with saline, terguride (0.4-1.6 mg/kg), or the full D(2)-like receptor agonist NPA (0.01 mg/kg). In experiment 3 (examining the antagonistic actions of terguride), preweanling rats were pretreated with terguride 30 min before they were tested with saline, NPA (0.05 mg/kg), or amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg).
NPA had an exaggerated locomotor activating effect when tested under conditions of amphetamine withdrawal, while the partial D(2)-like agonist did not enhance distance traveled under any circumstance. Similarly, NPA increased and terguride did not affect the distance-traveled scores of AMPT-pretreated rats. In experiment 3, terguride pretreatment significantly reduced the distance traveled of amphetamine-treated and NPA-treated rats.
The behavioral evidence indicates that, during the preweanling period, terguride antagonizes D(2)-like post-synaptic receptors in a state of high dopaminergic tone; however, there is no evidence that terguride is capable of stimulating D(2)-like post-synaptic receptors during states of low dopaminergic tone.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) has an important role in the pathogenesis of glomerular damage by influencing matrix metabolism. An association of TGF-beta1 with glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis has been shown in various renal diseases, suggesting that TGF-beta1 may serve as a diagnostic marker of glomerular diseases. The aim of this study is to determine the usefulness of urinary TGF-beta1 values to monitor therapeutic effects of steroids in patients with immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy. Concentrations and activation rates of TGF-beta1 (mature/total) were determined in urine of patients with renal diseases by means of a double-antibody enzyme immunoassay. The urinary TGF-beta1 level before steroid therapy was compared with renal histological characteristics, creatinine clearance, and proteinuria in patients with a variety of renal diseases. Urinary excretion of total and mature TGF-beta1 was significantly greater in patients with crescentic glomerulonephritis and IgA nephropathy than in healthy controls, whereas the activation rate of urinary TGF-beta1 was similar among patients with other renal diseases. Urinary TGF-beta1 excretion at the time of renal biopsy significantly correlated with the degree of crescent formation in patients with IgA nephropathy, but not in those with glomerular sclerosis or tubulointerstitial fibrosis. Urinary excretion of total and mature TGF-beta1 was reduced in patients with IgA nephropathy after treatment with prednisolone (0.8 mg/kg/d) for 1 month. The activation rate of urinary TGF-beta1 also decreased significantly after steroid therapy. Urinary TGF-beta1 values therefore may be useful to assess disease activity or the effects of steroid therapy in patients with IgA nephropathy.
Motor impairment, dopamine (DA) neuronal activity and proenkephalin (PENK) gene expression in the caudate-putamen (CPu) were measured in 6-OHDA-lesioned and treated (L-DOPA+benserazide) CB1 KO and WT mice. A lesion induced by 6-OHDA produced more severe motor deterioration in CB1 KO mice accompanied by more loss of DA neurons and increased PENK gene expression in the CPu. Oxidative/nitrosative and neuroinflammatory parameters were estimated in the CPu and cingulate cortex (Cg). CB1 KO mice exhibited higher MDA levels and iNOS protein expression in the CPu and Cg compared to WT mice. Treatment with L-DOPA+benserazide (12 weeks) resulted in less severe dyskinesias in CB1 KO than in WT mice. The results revealed that the lack of cannabinoid CB1 receptors increased the severity of motor impairment and DA lesion, and reduced L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. These results suggest that activation of CB1 receptors offers neuroprotection against dopaminergic lesion and the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) inhibits human myeloma cell growth in vitro, presumably through the down-regulation of interleukin 6 receptors (IL-6R). Based on these and other studies, we initiated a phase II clinical trial using ATRA in patients with advanced refractory multiple myeloma (MM). We report that three out of six treated patients developed severe hypercalcaemia following administration of ATRA, which was accompanied by a significant rise in serum IL-6 levels. Normal calcium levels were restored after the discontinuation of the drug and the administration of standard anti-hypercalcaemic care. We suspect that down-regulation of IL-6R resulted in increased serum IL-6 levels, leading to advanced bone resorption and hypercalcaemia. We conclude that the use of ATRA in patients with advanced MM is not warranted.
Magnesium sulfate administered as an intravenous infusion is considered safe. However, there have been concerns about the neuromuscular blocking properties of magnesium that can cause respiratory insufficiency. We report a patient with mild tetanus who, after being started on magnesium infusion, developed progressive respiratory insufficiency, proximal muscle weakness and ptosis. On discontinuation of magnesium infusion, the muscular weakness improved and respiration became normal. The safety of magnesium sulfate infusion for the management of tetanus needs to be re-evaluated.
Although the importance of atropine in therapy of organophosphate (OP) poisoning is generally recognized, its dosing is a matter of debate. A retrospective analysis of atropine dosing was undertaken in 34 patients who had been enrolled in a clinical study assessing obidoxime effectiveness in OP-poisoning. All patients were severely intoxicated (suicidal attempts) and required artificial ventilation. Atropine was administered routinely by intensive care physicians for life-threatening muscarinic symptoms, with the recommendation to favor low dosage. The pharmacological active enantiomere S-hyoscyamine was determined by a radioreceptor assay. When RBC-AChE activity ranged between 10% and 30%, S-hyoscyamine plasma concentrations of approx. 5 nmol L⁻¹ were sufficient. This concentration could be maintained with about 0.005 mg h⁻¹ kg⁻¹ atropine. Only when RBC-AChE was completely inhibited, therapy of cholinergic crisis required atropine doses up to 0.06 mg h⁻¹ kg⁻¹. Elimination half-life of S-hyoscyamine was 1.5 h, showing occasionally a second slow elimination phase with t(½)=12 h. Malignant arrhythmias were observed in some 10% of our cases, which occurred late and often in the absence of relevant glandular cholinergic signs, when the S-hyoscyamine concentration was below 2.5 nmol L⁻¹. Arrhythmias mostly resolved on reinstitution of atropine.
The authors relate the observation of a 3-month-old boy who showed acute neurological dysfunction of the extrapyramidal system secondary to the administration of domperidone, a new anti-emetic drug. This drug was first believed not to provoke neurological dysfunction. Yet, this and three other published cases document the possibility of adverse neurological reactions due to domperidone administration.
A patient with congestive heart failure and moderate renal insufficiency developed severe reversible non-oliguric renal failure while on frusemide and enalapril. Renal failure developed when enalapril was given in the presence of pronounced sodium depletion. When positive sodium balance was restored the plasma creatinine concentration began to fall while angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition remained effective and blood pressure was stable. These observations suggest that the degree of sodium depletion plays an important role in the tendency for angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors to induce renal failure in patients with congestive heart failure and moderate renal insufficiency. Restoration of a positive sodium balance promotes the recovery of renal function after the combined administration of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and diuretics.
