5-aminosalicylates are extensively prescribed for the treatment of ulcerative colitis but have a wide range of described adverse effects.
To determine whether serious adverse effect profiles differ for sulphasalazine and mesalazine.
Analysis of suspected serious adverse reactions reported to the Committee on Safety of Medicines of the UK in 1991-1998. Adverse effect profiles were categorised for interstitial nephritis, pancreatitis, serious skin reactions, hepatitis and hepatic failure, and blood dyscrasias. Report rates were calculated using prescribing data from the Department of Health and compared for mesalazine and sulphasalazine. Further analysis was undertaken for sulphasalazine according to disease indication of inflammatory bowel disease or rheumatoid arthritis.
A total of 4.7 million prescriptions were dispensed for sulphasalazine compared with 2.8 million for mesalazine. Interstitial nephritis was only described for mesalazine, with 11.1 reports per million prescriptions. Pancreatitis was reported seven times as frequently for mesalazine (7.5 per million prescriptions) compared with sulphasalazine (1.1 per million prescriptions) (odds ratio (OR) 7.0; 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.6-18.6; p<0.001). There were no reports of serious skin disorders in patients prescribed sulphasalazine for inflammatory bowel disease. Blood dyscrasias were reported significantly more often in patients receiving sulphasalazine for rheumatoid arthritis than for inflammatory bowel disease (OR 5.31; 95% CI 2.6-11.0; p<0.001), and there was a similar trend for hepatic disorders.
Spontaneous reports suggest that within the five sets of disorders considered, there is no evidence to indicate a safety advantage of mesalazine over sulphasalazine in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. Pancreatitis and interstitial nephritis appear significantly more common with mesalazine, and advice on renal monitoring in patients who receive mesalazine may need reinforcing.
Recent studies indicate the involvement of peroxisone proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) in the inflammatory reaction. The exact mechanism of PPAR-γ action has not been elucidated. It is supposed that PPAR-γ regulates transcription of genes responsible for encoding cytokines involved in the inflammatory response. The latest studies, carried out to explain the pathogenesis of non-specific colitis, confirm beneficial effects of PPAR-γ agonists on attenuation of colon inflammation. The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of nuclear PPAR-γ activity on the course of experimental acute colitis induced by intragastric administration of dextran sodium sulphate (DSS) using the PPAR-γ agonist rosiglitazone and the antagonist BADGE in rats. Colitis in Wistar rats was induced by 1.5% DSS administered in drinking water for 8 days. Animals with induced colitis received rosiglitazone, bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE) or both substances. After decapitation, colons were macroscopically and histopathologically evaluated. Levels of interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) were determined in serum and colon homogenates using ELISA. In rats with experimentally induced colitis receiving rosiglitazone, the inflammatory reaction was found to be markedly limited; ulceration, oedema and infiltration activity were reduced. The activated PPAR-γ inhibit the expression of proinflammatory factors, such as IL-6, TNF-α, and neutrophil chemotaxis, which was evidenced by MPO reduction in serum and colon homogenates mediated by rosiglitazone. The positive effects of rosiglitazone on expression of IL-10 were also demonstrated. During the short period of observation, BADGE did not increase histopathological inflammatory markers.
The mechanism of methotrexate (MTX)-induced neurotoxicity was investigated using cerebellar explant cultures from fetal rats. After 3 weeks of growth, myelinated cultures were treated with MTX at 1 microM, lysolecithin at 1 mg/dl, or unaltered nutrient medium. Myelin sheaths devoid of axons were observed by histological and electron microscopic preparations after 2 weeks of MTX exposure. After 5 weeks, cultures were almost entirely devoid of myelin sheaths. Myelin basic protein in the media removed from the cultures showed an increase in concentration after 3 weeks of MTX exposure and was significantly greater than control after 5 weeks of exposure. 2',3'-Cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase activity, a measure of oligodendroglial function, was not significantly different in the MTX group compared to controls. Lysolecithin-treated cultures showed widespread destruction and an early increase in myelin basic protein release into the medium. These data indicate that, in the cerebellar explant cultures, MTX is primarily a neuronal toxin, and the demyelination is a consequence of axonal loss and is not related to a change in oligodendroglial cell function. These findings provide new insight into the pathogenesis of MTX-induced neurotoxicity.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely used for their anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic effects, however their use is associated with the broad spectrum of side effects observed in human as well as the experimental animals. Despite damaging activity of NSAIDs in upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract, these drugs exert deleterious influence in lower GI tract, including colon. The role of GI microflora in the pathogenesis of NSAIDs-induced experimental colonic damage is not completely understood. The aim of this study was 1) to evaluate the relative importance of the GI microflora on the experimental colonic damage in the presence of caused by NSAID, and 2) to assess the efficacy of antibiotic treatment with ampicillin on the process of healing of colitis. We compared the effect of vehicle, ASA applied 40 mg/kg intragastrically (i.g.) or the selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor, celecoxib (25 mg/kg i.g.) without or with ampicillin treatment (800 mg/kg i.g.) administered throughout the period of 10 days, on the intensity of TNBS-induced colitis in rats. The severity of colonic damage, the alterations in the colonic blood flow (CBF) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, the mucosal expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2, VEGF and iNOS and the plasma concentration of TNF-α and IL-1β were assessed. In all rats, the faeces samples as well as those from the colonic mucosa, blood, liver and spleen underwent microbiological evaluation for intestinal bacterial species including Escherichia coli and Enterococcus spp. The administration of TNBS resulted in macroscopic and microscopic lesions accompanied by the significant fall in the CBF, an increase in tissue weight and 4-5-fold rise in the MPO activity and a significant increase in the plasma IL-1β and TNF-α levels. ASA or celecoxib significantly increased the area of colonic lesions, enhanced MPO activity and caused the marked increase in colonic tissue weight and plasma IL-1β and TNF-α levels, as well as an overexpression of mRNA for IL-1β and TNF-α, COX-2, VEGF and iNOS in the colonic tissue. ASA and coxib also resulted also in a significant increase of E. coli counts in the stool at day 3 and day 10 day of the observation compared with the intact rats. Moreover, E. coli translocation from the colon to the blood and extraintestinal organs such as liver and spleen in the group of rats treated without or with ASA and coxib. E. coli was the most common bacteria isolated from these organs. Treatment with ampicillin significantly attenuated the ASA- or celecoxib-induced increase in plasma levels of IL-1β and TNF-α and suppressed the mucosal mRNA expression for IL-1β and TNF-β, COX-2, iNOS and VEGF in the colonic mucosa. Ampicillin administration caused a significant fall in the number of E. coli in the faeces at day 3 and day 10 of observation in ASA- and coxib-treated rats with colitis. Antibiotic therapy markedly reduced bacterial translocation to the colonic tissue and the extraintestinal organs such as the liver and spleen. We conclude that administration of ASA and to lesser extent of celecoxib, delays the healing of experimental colitis and enhances the alterations in colonic blood flow, proinflammatory markers such as IL-1β, TNF-α, COX-2, iNOS and VEGF and increased intestinal mucosal permeability resulting in the intestinal bacterial translocation to the blood, spleen and liver. Antibiotic treatment with ampicillin is effective in the diminishing of the severity of colonic damage, counteracts both the NSAID-induced fall in colonic microcirculation and bacterial E.coli translocation to the extraintestinal organs.
Patients with decreased dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) activity are at increased risk for experiencing serious adverse reactions following 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy. Symptoms include severe and potentially life-threatening gastrointestinal toxicity, myelosuppression, and neurological toxicity. In the present study, we describe a 50-year-old Caucasian man who developed severe encephalopathy during his second cycle of 5-FU chemotherapy. The patient remained in a comatose state for 4 days but then showed dramatic improvement in his neurological status following continuous i.v. infusion of thymidine at 8 g/m2/day. Laboratory studies revealed the patient to be severely DPD deficient, as demonstrated by DPD enzyme activity from peripheral blood mononuclear cells being below the lower limit of the 95th percentile of a control population and by Western immunoblot analysis showing undetectable levels of DPD protein. Additional studies revealed a significant defect in pyrimidine catabolism with a 3.3- and 365-fold increase in the levels of uracil in plasma and urine, respectively, compared to normal subjects. Family studies suggest that the inheritance pattern of this syndrome is complex and most consistent with an autosomal recessive trait. This study demonstrates that cancer patients with DPD deficiency are at increased risk for developing severe neurological toxicity secondary to 5-FU chemotherapy, and that infusional thymidine should be considered as a potential rescue agent against this particular host toxicity.
Mangiferin, a xanthone glucoside, is well known to exhibit antioxidant, antiviral, antitumor, anti-inflammatory and gene-regulatory effects. In the present study, we isolated mangiferin from the bark of Mangifera indica and assessed its beneficial role in galactosamine (GAL) induced hepatic pathophysiology. GAL (400 mg/kg body weight) exposed hepatotoxic rats showed elevation in the activities of serum ALP, ALT, levels of triglycerides, total cholesterol, lipid-peroxidation and reduction in the levels of serum total proteins, albumin and cellular GSH. Besides, GAL exposure (5 mM) in hepatocytes induced apoptosis and necrosis, increased ROS and NO production. Signal transduction studies showed that GAL exposure significantly increased the nuclear translocation of NFκB and elevated iNOS protein expression. The same exposure also elevated TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, IL-18 and decreased IL-10 mRNA expressions. Furthermore, GAL also decreased the protein expression of Nrf2, NADPH:quinine oxidoreductase-1, heme oxygenase-1 and GSTα. However, mangiferin administration in GAL intoxicated rats or coincubation of hepatocytes with mangiferin significantly altered all these GAL-induced adverse effects. In conclusion, the hepatoprotective role of mangiferin was due to induction of antioxidant defense via the Nrf2 pathway and reduction of inflammation via NFκB inhibition.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is a member of the nuclear receptor family of ligand-activated transcription factors. PPARgamma ligands have been shown to inhibit the growth of cells from different cancer lineages. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of PPARgamma receptor activation in human melanoma cell lines. The effects of its expression and activation on cell proliferation and apoptosis in human melanoma cell lines (early stage cancer [WM35] and metastatic tumour [A375]) were investigated. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis showed that both human melanoma cell lines expressed PPARgamma mRNA and protein. Treatment of cells transfected with the luciferase gene ligated to PPAR response element constructed promoter showed that ciglitazone and prostaglandin J2 (PGJ2), selective ligands for PPARgamma, increased the luciferase activity, proving the induction of the PPARgamma reporter gene. Ciglitazone and PGJ2 inhibited melanoma cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Analysis of the cellular morphology and apoptosis assayed by fluorescence microscopy after incubation of A375 cells with 10 micro M ciglitazone for 24 h indicated that this ligand not only inhibited cell proliferation but also induced apoptosis.
In adults, heart rate variability triangular index (HRVi) is a highly reproducible measure of heart rate variability (HRV), which makes it more suitable for use in longitudinal studies. Although normative data have been published for newborns, studies in infants with pathological conditions are lacking.
From 1997 to 2000, within the first 4 days of life, we prospectively evaluated HRVi in cocaine-exposed asymptomatic newborns (N = 97) by Holter monitoring. Their data were compared with infants from two control groups (one with no in utero drug exposure, N = 102; the other with exposure to alcohol, nicotine, or marijuana but no cocaine, N = 111).
In assessing concordance between and within operators for HRVi, the intraclass correlations were 0.983 (95% CI: 0.958, 0.994) and 0.997 (95% CI: 0.984, 0.999), respectively. Infants with in utero cocaine exposure had significantly (P < 0.0001) lower HRVi than those exposed to other drugs and to no drugs in utero. If abnormal HRVi is defined as < fifth percentile for the no drug exposed group (HRVi < 8), 10% of the cocaine-exposed newborns, in contrast to 2% in each of the control groups (P = 0.003) had abnormal values.
HRVi is a reliable measure to study heart rate variability in newborns. Asymptomatic infants with in utero cocaine exposure have lower HRVi. Our study supports the clinical use of an abnormal HRVi as a value < 8 for newborn infants.
Despite definite indication for psychopharmacologic intervention, severe and persistent symptoms of aggressive and self-injurious behaviour still remain a therapeutic challenge. As recent research has demonstrated, not only the dopaminergic and serotonergic but also the endogenous opiate system plays a role in the pathogenesis of self-injurious behaviour. Nevertheless, the efficacy of classical neuroleptics as well as opiate antagonists is questioned. In open and controlled studies, the administration of the atypical neuroleptic risperidone (a serotonin 2A-dopamine D2 antagonist) was associated with a long-term effect in reducing self-injuries. In our clinical trial, 20 mentally retarded adults presenting with severe self-injurious and aggressive behaviour were administered risperidone over a follow-up period of 35 months. Clinical efficacy was measured with the Disability Assessment Schedule (DAS), conducted in a home for people with mental retardation. In 17 patients, a significant reduction in self-injurious behaviour is shown. Besides, there was a significant overall clinical improvement in behaviour.
Recent improvements in survival of patients with Ewing's sarcoma have been made since the addition of cyclophosphamide-based adjuvant chemotherapy to primary surgery and radiation. A potential limitation to cyclophosphamide use is its urotoxicity, primarily in the form of hemorrhagic cystitis. The incidence of this adverse effect in patients treated for Ewing's sarcoma has not been established. In a Mayo Clinic series of 116 patients with Ewing's sarcoma treated with cyclophosphamide, 17 (15%) developed hemorrhagic cystitis diagnosed on the basis of gross hematuria or cystoscopic findings (or both). Microscopic hematuria also occurred in 53% of patients (56 of 105 examined). The dose and duration of therapy appeared to be unrelated to the development of urotoxicity. Most patients recovered uneventfully with or without discontinuation of cyclophosphamide therapy, but a significant loss of blood occurred in three patients, and one patient required a cystectomy because of bladder fibrosis. Long-term follow-up is mandatory in these patients because of late recurrences of hemorrhagic cystitis or the possibility of bladder carcinoma. New therapies, directed at protecting the bladder from urotoxicity during cyclophosphamide treatment, are available.
In this study, we used a well-established animal model to investigate changes in the peptidergic and parasympathetic innervation of the bladder following chronic bladder inflammation. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with either 70 mg/kg cyclophosphamide diluted in saline, i.p., once every 3 days or saline. After 10 days, all animals were tested for urinary frequency and number of low volume voids, as well as symptoms of spontaneous pain. At the end of 12 days, all animals were perfused with histological fixatives and the urinary bladders processed for immunofluorescence using antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter as markers, respectively, of peptidergic primary afferent fibers and parasympathetic efferent fibers. We show that animals treated with cyclophosphamide had inflamed bladders and displayed high urinary frequency as well as some indicators of spontaneous pain, such as piloerection and a rounded-back posture. Furthermore, they had a significant increase in the density of both parasympathetic and peptidergic sensory fibers in the bladder mucosa and an increase in peptidergic sensory fibers in the detrusor muscle. Based on these results, we suggest that peripheral sprouting of parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers could be a mechanism responsible for sensitization of the bladder, leading to urinary symptoms. Since we observed that the parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers often wrapped around one another and that their varicosities were very close, these two fiber populations may be interacting with each other to lead to and maintain sensitization. Future studies are required to establish the role of this fiber sprouting in bladder symptoms.
A PARK8 form of Parkinson's disease (PD) is caused by a novel gene, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), and a single mutation G2019S was found in a proportion of LRRK2-associated cases of diverse ethnic origins. We performed the LRRK2 G2019S mutation analysis in 304 Russian patients with PD, including 291 sporadic and 13 autosomal dominant cases. The frequency of the LRRK2 G2019S was 0.7% amongst the sporadic patients (2/291) and 7.7% amongst familial PD (1/13). The mutation was also found in three unaffected relatives and absent in 700 control chromosomes. One patient carrying the LRRK2 G2019S was found earlier to have an additional mutation, a heterozygous duplication of exon 5 of the parkin gene. All patients carrying the LRRK2 G2019S exhibited typical levodopa-responsive parkinsonism, and severe levodopa-induced dyskinesia was observed in the patient carrying the LRRK2 and parkin mutations. There was notable variability in ages of the disease onset in G2019S carriers not explained by APOE genotypes. Two subsets of G2019S-positive patients had different PARK8 haplotypes suggesting that the LRRK2 G2019S in Russian patients had arisen independently on different chromosomes. Identification of common LRRK2 mutations in some PD patients without an overt family history has notable implications for genetic counseling.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) is a commonly used antiepileptic drug known to block voltage-gated sodium channels. Infants exposed to CBZ in utero show reduced head circumference, for reasons unknown. We investigated CBZ's effect on neural growth in megencephaly (mceph/mceph) mice lacking functional Kv1.1. Mice fed with CBZ were assessed for brain structure size, seizure behavior and expression of markers for neuronal plasticity and rescue in brain. CBZ counteracted brain overgrowth and the increased size of neurons in the mceph/mceph mouse. These effects of CBZ occurred at doses that did not fully suppress epileptic behavior. Furthermore, CBZ normalized Bdnf mRNA levels and mRNA species encoding Nogo signaling pathway proteins. In conclusion, CBZ protects efficiently against abnormal growth and abnormal expression patterns of nerve growth signaling systems in the mceph/mceph brain. These observations and the effect of CBZ in utero suggest that CBZ treatment might be advantageous in some types of human idiopathic megalencephaly.
A two-generation reproduction toxicity study was conducted in rats with a reference estrogenic pesticide, methoxychlor, to validate the sensitivity and competency of current guidelines recommended by the United States Environmental Protection Agency; Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries; and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development for predicting reproductive toxicity of the test compound based on estrogenic endocrine disrupting effects. Both sexes of SD rats were exposed to methoxychlor in the diet at concentrations of 0, 10, 500 and 1500 ppm for two successive generations. The present study has successfully detected estrogenic activities and reproductive toxicities of methoxychlor, as well as its systemic toxicity. Body weights, body weight gains and food consumption of both sexes of animals were suppressed significantly in the 500 and 1500 ppm groups. Typical reproductive toxicities observed in females of these groups included, but were not limited to, prolonged estrous cycle, reduced fertility, decreased numbers of implantation sites and newborns, decreased ovary weights and/or increased incidences of cystic ovary. Uterine weights of weanlings increased significantly in these groups, suggesting that the sensitivity of this parameter for predicting estrogenic ability of the test compound is comparable to that of the uterotrophic assay. Reproductive toxicities of methoxychlor seemed less potent in males than in females. Methoxychlor delayed preputial separation and significantly reduced sperm counts and reproductive organ weights of males of the 500 and/or 1500 ppm groups; however, most males that failed to impregnate females in the same group showed normal fertility when they were re-mated with untreated females. Neither systemic nor reproductive toxicities appeared in the 10 ppm group.
Townes-Brocks syndrome is an autosomal dominantly inherited disorder, which comprises multiple birth defects including renal, ear, anal, and limb malformations. TBS has been shown to result from mutations in SALL1, a human gene related to the developmental regulator SAL of Drosophila melanogaster. The SALL1 gene product is a zinc finger protein thought to act as a transcription factor. It contains four highly conserved, evenly distributed C2H2 double zinc finger domains. A single C2H2 motif is attached to the second domain, and at the amino terminus SALL1 contains a C2HC motif. Most mutations causing TBS are clustered in the N-terminal third of the SALL1 coding region and result in the production of truncated proteins containing only one or none of the C2H2 domains and the N-terminal transcriptional repressor domain of SALL1. Twenty-three SALL1 mutations were reported prior to this work, 22 of which are located in exon 2, 5' of the second double zinc finger-encoding region. Here we present 12 novel mutations in SALL1 associated with Townes-Brocks syndrome in 13 unrelated families. These include three nonsense mutations, three short insertions and six short deletions. Thus the number of SALL1 mutations increases to 35. Rare phenotypical features among mutation positive patients include hypothyroidism, vaginal aplasia with bifid uterus, cryptorchidism, bifid scrotum without hypospadia scrotalis, unilateral chorioretinal coloboma with loss of vision, dorsal hypoplasia of the corpus callosum, and umbilical hernia.
In the present study, we attempted to predict the risk of extrapyramidal side effects of a selective monoaminergic antagonist, risperidone, by analyzing the correlation between the dopamine D(2) receptor occupancy and the degree of extrapyramidal side effects of the drug. The occupancies of D(2) and 5-HT(2) receptors at various doses of risperidone were calculated by means of a receptor occupancy theory. The extrapyramidal side effects after administration of risperidone were attempted to predict by theoretical analysis of the correlation between the calculated occupancies and the evidence of extrapyramidal symptoms using a ternary complex model. The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic analysis utilized the data concerning the pharmacokinetics of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone (active metabolite), their binding affinities with D(2) and 5-HT(2) receptors, and the clinical evidence of extrapyramidal symptoms (Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale: ESRS), gathered from the literature. The mean occupancy of 5-HT(2) receptors after the administration of regular doses of risperidone was suggested to be more than 90%, whereas the mean occupancy of D(2) receptors varied between 50-80%, depending on the dose. The correlation between the occupancy of D(2) receptors and the extrapyramidal symptoms could be successfully analyzed with a ternary complex model, showing the predictability of the model for the extrapyramidal side effects of risperidone. Since the estimated risk of the extrapyramidal side effects varied with the dose, the present method of predicting the extrapyramidal side effects of risperidone may provide a basis for developing a rational dosing regimen for the drug.
The aim of the study is to determine the clinical features and outcomes of cocaine users admitted to the hospital after cardiac arrest and compare them with nonusers. Cocaine is associated with cardiovascular complications, including ventricular arrhythmias; however, resuscitated cardiac arrest in relation to cocaine use is not a well-defined clinical entity. We reviewed available hospital charts at San Francisco General Hospital with the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision diagnosis of cardiac arrest and cocaine use from 1994 to 2006. Clinical features and outcomes of cocaine users were compared with those of randomly selected control patients and age-matched controls with resuscitated cardiac arrest without cocaine use. We identified 22 patients with resuscitated cardiac arrest in the setting of cocaine use. Their average age was 42 +/- 10 years, >20 years younger than nonusers (68 +/- 16 years, p <0.01). After cardiac arrest, 12 of 22 patients (55%) who used cocaine had complete neurologic recovery in contrast to only 3 of 20 unmatched controls (15%, p <0.01) and 7 of 41 age-matched controls (17%, p <0.01). Only 10 of 22 cocaine users (46%) died compared with 15 of 20 unmatched controls (75%, p = 0.05) and 32 of 41 age-matched controls (78%, p <0.01). In a combined analysis of all patients, cocaine use was the only significant predictor of neurologic recovery (p <0.01) and survival (p <0.01). In conclusion, cocaine use is associated with cardiac arrest. In patients with cardiac arrest, cocaine users are younger than nonusers and more likely to survive with neurologic recovery, even compared with age-matched controls with cardiac arrest.
Anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen appear to prevent the development of Parkinson's disease (PD); however, long-term use has undesirable side-effects. A new strategy for anti-inflammatory drug therapy is using a dual inhibitor of COX and lipooxygenase (LOX). Here, we compared the dopaminergic neuroprotective property of phenidone (a dual COX and LOX inhibitor) with COX or LOX inhibitors including SC-560 (a COX-1 inhibitor), aspirin (a COX-1/2 inhibitor), meloxicam (a preferential COX-2 inhibitor), caffeic acid (a 5-LOX inhibitor), and esculetin (a 5, 12-LOX inhibitor) in our lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PD animal model. Our results show that COX-2 and 5-LOX play a major role in LPS-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity, as meloxicam and phenidone attenuated LPS-induced oxidative stress and meloxicam, phenidone, and caffeic acid attenuated dopaminergic neurodegeneration, while SC-560, aspirin, and esculetin did not. In addition, phenidone was superior in attenuating LPS-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration and microglia activation, probably as a result of dual inhibition of COX-2 and LOX. Therefore, dual inhibition of COX and LOX with phenidone represents a promising new candidate for anti-inflammatory drug therapy, and may provide a novel therapeutic approach for inflammation-related neurodegenerative diseases including PD.
We examined the baseline characteristics of patients in the Ticlopidine Aspirin Stroke Study (TASS) to determine if the effects of the two treatments in preventing stroke differed in various subgroups. Patients with the following characteristics did less well on aspirin: elevated creatinine, hypertension or diabetes requiring treatment, or treatment with anticoagulant or antiplatelet drugs prior to their qualifying TIA or stroke. Women and patients with vertebrobasilar symptoms did particularly well on ticlopidine. We performed arteriography in 1,188 patients with carotid qualifying events. The frequency of stroke in patients with abnormal arteriograms ipsilateral to their symptoms was slightly higher than in those with normal carotid arteries. Ticlopidine was more effective in patients without carotid stenosis. Ticlopidine is more effective than aspirin in preventing strokes in patients having warning TIAs. The patients who benefit most from ticlopidine may be women, those who have vertebrobasilar symptoms, those with cerebral ischemic symptoms while on aspirin or anticoagulant therapy, and patients with diffuse atherosclerotic disease rather than high-grade carotid stenosis.
Affective disorders and substance abuse frequently coexist, yet few previous studies have examined drug self-administration using animal models of depression. The olfactory-bulbectomized rat is a well-established model that exhibits a high degree of neurochemical similarity to depression. Olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) increases dopamine receptor densities in the ventral striatum, which may increase the reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse. Experiments were designed to test the hypotheses that acquisition and stable self-administration of amphetamine would be increased in bulbectomized rats. In the first experiment, rats underwent bilateral OBX or sham surgery and intravenous jugular catheters were implanted 12-14 days later. Acquisition was examined using a standard operant paradigm involving a nose-poke response for a very low dose of D-amphetamine sulfate (12 microg/infusion, IV). A separate group of rats received coinfusions of sulpiride. In a second experiment designed to minimize differences in acquisition and examine stable self-administration, lever pressing for a low (0.10 mg/kg, IV) or high (0.25 mg/kg, IV) dose of D-amphetamine sulfate was measured in rats pretrained to lever press for food. Bulbectomized rats acquired the self-administration of very low dose amphetamine faster than sham-operated rats and this effect was reversed by sulpiride coinfusion. Stable self-administration of the low dose of amphetamine was also markedly increased in bulbectomized rats. The findings reveal the utility of the OBX model for studying the neurobiological basis of depression and drug abuse comorbidity and support the hypothesis that neurochemical abnormalities associated with depression may enhance the addictive properties of some drugs of abuse.
Under study were thirty patients of ASA class I-II scheduled for lower abdominal and lower extremities surgery. Premedication included intramuscular injection of pethidine, atropine and prochlorperazine. Epidural anesthesia was accomplished with 12-15 ml 2% lidocaine with epinephrine (1:80,000). Thirty minutes later, when blood pressure returned to control value, patients were put to sleep by 2 mg/kg propofol and the sleep was maintained with continuous infusion of propofol at a rate of 6 mg/kg/h. Infusion rate was adjusted when necessary. Patients breathed room air spontaneously through the whole course of anesthesia. The results showed that all patients fell to sleep within 28.3 +/- 2.7 s after intravenous injection of propofol 2 mg/kg. Sleeping dose was satisfactorily achieved using a mean infusion rate of 6.1 +/- 1.7 mg/kg/h. The mean time from the end of the infusion of propofol to opening of the eyes on command and telling the correct date of birth were 7.9 +/- 2.8 min and 9.9 +/- 3.8 min respectively. Two minutes after injection, there were significant decrease in systolic pressure, diastolic pressure, cardiac output, and stroke volume with a mean of 17.9 +/- 3.8%, 18.8 +/- 3.3%, 7.6 +/- 0.5% and 11.1 +/- 1.9% respectively. Two patients (7%) developed apnea after 2 mg/kg propofol which was considered to be the most serious side effect. Propofol infusion had to be stopped in 13% patients due to a 30% fall of arterial blood pressure during maintenance. In the recovery stage, no other complications were noted except one patient who felt dizziness. Propofol, used as the supplementary sedative, provides satisfactory result for surgery under epidural anesthesia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We set out to better understand the signal transduction pathways that mediate liver tumor promotion by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxn ("dioxin"). To this end, we first employed congenic mice homozygous for either the Ahr(b1) or Ahr(d) alleles (encoding an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) with high or low binding affinity for dioxin, respectively) and demonstrated that hepatocellular tumor promotion in response to dioxin segregated with the Ahr locus. Once we had genetic evidence for the importance of AHR signaling, we then asked if tumor promotion by dioxin was influenced by "interleukin-1 (IL-1)-like" inflammatory cytokines. The importance of this question arose from our earlier observation that aspects of the acute hepatocellular toxicity of dioxin are dependent upon IL1-like cytokine signaling. To address this issue, we employed a triple knock-out (TKO) mouse model with null alleles at the loci encoding the three relevant receptors for tumor necrosis factors α and β and IL-1α and IL-1β (i.e., null alleles at the Tnfrsf1a, Tnfrsf1b, and Il-1r1 loci). The observation that TKO mice were resistant to the tumor promoting effects of dioxin in liver suggests that inflammatory cytokines play an important step in dioxin mediated liver tumor promotion in the mouse. Collectively, these data support the idea that the mechanism of dioxin acute hepatotoxicity and its activity as a promoter in a mouse two stage liver cancer model may be similar, i.e., tumor promotion by dioxin, like acute hepatotoxicity, are mediated by the linked action of two receptor systems, the AHR and the receptors for the "IL-1-like" cytokines.
The anesthetic management of patients with pheochromocytoma, in which drastic hemodynamic changes may occur, is still a challenge to even the most experienced anesthesiologist, although the perioperative mortality has been reduced remarkably. We report three patients who developed unexpected major complications during elective resection of a pheochromocytoma. The Case 1 patient was a 46 year-old woman who developed ventricular tachycardia immediately after administration of ephedrine for transient hypotension induced by excessive phentolamine. Even a mild beta adrenergic agent may cause extraordinary stimulation to myocardium under alpha blockade. The Case 2 patient was a 44 year-old man who needed intensive vasodilating therapy due to an exaggerated cardiovascular response to intraoperative surgical stress. He developed severe metabolic acidosis resembling hyperdynamic shock before resection of the tumor, although blood pressure was controlled within the expected range. The Case 3 patient was a 60 year-old woman who did not receive preoperative alpha blocker therapy because she lacked cardiovascular symptoms. However, she revealed a high level of systemic vascular resistance after induction of general anesthesia and needed moderate inotropic support to compensate for an abrupt reduction of vascular resistance after resection of the tumor. The pathophysiology of the disease is complex and anesthetic care must be tailored in accordance with each patient's situation.
