Severe blood loss is a major cause of death occurring within hours of traumatic injury. Na+/H+ exchange (NHE-1) activity is an important determinant of the extent of ischemic myocardial injury. The goal of the present study was to test the hypothesis that NHE-1 inhibition delays the onset of hypovolemic circulatory shock, thereby preventing early death due to severe hemorrhage in pigs. Severe hypovolemia was studied in 16 (25.2 kg) anesthetized male pigs in steps of 10-, 20-, 30-, 40-, and 50-mL kg(-1) blood loss, each in 30-min intervals. Shed blood resuscitation was started 30 min after 50 mL kg(-1) blood loss. The experiment was terminated after 3 h of resuscitation. Eight pigs were used as seline control. Eight pigs received 3 mg kg(-1) benzamide, N-(aminoiminomethyl)-4-[4-(2-furanylcarbonyl)-1-piperazinyl]-3-(methylsulfonyl), methanesulfonate (NHE-1 inhibitor) 15 min before hemorrhage. Seven control pigs died at 40- to 50-mL kg(-1) blood loss. One control pig survived initial resuscitation but died soon after. In contrast, all animals treated with NHE-1 inhibitor survived the entire protocol. In control animals, cardiac output and MAP gradually decreased at each step of blood loss with marked increase in heart rate. Cardiovascular decompensation occurred at 40 mL kg(-1) blood loss. Na+/H+ exchange inhibition increased oxygen delivery, attenuated cardiovascular decompensation, delayed the onset of irreversible hypovolemic circulatory shock, and enabled resuscitation to survival. Echocardiography analysis showed that myocardial hypercontracture gradually developed with each step of blood loss in control animals, but this hypercontracture was attenuated in the animals receiving the NHE-1 inhibitor. We conclude that NHE-1 inhibition attenuates ischemic myocardial hypercontracture, cardiovascular decompensation, delays the onset of hypovolemic circulatory shock, and prevents early death in severe hemorrhage.
Renal haemodynamics and natriuresis were studied before and 6 h after oral intake of perindopril (8 mg) in eight hypertensive patients without renal failure. The patients were then treated with perindopril (8 mg per day) and renal haemodynamics were measured on the fifth day, 6 h after the morning intake. Sodium intake was controlled during the study (100 mmol sodium per day). Renal blood flow and the glomerular filtration rate were measured by the clearance method using 131I-hippuran and 125I-iothalamate, respectively. Mean blood pressure decreased from 135 to 110 after 6 h, and was 118 mmHg on the fifth day (P less than 0.001, respectively). Renal vascular resistance decreased significantly after acute drug intake from 0.19 to 0.15 arbitrary units (P less than 0.001) and on the fifth day to 0.16 arbitrary units (P less than 0.001). Renal blood flow rose from 708 to 723 after 6 h, and to 750 ml/min per 1.73 m2 on the fifth day but the change was no significant. There was no alteration in the glomerular filtration rate so that the filtration fraction decreased from 0.27 to 0.26 (after 6 h), and to 0.25 on the fifth day (P less than 0.02). Natriuresis increased after the first intake between the first and tenth hours. On the fifth day, maximum natriuresis was observed between the fourth and sixth hours. Perindopril caused strong renal vasodilation after the first intake and during the following days, with no change in the glomerular filtration rate. There was a significant decrease in the filtration fraction, indicating efferent, as well as afferent, arteriolar vasodilation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 40 year old chronic cocaine abuser came to hospital with a blood pressure of 260/160, headache, agitation and bilateral papilledema. She was felt to have hypertensive encephalopathy secondary to cocaine abuse. She failed to respond to initial treatment with intravenous nitroprusside alone but was responsive to additional therapy with captopril.
Doxorubicin (DOX) produces clinically restorative responses in numerous human cancers, but its cardiotoxicity has limited its usefulness. Because reactive oxygen species may affect DOX-induced antitumor activity and cardiotoxicity, we evaluated the prophylactic effect of spinach natural antioxidant (NAO) on DOX-induced cardiotoxicity and oxidative stress in female Balb/c mice using histological, electron microscopical and biochemical parameters. Mice were treated with NAO for 7 days prior to and/or for 6 days after DOX administration. Pretreatment with NAO (cumulative dose: 130 mg/kg) did not hinder the effectiveness of DOX. Light and electron microscopy of DOX-treated heart revealed myocardial degeneration. When administered combined before and after DOX, NAO conferred the most significant cardiac protection. The effects of NAO on the lipid peroxidation product, malondialdehyde, and on H2O2/ hydroperoxides were examined on day 6 following DOX administration; levels of both were elevated in DOX-treated mice, compared to control. Pretreatment with NAO prevented these changes. Pretreatment with NAO before DOX administration decreased catalase and increased superoxide dismutase activities compared to the DOX group. Our results suggest usage of NAO in combination with DOX as a prophylactic strategy to protect heart muscle from DOX-induced cellular damage.
Gun factory workers are exposed to many solvents (toluene, acetone, butanol, xylene, benzene, trichloroethylene). We investigated whether chronic exposure to solvents had adverse effect on respiratory system.
The workers were questionnaired by modified Medical Research Council's respiratory questionnaire before morning start shift. Then physical examination and measurement of pulmonary functions by portable dry rolling spirometer were performed. The study group consisted of 1091 gun factory workers. The workers were grouped according to their smoking habits (smokers, [exposed n: 353 vs. unexposed n: 339] and non-smokers [exposed n: 58 vs. unexposed n: 341]). Asthma-related symptoms were defined as either definite asthma, probable asthma, and possible asthma.
In non-smokers, the report of asthma-related symptoms was more prevalent in exposed workers than unexposed (39.7% vs. 21.7% OR 2.4[1.3-4.3], respectively P = 0.003). In smokers, the report of asthma-related symptoms was more common in exposed group than unexposed (50.7% vs. 42.5% OR 1.4[1.0-1.9], respectively P = 0.03). Logistic regression analysis showed that smoking (OR 2.8[2.0-3.8] P = 0.00001) and exposure to solvents (OR 1.4[1.1-1.9] P = 0.01) were independent risk factors for asthma-related symptoms, after adjusting for age. Logistic regression analysis identified that smoking (OR 3.3[2.3-4.6] P = 0.00001) was independent risk factors for chronic bronchitis. Multiple linear regression analysis of lung-function parameters (% forced expiratory volume (FEV1), FEV1/forced vital capacity, FEF(25-75)) indicated significant effects of smoking.
Present study indicated significant effects of smoking and exposure to solvents, with the smoking effect being the most important on asthma-related symptoms of gun factory workers.
It has been well demonstrated that TNF-alpha is integral to the pathogenesis of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS). In this study, we investigate the effects of etanercept (10 mg/kg, s.c.), a specific TNF-alpha-soluble inhibitor, on the acute phase and late mortality in a murine model of MODS of nonseptic origin induced by zymosan (500 mg/kg, suspended in saline solution, i.p.). Etanercept was administered 1 h after the injection of zymosan. Animals were killed after 18 h. In another set of experiments, mice were monitored for systemic toxicity, loss of body weight, and mortality for 12 days. Sham-treated and TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1)-deficient animals were used as control. Treatment of mice with Etanercept and TNFR1 gene deletion decreased the peritoneal exudation and the migration of neutrophils caused by zymosan. In addition, pharmacological and genetic neutralization of TNF-alpha attenuated pancreas and ileum injury (histology), the increase in myeloperoxidase activity in the ileum and in the lung, and the formation of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. Immunohistochemical analysis for TNF-alpha, transforming growth factor beta, and vascular endothelial growth factor revealed a positive staining in pancreas and ileum sections. The degree of immunostaining was markedly reduced after etanercept treatment and in TNFR1 knockout mice. Furthermore, TNF-alpha neutralization decreased the potent apoptotic stimulus induced by zymosan. All of these findings ultimately led to an amelioration of organ functions at 18 h and to a better survival rate at 12 days. Therefore, we demonstrate that etanercept reduces acute tissue injury and mortality associated to MODS of nonseptic origin in mice.
Autism is a developmental disorder characterized by impairments in social interaction and communication associated with repetitive patterns of interest or behavior. Autism is highly influenced by genetic factors. Genome-wide linkage and candidate gene association approaches have been used to try and identify autism genes. A few loci have repeatedly been reported linked to autism. Several groups reported evidence for linkage to a region on chromosome 16p. We have applied a direct physical identity-by-descent (IBD) mapping approach to perform a high-density (0.85 megabases) genome-wide linkage scan in 116 families from the AGRE collection. Our results confirm linkage to a region on chromosome 16p with autism. High-resolution single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping and analysis of this region show that haplotypes in the protein kinase c-beta gene are strongly associated with autism. An independent replication of the association in a second set of 167 trio families with autism confirmed our initial findings. Overall, our data provide evidence that the PRKCB1 gene on chromosome 16p may be involved in the etiology of autism.
Angiotensin II (ANG II) is known to be a potent vasoconstrictor agent in the pulmonary circulation. Furthermore, type 1 ANG II receptor blockade with losartan attenuates acute hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in normal subjects. The aim of this study was therefore to evaluate the haemodynamic and endocrine sequelae of type 1 ANG II receptor blockade in patients with hypoxaemic cor pulmonale.
Nine patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) age 67 +/- 3 years with pulmonary hypertension and normal left ventricular systolic function were studied on two separate occasions in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. They were randomised to receive either 50 mg of oral losartan or matched placebo. Pulsed wave Doppler echocardiography was used to measure cardiac output (CO), mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP) and hence systemic vascular resistance (SVR) and total pulmonary vascular resistance (TPR). Haemodynamic measurements and venous blood samples were taken at baseline and after 2 and 4 h.
Maximal effects were observed at 4 h where losartan compared to placebo resulted in a significant reduction in both MPAP (28.6 +/- 2.0 vs 32.4 +/- 1.5 mmHg) and TPR (428 +/- 40 vs 510 +/- dyn.s.cm-5), respectively. Similarly losartan compared to placebo resulted in a significant reduction in MAP (87 +/- 4.5 vs 93 +/- 3.2 mmHg) and SVR (1293 +/- 94 vs 1462 +/- 112 dyn.s.cm-5), and significantly increased CO (5.58 +/- 0.43 vs 5.31 +/- 0.42 l/min). In addition, plasma aldosterone was significantly lower after treatment with losartan compared to placebo: 76 +/- 23 vs 164 +/- 43 pg/ml respectively.
Thus, selective type 1 ANG II receptor blockade appears to have beneficial pulmonary and endocrine effects, suggesting a possible therapeutic role in the management of hypoxaemic cor pulmonale.
Perfluorobutyrate (PFBA) is a short chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylate that is structurally similar to perfluorooctanoate. Administration of PFBA can cause peroxisome proliferation, induction of peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation and hepatomegaly, suggesting that PFBA activates the nuclear receptor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha). In this study, the role of PPAR-alpha in mediating the effects of PFBA was examined using PPAR-alpha null mice and a mouse line expressing the human PPAR-alpha in the absence of mouse PPAR-alpha (PPAR-alpha humanized mice). PFBA caused upregulation of known PPAR-alpha target genes that modulate lipid metabolism in wild-type and PPAR-alpha humanized mice, and this effect was not found in PPAR-alpha null mice. Increased liver weight and hepatocyte hypertrophy were also found in wild-type and humanized PPAR-alpha mice treated with PFBA, but not in PPAR-alpha null mice. Interestingly, hepatocyte focal necrosis with inflammatory cell infiltrate was only found in wild-type mice administered PFBA; this effect was markedly diminished in both PPAR-alpha null and PPAR-alpha humanized mice. Results from these studies demonstrate that PFBA can modulate gene expression and cause mild hepatomegaly and hepatocyte hypertrophy through a mechanism that requires PPAR-alpha and that these effects do not exhibit a species difference. In contrast, the PPAR-alpha-dependent increase in PFBA-induced hepatocyte focal necrosis with inflammatory cell infiltrate was mediated by the mouse PPAR-alpha but not the human PPAR-alpha. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PFBA can activate both the mouse and human PPAR-alpha, but there is a species difference in the hepatotoxic response to this chemical.
The exposure of cells to -benzyl- 2-acetylguanosine (BNAG) and several guanine derivatives is known to reduce -alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGAT) activity and to decrease the resistance of methyl enzyme repair positive (Mer ) cells to chloroethylnitrosoureas (CENUs) and. We evaluated the influence of AGAT activity inhibition by BNAG on the ability of two CENUs, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and 3-(2-chloroethyl)-1-(2-methylsulphonyl)ethyl-3-nitrosourea (cystemustine), to induce an apoptotic response in two melanoma cell lines, M3 Dau (Mer ) and IPC 227F (Mer ). The apoptotic morphology of cells was assessed by microscopy after Wright-Giemsa or Hoechst 33342 staining of cells, and DNA internucleosomal cleavage was demonstrated by the ladder-like pattern of DNA separated by agarose gel electrophoresis. The concentration-dependent number of apoptotic cells assessed using a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-fluorescein nick-end labelling (TUNEL) assay 72 h after BCNU or cystemustine treatment (0-400 microM for 2 h) was increased by prior AGAT depletion with BNAG pretreatment (300 microM for 4 h) in Mer cells. These results suggest that the DNA lesions on the position of guanine are a key event in inducing an apoptotic response in melanoma cells. We also observed that cystemustine was a more potent inducer of apoptosis than BCNU, and that the synergism with BNAG was more potent with cystemustine than with BCNU. These results suggest that the nature of the CENUs associated with an AGAT inhibitor is a determinant factor in forecasting the clinical efficacy of the association, especially in melanoma.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) dorsalizes the pattern of prostatic buds developing from the urogenital sinus (UGS) of male fetal mice, causing some buds to form in inappropriate positions while blocking formation of others. This teratogenic TCDD action significantly reduces prostate main duct number and causes ventral prostate agenesis in exposed males. The purpose of this study was to determine whether inhibition of fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) signaling is mechanistically linked to mouse prostatic budding impairment by TCDD. In utero TCDD exposure induced aryl hydrocarbon receptor-responsive cytochrome P450 1b1 messenger RNA (mRNA) in ventral UGS regions where Fgf10 and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (Fgfr2) mRNA were expressed and where budding was most severely inhibited by TCDD. However, TCDD exposure did not reduce Fgf10 or Fgfr2 mRNA abundance in the UGS or alter their distribution. Addition of FGF10 protein to UGS organ culture media increased the abundance of UGS basal epithelial cells immunopositive for phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). FGF10 also increased the number of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled UGS epithelial cells and increased the number of prostatic buds formed per UGS. Addition of TCDD to UGS organ culture media did not alter FGF10-induced ERK activation in UGS basal epithelium but prevented FGF10-induced BrdU incorporation and blocked FGF10-induced prostatic bud formation. These results identify basal urogenital sinus epithelium cells as the key site of FGF10 action during fetal prostate development and suggest that TCDD likely acts downstream of FGFR2 and ERK to restrict UGS epithelial cell proliferation and prevent prostatic bud formation.
Of 180 consecutive patients who underwent uneventful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), 25 (13.9%) had at least 1 episode of symptomatic bradycardia and hypotension during the early postprocedure period. Symptomatic bradycardia and hypotension occurred 1 to 10 hours (mean 4 +/- 2) after PTCA. A higher incidence of symptomatic bradycardia and hypotension was found in patients receiving regular treatment with beta blockers (26% vs 10% in patients without beta blockers in their regimen, p < 0.01), diltiazem or verapamil (20% vs 9%, p < 0.025), or both a beta blocker and diltiazem or verapamil (64% vs 11%, p < 0.001). A higher incidence was also associated with angioplasty of the left anterior descending coronary artery compared with angioplasty of the other coronary arteries (22% vs 8%, p < 0.01). It is concluded that symptomatic bradycardia and hypotension is a common occurrence after PTCA. The incidence is higher after PTCA to the left anterior descending coronary artery and in patients receiving diltiazem, verapamil, and beta-blocking agents; it is particularly high in patients receiving a combination of a beta-blocking agent and either diltiazem or verapamil.
Develop an experimental model to study esophageal preneoplastic lesions induced by diethylnitrosamine in rats with achalasia.
Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control--C (n=8); rats with megaesophagus--B (n=8); rats treated with DEN--D (n=15) and rats with megaesophagus plus DEN--BD (n=15). Megaesophagus can be experimentally obtained in rats by topical application of benzalkonium chloride. The morphology and PCNA labeling index of the epithelium were evaluated.
The morphometric analysis showed an increase in epithelial thickness in the animals of group BD (2166+/-1012 mm2) when compared to the other groups (C = 878+/-278 mm2; B = 1746+/-144 mm2 and D = 1691+/-697 mm2), mainly due to basal layer hyperplasia, besides an increase in the keratin of the superficial layer. The PCNA labeling index in the basal layer was significantly higher in the group BD (0.695+/-0.111) when compared to the other groups (C = 0.490+/-0.132; B = 0.512+/-0.215 and D = 0.477+/-0.198).
Our data confirm in an experimental model the previous observation in humans of increased epithelial cell proliferation during the esophageal carcinogenic process in achalasia and may be useful to further studies on the mechanisms of the esophageal carcinogenesis and the the design of follow-up endoscopic studies for patients with achalasia.
The purpose of this study was to examine the hypothesis that the calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, modulates catecholamine-induced arrhythmias through CNS mechanisms. Rats, that had catheters previously inserted into the lateral cerebral ventricle and femoral artery, received diltiazem, 10 or 50 micrograms/kg or the diluent, into the lateral cerebral ventricle (i.c.v.). Epinephrine was infused to produce arrhythmias. The onset of ventricular arrhythmias, premature ventricular complexes, occurred at a significantly (P less than 0.05) greater dose of epinephrine, after diltiazem, compared to the control group and in a dose-dependent manner, with the mean (+/- 1 SEM) dose of epinephrine being 198 +/- 5, 175 +/- 13 and 115 +/- 15 micrograms/kg in the groups treated with 50 and 10 micrograms/kg of diltiazem and the control groups, respectively. The development of fatal arrhythmias, mainly ventricular tachyarrhythmias, occurred at significantly (P less than 0.05) greater concentrations of epinephrine with diltiazem, 50 and 10 micrograms/kg, 225 +/- 5 and 183 +/- 13 micrograms/kg, respectively, compared to controls, 131 +/- 15 micrograms/kg. Endogenous opioids of the mu-type were implicated in this action of diltiazem, because the mu opioid antagonist naloxone, 1 mg/kg (i.v.), significantly (P less than 0.05) antagonized the antiarrhythmic effects of centrally administered diltiazem and the mu opioid agonist DAGO (i.c.v.), did not further enhance the suppression of epinephrine-induced arrhythmias, produced by diltiazem, 50 micrograms/kg. Atropine sulfate, which crosses the blood-brain barrier and atropine methylnitrate, which does not enter the brain, each at 1 mg/kg (i.v.), produced an equal and significant antagonism of the effect of diltiazem, 50 micrograms/kg, that was less than that of naloxone. The combination of naloxone plus atropine sulfate completely prevented the effect of diltiazem, 50 micrograms/kg, on arrhythmias. The antiarrythmic action of diltiazem could not be explained by alteration of the blood pressure or heart rate response to epinephrine. The results suggest that: (a) calcium channels on neurons in the CNS play an important role in the modulation of epinephrine-induced cardiac arrhythmias, (b) diltiazem can suppress arrhythmias through CNS mechanisms, (c) activation of the parasympathetic nervous system mediates some of the effect of diltiazem, but (d) the mechanism of action of diltiazem is modulated through endogenous opioids.
Simple and reliable in vitro models of cerebral ischaemia are important for the identification of antiischaemic/antihypoxic compounds. Alterations of the concentrations of potassium and calcium were recorded in slices of hippocampus of the rat. The slices were subjected to hypoxia in the presence and absence of intoxication with glucose or ouabain (1 mmol/l). Normoxic slices of hippocampus showed an extracellular space of 57% and a tissue concentration of potassium of 45 mmol/kg wet wt. A cellular concentration of potassium of 92 mmol/kg was calculated. Hypoxia, in the presence of glucose, only slightly reduced tissue concentrations of potassium and did not influence concentrations of calcium. Omission of glucose during hypoxia led to tissue concentrations of potassium below 10 mmol/kg, within 10-30 min of hypoxia. Concentrations of calcium only increased from 3.3 to 3.5 mmol/kg after 30 min of hypoxia, without glucose. Intoxication with ouabain is proposed as alternative experimental model of ionic movements, associated with cerebral ischaemia/hypoxia. Tissue concentrations of potassium fell rapidly to values below 10 mmol/kg, within 5 min and concentrations of calcium rose to 5.2 mmol/kg, within 30 min of intoxication with ouabain. In quantitative terms, the model for cerebral ischaemia with intoxication with ouabain is suggested to be superior to the model based on hypoxia without glucose. To verify intoxication with ouabain as an experimental model for ischaemic/hypoxic insults, the effect of an investigational drug with antiischaemic/hypoxic properties (R 56865) was evaluated in the model. The drug R 56865 produced dose-dependent attenuation of the fall in tissue concentrations of potassium, between 3 x 10(-7) and 5 x 10(-6) mol/l.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
ROM-126, ROM-131, MK-142 prevent arrhythmias: in digoxin-induced arrhythmia MK-142 in a lower dose and ROM-126 in a higher dose are most effective; MK-142 antagonizes most powerfully the aconitine arrhythmia. MK-142, contrary to ROM-126 and ROM-131 weakens also the toxic action of CaCl2 on heart. All tested drugs, however, antagonize adrenaline-induced arrhythmia to a similar degree. MK-142 did not influence the coronary blood flow in guinea pig or rabbit isolated hearts while ROM-126 and ROM-131 increased it. In the experiments performed on dogs "in situ" the decrease in sinus outflow was stated after all the three drugs. Arterio-coronary-oxygen difference did not undergo any significant changes. The calculated values of cardiac muscle oxygen usage showed tendency to decrease. All the three drugs induced transient hypotension, decrease in heart rate and cardiac muscle contractility, increase in outflow index and also, after MK-142, in minute volume.
On the basis of the recent Maternal Fetal Medicine Unit Networks clinical trial, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists supports the administration of 17-alpha hydroxyprogesterone caproate to high-risk patients. Because inflammation/infection is believed to be a contributing factor in many cases of preterm birth, it is imperative to understand the effect of 17-alpha hydroxyprogesterone caproate treatment in this clinical situation.
Using a mouse model of localized intrauterine inflammation, we investigated the ability of progestational agents to prevent preterm birth. On gestational day 15 (E15), dams were assigned randomly to treatment with 17-alpha hydroxyprogesterone caproate, medroxyprogesterone acetate, or vehicle before intrauterine infusion of lipopolysaccharide. All dams were monitored for morbidity and preterm birth. Three separate sets of experiments were performed to assess different outcomes at 6, 24, and 96 hours. At 6 and 24 hours, C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, and interleukin-10 levels were measured in maternal serum by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Pretreatment with 17-alpha hydroxyprogesterone caproate or medroxyprogesterone acetate before intrauterine lipopolysaccharide treatment significantly decreased the preterm birth rate, compared with lipopolysaccharide treatment alone. Medroxyprogesterone acetate treatment was more effective than 17-alpha hydroxyprogesterone caproate treatment in the prevention of preterm birth and resulted in live pups at term. Treatment with 17-alpha hydroxyprogesterone caproate was associated with significant maternal morbidity.
In the setting of intrauterine inflammation, progestational agents decrease the preterm birth rate but can result in maternal morbidity. 17-Alpha hydroxyprogesterone caproate should not be used in patients who are suspected of having subclinical infection and/or acute preterm labor. The mechanisms by which progestational agents inhibit preterm birth warrants further investigations so that the use of this drug to appropriate populations could be pursued without undue fetal or maternal harm.
Acute peripheral neuropathy caused by a disulfiram overdose is very rare and there is no report of it leading to vocal fold palsy. A 49-year-old woman was transferred to our department because of quadriparesis, lancinating pain, sensory loss, and paresthesia of the distal limbs. One month previously, she had taken a single high dose of disulfiram (130 tablets of ALCOHOL STOP TAB, Shin-Poong Pharm. Co., Ansan, Korea) in a suicide attempt. She was not an alcoholic. For the first few days after ingestion, she was in a confused state and had mild to moderate ataxia and giddiness. She noticed hoarseness and distally accentuated motor and sensory dysfunction after she had recovered from this state. A nerve conduction study was consistent with severe sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy. Laryngeal electromyography (thyroarytenoid muscle) showed ample denervation potentials. Laryngoscopy revealed asymmetric vocal fold movements during phonation. Her vocal change and weakness began to improve spontaneously about 3 weeks after transfer. This was a case of acute palsy of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and superimposed severe acute sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy caused by high-dose disulfiram intoxication.
We examined the hypotheses that vaginal indomethacin is more effective for prolonging gestation, and mediates its tocolytic actions via changes in cervical matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity, compared to oral.
Pregnant rabbits induced with mifepristone received oral or vaginal indomethacin; or oral or vaginal vehicle once daily for 2 days. Premature delivery, fetal ductus arteriosus, and cervical MMP activity were assessed.
Vaginal indomethacin delayed delivery >72 hours in 100% of the rabbits, extending gestation to 28.2 +/- 0.5 (P < .01) versus 26.4 +/- 0.3, 25.8 +/- 0.5, and 26.5 +/- 0.3 days, for vaginal placebo, oral indomethacin, and oral vehicle, respectively. Fetal ductus arteriosus was patent in all groups. Vaginal indomethacin decreased MMP-1, -8, and -9 activities and increased TIMP-1 levels in the cervix.
Vaginal indomethacin is more effective than oral for prolonging gestation in the rabbit. Its tocolytic effects may be mediated, in part, by alterations in cervical MMP activity.
In this study, the effects of polymorphisms of the beta(2) and beta(3) adrenergic receptor genes on the occurrence of dyslipidemia and diabetes mellitus in hypertensive patients treated with beta-blockers (atenolol or metoprolol) were evaluated. Patients who gave written informed consent were asked to return for blood sampling for estimation of serum glucose, total cholesterol, HDL, triglycerides and for genotype determination. Genotyping analysis was performed by PCR-RFLP assay. In patients bearing beta(2)AR Glu27 or the beta(3)AR Arg64 variant there was a larger occurrence of hypertriglyceridemia, alone or in combination with elevated cholesterol levels. Furthermore, the beta(2)AR Glu27 variant significantly associates with hypetriglyceridemia in a cumulative fashion. The risk to develop this side effect after beta-blockade was four-fold higher in patients homozygous for the beta(2)AR Glu27 variant as compared to beta(2)AR27Gln allele. This result allows the identification of patients at high risk to develop metabolic complications to chronic beta-blockade treatment.
To evaluate in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, the efficacy (time to onset of meaningful pain relief) of single doses of buffered ketoprofen (12.5 mg) and ibuprofen (200 mg) in 180 patients with postoperative pain after third molar surgery.
180 adult patients who had undergone third molar surgery under general anaesthesia participated in this study. After dosing, patients recorded their time to meaningful pain relief, pain intensity on both visual analogue scales and verbal rating scales, pain relief and the need for additional analgesia. Pain recordings were made at fixed time points over a 6-h investigation period.
Buffered ketoprofen (12.5 mg) provided quicker meaningful pain relief than placebo (P = 0.023). For secondary efficacy measures (SPIDS4, SPIDS6, TOTPAR4, TOTPAR6), the buffered ketoprofen was significantly superior to both placebo (P < 0.001) and ibuprofen (200 mg) (P < 0.05). Similarly, the amount of time before taking an escape analgesic was significantly less in the placebo group than both the ibuprofen and buffered ketoprofen groups (P < 0.03).
Buffered ketoprofen (12.5 mg) provides effective pain control in the early postoperative period after third molar surgery. This ketoprofen preparation was also superior to ibuprofen (200 mg) with respect to both reducing pain intensity and providing an earlier onset of pain relief.
Organophosphates (OPs) are routinely used as pesticides in agriculture and as insecticides within the household. Our prior work on Reelin and APOE delineated a gene-environment interactive model of autism pathogenesis, whereby genetically vulnerable individuals prenatally exposed to OPs during critical periods in neurodevelopment could undergo altered neuronal migration, resulting in an autistic syndrome. Since household use of OPs is far greater in the USA than in Italy, this model was predicted to hold validity in North America, but not in Europe. Here, we indirectly test this hypothesis by assessing linkage/association between autism and variants of the paraoxonase gene (PON1) encoding paraoxonase, the enzyme responsible for OP detoxification. Three functional single nucleotide polymorphisms, PON1 C-108T, L55M, and Q192R, were assessed in 177 Italian and 107 Caucasian-American complete trios with primary autistic probands. As predicted, Caucasian-American and not Italian families display a significant association between autism and PON1 variants less active in vitro on the OP diazinon (R192), according to case-control contrasts (Q192R: chi2=6.33, 1 df, P<0.025), transmission/disequilibrium tests (Q192R: TDT chi2=5.26, 1 df, P<0.025), family-based association tests (Q192R and L55M: FBAT Z=2.291 and 2.435 respectively, P<0.025), and haplotype-based association tests (L55/R192: HBAT Z=2.430, P<0.025). These results are consistent with our model and provide further support for the hypothesis that concurrent genetic vulnerability and environmental OP exposure may possibly contribute to autism pathogenesis in a sizable subgroup of North American individuals.
Anemia in critically ill patients is frequent and consists of chronic disease associated with blood losses. These two mechanisms have opposite effects on iron homeostasis, especially on the expression of the iron regulatory hormone hepcidin. We developed a mouse model mimicking the intensive care anemia to explore iron homeostasis.
Experimental study.
University-based research laboratory.
C57BL/6 mice.
Mice received either a single intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide followed 1 week later by zymosan, or were subjected to repeated phlebotomies by retro-orbital punctures, or both. Several subsets of mice were analyzed over a 14-day period to describe the mouse model of intensive care anemia. Additional mice received erythropoietin injections with or without the zymosan treatment and were killed at day 5, to perform a more detailed analysis.
We observed anemia as soon as 5 days after zymosan injection, together with increased messenger RNA (mRNA) levels for interleukin-6 and hepcidin. Phlebotomies alone fully suppressed hepcidin mRNA expression. Interestingly, in mice treated with zymosan and phlebotomies, hepcidin expression was suppressed, despite the persistent increase in interleukin-6. Stimulation of erythropoiesis by erythropoietin injections also led to a decrease in hepcidin mRNA in zymosan-treated mice. In these situations combining inflammation and erythropoiesis stimulation, there was no change in ferroportin, the membrane iron exporter, at the mRNA level, whereas ferroportin protein increased. Macrophage iron stores (assessed by histology using diaminobenzidine staining, or by quantification of nonheme iron and ferritin concentrations) were depleted in the spleen.
These results suggest that the erythroid factor dominates over inflammation for hepcidin regulation, and that iron could be mobilized in these situations combining inflammation and erythropoiesis stimulation.
We investigated the pathogenesis of adrenal necrosis using animal models of the disease (induced by administration of acrylonitrile, cysteamine, or pyrazole) and human cases. Results of electron-microscopic and histochemical time-response studies with rat models revealed an early, retrograde embolization of medullary cells and cell fragments in the cortical capillaries that showed prominent endothelial injury. The experimental adrenal lesions were prevented by surgical removal of the medulla one month before administration of adrenocorticolytic chemicals, or by the administration of the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine hydrochloride. Histochemical staining for medullary (argyrophil) granules in human cases of adrenal necrosis demonstrated tissue fragments that stained positively for silver in vascular cortical spaces in nine of ten autopsy specimens and in all four surgical cases we reviewed. Thus, catecholamines released from the adrenal medulla and from the retrograde medullary emboli in the cortex may have a role in the pathogenesis of adrenocortical necrosis.
Although nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is associated with insulin resistance partly due to reduced levels of circulating adiponectin, the role of adiponectin receptors including adiponectin receptor 1 and adiponectin receptor 2 in adipose tissues in NASH remains controversial. The present study showed that there was a marked decline in adiponectin receptor 1 and adiponectin receptor 2 expressions in liver and visceral fat, and these expressions were elevated in muscle of NASH rats 12weeks after oral administration of a high-fat diet. An 8-week continuous treatment with rosiglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors γ (PPAR γ) agonist improved the histological lesions markedly in liver of NASH rats, and concurrently increased mRNA and protein expressions of adiponectin receptor 1 and adiponectin receptor 2 in liver and visceral fat, with down-regulation of the two receptors in muscle. There was a negative correlation between the ratio of adiponectin receptors/β-actin protein and serum TNF-α in the liver and visceral fat, and a positive correlation in muscle. Additionally, rosiglitazone increased circulating adiponectin, which was negatively correlated with serum TNF-α. These results indicated that rosiglitazone improved NASH by directly modulating adiponectin receptor 1 and adiponectin receptor 2 in various adipose tissues, or indirectly possibly via decreasing serum TNF-α.
Liver regeneration not only plays a functional role in directing the restoration of liver mass after resection or injury, but also may have participated in effective therapy of liver cirrhosis. Additionally, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) appears to be a factor of great importance in liver regeneration and attenuated progression of experimental liver cirrhosis. The aim of this study is to use Radix Polygoni Multiflori (POMU) extract, a Chinese herb traditionally used for liver-protective therapy, as a reagent for the evaluation of its potential medicinal use in liver cirrhosis. We used in vitro coculture system to show that POMU could promote the expression of HGF by hepatic nonparenchymal cells, consequently the proliferation of primary liver cells and phagocytic activity of Kupffer cells using fluorescein-labeled Escherichia coli as the target, and inhibit the proliferation of stellate cells. Using dimethylnitrosamine-induced liver cirrhosis animal, POMU even at 20 mg/(kg day) dosage, was illustrated to reverse the pathogenic progression of the disease, decrease the hydroxyproline content and increases the expression of HGF messenger RNA in liver tissue. The survival rate was significantly increased in the POMU-treated animal. In conclusion, our study showed the promise of POMU in the medicinal use for the treatment of liver cirrhosis.
Tibial dyschondroplasia (TD), a major metabolic cartilage disease in poultry, is characterized by the distension of proximal growth plates of tibia that fail to form bone, lack blood vessels, and contain nonviable cells. Thiram, a carbamate pesticide, when fed to young broiler chicks induces TD with high regularity and precision. We used this experimental model to understand the cause of the defects associated with TD by determining the expression of selective candidate genes associated with vascularization and cell survival. Week-old broiler chickens were fed 100 ppm thiram for 48 h between d 8 and 10 posthatch and the expression of the genes for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), its receptors (VEGFR1 and VEGFR2), and an antiapoptotic protein (Bcl-2) were determined in the growth plate cartilage at 48 and 166 h after feeding thiram. Reverse transcription PCR and capillary electrophoresis were used to determine the expression of these genes relative to the 18S gene as an internal standard. There was an increase in the expression of the VEGF gene by thiram at 48 h, which remained elevated above the control level at 166 h. A suppression of genes encoding both VEGF receptors and Bcl-2 was evident at 48 h in thiram-fed chickens when there was no visible distension of growth plate indicative of TD. At 166 h, however, there was a significant distension of growth plates in thiram-treated birds, with a high percentage of cells derived from these tissues exhibiting characteristics of dead cells. Although the expressions of VEGF receptors were low at 166 h in thiram-treated birds, they were not statistically different from controls; the Bcl-2 gene expression, however, remained significantly downregulated in those birds. It appears that some of the early effects of thiram on the growth plate may be the failure of genes encoding VEGF receptors and Bcl-2 resulting from endothelial cell death, which compromise vascularization, cartilage remodeling, and the removal of dead chondrocytes leading to TD lesions.
Sixty-seven neuroleptic-mediated mentally handicapped subjects in a hospital were studied to determine the prevalence of Parkinsonian side effects. A Parkinsonism scale was devised and administered. Sixty-one per cent of the sample had mild to moderately severe side effects. Sex, age, cumulative and current chlorpromazine doses, cumulative and current anticholinergic doses and anti-epileptic medication status did not predict the Parkinsonism scores. Overt brain damage was not a predictor. The difference between the neuroleptic medicated group and neuroleptic free matched controls was highly significant indicating that the Parkinsonian type of movement disorder was related to neuroleptic medication.
