To determine the long-term efficacy and safety of low-dose methotrexate (MTX) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Eighty-four-month open prospective trial at a single academic rheumatology center.
Twenty-six patients were enrolled in a prospective study of the long-term efficacy of MTX in RA; a significant improvement had been demonstrated after 36 months of therapy. Twelve patients remained in the study at the 84-month visit; the mean weekly dosage of MTX was 10.2 mg. A significant improvement was still noted at 84 months in the number of painful joints, number of swollen joints, joint pain index, joint swelling index, and physician and patient global assessments. A 50% improvement in the joint pain index and joint swelling index was observed in more than 80% of the 12 patients still enrolled. A significant reduction in prednisone dosage was achieved; of 14 patients taking prednisone at entry, 7 had discontinued prednisone completely. Fourteen patients withdrew from the study: 10 between 0 and 36 months, and 4 between 36 and 84 months. Toxicity in 3 patients and visit noncompliance in 1 patient were the reasons for withdrawal between 36 and 84 months. At 84 months, 46% of the patients remained in the study; 11.5% had discontinued due to MTX toxicity.
The effectiveness of MTX in the treatment of RA continues to be demonstrated in this prospective study, after 84 months of treatment.
An unusually prolonged case of heparin-induced severe thrombocytopenia and decompensated disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is described. The patient, treated with heparin at a dosage of 25,000 units/day for 3 days and 12,500 units/day for an additional 4 days because of a clinically suspected deep venous thrombosis, developed (4 days after the discontinuation of heparin) a clinical and laboratory picture of severe DIC, manifested by subcutaneous hematomas and ecchymoses. Platelet count was 24 x 10(9)/l, fibrinogen level 89 mg/dl and fibrin-degradation products between 3,200 to 6,400 ng/ml. A thorough laboratory and instrumental evaluation failed to demonstrate any underlying disorder. No heparin-dependent aggregating factor was detected in the serum of the patient. The patient recovered spontaneously. Whereas fibrinogen and fibrin-degradation products reverted to normality within four weeks, platelet count normalization was delayed until the sixth week after heparin discontinuation.
Prolonged beta-adrenergic stimulation obtained by subcutaneous injection of isoproterenol in unanesthetized, unrestrained rats elicited ventricular fibrillation in approximately 80% of animals at 10-12 months of age. Ventricular fibrillation failed to occur in 1-month-old rats and involved only 12% of rats at 2 months. Senescence appeared not to increase the frequency of ventricular fibrillation since a similar incidence was seen in rats at 10-12 and 19-21 months. In all instances, ventricular fibrillation was preceded by ECG changes consistent with acute subendocardial ischemia. To evaluate whether acute beta-adrenergic stimulation elicits comparable cardiovascular effects in animals of different age, a dose-response curve to intravenous injection of isoproterenol was performed in anesthetized rats. Changes in heart rate, systemic arterial pressure, left ventricular pressure, and dP/dt were not different among animal groups. It was concluded that the arrhythmogenic potential of isoproterenol may not be related to differences in cardiac beta-receptor sensitivity with age as suggested by the comparable changes in the inotropic and chronotropic actions of isoproterenol in the animal groups studied.
Emerging studies have suggested that transient activation of the cell survival pathway may be the strategy for cancer cells to fight against chemotherapy and eventually mysteriously evade paclitaxel-induced cell death. Modulation of the EGFR-mediated survival pathway in addition to the utilization of paclitaxel renders a promise of better clinical management. The objective of this study was to understand the molecular mechanism of transient induction of EGFR-mediated cell survival by paclitaxel. We utilized ovarian cancer cell line, Caov3, cells to investigate the effect of paclitaxel on EGFR-mediated MAP kinase and AKT activation, and the expression of survivin. We found that paclitaxel transiently induced EGFR phosphorylation and ERK and AKT activation but not JNK and p38. Paclitaxel-induced ERK and AKT activity was inhibited by the EGFR inhibitor, PD153035; ERK inhibitor, U0126; and PI3 kinase inhibitor, LY294002, respectively. We observed that paclitaxel transiently induced expression of survivin in the early hours of treatment. Paclitaxel-induced survivin expression was inhibited by the EGFR inhibitor, PD153035. Inhibitors of EGFR, ERK and PI3 kinase all enhanced paclitaxel-induced cell death. We conclude that paclitaxel transiently transactivates EGFR, leading to activation of cell survival factors, such as ERK and AKT, and expression of survivin, which are all inclusively accountable for ovarian cancer cell resistance to paclitaxel treatment. A combination of these inhibitors with paclitaxel may be a better option for ovarian cancer treatment.
Administration of two dopamine antagonists, domperidone and metoclopramide, gave a marked rise in blood pressure with an increase in plasma catecholamines in two patients with pheochromocytoma. The result suggests that not only metoclopramide but also domperidone might induce hypertensive crisis in pheochromocytoma.
The potential mechanisms underlying back pain and/or myalgia experienced by men taking tadalafil were investigated. An integrated analysis of 10 placebo-controlled tadalafil clinical trials (N=1846) showed that the incidence of back pain and/or myalgia was 9.4% in patients receiving tadalafil 10 mg (N=394), 8.3% in patients receiving tadalafil 20 mg (N=883) and 3.7% in placebo-treated patients (N=569). One (0.3%) patient receiving tadalafil 10 mg, six (0.7%) patients receiving tadalafil 20 mg, and no patients receiving placebo discontinued treatment due to back pain and/or myalgia. In a prospective study in healthy volunteers, no substantial changes were observed in laboratory markers indicative of inflammation or muscle damage, and tadalafil did not affect renal plasma flow nor produce lumbar or gluteal myositis by positron emission tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging. Although the mechanism of back pain and/or myalgia remains unknown, these events appear to be self-limiting and a general effect of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibition.
Use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has been linked to dyslipidemia and increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in HIV-infected patients in industrialized countries. The effects of HAART on lipid metabolism among sub-Saharan Africans, for whom access to antiretroviral therapy is expanding, remain largely unknown.
From July 2003 to May 2004, 987 antiretroviral-naive patients with symptomatic HIV disease or a CD4 count <250 cells/mm3 were started on HAART in the Home-Based AIDS Care (HBAC) Program in Tororo, Uganda. The HBAC Program provided weekly drug delivery and field-based clinical monitoring. Nonfasting repository sera from a subset of 374 patients were analyzed for levels of total cholesterol (TC), direct low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c), direct high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), and triglycerides (TG) at baseline (before HAART) and after 12 and 24 months of HAART using Randox enzymatic kits (Crumlin, United Kingdom).
The 374 patients evaluated (49% women, mean age = 39 years, CD4 count = 124 cells/mm3, body mass index = 19.7 kg/m2) received initial HAART composed of stavudine, lamivudine, and either nevirapine (365 patients [98%]) or efavirenz (9 patients [2%]). During 24 months, 99 (26%) patients had single drug substitutions from stavudine to zidovudine and 27 (7%) had single drug substitutions from nevirapine to efavirenz. At baseline, the mean serum lipid concentrations were 120 mg/dL for TC, 53 mg/dL for LDL-c, 29 mg/dL for HDL-c, and 123 mg/dL for TG; values were generally comparable for men and women. During 24 months of treatment, TC increased by a mean of 31 mg/dL, LDL-c by a mean of 26 mg/dL, and HDL-c by a mean of 19 mg/dL, whereas the TC/HDL-c ratio decreased from a mean of 4.6 to 3.4 (all changes, P < 0.001). TG levels initially decreased and then returned to baseline levels by 24 months. At baseline and 24 months, respectively, TC was > or =200 mg/dL for 2% and 10% of patients, LDL-c was > or =130 mg/dL for 1% and 6%, HDL-c was <40 mg/dL for 88% and 41%, and TG were > or =150 mg/dL for 23% and 20%.
Rural Ugandans with advanced HIV disease initiating nevirapine- or efavirenz-based HAART experienced infrequent elevations in TC, LDL-c, and TG at baseline and after 24 months of therapy. Increases in HDL-c levels were substantial and proportionally greater than increases in TC or LDL-c levels. The risk of CVD and how it is affected by lipid changes in this rural African population are unknown. However, the changes we observed after 24 months of HAART seem unlikely to increase the risk of CVD.
A novel therapeutic mechanism may be the key to improving the chief symptoms and signs of atopic dermatitis (AD), which are persistent pruritus and high serum IgE. We demonstrate here that mast cell chymase may be a possible initiating factor and that the orally active specific inhibitor Y-40613 may have a therapeutic potential in the treatment of AD. We found that Y-40613 (2-[5-amino-2-(4-fluorophenyl)-1,6-dihydro-6-oxo-1-pyrimidinyl]-N-[1-[(5-methoxycarbonyl-2-benzoxazolyl)carbonyl]-2-phenylethyl]acetamide) dose-dependently suppressed the scratching response in a mouse pruritus model, with inhibitory efficacy enhanced by combination with conventional drugs, suggesting that chymase contributes to the development of pruritus by a unique mechanism or mechanisms. In fact, chymase injected in the model induced the scratching response. In vitro IgE production from mouse B cells was increased by purified rat chymase and suppressed by Y-40613. Increased serum IgE observed in Brown Norway rats injected with mercury chloride was suppressed by Y-40613. Furthermore, Y-40613 lowered ear thickness as well as serum IgE level in a mouse contact dermatitis model. Taken together, these findings suggest that the specific chymase inhibitor Y-40613 may ameliorate symptoms of AD through the dual inhibition of the chymase-dependent IgE production pathway and itching sensation.
To evaluate the nature of voiding complaints, findings on urodynamics and the effects of medication on bladder control in a group of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients between the ages of 30-60 years.
Thirty-two patients with PD were evaluated by questionnaires, PD rating scales, and full urodynamics evaluation. To evaluate lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), we used the Danish Prostate Symptom Score (Dan-PSS). PD was evaluated using Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), and Hoehn and Yahr rating scale for PD. Urodynamics were performed while the patients were on dopaminergic therapy, and after stopping this for three half lives.
There was a significant correlation between the Dan-PSS score and UPDRS, Spearman's rho = 0.50, (P = 0.004), and between the score of irritative symptoms in Dan-PSS and motor symptoms (UPDRS(III)) is seen (Spearman's rho = 0.50, P = 0.003). Patients with significant bladder symptoms (> or =10 points in Dan-PSS) had a significantly higher bladder capacity in the medicated state than after wash out (P = 0.04), while patients with out bladder symptoms had no difference. Patients with a significant increase in bladder capacity on medication had a significantly higher interval between the volume of first sensation of bladder filling and bladder capacity when medicated (P = 0.01) than after wash out. Patient who did not benefit from medication had a significant lower interval off medication (P = 0.008).
The effects of dopaminergic treatment on bladder control and urodynamic parameters are unpredictable in the individual patient, though most patients experience significant changes. We have also demonstrated the complexity of bladder control, and that patients with PD may be particularly susceptible to develop complex micturitional dysfunction. Our data indicates that cortical dysfunction may play a significant role in bladder dysfunction in PD parallel to the pontine lesion.
Two dihydropyridine type calcium channel blockers (CCBs) were studied for any protective or therapeutic effect upon cocaine-induced toxicity and death in rats. To test for the protective effects, rats were pretreated with vehicle (control), nifedipine or nimodipine, intraperitoneally (IP) 30 minutes prior to an LD85 of cocaine, or intravenously (IV) 10 minutes prior to cocaine administration. Animals receiving IP control vehicle developed seizures in 5.6 +/- 1.0 minutes and respiratory arrest in 9.8 +/- 1.4 minutes. Animals pretreated IP with nifedipine or nimodipine developed seizures and respiratory arrest significantly sooner than the controls, although the overall incidences of seizures and respiratory arrest were not significantly different. Pretreatment with IV CCBs resulted in similar findings. To test the therapeutic effect of CCBs given following cocaine overdose, rats were administered cocaine IP and then treated with IV nifedipine or nimodipine once seizures occurred. In these animals, there was no significant difference in the incidence or time to respiratory arrest compared to vehicle controls. This study demonstrates that neither pretreatment nor posttreatment with the CCBs nifedipine or nimodipine reduces cocaine toxicity in this rodent model.
Whether environmental toxicants impact an individual woman's risk for developing endometriosis remains uncertain. Although the growth of endometrial glands and stroma at extra-uterine sites is associated with retrograde menstruation, our studies suggest that reduced responsiveness to progesterone may increase the invasive capacity of endometrial tissue in women with endometriosis. Interestingly, our recent studies using isolated human endometrial cells in short-term culture suggest that experimental exposure to the environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetracholorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) can alter the expression of progesterone receptor isotypes. Compared to adult exposure, toxicant exposure during development can exert a significantly greater biological impact, potentially affecting the incidence of endometriosis in adults. To address this possibility, we exposed mice to TCDD at critical developmental time points and subsequently examined uterine progesterone receptor expression and steroid responsive transforming growth factor-beta2 expression in adult animals. We find that the uterine phenotype of toxicant-exposed mice is markedly similarly to the endometrial phenotype of women with endometriosis.
Local anesthesia of the facial epidermis can effect a substantial decrease in shock-elicited fighting of paired rats. The present experiments constitute methodological extensions to mouse killing and spontaneous drug-induced social aggression. In the first experiment, known mouse-killing rats were given bilateral lidocaine or placebo injections administered under ether anesthesia. Attack and kill latencies were significantly longer under lidocaine than under placebo; all subjects killed under placebo, whereas a third of all subjects failed to kill on the initial lidocaine test. On subsequent lidocaine testing, latencies decreased and nonkilling rats killed. In a second experiment intense apomorphine-induced conspecific fighting of rats preselected for aggressiveness was markedly reduced following lidocaine anesthesia. The comparative results of both experiments are interpreted in reference to theoretical assertions regarding the import of sensory information in stimulus-bound attack and the typology of central aggression systems.
FD&C Red No. 40 in the drinking water at a level of 0, 0.2, 0.4, or 0.7% was available ad libitum to female Osborne-Mendel rats throughout gestation. The treated females consumed 273.6, 545.7, and 939.3 mg FD&C Red No. 40 per kg body weight per day, respectively, for the three dose levels. The animals were sacrificed on gestation day 20. No fetal terata were seen. There were no dose-related changes in maternal findings, number of fetuses, fetal viability, or external or visceral variations. Skeletal development appeared similar to that of the control animals with the exception of the incidence of fetuses with reduced ossification of the hyoid, which was increased significantly at the 0.7% dose level. A dose-related increase occurred in the number of litters containing fetuses with at least two skeletal variations, but the numbers of litters with fetuses with at least one and at least three variations were not different from control values.
Doxorubicin and paclitaxel are highly active agents in the treatment of advanced breast cancer. Although early trials of the combination reported high response rates, an unexpectedly high incidence of congestive heart failure observed on two of the early trials was cause for much concern. More recently, clinical trials that have limited the cumulative doxorubicin dose to 400 mg/m2 or below when given in combination with paclitaxel have not observed an increase in cardiac toxicity. In addition, a retrospective review of over 600 women with advanced breast cancer treated with doxorubicin and paclitaxel concluded that the combination could be administered safely up to a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 340-380 mg/m2. It is likely that a pharmacokinetic interaction between doxorubicin and paclitaxel is, in large part, responsible for the higher than expected incidence of congestive heart failure observed in some studies. It appears that paclitaxel decreases the clearance of doxorubicin by approximately 30% when the two drugs are administered in close succession. Because the use of combination of doxorubicin and paclitaxel may benefit women with advanced breast cancer, a review of pertinent clinical studies and the implications of the pharmacokinetic interaction is provided. Particular attention has been paid to cardiac toxicities. It can be concluded that the use of combination doxorubicin and paclitaxel is safe up to a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 340-380 mg/m2. This would allow for up to six courses of therapy with doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 and paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 by 3-hour infusion. Therapy can be continued with single-agent paclitaxel. In order to minimize cardiac risk, patients should be selected carefully and be monitored for adverse cardiac effects.
The natural product quercetin is a flavonoid found in many fruits and vegetables. Previous research has shown that quercetin has antitumor, anti-inflammatory, antiallergic, and antiviral activities. In the present investigation we studied the effect of quercetin on the ability of prostate cancer cell lines with various degrees of aggressive potential to form colonies in vitro. Specifically, we examined the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect, including the expression of cell cycle and tumor suppressor genes as well as oncogenes. We observed that quercetin at concentrations of 25 and 50 micro M significantly inhibited the growth of the highly aggressive PC-3 prostate cancer cell line and the moderately aggressive DU-145 prostate cancer cell line, whereas it did not affect colony formation by the poorly aggressive LNCaP prostate cancer cell line or the normal fibroblast cell line BG-9. Using the gene array methodology, we found that quercetin significantly inhibited the expression of specific oncogenes and genes controlling G(1), S, G(2), and M phases of the cell cycle. Moreover, quercetin reciprocally up-regulated the expression of several tumor suppressor genes. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that the antitumor effects of quercetin directly correlate with the aggressive potential of prostate cancer cells and that the mechanism(s) of quercetin-mediated antitumor effects may involve up-regulation of tumor suppressor genes and reciprocal down-regulation of oncogenes and cell cycle genes. The results of these studies provide a scientific basis for the potential use of flavonoids as nutraceuticals in the chemoprevention of cancer.
The drugs used were methamphetamine, reserpine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, propranolol, chlorpromazine, haloperidol, pilocarpine and atropine. Each drug except for reserpine (days 7-13 and 14-19 of gestation) was administered subcutaneously to dams from day 7 to 19 of gestation. The body weight gain of dams receiving reserpine (days 7-13) and haloperidol was inhibited during the gestation period. Two out of 9 dams receiving methamphetamine died on day 21 of gestation period; However, no effect was observed in dams given other drugs. The body weight gain of pups was inhibited in methamphetamine and haloperidol treated groups. The mortality of pups was comparable in all groups. The behavioral development of the righting reflex, cliff drop avoidance and negative geotaxis of pups given reserpine (days 7-13), norepinephrine, chlorpromazine and haloperidol was significantly retarded in comparison with that of control pups. The spontaneous motor activity of pups measured by Animex was increased in reserpine (days 7-13) and epinephrine treated groups and decreased in the chlorpromazine treated group on day 28 postpartum, but comparable in all groups on day 56 postpartum. The conditioned avoidance responses using the shuttle box revealed deficits of avoidance learning of pups in the reserpine (days 7-13), norepinephrine and atropine treated groups. These findings suggest that the prenatal exposure to drugs acting on the autonomic nervous system may produce adverse effects on the behavioral development of pups; However, the adverse effects were more apparent by postnatal exposure than by prenatal exposure.
High levels of endogenous plasma catecholamines in patients with severe congestive heart failure induce a down-regulation of the myocardial beta-adrenoreceptors and thus cause adrenoreceptor agonists, such as dobutamine, to be less effective in the treatment of these patients. Phosphodiesterase III inhibitors work independent of adrenoreceptor activity and plasma catecholamine levels; thus these agents are likely to be more effective in the treatment of severe heart failure. The present study compares both the initial and late hemodynamic effects of dobutamine and milrinone during sequentially administered 24-hour infusions. Twenty patients with severe heart failure (New York Heart Association class III, n = 4; New York Heart Association class IV, n = 16) were investigated. Dobutamine could be administered at the prescribed maximum dose of 15 micrograms/kg/min for 24 hours in only 15 of 20 patients. In three patients the dose was reduced or dobutamine infusion completely stopped because of a drug-related increase in heart rate greater than 140 beats/min. Another 2 of 20 patients showed no hemodynamic improvement over 3 hours at the maximum dose of 15 micrograms/kg/min. Dobutamine administration was also discontinued in these patients on account of the existing unfavorable hemodynamic condition, and therapy with intravenous milrinone was started. All 20 patients responded to milrinone without side effects, although comparison of the hemodynamic effects during a 24-hour infusion was possible in only 15 patients. The 15 patients studied over both observation periods experienced an increase in heart rate from 88.8 to 105.6 beats/min (+ 1 hour; p less than or equal to 0.001) when receiving dobutamine but had no increase with milrinone. Stroke volume increased during dobutamine infusion from 19.3 to 28.9 ml/m2 (+49.6%) after 1 hour and then fell continuously to 25.2 ml/m2 after 12 hours; during milrinone therapy, stroke volume increased from 18.8 to 31.2 ml/m2 (+66%; p less than or equal to 0.001) and remained at this level until the end of the infusion (30.2 ml/m2). Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) decreased (p less than or equal to 0.001) immediately during milrinone therapy from 26.5 to 16.2 mm Hg after 30 minutes and stabilized at 20.1 mm Hg after 24 hours. During dobutamine infusion PCWP showed a delayed decrease from 27.8 to 19.0 mm Hg after 6 hours and subsequently rose to 22.7 mm Hg after 24 hours.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Van der Woude syndrome (VWS) is an autosomal dominant disorder of syndromic clefts clinically characterized by lower lip pits, cleft lip and/or palate, hypodontia. Mutations in the IRF6 gene have recently been found to cause VWS and more than 70 mutations have been reported. However, genotype distribution and prevalence of IRF6 mutations underlying Chinese are largely unknown. In the present study, we report on four Chinese families with VWS. Considerably variable clinical phenotypes were observed between and within each family. By direct sequencing, three novel mutations (Y111H, S407fsX436, F165fsX166) as well as a recurrent mutation (R400W) were identified. In contrast to the IRF6 mutations reported in Caucasians, the majority of these mutations occurred at a run of 1- or 2-base repetitive sequence unit, and localized neither in the conserved DNA-binding domain nor in the Smad-interferon regulatory factor-binding domain (SMIR). Therefore, our results indicate the existence of other putative IRF6 regions that are predisposed to mutations. Repeated nucleotides in the IRF6 coding regions may increase the instability and chance of DNA replication errors, and are prone to be potential mutation hot-spots.
Transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGFbeta-1) is a regulator of cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. Doxorubicin (adriamycin), an anthracycline drug causing double-strand DNA breaks, is widely used in anticancer chemotherapy. Here we demonstrated that TGFbeta-1 enhanced cytotoxic (proapoptotic) action of doxorubicin towards cultured human lung carcinoma A549 cells. Western-blot analysis and immunocytochemistry were used to show that doxorubicin induced PARP degradation in A549 cells, and TGFbeta-1 enhanced that action of the drug. The obtained results suggest a possibility of biomodulating effect of TGFbeta-1 on tumor cell treatment with doxorubicin.
Data are presented on 157 newborn infants followed sequentially in a randomized home-based nursing-intervention trial for drug-exposed infants with follow up at 3 (N=118), 6 (N=124), and 12 months (N=77). The objectives of this study were to describe the longitudinal neurodevelopmental status of a cohort of children with intrauterine exposure to illicit drugs during their gestation, characterize the evolution of early tone abnormalities in a polydrug-exposed cohort, and determine whether neuromotor outcome is associated with drug-exposure patterns. For analysis, infants were grouped based on maternal drug-use pattern and the presence of drug metabolites in the neonatal drug screen. The sequential neuromotor examination was used at each age to define the neuromotor status of six domains and define categorical classifications as either normal, suspect, or abnormal. Multiple patterns of neuromotor abnormalities were observed during the neonatal period; most resolved over time. Axial hypotonia was a prominent finding in the neonatal period; however, it was infrequent in abnormal examinations at 12 months. Increased lower-extremity tone was a less frequent finding during the neonatal period. Infants whose neonatal urine drug screen was positive for both cocaine and opiates, were more likely than infants with negative urine drug screens, cocaine only, or opiate only drug screen results to have abnormal neuromotor examinations; while positive maternal drug screens for concurrent cocaine and opiate use were associated with peripheral hypertonia. Persistence of increased leg-extensor tone was found in 67% of the abnormal examinations at 12 months. Acquisition of rolling and walking was delayed in the drug-exposed cohort.
The effect of methylprednisolone or deoxycorticosterone upon systemic arterial blood pressure and components of the renin-angiotensin system was studied in the rat. Rats maintained on regular diets given methylprednisolone suspension 20 mg/kg body wt demonstrated a significant increase in arterial pressure of + 37 plus or minus 5 mmHg, mean plus or minus SE, over a 2-wk period, whereas those treated with DOC and untreated controls showed no significant change. On normal diets, plasma renin concentration (PRC) of methylprednisolone-treated rats was significantly higher than that of DOC-treated rats. Methylprednisolone treatment also resulted in a significant elevation of plasma renin substrate concentration (PRS). Calculated plasma renin activity (PRA) was highest in methylprednisolone-treated rats, significantly above that of the DOC and no-steroid groups. NaCl supplementation resulted in a significant fall in PRC and PRA in all three groups; however, PRS remained significantly above normal in the methylprednisolone-treated rats. The pressor effect of angiotensin II was slightly increased in methylprednisolone-treated rats. Infusion of [Sar1,Ala8]angiotensin II (P-113) in methylprednisolone-treated rats resulted in a significant fall in diastolic arterial pressure. The results imply that methylprednisolone hypertension in the rat may be in part angiotensin dependent.
Amiodarone is one of the most effective antiarrhythmic drugs available and is widely prescribed despite several potentially life-threatening side-effects. Hepatotoxicity is the most frequent one during long-term oral therapy: occasionally acute hepatitis necessitates the suspension of treatment but monitoring of a transient increase in serum aminotransferases is usually sufficient; the clinical-morphological pictures of liver cirrhosis have also been reported. Fulminant hepatitis soon after a parenteral load of the drug is far less well described in the literature. Most published cases were reversible after the suspension of treatment. A negative challenge after oral amiodarone exposure suggested that polysorbate 80, a solvent added to the intravenous infusion and already implied in the pathogenesis of a similar syndrome observed in infants, is a more likely cause of this complication. The occurrence of acute hepatitis complicating parenteral amiodarone treatment does not preclude subsequent oral use of the drug: an evidence-based therapeutic behavior now definitively consolidated. Because of the rarity of this diagnosis, we report 3 cases of short-term hepatotoxicity secondary to amiodarone treatment for supraventricular tachyarrhythmias: in 2 male patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and in a female with liver disease. The diagnosis was presumptive and based on a thorough drug history, the temporal relationship, the time-course of liver dysfunction, the exclusion of other causes and on the rapid improvement observed after parenteral amiodarone withdrawal in 2 cases; in no case could we find any other explanation for the liver damage. Since amiodarone is sometimes still an irreplaceable antiarrhythmic drug, we raise the question of whether careful and continuous vigilance should be mandatory in patients receiving the drug or whether it is possible to introduce a pharmaceutical preparation not containing the vehicle that induces acute liver toxicity.
These studies were conducted to investigate the role of dermal exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a known immunosuppressant, on the hypersensitivity response to ovalbumin (OVA) in a murine model of asthma. PFOA has had widespread use as a carpet and fabric protectant. BALB/c mice were exposed dermally, on the dorsal surface of each ear, to concentrations of PFOA ranging from 0.01 to 1.5% (applied dose 0.25-50 mg/kg) for 4 days. In hypersensitivity studies, mice were also ip injected with 7.5 microg OVA and 2 mg alum on days 1 and 10 and in some studies challenged with 250 microg OVA by pharyngeal aspiration on days 17 and 26. Following exposure to PFOA, an increase in liver weights and a decrease in thymus and spleen weights and cellularities were observed. Similar immunomodulatory trends were demonstrated in mice coadministered PFOA and OVA. Compared to the OVA alone-exposed animals, an increase in total IgE was demonstrated when mice were coexposed to OVA and concentrations of PFOA ranging from 0.75 to 1.5%, while the OVA-specific IgE response peaked with 0.75% PFOA coexposure (p < or = 0.05). OVA-specific airway hyperreactivity was increased in the 1.0% PFOA coexposed group (p < or = 0.05), with an increased pleiotropic cell response characterized by eosinophilia and mucin production, in animals coexposed to concentrations of PFOA up to 1.0%, as compared to the OVA alone-exposed animals. In a murine model, PFOA was demonstrated to be immunotoxic following dermal exposure, with an enhancement of the hypersensitivity response to OVA, suggesting that PFOA exposure may augment the IgE response to environmental allergens.
We characterized the effect of chronic ochratoxin A (OTA) on rat kidney cortex, analyzing collagen content and collagen turnover and the major markers of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), such as alpha-smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA), cadherins, and MMP-9. Because OTA nephrotoxicity is mediated by free radicals, we also investigated whether antioxidants in red wine provided protection for the kidney and attenuated OTA-induced EMT. Collagen content, determined by computerized analysis of Sirius red-stained kidney sections, increased in OTA, OTA-wine, and OTA-EtOH treated rats. In kidney cortex homogenates, COL-I and COL-III mRNA levels tended to rise in OTA treated rats, but were similar to CT after OTA-wine and OTA-EtOH administration. TIMP-1 gene expression was up-regulated in OTA, OTA-wine, and OTA-EtOH treated rats. LH2b mRNA/COL-I mRNA was significantly up-regulated in OTA-wine and OTA-EtOH treated rats, compared with CT and OTA alone. TGF-beta1 signaling tended to dominate after OTA, OTA-wine, and OTA-EtOH. MMP-1 protein levels were not affected. OTA induced proMMP-9 and alphaSMA overexpression, decreases of E-cadherin and N-cadherin, and DSC-2 up-regulation. OTA-wine caused a further, unexpected decrease of E- and N-cadherins and further up-regulation of OTA-induced DSC-2, while strongly reducing the OTA-induced increases of alphaSMA and proMMP-9. Posttranslational collagen modifications, such as decreased collagen degradation through MMP inhibition and increased collagen cross-links, seem to be key mechanisms leading to OTA-induced kidney cortex fibrosis. This mechanism was not affected by red wine in these conditions. Red wine seems to have some protective role against OTA-induced EMT, although without completely blocking the process and determining a condition in which abundant cells display an intermediate translational phenotype, but there are no alphaSMA or epithelial markers.
