We recently reported that heterocyclic amines (HCA) are associated with prostate cancer risk in the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial. We now use extensive genetic data from this resource to determine if risks associated with dietary HCAs {2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP); 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-b]quinoxaline (MeIQx); and 2-amino-3,4,8-trimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (DiMeIQx)} from cooked meat are modified by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in genes involved in HCA metabolism (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, GSTA1, GSTM1, GSTM3, GSTP1, NAT1, NAT2, SULT1A1, SULT1A2, and UGT1A locus). We conducted a nested case-control study that included 1,126 prostate cancer cases and 1,127 controls selected for a genome-wide association study for prostate cancer. Unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (OR), 95% confidence intervals (95% CI), and P values for the interaction between SNPs, HCA intake, and risk of prostate cancer. The strongest evidence for an interaction was noted between DiMeIQx and MeIQx and the polymorphism rs11102001 downstream of the GSTM3 locus (P(interaction) = 0.001 for both HCAs; statistically significant after correction for multiple testing). Among men carrying the A variant, the risk of prostate cancer associated with high DiMeIQx intake was 2-fold greater than that with low intake (OR, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.2-4.7). The SNP rs11102001, which encodes a nonsynonymous amino acid change P356S in EPS8L3, is a potential candidate modifier of the effect of HCAs on prostate cancer risk. The observed effect provides evidence to support the hypothesis that HCAs may act as promoters of malignant transformation by altering mitogenic signaling.
The role of acid in functional dyspepsia is controversial and drug treatment trials indicate that only a subset of patients has acid-related symptoms. A novel single-subject trial design, the Random Starting Day trial (RSD trial), was developed to identify acid-related symptoms. We hypothesized that RSD trial responders and non-responders would react differently to gastric acid stimulation. Development of epigastric pain was expected in RSD trial responders after pentagastrin stimulation during placebo treatment, but not during omeprazole treatment. In non-responders, epigastric pain was expected not to be influenced by gastric acid stimulation or type of treatment.
Nineteen patients were evaluated. Symptomatic response to pentagastrin (6 microg/kg) was assessed twice in each patient following placebo and omeprazole (40 mg bid) treatment in a randomized, double-blind, cross-over design. Epigastric pain was assessed every 15 for 90 min after stimulation using a 5-graded Likert scale and a VAS scale. A positive acid provocation test was defined as an increase of the Likert score of epigastric pain by at least one grade after pentagastrin stimulation during placebo treatment but not during omeprazole treatment.
The acid provocation test was positive in 43% (3/7) of responders compared to only 17% (2/12) non-responders. VAS-score changes showed trends towards a more pronounced symptom reduction during omeprazole treatment in responders compared to non-responders.
Patients identified as having acid-related dyspepsia more often developed epigastric pain following acid stimulation during placebo and not during omeprazole treatment. Due to the low sample size the difference was not considered significant.
Sangre de grado is an Amazonian herbal medicine used to facilitate the healing of gastric ulcers and to treat gastritis, diarrhea, skin lesions, and insect stings. This study was designed to evaluate the gastrointestinal applications. Gastric ulcers were induced in rats by brief serosal exposure of the fundus to acetic acid (80%). Sangre de grado was administered in drinking water at 1:1,000 and 1:10,000 dilutions from the postoperative period to day 7. Guinea pig ileum secretory responses to capsaicin, electrical field stimulation, and the neurokinin-1 (NK-1) agonist [Sar(9),Met(O(2))(11)]substance P were examined in Ussing chambers. Sangre de grado facilitated the healing of experimental gastric ulcer, reducing myeloperoxidase activity, ulcer size, and bacterial content of the ulcer. The expression of proinflammatory genes tumor necrosis factor-alpha, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, and cyclooxygenase-2 was upregulated by ulcer induction but reduced by sangre de grado treatment, particularly iNOS and IL-6. In Ussing chambers, sangre de grado impaired the secretory response to capsaicin but not to electrical field stimulation or the NK-1 agonist. We conclude that sangre de grado is a potent, cost-effective treatment for gastrointestinal ulcers and distress via antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, and sensory afferent-dependent actions.
The world's largest brackish water sea area, the Baltic Sea, is considered to be one of the most polluted seas of the world. Many new pollutants are constantly entering the environment, such as brominated flame-retardants (BFRs). BFRs represent a group of compounds that structurally resemble hydrophobic organic contaminants, but only scarce data about their toxicity to marine organism exist. Thus, the purpose of this study was to analyze long-term in vivo cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of hexabromocyclodododecane (HBCDD) to exposed marine invertebrates using a suite of cytogenetic biomarkers. This included a set of nuclear and nucleolar characteristics and the micronucleus test. The use of those parameters reflects different mechanisms of nuclear activity regulation in cells (as a parameter of cytotoxicity) and measures subcellular processes. The induction of nuclear abnormalities (like the formation of micronuclei) was also employed here as a parameter of genotoxicity. In order to reflect the proliferative and metabolic activity of the cells the number of argylophillic nucleolar organiser regions (NORs) in interphase cells was scored. Over a period of 50 days an in vivo exposure experiment with a clam Macoma balthica and different concentrations of HBCDD (nominal concentrations of 0, 100 and 250microg/l) with three replicates each was performed. Gill cells were used as "sentinel systems" considering specificity in metabolism, repair mechanisms, adaptative response and cell proliferation. A significant increase in nuclear and nucleolar abnormalities and in the frequency of dead cells was observed during the duration of the experiment with the highest peak occurring 10 days after exposure for nuclear abnormalities and 20-30 days after exposure for malfunction of ribosomal genes (NORs) (GLM analyses and Spearman correlation, p<0.05). Thus, the induction of micronuclei and other nuclear abnormalities reflected the toxic potential of HBCDD to marine invertebrates while an increase in the number of NOR may also reflect adaptive responses of the system as enhanced induction of proliferative regeneration of the gill tissue.
Dogs, 8.5 to 10 kg. in weight, were anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (35 mg./kg.), intraperitoneally. Penile erection as indicated by an increase in the intracorporal pressure (ICP-increase) was produced by electrical stimulation of the right cavernous nerves. Drugs were administered into the internal pudendal artery (IPA) and femoral vein. A low dose (0.2 to 0.4 microgram/kg.) of clonidine, an alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist, which could not affect either ICP or systemic arterial pressure (SAP) through an intravenous route, did suppress the ICP-increase markedly via direct injection into the IPA which supplies the penile blood flow. By intra-IPA injection, yohimbine (2.5 micrograms/kg.), an alpha 2 adrenoceptor antagonist, remarkably restored the ICP to the erection state. By intravenous injection, clonidine at a dose of 1.6 to 3.2 micrograms/kg. also profoundly reduced the ICP-increase, but only negligibly lowered the SAP. The IPA blood flow (IPAF) decreased coincidentally when the ICP-increase was effectively reduced by either intravenous or intra-IPA injection of clonidine. These findings suggest clonidine could act locally in the penile structure to suppress penile erection, possibly resulting from a penile vasoconstriction involving alpha 2 adrenoceptor. Whether this vasoconstriction is caused by a direct alpha 2 stimulating effect on the vascular smooth muscle or by an alpha 2 presynaptic inhibition of the vasodilator nerve (cavernous nerve) endings has been discussed.
To compare intramuscular oxytocin alone and intramuscular oxytocin with ergometrine (Syntometrine) for their effect in reducing the risk of postpartum haemorrhage when both are used as part of the active management of the third stage of labour.
Double blind, randomised controlled trial.
Two metropolitan teaching hospitals in Perth, Western Australia.
All women who expected a vaginal birth during the period of the trial. Informed consent was obtained.
Postpartum haemorrhage, nausea, vomiting, and increased blood pressure.
3497 women were randomly allocated to receive oxytocin-ergometrine (n = 1730) or oxytocin (n = 1753). Rates of postpartum haemorrhage (> or = 500 ml or > or = 1000 ml) were similar in both arms (odds ratio 0.90 (0.82); 95% confidence interval 0.75 to 1.07 (0.59 to 1.14) at 500 ml (1000 ml) threshold). The use of oxytocin-ergometrine was associated with nausea, vomiting, and increased blood pressure.
There are few advantages but several disadvantages for the routine use of oxytoxinergometrine when prophylactic active management of the third stage of labour is practised. Further investigation of dose-response for oxytocin may be warranted.
Previous evidence demonstrates that low dose morphine systemic administration induces acute thermal hyperalgesia in normal mice through microOR stimulation of the inositol signaling pathway. We investigated the site of action of morphine and the mechanism of action of microOR activation by morphine to NMDA receptor as it relates to acute thermal hyperalgesia. Our experiments show that acute thermal hyperalgesia is blocked in periaqueductal gray with the microOR antagonist CTOP, the NMDA antagonist MK801 and the protein kinase C inhibitor chelerythrine. Therefore, a site of action of systemically administered morphine low dose on acute thermal hyperalgesic response appears to be located at the periaqueductal gray. At this supraspinal site, microOR stimulation by systemically morphine low dose administration leads to an increased phosphorylation of specific subunit of NMDA receptor. Our experiments show that the phosphorylation of subunit 1 of NMDA receptor parallels the acute thermal hyperalgesia suggesting a role for this subunit in morphine-induced hyperalgesia. Protein kinase C appears to be the key element that links microOR activation by morphine administration to mice with the recruitment of the NMDA/glutamatergic system involved in the thermal hyperalgesic response.
Oxidative stress and the fibrogenic cytokine transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF beta 1) have been implicated in the pathogenesis and progression of IgA nephropathy. In the present study, we used alpha-tocopherol as a dietary supplement to test the hypothesis that the proteinuria, oxidative stress, and TGF beta mRNA can be more effectively lowered with higher doses of alpha-tocopherol. Hematuria, proteinuria, and mesangial IgA deposition are parameters which characterize IgA nephropathy. IgA nephropathy was induced by bovine gamma globulin oral immunization in rats during an 8-week course, and all hallmarks of IgA nephropathy were produced in this 8-week animal model. The elevation in renal malondialdehyde content and TGF beta 1 mRNA, as well as the severity of proteinuria, was blunted by alpha-tocopherol. Our data suggested that conventional dosage of alpha-tocopherol at 100 IU/kg chow lowered kidney TGF beta 1 to control values and increasing the dose by 2 1/2-fold or even 5-fold resulted in no further reduction in TGF beta 1 mRNA. Significant reduction of proteinuria was achieved better with a dose of 250 IU/kg chow of alpha-tocopherol supplementation than with the 100 IU/kg chow. We conclude that alpha-tocopherol at this dose is efficacious in controlling proteinuria, downregulating TGF beta 1, and reducing oxidative stress in experimental IgA nephropathy. Doubling this dose achieved no further benefits.
The present study was performed to determine whether there are significant differences in the effects of the nitric oxide donor, glyceryl trinitrate, administration in pregnancies complicated by mild pre-eclampsia compared to the effects in pregnancies which are uncomplicated by this pathology. Glyceryl trinitrate is able to release nitric oxide (NO); deficiency of NO has been hypothesized in the pathogenesis of pre-eclamptic disorders.
In this prospective study, ten patients with threatened preterm labor and ten patients with mild preeclampsia were studied at around 30 weeks of pregnancy. The maternal blood pressure, maternal heart rate, fetal heart rate and flow velocity waveforms of the placental uterine artery, umbilical artery and fetal middle cerebral artery, evaluated by means of color Doppler and pulsed Doppler, were recorded before and 10, 20 and 30 min after the sublingual administration of 0.3 mg of glyceryl trinitrate or placebo. The pulsatility index (PI) was calculated. The percentage change from the control period (delta %) was calculated for each parameter at 10, 20 and 30 min. Ten normal pregnant women at the same gestational age were used as controls and were administered a placebo.
The maternal blood pressure recorded as systolic and diastolic values, demonstrated a significant decrease in the pre-eclampsia group after glyceryl trinitrate administration; the delta % at any time considered was significantly higher in the pre-eclampsia group than in the threatened preterm labor group. The PI of the placental uterine artery showed a significant decrease in both groups after 20 and 30 min from drug administration; the delta % at 20 and 30 min was significantly higher in the pre-eclampsia group than in the threatened preterm labor group. The PI of the umbilical artery showed a significant decrease after 30 min from the glyceryl trinitrate administration. The fetal heart rate showed no significant variations during the study in either group. The PI of the fetal middle cerebral artery showed no significant variations during the study in either group. No parameter was changed in the control group.
Glyceryl trinitrate administration was followed by a greater reduction of the resistance to blood flow in the fetoplacental circulation of the pregnancies affected by mild pre-eclampsia compared to pregnancies uncomplicated by this pathology. This effect can be attributed to the NO released by the drug which offsets the decreased production of NO, postulated to contribute to the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia.
Human recombinant interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (rhIL-1ra), a 17.2 kd protein is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Skin reactions in some patients with RA prompted investigation of a possible pathogenesis involving nonimmunologically mediated mast cell degranulation. Rats injected intradermally with 20 microliters of rhIL-1ra (100 or 200 mg/ml) or the rhIL-1ra vehicle CSEP (10 mmol/L Na-citrate, 0.5 mmol/L ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), 0.1% polysorbate 80, 140 mmol/L NaCl, pH 6.5) had marked (15x or 10x, respectively) Evans blue dye permeability increases as compared with rats injected with phosphate-buffered saline solution (PBS) or bovine serum albumin (BSA). The permeability changes were reduced or eliminated by subcutaneous or local treatment with the antihistamine diphenhydramine. Histologic evaluation of skin sections from rats injected intradermally with CSEP or rhIL-1ra in CSEP revealed mast cell degranulation and edema, features not seen in sites injected with PBS or BSA in PBS. Components of the vehicle were investigated individually for their capacity to cause the reaction. Na-citrate (10 mmol/L) induced a greater increase in permeability than did EDTA (0.5 mmol/L) or polysorbate 80 (0.1%), and all produced reactions that were significantly greater than those occurring at PBS-injected sites. Evans blue dye permeability increases after subcutaneous injection of 1 ml of rhIL-1ra (100 mg/ml) in CSEP (with and without diphenhydramine) or rhIL-1ra in PBS were evaluated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 50-year-old male patient with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation was anticoagulated, with warfarin following insertion of a cardioverter defibrillator. He became markedly over anticoagulated after standard moderate induction doses of warfarin. His baseline prothrombin time was prolonged and further investigation showed the patient to have a mild factor VII deficiency. He was restarted on low-dose warfarin and successfully stabilized with a target international normalized ratio (INR) of 3.0 (range 2.5-3.5). We used the data from factor VII levels and thrombin generation studies before and after anticoagulation to control dosage and to decide on a suitable therapeutic range for the INR. Molecular studies showed him to have two separate mutations in the factor VII gene. This report highlights the importance of noting the baseline prothrombin time before initiating oral anticoagulation and describes how well tolerated anticoagulation can be achieved in a patient with congenital factor VII deficiency.
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is characterized by enhanced immune activation, which possibly plays a pathogenic role in this disorder. We therefore examined whether immunomodulation with thalidomide could improve cardiac performance in patients with CHF.
Nine patients with chronic symptomatic CHF and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <40%, who were receiving "optimal" conventional cardiovascular treatment, were given 200 mg thalidomide daily in an open design for a period of 6 weeks. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and LVEF were measured at baseline and on completion of the study.
Two patients withdrew because of side effects. Sedation was common and required dose reduction in 6 of 7 patients completing the study. Plasma levels of TNF-alpha were elevated at baseline compared with levels in healthy control patients, but decreased significantly from 33.9 +/- 10.1 pg/mL to 19.3 +/- 6.1 pg/mL during therapy (P <.05). LVEF increased in all patients from 26% +/- 9% to 34% +/- 10% at the end of the observation period (P <.05).
In this pilot study, therapy with thalidomide in patients with CHF resulted in decreased TNF-alpha levels and increased cardiac performance. Although few patients were included, our results suggest that thalidomide should be further investigated as an immunomodulating agent in CHF.
Glutamine transaminase K(GTK) excretion assessed in urine and by kidney histology was evaluated in rats after single treatment with 1.0 mg/kg i.p. of mercuric chloride, 100 mg/kg i.p. of hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (both S3, pars recta, segment-specific nephrotoxicants) and 25 mg/kg s.c. of potassium dichromate (S1-S2, pars convoluta, segment-specific nephrotoxicant). The aim was to correlate segment-specific injury and enzyme excretion in order to assess, using non-vasive methods, localization of GTK along the proximal tubule. Mercuric chloride and hexachloro-1:3-butadiene produced early focal damage in the pars recta (focal necrosis was shown 10 h after treatment, and diffuse necrosis appeared later at 34 and 24 h after treatment). Changes of the pars convoluta were occasional and delayed (72 h after treatment for both substances). On the contrary, potassium dichromate induced damage of the pars convoluta (vacuolar degeneration and focal necrosis were evident 24 h and 48 h after treatment, respectively), whereas the pars recta was affected later (focal vacuolar degeneration was observed 72 h after treatment). Increase urinary GTK excretion was early after treatment with mercuric chloride and hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (significant increase was observed within 10 h), with a peak for both substances 24 h after treatment, in agreement with the necrosis of the pars recta. Potassium dichromate induced a significant increase of enzyme excretion in urine also 24 h after injection, according to histological features showing vacuolar degeneration of the pars convoluta; the peak of excretion was reached 48 h after treatment (delay was due, probably, to s.c. administration). The results show that GTK increased in urine after treatment with S3 and S1-S2 specific nephrotoxicants; the combination of histological examination and urinary enzyme supports the evidence that the enzyme is distributed along the whole of the proximal tubule.
Our recent studies of the teratogenic mechanisms of phenytoin (DPH) and glucocorticoids in mice have indicated that DPH utilizes the anti-inflammatory pathway of glucocorticoids in producing congenital defects, such as cleft palate. This pathway is influenced by H-2 and H-3 histocompatibility-linked genes in the mouse, such that congenic strains have H-2 or H-3 alleles that confer susceptibility to DPH-induced congenital defects, and susceptible H-2 congenic strains have high glucocorticoid receptor levels. However, other H-2 or H-3 alleles confer resistance to these defects in their otherwise genetically identical congenic partner strains, and "resistant" H-2 alleles are associated with low levels of these receptors. To determine whether this animal work is applicable to the human, we have sought to investigate whether the level of glucocorticoid receptors in circulating lymphocytes of children with the fetal hydantoin syndrome (FHS) is as it is in the animals. We found that children with FHS had glucocorticoid receptor levels significantly elevated above those of unaffected children with similar DPH exposure in control families. The receptor level of affected children was also significantly elevated above that of fathers of children with the FHS and of fathers and mothers of control children. These findings are consistent with those documented in the animal models and suggest that an elevated level of glucocorticoid receptors in lymphocytes may be a marker for susceptibility to the FHS syndrome.
In order to establish sensitive methods of detecting minor renal damage, changes of enzymes, protein, tubular cell counts, and creatinine in the urine were investigated in rats to which nephrotoxic chemicals had been administered. Daily administration of p-aminophenol (PAP) dose-dependently increased urinary excretions of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and its isoenzymes (LDH5 = LDH4 greater than LDH3 greater than LDH2 = LDH1), aspartate aminotransferase (GOT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP), leucine aminopeptidase (LAP), lysozyme (LZM), N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) and acid protease together with increased counts of tubular cells in the urine. Tubular cell counts, LDH and GOT were more sensitive indicators in the PAP tubulonephritis. Single i.v. injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PM) dose-dependently increased urinary excretions of LDH and its isoenzymes (LDH1 = LDH5 greater than LDH2 = LDH4 greater than LDH3), GOT, NAG, acid protease and protein but degree of the increases in these enzymes was lower than those in the rats treated with PAP. PM increased excretions of high molecular weight proteins but did not increase ALP, gamma-GTP, LAP, LZM and tubular cells excretions. Single i.v. injection of hexadimethrine increased urinary excretion of LDH and its isoenzymes (LDH1 = LDH5 greater than LDH2 greater than LDH3 = LDH4), GOT, LZM, NAG and acid protease together with increased counts of tubular cells in the urine but did not increase ALP, gamma-GTP and LAP excretions. It is concluded that tubular cell counts, LDH isoenzymes and battery of these enzymes in urine are useful markers for detecting the severity and the site of renal damage in addition that urinary protein is a useful marker for detecting glomerular damage.
The central nervous system (CNS) exhibits remarkable plasticity in early life and can be altered significantly by various prenatal influences. We previously showed that prenatal exposure to morphine altered kinetic properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic currents in the hippocampus of young rat offspring at the age of 14 days (P14). The present study further investigates whether NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic plasticity and/or cyclic adenosine monophosphate-responsive element-binding protein (CREBSerine-133), an important transcription factor underlying learning and memory, can be altered by prenatal morphine exposure in these offspring. Subsequently, the Morris water maze task was performed at the older ages (P28-P31). The magnitude of long-term depression (LTD) generated by a low-frequency stimulation (LFS, 1 Hz for 15 min) in hippocampal slices from the vehicle-control offspring (P14) was significantly larger than that in slices from the morphine-treated offspring, although there was no such difference in the magnitude of long-term potentiation (LTP) elicited by a high-frequency stimulation (100 Hz for 1 s) between the two groups. Comparison of the expression range of glutamatergic synaptic plasticity in slices from the vehicle-control and morphine-treated offspring, calculated as the difference in the maximal magnitude between LTP and LTD, demonstrated a remarkably smaller range in the slices from the morphine-treated offspring. In addition, the decreased phosphorylation of CREBSerine-133 and the impaired ability of spatial learning were also seen in the morphine-treated offspring, as compared with the vehicle-control offspring. Collectively, the study suggests that maternal exposure to morphine reduces the range of synaptic plasticity by decreasing the expression of LTD, but not of LTP, in CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus from rat offspring. More importantly, decreased phosphorylation of CREBSerine-133 may play a role for the impaired spatial learning and memory in rat offspring exposure to prenatal morphine. Thus, the findings here may provide important insights into cellular/molecular mechanisms underlying pathophysiological changes in the CNS of young offspring from morphine-addicted mothers and serve as a basis for possible therapeutic intervention.
To examine the possible involvement of prostaglandins (PG) in the antihypertensive action of captopril, a PG synthetase inhibitor (indomethacin) was administered to normal and one-kidney renovascular hypertensive rats treated with captopril for 2 weeks. Continuous infusion of captopril (40 micrograms/hr SC) to normal and renal hypertensive (RH) rats via an implantable osmotic pump for 14 days lowered systolic blood pressure (SBP) in RH rats only. However, administration of indomethacin (5 mg/kg SC) 3 times a week to normotensive rats pre-treated with captopril by continuous infusion (40 micrograms/hr SC), lowered SBP significantly 24 hours after the injection of indomethacin. In RH rats pre-treated with captopril, subsequent administration of indomethacin further reduced SBP. In this study, indomethacin given alone to both RH and normal rats produced no significant alteration in SBP. However, indomethacin potentiated the hypotensive effect of captopril. This action may be attributed to inhibition of PG biosynthesis. It has been reported that the effects of PGE2 within the kidneys are species dependent and in the case of the rat, cause vasoconstriction of the renal vasculature. Therefore, administration of indomethacin would attenuate the vasoconstricting effects of PGE2 and thus lower blood pressure. Accordingly, based on these observations, PGs may perhaps play a role in mediating the hypotensive effect of captopril.
A 17-year old boy with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) developed repeated short runs of self terminating ventricular tachycardia 12 hours after starting oral verapamil, which was substituted for propranolol therapy. It is suggested that alterations in sympathetic tone induced by changing from a beta-blocker to a calcium antagonist might have increased myocardial irritability thus favouring genesis of severe ventricular arrhythmias. Verapamil is often considered to be more effective than propranolol in the treatment of HOCM. However, if propranolol is replaced by verapamil one has to take account of the possibility of serious arrhythmias as demonstrated by our case.
Microcosm studies were undertaken to relate biomarker responses to the toxicities in soil ecosystems contaminated by phenanthrene (Phe) and pyrene (Pyr), both singly and combined. Growth inhibition, enzyme activity, MDA content, sperm count, neutral-red retention time (NRRT) and annetocin and TCTP gene transcriptions were determined in earthworm Eisenia fetida exposed to Phe and Pyr, both singly and combined pollution in microcosm. Exposure to 0.5 and 2.5 mg kg(-1) Phe or 50 and 100 mg kg(-1) Pyr alone significantly decreased E. fetida growth, NRRT and sperm count. Two-way ANOVA analysis shows that the combination of these two compounds decreased growth, SOD activities, NRRT and sperm count synergistically, but increased the CAT activities and MDA content. The highest suppression rate of growth was 48.12%, the lowest levels of SOD activities and NRRT were 51.66% and 45.57% of the control, respectively. The highest increase in CAT activities and MDA content were 120.05% and 121.03% greater than that of the control when exposed to 0.5 (Phe)+100 (Pyr) mg kg(-1) soils. A clear dose-related response with exposure concentration was established for the NRRT. Real-time PCR shows that Phe and Pyr increased the expression levels of annetocin and TCTP gene synergistically. These results demonstrate that earthworms were under physiological stress at field dose of 0.5 (Phe)+100 (Pyr) mg kg(-1) soils. Phe and Pyr synergistically decreased sperm count and NRRT, but antagonistically caused changes in antioxidant enzyme activities to disrupt the detoxification functions and inhibit earthworm growth.
We found that regular use of aspirin may reduce the risk of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), a common cancer of adolescents and young adults in the United States. To explore possible biological mechanisms underlying this association, we investigated whether polymorphic variation in genes involved in nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation and inhibition, other inflammatory pathways, and aspirin metabolism influences HL risk. Twenty single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in seven genes were genotyped in DNA from 473 classical HL cases and 373 controls enrolled between 1997 and 2000 in a population-based case-control study in the Boston, Massachusetts, metropolitan area and the state of Connecticut. We selected target genes and SNPs primarily using a candidate-SNP approach and estimated haplotypes using the expectation-maximization algorithm. We used multivariable logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (OR) for associations with HL risk. HL risk was significantly associated with rs1585215 in NFKB1 (AG versus AA: OR, 2.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.5-2.9; GG versus AA: OR, 3.5; 95% confidence interval, 2.2-5.7, Ptrend=1.7x10(-8)) and with NFKB1 haplotypes (Pglobal=6.0x10(-21)). Similar associations were apparent across categories of age, sex, tumor EBV status, tumor histology, and regular aspirin use, although statistical power was limited for stratified analyses. Nominally significant associations with HL risk were detected for SNPs in NFKBIA and CYP2C9. HL risk was not associated with SNPs in IKKA/CHUK, PTGS2/COX2, UDP1A6, or LTC4S. In conclusion, genetic variation in the NF-kappaB pathway seems to influence risk of HL. Pooled studies are needed to detect any heterogeneity in the association with NF-kappaB across HL subgroups, including aspirin users and nonusers.
Forty-one elderly patients with mild to moderate hypertension (resting diastolic blood pressure 100-130 mmHg after an eight week placebo run-in phase) were randomised to a double-blind parallel group comparison of nifedipine retard 10 mg twice daily or atenolol 50 mg once daily. If the resting diastolic pressure exceeded 95 mmHg after four weeks of treatment the dose(s) were doubled for a further four weeks. Initial sitting blood pressures were 187 +/- 21/105 +/- 5 mmHg in the nifedipine group and 181 +/- 19/106 +/- 6 in the atenolol group. At four weeks, eight patients given nifedipine and nine given atenolol had their doses doubled. At eight weeks sitting blood pressures were 159 +/- 19/85 +/- 7 and 162 +/- 21/87 +/- 8 respectively, with 18/20 patients given nifedipine and 16/21 given atenolol having a sitting diastolic pressure equal to or less than 95 mmHg. One patient given nifedipine was withdrawn because of unacceptable ankle oedema and one given atenolol withdrawn because of worsening angina. Both drugs were equally acceptable to the patients and neither caused a change in their sense of well-being.
The occurrence of torsades de pointe is often associated with the use of drugs. We report three cases of amiodarone-induced torsades de pointe. Although a lot of amiodarone-induced torsades de pointe have been published, a review of all these cases and the underlying risk-factors has never been made.
The efficacy of arsenic trioxide (ATO) against acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and relapsed APL has been well documented. ATO may cause DNA damage by generating reactive oxygen intermediates. Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor, modulates gene and protein expression via histone-dependent or -independent pathways that may result in chromatin decondensation, cell cycle arrest, differentiation, and apoptosis. We investigated whether ATO and SAHA act synergistically to enhance the death of cancer cells. Our current findings showed that combined treatment with ATO and SAHA resulted in enhanced suppression of non-small-cell lung carcinoma in vitro in H1299 cells and in vivo in a xenograft mouse model. Flow cytometric analysis of annexin V+ cells showed that apoptotic cell death was significantly enhanced after combined treatment with ATO and SAHA. At the doses used, ATO did not interfere with cell cycle progression, but SAHA induced p21 expression and led to G1 arrest. A Comet assay demonstrated that ATO, but not SAHA, induced DNA strand breaks in H1299 cells; however, co-treatment with SAHA significantly increased ATO-induced DNA damage. Moreover, SAHA enhanced acetylation of histone H3 and sensitized genomic DNA to DNase I digestion. Our results suggest that SAHA may cause chromatin relaxation and increase cellular susceptibility to ATO-induced DNA damage. Combined administration of SAHA and ATO may be an effective approach to the treatment of lung cancer.
