The presence of severe and mild neurotoxicity in our pediatric renal transplant recipients treated with tacrolimus was determined by chart review (severe neurotoxicity) and patient survey (mild neurotoxicity). 14 patients were studied (mean age 15 yr, 5 month, +/- 4.4 yr). 1 patient experienced seizures, felt to be related to malignant hypertension. No other episode of severe neurotoxicity was documented. Most patients (12/14) reported at least one mild neurologic symptom, and half stated their symptoms were present at least 'most of the time'. The most frequent complaints were myalgias (7/14, 50%) and tremors (7/14, 50%) followed by fatigue (5/14, 38%). Severe neurotoxicity may be relatively infrequent in pediatric renal transplant patients treated with tacrolimus. Milder neurologic complaints may be commonly seen in this population, but in general are not severe enough to cause discontinuation of tacrolimus.
The side effects of cancer chemotherapeutic agents such as mitoxantrone (MIT) in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients justify the search for less toxic drugs. Ethonafide is an anthracene-based antineoplastic drug similar to MIT. With reference to MIT, we examined the effect of ethonafide on experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in C57BL/6 mice, an animal model of human MS. We demonstrated that ethonafide is effective in preventing development of EAE as well as in ameliorating the severity of EAE when disease is ongoing. In relatively higher dosages, the effects of ethonafide and MIT on EAE were identical, whereas in lower dosages, MIT seemed more effective. Therapeutic effects of ethonafide were associated with the initial reduction in cellular counts of CD3(+), CD4(+), CD8(+), B220(+), CD11b(+), NK cells, and NKT cells, followed by recovery of these cells from the bone marrow. Interestingly, the recovered autoreactive T cells in ethonafide-treated animals have reduced capacity to expand and produce cytokines in response to myelin Ag stimulation. Furthermore, CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells were relatively resistant to depletion and/or recovered faster than T effector cells. The ability of regulatory T cells to resist depletion and replenish quickly during cell ablation therapy may provide an opportunity to reprogram the immune system. Moreover, we provided evidences that ethonafide has less cardiac toxicity compared with MIT. The effectiveness and the low cardiotoxicity of ethonafide might make it a promising immunosuppressive agent for clinical use in treating MS patients.
Both green and black tea have been shown to inhibit lung tumorigenesis in laboratory animal experiments. Green tea inhibited N-nitrosodiethylamine-induced lung tumor incidence and multiplicity in female A/J mice when tea was given either during the carcinogen treatment period or during the post-carcinogen treatment period. In a separate tumorigenesis model, both decaffeinated black tea and decaffeinated green tea inhibited 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK)-induced lung tumor formation. Studies in which tea was administered during different time periods in relation to the NNK suggest that tea can inhibit lung tumorigenesis at both the initiation and promotion stages. The antiproliferative effects of tea may be responsible for these anti-carcinogenic actions. Black tea polyphenol preparations decreased NNK-induced hyperproliferation. Black tea also inhibited the progression of pulmonary adenomas to adenocarcinomas and the formation of spontaneous lung tumors in A/J mice. Growth inhibition by various tea polyphenols has been demonstrated in human lung H661 and H1299 cells. Although inhibition of cell growth and signal transduction pathways by tea components have been demonstrated, the concentrations required to produce the effect are higher than achievable in tissues in vivo. More research is necessary to translate these laboratory results to applications in human chemoprevention.
Successful use of nonnarcotic, thoracic epidural analgesia for the control of pain associated with pleural sclerosis was accomplished in three gynecologic oncology patients with severe respiratory compromise due to malignant pleural effusions. Excellent analgesia was obtained with no observed anesthetic complications.
Treatment with excessive amounts of Vitamin A during maternity induces fetal malformations. However, it is unclear whether these malformations are due to gene mutations or not. Using transgenic mice (containing lacZ gene showing beta-galactosidase enzymatic activity), we planned to observe whether gene mutations occur in the fetal tissues after treatment during maternity with Vitamin A (retinol palmitate). On the 11th day of pregnancy, mothers were given 30 mg (group 2), 150 mg (group 3) and 300 mg (group 4) of Vitamin A/kg body weight orally. Fetuses obtained on the 18th day of gestation showed malformations, such as cleft palate, origodactyly, brachydactyly and ectromeria. Most notably, cleft palate occurred dose dependently. The incidental rates were 100% in group 4, 58% in group 3 and 6% in group 2. The number of dead and absorbed fetuses also increased dose dependently with the treatments. DNA (integrated vectors containing lacZ genes) extracted from each fetus showed Vitamin A-induced lacZ mutations, especially in the malformed fetuses. The mutation frequencies were 4.99x10(-5) in group 4, 5.28x10(-5) in group 3 and 4.26x10(-5) in group 2. The frequencies of group 3 were significantly higher (p<0.05) than that of the controls (group 1), 2.79x10(-5). Maternal treatment with Vitamin A (150 mg/kg of body weight) was carried out on the 11th day of pregnancy. Fetuses obtained on the 14th day of gestation showed a much higher incidence of mutation, approximately 8.91x10(-5) (group 6) that was significantly higher (p<0.0001) than those from the controls (group 5), 2.94x10(-5). The present study indicates a possibility that hypervitaminosis A-induced fetal malformation and death might be caused by gene mutations.
The biological profile of naratriptan (N-methyl-3-(1-methyl-4-piperidinyl)-1H-indole-5-ethane-sulphonamide), a novel 5HT1B/1D receptor agonist, was investigated in a variety of experimental models of relevance to migraine. Naratriptan has high affinity for human recombinant 5HT1B and 5HT1D receptors (pKi = 8.7 +/- 0.03 and 8.3 +/- 0.1, respectively) and causes contractions of dog isolated basilar and middle cerebral artery (EC50 values of 0.11 and 0.07 microM, respectively). Naratriptan causes small contractions of human isolated coronary arteries (EC50 value of 0.17 microM; maximum contraction equivalent to 33% of 5HT maximum). In anaesthetized dogs, naratriptan causes selective vasoconstriction of the carotid arterial bed (CD50 dose = 19 +/- 3 micrograms kg-1) and, in anaesthetized rats, naratriptan selectively inhibits neurogenic plasma protein extravasation in the dura (ID50 = 4.1 micrograms kg-1). In a variety of antinociceptive tests, naratriptan has no effect even at high doses. In conscious rats and dogs, naratriptan has high oral bioavailability (71% and 95%, respectively). The data show that naratriptan is a selective agonist at 5HT1B/1D receptors, with a pharmacological profile very similar to that of sumatriptan, albeit 2-3 fold more potent. These observations, coupled with high oral bioavailability in animals, suggest that naratriptan has the profile of an orally effective anti-migraine drug.
The pathogenesis of intrahepatic cholestasis in rats was studied using isolated perfused livers as an experimental model. Three basic mechanisms were differentiated: Permeabilization of the bilio-sinusoidal barrier associated with electron microscopic alterations of the tight junctional complexes was found in livers of rats treated with alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT, 250 mg/kg body weight). Consequences of these alterations were: reflux of bile constituents such as taurocholate and sulfobromophthalein and increased access to the biliary space of paracellular markers such as inulin and sucrose. The clear-cut mechanism of ANIT cholestasis was used to distinguish other mechanisms of intrahepatic cholestasis. Inhibition of the basic process of fluid secretion was found to be the primary event in the development of cholestasis induced by estrogens. After 5 days of treating rats with ethinyl estradiol (5 mg/kg/day), bile flow was diminished in isolated livers while the permeability of the biliary tract to sucrose and inulin was not affected. Accordingly, the maximal concentration of taurocholate in bile was increased, indicating that its secretion was sustained. The same effect was observed after 1 week of treatment with the depot estrogen estradiol valerate (1 mg/kg/week). After 3 weeks of treatment, however, the taurocholate concentration in bile was lowered and the clearance of sucrose was increased. Bile flow remained at the same cholestatic level for 20 weeks. These results suggest that estrogens have the potency to increase tight junctional permeability only in a second step in the development of cholestasis, following the inhibition of bile flow. An additional mode of secretory inhibition was induced by lowering the concentration of Ca2+ in the perfusate of isolated liver.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To report three cases of meperidine-related seizures when meperidine was administered via patient-controlled analgesia pump (PCAP) and to review literature related to meperidine-associated seizures.
Case reports and review articles identified by a computerized search (MEDLINE) and manual search (Index Medicus).
PCAPs are being used frequently to relieve the pain of sickle cell crisis as well as pain from many other etiologies. We report three cases of meperidine-related seizures associated with its administration via PCAP. Each of the patients received either relatively high doses, long-term therapy, or both. Meperidine has been associated with seizure activity when administered via traditional routes. Previously identified risk factors for the development of meperidine-related seizures include renal failure, high meperidine dosages, and coadministration of hepatic enzyme-inducing medications or phenothiazines.
Meperidine administered via PCAP may be associated with seizures. Optimally, an alternative analgesic should be administered when this route is used.
Physostigmine is a commonly used therapy for the anticholinergic manifestations of tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) overdose. We describe two patients with TCA toxicity who developed asystole following the administration of physostigmine to treat seizures.
To report a case of mannitol-induced acute renal failure (ARF).
A 31-year-old woman who had been on long-term warfarin therapy for atrial fibrillation was admitted to the hospital with hemoptysis. Following reversal of her anticoagulation, she had a tonic-clonic seizure nine days after admission. An emergency computed tomography scan revealed cerebral edema, which was initially treated with hyperventilation and steroids. Two days later, a repeat scan showed progression of the cerebral edema with midline shift. Mannitol 550 g was infused over the next 28 hours, precipitating ARF. Despite prompt hemodialysis to reverse the renal failure, the patient died. This case of apparent mannitol-induced ARF illustrates several pathophysiologic effects of this agent.
Case reports in the literature discussing mannitol-induced ARF are reviewed and compared. A relationship between dose and ARF and its reversal with hemodialysis is postulated.
It is likely that sufficient doses of mannitol may lead to ARF. Limitation of dose may prevent and treatment with hemodialysis may reverse ARF in these instances.
To investigate the effects of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) on chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA)-induced liver injury in hamsters, and to elucidate a correlation between liver injury and bile acid profiles in the liver.
Liver injury was induced in hamsters by administration of 0.5% (w/w) CDCA in their feed for 7 d. UDCA (50 mg/kg and 150 mg/kg) was administered for the last 3 d of the experiment.
At the end of the experiment, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased more than 10 times and the presence of liver injury was confirmed histologically. Marked increase in bile acids was observed in the liver. The amount of total bile acids increased approximately three-fold and was accompanied by the increase in hydrophobic bile acids, CDCA and lithocholic acid (LCA). UDCA (50 mg/kg and 150 mg/kg) improved liver histology, with a significant decrease (679.3 +/- 77.5 U/L vs 333.6 +/- 50.4 U/L and 254.3 +/- 35.5 U/L, respectively, P < 0.01) in serum ALT level. UDCA decreased the concentrations of the hydrophobic bile acids, and as a result, a decrease in the total bile acid level in the liver was achieved.
The results show that UDCA improves oral CDCA-induced liver damage in hamsters. The protective effects of UDCA appear to result from a decrease in the concentration of hydrophobic bile acids, CDCA and LCA, which accumulate and show the cytotoxicity in the liver.
Treatment with adriamycin (ADR) is associated with cardiotoxicity mediated through the generation of superoxide (O2*-). Because nitric oxide (*NO) reacts with O2*-, generating peroxynitrite, we hypothesized that decreased *NO production would lead to protection in acute cardiac injury.
We investigated the role of decreased *NO levels in exacerbation of ADR-induced cardiotoxicity in vivo using iNOS (-/-) mice. Pathology, biochemical injury markers, and cardiac function were used to assess ADR-induced cardiac injury.
Ultrastructural analysis demonstrated that iNOS (-/-) mice exhibited extensive cytoplasmic swelling and degeneration of mitochondria when compared to wildtype mice following treatment with ADR. Mice lacking iNOS exhibited a decrease in resting indices of cardiac function as well as an impairment in the positive inotropic actions of isoproterenol following treatment with ADR compared to nTg mice. Cardiac troponin, creatine phosphokinase, and lactate dehydrogenase levels were significantly increased after treatment in iNOS (-/-) mice as compared to controls and wildtype mice.
These results indicate that a lack of *NO production by iNOS caused significantly enhanced cardiac injury. However, when iNOS (-/-) mice were crossed with manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD)-overexpressing animals, mitochondrial injury was ameliorated to the level of the wild type. These findings suggest that reduction of *NO levels mediated by ADR treatment leads to increased cardiac mitochondrial injury that can be attenuated by a compensatory increase in MnSOD.
Anaphylactoid reactions to iodinated contrast media can cause life-threatening events and even death. A 44-year-old woman presented with cardiopulmonary arrest (CPA) immediately following the administration of nonionic iodinated contrast media for an intravenous pyelography. Her cardiac rhythm during CPA was asystole. She was successfully resuscitated by the radiologists supported by paged emergency physicians using the prompt intravenous administration of 1 mg of epinephrine. Neither laryngeal edema nor bronchial spasm was observed during the course of treatment, and she was discharged on the 4th day without any complications. The patient did not have a history of allergy, but had experienced a myocardial infarction and aortitis. She had undergone 11 angiographies and had been taking a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist. Planned emergency medical backup is advisable to ensure resuscitation in the event of an anaphylactoid reaction to the use of contrast media in-hospital settings.
Evidence both from animal and human studies suggests that common polymorphisms in the oxytocin receptor (OXTR) gene are likely candidates to confer risk for autism spectrum disorders (ASD). In lower mammals, oxytocin is important in a wide range of social behaviors, and recent human studies have shown that administration of oxytocin modulates behavior in both clinical and non-clinical groups. Additionally, two linkage studies and two recent association investigations also underscore a possible role for the OXTR gene in predisposing to ASD. We undertook a comprehensive study of all 18 tagged SNPs across the entire OXTR gene region identified using HapMap data and the Haploview algorithm. Altogether 152 subjects diagnosed with ASDs (that is, DSM IV autistic disorder or pervasive developmental disorder--NOS) from 133 families were genotyped (parents and affected siblings). Both individual SNPs and haplotypes were tested for association using family-based association tests as provided in the UNPHASED set of programs. Significant association with single SNPs and haplotypes (global P-values <0.05, following permutation test adjustment) were observed with ASD. Association was also observed with IQ and the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS). In particular, a five-locus haplotype block (rs237897-rs13316193-rs237889-rs2254298-rs2268494) was significantly associated with ASD (nominal global P=0.000019; adjusted global P=0.009) and a single haplotype (carried by 7% of the population) within that block showed highly significant association (P=0.00005). This is the third association study, in a third ethnic group, showing that SNPs and haplotypes in the OXTR gene confer risk for ASD. The current investigation also shows association with IQ and total VABS scores (as well as the communication, daily living skills and socialization subdomains), suggesting that this gene shapes both cognition and daily living skills that may cross diagnostic boundaries.
Amphotericin B (AMB), either alone or incorporated into small unilamellar vesicles of pure dipalmitoylphosphatidyl choline (DPPC SUV-AMB), was administered intravenously to male Sprague-Dawley rats once daily for 5 days. Either 1.5 or 3.5 mg of AMB or DPPC SUV-AMB per kg was given, since these concentrations corresponded, respectively, to the lowest nephrotoxic dose and the sublethal dose of AMB in our model. Tubular functions were evaluated daily, and AMB concentrations in plasma, urine, and tissues were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. AMB at both doses induced tubular toxicity, hyposthenuria being the earliest symptom. DPPC SUV-AMB at 1.5 mg/kg/day was atoxic, but the tubular alterations induced by 3.5 mg of DPPC SUV-AMB per kg were similar to those observed with 3.5 mg of AMB per kg, except that the ability to concentrate urine was partly restored 72 h after the last infusion. Incorporating AMB into DPPC SUV did not influence the pharmacokinetics of the drug. Using this lipidic AMB formulation, we thus observed a beneficial effect toward limiting the renal tubular toxicity of repeated low doses of AMB but, unexpectedly, not that of high doses. These results indicate that tubular renal functions and electrolyte serum values should be closely monitored in patients treated with AMB liposomal formulations, especially high-dose regimens.
Our investigation supports the use of intravenous salbutamol as an alternative to aminophylline in the early stages of acute severe asthma. Salbutamol proved to be a marginally better bronchodilator and is likely to cause less gastrointestinal side effects than aminophylline, but tachycardia and generalized tremor are more frequent with this drug.
Hiccup is a spasmodic, involuntary contraction of the inspiratory muscles, associated with delayed and abrupt glottic closure causing a peculiar sound (Launois et al., 1993). A number of medical conditions are known to cause persistent and intractable hiccups. Among the drugs reported to induce hiccups, Thompson et al. stated that corticosteroids and benzodiazepines are the drug classes most frequently associated with the development of hiccups (Thompson and Landry, 1997). Antidopaminergic agents such as chlorpromazine and haloperidol are the preferred drugs used for the treatment of chronic hiccups (Launois et al., 1993). We report a case of severe hiccups occurring in association with the administration of perphenazine, which is a dopamine antagonist. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of hiccups occurring as a side effect of antidopaminergic drugs.
To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and the recommended dose of docetaxel in combination with doxorubicin, and to evaluate the activity in patients with advanced breast cancer.
Forty-two women with untreated metastatic breast cancer (79% with visceral metastases; 52% with prior adjuvant anthracycline therapy) were treated with doxorubicin (40-60 mg/m2) i.v. bolus followed one hour later by docetaxel (50-85 mg/m2) one-hour i.v. infusion every three weeks, without G-CSF support.
The MTD occurred at the dose level combining 85 mg/m2 of docetaxel and 50 mg/m2 of doxorubicin, with the DLT being neutropenic sepsis. Neutropenia and/or its complications were manageable and no grade 3-4 or severe non-hematological toxicities were observed. Fluid retention was frequent but never severe. With a median cumulative dose of doxorubicin of 392 mg/m2 (240-559 mg/m2) and a median follow-up time of 29 months (9(+)-41), no congestive heart failure was observed. High activity was observed at all dose levels, particularly the last four, with a response rate of 81% (95% confidence interval (95% CI): 62.5-92.5). Median time to progression was 46 weeks (6(+)-62). Two-year survival was 66%, and median survival has not yet been reached.
Docetaxel-doxorubicin is feasible, safe and highly active. The incidence of febrile neutropenia without G-CSF requires careful monitoring but is acceptable in this setting. There does not appear to be an increase in the cardiac toxicity of doxorubicin. The recommended doses is either docetaxel 75 mg/m2 and doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 or docetaxel 60 mg/m2 and doxorubicin 60 mg/m2, administered every three weeks.
In an attempt to study the possible mechanism(s) by which captopril controls resistant heart failure, sequential haemodynamic studies (radioisotope technique) and humoral measurements (plasma renin activity, plasma aldosterone and plasma catecholamines) were obtained in 11 such patients. The studies were made at the time patients became unresponsive to other vasodilators (hydralazine or prazosin); the vasodilator drug was then discontinued and five days later, the 'no-vasodilator' studies were obtained. Captopril therapy was then started. Optimum daily maintenance dose of captopril varied from 75 to 200 mg in different patients. Studies were again repeated after a period of time equal to the duration of the previous vasodilator therapy. Digitalis and diuretic doses were kept constant throughout. Captopril improved effort tolerance in ten patients. Haemodynamically, mean blood pressure and peripheral resistance were lower than during vasodilator therapy (85 +/- 3.1 v. 92 +/- 3.3 mmHg and 47 +/- 4.4 v. 59 +/- 4.4 U.M2, respectively; p less than 0.05 for both). Cardiac index was higher during captopril treatment (1.95 +/- 0.15 v. 1.63 +/- 0.10 l/m2, p less than 0.01) and pulmonary mean transit was normalized by captopril (14.6 +/- 1.7 v. 18.4 +/- 1.3 s, p less than 0.05). Humoral indices revealed a significant (p less than 0.05) reduction in plasma aldosterone during captopril therapy (25.9 +/- 5.6 ng/dl during captopril, v. 62 +/- 22 ng/dl with no vasodilators and 50.9 +/- 6.1 ng/dl with other vasodilators). Moreover, there was a decrease in circulating plasma catecholamines during captopril treatment, but differences between the three treatment periods were not statistically significant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
113 cases of accidental ingestion of cyproheptadine (Nuran) by children have been evaluated. Life threatening alterations have not been observed after doses ranging from 0.3-6.15 (x:1.89) mg per kg of body weight. Somnolence, excitation, hallucinations, ataxia, tachycardia, and muscle twitchings were observed frequently, and occasionally gastric pain, dry mucuous surfaces, mydriasis, and rubeosis of the face were present. Symptoms appeared rapidly after ingestion and generally did not last longer than 6-12 h. When given in therapeutic doses, cyproheptadine reduces the secretion of ACTH, cortisol, prolactin, and growth hormone, lowers blood glucose concentrations, and raises the levels of unesterified free fatty acids. Parents frequently complain about unsatisfactory eating habits of their children, but chronic lack of appetite needing therapeutical attention, in healthy children, is the rare exception. Cyproheptadine is an agent with considerable side effects, and it should be prescribed to children only after very careful deliberation.
The main problem in the treatment of malignant astrocytomas is their invasive behaviour. Successful resection of the main tumour mass cannot prevent recurrence due to single cells invading the surrounding brain parenchyma at the time of diagnosis. The classical combination therapy, PCV (Procarbazine, CCNU and Vincristine) used for over 30 years; has shown its clinical effectiveness in the treatment of malignant astrocytomas and glioblastomas is still doubtful. Using an in vitro three dimensional invasion model, we tested the effect of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib and the microtubule inhibitor docetaxel on the invasion activity of a panel of astrocytic tumour cell lines, including two established glioma cell lines, IPSB-18 and SNB-19, and two primary cell lines, originating from glioblastomas, CLOM002 and UPHHJA, and in normal astrocytes. A dose response curve for each drug alone and in combination was determined. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) concentration of imatinib was between 15.7 and 18.7 μM, which did not affect invasion activity of the cell lines. The IC(50) concentration of docetaxel was between 0.7 and 19.8 nM, and at 14.9 nM docetaxel had a slight transient inhibitory effect on invasion activity of all tested cells. The combination of imatinib at 13.5 μM and docetaxel at 14.9 nM, however, synergistically inhibited cell growth and invasion activity and could not be reversed by drug removal. A combination treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors and cytotoxic drugs shows promise in tackling both glioma proliferation and invasion, and could present a new treatment regimen for malignant astrocytomas.
This paper describes a series of studies on the lung tumorigenic activities of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in strain A/J mice, their ability to form PAH-DNA adducts in lung tissues, and their ability to mutate the Ki-ras oncogene in PAH-induced tumors. Seven PAHs were studied: cyclopenta[cd]pyrene (CPP), benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), benzo[b]fluoranthene (B[b]F), dibenz[a,h] anthracene (DBA), 5-methylchrysene (5MC), benz[j]aceanthrylene (B[j]A), and dibenzo[a,l]pyrene (DB[a,l]P). The dose-response data for the PAHs revealed 100-fold differences in tumor potency based on dose, with the order of activity DB[a,l]P, DBA > B[j]A > 5MC > CPP B[a]P > B[b]F. Large differences in tumor multiplicity were also observed between the PAHs. DNA adducts were measured by 32P-postlabeling techniques on DNA from lungs of mice treated with these PAH's. DB[a,l]P gave syn- and anti-fjord-region diol-epoxide adducts of dAdo and dGuo; DBA gave both bay-region diol-epoxide-dGuo and bisdihydrodiol-epoxide adducts; CPP gave cyclopenta-ring-dGuo adducts; B[j]A gave a mixture of cyclopenta-ring-dGuo and -dAdo adducts; 5MC gave anti-bay-region diol-epoxide-dGuo adducts; B[a]P gave bay-region diol-epoxide-dGuo adducts; and B[b]F gave 5-hydroxy-B[b]F-diol-epoxide-dGuo adducts. Ki-ras codon 12 and 61 mutation analysis of PAH induced tumors was performed using PCR and dideoxy sequencing methods. DB[a,l]P gave both codon 12 and codon 61 mutations. High proportions of codon 12 TGT mutations from B[a]P-, B[b]F- and 5MC-, induced tumors and CGT mutations from CPP- and B[j]A-induced tumors were observed. DBA produced no mutations in Ki-ras codons 12 or 61 by direct sequencing. The interrelationships between the tumorigenesis, DNA adduct, and oncogene mutation data are discussed.
To clarify the involvement of tumor suppressor genes in exogenous and endogenous liver carcinogenesis, alterations of p16, p21 and p53 in hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) and a choline deficient L-amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet in rats were investigated. Male Fischer 344 rats received DEN at 6-week of age followed by partial hepatectomy (PH), with colchicine to induce cell cycle disturbance, and a selection pressure regimen. Sacrifice was after 42 weeks. Other animals continuously received a CDAA diet for 75 weeks and were then killed. Eleven and 15 HCCs were obtained, respectively. Total RNA was extracted from and cDNA was synthesized with reverse transcriptase to allow investigation of mutations in p16, p21 and p53 by polymerase chain reaction single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis. Expression of p16 and p21 mRNA was also analyzed by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. The results showed no mutations or deletions of p16, p21 and p53 in any of the HCCs induced by DEN or CDAA. Loss or decrease of p16 and p21 expression were also not found, suggesting that p16, p21 and p53 alteration may not be necessary for either exogenous or endogenous liver carcinogenesis in rats.
