It is classically considered that Amphetamine acts by increasing extracellular dopamine levels. However, some data suggest a relevant role of other neurochemical systems. The striatum is of particular interest to the study of this question. We have investigated the involvement of the noradrenergic and serotonergic systems and their possible interaction in the striatal responses to Amphetamine using a double behavioral and immunohistochemical approach (i.e., changes in locomotor activity and striatal expression of Fos). In normal rats, Amphetamine induced locomotor hyperactivity and striatal expression of Fos. Pretreatment with the alpha1-adrenergic-receptor antagonist Prazosin or lesion of the serotonergic system significantly reduced the locomotor hyperactivity and striatal Fos expression induced by Amphetamine. Administration of Prazosin to rats with serotonergic denervation did not produce any further reduction in the Amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity or striatal Fos expression compared with that observed in rats with serotonergic denervation only. Amphetamine did not induce a detectable increase in Fos expression in dopamine-denervated striata, and elicited intense rotation towards the dopamine-denervated side. This suggests that striatal dopamine release is essential in the Amphetamine-induced effects on striatal neurons. However, the noradrenergic system plays an important role, and the serotonergic system is necessary for mediating the effects of the Amphetamine-induced noradrenergic stimulation. Concurrent stimulation of dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors appears necessary to regulate Amphetamine-induced responses in the striatal neurons.
This study was performed to compare microregional 0(2) supply and consumption balance in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY), and in phenylephrine-induced acutely hypertensive WKY (WKY + ph) rats. Under isoflurane anesthesia, a middle cerebral artery (MCA) of SHR (n = 7) and WKY (n = 14) rats was occluded. Seven of the WKY rats were infused with phenylephrine (WKY + ph) to keep the mean arterial pressure (MAP) at the same level as that of the SHR. In all animals, 1 h after MCA occlusion, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was determined using an autoradiographic technique, and microregional arterial and venous 02 saturations were determined using microspectrophotometry. MAP was 76 +/- 4 (SD), 136 +/- 15, and 132 +/- 12 mm Hg for the WKY, WKY + ph, and SHR groups, respectively. All variables describing regional O2 balance and rCBF were similar between the SHR and the WKY groups in the ischemic cortex as well as in the contralateral cortex. With phenylephrine infusion, rCBF of both the ischemic cortex and the contralateral cortex were increased in the WKY group. The average 02 supply-to-consumption ratio in the ischemic cortex was higher in the WKY + ph than in the WKY or SHR group. In the ischemic cortex, heterogeneity of venous 02 saturation (SvO2), expressed as a coefficient of variation (CV = 100 X SD/mean), was significantly lower in the WKY + ph (18.3 +/- 2.4) group than in the SHR (30.5 +/- 11.8) or in the WKY (31.3 +/- 9.0) group. The number of veins with low 02 saturation (SvO2 < 40%) in the ischemic cortex was significantly lower in the WKY + ph than in the SHR or in the WKY group. Our data suggest that in chronically hypertensive animals, cerebrovascular adaptations enable the microregional 02 balance in focal ischemia to be maintained at a level similar to that of normotensive animals. However, in normotensive animals with focal cerebral ischemia, an acute increase of MAP improves microregional O2 balance.
The BARX genes 1 and 2 are Bar class homeobox genes expressed in craniofacial structures during development. In this report, we present the genomic structure, chromosomal localization, and polymorphic markers in BARX2. The gene has four exons, ranging in size from 85 to 1099 bp. BARX2 is localized on human chromosome 11q25, as determined by radiation hybrid mapping. In the mouse, Barx2 is coexpressed with Pitx2 in several tissues. Based on the coexpression, BARX2 was assumed to be a candidate gene for those cases of Rieger syndrome that cannot be associated with mutations of PITX2. Mutations in PITX2 cause some cases of Rieger syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder affecting eyes, teeth, and umbilicus. DNA from Rieger patients was subjected to single-strand conformation polymorphism screening of the BARX2 coding region. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms were found in a normal population, although no etiologic mutations were detectable in over 100 cases of Rieger syndrome or in individuals with related ocular disorders.
Acute serotonin (5-HT) depletion by the tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor, para-chlorophenylalanine, attenuates cocaine seeking in rats.
The present study examined the effects of chronic 5-HT depletion on cocaine- and sucrose seeking using the 5-HT-selective neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT).
Separate groups of rats were trained to lever press for cocaine infusions (0.33 mg/kg/0.1 ml, i.v.) or for sucrose pellets (45 mg Noyes) on a fixed ratio (FR) 1 schedule of reinforcement during daily 2-h sessions. Subsequently, animals received i.c.v. infusions of either vehicle or 5,7-DHT (150 microg/6 microl or 200 microg/20 microl). After a minimum of 10 days post-lesion, cocaine- and sucrose seeking were measured as lever presses in the absence of reinforcement (extinction). Some cocaine-trained animals were also assessed for the re-establishment of self-administration and reinstatement of extinguished cocaine seeking by i.v. cocaine priming injections and response-contingent presentations of cocaine-paired stimuli.
5-HT depletion by the 150 microg/6 microl dose of 5,7-DHT failed to alter cocaine- and sucrose seeking despite producing a 42-77% depletion of 5-HT in limbic terminal regions. The 200 microg/20 microl dose of 5,7-DHT attenuated cocaine seeking but enhanced sucrose seeking during extinction and produced a 55-85% depletion of 5-HT. In addition, cocaine-paired cues and cocaine priming reinstated cocaine-seeking behavior, and responding was enhanced in 5,7-DHT-treated animals relative to vehicle-treated controls at the 1 mg/kg/0.1 ml priming dose. However, re-establishment of cocaine self-administration was not altered by 5,7-DHT.
The results suggest that 5-HT depletion may attenuate cocaine seeking but may enhance sucrose seeking when animals are tested during extinction. Furthermore, 5-HT depletion may enhance cocaine seeking produced by cocaine itself. Together these findings suggest that 5-HT depletion may have opposite effects on incentive motivation for cocaine during abstinence versus relapse.
Improvement of immunotherapy-based protocols in cancer requires a better understanding of tumor microenvironment and tumor-host interaction. Stromal and immune cells and molecules such as cytokines, chemokines, growth factors and metalloproteases mediate tumor-host interaction determining, at least in part, tumor development. In the present study, we used an immunohistochemical approach to explore leukocyte sub-populations, cytokine profiles and costimulatory molecule expression in rat N -Nitrosomethylurea (NMU)-induced breast tumors. Our results show a strong leukocyte infiltration mainly composed of macrophages and TCR alphabeta positive T cells. We observed a weak expression of costimulatory molecules (CD80, CD86) and an absence of inflammatory cytokines (IFNgamma, TNFalpha, IP-10) and lymphocyte activation markers (CD25). Interestingly, this immunosuppressed status could be a consequence of IL-10 expression by malignant cells, as demonstrated by immunohistology and western blot analysis, which seems to be an early event during mammary carcinogenesis. Analysis of a cell line derived from an NMU-induced rat breast tumor showed that this cell line also expresses IL-10. This study shows that the NMU model of rat breast cancer could be used to evaluate different immune based therapies as well as to study the role of IL-10 in breast cancer. Furthermore, this rat breast cancer model shows an immunohistological profile similar to that found in human cancer and the fact that it develops like spontaneously arising malignancies make it interesting as a cancer model in immunobiology.
Ocular herpes simplex virus infection can cause a blinding CD4⁺ T cell orchestrated immuno-inflammatory lesion in the cornea called Stromal Keratitis (SK). A key to controlling the severity of SK lesions is to suppress the activity of T cells that orchestrate lesions and enhance the representation of regulatory cells that inhibit effector cell function. In this report we show that a single administration of TCDD (2, 3, 7, 8- Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin), a non-physiological ligand for the AhR receptor, was an effective means of reducing the severity of SK lesions. It acted by causing apoptosis of Foxp3⁻ CD4⁺ T cells but had no effect on Foxp3⁺ CD4⁺ Tregs. TCDD also decreased the proliferation of Foxp3⁻ CD4⁺ T cells. The consequence was an increase in the ratio of Tregs to T effectors which likely accounted for the reduced inflammatory responses. In addition, in vitro studies revealed that TCDD addition to anti-CD3/CD28 stimulated naïve CD4⁺ T cells caused a significant induction of Tregs, but inhibited the differentiation of Th1 and Th17 cells. Since a single TCDD administration given after the disease process had been initiated generated long lasting anti-inflammatory effects, the approach holds promise as a therapeutic means of controlling virus induced inflammatory lesions.
Perlman syndrome is a congenital overgrowth syndrome inherited in an autosomal recessive manner that is associated with Wilms tumor susceptibility. We mapped a previously unknown susceptibility locus to 2q37.1 and identified germline mutations in DIS3L2, a homolog of the Schizosaccharomyces pombe dis3 gene, in individuals with Perlman syndrome. Yeast dis3 mutant strains have mitotic abnormalities. Yeast Dis3 and its human homologs, DIS3 and DIS3L1, have exoribonuclease activity and bind to the core RNA exosome complex. DIS3L2 has a different intracellular localization and lacks the PIN domain found in DIS3 and DIS3L1; nevertheless, we show that DIS3L2 has exonuclease activity. DIS3L2 inactivation was associated with mitotic abnormalities and altered expression of mitotic checkpoint proteins. DIS3L2 overexpression suppressed the growth of human cancer cell lines, and knockdown enhanced the growth of these cells. We also detected evidence of DIS3L2 mutations in sporadic Wilms tumor. These observations suggest that DIS3L2 has a critical role in RNA metabolism and is essential for the regulation of cell growth and division.
Genetic factors have been implicated in stroke risk, but few replicated associations have been reported. We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for ischemic stroke and its subtypes in 3,548 affected individuals and 5,972 controls, all of European ancestry. Replication of potential signals was performed in 5,859 affected individuals and 6,281 controls. We replicated previous associations for cardioembolic stroke near PITX2 and ZFHX3 and for large vessel stroke at a 9p21 locus. We identified a new association for large vessel stroke within HDAC9 (encoding histone deacetylase 9) on chromosome 7p21.1 (including further replication in an additional 735 affected individuals and 28,583 controls) (rs11984041; combined P = 1.87 × 10(-11); odds ratio (OR) = 1.42, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.28-1.57). All four loci exhibited evidence for heterogeneity of effect across the stroke subtypes, with some and possibly all affecting risk for only one subtype. This suggests distinct genetic architectures for different stroke subtypes.
After myocardial necrosis and fibrosis was observed in five rabbits which had been anesthetized a variable number of times, the potential relationship of these lesions and anesthesia was evaluated in 35 other rabbits.
Anesthesia was induced by intramuscular administration of ketamine and xylazine followed by infusion of lactated Ringer's solution also containing ketamine and xylazine. Group A rabbits (n = 9) were subjected to multiple anesthesias and were evaluated by echocardiography, thoracic radiography, electrocardiography, determination of serum coronavirus titer, vitamin E concentration, and complete necropsy. Prior to a single acute procedure followed by necropsy, group B rabbits (n = 11) were evaluated by echocardiography only. Group C rabbits (n = 10) had never been anesthetized and were necropsied after euthanasia. Group D rabbits (n = 5) had intermediate anesthesia exposure history and were evaluated by echocardiography only. Myocardial fibrosis was scored semi-quantitatively on a scale of 0 to 4.
Canine coronavirus test results were negative; hypovitaminosis E was evident, and fibrosis scores were significantly increased in group A, compared with group B or group C, rabbits.
Etiologic differentials included alpha2-agonist-mediated coronary vasoconstriction with associated myocardial hypoperfusion, hypovitaminosis E and free radical injury, and other anesthetic-induced physiologic trespass.
Gastrointestinal ulcerogenic effect of indomethacin is causally related with an endogenous prostaglandin (PG) deficiency, yet the detailed mechanism remains unknown. We examined the effect of various PGE analogues specific to EP receptor subtypes on these lesions in rats and mice, and investigated which EP receptor subtype is involved in the protective action of PGE(2). Fasted or non-fasted animals were given indomethacin s.c. at 35 mg/kg for induction of gastric lesions or 10-30 mg/kg for intestinal lesions, and they were killed 4 or 24 h later, respectively. Various EP agonists were given i.v. 10 min before indomethacin. Indomethacin caused hemorrhagic lesions in both the stomach and intestine. Prior administration of 16,16-dimethyl PGE(2) (dmPGE(2)) prevented the development of damage in both tissues, and the effect in the stomach was mimicked by 17-phenyl PGE2 (EP1), while that in the small intestine was reproduced by ONO-NT-012 (EP3) and ONO-AE-329 (EP4). Butaprost (EP2) did not have any effect on either gastric or intestinal lesions induced by indomethacin. Similar to the findings in rats, indomethacin caused gastric and intestinal lesions in both wild-type and knockout mice lacking EP1 or EP3 receptors. However, the protective action of dmPGE(2) in the stomach was observed in wild-type and EP3 receptor knockout mice but not in mice lacking EP1 receptors, while that in the intestine was observed in EP1 knockout as well as wild-type mice but not in the animals lacking EP3 receptors. These results suggest that indomethacin produced damage in the stomach and intestine in a PGE(2)-sensitive manner, and exogenous PGE(2) prevents gastric and intestinal ulcerogenic response to indomethacin through different EP receptor subtypes; the protection in the stomach is mediated by EP1 receptors, while that in the intestine mediated by EP3/EP4 receptors.
Phenytoin toxicity is an uncommon problem seen in clinical practice. The predisposing factors for toxicity are hypoalbuminemia, chronic renal failure, hepatic dysfunction and drugs which interfere with phenytoin metabolism. Common manifestations of toxicity, like confusion and ataxia, are well known. A less well known phenomenon is paradoxical seizures. In this condition, seizures develop as the serum phenytoin level rises and decrease in frequency as levels drop. It may or may not be accompanied by other features of toxicity. We present three patients with paradoxical seizures; their serum phenytoin levels were 43.5 mcg/mL, 46.5 mcg/mL and 38.3 mcg/mL. In all cases, seizures were controlled by withdrawal of phenytoin and reduction of drug levels.
Herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) converts ganciclovir (GCV) into an active compound, which can be incorporated into DNA molecules and terminate DNA synthesis. Gene transfer of HSV-tk followed by GCV administration has been used with success to treat experimental cancer and this strategy has entered into clinical trials. Although it is thought that the cytotoxic effect occurs mainly in tumoral dividing cells, where mitotic activity favors integration of the genotoxic compound into nuclear DNA, there are concerns of potential damage to normal nondividing cells. In the present work we have explored the mechanisms of HSV-tk/GCV toxicity and in particular whether this therapy may cause lesions of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and mitochondrial dysfunction. We found that the administration of GCV to rats injected with adenovirus encoding HSV-tk induced hepatocellular damage characterized by the presence of apoptotic bodies, ballooning of hepatocytes, and severe hepatic steatosis with mitochondria enlargement and cristae dissolution at the ultrastructural level. Remarkably, Southern blot analysis showed substantial reduction in the amount of mtDNA in the liver. Using radiolabeled GCV we could demonstrate incorporation of this compound into both nuclear and mtDNA in HSV-tk-transduced rat hepatocytic cell line MCA-RH7777 and subsequent alteration of mitochondrial function. Our observations confirm that GCV can damage both nuclear and mtDNA in cells transduced with HSV-tk and that this effect could be responsible for severe mitochondrial dysfunction and toxicity in normal nondividing cells. These data are relevant for the design of clinical trials using adenoviral vectors encoding HSV-tk.
Pretreatment with GABA (250--1,000 mg/kg IP) potentiated the cataleptogenic effect of haloperidol in a dose-dependent manner in rats. GABA (GABA, B.D.H. Ltd.) alone in a dose of 2,000 mg/kg (IP) also induced catalepsy. The results may be due to partial access of blood-borne GABA to the CNS, leading to inhibition of nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons involved in the functioning of the corpus striatum.
The sudden improvement in long-term schizophrenic patients after treatment with clozapine is frequently disconcerting to their families. In many cases the patients appear to have increased hostility toward their families because of the alleviation of negative symptoms such as apathy and blunted affect. The authors believe that psychoeducational intervention can help families adjust to the change in their family members and describe such intervention with three families. They emphasize the importance of recognizing that a patient's improvement can be a stressor in the family relationship and the need for devising appropriate interventions.
The antidepressant amitriptyline is used as an adjuvant in the treatment of chronic pain. Among its many actions, amitriptyline blocks Na+ channels and nerves in several animal and human models. As perioperative intravenous lidocaine has been suggested to decrease postoperative pain, amitriptyline, because of its longer half-life time, might be more useful than lidocaine. However, the use of intravenous amitriptyline is not approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. We therefore investigated the adverse effects of preoperative intravenous amitriptyline in a typical phase 1A trial. After obtaining written Food and Drug Administration and institutional review board approval, we obtained written consent for preoperative infusion of amitriptyline in an open-label, dose-escalating design (25, 50, and 100 mg, n=5 per group). Plasma levels of amitriptyline/nortriptyline were determined, and adverse effects were recorded in a predetermined symptom list. Infusion of 25 and 50 mg amitriptyline appears to be well tolerated; however, the study was terminated when 1 subject in the 100-mg group developed severe bradycardia. Intravenous infusion of amitriptyline (25 to 50 mg over 1 hour) did not create side effects beyond dry mouth and drowsiness, or dizziness, in 2 of our 10 otherwise healthy participants receiving the 25- to 50-mg dose. An appropriately powered future trial is necessary to determine a potential role of amitriptyline in decreasing postoperative pain.
Amitriptyline potently blocks the persistently open Na+ channels, which are known to be instrumental in various pain states. As this occurs at very low plasma concentrations, a single preoperative intravenous infusion of amitriptyline could provide long-lasting pain relief and decrease the incidence of chronic pain.
We identify an autosomal mutation in the CSF3R gene in a family with a chronic neutrophilia. This T617N mutation energetically favors dimerization of the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) receptor transmembrane domain, and thus, strongly promotes constitutive activation of the receptor and hypersensitivity to G-CSF for proliferation and differentiation, which ultimately leads to chronic neutrophilia. Mutant hematopoietic stem cells yield a myeloproliferative-like disorder in xenotransplantation and syngenic mouse bone marrow engraftment assays. The survey of 12 affected individuals during three generations indicates that only one patient had a myelodysplastic syndrome. Our data thus indicate that mutations in the CSF3R gene can be responsible for hereditary neutrophilia mimicking a myeloproliferative disorder.
As ceruloplasmin and copper abnormalities have been implicated in schizophrenia, we investigated the role of a second copper-containing non-ceruloplasmin protein, the iron oxidase ferroxidase II, in a prospective study of ten inpatients with schizophrenia and a comparison group. Ferroxidase II is a protein known to reciprocally regulate with ceruloplasmin in Wilson's disease, an illness characterized by psychotic symptoms, decreased ceruloplasmin, and increased copper deposition in tissues. Ferroxidase II plays a key role in the maintenance of near-normal iron metabolism in Wilson's disease, but its role in schizophrenia has never been studied. In this study, we assayed ceruloplasmin by two enzymatic assays, a standard clinical laboratory p-phenylenediamine oxidation assay and a second assay based on the rate of the oxidation and incorporation of iron (Fe3+) into transferrin; we assayed ferroxidase II activity using this second iron oxidation assay. We found that ceruloplasmin levels as measured by both enzymatic methods, but not ferroxidase II, were elevated in schizophrenia. The increased ceruloplasmin also correlated with elevated serum copper as assayed by atomic absorption spectrophotometry, which was unsurprising as the majority of copper in blood is bound to ceruloplasmin. It has been proposed that copper, as a component of several enzymes linked to dopamine synthesis, may play a role in schizophrenia by exacerbating or perpetuating dopaminergic dysregulation. Our study suggests that the ceruloplasmin elevation in schizophrenia is specific, and not simply an elevation of plasma copper-containing oxidative enzymes. Increases in ceruloplasmin may result in increased levels of copper, which ultimately proves deleterious in schizophrenia.
Headaches have been reported as a potential side effect of capecitabine therapy. However, severe limiting headaches are rarely experienced in this setting and no known therapy has been described for such a serious side effect.
We report the case of a patient treated with capecitabine and radiation for rectal adenocarcinoma. The patient developed grade 3 capecitabine-induced headache. A cause-effect relationship to capecitabine was suggested due to resolution of headache with capecitabine withdrawal and reappearance with capecitabine rechallenge. The patient's headache resolved with diltiazem therapy and she was able to complete capecitabine and radiation therapy without further adverse events.
Capecitabine and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) are known vasospasm inducers. We hypothesize that capecitabine-induced headache is vascular in nature. This likely explains the noted response to a calcium channel blocker (CCB), namely diltiazem. CCBs should be considered in the treatment of 5-FU or capecitabine-induced headaches.
Intrathecal delivery of alpha(2)-adrenergic agonists produces an analgesic effect. However, hemodynamic side effects limit their clinical usage. To more fully characterize the effects on heart rate and arterial blood pressure of alpha(2)-adrenergic agonists, clonidine and tizanidine were injected intrathecally in conscious dogs. Both compounds produced a potent inhibition of thermal foot-withdrawal latencies at 1000 micrograms, which was blocked by the alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine. Tizanidine (250-500 micrograms) did not change heart rate. Clonidine (500 -2000 micrograms) and tizanidine (1000-2000 micrograms) decreased heart rate. The tizanidine effect was inhibited by yohimbine and the alpha(2)/imidazoline antagonist idazoxan, as well as the parasympathetic blocker glycopyrrolate. No drug completely inhibited the clonidine-induced bradycardia. Clonidine had a biphasic effect on arterial blood pressure, a decrease at 500 micrograms and an increase at 2000 micrograms. Tizanidine decreased arterial blood pressure at all doses. The results indicate that, while the analgesic effects of both drugs are similar, the hemodynamic responses differ. While the decrease in heart rate with tizanidine is consistent with alpha(2)-adrenergic binding and vagal action, the bradycardia induced by clonidine is more complex. In addition, the increased arterial blood pressure with high doses of clonidine, which is suggestive of a peripheral vasoconstrictive effect, does not occur with tizanidine.
Perhexiline maleate (Pexid) which has been in general use in France with good results for the treatment of angina pectoris since 1973, may be associated with severe side effects including peripheral neuropathy. The present study is a comparison of the pharmacokinetics of perhexiline maleate in anginal patients with and without signs of peripheral neuropathy. Compared to the latter, those with neuropathy had higher plasma levels of perhexiline, slower hepatic metabolism and a longer plasma half-life. Thus, peripheral neuropathy associated with perhexiline maleate treatment appears to be a direct toxic effect due to accumulation of the drug. The accumulation might result either from a decreased volume of distribution secondary to a loss of body weight, possibly drug-induced, or to slow hepatic metabolism of perhexiline of genetic origin or due to hepatic disease, possibly drug-induced. The neuropathy is rarely an isolated event, as it is often associated with one or more adverse effects of perhexiline.
Methotrexate (MTX), a widely used anticancer agent, and intravenous iodinated contrast used for radiographic studies can both cause acute renal failure. Their combined exposure may place patients at higher risk for renal failure. This report describes 2 pediatric patients with MTX toxicity precipitated by the use of intravenous radiographic contrast. One patient recovered with leucovorin rescue therapy, whereas the second patient responded to carboxypeptidase-G2. Both patients suffered MTX-related toxicities including myelosuppression and mucositis, but recovered full renal function and tolerated further high-dose MTX therapy. These cases suggest that intravenous iodinated contrast should be avoided in patients receiving high-dose MTX.
