Herpes simplex virus type 1 is a common cause of severe sporadic encephalitis. Treatment with acyclovir is highly effective in this disease. We report the case of a 27-year-old, immunocompetent woman with acyclovir-resistant herpes simplex encephalitis. Although she had not been treated before, herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA from the cerebrospinal fluid showed a non-synonymous mutation in the thymidine kinase gene, which is likely to have caused resistance to acyclovir. Herpes simplex encephalitis resolved after treatment with foscarnet. To our knowledge, this is the first report of acyclovir-resistant herpes simplex virus encephalitis in an immunocompetent, previously therapy-naive adult.
Hodgkin's lymphoma is rarely evidenced by dermatological signs or symptoms.
A 37 year-old man progressively developed widespread cutaneous roughness, with small parallel lines producing fish-like scales. A skin biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of acquired ichthyosis, as evidenced by the absence of the epidermal granular layer. The patient's condition was assessed to be satisfactory. However, two months later, his general condition had gradually deteriorated (night sweats, weight loss, axillary and scalp alopecia, and adenopathies). Hodgkin's lymphoma was diagnosed. After treatment with adriamycin, bleomycin, vincristine and dacarbazine, complete remission of the lymphoma was obtained, and concomitantly, the symptoms of acquired ichthyosis resolved; this was confirmed by serial skin biopsies that evidenced the progressive complete restoration of the granular layer. The level of plasmatic vitamin A and carotene, which had decreased before the treatment, returned to normal values. A subsequent relapse of Hodgkin's lymphoma was preceded by the recurrence of ichthyosis; this time vitamin A and carotene levels were not decreased.
As a paraneoplastic syndrome, acquired ichthyosis as a first sign of Hodgkin's lymphoma is discussed. In the presence of acquired ichthyosis, repeated monitoring of the patient is required since clinical symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma are often delayed. Acquired ichthyosis is also an early marker of lymphoma recurrence.
To investigate the inhibitive effect and its possible mechanism of Cordyceps Sinensis (CS) on CCl(4)-plus ethanol-induced hepatic fibrogenesis in experimental rats.
Rats were randomly allocated into a normal control group, a model control group and a CS group. The latter two groups were administered with CCl(4) and ethanol solution at the beginning of the experiment to induce hepatic fibrosis. The CS group was also treated with CS 10 days after the beginning of CCl(4) and ethanol administration. All control groups were given corresponding placebo at the same time. At the end of the 9th week, rats in each group were humanely sacrificed. Blood and tissue specimens were taken. Biochemical, radioimmunological, immunohistochemical and molecular biological examinations were used to determine the level change of ALT, AST, HA, LN content in serum and TGFbeta(1), PDGF, collagen I and III expression in tissue at either protein or mRNA level or both of them.
As compared with the model control group, serum ALT, AST, HA, and LN content levels were markedly dropped in CS group (86.0+/-34.4 vs 224.3+/-178.9, 146.7+/-60.2 vs 272.6+/-130.1, 202.0+/-79.3 vs 316.5+/-94.1 and 50.4+/-3.0 vs 59.7+/-9.8, respectively, P<0.05). Tissue expression of TGFbeta(1) and its mRNA, collagen I mRNA were also markedly decreased (0.2+/-0.14 vs 1.73+/-1.40, 1.68+/-0.47 vs 3.17+/-1.17, 1.10+/-0.84 vs 2.64+/-1.40, respectively, P<0.05). More dramatical drop could be seen in PDGF expression (0.87+/-0.43 vs 1.91+/-0.74, P<0.01). Although there was no statistical significance, it was still strongly suggested that collagen III mRNA expression was also decreased in CS group as compared with model control group (0.36+/-0.27 vs 0.95+/-0.65, P=0.0615). In this experiment, no significant change could be found in PDGF mRNA expression between two groups (0.35+/-0.34 vs 0.70+/-0.46, P>0.05).
Cordyceps sinensis could inhibit hepatic fibrogenesis derived from chronic liver injury, retard the development of cirrhosis, and notably ameliorate the liver function. Its possible mechanism involves inhibiting TGFbeta(1) expression, and thereby, down regulating PDGF expression, preventing HSC activation and deposition of procollagen I and III.
7 cases of stuporous states or coma induced in epileptic subjects by the rapid administration of high doses of sodium valproate are described. Progressive impairment of consciousness began 2 to 7 days after the administration of sodium valproate and induced a slowing of background EEG activity until the delta activity became of high amplitude, generalized, continuous and areactive. The authors believe that the impairment of consciousness in their patients was related to the rapid administration of high doses and a direct intrinsic action of sodium valproate on the brain, as no increase in plasma levels of the drugs in association with valproate was observed.
Micro-injection of methyldopa into the area of the midline B3 serotonin cell group in the ventral medulla of spontaneously hypertensive rats, stroke-prone strain (SHRSP), caused a fall in blood pressure of 30-40 mmHg, maximally 2-3 h after administration. This hypotension was abolished by the selective serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) injected intracerebroventricularly, but it was not affected by intraspinal injection of 5,7-DHT to produce a selective lesion of serotonin nerves descending into the spinal cord, or by injection of 5,7-DHT into the median forebrain bundle, one of the main ascending pathways from the B3 serotonin cells. It seems likely that the midline serotonin B3 cells in the medulla contribute to the hypotensive action of methyldopa through a projection restricted to the caudal brainstem.
Agricultural workers are exposed to airborne pollutants, including organic and inorganic (mineral) dusts.
Lung autopsy specimens from consecutive coroner's cases of Hispanic males in Fresno County, California, (n = 112) were obtained to determine whether mineral dust exposure in agricultural work leads to pneumoconiosis.
The left lung was fixed by inflation. We evaluated airway and parenchymal pathology using standardized diagnostic criteria and semiquantitative grading schemata, including the grading of small airways for fibrosis and birefringent mineral dust particles. We analyzed lung dust burden on a subset of 37 lungs following bleach digestion, using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray spectrometry (XRS) and image analysis, and by X-ray diffraction for crystalline silica (CSi). Farmworkers comprised 51.5% and nonfarmworkers 48.5% of the samples.
Proximal airways demonstrated little mineral dust accumulation, but membranous and respiratory bronchioles had wall thickening, remodeling, and inflammation associated with carbonaceous and mineral dust deposition. These changes were independently associated with agricultural work, cigarette smoking, and increased age. Mineral dust small airways disease, pneumoconiosis (macules and nodules), and pathologic changes consistent with chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and interstitial fibrosis predominated in farmworkers compared with nonfarmworkers. CSi, determined gravimetrically, and aluminum silicate particles, determined by SEM/XRS, were increased in the lungs of farmworkers compared with nonfarmworkers and were significantly (p < 0.05) associated with small airway disease and pneumoconiosis.
Mineral dust exposure is associated with increased small airway disease and pneumoconiosis among California farmworkers; however, the clinical significance and natural history of these changes remains to be determined.
D-hormone [1,25(OH)2 D3] is an important immune system regulator that has been shown to inhibit development of autoimmune diseases including experimental inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), multiple sclerosis (MS), and type 1 diabetes. Paradoxically, other immune mediated diseases (experimental asthma) and immunity to infectious organisms were not found to be affected by D-hormone treatment. The effectiveness of D-hormone treatment of autoimmune diseases is due to inhibition of the development and function of Th1 cells and the induction of other Th cells including Th2 cells. We report results of microarray analysis of colons from D-hormone treated mice with experimental IBD. Two hundred thirty-nine genes were inhibited and 298 genes were upregulated in the colon by D-hormone treatment of mice with IBD. Of interest was the D-hormone mediated inhibition of 3 tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha, lipopolysaccharide-induced TNF-alpha factor, and TNF receptor) related genes in the colon. It is likely that the effectiveness of D-hormone treatment of experimental autoimmunity is due in part to the inhibition of the TNF family of genes. D-hormone is a selective regulator of the immune system, and the outcome of D-hormone treatment depends on the nature (infectious disease, asthma, autoimmune disease, etc.) of the immune response.
Understanding the progression from beryllium exposure (BeE) to chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is essential for optimizing screening and early intervention to prevent CBD.
We developed an analytic markov model of progression to cbd that assigns annual probabilities for progression through three states: from BeE to beryllium sensitization and then to CBD. We used calculations of the number in each state over time to assess which of several alternative progression models are most consistent with the limited available empirical data on prevalence and incidence. We estimated cost-effectiveness of screening considering both incremental (cost/case) and cumulative program costs.
No combination of parameters for a simple model in which risk of progression remains constant over time can meet the empirical constraints of relatively frequent early cases and continuing development of new cases with long latencies. Modeling shows that the risk of progression is initially high and then declines over time. Also, it is likely that there are at least two populations that differ significantly in risk. The cost-effectiveness of repetitive screening declines over time, although new cases will still be found with long latencies. However, screening will be particularly cost-effective when applied to persons with long latencies who have not been previously screened.
To optimize use of resources, the intensity of screening should decrease over time. Estimation of lifetime cumulative CBD risk should consider the declining risk of progression over time.
This study was designed to examine the effects of squalene on tissue antioxidant status in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in male albino rats. Levels of diagnostic marker enzymes [alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and creatine phosphokinase (CPK)] in plasma, lipid peroxides, reduced glutathione, and the activities of glutathione-dependent antioxidant enzymes [glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST)] and antiperoxidative enzymes [catalase (CAT) and superoxide dismutase (SOD)] in the heart tissue of experimental groups of rats were determined. The prior administration of squalene at 2% level along with feed for 45 days significantly prevented the isoproterenol-induced elevation in the levels of diagnostic marker enzymes in plasma of experimental rats. Squalene also exerted an antioxidant effect against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction by blocking the induction of lipid peroxidation. A tendency to prevent the isoproterenol-induced alterations in the level of reduced glutathione and in the activities of glutathione-dependent antioxidant enzymes and antiperoxidative enzymes was also observed. The cardioprotective effect of squalene might be ascribable to its antioxidant property and membrane stabilizing action.
Research suggests that independent and joint effects of genetic variability in the dopamine transporter (DAT) locus and pesticides may influence Parkinson's disease (PD) risk.
