We examined the protective effect of inositol hexasulfate (IS6) against tobramycin (TOB)-induced nephrotoxicity. In the electrophoretic analysis, TOB alone and IS6 alone were observed as single spots on the cathode and anode sides, respectively. However, in the mixture of TOB and IS6 preincubated at 37 degrees C for 3 hr, the tailing of the spots of TOB and IS6 were observed from the origin to the cathode and the anode sides, respectively, and the overlapping of the spots of TOB and IS6 was recognized at the origin. These results indicated that TOB directly interacted with IS6 in vitro. Assay of TOB binding to rat kidney brush border membranes (BBMs) indicated that IS6 inhibited the binding of TOB to BBMs through an interaction of TOB and IS6. No significant reduction in intrarenal TOB level was observed in the rats given TOB (90 mg/kg, s.c.) and IS6 (153 or 610 mg/kg, s.c.). However, the treatment of rats with a combination of TOB and IS6 reduced the degree of necrosis of renal tubular cells and also suppressed the increases in urinary protein, urinary enzyme activities, blood urea nitrogen and plasma creatinine induced by TOB. Additionally, we detected a complex of TOB and IS6 in the urine of rats given both compounds simultaneously. These results indicate that IS6 protects against TOB-induced nephrotoxicity and that the protective action of IS6 may be due to the inhibition of TOB binding to BBMs through an interaction of TOB with IS6.
Tobacco smoke (TS) exposure induces airway hyperreactivity, particularly in sensitive individuals with asthma. However, the mechanism of this airway hyperreactivity is not well understood. To investigate the relative susceptibility of atopic and nonatopic individuals to TS-induced airway hyperreactivity, we exposed ovalbumin (OA)-sensitized and nonsensitized guinea pigs to TS exposure (5 mg/l air, 30-min exposure, 7 days/wk for 120-156 days). Two similar groups exposed to compressed air served as controls. Airway reactivity was assessed as an increase in enhanced pause (Penh) units using a plethysmograph that allowed free movement of the animals. After 90 days of exposure, airway reactivity increased in OA-TS guinea pigs challenged with capsaicin, bradykinin, and neurokinin A fragment 4--10 aerosols. In addition, substance P content increased in lung perfusate of OA-TS guinea pigs in response to acute TS challenge compared with that of the other groups. Airway hyperirritability was not enhanced by phosphoramidon but was attenuated by a cocktail of neurokinin antagonists, nor was airway hyperreactivity observed after either methacholine or histamine challenge in OA-TS guinea pigs. Chronic TS exposure enhanced neither airway reactivity to histamine or methacholine nor contractility of isolated tracheal rings. In conclusion, chronic TS exposure increased airway reactivity to capsaicin and bradykinin aerosol challenge, and OA-TS guinea pigs were most susceptible to airway dysfunction as the result of exposure to TS compared with the other groups. Increased airway reactivity to capsaicin suggests a mechanism involving neurogenic inflammation, such as increased activation of lung C fibers.
Dopamine (DA), through D1/D2 receptor-mediated signaling, plays a major role in the control of epileptic seizures arising in the limbic system. Excitotoxicity leading to neuronal cell death in the affected areas is a major consequence of seizures at the cellular level. In this respect, little is known about the role of DA receptors in the occurrence of epilepsy-induced neuronal cell death. Here we analyze the occurrence of seizures and neurotoxicity in D2R -/- mice treated with the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine. We compared these results with those previously obtained with kainic acid (KA), a potent glutamate agonist. Importantly, D2R -/- mice develop seizures at doses of both drugs that are not epileptogenic for WT littermates and show greater neurotoxicity. However, pilocarpine-induced seizures result in a more widespread neuronal death in both WT and D2R -/- brains in comparison to KA. Thus, the absence of D2R lowers the threshold for seizures induced by both glutamate and acetylcholine. Moreover, the dopaminergic control of epilepsy-induced neurodegeneration seems to be mediated by distinct interactions of D2R signaling with these two neurotransmitters.
Several mutations are required for cancer development, and genome sequencing has revealed that many cancers, including breast cancer, have somatic mutation spectra dominated by C-to-T transitions. Most of these mutations occur at hydrolytically disfavoured non-methylated cytosines throughout the genome, and are sometimes clustered. Here we show that the DNA cytosine deaminase APOBEC3B is a probable source of these mutations. APOBEC3B messenger RNA is upregulated in most primary breast tumours and breast cancer cell lines. Tumours that express high levels of APOBEC3B have twice as many mutations as those that express low levels and are more likely to have mutations in TP53. Endogenous APOBEC3B protein is predominantly nuclear and the only detectable source of DNA C-to-U editing activity in breast cancer cell-line extracts. Knockdown experiments show that endogenous APOBEC3B correlates with increased levels of genomic uracil, increased mutation frequencies, and C-to-T transitions. Furthermore, induced APOBEC3B overexpression causes cell cycle deviations, cell death, DNA fragmentation, γ-H2AX accumulation and C-to-T mutations. Our data suggest a model in which APOBEC3B-catalysed deamination provides a chronic source of DNA damage in breast cancers that could select TP53 inactivation and explain how some tumours evolve rapidly and manifest heterogeneity.
Familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia (FDH) is the most common cause of inherited euthyroid hyperthyroxinemia in Caucasians. To our knowledge, no such documentation on Asians exists. Six of 8 members of a 3-generation Japanese family were found by us to carry the FDH phenotype. Serum total T4 levels ranged from 1763.2-2741.3 nmol/L (normal range, 65.6-164.7), serum total T3 levels ranged from 2.73-5.62 nmol/L (normal range, 1.47-2.95), and rT3 levels ranged from 1.08-2.52 nmol/L (normal range, 0.22-0.60). In the proband, the majority of [125I]T4 in serum T4-binding proteins was distributed in albumin fractions, and the isolated albumin had an increased affinity for T4. A guanine to cytosine transition in the second nucleotide of codon 218, resulting in replacement of normal arginine with proline, was detected in 1 of 2 alleles in all 5 subjects of the family with FDH. In all FDH-affected Caucasian subjects from 10 unrelated families with a moderate increase in serum T4, the guanine to adenine transition was demonstrated at the same position of the albumin gene as noted in our patients, but histidine, the replacement amino acid, differed from proline noted in our FDH Japanese subjects. It would thus appear that FDH has ethnic variations.
The effects of cocaine use and withdrawal on mood and sleep were examined. Three cocaine-dependent men lived in an inpatient facility for approximately 4 weeks, which included an initial abstinence phase (8-10 days), a cocaine administration phase (5 days), and a 2nd abstinence phase (14-16 days). During the 2nd phase, cocaine was administered intranasally a few hours before bedtime. During the day, mood and daytime sleepiness were measured, and sleep was monitored each night. Cocaine produced typical changes in mood and blood pressure, and sleep was severely disrupted. Following Phase 2, there were no changes in mood that was indicative of an abstinence syndrome, although, initially, daytime sleepiness increased. After 2 weeks, sleep architecture remained different from age-matched controls. This study is the first to measure changes in sleep architecture polysomnographically following a period of controlled cocaine use.
The aim of this study was to evaluate which parameter of right ventricular (RV) echocardiographic best mirrors the clinical status of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension. Patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension on epoprostenol therapy were identified via hospital registry. Twenty patients, (16 females, 4 males) were included in the study, 9 with primary pulmonary hypertension and 11 with other diseases. Echocardiograms before therapy and at 22.7 (+/-9.3) months into therapy were compared. The right ventricular myocardial performance index (RVMPI) was measured as the sum of the isometric contraction time and the isometric relaxation time divided by right ventricular ejection time. Other measures included peak tricuspid regurgitation jet velocity (TRV), pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP), pulmonary valve velocity time integral (PVVTI), PASP/PVVTI (as an index of total pulmonary resistance) and symptoms by New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class. Echo parameters of right ventricular function were analyzed in patients, before and during therapy. There was significant improvement of NYHA class in patients following epoprostenol therapy (P < 0.0001). Peak tricuspid regurgitant jet velocity (pre 4.2 +/- 0.6 m/sec, post 3.8 +/- 0.7 m/sec, P = 0.02) and PASP/PVVTI (pre 6.7 +/- 3.3 mmHg/m per second, post 4.8 +/- 2.2 mmHg/m per second, P < 0.0001) were significantly improved during treatment. RVMPI did not improve (pre 0.6 +/- 0.3, post 0.6 +/- 0.3, P = 0.54). Changes in NYHA class did not correlate with changes in RVMPI (P = 0.33) or changes in PASP/PVVTI (P = 0.58). Despite significant improvements in TRV, PASP/PVVTI, and NYHA class, there was no significant change in RVMPI on epoprostenol therapy. Changes in right ventricular indices were not correlated with changes in NYHA class.
In this study we clarify the fetal cardiovascular effects of nifedipine. Nifedipine was administered to near-term rats and cardiovascular morphology of the fetus was studied with a rapid whole-body freezing technique. Fetal cardiac failure was estimated by accumulation of pericardial effusion and ventricular dilatation. Dose-response study at 8 h after administration revealed that slight ventricular dilatation occurred with 0.1 mg/kg of nifedipine, and remarkable ventricular dilatation and pericardial fluid accumulation were noted with 10 mg/kg nifedipine. Time-course study with one dose of 10 mg/kg nifedipine revealed early ventricular dilatation at 1 h, peak ventricular dilatation and fluid accumulation at 8 h, and slight effects at 24 h. In conclusion, the cardiodepressive effect of nifedipine in the fetal rat was mild with the therapeutic dose, and its effects increased dose dependently.
A 55-year-old Japanese woman demonstrated ST-segment elevation in leads I, aVL, and V3-V6 with chest pain both in an ergometer exercise test and on dobutamine stress echocardiography. Although the baseline coronary arteriogram revealed no organic stenosis, total occlusion of the distal portion of the posterolateral branch of the left circumflex artery was observed during dobutamine infusion with ST-segment elevation and chest pain. This is a rare case of documented dobutamine-induced coronary arterial spasm.
Patients suffering from high-risk multiple myeloma (MM) were randomized to receive single high-dose cyclophosphamide followed by either rhGM-CSF or rhG-CSF in order to harvest circulating peripheral blood progenitor cells. The safety of the procedure, the mobilization kinetics, the relative efficacy of rhGM-CSF and rhG-CSF to mobilize progenitor cells and their relative toxicity were studied. Special attention was paid to the antigenic profile of CD34+ progenitor cells. Group I patients (n = 11) were treated with cyclophosphamide 4 g/m2 i.v. followed by rhGM-CSF at 10 micrograms/kg/d by subcutaneous administration. Group II (n = 11) patients received rhG-CSF s.c. at 10 micrograms/kg/d after the same dose cyclophosphamide. Both mobilization regimens appeared to be equally effective. No significant differences in absolute numbers of circulating progenitors, determined by CD34 expression or in yields of MNC, CFU-GM, BFU-E and CD34 subsets were observed. rhGM-CSF administration resulted however in delayed haemopoietic recovery and an increased complication rate. We conclude that rhG-CSF may be preferred because of its markedly lower toxicity and lower in-hospital costs.
A 82-year-old woman was admitted to hospital because of heart failure, vomiting, and pain in the right upper abdomen. During the past three months she had received treatment with 0.07 mg digitoxin twice daily. The ECG showed sinus bradycardia with intermittent complete sinoatrial block. On the basis of the history, clinical presentation and ECG findings digitalis intoxication was suspected. Digitoxin level was 65.23 ng/ml--far beyond the therapeutic range. Laboratory examinations revealed a marked thrombocytopenia (25,000/microliters). The patient was placed on cholestyramine (4g three times daily) to accelerate intestinal excretion of digitoxin. As there were no life-threatening complications there was no indication for treatment with digitalis-specific antibodies. On the 6th day after discontinuation of digitoxin treatment the platelet count showed a marked rise and returned to normal values as from the 12th day.
Through comparative clinical and pathological findings a dose-response relationship for the cardiotoxic effect of adriamycine could be proved. A myocardial damage without clinical relation could already be seen at a dose of 125 mg/m2 body surface by patho-histological examination. Therefore, all patients being treated with adriamycine should be regularly and carefully cardiologically supervised in order to avoid an irreversible cardiomyopathy.
The mode of action of T-cell-suppressor factor (TsF) induced by ultraviolet B (UVB) preirradiation in terms of interaction with several cytokines was studied. Suppression of murine contact photosensitivity (CPS) to 3,3',4',5-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA) by preirradiation of the sensitizing site to low doses of UVB was caused by antigen-specific suppressor T cells (Ts) and was not associated with the generation of efferent limb-acting suppressor cells. TsF released by Ts inhibited the proliferation of immune lymph node (LN) cells in vitro and reduced interleukin (IL)-2 production of these cells in an antigen-specific fashion without affecting the IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) expression. Both rIL-2 and rGM-CSF have the ability to restore CPS responses in the UVB-preirradiated mice when administered after but not before photosensitization. However, rIL-2 but not rGM-CSF counteracted the in vivo inhibitory effect of TsF. rGM-CSF did not affect the density of I-A+ epidermal Langerhans cells (LCs). It was suggested that TsF inhibited IL-2-mediated immune T-cell proliferation, while rGM-CSF reconstituted the CPS by enhancing the function of photodamaged LCs. These results indicate multiple steps of the UVB-induced immunosuppression circuit, each of which seems to be controlled by different immunomodulators.
Cadmium exposure induces low birth weight through unknown mechanisms. Since low birth weight is associated to foetal exposure to high glucocorticoids (GC) concentrations, we hypothesized that low birth weight induced by prenatal exposure to Cd(2+) is, at least in part, mediated by higher foetal exposure to GC, specifically corticosterone, the main active GC in rodents. Pregnant rats were exposed to different dose of CdCl(2) administered in drinking water during the whole pregnancy period. At term, corticosterone was measured by enzyme immunoassay in maternal and foetal blood and in placental tissues. Cadmium was determined in placentas, maternal tissues (liver and kidney) and foetuses by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Placental 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11beta-HSD2) activity and expression were determined by a radiometric conversion assay and quantitative RT-PCR respectively. Results demonstrated that 50 ppm of Cd(2+), which was accumulated in different maternal tissues but not in the foetus, reduced pup birth weights and increased plasma corticosterone concentrations, both in mother and foetus. Placental 11beta-HSD2 activity and expression did not change by the treatment. We conclude that 50 ppm of Cd(2+) administered during pregnancy, increase foetal corticosterone concentrations due, probably, to alterations of the regulatory mechanisms of placental barrier to GC causing a mild but significant reduced birth weight.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), a proinflammatory cytokine, is now emerging as an important modulator of the function of the CNS. Methamphetamine (METH) is a widely abused psychostimulant that causes euphoria, hyperactivity, and drug dependence. High doses of METH cause long-term neurotoxicity in dopaminergic neurons. In this study, we investigated a role of TNF-alpha in METH-induced dependence and neurotoxicity. Repeated treatment with METH (2 mg/kg for 5 d) in rats induced a significant increase in TNF-alpha mRNA and protein expression in the brain. Exogenous TNF-alpha (1-4 microg) blocked locomotor-stimulating and rewarding effects of METH, as well as METH (4 mg/kg; four times at 2 hr intervals)-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice. To examine a role of endogenous TNF-alpha in behavioral and neurochemical effects of METH, we used mice with targeted deletions of the TNF-alpha gene. TNF-alpha-(-/-) mice showed enhanced responses to the locomotor-sensitizing, rewarding, and neurotoxic effects of METH compared with wild-type mice. We also examined the role of TNF-alpha in METH-induced dopamine (DA) release and uptake in vitro and in vivo in C57BL/6 mice. Exogenous TNF-alpha (4 microg) attenuated the METH-induced increase in extracellular striatal DA in vivo and potentiated striatal DA uptake into synaptosomes in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, TNF-alpha activated vesicular DA uptake by itself and diminished the METH-induced decrease in vesicular DA uptake. Our findings suggest that TNF-alpha plays a neuroprotective role in METH-induced drug dependence and neurotoxicity by activating plasmalemmal and vesicular DA transporter as well as inhibiting METH-induced increase in extracellular DA levels.
Methylmercury (MeHg), an organic methylated form of mercury, is one of the most hazardous environmental pollutants. MeHg is a potent neurotoxin, particularly during brain development. Neurotoxicity-induced by MeHg in prenatal age can cause mental disorders, cerebral palsy and seizures. We investigated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain tissue contents of S100B, a calcium binding protein produced and secreted by astrocytes, which has trophic and toxic activity on neurons depending on concentration. Pregnant rats were exposed to MeHg (5 mg/kg per day, on the 12th, 13th and 14th days of pregnancy). CSF and brain tissue (hippocampus, cerebral cortex and cerebellum) were obtained from neonate rats on 1, 15 and 30 days postnatal. MeHg accumulation was measured in brain tissue after birth and on the 30th postnatal day. An increase of CSF S100B was observed on the 15th, but not on the 30th postnatal day. Hippocampal tissue demonstrated increased S100B (and reduction in glial fibrillary acidic protein) immediately after birth, but not later. No changes in the S100B content were observed in cerebellum and cerebral cortex. No changes were observed in the spatial learning of these rats at adult age. These specific and reversible changes in the hippocampus could be related to the cognitive and epileptic disorders attributed to MeHg. Our results further indicate the glial involvement in the MeHg-induced neurotoxicity. The increment of CSF S100B in neonates exposed to MeHg reinforces the view that increased S100B is related to damage in the nervous system and that S100B could be a marker for MeHg-neurotoxicity. Although the cellular mechanism related to MeHg-induced increase in S100B content in CSF remains unknown, our results suggest the use of S100B as a peripheral marker of brain damage induced by MeHg.
Nineteen subjects were investigated as a result of apnoea following the administration of suxamethonium occurring in one member of the family. Examination of the blood for cholinesterase activity, dibucaine number, and fluoride number was carried out and the appropriate genotype determined. The significance of the genetic variation of plasma cholinesterase in relation to suxamethonium apnoea is discussed. Five subject had the genotype Eu1Eu1, seven were of genotype Eu1E1a, three were Eu1Es1, and four Ea1Es1. Nine members of the family were considered to be at risk for the administration of suxamethonium. The appropriate action to safeguard other members of the family following a case of apnoea is outlined. By routine preoperative blood examination, 92 of 100 cases of suxamethonium apnoea resulting from a genetic abnormality of plasma cholinesterase can be anticipated.
This study examined the role of protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes in methamphetamine (MA)-induced dopaminergic toxicity. Multiple-dose administration of MA did not significantly alter PKCα, PKCβI, PKCβII, or PKCζ expression in the striatum, but did significantly increase PKCδ expression. Gö6976 (a co-inhibitor of PKCα and -β), hispidin (PKCβ inhibitor), and PKCζ pseudosubstrate inhibitor (PKCζ inhibitor) did not significantly alter MA-induced behavioral impairments. However, rottlerin (PKCδ inhibitor) significantly attenuated behavioral impairments in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, MA-induced behavioral impairments were not apparent in PKCδ knockout (-/-) mice. MA-induced oxidative stress (i.e., lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation) was significantly attenuated in rottlerin-treated mice and was not apparent in PKCδ (-/-) mice. Consistent with this, MA-induced apoptosis (i.e., terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive apoptotic cells) was significantly attenuated in rottlerin-treated mice. Furthermore, MA-induced increases in the dopamine (DA) turnover rate and decreases in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity and the expression of TH, dopamine transporter (DAT), and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) were not significantly observed in rottlerin-treated or PKCδ (-/-) mice. Our results suggest that PKCδ gene expression is a key mediator of oxidative stress and dopaminergic damage induced by MA. Thus, inhibition of PKCδ may be a useful target for protection against MA-induced neurotoxicity.
Sustained ventricular tachycardia during dobutamine stress echocardiography is a rare complication of dobutamine stress echocardiography. It may be related to reduced left ventricular function and prior myocardial infarction but cannot be used as a sensitive or specific sign for myocardial ischemia. The clinical significance of dobutamine stress echocardiography-induced sustained ventricular tachycardia is uncertain, and this condition probably does not represent an adverse prognostic sign.
Pregnant rats were treated with daily doses (5.0 to 7.5 mg/kg, SC) of the benzodiazepine (BDZ) receptor agonist, diazepam (DZ) between day 15 through day 20 of gestation, i.e., during ontogenesis of BDZ receptors in an attempt to alter their development. In the radial arm maze, 6 months old rat progeny showed behavioral anomalies and deficient exploratory behavior. One plausible interpretation of their poor performance is a deficit in short-term spatial "working memory." However, a more detailed evaluation of their behavior suggests a chronic state of hyperarousal/anxiety and thus, poor focus of attention on the task at hand. In addition, the number of brain BDZ receptors in the thalamus, at the age of one year, was significantly reduced. Hence, prenatal exposure to DZ has enduring and detrimental effects on brain function.
The aging process is a complex biological phenomenon that can be attributed to several mechanisms. ROS (reactive oxygen species) activity is widely considered one of them, as it is associated with extensive damage in a variety of cells. For example, the gradual decrease in fertility often accompanying aging males can be traced back to oxidative stress, since ROS are released throughout life from the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Cumulative intracellular damage as a result of the increased ROS concentration affects all tissues that perform aerobic metabolism and, owing to blood circulation, anaerobic tissues as well. Naturally, other mechanisms such as cell inflammation and lack or incapacity of antioxidant enzymes also contribute to the variety of systematic distortions that characterize aging. Finally, the particularly elevated number of adult men that show, among others, a gradual deterioration in reproductive functions suggests a central role of ROS generation in senescence in general and male aging, in particular.
Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with cardiopulmonary bypass elicits a potent reperfusion injury and inflammatory response, more intense in patients with impaired myocardial function. Propofol has antioxidant properties which may attenuate such a response.
In total, 27 patients with impaired left ventricular function undergoing CABG were randomly allocated to receive either target-controlled infusion propofol (P) or saline (S) immediately before aortic cross-clamp release until 4 h after reperfusion. Troponin-I, Urinary 8-epi PGF-2alpha isoprostane, coronary sinus and systemic malondialdehyde concentrations, Interleukin-6 (IL-6), -8 and -10 concentrations and leucocytes function studies (neutrophil respiratory burst, phagocytosis, CD-11b and CD-18 expression) were measured.
Propofol decreased MDA coronary sinus concentration at 1, 3 and 5 min after reperfusion (P<0.01); 60 min after reperfusion a significant difference between the two groups in systemic MDA concentrations was also seen. IL-6 concentration increases were significantly greater in Group S than Group P, 4 h after reperfusion [1118 (1333) pg ml(-1) vs 228 (105) pg ml(-1), P<0.01]. Serum IL-8 concentrations did not increase significantly in either group. Compared with baseline values IL-10 concentrations decreased after reperfusion but the values were higher in the propofol group than in the control group [22 (16) vs 11 (4) pg ml(-1), P<0.05]. No difference in leucocyte function or urinary isoprostane concentrations was demonstrated.
Propofol attenuates free-radical-mediated lipid peroxidation and systemic inflammation in patients with impaired myocardial function undergoing CABG.
We undertook a meta-analysis of six Crohn's disease genome-wide association studies (GWAS) comprising 6,333 affected individuals (cases) and 15,056 controls and followed up the top association signals in 15,694 cases, 14,026 controls and 414 parent-offspring trios. We identified 30 new susceptibility loci meeting genome-wide significance (P < 5 × 10⁻⁸). A series of in silico analyses highlighted particular genes within these loci and, together with manual curation, implicated functionally interesting candidate genes including SMAD3, ERAP2, IL10, IL2RA, TYK2, FUT2, DNMT3A, DENND1B, BACH2 and TAGAP. Combined with previously confirmed loci, these results identify 71 distinct loci with genome-wide significant evidence for association with Crohn's disease.
Triptolide, the primary active component of Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F, has various pharmacological activities but also a narrow therapeutic window. Cytochrome P450s are proposed to be responsible for the hydroxylation of triptolide in vitro and CYP3A induction by dexamethasone can increase the metabolism of triptolide and decrease the hepatotoxicity in rat. However, triptolide-induced toxicity has not been investigated in an animal model having a suppression of P450 activities. Here we compared the toxicological effects and toxicokinetics of triptolide between liver-specific cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) knockout (KO) mice (abolished hepatic P450 activities) and wild-type (WT) control mice after a single oral gavage of triptolide at 0.5mg/kg or 1.0mg/kg. A low toxic dose of triptolide at 0.5mg/kg for WT mice resulted in severe toxicities including death in KO mice. Changes in serum biochemistry, hematology and histopathology further indicated much more severe toxicities in multiple organs in KO mice compared to WT mice after triptolide administration. The mono-hydroxylated metabolites of triptolide detected in the blood of WT mice were undetectable in KO mice, accompanied by much higher triptolide levels in the blood and tissues including the liver, kidney, and spleen determined by LC-MS/MS. Taken together, our results confirmed that inactivation of hepatic P450s abolishes the ability in metabolism of triptolide in the liver, subsequently resulting in an increase in bioavailability and toxicity of triptolide in vivo. It is suggested that P450 inhibition/inactivation might pose a significant health risk in the clinic use of triptolide.
Five normal men and 70 spinal cord injury male patients underwent 100 studies with the multiple pressure recording technique, incorporating the continuous infusion principle for sphincter pressure monitoring. Gross cystosphincteric dyssynergia was noted in the majority of patients with complete upper motor neuron bladders less than 2 years in duration. Some form of synergic voiding patterns was noted, mostly in patients with incomplete upper motor neuron bladders. The external sphincter tends to be synergic in late cases of upper moto neuron bladders. Internal sphincter dyssynergia is uncommon in cases of injuries less than 2 years in duration, with the exception of patients who have autonomic dysreflexia. Bladder neck obstruction seems to be more common in late lesions secondary to global hypertrophy of the bladder. Rehabilitation maneuvers and bethanechol chloride administration may exaggerate detrusor sphincter dyssynergia and injudicious use of such procedures could be detrimental to the urinary tract.
