Recent work on the toxicology of chloramphenicol suggests that its propensity to cause damage to the blood forming organs may be related to its potential for nitro-reduction and the subsequent production of nitric oxide. In this study both aerobic and anaerobic nitro-reduction of chloramphenicol by human foetal and neonatal liver results in the production of the amine derivative. However intermediates of the reaction nitroso- or glutathionesulphinamido-chloramphenicol could not be detected by hplc. Perfusion of chloramphenicol through isolated lobules of human placentae caused a decrease in blood pressure at a time which coincided with a peak of nitric oxide production. However, although the pressure drop could be reversed by an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthetase, the nitric oxide profile remained the same. These observations suggest that involvement of the para-nitro group of chloramphenicol could cause both hemotoxicity and hypotension in susceptible individuals.
This study examines the relationship between prenatal cocaine exposure and child welfare outcomes. Seventy-six infants positive for cocaine at birth were matched to 76 negative infants. With prenatal care and maternal use of alcohol and tobacco controlled, cocaine-exposed infants had significant decrements in birth weight, length, head circumference, and depressed 5-min Apgar scores. This confirmed the health risk of prenatal cocaine exposure for the sample. Three-year follow-up data were obtained from the State Central Register and foster care records. Adjusting for prior maternal involvement with child welfare services the study groups did not differ in incidents of child maltreatment or foster care placement. These findings suggest that prenatal cocaine exposure is not a marker for abusive parenting. However, from the perspective of a cumulative risk model, the identification of cocaine-exposed infants at birth can form the starting point for the development of appropriate diagnostic and follow-up services for mother and child.
Although the existence of classical occupational asthma is well known and described after fairly prolonged exposure to moderate levels of air-contaminators, authentic asthma can be provoked by rapid single inhalation of a high dosed corrosive gas: this is Brooks' syndrome.
A 30 year-old woman, without respiratory past history and no atopy presented with post-toxic asthma following a single accidental inhalation of hydrochloric acid. The diagnosis was established on the 8 criteria of Brooks and the clinical outcome remained stable with, however, excellent response to the inhalation of broncho-dilatators during asthma attacks.
The relationship with the accidental inhalation may have been ignored by the victim. The outcome of this syndrome is good in 50% of cases; in 25% the symptomatology worsens and in the remaining 25% it remains stable.
To determine the association between MDMA misuse and neurocognition using meta-analysis.
Separate analyses were conducted based on two sets of inclusion/exclusion criteria. A relatively stringent set required that the subjects be matched on important moderator variables, whereas the other did not. The study participants' performance in the following neurocognitive domains was reviewed: attention/concentration, verbal and nonverbal learning and memory, psychomotor speed and executive systems functioning.
In the 11 studies meeting the relatively stringent inclusion/exclusion criteria for this review, MDMA use was associated with neurocognitive deficits in each domain. Similarly, in the 23 studies meeting the relatively lenient inclusion/exclusion criteria for this review, MDMA use was associated with neurocognitive deficits in each domain. Small to medium effect sizes were generally observed. A comparison of the effect sizes across the two sets of analyses did not reveal significant differences.
The findings from this review reveal that MDMA use is associated with neurocognitive deficits. The implications of these findings are discussed.
We demonstrate in this study the cytotoxic effects of inorganic arsenicals, arsenite and arsenate, and organic arsenic compounds, monomethylarsonic acid (MAA), dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA), and trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO), which are metabolites of inorganic arsenicals in human bodies, using murine macrophages in vitro. Inorganic arsenicals, both arsenite and arsenate, are strongly toxic to macrophages, and the concentration that decreased the number of surviving cells to 50% of that in untreated controls (IC50) was 5 or 500 microM, respectively. These inorganic arsenicals mainly caused necrotic cell death with partially apoptotic cell death; about 80% of dead cells were necrotic, and 20% were apoptotic. The inorganic arsenicals also induced marked release of an inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), at cytotoxic doses. This strong cytotoxicity of an inorganic arsenical, arsenite, might be mediated via active oxygen and protease activation because it was inhibited by the addition of some antioxidant reagents, such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and GSH, or by a peptide inhibitor of interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme (ICE). It is likely that these immunotoxic effects of inorganic arsenicals may evoke both immunosuppression and inflammation, and they may be central factors causing carcinogenesis and severe inflammatory responses, such as hepatomegaly and splenomegaly, in chronic arsenicosis patients who daily ingested arsenic-contaminated well water. In contrast, the cytotoxic effects of methylated arsenic compounds were lower than those of inorganic arsenicals. The IC50 value of DMAA was about 5 mM, and MAA and TMAO had no toxicity even at concentrations over 10 mM. Additionally, these methylated chemicals suppressed the TNFalpha release from macrophages. DMAA induced mainly apoptotic cell death in macrophages as indicated by cellular morphological changes, condensed nuclei, terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL), and DNA fragmentation. However, the cytotoxicity of DMAA might be induced via a different mechanism from that of inorganic arsenicals because it was not abolished by the additions of SOD, catalase, or ICE inhibitor. Conversely, GSH enhanced the toxicity of DMAA. These data suggest that methylation of inorganic arsenicals in mammals plays an important role in suppression of both severe immunosuppression and inflammatory responses caused by inorganic arsenicals.
The objective of this study was to document the differences in testosterone (T) levels between crizotinib-treated and noncrizotinib-treated patients with metastatic nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Testosterone levels were measured in 19 men with metastatic NSCLC who received crizotinib and in 19 men with metastatic NSCLC who did not receive crizotinib. Clinical characteristics of the patients were compared, and additional hormone assays were performed as appropriate. Two patients who began crizotinib and 4 patients who had dose interruptions or who stopped crizotinib therapy had serial hormone measurements, permitting the documentation of dynamic hormone changes on and off crizotinib treatment.
Total T levels were low (<241 ng/dL) in 19 of 19 (100%) crizotinib-treated men and in 6 of 19 men (32%) with metastatic NSCLC who did not receive crizotinib (mean T levels, 131 ng/dL and 311 ng/dL, respectively; P = .0002). Only 1 in 5 patients who had anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene rearrangements and had not yet received crizotinib had low T. The initiation of crizotinib in 2 patients who had previously normal T levels was associated with a rapid decreases in T and in luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone levels within 14 to 21 days. Discontinuation of crizotinib led to increases back to normal T levels.
Crizotinib therapy caused rapid suppression of T levels in men. The current results indicated that the site of action must include a central (hypothalamic or pituitary) effect, but additional direct testicular effects could not be excluded. Further work is required to assess the correlation between low T levels and crizotinib side effects as well as the exact molecular mechanism and site of drug toxicity.
In April 2008, a clinical reference laboratory in New Mexico notified the New Mexico Department of Health (NMDOH) of a cluster of unexplained agranulocytosis cases confirmed by bone marrow histopathology during the preceding 2 months. NMDOH began an investigation, which identified cocaine use as a common exposure in 11 cases of otherwise unexplained agranulocytosis during April 2008-November 2009. In the midst of the NMDOH investigation, in November 2008, public health officials in British Columbia and Alberta, Canada, reported detecting levamisole (an antihelminthic drug used mainly in veterinary medicine and a known cause of agranulocytosis) from clinical specimens and drug paraphernalia of cocaine users with agranulocytosis. In January 2009, NMDOH posted a notification of its findings on CDC's Epidemic Information Exchange (Epi-X) and notified poison control centers. In a separate investigation during April--November 2009, public health officials in Seattle, Washington, identified 10 cases of agranulocytosis among persons with a history of cocaine use. Of the 21 cases, levamisole was detected from clinical specimens in four of the five patients tested. According to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), as of July 2009, 69% of seized cocaine lots coming into the United States contained levamisole as an added agent. This report summarizes the investigations in New Mexico and Washington, which suggested that levamisole in cocaine was the likely cause of the agranulocytosis. Health-care providers should consider these findings in the differential diagnosis of agranulocytosis, and public health officials should be aware of cases of agranulocytosis associated with cocaine use.
The antidepressive and anxiolytic efficacy of flupenthixol has been investigated in numerous controlled and open trials involving patients with endogenous, reactive as well as senile depressions. When administered at a mean daily single or multiple dose of 1-2 mg, flupenthixol proved to be a very effective and well-tolerated antidepressant. As opposed to some of the currently available antidepressants, flupenthixol has a rapid onset of action which is often displayed within the first 2-3 days following its application. Flupenthixol decanoate has also a pronounced antidepressive and anxiolytic effect which appears to be adequate enough for treating mild to moderately severe syndromes of depression. This depot neuroleptic has been given at a fortnightly dosage ranging between 2.5 and 30 mg. However, if the aspect of efficacy in relation to tolerance has to be taken in to consideration, then 5 mg are apt to be an appropriate dose. Patients with an agitated depression and/or suicide ideation should, however, be excluded from therapy with this drug. Extrapyramidal movement disorders which may appear during treatment are a disadvantage of this medication. Apparently such disorders are rarely encountered if the dose is kept below 10 mg. Other untoward effects are very seldom indeed. A final and conclusive judgement on the possible application of flupenthixol decanoate in the prophylaxis of phases in patients with bipolar and periodical depressions is as yet not feasible. Further clinical trials are necessary before flupenthixol decanoate can be classified as a possible 'depot antidepressant'.
This investigation reports pilot data on two points originally raised in the earliest reports of the efficacy of beta-blockers in akathisia: their potential utility in the akathisia of idiopathic Parkinson's disease and the possibility of determining a central vs. a peripheral site of action by comparing the time course of the effects of lipophilic and hydrophilic agents. Akathisia improved in 4 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease after low dose propranolol treatment. Six patients with neuroleptic-induced akathisia were treated with the hydrophilic beta-blocker nadolol. Effects on akathisia occurred, but evolved much more slowly than after treatment with lipophilic agents, such as propranolol and metoprolol, thus suggesting a central site of action.
Severe hypotension resulting from a disulphiram-ethanol reaction was treated with adrenaline, the maximum dosage being 170 micrograms/kg/hour. The patient survived without neurological or cardiovascular sequelae. The authors suggest that adrenaline/noradrenaline could be employed advantageously in similar situation.
The present study determined the pharmacological profile of barakol, a major constituent of Cassia siamea Lamk., in rodent behavioral and neurochemical tests. Barakol reduced spontaneous locomotor activity, increased the number of sleeping animals and prolonged the thiopental-induced sleeping time, indicating a sedative effect. As for interactions between barakol and convulsants (pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), picrotoxin, bicuculline and strychnine), only a high dose (100 mg/kg, i.p.) of barakol slightly prolonged the latency of clonic convulsion induced by picrotoxin. This suggests that the sedative effect may not be induced via the GABA or glycine systems. There was no evidence of an anxiolytic effect of barakol in the plus-maze test. However, barakol (25-100 mg/kg, i.p.) could suppress methamphetamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced hyper-locomotor activity in a dose-dependent manner, indicating an effect on the dopaminergic system. In a microdialysis study, the dose of barakol (100 mg/kg) that inhibited spontaneous locomotor activity in mice did not affect the basal levels of extracellular dopamine (DA) or its metabolites in the striatum. However, pretreatment with barakol (100 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased the maximal dopamine release and dopamine turnover induced by methamphetamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.). This finding indicates that the inhibitory effect of barakol on dopamine release may account for the blocking effect of barakol on the striatum-related behavior induced by methamphetamine.
Trimethoprim-Sulfomethoxazole (TMP-SMX) related hepatotoxicity and associated severe systemic reaction are not frequent and documented only in case reports. We report a case of a 30-year-old man, who underwent a 15-day therapy with TMP-SMX for urinary tract infection and two weeks later developed acute cholestatic hepatitis, fever and a skin rash followed by severe systemic reaction. He was admitted in Intensive Care unit and with supportive therapy and prednisolone administration, he showed subsequent improvement over a period of few days. He had fully recovered months later. All tests for other causes of liver disease were negative and his liver biopsy showed evidence of drug-induced hepatic injury.
Amphotericin B (AmB)-treated rats develop severe polyuria, polydypsia, impairment of renal concentrating ability, and morphologic signs of tubular damage. However, renal insufficiency develops quickly only in animals in which water intake is restricted to the median volume drunk by rats of the control group. Therefore, vigorous hydration seems crucial for prevention of AmB-induced nephrotoxicity. In a clinical study, 61 patients with hematologic malignancies receiving AmB therapy were massively hydrated to ensure urine output of > or =4000 mL/day. Urine sodium, potassium, and magnesium were also measured, and all losses were supplemented (potassium as a 7.45% solution via central venous catheter). AmB-treated patients developed signs of renal tubular damage (increased fractional excretion of sodium and potassium) and required large amounts of ion supplementation. The serum ion concentration and creatinine clearance remained stable. No clinically significant renal damage developed to force premature cessation of AmB treatment.
To evaluate the usefulness of continuous EEG monitoring of stroke patients during and after intravenously infused mannitol.
Patients were rapidly administered 50 g of intravenous mannitol solution with continuous EEG monitoring for 3h pre- and post-drug infusion in the neurological intensive care unit. Visual and spectral analyses of EEG recording pre- and post-mannitol infusion were carried out.
The study consisted of 47 patients. Of 38 patients with intracranial hemorrhage, 33 had abnormal EEG findings pre-mannitol administration. After mannitol therapy, visual analysis of the drug-induced EEG changes showed that the EEG findings were unchanged in 13 patients, demonstratively improved in 22 patients, and worse in 3 patients. The spectral analysis demonstrated that mannitol-induced EEG changes increased in alpha power and decreased in delta power in the lesion hemispheres, especially in the central and middle temporal areas. Maximal effects occurred 30 min post-mannitol infusion, and remained significant for 2h post-infusion. Of the 9 patients with cerebral infarction, only one with diffuse background slowing of one-side dominance pre-mannitol improved after the infusion of mannitol.
The results of our investigation indicated that continuous EEG monitoring of mannitol treatment can reflect the brain edema, raised ICP in stroke patients, and provide assessment the drugs effects of antiedema and intracranial pressure lowering in vivo.
Despite continuing controversies regarding its antiarrhythmic and antifibrillatory efficacy lidocaine is frequently used for the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias occurring in the early phase of acute myocardial infarction (MI). The authors studied the effects of lidocaine in 18 consecutive MI dogs 1-4 days (2.8 +/- 0.3 day) after the two-stage left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) ligation and in 11 dogs, in which the LAD and the distal branches of the left circumflex artery was ligated 12-75 (mean 35) days prior to study. Electrophysiologic testing was performed in anesthetized post-infarction dogs using single, double or triple programmed extrastimuli or rapid bursts (3 beats at 240-420/min) delivered to the right ventricular outflow tract. Inducibility of SMVT (uniform QRS morphology lasting > 30 sec at a rate of > 250 beat/min) after an i.v. bolus of lidocaine (3-6 mg/kg) was compared in the same animal to the pre-drug state. During the control state, SMVT was inducible in 6/18 dogs. After the administration of lidocaine, electrically induced SMVT was initiated in additionally 9 dogs (which were previously non-inducible; post-lidocaine vs control p < 0.02). Sustained reentry was induced by 3 mg/kg lidocaine in 5 dogs (310 +/- 62 beat/min) and by 6 mg/kg in 4 (261 +/- 52 beat/min). In the 8 survivors of the chronic MI group, SMVT was inducible before lidocaine administration in one, but in 7 after lidocaine. The antiarrhythmic agent induced further rate-dependent slowing of conduction in the peri-infarction subepicardium, which at a critical value of rate and amount of conduction delay resulted in sustained reentrant monomorphic tachycardia. These results show that lidocaine has arrhythmogenic/proarrhythmic actions in these canine models of MI probably due to its depressant effect on moderately sick cardiac tissue. The 'modification' of the functional properties of the arrhythmia substrate by lidocaine can promote the formation of new reentrant pathways leading to manifest sustained ventricular reentry under electrophysiologic study.
Side effects of cytostatic treatment include development of anemia resulting from either decreased generation or accelerated clearance of circulating erythrocytes. Recent experiments revealed a novel kind of stress-induced erythrocyte death, i.e. eryptosis, which is characterized by enhanced cytosolic Ca(2+) levels, increased ceramide formation and exposure of phosphatidylserine at the cell surface. The present study explored whether cytostatic treatment with paclitaxel (Taxol) triggers eryptosis. Blood was drawn from cancer patients before and after infusion of 175 mg/m2 Taxol. The treatment significantly decreased the hematocrit and significantly increased the percentage of annexin-V-binding erythrocytes in vivo (by 37%). In vitro incubation of human erythrocytes with 10 microM paclitaxel again significantly increased annexin-V-binding (by 129%) and augmented the increase of annexin-V-binding following cellular stress. The enhanced phosphatidylserine exposure was not dependent on caspase-activity but paralleled by erythrocyte shrinkage, increase of cytosolic Ca(2+) activity, ceramide formation and activation of calpain. Phosphatidylserine exposure was similarly induced by docetaxel but not by carboplatin or doxorubicin. Moreover, eryptosis was triggered by the Ca(2+) ionophore ionomycin (10 microM). In mice, ionomycin-treated eryptotic erythrocytes were rapidly cleared from circulating blood and sequestrated into the spleen. In conclusion, our data strongly suggest that paclitaxel-induced anemia is at least partially due to induction of eryptosis.
A patient who resumed sleep-walking as an adult is described. The failure to diagnose his disturbed nocturnal behaviour as sleep-walking kept him from his work for over 8 months, and led to a treatment which exacerbated the behaviour. The diagnosis was made when the patient attempted to strangle his wife.
Aplastic anemia is a rare but severe complication of methimazole (MMI) treatment for Graves' disease. We present a case of a 53-year-old Japanese female who had been treated with 30 mg/d of MMI for 30 days for Graves' disease and was subsequently admitted to the Japan Self Defense Forces (JSDF) Central Hospital with a mild sore throat and high-grade fever that began the previous day. The patient had a reduced white blood cell count (WBC) count of 0.9 x 10(3) per microliter with severe granulocytopenia and increased lymphocytes, a platelet count of 49 x 10(3) per microliter, and hemoglobin of 10.6 g/dL. Bone marrow (BM) aspirates showed hypocellular bone marrow with plasmacytosis. Because of poor recovery of her peripheral blood values after withdrawal of MMI, she was given transfusions of platelets and erythrocytes thereafter. This is the second report of plasmacytosis in bone marrow of MMI-induced aplastic anemia, and suggests that immunogenic mechanisms may cause this rare complication.
Oxidative and carbonyl stress are detrimental in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications, as well as in other chronic diseases. However, this process may be decreased by dietary bioactive compounds. Almond skin is an abundant source of bioactive compounds and antioxidants, including polyphenolic flavonoids, which may contribute to the decrease in oxidative and carbonyl stress. In this study, four Almond Skin Extracts (ASEI, ASEII, ASEIII, and ASEIV) were prepared by different methods and evaluated for their antioxidant activity. The order of the polyphenol content (total muM gallic acid equivalents) of the four extracts was found to be, in decreasing order of effectiveness: ASEI>ASEIII>ASEIV>ASEII. The order of Ferric-reducing antioxidant power (FRAP, microM FeSO(4)/g) value, in decreasing order was ASEI (216)>ASEIII (176)>ASEIV (89)>ASEII (85). The order of ASE effectiveness for decreasing protein carbonyation induced by the copper Fenton reaction was ASEI>ASEIV>ASEII>ASEIII. The order of antioxidant effectiveness for inhibiting tertiary-butyl hydroperoxide (TBH) induced microsomal lipid peroxidation was ASEI>ASEIV>ASEII, ASEIII. Also, the order of ASE effectiveness for inhibiting TBH induced hepatocyte cell death was: ASEIII, ASEIV>ASEI, ASEII. Catechin also protected hepatocytes from TBH induced hepatocyte, lipid peroxidation and cytotoxicity. In a cell free model, equimolar concentrations of catechin or epicatechin rescued serum albumin from protein carbonylation induced by methylglyoxal (MGO). Catechin, epicatechin and ASEI all decreased gloxal induced hepatocyte cell death and reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation in GSH-depleted hepatocytes. Catechin and epicatechin protected against GO or MGO induced hepatocyte cell death, protein carbonylation and ROS formation. Catechin was more effective than epicatechin. Our results suggest that (a) bioactive almond skin constituents in the non-lipophilic polyphenol extract were the most effective at protecting hepatocytes against hydroperoxide induced hepatocyte oxidative stress and in protecting against dicarbonyl induced cytotoxicity; (b) catechins, the major polyphenol in the extract, were also effective at preventing GO or MGO cytotoxicity likely by trapping GO and MGO and/or rescuing hepatocytes from protein carbonylation.
The aim of the present study was to determine the in vivo hypoglycemic activity of five organic extracts and enhydrin obtained from yacon leaves. The main constituents of the most active fraction were identified. Five organic extracts and pure crystalline enhydrin were administered to normoglycemic, transiently hyperglycemic and streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats. The fasting and post-prandial blood glucose, and serum insulin levels were estimated and an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) was performed for the evaluation of hypoglycemic activity and dose optimization of each extract. We found that the methanol, butanol and chloroform extracts showed effective hypoglycemic activity at minimum doses of 50, 10 and 20mg/kg body weight, respectively, and were selected for further experiments. Oral administration of a single-dose of each extract produced a slight lowering effect in the fasting blood glucose level of normal healthy rats, whereas each extract tempered significantly the hyperglycemic peak after food ingestion. Daily administration of each extract for 8 weeks produced an effective glycemic control in diabetic animals with an increase in the plasma insulin level. Phytochemical analysis of the most active fraction, the butanol extract, showed that caffeic, chlorogenic and three dicaffeoilquinic acids were significant components. Additionally, enhydrin, the major sesquiterpene lactone of yacon leaves, was also effective to reduce post-prandial glucose and useful in the treatment of diabetic animals (minimum dose: 0.8mg/kg body weight). The results presented here strongly support the notion that the phenolic compounds above as well as enhydrin are important hypoglycemic principles of yacon leaves that could ameliorate the diabetic state.
Angiogenesis, the growth of new blood vessels, is a critical homeostatic mechanism which regulates vascular populations in response to physiological requirements and pathophysiological demand, including chronic inflammation and cancer. The importance of angiogenesis in gastrointestinal chronic inflammation and cancer has been defined, as antiangiogenic therapy has demonstrated benefit in models of inflammatory bowel disease and colon cancer treatment. Curcumin is a natural product undergoing evaluation for the treatment of chronic inflammation, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The effect of curcumin on human intestinal angiogenesis is not defined.
The antiangiogenic effect of curcumin on in vitro angiogenesis was examined using primary cultures of human intestinal microvascular endothelial cells (HIMECs), stimulated with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
Curcumin inhibited proliferation, cell migration and tube formation in HIMECs induced by VEGF. Activation of HIMECs by VEGF resulted in enhanced expression of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA, protein and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) production. Pretreatment of HIMECs with 10 microM curcumin as well as 1 microM NS398, a selective inhibitor of COX-2, resulted in inhibition of COX-2 at the mRNA and protein level and PGE(2) production. Similarly COX-2 expression in HIMECs was significantly inhibited by Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK; SP600125) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK; SB203580) inhibitors and was reduced by p44/42 MAPK inhibitor (PD098059).
Taken together, these data demonstrate an important role for COX-2 in the regulation of angiogenesis in HIMECs via MAPKs. Moreover, curcumin inhibits microvascular endothelial cell angiogenesis through inhibition of COX-2 expression and PGE(2) production, suggesting that this natural product possesses antiangiogenic properties, which warrants further investigation as adjuvant treatment of IBD and cancer.
Three patients with bipolar disorder developed manic symptoms while receiving a combination of isocarboxazid and amitriptyline during an episode of major depression refractory to previous treatments. It is suggested that mania be considered a possible complication of combined treatment with an MAO inhibitor and a tricyclic antidepressant.
Hematoma volume and impaired level of consciousness are the most potent predictors of outcome after spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The effect of preceding aspirin-use on outcome after ICH is poorly investigated. We investigated short-term mortality and hematoma enlargement in subjects with ICH to find the predictors for these outcomes.
This population-based study included all subjects with ICH during a period of 33 months in the population of Northern Ostrobothnia, Finland. The subjects were identified, and their clinical characteristics and outcomes were checked from hospital records or death records.
Three-month mortality of the 208 identified subjects with ICH was 33%. The independent risk factors for death were regular aspirin-use at the onset of ICH (relative risks [RR], 2.5; 95% CI, 1.3 to 4.6; P=0.004), warfarin-use at the onset of ICH (RR, 3.2; 95% CI, 1.6 to 6.1; P=0.001), and ICH score higher than 2 on admission (RR, 13.8; 95% CI, 6.0 to 31.4; P<0.001). Regular aspirin-use preceding the onset of ICH associated significantly with hematoma enlargement during the first week after ICH (P=0.006).
We observed poor short-term outcomes and increased mortality, probably attributable to rapid enlargement of hematomas, in the subjects with ICH who had been taking regularly moderate doses of aspirin (median 250 mg) immediately before the onset of the stroke.
Chronic active hepatitis was selectively induced in mice by the feeding of a diet containing 3-hydroxy-4-pyrone (0.5% by weight) for periods of 6 weeks and longer. This model should be of particular value in elucidating the pathogenesis of drug-induced forms of chronic active hepatitis. Maltol (3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-pyrone) did not produce any liver lesion.
Salt-sensitive hypertension can be caused through abnormalities related to sodium and body fluid homeostasis; renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAAS) plays a key role in this regard. The molecular basis of the purported antihypertensive benefits of some plant-derived compounds such as quercetin is still lacking. To this end, we investigated RAAS in the Dahl salt-sensitive rat model with emphasis on the kidney. Eighteen rats were treated with captopril (CAP), quercetin (QUE), and dimethyl sulfoxide (controls) over a 4-week period. CAP and QUE lowered systolic blood pressure significantly in comparison to day 0 (baseline values). These findings were in keeping with their increased urinary output, increased sodium output, decreased aldosterone and decreased AT1a mRNA. QUE did not differ significantly from controls with regards to aldosterone levels. QUE was effective in lowering blood pressure in this model of hypertension, probably because of a modulation of renal function.
To assess the comparative efficacy of cefuroxime and ceftriaxone for the treatment of bacterial meningitis, we reviewed the records from four prospective efficacy trials conducted at our institution. One hundred seventy-four infants and children received ceftriaxone and 159 received cefuroxime. The clinical characteristics of the two groups were comparable at admission. After 24 hours of therapy, routine cerebrospinal fluid cultures for all patients treated with ceftriaxone were sterile, whereas 9% of cerebrospinal fluid cultures were positive in cefuroxime-treated patients (p less than 0.001). More cefuroxime-treated patients had abnormal physical examinations at the time of discharge than did ceftriaxone-treated patients (39/159 vs 25/174, p = 0.02). At 6-week and 1-year follow-up examinations, there was no longer a statistically significant difference in the incidence of neurologic abnormalities between the two therapy groups, but the incidence of hearing impairment in one or both ears was higher in the cefuroxime (18%) than in the ceftriaxone (11%) treatment group. Both regimens are efficacious for the treatment of bacterial meningitis, but some patients may not respond as satisfactorily to cefuroxime as to ceftriaxone.
