A case of peripheral gangrene and renal failure following the use of dihydroergotamine (DHE) for treatment of raised intracranial pressure (ICP) is reported. There have been several reports of vasospasm and peripheral gangrene caused by DHE used in combination with heparin for prevention of deep venous thrombosis. Clinical experience with the use of DHE in head trauma is limited. This case report emphasises the seriousness of the adverse effects associated with the use of this drug.
A 73-year-old woman with cardiac dysfunction had several episodes of severe bradycardia and pulmonary oedema when waiting for peripheral vascular surgery. She used timolol eye drops for primary open-angle glaucoma. The first episode of pulmonary oedema occurred two weeks prior to and the second on the day before the planned surgery. There were another two episodes of pulmonary oedema before she was transferred to the Department of Internal Medicine where she had a further two episodes of cardiac failure. After changing timolol to pilocarpine eye drops, the patient's condition was stabilized, and two weeks later surgery and postoperative recovery were uneventful.
Reversible ventricular fibrillation occurred in a 35 year old multiparous woman after the administration of the association mifepristone (Mifegyne) and sulprostone (Nalador) for therapeutic abortion. A coronary spasm induced by the analogue of the prostaglandin PGE 2x was though to be the causative mechanism and was reproduced by the Ergonovine test. The evolution of the ECG and myocardial scintigraphy suggested a slowly regressive stunned myocardium.
Antagonists of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)- or glycine-mediated neurotransmission, muscarinic cholinergic agonists, and excitatory amino acids and their analogues are all considered to be potent chemoconvulsant agents. However, although systemic injections of these agents have been used to create experimental models of generalized epilepsy, there has been no identification of a specific locus at which any of these drugs act to initiate generalized seizures. We recently located a forebrain region from which seizures can be elicited by the GABA antagonist bicuculline, and now report that manipulations of excitatory amino acid transmission and cholinergic transmission can also elicit seizures from this site. Bilateral clonic seizures can be elicited after unilateral application of picomole amounts of bicuculline, kainic acid or carbachol and micromole amounts of glutamate. Local application of the GABA agonist muscimol prevents the appearance of seizures on subsequent microinjection of all convulsant agents examined, whereas local application of the muscarinic antagonist, atropine, only prevents seizures induced by carbachol. This region is therefore a site of action for the epileptogenic effects of neuroactive agents with diverse mechanisms of action; it may also represent a site at which GABA agonists could function therapeutically to control epileptogenesis.
Antigen induces murine bronchial hyperreactivity (BHR), inflammation, mucus accumulation, and airway remodeling. To investigate whether leukotrienes (LT) mediate the effects of antigen [ovalbumin (Ova)], we studied 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) expression in immunized BP2 mice and blocked LT synthesis with the 5-LO inhibitor zileuton or antagonized their effects with receptor antagonists [cysteinyl leukotriene (Cys-LT)-ra MK-571, LY-171883; LTB4-ra PH-163]. Cys-LT content increased in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) as early as 15 min after the intratracheal instillation of Ova. Zileuton inhibited LT release in the BALF and eosinophil recruitment in the lungs, and dose dependently reduced BHR, mucus accumulation, and remodeling, as did the LT-ra. Thus LT, released just after antigen challenge, might constitute the first step in accounting for the effects of Ova. Because mucus accumulation is regulated via the EGF receptor (EGFR), which is also implicated in the effects of LT, we studied this pathway with AG-1478, an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor given at 0.5, 4, and 20 mg/kg. AG-1478 inhibited BHR, inflammation, and lung remodeling induced by Ova or by molecules themselves generated by Ova, such as LT, IL-13, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, which promote identical effects, suggesting the involvement of the EGFR pathway in the asthma-like syndrome observed.
We previously observed hyperglycaemia, hyperinsulinaemia, insulin resistance and obesity in Gpx1-overexpressing mice (OE). Here we determined whether these phenotypes were eliminated by diet restriction, subsequently testing whether hyperinsulinaemia was a primary effect of Gpx1 overexpression and caused by dysregulation of pancreatic duodenal homeobox 1 (PDX1) and uncoupling protein-2 (UCP2) in islets.
First, 24 male OE and wild-type (WT) mice (2 months old) were given 3 g (diet-restricted) or 5 g (full-fed) feed per day for 4 months to compare their glucose metabolism. Thereafter, several mechanistic experiments were conducted with pancreas and islets of the two genotypes (2 or 6 months old) to assay for beta cell mass, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)) and expression profiles of regulatory proteins. A functional assay of islets was also performed.
Diet restriction eliminated obesity but not hyperinsulinaemia in OE mice. These mice had greater pancreatic beta cell mass (more than twofold) and pancreatic insulin content (40%) than the WT, along with an enhanced Deltapsi(m) and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in islets. With diminished ROS production, the OE islets displayed hyperacetylation of H3 and H4 histone in the Pdx1 promoter, elevated PDX1 and decreased UCP2.
Overproduction of the major antioxidant enzyme, glutathione peroxidase 1, caused seemingly beneficial changes in pancreatic PDX1 and UCP2, but eventually led to chronic hyperinsulinaemia by dysregulating islet insulin production and secretion.
Cerebral ischemia followed by oxygen reperfusion induces apoptosis in hippocampal neurons in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) but not in Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY). The overproduction of oxygen-free radicals that occurs in the tissues of SHRSP is implicated in reoxygenation injury after hypoxia. Antioxidants inhibit reoxygenation injury in hippocampal slices, and temporal cortices in Alzheimer's disease increase sensitivity to oxygen-free radicals. Because this sensitivity may contribute to the development of the disease, we have studied hypoxia and oxygen reperfusion using cortical neurons isolated from WKY and SHRSP (at 15 days of gestation). We have tried to determine whether cortical neurons are damaged under these conditions, and whether neurons from SHRSP are more vulnerable than those from WKY. We have tried also to verify whether neuronal damage is minimized by vitamin E using the following techniques: (a) Trypan blue staining, (b) in situ staining of apoptosis, (c) ultrastructural examination, and (d) measurement of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) activity in the bathing medium. Furthermore, we have examined the mechanisms involved in the development of neuronal damage and have studied ways of minimizing it. We demonstrated that 36 hours of hypoxia significantly increased the rate of cell death in SHRSP (p < 0.01), although 12 to 24 hours of hypoxia did not increase cell death in either WKY or SHRSP. In addition, 6 to 36 hours of hypoxia and 1.5 to 5 hours of oxygen reperfusion heavily damaged cells of both WKY and SHRSP, and most became apoptotic or necrotic. In contrast, cells incubated with 50 to 300 microg/ml of vitamin E remained intact, although 10 to 20 microg/ml of vitamin E did not totally preserve the cells. Moreover, vitamin E protected the neurons from high concentrations of sodium nitroprusside (nitric oxide donor) in a dose-dependent manner. Vitamin E, when added to the cells, increased in concentration in a time-dependent manner over a 24-hour period and in a dose-dependent manner below 200 microg/ml, and it was detected mostly in the mitochondria. We also demonstrated that serial treatments with allopurinol (a xanthine oxidase inhibitor) or superoxide dismutase preserved neurons during hypoxia and oxygen reperfusion. These data indicate that SHRSP neurons are weaker than WKY neurons in long-term hypoxia; oxygen radical generation occurs in the early minutes after reperfusion, and then the oxygen-free radicals cause heavy damage to the cells; and antioxidants including vitamin E react with the radicals, thereby preventing apoptosis and necrosis. Therefore, antioxidants appear to be the most important agents in lowering oxygen-free radical damage in cortical neurons.
Cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy was compared with cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy augmented by leuprolide acetate (LA) for suppression of pedophilic behavior. Five male pedophiles (M age, 50 years; range, 36-58) were administered LA by Depo injection for 12 months, followed by saline placebo for 12 months. Testosterone levels, sexual interest preference by visual reaction time (Abel Assessment), penile tumescence (Monarch Penile Plethysmography, PPG), as well as strong sexual urges toward children and masturbatory frequency involving thoughts of children (polygraph), were measured every 3 months. On LA, testosterone decreased to castrate levels. Penile tumescence was significantly suppressed compared with baseline, but sufficient response remained to detect pedophilic interest. Pedophilic interest was also detected by visual reaction times. When asked about having pedophilic urges and masturbating to thoughts of children, all subjects self-reported a decrease. Polygraph responses indicated subjects were not deceptive. On placebo, testosterone and physiologic arousal eventually rose to baseline. As noted by polygraph, at baseline and on placebo, subjects were deceptive regarding increased pedophilic urges and masturbatory frequency. Interest preference, as measured by Abel Assessment and Monarch PPG, was generally unchanged throughout the study. Cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy augmented with LA significantly reduced pedophilic fantasies, urges, and masturbation; however, pedophilic interest did not change during 1 year of therapy. Deceptive responses by polygraph suggested that self-report was unreliable. Follow-up utilizing objective measures is essential for monitoring efficacy of treatment in pedophilia. Our study supports the premise that suppression of pedophilic behavior is possible. LA may augment cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy and help break the sequence leading to a re-offense.
We describe a patient with a metastasized adrenocortical cancer who exhibited excessive production of both glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids combined with suppressed androgen production. Unusual steroid metabolites found in the patient's urine have not been described previously in association with this tumor type. Investigation of the multidrug resistance phenotype in single-cell suspensions of the tumor revealed low expression of multidrug resistance protein but high expression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and lung resistance-related protein. Functional Pgp in these tumor cells was shown by the modulatory effect of PSC833 on daunorubicin accumulation. Mitotane, at a concentration achieved in this patient's plasma, completely reversed the Pgp-related resistance both in the Pgp-overexpressing KB8-5 cell line and in the patient's tumor cells. On the basis of these in vitro results, the patient was treated with a combination of multidrug resistance drugs (doxorubicin, vincristine, and etoposide) plus mitotane as a Pgp modulator. This treatment was ineffective, however. A chemosensitivity assay demonstrated that the tumor cells were highly resistant to the drugs used. The adrenocortical cancer cells expressed mutant p53, and no evidence for induction of apoptosis by these drugs was found.
We present a case of ductus arteriosus aneurysm in a neonate in whom the diagnosis was made by echocardiography, three-dimensional surface rendering computed tomography (CT) and was subsequently confirmed by angiography. Regression of aneurysm after indomethacin treatment was clearly demonstrated in a follow-up CT scan. To our knowledge, this is the first report of ductus arteriosus aneurysm and its regression detected by 3D surface rendering CT.
The role of digoxin and the new beta adrenergic blocking agent, timolol, in controlling heart rate at rest and during exercise was investigated in 28 patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. Digoxin failed to prevent excessively rapid heart rates during mild to moderate exercise. Increasing digoxin blood levels from a mean of 0.6 to 1.8 ng/ml had no effect on heart rate either at rest or during exercise. The addition of timolol, 20 to 30 mg/day, resulted in a satisfactory and significant attenuation of the rapid heart rates both at rest and during exercise. Heart rates at rest were 91 and 98 beats/min in the patients with low and high digoxin dosage and rose to 135 and 139 beats/min, respectively, during exercise. Timolol reduced the heart rate to 67 at rest and to 92 beats/min during exercise. The effect of beta adrenergic blockade at rest was less pronounced in patients whose initial heart rates were below 90 beats/min. Digoxin alone may not suffice to control excessive heart rate in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. The additional beta adrenergic blockade actually normalizes the heart rate response in these patients.
The implementation of personalized approaches in the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) requires a precise understanding of tumor biology, a reorientation of clinical development with a strong focus on genetically stratified early phase 'proof of concept' trials, the availability of high-quality 'realtime' genetic diagnostics, and the establishment of networks for molecular screening of lung cancer patients. To achieve this goal, a close interaction between basic researchers, clinical scientists, molecular pathologists, and pharmaceutical companies is essential. We believe that this approach is worth the effort, since personalized therapy in lung cancer has the potential to substantially improve survival in an increasing number of patients. At the moment, established personalized treatment approaches include treatment of patients with NSCLC and activating epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations with the EGFR-directed tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib or erlotinib, and treatment of NSCLC patients with genetic aberrations in the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) oncogene with the mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor (MET)/ALK inhibitor crizotinib. A new approach, the treatment of fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1)-amplified squamous cell lung cancer patients with FGFR inhibitors, is currently being tested in phase I clinical trials.
Effect of clofibrate administered simultaneously with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) on hepatocarcinogenesis in F344 male rats was investigated. DEN was given in drinking water at a concentration of 40 ppm for 5 weeks. Rats were fed the diet containing clofibrate at concentrations of 0.1% and 0.25% during DEN-treatment. All rats were killed 25 weeks after the beginning of DEN-treatment, and hepatic tumors over 1 mm in diameter were counted. Hepatic tumors in the rats given clofibrate at both concentrations were twice as many as those in rats given DEN alone. The significant increase in number of hepatic tumors was observed mainly in the tumors under 10 mm in diameter. Thus, the enhancing effect of clofibrate on hepatocarcinogenesis was evident even when fed simultaneously with the carcinogen, in contrast with phenobarbital (PB).
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are common features in patients with sepsis and organ failure. Within mitochondria, superoxide is converted into hydrogen peroxide by MnSOD (manganese-containing superoxide dismutase), which is then detoxified by either the mGSH (mitochondrial glutathione) system, using the enzymes mGPx-1 (mitochondrial glutathione peroxidase-1), GRD (glutathione reductase) and mGSH, or the TRX-2 (thioredoxin-2) system, which uses the enzymes PRX-3 (peroxiredoxin-3) and TRX-2R (thioredoxin reductase-2) and TRX-2. In the present paper we investigated the relative contribution of these two systems, using selective inhibitors, in relation to mitochondrial dysfunction in endothelial cells cultured with LPS (lipopolysaccharide) and PepG (peptidoglycan). Specific inhibition of both the TRX-2 and mGSH systems increased the intracellular total radical production (P<0.05) and reduced mitochondrial membrane potentials (P<0.05). Inhibition of the TRX-2 system, but not mGSH, resulted in lower ATP production (P<0.001) with high metabolic activity (P<0.001), low oxygen consumption (P<0.001) and increased lactate production (P<0.001) and caspase 3/7 activation (P<0.05). Collectively these results show that the TRX-2 system appears to have a more important role in preventing mitochondrial dysfunction than the mGSH system in endothelial cells under conditions that mimic a septic insult.
The pathophysiology underlying the involuntary tics of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) remains unknown. Here we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to examine the excitability of two different inhibitory systems in the human motor cortex: short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and short interval afferent inhibition (SAI) in 10 healthy non-smoking controls and eight untreated non-smoking patients with GTS. Compared with the healthy control group, both SICI (measured at a range of conditioning intensities) and SAI were reduced in patients. This is consistent with the suggestion that reduced excitability of cortical inhibition is one factor that contributes to the difficulty that patients have in suppressing involuntary tics. In addition, the reduced SAI indicates that impaired intracortical inhibition may not be limited to the motor cortex but also involves circuits linking sensory input and motor output. A single dose of nicotine reduced tic severity as assessed by blind video scoring in the majority of patients. In addition, it abolished the difference between patients and controls in SICI and SAI. There was no effect of nicotine, and no difference between controls and patients in measures of motor or SICI threshold. This indicates that cholinergic input can modulate the efficiency of SICI and SAI differently in GTS and healthy controls.
We compared the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and safety profile of a new galenic formulation of propofol (AM149 1%), which does not contain soyabean oil, with a standard formulation of propofol (Disoprivan 1%). In a randomised, double-blind, cross-over study, 30 healthy volunteers received a single intravenous bolus injection of 2.5 mg.kg-1 propofol. Plasma propofol levels were measured for 48 h following drug administration and evaluated according to a three-compartment model. The pharmacodynamic parameters assessed included induction and emergence times, respiratory and cardiovascular effects, and pain on injection. Patients were monitored for side effects over 48 h. Owing to a high incidence of thrombophlebitis, the study was terminated prematurely and only the data of the two parallel treatment groups (15 patients in each group) were analysed. Plasma concentrations did not differ significantly between the two formulations. Anaesthesia induction and emergence times, respiratory and cardiovascular variables showed no significant differences between the two treatment groups. Pain on injection (80 vs. 20%, p < 0.01) and thrombophlebitis (93.3 vs. 6.6%, p < 0.001) occurred more frequently with AM149 than with Disoprivan. Although both formulations had similar pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles the new formulation is not suitable for clinical use due to the high incidence of thrombophlebitis produced.
We investigated the relationship between agricultural pesticides and colorectal cancer incidence in the Agricultural Health Study. A total of 56,813 pesticide applicators with no prior history of colorectal cancer were included in this analysis. Detailed pesticide exposure and other information were obtained from self-administered questionnaires completed at the time of enrollment (1993-1997). Cancer incidence was determined through population-based cancer registries from enrollment through December 31, 2002. A total of 305 incident colorectal cancers (212 colon, 93 rectum) were diagnosed during the study period, 1993-2002. Although most of the 50 pesticides studied were not associated with colorectal cancer risk, chlorpyrifos use showed significant exposure response trend (p for trend = 0.008) for rectal cancer, rising to a 2.7-fold (95% confidence interval: 1.2-6.4) increased risk in the highest exposure category. Aldicarb was associated with a significantly increased risk of colon cancer (p for trend = 0.001), based on a small number of exposed cases, with the highest exposure category resulting in a 4.1-fold increased risk (95% confidence interval: 1.3-12.8). In contrast, dichlorophenoxyacetic acid showed a significant inverse association with colon cancer but the association was not monotonic. Our findings should be interpreted cautiously since the literature suggesting that pesticides are related to colorectal cancer is limited. Nonetheless the possibility of an association between exposure to certain pesticides and incidence of colorectal cancer among pesticide applicators deserves further evaluation.
A 76-year old woman was admitted because of severe gait ataxia and dysarthric speech that had worsened over the last 24 h. The patient was initially suspected of having repeated transitory ischemic attacks (TIAs) as her daughter reported a similar episode that had happened 3 weeks prior to admission. The onset of spontaneous twisting, choreoathetotic movements of both hands and arms and worsening of symptoms one hour after admission together with a history of lithium therapy lead to the correct diagnosis and appropriate treatment.
1. In the nephrotic syndrome the kidneys retain salt and water, which leads to oedema formation. The site of this sodium retention has been localized in the cortical collecting tubule by micropuncture studies. Whether or not this phenomenon is an intrinsic renal problem or is the consequence of changes in hormonal activities is still a matter of discussion. 2. Using the model of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome in the rat, we measured Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in nephron segments from control and nephrotic rats and investigated the regulatory role of aldosterone and endogenous-ouabain-displacing factor. 3. Nephrotic animals had a twofold increase in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in the cortical collecting tubule only (control versus nephrotic: 1065 +/- 68 versus 2081 +/- 274 pmol h-1 mm-1, P = 0.036), which was not modified by adrenalectomy and was independent of the kidney content of endogenous ouabain-displacing factor. Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in the cortical collecting tubule correlated with the sodium balance in both control and nephrotic rats. 4. The data are consistent with the view that sodium retention in this model of the nephrotic syndrome is a primary event, i.e. an increase in sodium transport throughout the cortical collecting tubule expressed as a twofold increase in Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity which is no longer under hormonal regulation (aldosterone and endogenous ouabain-displacing factor).
Effects of fractions A and B from enzyme-digested traditional Chinese medicine colla corii asini on mice with 5-fluorouracil-induced anemia were investigated. The purpose of this study was to further understand the hematopoietic activities and mechanisms of colla corii asini. The fractions A and B were administered to anemic mice for 12 days. After confirming the anti-anemic effect of fractions A and B, we examined the effects of fractions A and B on immature granulocyte and erythroid cell activity and plasma cytokine level. Fraction A administration at 2 g/kg and 1 g/kg and fraction B administration at 1.6 g/kg and 0.8 g/kg activated granulocyte and erythrocyte progenitor cells in bone marrow and erythrocyte progenitors in spleen, led to the recovery of white blood cell and red blood cell counts, and increased the percentage of peripheral reticulocytes in red cells. The GM-CSF and EPO production determined by examining GM-CSF mRNA and EPO mRNA in the kidney and liver of the anemic mice were also enhanced. This treatment significantly increased serum GM-CSF and EPO level and lowered serum transforming growth factor (TGF-beta) level. These results suggested that fractions A and B promoted hematopoiesis by activating immature granulocyte and erythroid cells, partly by stimulating GM-CSF and EPO secretion and suppressing TGF-beta release. Identification of a specific peptide or protein is still required for the development of a novel medicine for anemia caused by malignancy or chemotherapy.
In three patients taking baclofen on a long-term basis, hallucinosis and/or seizures developed with abrupt reduction of dose or discontinuation of baclofen therapy. These cases emphasize the advisability of tapering the dose of baclofen gradually after long-term administration.
Lethal toxic shock syndrome (TSS) results from the MHC class II presentation of bacterial superantigens, most commonly toxic shock syndrome-1 (TSST-1), to specific TCR Vbeta-bearing T cells. This superantigen-induced stimulation of whole T cell subsets leads to the exuberant cytokine production that in turn causes the shock syndrome. Since T cell activation and cytokine production are known to be dependent upon costimulatory signals, we reasoned that interfering with costimulation could effect TSS outcome. To test that hypothesis, we evaluated the effect of CTLA4Ig, a fusion protein known to block costimulatory signaling, on TSST-1-induced responses. CTLA4Ig not only blocked TSST-1-stimulated T cell proliferation by 90% in vitro, it also strikingly ameliorated TSST-1 induced TSS in vivo. While all mice co-administered TSST-1 and control Ig died, 75% of the CTLA4Ig plus TSST-1-treated mice survived. This salutary CTLA4Ig effect correlated with markedly diminished TSST-1 induced serum levels of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, but TSST-1-triggered IL-2 release was not affected. Surprisingly, while CTLA4Ig treatment group survivors remained sensitive to TSS induced by an unrelated superantigen (staphylococcal enterotoxin B), they were completely resistant to a second TSST-1 challenge. Furthermore, this TSST-1 resistance could be transferred to naive C57BL/6 mice using CD8+ T cells from CTLA4Ig plus TSST-1-primed mice. These data suggest several novel interpretations: 1) that the release of TNF-alpha and IL-2 have a different costimulatory signal dependence in vivo, 2) that the TSS resistance conferred by CTLA4Ig was superantigen specific, and 3) that the delayed and transferable resistance to TSST-1 was due, at least in part, to CD8+ T cells with suppressor function.
This study examined the immunomodulatory effect of arvanil, a synthetic capsaicin-anandamide hybrid. Arvanil inhibits lymphocyte proliferation and IFN-gamma production. The phenotype of activated CD4+T cells treated with arvanil shows a down-regulation of T cell activation markers such as CD25, HLA-DR and CD134/OX40. Arvanil and anandamide do not induce apoptosis on CD4+T cells. Arvanil blocks the G1/S phase transition of the cell cycle in stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells, inducing activation of p21waf-1/cip-1 and phosphorylation of Akt/PKB. In vivo, arvanil ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the SJL/J mouse. Our findings have relevance for the use of arvanil and related compounds as a novel immunotherapeutic approach in the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
A 63-year-old female with stage IE diffuse large B-cell lymphoma developed reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS) following CHOP chemotherapy, with typical clinical and radiological findings. RPLS is a rare neurological syndrome characterised by visual disturbances, seizures, headaches and altered conscious level which has been associated with malignant hypertension, pre-eclampsia and some drugs, including ciclosporin. It has not been previously reported following CHOP chemotherapy. Alternative treatment should be considered for patients who develop this rare complication.
We studied susceptibility to halothane hepatitis with an in vitro test that detects cell damage from electrophilic drug intermediates. Metabolites of phenytoin were generated by incubation of phenytoin with rat hepatic microsomes in the presence of the epoxide hydrolase inhibitor 1,1,1-trichloropropene oxide (TCPO), which prevents the further metabolism of phenytoin to an inert metabolite. In lymphocytes exposed to this system, cytotoxicity was measured by trypan blue dye exclusion and was expressed as the percentage increase in trypan blue-positive cells after the addition of TCPO. In the presence of TCPO, lymphocytes from 11 patients with halothane hepatitis exhibited an increase in cytotoxicity at 0.06 mM phenytoin that was eight times greater than the increase in healthy controls (54 +/- 10 per cent [mean +/- S.E.M.] vs. 7.1 +/- 2.2 per cent, P less than 0.0001). Patients with other liver diseases and persons recently exposed to halothane without adverse effects did not differ from healthy controls. In three patients with halothane hepatitis who were studied serially, the lymphocyte abnormality was still present after 13 months. Family studies revealed abnormal results on 10 cytotoxicity tests among 19 members of four families. We propose that there is a familial, constitutional susceptibility factor that predisposes persons to halothane hepatitis.
Excessive accumulation of lipofuscin is observed in numerous degenerative retinal diseases. A toxic vitamin A-based fluorophore (A2E) present within lipofuscin has been implicated in the death of RPE and photoreceptor cells. Here, we used an animal model that manifests accelerated lipofuscin accumulation (ABCA4-/- mutant) to evaluate the efficacy of a therapeutic approach based on reduction of serum retinol.
N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)retinamide (HPR) potently and reversibly reduces serum retinol. The interaction of HPR with retinol binding protein (RBP) and transthyretin was studied by spectrofluorometry and size-exclusion chromatography. To assess the effects of HPR on visual cycle retinoids and A2E biosynthesis, HPR was chronically administered to ABCA4-/- mice. Mice were evaluated using biochemical, electrophysiological, and morphologic techniques.
Administration of HPR to ABCA4-/- mice caused immediate, dose-dependent reductions in serum retinol and RBP. Chronic administration produced commensurate reductions in visual cycle retinoids and arrested accumulation of A2E and lipofuscin autofluorescence in the RPE. Physiologically, HPR treatment caused modest delays in dark adaptation. Chromophore regeneration kinetics, light sensitivity of photoreceptors, and phototransduction processes were normal. Histologic examinations showed no alteration of retinal cytostructure or morphology.
These findings demonstrate the vitamin A-dependent nature of A2E biosynthesis and validate a novel therapeutic approach with potential to halt the accumulation of lipofuscin fluorophores in the eye.
An adult male patient was admitted for a pericardial effusion occurring during a longstanding mesalazine treatment for Crohn's disease. The relation between the drug's administration, symptoms and ECG changes suggests that the pericardial injury was caused by mesalazine. Also, the rapid resolution of clinical signs and ECG changes following the drug withdrawal were in agreement with this hypothesis. Eight months later, the patient remains well and symptom-free, and ECG and echocardiographic control were normal.
