In a single blind clinical study of 50 patients with urinary tract infections 250 mg. cinoxacin were compared to 1 g. nalidixic acid 4 times daily. Both drugs produced similar improvement in symptomatic response during therapy and were equally effective in eradicating the causative pathogens. In the 5 of 9-day post-therapy followup 4 patients from the cinoxacin group became reinfected compared to 1 from the nalidixic acid group. Side effects were reported by twice as many patients in the nalidixic acid group. It is concluded that cinoxacin is an effective drug for the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections.
Neonatal diethylstilbestrol (DES) exposure elicits a wide range of abnormalities in the female mouse genital tract. This animal model system is suitable for investigating the mechanism of DES syndrome in humans. Accumulated evidence has shown that critical periods in development are present for distinct and permanent alterations in the female genital tract of mice exposed to DES neonatally (DES-mice). These effects of DES and other estrogens are mainly mediated by estrogen receptor alpha (ER alpha) through multiple pathways. Induction of ER alpha by DES exposure in neonatal stromal and epithelial cells, and successive premature activation of estrogen-regulated genes are thought to be essential to induce the abnormalities. Induction of malformation, permanent changes in estrogen-regulated genes, such as protooncogenes and growth factors, and carcinogenesis are assumed to be interdependent. This review focuses the following topics to discuss the molecular basis of DES-induced abnormalities mainly based on the results by histochemical techniques in the uterus: spatiotemporal expression of ER alpha and coactivators, proteins relating morphogenesis, and estrogen-regulated protooncogenes and growth factors.
Seven chronic psychiatric patients developed signs of polyneuropathy mainly in the lower limbs after receiving chlorprothixene (500-1800 mg/d) from 3 to more than 24 months. The most prominent electroneuromyographic findings were decreased or not measurable motor conduction velocities of the peroneal nerves. Electromyography showed signs of denervation in the leg muscles in all the patients, and also in the upper limbs in 4 of them. The signs of polyneuropathy gradually subsided after withdrawal of chlorprothixene. Thus, chlorprothixene may cause a toxic, dose-dependent, reversible polyneuropathy.
Many studies of adults with acute and chronic solvent exposure have shown adverse effects on cognition, behavior and mood. No prior study has investigated the long-term impact of prenatal and early childhood exposure to the solvent tetrachloroethylene (PCE) on the affinity for risky behaviors, defined as smoking, drinking or drug use as a teen or adult.
This retrospective cohort study examined whether early life exposure to PCE-contaminated drinking water influenced the occurrence of cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, and drug use among adults from Cape Cod, Massachusetts.
Eight hundred and thirty-one subjects with prenatal and early childhood PCE exposure and 547 unexposed subjects were studied. Participants completed questionnaires to gather information on risky behaviors as a teenager and young adult, demographic characteristics, other sources of solvent exposure, and residences from birth through 1990. PCE exposure was estimated using the U.S. EPA's water distribution system modeling software (EPANET) that was modified to incorporate a leaching and transport model to estimate PCE exposures from pipe linings.
Individuals who were highly exposed to PCE-contaminated drinking water during gestation and early childhood experienced 50-60% increases in the risk of using two or more major illicit drugs as a teenager or as an adult (Relative Risk (RR) for teen use = 1.6, 95% CI: 1.2-2.2; and RR for adult use = 1.5, 95% CI: 1.2-1.9). Specific drugs for which increased risks were observed included crack/cocaine, psychedelics/hallucinogens, club/designer drugs, Ritalin without a prescription, and heroin (RRs:1.4-2.1). Thirty to 60% increases in the risk of certain smoking and drinking behaviors were also seen among highly exposed subjects.
The results of this study suggest that risky behaviors, particularly drug use, are more frequent among adults with high PCE exposure levels during gestation and early childhood. These findings should be confirmed in follow-up investigations of other exposed populations.
There have been a few reported cases of immune hemolytic anemia induced by ceftriaxone. We encountered a patient with immune hemolytic anemia that seemed to be stimulated by a degradation product of ceftriaxone. The patient's direct antiglobulin test was positive only for C3d, and no ceftriaxone-dependent antibodies were detectable in the patient's serum. To demonstrate the presence of the ceftriaxone-induced antibodies, an ex-vivo antigen in urine was obtained from the patient. In addition, we prepared a 1 mg/mL suspension solution of ceftriaxone, and group AB serum as a complement source. Using several combinations of the above reactants, the indirect antiglobulin test was performed. Only the indirect antiglobulin test using the patient's serum with the ex-vivo urine antigen was found to be positive. Other combinations were not reactive. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case in Korea, in which the causative antibody appeared to be stimulated solely by a degradation product of ceftriaxone.
Article abstract-The authors studied the effect of bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in 24 consecutive parkinsonian patients with disabling dyskinesias. The improvement in the three subtypes of levodopa-induced dyskinesias was significant from the third postoperative month and was mainly due to the decrease in the daily dose of levodopa allowed by the stimulation-induced improvement in the motor score.
Lack of neonatal angiotensin II type-1 receptor stimulation produces irreversible abnormalities of renal function and morphology, which can be prevented by simultaneous administration of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). Given the fact that growth hormone (GH) is the strongest secretagogue for IGF-I, we wanted to explore whether GH could reproduce the effect of IGF-I. Rats were treated from 3 to 13 days of age with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril (10 mg/kg/day) and GH (4 mg/kg/day), alone or in combination. Renal gene expression of IGF-I and IGF-binding proteins (IGFBP) was determined during and after treatment. Renal function and morphology were investigated at adult age. In contrast to the beneficial effect of IGF-I, GH treatment in combination with enalapril further deteriorated both renal function and morphology as compared with enalapril treatment alone, demonstrating: reduced glomerular filtration rate, increased tubular dilation and further expansion of the outer medulla. Enalapril decreased medullary expression of IGF-I and increased renal expression of IGFBP-1, changes that were not affected by concomitant GH treatment. These findings indicate that GH and IGF-I have different roles in the renin-angiotensin system-mediated kidney development.
The authors report a rare case of low register systemic lupus erythematosus with renal attack and neurological armature by isoniazid. The patient was a 23-year-old woman presenting a lupus induced by isoniazid 1 month after the treatment of pleural tuberculosis. Antinuclear antibodies, anti-native DNA, anti-ENA, anti-Sm, anti-SSa, anti-SSb and antihistone were present. The symptoms included arthralgia, fever, anaemia, pleural effusion, pericarditis and anasarca. She presented a renal and neurological attack, accounting for the gravity of the disease. The treatment consisted of the interruption of the isoniazid and a bolus of methyl-prednisolone during 3 days relayed by an oral corticosteroid. The evolution was favourable after 8 months of corticosteroids.
Unabsorbed fat and bile acids may react with calcium in the intestinal lumen, limiting the amount of free calcium binding with oxalate and thereby raising intestinal oxalate absorption leading to hyperoxaluria. The aim of the present study was to determine whether orlistat (Xenical), a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor, might increase urinary oxalate in an experimental rat model.
Thirty-nine male adult Wistar rats were fed a standard diet alone (controls) or supplemented with either 2% sodium oxalate (NaOx) or 3.2 mL of soy oil, or with both (NaOx + soy oil) for 4 weeks (diet period). Orlistat (16 mg/day) was added to the diet from the 5th to the 8th week (diet + orlistat period). Urinary oxalate (uOx), calcium (uCa), magnesium (uMg), and citrate (uCit) were determined and the ion-activity product of calcium oxalate [AP (CaOx) index(rat)] was estimated.
Compared to baseline uOx significantly increased after diet + orlistat in controls (0.64 +/- 0.1 mg/24 hours vs. 0.56 +/-0.1 mg/24 hours), soy oil (0.80 +/- 0.3 mg/24 hours vs. 0.49 +/-0.2 mg/24 hours), and NaOx (2.48 +/- 0.8 mg/24 hours vs. 0.57 +/- 0.2 mg/24 hours), but the most marked increase occurred in NaOx + soy oil (3.87 +/- 0.7 mg/24 hours vs. 0.47 +/- 0.1 mg/24 hours). All groups except controls presented a significant reduction in uCa and uMg. Orlistat induced a significant increase in AP (CaOx) index(rat) compared, respectively, to baseline and to the diet period in NaOx (4.52 +/- 2.34 mg/24 hours vs. 0.94 +/- 0.86 and 1.53 +/- 0.93 mg/24 hours) and NaOx + soy oil (6.49 +/- 4.03 mg/24 hours vs. 0.54 +/- 0.17 and 1.76 +/- 1.32 mg/24 hours).
These data suggest that the use of lipase inhibitors, especially under a diet rich in oxalate alone or associated with fat, leads to a significant and marked increase in urinary oxalate and a slight reduction in uCa and uMg that, taken together, resulted in an increase in AP (CaOx) index(rat), elevating the risk of stone formation.
The incidence of panic attacks methadone-maintained patients has increased over a 10-year period from 1 to 6-13%. Cocaine use appears to be associated with this increase, although other environmental and constitutional factors may be contributory. Patients with cocaine-associated panic differ from other panic patients in rates of psychiatric hospitalization and medical illness, but not in depression, other drug use, or agoraphobia.
Recent evidence indicates that progesterone metabolites play important roles in regulating breast cancer. Previous studies have shown that breast carcinoma and tumorigenic breast cell lines have higher 5alpha-reductase and lower 3alpha-hydroxysteroid oxidoreductase (3alpha-HSO) and 20alpha-HSO activities and mRNA expression levels than normal tissue and non-tumorigenic cell lines. The 5alpha-reduced progesterone metabolites such as 5alpha-dihydroprogesterone (5alphaP) promote both mitogenic and metastatic activity in breast cell lines in culture, whereas the 4-pregnene metabolites, 4-pregnen-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alphaHP) and 4-pregnen-20alpha-ol-3-one (20alphaHP) have the opposite (anti-cancer-like) effects. The 5alpha-reductase inhibitor dutasteride has been shown to inhibit 5alpha-reduction of testosterone to 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone in prostate tissue, resulting in decreased prostate volume. The aim of this study was to determine if dutasteride is an effective inhibitor of progesterone 5alpha-reduction in human breast cell lines and if such inhibition reduces mammary cell proliferation and detachment. The effect of dutasteride on progesterone metabolizing enzyme activities and mRNA expression were examined in tumorigenic MCF-7 and non-tumorigenic MCF-10A human breast cell lines. Dutasteride (10(-6)M) inhibited progesterone conversion to 5alpha-pregnanes by >95% and increased 4-pregnene production. The results indicated that effects of dutasteride on the progesterone metabolizing enzymes are due to direct inhibition of 5alpha-reductase activity and to altered levels of expression of 5alpha-reductase and HSO mRNAs. Treatment of cells with progesterone without medium change for 72 h resulted in significant conversion to 5alpha-pregnanes and increases in cell proliferation and detachment. The increases in proliferation and detachment were blocked by dutasteride and were reinstated by concomitant treatment with 5alphaP, providing proof-of-principle that the effects were due not to progesterone but to the 5alpha-reduced metabolites. This study provides the first evidence that dutasteride is a potent progesterone 5alpha-reductase inhibitor and that such inhibition may be beneficial in breast cancer.
A combination of behavioural and cognitive adverse effects is illustrated in this case report of a recurrent triazolam-induced eating disorder. The co-occurrence of bingeing, irritability and anterograde amnesia is suggestive of a drug-induced Kleine-Levin Syndrome.
Twenty-five patients with advanced breast cancer were treated with 4-demethoxydaunorubicin (4-DMDR), a new antitumor analogue of daunorubicin, at the dose of 15-20 mg/m2/day x 3 days by oral route every 3-4 weeks. All patients were previously treated with chemotherapy and/or hormone therapy but none with anthracyclines. Of 23 evaluable patients, 1 complete and 5 partial remissions (26%) were observed for a median duration of 4+ months. Leukopenia and nausea occurred in 61% of the patients, vomiting in 30%, diarrhea in 17% and alopecia in 43%. There were 2 cases with minimal and transient EKG variations. 4-DMDR, administered orally in advanced breast cancer, was found to be generally well tolerated. Nevertheless, randomized trials with adriamycin or epirubicin are necessary to compare and to define the therapeutic activity and the toxicity of 4-DMDR.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection continues to be an important worldwide cause of morbidity and mortality. All the currently approved therapeutic drugs have their limitations: interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) has limited efficacy and a high incidence of adverse effects; nucleoside analogues are very efficient HBV DNA inhibitors, but resistance occurs eventually. Therefore, it is important to develop new non-nucleoside/nucleotide agents with different modes of action that can be used for antiviral combination therapy. Here, we report on a novel class of compounds, helioxanthin and its derivative 5-4-2, which had potent anti-HBV activities in HepG2.2.15 cells, with the EC50s of 1 and 0.08 microM, respectively. The lamivudine-resistant HBV, L526M/M550V double mutant strain, was also sensitive to helioxanthin and 5-4-2. This class of compounds not only inhibited HBV DNA, but also decreased HBV mRNA and HBV protein expression. The EC50 of HBV DNA inhibition was consistent with the EC50 of HBV 3.5 Kb transcript inhibition, which was 1 and 0.09 microM for helioxanthin and 5-4-2 respectively. Western blot analysis of cell lysate from HepG2.2.15 cells showed that the core protein expression decreased in a dose-dependent manner after drug treatment. In conclusion, helioxanthin and 5-4-2 are potentially unique new anti-HBV agents, which possess a different mechanism of action from existing therapeutic drugs. Both compounds inhibited HBV RNA and protein expression in addition to inhibiting HBV DNA.
QT dispersion (QTd) is an arrhythmia parameter that can be used to assess homogeneity of cardiac repolarization. An antiobesity drug sibutramine is linked with several cardiovascular adverse events, including arrhythmias. Previous studies showed that sibutramine may prolong the QT interval and may be associated with cardiac arrest.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of sibutramine on QTd.
The study group consisted of 65 consecutive patients with obesity. All patients were to receive 15 mg of sibutramine once a day in addition to standard care for lifestyle change. Twelve-lead ECG was performed before the onset of the medication and after 16 weeks of treatment. QTd was calculated.
Three individuals were withdrawn from the study because of the adverse effects of sibutramine. Sixty-two patients with obesity were recruited into the study. All patients were women (62, 100%). Body weight (106.3 ± 15.0 kg vs. 101.6 ± 16.9 kg, P < 0.001) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (128.4 ± 29.7 mg/dl vs. 111.6 ± 24.6 mg/dl, P < 0.001) levels were significantly decreased whereas QTd (46.1 ± 22.6 ms vs. 53.7 ± 16.7 ms, P = 0.026) was significantly increased after 16 weeks of sibutramine treatment. The increase in QTd was not correlated with the decrease in body weight. There was no correlation between QTd and any conditions such as diabetes or hypertension.
This study has shown an elevation in QTd, which may lead to cardiac arrhythmias, after sibutramine treatment. Molecular mechanisms may play role in increasing QTd. Further randomized studies are needed to clarify cardiac adverse events of the sibutramine.
There is increasing evidence linking depression and cardiovascular disease. However, the authors could find no literature directly linking depression with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. The authors report the case of a patient with uncontrolled atrial arrhythmia who cardioverted to normal sinus rhythm after treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) with venlafaxine. The authors discuss comorbidity of MDD and atrial fibrillation, and explore evidence of venlafaxine as an antiarrhythmic agent. Further research is needed to establish the clinical role of venlafaxine as a Class 1 antiarrhythmic agent and any association between atrial arrhythmias and MDD and PTSD.
Painful heterotopic stimulation (HTS) may inhibit experimental and clinical pain, an effect known as diffuse noxious inhibitory control (DNIC). This study examined the effect of painful HTS on capsaicin-induced pain intensity, brush-evoked pain intensity and area of brush-evoked pain in humans. Immersion of the foot into painful cold water significantly reduced capsaicin-induced pain intensity and brush-evoked pain intensity in the contralateral forearm, but did not change area of brush-evoked pain. The observed differential effect on the magnitude of pain and hyperalgesia on the one hand and area of hyperalgesia on the other suggests that the DNIC effect on spinal activity is selective and not general.
Peri-operative management of patients receiving platelet inhibitors, such as clopidogrel presents a dilemma to surgeons in every surgical specialty including urology. The risk of procedure-related bleeding while continuing clopidogrel needs to be weighed against the risk of thrombo-embolism after discontinuing it. The objective of the survey was to determine current UK practice regarding clopidogrel use/cessation in patients undergoing elective urological procedures.
A 10-part questionnaire relating to pre- and postoperative clopidogrel use was mailed to all UK urology consultants listed in the British Association of Urological Surgeons' directory.
A total of 570 questionnaires were sent and 297 (52%) were returned. The majority of respondents stop clopidogrel prior to TUR surgery (96.6%), major urological surgery (91.7%), TRUS biopsy (90.6%), ESWL (81.8%) and cystoscopy and biopsy (70.1%). The time clopidogrel was stopped pre-operatively and restarted postoperatively was very variable and dependent on local guidelines or urologist preference. Almost half (49.5%) of the respondents would stop clopidogrel irrespective of its indication and 40.7% never consulted a cardiologist/haematologist before stopping clopidogrel. Less than half (43.4%) had a protocol/guideline in place concerning stopping clopidogrel before surgery. Of respondents, 43% do not routinely prescribe bridging therapy after discontinuing clopidogrel. Over half (55%) reported bleeding complications in patients who continued their clopidogrel during urological procedures and 22 (7.4%) of respondents reported an adverse thrombo-embolic event after stopping clopidogrel. The vast majority of respondents (92.8%) felt evidence-based guidelines on clopidogrel use during the peri-operative period would be useful.
This survey has highlighted a significant variation in practice with regards to pre- and postoperative management of clopidogrel in patients undergoing urological procedures. The results of this survey highlight the need for evidence-based guidelines for the peri-operative management of patients on clopidogrel.
Objective. The Wnt/β-catenin pathway is known to regulate cellular proliferation and plays a role in chemoresistance. Niclosamide, an FDA approved salicyclamide derivative used for the treatment of tapeworm infections, targets the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate niclosamide as a potential therapeutic agent for ovarian cancer. Methods. Tumor cells isolated from 34 patients' ascites with primary ovarian cancer were treated with niclosamide (0.1 to 5 μM) ± carboplatin (5 to 150 μM). Cell viability was assessed using the ATP-lite assay. LRP6, Axin 2, Cyclin D1, survivin and cytosolic free β-catenin levels were determined using Western blot analysis. Tumorspheres were treated, and Wnt transcriptional activity was measured by the TOPflash reporter assay. ALDH and CD133 were analyzed by Flow cytometry and IHC. ALDH1A1 and LRP6 were analyzed by IHC in solid tumor and in ascites before and after treatment with niclosamide. Results. Combination treatment produced increased cytotoxicity compared to single agent treatment in 32/34 patient samples. Western blot analysis showed a decrease in Wnt/β-catenin pathway proteins and the expression of target genes. A significant reduction of Wnt/β-catenin signaling was confirmed by TOPflash assay. There was increased staining of ALDH1A1 and LRP6 in ascites compared to solid tumor which decreased after treatment. Conclusion. This study demonstrates that niclosamide is a potent Wnt/β-catenin inhibitor. Targeting the Wnt/β-catenin pathway led to decreased cellular proliferation and increased cell death. These findings warrant further research of this drug and other niclosamide analogs as a treatment option for ovarian cancer.
While contraceptive methods increased in number, the number of abortions has remained stable. The aim of this study was to estimate the satisfaction of women toward a contraceptive implant (Implanon(®)) available in France in order to clarify prescription.
The survey concerned 127 women who visited Angers and Nantes family planning centres between January2009 and January2010 in two implant prescription contexts (postabortion or not). They agreed to answer a first questionnaire describing the reasons for their choice. A second questionnaire was sent six months after to assess its tolerance.
In our study, 82% of patients were using a contraceptive method prior to implant (68% in postabortion and 88% in the other group). The first reason for choosing the implant was the fear of forgetting - it was more important in the postabortion group (88% vs. 61%). The main side effects were amenorrhea (50%), weight gain (30%) and mood disorders (19%). More than one in two women (54%) was very satisfied by the implant. It should be noted that in one quarter of cases, women seek early withdrawal of the contraceptive implant (23% in postabortion and 21% in the other group), a rate that is 39% in patients under 25years and 47% in patients who reported a mood disorder.
There is a tendency to better tolerance of the implant out of a context of abortion. Furthermore, mood disorders appear to be poorly tolerated. These elements encourage greater caution in prescribing the contraceptive implant in postabortion, situation in which patients have already psychological disorders, and even more among younger patients.
Thymidylate synthase (TS) is an important target for 5-fluorouracil (5FU)-based therapy. The TS polymorphic 5'-untranslated region tandem repeat sequence is under investigation to guide 5FU treatment, yet current protocols omit consideration of copy number changes at the TS locus. We surveyed the TS tandem repeat sequence and found copy number changes in gastrointestinal cancers. Ten of 12 informative cases had loss of heterozygosity (LOH), whereas two others and an additional cell line had a novel TS genotype, allelic imbalance at the TS locus due to polysomy. Experimentally, we studied a diploid colorectal cancer line heterozygous at TS to mimic three common TS genotypes of cancers. Using genetic engineering, we deleted the short tandem repeat (two repeats) allele and retained the long (three repeats) allele to produce artificial LOH at the TS gene; the TS(+/-) line had a reduced TS protein expression and was hypersensitive to 5FU and 5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine in vitro as compared with syngeneic control lines. We linked this sensitivity directly to the reduced TS expression by introducing exogenous TS cDNA expression into the TS(+/-) line (i.e., increased TS copies). Our model predicts that the 5FU sensitivity of a tumor is modified by aneuploidy producing copy number changes of TS alleles by one or more of the following: LOH, amplification, and, as presented here, copy number changes due to polysomy. The data suggest that TS copy number in a patient's tumor may be a dominating variable affecting 5FU responsiveness.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and presenilin (PSEN) 1 and 2 genes are regulated during development as well as in pathological conditions associated to hypoxia. In this study, we investigated their patterns of expression during the first 2 weeks of postnatal life in a rat model of moderate global perinatal asphyxia that we have previously reported to be characterized by early oxidative stress and delayed behavioral alterations. In the hippocampus, global perinatal asphyxia induced an early up-regulation COX-2 mRNA (postnatal day, pnd, 1), which preceded those of PSEN 1 and 2 genes, observed at pnd 4. At pnd 11, the expression of all three genes was decreased compared to control animals. In addition, we analyzed the expression of the scavenging enzymes catalase, copper/zinc- and manganese-superoxide dismutase. As for COX-2, the three enzymes were up-regulated in the hippocampus at pnd 1 and returned at or below baseline by pnd 4. In the cortex, only PSEN 1 and 2 showed a moderate up-regulation at pnd 1 followed by a down-regulation at pnd 11. These findings suggest that moderate perinatal hypoxic episodes are associated with a dysregulation of the several genes involved in brain development and anti-oxidant defenses, which follows a rapid and transient oxidative stress. Such alterations are particularly evident in the hippocampus and could represent an adaptive response to the hypoxic condition. The delayed down-regulation of the scavenging enzymes could set the ground for brain damage and delayed behavioral alterations and further support the potential benefit of early anti-oxidant treatments in a short therapeutic window soon after birth.
The objective of this study was to analyze adrenergic receptors during cardiac hypertrophy development, after establishment of cardiac hypertrophy and after regression of cardiac hypertrophy by an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) was induced by abdominal aortic stenosis. After surgery, plasma norepinephrine concentrations (PNE) and left ventricular adrenergic receptors from rat hearts subjected to aortic stenosis were assessed during cardiac hypertrophy development (at 3, 7, 15, and 30 days of aortic stenosis), once cardiac hypertrophy had been established (7 and 14 weeks after the stenosis) and after regression of cardiac hypertrophy by an antihypertensive dose (200 mg/kg/day) of captopril. The presence of LVH was observed from day 7 after stenosis. PNE had significantly increased after 15 days but returned to control values 30 days after surgery. The density of alpha1-adrenoceptors was found to decrease with development of hypertrophy. Once hypertrophy had been established, 7 weeks from stenosis, PNE was not different from control; however, the density of alpha1-adrenoceptors continued to diminish, whereas PNE and the density of beta-adrenoceptors were no different from control values. Fourteen weeks after stenosis, a significant decrease in PNE was recorded, and no change in alpha1- but an increase in beta-adrenoceptors was observed. LVH was reversed by treatment with captopril; PNE was similar in control and stenosed treated animals. The density of alpha1-adrenoceptors was decreased when compared with control animals, and no change in the density of beta-adrenoceptors was observed with treatment. In conclusion, a decrease of alpha1-adrenoceptors was associated with LVH development and earlier stages of established cardiac hypertrophy. Later stages of established cardiac hypertrophy were characterized by no change in alpha1- and an increase in beta-adrenoceptors. Treatment with captopril induced LVH regression and decreased the number of alpha1-adrenoceptors without any change in beta-adrenoceptors.
Valacyclovir (VACV) is used increasingly to treat herpes zoster, although neuropsychiatric symptoms [VACV neurotoxicity (VAN) or acyclovir neurotoxicity], may accompany use of this drug. To promote awareness of this rare condition, we describe here two clinical cases of VAN we previously reported and review 20 cases from the literature. In all cases, chronic or acute renal failure preceded VAN. The symptoms of VAN varied, but disturbances of consciousness and hallucination occurred most commonly. When acute renal failure was due to the drug, recovery from both the disturbance of consciousness and renal failure followed within several days after discontinuation of VACV. Early recognition and diagnosis will ensure effective treatment of VAN.
Prostanoid production depends on the activity of two cyclooxygenase (COX) isoforms. It is appreciated that COX-1 plays a role in physiological processes, whereas COX-2 acts in pathological conditions. However their roles, particularly roles of COX-1, have not yet been fully established in inflammation. Here, we examined the effects of COX inhibitors, having differential isoform selectivity, on the late phase of rat carrageenin-induced pleurisy to elucidate the role of COX-2 expressed in the draining lymph nodes and found substantial contribution of COX-1-product(s). Protein and mRNA of COX-2 were detectable with Western blotting analysis and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis in parathymic lymph nodes, peaking at 48 h after induction of pleurisy. Microsomal prostaglandin E synthase (mPGES)-1 was detectable by immunohistochemical analysis in cells with dendritic processes, a morphological characteristic similar to that of COX-2 expressing cells. Although aspirin, indomethacin and a COX-1 inhibitor, ketorolac, significantly decreased the volume of pleural exudate, they did not affect the levels of COX-2 and mPGES-1 in the lymph node 24 h after induction of pleurisy. In contrast, COX-2 inhibitors, nimesulide and NS-398, had no effect on the exudate volume, but they increased the number of COX-2- and mPGES-1-expressing cells and extension of their dendritic processes with significant increase in the COX-2 level, which were antagonised by ketorolac. These results suggest that COX-2-expressing cells may negatively self-regulate their functions by producing PGE2 via mPGES-1: migration into the draining lymph node and their differentiation. Moreover, COX-1- and COX-2-derived prostanoids may play differential or sometimes antagonistic roles in the late phase of acute inflammation.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are ubiquitous in combustion products of organic matter, including cigarette smoke. Metabolically activated diol epoxides of these compounds, including benzo[a]pyrene diol epoxide (B[a]PDE), have been suggested as causative agents in the development of lung cancer. We previously mapped the distribution of B[a]PDE adducts within the p53 tumor suppressor gene (also known as TP53), which is mutated in 60% of human lung cancers, and found that B[a]PDE adducts preferentially form at lung cancer mutational hotspots (codons 154, 157, 158, 245, 248, and 273). Other PAHs may be important in lung cancer as well.
Here we have mapped the distribution of adducts induced by diol epoxides of additional PAHs: chrysene (CDE), 5-methylchrysene (5-MCDE), 6-methylchrysene (6-MCDE), benzo[c]phenanthrene (B[c]PDE), and benzo[g]chrysene (B[g]CDE) within exons 5, 7, and 8 of the p53 gene in human bronchial epithelial cells.
CDE exposure produced only low levels of adducts. Exposure of cells to the other activated PAHs resulted in DNA damage patterns similar to those previously observed with B[a]PDE but with some distinct differences. 5-MCDE, 6-MCDE, B[g]CDE, and B[c]PDE efficiently induced adducts at guanines within codons 154, 156, 157, 158, and 159 of exon 5, codons 237, 245 and 248 of exon 7, and codon 273 of exon 8, but the relative levels of adducts at each site varied for each compound. B[g]CDE, B[c]PDE, and 5-MCDE induced damage at codon 158 more selectively than 6-MCDE or B[a]PDE. The sites most strongly involved in PAH adduct formation were also the sites of highest mutation frequency (codons 157, 158, 245, 248, and 273).
The data suggest that PAHs contribute to the mutational spectrum in human lung cancer.
Arterial hypotension during stress echocardiography with Dobutamine (ESD) is an occasional complication with no prognostic value, but it sometimes necessitates termination of the investigation. The present study had the aim of elucidating the mechanism responsible for hypotension during ESD and proposing one or several markers for patients at risk for this complication.
One hundred and twenty consecutive patients referred for stress echocardiography (Dobutamine or cycloergometrine) were analysed. Arterial hypotension induced by Dobutamine was defined as a fall of more than 30 mmHg compared to the arterial pressure before the test or following the preceding level of Dobutamine. Concentric left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) was defined as a left ventricular mass > 125 g/m2.
Among the 89 patients undergoing ESD, 32 (35%) had LVH, 9 of whom (28%) had arterial hypotension, prompting termination of the examination in 4 patients. Among the 57 patients (65%) without LVH, only 2 (3%) had hypotension. All patients with LVH had normal left ventricular function at rest and excellent contractility under stress, with no sign of ischaemia. None of the 31 patients, 5 of whom had LVH, who underwent the test with cycloergometrine had hypotension.
Hypotension occurring during ESD affects patients more often with LVH (p < 0.001) and excellent systolic function. We postulate that the vigorous contraction of the left ventricle with Dobutamine produces excessive stimulation of the cardiac mechanoreceptors inducing a reflex hypotension. LVH is therefore a marker for patients at risk of hypotension and effort echocardiography is an excellent alternative to this investigation.
Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) is an inhibitor of muscle cell differentiation that is associated with fibrosis, poor regeneration and poor function in some diseases of muscle. When neutralizing antibodies to TGF-β1 or the angiotensin II inhibitor losartan were used to reduce TGF-β1 signaling, muscle morphology and function were restored in mouse models of Marfan Syndrome and muscular dystrophy. The goal of our studies was to identify additional agents that overcome the anti-myogenic effect of TGF-β1.
A high-content cell-based assay was developed in a 96-well plate format that detects the expression of myosin heavy chain (MHC) in C2C12 cells. The assay was used to quantify the dose-dependent responses of C2C12 cell differentiation to TGF-β1 and to the TGF-β1 Type 1 receptor kinase inhibitor, SB431542. Thirteen agents previously described as promoting C2C12 differentiation in the absence of TGF-β1 were screened in the presence of TGF-β1. Only all-trans retinoic acid and 9-cis retinoic acid allowed a maximal level of C2C12 cell differentiation in the presence of TGF-β1; the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril and 10 nM estrogen provided partial rescue. Vitamin D was a potent inhibitor of retinoic acid-induced myogenesis in the presence of TGF-β1. TGF-β1 inhibits myoblast differentiation through activation of Smad3; however, retinoic acid did not inhibit TGF-β1-induced activation of a Smad3-dependent reporter gene in C2C12 cells.
Retinoic acid alleviated the anti-myogenic effect of TGF-β1 by a Smad3-independent mechanism. With regard to the goal of improving muscle regeneration and function in individuals with muscle disease, the identification of retinoic acid is intriguing in that some retinoids are already approved for human therapy. However, retinoids also have well-described adverse effects. The quantitative, high-content assay will be useful to screen for less-toxic retinoids or combinations of agents that promote myoblast differentiation in the presence of TGF-β1.
