Status epilepticus is usually initially treated with a benzodiazepine such as diazepam. During prolonged seizures, however, patients often lose their sensitivity to benzodiazepines, thus developing pharmacoresistant seizures. In rats, administration of LiCl followed 20-24 h later by pilocarpine induces a continuous, self-sustained, and reproducible form of status epilepticus that can be terminated with diazepam when it is administered soon after the pilocarpine injection. However, when administered after a 45 min delay, diazepam is less effective. Previous findings have suggested that the development of pharmacoresistance is related to the stage of status epilepticus. In the present study, we characterized the seizure stage-dependence of diazepam pharmacoresistance. Following administration of different doses of diazepam at varying time intervals after specific behaviorally- and electrographically-defined seizure stages, stage-, time-, and dose-dependent pharmacoresistance to diazepam developed. We also studied two other antiepileptic drugs commonly used in the treatment of status epilepticus, phenobarbital and phenytoin. Consistent with previous studies, our results indicated a similar relationship between stage, time and dose for phenobarbital, but not for phenytoin. Our data are consistent with rapid modulation of GABA(A) receptors during status epilepticus that may result in pharmacoresistance to antiepileptic drugs that enhance GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition.
Though methadone pharmacotherapy is the treatment of choice for opiate-dependence during pregnancy in the USA, most methadone-exposed neonates develop neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). NAS expression is widely variable among methadone-exposed neonates and only a subset requires pharmacotherapy. This study explores the potential predictors of NAS severity, including aspects of maternal substance use and methadone maintenance histories, concomitant exposure to other licit substances, and individual differences in intrinsic maternal or infant factors that may affect the infant's vulnerability to NAS expression.
Fifty methadone-maintained pregnant women attending a comprehensive substance abuse treatment facility, received electrocardiogram monitoring at 36 weeks of gestation at the times of trough and peak maternal methadone levels. Vagal tone, an estimate of the magnitude of an individual's respiratory sinus arrhythmia and an indicator of autonomic control, was derived.
NAS expression was unrelated to maternal substance abuse history, methadone maintenance history, or psychotropic medication exposure. Male infants displayed more profound NAS symptoms and received more pharmacotherapy to treat NAS (all p < 0.05). NAS expression was related to maternal vagal reactivity; both suppression and activation of maternal vagal tone in response to methadone administration were positively and significantly associated with NAS symptomatology (F (2,44) = 4.15, p < 0.05) and treatment (F (2,44) = 3.39, p < 0.05). Infants of vagal non-responder mothers showed substantially lower NAS expression.
NAS severity is associated with maternal vagal tone change in response to methadone administration.
DNA damage induced by benzene reactive metabolites is thought of as an important mechanism underlying benzene hematotoxicity and genotoxicity, and genetic variation in cell-cycle control genes may contribute to susceptibility to chronic benzene poisoning (CBP). Using a case-control study that included 307 benzene-poisoned patients and 299 workers occupationally exposed to benzene in south China, we aimed to investigate the association between genetic polymorphisms of p53 and p21 and the odds of CBP. To investigate whether benzene exposure may influence mRNA expression of p53 and p21 in benzene-exposed workers, we also chose 39 CBP workers, 38 occupationally benzene-exposure workers, and 37 nonexposure workers in the same region of China. PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism technique was applied to detect polymorphisms of p53 (rs17878362, rs1042522, and rs1625895) and p21 (rs1801270 and rs1059234), and real-time PCR was applied to detect the quantity of gene mRNA expression. We found that p21 C98A variant genotypes (CA+AA) or C70T variant genotypes (CT+TT) were associated with decreased odds of CBP [odds ratio (OR), 0.51; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 0.32-0.83, and OR, 0.53; 95% CI, 0.29-0.95, respectively. Further analysis showed the decreased odds of CBP in the subjects with p21 CC/AT diplotype (OR, 0.51; 95% CI, 0.30-0.85). In addition, p53 mRNA expression of CBP workers or benzene-exposure workers was significantly lower than that of nonexposure workers. Although these results require confirmation and extension, our results show that polymorphisms in p21 may be protective against the risk of CBP in the Chinese occupational population.
The purpose of this work was to provide a scientific basis for specific immunotherapy of colon cancer.
This study focused on identification of colon tumor-associated antigens and HLA-A2-restricted and tumor-reactive cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) generated from tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes of a colon cancer patient. A gene expression cloning method was used to identify genes coding for tumor antigens. Fifty-six peptides with HLA-A2-binding motifs encoded by these proteins were examined for their ability to induce HLA-A2-restricted and tumor-reactive CTLs.
We identified the following three genes coding for proliferation-related proteins: thymidylate synthase (TYMS), which is involved in chemoresistance (5-fluorouracil); 5'-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-beta-d-ribonucleotide transfolmylase/inosinicase (AICRT/I); and phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PKG1), which was secreted by tumor cells and involved in the angiogenic process. TYMS was preferentially expressed in tumor cells, whereas AICRT/I and PKG1 were equally expressed in both cancer cells and normal tissues at the mRNA level. Among 56 peptides with HLA-A2-binding motifs encoded by these proteins, 8 peptides were recognized by the CTLs, and 5 of 8 peptides were also recognized by the CTL precursors without ex vivo activation in the peripheral blood of colon cancer patients. Furthermore, four of them (one each from TYMS and PKG1 and two from AICRT/1) possessed the ability to induce HLA-A2-restricted and peptide-specific CTLs cytotoxic to colon tumor cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of colon cancer patients.
TYMS and PGK1, as well as their epitope peptides, might be appropriate target molecules for specific immunotherapy of HLA-A2(+) colon cancer patients because of the positive role of TYMS and PGK1 in chemoresistance (5-fluorouracil) and angiogenesis of tumor cells, respectively.
A 21-year-old woman was diagnosed as having Graves' disease in April, 1995. Thiamazole was administered; about a month later the patient had a skin rash and propylthiouracil (PTU) was given instead. Two months after commencing PTU, she rapidly developed jaundice, accompanied by severe liver damage. The drug-induced lymphocyte stimulating test was positive for PTU and she was diagnosed as having severe hepatitis induced by PTU. After pulse therapy with 500 mg of methylprednisolone was given for 3 days, liver function test results were gradually improved, and became normalized 1 1/2 months after admission. The pathology findings of the liver biopsy sample taken before administration of corticosteroid showed necrosis of hepatocytes predominantly around the central veins (i.e., zone 3 necrosis), and moderate to severe infiltration of lymphocytes and neutrophils in portal areas and lobules. Severe hepatic damage due to PTU is rare; 25 cases have been reported so far in the English-language literature. When we use PTU for patients with hyperthyroidism, we should keep in mind that severe liver damage induced by PTU can be fatal, and we should therefore diagnose it earlier by liver biopsy and lymphocyte stimulating test.
We report a case of spontaneous coronary artery rupture associated with amphetamine abuse in a 31-year-old woman. The patient presented to the emergency department with sudden onset of central chest pain and a normal electrocardiogram. Cardiac enzymes were consistent with acute myocardial infarction. Drug screening was positive for amphetamines. Coronary angiography revealed an aneurysmal lesion with 99% occlusion of the proximal left circumflex coronary artery and extravasation of contrast material. Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed with stent placement. Antegrade flow was achieved without residual stenosis. This is the first reported case of coronary artery rupture related to amphetamine abuse.
Cardiovascular diseases, such as heart attack and stroke, are the major cause of death worldwide. It is well known that a high number of environmental and physiological risk factors contribute to the development of cardiovascular diseases. Although risk factors are additive, increased blood pressure (hypertension) is the greatest risk factor. Over the last two decades, a growing number of epidemiological studies associate environmental exposure to lead or mercury species with hypertension. However, cardiovascular effects beyond blood pressure are rarely studied and thresholds for effect are not yet clear. To explore effects of lead or mercury species on the cardiovascular system, normal male Wistar rats were exposed to a range of doses of lead, inorganic mercury or methylmercury through the drinking water for four weeks. High-resolution ultrasound was used to measure heart and vascular function (carotid artery blood flow) at baseline and at the end of the exposure, while blood pressure was measured directly in the femoral artery at the end of the 4-week exposure. After 4 weeks, blood pressure responses to lead were biphasic. Low lead levels decreased blood pressure, dilated the carotid artery and increased cardiac output. At higher lead doses, rats had increased blood pressure. In contrast, methylmercury-exposed rats had increased blood pressure at all doses despite dilated carotid arteries. Inorganic mercury did not show any significant cardiovascular effects. Based on the current study, the benchmark dose level 10% (BMDL10s) for systolic blood pressure for lead, inorganic mercury and methylmercury are 1.1, 1.3 and 1.0 μg/kg-bw/d, respectively. However, similar total mercury blood levels attributed to inorganic mercury or methylmercury produced strikingly different results with inorganic mercury having no observable effect on the cardiovascular system but methylmercury increasing systolic and pulse pressures. Therefore, adverse cardiovascular effects cannot be predicted by total blood mercury level alone and the mercury species of exposure must be taken into account.
Prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is of great importance for the completion of multiple cycles of cancer chemotherapy. Palonosetron is a second-generation 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist with proven efficacy for both acute and delayed CINV. This study was designed to assess the safety and efficacy of 0.75 mg palonosetron in repeated cycles of highly emetogenic chemotherapy or anthracycline-cyclophosphamide combination (AC/EC).
We gave 0.75 mg palonosetron to 538 patients 30 min prior to ≥ 50 mg/m(2) cisplatin or AC/EC on day 1. Prophylactic dexamethasone was administered on days 1-3. The primary endpoint was the incidence rate of adverse events (AEs). The secondary endpoint was complete response rate (CR, defined as no emesis and no rescue medication) throughout the study period.
Treatment-related AEs were seen in 44% (237 of 538 patients). Serious AEs were seen in 4% (23 of 538 patients), all considered unrelated or unlikely to be related to palonosetron. Only one patient discontinued the study due to a treatment-related AE. No trend toward worsening of AEs was observed in subsequent cycles of chemotherapy. Complete response rates were maintained throughout repeated cycles.
The extraordinary safety profile and maintenance of efficacy of 0.75 mg palonosetron combined with dexamethasone were demonstrated throughout repeated chemotherapy cycles.
Tricyclic antidepressants and phenothiazines have been blamed for increasing the incidence of sudden death. One of their known mechanisms of action in such cases is to induce torsades de pointes by a so-called "quinidine-like" effect. We report the case of a female patient who was rescued from an episode of cardiac arrest which occurred two months after a myocardial infarction. Right ventricular programmed pacing strongly suggested an arrhythmogenic effect to the antidepressant the patient was receiving. This type of treatment seems to be capable of facilitating the induction of a monomorphous ventricular tachycardia which may degenerate into ventricular fibrillation.
In cigarette smoking-induced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, structural and functional derangements are characterized by parenchymal destruction and pulmonary hypertension. Statins are 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme-A reductase inhibitors that have been used as lipid-lowering agents. These drugs also have additional pharmacologic properties, including antiinflammation, scavenging reactive oxygen species, restoring endothelial function, and antithrombogenesis, all of which can counteract the harmful effects of cigarette smoking.
We performed assays to determine whether simvastatin could attenuate lung damage induced by chronic cigarette smoking in rats.
In Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to cigarette smoke for 16 weeks, morphologic changes in the lungs and pulmonary arterial pressure were examined.
Simvastatin inhibited lung parenchymal destruction and development of pulmonary hypertension, and also inhibited peribronchial and perivascular infiltration of inflammatory cells and induction of matrix metalloproteinase-9 activity in lung tissue. Simvastatin additionally prevented pulmonary vascular remodeling and the changes in endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression induced by smoking. In human lung microvascular endothelial cells, simvastatin increased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase mRNA.
Simvastatin ameliorated the structural and functional derangements of the lungs caused by cigarette smoking, partly by suppressing inflammation and matrix metalloproteinase-9 induction and preventing pulmonary vascular abnormality. These findings indicate that statins may play a role in the treatment of cigarette smoking-induced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is the most common occupational disease. Although murine contact hypersensitivity provides a framework for understanding ACD, it carries important differences from its human counterpart. Unlike the contact hypersensitivity model, which is induced by potent sensitizers (ie, dinitrofluorobenzene), human ACD is induced by weak-to-moderate sensitizers (ie, nickel), which cannot induce reactions in mice. Distinct hapten-specific immune-polarizing responses to potent inducers were suggested in mice, with unclear relevance to human ACD.
We explored the possibility of distinct T-cell polarization responses in skin to common clinically relevant ACD allergens.
Gene-expression and cellular studies were performed on common allergens (ie, nickel, fragrance, and rubber) compared with petrolatum-occluded skin, using RT-PCR, gene arrays, and immunohistochemistry.
Despite similar clinical reactions in all allergen groups, distinct immune polarizations characterized different allergens. Although the common ACD transcriptome consisted of 149 differentially expressed genes across all allergens versus petrolatum, a much larger gene set was uniquely altered by individual allergens. Nickel demonstrated the highest immune activation, with potent inductions of innate immunity, TH1/TH17 and a TH22 component. Fragrance, and to a lesser extent rubber, demonstrated a strong TH2 bias, some TH22 polarization, and smaller TH1/TH17 contributions.
Our study offers new insights into the pathogenesis of ACD, expanding the understanding of T-cell activation and associated cytokines in allergen-reactive tissues. It is the first study that defines the common transcriptome of clinically relevant sensitizers in human skin and identifies unique pathways preferentially activated by different allergens, suggesting that ACD cannot be considered a single entity.
Of 100 randomly chosen, adult male Wistar rats in the breeding colony at the Centre de Neurochimie , Strasbourg, 31 presented spontaneous, nonconvulsive epileptic seizures: wave-and-spike discharges, 7-11 cycles/s, 200-600 microV, accompanied by behavioral arrest and myoclony of the vibrissae and of the facial and cervical muscles. Pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) 10 and 20 mg/kg increased the duration and number of seizures by 100-150% in these spontaneously epileptic animals, and caused identical seizures in apparently normal rats. Sodium valproate, diazepam, trimethadione, and ethosuximide suppressed the spontaneous seizures and protected against PTZ-induced seizures in a dose-dependent fashion. Carbamazepine and diphenylhydantoin were inefficacious or aggravative in the two cases. The clinical, EEG, and pharmacological observations suggest that the Wistar rats displaying spontaneous seizures constitute a valid physiological and pharmacological model of petit mal absences, presenting advantages compared to the usual models in which seizures are induced by injected epileptogenic drugs.
To draw attention on citalopram as a possible cause of movement disorders.
Case report of a patient with sudden-onset bilateral parkinsonian syndrome after administration of citalopram.
We describe a 67-year-old woman who developed sudden-onset bilateral rigidity, bradykinesia, resting and postural tremor, and typical parkinsonian gait 2 weeks after citalopram was administered. After discontinuation of citalopram, full recovery was observed, with a 4/108 score on the motor subscale of the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale. Use of the Naranjo Adverse Drug Reactions Probability Scale indicated a probable (score of 8) adverse reaction of sudden-onset parkinsonism associated with citalopram consumption.
Physicians should be aware of possible parkinsonism as adverse reaction in patient taking citalopram because recognition and appropriate management can enable proper treatment and prevent serious adverse outcomes.
Liposomal formulations of amphotericin B are designed to maintain therapeutic efficacy of amphotericin B deoxycholate while reducing its associated toxicities. In three patients chest discomfort occurred during planned 1-hour infusions of liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome) 3 mg/kg/day during an open-label trial. The first patient experienced chest tightness and difficulty breathing and the second had dyspnea and acute hypoxia, both within 10 minutes of the start of the infusion. The third patient complained of chest pain 5 minutes after the start of two infusions. All symptoms resolved on terminating therapy. Two patients were later rechallenged with slower infusions and tolerated the drug well. A review of the English-language literature revealed only two other case reports of infusion-related chest or pulmonary reactions with the drug, although similar reactions were noted in several reports of clinical trials. Further review of the literature revealed reports of chest and pulmonary adverse events with other liposomal formulations of amphotericin B, liposomal daunorubicin, liposomal doxorubicin, and liposomes. The pathophysiology of such reactions remains unclear, and premedication with diphenhydramine did not completely prevent this reaction in one of our patients. We recommend infusing liposomal amphotericin B over at least 2 hours with careful monitoring for adverse reactions.
Administration of etretinate in a 29-year-old female patient suffering from severe pustular psoriasis caused a dramatic increase in liver enzymes. Liver biopsy revealed changes characteristic for drug-induced hepatitis. After normalization of liver parameters following withdrawal of etretinate, isotretinoin was administered during a severe pustular relapse. In contrast to etretinate, isotretinoin was well tolerated and resulted in a good therapeutic response. Thus, isotretinoin can be considered as an effective and safe therapeutic alternative for pustular psoriasis even after the occurrence of etretinate-induced hepatitis.
Regional anticoagulation with trisodium citrate is an effective form of anticoagulation for continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) in patients at a high risk of bleeding. In a prospective, observational study we compared an established regional citrate anticoagulation protocol [Mehta R et al: Kidney Int 1990;38:976-981] versus a standard heparin anticoagulation protocol focusing on acid-base and electrolyte derangements as well as on cost effectiveness.
209 patients were included in the study. In 37 patients, citrate was used as the sole anticoagulant, 87 patients received low-dose heparin plus citrate, and 85 patients received only heparin as anticoagulant. A customized dialysate solution was used for citrate-anticoagulated CRRT (no buffer, no calcium, reduced sodium concentration). Filter life was significantly higher during citrate anticoagulation compared to heparin anticoagulation (80.2 +/- 60 vs. 30.2 +/- 32 h; p < 0.001). No difference was found between citrate and citrate-heparin anticoagulation (p = 0.310). Metabolic alkalosis was observed in more than 50% of patients on citrate anticoagulation. Alkalosis developed within the first 72 h after initiating treatment and could be reversed in almost all cases by increasing the dialysate flow rate. Hypercalcemia was observed in 13 patients on citrate anticoagulation. Patients with impaired liver function were particularly at risk. Systemic hypocalcemia, hypernatremia, and anion gap acidosis were not observed. Citrate anticoagulation was well tolerated hemodynamically. A longer filter life during citrate anticoagulation translated into a significant cost reduction compared to standard heparin anticoagulation (p < 0.01).
Regional anticoagulation with trisodium citrate in combination with a customized calcium-free dialysate is a safe and effective alternative to a heparin-based anticoagulation regimen.
Chloroquine is considered essentially nontoxic when used for the chemosuppression of malaria, but gastrointestinal upsets, headache, blurring of vision, pruritus, and uritcaria may occur during chloroquine therapy. Recently, Bhargava et al. and Eronini and Eronini have reported the extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) following chloroquine therapy in adults. The clinical manifestations included upward rolling of the eyeballs, retraction of neck and back, trismus with marked difficulty in speech, and coarse tremors. Observations of 4 instances of EPS in children following chloroquine therapy for malaria are reported. A 2-1/2 year old girl was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital with a 4 day history of intermittent high grade pyrexia with chills and rigors. Following treatment with oral chloroquine in the recommended therapeutic dosage, the fever responded, but the child became drowsy and developed paroxysms of involuntary movements of the tongue, torticollis, torsion dystonia of the limbs, and parosysms of tonic muscular spasms. She completely recovered spontaneously within 48 hours. The 2nd case was that of a 12-year old female brought to the hospital with a 15-day history of intermittent high grade fever with chills and rigors. The patient was started on chloroquine sulfate in the recommended therapeutic dose. After an interval of 4 days she developed coarse tremors of the hands, upward rolling of the eyeballs, episodic deviation of the angle of the mouth towards the left, and trismus. These symptoms disappeared spontaneously within 8 hours. A 6-year old girl, the 3rd case, developed episodes of opisthotonous, upward rolling of the eyeballs, protrusions of the tongue, intermittent writhing movements of the upper limbs, and drowsiness following the ingestion of 6 tablets of chloroquine sulfate for suspected diagnosis of malaria. She spontaneously recovered from EPS over a period of about 48 hours. The 4th case, a 7-year old boy, gave a history of high grade fever with chills and rigors of 1 day's duration. He developed drowsiness, tonic spasms of the neck, upward rolling of the eyeballs, and writhing contortions of all limbs about 2 hours following intravenous administration of 100 mg of chloroquine. 8 hours later an additional 100 mg chloroquine was given intravenously for the mistaken diagnosis of cerebral malaria. On examination the child was drowsy, had generalized stiffness, torticollis, and trismus. He recovered gradually over a 48-hour period without any specific therapy. The exact mechanism of production of EPS remains uncertain.
Effect of methanolic extract of fruits of P. longum (PLM) on the biochemical changes, tissue peroxidative damage and abnormal antioxidant levels in adriamycin (ADR) induced cardiotoxicity in Wistar rats was investigated. PLM was administered to Wistar albino rats in two different doses, by gastric gavage (250 mg/kg and 500 mg/kg) for 21 days followed by ip ADR (15 mg/kg) on 21st day. ADR administration showed significant decrease in the activities of marker enzymes aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase in heart with a concomitant increase in their activities in serum. A significant increase in lipid peroxide levels in heart of ADR treated rats was also observed. Pretreatment with PLM ameliorated the effect of ADR on lipid peroxide formation and restored activities of marker enzymes. Activities of myocardial antioxidant enzymes like catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase along with reduced glutathione were significantly lowered due to cardiotoxicity in rats administered with ADR. PLM pretreatment augmented these endogenous antioxidants. Histopathological studies of heart revealed degenerative changes and cellular infiltrations in rats administered with ADR and pretreatment with PLM reduced the intensity of such lesions. The results indicate that PLM administration offers significant protection against ADR induced oxidative stress and reduces the cardiotoxicity by virtue of its antioxidant activity.
The purpose of this study was to determine the time course for development of white matter changes induced by high-dose chemotherapy.
Eight patients with advanced breast cancer were entered into a prospective, longitudinal trial that included examination by MR imaging and proton MR spectroscopy before chemotherapy and through 12 months after treatment with carmustine, cyclophosphamide, and cisplatin, combined with autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell support (AHPCS).
Six patients completed induction chemotherapy, at which time all MR imaging studies appeared normal. At 3 months after the conclusion of high-dose chemotherapy and beyond, three of the four patients remaining in the study showed an increasing volume of white matter changes, which appeared to stabilize during the period from 6 months to 1 year. Maximal volumes of abnormal white matter ranged from 73 to 166 cm3. MR spectroscopy showed little or no change in metabolic ratios through the period of observation, although there was a suggestion of small transient treatment-related decreases in the ratio of N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) to creatine.
White matter changes are common sequelae of treatment with high-dose chemotherapy combined with AHPCS, occurring early in the period following high-dose chemotherapy, with a rapid and progressive accumulation to about 6 months, but not accompanied by persistent neurologic symptoms. The MR spectroscopic analyses suggest a minimal disturbance of the neuronal marker NAA, a finding that may in part explain the good neurologic outcome.
We report two patients who developed symptomatic life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias with changing QRS axes (resembling torsades de pointes), during treatment of their supraventricular tachycardias with oral amiodarone. Like other effects of amiodarone on the body, the arrhythmias became evident several days after initiating therapy, at which time electrocardiographic QT prolongation was present. The arrhythmias subsided after amiodarone treatment was withdrawn. No other drugs or electrolyte disturbances could be incriminated as a cause.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) is used, in current practice, as an effective chemotherapeutic agent for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). However, the side effects and relatively low efficacy of As2O3 in treating other leukemias have limited its wider use in therapeutic applications. In the present study, we found that the expression of carbonyl reductase 1 (CBR1) affects the resistance to As2O3 in leukemias, including APL; As2O3 upregulated CBR1 expression at the transcriptional level by stimulating the activity of the transcription factor activator protein-1. Moreover, CBR1 overexpression was sufficient to protect cells against As2O3 through modulation of the generation of reactive oxygen species, whereas the attenuation of CBR1 was sufficient to sensitize cells to As2O3. A combination treatment with the specific CBR1 inhibitor hydroxy-PP-Me remarkably increased As2O3-induced apoptotic cell death compared with As2O3 alone, both in vitro and in vivo. These results were confirmed in primary cultured human acute and chronic myeloid leukemia cells, with no significant cell death observed in normal leukocytes. Taken together, our findings indicate that CBR1 contributes to the low efficacy of As2O3 and, therefore, is a rational target for the development of combination chemotherapy with As2O3 in diverse leukemias including APL.
A patient with acute renal failure associated with lactic acidosis as a result of concurrent treatment with metformin is described. Rofecoxib may have been a precipitating factor. The risk of renal failure with the use of traditional NSAIDs is well known. However, what is less well appreciated is the role that the COX 2 inhibitors may play in the development of renal failure which, when it occurs in a patient on metformin, can lead to a potentially disastrous outcome.
Combined spinal-epidural (CSE) analgesia produces rapid-onset pain relief and allows ambulation in early labor. Epidural local anesthetics may contribute to an increase in operative deliveries by decreasing perineal sensation and causing motor weakness. Operative delivery rates might be reduced with CSE, by avoiding or delaying administration of local anesthetics. This study compares the operative delivery rates associated with a CSE technique and those associated with intravenous meperidine for labor analgesia.
Healthy parturients at full term were assigned randomly to receive CSE or intravenous meperidine analgesia. The CSE group received 10 microg intrathecal sufentanil, followed by epidural bupivacaine and fentanyl at their next request for analgesia. Parturients receiving intravenous meperidine had 50 mg on demand (maximum, 200 mg in 4 h). Labor and delivery outcomes in both groups were recorded and compared.
An intent-to-treat analysis of 1,223 women indicated that CSE does not increase the rate of cesarean delivery for dystocia in nulliparous and parous women (CSE, 3.5% vs. intravenous meperidine, 4; P=not significant) or in nulliparous women alone (CSE, 7% vs. intravenous meperidine, 8%; P=not significant). Profound fetal bradycardia that necessitated emergency cesarean delivery within 1 h of the time the mother received sufentanil occurred in 8 of 400 parturients (compared with 0 of 352 who received meperidine; P < 0.01). However, the method of fetal monitoring differed between the two groups. Despite this, neonatal outcomes were similar overall.
Combined spinal-epidural analgesia during labor does not increase the cesarean delivery rate for dystocia in healthy parturient patients at full term, regardless of parity. However, an unexpected increase in the number of cesarean deliveries for profound fetal bradycardia after intrathecal sufentanil was observed. Further investigation is warranted.
6-Thioguanine (6-TG) has been used as an alternative thiopurine for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients not responsive to or intolerant of azathioprine (AZA) and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP). 6-TG-related hepatotoxicity, including liver biochemistry value elevations, sinusoidal collagen deposition on electron microscopy, and veno-occlusive disease, have been described related to its use as therapy for neoplastic disease.
We studied 38 liver biopsies from patients treated with 6-TG, almost all of whom (n = 125) received 6-TG for 1 to 3 years at the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. All biopsies were fixed in 4% buffered formalin and prepared in the usual manner. Hematoxylin and eosin, Masson's trichrome (trichrome), and reticulin silver impregnation (reticulin) stained slides were studied. In 23 cases, tissue was also prospectively fixed in glutaraldehyde and processed for electron microscopy.
In 20 of the 37 patients studied (53%), nodular regeneration of varying degree was seen with reticulin. In only 4 of these 20 instances (11% of the total) were the changes seen with hematoxylin and eosin and in 3 of the 4, only in retrospect after studying the reticulin preparation. Minimal fibrosis was seen with trichrome in only 13 biopsies (34%), but sinusoidal collagen deposition was observed in 14 of the 23 cases studied with electron microscopy (60%). The biopsy from the 1 patient with nodular hyperplasia obvious with hematoxylin and eosin also demonstrated changes of venous outflow obstruction.
6-TG-treated IBD patients are at significant risk for nodular hyperplasia, early fibrosis and, less often, venous outflow disease (Budd-Chiari). The natural history of these changes is unknown and follow-up biopsies are needed to determine histologic and clinical sequela. Patients not demonstrating nodular hyperplasia or fibrosis who continue with 6-TG because there are no better therapeutic choices should be periodically rebiopsied.
Histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi; vorinostat) responses were studied in murine and human lung cancer cell lines and genetically engineered mouse lung cancer models. Findings were compared with a window of opportunity trial in aerodigestive tract cancers. In human (HOP62, H522, and H23) and murine transgenic (ED-1, ED-2, LKR-13, and 393P, driven, respectively, by cyclin E, degradation-resistant cyclin E, KRAS, or KRAS/p53) lung cancer cell lines, vorinostat reduced growth, cyclin D1, and cyclin E levels, but induced p27, histone acetylation, and apoptosis. Other biomarkers also changed. Findings from transgenic murine lung cancer models were integrated with those from a window of opportunity trial that measured vorinostat pharmacodynamic responses in pre- versus posttreatment tumor biopsies. Vorinostat repressed cyclin D1 and cyclin E expression in murine transgenic lung cancers and significantly reduced lung cancers in syngeneic mice. Vorinostat also reduced cyclin D1 and cyclin E expression, but increased p27 levels in post- versus pretreatment human lung cancer biopsies. Notably, necrotic and inflammatory responses appeared in posttreatment biopsies. These depended on intratumoral HDACi levels. Therefore, HDACi treatments of murine genetically engineered lung cancer models exert similar responses (growth inhibition and changes in gene expression) as observed in lung cancer cell lines. Moreover, enhanced pharmacodynamic responses occurred in the window of opportunity trial, providing additional markers of response that can be evaluated in subsequent HDACi trials. Thus, combining murine and human HDACi trials is a strategy to translate preclinical HDACi treatment outcomes into the clinic. This study uncovered clinically tractable mechanisms to engage in future HDACi trials.
The present case report describes the observed sequelae following an inadvertent intrathecal injection of tramadol in a patient with metastatic malignancy. The contributing circumstances before the injection are discussed, as is the potential aetiology of the observed sequelae.
A 39-year-old man with ischaemic heart-disease developed clinical myotonia while taking propranolol. The myotonia disappeared when administration of the drug ceased. The patient appears to have dystrophia myotonica which had not been evident before propranolol therapy.
