Ethylene glycol (EG) is a toxic chemical found in antifreeze and heat exchangers. Standard therapy for EG intoxication in administration of ethanol (ETOH) to inhibit its metabolism by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). Studies indicate 1,3-butylene glycol (BG) binds to ADH more efficiently than EG and is orally less toxic than EG or ETOH. Male rats were divided into 5 groups of 6 animals. Groups received by oral intubation a single dose of EG (32 mmole/kg), BG (39 mmole/kg) initially and every 6 h up to 72 h, ETOH (39 mmole/kg) initially and every 6 h up to 72 h, or EG initially and then either BG or ETOH every 6 h up to 72 h. Administration of ETOH produced hepatotoxicity and pulmonary pathology as indicated by changes in clinical chemistry, urinalysis, and histopathology, while BG did not. Neither ETOH nor BG produced any apparent nephrotoxicity. ETOH produced ataxia, lethargy and central nervous system depression while BG did not. BG produced a higher concentration of urinary EG indicating a better inhibition of ADH metabolism of EG. Ethanol produced a higher EG blood concentration than BG. Ethanol's higher EG blood concentration may be partially attributed to dehydration and a decreased urine output as well as inhibition of ADH metabolism. Ethanol produced mortality in all animals prior to 72 h. The EG/ETOH combination produced mortality more quickly due to additive toxicity of the combination. Lack of any significant toxicity produced by BG and the production of significant toxicities by ETOH indicates that BG is potentially a better antidote than ETOH.
Two studies have reported on the superiority of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) compared with a histamine-2-receptor antagonist for the treatment of artificial ulcers after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), but the optimal dose of PPI remains to be defined. The aim of this study was to evaluate the possibility of reducing the dose of PPI. The authors thus compared 30 mg (standard-dose) and 15 mg (half-dose) lansoprazole in terms of ulcer healing, prevention of bleeding and quality of life.
91 patients with gastric mucosal neoplasm were enrolled. All patients who underwent ESD were administered lansoprazole 30 mg daily during the first week, after which they were randomly assigned to either the standard-dose or half-dose group.
One patient in each group developed hematemesis. The stage of ulcers, ulcer reduction ratios and scores on the Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale did not differ at 28 and 56 days. The costs of PPI for the half-dose group and standard-dose group were 7,326.5 and 11,698.4 JPY, respectively, i.e. a difference of 471.9 JPY.
A reduced dose of PPI after 1 week of ESD was equivalent in treatment performance to the standard dose and cheaper.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is anchored to the synaptic basal lamina via a triple helical collagen Q (ColQ) in the form of asymmetric AChE (AChE/ColQ). The C-terminal domain of ColQ binds to MuSK, the muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase, that mediates a signal for acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering at the NMJ. ColQ also binds to heparan sulfate proteoglycans including perlecan. Congenital defects of ColQ cause endplate AChE deficiency. A single intravenous administration of adeno-associated virus serotype 8 (AAV8)-COLQ to Colq-/- mice rescued motor functions, synaptic transmission, and the ultrastructure of NMJ. We also injected AAV1-COLQ-IRES-EGFP to the left tibialis anterior and observed colocalization of AChE/ColQ at all the examined NMJs of the non-injected limbs. Additionally, injection of purified recombinant AChE/ColQ protein complex into gluteus maximus accumulated AChE in non-injected forelimbs. These observations suggest that the tissue-targeting signal of ColQ can be exploited to specifically deliver the transgene product to the target tissue. MuSK antibody-positive myasthenia gravis (MG) accounts for 5-15% of autoimmune MG. As AChR deficiency is typically mild and as cholinesterase inhibitors are generally ineffective or worsen myasthenic symptoms, we asked if the patient's MuSK-IgG interferes with binding of ColQ to MuSK. In vitro overlay of AChE/ColQ to muscle sections of Colq-/- mice revealed that MuSK-IgG blocks binding of ColQ to the NMJ. In vitro plate-binding of MuSK to ColQ disclosed that MuSK-IgG exerts a dose-dependent block of MuSK-ColQ interaction. In addition, passive transfer of MuSK-IgG to mice reduced the size and density of ColQ to ∼10% of controls and had a lesser effect on the sizes and densities of AChR and MuSK. Elucidation of molecular mechanisms of specific binding of ColQ to the NMJ enabled us to ameliorate devastating myasthenic symptoms of Colq-/- mice and to reveal bases of anti-MuSK MG.
The plastic monomer and plasticizer bisphenol A (BPA), used for manufacturing polycarbonate plastic and epoxy resins, is produced at over 2.5 million metric tons per year. Concerns have been raised that BPA acts as an endocrine disruptor on both developmental and reproductive processes and a large body of evidence suggests that BPA interferes with estrogen and thyroid hormone signaling. Here, we investigated BPA effects during embryonic development using the zebrafish and Xenopus models.
We report that BPA exposure leads to severe malformations of the otic vesicle. In zebrafish and in Xenopus embryos, exposure to BPA during the first developmental day resulted in dose-dependent defects in otolith formation. Defects included aggregation, multiplication and occasionally failure to form otoliths. As no effects on otolith development were seen with exposure to micromolar concentrations of thyroid hormone, 17-ß-estradiol or of the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 we conclude that the effects of BPA are independent of estrogen receptors or thyroid-hormone receptors. Na+/K+ ATPases are crucial for otolith formation in zebrafish. Pharmacological inhibition of the major Na+/K+ ATPase with ouabain can rescue the BPA-induced otolith phenotype.
The data suggest that the spectrum of BPA action is wider than previously expected and argue for a systematic survey of the developmental effects of this endocrine disruptor.
The present work expands the chemical space known to offer potent inhibition of the serotonin transporter (SERT), norepinephrine transporter (NET), and dopamine transporter (DAT) and discloses novel bicyclic octahydrocyclopenta[c]pyrrole and octahydro-1H-isoindole scaffolds as potent triple reuptake inhibitors (TRIs) for the potential treatment of depression. Optimized compounds 22a (SERT, NET, DAT, IC(50) = 20, 109, 430 nM), 23a (SERT, NET, DAT, IC(50) = 29, 85, 168 nM), and 26a (SERT, NET, DAT, IC(50) = 53, 150, 140 nM) were highly brain penetrant, active in vivo in the mouse tail suspension test at 10 and 30 mpk PO, and were not generally motor stimulants at doses ranging from 1 to 30 mpk PO. Moderate in vitro cytochrome P450 (CYP) and potassium ion channel Kv11.1 (hERG) inhibition were uncovered as potential liabilities for the chemical series.
To assess the effects of epinephrine on ventilation in patients with panic disorder and in social phobics, analyses were performed on pooled data from two previous infusion studies. Throughout the infusion, changes in transcutaneous PCO2 (tcPCO2), subjective anxiety, heart rate and blood pressure were recorded continuously. Twenty-nine patients received epinephrine, ten patients received placebo. Thirteen patients (45%) had a panic attack during epinephrine. The fall in tcPCO2 and the cardiovascular response was greater in panicking patients than patients who did not panic. Although the fall in tcPCO2 associated with panic was not substantial and did not indicate clinically significant acute hyperventilation, it appears to be a sensitive index for epinephrine-induced panic. The fall in tcPCO2 was predicted rather by the frequency of occurrence of anxiety-related somatic symptoms than by the fear of these symptoms. These findings further reduce a role for fear of bodily sensations in epinephrine-induced panic attacks and favor a biological sensitivity to sympathetic stimulation.
Discontinuation of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) therapy may increase the risk of ischemic events. This study evaluated the risk of ischemic stroke (IS) and TIA after low-dose ASA discontinuation in patients with cardiovascular disease or cerebrovascular disease.
The Health Improvement Network UK primary care database was used to identify a cohort of individuals aged 50-84 years with a first prescription for low-dose ASA (75-300 mg/day) for the secondary prevention of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events in 2000-2007 (n = 39,512). Individuals were followed up for a mean of 3.4 years to identify cases of IS/TIA. Nested case-control analyses were used to assess risk factors for IS/TIA, including low-dose ASA discontinuation.
The overall incidence of IS/TIA was 5.0 per 1,000 person-years (95% confidence interval [CI] 4.6-5.4). IS/TIA was significantly more common in patients with a previous diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease (relative risk [RR] 2.79; 95% CI 2.05-3.80) or atrial fibrillation (RR 1.71; 95% CI 1.28-2.29) than in those without these conditions. Compared with current users of low-dose ASA, those who discontinued treatment 31-180 days before the index date had a significantly increased overall risk of IS/TIA (RR 1.40; 95% CI 1.03-1.92). The most common reason for discontinuation was patient nonadherence.
In patients prescribed low-dose ASA for the secondary prevention of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events, discontinuation of low-dose ASA was associated with a 40% increase in the risk of IS/TIA compared with continuation of therapy.
This study provides Class III evidence that discontinuation of low-dose ASA is associated with a 40% increased risk of stroke within 31-180 days of discontinuation.
Prostanoid synthesis is regulated by the enzyme cyclo-oxygenase (COX) that is present in at least two isoforms: COX-1, the constitutive form, and COX-2, the inducible form. Expression of COX-2 has recently been shown to be an important determinant of the cytotoxicity connected with inflammation following ischemic injury to the brain. The present study examines the temporal and spatial profiles of COX-2 expression following diffuse traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats, and the effects of the COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide on cognitive and motor outcomes. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were injured using the 2-meter impact acceleration model of diffuse TBI. At preselected time points after injury, animals were killed and the expression of COX-2 was measured in the hippocampus and parietal cortex by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting techniques. Effects of nimesulide (6 mg/kg daily over ten days) on cognitive and motor outcome was assessed in a separate group of animals using the Barnes circular maze and rotarod test, respectively. A highly significant up-regulation of COX-2 expression was found in the hippocampus as early as 3 h post-trauma and persisting for at least 12 days after TBI. In contrast, a slight but significant upregulation of COX-2 expression occurred in the cortex only at 3 days after trauma. Administration of the COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide resulted in a significant and substantial improvement in cognitive function compared to vehicle-treated controls, while motor deficits after injury was only improved at 24 h after injury. We conclude that COX-2 is involved in the development of functional deficits following diffuse TBI, particularly cognitive deficits, and that these can be improved by administration of COX-2 inhibitors.
Disulfiram has shown promise in several clinical trials for cocaine addiction, but its potential utility in the treatment of amphetamine addiction has not been examined. The goal of this study was to determine the effects of disulfiram on acute physiological and subjective responses to dextroamphetamine in healthy volunteers. Five male and 5 female subjects participated in an outpatient double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Subjects were randomly assigned to a sequence of disulfiram (250 mg/day) or placebo treatments each lasting for 4 days. Day four of each treatment period was the experimental session, in which subjects orally ingested a single dose of dextroamphetamine (20 mg/70 kg). Outcome measures included heart rate, blood pressure, plasma cortisol and prolactin, subjective and performance on the Sustained Attention to Response Test (SART). Disulfiram did not affect dextroamphetamine-induced increases in heart rate, blood pressure, cortisol, or prolactin. Disulfiram did enhance some of the subjective effects of dextroamphetamine including ratings of "high," "anxious," "bad drug effects," "want more drug" and "drug liking" and was also associated with decreased performance in the SART test. How these enhanced subjective amphetamine responses affect cocaine use behavior remains to be determined in future clinical trials.
To describe the safe substitution with zidovudine (AZT) among South Indian HIV-infected patients who were initiated with stavudine (d4T)-containing highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) due to anemia.
Therapy-naïve patients initiating HAART between January 2006 and December 2007 and who had had d4T substituted for AZT at a tertiary HIV referral center in India were analyzed.
Six hundred and nineteen patients initiated d4T-containing HAART (median CD4 110 cells/microl; median hemoglobin 10.4 g/dl) during the study period. Subsequently half of these patients substituted d4T for AZT (median CD4 350 cells/microl; median hemoglobin 12.8 g/dl). After substituting with AZT, three patients (2.7%) who substituted after less than 6 months and one patient (0.6%) who substituted at between 6 and 12 months developed anemia. Patients who substituted after less than 6 months had significantly higher median CD4 cell counts at 1-month and 6-months of follow-up than patients who substituted at between 6 and 12 months (p<0.05). Few patients (1.6%) experienced treatment failure; about a tenth of patients developed d4T-related toxicities.
Few patients developed anemia (1.4%) within 6 months of substitution with AZT. In settings where tenofovir is either expensive or not available and where patients are anemic, initiating d4T followed by prompt substitution with AZT can be a safe and tolerable treatment option.
The case is reported of a young male who presented with massive anterior myocardial infarction after sniffing cocaine. The cardiovascular complications of cocaine abuse are numerous (sudden death, arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, myocarditis) and are being reported more and more frequently in the literature. Thoracic or abdominal pain in any patient known to abuse cocaine should be thoroughly investigated, despite the youth of these patients.
Loss of programmed cell death pathways is one of the features of malignancy that complicate the response of cancer cells to a therapy. Activation of alternative cell death pathways offers a promising approach to enhance efficiency of cancer chemotherapy. We analysed programmed cell death pathways of v-myb-transformed BM2 monoblasts induced by arsenic trioxide, cycloheximide and camptothecin with U937 promonocytes as a reference cell line. We show that induced death of BM2 cells is not executed by caspases but rather by alternative cell death pathways. Camptothecin induces the lysosome-dependent cell death, arsenic trioxide induces autophagy, and most of cycloheximide-treated BM2 cells die by necrosis. The fact that alternative cell death pathways can be switched in cells with defects in activation and/or function of caspases suggests that understanding and targeting of these pathways could improve therapy of cancer cells suffering from defective apoptosis.
Twenty-one patients with inoperable colon cancer in the pelvis were treated with intra-arterial 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and mitomycin C, given bilaterally into the internal iliac arteries. Seventeen of the 21 patients had failed previous radiation therapy and 15 had also failed systemic intravenous chemotherapy. Eighteen of the 21 patients received intra-arterial treatments because of pelvic pain. Effect of this treatment on the pain could be evaluated in 16 patients. A measurable decrease in pain medication occurred in 8 of 16, whereas a subjective feeling of pain relief was observed in 12 of 16 patients for a mean period of 3.5 months. However, objective tumor response was considered definite only if associated with a greater than 50% decline of an elevated plasma carcinoembryonic antigen level; this was observed in 5 of 11 patients (45%). Reduction in tumor mass as measured by imaging techniques was observed in two of ten patients in whom it was evaluable. Improvement in hydronephrosis was observed in five of seven evaluable patients. Hematuria was present in 12 patients and improved in 10 of those patients. The most significant side effect of chemotherapy was perineal and gluteal skin erythema, which was observed in 36% of the patients after the first course and in 24% during the second course. This frequently escalated to cutaneous vesiculation and desquamation. This side effect was prevented by concurrent administration of steroids. Pelvic arterial infusion of 5-FU and mitomycin C can offer temporary pain relief to patients who have failed other means of therapy. Objective antitumor effects may have also resulted but were much harder to assess in this group of patients.
In three patients, two men aged 33 and 43 years receiving treatment for epilepsy, and one woman aged 31 years with mild mental retardation and psychotic episodes, psychotic symptoms emerged soon after the introduction of topiramate. These symptoms were associated with agitation/aggressive behaviour and significant weight loss. Psychotic symptomatology gradually disappeared after discontinuation of topiramate without the administration of an antipsychotic. Over the past years several novel anticonvulsants, including topiramate, have become available for the treatment of refractory partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation. Some of them have been demonstrated to be effective in bipolar affective disorders as well. Treatment with topiramate can be associated with neuropsychiatric side-effects such as cognitive impairments, deficits in word finding, and incidental psychotic decompensation. Significant weight loss is often noted as well. Since psychiatric and cognitive side-effects may occur during treatment with topiramate, careful evaluation is mandatory especially in patients with a psychiatric history.
A number of Dutch medical journals have carried an advertisement promoting doxazosin in the treatment of hypertension in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. No long-term randomised clinical trials have examined the cardiovascular outcomes of the alpha-adrenergic blockers to which doxazosin belongs. The drug was removed from the largest study into blood pressure and cholesterol reduction ever performed until now (the antihypertensive and lipid-lowering treatment to prevent heart attack trial), due to an increased incidence of cardiovascular events and in particular congestive heart failure. The clinical significance of its insulin-sensitivity improving and lipid-neutralising effects in small-scale, short-term, small patient-group studies are ambiguous. Accordingly, national and international guidelines omitted the drug in their treatment recommendations. The advertisement claims are therefore misleading.
The present study was carried out using a biotelemetry system to investigate whether central angiotensin II (ANG II) is involved in stress-induced cardiovascular and body temperature responses in rats. Intracerebroventricular injections of the nonselective ANG II-receptor antagonist saralasin and of the ANG II AT1-receptor antagonist losartan attenuated both the heart rate and pressor responses to immobilization stress in a dose-dependent manner. The elevation of plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine induced by immobilization stress was also suppressed by central ANG II-receptor blockade, suggesting a general attenuation of stress-induced sympathetic nervous and adrenomedullary activity by central ANG II-receptor blockade. The hyperthermia induced by immobilization stress was attenuated by central ANG II AT1-receptor blockade in a dose-dependent manner. The effects of central saralasin on the blood pressure response induced by immobilization stress were greater in Wistar-Kyoto rats than in spontaneously hypertensive rats. The present results suggest that central ANG II AT1-receptors are involved in expression of the tachycardia and hyperthermia, as well as the pressor response, induced by immobilization stress.
The prophylactic administration of amiodarone following acute myocardial infarction has been investigated in several small trials. This study combined the results of these small trials in a meta-analysis to determine the effects of prophylactic low-dose amiodarone on mortality following acute myocardial infarction.
Four prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trials, which investigated the prophylactic administration of low-dose amiodarone (200 to 400 mg/d) to patients after acute myocardial infarction, were selected from the current literature according to strict inclusion criteria. A total of 1140 patients, 566 in the amiodarone-treated group and 574 in the placebo-treated group, were included in the analysis. Sudden cardiac death, cardiac mortality, and total mortality were the end points of interest. In addition, the effect of impaired left ventricular function (ejection fraction, < 45%) on total mortality was assessed. Data were aggregated by using the Mantel-Haenszel method to obtain final summary statistics for these end points.
Patients treated with low-dose amiodarone exhibited a lower incidence of sudden cardia death (3.1%) and total mortality (6.1%) when compared with patients treated with placebo (6.9% and 11.2%, respectively; both P < .01; and 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.011 to 0.065 and 0.013 to 0.082, respectively). There was no significant difference between the amiodarone- and placebo-treated groups with respect to cardiac mortality (2.6% vs 3.7%, respectively; P = .26; and 95% CI, -0.012 to 0.032). For patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 45%, total mortality was 5.5% in the amiodarone-treated group and 9.4% in the placebo-treated group (P = .30; CI, -0.023 to 0.101).
Although further data from ongoing large, randomized trials are needed, this meta-analysis suggests that the prophylactic administration of low-dose amiodarone to patients following acute myocardial infarction reduces the incidence of both sudden cardiac death and total mortality. The benefits of low-dose amiodarone may be limited to patients with preserved left ventricular function.
The aim of this study was to investigate the echocardigraphic finding in beta-thalassemia intermedia (TI) and beta-thalassemia major (TM) and to compare this finding together and with healthy control subjects.
Fifty TI, who have been treated with hydroxyurea (HU) for 7 yrs and 51 transfusion dependent TM were compared with 50 age and sex matched healthy control subjects. Left and right ventricular parameters, systolic and diastolic functions, stroke volume, cardiac index and indices of pulmonary hypertension (PHT) were determined by two-dimensional, M-mode echocardiography and Doppler echocardiography.
Left ventricular parameters such as left ventricular end diastolic diameter, left ventricular end systolic diameter and also interventricular septal diameter in systole and diastole were significantly higher in TI patients compared with TM and control group (P < 0.05). There was elevated left ventricular mass (LV mass) in TI and TM patients compared with controls (P < 0.05). Regarding the LV diastolic function indices, E and A were significantly higher in TI patients compared with TM patients and control which were compatible with high output state. Measurement of pulmonary acceleration time and tricuspid and pulmonary valve continuous-wave Doppler tracing in patients with tricuspid regurgitation and pulmonary insufficiency showed no difference between TI, TM and control group.
Both TI and TM patients who have no clinical signs of cardiac involvement have significant abnormalities in volume, mass and shape of the LV which may be the consequence of chronic anemia. We found the unexpected absence of PHT in TI patients who have been treated with HU. In conclusion Low dose HU treatment of TI patients may prevent the devastating complication of PHT.
In the present study, we investigated the cardiovascular effects of intravenously injected uridine or cytidine, and the role of adenosine receptors in mediating these effects, in conscious normotensive rats. Intravenous (i.v.) administration of uridine (124, 250, 500 mg/kg) dose-dependently decreased arterial pressure and heart rate. Cytidine (124, 250, 500 mg/kg; i.v.) produced slight dose-related hypotension without changing heart rate. Plasma uridine and cytidine concentrations increased time- and dose-dependently while plasma adenosine levels did not change after injection of the respective nucleosides. Pretreatment with intravenous caffeine (20 mg/kg), 8-phenyltheophylline (8-PT) (1 mg/kg), nonselective adenosine receptor antagonists, or 8-p-sulfophenyltheophylline (8-SPT) (20 mg/kg), a nonselective adenosine receptor antagonist which does not cross the blood-brain barrier, abolished the cardiovascular effects of uridine (250 mg/kg; i.v.) or cytidine (250 mg/kg; i.v.). Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) caffeine (200 microg) or 8-SPT (50 microg) pretreatment did not change the magnitude of the cardiovascular responses induced by nucleosides. Intravenous 8-cyclopenthyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) (5 mg/kg), a selective adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist, greatly attenuated the cardiovascular responses to uridine and cytidine. Pretreatment with 3,7,-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX) (2 mg/kg), an adenosine A(1)/A(2) receptor antagonist, attenuated hypotension induced by uridine and blocked the arterial pressure decrease in response to cytidine. Uridine-induced bradycardia was blocked by DMPX. 4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl[1,2,4]-triazolo[2,3-a[1,3,5]triazin-5-yl-aminoethyl)phenol (ZM241385) (1 mg/kg; i.v.), a selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist, pretreatment produced an only very small blockade in the first minute of the hypotensive effects of uridine without affecting the bradycardia. ZM241385 pretreatment completely blocked cytidine's hypotensive effect. In Langendorff-perfused rat heart preparation, uridine (10(-3) M), but not cytidine, decreased the heart rate. Our results show that intravenously injected uridine or cytidine is able to decrease arterial pressure by activating peripheral adenosine receptors. The data also implicates that the mainly adenosine A(1) receptor activation is involved in the uridine-induced cardiovascular effects, while both adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor activations mediate the cytidine's effects.
In two multicentre double-blind, parallel studies, piroxicam was found to be as well tolerated and significantly more effective than placebo in relieving moderate and severe pain, swelling, and limitation of movement resulting from acute musculoskeletal injuries. The efficacy and toleration of piroxicam were then compared with those of indomethacin and naproxen in two international multicentre double-blind trials involving 1,004 patients suffering from acute sprains or tendinitis resulting from sports injuries; a common study protocol was used in all centres. In all treatment groups, spontaneous pain, pain on movement, joint swelling, and tenderness were reduced significantly as early as three days after the start of treatment, and overall assessment of efficacy was excellent or good in more than 80% of patients. The study results indicated that the efficacy of all drugs was comparable, but analysis of side effects reports showed that piroxicam was significantly (p less than 0.005) better tolerated by the patients.
The goal of this review was to summarize the available literature covering the safety profiles of oral doxycycline and minocycline.
Scientific literature published between 1966 and August 2003 was searched using the MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Biosis databases (search terms: minocycline or doxycycline, each paired with adverse reaction, adverse event, and side effect, and doxycycline or minocycline with the limits English language, human, and clinical trials). Safety information was collected from case reports and clinical trials. Adverse event (AE) rates in the United States were calculated by comparing data from the MedWatch AE reporting program used by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with the number of new prescriptions dispensed for each drug from January 1998 to August 2003.
Between 1966 and 2003, a total of 130 and 333 AEs were published in case reports of doxycycline and minocycline, respectively. In 24 doxycycline clinical trials (n = 3833) and 11 minocycline trials (n = 788), the ranges in incidence of AEs were 0% to 61% and 11.7% to 83.3%, respectively. Gastrointestinal AEs were most common with doxycycline; central nervous system and gastrointestinal AEs were most common with minocycline. From January 1998 to August 2003, the FDA MedWatch data contained 628 events for doxycycline and 1099 events for minocycline reported in the United States. Approximately 47,630,000 doxycycline and 15,234,000 minocycline new prescriptions were dispensed in the United States during that period, yielding event rates of 13 per million for doxycycline and 72 per million for minocycline, based on FDA data.
Between 1998 and 2003, doxycycline was prescribed 3 times as often as minocycline. The incidence of AEs with either drug is very low, but doxycycline had fewer reported AEs. Although more head-to-head clinical trials are needed for a direct comparison of AE frequency, these preliminary data from separate reports suggest the possibility that AEs may be less likely with doxycycline than minocycline.
We report the discovery of novel small molecule inhibitors of platelet-type 12-human lipoxygenase, which display nanomolar activity against the purified enzyme, using a quantitative high-throughput screen (qHTS) on a library of 153607 compounds. These compounds also exhibit excellent specificity, >50-fold selectivity vs the paralogues, 5-human lipoxygenase, reticulocyte 15-human lipoxygenase type-1, and epithelial 15-human lipoxygenase type-2, and >100-fold selectivity vs ovine cyclooxygenase-1 and human cyclooxygenase-2. Kinetic experiments indicate this chemotype is a noncompetitive inhibitor that does not reduce the active site iron. Moreover, chiral HPLC separation of two of the racemic lead molecules revealed a strong preference for the (-)-enantiomers (IC(50) of 0.43 ± 0.04 and 0.38 ± 0.05 μM) compared to the (+)-enantiomers (IC(50) of >25 μM for both), indicating a fine degree of selectivity in the active site due to chiral geometry. In addition, these compounds demonstrate efficacy in cellular models, which underscores their relevance to disease modification.
Ras is the most characterized oncogene in human cancer, and yet there are no effective therapeutics to selectively target this oncogene. Our previous work demonstrated the inhibitory activity of the p38 pathway in Ras proliferative signaling in experimental NIH 3T3 cells (Chen, G., Hitomi, M., Han, J., and Stacey, D. W. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 38973-38980). Here we explore the therapeutic potential of p38 kinase activation in human colon cancer cells with and without endogenous K-ras activation. p38 activation by both adenovirus-mediated gene delivery of constitutively active p38 activator MKK6 and by arsenite selectively induces cell death in K-ras-activated human colon cancer HCT116 cells but not in the K-ras-disrupted HCT116-derived sublines. The cell death-inducing effect of MKK6 is not because of its selective activation of p38 kinase or its downstream transcription factor substrates, ATF-2 or c-Jun, in K-ras-activated cells. Rather, cell death in K-ras-activated cells is linked to the down-regulation of vitamin D receptor (VDR) by an AP-1-dependent mechanism. Forced VDR expression in K-ras-activated cells inhibits p38 activation-induced cell death, and inhibition of endogenous VDR protein expression in K-ras-disrupted cells increased the arsenite-induced toxicity. Analysis of an additional two human colon cancer cell lines with and without K-ras mutation also showed a K-ras- and VDR-dependent toxicity of MKK6. Hence, p38 pathway activation selectively induces cell death in K-ras-mutated human colon cancer cells by mechanisms involving the suppression of VDR activity.
In male Swiss mice, muscimol produced myoclonic jerks. A 3 mg/kg (i.p.) dose induced this response in all of the mice tested and the peak response of 73 jerks per min was observed between 27 and 45 min. Increasing the brain serotonin levels by the administration of 5-hydroxytryptophan (80-160 mg/kg) in combination with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor resulted in an inhibition of the muscimol effect. However, in a similar experiment l-dopa (80-160 mg/kg) was without effect. In doses of 3-10 mg/kg, the serotonin receptor agonist MK-212 caused a dose-dependent blockade of the response of muscimol. Of the benzodiazepines, clonazepam (0.1-0.3 mg/kg) was found to be several fold more potent than diazepam (0.3-3 mg/kg) in blocking the myoclonic jerks. While (-)-baclofen (1-3 mg/kg) proved to be an effective antagonist of muscimol, its (+)-isomer (5-20 mg/kg) lacked this property. Considering the fact that 5-HTP and the benzodiazepines have been found to be beneficial in the management of clinical myoclonus, the muscimol-induced myoclonus seems to be a satisfactory animal model that may prove useful for the development of new drug treatments for this condition. Our present study indicated the possible value of MK-212 and (-)-baclofen in the management of clinical myoclonus.
To analyze electromyographic response and clinical effects after precurarization with vecuronium bromide (0.01 mg/Kg), also noting intubation conditions and the presence or not of fasciculations after administration of succinylcholine (1.5 mg/Kg).
A single precurarization dose of vecuronium was administered to 20 patients 5 minutes before anesthetic induction for general surgery. During this period we monitored neuromuscular transmission of the cubital nerve in the wrist by electromyography with a series of 4 stimuli, expressing each as the percentage of the first response and of the ratio T4/T1. We also recorded clinical repercussions. General anesthesia was then induced; after administration of succinylcholine, the presence or not of fasciculations was noted and intubation conditions were evaluated.
The electromyographic response after precurarization was highly variable, as 4 different responses were recorded. We found potentiation phenomena in 20% of our patients, diminished response in 60%, fatigue phenomena in 15% and no change in 5%. Clinical signs noted were blurred vision and heavy eyelids. Fasciculations disappeared in 95% of the patients and intubation conditions were excellent.
Vecuronium at a precurarization dose produces highly varied but well-tolerated electromyographic responses. The drug is effective in eliminating fasciculations produced by succinylcholine and does not affect intubation conditions.
