Tonic-clonic seizure activity is a recognized complication of amoxapine overdose. Refractory drug-induced status epilepticus is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Standard regimens for controlling status epilepticus may be ineffective for aborting drug-induced seizures. The authors report the case of a 30-year-old woman who presented with an amoxapine overdose that deteriorated into status epilepticus refractory to conventional therapy. Propofol given by intravenous bolus and maintenance infusion successfully halted the patient's seizure activity. This case suggests that propofol may be effective as an anticonvulsant in refractory drug-induced status epilepticus.
Polysulfated (oligo)flavonoids were synthesized and assayed for their in vitro and in vivo anticoagulant activities. The approach was based on molecular hybridization of two classes of anticoagulants, sulfated polysaccharides and sulfated flavonoids. The synthesis was optimized using microwave-assisted sulfation with triethylamine-sulfur trioxide. The obtained polysulfated flavonosides were highly effective in increasing clotting times and able to completely block the clotting process, in contrast to their corresponding aglycones. The thromboelastography proved that polysulfated flavonosides possess good whole blood anticoagulation activity. The following structure-activity relationships were found: 3-O-rutinosides (10, 13) were direct inhibitors of FXa, while 7-O-rutinosides (7, 8) showed inhibition of FXa by ATIII activation. Furthermore, compounds 7 and 13 were stable in plasma and active in vivo and preliminary toxicity studies would lead us to rule out acute side effects. From the overall results, the polysulfated flavonosides showed the potential as new effective and safe agents for anticoagulant therapy.
The effect of sodium valproate 1200 mg daily on the disability of Parkinsonism and on levodopa-induced dyskinesia was assessed in a double-blind crossover trial with matched placebo in 12 patients with Parkinson's disease. No objective change in the severity of Parkinsonism or dyskinesias was noted. However, six out of nine patients who completed the trial noted a slight to moderate improvement in their dyskinesias with no change in their Parkinsonism. Excess salivation improved in four subjects on sodium valproate.
High-fructose consumption in industrial countries has been shown to induce metabolic abnormalities or syndrome X. Changes in antioxidant defense are unknown in hypertension associated with metabolic disorders induced by high-fructose feeding.
Twenty spontaneously hypertensive rats were assigned to one of two groups; one received a fructose-enriched diet (60% fructose) and the other a starch diet. After a 13-wk diet period, total antioxidant status was assessed in the blood and liver by monitoring the rate of free radical-induced red blood cell hemolysis. Antioxidants (enzymes and vitamins) were determined in blood and liver. Gene expression of antioxidant enzymes (copper/zinc superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase) were also investigated in hepatic tissue.
Fructose-fed rats showed blood pressure values similar to that of control rats but had increased glycemia and insulinemia. The antioxidant capacity in the blood of the fructose-fed group represented by copper/zinc superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities and ascorbic acid was lower. However, the fructose diet enhanced the total antioxidant capacity of liver correlated with increased antioxidant enzyme activities and retinol concentrations. Gutathione peroxidase mRNA expression was decreased in livers of spontaneously hypertensive rats fed the fructose diet.
Fructose feeding negatively affects antioxidant capacity in the blood of hypertensive rats but improves this capacity in the liver.
The spontaneous withdrawal from morphine in morphine-dependent rats significantly decreased the duration of active interaction in social interaction test and the number of licks during the shock-punished period in Vogel's conflict procedure, which were attenuated by buspirone, a 5-HT1A agonist, as well as para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase. Naltrexone (NTX), a potent opioid receptor antagonist, also dose- and time-dependently reduced both indices mentioned above, which was blocked by morphine or PCPA and was enhanced by 5-hydroxytryptophan, a precursor of 5-HT. In the test of neurotransmitter releases in rat brain slices, both morphine-withdrawal and NTX enhanced high potassium(30mM)-induced 5-HT release in slices of the area of the raphe nucleus. These results suggested that both morphine-withdrawal and NTX produced anxieties in morphine-dependent and normal rats, respectively, which were mediated by the central 5-HTergic neurotransmission. Central opioidergic neurons inhibited 5-HTergic neurons tonically and presynaptically. Such an effect was reduced or blocked by NTX, or during morphine-withdrawal, and 5-HTergic neurons were disinhibited, leading to a state of anxiety.
Prostate adenocarcinomas were induced in Lobund Wistar rats following subcutaneous implants of silastic chambers containing testosterone propionate. The tumors resembled those that developed spontaneously in the Lobund Wistar rats. Tumors were not induced in ACI rats by the same treatment schedule.
Intrahepatic cholestasis and aplastic anemia after N-propylajmaline. A 43 year old female patient taking oral contraceptives for more than five years received the antiarrhythmic drug N-propylajmaline for treatment of ventricular arrhythmia. After twelve days (total dosage 510 mg N-propyl-ajmaline) acute severe intrahepatic cholestasis and aplastic anemia developed. The erythropoeisis improved after three weeks of treatment with corticosteroids. However, despite treatment with phenobarbital the jaundice receded very slowly. Even after nine years of follow-up cholestatic enzymes are still significantly elevated although serum bilirubin levels are in the normal range. This case report demonstrates that antiarrhythmic drugs may induce nearly irreversible intrahepatic cholestasis and severe hematological disturbances.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) is a commonly used HIV antiretroviral. A relatively uncommon adverse effect of this drug is Fanconi syndrome. What is known about this toxicity, especially in regards to concomitant medication use and outcomes, is limited to isolated case reports and small case series. Therefore, a retrospective review of the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System from 2001 through 2006 was conducted to examine demographics, concomitant medication use, outcomes, and temporal trends in reporting of Fanconi syndrome associated with TDF use. In this large case series of 164 subjects who met the case definition for Fanconi syndrome, the majority (83%) of the subjects received protease inhibitors (PI) with TDF; specifically, 74% of the total received a ritonavir-boosted PI. Didanosine was the most commonly (43%) prescribed nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI). The combination of didanosine with boosted PI was frequently observed (34%), and in particular, didanosine plus lopinavir/ritonavir was documented for 22%. Nearly half (46%) of the total were hospitalized. Fracture (2%) and requirement for dialysis (2%) were infrequent while Fanconi syndrome contributed to death in 2% of these subjects. Patients receiving ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitors or didanosine with tenofovir should be closely monitored for development of nephrotoxicity. Although reporting biases and the exclusion of reports with serious confounding conditions likely affected the estimation of outcomes in this case series, severe complications of tenofovir-associated Fanconi syndrome were uncommon.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2 is a recently identified homologue of ACE. There is great interest in the therapeutic benefit for ACE2 overexpression in the heart. However, the role of ACE2 in the regulation of cardiac structure and function, as well as maintenance of systemic blood pressure, remains poorly understood. In cell culture, ACE2 overexpression led to markedly increased myocyte volume, assessed in primary rabbit myocytes. To assess ACE2 function in vivo, we used a recombinant adeno-associated virus 6 delivery system to provide 11-week overexpression of ACE2 in the myocardium of stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. ACE2, as well as the ACE inhibitor enalapril, significantly reduced systolic blood pressure. However, in the heart, ACE2 overexpression resulted in cardiac fibrosis, as assessed by histological analysis with concomitant deficits in ejection fraction and fractional shortening measured by echocardiography. Furthermore, global gene expression profiling demonstrated the activation of profibrotic pathways in the heart mediated by ACE2 gene delivery. This study demonstrates that sustained overexpression of ACE2 in the heart in vivo leads to the onset of severe fibrosis.
A series of (+/-)-4,5-dihydro-4-phenyl-3H-1,3-benzodiazepines and (+/-)-4,5-dihydro-4-phenyl-1H-1,3-benzodiazepines was synthesized as part of a program to develop novel psychotropics. Of these compounds, (+/-)-4,5-dihydro-2,3-dimethyl-4-phenyl-3H-1,3-benzodiazepine (10a, HRP 543) emerged as a potential antidepressant. In in vivo mouse tests (inhibition of tetrabenazine-induced ptosis and potentiation of yohimbine toxicity) which are predictive of antidepressant-like activity, 10a is comparable to amitriptyline. The similarity is also maintained in vitro, as both 10a and amitriptyline inhibit norepinephrine and serotonin uptake into rat brain synaptosomes. No significant inhibition of rat brain monoamine oxidase A or B was found with 10a, nor did the compound potentiate tryptamine-induced seizures. On chronic administration, the number of cortical beta-adrenergic receptor sites was similarly reduced by 10a and desipramine. The anticholinergic activity of clinically useful antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, is a proposed cause of side effects which reduce patient compliance. In contrast to the tricyclics, 10a apparently lacks anticholinergic activity, as evidenced in vitro by negligible displacement of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzylate from rat brain muscarinic receptors and in vivo by insignificant antagonism of the cholinergic stimulation produced by physostigmine or oxotremorine. These data suggest that 10a may be clinically useful as a novel nontricyclic antidepressant which is devoid of anticholinergic side-effect liability. Further evaluation of 10a in nonrodent species is in progress.
Most clinically available small-molecule kinase inhibitors are multi-targeted and can inhibit multiple kinases. Our driving hypothesis was that one of these multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) would have antiproliferative activity against ROS1 translocated non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
We selected NSCLC cell lines--A549 (KRAS G12S), NCI-H3255 (EGFR L858R), NCI-H3122 (EML4-ALK E13;A20), and HCC78 (SLC34A2-ROS1)-to evaluate the antiproliferative effects of submicromolar concentrations of the multitargeted TKIs imatinib, sorafenib, erlotinib, and crizotinib.
Imatinib and sorafenib were unable to significantly inhibit proliferation of the aforementioned cell lines. Erlotinib only inhibited EGFR mutated NCI-H3255, as expected. Crizotinib displayed dose-dependent inhibition of anaplastic lymphoma kinase translocated NCI-H3122 and also ROS1--translocated HCC78. The SLC34A2-ROS1 translocated HCC78 cell line had phosphorylated levels of ROS1, AKT, and ERK inhibited by submicromolar doses of crizotinib, and subsequently underwent apoptosis.
The ROS1-translocated HCC78 cell line was sensitive to inhibition by the multitargeted ALK/MET/RON/ROS1 inhibitor crizotinib. Preclinical data supports the clinical development of crizotinib for ROS1-translocated NSCLC.
A phase I study of 4'deoxydoxorubicin (esorubicin) was performed on an every-21-day bolus intravenous (IV) schedule in 36 patients with advanced cancer. Thirty-four patients were evaluable for toxicity analysis. Toxicity included mild nausea, occasional local skin reactions, and mild to moderate alopecia. Myelo-suppression was dose limiting. Clinically evident congestive heart failure was not observed. However, two patients developed premature ventricular contractions. Overall, esorubicin was better tolerated than doxorubicin at equally potent doses. Although response analysis was not the primary objective of this phase I study, minor responses were observed in melanoma, breast cancer, lymphoma, and gastric cancer. On the basis of this study, a starting dose of 30 mg/m2 IV every 21 days is recommended for good-risk patients with escalation to 32.5 mg/m2 depending on bone marrow tolerance. For patients with poor bone marrow reserve, a starting dose of 25 mg/m2 every 21 days is recommended. Phase II trials with esorubicin in this dosage schedule are clearly warranted in a wide variety of metastatic neoplasms including a substantial population of patients who have not received prior chemotherapy.
Thirty-one Holstein bull calves were purchased at birth from 3 dairy farms in Eastern Ontario. Each calf was assigned at random to oral treatment with either 5 mg of halofuginone lactate in 10.0 mL of aqueous carrier solution (Halocur, base comprised 10 mg of benzoic acid, 100 mg of lactic acid, and 0.3 mg of tartrazine) or 10 mL of placebo (Halocur base minus the active ingredient, halofuginone lactate) administered 15 to 30 min after morning milk feeding for the first 7 d of life. Intakes of milk, calf starter, and water, and fecal consistency score were recorded daily for 56 d. Calf weights were recorded weekly for 56 d. Fecal samples were taken from all calves at approximately 2, 7, 14, 21, and 28 d of age for isolation of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts. Logistic and linear regression analyses were used to assess the effect of treatment on the incidence of diarrhea and C. parvum infection status. The odds of C. parvum shedding among calves in the halofuginone lactate-treated group was 70% lower than the odds of shedding among calves in the placebo group. In calves treated with halofuginone lactate, no oocyst shedding occurred until 2 wk of age, whereas 12.5% of calves in the placebo group began shedding oocysts during wk 1. From all ages of placebo-treated calves, 31 of 73 samples (42.5%) were positive for C. parvum, whereas only 15 of 67 samples (22.4%) from all ages of halofuginone lactate-treated calves tested positive. The largest number of C. parvum-positive samples occurred in the third week of life. There was a significant delay of 3.1 d in the incidence of diarrhea among calves treated with halofuginone lactate. Intake of milk and starter, body weight gains, and age at weaning were not significantly different between treatment groups.
Suppression of IgE responses is a major goal for immunotherapy, especially in the field of allergy. The Th2 subset of helper T cells plays a vital role in class switching of B cells to IgE production by releasing IL-4. In susceptible rat strains, mercuric chloride (HgCl2) induces activation of Th2 cells, with enhanced expression of IL-4, polyclonal B cell activation and very high levels of circulating IgE. We have previously shown that spontaneous regulation of this response coincides with enhanced expression of Th1/type-1 cytokines, including interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and IL-12. We now report the effects of administration of exogenous type-1 cytokines on HgCl2-induced Th2 responses. At high doses, recombinant rat IFN-gamma markedly reduced serum IgE levels. Recombinant mouse IL-12 was less effective at suppressing the IgE response following HgCl2, although it caused marked up-regulation of IFN-gamma gene expression in the spleen. In Lewis rats, which are resistant to HgCl2-induced autoimmunity, a rise in serum IFN-gamma was observed after HgCl2, but administration of polyclonal anti-IFN-gamma antibodies did not render them susceptible to induction of a Th2 response by HgCl2. Our data show that individual type-1 cytokines are capable of suppressing the dramatic Th2 response induced by HgCl2 in the rat, even when they are not given until after starting HgCl2 administration. IFN-gamma is a pivotal cytokine in ameliorating the Th2 response and measures aimed at selective up-regulation of this cytokine may be of therapeutic value in suppression of unwanted IgE responses.
Hg2+ induces lymphocyte proliferation when added to cell cultures from both healthy and mercury-allergic subjects. Consequently, when measuring DNA synthesis a possible Hg2+-specific response, resulting from proliferating memory cells, cannot be discriminated from a non-allergic response. The mechanism behind this non-allergic response is unknown but a superantigenic effect of Hg2+ has been suggested. In this study, five mercury-allergic patients, with oral lichen planus (OLP) lesions adjacent to dental amalgam and a positive patch test to Hg0, and five healthy subjects without amalgam were examined. The immunophenotype and the T cell receptor Vbeta (TCR Vbeta) repertoire of Hg2+-induced lymphoblasts as well as the expression of the lymphocyte activation markers CD23 and CD134 were analysed for possible differences between healthy and allergic subjects. The mechanism of Hg2+-induced proliferation was examined by comparing the TCR Vbeta expression of Hg- and staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB)-activated lymphoblasts, the latter used as a positive superantigen control. It was not possible to discriminate between mercury-allergic and healthy subjects using the immunophenotype or the TCR Vbeta profile of the Hg2+-induced lymphoblasts or the expression of CD23 and CD134. However, Hg2+-induced CD4+ lymphoblasts showed a skewing towards Vbeta2. This relative increase in Vbeta2 was only detected in the CD4+ but not in the CD8+ lymphoblast population. In conclusion, Hg2+ induced a proliferation-dependent skewing towards CD4+ but not CD8+ lymphocytes expressing Vbeta2. In this respect Hg2+ differs from the classical bacterial superantigen SEB, which also stimulates unique TCR Vbeta families among CD8+ cells.
Although HLA-DRB1 and -DQA1 alleles have been associated with adult and juvenile idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (JIIM), they only partially account for the genetic risk for these autoimmune disorders. Because IL-1alpha and IL-1beta, and the anti-inflammatory competitive inhibitor, IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra), have been implicated in the pathogenesis of myositis, we assessed the role of variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphisms of the IL-1Ra gene (IL-1RN) in the aetiology of JIIM: IL-1RN VNTR polymorphisms were performed on 250 JIIM patients and 471 race-matched controls and were correlated with clinical characteristics. The IL-1RN A1 allele, associated with increased proinflammatory activity, was found to be a risk factor for Caucasians with JIIM (96.0% carriage rate versus 90.2% in race-matched controls, Pcorr = 0.037, odds ratio (OR) = 2.5, confidence interval (CI) = 1.1-5.8), but not for African-Americans, in whom the A3 allele was a possible risk factor (7.0% versus 1.1% in race-matched controls, Pcorr = 0.07, OR = 6.5, CI = 1.1-40.3). IL-1RN genotypes did not correlate with circulating levels of IL-1Ra, which were higher in patients than in controls. The polymorphic IL-1RN locus could be the first non-MHC genetic risk factor identified for JIIM, and different alleles may confer susceptibility for different ethnic groups.
Prenatal exposure to perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), a ubiquitous industrial surfactant, has been reported to delay mammary gland development in female mouse offspring (F1) and the treated lactating dam (P0) after gestational treatments at 3 and 5 mg PFOA/kg/day.
We investigated the consequences of gestational and chronic PFOA exposure on F1 lactational function and subsequent development of F2 offspring.
We treated P0 dams with 0, 1, or 5 mg PFOA/kg/day on gestation days 1-17. In addition, a second group of P0 dams treated with 0 or 1 mg/kg/day during gestation and their F1 and F2 offspring received continuous PFOA exposure (5 ppb) in drinking water. Resulting adult F1 females were bred to generate F2 offspring, whose development was monitored over postnatal days (PNDs) 1-63. F1 gland function was assessed on PND10 by timed-lactation experiments. Mammary tissue was isolated from P0, F1, and F2 females throughout the study and histologically assessed for age-appropriate development.
PFOA-exposed F1 dams exhibited diminished lactational morphology, although F1 maternal behavior and F2 offspring body weights were not significantly affected by P0 treatment. In addition to reduced gland development in F1 females under all exposures, F2 females with chronic low-dose drinking-water exposures exhibited visibly slowed mammary gland differentiation from weaning onward. F2 females derived from 5 mg/kg PFOA-treated P0 dams displayed gland morphology similar to F2 chronic water exposure groups on PNDs 22-63.
Gestational PFOA exposure induced delays in mammary gland development and/or lactational differentiation across three generations. Chronic, low-dose PFOA exposure in drinking water was also sufficient to alter mammary morphological development in mice, at concentrations approximating those found in contaminated human water supplies.
Tyrosinase-negative oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is an inborn error of metabolism, characterized by a complete lack of melanin pigments in the eyes and skin. We have isolated and characterized the tyrosinase gene of one affected child (S.S.) with tyrosinase-negative OCA. Sequence analysis reveals a single-base insertion in the exon 2 that shifts the reading frame and introduces a premature termination signal (TGA codon) after the amino acid residue 298. Functional analysis of the mutated gene indicates that such a truncated tyrosinase lacking one potential copper-binding region is catalytically inactive. We therefore conclude that the albino phenotype of the patient S.S. is a consequence of the inactive tyrosinase caused by the nonsense mutation in the tyrosinase gene.
Lithium administered in chow produced a small increase in DA metabolites (DOPAC and HVA) in rat caudate but not cortex and augmented the increase in DA metabolites in both regions produced by haloperidol administration for 2 days. Given for 10 days with haloperidol, lithium attenuated the tolerance to an increase in DA metabolites in caudate. When administered with haloperidol for 22 days, lithium prevented the tolerance to catalepsy produced by daily administration of haloperidol alone. Lithium can augment and prolong the increase in regional DA metabolites and extend the duration of catalepsy produced by chronic haloperidol.
Inflammation serves as the initial pathologic step of cardiovascular diseases including atherosclerosis. Resveratrol possesses many pharmacological properties including antioxidant, cardioprotective and anti-cancer effects. In this study, we investigate the anti-inflammatory effect and mechanisms of resveratrol in an atherosclerotic rabbit model.
Rabbit were assigned to six groups (n = 10 each): control, high fat diet group, resveratrol low, medium and high dose groups, resveratrol pretreatment group. The serum tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF- α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) were analyzed by Enzyme-linked immuno sorbent assay(ELISA). Phosphorylation levels of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) cascades and NF-κB were determined by Western blot.
Compared with the control group, the expression of serum inflammatory factors IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α were increased in high-fat group (all P < 0.05). Compared with high-fat group, the expressions of IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α were significantly reduced in resveratrol low, medium, high dose groups and resveratrol pretreatment group (all P < 0.01), and this effect is dose-dependent. In addition, the NF-κB, p38MAPK, JNK, ERK1/2 protein phosphorylation in high-fat group were significantly upregulated compared with control group (P < 0.05), which (except ERK1/2 phosphorylation level) were significantly downregulated in resveratrol treatment group and resveratrol pretreatment group.
This study indicates that resveratrol reduces serum inflammatory cytokines in this atherosclerotic rabbit model via down-regulation phosphorylation of NF-κB, and MAPKs signaling, which might serve as the anti-inflammatory molecular basis of resveratrol.
Doxorubicin (DXR) (0.17 x 10(-4) M) induces an acute cardiotoxicity in isolated rat heart; there is a progressive widening of the S alpha T segment, with a decrease in force derivatives and in the coronary flow. Concurrent perfusion with fructose-1,6-diphosphate (FDP) (10(-5)-10(-4) M) dose-dependently reduces the S alpha T enlargement but fails to affect the reduction in force derivatives and coronary flow. The target of cardiac protection by FDP might be the ionic mechanisms underlying the action potential configuration.
