Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HATT) is a serious complication of heparin therapy that results in intravascular platelet aggregation with arterial or venous thrombosis. Platelet aggregation to heparin in vitro is used to confirm the diagnosis. Cessation of heparin therapy with avoidance of reexposure to heparin is an important principle in the management of HATT. However, certain patients with HATT may require reexposure to heparin for emergency cardiac operations requiring cardiopulmonary bypass while still demonstrating positive in vitro platelet aggregation with heparin. The present report describes the management of 2 such patients. In each patient aspirin was shown to inhibit platelet aggregation to heparin in vitro; therefore, aspirin and dipyridamole were administered to each patient before heparin reexposure and continued throughout the perioperative period. Cardiopulmonary bypass with full heparinization was achieved without thrombotic or hemorrhagic complications in both patients. Despite the presence of a heparin-dependent platelet-aggregating factor in the plasma of these 2 patients, inhibition of platelet aggregation with aspirin and dipyridamole allowed uneventful reexposure to heparin.
To report a case of torsade de pointes related to the administration of high-dose intravenous haloperidol for the treatment of severe agitation.
Reports in the literature of intravenous haloperidol-induced torsade de pointes are rare. We describe the case of a 41-year-old white woman with no predisposing factors who developed torsade de pointes 55 minutes after a dose of intravenous haloperidol 80 mg (total dosage 915 mg over 7 d). The results of the electrocardiogram were consistent with torsade de pointes and showed a prolonged QTc interval of 610 milliseconds. Intravenous magnesium sulfate 2 g/100 mL NaCl 0.9% was administered, which controlled the arrhythmia. The patient received one additional 80-mg haloperidol dose six hours after the arrhythmia-triggering dose, without reoccurrence of torsade de pointes. Haloperidol was then discontinued, and the patient had no further arrhythmias.
Our case report and others from the literature suggest that intravenous haloperidol administration may prolong QT intervals in some patients, precipitating the potentially life-threatening arrhythmia torsade de pointes. Clinicians should be aware of haloperidol's potential to induce torsade de pointes, since it is used regularly for agitation and delirium in the critical care arena.
To report two cases of chronic constrictive pericarditis that appear to be related to the intake of bromocriptine for Parkinson's disease.
Two white men (aged 63 and 69 y) were treated with bromocriptine for four (40 mg/d) and two years (30 mg/d), respectively, with a cumulative dose intake of 58.4 and 21.9 g, respectively. The patients experienced dyspnea with bilateral lower-limb edema and pleural effusion, suggesting right cardiac dysfunction. Echocardiography, computed tomography, and cardiac catheterization results were compatible with a diagnosis of constrictive pericarditis, so pericardectomy was performed on both patients. The anatomic pathology examination showed a fibrous pericardium; cultures were sterile. In the first case, pleural effusion recurred seven months after the pericarditis; bromocriptine was suspected and treatment was discontinued. In the second case, just prior to the pericardectomy, an episode of mental confusion occurred and prompted the cessation of bromocriptine therapy.
To the best of our knowledge, only one case of constrictive pericarditis induced by bromocriptine therapy has previously been described in the literature.
Our cases call attention to a possible association between bromocriptine use in patients who have Parkinson's disease and constrictive pericarditis.
Functional placental insufficiency results in impaired feto-placental exchange, and subsequently in fetal growth restriction (FGR). We hypothesized that reductions in placental amino acid transporter activities in FGR pregnancies may be accompanied by abnormal expression of placental ammonia-handling enzymes. Term placentas were obtained from growth restricted (N=11) and normal (N=17) human pregnancies, and examined for glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH), glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutaminase (GA) mRNA and protein expression. Northern and Western blots were normalized on human actin mRNA and protein expression. For GA, the presence of mRNA coding the kidney isoform, and the absence of mRNA coding the liver isoform of the enzyme were demonstrated in the human placenta. In FGR pregnancies, placental expression of GDH mRNA was reduced (P<0.05) compared to normal pregnancies (1.576+/-0.144 vs. 2.092+/-0.177, respectively; mean+/-SE), whereas GS and GA mRNA expression was not different between the two types of pregnancy. GDH protein expression were also reduced (P<0.05) in FGR placentas compared to normal placentas (1.055+/-0.079 vs. 1.322+/-0.053, respectively; mean+/-SE). The GS and GA protein expression was not different in FGR pregnancies. Our data indicate that in cases of FGR, glutamate-to-oxoglutarate transformation in the placenta is limited, yet glutamine synthesis from and decomposition to glutamate seems to be preserved. This may reflect down-regulation of GDH in response to decreased fetal liver output and reduced umbilical artery glutamate concentrations in human FGR pregnancies.
Several recent reports have suggested that sperm count and quality in normal men are declining. Various environmental chemical compounds may affect the male reproductive system. We propose here that diesel exhaust is an environmental pollutant with the potential to influence male reproductive function. Ultrastructural changes were observed in Leydig cells of mice exposed to diesel exhaust (0.3 mg diesel exhaust particles (DEP)/m3 through the airway, 12 h daily, up to 6 months) and reduction in LH receptor mRNA expression in Leydig cells was observed at a concentration of 1 mg DEP/m3. Daily sperm production per gram of testis dose-dependently decreased with exposure to DE for 6 months; 29%, 36%, and 53% reductions were observed at 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mg DEP/m3, respectively. A no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) was observed with approximately 30 micrograms DEP/m3, which is lower than the WHO-recommended limit.
A 58 year old patient with hepatitis virus C (HCV) infection had a secondary polyclonal IgG-IgM cryoglobulinemia with a benign 20 year course. Clinically the patient suffered from progressive pigmented purpura (PPP). Histologic evaluation revealed a lymphocytic vasculitis. Food containing tartrazine triggered flares of the PPP, as demonstrated with controlled oral provocation testing. In most of the previously described cases of HCV and type III cryoglobulinemia, the typical cutaneous finding was palpable purpura with leukocytoclastic vasculitis.
We hypothesized that intranasal insulin (I-I) delivery targets the nervous system while avoiding potential adverse systemic effects when compared with subcutaneous insulin (S-I) for experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN).
I-I or S-I at 0.87 IU daily or placebo were delivered in separate cohorts of diabetic and nondiabetic CD1 mice during 8 months of diabetes. Radiolabeled insulin detection was used to compare delivery and biodistribution for I-I and S-I. Biweekly behavioral testing and monthly electrophysiological and quantitative studies assessed progression of DPN. At and before end point, morphometric analysis of DRG, peripheral nerve, distal epidermal innervation, and specific molecular markers were evaluated.
Radiolabeled I-I resulted in more rapid and concentrated delivery to the spinal cord and DRG with less systemic insulin exposure. When compared with S-I or intranasal placebo, I-I reduced overall mouse mortality and sensory loss while improving neuropathic pain and electrophysiological/morphological abnormalities in diabetic mice. I-I restored mRNA and protein levels of phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt, cyclic AMP response element-binding protein, and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta to near normal levels within diabetic DRGs.
I-I slows the progression of experimental DPN in streptozotocin mice, avoids adverse effects associated with S-I treatment, and prolongs lifespan when compared with S-I. I-I may be a promising approach for the treatment of DPN.
Because leukotrienes have potent local effects on cutaneous vasculature, leukotriene antagonists might be effective in the treatment of chronic urticaria.
A double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial comparing cetirizine 10 mg daily in combination with zafirlukast 20 mg twice a day versus cetirizine 10 mg daily and placebo was conducted to determine whether subjects with chronic urticaria benefit from add-on therapy with a leukotriene-modifying agent.
Patients 12 years or older with a history of chronic urticaria (more than 6 weeks in duration) required diary documentation of 6 or more hives on at least 2 days/week and a suboptimal response to H(1)-antagonist therapy for enrollment. At baseline, all subjects were skin tested to autologous serum to assess for the potential presence of FcepsilonRI or IgE autoantibodies. Subjects meeting the initial entry criteria were treated with cetirizine 10 mg a day and placebo twice daily for 1 week. Those patients with persistent hives were randomized to receive cetirizine 10 mg daily and zafirlukast 20 mg twice a day or cetirizine 10 mg daily and placebo. At each successive weekly visit, physician and patient treatment effectiveness score (TES) and visual analog scale (VAS) ratings were recorded. Statistical analysis used generalizing estimating equations to compare the effect of combination therapy versus monotherapy on TES and VAS ratings. Results were adjusted for baseline rating, recruiting center, and autologous serum skin test (ASST). A separate analysis evaluated patients with positive ASST results receiving combination therapy versus monotherapy.
Combination therapy with zafirlukast demonstrated a modest but significantly greater improvement compared with cetirizine monotherapy in physician and patient recorded VAS ratings at visit 4 and across treatment visits 4 through 6 (P <.05 unless stated otherwise). Subjects with ASST positive results receiving combination therapy as compared with subjects with negative ASST results exhibited a significant improvement in patient recorded VAS ratings across visits 4 through 6. Subgroup analysis of subjects with ASST positive results receiving combination therapy versus monotherapy showed improvement in physician recorded TES at visit 5, physician recorded VAS at visits 4 and 5 and across visits 4 through 6, as well as for patient recorded VAS at visit 5. There were no significant results for patients with ASST negative results.
The results of this study indicate that only patients with autoimmune (ASST positive) chronic urticaria refractory to H(1)-antagonist monotherapy might benefit from the addition of the leukotriene D(4)-receptor antagonist zafirlukast to their treatment regimen. These results also suggest that routine screening of patients with chronic urticaria with the ASST might be useful in formulating therapeutic algorithms in the management of chronic urticaria.
Numerous reports have described a definite sense of well-being after anesthesia with propofol (Disoprivan). The present study was designed to assess postoperative mood as recorded with a quantitative self-rating method. Postoperative recovery and amnesia were also investigated. Thirty unpremedicated female patients aged 20-60 (ASA grade 1 or 2) who were scheduled for minor gynecological operations were enrolled in the study after informed consent. The patients were randomly allocated to three study groups: group A, induction with propofol 2 mg/kg and maintenance with propofol 0.15 mg/kg per min together with N2O/O2; group B, induction with propofol 2 mg/kg and maintenance with enfluran and N2O/O2; group C, induction with thiopental until loss of the eye lash reflex and maintenance with enfluran and N2O/O2. Postoperative amnesia was assessed by showing five picture cards at 5-min intervals, starting when the patients were able to state the correct date of birth. A test of recovery (p-deletion) was carried out after 30 and again after 60 min. The postoperative mood state was evaluated with the adjective checklist of Janke and Debus 5 h after waking. In good agreement with published reports, propofol patients recovered more rapidly than thiopental patients. A significant but irrelevant amnesia occurred after 5 min in group B. However, in some cases amnesia lasting up to 20 min was observed. The global mood status showed a significantly higher score for positive items and a lower score for negative items after propofol administered by either technique than after thiopental (P = 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinical records of all patients (n = 26) suffering from optic neuritis during the last 16 years re-evaluated in relation to treatment. The patients were treated in 3 ways: with prednisone; with "pulse" megadoses of methylprednisolone; and untreated. A possibly frightening conversion to multiple sclerosis was seen in the group of patients with methylprednisolone, compared with the other 2 groups.
We have compared, in 60 adult patients, the cardiovascular effects of glycopyrronium 5 micrograms kg-1 and 10 micrograms kg-1 given either simultaneously or 1 min before edrophonium 1 mg kg-1. Significant differences between the four groups were detected (P less than 0.001). Both groups receiving 10 micrograms kg-1 showed increases in heart rate of up to 30 beat min-1 (95% confidence limits 28-32 beat min-1). Use of glycopyrronium 5 micrograms kg-1 provided greater cardiovascular stability and, given 1 min before the edrophonium, was sufficient to minimize early, edrophonium-induced bradycardias. This low dose of glycopyrronium provided good control of oropharyngeal secretions.
To assess the incidence of adverse effects associated with long-term amiodarone therapy, we reviewed the records of 217 consecutive patients who were treated for refractory arrhythmia. After an average of 11.8 months of therapy, one or more side effects occurred in 113 patients (52%). These were considered clinically significant in 42 patients (19.3%), mandating discontinuation of amiodarone in 18 (8.3%). The untoward reactions requiring discontinuation of amiodarone included thyroid dysfunction, visual disturbances, pulmonary infiltrates, ataxia, cardiac conduction abnormalities, and drug interactions. The mild side effects included corneal microdeposits, skin rashes, and gastrointestinal symptoms. There was a weak correlation between blood levels of amiodarone, the daily dose, and the cumulative dose (r = 0.23, p = 0.015). Drug levels were higher in symptomatic patients (p less than 0.03), although they received lower doses of amiodarone. While amiodarone is associated with frequent side effects, they are generally mild and do not necessitate drug discontinuation. Careful monitoring of therapy is essential to detect the potentially serious adverse reactions which are encountered in nearly 20% of patients.
Previously, we demonstrated that stress-induced self-grooming behaviour in rats predicted an enhanced motivation to self-administer cocaine as determined under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement. The enhanced motivation of high grooming (HG) rats was associated with a reduced reactivity of dopaminergic neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala, but not nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we studied the effect of cocaine and saline self-administration on these pre-existing differences in neurochemical profile by determining the electrically evoked release of [3H]dopamine and [14C]acetylcholine from superfused slices of the nucleus accumbens shell and core, medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala of HG and low grooming (LG) rats. Although HG and LG rats did not differ in acquisition of cocaine and saline self-administration, both conditions induced substantially different neuroadaptations in these rats. Differences in depolarisation-induced dopamine and acetylcholine release were maintained in the medial prefrontal cortex, emerged in the nucleus accumbens and dissipated in the amygdala. These results indicate that altered reactivity of mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons due to exposure to cocaine and environmental stimuli (saline) is dependent on pre-existing neurochemical differences and displays region-specificity. These pre-existing differences and the cocaine- and environmental-induced neuroadaptations seem to act in concert to produce an enhanced motivational state to self-administer cocaine.
Although hormone replacement therapy (HRT) can have many favorable effects on serum lipids and on vascular endothelium that presumably mediate the decreased risk for heart attack and stroke associated with HRT in observational epidemiology, oral estrogen also has various pro-coagulant effects: increases in serum triglycerides and factor VII activity, decreases in serum antithrombin III and protein S. This may explain the increased risk for venous thromboembolism observed with HRT and oral contraceptives, as well as the temporary increase in coronary risk noted when women with preexisting coronary disease initiate HRT. The well-tolerated hypolipidemic agent bezafibrate has anticoagulant actions that are diametrically opposed to the procoagulant effects of oral estrogen: namely, reductions in serum triglycerides and factor VII activity, and an increase in antithrombin III. However, bezafibrate could be expected to complement the protective effects of oral estrogen on serum lipids and on serum IGF-I activity. Thus, there is reason to believe that concurrent bezafibrate administration would minimize any thrombotic risk associated with HRT or oral contraception, while amplifying the health benefits of oral estrogen, and would make it more feasible to administer these therapies in women at increased vascular risk. These predictions require confirmation in controlled clinical studies. Certain natural hypolipidemic agents may also have potential as adjuvants to oral estrogen, but their effects on hemostasis require further investigation.
Effect of ethanol administration on the severity of myocardial infarction induced by isoproterenol in rats was studied. Even though serum CPK and GOT levels as well as the extent of myocardial damage as revealed by histopathological studies, were similar, the survival rate was higher in rats administered ethanol. Concentration of cholesterol and triglycerides in the serum and heart in rats given ethanol and isoproterenol seems to be the additive effect caused individually by ethanol and isoproterenol. Myocardial alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase both showed increased activity in rats treated with ethanol. The rate of recovery from myocardial infarction however, was slower in rats treated with ethanol as judged from the serum CPK value.
Several secondary causes are implicated in the etiology of idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Rofecoxib is a selective cyclo-oxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor, now being increasingly used in place of nonselective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). We report a case of intracranial hypertension in a 69-year-old man 3 weeks after the commencement of rofecoxib therapy with reversal of clinical findings on drug withdrawal.
Heat shock proteins (HSPs) play an essential role in various neurodegenerative diseases. Manipulation of upregulation of HSPs in cells has been demonstrated to provide a therapeutic strategy to counteract the misfolding and aggregation of proteins that resulted in neurodegenerative disease. Our previous studies have shown that FLZ, a synthetic novel derivative of squamosamide from a Chinese herb, had potent neuroprotective effect against several experimental Parkinson's disease (PD) models. However, the mechanism of its neuroprotective effect is still not clarified. The present study demonstrated that FLZ induced HSP27 and HSP70 proteins and mRNA expression in a time- and dose-dependent manner in SH-SY5Y cells. Further studies showed that FLZ treatment stimulated the activation of heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) and its regulatory kinase Akt. Inactivation of Akt pathway by the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 blocked the expression of HSP27 and HSP70 induced by FLZ. Moreover, the inducing effects of FLZ on HSP27, HSP70, and HSF1 were all blocked by quercetin, an inhibitor of HSP biosynthesis. The cytoprotective effect of HSP27/HSP70 induced by FLZ against MPP(+) was assessed in SH-SY5Y cells. The pretreatment of FLZ significantly induced the accumulations of HSP27/HSP70 and suppressed the apoptosis caused by MPP(+) in SH-SY5Y cells. However, the protective effects of FLZ against MPP(+) were significantly blocked by quercetin, which indicated that the cytoprotective action of FLZ against MPP(+)-induced apoptosis is at least partially mediated by its induction of HSP27/HSP70. These results provide new evidence for elucidating the mechanism of the neuroprotective effect of FLZ against PD.
To assess the effects of testosterone supplementation in men with testosterone deficiency syndrome (TDS) after external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) for localized prostate cancer.
Five men with significant signs of TDS after treatment for localized prostate cancer with EBRT were treated with testosterone once their prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level had reached the nadir. RESULTS The mean (range) level of testosterone before supplementation was 5.2 (1.1-9.2) nmol/L and the duration of follow-up while on supplementation was 14.5 (6-27) months. At the last visit, the testosterone levels were 17.6 (8.5-32.4) nmol/L. One of the five patients had a transitory increase in PSA level but none had levels of >1.5 ng/mL. All patients reported a marked response in the manifestations of TDS, i.e. four each reported decreased hot flushes, decreased fatigue and improved libido, and two reported improved erectile function.
Men with TDS after EBRT for localised prostate cancer are candidates for testosterone therapy. The patients must be aware of the advantages and disadvantages of the treatment. PSA levels must have reached a nadir before starting treatment and the follow-up must be particularly close. In these few patients there were no adverse effects from testosterone supplementation. There is a need for more information about the safety and efficacy of testosterone therapy in men successfully treated for localized prostate cancer, because there is evidence indicating hypogonadism in these patients, compromising their quality of life and longevity, independent of the cancer.
To investigate whether polymorphisms in the genes for dopamine receptors D1 and D2 are associated with the risk of developing peak-dose dyskinesias in PD.
Peak-dose dyskinesias are the most common side effects of levodopa therapy for PD. The identified predictors may only partially account for the risk of developing peak-dose dyskinesias because a substantial proportion of patients never develop peak-dose dyskinesias. Genetic factors could play a role in determining the occurrence of peak-dose dyskinesias.
A case-control study of 136 subjects with sporadic PD and 224 population control subjects. We studied three polymorphisms involving the dopamine receptor D1 gene and one intronic short tandem repeat polymorphism of the dopamine receptor D2 gene.
The polymorphisms of the dopamine receptor D1 gene were not associated with the risk of developing PD or peak-dose dyskinesias. The 15 allele of the polymorphism of the dopamine receptor D2 gene was more frequent in parkinsonian subjects than in control subjects. More important, the frequency of both the 13 allele and the 14 allele of the dopamine receptor D2 gene polymorphism was higher in nondyskinetic than in the dyskinetic PD subjects. The risk reduction of developing peak-dose dyskinesias for PD subjects carrying at least 1 of the 13 or 14 alleles was 72% with respect to the PD subjects who did not carry these alleles.
Certain alleles of the short tandem repeat polymorphism of the dopamine receptor D2 gene reduce the risk of developing peak-dose dyskinesias and could contribute to varying susceptibility to develop peak-dose dyskinesias during levodopa therapy.
Testicular germ cell tumor (TGCT) is the most common cancer in young men and is notable for its high familial risks. So far, six loci associated with TGCT have been reported. From genome-wide association study (GWAS) analysis of 307,291 SNPs in 986 TGCT cases and 4,946 controls, we selected for follow-up 694 SNPs, which we genotyped in a further 1,064 TGCT cases and 10,082 controls from the UK. We identified SNPs at nine new loci (1q22, 1q24.1, 3p24.3, 4q24, 5q31.1, 8q13.3, 16q12.1, 17q22 and 21q22.3) showing association with TGCT (P < 5 × 10(-8)), which together account for an additional 4-6% of the familial risk of TGCT. The loci include genes plausibly related to TGCT development. PRDM14, at 8q13.3, is essential for early germ cell specification, and DAZL, at 3p24.3, is required for the regulation of germ cell development. Furthermore, PITX1, at 5q31.1, regulates TERT expression and is the third TGCT-associated locus implicated in telomerase regulation.
Doxorubicin is one of the most effective chemotherapeutic agents used in the treatment of malignancies. Cardiotoxicity is the most important dose-limiting toxicity of doxorubicin. Although cardiomyopathy is the most well known side effect of doxorubicin, it usually occurs many years after the treatment and relates to cumulative doxorubicin dosage. Another form of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity is arrhythmia which may occur at any time and after any dosage. However, doxorubicin-induced arrhythmia is rarely a life-threatening side effect. In this report, we present a case in which there were doxorubicin-induced life-threatening arrhythmias.
Four patients developed postural tremor after ingestion of sodium valproate. The tremor was recorded by a variable-capacitance transducer and was of the "benign essential" type. The dosages of sodium valproate varied between 1000 mg and 2000 mg daily and serum levels were between 34.9 microgram per milliliter and 154.3 microgram per milliliter. Tremor was ameliorated in two cases when the dosage was reduced. In only one case was the serum level in the toxic range for our laboratory. The pharmacology of essential tremor is unknown; production of a similar tremor by a drug could serve as a biochemical model.
Central alpha adrenoceptors have been demonstrated to play an important role in the control of seizure activity; moreover, alpha adrenoceptors have been linked to electroencephalogram changes associated with cocaine. The purpose of this study was to determine if dexmedetomidine, a highly selective alpha -adrenoceptor agonist, alters the threshold for cocaine-induced seizure activity in rats.
Sprague-Dawley rats received a cocaine infusion (1.25 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1)) followed 15 min later by the coinfusion of either dexmedetomidine (20-microg/kg intravenous bolus followed by an infusion of 1 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1), CD group, n = 8) or an equal volume of saline (CS group, n = 8). Dexmedetomidine or saline were coinfused with cocaine until the onset of cocaine-induced seizures. Dopamine concentrations in the nucleus accumbens were measured by microdialysis paired with chromatography. To determine if changes in extracellular dopamine were related to the seizures, dopamine (1 microm) was continuously delivered to the nucleus accumbens in a separate group (DACD group, n = 6) retrograde microdialysis. These rats then received an intravenous cocaine infusion followed by dexmedetomidine in the same manner as the CD group.
Dexmedetomidine significantly increased the dose of cocaine necessary to produce seizures. Seizures occurred at 25.0 +/- 7.7 and 49.3 +/- 14.8 min in CS and CD, respectively (P < 0.001). The ratio of the percent increase in accumbal dopamine to the cocaine dose at the onset of seizure activity was significantly lower in CD, 39.9 +/- 16.5, compared to CS, 82.2 +/- 46.5 (P = 0.04). Intraaccumbal administration of dopamine prevented the effects of dexmedetomidine on the cocaine seizure threshold.
These data suggest that dexmedetomidine increases the cocaine-induced seizure threshold possibly a mechanism related to the attenuation of the extracellular dopaminergic neurotransmitter response to cocaine.
In this study, a Cu(2+) chelate of the novel thiosemicarbazone NSC 689534 was evaluated for in vitro and in vivo anti-cancer activity. Results demonstrated that NSC 689534 activity (low micromolar range) was enhanced four- to fivefold by copper chelation and completely attenuated by iron. Importantly, once formed, the NSC 689534/Cu(2+) complex retained activity in the presence of additional iron or iron-containing biomolecules. NSC 689534/Cu(2+) mediated its effects primarily through the induction of ROS, with depletion of cellular glutathione and protein thiols. Pretreatment of cells with the antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine impaired activity, whereas NSC 689534/Cu(2+) effectively synergized with the glutathione biosynthesis inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine. Microarray analysis of NSC 689534/Cu(2+)-treated cells highlighted activation of pathways involved in oxidative and ER stress/UPR, autophagy, and metal metabolism. Further scrutiny of the role of ER stress and autophagy indicated that NSC 689534/Cu(2+)-induced cell death was ER-stress dependent and autophagy independent. Last, NSC 689534/Cu(2+) was shown to have activity in an HL60 xenograft model. These data suggest that NSC 689534/Cu(2+) is a potent oxidative stress inducer worthy of further preclinical investigation.
Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is the most common pediatric skeletal disease. We previously reported a locus on chromosome 10q24.31 associated with AIS susceptibility in Japanese using a genome-wide association study (GWAS) consisting of 1,033 cases and 1,473 controls. To identify additional AIS-associated loci, we expanded the study by adding X-chromosome SNPs in the GWAS and increasing the size of the replication cohorts. Through a stepwise association study including 1,819 cases and 25,939 controls, we identified a new susceptibility locus on chromosome 6q24.1 in Japanese (P = 2.25 × 10(-10); odds ratio (OR) = 1.28). The most significantly associated SNP, rs6570507, was in GPR126 (encoding G protein-coupled receptor 126). Its association was replicated in Han Chinese and European-ancestry populations (combined P = 1.27 × 10(-14); OR = 1.27). GPR126 was highly expressed in cartilage, and the knockdown of gpr126 in zebrafish caused delayed ossification of the developing spine. Our results should provide insights into the etiology and pathogenesis of AIS.
We conducted a meta-analysis to identify new susceptibility loci for testicular germ cell tumor (TGCT). In the discovery phase, we analyzed 931 affected individuals and 1,975 controls from 3 genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We conducted replication in 6 independent sample sets comprising 3,211 affected individuals and 7,591 controls. In the combined analysis, risk of TGCT was significantly associated with markers at four previously unreported loci: 4q22.2 in HPGDS (per-allele odds ratio (OR) = 1.19, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.12-1.26; P = 1.11 × 10(-8)), 7p22.3 in MAD1L1 (OR = 1.21, 95% CI = 1.14-1.29; P = 5.59 × 10(-9)), 16q22.3 in RFWD3 (OR = 1.26, 95% CI = 1.18-1.34; P = 5.15 × 10(-12)) and 17q22 (rs9905704: OR = 1.27, 95% CI = 1.18-1.33; P = 4.32 × 10(-13) and rs7221274: OR = 1.20, 95% CI = 1.12-1.28; P = 4.04 × 10(-9)), a locus that includes TEX14, RAD51C and PPM1E. These new TGCT susceptibility loci contain biologically plausible genes encoding proteins important for male germ cell development, chromosomal segregation and the DNA damage response.
