An extensive toxicology programme on salmeterol hydroxynaphthoate (Serevent), a marketed long-acting beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, has been carried out. The studies evaluated both the local (respiratory tract) and systemic tolerance to single and repeated dosing, effects on all stages of reproduction, as well as the genotoxic and oncogenic potential. High acute doses were well tolerated and caused no specific target organ toxicity. In repeat dose studies, animals tolerated salmeterol very well both locally and systemically. No significant effects on the respiratory tract of dogs were seen and only minor laryngeal changes, typical of those occurring with many inhaled medicines, were noted in rats. The high systemic concentrations achieved resulted in a number of changes that are considered to be the result of excessive and prolonged beta( 2)-adrenoceptor stimulation. These included tachycardia, skeletal muscle hypertrophy and minor haematological and blood biochemical changes in general toxicity studies, foetal effects in rabbit organogenesis studies and increased incidences of smooth muscle tumours of the mesovarium in the rat and of the uterus in the mouse oncogenicity studies. Salmeterol showed no evidence of any genotoxic potential. Results of the extensive toxicology programme provide good assurance of the safety for the inhaled use of salmeterol in patients; this has ben confirmed by many years of clinical experience during its development and marketing.
Despite the declining use of theophylline, episodes of intoxication continue to occur, producing seizures, arrhythmias, and death.
To further characterize major toxic effects and to examine the efficacy of existing interventions.
We conducted a longitudinal cohort study of patients with theophylline overdose. For a 125-month period, all patients referred to the Massachusetts Poison Control System in Boston with a serum theophylline concentration of 167 micromol/L (> or =30 microg/mL) or more were followed up prospectively. Recommended management by the poison center was uniform and protocol based.
Three hundred fifty-six patients were enrolled. Mean age was 34.5 years (range, 3 days to 98 years). Mean peak serum theophylline concentration was 336 micromol/L (60 microg/mL) (range, 167-1360 micromol/L [30-245 microg/mL]). One hundred sixty-two patients (45.5%) had acute, 144 (40.4%) had chronic, and 50 (14.0%) had acute-on-therapeutic poisoning. Seventy-four patients (20.8%) developed cardiac arrhythmias, and 29 (8.2%) developed seizures. Fifteen patients (4.2%) died, 11 (73%) of whom had chronic overmedication. Arrhythmias were significantly more common after chronic overmedication than after acute intoxication (35% vs. 10%; odds ratio, 4.97; 95% confidence interval, 2.68-9.23; P<.001). Eight percent of patients with chronic overmedication died compared with 2.5% of those with acute intoxication (odds ratio, 3.20; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-10.39; P = .04). There was no significant difference in the rate of major toxic effects (25.9% vs. 30.0%) or death (4.6% vs. 3.7%) among patients referred from 1986 to 1991 and from 1992 to 1996.
Theophylline intoxication results in substantial morbidity and mortality, particularly in those with chronic overmedication. Treatment strategies fail to improve clinical outcome. With safer alternative options available, the current indications for theophylline should be rigorously evaluated with a goal toward minimal use of this agent.
20 patients with a diagnosis of chronic idiopathic urticaria were entered into a double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over study. All patients completed the trial and during the assessment period they were treated with placebo, BW 825C (4 mg) and BW 825C (8 mg) according to a fully randomised and balanced treatment plan. Both doses of BW 825C were found to be highly effective and significantly better than placebo in controlling signs and symptoms of urticaria. Few adverse reactions were reported and in this small group of patients there was no significant difference from placebo in reports of drowsiness or any other side-effects.
Diacetyl, a component of artificial butter flavoring, is a potential etiological agent of obliterative bronchiolitis (OB); however, the toxic dose and mechanisms of toxicity remain controversial. We evaluated the respiratory toxicity of diacetyl in a murine model using several exposure profiles relevant to workplace conditions at microwave popcorn packaging plants. Male C57Bl/6 mice were exposed to inhaled diacetyl across several concentrations and duration profiles, or by direct oropharyngeal aspiration. Effects of diacetyl on the respiratory tract were evaluated by histopathology and BALF analyses. Subacute exposure to 200 or 400 ppm diacetyl for 5 days caused deaths, necrotizing rhinitis, necrotizing laryngitis and bronchitis. Reducing the exposure to 1 h/day (100, 200, 400 ppm) for 4 weeks resulted in less nasal and laryngeal toxicity, but led to peribronchial and peribronchiolar lymphocytic inflammation. A similar pattern was observed with intermittent high-dose exposures at 1200 ppm (15 min, twice a day, 4 weeks). Subchronic exposures to 100 ppm (6 h/day, 12 weeks) caused moderate nasal injury, and peribronchial lymphocytic inflammation accompanied by epithelial atrophy, denudation, and regeneration. Treatment with 400 mg/kg by oropharyngeal aspiration to bypass the nose caused foci of fibrohistiocytic proliferation with little or no inflammation at the junction of the terminal bronchiole and alveolar duct. Depending on the route and duration of exposure, diacetyl causes significant epithelial injury, peribronchial lymphocytic inflammation, or fibrohistiocytic lesions in the terminal bronchioles. Collectively these results indicate that clinically relevant diacetyl exposures result in a pattern of injury that replicates features of human OB.
HE3286, 17α-ethynyl-5-androstene-3β, 7β, 17β-triol, is a novel synthetic compound related to the endogenous sterol 5-androstene-3β, 7β, 17β-triol (β-AET), a metabolite of the abundant adrenal steroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). HE3286 has shown efficacy in clinical studies in impaired glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes, and in vivo models of types 1 and 2 diabetes, autoimmunity, and inflammation. Proteomic analysis of solid-phase HE3286-bound bead affinity experiments, using extracts from RAW 264.7 mouse macrophage cells, identified 26 binding partners. Network analysis revealed associations of these HE3286 target proteins with nodes in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways for type 2 diabetes, insulin, adipokine, and adipocyte signaling. Binding partners included low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (Lrp1), an endocytic receptor; mitogen activated protein kinases 1 and 3 (Mapk1, Mapk3), protein kinases involved in inflammation signaling pathways; ribosomal protein S6 kinase alpha-3 (Rsp6ka3), an intracellular regulatory protein; sirtuin-2 (Sirt2); and 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (Hsd17β4), a sterol metabolizing enzyme.
Previous research has shown that sigma receptors participate in the actions of cocaine in the body. This has led to investigations of the use of novel agents such as BD1008, BD1067 and YZ-011 as cocaine antagonists. In the present study, three novel analogs (UMB115, UMB116, UMB117), representing composites of these earlier compounds, were evaluated in receptor binding and behavioral studies. In the receptor binding studies, the compounds were shown to have high affinity for sigma receptors and much lower affinities for non-sigma sites. For the behavioral experiments, Swiss Webster mice were pre-treated with saline or one of the novel compounds (0.1-10 mg/kg), followed 15 min later by a convulsive (60 mg/kg), lethal (125 mg/kg), or locomotor stimulatory (10 mg/kg) dose of cocaine. The results showed that UMB115, UMB116 and UMB117 significantly (P<0.05) inhibited cocaine-induced convulsions when administered as a pre-treatment to cocaine. Cocaine-induced lethality was significantly attenuated by UMB116 (P<0.05), but not by UMB115 and UMB117. All three compounds significantly (P<0.05) altered the locomotor stimulatory effects of cocaine, with UMB115 and UMB116 exhibiting attenuating actions. Together, the studies suggest UMB116 as a novel cocaine antagonist.
Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that induces severe nephrotoxicity and acute renal failure. In the current project, we investigated the protective effects of tissue kallikrein (TK) protein administration (1 mug/h via osmotic minipumps) on kidney damage, apoptosis, and inflammation both during and after a 10-day regimen of gentamicin (80 mg/kg body weight/day sc) in Sprague-Dawley rats. TK infusion during gentamicin treatment significantly attenuated drug-induced renal dysfunction, cortical damage, and apoptosis. Moreover, TK reduced inflammatory cell accumulation in conjunction with diminished superoxide production and decreased expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1. The protective effects of TK were blocked by coinfusion of icatibant (1.3 mug/h), indicating a kinin B2 receptor-mediated signaling event. After cessation of gentamicin treatment, TK infusion for 2 weeks completely restored kidney histology and morphology comparable to that of saline-treated animals. Furthermore, TK reduced gentamicin-induced renal dysfunction and fibrosis as evidenced by decreased myofibroblast and collagen accumulation in the kidney. In vitro, gentamicin increased the number of apoptotic cells and caspase-3 activity, but decreased phosphorylation of the prosurvival kinase Akt, in immortalized rat proximal tubular cells; addition of TK and bradykinin prevented these effects. In conclusion, our findings indicate that kallikrein/kinin prevents and promotes recovery of gentamicin-induced renal injury by inhibiting apoptosis, inflammatory cell recruitment, and fibrotic lesions through suppression of oxidative stress and proinflammatory mediator expression in animals during and after gentamicin treatment.
The activation of both the inflammation-producing cells and the airway smooth muscle in asthma is believed to be a phenomenon dependent on the intracellular calcium. The activity of Na+ K+ ATPase and Ca2+ ATPase, enzymes responsible for regulating the intracellular calcium concentrations has been reported to be decreased in asthma. An increase in plasma lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), which is known to be a pro-inflammatory compound and has an inhibitory effect on the two ATPases has also been reported. Corticosteroids are potent antiinflammatory drugs very effective in the treatment of asthma. The effect of long-term (12 weeks) treatment with inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) and short-term (1 week) treatment with oral prednisolone on the activity of the two ATPases and intracellular calcium in leukocytes and plasma LPC levels was investigated. Both the treatments resulted in an improvement in lung function accompanied by an increase in the activities of the ATPases and a decrease in the intracellular calcium and LPC levels. It was concluded that increase in the activities of Na+ K+ ATPase and Ca2+ ATPase and a consequent lowering of intracellular calcium, and a lowering of plasma LPC may underlie the beneficial effect of corticosteroids in asthma.
Recently published guidelines suggest that, in view of cost concerns, low-osmolal contrast should be selectively used in patients at increased risk of experiencing a contrast-related complication during cardiac angiography. The suggested criteria include the presence of left main coronary disease. However, the presence of left main disease is not usually known prior to angiography. Contrast-related complications of cardiac angiography were therefore analyzed in a group of 111 clinically stable patients found to have left main coronary stenosis, to determine if use of low-osmolality contrast had any beneficial effect when compared to standard contrast. Data were gathered prospectively as part of a randomized controlled trial, and the subgroup of patients with left main disease was analyzed retrospectively. Complications were divided into minor, intermediate, and major categories. In the 58 patients who received high-osmolar contrast, there were 4 contrast-related minor reactions, 8 intermediate events requiring treatment, and 1 major adverse event. Among the 53 patients who received low-osmolar contrast, there were no minor reactions, 7 intermediate events requiring treatment, and no major adverse events. The only difference of borderline significance was in the incidence of minor reactions requiring no treatment (P = 0.05). Although small and therefore not definitive, this study suggests that 1) universal use of low-osmolar contrast agents would not be expected to eliminate the risk of contrast-related reactions to cardiac angiography; 2) the well-documented clinical differences between high- and low-osmolar contrast primarily involve mild reactions; and 3) standard high-osmolar contrast is reasonably safe in clinically stable patients with left main coronary stenosis. The results therefore are consistent with the notion that selective use of low-osmolar contrast only in unstable patients is safe and appropriate.
The acute oral toxicity of dibenzothiophene, a component of petroleum oils, was assessed in CD-1 mice. The estimated LD50 for a single oral dose in male mice was 470 mg/kg and was lowered to 335 mg/kg by prior induction of mixed-function oxidases. Abnormal behavior that ranged from a general sluggishness to full anesthesia developed within 2 hr of treatment and resolved within 24 hr in mice that survived. Gross lesions in mice that died included pulmonary congestion and edema, mild hydrothorax, intestinal hemorrhage, and mottled livers. The major histological lesions were severe centrilobular hepatic necrosis, necrosis of lymphocytes in thymic cortices, and degenerative changes in the walls of small arteries in the lung. All mortality occurred within 72 hr of treatment.
Doxorubicin, an anthracycline antibiotic, is widely used in the treatment of various solid tumors including breast cancer. However, its use is limited due to a variety of toxicities including cardiotoxicity. The present study aimed to evaluate the effect of tannic acid, a PARG/PARP inhibitor and an antioxidant, on doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in H9c2 embryonic rat heart myoblasts and its anti-cancer activity in MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells as well as in DMBA-induced mammary tumor animals. Doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity was assessed by measurement of heart weight, plasma LDH level and histopathology. Bcl-2, Bax, PARP-1 and p53 expression were examined by western blotting. Our results show that tannic acid prevents activation of PARP-1, reduces Bax and increases Bcl-2 expression in H9c2 cells, thus, preventing doxorubicin-induced cell death. Further, it reduces the cell viability of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, increases p53 expression in mammary tumors and shows maximum tumor volume reduction, suggesting that tannic acid potentiates the anti-cancer activity of doxorubicin. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report which shows that tannic acid ameliorates doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and potentiates its anti-cancer activity both in vitro (H9c2 and MDA-MB-231 cells) as well as in in vivo model of DMBA-induced mammary tumor animals.
We recently showed that when rats were administered the inhalation anesthetic halothane, a 58 kDa liver endoplasmic reticulum protein became covalently trifluoroacetylated by the trifluoroacetyl chloride metabolite of halothane. Although the 58 kDa protein showed 99% identity to that of the deduced amino acid sequence of a cDNA reported to correspond to phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C-alpha, it did not have phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C activity. It was concluded that the reported cDNA of phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C-alpha actually encoded for the 58 kDa endoplasmic reticulum protein of unknown function. Other researchers have come to the same conclusion and have shown that the 58 kDa protein has protein disulfide-isomerase and protease activities. We now report that patients with halothane hepatitis have serum antibodies that react with both purified trifluoroacetylated and native rat liver 58 kDa proteins. These results suggest that when patients are exposed to halothane a human liver orthologue of the rat liver trifluoroacetylated-58 kDa protein is formed. In certain patients, this protein may become immunogenic and lead to the formation of specific antibodies and or specific T-cells, which may react with both trifluoroacetylated and native 58 kDa proteins, and ultimately be responsible, at least in part, for the hepatitis caused by halothane.
The effects of three isomers (alpha, beta, gamma) of hexachlorocyclohexane on the acquisition and expression of kindled amygdaloid seizures were compared. Treatment with corn oil (vehicle) was compared with daily 5 mg/kg doses of the isomers for 15 days during kindling procedures. The results confirmed the proconvulsant action previously described for the gamma-HCH isomer (lindane). Alpha-HCH did not produce significant effects. Rats treated with beta-HCH exhibited delayed rates of kindling acquisition and less severe seizures. Exposure to beta-HCH (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg) daily produced a dose-dependent decrease in the rate of kindling acquisition, seizure severity and afterdischarge duration. The differences were still manifest during an additional 20 kindling trials after beta-HCH administration had stopped. It is concluded that significant differences exist among the isomers of HCH with respect to their effects on the mammalian central nervous system and their effect in the kindling model of epilepsy. The availability of stereoisomers possessing different actions on kindling should make these compounds useful for discriminating between non-specific changes induced in membranes or at binding sites and specific changes correlated with proconvulsant or anticonvulsant effects in the kindling model.
Oral BOF-A2 (Emitefur), a new derivative of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) containing both 1-ethoxymethyl-5-FU (EMFU), a masked form of 5-FU, and 3-cyano-2,6-dihydroxypyridine (CNDP), an inhibitor of 5-FU degradation, was administered to 71 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients in a multi-center phase II study. The patients were scheduled to receive at least 2 courses of treatment, each consisting of 200 mg twice daily for 2 weeks followed by a 2-week rest period. Out of 62 evaluable patients, 11 (18%) responded (8 of 44 adeno- and 3 of 15 squamous cell carcinomas). Thirty-four patients showed no change and 17 progressive disease. The incidences of grade > or = 2 hematologic toxicity were 5-8% for leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia. The incidences of non-hematologic toxicity of grade > or = 2, such as anorexia, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea, were close to 20% or lower.
The objective of this investigation was to characterize the acute and short- and long-term toxic potency of orally administered 1,2-dichloropropane (DCP). In the acute and short-term studies, male rats of 250-300 g were gavaged with 0, 100, 250, 500, or 1000 mg DCP/kg in corn oil once daily for up to 10 consecutive days. Although ingestion of DCP caused body weight loss and CNS depression, few other toxic effects were manifest 24 hr after a single dose of the chemical. Morphological changes were limited to liver centrilobular cells in 500 and 1000 mg/kg rats. Similarly, elevated activity of some serum enzymes occurred only at these two highest dose levels. Hepatic nonprotein sulfhydryl (NPS) levels were decreased and renal NPS levels increased at 24 hr. In the short-term study resistance developed to DCP hepatotoxicity over the 10 consecutive days of exposure, as reflected by progressively lower serum enzyme levels and by decreases in the severity and incidence of toxic hepatitis and periportal vacuolization. Nucleolar enlargement in hepatocytes, however, was observed at all dosage levels at 5 and 10 days. There were a number of manifestations of hemolytic anemia, including erythrophagocytosis in the liver, splenic hemosiderosis and hyperplasia of erythropoietic elements of the red pulp, renal tubular cell hemosiderosis, and hyperbilirubinemia. Urinalyses and histopathology revealed no evidence of nephrotoxicity. In the long-term study, male rats initially weighing 180-200 g were gavaged five times weekly for up to 13 weeks with 0, 100, 250, 500, or 750 mg DCP/kg. As over one-half the 750 mg/kg group died within 10 days, the survivors were sacrificed. Histopathological changes in the 750 mg/kg animals included mild hepatitis and splenic hemosiderosis, as well as adrenal medullary vacuolization and cortical lipidosis, testicular degeneration and a reduction in sperm, and increased number of degenerate spermatogonia in the epididymis in some members of the group. Similar testicular and epididymal degenerative change also were observed in some 500 mg/kg animals after 13 weeks of dosing. There was a progressive increase in the number of deaths in the 500 mg/kg group, such that more than 50% were dead by 13 weeks. No deaths occurred in the 100 or 250 mg/kg groups. The DCP dosage regimen also produced a dose-dependent decrease in body weight gain. DCP exhibited very limited hepatotoxic potential and no apparent nephrotoxic potential in the long-term study. Slight elevations in serum ornithine-carbamyltransferase activity, periportal vacuolization, and active fibroplasia in the liver were seen in the 500 mg/kg animals.
The yields of total and poly(A) RNA were examined in rabbit forebrains during an experimentally induced aluminum encephalopathy. Rabbits (35 day old) were injected intracranially with 13 mumole Al lactate and sacrificed 1, 3, 7, 10, or 12 days later. IRNA yields (total RNA minus transfer RNA) were not significantly altered during the encephalopathy. Poly(A) RNA yields, assayed by oligo(dT)-cellulose fractionation and by a [3H]poly(U) hybridization assay on IRNA, were increased significantly by the end of the asymptomatic stage of the encephalopathy (7 days post-Al injection). The increase in messenger RNA population may represent either a compensatory response to cell damage induced by aluminum or the accumulation of messenger RNA for proteins directly related to the expression of aluminum toxicity.
The strain means for haloperidol-induced catalepsy were determined in the 26 strain BXD recombinant inbred series. The ED50 values ranged from 0.55 mg/kg (strain 30) to 7.9 mg/kg (strain 2). Heritability for the catalepsy response was 0.78 and the number of effective loci was estimated to be four. The strain means were correlated with the strain distribution patterns for 1300 marker loci of known chromosomal location and polymorphic between the C57Bl/6J and DBA/2J strains. Six quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were identified at P < .01. Two of the six QTLs were confirmed in a sample of B6XD2 F2 animals (n = 144), phenotyped for haloperidol response and genotyped for microsatellites closely linked to the QTLs. The confirmed QTL on chromosome 4 is near the b locus. The confirmed QTL on chromosome 9 is closely linked to Drd2, the D2 dopamine receptor gene. One hundred of the F2 individuals were phenotyped for D2 dopamine receptor binding using the ligand [125I] epidepride as the ligand. Consistent with previous results, the nonresponsive F2 individuals showed modestly higher receptor binding in all brain regions examined: the nucleus accumbens core, the nucleus accumbens shell, the lateral caudate putamen, the dorsomedial caudate putamen, the substantia nigra zona compacta and the ventral tegmental area. The DBA/2J allele of the chromosome 9 QTL was associated with higher receptor binding in all brain areas except the ventral tegmental area. Overall, the data illustrate that either near or part of Drd2 is a QTL which has significant effects on both haloperidol response and D2 dopamine receptor binding. However, the data also illustrate that most of the genetic variance in either haloperidol response or D2 dopamine receptor binding is not associated with Drd2.
Recent epidemiological studies have found that androgen deficiency is associated with a higher incidence of cardiovascular disease in men. However, little is known about the mechanism underlying the cardioprotective effects of androgens. Here we show the inhibitory effects of testosterone on vascular calcification and a critical role of androgen receptor (AR)-dependent transactivation of growth arrest-specific gene 6 (Gas6), a key regulator of inorganic phosphate (P(i))-induced calcification of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). Testosterone and nonaromatizable androgen dihydrotestosterone inhibited P(i)-induced calcification of human aortic VSMC in a concentration-dependent manner. Androgen inhibited P(i)-induced VSMC apoptosis, an essential process for VSMC calcification. The effects on VSMC calcification were mediated by restoration of P(i)-induced down-regulation of Gas6 expression and a subsequent reduction of Akt phosphorylation. These effects of androgen were blocked by an AR antagonist, flutamide, but not by an estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI 182,780. We then explored the mechanistic role of the AR in Gas6 expression and found an abundant expression of AR predominantly in the nucleus of VSMC and two consensus ARE sequences in the Gas6 promoter region. Dihydrotestosterone stimulated Gas6 promoter activity, and this effect was abrogated by flutamide and by AR siRNA. Site-specific mutation revealed that the proximal ARE was essential for androgen-dependent transactivation of Gas6. Furthermore, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated ligand-dependent binding of the AR to the proximal ARE of Gas6. These results indicate that AR signaling directly regulates Gas6 transcription, which leads to inhibition of vascular calcification, and provides a mechanistic insight into the cardioprotective action of androgens.
Six patients with episodic cluster headache were investigated as to blood pressure, heart rate, cerebrospinal fluid pressure (Pcsf) and frontal vein pressure (Pvf) during five nitroglycerin (NG) provoked attacks and one spontaneous attack. In a seventh studied patient the NG failed to provoke an attack. The earlier reported decrease of systolic blood pressure and increase of diastolic blood pressure and heart rate after NG administration were also found in these patients. The "dynamite headache" was related to the start and duration of an increase of the cerebrospinal fluid pressure. There was no relationship between the start or the maximum pain of the cluster headache attack and changes in Pcsf or Pvf. On breathing oxygen during a cluster headache attack, there was a decrease of Pcsf but in some patients a temporary increase of Pvf was observed, which possibly indicates that oxygen simultaneously attains constriction of arteries and veins.
ACE2 appears to counterbalance the vasopressor effect of angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE) in the reninangiotensin system. We hypothesized that ACE2 polymorphisms could confer a high risk of hypertension and have an impact on the antihypertensive response to ACE inhibitors. The hypothesis was tested in two casecontrol studies and a clinical trial of 3,408 untreated hypertensive patients randomized to Atenolol, Hydrochlorothiazide, Captopril, or Nifedipine treatments for 4 weeks. ACE2 rs2106809 T allele was found to confer a 1.6-fold risk for hypertension in women (95% confidence interval (CI), 1.132.06), whereas when combined with the effect of the ACE DD genotype, the risk was 2.34-fold (95% CI, 1.754.85) in two independent samples. The adjusted diastolic blood pressure response to Captopril was 3.3 mm Hg lower in ACE2 T allele carriers than in CC genotype carriers (P=0.019) in women. We conclude that the ACE2 T allele confers a high risk for hypertension and reduced antihypertensive response to ACE inhibitors.
Enalapril treatment (20 mg every 12 hours) of 24 patients with essential hypertension and left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy established normal blood pressures after 8 weeks, and after 5 years, it had reduced LV mass index by 39% (from 148+/-34 to 90+/-16 g/m(2)) and had normalized LV structure and function and QT dispersion. Stepwise reduction of the enalapril dosage from 40 to 30, 20, 10, and 5 mg/d during the eighth year caused no significant change in blood pressure, LV structure, LV systolic function, or QT dispersion, which all likewise remained unaltered during an additional 2-year period of the 5-mg/d regimen. We conclude that for hypertensive patients in whom prolonged treatment with high doses of enalapril has normalized blood pressure, LV structure, LV function, and QT dispersion, the dose may be reduced as much as 8-fold without detriment to cardiovascular control. The use of smaller doses is evidently advantageous from the point of view of health costs.
We describe a nondysmorphic patient with developmental delay and autism spectrum disorder who has a missense mutation in the Jumonji AT-rich interactive domain 1C (JARID1C) gene. This child first presented at 30 months of age with stereotyped and repetitive behaviors, impairment in social reciprocity and in the use of multiple nonverbal behaviors, and developmental delay primarily in the language domain. A diagnosis of autism was made and subsequently confirmed at the current age of 47 months. Cytogenetic and fragile X studies were normal. Mutational analysis revealed a novel missense mutation in exon 16 of the JARID1C gene that results in an arginine to tryptophan substitution at amino acid 766 (R766W). Sequence alignment analysis with multiple available eukaryotic sequences including the homologous proteins of mouse and zebrafish demonstrated that the affected amino acid is conserved. JARID1C has not previously been implicated in autism susceptibility. Recent novel molecular evidence suggests that it is a histone demethylase specific for di- and trimethylated histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4) and functions as a transcriptional repressor by fostering REST-mediated neuronal gene regulation. The JARID1C-regulated genes SCN2A, CACNA1H, BDNF, and SLC18A1 have previously been associated with autism and cognitive dysfunction. This patient brings the total number of reported JARID1C mutations to 14. This presentation both extends the range of neurocognitive phenotypes attributable to mutations in this gene and illustrates the importance of molecular studies and DNA sequence analysis for accurate diagnosis of monogenic causes of autism.
The prophylactic value of parenterally administered bretylium tosylate against the onset of dysrhythmias after acute myocardial infarction has been assessed by a controlled trial in 101 male patients. Bretylium significantly reduced the incidence of supraventricular dysrhythmias but was without significant effect on the incidence of ventricular dysrhythmias. The only serious side-effect of the drug was hypotension which occurred in one-third of the patients. It is concluded that prophylactic treatment of patients suffering from uncomplicated myocardial infarction with parenteral bretylium tosylate probably does not confer sufficient clinical benefit to warrant its recommendation for preventative use in this disease.
A 62-year-old man presented with diminished consciousness, hypotension, hypoglycaemia and agitation. He had undergone heart surgery 1.5 weeks earlier. Due to a stroke as a postoperative complication, antihypertensive medication had been added. His lithium medication had been interrupted only on the first postoperative day. The presenting complaints were due to delirium as a result of lithium intoxication. The delirium faded away after interruption of the lithium medication and treatment with haloperidol and oxazepam. The patient and his family were informed as to the nature of the delirium and the precautions to be taken in case of any future disease or operation. Lithium should be discontinued preoperatively in all patients. If necessary, alternative psychiatric medication must be prescribed. After restarting lithium, the serum levels of lithium must be monitored.
A 62-year-old man was admitted to the ophthalmologic department for operation of retinal detachment. Mannitol and acetazolamide were prescribed to reduce intraocular pressure. Seven days after operation, gradual onset of drowsy consciousness occurred. The laboratory findings of hypertonic hyponatremia (109 mEq/l), hyperosmolality (341 mosm/kg), metabolic acidosis (pH: 7.17) and acute renal failure (serum creatinine: 8.2 mg/dl) dictated a diagnosis of mannitol-induced acute kidney injury. First, 3% saline was given, but consciousness kept deteriorated with worsened dyspnea and metabolic acidosis. Hemodialysis was then performed subsequently and his consciousness and renal function completely recovered. A special emphasis on the treatment of hypertonic hyponatremia was given.
Haloperidol (HAL) is a widely used neuroleptic drug for the treatment of acute and chronic psychosis. Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a complex hyperkinetic syndrome consisting of choreiform and athetoid movements, which persists for months or years after withdrawal. Increased levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive products are found in the cerebrospinal fluid and plasma of patients treated with neuroleptics, especially those with movement disorders. Alpha lipoic acid (ALA), a natural metabolic antioxidant, is effective in both prevention and treatment of numerous types of neurological disorders. It is proposed to study the effect of ALA on TD induced by HAL and to correlate it with oxidative stress by studying total antioxidant status and lipid peroxidation (LP). HAL (1 mg/kg/i.p.) was used to induce vacuous chewing movements in rats. ALA was suspended in 0.2% carboxy methyl cellulose at a dose of 25, 50 and 100 mg/kg and was administered orally by oral gavage 1 h before HAL on 21st day of treatment. ALA supplementation significantly decreased HAL-induced TD at a dose of 100 mg/kg and catalepsy dose dependently. ALA improved TD and catalepsy by decreasing HAL-induced LP. ALA and its metabolite dihydro lipoic acid protect against HAL-induced TD and catalepsy by scavenging reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species.
Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) and sustained inspiratory insufflations (SI) during acute lung injury (ALI) are suggested to improve oxygenation and respiratory mechanics. We aimed to investigate the hemodynamic effects of PEEP with and without alveolar recruiting maneuver in a mild ALI model induced by inhalation of hydrochloric acid.
Thirty-two pigs were randomly allocated into four groups (Control-PEEP, Control-SI, ALI-PEEP and ALI-SI). ALI was induced by intratracheal instillation of hydrochloric acid. PEEP values were progressively increased and decreased from 5, 10, 15 and 20 cmH2O in all groups. Three SIs maneuvers of 30 cmH2O for 20 s were applied to the assignable groups between each PEEP level. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), global hemodynamics, oxygenation indexes and gastric tonometry were measured 5 min after the maneuvers had been concluded and at each established value of PEEP (5, 10, 15 and 20 cmH2O).
The cardiac index, ejection fraction and end-diastolic volume of right ventricle were significantly (P < 0.001) decreased with PEEP in both Control and ALI groups. Left ventricle echocardiography showed a significant decrease in end-diastolic volume at 20 cmH2O of PEEP (P < 0.001). SIs did not exert any significant hemodynamic effects either early (after 5 min) or late (after 3 h).
In a mild ALI model induced by inhalation of hydrochloric acid, significant hemodynamic impairment characterized by cardiac function deterioration occurred during PEEP increment, but SI, probably due to low applied values (30 cmH2O), did not exert further negative hemodynamic effects. PEEP should be used cautiously in ALI caused by acid gastric content inhalation.
