The expression of cytochrome P450 is regulated by both endogenous factors and xenobiotics including chemical drugs and natural medicines. Induction on cytochrome P450 can reduce the therapeutic efficacy from drugs inactivated by this enzyme system, but may increase the efficacy or lead to intoxication for prodrugs. Shexiang Baoxin Pill (SBP) is a traditional Chinese medicine widely used for the treatment of angina pectoris and myocardial infarction in China and other oriental countries. To assess the potential of SBP to alter the activity and expression of cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) extensively involved in drug metabolism, we investigated the enzyme-inducing effects of SBP in HepG2 cells and in rats. The results showed that treatment with SBP increased the enzyme activity, mRNA levels and protein expression of CYP3A4 in a concentration-dependent manner in HepG2 cells. Moreover, treatment with SBP enhanced the activities and mRNA expressions of CYP3A1 and CYP3A2 ex vivo in rats. Furthermore, we utilized HepG2 cell line to identify individual components in SBP as potential inducers of CYP3A4. It was found that bufalin, cinobufagin, and resibufogenin were novel CYP3A4 inducers. Among them, bufalin and cinobufagin significantly promoted the CYP3A4 enzyme activity, mRNA and protein levels, with the maximal induction challenging or exceeding that of the induction by rifampicin, indicating that they might play a critical role in CYP3A4 enzyme-inducing effects of SBP. In addition, the metabolic studies with specific inhibitors of CYP isoforms suggested that the three CYP3A4 inducers in SBP are also the substrates for the enzyme. Overall, our results show that SBP contains constituents that can potently induce CYP3A and suggest that this traditional Chinese medicine should be examined clinically for potential drug metabolic interactions.
Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is a heterogeneous disease in its clinical course and severity. Previous studies have suggested an association between the clinical severity of pHPT and the genotypes of vitamin D receptor, oestrogen receptors and PTH molecules. The Ca-sensing receptor (CaR) is activated by an extracellular calcium ion and controls PTH secretion, and thus polymorphisms of CaR might be associated with the magnitude of PTH secretion and the clinical severity of pHPT. In this study, we examined the relationship between CaR polymorphisms and biochemical markers in pHPT patients.
We analysed 105 Japanese pHPT patients (85 females and 20 males; mean age 55.6 +/- 14.0 years). We determined the CaR genotypes of G990R and intron 5 polymorphisms with genomic DNA extracted from peripheral lymphocytes. The intron 5 polymorphism was defined as T/T, T/C and C/C.
In the G990R polymorphism, serum levels of both intact PTH and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were significantly higher and the serum level of phosphorus was significantly lower in the RR group than in the GG group. In the intron 5 polymorphism, the T/T group showed significantly lower serum levels of intact PTH and Ca. Furthermore, patients with both the codon 990 RR and the intron 5 C allele (the RRC(+) group) had significantly higher serum levels of intact PTH and ALP than did the other patients.
The present study is the first to show that CaR polymorphisms of G990R and intron 5 were closely associated with the magnitude of PTH secretion and/or PTH degradation as well as the clinical severity in pHPT patients.
A 28-year-old Japanese woman with hereditary complement (C9) deficiency and dermatomyositis is reported. She had a 3-year history of facial erythema and a 1-month history of progressive muscle weakness. Clinical and laboratory findings were suggestive of dermatomyositis; muscle biopsy confirmed an inflammatory myopathy. An unexpected finding, however, was the low titre of serum haemolytic complement (CH50). Treatment with prednisolone resulted in marked clinical improvement but did not affect the CH50 titre. Further investigation revealed a selective and total absence of the ninth complement component (C9), with direct DNA sequence analysis revealing a non-sense mutation at Arg95 of the C9 gene. This case demonstrates that the muscle lesions of dermatomyositis can occur in the presence of a complement defect that would prevent the formation of the C5b-9 membrane attack complex.
This is a case report of a 39-year-old patient who developed supraventricular tachycardia secondary to a ritodrine-glycopyrrolate interaction. The cardiovascular effects of ritodrine as well as the possible mechanism for this interaction are discussed. Suggested treatment for ritodrine-induced tachycardia in the parturient are presented.
The two classes of leukotriene modifiers work by inhibiting different portions of the same pathway. We hypothesized that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes associated with response to montelukast (a cys-leukotriene receptor antagonist) would also be associated with response to zileuton (a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor). We genotyped 26 SNPs that had previously been interrogated for association with montelukast response in five candidate genes (ABCC1, ALOX5, CYSLTR1, LTA4H, LTC4S) in a population of 577 asthmatics who participated in a clinical trial comparing intermittent and continuous-release zileuton to placebo. After adjusting for age and sex, six SNPs in three genes were associated with longitudinal forced expiratory volume at 1 s in response to zileuton (P values 0.005-0.05). After adjusting for age and sex, six SNPs in three genes were associated with longitudinal forced expiratory volume at 1 s in response to zileuton (P values 0.005-0.05), including two SNPs (ALOX5 rs2115819 and ABCC1 rs119774) that we had previously reported as associated with FEV1 response to montelukast. Thus, the lung function response to zileuton is modulated by several of the loci that also influence montelukast response.
A novel tertiary amine series of potent muscarinic M(3) receptor antagonists are described that exhibit potential as inhaled long-acting bronchodilators for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Geminal dimethyl functionality present in this series of compounds confers very long dissociative half-life (slow off-rate) from the M(3) receptor that mediates very long-lasting smooth muscle relaxation in guinea pig tracheal strips. Optimization of pharmacokinetic properties was achieved by combining rapid oxidative clearance with targeted introduction of a phenolic moiety to secure rapid glucuronidation. Together, these attributes minimize systemic exposure following inhalation, mitigate potential drug-drug interactions, and reduce systemically mediated adverse events. Compound 47 (PF-3635659) is identified as a Phase II clinical candidate from this series with in vivo duration of action studies confirming its potential for once-daily use in humans.
The objective was to elicit the prescribing practises of Old Age Psychiatrists in the UK in the treatment of psychotic and behavioural symptoms in patients with dementia. A structured questionnaire was sent to all Old Age Psychiatrists in the United Kingdom. Respondents were questioned regarding their use of both typical and atypical antipsychotics and the most common dosages prescribed. Information was sought about usage of depot medication and dosages; use of alternative or adjunctive medications to antipsychotics and use of parenteral medication for acute management of agitation. The most commonly used antipsychotic to treat psychotic symptoms was haloperidol, and thioridazine to treat behavioural symptoms. A wide range of dosages was used. Use of depot medication was common, with flupenthixol decanoate being the most frequently used. Most respondents use at least one of the atypical antipsychotics, risperidone being most popular. Use of other psychotropic medication used as alternatives to antipsychotics or adjunctives in the treatment of behavioural symptoms was common, the most popular being trazodone. Of the respondents, 62.7% use parenteral medication for the acute management of agitation, the most popular drug being haloperidol. The typical antipsychotics are still the most commonly used despite the reputed better safety profile of the atypicals. There was wide variation in the dosages prescribed. Use of psychotropics other than phenothiazines was common. More research is needed into the use of psychotropic medication for dementia and there is need for consensus in this area. Forming an expert group may be the best way to create uniformity of prescription.
The effects produced by IP administration of these three agents in the rat were compared because of in vitro evidence that each modulates the picrotoxinin site of the GABAA receptor. For each, hypothermia had the lowest threshold and convulsions the next, with hypophagia produced only by the highest dose of either Ro 5-4864 or lindane. Convulsant effects had a shorter latency and a shorter duration than did hypothermia. Hypophagia, when present, lasted the longest. Myoclonus was the seizure type with the lowest threshold for all three agents. At the highest dose, lindane produced a high incidence of maximal clonic (hopping) seizures, whereas Ro 5-4864 and picrotoxin produced a high incidence of maximal tonic seizures instead. On a mole/kg basis, picrotoxin was 40 times more effective than the other two agents and produced seizures which started later, peaked later, and persisted longest. Ro 5-4864 and lindane were effective at equimolar concentrations and, in combination, produced effects which suggested either dose-addition or synergism. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that the toxic effects of both Ro 5-4864 and lindane may be attributable, at least in part, to an action at a subpopulation of GABAA receptors.
Continuous dopaminergic stimulation (CDS) is an important drug development strategy in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Rotigotine is a non-ergoline D(3)/D(2)/D(1) dopamine receptor agonist for treating PD. As a new treatment option for CDS, rotigotine-loaded microspheres (RoMS), long-acting sustained-release microspheres with poly(lactide-co-glycolide) as drug carrier, are now being evaluated in clinical trial. In the present study, the subchronic toxicity in Cynomolgus monkeys has been characterized via intramuscular administration with RoMS at 0, 10, 40 and 160 mg/kg, weekly for 3 months with a 1-month recovery period. The NOAEL was 10 mg/kg/week. One male at 160 mg/kg died from an extensive pulmonary embolism. The major toxicological effects were associated with dopamine agonist-related pharmacodynamic properties of rotigotine (e.g., hyperactivity and stereotype, decreased serum prolactin level) and foreign body removal reaction induced by poly(lactide-co-glycolide) and carboxymethycellulose sodium (e.g., increased mononuclear cells and neutrophils, thymus atrophy and vacuolar degeneration of adrenal cortex, foreign body granuloma with foam cells accumulation at injection sites and foam cells accumulation in spleen and multiple lymph sinuses). At the end of recovery period, above findings recovered to a normal level or to a certain degree except vacuolar degeneration of adrenal gland. RoMS has exhibited high safety on monkeys.
Interactions between the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor flavopiridol and the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib were examined in Bcr/Abl(+) human leukemia cells. Coexposure of K562 or LAMA84 cells to subtoxic concentration of flavopiridol (150-200 nM) and bortezomib (5-8 nM) resulted in a synergistic increase in mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis. These events were associated with a marked diminution in nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)/DNA binding activity; enhanced phosphorylation of SEK1/MKK4 (stress-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-related kinase 1/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK); down-regulation of Bcr/Abl; and a marked reduction in signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5 activity. In imatinib mesylate-resistant K562 cells displaying increased Bcr/Abl expression, bortezomib/flavopiridol treatment markedly increased apoptosis in association with down-regulation of Bcr/Abl and BclxL, and diminished phosphorylation of Lyn, Hck, CrkL, and Akt. Parallel studies were performed in imatinib mesylate-resistant LAMA84 cells exhibiting reduced expression of Bcr/Abl but a marked increase in expression/activation of Lyn and Hck. Flavopiridol/bortezomib effectively induced apoptosis in these cells in association with Lyn and Hck inactivation. The capacity of flavopiridol to promote bortezomib-mediated Bcr/Abl down-regulation and apoptosis was mimicked by the positive transcription elongation factor-b (P-TEFb) inhibitor DRB (5,6-dichloro 1-beta-d-ribofuranosylbenzinida-sole). Finally, the bortezomib/flavopiridol regimen also potently induced apoptosis in Bcr/Abl(-) human leukemia cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that a strategy combining flavopiridol and bortezomib warrants further examination in chronic myelogenous leukemia and related hematologic malignancies.
Cisplatin is one of the most potent chemotherapeutic antitumor drugs used in the treatment of a wide range of solid tumors. Its primary dose-limiting side effect is nephrotoxicity. The organic anion transporter 5 (Oat5) is exclusively localized in the kidney. Oat5 urinary excretion was recently proposed as a potential early biomarker of acute kidney injury (AKI). The aim of this study was to evaluate Oat5 renal expression and its urinary excretion in rats exposed to different doses of cisplatin, in comparison with traditional markers of renal injury, like renal histology, creatinine and urea plasma levels, creatinine clearance, protein and glucose urinary levels and urinary alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity. Male Wistar rats were treated with a single injection of cisplatin at different doses of 1, 2, 5 and 10 mg/kg b.w., i.p. (Cis1, Cis2, Cis5 and Cis10, n = 4, respectively) and experiments were carried out 48 h after cisplatin administration. The renal expression of Oat5 was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Oat5 abundance, AP activity, creatinine, glucose and proteins were assayed in urine. Creatinine clearance and creatinine and urea plasma levels were also evaluated. In this experimental model, plasma urea and creatinine levels, creatinine clearance, AP urinary activity and protein and glucose urinary levels were significantly modified only at the highest cisplatin dose of 10 mg/kg b.w., i.p., as compared to control rats. In contrast, Oat5 urinary abundance was increased in a dose-related manner after the administration of cisplatin. Oat5 urinary abundance was elevated at a dose as low as 1 mg/kg b.w., i.p., implying renal perturbation, when no modifications of traditional markers of renal injury are yet observed. Oat5 renal expression was decreased in a dose-related manner, both in homogenates and apical membranes from cisplatin-treated kidneys. The increase in urinary Oat5 excretion might explain the decrease in the amount of Oat5 molecules in the renal tubule cells. Hence, the preclinical animal results showed in this work propose that Oat5 urinary excretion might potentially serve as a non-invasive early biomarker of cisplatin-induced AKI.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGF), and in particular FGF8, have been strongly implicated in prostate carcinogenesis. This study investigated the expression of Sef, a key inhibitory regulator of FGF signalling, in prostate cancer. In a panel of cell lines, hSef was detected in both androgen-dependent and independent cells but was significantly reduced in highly metastatic derivative clones. hSef expression was not influenced by androgenic stimulation. Forced downregulation of hSef by siRNA increased FGF8b induced cell migration (P=0.02) and invasion (P=0.007). Reduced hSef levels also enhanced FGF8b stimulated expression of MMP9 (P=0.005). mRNA in situ hybridization revealed hSef expression in 80% (8/10) of benign biopsies but in only 69% (23/33) of Gleason sum 4-7 and 35% (10/28) of Gleason sum 8-10 cancer biopsies (P=0.004). Quantitative PCR of microdissected glands confirmed this trend (P=0.001). hSef was expressed in 69% (27/39) of non-metastatic tumours but in only 18% (2/11) of metastatic tumours (P=0.004, n=50). hSef expression was next correlated with earlier data on FGF8b expression in a subgroup of cancers. In this cohort, 86% (19/22) of high-grade cancers expressed FGF8 but only 31% (7/22) expressed hSef. Positive FGF8 expression but a loss of hSef was observed in 88% (7/8) of metastatic tumours. In contrast, metastasis was evident in only 10% (1/10) of tumours, which co-expressed both FGF8 and hSef (P<0.001). These results suggest evidence that hSef is downregulated in advanced prostate cancer and might facilitate an enhanced tumorigenic response to FGFs. Further research into the role of hSef in cancer cell signalling and the mechanism of its downregulation may contribute to more effective targeting of growth factors in prostate cancer.
Gene expression analysis has been established as a tool for the characterization of genotoxic mechanisms of chemical mutagens. It has been suggested that expression analysis is capable of distinguishing compounds that cause DNA damage from those that interfere with mitotic spindle function. Formaldehyde (FA) is known to be a DNA-reactive substance which mainly induces chromosomal damage in cultured mammalian cells. However, there has been concern that FA might also induce leukemia-specific aneuploidies, although recent cytogenetic studies excluded a relevant aneugenic potential of FA. We now investigated whether gene expression profiling can be used as a molecular tool to further characterize FA's genotoxic mode of action and to differentiate between clastogenic and aneugenic activity. TK6 cells were exposed to FA for 4 and 24 h, and changes in gene expression were analyzed using a whole-genome human microarray. Results were compared to the expression profiles of two DNA-damaging clastogens (methyl methanesulfonate and ethyl methanesulfonate) and two aneugens (colcemid and vincristine). The genotoxic activity of FA, MMS and EMS under these conditions was confirmed by comet assay experiments. The gene expression profiles indicated that clastogens and aneugens induce discriminable gene expression patterns. Exposure of TK6 cells to FA led to a discrete gene expression pattern, and all toxicogenomics analyses revealed a closer relationship of FA with clastogens than with aneugens.
Thalidomide is an immunomodulatory agent with demonstrated activity in multiple myeloma, mantle cell lymphoma and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. Its activity is believed to be due modulation of the tumour milieu, including downregulation of angiogenesis and inflammatory cytokines. Between July 2001 and April 2004, 24 patients with relapsed/refractory indolent lymphomas received thalidomide 200 mg daily with escalation by 100 mg daily every 1-2 weeks as tolerated, up to a maximum of 800 mg daily. Patients had received a median of 2 (range, 1-4) prior regimens. Of 24 evaluable patients, two achieved a complete remission and one achieved a partial remission for an overall response rate of 12.5% (95% confidence interval: 2.6-32.4%). Eleven patients progressed during therapy. Grade 3-4 adverse effects included myelosuppression, fatigue, somnolence/depressed mood, neuropathy and dyspnea. Of concern was the occurrence of four thromboembolic events. Our results failed to demonstrate an important response rate to single agent thalidomide in indolent lymphomas and contrast with the higher activity level reported with the second generation immunomodulatory agent, lenalidomide.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), fed for 30 weeks to rainbow trout after initiation with the hepatocarcinogen aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), produced a dose-dependent enhancement of carcinogenesis as measured by increased tumor incidence, multiplicity and size. Significant enhancement was observed at 222 p.p.m., which corresponds to a daily dosage one-half that previously administered to humans in clinical trials. DHEA was also capable of acting as a complete carcinogen in this model, producing liver tumors at doses as low as 222-444 p.p.m. Tumors isolated from trout treated with DHEA alone contained mutations in Ki-ras, primarily codon 12[1] G-->A transitions, providing the first suggestive evidence that DHEA could be a genotoxic carcinogen. The carcinogenicity of DHEA in trout is independent of peroxisome proliferation, as measurements of peroxisomal beta-oxidation and catalase activity support previous observations that trout, like humans, are weak responders to peroxisome proliferators.
We present a 31-year-old female patient with primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the CNS after immunosuppressive therapy. Colitis ulcerosa had been diagnosed 2 years previously. Prophylactic therapy with azathioprine over 9 months was stopped after the development of listeria meningitis which was treated successfully with antibiotics. At this time native CCT was normal. Three months later the patient developed an epileptic seizure and multiple cerebral lesions were detected in CCT and MRI. Although antibiotic therapy was started, the cerebral lesions showed no regression. Stereotactic biopsy revealed immunochemical and histologic high-grade malignant B cell lymphoma. The risk of primary CNS lymphoma under azathioprine treatment for an autoimmune disease with a possible congenital immunodeficiency is presented and the literature is reviewed.
A randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study was conducted comparing the efficacy and safety of alclometasone dipropionate cream 0.05% and clobetasone butyrate cream 0.05% in the treatment of atopic dermatitis in 43 children. The medications were applied to study areas as a thin layer of cream twice daily for 2 weeks. Efficacy was assessed by evaluation of three disease signs (erythema, induration, and pruritus) and by mean of a physician's global evaluation following treatment. Safety was evaluated through patient-reported and clinically observed adverse experiences. Both treatments were effective. At the end of the trial, average reduction in disease signs was 85% for alclometasone dipropionate-treated patients and 86% in the clobetasone butyrate-treated group. In the global evaluation, the physician rated symptoms as cleared in 9 of 22 alclometasone dipropionate-treated patients and in 10 of 21 clobetasone butyrate-treated patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects are associated with the oral ingestion of 8-methoxsalen (8-MOP), including the liquid and crystalline formulations.
The objective of this study was to determine whether the gastrointestinal symptoms associated with 8-MOP could be decreased by altering the route of administration.
In an open pilot study, 8-MOP rectal suppositories were given to six patients with psoriasis vulgaris who had significant nausea or abdominal pain with the oral liquid form of the drug.
On a scale of 0 to 5, this group of patients reported a mean score of 4.4 for nausea, 0.3 for vomiting, 2.1 for abdominal pain, and 1.3 for headaches with oral 8-MOP. With the suppository form, the mean scores were 0 for nausea, 0 for vomiting, 0 for abdominal pain, and 0 for headaches. These latter values represent scores for the entire treatment period. Clinical severity scores of psoriasis improved from a mean of 6.5 (maximum possible score = 9) at the start of the trial to a mean of 1 at its conclusion. Plasma 8-MOP levels of more than 100 ng/ml were observed in all patients who received the suppositories; in only one patient were the 8-MOP plasma levels significantly higher with the oral form than with the rectal form.
Rectal suppositories of 8-MOP were associated with significantly fewer gastrointestinal side effects than the oral form of the drug; this was accomplished without compromising clinical efficacy.
Cb2, the gene encoding the peripheral cannabinoid receptor, is located in a common virus integration site and is overex-pressed in retrovirally induced murine myeloid leukemias. Here we show that this G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) is also aberrantly expressed in a high percentage of human acute myeloid leukemias. We investigated the mechanism of transformation by Cb2 and demonstrate that aberrant expression of this receptor on hematopoietic precursor cells results in distinct effects depending on the ligand used. Cb2-expressing myeloid precursors migrate upon stimulation by the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol and are blocked in neutrophilic differentiation upon exposure to another ligand, CP55940. Both effects depend on the activation of G(alphai) proteins and require the mitogen-induced extracellular kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK/ERK) pathway. Down-regulation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels upon G(alphai) activation is important for migration induction but is irrelevant for the maturation arrest. Moreover, the highly conserved G protein-interacting DRY motif, present in the second intracellular loop of GPCRs, is critical for migration but unimportant for the differentiation block. This suggests that the Cb2-mediated differentiation block requires interaction of G(alphai) proteins with other currently unknown motifs. This indicates a unique mechanism by which a transforming GPCR, in a ligand-dependent manner, causes 2 distinct oncogenic effects: altered migration and block of neutrophilic development.
The antiarrhythmic effect of PGE2 as compared with the adrenergic beta-receptor blocking substance propranolol and the unspecific antiarrhythmic agent ajmaline was examanined on catecholamine-induced arrhythmias of the guinea-pig after preliminary sensibilisation by means of chloroform. Prophylactic administration of the tested substances resulted in a decrease in severity of arrhythmia by 91% after propranolol, by 37% after PGE2 and by 34% after ajmaline. Onset and duration of the arrhythmia were affected only to a negligible degree. The possible mode of action is still under discussion.
In utero exposure to valproic acid (VPA) during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of neural tube defects (NTDs). Although the mechanism by which VPA mediates these effects is unknown, VPA-initiated changes in embryonic protein levels have been implicated. The objectives of this study were to investigate the effect of in utero VPA exposure on embryonic protein levels of p53, NF-kappaB, Pim-1, c-Myb, Bax, and Bcl-2 in the CD-1 mouse. We also evaluated the protective effects of folic acid and pantothenic acid on VPA-induced NTDs and VPA-induced embryonic protein changes in this model. Pregnant CD-1 mice were administered a teratogenic dose of VPA prior to neural tube closure and embryonic protein levels were analyzed. In our study, VPA (400 mg/kg)-induced NTDs (24%) and VPA-exposed embryos with an NTD showed a 2-fold increase in p53, and 4-fold decreases in NF-kappaB, Pim-1, and c-Myb protein levels compared to their phenotypically normal littermates (P<0.05). Additionally, VPA increased the ratio of embryonic Bax/Bcl-2 protein levels (P<0.05). Pretreatment of pregnant dams with either folic acid or pantothenic acid prior to VPA significantly protected against VPA-induced NTDs (P<0.05). Folic acid also reduced VPA-induced alterations in p53, NF-kappaB, Pim-1, c-Myb, and Bax/Bcl-2 protein levels, while pantothenic acid prevented VPA-induced alterations in NF-kappaB, Pim-1, and c-Myb. We hypothesize that folic acid and pantothenic acid protect CD-1 embryos from VPA-induced NTDs by independent, but not mutually exclusive mechanisms, both of which may be mediated by the prevention of VPA-induced alterations in proteins involved in neurulation.
The demands of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) change with experience. This report contains two studies designed to examine N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor contributions to the executive components of WCST performance. These aspects of WCST performance figure more prominently in the initial completion of this task than in subsequent task repetitions in healthy populations.
In the first study, healthy subjects (n = 15) completed the WCST on two occasions separated by 1 week. In the second study, healthy subjects (n = 22) completed two test days spaced by approximately 1 week, during which, they completed the WCST and other assessments after administration of the NMDA antagonist ketamine (intravenous bolus 0.26 mg/kg followed by infusion of 0.65 mg/kg/hour) or matched placebo.
In the first study, subjects reduced the number of total and perseverative errors with a single repetition of the WCST. In the second study, ketamine significantly increased the number of total errors and the number and percent of perseverative errors on the first, but not the second test day. Similarly, it reduced the number of category criteria met on the first, but not second test day. Ketamine also increased distractibility, impaired recall, produced psychosis, altered perception, and had effects resembling the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. However, only WCST performance showed order dependency.
This order dependency further implicates NMDA receptors in executive cognitive functions associated with the frontal cortex.
This is a prospective study to measure the inferior vena caval pressure of 20 patients in different positions and different states of blood pressure.
Because the inferior vena caval pressure could affect the vertebral venous pressure, which in turn may influence blood loss during lumbar spinal surgery, this study was designed to provide the quantitative data necessary to stress the importance of patient positioning and to assess the effect of controlled hypotension on inferior vena caval pressure.
Positioning patients with a pendulous abdomen and controlled hypotension has been practiced widely during lumbar spinal surgery. It is generally believed that the former will help reduce vertebral venous engorgement and the latter will produce a bloodless surgical wound. However, there have been no complete studies in which quantitative changes of inferior vena caval pressure resulting from different positions was examined. In addition, it would be interesting to know what happens to inferior vena caval pressure during induced hypotension. Could there be an adverse effect on the inferior vena caval pressure during the hypotensive state?
An intravenous catheter was introduced into the inferior vena cava in each of 20 patients undergoing spinal surgery. In each patient, the inferior vena caval pressure was measured when the patient was supine, prone on a conventional pad, and prone on a Relton-Hall frame. It was followed by isoflurane-induced hypotension with reduction of mean arterial pressure by 20 mm Hg.
In this series, the inferior vena caval pressure ranged from 8.2 to 23.4 mm Hg (with a mean of 15.3 mm Hg) when patients were positioned prone on a conventional pad. However, when they were subsequently positioned prone on a Relton-Hall frame, the inferior vena caval pressure decreased dramatically to a range of 4.6 to 13.6 mm Hg (with a mean of 8.2 mm Hg). In each patient the measured inferior vena caval pressure when positioned prone on a conventional pad was 1.5 times greater than that measured with the patient positioned on a Relton-Hall frame. There was a statistically significant difference between these two positions (F = 75.996; P < 0.05). The patients' mean arterial pressure ranged from 92 to 105 mm Hg before induced hypotension. During this time, the inferior vena caval pressure ranged from 4.1 to 13.1 mm Hg (mean, 8.2 mm Hg). During the hypotensive state, the patients' inferior vena caval pressure was found to range from 4.2 to 13.6 mm Hg (mean, 8.1 mm Hg). In each patient the hypotensive interior vena caval pressure may be slightly higher or lower than the baseline pressure. However, the variation never exceeded 1.7 mm Hg. Statistically, there was no significant difference between these two periods (t = 0.956; P > 0.05).
A device allowing the patient's abdominaL viscera to hang freely while the patient is in a prone position significantly reduces their inferior vena caval pressure. The patients also has a constant inferior vena caval pressure during isoflurane-induced hypotension.
Evaluate the effect of fenofibrate, bezafibrate, and rosiglitazone on nonalcoholic fatty pancreatic disease and islet peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha) and PPAR-beta immunostain in mice fed high-fat high-sucrose (HFHS) diet.
Two-month-old male mice were fed standard chow (n = 10) or HFHS chow (n = 40) for 6 weeks. Afterward, HFHS mice were grouped by treatment: untreated HFHS and HFHS treated with rosiglitazone (HFHS-Ro), fenofibrate (HFHS-Fe), or bezafibrate (HFHS-Bz). Medications were administered for 5 weeks. After treatment, the pancreas was removed and analyzed by morphometry, stereology, and immunohistochemistry.
The HFHS-fed mice showed altered fasting glucose (+33%) and insulin (+138%); increased body (+20%) and pancreas (+28%) masses, pancreatic fat (+700%), islet hypertrophy (+38%); and decreased GLUT2 immunostain (-60%). Rosiglitazone reduced fasting glucose and insulin but induced weight gain. Fibrates impeded weight gain, but only bezafibrate prevented islet hypertrophy. The GLUT2 stain was improved in all treatments, and there were no alterations in PPAR-alpha. There were morphological signs of pancreatitis with fenofibrate, although there were no alterations in amylase and lipase. Rosiglitazone exacerbated pancreatic fat infiltration (+75% vs HFHS group), and bezafibrate increased PPAR-beta expression in pancreatic islets.
Rosiglitazone is shown for the first time to exacerbate pancreatic fat infiltration; therefore, precaution has to be taken when rosiglitazone is prescribed to obese patients.
Little is known about the possible role that smoking crack cocaine has on the incidence of HIV infection. Given the increasing use of crack cocaine, we sought to examine whether use of this illicit drug has become a risk factor for HIV infection.
We included data from people participating in the Vancouver Injection Drug Users Study who reported injecting illicit drugs at least once in the month before enrolment, lived in the greater Vancouver area, were HIV-negative at enrolment and completed at least 1 follow-up study visit. To determine whether the risk of HIV seroconversion among daily smokers of crack cocaine changed over time, we used Cox proportional hazards regression and divided the study into 3 periods: May 1, 1996-Nov. 30, 1999 (period 1), Dec. 1, 1999-Nov. 30, 2002 (period 2), and Dec. 1, 2002-Dec. 30, 2005 (period 3).
Overall, 1048 eligible injection drug users were included in our study. Of these, 137 acquired HIV infection during follow-up. The mean proportion of participants who reported daily smoking of crack cocaine increased from 11.6% in period 1 to 39.7% in period 3. After adjusting for potential confounders, we found that the risk of HIV seroconversion among participants who were daily smokers of crack cocaine increased over time (period 1: hazard ratio [HR] 1.03, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.57-1.85; period 2: HR 1.68, 95% CI 1.01-2.80; and period 3: HR 2.74, 95% CI 1.06-7.11).
Smoking of crack cocaine was found to be an independent risk factor for HIV seroconversion among people who were injection drug users. This finding points to the urgent need for evidence-based public health initiatives targeted at people who smoke crack cocaine.
To evaluate a possible positive association between tamoxifen treatment and the risk of developing idiopathic venous thromboembolism (VTE) in women with breast cancer in the absence of clinical risk factors for venous thromboembolism other than breast cancer itself.
Using information from the large UK-based General Practice Research Database, we identified, within a cohort of more than 10000 women with breast cancer, all women who developed a first-time diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism of uncertain cause between January 1, 1991 and December 31, 1996. In a case-control analysis, we compared their tamoxifen exposure experience prior to the thromboembolic event with that of a randomly selected group of control women with breast cancer who were matched to cases on age, year of the breast cancer diagnosis and calendar time.
We identified 25 cases of idiopathic VTE and 172 controls, all of whom had breast cancer, but were otherwise free from other risk factors for VTE. Past tamoxifen exposure was not materially associated with an elevated risk of developing VTE, and we therefore combined never and past users as reference group. The relative risk estimate of VTE for current tamoxifen exposure, as compared with never and past use combined, was 7.1 (95% CI 1.5-33), adjusted for body mass index, smoking status and hysterectomy status. High body mass index was an independent predictor of VTE itself.
Our study provides evidence that current use of tamoxifen increases the risk of idiopathic venous thromboembolism.
