Increased glutamatergic activity is believed to play a significant role in the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). LID may therefore be attenuated by a reduction in glutamatergic function. This was tested pharmacologically in MPTP monkeys by increasing the formation of kynurenic acid (KYNA), a tryptophan metabolite that inhibits glutamate release and also blocks NMDA receptors directly. KYNA synthesis was stimulated by prolonged systemic administration of the kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitor Ro 61-8048. Four MPTP cynomolgus monkeys received l-dopa (LD; 100mg) with benserazide (25 mg) for one month. Progressively, all these animals developed LID. Four other MPTP monkeys received Ro 61-8048 (50mg/kg) daily 3 h before administration of LD/benserazide for one month. The addition of Ro 61-8048 reduced the development of LID but did not affect the antiparkinsonian efficacy of LD. Moreover, Ro 61-8048 administration caused sustained increases in serum kynurenine and KYNA concentrations, which reverted to basal values 24 h after the last treatment. This effect of Ro 61-8048 was less pronounced in the CSF. These results demonstrate that long-lasting elevation of KYNA levels caused by prolonged inhibition of kynurenine 3-hydroxylase is associated with a significant reduction in LID but does not compromise the benefits of chronic LD therapy.
Environmental and occupational exposure to chromium compounds, especially hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)], is widely recognized as a potential nephrotoxic in humans and animals. Its toxicity is associated with overproduction of free radicals, which induces oxidative damage. Recent evidence indicates that Pycnogenol (PYC), French maritime pine bark extract, exhibits antioxidant potential and protects against various oxidative stressors. The aim of the present study was to examine the modulating impacts of PYC on potassium dichromate K2Cr2O7-induced oxidative damage and nephrotoxicity in rats. Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups. The first group was control, the second group was control plus pre-treated with PYC (10 mg/kg, body weight; in saline; intraperitoneally; once daily for 3 weeks) as drug control and the third group was saline pre-treated plus treated with a single injection of K2Cr2O7 (15 mg/kg, body weight; in saline; intraperitoneally) as toxicant group. The fourth group was PYC pre-treated plus K2Cr2O7 injected. Forty-eight hours after K2Cr2O7-treatment, blood was drawn for estimation of renal injury markers in serum. Rats were then sacrificed, and their kidneys were dissected for biochemical and histopathological assays. K2Cr2O7-treated rats showed significant increases in markers of renal injury in serum, including blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine (Scr), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP), which were significantly (P < 0.05) decreased by PYC pre-treatment. Moreover, prophylactic pre-treatment of rats with PYC significantly (P < 0.05) ameliorated increased thiobarbituric reactive substances (TBARS), malonaldehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyl (PC), and decreased levels of glutathione (GSH) and catalase activity in the kidney homogenate of K2Cr2O7-treated rats. These results were also supported and confirmed with histopathological findings. The study suggests that PYC is effective in preventing K2Cr2O7-induced oxidative mediated nephrotoxicity, but more studies are needed to confirm the effects of PYC as a nephroprotective agent.
Thalidomide is used in cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) refractory to conventional therapies. Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is the most severe side effect, but the incidence of PN and its relation to thalidomide dose are still unclear.
To prospectively evaluate the efficacy as well as the occurrence of PN in CLE patients treated with thalidomide, and to assess whether PN, when occurs, correlates with thalidomide dose and/or length of treatment.
Fourteen female patients with CLE in low-dose thalidomide therapy were followed for up to 24 months. Prior to, and regularly during treatment patients underwent rheumatological, dermatological, neurological and electrophysiological evaluations. A decline in sural SNAP of 50% or more from baseline value was considered as criterion of sensory axonal PN.
All patients showed a dramatic improvement of skin manifestations. Ten patients (71.4%) developed a sensory axonal PN. The median time free from this complication was 14 months. No correlations were found between age of the patients nor thalidomide cumulative dose and occurrence of PN (Mann-Whitney U Test; p>0.16). Other adverse effects were: tremor, paresthesias, somnolence, amenhorrea, constipation and thoracic pain.
Low does thalidomide is efficacious in treating CLE, but PN is a common complication whose occurrence does not seem to correlate with total thalidomide dose, whereas with the duration of therapy. A closer electrophysiological follow-up is therefore recommended in the long-term treatment.
In recent years, considerable emphasis has been focused on identifying new chemopreventive agents which could be useful for the human population. In the present study, we examined the protective role of mangiferin during experimental lung carcinogenesis with reference to its effect on DNA-damage and the detoxification enzyme system. The activities of detoxifying enzymes such as glutathione transferase (GST), quinone reductase (QR) and uridin 5'-diphosphate-glucuronosyl transferase (UDP-GT) were found to be decreased while the lipid peroxidation level was increased in the lung cancer bearing animals. Supplementation of mangiferin (100 mg/kg b.wt) enhanced the detoxification enzymes and reduced DNA damage as determined by single cell electrophoresis. Furthermore, the DNA-protein cross links which was found to be high in lung cancer bearing animals was also modulated upon supplementation with mangiferin. Our present results explain the unique association between the anti-oxidant effect of mangiferin and ultimately the capability of mangiferin to prevent cancer.
Estrogen synthesized in the brain itself by the action of cytochrome P450 aromatase (P450arom) is known to have permanent organizing effects on the developing CNS. In fish, estrogen upregulates the predominant brain isoform (P450aromB), implying that xenoestrogens (XE) could act as neurodevelopmental toxicants by altering P450aromB. To test this hypothesis, zebrafish embryos were exposed to 17beta-estradiol (E(2)), diethylstilbestrol (DES, a potent agonist), and bisphenol A (BPA, a weak agonist). RT-PCR/Southern transfer analysis showed that E(2) (0.01-10 microM) upregulated P450aromB in a dose-response manner. The effect of DES (0.01 microM) was similar to 1 microM E(2) (three- to four-fold higher than control), but BPA was less effective (<threefold increase at 10 microM). mRNA levels of the predominant ovarian isoform (P450aromA) were unchanged by estrogen. Treatment with E(2) (0.1-10 microM) between 2 and 72 hpf had dose-response effects on mortality and hatching and induced a 'curved tail down' phenotype characteristic of mutants with defects of early CNS development. The critical period of estrogen sensitivity for effects on mortality and curved tails was 2-24 hpf, whereas hatching effects were both stage- and duration-dependent. Developmental effects of DES and BPA were similar to E(2) but testosterone, and 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone were ineffective. 17alpha-Estradiol showed a small but significant effect on curved tails. We conclude that P450aromB mRNA is a sensitive marker of XE effect during embryogenesis, but further studies are required to determine whether changes in neural aromatase expression and estrogen biosynthesis have consequences for CNS development.
We determined plasma amantadine concentrations in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in daily clinical practice and investigated the relationship between plasma concentration and adverse reactions to clarify the safe therapeutic range. Seventy-eight consecutive PD patients on stable amantadine treatment were recruited. Plasma concentration of amantadine was measured 3h after the administration of morning amantadine dose. Serum creatinine was measured to estimate renal function. The mean daily dose of amantadine was 135.1+/-62.3mg/day, and the mean plasma amantadine concentration was 812.5+/-839.5 ng/ml (range, 91-4400 ng/ml). Plasma amantadine concentration increased according to increasing renal dysfunction. Three patients exhibited adverse reactions, such as myoclonus, hallucinations, and delirium, and all of them showed plasma amantadine concentration >3000 ng/ml. None of the three cases had previously shown such side effects. PD patients who have not developed any psychiatric symptoms as adverse reactions to the treatment may develop myoclonus, hallucination, or delirium when the plasma concentration of amantadine exceeds 3000 ng/ml. It is therefore recommended to use amantadine at the plasma concentration of less than 3000 ng/ml in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, especially in elderly patients.
Mercury is one of the noxious heavy metal environmental toxicants and is a cause of concern for human exposure. Mangiferin (MGN), a glucosylxanthone found in Mangifera indica, reported to have a wide range of pharmacological properties. The objective of this study was to evaluate the cytoprotective potential of MGN, against mercury chloride (HgCl(2) ) induced toxicity in HepG2 cell line. The cytoprotective effect of MGN on HgCl(2) induced toxicity was assessed by colony formation assay, while antiapoptotic effect by fluorescence microscopy, flow cytometric DNA analysis, and DNA fragmentation pattern assays. Further, the cytoprotective effect of MGN against HgCl(2) toxicity was assessed by using biochemical parameters like reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) by spectrophotometrically, mitochondrial membrane potential by flowcytometry and the changes in reactive oxygen species levels by DCFH-DA spectrofluoremetric analysis. A significant increase in the surviving fraction was observed with 50 μM of MGN administered two hours prior to various concentrations of HgCl(2) . Further, pretreatment of MGN significantly decreased the percentage of HgCl(2) induced apoptotic cells. Similarly, the levels of ROS generated by the HgCl(2) treatment were inhibited significantly (P < 0.01) by MGN. MGN also significantly (P < 0.01) inhibited the HgCl(2) induced decrease in GSH, GST, SOD, and CAT levels at all the post incubation intervals. Our study demonstrated the cytoprotective potential of MGN, which may be attributed to quenching of the ROS generated in the cells due to oxidative stress induced by HgCl(2) , restoration of mitochondrial membrane potential and normalization of cellular antioxidant levels.
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis is an infrequent disease with a variety of causes. Pregnancy, puerperium, contraceptive pills and intracranial infections are the most common causes. The patient may present with headache, focal neurological deficits and seizures.The clinical outcome is highly variable and treatment with heparin is advised.
The patient is a 22 year old male who presented with headache, repeated vomiting and papilledema.He was a bodybuilder doing exercise since 5 years ago, who had used nandrolone decaonoate 25 milligrams intramuscularly during the previous 5 months. Brain MRI and MRV showed superior sagital and transverse sinus thrombosis and extensive investigations did not reveal any known cause.
We suggested that androgen was the predisposing factor in our patient. Androgens may increase coagulation factors or platelet activity and cause arterial or venous thrombosis. As athletes may hide using androgens it should be considered as a predisposing factor for thrombotic events in such patients.
The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine) was tested, alone or in combination with chlorpromazine, in mice previously trained in the shuttlebox. The lowest doses of dizocilpine (0.02 and 0.04 mg kg-1) attenuated the disrupting action of the neuroleptic (1.5 mg kg-1) on avoidance-performance, while avoidance depression induced by 1.5 and 2 mg kg-1 chlorpromazine was completely or almost completely reversed by 0.08 mg kg-1 NMDA antagonist. The highest dose (0.16 mg kg-1) of dizocilpine did not ameliorate avoidance-performance of mice receiving 2 mg kg-1 chlorpromazine, perhaps because of ataxic effects produced by the drug combination, at these doses. The results support suggestions for a potential use of NMDA antagonists in the treatment of extrapyramidal side-effects of neuroleptics.
Transcription factor paralogs may share a common role in staged or overlapping expression in specific tissues, as in the Hox family. In other cases, family members have distinct roles in a range of embryologic, differentiation or response pathways (as in the Tbx and Pax families). For the interferon regulatory factor (IRF) family of transcription factors, mice deficient in Irf1, Irf2, Irf3, Irf4, Irf5, Irf7, Irf8 or Irf9 have defects in the immune response but show no embryologic abnormalities. Mice deficient for Irf6 have not been reported, but in humans, mutations in IRF6 cause two mendelian orofacial clefting syndromes, and genetic variation in IRF6 confers risk for isolated cleft lip and palate. Here we report that mice deficient for Irf6 have abnormal skin, limb and craniofacial development. Histological and gene expression analyses indicate that the primary defect is in keratinocyte differentiation and proliferation. This study describes a new role for an IRF family member in epidermal development.
Exposure to metals may promote atherosclerosis. Blood cadmium and lead were associated with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) in the 1999-2000 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). In the present study we evaluated the association between urinary levels of cadmium, lead, barium, cobalt, cesium, molybdenum, antimony, thallium, and tungsten with PAD in a cross-sectional analysis of 790 participants > or =40 years of age in NHANES 1999-2000. PAD was defined as a blood pressure ankle brachial index < 0.9 in at least one leg. Metals were measured in casual (spot) urine specimens by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry. After multivariable adjustment, subjects with PAD had 36% higher levels of cadmium in urine and 49% higher levels of tungsten compared with noncases. The adjusted odds ratio for PAD comparing the 75th to the 25th percentile of the cadmium distribution was 3.05 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.97 to 9.58]; that for tungsten was 2.25 (95% CI, 0.97 to 5.24). PAD risk increased sharply at low levels of antimony and remained elevated beyond 0.1 microg/L. PAD was not associated with other metals. In conclusion, urinary cadmium, tungsten, and possibly antimony were associated with PAD in a representative sample of the U.S. population. For cadmium, these results strengthen previous findings using blood cadmium as a biomarker, and they support its role in atherosclerosis. For tungsten and antimony, these results need to be interpreted cautiously in the context of an exploratory analysis but deserve further study. Other metals in urine were not associated with PAD at the levels found in the general population.
All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), which is used in acute promyelocytic leukemia, is usually well tolerated, but some side effects can be observed. Retinoic acid syndrome is the most severe side effect. Triazole derivatives such as fluconazole inhibit the NADPH-dependent cytochrome P-450-mediated catabolism of ATRA and are increased plasma levels of ATRA. Here, the authors report a case of APL who developed acute renal failure during ATRA and concurrent use of fluconazole.
Urinary concentrations of nicotine and its major metabolite cotinine were measured in volunteers whose smoking habits were known to test the reliability of the measurements as indicators of current smoking. In the non-smokers detectable concentrations were always below the confidence limits set for the method, while in smokers the concentrations were always above these limits. After subjects stopped smoking cotinine appeared in the urine for longer than nicotine and was still detectable at least 36 hours after the last cigarette had been smoked. When this method was used to verify the smoking histories given by patients attending an infarction clinic it was estimated that 46-53% of previous smokers had actually stopped smoking compared with the 63% who said that they had done so. It is suggested that simultaneous assays of urinary nicotine and cotinine may be a useful means of verifying patients' current smoking habits.
Our objective was to evaluate whether a significant association exists between cocaine use, cervical, urine, and/or Group B streptococcus (GBS) infections and preterm birth (PTB) in patients admitted with active preterm labor (PTL).
A retrospective cohort study of PTL patients < 34 weeks (n = 400) admitted to a large, urban tertiary care hospital (2002-2005) was performed. Pertinent history and screening test results were collected. The prevalence of a positive result for each test was determined. Pearson chi-square and Poisson regression were used to evaluate the significance of associations between screening tests and PTB and to control for confounders.
The percentage of patients that delivered at < 37 and < 34 weeks was 63.5% (n = 254) and 44.5% (n = 178), respectively. Only cocaine use was significantly associated with PTB at < 34 weeks (RR 1.86, 95%CI 1.03, 2.08).
This laboratory test panel is not an effective adjunctive means to predict PTB in PTL patients.
Cardiotoxicity is supposed to be the most important limiting factor in chemotherapy with anthracycline derivatives. The left ventricular ejection fraction was measured several times by means of radionuclid - scintigraphy in 24 patients treated with epirubicin - cisplatinum. Pathologic values have been found only in 3 patients, but no correlation with age, cumulative dose or dose/m2 of body surface could be demonstrated.
The aim of the present study was to assess the influence of diabetic and pre-diabetic state on the development of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in chronic kidney disease patients undergoing coronary angiography.
A total of 421 patients with Cockcroft clearance between 15 and 60 ml/min were divided into three groups [diabetes mellitus (DM), n = 137; pre-diabetes (pre-DM), n = 140; and normal fasting glucose (NFG), n = 144]. CIN was defined as an increase of > or =25% in creatinine over baseline within 48 h of angiography, DM as glucose > or =126 mg/dl, pre-DM as glucose between 100 and 125 mg/dl and NFG as glucose <100 mg/dl.
CIN occurred in 20% of the DM [relative risk (RR) 3.6, P = 0.001], 11.4% of the pre-DM (RR 2.1, P = 0.314) and 5.5% of the NFG group. The decrease of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was higher in DM and pre-DM (P = 0.001 and P = 0.002, respectively). GFR < or =30 ml/min (RR 19.22), multivessel involvement (RR 7.59), hyperuricaemia (RR 3.95), use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blocker (RR 2.70) and DM (RR 2.34) were predictors of CIN. Length of hospital stay was 2.45 +/- 1.45 day in DM, 2.27 +/- 0.68 day in pre-DM and 1.97 +/- 0.45 day in NFG (P < 0.001, DM vs NFG and P = 0.032, pre-DM vs NFG). The rate of major adverse cardiac events was 8.7% in DM, 5% in pre-DM and 2.1% in NFG (P = 0.042, DM vs NFG). Haemodialysis was required in 3.6% of DM and 0.7% in pre-DM (P = 0.036, DM vs NFG), and the total number of haemodialysis sessions during 3 months was higher in DM and pre-DM (P < 0.001). Serum glucose > or =124 mg/dl was the best cut-off point for prediction of CIN.
Our data support that patients with DM are at a higher risk of developing CIN, but patients with pre-DM are not at as high a risk for developing CIN as diabetes patients.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in hypertension development and cardiovascular structural changes in a salt-sensitive hypertensive model induced by capsaicin (CAP). Newborn male Wistar rats were injected with either capsaicin or vehicle. After weaning at 3 weeks, these rats were divided into the following six treatment groups: capsaicin plus high-salt diet (CAP+HS), control plus high-salt diet (CON+HS), control plus normal salt diet (CON+NS), capsaicin plus high-salt diet and telmisartan (CAP+HS+T, 10 mg/kg/day), capsaicin plus high-salt diet and perindopril (CAP+HS+P, 2 mg/kg/day), and capsaicin plus high-salt diet and spironolactone (CAP+HS+S, 80 mg/kg/day). Treatment with different salt diets and drugs was initiated at 3 weeks of age and lasted 18 weeks. We found that beginning at the second week after the initiation of the treatment, blood pressure became significantly higher in CAP+HS than in other groups, accompanied by the development of cardiac hypertrophy. Treatment with telmisartan, perindopril or spironolactone prevented the development of hypertension in the CAP+HS group. Cardiac hypertrophy was prevented in the perindopril treatment group. The medial thickness, media-to-lumen ratio and cross-sectional area of the thoracic, renal and mesenteric arteries were significantly increased in CAP+HS than in other groups. Lumen diameter was similar in all the vessels among all the groups. Treatment with telmisartan, perindopril or spironolactone prevented the development of vascular remodeling, as found in the CAP+HS group. Beginning at 8 weeks after the initiation of the salt diet treatment (11 weeks of age), blood pressure also became higher in CON+HS than in CON+NS, but lower than CAP+HS. Structural changes of vessels were also present in CON+HS, but the degree of change was less when compared with CAP+HS. We conclude that neonatal treatment with capsaicin plus a high-salt diet, and a high-salt diet alone both induced hypertension development in normal Wistar rats, which are associated with cardiovascular remodeling. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system is involved in this salt-sensitive model because treatment that interfered with this system also prevented the development of hypertension and vascular remodeling.
We describe a 30-year-old pregnant woman in whom cholestatic liver disease developed 16 resp. 18 days after the medication of chlorprothixeni hydrochloridum and chlorpromazine treatment in the 33rd week of pregnancy. Clinically, the course was characterized by severe jaundice lasting 10 months, fever, pruritus, high serum alkaline phosphatase level, transient aminotransferase elevation, and hypercholesterolemia. The pregnancy was terminated in the 35th week by cesarean section with the birth of a premature female newborn without any signs of liver damage. The histological examination of the mother's liver revealed ductopenia, defined by the absence of interlobular bile ducts in at least 50% of the small portal tracts, and long-standing cholestasis with pseudoxanthomatous transformation of hepatocytes and ductular epithelia, and small lobular xanthomas. The jaundice resolved very slowly after ursodeoxycholic acid therapy. The liver function tests 26 months after the onset of jaundice showed only a slight elevation of alkaline phosphatase and aminotransferases. In the control liver biopsy, non-active periportal and septal fibrosis without signs of cholestasis was seen. To our knowledge this is the sixth report to document chlorpromazine-induced ductopenia in pregnancy and the first to describe a newborn without any liver damage.
Using two-stage coronary-ligation-, digitalis- and adrenaline-induced ventricular arrhythmias in beagles, antiarrhythmic effects of AN-132 were examined, and the minimum effective plasma concentration for each arrhythmia model was determined. AN-132 suppressed all the arrhythmias, and the minimum effective plasma concentrations for arrhythmias induced by 24-hour coronary ligation, 48-hour coronary ligation, digitalis, and adrenaline were 3.4-4.6, 1.5-2.3, 0.83, and 9.3 micrograms/ml, respectively. The concentration for adrenaline-induced arrhythmia was significantly higher than that of 24-hour coronary ligation arrhythmia, and it was also higher than that of digitalis arrhythmia. This pharmacologic profile is similar to those of pirmenol and mexiletine. Since AN-132 had no deleterious effects on the hemodynamics and the central nervous system, it may become a clinically useful antiarrhythmic drug.
We have previously shown that ondansetron, given 3.5 h after intravenous cocaine self-administration, can attenuate self-administration the following day. Here we tested ondansetron given either before or after a 14-h oral cocaine session in rats. Ondansetron (0.2 mg/kg sc) given 30 min before the cocaine session had no effect. However, when given 3.5 h after, ondansetron attenuated cocaine intake the following day while having no effect on water intake. Taken with our previous data in intravenous cocaine self-administration, we suggest that the acute cocaine withdrawal period may be an important treatment window and that ondansetron may be an effective cocaine abuse therapy.
Recent studies suggest that nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in nitrate-induced headache and in spontaneous migraine attacks. Organic nitrates act as prodrugs for NO and headache is a predominant adverse effect of nitrates but often disappears during continuous treatment. Insight into tolerance to headache could lead to insight into vascular headache mechanisms in general. The specific aim of the present study was therefore to characterize the headache and accompanying symptoms during continuous nitrate administration until a state of tolerance to headache had developed. 5-isosorbide-mononitrate (5-ISMN) 30 mg three times daily was administered orally for 7 days in 11 healthy subjects in a double-blind, randomized placebo controlled cross-over design. Wash-out between periods was 14 days or more. Haemodynamic data from the present study were compared to the observed changes of headache over time. Headache during 5-ISMN was longer lasting and more severe compared to placebo (P<0.004). In 10 subjects the headache fulfilled the pain sub-criteria for migraine and in five subjects all diagnostic criteria for migraine without aura were fulfilled. Conversely, 20 min of intravenous infusion of glyceryl trinitrate caused a milder headache and no migraine. The present results therefore suggest that NO may elicit a migraine attack in many healthy subjects if a high enough dose is given for several hours. A close temporal association between the disappearance of headache and the attenuation of the 5-ISMN induced dilatation of the superficial temporal artery was observed. In contrast, tolerance in the middle cerebral artery already appeared after 24 h, which was earlier than the development of tolerance to headache. If vasodilatation is the cause of headache the results point to extracerebral arteries. However, cytotoxic and pain modulating central nervous system effects of NO, the time courses of which are unknown, may also play a role, involving both intra- and extracranial arteries.
Approximately 20-30% of patients with epilepsy continue to have seizures despite carefully monitored treatment with antiepileptic drugs. The mechanisms that underlie why some patients are responsive and others prove resistant to antiepileptic drugs are poorly understood. Increasing evidence supports a role for altered mitochondrial function in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. To gain greater molecular insight in the pathogenesis of intractable epilepsy, we undertook a global analysis of protein expressions in a pharmacoresistant epileptic model selected by phenytoin in electrical amygdala-kindled rats by using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF-TOF). We identified five increased proteins and 14 decreased proteins including voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) with a 2.82-fold increased level (P < 0.05) and voltage-dependent anion channel 2 (VDAC2) with a 3.97-fold decreased level (P < 0.05) in hippocampus of pharmacoresistant rats. The increased VDAC1 and decreased VDAC2 were confirmed by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Vascular mitochondria and apoptosis neurons were observed through electron microscopy. Energy contents, the adenine nucleotides, were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The correlation analyses were carried out between VDAC and the energy charge. These findings indicate that the increase of VDAC1 and the decrease of VDAC2 play an important role during the process and provide new molecular evidence in understanding mechanism of refractory epilepsy.
Mutations in factor H (HF1) have been reported in a consistent number of diarrhoea-negative, non-Shiga toxin-associated cases of haemolytic uraemic syndrome (D-HUS). However, most patients with D-HUS have no HF1 mutations, despite decreased serum concentrations of C3. Our aim, therefore, was to assess whether genetic abnormalities in other complement regulatory proteins are involved.
We screened genes that encode the complement regulatory proteins-ie, factor H related 5, complement receptor 1, and membrane cofactor protein (MCP)-by PCR-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and by direct sequencing, in 25 consecutive patients with D-HUS, an abnormal complement profile, and no HF1 mutation, from our International Registry of Recurrent and Familial HUS/TTP (HUS/thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura).
We identified a heterozygous mutation in MCP, a surface-bound complement regulator, in two patients with a familial history of HUS. The mutation causes a change in three aminoacids at position 233-35 and insertion of a premature stop-codon, which results in loss of the transmembrane domain of the protein and severely reduced cell-surface expression of MCP.
Results of previous studies on HF1 indicate an association between HF1 deficiency and D-HUS. Our findings of an MCP mutation in two related patients suggest that impaired regulation of complement activation might be a factor in the pathogenesis of genetic forms of HUS. MCP could be a second putative candidate gene for D-HUS. The protein is highly expressed in the kidney and plays a major part in regulation of glomerular C3 activation. We propose, therefore, that reduced expression of MCP in response to complement-activating stimuli could prevent restriction of complement deposition on glomerular endothelial cells, leading to microvascular cell damage and tissue injury.
Opioids can induce analgesia and also hyperalgesia in humans and in animals. It has been shown that systemic administration of morphine induced a hyperalgesic response at an extremely low dose. However, the exact mechanism(s) underlying opioid-induced hyperalgesia has not yet been clarified. Here, we have investigated cellular events involved in low-dose morphine hyperalgesia in male Wistar rats. The data showed that morphine (0.01 microg i.t.) could elicit hyperalgesia as assessed by the tail-flick test. G(alphas) mRNA and protein levels increased significantly following exposure to the hyperalgesic dose of morphine. Furthermore, morphine at an analgesic dose (20 microg i.t.) significantly decreased cAMP levels in the dorsal half of the lumbar spinal cord, whereas the tissue cAMP levels were not affected by morphine treatment at a hyperalgesic dose. Intrathecal administration of nifedipine, an L-type calcium channel blocker, antagonized the hyperalgesia induced by the low-dose of morphine. Furthermore, pretreatment with the selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerytrine resulted in prevention of the morphine-induced hyperalgesia. KT 5720, a specific inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), did not show any effect on low-dose morphine-induced hyperalgesia. These results indicate a role for G(alphas), the PLC-PKC pathway, and L-type calcium channels in intrathecal morphine-induced hyperalgesia in rats. Activation of ordinary G(alphas) signaling through cAMP levels did not appear to play a major role in the induction of hyperalgesia by low-dose of morphine.
The aim of the present study was to find out whether the classic neuroleptic fluphenazine is a good model compound for inducing parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity in rats. The muscle tone was measured as resistance developed by the rat's hind foot to passive flexion and extension. Fluphenazine in doses of 0.4-3.0 mg/kg i.p. induced a dose-dependent increase in the hind foot resistance to passive movements. The muscle rigidity induced by fluphenazine 1.5 mg/kg i.p.) was counteracted in a dose-dependent manner by the main antiparkinsonian drug L-DOPA (25-75 mg/kg i.p.). The present results suggest that the fluphenazine-induced muscle rigidity may be a useful model of parkinsonian rigidity.
Because the dopamine system appears to be involved in both acute and chronic effects of cocaine, medication development efforts for cocaine addiction have focused largely on agents that interact with the dopamine system. Selegiline, a selective monoamine oxidase B inhibitor, indirectly modulates dopamine levels, and research suggests selegiline may modify subjective effects of cocaine.
To evaluate further the safety and potential of transdermal selegiline as a treatment for cocaine dependence, interactions between transdermal selegiline and intravenous cocaine were studied in cocaine-dependent volunteers.
Pharmacokinetics and subjective, physiological, and endocrinological effects of intravenous cocaine (0,20 and 40 mg) were evaluated both before and during transdermal selegiline treatment (20 mg/day, 10 days) in 12 cocaine-dependent subjects. A transdermal selegiline formulation was used to avoid the risks associated with oral administration of MAO inhibitors.
Selegiline attenuated some physiological (systolic blood pressure and heart rate) and subjective (good effects, liking, stimulated, high, desire for cocaine) effects of cocaine. Selegiline did not affect cocaine's pharmacokinetics or cocaine-induced prolactin decrease and growth hormone increase.
The combined administration of the transdermal selegiline patch and up to 40 mg cocaine was well tolerated. Selegiline may reduce physiological and subjective effects of cocaine. A randomized trial is needed to evaluate the efficacy of selegiline for cocaine abuse.
An acute episode of encephalopathy after the infusion of 16 g methotrexate is reported in a 12-year-old girl with osteogenic sarcoma. The complication occurred during the 11th treatment course, when severe vomiting and diarrhea were followed by a low urine output with consecutive toxic concentrations of methotrexate in serum and cerebrospinal fluid leading to severe systemic and central nervous system toxicity. The onset of the central nervous system toxicity was acute with slurred speech, paresis of the external rectus eye muscles, ataxia, and hemiparesis, and symptoms resolved completely after 30 hours by treatment with calcium leucovorin and forced diuresis. After management of the cerebral and systemic toxicity, high-dose methotrexate treatment could be reinstituted, and was followed by no further complications. In contrast to the transient cerebral dysfunctions, probably caused by embolization of tumor tissue in the early course of high-dose methotrexate treatment, the acute neurologic syndrome observed in the current case after the prolonged use of methotrexate seemed to be related to direct central nervous system toxicity of the drug.
