This case documents a patient who developed dizziness with downbeating nystagmus while receiving a relatively large dose of IV patient-controlled analgesia morphine. Although there have been case reports of epidural morphine with these symptoms and signs, this has not been previously documented with IV or patient-controlled analgesia morphine.
Convulsions associated with cocaine abuse can be life threatening and resistant to standard emergency treatment. Cocaine (75 mg/kg, i. p.) produced clonic convulsions in approximately 90% of male, Swiss-Webster mice. A variety of clinically used antiepileptic agents did not significantly protect against cocaine convulsions (e. g., diazepam and phenobarbital). Anticonvulsants in clinical practice that did significantly protect against convulsion did so only at doses with significant sedative/ataxic effects (e.g., clonazepam and valproic acid). In contrast, functional N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists all produced dose-dependent and significant protection against the convulsant effects of cocaine. Anticonvulsant efficacy was achieved by blockade of both competitive and noncompetitive modulatory sites on the NMDA receptor complex. Thus, competitive antagonists, ion-channel blockers, polyamine antagonists, and functional blockers of the strychnine-insensitive glycine modulatory site all prevented cocaine seizures. The role of NMDA receptors in the control of cocaine-induced convulsions was further strengthened by the positive correlation between the potencies of noncompetititve antagonists or competitive antagonists to block convulsions and their respective affinities for their specific binding sites on the NMDA receptor complex. Although some NMDA blockers produced profound behavioral side effects at efficacious doses (e.g., noncompetitive antagonists), others (e.g., some low-affinity channel blockers, some competitive antagonists, and glycine antagonists) demonstrated significant and favorable separation between their anticonvulsant and side effect profiles. The present results provide the most extensive evidence to date identifying NMDA receptor blockade as a potential strategy for the discovery of agents for clinical use in averting toxic sequelae from cocaine overdose. Given the literature suggesting a role for these drugs in other areas of drug abuse treatments, NMDA receptor antagonists sit in a unique position as potential therapeutic candidates.
A 65-year-old woman with relapsed non small cell lung cancer, who had no prior chemotherapy, was admitted to our hospital. She was initially treated with paroxetine, a selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitor antidepressant, and received cisplatin-based chemotherapy three days after the initiation of the paroxetine. She developed hyponatremia on day 5 after the start of chemotherapy. Based on the laboratory examinations, the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antiduretic hormone was suggested. Her plasma sodium concentration returned to normal after paroxetine withdrawal and appropriate fluid restriction. Cisplatin-based chemotherapies were subsequently continued without paroxetine and there were no further episodes of electrolyte disturbance. Paroxetine has been used widely for treatment of depressed patients with malignancies. However, careful monitoring of plasma sodium is needed following cisplatin-based chemotherapy in patients taking paroxetine.
Current risk assessments of 1,3-butadiene (BD*) are complicated by limited evidence of its carcinogenicity in humans. Hence, there is a critical need to identify early events and factors that account for the heightened sensitivity of mice to BD-induced carcinogenesis and to deter-mine which animal model, mouse or rat, is the more useful surrogate of potency for predicting health effects in BD-exposed humans. HEI sponsored an earlier investigation of mutagenic responses in mice and rats exposed to BD, or to the racemic mixture of 1,2-epoxy-3-butene (BDO) or of 1,2,3,4-diepoxybutane (BDO2; Walker and Meng 2000). In that study, our research team demonstrated (1) that the frequency of mutations in the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (Hprt) gene of splenic T cells from BD-exposed mice and rats could be correlated with the species-related differences in cancer susceptibility; (2) that mutagenic-potency and mutagenic-specificity data from mice and rats exposed to BD or its individual epoxy intermediates could provide useful information about the BD metabolites responsible for mutations in each species; and (3) that our novel approach to measuring the mutagenic potency of a given chemical exposure as the change in Hprt mutant frequencies (Mfs) over time was valuable for estimating species-specific differences in mutagenic responses to BD exposure and for predicting the effect of BD metabolites in each species. To gain additional mode-of-action information that can be used to inform studies of human responses to BD exposure, experiments in the current investigation tested a new set of five hypotheses about species-specific patterns in the mutagenic effects in rodents of exposure to BD and BD metabolites: 1. Repeated BD exposures at low levels that approach the occupational exposure limit for BD workers (set by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration) are mutagenic in female mice. 2. The differences in mutagenic responses of the Hprt gene to BD in similarly exposed rodents of a given species (reported in various earlier studies) are primarily associated with age-related thymus activity and trafficking of T cells and with sex-related differences in BD metabolism. 3. The mutagenic potency of the stereochemical forms of BD's epoxy intermediates plays a significant role in the species-related mutagenicity of BD. 4. The hydrolysis-detoxification pathway of BD through 1,2-dihydroxy-3-butene (BD-diol) is a major contributor to mutagenicity at high-level BD exposures in mice and rats. 5. Significant and informative species-specific differences in mutation spectra can be identified by examining both large- and small-scale genetic alterations in the Hprt gene of BD-exposed mice and rats. The first four hypotheses were tested by exposing mice and rats to BD, meso-BDO2, or BD-diol and measuring Hprt Mfs as the primary biomarker. For this, we used the T-cell-cloning assay of lymphocytes isolated from the spleens of exposed and control (sham-exposed) mice and rats. The first hypothesis was tested by exposing female B6C3F1 mice (4 to 5 weeks of age) by inhalation for 2 weeks (6 hours/day, 5 days/week) to 0 or 3 ppm BD. Hprt Mfs were measured at the time of peak mutagenic response after exposure for this age of mice. We then compared the resulting data to those from mutagenicity studies with mice of the same age that had been exposed in a similar protocol to higher levels of BD (Walker and Meng 2000). In mice exposed to 3 ppm BD (n = 27), there was a significant 1.6-fold increase over the mean background Hprt Mf in control animals (n = 24, P = 0.004). Calculating the efficiency of Hprt mutant induction, by dividing induced Hprt Mfs by the respective BD exposure levels, demonstrated that the mutagenic potency of 3 ppm BD was twice that of 20 ppm BD and almost 20 times that of 625 or 1250 ppm BD in exposed female mice. Sample-size calculations based on the Hprt Mf data from this experiment demonstrated the feasibility of conducting a future experiment to find out whether induced Mfs at even lower exposure levels (between 0.1 and 1.0 ppm BD) fit the supralinear exposure-response curve found with exposures between 3.0 and 62.5 ppm BD, or whether they deviate from the curve as Mf values approach the background levels found in control animals. The second hypothesis was tested by estimating mutagenic potency for female mice exposed by inhalation for 2 weeks to 0 or 1250 ppm BD at 8 weeks of age and comparing this estimate to that reported for female mice exposed to BD in a similar protocol at 4 to 5 weeks of age (Walker and Meng 2000). For these two age groups, the shapes of the mutant splenic T-cell manifestation curves were different, but the mutagenic burden was statistically the same. These results support our contention that the disparity in responses reported in earlier Hprt-mutation studies of BD-exposed rodents is related more to age-related T-cell kinetics than to age-specific differences in the metabolism of BD. The third hypothesis was tested by estimating mutagenic potency for female mice and rats (4 to 5 weeks of age) exposed by inhalation to 2 or 4 ppm meso-BDO2 and comparing these estimates to those previously obtained for female mice and rats of the same age and exposed in a similar protocol to (+/-)-BDO2 (Meng et al. 1999b; Walker and Meng 2000). These exposures to stereospecific forms of BDO2 caused equivalent mutagenic effects in each species. This suggests that the small differences in the mutagenic potency of the individual stereoisomers of BDO2 appear to be of less consequence in characterizing the sources of BD-induced mutagenicity than the much larger differences between the mutagenic potencies of BDO2 and the other two BD epoxides (BDO and 1,2-dihydroxy-3,4-epoxybutane [BDO-diol]). The fourth hypothesis was tested in several experiments. First, female and male mice and rats (4 to 5 weeks of age) were exposed by nose only for 6 hours to 0, 62.5, 200, 625, or 1250 ppm BD or to 0, 6, 18, 24, or 36 ppm BD-diol primarily to establish BD and BD-diol exposure levels that would yield similar plasma concentrations of BD-diol. Second, animals were exposed in inhalation chambers for 4 weeks to 0, 6, 18, or 36 ppm BD-diol to determine the mutagenic potency estimates for these exposure levels and to compare these estimates with those reported for BD-exposed female mice and rats (Walker and Meng 2000) in which similar blood levels of BD-diol had been achieved. Measurements of plasma concentrations of BD-diol (via a gas chromatography and mass spectrometry [GC/MS] method developed for this purpose) showed these results: First, BD-diol accumulated in a sublinear manner during a single 6-hour exposure to more than 200 ppm BD. Second, BD-diol accumulated in a linear manner during single (6-hour) or repeated (4-week) exposure to 6 or 18 ppm BD and in a sublinear manner with increasing levels of BD-diol exposure. Third, exposure of female mice and rats to 18 ppm BD-diol produced plasma concentrations equivalent to those produced by exposure to 200 ppm BD (exposure to 36 ppm BD-diol produced plasma concentrations of about 25% of those produced by exposure to 625 ppm BD). In general, 4-week exposure to 18 or 36 ppm BD-diol was significantly mutagenic in female and male mice and rats. The differences in mutagenic responses between the species and sexes were not remarkable, except that the mutagenic effects were greatest in female mice. The substantial differences in the exposure-related accumulation of BD-diol in plasma after rodents were exposed to more than 200 ppm BD compared with the relatively small differences in the mutagenic responses to direct exposures to 6, 18, or 36 ppm BD-diol in female mice provided evidence that the contribution of BD-diol-derived metabolites to the overall mutagenicity of BD has a narrow range of effect that is confined to relatively high-level BD exposures in mice and rats. This conclusion was supported by the results of parallel analyses of adducts in mice and rats concurrently exposed to BD-diol (Powley et al. 2005b), which showed that the exposure-response curves for the formation of N-(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl)valine (THB-Val) in hemoglobin, formation of N7-(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl)guanine (THB-Gua) in DNA, and induction of Hprt mutations in exposed rodents were remarkably similar in shape (i.e., supralinear). Combined, these data suggest that trihydroxybutyl (THB) adducts are good quantitative indicators of BD-induced mutagenicity and that BD-diol-derived BDO-diol (the major source of the adducts) might be largely responsible for mutagenicity in rodents exposed to BD-diol or to hight levels of BD. The mutagenic-potency studies of meso-BDO2 and BD-diol reported here, combined with our earlier studies of BD, (+/-) BDO, and(+/-)-BDO2 (Walker and Meng 2000), revealed important trends in species-specific mutagenic responses that distinguish the relative degree to which the epoxy intermediates contribute to mutation induction in rodents at selected levels of BD exposures. These data as a whole suggest that , in mice, BDO2 largely causes mutations at exposures less than 62.5 ppm BD and that BD-diol-derived metabolites add to these mutagenic effects at higher BD exposures. In rats, it appears that the BD-diol pathway might account for nearly all the mutagenicity at the hight-level BD exposures where significant increases in Hprt Mfs are found and cancers are induced. Additional exposure-response studies of hemoglobin and DNA adducts specifics to BDO2, BDO-diol, and other reactive intermediates are needed to determine more definitively the relative contribution of each metabolite to the DNA alkylation and mutation patterns induced by BD exposure in mice and rats. For the fifth hypothesis, a multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) procedure for the analysis of genomic DNA mutations in the Hprt gene of mice was developed. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
The aim of this study is to investigate whether extracts and semi-purified fractions obtained from Maytenus ilicifolia leaves have vascular effects in vivo.We tested the ethanolic supernatant of the infusion (ESI), and the ethanolic supernatant of the aqueous extract (ESAE) on the mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate(HR) of anesthetized rats. Intravenous injection of ESAE caused a dose-dependent effect at 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg, reducing MAP by as much as 52.6 +/- 5.5 mmHg. Only the highest dose of ESAE (30 mg/kg) caused a significant reduction in HR during its hypotensive effect. The effect of ESAE was unchanged by atropine,propranolol, or bilateral vagotomy, but was significantly reduced (80%) in animals continuously infused with L-NAME. In addition, methylene blue and ODQ, as well as the potassium channel blockers tetraethylammonium,4-aminopyridine, and glibenclamide, impaired ESAE-induced hypotension. The ethyl acetate fraction(EAF) obtained from ESAE had a potency at least two times greater than ESAE in MAP, without causing any significant change in HR. The hypotension induced by EAF was circumvented by L-NAME, methylene blue andODQ, strongly reduced by tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine (but not by glibenclamide), and abolished by association of these three potassium channel blockers. Chemical investigation revealed that flavonols, mainly catechin and epicatechin, as well as flavonol glycosides (mono- to triglycosides), and tannins, are the main components of this fraction. Our results demonstrate that preparations obtained from M. ilicifolia present a potent hypotensive effect in vivo, an event predominantly dependent on the nitricoxide/guanylate cyclase pathway.
The present study investigated the protective effect of acute volume expansion (25%) with isotonic saline, isotonic mannitol, and hypertonic mannitol in a model of unilateral norepinephrine-induced acute renal failure (ARF). Three hours following a 40-min intrarenal infusion of norepinephrine (NE) (0.75 microgram/kg/min), inulin clearance had fallen from a control value of 54.1 +/- 6.5 to 1.3 +/- 1.3 ml/min in untreated dogs and fell similarly (P = NS) to 3.3 +/- 1.5 ml/min in animals preexpanded with 0.9% saline (0.75 ml/kg/min). In contrast, as compared to the untreated animals, inulin clearance 3 hr post NE infusion was significantly greater in dogs preexpanded with 5% mannitol (9.2 +/- 2.5 ml/min, P less than 0.01), or 20% mannitol (16.6 +/- 3.9 ml/min, P less than 0.01). The protective effects of 5% and 20% mannitol were not statistically different from each other. Recovery of renal excretory function in all groups, expressed as 3-hr post NE inulin clearance, correlated with the magnitude of pre NE solute excretion rate (r = 0.612, P less than 0.001) and osmolar clearance rate (r=0.593, P less than 0.001), but not with pre insult inulin clearance (r = 0.233, P = NS) or renal blood flow (r = 0.249, P = NS). In the presence of a profound fall in inulin clearance, proximal tubular (PT) pressures in untreated dogs 3 hr post NE infusion achieved a value equal to control (26 +/- 11 vs. 25 +/- 2 mm Hg). In contrast, pretreatment with isotonic mannitol produced a rise in PT pressure both before (45 +/- 4 mm Hg, P less than 0.05) and 3 hr post NE infusion (38 +/- 5 mm Hg, P less than 0.05). In all groups of animals, at both 3 and 24 hr post NE, tubular injury was observed but glomerular architecture remained normal by light and electron microscopy. Conclusion. the protective effect of mannitol in this reversible model of ARF did not correlate with inulin clearance, renal blood flow, extracellular fluid (ECF) volume, ECF hypertonicity, or renal histologic changes but did correlate with the solute excretion rate. The increased PT pressures with mannitol both before and after the NE insult could contribute to the protective effect of attenuating any relative intratubular obstruction.
The mechanism of isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage is unknown, but a mismatch of oxygen supply vs. demand following coronary hypotension and myocardial hyperactivity is the best explanation for the complex morphological alterations observed. Severe alterations in the structural integrity of the sarcolemma of cardiomyocytes have been demonstrated to be caused by isoproterenol. Taking into account that the sarcolemmal integrity is stabilized by the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) that connects actin and laminin in contractile machinery and extracellular matrix and by integrins, this study tests the hypothesis that isoproterenol affects sarcolemmal stability through changes in the DGC and integrins. We found different sensitivity of the DGC and integrin to isoproterenol subcutaneous administration. Immunofluorescent staining revealed that dystrophin is the most sensitive among the structures connecting the actin in the cardiomyocyte cytoskeleton and the extracellular matrix. The sarcomeric actin dissolution occurred after the reduction or loss of dystrophin. Subsequently, after lysis of myofilaments, gamma-sarcoglycan, beta-dystroglycan, beta1-integrin, and laminin alpha-2 expressions were reduced followed by their breakdown, as epiphenomena of the myocytolytic process. In conclusion, administration of isoproterenol to rats results in primary loss of dystrophin, the most sensitive among the structural proteins that form the DGC that connects the extracellular matrix and the cytoskeleton in cardiomyocyte. These changes, related to ischaemic injury, explain the severe alterations in the structural integrity of the sarcolemma of cardiomyocytes and hence severe and irreversible injury induced by isoproterenol.
The relationships between the cardiovascular effects, alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blocking actions and plasma concentration of labetalol have been examined in conscious DOCA hypertensive rats. Labetalol (10, 30 and 100 mg/kg p.o.) reduced resting heart rate; blood pressure was reduced only by the two higher doses. The effects lasted 5-24 hours. There was a highly significant correlation between the plasma labetalol concentration and its cardiovascular effects. During the labetalol-induced hypotension and bradycardia the vasopressor responses to intra-arterial injections of phenylephrine were reduced; the tachycardia and vasodepressor responses produced by intra-arterial injections of isoprenaline were also reduced. It is concluded that alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade probably account for the labetalol-induced decreases in resting blood pressure and heart rate respectively.
The main objective of this study was to compare 1-year outcome on symptoms, extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) , positive and negative symptoms, and domains of cognition in first episode psychosis (FEP) patients. Drug-naive FEP patients, who were similar on a number of characteristics likely to affect outcome, were treated with only one antipsychotic (risperidone or olanzapine) for at least 1 year and compared at baseline and after 1 year of treatment. Differences in outcome were assessed using an analysis of co-variance with change scores between initial assessment and after 1 year of treatment on levels of psychotic, disorganization and psychomotor poverty symptoms, EPS (parkinsonism, akathesia and dyskineisa) and domains of cognition as the dependent variable, respective baseline scores as covariates, and drug group as the independent variable. While patients in both groups showed substantial improvement, there were no significant differences in the magnitude of change in reality distortion, disorganization and psychomotor poverty symptoms. Trends in change in EPS favouring olanzapine and on some domains of cognition (processing speed and executive functions) favouring risperidone failed to reach statistical significance. The failure to confirm previous claims of greater improvement on either risperidone or olanzapine in patients with a first episode of psychosis may be the result of methodological bias introduced by unequal dosing between the two drugs or the use of chronically ill and treatment-refractory patients in previous studies.
The present study has defined conditions whereby a reversible form of ischemia-induced ARF can be produced in the dog. Unlike previous studies [9-11] which examined the acute phase of NE-induced ARF, this study demonstrates the feasibility of using the model for the longitudinal study of ARF. Such a model may be useful in studying the pathologic and physiologic changes which occur during different phases of ARF. Perhaps most important, this model should also provide a setting in which treatment measures, either prophylactic or therapeutic for ARF, can be examined.
Pneumocystis carini (PCP) has been recognized as a cause of pneumonia in immuocompromised patients, most notably in AIDS patients, but also in those receiving immunosuppressive therapy for a variety of other conditions, including malignancy, having an organ transplant, connective tissue diseases, and vasculitic syndromes. In non-HIV PCP patients, presentations may be more dramatic than in HIV-related PCP and the mortality may be higher, thus emphasizing the need to identify and provide prophylaxis for those at highest risk for PCP. The incidence of PCP varies in different rheumatic disorders, with the highest rated noted in Wegener's granulomatosis and the lowest noted in rheumatoid arthritis. Prophylactic regimens should be used in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis taking cyclophosphamide and daily corticosteroids and in other rheumatic disease patients who are treated with this regimen, such as in PAN, microscopic polyarteritis, or severe systemic lupus erythematosus. Prophylaxis should be strongly considered in patients taking prolonged, high doses of daily corticosteroids (>40mg/day for > 3 months) with a second immunosuppressive agent other than cyclophosphamide, such as methotrexate, for example, as in PM/DM and in alternative regimens for Wegener's granulomatosis. Emerging data suggest the utility of CD4 counts as a method to distinguish those at highest risk for PCP to selectively apply prophylactic therapy. TMP-SMX is the usual first choice for prohpylaxis.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduce tumour mass by increasing the rate of tumour cell apoptosis and decreasing cell proliferation. The classically recognized target for NSAID action are the two isoforms of the cyclooxygenase (COX) gene, which is responsible for prostaglandin production. In the rat, the COX-1 gene expresses an alternatively spliced mRNA COX-1 splice variant (SV) which may, at best, code for a truncated COX-1 protein. Previously, we reported that COX-1SV mRNA is differentially expressed in the ageing stomach. In this study, carcinogen treated rats were treated for 23 weeks with celecoxib, sulindac or sulindac sulfone, while untreated rats received vehicle alone. For each animal, the number and volume of tumour per animal was recorded and histology was performed. Using competitive polymerase chain reaction, we determined whether COX gene expression was altered in colorectal tumours and in regions of adjacent and distant macroscopically normal intestine, from vehicle or NSAID treated rats. In addition, we immunolocalized COX-1 and COX-2 in the same tumour and normal colonic tissue. Tumours from animals treated with vehicle or celecoxib expressed significantly elevated levels of COX-2 mRNA in comparison with the adjacent normal mucosa. In contrast, tumours from sulindac and sulindac sulfone treated rats expressed significantly less COX-2 mRNA than tumours from vehicle treated rats. The expression of COX-1 mRNA remained unchanged in all tissues examined. However, COX-1SV mRNA levels were elevated in colorectal tumours and reduced after NSAID treatment to the levels observed in normal colonic mucosa. Our results indicate that the anti-neoplastic actions of NSAIDs may be attributed to COX dependent and/or COX independent mechanisms of action. We also demonstrate the presence and differential expression of COX-1SV mRNA in colon tumours. COX-1SV mRNA represents 2% of the total COX-1 mRNA expressed and its role in colon cancer remains to be established.
A dyskinetic syndrome in two children after premedication with Thalamonal is reported. Therapy, if any, should be given with biperidin (Akineton) only, but not with physostigmin.
To investigate whether 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] can mediate effects without being converted to 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)2D].
Vitamin D3 (VD3) was injected intramuscularly to 25-hydroxyvitamin D-1α-hydroxylase [1α(OH)ase] gene knockout (KO) male mice with a dose of 10,000 IU per week for 4 weeks. Skeleton Parameters and Serum biochemistry in mice were assayed.
Serum 25(OH)D3 levels increased from 41 to 212 ng/mL in KO mice injected with VD3. Our results show that VD3 injections significantly increased the body weight of KO mice and there were no significant differences in body weight at 7 weeks of age between VD3-treated KO mice and wildtype (WT) mice. After 1 month injection, serum calcium and phosphorus levels of the KO mice were found indistinguishable from those of their WT littermates. Serum parathyroid hormone level declined significantly, but remained higher in treated KO mice. The dry weight, percentage ash weight, and calcium content of femur were returned to normal levels in VD3-treated KO mice whereas the femoral length, although increased significantly, remained significantly smaller than that of WT mice. VD3 injections also normalized the growth plate of KO mice within normal width.
Our results demonstrate that high-dose VD3 injections can partially rescue the phenotype in 1α-hydroxylase gene KO mice. 25-Hydroxyvitamin D can mediate effects in the absence of conversion to 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D was confirmed in this study.
Recently, prostaglandins have been shown to be effective agents for the treatment of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. Among the prostaglandins studied is carboprost tromethamine, a PGF2a analog. To determine the effectiveness of carboprost tromethamine therapy on the urothelium, we induced hemorrhagic cystitis in 81 rats. These were divided into two treatment arms. One arm was treated prophylactically at the time of cyclophosphamide injection, and the other started treatment only after hemorrhagic cystitis was established. Animals were divided equally into groups receiving 0, 0.4, 0.8, and 1.6 mg.% carboprost tromethamine in 0.9% normal saline by continuous bladder irrigation. All bladders were examined grossly for edema and hemorrhage, then histologically for mucosal ulceration, congestion, and perivascular hemorrhage. Results from the prophylactic arm, as compared to those for controls, revealed that all groups except those treated only with 0.9% normal saline had a lower incidence of hemorrhagic cystitis (p less than 0.05). In the established hemorrhagic cystitis arm, the group treated with 1.6 mg.% carboprost tromethamine showed the best response (p less than 0.05), whereas the group treated with 0.9% normal saline showed the poorest response. This study reveals that hemorrhagic cystitis in the rat model may be prevented by prophylactic continuous bladder irrigation with carboprost tromethamine, whereas established hemorrhagic cystitis may be treated effectively with intravesical instillation of carboprost tromethamine. Although the mechanism of action of this prostaglandin on the urothelium is unknown, it appears grossly and histologically to decrease ulceration, perivascular hemorrhage, and congestion in the mucosa and submucosa.
Damage to DNA can lead to many different acute and chronic pathophysiological conditions, ranging from cancer to endothelial damage. The current study has been initiated to determine whether the flavonoid wogonin can attenuate etoposide-induced oxidative DNA damage and apoptosis in mouse bone marrow cells. We found that oral administration of wogonin before etoposide injection significantly attenuates etoposide-induced oxidative DNA damage and apoptosis in a dose dependent manner. Etoposide induced a significant down-regulation of mRNA expression of the OGG1 repair gene and marked biochemical alterations characteristic of oxidative DNA stress, including increased 8-OHdG, enhanced lipid peroxidation and reduction in reduced glutathione. Prior administration of wogonin ahead of etoposide challenge restored these altered parameters. Importantly, wogonin had no antagonizing effect on etoposide-induce topoisomerase-II inhibition. Conclusively, our study indicates that wogonin has a protective role in the abatement of etoposide-induced oxidative DNA damage and apoptosis in the bone marrow cells of mice via suppression of oxidative DNA stress and enhancing DNA repair through modulation of OGG1 repair gene expression. Therefore, wogonin can be a promising chemoprotective agent and might be useful to avert secondary leukemia and other drug-related cancers in cured cancer patients and medical personnel exposing to the potent carcinogen etoposide.
The effect of administration of 13-cis-retinoic acid (100 mg/kg diet) on lipid metabolism was examined in male rats fed either a 20% casein + 0.3% methionine diet, a 20% casein diet, a 10% casein + 0.3% methionine diet, or a 10% casein + 0.6% methionine diet for 10 days. Hepatic triglyceride concentrations of rats fed either 10% casein diet were 3-fold greater than animals receiving diets containing 20% casein. The addition of 13-cis-retinoic acid to the diet further increased the total hepatic lipid (43-56%) and triglyceride (approximately 2-fold) concentrations in rats fed the 10% casein diets. 13-cis-Retinoic acid supplementation did not alter the total liver lipid or triglyceride concentrations in rats fed either of the 20% casein diets. Thus, under specific dietary conditions, the administration of 13-cis-retinoic acid resulted in a marked accumulation of hepatic lipids which did not appear to be related to the total methionine content of the diet nor to the hepatic concentrations of S-adenosylmethionine and glutathione. In addition, all four groups of 13-cis-retinoic acid-fed rats exhibited elevations in the concentration of serum triglycerides, and 10-20% reductions in serum cholesterol concentrations.
Intensive doses of carboplatin, cyclophosphamide, and BCNU with autologous bone marrow support were given to four patients with advanced melanoma. Three developed clinically diagnosed, severe veno-occlusive liver disease, which was fatal in two cases. The dose of carboplatin (450 mg/m2) was comparable with that used in ambulatory regimens. At the doses and schedule employed, this three-drug combination produced excessive hepatic toxicity. Caution is suggested when giving carboplatin in combination with intensive doses of other chemotherapeutic agents with known hepatotoxic potential.
Resveratrol is a potent inhibitor of inflammation and has anti-diabetic potentiality, however whether its anti-inflammatory potency contributes to the amelioration of diabetes or insulin resistance remains to be determined. This study aims at evaluating the effects of resveratrol on inflammation-related adipokines expression and insulin sensitivity in adipocytes. We stimulated RAW264.7 cells with LPS and collected the supernatant as a conditioned medium (CM) for the culture of adipocytes. Resveratrol, at concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 10 muM, effectively inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced TNF-alpha and IL-6 production with the downregulation of relative genes expression in macrophages. Exposing differentiated 3T3-L1 cells to RAW264.7 CM resulted in gene over-expressions of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and resistin, however, mRNA expression of adiponectin and PPARgamma were down-regulated. Pretreatment of CM from resveratrol-treated macrophages reduced the elevated levels of TNF-alpha and IL-6, and significantly reversed inflammation-related changes in adipokine gene expression in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Resveratrol suppressed extracellular receptor-activated kinase (ERK) and transcription factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation by reducing the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and NF-kappaB p65; moreover, it modulated insulin signaling transduction by modification of Ser/Thr phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) and downstream AKT (T308), and thereby improved insulin sensitivity in adiposities. These results demonstrated that resveratrol modulated adipokines expression and improved insulin sensitivity which relative to inhibition of inflammatory-like response in adipocytes.
Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder diagnosed in early childhood. Abnormalities of serotonergic neurotransmission have been reported in autism. Serotonin transporter (5-HTT), which modulates serotonin levels, is a major therapeutic target in autism. Therefore, factors that regulate 5-HTT expression might be implicated in autism. One candidate 5-HTT-regulatory protein is the presynaptic protein, syntaxin 1A (STX1A). We examined the association of STX1A with autism in a trio association study using DNA samples from 249 AGRE trios with autistic probands. Only male probands were selected, since autism is more prevalent among males. The probands of 102 trios had IQ>70, and were considered as high functioning autism (HFA). In transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) analysis, rs2293485 (p=0.034) and rs4717806 (p=0.033) showed nominal associations with HFA; modest haplotype association was also observed. The SNPs that showed associations were related to early developmental abnormalities (ADI-R_D). We further compared STX1A mRNA expression in the lymphocytes of drug-naive HFA patients (n=12) and age- and sex-matched controls (n=13). STX1A expression in the HFA group was significantly higher (p=0.001) than that of controls. Thus, we suggest a possible role of STX1A in the pathogenesis of HFA. During early childhood, there is a period of high brain serotonin synthesis that is disrupted in autistic children; STX1A might influence the serotonergic system during this stage of neurodevelopment, as implied by the association with ADI-R_D.
The effect of two drugs upon multifocal myoclonic jerks was evaluated. The drugs influence the central cholinergic system in opposite ways. Eight patients with progressive and nonprogressive myoclonic epilepsy were tested. The single blind test was used. The number of myoclonic jerks after intravenous physostigmine (mean dose 0.02 mg/kg) and that after atropine (0.04 mg/kg) was compared to number of myoclonic jerks in the drug-free periods and with placebo. Placebo was without an effect. Physostigmine slightly increased the number of jerks. Atropine decreased the number significantly. In most patients the results were not striking. It is suggested that the cholinergic system may participate in the physiopathology of the studied myoclonus in a rather indirect, perhaps modulating way.
Dietary intake of fructose and sucrose can cause development of metabolic and cardiovascular disorders. The consequences of high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS), a commonly consumed form of fructose and glucose, have poorly been examined. Therefore, in this study, we investigated whether HFCS intake (10% and 20% beverages for 12 weeks) impacts vascular reactivity to insulin and endothelin-1 in conjunction with insulin receptor substrate-1(IRS-1), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS) mRNA/proteins levels in aorta of rats. At challenge, we tested the effectiveness of resveratrol (28-30 mg/kg body weight/day) on outcomes of HFCS feeding. HFCS (20%) diet feeding increased plasma triglyceride, VLDL, cholesterol, insulin and glucose levels, but not body weights of rats. Impaired nitric oxide-mediated relaxation to insulin (10⁻⁹ to 3×10⁻⁶ M), and enhanced contraction to endothelin-1 (10⁻¹¹ to 10⁻⁸ M) were associated with decreased expression of IRS-1 and eNOS mRNA and protein, but increased expression of iNOS, in aortas of rats fed with HFCS. Resveratrol supplementation restored many features of HFCS-induced disturbances, probably by regulating eNOS and iNOS production. In conclusion, dietary HFCS causes vascular insulin resistance and endothelial dysfunction through attenuating IRS-1 and eNOS expressions as well as increasing iNOS in rats. Resveratrol has capability to recover HFCS-induced disturbances.
Spinal muscular atrophy and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies are characterized by muscle weakness and atrophy caused by the degenerations of peripheral motor and sensory nerves. Recent advances in genetics have resulted in the identification of missense mutations in TRPV4 in patients with these hereditary neuropathies. Neurodegeneration caused by Ca(2+) overload due to the gain-of-function mutation of TRPV4 was suggested as the molecular mechanism for the neuropathies. Despite the importance of TRPV4 mutations in causing neuropathies, the precise role of TRPV4 in the sensory/motor neurons is unknown. Here, we report that TRPV4 mediates neurotrophic factor-derived neuritogenesis in developing peripheral neurons. TRPV4 was found to be highly expressed in sensory and spinal motor neurons in early development as well as in the adult, and the overexpression or chemical activation of TRPV4 was found to promote neuritogenesis in sensory neurons as well as PC12 cells, whereas its knockdown and pharmacologic inhibition had the opposite effect. More importantly, nerve growth factor or cAMP treatment up-regulated the expression of phospholipase A(2) and TRPV4. Neurotrophic factor-derived neuritogenesis appears to be regulated by the phospholipase A(2)-mediated TRPV4 pathway. These findings show that TRPV4 mediates neurotrophic factor-induced neuritogenesis in developing peripheral nerves. Because neurotrophic factors are essential for the maintenance of peripheral nerves, these findings suggest that aberrant TRPV4 activity may lead to some types of pathology of sensory and motor nerves.
