Loss of endothelial cell-derived nitric oxide (NO) in hypertension is a hallmark of arterial dysfunction. Experimental hypertension created by the removal of NO, however, involves mechanisms in addition to decreased arterial vasodilator activity. These include augmented endothelin-1 (ET-1) release, increased sympathetic nervous system activity, and elevated tissue oxidative stress. We hypothesized that increased venous smooth muscle (venomotor) tone plays a role in Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (LNNA) hypertension through these mechanisms. Rats were treated with the NO synthase inhibitor LNNA (0.5 g/L in drinking water) for 2 weeks. Mean arterial pressure of conscious rats was 119 +/- 2 mm Hg in control and 194 +/- 5 mm Hg in LNNA rats (P<0.05). Carotid arteries and vena cava were removed for measurement of isometric contraction. Maximal contraction to norepinephrine was modestly reduced in arteries from LNNA compared with control rats whereas the maximum contraction to ET-1 was significantly reduced (54% control). Maximum contraction of vena cava to norepinephrine (37% control) also was reduced but no change in response to ET-1 was observed. Mean circulatory filling pressure, an in vivo measure of venomotor tone, was not elevated in LNNA hypertension at 1 or 2 weeks after LNNA. The superoxide scavenger tempol (30, 100, and 300 micromol kg(-1), IV) did not change arterial pressure in control rats but caused a dose-dependent decrease in LNNA rats (-18 +/- 8, -26 +/- 15, and -54 +/- 11 mm Hg). Similarly, ganglionic blockade with hexamethonium caused a significantly greater fall in LNNA hypertensive rats (76 +/- 9 mm Hg) compared with control rats (35 +/- 10 mm Hg). Carotid arteries, vena cava, and sympathetic ganglia from LNNA rats had higher basal levels of superoxide compared with those from control rats. These data suggest that while NO deficiency increases oxidative stress and sympathetic activity in both arterial and venous vessels, the impact on veins does not make a major contribution to this form of hypertension.
In order to evaluate the role of prostacyclin in d-tubocurarine-induced hypotension in human, the authors examined the relationship of changes of arterial blood pressure and plasma 6-keto-PGF1 alpha level following iv administration of d-tubocurarine (dTc), with or without prior administration of aspirin and H1 antagonist. The bolus injection of dTc 0.6 mg/kg caused a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure (MAP) that was associated with a significant increase in plasma 6-keto-PGF1 alpha (P less than 0.05 in both). The maximum MAP decrease and plasma 6-keto-PGF1 alpha increase were noted at 2 min after dTc administration. Pretreatment with aspirin DL-lysine (25 mg/kg) or diphenhydramine (1 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the responses of MAP (P less than 0.05 in both) and plasma 6-keto-PGF1 alpha level (P less than 0.01 for aspirin group, P less than 0.05 for diphenhydramine group). There was a significant correlation between the changes in plasma 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and those in MAP (Kendall tau (tau) = -0.504, P less than 0.01). These findings suggest that a bolus injection of dTc induces a release of prostacyclin through H1 receptor, which is responsible for the dTc-induced transient decrease of blood pressure in humans.
Two patients, a 40-year-old woman and a 75-year-old man, were investigated due to a chronic polyneuritis. Amiodarone was used by them to treat refractory cardiac arrhythmia since 4 and 6 years before, respectively. The EMG study showed an axonal neuropathy. The light and electron-microscopical study of sural nerve displayed a loss of large myelinated fibers and a marked reduction of unmyelinated axons, associated with osmiophilic lamellated inclusions in Schwann cells and endothelial venulae. The interruption of amiodarone therapy improved neuropathy. Considered together with similar reports in perhexiline neuropathy and with chloroquine induced neuropathy this would stress the importance of these new drug-induced neurolipidosis.
Biallelic NF2 gene inactivation is frequently found in human malignant mesothelioma. In order to assess whether NF2 hemizygosity may enhance susceptibility to asbestos fibres, we investigated the Nf2 status in mesothelioma developed in mice presenting a heterozygous mutation of the Nf2 gene (Nf2(KO3/+)), after intraperitoneal inoculation of crocidolite fibres. Asbestos-exposed Nf2(KO3/+) mice developed tumoural ascites and mesothelioma at a higher frequency than their wild-type (WT) counterparts (P&<0.05). Six out of seven mesothelioma cell lines established from neoplastic ascitic fluids of Nf2(KO3/+) mice exhibited loss of the WT Nf2 allele and no neurofibromatosis type 2 protein expression was found in these cells. The results show the importance of the NF2 gene in mesothelial oncogenesis, the potential association of asbestos exposure and tumour suppressor gene inactivation, and suggest that NF2 gene mutation may be a susceptibility factor to asbestos.
The ability of drugs of abuse to increase dopamine in nucleus accumbens underlies their reinforcing effects. However, preclinical studies have shown that with repeated drug exposure neutral stimuli paired with the drug (conditioned stimuli) start to increase dopamine by themselves, which is an effect that could underlie drug-seeking behavior. Here we test whether dopamine increases occur to conditioned stimuli in human subjects addicted to cocaine and whether this is associated with drug craving. We tested eighteen cocaine-addicted subjects using positron emission tomography and [11C]raclopride (dopamine D2 receptor radioligand sensitive to competition with endogenous dopamine). We measured changes in dopamine by comparing the specific binding of [11C]raclopride when subjects watched a neutral video (nature scenes) versus when they watched a cocaine-cue video (scenes of subjects smoking cocaine). The specific binding of [11C]raclopride in dorsal (caudate and putamen) but not in ventral striatum (in which nucleus accumbens is located) was significantly reduced in the cocaine-cue condition and the magnitude of this reduction correlated with self-reports of craving. Moreover, subjects with the highest scores on measures of withdrawal symptoms and of addiction severity that have been shown to predict treatment outcomes, had the largest dopamine changes in dorsal striatum. This provides evidence that dopamine in the dorsal striatum (region implicated in habit learning and in action initiation) is involved with craving and is a fundamental component of addiction. Because craving is a key contributor to relapse, strategies aimed at inhibiting dopamine increases from conditioned responses are likely to be therapeutically beneficial in cocaine addiction.
Diclofenac sodium is a widely used enteric-coated nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug. We describe a woman with Hemoccult-positive stools and iron deficiency anemia who developed both a colonic ulcer and a "diaphragm-like" colonic stricture while taking enteric-coated diclofenac. These lesions were evident on colonoscopy but not on barium studies. Biopsy specimens of the ulcer and stricture revealed particulate matter that was indistinguishable from diclofenac pill fragments by electron microscopy. Discontinuation of diclofenac therapy resulted in resolution of anemia and Hemoccult-positive stools. We conclude that (1) enteric-coated diclofenac is associated with both colonic ulcers and diaphragm-like colonic strictures; (2) the pathophysiologic mechanism for the development of both ulcers and strictures may involve a direct action of diclofenac within these lesions; (3) colonoscopy may be superior to barium studies in evaluating patients receiving diclofenac who have iron deficiency anemia and/or Hemoccult-positive stools.
Changes in blood-brain (BBB) permeability and local cerebral blood flow after intracarotid administration of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) were examined quantitatively in rats with double-tracer autoradiography using [14C]alpha-amino-isobutyric acid and [18F]fluoroantipyrine. Forty-eight female Wistar rats were divided into four groups. The control group (Group 1) received 1 ml of 5% dextrose. The other three groups received three different doses of BCNU dissolved in 5% dextrose: Group II rats received 1 mg, Group III 3 mg, and Group IV 10 mg. The tracer study was performed on Day 1 or Days 4 to 12 after intracarotid administration of BCNU. In 11 rats in Group II, there were no changes of BBB permeability. Transient BBB permeability changes were seen in the striatum or hippocampus in 3 of the 5 rats (60%) in Group III within 24 hours. In 8 of 9 rats (89%) in the same group, late BBB permeability changes were observed in the hypothalamus with or without histological changes. BBB permeability changes were seen in all rats of Group IV. Focal increase of local cerebral blood flow on the infused side compared with the non-infused side of the brain was observed, although not at a significant level, in 5 of 25 rats examined with [18F]fluoroantipyrine. The results of BBB permeability and histological examinations and study of heterogenous distribution by [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose indicated that the ipsilateral subcortical structures such as the hypothalamus, amygdala, internal capsule, and caudate putamen have the highest incidence of neurotoxicity, which are closely related to histopathological damage seen in human BCNU leucoencephalopathy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We describe a 49-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus infection and stable chronic renal insufficiency who developed acute oliguric renal failure and severe lactic acidosis and who died several weeks after tenofovir was added to an antiretroviral regimen that included didanosine. Although the role of tenofovir in precipitating acute renal failure is unclear, progressive accumulation of the drug and pharmacologic interaction that caused increased levels of didanosine were the likely antecedents of increased mitochondrial toxicity that led to lactic acidosis.
Subthalamic (Stn) deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a valid surgical therapy for the treatment of severe Parkinson's disease. In recent years, StnDBS has been proposed for patients who previously received other surgical treatments, such as thalamotomy and pallidotomy. Nonetheless, there is no consensus about the indications of DBS in patients who previously underwent surgery. To the best of our knowledge this is the first reported case of a patient treated with DBS after previous thalamotomy and adrenal grafting.
A 62-year-old man with a long history (more than 30 yr) of Parkinson's disease received unilateral thalamotomy and autologous adrenal graft on two independent occasions. Thalamotomy led to a significant improvement, although limited to the control of contralateral tremor. The autologous adrenal graft was of no benefit. For the subsequent occurrence of L-dopa related dyskinesias and severe "off" periods, the patient was referred to our center for StnDBS.
The patient underwent bilateral StnDBS, obtaining a satisfactory improvement of rigidity and bradykinesia on both sides. The 1-year follow-up evaluation showed a 46% improvement in the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor section, along with a noticeable reduction in antiparkinsonian therapy (81%).
This case is consistent with previous reports from the literature, suggesting that StnDBS is feasible and safe, even in patients who previously received other surgical treatments for Parkinson's disease, such as thalamotomy or cell grafting.
Treatment with histamine2-receptor antagonists has been associated with adverse central nervous system reactions (CNS-ADRs). Previous studies of cimetidine have shown an association between CNS-ADRs and high cimetidine drug levels. While case reports of ranitidine CNS-ADRs have appeared, we wanted to study a series of patients, some of whom were critically ill, for the presence of CNS-ADRs and to correlate these with ranitidine pharmacokinetics.
A prospective, observational, open study included 163 consecutive patients, of whom 41 met entry criteria. A nonlinear least-squares regression analysis was used to establish a ranitidine pharmacokinetic dosing model. Ranitidine levels were determined by a high-performance liquid chromatographic assay. Individual ranitidine pharmacokinetics were determined by means of a bayesian model. Observations on 13 possible CNS-ADRs were recorded. The CNS-ADRs were evaluated by the Naranjo rating system.
Ranitidine-associated CNS-ADRs, particularly lethargy, confusion, somnolence, and disorientation, occurred more frequently in patients with renal function impairment, and these were associated with higher peak concentrations, average plasma concentrations, and area under the curve.
Ranitidine, when given in conventional doses, can cause CNS-ADRs, particularly in older patients who have substantial renal function impairment. These CNS-ADRs occur as a consequence of altered ranitidine disposition. Ranitidine doses should be reduced when renal function impairment is present, and patients should be carefully observed for CNS-ADRs.
Autism is a genetic neurodevelopmental disorder of unknown cause and pathogenesis. The identification of genes involved in autism is expected to increase our understanding of its pathogenesis. Infrequently, neurodevelopmental disorders like autism are associated with chromosomal anomalies. To identify candidate genes for autism, we initiated a positional cloning strategy starting from individuals with idiopathic autism carrying a de novo chromosomal anomaly. We report on the clinical, cytogenetic and molecular findings in a male person with autism, no physical abnormalities and normal IQ, carrying a de novo balanced paracentric inversion 46,XY,inv(10)(q11.1;q21.3). The distal breakpoint disrupts the TRIP8 gene, which codes for a protein predicted to be a transcriptional regulator associated with nuclear thyroid hormone receptors. However, no link between thyroid gland and autism has been reported so far. In addition, the same breakpoint abolishes expression of a nearby gene, REEP3, through a position effect. Receptor Expression-Enhancing Proteins (REEP) 3 is one of the six human homologs of yeast Yop1p, a probable regulator of cellular vesicle trafficking between the endoplasmatic reticulum and the Golgi network. These observations suggest that TRIP8 and REEP3 are both positional candidate genes for autism. In addition, our data indicate that in the selection of positional candidate genes when studying chromosomal aberrations, position effects should be taken into account.
Clinical concern still exists regarding the potentially deleterious results of the combined negative inotropic effects of cardiac beta-adrenoceptor and slow calcium channel blockade in patients with impaired left ventricular function due to coronary heart disease. The haemodynamic effects of sublingual nifedipine (20 mg) and intravenous metoprolol (10 mg) singly and in combination were therefore studied in 20 patients with severe angina pectoris associated with angiographically documented coronary artery disease. The plasma concentrations of each drug at the time of the haemodynamic measurements were within the range associated with relief of exercise-induced anginal pain. Sitting at rest, nifedipine was associated with reductions in systemic arterial pressure (P less than 0.05), systemic vascular resistance (P less than 0.001), and increases in heart rate (P less than 0.01) and cardiac output (P less than 0.05) without significant change in the left heart filling pressure. In contrast, sitting at rest, metoprolol was associated with reductions in systemic blood pressure (P less than 0.05), heart rate (P less than 0.001) and cardiac output (P less than 0.05) and an increase in left heart filling pressure (P less than 0.01). After both drugs, similar directional changes were observed during upright bicycle exercise compared to the control exercise measurements. In combination, the negative inotropic effects of metoprolol were largely offset by the reduction of the systemic vascular resistance due to nifedipine. Conversely the reflex tachycardia following nifedipine was countered by metoprolol. Thus the combination reduced two of the major determinants of left ventricular oxygen consumption, namely heart rate and systemic blood pressure, at the expense of a small increase in left heart filling pressure. This may have explained the subjective improvement in anginal symptoms noticed by the majority of the patients. The combination of nifedipine and metoprolol was haemodynamically more advantageous both at rest and during exercise than either drug alone in our patients with depressed left ventricular function due to the coronary heart disease.
Administration of phenylpropanolamine (PPA) is a rare cause of intracerebral hemorrhage. We present the case of a young female patient with arteriovenous malformation who suffered an intracerebral hemorrhage after ingestion of diet pills containing PPA. The literature on PPA-related intracerebral hemorrhage is also reviewed. This is the first report of PPA-associated intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient with pathology-proven arteriovenous malformation of the brain. Because intracerebral hemorrhage may develop as a side effect of PPA when patients take the manufacturer's recommended dose, especially in patients with vascular abnormalities, we conclude that this medicine should be prescribed carefully and patients should be closely monitored by experienced physicians. Furthermore, its use should be contraindicated in patients who have, or possibly have, a family history of vascular abnormalities.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) can proliferate and self-renew extensively due to their ability to express anti-apoptotic and drug resistant proteins, thus sustaining tumor growth. Therefore, the strategy to eradicate CSCs might have significant clinical implications. The objectives of this study were to examine the molecular mechanisms by which resveratrol inhibits stem cell characteristics of pancreatic CSCs derived from human primary tumors and Kras(G12D) transgenic mice.
Human pancreatic CSCs (CD133(+)CD44(+)CD24(+)ESA(+)) are highly tumorigenic and form subcutaneous tumors in NOD/SCID mice. Human pancreatic CSCs expressing high levels of CD133, CD24, CD44, ESA, and aldehyde dehydrogenase also express significantly more Nanog, Oct-4, Notch1, MDR1 and ABCG2 than normal pancreatic tissues and primary pancreatic cancer cells. Similarly, CSCs from Kras(G12D) mice express significantly higher levels of Nanog and Oct-4 than pancreatic tissues from Pdx-Cre mice. Resveratrol inhibits the growth (size and weight) and development (PanIN lesions) of pancreatic cancer in Kras(G12D) mice. Resveratrol inhibits the self-renewal capacity of pancreatic CSCs derived from human primary tumors and Kras(G12D) mice. Resveratrol induces apoptosis by activating capase-3/7 and inhibiting the expression of Bcl-2 and XIAP in human CSCs. Resveratrol inhibits pluripotency maintaining factors (Nanog, Sox-2, c-Myc and Oct-4) and drug resistance gene ABCG2 in CSCs. Inhibition of Nanog by shRNA enhances the inhibitory effects of resveratrol on self-renewal capacity of CSCs. Finally, resveratrol inhibits CSC's migration and invasion and markers of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (Zeb-1, Slug and Snail).
These data suggest that resveratrol inhibits pancreatic cancer stem cell characteristics in human and Kras(G12D) transgenic mice by inhibiting pluripotency maintaining factors and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. In conclusion, resveratrol can be used for the management of pancreatic cancer.
We previously reported on the development of a pathway-selective estrogen receptor (ER) ligand, WAY-169916, that has ER-dependent antiinflammatory activity and is devoid of classic ER transcriptional activity. In the current study, WAY-169916 and 17beta-estradiol (17beta-E2) were evaluated for protective activity in models of cardiac ischemia-reperfusion injury. In rats subjected to cardiac ischemia-reperfusion injury by occlusion of the left coronary artery, infarct size relative to the area at risk in the left ventricle was significantly attenuated by a single dose of 17beta-E2 (20 microg/kg, SC), and WAY-169916 administered SC (10 mg/kg) or IV (1 mg/kg) during the ischemia phase. In isolated hearts perfused on a Langendorff apparatus and subjected to global ischemia and reperfusion, 17beta-E2 and WAY-169916 both had direct cardioprotective activity when perfused at 1 microM but their effects varied between different end points. Perfusion with 17beta-E2 only improved recovery of left ventricle-developed pressure. Perfusion with WAY-169916 attenuated the elevation in perfusion pressure, diastolic pressure, and release of creatine kinase after ischemia. In contrast to 17alpha-ethinylestradiol, WAY-169916 had no classic estrogen effects on uterine weight or total serum cholesterol in rats treated for 4 days. The data demonstrate that the pathway-selective ER ligand WAY-169916 displays differential activity in vivo on different cardiovascular end points.
We report a case of combined levomepromazine-fluvoxamine treatment-induced seizures. It seems that combined treatment of fluvoxamine with phenothiazines may possess proconvulsive activity.
Gastric ulcer is a multifaceted process including acid secretion, reactive oxygen species generation, prostaglandin inhibition, and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have the ability to cleave and remodel the ECM. We investigated the activity and expression of MMP-9 and -2 in ethanol-induced acute gastric ulceration in rats. We found that severity of gastric ulcer was strongly correlated with increasing doses of ethanol and increased secretion of proMMP-9. ProMMP-9 was upregulated approximately 25-fold at maximum ulcer index. Increased secretion of proMMP-9 was associated with increased expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6. We examined the effect of H(2)-receptor antagonists and antioxidants on proMMP-9 secretion and synthesis during prevention of ethanol-induced gastric ulcer. Our data reveal that famotidine dose dependently blocked increased secretion and synthesis of proMMP-9 during gastroprotection and arrested infiltration of inflammatory cells as well as oxidative stress in rat gastric tissues. Similar to H(2)-receptor antagonists, N-acetylcysteine and dimethyl sulfoxide, well-known antioxidants, inhibited proMMP-9 upregulation to the control level. In conclusion, ethanol-induced gastric ulceration is associated with increased expression of proMMP-9 that can be attenuated by H(2)-receptor antagonists and antioxidants. These findings furnish a novel MMP-9-mediated pathway and its inhibition via proinflammatory cytokines by famotidine in ethanol-induced gastric ulceration.
Rats were injected with the cannabinoid receptor agonists delta 9-THC (5 mg/kg) or anandamide (20 mg/kg) and assessed for changes in body temperature and locomotor activity. Their brains were then examined for the expression of the immediate early gene c-fos. Similar reductions in body temperature and locomotor activity were seen with delta 9-THC and anandamide although there was evidence, in line with previous reports, to suggest a shorter duration of action of anandamide. delta 9-THC and anandamide caused equally high levels of c-fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the lateral septum. Both drugs also increased c-fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala although the effect was greater with delta 9-THC. Only delta 9-THC caused significant increases in c-fos expression in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen. These differences may be linked to differential activation of cannabinoid receptor subtypes or to differences in efficacy in activating second messenger systems linked to cannabinoid receptors. These findings complement evidence of qualitative differences in the actions of anandamide and delta 9-THC emerging from tests of drug discrimination, cross-tolerance, conditioned place preference and anxiety.
Twenty-two cases with essential arterial hypertension were studied in the final part of a chronic period of treatment with Chlortalidona and in the first 30 days after treatment. Measurements of the following parameters were made: 1) Change in the excretion of urinary aldosterone (aldo). 2) Change in the arterial pressure (delta P). 3) Transtherapeutic serum potassium (delta K). 4) Change in the Q-T (delta QT) in the electrocardiogram. The measurements were made 3 days after the suppression of the drug and afterwards every 3 to 6 days for a month. The correlation of the K and QT was significant (r = 0.63). The P did not correlate with the K nor with the aldo (r = 0.14). The aldo was -5.92 +/- 3.1 ug./24 hs (p = 0.01) in those cases responsive to the drug. The disappearance of the antihypertensive effect occurred at 9.61 +/- 3.7 days and correlated with the normalization of the QT (r = 0.83) and the serum potassium. The delta aldo correlated with K (r = 0.56) and normalized 6.7 days after the suspension of the drug. The secondary aldosteronism participates in the parogenia of the transtherapeutic hypokalemia although with a slightly significant correlation. The important correlation between the disappearances of the antihypertensive effects and the electrocardiographic signs of hypokalemia may dwell in changes which directly or indirectly exercise the diuretic in the intracellular metabolism of K without necessarily cousing an antihypertensive effect additive of the same hypokalemia.
We report 2 cases of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia with distinct clinical and karyotypic features shared by therapy-related acute non-lymphocytic leukemia occurring after adjuvant chemotherapy including 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin and mitomycin C. Our observation suggests a causal relationship between exposure to mitomycin C and the occurrence of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia.
In young children with incessant ventricular tachycardia and severe ventricular dysfunction, the management of tachycardia with conventional antiarrhythmic drugs remains a major therapeutic challenge because most of these drugs can further depress myocardial function. We report a four year old boy with verapamil responsive incessant ventricular tachycardia and severe ventricular dysfunction in whom oral verapamil treatment eliminated both the arrhythmia and the picture of dilated cardiomyopathy. On oral verapamil, the patient remains asymptomatic without recurrence of the ventricular tachycardia over a follow up period of 10 months.
Sexual dimorphism in the prevalence of migraine (70% women 30% men) suggests the involvement of reproductive hormones in a women's life. Excessive estrogen during menstruation directly stimulate estrogen receptor alpha thickly populated in trigeminal ganglia and periaqueductal gray which manifest as menstrual migraine. In contrast increased progesterone during pregnancy evokes progesterone receptors A/B, which coexist with ERs, providing complete remission from migraine episodes. Moreover, estrogen also increases nociception through extracellularly signal-regulated kinase (ERK) stimulation and down-regulating antinociceptive GABA, IL-R1 and Zn-fingers. Hormones may provoke migraine indirectly by disrupting mineral homeostasis. Estrogen enhances the absorption and half-life of copper which in turn inhibits the absorption of zinc. Zinc is required for the synthesis of melatonin and CoQ10 essential for growing women. Excess of copper exacerbates the deficiency of zinc, melatonin and CoQ10 typically low in migraineurs. Melatonin is an antioxidant, free radical scavenger and activates antioxidant enzymes like CuZn-superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase (a Se-enzyme) and glutathione reductase. Zinc deficiency reduces activity of CuZn-SOD. Magnesium and vitamin B6 modulates the level of NO in the cell, both of which are deficient in migraineurs. Magnesium is essential for the removal of trapped NO from within the cell which does not occur under low magnesium levels, which reacts with superoxide generating dangerous peroxynitrite. Iron stimulates nitric oxide synthase producing more NO which is inhibited by zinc, thus, antagonizing peroxynitrite generation. Female hormones lowers magnesium but increase calcium levels which enhance migraine ubiquitousness. Accumulation of copper and iron in deep areas of brain and peripheral nerves typically catalyses the oxidation of catecholamines and generate free radicals involved in lipid-peroxidation, demyelination, denudation of axons and neurodegeneration in specific areas exposing hyperalgesic axons provoking Classical migraine. Furthermore, zinc is an essential component of Zn-fingers (Krox20 and Krox24) which play a pivotal role in the differentiation of Schwann cells-the mainstay for the myelination/remyelination of peripheral nerves. Taken together, conceptually and logically, 30 migraineurs were administered 75 mg of zinc sulfate orally in water daily for 6 weeks+one capsule of vitamin B-complex+one capsule of vitamin A or E (first 10 days) which almost cured all of them. Placebo controlled trials with incremental doses of zinc sulfate along with magnesium and selenium are proposed to augment recovery involving large population of migraineurs. Monitoring of hair and blood mineral analysis for rational therapy is recommended.
A case report of overt bleeding in a young woman on warfarin given the anabolic steroid danazol for menorrhagia is reported. This interaction appears to be poorly recognised and we suggest that when commencing such a treatment the dose of anticoagulant should initially be halved and thereafter tailored to the thrombotest.
