Evidence about the preventive effects of nutrients other than folate on the occurrence of spina bifida is scarce. Therefore, the aim of this work was to investigate the role of maternal nutritional intake and the risk of spina bifida in the offspring. In 106 cases and 181 controls, the mothers' nutrient intakes were obtained by an FFQ approximately 24 mo after conception of the index pregnancy. Energy-adjusted mean nutrient intakes were compared, and odds ratios (OR) and 95% CI were calculated. Although mean nutrient intakes were comparable to the Dutch food consumption survey data, fat, cholesterol, iron, and folate intakes were below the 1998 Dutch Recommended Daily Allowances. Case mothers had significantly lower intakes of plant proteins (7%), polysaccharides (4%), fiber (7%), iron (6%), magnesium (6%), and niacin (4%) than control mothers. Mono- and disaccharide intakes were significantly higher (6%) in the case mothers than in control mothers. The adjusted OR (95% CI) in the lowest quartiles for plant proteins was 5.4 (2.3-12.4), for fiber 3.1 (1.5-6.8), for iron 3.5 (1.4-8.3), for magnesium 1.9 (0.9-4.1), and for niacin 2.5 (1.2-5.2). Mono- and disaccharide and polysaccharide intakes in the highest quartile had ORs (95% CI) of 2.9 (1.4-6.3) and 0.5 (0.3-1.0), respectively. The nutritional intake of Dutch women from food groups containing iron and folate seems to be compromised. Low preconceptional intakes of plant proteins, iron, magnesium, and niacin are associated with a 2- to 5-fold increased risk of spina bifida.
Forty consecutive cases of causalgia treated during a 7-year period are presented. The patients ranged in age between 17 and 55 years, and all patients were males who received their nerve injuries from missile or shrapnel wounds. The greater occipital nerve was involved in two cases, median nerve in 10, sciatic nerve in 12, brachial plexus in seven, cauda equina in five, and multiple nerves in four cases. Each patient was treated with phenoxybenzamine, a postsynaptic alpha 1-blocker and presynaptic alpha 2-blocking agent. The drug was given orally in gradually increasing increments until a maximum daily dose of 40 to 120 mg was reached. Duration of treatment was usually 6 to 8 weeks. Total resolution of pain was achieved in all cases. The follow-up period ranged between 6 months and 6 years. Side effects of phenoxybenzamine were minimal and transient, consisting primarily of mild orthostatic hypotension and ejaculatory problems. We conclude that oral phenoxybenzamine is a simple, safe, and effective treatment of causalgia.
Rare variants in certain transcription factors involved in cardiac development cause Mendelian forms of congenital heart disease. The purpose of this study was to systematically assess the frequency of rare transcription factor variants in sporadic patients with the cardiac outflow tract malformation tetralogy of Fallot (TOF).
We sequenced the coding, 5'UTR, and 3'UTR regions of twelve transcription factor genes implicated in cardiac outflow tract development (NKX2.5, GATA4, ISL1, TBX20, MEF2C, BOP/SMYD1, HAND2, FOXC1, FOXC2, FOXH, FOXA2 and TBX1) in 93 non-syndromic, non-Mendelian TOF cases. We also analysed Illumina Human 660W-Quad SNP Array data for copy number variants in these genes; none were detected. Four of the rare variants detected have previously been shown to affect transactivation in in vitro reporter assays: FOXC1 p.P297S, FOXC2 p.Q444R, FOXH1 p.S113T and TBX1 p.P43_G61del PPPPRYDPCAAAAPGAPGP. Two further rare variants, HAND2 p.A25_A26insAA and FOXC1 p.G378_G380delGGG, A488_491delAAAA, affected transactivation in in vitro reporter assays. Each of these six functionally significant variants was present in a single patient in the heterozygous state; each of the four for which parental samples were available were maternally inherited. Thus in the 93 TOF cases we identified six functionally significant mutations in the secondary heart field transcriptional network.
This study indicates that rare genetic variants in the secondary heart field transcriptional network with functional effects on protein function occur in 3-13% of patients with TOF. This is the first report of a functionally significant HAND2 mutation in a patient with congenital heart disease.
Chronic lead poisoning and iron deficiency are concentrated in urban children from lower socioeconomic strata, and both impair neurocognitive development. Our study objective was to determine if iron fortification reduces blood lead levels in urban, lead-exposed, iron-deficient children in Bangalore, India.
A randomized, double-blind, controlled school-based feeding trial was done in 5- to 13-year-old iron-deficient children (n = 186). At baseline, a high prevalence of lead poisoning was found in the younger children. Subsequently, all 5- to 9-year-old children participating in the trial (n = 134) were followed to determine if iron fortification would affect their blood lead levels.
Children were dewormed and fed 6 days/week for 16 weeks either an iron-fortified rice meal (approximately 15 mg of iron per day as ferric pyrophosphate) or an identical control meal without added iron. Feeding was directly supervised and compliance monitored.
Hemoglobin, serum ferritin, C-reactive protein, transferrin receptor, zinc protoporphyrin, and blood lead concentrations were measured.
The prevalence of iron deficiency was significantly reduced in the iron group (from 70% to 28%) compared with the control group (76% to 55%). There was a significant decrease in median blood lead concentration in the iron group compared with the control group. The prevalence of blood lead levels > or =10 microg/dL was significantly reduced in the iron group (from 65% to 29%) compared with the control group (68% to 55%).
Our findings suggest providing iron in a fortified food to lead-exposed children may reduce chronic lead intoxication. Iron fortification may be an effective and sustainable strategy to accompany environmental lead abatement.
Patients undergoing liver transplantation (ltx) for hepatitis B-related liver disease are prone to recurrence. Historically, ltx has been associated with aggressive reinfection and poor survival results. The mainstay of prophylaxis has been passive immunotherapy with hepatitis B immune globulin(HBIG). Antiviral prophylaxis with lamivudine appears to reduce hepatitis B virus (HBV)infection after liver transplantation. However, HBV recurrence remains common. This study retrospectively evaluated a single center's experience with cohort of patients who underwent ltx for HBV-related chronic and acute liver disease. We examined the effect of a combined of intravenous HBIG and lamivudine viral prophylactic therapy on HBV recurrence and the outcome of ltx.
Eighteen patients underwent transplantation for HBV liver disease at our center. Before ltx all patients were HBsAg positive and 3 were HBV DNA positive. HBV recurrence was defined by HBsAg seropositivity after ltx. HBIG monotherapy was used in 2 (15%) patients, lamivudine monotherapy in 4 (31%), and lamivudine and HBIG combination in 7 (54%). Hepatocellular carcinoma was present in 1 patients. Maintenance immunosuppression regimens consisted of either a cyclosporine- or tacrolimus-based drug regimen.
Overall 1-year and 3-years patient survival rates were 60% and 60%, respectively, and 1-year and 3-years graft survival was 60% and 60% respectively. Among 7 patients receiving receiving combination HBIG and lamivudine, one patient died. He was retransplanted 9 months after first transplantation secondary to biliary complication caused by late hepatic artery thrombosis. Of the 6 surviving patients, 4 patients currently have normal allograft function. Allograft dysfunction developed in two patients because of ischemic biliary strictures. Among seven patients, who received HBIG and lamivudine, one did not receive proper administration of the prophylactic regimen and graft became infected. Serologic HBV recurrence was diagnosed after 9 months after transplantation.
Liver transplantation for HBV under combination viral prophylaxis results in good survival rates. A good outcome is possible after liver transplantation for HBV liver disease using HBIG dosed by pharmacokinetic parameters in combination with lamivudine. Viral prophylactic therapy has effectively reduced HBV recurrence and prolonged survival outcome.
Triclosan (TCS) is an antibacterial agent used in a variety of personal care and industrial products. Triclosan and its environmentally transformed derivative, methyl-TCS, have been detected in waters receiving effluent from public wastewater treatment plants. Previous studies have demonstrated that TCS has the potential to act as an endocrine disruptor. The present study tested the hypothesis that TCS acts as an endocrine-disrupting agent in fish. Mature male western mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, were exposed to TCS concentrations of 100, 200, and 350 nM (29.0, 57.9, and 101.3 microg/L) for 35 d by the static renewal method. Induction of the normally female-limited vitellogenin gene expression and reduction in sperm count were quantified as biomarkers of endocrine disruption. Vitellogenin mRNA expression was significantly elevated in the 350 nM TCS treatment. Sperm counts in the same treatment group were significantly decreased. The mean hepatosomatic index in the 350 nM treatment group was significantly increased. This study demonstrates that TCS has the potential to act as an endocrine disruptor in male mosquitofish.
We report an 82-year-old Japanese woman with multiple myeloma (MM). She developed disorientation due to hyperammonemia after melphalan and prednisolone therapy and abruptly died with a rapid clinical course. Karyotypic analysis of bone marrow showed complex abnormalities including a variant Burkitt-type translocation, t(2;8)(p12;q24), but the patient had IgG-lambda type M-proteinemia. Although patients with MM associated with hyperammonemia have been sporadically reported and their prognosis is poor, specific chromosomal abnormalities in the lesion have not been well characterized. It is, therefore, important to accumulate such patients to find a possible relationship between hyperammonemia and chromosomal abnormalities.
Indomethacin (IND) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent which is widely used in the treatment of various inflammatory disorders. The drug causes gastrointestinal injury in humans and experimental animals. The aim of these studies was to examine the time course correlation between the macroscopic appearance of mucosal damage, tissue level of PGE(2) and adenosine nucleotide metabolism during the development of indomethacin (IND)-induced mucosal damage and its prevention by beta-carotene.The observations were carried out on both sexes of CFY-strain rats, weighing 180-200 g. Gastric mucosal damage was produced by subcutaneous administration of IND (20 mg/kg). beta-Carotene (Hoffman-La Roche, Switzerland) was given intragastrically at the time of IND administration at doses of 0.01, 0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg. The animals were sacrificed at 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 h after IND administration when the number and severity of mucosal lesions were noted and the tissue levels of ATP, ADP, AMP, cAMP, lactate and PGE(2) were measured from the total homogenate of gastric mucosa. The ratio of ADP/ATP, the values of the adenylate pool (ATP+ADP+AMP), and 'energy charge' [(ATP+0.5ADP)/(ATP+ADP+AMP)] were calculated.It was found that: (a) gastric mucosal lesions appear macroscopically 2 h after IND administration; (b) the tissue level of ATP decreased, while ADP was increased 1 h after administration; (c) the most significant decrease in cAMP was found 1 h after IND administration, and thereafter its level returned to baseline; (d) beta-carotene dose-dependently prevented the IND-induced mucosal damage and elevated the cAMP level, but it did not alter the mucosal PGE(2) level 3 or 4 h after IND administration; (e) beta-carotene produced an elevation in ATP and a decrease in ADP level; (f) no significant changes were found in 'energy charge' of the gastric mucosa in IND-treated animals.The development of gastric mucosal damage due to IND was associated with increased energy liberation, i.e. transformation of ATP into ADP, and decreased ATP-cAMP transformation. The significant decrease in cAMP preceded the macroscopic appearance of mucosal damage. The increase in ATP-cAMP transformation is involved in the development of beta-carotene-induced gastric cytoprotection.
A 27-year-old man was accidentally given 2 mg intravenous epinephrine instead of 2 mg naloxone. He immediately developed chest pain, nausea, and diaphoresis. An ECG taken shortly after the epinephrine administration showed widespread ischemia. Forty-five minutes later the tracing still showed an early repolarization pattern, but ST elevation was less marked and the patient was asymptomatic. Serum potassium was 3.2 mEq/L and serum catecholamines, drawn approximately 20 minutes after the epinephrine administration, were 10 times normal (dopamine, 173 ng/L; epinephrine, 1,628 ng/L; norepinephrine, 1,972 ng/L). There are seven other reports of intravenous epinephrine overdose in the English literature. Two of the previously reported cases had 12-lead ECGs within the first hour. In both there was evidence of transient ischemia similar to that observed in this case. Most of the patients had symptoms consistent with angina, and several developed pulmonary edema. These findings suggest that, in humans, large intravenous doses of epinephrine are likely to produce coronary artery spasm and may decrease coronary artery perfusion.
Three calcium channel blockers were studied for efficacy in preventing seizures and death from cocaine intoxication. Rats were first pretreated with a test drug then subjected to high dose intraperitoneal cocaine. In this model, control animals developed seizures within six minutes, followed by death within ten minutes. Animals that were pretreated with diltiazem, nifedipine, or verapamil developed seizures significantly faster than controls, and at specific doses the death rate was higher than in controls for all three drugs. The potentiation of seizures and death by 2 mg/kg nifedipine pretreatment was further shown by challenge with three different doses of cocaine. This study fails to demonstrate a protective effect and suggests augmentation of cocaine toxicity by pretreatment with the three currently available calcium channel blockers. Several mechanisms by which calcium channel blockers may augment cocaine-induced toxicity are discussed.
Description of adverse effects of strong corticosteroids in rosacea. Perioral dermatitis also seems to be caused by treatment with strong corticosteroids. The rebound effect after weaning the patient from strong corticosteroids might be obviated by hydrocortisone 17-butyrate or hydrocortisone 21-acetate. Continued oral tetracycline treatment is recommended.
22q11.2 deletion is the most common microdeletion in humans and one of the most important risk factors for schizophrenia. Nevertheless, case reports of children or adolescents with 22q11.2 deletion and schizophrenia are very rare. After a review of the current knowledge about physical, developmental, behavioural and psychiatric problems in 22q11.2 deletion, the case of a 12;10-year-old boy with schizophrenia and the microdeletion is reported. About three years after the first symptoms, and only after medication with several neuroleptics, the patient reached his pre-morbid functioning level under treatment with risperidone. Under medication with clozapine he had experienced a single event of seizures which were due to hypocalcemia. This case report illustrates the importance of serum calcium controls at regular intervals for patients with 22q11.2 deletion and schizophrenia who are on neuroleptic medication. Ideally, children and adolescents with the deletion and co-morbid psychiatric problems should be treated in child and adolescent psychiatry units specialized in problems associated with the deletion. A good cooperation with other medical services is absolutely necessary.
Ketamine is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist that has medical indications but is also used as a recreational drug. Previous research has found persisting cognitive and psychotogenic effects of ketamine in chronic abusers of this drug 3 days after an acute dose.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of ketamine on two processes related to drug abuse, response inhibition and reinforcement, and to examine whether an acute dose of ketamine produced residual cognitive effects in healthy volunteers.
Fifty-four healthy volunteers were given an 80-min infusion of one of two doses (0.4, 0.8 mg kg(-1)) of ketamine or placebo. Subjects completed a battery of tests at three time points: pre-infusion, during the infusion and 3 days later at follow-up. The battery consisted of tests of episodic and semantic memory, schizophrenic-like and dissociative symptoms, response inhibition and measures of subjective effects, including mood, bodily symptoms and enjoyment of and desire for the drug.
Ketamine acutely impaired response inhibition and had related biphasic effects on the subjective reinforcing effects of the drug. Ketamine also acutely impaired episodic but not semantic memory and increased schizophrenic-like and dissociative symptoms. No residual cognitive effects were observed 3 days following an acute dose.
The lack of residual effects in healthy volunteers on day 3 indicates that impairments found on day 3 in ketamine abusers are chronic effects. The abuse of ketamine may be related to its capacity both to reinforce and to decrease response inhibition.
Clopidogrel is an effective antiplatelet agent and is useful in the prevention of stroke, myocardial infarction, and related vascular death in patients with vascular disease. Intracranial hemorrhage related with using antithrombotic agents, including clopidogrel can occur. We report a case of a 68-year-old-man who developed intracranial bleeding following clopidogrel usage that, until now such a complication has not been yet reported.
Flecainide, a new antiarrhythmic drug (group 1 according to the classification after Vaughan Williams), is used in the treatment of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. Cardiac patients are compromised by arrhythmia during operative procedure. The haemodynamic effects of 1 mg/kg b.w. flecainide compared to a placebo solution were studied randomised in 20 patients undergoing coronary artery surgery (before cannulation of the large vessels). Mean arterial pressure, PAP, PCP, PRA and TPR remained unchanged, whereas heart rate (-12%), cardiac index (-17%) and dp/dtmax (-35%) decreased significantly. Total systemic resistance increased by 14%. The results show that it is possible to use flecainide during coronary artery surgery. In patients with reduced myocardial function it should be injected carefully and a decreased dose is recommended with regard to deterioration of left ventricular contractility.
1-N-Ethylsisomicin (netilmicin), a semisynthetic aminoglycoside antibiotic, was given parenterally to mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, and dogs for toxicological evaluation. Acute signs of toxicity were consistent with neuromuscular blockade. Results of teratological studies in rats and rabbits were negative; the only effect observed was wavy ribs, a minor developmental variation, in rats. No effects were found on fertility, reproduction, or development of offspring. Single daily doses of 60 mg/kg s.c. for 10 weeks in young rats and 30 days in young dogs were non-toxic. No indication of toxicity was found in rats and dogs given single daily doses of 7.5 mg/kg i.v. for 2 weeks. Daily i.m. doses caused signs of neuromuscular blockade in rats after 2 weeks at 100 mg/kg and after 1 month at 50 mg/kg, and in dogs after 2 months at 75 mg/kg; dose levels of 150 mg/kg did not cause renal failure. No ocular changes or impairment of vestibular or auditory function were evident at any dose studied. Comparison with tobramycin, gentamicin, and kanamycin at s.c. doses of 50 or 150 mg/kg per day for 4 weeks showed netilmicin to be less nephrotoxic in rats than tobramycin or gentamicin and only slightly more nephrotoxic than kanamycin. Only mild changes were seen microscopically in kidneys of dogs given netilmicin at daily doses of 75 mg/kg i.m. for 3 months. The renal effects of netilmicin given at high multiples of the human therapeutic dose were one-half to one-third less that those of gentamicin and were not severe at any dosage.
The mechanisms responsible for amphotericin B nephrotoxicity remain incompletely understood, but clearly involve reduction in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate. Both direct effects of amphotericin B on contractile vascular cells, and indirect effects, due to humoural mediators, have been proposed. This study examines the role of nitric oxide, endothelin and angiotensin II in the acute nephrotoxic effects of amphotericin B in rats, and compares the anti-fungal and nephrotoxic effects of liposomal amphotericin B and amphotericin B-deoxycholate. Anaesthetized rats were given infusions of amphotericin B-deoxycholate in the presence or absence of N-nitro-L-arginine, PD 145065, a non-specific endothelin receptor antagonist, and L-158809, an angiotensin II type I receptor antagonist, or increasing doses of liposomal amphotericin B. Amphotericin B-deoxycholate (0.03 mg/kg/min intravenously) caused a significant 44% reduction in glomerular filtration rate and 65% maximal fall in renal blood flow. N-Nitro-L-arginine-treated rats had a lower renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate at baseline, but sustained similar reduction of 53% and 75% in these parameters, respectively. PD145065 and L-158809 did not modify these effects either. Increasing doses of liposomal amphotericin B (from 0.01 up to 0.50 mg/kg/min.) induced no change in either glomerular filtration rate or renal blood flow. In vitro susceptibility tests revealed similar potency for liposomal amphotericin B and amphotericin B-deoxycholate in their fungistatic effects and slightly higher potency for amphotericin B-deoxycholate in their fungicidal effect. These results suggest that endogenous endothelin, angiotensin II or nitric oxide systems are not involved in the nephrotoxic effects of amphotericin B. The liposomal amphotericin B results suggest that amphotericin B nephrotoxicity is due to a direct interaction of amphotericin B with renal cells that is prevented by its encapsulation in liposomes.
1. Cardiovascular effects of submaximal antihypertensive doses of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, ramipril (0.25 mg kg-1 day-1 in the food), and the calcium channel blocker, felodipine (0.4 mg kg-1 day-1 subcutaneously by osmotic minipump), both alone and in combination, were examined in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) in a four-week study. 2. Both ramipril and felodipine as monotherapy decreased systolic blood pressure. The antihypertensive effect of the drug combination was more than that of ramipril treatment alone, but not significantly better than that of felodipine monotherapy. Ramipril or felodipine treatments did not significantly affect the heart rate, either alone or in combination. 3. The beneficial effect of ramipril monotherapy on left ventricular hypertrophy was more prominent than that of felodipine. The cardioprotective effect of felodipine was improved when combined to ramipril. The systolic blood pressure at the end of the experimental period correlated only weakly with left ventricular hypertrophy. 4. Responses of mesenteric arterial rings in vitro were examined at the end of the four-week study. Ramipril and felodipine monotherapies as well as their combination markedly improved the endothelium-dependent vascular relaxation responses to acetylcholine. The combination of ramipril and felodipine slightly enhanced the endothelium-independent vascular relaxation responses to sodium nitroprusside. Ramipril treatment alone slightly diminished the vascular contractile responses to noradrenaline. Neither ramipril nor felodipine alone or in combination affected the vascular contractile responses to potassium chloride. 5. Ramipril treatment, both alone and in combination with felodipine, caused a three fold increase in plasma renin activity. Serum aldosterone, fasting blood glucose level, serum insulin and the 24 hour urinary excretions of sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus or protein were not significantly affected by the drug treatments. 6. Our findings suggest that a better overall control of hypertension and end-organ damages, without an increase in adverse effects, can be achieved by the combination of submaximal antihypertensive doses of felodipine and ramipril than by monotherapy with either drug alone.
This rater blind project compared the efficacy and safety of using an oral rapid or neuroleptization method (maximum 80 mg./day) versus fixed standard dosage (20 mg./day) fluphenazine, a commonly used neuroleptic. There were 32 hospitalized, acutely decompensated schizophrenic patients in the experiment; the study period for each patient was a maximum of 7 days. The data were collected using the Benjamin Proverb Test and rating scales for psychopathology and adverse effects. Data analysis by means of the analysis of covariance demonstrated few significant differences between the 2 treatment methods: both methods produced a similar reduction in psychopathological symptoms and incidence of adverse effects. The authors conclude that the rapid neuroleptization method is not superior to the fixed standard dosage method in treating acute schizophrenia.
A cell line that we designed, AILNCaP, proliferated in androgen-depleted medium after emerging from long-term androgen-depleted cultures of an androgen-sensitive prostate cancer cell line, LNCaP. Using this cell line as a model of progression to androgen independence, we demonstrated that the activity of the mammalian target of rapamycin/p70 S6 kinase transduction pathway is down-regulated after androgen depletion in LNCaP, whereas its activation is related to transition of this cell line to androgen-independent proliferation. Kinase activity of protein kinase Czeta is regulated by androgen stimulation in LNCaP cells, whereas it is activated constitutively in AILNCaP cells under androgen-depleted conditions. Treatment with a protein kinase Czeta pseudosubstrate inhibitor reduced p70 S6 kinase activity and cell proliferation in both cell lines. We identified that both protein kinase Czeta and p70 S6 kinase were associated in LNCaP cells and this association was enhanced by the androgen stimulation. We examined the expression of phospho-protein kinase Czeta and phospho-p70 S6 kinase in hormone-naive prostate cancer specimens and found that the expression of both kinases was correlated with each other in those specimens. Significant correlation was observed between the expression of both kinases and Ki67 expression. Most of the prostate cancer cells that survived after prior hormonal treatment also expressed both kinases. This is the first report that shows the significance of this pathway for both androgen-dependent and -independent cell proliferation in prostate cancer. Our data suggest that protein kinase Czeta/mammalian target of rapamycin/S6 kinase pathway plays an important role for the transition of androgen-dependent to androgen-independent prostate cancer cells.
The changes of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and protective efficacy of memantine (MEM) in rats poisoned with dichlorvos were studied. Dichlorvos evoked down-regulation of the affinity and density of [(3)H]MK-801 binding to NMDA receptor in the brain of rats receiving dichlorvos (15 and 25 mg/kg bw, i.p.). The binding capacity of NMDA receptor and acetylcholinesterase activity were determined at 4 h, 8 h, 16 h, 24 h and 48 h after treatment. When rats were given a different doses of MEM (5, 15 and 45 mg/kg bw) after poisoning (dichlorvos 25 mg/kg bw), the latency of onset of signs was postponed and the magnitude of muscular fasciculation was alleviated as the dose of MEM increased. The lower doses of MEM (5 and 15 mg/kg bw) could antagonize the dichlorvos-evoked down-regulation of NMDA receptor, while the highest dose (45 mg/kg bw) decreased the Bmax and Kd values of NMDA receptors. These results show the dichlorvos-evoked down-regulation of NMDA receptor might be self-regulation by the body to protect the central nervous system. MEM could antagonize the down-regulation of NMDA receptors, and alleviated signs of poisoning, especially reducing the magnitude of muscular fasciculation. We suggest that the role of NMDA receptor in organophosphates (OP) poisoning should receive more attention, and, that MEM treatment in acute OP poisoning, as a supplement to atropine and oxime, should be considered.
1. The atypical antipsychotic profile of (R)-(+)-2-amino-4-(4-fluorophenyl)-5-[1-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-oxobutyl] pyrrolidin-3-yl] thiazole (NRA0045), a potent dopamine D4 and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2A receptor antagonist, was examined in rats. 2. Spontaneous locomotor activity was decreased dose-dependently with i.p. administration of clozapine (ED50 3.7 mg kg-1), haloperidol (ED50 0.1 mg kg-1) and chlorpromazine (ED50 0.9 mg kg-1), whereas inhibition of this type of behaviour induced by i.p. administration of NRA0045, at doses up to 10 mg kg-1, did not exceed 50%. 3. Locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine (MAP, 2 mg kg-1, i.p.) in rats (a model of antipsychotic activity) was dose-dependently antagonized by NRA0045 (ED50 0.4 mg kg-1, i.p., and 0.3 mg kg-1, p.o., respectively), clozapine (ED50 0.3 mg kg-1, i.p. and 0.8 mg kg-1, p.o., respectively), haloperidol (ED50 0.02 mg kg-1, i.p. and 0.1 mg kg-1, p.o., respectively), chlorpromazine (ED50 0.3 mg kg-1, i.p. and 3.3 mg kg-1, p.o., respectively). In contrast, the MAP (3 mg kg-1, i.v.)-induced stereotyped behaviour in rats (a model of extrapyramidal symptoms) was not affected by NRA0045 or clozapine, at the highest dose given (30 mg kg-1, i.p.). Haloperidol (ED50 0.3 mg kg-1, i.p.) and chlorpromazine (ED50 4.8 mg kg-1, i.p.) strongly blocked the MAP-induced stereotyped behaviour. NRA0045 and clozapine selectively blocked behaviour associated with activation of the mesolimbic/mesocortical dopamine neurones rather than nigrostriatal dopamine neurones. 4. Extracellular single-unit recording studies demonstrated that MAP (1 mg kg-1, i.v.) decreased the firing rate in the substantia nigra (A9) and ventral tegmental area (A10) dopamine neurones in anaesthetized rats. NRA0045 completely reversed the inhibitory effects of MAP on A10 dopamine neurones (ED50 0.1 mg kg-1, i.v.), whereas the inhibitory effects of MAP on A9 dopamine neurones were not affected by NRA0045, in doses up to 1 mg kg-1 (i.v.). Clozapine completely reversed the inhibitory effects of MAP on A10 dopamine neurones (ED50 1.9 mg kg-1, i.v.) and on A9 dopamine neurones (ED50 2.5 mg kg-1, i.v.). Haloperidol completely reversed the inhibitory effects of MAP on A10 (ED50 0.03 mg kg-1, i.v.) and on A9 dopamine neurones (0.02 mg kg-1, i.v.). NRA0045, like clozapine, was more potent in reversing the effects of MAP on A10 than A9 dopamine neurones. 5. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is impaired markedly in humans with schizophrenia. The disruption of PPI in rats by apomorphine (0.5 mg kg-1, s.c.) was reversed significantly by NRA0045 (3 mg kg-1, i.p.), clozapine (3 mg kg-1, i.p.) and haloperidol (0.3 mg kg-1, i.p.). 6. Phencyclidine (PCP) elicits predominantly psychotic symptoms in normal humans and in schizophrenics. NRA0045 (0.03-0.3 mg kg-1, i.p.) and clozapine (0.1-1 mg kg-1, i.p.) significantly and dose-dependently shortened the PCP(1.25 mg kg-1, i.p.)-induced prolonged swimming latency in rats in a water maze task, whereas haloperidol (0.01-0.1 mg kg-1, i.p.) did not significantly alter swimming latency. 7. These findings suggest that NRA0045 may have unique antipsychotic activities without the liability of motor side effects typical of classical antipsychotics.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) core deletion variants with enhanced viral replication are associated with rapid deterioration of liver function in renal allograft recipients. Antiviral agents such as famciclovir and lamivudine offer new treatment strategies for these patients. Appearance, accumulation and persistence of HBV core deletion mutants were closely monitored in a kidney transplant recipient with liver cirrhosis before and after initiation of antiviral treatment. Under treatment with famciclovir HBV DNA concentration decreased by 50 %, HBV mutants persisted. After replacement of famciclovir by lamivudine HBV replication was reduced below the detection limit. Lamivudine was well tolerated and liver function improved. After successful combined kidney/liver transplantation the patient became HBsAg and HBV DNA (detected by PCR) negative under continuous hyperimmune globulin and lamivudine treatment. Antiviral therapy with lamivudine may be useful in treatment of progressive liver disease associated with HBV core deletion mutants in renal allograft recipients and may enable successful liver transplantation.
While parenteral amphotericin B is an effective therapy for serious fungal infections, it frequently causes acute renal failure (ARF). This study identified correlates of ARF in amphotericin B therapy and used them to develop clinical prediction rules.
All 643 inpatients receiving parenteral amphotericin B therapy at one tertiary care hospital were included. Data regarding correlates were obtained both electronically and from manual chart review in a subsample of 231 patients. ARF was defined as a 50% increase in the baseline creatinine with a peak > or =2.0 mg/dL.
Among 643 episodes, ARF developed in 175 (27%). In the larger group, the only independent correlate of ARF was male gender (OR = 2.2, 95% CI, 1.5 to 3.3). In the subsample (N = 231), independent correlates of ARF were maximum daily amphotericin dosage, location at the time of initiation of amphotericin therapy, and concomitant use of cyclosporine. These data were used to develop two clinical prediction rules. A rule using only data available at initiation of therapy stratified patients into groups with probability of ARF ranging from 15 to 54%, while a rule including data available during therapy (maximum daily dose) stratified patients into groups with probability of ARF ranging from 4 to 80%.
Acute renal failure occurred in a quarter of the patients. Correlates of ARF at the beginning and during the course of amphotericin therapy were identified and then combined to allow stratification according to ARF risk. These data also provide evidence for guidelines for the selection of patients for alternative therapies.
The behavioral effects of fetal brain tissue and adrenal medulla transplants into the intact striatum of rats were investigated. Following a bilateral injection of 1.5, 3 or 6 microliters of fetal striatal tissue, a volume-related weight loss was found in all transplanted groups, including the SHAM group, during the first 7 days after the surgery. Rearing behavior was changed in a transplant volume-related manner. Histological analysis suggested that the locomotor effects of transplants into the intact striatum are related to the volume of the transplants. Following bilateral transplantation of fetal cortex (CTX), substantia nigra (SN), striatum (STR), or adrenal medulla (AM) into the striatum, the different behavioral deficits were observed among these transplant groups. The SN group showed a decrease in spontaneous locomotion, significantly increased rearing activity in response to administration of amphetamine, reduction of food intake and water intake and a reduction in body weight. The CTX and AM groups showed a marked increase in spontaneous rearing activities. Hyporesponsiveness to the administration of apomorphine (1 mg/kg) and amphetamine (1 mg/kg) was evident in the CTX, STR, AM groups and SHAM groups. In contrast, the haloperidol-induced catalepsy scores of the CTX, STR, SN and AM were significantly higher than those of a normal control group. In addition, the CTX group showed a deficit in the delayed reward alternation test. These results indicated that the behavioral deficits produced by transplants into normal striatum may be related to both mechanical destruction due to transplant expansion and specific neurochemical interactions of each tissue type between the host and the transplant. Therefore, potential negative consequences of neural transplantation therapy should be considered as well as the beneficial effects.
Constrictive pericarditis is present when a fibrotic, thickened, and adherent pericardium restricts diastolic filling of the heart. Several drugs can cause pericarditis, which can lead to chronic pericardial constriction. A case of constrictive pericarditis in a patient receiving the antiparkinsonian drug pergolide is reported.
The regulation of phosphate (Pi) handling is crucial during calcification of the aortic valve. Gene profiling of Pi transporters revealed that VIC culture expresses SLC201A1/Pit1 and SLC20A2/Pit2. On exposure to a mineralizing medium (2 mM Pi), the expression of Pi transporters in VIC culture is increased several folds, with the highest magnitude for SLC20A1. By using siRNAs, we established that silencing SLC20A1 significantly reduced Pi-induced mineralization of VICs. In human pathological specimens, we found that the expression of SCL20A1 was increased in CAVD tissues compared to control non-mineralized aortic valves. Treatment of VIC culture with Pi promoted the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) and cytochrome c release within the cytosol, leading to apoptosis. Inhibition of Pi transporters with phosphonoformic acid (PFA) prevented Pi-mediated apoptosis of VICs. Moreover, we discovered that the level of the Akt-1 transcript is diminished in CAVD tissues compared with control valves. Accordingly, treatment with Pi caused a reduction of the Akt-1 transcript in VIC culture, and treatment with PFA or siRNA against SLC20A1 restored the level of Akt-1. Overexpression of Akt-1 (pCMVAkt-1) prevented both Pi-induced apoptosis and mineralization of VIC culture. These results strongly suggest that overexpression of SLC20A1 promotes apoptosis and mineralization by altering the level of Akt-1.
