Malignant hypertension is a rare consequence of contraceptive use. We report here on two young women with malignant hypertension secondary to contraceptive use whose main symptomatology was neurological. Both patients had renal failure, severe left ventricle hypertrophy, and hemorrhagic stroke, all reversible after control of blood pressure and discontinuation of the contraceptive pill.
Although an association between oral contraceptives (OCs) and arterial hypertension has been well-documented, most studies have found only mild or moderate hypertension with reversal to normal levels 3 months after OC discontinuation. This paper presents two cases in which young women developed severe left ventricular hypertrophy and renal failure due to OC-induced malignization of hypertension. The first patient, a 23-year-old, was admitted to the hospital with a 3-day history of headache, mental confusion, and aggressiveness. 6 months before presentation, severe arterial hypertension had been diagnosed. At that time, she was advised to discontinue OCs (30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 150 mcg of levonorgestrel), which she had been taking for a year; she did not comply with this directive. The second patient, 21 years old, was admitted with accelerating hypertension. She had initiated OC use (30 mg of ethinyl estradiol and 150 mcg of levonorgestrel) 6 months earlier. 3 months after starting OC use, she developed headache and fatigue. Both women had a hemorrhagic cerebral accident as a complication of malignant hypertension. All neurologic, renal, and cardiovascular complications were reversible after OC discontinuation. OC-related malignant hypertension can be averted through effective control of blood pressure in OC users.
Guanethidine is a sympatholytic antihypertensive drug used for the treatment of severe or resistant hypertension. Previous clinical studies have documented the development of tolerance to guanethidine in humans and suggested that fluid retention or increased sensitivity of arterioles to endogenous catecholamines may be responsible for the tolerance development. In this study we investigated the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the development of tolerance to guanethidine in one-kidney, one-clip renovascular and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) using the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril. In the one-kidney model, captopril (30 mg/(kg X day), orally) had no effect on the development of tolerance to guanethidine (50 mg/(kg X day), i.p.) when the drugs were coadministered for 2 wk. However, captopril enhanced the day 1 blood pressure-lowering effect and prevented the development of tolerance to guanethidine in male SHR. These results suggest that the renin-angiotensin system plays a major role in the development of tolerance to guanethidine in SHR but not in one-kidney, one-clip renal hypertensive rats. Thus, the etiology of the hypertensive state may dictate which physiological compensatory mechanisms are activated after antihypertensive drug administration.
In this study, the mutated phenotypes were produced by treatment of chemical mutagen, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU). We analyzed the mutated mice showing the specific phenotype of ectodermal dysplasia (ED) and examined the affected gene.
Phenotypes, including size, bone formation, and craniofacial morphology of ENU-induced ED mice, were focused. Tooth development and expression of several molecules were analyzed by histologic observations and immunohistochemistry. We carried out genome-wide screening and quantitative real-time PCR to define the affected and related genes.
As examined previously in human ectodermal dysplasia, ENU-induced ED mice showed the specific morphologic deformities in tooth, hair, and craniofacial growth. Tooth development in the ENU-induced ED mice ceased at early cap stage. In addition, skeletal staining showed retardation in craniofacial development. Finally, the affected gene, which would be involved in the mechanism of ED, was located between the marker D3Mit14 and D3Mit319 on chromosome 3.
The affected gene in ENU-induced ED mice showed several defects in ectodermal organogenesis and these results indicate that this gene plays an important role in mouse embryogenesis.
Numerous chemotherapeutic agents are cytotoxic through generation of reactive species, and variability in genes related to oxidative stress may influence disease-free survival (DFS). We examined relationships between DFS and variants in NOS3, as well as NQO1, NQO2, and CBR3, among treated and untreated breast cancer patients in a Southwest Oncology Group clinical trial (S8897).
In the parent trial, women were assigned according to prognostic features; the high-risk group was randomized to cyclophosphamide, i.v. methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil or to cyclophosphamide, i.v. doxorubicin, and 5-fluorouracil +/- tamoxifen, and the low-risk group did not receive adjuvant therapy. We extracted DNA from normal lymph node tissue and examined functional polymorphisms in NOS3, NQO1, NQO2, and CBR3, in relation to DFS, using Cox proportional hazard model.
There were significant interactions between DFS, adjuvant therapy, and NOS3 Glu298Asp and -786 polymorphisms, alone and in combination (P for interaction = 0.008). When NOS3 genotypes were combined, women with genotypes encoding for lower nitric oxide who received chemotherapy had a >2-fold increase in hazard of progression (hazard ratio, 2.32; 95% confidence interval, 1.26-4.25), whereas there was reduced risk for those who did not receive adjuvant therapy (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% confidence interval, 0.19-0.95). There were no associations between the other genotypes and DFS in either group.
Variants encoding lower activity of NOS3 may affect outcomes in breast cancer patients, with the direction of risk differing depending on chemotherapy status. These results may mirror the known dual functions of nitric oxide and nitric oxide synthase, depending on oxidative environment.
Orlistat is an inhibitor of lipase which splits triglycerides into free fatty acides and glycerol. This drug, by inhibiting hydrolysis of triglycerides, is the cause of significant loss of fat in the faeces. 13 obese and 15 nonobese subjects were examined. Obese subjects received orlistat (Xenical, F. Hoffmann La Roche Ltd, Switzerland) 3 x 120 mg/d. Treatment with orlistat for 16 weeks was followed by a significant fall of BMI and MAP, insulinemia, insulin/glucose ratio, leptinemia, serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL-cholesterol and 25-OH-D concentration respectively. Orlistat did not influence significantly serum LDL-cholesterol concentration but unexpectedly increased plasma levels of folic acid, vitamin B12 and NPY.
(1) Monitoring of plasma 25-OH-D levels in obese patients on orlistat therapy seems to be mandatory. (2) In spite of significant changes (in opposite direction) in leptinemia and serum NPY level observed in obese subjects treated with orlistat, presence of a functional relationship between these hormones could not be confirmed.
We evaluated the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of high-dose paclitaxel (HDP) monotherapy (825 mg/m2 continuous infusion over 24 h) with peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) and G-CSF support in 17 women with metastatic breast cancer.
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data were collected in 17 women entered in a phase II trial of sequential HDP, and high-dose melphalan and cyclophosphamide/thiotepa/carboplatin.
The maximal plasma concentration (Cmax), area under the plasma concentration time curve (AUC), apparent clearance (Clapp), duration of plasma concentration above 0.05 microM (t > 0.05 microM) for paclitaxel were (means SD): 9.11 +/- 7.45 microM, 145 +/- 88 microM x h, 8.06 +/- 2.90 l/h per m2 and 82.4 +/- 31.2 h, respectively. There was a significant correlation between the plasma paclitaxel concentration at 1 h (r2 = 0.87), 12 h (r2 = 0.85) and 23 h (r2 =0.92) and the AUC (P < 0.0001). Duration of neutropenia was brief (median 3 days, range 0-5 days) and neutrophil recovery occurred earlier (median 6 days, range 0-7 days) than could be attributed to infused PBPC. Median nadir count for platelets was 66 x 10(9)/l (range 13-160 x 10(9)/l). Pharmacodynamic analysis showed no correlation between pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmax, AUC, t > 0.05 microM) and time to neutropenic nadir, duration of neutropenia, platelet count nadir and grades of neuropathy or mucositis. In ten patients in whom detailed neurologic and nerve conduction studies were performed, linear regression analysis showed a significant correlation between pre- and post-HDP treatment total neuropathy scores (r2 = 0.46, P = 0.03).
HDP (825 mg/m2 continuous infusion over 24 h) did not appear to be myeloablative. The degree of neurotoxicity subsequent to HDP was associated with the degree of baseline neuropathy but was not predictable from pharmacokinetic parameters.
Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that vanadium stabilizes xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes and antioxidant status and suppresses DNA-protein crosslinks during chemically-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats. In the present study, we have further investigated the in vivo antitumor potential of this micronutrient by determining the effect of 0.5 ppm vanadium in drinking water on biomarkers for the early stages of hepatocarcinogenesis; the biomarkers included gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT)-positive foci and glycogen-storage foci, in situ expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), and genotoxic DNA damage assessed by the alkaline Comet assay. Histomorphometry also was assessed during the study. Hepatocarcinogenesis was induced by treating 4-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats with a single, necrogenic, intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of 200 mg/kg body weight diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Compared to the carcinogen control, vanadium administration over the 32 weeks of the experiment reduced the relative liver weight by 30%, the incidence of nodules by 69.34%, the total number and multiplicity of nodules by 80.77%, and remodeled the hepatocellular premalignant architecture towards a normal phenotype. Moreover, long-term vanadium treatment reduced the development of GGT foci by 76.2% (P < 0.001), decreased periodic acid-Schiff's reactivity by 59.49% (P < 0.01), and decreased PCNA expression, with the concomitant reduction in PCNA immunolabeling index by 93.36% (P < 0.001). Finally, vanadium inhibited early DNA damage (DNA strand-breaks) in DEN-treated rat hepatocytes as expressed in the Comet assay by a 60.04% reduction in the length:width value of DNA mass (P < 0.01) and a 51.54% reduction in the tail length of the DNA comets (P < 0.001). Our results indicate that continuous supplementation with 0.5 ppm vanadium suppresses hepatocellular neoplastic transformation in rats.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is widely used in the treatment of various solid tumors. However, 5-FU cardiotoxicity is being reported with increasing frequency. The main symptom of cardiotoxicity is chest pain at rest with ischemic electrocardiographic changes. Up until now, the underlying mechanism has been suspected to be coronary artery spasm. However, this chest pain associated with 5-FU has several characteristics that are incompatible with coronary artery spasm; eg, inefficacy of calcium-channel blocker and a slow increase in cardiac enzyme levels. We experienced a case of 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity which showed clinical findings consistent with acute myocardial infarction. Based on the clinical findings, coronary angiography, and left ventricular angiography in a prolonged attack, we concluded that the cardiotoxicity in this case was not due to ischemia caused by coronary artery spasm.
A 3-year-old girl had behavioral deterioration, with hyperkinesis, irritability, and sleeping difficulties after the therapeutic administration of isoniazid. The administration of pharmacologic doses of pyridoxine hydrochloride led to a disappearance of symptoms. After discontinuing isoniazid therapy a similar pattern of behavior was noted that was controlled by pyridoxine. A placebo had no effect, but niacinamide was as effective as pyridoxine. Periodic withdrawal of pyridoxine was associated with return of the hyperkinesis. The level of pyridoxal in the blood was normal during the periods of relapse. Metabolic studies suggested a block in the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism. The patient has been followed for six years and has required pharmacologic doses of pyridoxine to control her behavior.
Heavy metal tungsten alloys (HMTAs) have been found to be safer alternatives for making military munitions. Recently, some studies demonstrating the toxic potential of HMTAs have raised concern over the safety issues, and further propose that HMTAs exposure may lead to physiological disturbances as well. To look for the systemic effect of acute toxicity of HMTA based metals salt, (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance ((1)H NMR) spectroscopic profiling of rat urine was carried out. Male Sprague Dawley rats were administered (intraperitoneal) low and high dose of mixture of HMTA based metals salt and NMR spectroscopy was carried out in urine samples collected at 8, 24, 72 and 120 h post dosing (p.d.). Serum biochemical parameters and liver histopathology were also conducted. The (1)H NMR spectra were analysed using multivariate analysis techniques to show the time- and dose-dependent biochemical variations in post HMTA based metals salt exposure. Urine metabolomic analysis showed changes associated with energy metabolism, amino acids, N-methyl nicotinamide, membrane and gut flora metabolites. Multivariate analysis showed maximum variation with best classification of control and treated groups at 24h p.d. At the end of the study, for the low dose group most of the changes at metabolite level reverted to control except for the energy metabolites; whereas, in the high dose group some of the changes still persisted. The observations were well correlated with histopathological and serum biochemical parameters. Further, metabolic pathway analysis clarified that amongst all the metabolic pathways analysed, tricarboxylic acid cycle was most affected at all the time points indicating a switchover in energy metabolism from aerobic to anaerobic. These results suggest that exposure of rats to acute doses of HMTA based metals salt disrupts physiological metabolism with moderate injury to the liver, which might indirectly result from heavy metals induced oxidative stress.
Despite a lack of clinical data in this area, conventional wisdom holds that morphine sulfate induces vagally mediated conduction defects, especially in patients with inferior myocardial infarction. To assess the accuracy of this "clinical pearl," the records of 244 patients admitted to the Barnes Hospital Cardiac Care Unit with suspected acute myocardial infarction were reviewed to determine the frequency of deleterious cardiovascular effects related to the administration of morphine sulfate. Of 184 patients (156 subsequently documented to have infarction) who received morphine sulfate, four patients had symptomatic hypotension temporally associated with morphine sulfate administration. This represented a frequency of 2.2 percent for all patients treated with morphine sulfate and a frequency of 2.6 percent in those with proved infarction. In each instance, the heart rate response was inappropriate, i.e., decreased or less markedly accelerated than might be expected given the reduced blood pressure, suggesting a vagal mechanism for the adverse effects. Only one of the four patients had inferior infarction, and in three of four instances, the adverse effect occurred after the first dose. All patients subsequently received morphine sulfate without evidence of toxicity. No case of narcotic-induced conduction abnormality was identified. This series, which is the most extensive evaluation of the topic, documents that adverse cardiovascular effects due to morphine sulfate are rare and do not conform to preconceived clinical doctrine. They consist of inappropriate heart rate responses to hypotension rather than conduction defects and are not particularly associated with inferior myocardial infarction.
To investigate the effect of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) transfection on hepatic sinusoidal capillarization.
Enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)/VEGF transfection was confirmed by immunofluorescence microscopy and immunohistochemistry both in primary hepatocytes and in normal liver. Cirrhotic rats were generated by thioacetamide (TAA) administration and then divided into a treatment group, which received injections of 400 microg of plasmid DNA encoding an EGFP-VEGF fusion protein, and a blank group, which received an equal amount of normal saline through the portal vein. The portal vein pressure was measured in the normal and cirrhotic state, in treated and blank groups. The average number of fenestrae per hepatic sinusoid was determined using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), while the relative abundance of VEGF transcripts was examined by Gene array.
Green fluorescent protein was observed in the cytoplasms of liver cells under immunofluorescence microscopy 24 h after transfection with EGFP/VEGF plasmid in vitro. Staining with polyclonal antibodies against VEGF illustrated that hepatocytes expressed immunodetectable VEGF both in vitro and in vitro. There were significant differences in the number of fenestrae and portal vein pressures between normal and cirrhotic rats (7.40 +/- 1.71 vs 2.30 +/- 1.16 and 9.32 +/- 0.85 cmH2O vs 17.92 +/- 0.90 cmH2O, P < 0.01), between cirrhotic and treated rats (2.30 +/- 1.16 cmH2O vs 4.60 +/- 1.65 and 17.92 +/- 0.90 cmH2O vs 15.52 +/- 0.93 cmH2O, P < 0.05) and between the treatment group and the blank group (4.60 +/- 1.65 cmH2O vs 2.10 +/- 1.10 cmH2O and 15.52 +/- 0.93 cmH2O vs 17.26 +/- 1.80 cmH2O, P < 0.05). Gene-array analysis revealed that the relative abundance of transcripts of VEGF family members decreased in the cirrhotic state and increased after transfection.
Injection of a plasmid encoding VEGF through the portal vein is an effective method to induce the formation of fenestrae and decrease portal vein pressure in cirrhotic rats. Therefore, it may be a good choice for treating hepatic cirrhosis and portal hypertension.
A subacute dose of ethinylestradiol reduces the bile flow and the bile salt:cholesterol and bile salt + lecithin:cholesterol molar ratios in the rat. An acute dose of cis-2-hydroxy-2-phenyl-cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (cicloxilic acid) 50 mg kg-1 i.v. normalizes these parameters. These findings confirm and extend similar data in laboratory animals and in clinical trials.
Innate immunity has been very rarely investigated in ulcerative colitis and never in paediatrics. The present study was aimed at describing expression of innate immunity genes (NOD2, RIP2, α-defensins HD5 and HD6) in inflamed colon and in ileum of children with ulcerative colitis. Expression of TNFα and IL-1β was also analyzed.
15 children with ulcerative colitis (9 pancolitis, 6 left-sided colitis) and 10 control children were enrolled. mRNA and protein expressions were detected by real time PCR and western blot assays.
NOD2, RIP2, IL-1β, TNFα expression levels were significantly increased in colonic mucosa of patients compared to controls (p<0.01). These genes were also upregulated (p<0.01) in the ileum of both pancolitis and left-sided colitis children. HD5 and HD6 were significantly upregulated (p<0.01) in the inflamed colon of patients as well as in the ileum of those with pancolitis.
An increased mucosal expression of innate immunity genes was found in the inflamed colon of children with ulcerative colitis, outlining the role of the innate immune response in disease pathogenesis. Involvement of the ileum in ulcerative colitis suggests that an immune activation can also be established in intestinal sites classically uninvolved by the inflammation, carrying implications for the treatment and course of the disease.
1, 6-Bis[4-(4-amino-3-hydroxyphenoxy)phenyl]diamantine (DPD), a new cytostatic and differentiation inducing agent, was found to inhibit the growth of several cancer cell lines in the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Anticancer Drug Screen system. Previously, we demonstrated that DPD inhibited the growth of human colon cancer cell lines both in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we examined the anticancer effects of DPD on two human leukemia cells lines. DPD exerted growth inhibitory activities in vitro against two human leukemia cell lines, the promyeloid line HL-60 and the lymphoblastic line Molt-3. The in vivo effect of tumor growth suppression by DPD was also observed in mouse xenografts. No acute toxicity was observed after an intra-peritoneal challenge of DPD in "severe combined immune-deficiency" (SCID) mice twice a week. The in vitro study showed HL-60 was more sensitive to DPD than Molt-3 through induction of G(0)/G(1) cell-cycle arrest with the appearance of a hypodiploid DNA fraction. The increased superoxide (O(2)(-)), dissipation of the mitochondrial membrane potential, activation of caspase 3, and increase in annexin V binding were evident before apoptosis in DPD-treated cells. The superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mRNA expression was also decreased in DPD-treated HL-60 and Molt-3 cells. Thus, it appeared that inhibition of SOD might be the major cause for the production of cellular superoxide with concomitant decrease of H(2)O(2) in DPD-treated cells. Addition of antioxidant can reduce DPD-induced mitochondrial damage, caspase activation, and annexin V binding in HL-60 cells. The results suggest that the cellular generation of O(2)(-) plays a role in initiating and coordinating DPD-mediated growth arrest and apoptosis of HL-60 cells. Importantly, addition of arsenic trioxide, a compound capable of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, significantly enhanced the in vitro activity of DPD. These results suggest that DPD appears to be a potential new modality in human leukemia therapy.
A single center, prospective clinical trial was conducted evaluating 2 cycles of induction high-dose chemotherapy for adults younger than 65 years of age with aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and 2 to 3 Age-Adjusted International Prognostic Index risk factors. Patients received one cycle of standard dose cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) followed by one cycle of dose-intensive cyclophosphamide 5.25 g/m(2), etoposide 1.05 g/m(2), cisplatin 105 mg/m(2) (DICEP), then underwent autologous blood stem cell collection, followed by one cycle of high-dose carmustine (BCNU) 300 mg/m(2), etoposide 800 mg/m(2), Ara-C 1600 mg/m(2), melphalan 140 mg/m(2) (BEAM), and autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) and radiotherapy to prior bulk. From June 1998 to August 2004, 55 patients aged 20 to 63 years (median 44 years) were accrued, 51 (92%) of whom had diffuse large B-cell NHL. Poor prognostic factors included stage 4 (n = 46), elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH; n = 47), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 2 to 4 (n = 43), bulky mass more than 10 cm (n = 34), and marrow involvement (n = 16). Only one patient experienced nonrelapse mortality. With a median follow-up of 49 months, 4-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) rates for all 55 patients are 72% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 60%-84%) and 79% (95% CI = 69%-90%), respectively. In conclusion, CHOP-DICEP-BEAM is feasible and gave encouraging EFS and OS for patients with poor-prognosis aggressive NHL.
Prostasin is downregulated in hormone-refractory prostate cancers (HRPC). The mechanisms by which androgens regulate prostasin expression are unclear.
LNCaP cells were treated with dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and mRNA expression of prostasin, SREBPs, SNAIL, and SLUG was examined by real-time PCR following reverse transcription. A human prostasin promoter was evaluated in HEK-293 cells co-transfected with transcription factor cDNAs. Regulation of endogenous prostasin expression by transfected SREBP-2 or SLUG was evaluated. Expression of SNAIL and SLUG mRNA in DU-145 cells treated with epidermal growth factor (EGF) was examined.
Prostasin mRNA expression in LNCaP cells was not responsive to DHT treatment. DHT marginally upregulated mRNA expression of SREBP-1c, SREBP-2, and SNAIL, but not SREBP-1a, while dramatically increased SLUG mRNA expression, in a dose-dependent manner. Co-transfection of prostasin promoter and SREBP cDNA in HEK-293 cells resulted in stimulation of promoter activity at approximately twofold by SREBP-1c, and up to sixfold by SREBP-2; while co-transfection with SNAIL or SLUG cDNA resulted in repression of promoter activity to 43% or 59%, respectively. Co-transfection of the SLUG cDNA negated SREBP-2's stimulation of prostasin promoter in a dose-dependent manner. Transfection of an SREBP-2 cDNA in HEK-293 and DU-145 resulted in upregulation of prostasin while transfection of a SLUG cDNA in LNCaP repressed prostasin expression. EGF upregulated SNAIL and SLUG mRNA in DU-145.
DHT regulates prostasin expression in prostate cells via SREBP stimulation and SLUG repression of prostasin promoter. SLUG is upregulated by DHT and EGF, providing a molecular mechanism by which epithelial cell-specific genes are silenced during prostate cancer development and progression.
The development of cholestasis during treatment with ticlopidine is an uncommon event in view of the large number of patients to whom this drug is prescribed. We describe the cases of 2 patients who had been treated with ticlopidine for 4 weeks and 2 months respectively. The first patient developed cholestasis with jaundice and pruritus while the second presented with biochemical cholestasis but no jaundice. When treatment with ticlopidine was withdrawn, in the first case pruritus disappeared and jaundice improved. In both cases the liver function tests returned to normal. Both patients were treated with ursodeoxycholic acid which might have an anticholestatic effect in case of hepatotoxicity induced by ticlopidine.
This study sought to determine whether very low birth weight (VLBW) infants (< 1500 gm) with fetal cocaine exposure differed from non-cocaine-exposed VLBW infants in incidence of neonatal medical complications and in later developmental outcome. Forty-one cocaine-exposed, VLBW infants, followed in a longitudinal study, were compared with 41 non-cocaine-exposed, VLBW infants of comparable race, social class, age, and incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Cocaine-exposed infants were identified on the basis of combined findings of maternal and/or infant urine immunoassay and on the basis of maternal self-report. At birth, groups did not differ on medical risk factors except that cocaine-exposed infants had a higher incidence of mild (grades I to II) intraventricular hemorrhage. Cocaine-using women were also more likely to use other drugs, especially alcohol, marijuana, and tobacco. At follow-up, at mean corrected ages of 16.5 +/- 8 months for 30 cocaine-exposed infants and 18.5 +/- 7 months for 37 non-cocaine-exposed infants, standardized assessments of cognitive (Mental Development Index) and motor (Psychomotor Development Index) development were administered. Cocaine-exposed infants had lower mean cognitive (83 +/- 27 vs 91 +/- 19), and motor (85 +/- 25 vs 96 +/- 18) scores; the incidence of developmental delay was significantly higher even after control for the effects of intraventricular hemorrhage and chronologic age. Cocaine-exposed VLBW infants were also more likely to be living with relatives or in foster homes. We conclude that these VLBW, cocaine-exposed infants were at increased risk of intraventricular hemorrhage, were more likely to be placed outside maternal care, and had higher incidences of cognitive and motor delays at follow-up.
Seven children from 3 to 14 years old with chronic steroid-dependent asthma were treated with methotrexate (MTX). Asthma in all of the patients had been poorly controlled for at least 2 years despite the use of oral theophylline and inhaled corticosteroids, cromolyn and albuterol. All presented with significant side effects as a result of chronic systemic steroid therapy. Five patients were atopic and had been unable to tolerate immunotherapy because of systemic reactions. Forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced expiratory flow, mid-expiratory phase, improved in four patients after 4 to 6 months of treatment with doses of MTX ranging from 7.5 to 17.5 mg/wk. Three patients were able to discontinue their systemic corticosteroids. Laboratory values including complete blood cell count with differential and liver enzymes remained at baseline in all except one patient, who had transient elevation in alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase. One patient experienced side effects sufficient to require discontinuation of MTX. It is concluded that MTX is effective for reducing the need for systemic corticosteroids and for improving pulmonary functions in some individuals. The benefits of MTX in this group of severe asthmatics appear to justify the potential risks involved in its use.
Aberrant N-glycosylation caused by altered N-acetyl glucosaminyltransferase V (GnT-V) expression is known to regulate tumor invasion and metastasis by modulating multiple cytokine signaling pathways. However, the exact role of GnT-V in the development of liver fibrosis has not been clearly defined. Here, we induced mouse liver fibrosis by ip injections of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) or thioacetamide (TAA) and observed significant increase of hepatic GnT-V during the processes of liver fibrogenesis. Meanwhile, upregulations of GnT-V were detected in the activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and injured hepatocytes. To knock down hepatic GnT-V expression, adenovirus that expressed the GnT-V siRNA was injected via the tail vein. Adenovirus-mediated delivery of GnT-V siRNA dramatically reduced the GnT-V expression in fibrotic liver and activated HSC in vivo and consequently alleviated CCl4- or TAA-induced liver fibrosis as assessed through collagen deposition and profiles of profibrogenic markers. Furthermore, knockdown of GnT-V in HSCs reduced transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β)/Smad signaling and blunted the activated HSC phenotype. The suppression of TGF-β/Smad signaling in HSCs correlated with the decrease of GnT-V-modified β1,6-branched N-glycan on TGF-β receptors. Knockdown of GnT-V also suppressed platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced HSC proliferation and migration through inhibiting PDGF/Erk signaling. Finally, we demonstrated that knockdown of GnT-V profoundly suppressed TGF-β1-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in hepatocytes by morphological assessment and reversal of EMT markers. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that GnT-V is implicated in hepatotoxin-induced liver fibrosis, and targeting GnT-V may be a feasible and promising approach for treating liver fibrosis.
Thiazolidinediones (TZDs), such as troglitazone (TRO) and rosiglitazone (ROSI), improve insulin resistance by acting as ligands for the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma). TRO was withdrawn from the market because of reports of serious hepatotoxicity. A growing body of evidence suggests that TRO caused mitochondrial dysfunction and induction of apoptosis in human hepatocytes but its mechanisms of action remain unclear. We hypothesized that damage to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is an initiating event involved in TRO-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and hepatotoxicity. Primary human hepatocytes were exposed to TRO and ROSI. The results obtained revealed that TRO, but not ROSI at equimolar concentrations, caused a substantial increase in mtDNA damage and decreased ATP production and cellular viability. The reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger, N-acetyl cystein (NAC), significantly diminished the TRO-induced cytotoxicity, suggesting involvement of ROS in TRO-induced hepatocyte cytotoxicity. The PPARgamma antagonist (GW9662) did not block the TRO-induced decrease in cell viability, indicating that the TRO-induced hepatotoxicity is PPARgamma-independent. Furthermore, TRO induced hepatocyte apoptosis, caspase-3 cleavage and cytochrome c release. Targeting of a DNA repair protein to mitochondria by protein transduction using a fusion protein containing the DNA repair enzyme Endonuclease III (EndoIII) from Escherichia coli, a mitochondrial translocation sequence (MTS) and the protein transduction domain (PTD) from HIV-1 TAT protein protected hepatocytes against TRO-induced toxicity. Overall, our results indicate that significant mtDNA damage caused by TRO is a prime initiator of the hepatoxicity caused by this drug.
Hemopericardium developed following adequate (and not excessive) anticoagulation in a patient with acute transmural anterior myocardial infarction and an early pericardial friction rub. Drainage of a bloody effusion by pericardiocentesis did not prevent progression to constrictive pericarditis within one year. The clinical features of this case and of the only two other similar occurrences reported in the medical literature are described and lead to a discussion of therapeutic and preventive measures.
The literature is reviewed on patients developing respiratory symptoms while receiving D-Penicillamine, most of whom suffered from rheumatoid arthritis. The manifestations were (in decreasing frequency) bronchiolitis obliterans, interstitial pneumonitis, a Good pasture's like syndrome and bronchospasm. For each complication we discuss diagnostic criteria, the implication of the drug and the pathogenesis. In addition we make suggestions regarding patients on D-Penicillamine and emphasize the need for accurate reporting of adverse pulmonary effects to enlarge the epidemiological picture.
Activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) by its prototypic ligand, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), induces potent suppression of an acute graft-versus-host (GVH) response and prevents GVH disease (GVHD). Suppression is associated with development of a regulatory population of donor CD4(+) CD25(+)T-cells that express high levels of cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4). However, a direct link between these AhR-induced Tregs (AhR-Tregs) and suppression of GVHD remains to be shown. CTLA-4 is a negative regulator of T-cell responses and is associated with the induction of tolerogenic dendritic cells (DCs) that produce indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO). We hypothesized that AhR-Tregs mediate suppression via their enhanced expression of CTLA-4, which, in turn, induces IFN-γ and IDO in host DCs. Subsequent depletion of tryptophan by IDO leads to termination of the donor T-cell response prior to development of effector CTL. Here, we show that despite increased expression of Ifng, Irf3, Irf7, Ido1, and Ido2 in the lymph nodes of TCDD-treated host mice, inhibition of IDO enzyme activity by 1-methyl-tryptophan was unable to relieve TCDD-mediated suppression of the GVH response. Furthermore, treatment with an anti-CTLA-4 antibody that blocks CTLA-4 signaling was also unable to alleviate TCDD-mediated suppression. Alternatively, we investigated the possibility that donor-derived AhR-Tregs produce IFN-γ to suppress effector CTL development. However, suppression of GVHD by TCDD was not affected by the use of Ifng-deficient donor cells. Together, these results indicate that neither overexpression of CTLA-4 nor production of IFN-γ by AhR-Tregs plays a major role in the manifestation of their immunosuppressive function in vivo.
Our study examined the role of oxidative stress and aberrant gene expression in malignant transformation induced by chronic, low-level cadmium exposure in non-tumorigenic rat liver epithelial cell line, TRL 1215. Cells were cultured in 1.0 microM cadmium (as CdCl(2)) for up to 28 weeks and compared to passage-matched control cells. The level of cadmium used for transformation produced no evidence of increased superoxide (O(2) (-*.)) or hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) levels in the early stages of exposure (</=24 hr). The chronic cadmium exposed liver epithelial cells (CCE-LE) were hyperproliferative with a growth rate about 3-fold higher than control cells. CCE-LE cells produced highly aggressive tumors upon inoculation into mice confirming malignant transformation. Analysis of cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) showed that CCE-LE cells possessed markedly lower basal levels of intracellular O(2) (-*.)and H(2)O(2) and were very tolerant to high-dose (50 microM) cadmium-induced ROS. Time course studies showed the production of ROS by high-dose cadmium was abolished well in advance of malignant transformation. In contrast, marked overexpression of the oncogenes c-myc and c-jun occurred in transformed CCE-LE cells as evidenced by up to 10-fold increases in both transcript and protein. A significant increase in DNA-binding activity of the transcription factors AP-1 and NF-kappaB occurred in CCE-LE cells. Increases in oncogene expression and transcription factor activity occurred concurrently with malignant transformation. Thus, cadmium-induced ROS occurs as an early, high-dose event but is abolished well in advance of malignant transformation. Low-level chronic cadmium triggers oncogene overexpression possibly by altering critical transcription factor activity. Such changes in cellular gene expression likely culminate in the loss of growth control and cadmium-induced neoplastic transformation in CCE-LE cells, whereas generation of ROS by cadmium seemed to play a minimal role in this transformation.
Hemochromatosis and Wilson disease (WD), characterized by the excess hepatic deposition of iron and copper, respectively, produce oxidative stress and increase the risk of liver cancer. Because the frequency of p53 mutated alleles in nontumorous human tissue may be a biomarker of oxyradical damage and identify individuals at increased cancer risk, we have determined the frequency of p53 mutated alleles in nontumorous liver tissue from WD and hemochromatosis patients. When compared with the liver samples from normal controls, higher frequencies of G:C to T:A transversions at codon 249 (P < 0.001) and C:G to A:T transversions and C:G to T:A transitions at codon 250 (P < 0.001 and P < 0.005) were found in liver tissue from WD cases, and a higher frequency of G:C to T:A transversions at codon 249 (P < 0.05) also was found in liver tissue from hemochromatosis cases. Sixty percent of the WD and 28% of hemochromatosis cases also showed a higher expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase in the liver, which suggests nitric oxide as a source of increased oxidative stress. A high level of etheno-DNA adducts, formed from oxyradical-induced lipid peroxidation, in liver from WD and hemochromatosis patients has been reported previously. Therefore, we exposed a wild-type p53 TK-6 lymphoblastoid cell line to 4-hydroxynonenal, an unsaturated aldehyde involved in lipid peroxidation, and observed an increase in G to T transversions at p53 codon 249 (AGG to AGT). These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the generation of oxygen/nitrogen species and unsaturated aldehydes from iron and copper overload in hemochromatosis and WD causes mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene.
