This article reports on recent advances on metastatic breast cancer. Detection, prognostic factors, predictors of response to therapy and therapy, with particular regard to targeted therapies, were examined.
Unlike current guidelines that yet do not routinely recommend intensive clinical-instrumental post-operative follow-up of breast cancer patients, relatively large data collected in the last decades have shown that an intensive post-operative follow-up with 'dynamic evaluation' of a suitable tumour marker panel precedes a few months as average the clinical and/or instrumental sign of a pending relapse in most relapsed patients and largely limits the use of the common instrumental examinations.
Disease-free interval (DFI)<or=24 months, adjuvant chemotherapy, liver and distant soft tissue involvement or DFI>24 months and disease confined to bony skeleton are prognostic factors more often correlated with relatively poor or prolonged survival, respectively. Estrogen receptor (ER) expression in primary tumour and at the relapse correlates strongly with response to salvage hormone therapy and data from large trials showed that 38-59% of ER and/or PR+ post-menopausal patients had clinical benefit from first line tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors. An inverse correlation of ER with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been found. The co-expression of HER-2/neu and/or elevated serum HER-2/neu protein level were associated with a low rate and shorter duration of response of ER+ patients to first line hormone therapy. Accordingly, ER-EGFR- compared with ER-EGFR+ tumours are usually more responsive to endocrine therapy. High class III beta-tubulin expression or fall in insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) from baseline levels have been found to significantly predict resistance to chemotherapeutic agents.
Liposomes as carrier of doxorubicin (Caelix, Evacet, Myocet) is one approach to decrease the anthracycline-related cardiac toxicity. Weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel and oral formulation of vinorelbine and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (capecitabine) provide new effective and well tolerated options that reach greater dose intensity and cumulative dose than with the conventional schedules. As to the so called 'tailored' or targeted therapies, the more potent and highly selective third generation of aromatase inhibitors (letrozole, anastrozole, exemestane) targeting ER+ tumours by estrogen deprivation, challenge tamoxifen as current standard first line therapy in postmenopausals. One pilot study showed that stimulation of cellular immunity by the addition of beta-interferon-interleukin-2 sequence in patients on clinical benefit on first line tamoxifen significantly prolonged median overall survival (OS) and duration of response compared to that observed in similar patients only treated with tamoxifen. Trastuzumab, a humanised monoclonal antibody to extracellular domain of HER-2, plus conventional chemotherapy has become a standard of care for women with overexpressing HER-2 tumours. Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanised monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) that in refractory metastatic breast cancer doubled the response rate of capecitabine although it did not affect survival. Finally, the so called 'oligometastatic' and a few stage IV diseases are conditions amenable to be rendered with no evidence of disease (NED) after local surgery and/or radiation. In both, as well as in complete responders to chemotherapy, minimal residual disease (m.r.d.) likely continues to be present. Recent data suggest that 'biological' therapy (immunomodulators and/or retinoids with or without hormone therapy), might be suitable to be successfully tested in these patients as maintenance treatment given soon after local intervention or chemotherapy.
Nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4 are important podocyte proteins that help maintain the integrity of the slit diaphragm and prevent proteinuria. Studies have shown that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, glucocorticoids, and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) have antiproteinuric effects. However, it is still unclear whether these drugs, with different pharmacological mechanisms, lead to a reduction in proteinuria by changing the expression and distribution of these important podocyte proteins. In this study, changes in the expression and distribution of nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4 were dynamically detected in Adriamycin-induced nephrotic (ADR) rats treated with three different drugs: lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA. Nephropathy was induced by an intravenous injection of Adriamycin. After Adriamycin injection, rats received lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA treatment, respectively. Renal tissues were collected at Days 3, 7, 14, and 28. The distribution and the expression of messenger RNA and protein of nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4 were detected by indirect immunofluorescence, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and Western blotting, respectively. With the intervention of lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA, changes in the expression of nephrin, podocin, and CD2AP were diverse, which was different from that detected in ADR rats. After lisinopril and prednisone intervention, podocin exhibited prominent earlier changes compared with those of nephrin and CD2AP, whereas CD2AP showed more prominent changes after ATRA intervention. There was no change in the expression of alpha-actinin-4 molecule. In summary, we conclude that the antiproteinuric effects of lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA were achieved by changes in the expression and distribution of the important podocyte molecules nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4. The pattern in the change of podocyte molecules after lisinopril and prednisone intervention was similar, but the pattern in the change of podocyte molecules after ATRA intervention was different from that of lisinopril or prednisone intervention.
The performance of 43 long-term users (average = 5 years) of benzodiazepine (BZ) medications was examined on a battery of behavioral tasks, cognitive tests, and subjective mood rating scales. The performance of the chronic BZ users did not differ significantly from age- and sex-matched anxious subjects, except that critical flicker fusion (CFF) thresholds were lower and subjective ratings of tranquilization were higher in the BZ users. Twenty-two subjects were reexamined in order to determine the acute effects of BZ medications in long-term users. The acute administration of BZ medications significantly increased CFF thresholds, improved digit-symbol substitution test performance, impaired the delayed recall of verbal material, increased subjective ratings of tranquilization, and reduced physical sedation. Motor performance tests were not impaired and subjective feelings of sedation were not increased after the acute administration of BZs by chronic users. During withdrawal from long-term BZ use (17 subjects), CFF thresholds were elevated, subjective ratings of physical sedation and anxiety were increased, but performance on other psychomotor and cognitive tests was not altered. The results suggest that tolerance develops selectively to different behavioral and subjective effects of BZ medications with their continued use. Tolerance failed to develop to the antianxiety effects, the reduction of CFF threshold, and to the impairment of short-term memory caused by BZs. However, chronic users of BZ medications failed to demonstrate psychomotor-impairing or sedating effects to BZ medications. The results have implications for evaluating the safety of the long-term use of BZ medications.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors gamma (PPARgamma) are nuclear receptors with essential roles as transcriptional regulators of glucose and lipid homeostasis. PPARgamma are also potent anti-inflammatory receptors, a property that contributes to the neuroprotective effects of PPARgamma agonists in experimental stroke. The mechanism of these beneficial actions, however, is not fully elucidated. Therefore, we have explored further the actions of the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone in experimental stroke induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in rodents. Rosiglitazone induced brain 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) expression in ischemic rat brain, concomitantly with neuroprotection. Rosiglitazone also increased cerebral lipoxin A(4) (LXA(4)) levels and inhibited MCAO-induced production of leukotriene B4 (LTB(4)). Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition and/or genetic deletion of 5-LO inhibited rosiglitazone-induced neuroprotection and downregulation of inflammatory gene expression, LXA(4) synthesis and PPARgamma transcriptional activity in rodents. Finally, LXA(4) caused neuroprotection, which was partly inhibited by the PPARgamma antagonist T0070907, and increased PPARgamma transcriptional activity in isolated nuclei, showing for the first time that LXA(4) has PPARgamma agonistic actions. Altogether, our data illustrate that some effects of rosiglitazone are attributable to de novo synthesis of 5-LO, able to induce a switch from the synthesis of proinflammatory LTB(4) to the synthesis of the proresolving LXA(4). Our study suggests novel lines of study such as the interest of lipoxin-like anti-inflammatory drugs or the use of these molecules as prognostic and/or diagnostic markers for pathologies in which inflammation is involved, such as stroke.
This study was undertaken to determine the effects of two H2-receptor antagonists, cimetidine and ranitidine, on halothane metabolism and hepatotoxicity in the hypoxic Fisher 344 rat model for halothane hepatitis. In this model, liver injury is caused by toxic intermediates formed during metabolism of halothane by a reductive pathway. Administration of cimetidine (120 mg/kg ip) 20 min prior to anesthesia led to inhibition of the reductive pathway, as assessed by measurement of the exhaled metabolites, 2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane and 2-chloro-1,1-difluoroethylene, during anesthesia, and urinary fluoride excretion in the 22-hr postanesthesia period. Oxidative metabolism of halothane, assessed by serum bromide concentrations 22 hr postanesthesia, was unaffected. Cimetidine administration provided partial protection against the hepatotoxic effect of halothane, as indicated by serum alanine aminotransferase activities 22 hr postanesthesia. When ranitidine HCl (120 mg/kg ip) was administered prior to anesthesia, reductive metabolism of halothane was unaffected, but the oxidative pathway was slightly inhibited. Ranitidine did not provide protection against halothane-induced liver injury. These results provide additional evidence that halothane hepatotoxicity in the hypoxic rat model is due to toxic intermediates formed during the reductive metabolism of halothane.
EB1089 is a novel vitamin D analogue which has been tested for its effects on breast cancer cell growth in vitro, using the established human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, and in vivo on the growth of established rat mammary tumours. Both EB1089 and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25-(OH)2D3) inhibited MCF-7 cell proliferation with the synthetic analogue being at least an order of magnitude more potent than the native hormone. In vivo anti-tumour effects were investigated using the N-methyl-nitrosourea-induced rat mammary tumour model. Oral treatment with EB1089 was tested at three doses. With the lower dose, significant inhibition of tumour growth was seen in the absence of a rise in serum calcium. The same dose of 1,25-(OH)2D3 had no effect on tumour growth but caused hypercalcaemia. With the higher dose of EB1089, striking tumour regression was seen although serum calcium rose. This report demonstrates that EB1089 possess enhanced anti-tumour activity coupled with reduced calcaemic effects relative to 1,25-(OH)2D3 and thus may have therapeutic potential as an anti-tumour agent.
Phytanic acid is a branched-chain, saturated fatty acid present in high concentrations in dairy products and ruminant fat. Some other dietary fats contain lower levels of phytol, which is readily converted to phytanic acid after absorption. Phytanic acid is a peroxisome proliferator binding the nuclear transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) to induce expression of genes encoding enzymes of fatty acid oxidation in peroxisomes and mitochondria. Administration of dietary phytol (0.5% or 1%) to normal mice for twelve to eighteen days caused consistent PPARalpha-mediated responses, such as lower body weights, higher liver weights, peroxisome proliferation, increased catalase expression, and hepatocellular hypertrophy and hyperplasia. Female mice fed 0.5% phytol and male and female mice fed 1% phytol exhibited midzonal hepatocellular necrosis, periportal hepatocellular fatty vacuolation, and corresponding increases in liver levels of the phytol metabolites phytanic acid and pristanic acid. Hepatic expression of sterol carrier protein-x (SCP-x) was five- to twelve-fold lower in female mice than in male mice. These results suggest that phytol may cause selective midzonal hepatocellular necrosis in mice, an uncommon pattern of hepatotoxic injury, and that the greater susceptibility of female mice may reflect a lower capacity to oxidize phytanic acid because of their intrinsically lower hepatic expression of SCP-x.
quinone oxidoreductase (NQO(1)) catalyzes the two-electron reduction of quinones to hydroquinones. This reaction is believed to prevent the one-electron reduction of quinones that would result in redox cycling with generation of superoxide (O(2)(.-)). We have recently demonstrated that inhibition of NQO(1) with dicumarol increases intracellular O(2)(.-) production and inhibits the in vitro malignant phenotype of pancreatic cancer cells (J. Cullen et al., Cancer Res., 63: 5513-5520, 2003). We hypothesized that inhibition of NQO(1) would increase cell killing, induce oxidative stress, and inhibit in vivo tumor growth.
In the human pancreatic cancer cell line MIA PaCa-2, dicumarol decreased cell viability, as measured by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay and decreased clonogenic survival. Dicumarol increased the percentage of apoptotic cells in a time-dependent and dose-dependent manner as measured by 3,3'-diaminobenzidine staining and flow cytometry, which was associated with cytochrome c release and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage. Dicumarol also induced oxidative stress as evidenced by increased total glutathione and oxidized glutathione, as well as sensitizing to cell killing mediated by menadione. In established orthotopic pancreatic tumors in nude mice, intratumoral injections of dicumarol slowed tumor growth and extended survival.
Inhibition of NQO(1) with dicumarol induces cell killing and oxidative stress in pancreatic cancer cells and speculate that dicumarol may prove to be useful in pancreatic cancer therapeutics.
Focal, segmental glomerulosclerosis is frequently associated with chronic proteinuria and progressively declining renal function in humans as well as in experimental models of glomerular disease. Although little is known regarding the pathogenesis of this lesion, persistent, massive proteinuria has been associated with a poor prognosis. The administration of adriamycin to rats results in proteinuria of glomerular origin. We used this model to study the glomerular functional and structural alterations associated with proteinuria of 4 to 5 weeks duration. Studies of single nephron function revealed a 34% reduction in nephron plasma flow and a 50% decline in the glomerular ultrafiltration coefficient in rats given adriamycin. Single nephron glomerular filtration rate, however, was only modestly reduced (27%), because of an 8.0 mm Hg elevation of mean transcapillary hydraulic pressure difference (P less than 0.05). Morphologically, glomeruli of adriamycin-treated rats demonstrated significantly increased mesangial matrix and cellularity. In addition, glomerular capillaries frequently appeared enlarged, and epithelial cell bleb formation was evident. Focal glomerulosclerosis, however, was only rarely seen. The functional and morphologic characteristics of chronic adriamycin nephrosis are different from those associated with chronic proteinuria induced by repetitive administration of aminonucleoside of puromycin. Comparison of the two models suggests that the development of focal glomerulosclerosis can be dissociated from proteinuria and elevations of intraglomerular hydraulic pressures.
Pro-drugs of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as loxoprofen are widely used for clinical purposes because they are not so harmful to the gastrointestinal mucosa. We recently showed that NSAIDs such as indomethacin and celecoxib have direct cytotoxicity (ability to induce necrosis and apoptosis in gastric mucosal cells) due to their membrane permeabilizing activities, which is involved in NSAID-induced gastric lesions. We show here that under conditions where indomethacin and celecoxib clearly induce necrosis and apoptosis, loxoprofen and its active metabolite loxoprofen-OH, do not have such effects in primary culture of guinea pig gastric mucosal cells. Loxoprofen and loxoprofen-OH induced apoptosis more effectively in cultured human gastric cancer cells than in the primary culture. Loxoprofen and loxoprofen-OH exhibited much lower membrane permeabilizing activities than did indomethacin and celecoxib. We thus consider that the low direct cytotoxicity of loxoprofen observed in vitro is involved in its relative safety on production of gastric lesions in clinical situation.
Epileptiform discharges and behavioral seizures may be the consequences of excess excitation associated with the neurotransmitter glutamate, or from inadequate inhibitory effects associated with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Synaptic effects of these neurotransmitters are terminated by the action of transporter proteins that remove amino acids from the synaptic cleft. Excitation initiated by the synaptic release of glutamate is attenuated by the action of glial transporters glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1), and the neuronal transporter excitatory amino-acid carrier-1 (EAAC-1). GABA is removed from synaptic regions by the action of the transporters proteins GABA transporter-1 (GAT-1) and GABA transporter-3 (GAT-3). In this experiment, albino rats with chronic, spontaneous recurrent seizures induced by the amygdalar injection of FeCl3 were treated for 14 days with zonisamide (ZNS) (40 mg/kg, i.p.). Control animals underwent saline injection into the same amygdalar regions. Treatment control for both groups of intracerebrally injected animals was i.p. injection of equal volumes of saline. Western blotting was used to measure the quantity of glutamate and GABA transporters in hippocampus and frontal cortex. ZNS caused increase in the quantity of EAAC-1 protein in hippocampus and cortex and down regulation of the GABA transporter GAT-1. These changes occurred in both experimental and ZNS treated control animals. These data show that the molecular effect of ZNS, with up-regulation of EAAC-1 and decreased production of GABA transporters, should result in increased tissue and synaptic concentrations of GABA. Although many antiepileptic drugs have effects on ion channels when measured in vitro our study suggests that additional mechanisms of action may be operant. Molecular effects on regulation of transporter proteins may aid in understanding epileptogenesis and inform investigators about future design and development of drugs to treat epilepsy.
A drug susceptibility test of the combination drug TAZ/PIPC, which consists of a newly developed beta-lactamase inhibitor, tazobactam (TAZ), and one of penicillin antibiotics, piperacillin (PIPC), with combination ratio of 1:4 in potency, was conducted with stock strains and clinical isolates. The clinical efficacy and safety of its injection was also evaluated in children with a variety of infectious diseases. The results were as follows: 1. In susceptibility test, 114 strains from 4 species of stock strains were treated with 8 drugs, that is, TAZ/PIPC, PIPC, penicillin G (PCG), ampicillin (ABPC), cefotiam (CTM), cefotaxime (CTX), ceftazidime (CAZ), and sulbactam/cefoperazone (SBT/CPZ). Of three clinically isolated species from patients, Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) was treated with TAZ/PIPC, PIPC, methicillin (DMPPC), CTM, CTX, and SBT/CPZ, and the others were treated with the same drugs except for DMPPC. The MICs were measured for these bacterial strains inoculated at the concentration of 10(6) CFU/ml. The MIC90 values of TAZ/PIPC against 45 strains of Streptococcus pyogenes (S. pyogenes), one of the stock cultures of Gram-positive cocci, were 0.05 microgram/ml and similar to those of PIPC, CTM, CAZ, and SBT/CPZ. The MICs of TAZ/PIPC for 28 strains of Streptococcus agalactiae (S. agalactiae) were 0.39 microgram/ml and similar to those of PIPC, CTM, CAZ, and SBT/CPZ. As for Gram-negative bacilli, the MIC90 of TAZ/PIPC against 10 strains of Bordetella pertussis (B. pertussis) were 0.10 microgram/ml and similar to those of PIPC. The MIC90 of TAZ/PIPC against 31 strains of Haemophilus influenzae (H. influenzae) were 0.05 microgram/ml and similar to those of PIPC, CTX, and SBT/CPZ. Regarding Gram-positive cocci isolated from patients received this combination drug, the MIC90 of TAZ/PIPC against 2 strains of S. aureus, a non beta-lactamase producing strain and a low-beta-lactamase producing strain, were 0.78 microgram/ml and 3.1 micrograms/ml, respectively; the former value was similar to those of PIPC, DMPPC, CTM, and CTX, and the latter was similar to those of PIPC, DMPPC, CTX, and SBT/CPZ. Of 4 strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae, 2 strains were inhibited at 0.05 microgram/ml, and the others at 1.56 micrograms/ml; both values were similar to those of PIPC, SBT/CPZ. As for Gram-negative bacilli, 6 of 7 strains of H. influenzae did not produce beta-lactamase and 1 strain was a high producer. The MICs of TAZ/PIPC against beta-lactamase nonproducing strains were < or = 0.025 microgram/ml in 5 strains and 0.39 microgram/ml in 1 strain, and the values were similar to those of PIPC and SBT/CPZ. While the MIC of TAZ/PIPC against the high beta-lactamase producing strain was 0.78 microgram/ml; similar to that of SBT/CPZ and smaller than that of PIPC. 2. The results of clinical effects on 7 diseases in 33 cases were as follows: TAZ/PIPC was clinically judged "excellent" in 17 (51.5%); good in 14 (42.4%); fair in 2 (6.1%). No case with no response was seen in this study, and the total efficacy rate of "excellent" and "good" was 93.9%. 3. Bacteriological effects were evaluated in 17 strains of 4 species, and all of them were eradicated. 4. Adverse reactions were judged in 35, which consisted of 33 in which the clinical effects were evaluated and 2 dropped from this study. Of these cases, diarrhea was observed in 4 (11.4%). 5. Laboratory tests revealed an increase in platelets in 1 of 32 cases (3.1%), and eosinophilia in 2 of 29 cases (6.9%). Biochemical profile showed an increase in GPT alone and abnormal increases in both GOT and GPT in 1 each out of 21 cases.
1. The present study examined the effects of an aqueous extract of Anoectochilus formosanus (AFE) on both hepatic fibrosis and regeneration in rats. 2. Fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal injection of dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) for 3 consecutive days per week for 4 weeks. 3. In DMN-treated rats, liver cirrhosis-associated complications, such as liver atrophy, low concentrations of serum albumin and the accumulation of hepatic collagen, were observed. The AFE protected the liver against DMN-induced fibrosis, as determined by morphological and biochemical observations. 4. In addition, AFE was administered to two-thirds hepatectomized normal and DMN-injured rats. Three and 5 days after hepatectomy, AFE increased the extent of liver weight regeneration and the number of S-phase cells in DMN-injured rats, but not in normal rats. 5. These results show that AFE seems to be useful in the repair of liver injury, improvement of fibrotic changes and promotion of liver regeneration.
Hypothyroidism is frequently accompanied by cardiac dysfunction, increased vascular resistance, and a greater prevalence of hypertension. Treatment of hypothyroidism may lead to normalization of blood pressure, although some patients may exhibit sustained hypertension. The mechanism of this condition may be the alterations in aortic stiffness.
Aortic stiffness was studied in 30 patients who never received treatment for hypertension or hypothyroidism, 15 patients with normal blood pressure and hypothyroidism, and 15 patients with hypertension and normal thyroid function. Thirty healthy age- and sex-matched subjects with normal thyroid function served as control subjects. Aortic diameter evaluated by M-mode echocardiography and blood pressure measured by a sphygmomanometer were used to calculate aortic stiffness index.
Patients with high blood pressure and hypothyroidism, those with normal blood pressure and hypothyroidism, and those with hypertension and normal thyroid function showed increased aortic stiffness index (18.8 +/- 6.4, 11.7 +/- 3.5, and 19.2 +/- 5.3 vs 9.5 +/- 2.7; P <.001) compared with control subjects. In 15 patients with hypertension and hypothyroidism, levothyroxine therapy showed only a small decrease in blood pressure (151/105 +/- 9/9 mm Hg, group A). The remaining 15 patients showed complete normalization of blood pressure (118/83 +/- 8/3 mm Hg, group B). Aortic stiffness index was increased in group A compared with group B both before and after treatment (before, 24.0 +/- 4.1 vs 13.7 +/- 3.2; and after, 22.3 +/- 4.2 vs 11.1 +/- 2.9; P <.001 for both comparisons). Felodipine was given to patients in group A after levothyroxine was administered, resulting in normalization of blood pressure and a significant decrease of aortic stiffness index (P <.001). Aortic stiffness index was decreased in patients with hypothyroidism and hypertension after administration of levothyroxine (9.5 +/- 2.2; P <.001) and felodipine (14.5 +/- 7.5; P <.001) therapy, respectively. Percent changes in systolic blood pressure showed a significant correlation with percent changes in aortic stiffness index in all patients (r = 0.65, P <.001). After multivariate adjustment, aortic stiffness index (odds ratio = 1.9932; confidence interval = 1.1481 to 3.4605) was significantly associated with incomplete normalization of blood pressure.
Patients with hypertension and hypothyroidism have increased aortic stiffness. Aortic stiffness is decreased in all patients, whereas hypertension is completely reversible in 50% of patients by hormone replacement therapy. Sustained hypertension may be due to increased aortic stiffness.
The study determines the effect of genistein on inflammatory status and expression of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB p65), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) and receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) in kidney of fructose-fed rats. Adult male Wistar rats were fed a diet containing either starch or fructose as the source of carbohydrate. Fifteen days later, after confirming the development of insulin resistance in fructose-fed rats, the rats in each dietary group were divided into two and treated with either genistein (1 mg/kg/day) in 30% dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) or 30% DMSO alone for the next 45 days. The expression of NF-κB P(65), TGF-β1 and RAGE, histochemical localization of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), levels of tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-6(IL-6) and ultrastructural analysis were performed at the end of the experimental period. Fructose-fed rats displayed inflammatory changes in kidney. Increased expression of TGF-β1 and RAGE in cytosol and NF-κB p65 in nuclear fraction were observed. α-SMA expression was higher in fructose-fed rat kidney. Proliferation of connective tissue was evident from increased collagen deposition in perivascular and intraglomerular regions. Administration of genistein to fructose-fed rats reduced inflammation, fibrogenesis and NF-κB activation. Genistein also mitigated the structural changes such as basement membrane thickening, reduction in podocyte number and loss of glomerular filtration barrier integrity. These findings suggest that genistein prevents inflammation, fibrosis and early nephropathic changes in fructose-fed insulin resistant rats secondary to the attenuation of NF-κB activation.
The benzodiazepine receptor 'inverse agonist' CGS 8216 has a specific anxiogenic action in the social interaction test that cannot be reversed by other compounds acting at the benzodiazepine site: Ro 15-1788, FG 7142 or beta-CCE. We tried to reverse the anxiogenic effect with chlordiazepoxide, which is able to antagonise the anxiogenic effects of several other compounds acting at benzodiazepine or related sites. Chlordiazepoxide given acutely (10-20 mg/kg) was unable to antagonise the anxiogenic action of CGS 8216 (5-10 mg/kg); instead there was a tendency to enhance its effects. The effects of chlordiazepoxide after 5 days pretreatment were then assessed, since chronic treatment is necessary to reverse the anxiogenic actions of Ro 15-1788 and Ro 5-4864. At 5 mg/kg chronically, chlordiazepoxide was unable to antagonise the anxiogenic effect of CGS 8216, and at 20 mg/kg there was a significant enhancement of the effects of CGS 8216 on social interaction without an effect on locomotor activity. These results are discussed in terms of withdrawal from benzodiazepine treatment.
Nephrocalcinosis and nephrolithiasis developed in five children after furosemide therapy for congestive heart failure. In four children renal calcifications were detected by ultrasonography and in one by autopsy. Discontinuation of the loop diuretic in three children resulted in resolution of the calcifications in two of the patients. Residual renal morbidity included reduced creatinine clearance, microscopic hematuria, and hypercalciuria. The phenomenon of renal calcifications associated with furosemide treatment is more frequent than previously recognized.
There is no plasma marker for detecting oral cancer, one of the most frequent cancers worldwide. We developed a bead-based affinity-fractionated proteomic method to discover a novel plasma marker for oral cancer.
Affinity purification of heparinized plasma with magnetic beads and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) analysis were used to screen potential oral cancer markers. We compiled MS protein profiles for 57 patients with oral cancer and compared them with profiles from 29 healthy controls. The spectra were analyzed statistically using flexAnalysis and ClinProt bioinformatic software. In each MS analysis, the peak intensities of interest were normalized with an internal standard (adrenocorticotropic hormone 18-39). For identification, affinity bead-purified plasma protein was subjected to MALDI TOF/TOF analysis followed by Mascot identification of the peptide sequences and a search of the National Center for Biotechnology Information protein database.
To optimize MALDI-TOF analysis based on the best discriminator of the cancer and control spectra, copper-chelated beads were used for plasma protein profiling. The within- and between-run CVs for assays were <4% and 7%, respectively. Six markers that differentiated between cancer and control spectra were found, with mean (SD) molecular masses of 2664 (1), 2850 (1), 3250 (1), 7735 (2), 7927 (2), and 9240 (2) Da. The 2664-Da marker, identified as a fragment of the fibrinogen alpha-chain, had the highest sensitivity (100%) and specificity (97%) for cancer.
The high specificity and sensitivity of the fibrinogen alpha-chain fragment suggest that it may be a clinical useful tumor marker.
1. Phenylephrine-induced contractions of rabbit isolated trigone and urethra were antagonized in a competitive manner by alfuzosin (pA2 7.44 and 7.30, respectively) and prazosin. 2. The characteristics of [3H]-prazosin binding to human prostatic adenoma tissue were evaluated. [3H]-prazosin was potently displaced by alpha 1-adrenoceptor specific agents including alfuzosin, its (+)- and (-)-enantiomers and prazosin (IC50 0.035, 0.023, 0.019 and 0.004 microM, respectively), but only weakly by alpha 2-adrenoceptor selective agents, for example, yohimbine (IC50 = 6.0 microM). 3. In the pithed rat, alfuzosin (0.03-0.3 mg kg-1, i.v.) markedly inhibited pressor responses produced by the alpha 1-selective agonist, cirazoline but inhibited only slightly responses to the alpha 2-selective agonist, UK 14,304. Alfuzosin (1 mg kg-1, i.v.) had minimal effects against responses mediated by stimulation of prejunctional alpha 2-receptors (UK 14,304-induced inhibition of sympathetic tachycardia). 4. In the anaesthetized cat, alfuzosin (0.001-1 mg kg-1, i.v.) and prazosin (0.001-0.3 mg kg-1, i.v.) produced dose-related inhibition of the increases in urethral pressure caused by stimulation of sympathetic hypogastric nerves. Prazosin was approximately 5 fold more potent than alfuzosin. When phenylephrine was employed to induce urethral and vascular alpha 1-mediated tone simultaneously, prazosin inhibited both stimuli with similar potency whereas alfusozin was 3-5 fold more potent against elevated urethral pressure. This functional uroselectivity of alfuzosin was more evident by the intraduodenal route, since doses of 0.03 and 0.1 mg kg-1 alfuzosin inhibited urethral pressure with minimal effects on arterial blood pressure. 5. Alfuzosin is a potent selective alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist in tissues of the lower urinary tract including the human prostate. This provides a pharmacological basis for its use in the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy.
A 60-year-old female with fever and general lymphadenopathy was admitted to our hospital in 1979. By histological examination of cervical lymph node, she was diagnosed as B-cell malignant lymphoma, diffuse, large, stage IV B (Ann Arbor classification). In 1984, the complete remission of malignant lymphoma was observed after MOPP, COPP and VAPP chemotherapies. After 3 years, she was readmitted because of leukocytosis in which 64% immature abnormal cells were detected. By conventional cytological and cytochemical evaluations, the immature abnormal cells were identified as secondary AML cells with M 2 type (FAB), peroxidase (+), My 7 (+) and chromosomal abnormality; 48, X, -X, +4, -9, +21, del (1) (p 34), i (17 q), + M 1, + M 2. Analysis of Ig and TcR genes showed TcR-beta rearrangement. It has been reported that secondary leukemia frequently causes chromosomal abnormalities and therapy resistance. Ig gene and TcR gene analysis of secondary leukemia combined with chromosome examination, which has reported little, may be useful in predicting prognosis and therapy resistance.
ELOVL2 is a member of the mammalian microsomal ELOVL fatty acid enzyme family, involved in the elongation of very long-chain fatty acids including PUFAs required for various cellular functions in mammals. Here, we used ELOVL2-ablated (Elovl2(-/-)) mice to show that the PUFAs with 24-30 carbon atoms of the ω-6 family in testis are indispensable for normal sperm formation and fertility in male mice. The lack of Elovl2 was associated with a complete arrest of spermatogenesis, with seminiferous tubules displaying only spermatogonia and primary spermatocytes without further germinal cells. Furthermore, based on acyl-CoA profiling, heterozygous Elovl2(+/-) male mice exhibited haploinsufficiency, with reduced levels of C28:5 and C30:5n-6 PUFAs, which gave rise to impaired formation and function of haploid spermatides. These new insights reveal a novel mechanism involving ELOVL2-derived PUFAs in mammals and previously unrecognized roles for C28 and C30 n-6 PUFAs in male fertility. In accordance with the function suggested for ELOVL2, the Elovl2(-/-) mice show distorted levels of serum C20 and C22 PUFAs from both the n-3 and the n-6 series. However, dietary supplementation with C22:6n-3 could not restore male fertility to Elovl2(+/-) mice, suggesting that the changes in n-6 fatty acid composition seen in the testis of the Elovl2(+/-) mice, cannot be compensated by increased C22:6n-3 content.
Alagille syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by abnormal development of liver, heart, skeleton, eye, face and, less frequently, kidney. Analyses of many patients with cytogenetic deletions or rearrangements have mapped the gene to chromosome 20p12, although deletions are found in a relatively small proportion of patients (< 7%). We have mapped the human Jagged1 gene (JAG1), encoding a ligand for the developmentally important Notch transmembrane receptor, to the Alagille syndrome critical region within 20p12. The Notch intercellular signalling pathway has been shown to mediate cell fate decisions during development in invertebrates and vertebrates. We demonstrate four distinct coding mutations in JAG1 from four Alagille syndrome families, providing evidence that it is the causal gene for Alagille syndrome. All four mutations lie within conserved regions of the gene and cause translational frameshifts, resulting in gross alterations of the protein product Patients with cytogenetically detectable deletions including JAG1 have Alagille syndrome, supporting the hypothesis that haploinsufficiency for this gene is one of the mechanisms causing the Alagille syndrome phenotype.
Alagille syndrome (AGS) is an autosomal-dominant disorder characterized by intrahepatic cholestasis and abnormalities of heart, eye and vertebrae, as well as a characteristic facial appearance. Identification of rare AGS patients with cytogenetic deletions has allowed mapping of the gene of 20p12. We have generated a cloned contig of the critical region and used fluorescent in situ hybridization on cells from patients with submicroscopic deletions to narrow the candidate region to only 250 kb. Within this region we identified JAG1, the human homologue of rat Jagged1, which encodes a ligand for the Notch receptor. Cell-cell Jagged/Notch interactions are known to be critical for determination of cell fates in early development, making this an attractive candidate gene for a developmental disorder in humans. Determining the complete exon-intron structure of JAG1 allowed detailed mutational analysis of DNA samples from non-deletion AGS patients, revealing three frame-shift mutations, two splice donor mutations and one mutation abolishing RNA expression from the altered allele. We conclude that AGS is caused by haploinsufficiency of JAG1.
A 22-year-old woman without predisposing liver disease developed focal hepatic glycogenosis and hepatocellular carcinoma after 6 years of azathioprine therapy for Crohn's disease. Hepatocellular carcinoma without cirrhosis has previously been described during immunosuppression, but this is the first report of disseminated focal hepatic glycogenosis after long-term azathioprine therapy.
The aim was to examine the role of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-mediated inflammation in the development of obese linked insulin resistance and fatty liver. The rats were fed separately regular diet (CONT), high-fat diet (HFD) ad libitum, or energy restrictedly for 12 weeks. Rats fed HFD ad libitum were further divided into three subgroups co-treated with vehicle (HFa), or a selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib (HFa-Cel) or mesulid (HFa-Mes). Euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp (EHC) experiment was performed at the end of study. Another set of rats with similar grouping was further divided into those with a 4, 8, or 12-week intervention period for hepatic sampling. Body weight was increased significantly and similarly in HFa, HFa-Cel, and HFa-Mes. Time-dependent increases in plasma insulin, glucose, 8-isoprostanes, leptin levels, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and hepatic triglyceride contents shown in HFa were significantly reversed in HFa-Cel and HFa-Mes. During EHC period, the reduction in stimulation of whole body glucose uptake, suppression of hepatic glucose production and metabolic clearance rate of insulin shown in HFa were significantly reversed in HFa-Cel and HFa-Mes. The enhanced COX-2 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) but attenuated PPAR-gamma and C/EBP-alpha mRNA expressions in epididymal fat shown in HFa were significantly reversed in HFa-Cel and HFa-Mes. The increases in average cell size of adipocytes and CD68 positive cells shown in HFa were also significantly reversed in HFa-Cel and HFa-Mes. Our findings suggest that COX-2 activation in fat inflammation is important in the development of insulin resistance and fatty liver in high fat induced obese rats.
Kinases have emerged as one of the most prolific therapeutic targets. An important criterion in the therapeutic success of inhibitors targeting the nucleotide binding pocket of kinases is the inhibitor residence time. Recently, covalent kinase inhibitors have attracted attention since they confer terminal inhibition and should thus be more effective than reversible inhibitors with transient inhibition. The most robust approach to design irreversible inhibitors is to capitalize on the nucleophilicity of a cysteine thiol group present in the target protein. Herein, we report a systematic analysis of cysteine residues present in the nucleotide binding site of kinases, which could be harnessed for irreversible inhibition, taking into consideration the different kinase conformations. We demonstrate the predictive power of this analysis with the design and validation of an irreversible inhibitor of KIT/PDGFR kinases. This is the first example of a covalent kinase inhibitor that combines a pharmacophore addressing the DFG-out conformation with a covalent trap.
