The materno-fetal and neonatal effects of ritodrine were studied in 37 women treated for premature labor with intravenous (i.v.) ritodrine. Marked cardiovascular, respiratory, and biochemical side effects of therapy were seen in the mothers and tachycardia was noted in the fetuses. The neonates of 18 women in whom ritodrine successfully postponed delivery were delivered with good Apgar scores and their admission vital signs and nursery courses were benign. Ritodrine failed to delay delivery more than a week in 19 mothers. There were no differences between their newborns and 20 control neonates in admission vital signs, blood gases, blood chemistries, complete blood counts, platelet counts, peak bilirubin, or duration of oxygen therapy. This study revealed no deleterious effects on neonates delivered after maternal ritodrine therapy despite significant maternal and fetal effects.
In 16 patients with possible disturbed CSF circulation longterm recording of intracranial pressure (ICP) was performed. In 9 of the 16 patients the disorder became evident after the application of an exogenous volume-pressure testing procedure. This procedure enabled a classification into a group I--disturbed CSF circulation (8 patients)--and another group II--normal CSF circulation (8 patients). During a routine Xenon-CT-CBF study all patients of both groups were given to 1 g acetazolamide (DIAMOX) intravenously. Before, during and after the administration of DIAMOX the epidural ICP was continuously measured. An increase in ICP was monitored in all patients. In group I the average initial ICP was 13.6 +/- 7.6 mmHg. The maximum ICP was reached within a time interval of 13.1 +/- 4.5 min after DIAMOX administration. At this time the mean ICP was 36.4 +/- 19.2 mmHg (p less than 0.01). The average initial ICP in group II was 6.3 +/- 4.2 mmHg. The maximum ICP was reached within a time interval of 13.6 +/- 1.1 min. At this time the mean ICP was 11.9 +/- 4.8 mmHg (p less than 0.01). In respect to the maximum ICP both groups were significantly different (p less than 0.01). Despite a considerably rising ICP up to values of about 50 to 70 mmHg in several patients of group I only 1 patient complained of being sick. Presumingly, an ICP elevation caused by vasodilatation would be better tolerated than ICP elevations due to other causes.
Dideoxynucleosides induce a dose-related toxic neuropathy; however, there is a paucity of information on whether other risk factors influence the development of neuropathy. We reviewed the records of 103 patients at an AIDS Clinical Trials Unit who were taking didanosine and/or zalcitabine to determine the risk factors for dideoxynucleoside-induced toxic neuropathy. Most were homosexual or bisexual (85%) men with a mean age of 39 years. The median CD4+ lymphocyte count was 59 cells/mm3, and 35% had a previous diagnosis of AIDS. Toxic neuropathy was more common in patients taking zalcitabine compared with those taking didanosine (14 of 51 versus seven of 55, p = 0.08). In the patients who took zalcitabine, those who had a low baseline serum cobalamin level, a history of heavy ethanol consumption, or a history of symptoms of peripheral nerve dysfunction were more likely to develop a toxic neuropathy (10 of 14 versus 12 of 37, p = 0.01). Conversely, there were no factors associated with the development of didanosine-induced toxic neuropathy. Dideoxynucleoside-induced toxic neuropathy is a common problem that can be disabling but is usually reversible. A history of symptoms of peripheral nervous system disease, heavy ethanol consumption, or a low serum cobalamin level may be useful in distinguishing patients at higher risk of developing zalcitabine-induced toxic neuropathy.
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase, EPHX1, plays a central role in the detoxification of potentially genotoxic epoxide intermediates. In this study, we firstly aimed to investigate the relationship between EPHX1 Tyr113His and His139Arg variants, and the risk of incidence of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in Turkish population, comprised of 190 healthy controls and 167 ALL patients. In exon 3 Tyr113His polymorphism, 113His/His homozygous mutant genotype with slow activity was 18.6% in ALL patients and 9% in controls, indicating 113His/His slow activity genotype was significantly associated with an increased risk of childhood ALL (OR: 2.3, 95% CI, 1.2-4.4, P = 0.01). No significant association was found between exon 4 His139Arg variant and the risk of ALL. When both exon 3 Tyr113His and exon 4 His139Arg polymorphisms were considered together, only the exon 3 113His/His, homozygous mutant, slow activity genotype with exon 4 wild-type genotype 139His/His was significantly increased the risk of ALL 2.4-fold (OR: 2.4, P = 0.02). We also evaluated whether haplotype analysis for EPHX1 Tyr113His polymorphism together with DNA protein XRCC1 Arg399Gln variant known for its deficient DNA repair capacity would represent more prominent risk factors for the development of childhood ALL. Accordingly, the co-presence of Tyr113His variant of EPHX1 and Arg399Gln variant of XRCC1 in the same individuals significantly increased the risk of childhood ALL up to 2.1-fold (OR = 2.1, P = 0.03). Moreover, homozygous mutant genotype for both genes significantly and considerably increased the risk of childhood ALL 8.5-fold (OR: 8.5, P = 0.03). In conclusion, individuals with EPHX1 113His/His slow activity genotype may not detoxify reactive carcinogenic epoxides efficiently, binding of reactive epoxides to DNA cause DNA damage. With the inadequate polymorphic DNA repair protein, XRCC1, this situation ultimately leads to significantly increased susceptibility for childhood ALL.
Chronic oral administration of the antineoplastic agent, 5-(3,3-dimethyl-1-triazeno)imidazole-4-carboxamide (NSC-45388, DTIC), induced predominantly thymic and mammary tumors as demonstrated previously. Male and female Sprague-Dawley and female Buffalo rats were susceptible to the carcinogenicity of DTIC. A 50% incidence of mammary adenocarcinomas was induced in males within 18 weeks. Type of tumor and tumor incidence were dose dependent. Single and multiple intraperitoneal injections of DTIC did not alter organ specificity. DTIC-induced thymic lymphosarcomas and mammary adenocarcinomas were transplantable. Tissue distribution studies revealed no correlation between uptake of DTIC by a given tissue and its susceptibility to carcinogenicity. Metabolites of DTIC were tested for carcinogenic activity. Animals administered 5-diazoimidazole-4-carboxamide orally, intraperitoneally, or intragastrically developed low incidences of thymic, stomach, bladder, or mammary tumors. A low incidence of mammary tumors developed in rats fed 2-azahypoxanthine. A variety of tumors, including several ependymoblastomas, were induced in rats that received 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide orally. 5-(3-Methyl-1-triazeno)imidazole-4-carboxamide (MTIC), when fed or given in single or multiple intraperitoneal injections, induced a high incidence of mammary adenofibromas and a low incidence of uterine leiomyosarcomas. Control rats had low incidences of mammary adenocarcinomas and adenofibromas after 52 weeks. These data show that the carcinogenic properties of DTIC resemble those of carcinogenic N-nitroso compounds, hydrazine, azo, and azoxy-alkanes and aryltriazenes and thus suggest similar mechanism(s) of action. These data also indicate that MTIC is involved in the induction of mammary adenofibromas and uterine leiomyosarcomas by DTIC.
A side-effect of high-dose corticosteroid therapy, namely the development of Kebsiella meningitis, in an asthmatic patient is reported. The possible mechanisms involved are discussed.
Capecitabine is a member of a new class of oral fluoropyrimidines. It is a 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) prodrug, activated by a series of enzymes. Activation has been demonstrated to occur preferentially in tumor tissue, which may explain the favorable balance of efficacy and toxicity of this drug. Cardiotoxicity, a rare but potentially serious adverse effect of 5-FU, has not been reported for capecitabine to date. Here we report a patient who experienced a severe and prolonged acute coronary syndrome during treatment with capecitabine. He had previously developed similar symptoms during treatment with infusional 5-FU. Capecitabine should thus be considered an agent with cardiotoxic potential. This adverse effect should be specifically monitored in all patients treated with capecitabine. Patients with symptoms suggestive of cardiotoxicity during previous treatment with a fluoropyrimidine should not be treated with capecitabine.
Substance abuse and chronic pain are both debilitating illnesses. It is difficult to treat these disorders when they co-occur. We discuss such a case in the context of relevant literature and make recommendations for assessment, management, and documentation.
A case of enalapril-induced acute hepatotoxicity with an unusual morphology is described. This morphology was characterized by macro- and microvesicular steatosis associated with neutrophil infiltration and Mallory bodies, occasionally with satellitosis. These alterations were most abundant in zone 1 of the periportal region, less common in zone 2 and rare in zone 3. There was also confluent periportal necrosis with sinusoidal fibrin deposits associated with intense ductal metaplasia and an infiltrate of inflammatory cells that included plasmocytes and a few eosinophils, as well as focal biliary damage. This morphology, that may be referred as "predominantly periportal steatohepatitis", was distinct from that associated with non-alcohol and alcohol-induced steatohepatitis, both initiated in acinar zone 3 and subsequently extended to other zones.
Gestational exposure to nicotine affects brain development, leading to numerous behavioural and physiological deficits in the offspring during adolescence. To analyse the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects, a pathway-focused oligonucleotide microarray was used to determine gene expression profiles in five brain regions (i.e. amygdala, prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and caudate putamen CPu) of adolescent rats that received nicotine or saline during gestation. Following appropriate statistical and Gene Set Enrichment Analyses, 24 cell death/survival-related pathways were found to be significantly modulated by gestational nicotine. On the basis of their biological functions, these pathways can be classified into three categories: growth factor, death receptor, and kinase cascade. We employed a quantitative real-time PCR array to verify the findings by measuring the expression of 29 genes involved in cell death/survival-related pathways. Together, our findings indicate that gestational nicotine exposure has significant effects on gene expression in cell death/survival-related pathways in the brains of adolescent offspring. Such effects appear to be brain region-specific and are realized through regulation of the expression of growth factors and receptors, caspases, kinases, and transcription factors. On the basis of these findings, we offer a hypothetical model to explain how gestational nicotine exposure may affect cell death and survival in the brains of adolescent offspring by regulating the balance between growth-factor and death-receptor pathways.
Sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1)/A170/p62 plays an important role in membrane-receptor mediated signal transduction and autophagic protein degradation. Although the mechanism involved is not clear, sqstm1 gene knockout (KO) mice develop mature-onset obesity and insulin resistance, leading to type II diabetes. KO mice show accumulation of fat in white adipose tissue and the liver when fed a standard diet. Acarbose is an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor that improves insulin sensitivity and decreases postprandial hyperglycemia, and it is used to treat type 2 diabetes. We examined whether or not dietary acarbose prevented obesity and simple steatosis in KO mice.
Wild-type (WT) and KO mice were fed a standard diet with or without acarbose (0.8% w/w) from 15-25 weeks of age. The body weight and the fat content of adipose tissue and the liver were measured, and changes of lipid metabolism in these tissues were assessed from gene expression.
Acarbose treatment suppressed weight gain and the development of hepatic steatosis in KO mice. Acarbose treatment up-regulated hepatic expression of the pparalpha, ucp-2, and abca1 genes, as well as srebp1c, pparalpha, and ppargamma in adipose tissue. In WT mice, however, acarbose treatment had little influence on weight gain and gene expression.
The results of this study suggest that long-term administration of acarbose is effective for prevention of obesity and simple steatosis in SQSTM1-KO mice.
According to the report of MORE trial, raloxifene (RLX) compensate for the faults of hormone replacement therapy with the reasons following below; 1) RLX inhibits onset of breast cancer with estrogen receptor remarkably, 2) RLX inhibits onset of cardiovascular disease in its high risk group. However, because RLX has a elevated risk of venous thrombosis as same as hormone replacement therapy, we should give attention to this disease at the use of RLX.
We report on a 53-year-old Japanese female on hemodialysis with myelodysplastic syndrome whose condition improved with recombinant human erythropoietin (epoetin) therapy. In 1992, based on a diagnosis of folic acid deficiency anemia, folate derivatives were administered. However, the anemia did not improve, and red blood cells had to be transfused subsequently. The transfusion volume was gradually increased afterward, as renal failure progressed, probably due to nephropathy by phenacetin. In 1998, when hemodialysis started, epoetin therapy was started with a dose of 3000 units three times per week. In July 2001, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) of a refractory anemia type was diagnosed through bone marrow aspiration. Myelodysplastic syndrome might cause an epoetin-resistant renal anemia. Afterwards the transfusion volume was gradually reduced, and transfusions were not performed after March 2002. Improvements of histological findings of MDS as well as anemia were confirmed by bone marrow aspiration in July 2003. This is an unusual case of a patient with a previously existing MDS, who subsequently develops end stage renal disease, and has an amelioration of her underlying MDS with the administration of epoetin over a long-term period, while being treated with chronic hemodialysis, even when not effective for a short-term.
Studies have shown that 5-HT1A receptor ligands modulate antipsychotic-induced catalepsy. Here, we further examined the role of intrinsic activity at 5-HT1A receptors in these effects. The anti-cataleptic effects of 5-HT(1A) receptor ligands with positive intrinsic activity [from high to low: 3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl-(4-fluoro-4-[[(5-methyl-6-methylamino-pyridin-2-ylmethyl)-amino]-methyl]-piperidin-1-yl-methanone fumaric acid salt (F 13714), eptapirone, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), 2-[4-[4-(7-methoxy-1-naphtyl) piperazino]butyl]-4-methyl-2H,4H-1,2,4-triazin-3,5-dione maleic acid salt (F 11461), buspirone, 2-[4-[4-(7-benzofuranyl)piperazino]butyl]-4-methyl-2H,4H-1,2,4-triazin-3,5-dione (F 12826), ipsapirone, and (s)-N-tert-butyl-3-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazine-1-yl)-2-phenylpropanamide hydrochloride (WAY 100135)] and negative intrinsic activity [N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide dihydrochloride (WAY 100635)] were examined. Catalepsy was induced by the classical antipsychotic haloperidol (0.63 mg/kg) and measured in the cross-legged position test and in the bar test. All 5-HT1A receptor agonists, except WAY 100135, significantly attenuated the effects of haloperidol in the cross-legged position test. All agonists had similar effects in the bar test, except ipsapirone, which failed to attenuate haloperidol-induced catalepsy. In contrast to the effects observed with the agonists, the inverse agonist WAY 100635 appeared to enhance haloperidol-induced catalepsy in both tests, in agreement with earlier findings. The maximal effects of the 5-HT1A receptor ligands to attenuate catalepsy correlated positively with the rank order of their intrinsic activity at 5-HT1A receptors (either catalepsy test: r(S)=0.92, P<0.001). F 13714, which had the highest intrinsic activity, maximally inhibited haloperidol-induced catalepsy in the cross-legged position and bar tests (100% and 99% inhibition, respectively). Because the magnitude of the anti-cataleptic effects of 5-HT1A receptor ligands correlates positively with their intrinsic activity, it is likely that F 13714 has marked anti-cataleptic effects because of its high intrinsic activity at 5-HT1A receptors.
Re-exposure to drug-related cues elicits drug-seeking behaviour and relapse in humans even after months of abstinence. Similarly, in laboratory rats, drug-associated stimuli reinstate cocaine seeking after prolonged withdrawal periods, thus providing a model to study mechanisms underlying cocaine relapse. 5-HT6 receptors (5-HT6Rs) are abundantly expressed in brain areas such as the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex, which are critically involved in cocaine reinforcement and relapse. Nevertheless, the role of 5-HT6Rs in relapse mechanisms has not been investigated. We report here that the 5-HT6R antagonists SB-271046 and Ro-04-6790 significantly attenuate cue-induced cocaine seeking. However, effective doses of both 5-HT6R antagonists did not affect cocaine self-administration. This indicates that 5-HT6Rs are specifically involved in the secondary reinforcing properties of cocaine, leaving primary reinforcement and ability to perform an operant response unaffected. As such, 5-HT6Rs may represent a novel target for the prevention of relapse to cocaine seeking.
We report a case of infective endocarditis due to vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus (VISA) that did not respond to high doses of vancomycin. Initial vancomycin MIC of the last isolate recovered from blood was 8 micro g/mL, but could be induced up to 32 micro g/mL by consecutive growing with vancomycin. Clinical response was only accomplished when linezolid was included in therapy.
The interaction between fibrogenic cells and extracellular matrix plays a role in liver fibrosis, yet the mechanisms are largely unknown. Secreted protein, acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC) is a matricellular glycoprotein that is expressed by hepatic stellate cells and is overexpressed in fibrotic livers. We investigated the in vivo role of SPARC in experimentally induced liver fibrosis in rats.
A recombinant adenovirus carrying antisense SPARC was constructed (AdasSPARC). Advanced liver fibrosis was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by prolonged intraperitoneal administration of thioacetamide. Animals received injections of AdasSPARC or Ad beta gal (control adenovirus) via the tail vein and directly into the liver 1 week after the first dose. The pathological changes in liver tissues and indices of fibrosis were assessed at eight weeks. Expression of SPARC, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and alpha-smooth muscle actin were evaluated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blotting, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunohistochemistry.
Hepatic SPARC expression significantly increased during the development of liver fibrosis. AdasSPARC markedly attenuated the development of hepatic fibrosis in rats treated with thiocetamide, as assessed by decreased collagen deposition, lower hepatic content of hydroxyproline and less advanced morphometric stage of fibrosis. AdasSPARC treatment reduced inflammatory activity (Knodell score) and suppressed transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cell to the myofibroblasts like phenotype in vivo. Furthermore, in vitro inhibition of SPARC on hepatic stellate cells decreases the production of TGF-beta.
This is the first study to demonstrate that knockdown of hepatic SPARC expression ameliorates thioacetamide-induced liver fibrosis in rats with chronic liver injury. SPARC is a potential target for gene therapy in liver fibrosis.
Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) is critical to the progression of atherosclerosis and neointima hyperplasia after vascular injury. We investigated the effects of carvedilol, a pharmacological antioxidant with alpha- and beta-adrenergic blocking activity, on MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression. Vascular injury was induced with the balloon catheters on abdominal aortas of high-cholesterol-fed rabbits. On Day 21, there was significant aortic neointima formation with increased oxidative DNA damage by immunostaining with 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and enhanced MMP-2 and MMP-9 expressions by Western blotting, which were significantly reduced by oral administration of carvedilol (20 mg/kg/day) or probucol (100 mg/kg/day). Vascular expression (by Western blot), activity (by gelatin zymography), and mRNA levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9 were also reduced by carvedilol or probucol. Besides, pretreatment with carvedilol or probucol but not propranolol, a beta-blocker, or prazocin, an alpha-blocker, inhibited tumor necrosis factor-alpha-stimulated expressions and activities of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in human aortic smooth muscle cells. On electrophoretic mobility-shift assay, carvedilol inhibited the binding activities of activator protein-1 and specific protein-1, two major transcription factors for MMP promoter regions. Accordingly, carvedilol, a pharmacological antioxidant, inhibited in vivo and in vitro expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 properly by modulating the redox-related pathways, suggesting its potential clinical implications.
A 62-year-old man receiving subcutaneous fentanyl for the management of cancer pain developed generalized central excitation after an overdose of 5000 micrograms of fentanyl. The patient developed acute confusion, restlessness, generalized myoclonus, visual hallucinations, and hyperalgesia and tremors upon tactile stimulation of the arms or legs. These symptoms rapidly disappeared after the administration of 0.2 mg of naloxone. Within an hour the symptoms reappeared and once again, responded immediately after a second injection of 0.2 mg of naloxone. Our findings suggest that fentanyl overdose can occasionally present with general central irritability that responds to naloxone.
Resveratrol (Res) has anticancer activity in prostate cancer (PCa), which can be attributed to modulation of microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs). miRNAs/miRs are small non-coding RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression. We have analyzed differential miRNA expression in PCa cells treated with Res.
Using miRNA microarrays we found that 23 miRNAs were significantly down-regulated and 28 miRNAs were significantly up-regulated after Res treatment. The down-regulated miRs included miR-17-92 and miR-106ab clusters with well recognized oncogenic properties while the up-regulated miRs included several tumor suppressors. Selected miRs were verified by qRT-PCR, including miR-17, miR-20a, miR-20b, miR-106a and miR106b. Since these miRNAs target PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10), we performed Western blot to confirm up-regulation of PTEN in PCa cells. In addition, using TargetScan database, we have identified putative mRNA targets for Res-induced down- and up-regulated miRs. Using a bioinformatics approach, we generated gene networks specifically altered by Res-regulated miRNAs.
Our results indicate that the dietary compound Res may play an important role in prostate carcinogenesis through modulation of miRNA expression: Res down-regulated oncogenic miRs and up-regulated tumor suppressor miRs in PCa cells. Further in-depth studies are necessary in order to fully recognize the beneficial miRNA-mediated effects of Res in PCa.
Adenosine is involved in several neurological and behavioral disorders including alcoholism. In cultured cell and animal studies, type 1 equilibrative nucleoside transporter (ENT1, slc29a1), which regulates adenosine levels, is known to regulate ethanol sensitivity and preference. Interestingly, in humans, the ENT1 (SLC29A1) gene contains a non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (647 T/C; rs45573936) that might be involved in the functional change of ENT1.
Our functional analysis showed that prolonged ethanol exposure increased adenosine uptake activity of mutant cells (ENT1-216Thr) compared to wild-type (ENT1-216Ile) transfected cells, which might result in reduced extracellular adenosine levels. We found that mice lacking ENT1 displayed increased propensity to ethanol withdrawal seizures compared to wild-type littermates. We further investigated a possible association of the 647C variant with alcoholism and the history of alcohol withdrawal seizures in subjects of European ancestry recruited from two independent sites. Analyses of the combined data set showed an association of the 647C variant and alcohol dependence with withdrawal seizures at the nominally significant level.
Together with the functional data, our findings suggest a potential contribution of a genetic variant of ENT1 to the development of alcoholism with increased risk of alcohol withdrawal-induced seizures in humans.
This study was designed to examine the effects of pimobendan in a murine model of viral myocarditis in relation to proinflammatory cytokine production and nitric oxide (NO) synthesis by inducible NO synthase (iNOS) in the heart.
Pimobendan has been recently confirmed to improve both acute and chronic heart failure. Since the modulation of myocardial necrosis and contractile dysfunction by various proinflammatory cytokines may be partially mediated by the production of nitric oxide, the effects of pimobendan on the production ofproinflammatory cytokines and NO were investigated in an animal model of viral myocarditis involving heart failure.
DBA/2 mice were inoculated with the encephalomyocarditis virus. To observe its effect on survival up to 14 days, pimobendan (0.1 mg/kg or 1 mg/kg) or vehicles were given from the day of virus inoculation (day 0) orally once daily. The effects of pimobendan on histological changes, cytokine production, NO production and iNOS gene expression in the heart were studied in mice treated either with pimobendan, 1 mg/kg or with vehicles only, and sacrificed seven days after virus inoculation.
The survival of mice improved in a dose-dependent fashion such that a significant difference (p < 0.02) was found between the higher-dose pimobendan group (20 of 30 [66.7%]) and the control group (11 of 30 [36.7%]). Histological scores for cellular infiltration (1.1+/-0.1 vs. 2.0+/-0.0, p < 0.001), intracardiac tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha (18.2+/-1.8 vs. 35.8+/-4.2 pg/mg heart, p < 0.001) and interleukin (IL)-1beta (9.3 +/-1.2 vs. 26.6+/-7.1 pg/mg heart, p < 0.01) were significantly lower in the mice given pimobendan versus those of the control mice. Interleukin-6 levels (7.1+/-0.8 vs. 9.2+/-1.9 pg/mg heart) were also lower in the mice treated with pimobendan. Furthermore, intracardiac NO production was significantly (p < 0.001) less in the pimobendan group (0.165+/-0.004 nmol/mg heart) than in the control group (0.291+/-0.051 nmol/mg heart), and intracardiac iNOS gene expression in the mice given pimobendan was 74% lower than it was in the control animals (p < 0.01).
These findings suggest that the beneficial effects of pimobendan in viral myocarditis are partially mediated by the inhibition of both proinflammatory cytokine production and NO synthesis by iNOS.
Cell transplantation is a promising therapy for treating end-stage heart failure. Bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMNC) have been used to enhance angiogenesis in ischemic heart disease. However, the effect of BMMNC transplantation in non-ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy is unknown. In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of BMMNC transplantation in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in a rat model.
Doxorubicin (15 mg/kg, IP) was introduced into 52 Lewis rats. They were divided into 3 groups at 4 weeks after injection: transplant group (TX, BMMNC [1 x 10(6)] implantation, n = 18), control group (CN, saline injection, n = 18), and sham group (SH, thoracotomy, n = 16). At 4 weeks after surgery, we used echocardiography to measure systolic left ventricular diameter (LVDs), diastolic left ventricular diameter (LVDd), fractional shortening (FS), and left ventricular wall thickness/LVDs. We used a Langendorff apparatus to measure systolic, diastolic, and developed pressures. We used radioimmunoassay to measure circulating atrial natriuretic peptide concentration, and we performed histologic study, including electron-microscopic study.
Left ventricular wall thickness/LVDs in the TX group was the largest of all groups (p < 0.05). Systolic and developed pressures in the TX group were the greatest (p < 0.005). Systolic left ventricular diameter, FS, and end-diastolic pressure in the TX group were smaller than in the SH group (p < 0.05). These cardiac parameters did not differ significantly between TX and CN groups, but secondary changes (decreased heart weight, developed ascites, and increased atrial natriuretic peptide concentration) caused by doxorubicin-induced heart failure were most attenuated in the TX group. In the TX group, vascular density was greatest (p < 0.05) in the left ventricular free wall and in the septum. In addition, electron microscopy showed that myocardium in the TX group was most maintained.
Bone marrow mononuclear cell transplantation had beneficial effects in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
A transient ischemic attack (TIA) in the brain is classically considered a syndrome lasting <24 hours. Having previously shown that an experimental challenge with the GABAA agonist midazolam in recovered stroke patients can reinduce the acute clinical state, we determined whether TIA patients would demonstrate a similar effect.
Four right-handed patients participated: 3 with clinical TIA presumed to have affected the left hemisphere within the previous 24 to 72 hours and no evidence of a new lesion on diffusion-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery imaging, and 1 patient with an asymptomatic temporal arteriovenous malformation. The TIA duration ranged from 30 minutes to 3 hours. Each patient underwent baseline testing for motor function and aphasia, after which intravenous midazolam was delivered until mild drowsiness was detected. Patients were tested during the peak drug effect and again after 2 hours when sedation had dissipated.
No patient showed weakness or aphasia at baseline. After administration of midazolam, all 3 TIA patients demonstrated re-emergence of features that characterized their recent transient neurological syndromes (right-sided weakness and/or aphasia) but no left-sided findings. The arteriovenous malformation patient who had never been symptomatic showed no drug effect. Two hours later, all TIA patients returned to their normal clinical state.
Patients who had suffered recent transient cerebral ischemic episodes and were neurologically intact with negative diffusion-weighted imaging showed re-emergence of prior focal deficits after administration of a benzodiazepine in a dose that produces light sedation. These findings suggest that presumed TIA may produce neuronal dysfunction beyond the symptomatic period.
Medulloblastoma is a malignant paediatric central nervous system tumor with a poor prognosis, stimulating the evaluation of improved treatment strategies. Lovastatin, a competitive inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, is currently used to treat patients with hypercholesterolemia. This compound also inhibits the production of non-steroidal mevalonate derivatives that are implicated in the control of cellular proliferation, and can induce cell-cycle arrest in vitro. We recently showed that lovastatin inhibited growth and promoted apoptosis of neuroblastoma, the peripheral nervous system 'cousin' of medulloblastoma. Therefore the potential of lovastatin as a possible anticancer drug against medulloblastoma was evaluated in vitro. Four medulloblastoma cell lines, Daoy, UW228, D341 Med and D283 Med, were treated with 1-40 microM of lovastatin in vitro. Analysis of cell morphologic changes, cell viability, DNA fragmentation and flow cytometry in all four cell lines showed growth inhibition and induction of apoptosis with lovastatin treatment. As little as 10 microM of lovastatin was sufficient to cause a marked reduction in cell numbers, and more than 20 microM of lovastatin induced >90% cells to undergo apoptosis, after intervals ranging between 36 and 96 h, depending on the cell line. Lovastatin induced apoptosis in these cell lines was concomitant with cell cycle arrest in G1. The attached cell lines UW228 and Daoy were more sensitive to lovastatin than D283 Med and D341 Med. Daoy cells which survived several cycles of lovastatin treatment could still be induced to undergo apoptosis after longer treatment times. The efficient induction of apoptosis by lovastatin favours this drug as a potential new avenue of therapeutic intervention for medulloablastoma.
Acupuncture is widely used for the treatment of many functional disorders, such as substance abuse, and has the suppressive effect on the central nervous system. Many studies have suggested that behavioral sensitization by repeated injections of cocaine produce an increase in locomotor activity and an increase in the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), in the central dopaminergic system. In order to investigate the effects of acupuncture on the repeated cocaine-induced neuronal and behavioral sensitization alternations, we examined the influence of acupuncture on the repeated cocaine-induced locomotor activity and the expression of TH in the brain using immunohistochemistry. Male SD rats were given repeated injections of cocaine hydrochloride (15 mg/kg, i.p. for 10 consecutive days) followed by one challenge injection on the 4th day after the last daily injection. Cocaine challenge produced a large increase in the locomotor activity and the expression of TH in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Treatment with acupuncture bilaterally at the Shenman (HT7) points for 1 min significantly inhibited the increase of locomotor activity as well as the TH expression in the VTA. Our data demonstrated that the inhibitory effects of acupuncture on cocaine-induced expression of behavioral sensitization were closely associated with the reduction of dopamine (DA) biosynthesis and the postsynaptic neuronal activity. These results provide evidence that acupuncture may be effective for inhibiting the behavioral effects of cocaine by possible modulation of the central dopaminergic system.
