Therapeutic strategies that target the tyrosine kinase MET hold promise for gastric cancer, but the mechanism underlying the antitumor activity of such strategies remains unclear. We examined the antitumor action of the MET tyrosine kinase inhibitor crizotinib (PF-02341066) in gastric cancer cells positive or negative for MET amplification. Inhibition of MET signaling by crizotinib or RNA interference-mediated MET depletion resulted in induction of apoptosis accompanied by inhibition of AKT and extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation in gastric cancer cells with MET amplification but not in those without it, suggesting that MET signaling is essential for the survival of MET amplification-positive cells. Crizotinib upregulated the expression of BIM, a proapoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family, as well as downregulated that of survivin, X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), and c-IAP1, members of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein family, in cells with MET amplification. Forced depletion of BIM inhibited crizotinib-induced apoptosis, suggesting that upregulation of BIM contributes to the proapoptotic effect of crizotinib. Crizotinib also exhibited a marked antitumor effect in gastric cancer xenografts positive for MET amplification, whereas it had little effect on those negative for this genetic change. Crizotinib thus shows a marked antitumor action both in vitro and in vivo specifically in gastric cancer cells positive for MET amplification.
Marked cellular and molecular changes may occur in breast cancers following treatment of postmenopausal breast cancer patients with aromatase inhibitors. Neoadjuvant protocols, in which treatment is given with the primary tumour still within the breast, are particularly illuminating. In Edinburgh, we have shown that 3 months treatment with either anastrozole, exemestane or letrozole produces pathological responses in the majority of oestrogen receptor (ER)-rich tumours (39/59) as manifested by reduced cellularity/increased fibrosis. Changes in histological grading may also take place, most notably a reduction in mitotic figures. This probably reflects an influence on proliferation as most tumours (82%) show a marked decrease in the proliferation marker, Ki67. These effects are generally more dramatic than seen with tamoxifen given in the same setting. Differences between aromatase inhibitors and tamoxifen are also apparent in changes in steroid hormone expression. Thus, immuno-staining for progesterone receptor (PgR) is reduced in almost all cases by aromatase inhibitors, becoming undetectable in many. This contrasts with effects of tamoxifen in which the most common change on PgR is to increase expression. Changes in proliferation occur rapidly following the onset of exposure to aromatase inhibitors. Thus, neoadjuvant studies with letrozole in which tumour was sampled before and after 14 days and 3 months treatment show that decreased expression of Ki67 occur at 14 days and, in many cases, the effect is greater at 14 days than 3 months. These early changes precede evidence of clinical response but do not predict for it. However, this study design has allowed RNA analysis of sequential biopsies taken during the neoadjuvant therapy. Based on clustering techniques, it has been possible to subdivide tumours into groups showing distinct patterns of molecular changes. These changes in tumour gene expression may allow definition of tumour cohorts with differing sensitivity to aromatase inhibitors and permit early recognition of response and resistance.
This study analyzed the effects of the chronic administration of clofibrate, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) agonist, on the development and established hemodynamic, morphologic, metabolic, and renal manifestations of hyperthyroidism in rats.
The prevention study used four groups of male Wistar rats: control, clofibrate (240 mg/kg/day by gavage), T(4)(75 microg thyroxine/rat/day s.c.), and T(4)+clofibrate. All treatments were maintained for 3 weeks. Body weight (BW), tail systolic blood pressure (SBP), and heart rate (HR) were recorded weekly. Finally, temperature, SBP, pulse pressure (PP) and HR were recorded in conscious rats, and morphologic, metabolic, plasma, and renal variables were measured. The reversion study used two groups of rats, T(4)(treated for 6 weeks) and T(4)+clofibrate, measuring their hemodynamic variables and temperature for 3 weeks.
T(4) increased BP, HR, PP, and temperature when compared with control rats. Clofibrate prevented and reversed the increase in SBP, HR, PP, and temperature produced by T(4) administration, reduced plasma thyroid hormone levels, and increased plasma thyroid-stimulating hormone values and phenol-uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyl-transferase (UGT) activity. However, clofibrate did not modify the cardiac or renal hypertrophy, polyphagia, polydipsia, or proteinuria of hyperthyroid rats. In normal rats, clofibrate treatment did not significantly change thyroid hormone levels, phenol-UGT activity, or any hemodynamic, morphologic, or renal variables.
Chronic clofibrate treatment suppressed the hemodynamic manifestations and increased temperature of hyperthyroidism, an effect that can be produced by direct antithyroid effects. However, clofibrate administration did not modify the morphologic, metabolic, or renal alterations of hyperthyroid rats, indicating specificity in the antithyroid actions of clofibrate.
The case of a 55-year-old woman with primary pulmonary hypertension is described who developed 2 hours after sublingual administration of a 10 mg capsule of nifedipine a severe rise in pulmonary arterial and right atrial pressures accompanied with dyspnoea and cyanosis. The event lasted for two hours and subsided without intervention. With repeated nifedipine intake in the form of orally administered slow-release tablets no complications occurred. The authors ascribe the marked rise in pulmonary vascular resistance to rapid reduction of plasma nifedipine concentration after sublingual administration, due to a faster drug resorption compared to oral intake. The necessity of cautious introduction of vasodilating drugs in pulmonary hypertension and of gradual dosage increase is stressed.
We studied the effects of status epilepticus (SE) induced by lithium chloride/pilocarpine treatment on gene expression of neurotrophins of the nerve growth factor (NGF) family and of their high-affinity receptors of the tyrosine protein kinase (trk) family in the forebrain. Using in situ hybridization (ISH), we demonstrated an early (3 h after treatment) increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and trkB mRNA expression in the dentate gyrus, amygdala, and piriform cortex, as well as widespread increases in the cerebral cortex. NGF mRNA, but not the mRNA of its receptor trkA, was increased in the dentate gyrus. In contrast, 12 h after treatment, neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) decreased, and its receptor trkC mRNA increased. There was no change in NT-4 mRNA levels. All changes were blocked by pretreatment with scopolamine, a muscarinic antagonist. The noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist ketamine blocked NGF, BDNF, and trkB mRNA increases in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, but not in the amygdala and piriform cortex. In contrast, ketamine did not affect NT-3 and trkC changes. These results provide a complete description of changes in mRNA levels of neurotrophins and their receptors in the forebrain after SE and supply additional data supporting the view that neurotrophin gene expression is related to abnormal neuronal activity.
In the present study, we evaluated the effects of subchronic blockade of mGluR5 by 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP) on learning, anxiety and levodopa-induced dyskinesia in rats. In addition, we excluded the possibility that subchronic treatment produced pharmacokinetic changes using brain microdialysis. MTEP (5 mg/kg) impaired spatial learning in a radial maze task and contextual fear conditioning (CFC) when administered acutely, and the same effect was observed following a 4-day pre-treatment regime. Similarly, MTEP (5 mg/kg) exerted anxiolytic-like effects in CFC when given before the test whether administered after acute or sub-chronic treatment. Similarly, in levodopa-induced dyskinesia, sub-chronic (7 subsequent days) treatment with MTEP (5 mg/kg) resulted in a significant reduction in abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), comparable to single acute administration. The data indicate that tolerance does not develop to the anxiolytic and antidyskinetic effects of mGluR5 antagonist MTEP at least at the used treatment mode and tested doses. However, at least at the doses tested, also no tolerance to the memory impairing effect of MTEP was observed. Depending on the indication and model, the amnesic effects of MTEP should be taken into account as a potential limitation, also after repetitive treatment.
Adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism resulting in accumulation of metabolites including succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide riboside (SAICAr) and succinyladenosine (S-Ado) in the brain and other tissues. Patients with ADSL have progressive psychomotor retardation, neonatal seizures, global developmental delay, hypotonia, and autistic features, although variable clinical manifestations may make the initial diagnosis challenging. Two cases of the severe form of the disease are reported here: an 18-month-old boy with global developmental delay, intractable neonatal seizures, progressive cerebral atrophy, and marked hypomyelination, and a 3-month-old girl presenting with microcephaly, neonatal seizures, and marked psychomotor retardation. In both patients in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) showed the presence of S-Ado signal at 8.3 ppm, consistent with a prior report. Interestingly, SAICAr signal was also detectable at 7.5 ppm in affected white matter, which has not been reported in vivo before. A novel splice-site mutation, c.IVS12 + 1/G > C, in the ADSL gene was identified in the second patient. Our findings confirm the utility of in vivo proton MRS in suggesting a specific diagnosis of ADSL deficiency, and also demonstrate an additional in vivo resonance (7.5 ppm) of SAICAr in the cases of severe disease.
Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) is known to induce liver damage. Animal experiments with CCl4 injections have revealed many findings, especially mechanisms of liver damage and liver regeneration. Recently, proteomic approaches have been introduced in various studies to evaluate the quantitative and qualitative changes in the comprehensive proteome level. The aim of this research is to elucidate the key protein for liver damage, liver protection and liver regeneration by using proteomic techniques. 50 % (v/v) CCl4 in corn oil was administered intraperitoneally to adult male rats at a dose of 4ml/kg body weight. Approximately 24h after the injection, the liver was removed and extracted proteins were analyzed with cleavable isotope coded affinity tag (cICAT) reagents, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry (MS). A twelvefold increase in D-dopachrome tautomerase (DDT) was indicated. This enzyme has been reported to be involved in the biosynthesis of melanin, an antioxidant. According to the histological analysis, melanin levels were increased in un-damaged hepatocytes of CCl4-treated rats. These results suggest that the increase in DDT is a response to liver damage, accelerates melanin biosynthesis and protects the liver from oxidative stress induced by CCl4.
The mechanisms of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN)-induced headache are not fully elucidated. In this study we administered GTN 0.5 microg/kg/min i.v. for 20 min in six healthy volunteers. Before, during and 60 min after the infusion, we investigated regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), both estimated with SPECT, and blood flow velocity (BFV) in the middle cerebral artery (MCA), measured with transcranial Doppler. Headache was scored on a numerical verbal rating (0-10) scale. rCBF was unchanged, CBV was slightly increased (13%) during GTN infusion, whereas BFV decreased both during (20%) and 60 min (15%) after GTN. Headache was short-lived and maximal during infusion. This discrepancy of time-effect curves for the effect of GTN on headache and dilatation of MCA indicates that MCA is most likely not the primary source of pain in GTN-induced headache. The time-effect curves for the effect of GTN on headache and on dilation of MCA differed markedly. This indicates that MCA is most likely not the primary source of pain in GTN-induced headache.
This study was performed to determine the incidence of allergic reaction to brimonidine in patients who have previously demonstrated an allergic reaction to apraclonidine.
A retrospective chart review was performed to identify patients who had demonstrated an allergic reaction to apraclonidine of sufficient severity to result in drug discontinuation. Within this group, those patients subsequently treated with brimonidine were isolated and analyzed, and the incidence of allergy to brimonidine was determined.
Forty-five patients were identified with a significant allergic reaction to apraclonidine that resulted in drug discontinuation. Of these patients, 22 subsequently received brimonidine. Follow-up on all patients was obtained for at least 15 months. All but two of the 22 patients were taking additional topical glaucoma medications, ranging from one to three additional agents with an average of 1.8+/-0.8 medications. Seventeen patients incurred no allergic reaction to brimonidine. Only five patients (22.7%) previously allergic to apraclonidine developed an allergic reaction to brimonidine. Three of these patients demonstrated only a follicular conjunctival reaction, one had conjunctival hyperemia, and one patient developed a periocular dermatitis. The allergic reactions developed at 8.2+/-1.2 months after initiation of brimonidine therapy.
In this study, the risk of developing an allergic reaction to brimonidine in patients known to be allergic to apraclonidine is 22.7%. This lack of a strong cross-reactive allergic response possibly suggests different allergic mechanisms for these two medications. Therefore, brimonidine therapy in patients previously identified as being allergic to apraclonidine is safe and does not result in a cross-reactive response in the great majority of patients (or in nearly four of five patients).
Following infection of susceptible BALB/c mice with Leishmania major, early production of interleukin-4 (IL-4) is associated with the development of a nonprotective Th2 response and the development of progressive disease. Treatment of mice with IL-12 at the time of infection can promote the activation of a protective Th1 response; however, IL-12 treatment of mice with established infections has little effect on the progress of lesion development. This may be due to a down-regulation of the IL-12 receptor beta2 chain (IL-12Rbeta2) that accompanies the expansion of IL-4-producing Th2 cells. We have examined whether prostaglandins function to regulate in vivo responsiveness to IL-12. Mice treated with indomethacin are responsive to treatment with exogenous IL-12 through at least the first 2 weeks of infection and, unlike control mice treated with IL-12, develop an enhanced Th1-type response associated with increased enhanced resistance to infection. Cells from indomethacin-treated mice also exhibit enhanced production of gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) following in vitro stimulation with IL-12. Although in vivo indomethacin treatment did not appear to influence IL-12 production in infected mice, cells from indomethacin-treated mice did express higher levels of IL-12Rbeta2, suggesting that prostaglandins may play a role in the loss of IL-12 responsiveness observed during nonhealing L. major infections.
BCL6, a gene on chromosome 3, band q27, encodes a zinc finger transcriptional repressor that is needed for germinal center formation and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of some human lymphomas when it is mutated or involved in chromosomal rearrangements. To explore further the mechanisms of action of BCL6 in lymphomagenesis, we developed a transgenic mouse model mimicking a common translocation, the t(3, 14)(q27;q32), in human lymphomas. The transgenic mice develop normally and express the transgenic BCL6 protein constitutively in lymphocytes. A small fraction of the animals develop B and T cell lymphomas after a long latency period, but the incidence is dramatically enhanced following administration of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea, a carcinogen that induces DNA mutations. The N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced lymphomas spread widely, were exclusively T cell, expressed the BCL6 protein, and occurred only in the transgenic mice. Because BCL6 expression has been reported in a number of T cell tumors as well as in the more commonly occurring B cell lymphomas in humans, our transgenic mice provide a model for the study of human lymphomas.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most common and pharmacoresistant form of epilepsy. Problems that cause pharmacoresistance may include delayed therapy due to late consultation, especially in developing countries. Our study aimed at unraveling consequences of delayed drug treatment using a rat model of TLE. Following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus interrupted after 4h, rats were continuously videorecorded for onset and recurrence of spontaneous convulsive seizures. The animals were then treated for 50 days with carbamazepine (CBZ; first-line drug in TLE and effective also in rats), starting at seizure onset (27.22+/-3.38 days after status epilepticus) or 50 days later, and compared with epileptic untreated rats and non-epileptic CBZ-treated ones. Convulsive seizure frequency and duration, and hippocampal cell changes were evaluated. In particular, parvalbumin-containing hippocampal interneurons, astrocytes and microglia were characterized with immunohistochemistry and quantitative analyses. Prompt administration of CBZ suppressed seizures; delayed treatment only decreased frequency of convulsive seizures, which were also relatively prolonged. In hippocampal regions, histopathological damage, parvalbumin immunoreactivity loss, and glial activation were very marked after delayed treatment, and were reduced only slightly compared to untreated epilepsy, but enhanced compared to early treatment. The data on high frequency and duration of convulsive seizures in late-therapy rats indicate that delayed CBZ administration caused a high degree of drug resistance. This condition was subserved by severe damage in the hippocampus, presumably consequent to long-term seizure recurrence. Overall the data indicate that the paradigm of delayed treatment of limbic epilepsy could provide a model of drug-refractory TLE with hippocampal sclerosis.
Urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) and of alanine-aminopeptidase (AAP) was studied after administration of cyclosporine A (CSA A), FK 506, or the corresponding vehicles to salt-depleted rats. On days 7, 14, and 28 after treatment for CSA and day 14 after treatment for FK 506, measurements of the urinary enzymes, serum creatinine (SCr), creatinine clearance (ClCr), and blinded renal histology were done. After 1 week on CSA there was a dramatic increase of 489% in the urinary excretion of AAP (162.6 IU/g Cr, CSA vs. 27.6 IU/g Cr control, p < .03), a significant decrease of 32% in ClCr, a significant increase of 41% in SCr, and mild proximal tubular atrophy and vacuolization. After 2 or 4 weeks of CSA treatment there were no more differences in the urinary AAP between CSA and control rats, but the urinary excretion of NAG was increased: 29.6 IU/g Cr, CSA vs. 20.9 IU/g Cr, control, p < .03 on day 14 and 26.9 IU/g Cr, CSA vs. 21.5 IU/g Cr, control, p < .008 on day 28. At the same time there was a progressive decline of the ClCr, a progressive increase in the SCr, and an increase in the severity of the histological lesion. After 14 days of treatment with FK 506 we observed a striking elevation in urinary AAP (62.6 IU/g Cr, FK 506 vs. 36.0 IU/g Cr, control, p < .01) consistent with a significant decrease in ClCr, a significant increase in SCr, and a moderate proximal tubular vacuolization and atrophy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To report a case of ocular myasthenia associated with administration of nitrofurantoin.
Case report and review of the literature.
While taking nitrofurantoin after urinary tract surgery, a 10-year-old female developed diplopia and ptosis. Sleep test confirmed ocular myasthenia. Signs and symptoms resolved after discontinuation of the drug.
Ocular myasthenia may be associated with nitrofurantoin administration.
We examined the effect of alcohol ingestion on hepatocarcinogenesis induced by oral administration of synthetic female hormones, 0.075 mg of ethynylestradiol (EE) and 6.0 mg of norethindrone acetate (NA), every day for 12 months in female Wistar rats. Administration of 10% ethanol in drinking water for 5 days a week every week resulted in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in 38.4% of the hormone-treated rats at 12 months, which is approximately 5 times the incidence of HCC observed following EE and NA treatment alone. The number of hyperplastic nodules was significantly higher than the number observed in the case of EE and NA treatment alone after 4 months of the experimental period. The additional alcohol treatment also increased the value of unoccupied nuclear estrogen receptors (ERn) at months 6 and 8 of the experimental period, and increased the value of total ERn in the rat liver after 6 months of the experimental period. This indicates that additional alcohol treatment may increase occupied ERn (estrogen-ER complex) in the rat liver. A 32P-postlabeling analysis of liver DNA revealed that the maximum number of extra spots consisting of modified nucleotides induced by EE and NA appeared earlier when the additional alcohol treatment was imposed. Consequently, alcohol affects the hepatocarcinogenesis by EE and NA, promoting not only the change in kinetics of ER, but also DNA adduct formation induced by EE and NA in the rat liver.
The aim of this study was to assess the preventative effect of ketamine on the exaggerated postoperative pain observed in sufentanil-treated mice and its ability to improve the analgesic effectiveness of morphine during the postoperative period in an orthopaedic model of pain.
In this study, we assessed the effects of ketamine on sufentanil enhancement of pain behaviour induced by fracture and the effects of ketamine on postoperative morphine-induced analgesia. Three tests were used to assess pain behaviour: von Frey filament application, hot-plate test, and a subjective pain scale.
When administered 1 day after surgery in mice treated with sufentanil on D0 (before surgery), morphine induced an analgesic effect as observed by the nociceptive threshold increase in saline- and ketamine-treated mice. Morphine was more effective in ketamine-treated (1 and 50 mg kg(-1)) mice.
Our results suggest that pre-emptive use of ketamine is useful in orthopaedic surgery in this mice model to diminish short- and long-term hyperalgesia, but also to improve morphine effectiveness leading to a better mobilization and more rapid rehabilitation.
Three clinical trials on the use of tamoxifen to prevent breast cancer have reported mixed results. The overall evidence supports a reduction in the risk of breast cancer, but whether this benefit outweighs the risks and side-effects associated with tamoxifen is unclear.
We undertook a double-blind placebo-controlled randomised trial of tamoxifen, 20 mg/day for 5 years, in 7152 women aged 35-70 years, who were at increased risk of breast cancer. The primary outcome measure was the frequency of breast cancer (including ductal carcinoma in situ). Analyses were by intention to treat after exclusion of 13 women found to have breast cancer at baseline mammography.
After median follow-up of 50 months (IQR 32-67), 69 breast cancers had been diagnosed in 3578 women in the tamoxifen group and 101 in 3566 in the placebo group (risk reduction 32% [95% CI 8-50]; p=0.013). Age, degree of risk, and use of hormone-replacement therapy did not affect the reduction. Endometrial cancer was non-significantly increased (11 vs 5; p=0.2) and thromboembolic events were significantly increased with tamoxifen (43 vs 17; odds ratio 2.5 [1.5-4.4], p=0.001), particularly after surgery. There was a significant excess of deaths from all causes in the tamoxifen group (25 vs 11, p=0.028).
Prophylactic tamoxifen reduces the risk of breast cancer by about a third. Temporary cessation of tamoxifen should be considered and the use of appropriate antithrombotic measures is recommended during and after major surgery or periods of immobilisation. Prophylactic use of tamoxifen is contraindicated in women at high risk of thromboembolic disease. The combined evidence indicates that mortality from non-breast-cancer causes is not increased by tamoxifen. The overall risk to benefit ratio for the use of tamoxifen in prevention is still unclear, and continued follow-up of the current trials is essential.
The efficiency of perioperative therapy with quamatel (histamine H2-receptor blocker) for preventing gastrointestinal complications in cardiosurgical patients was evaluated. Quamatel was used in 68 cardiosurgical patients subjected to aortocoronary bypass surgery for coronary disease. Perioperative pH profile of the gastric contents was evaluated by a Gastroscan-5 acidogastrometer (Russia). The volume of gastric juice secretion was evaluated after induction anaesthesia, at the end of operation, and 6-8 h after the intervention. Quamatel was highly effective and well tolerated by cardiosurgical patients with concomitant gastrointestinal diseases during preparation to surgery. Use of quamatel for premedication, particularly in patients with gastrointestinal diseases, stabilized pH and decreased the gastric juice hypersecretion during the entire intraoperative and early postoperative period, thus preventing gastrointestinal complications. High therapeutic efficiency of quamatel and its good tolerance recommend it for cardiosurgical patients and to surgical patients of other profiles for prevention of gastrointestinal complications.
Five patients with lymphoma and Vincristine induced myocardial infarction are described in the medical literature. We report two new cases, in whom an anterior myocardial infarction developed few hours after the second administration of the drug. In the reported cases a strict cause-to-effect relationship between the drug and acute myocardial infarction seems indicated by: the striking temporal coincidence between Vincristine administration and onset of chest pain; the additional myocardial infarctions in patients in whom the treatment was continued after the first event; the nearly constant absence of important coronary risk factors and the young age of the patients, making preexisting coronary atherosclerosis unlikely. The mechanism for the described association is still unknown: the possible causes are discussed.
The efficacy of finasteride was assessed in the treatment of gross hematuria associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
A retrospective review was done of 18 patients who had been placed on finasteride (5 mg . daily) for the treatment of gross hematuria associated with BPH. A hematuria grading system was devised.
Of the 12 patients with longer than 3 months of followup (mean 14) 11 improved according to the grade of hematuria after finasteride therapy.
Finasteride is effective in treating hematuria associated with BPH. This finding is especially relevant for patients with multiple medical problems and anesthetic risks.
Coagulation proteins are known to affect the complement system and neutrophils. To assess the influence of thrombosis on complement and neutrophils during hemodialysis, whole human blood obtained from normal donors and anticoagulated with either 0.8 or 2.0 U/mL of heparin was recirculated for 4 h through cellulose acetate hollow fibers in vitro. Plasma fibrinopeptide A (FPA) levels were measured to assess thrombosis, whereas the activation of the complement system was evaluated at various stages by determining plasma C3a(desArg), C5a(desArg), and SC5b-9 concentrations. The activation of circulating neutrophils was assessed by quantitation of the extracellular release of the intragranular proteins elastase and lactoferrin. Thrombosis was observed when 0.8 U/mL of heparin was used, as indicated by a 36-fold increase in (FPA) levels at 240 min of recirculation and occasional grossly visible blood clots. In contrast, no increase in FPA or clot formation was observed with 2.0 U/mL of heparin. The higher dose of heparin was also associated with a lesser increase in plasma C3a(desArg) and C5a(desArg) concentrations, an observation that is compatible with either an inhibitory effect of heparin or a stimulatory effect of coagulation on the complement system. Plasma elastase or lactoferrin concentrations increased during hemodialysis but were not dependent on heparin dosage at any time. It was concluded that anticoagulation with higher heparin concentration inhibits complement activation in the hemodialysis circuit, but it does not affect neutrophil degranulation.
This report describes the rapid buildup of an intraluminal thrombus and secondary myocardial ischemia after a brief therapeutic withdrawal of warfarin in a case of Kawasaki-related chronic giant coronary aneurysm. The importance of tight antithrombotic control in such cases is underscored.
Liver test abnormalities following disulfiram therapy are common. However, overt disulfiram-induced hepatitis is rare but has a high mortality rate, specially when the etiologic role of disulfiram is not suspected and treatment is not discontinued. We report four cases of disulfiram-induced acute hepatitis with different degrees of severity and review the cases reported in the literature. The clinical spectrum of disulfiram hepatotoxicity ranges from minor elevation of serum aminotransferases to fulminant hepatitis. Although some patients with disulfiram-induced hepatitis have manifestations of hypersensitivity, recent clinical and experimental data suggest that disulfiram hepatotoxicity is produced by the accumulation of toxic metabolites.
This study was designed to assess the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on the development of the serotonergic system. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats received daily sc injections of either cocaine (30 mg/kg) or saline from gestation day 7 (GD 7) to GD 20. At 1 week postnatal, all pups were killed and tissues containing the striatum and nucleus accumbens dissected out. In superfusion experiments, tissue slices were incubated with [3H]serotonin ([3H]5-HT) for 30 min and then superfused. The [3H]5-HT release was induced by exposures to the following treatments: electrical stimulations (20 mA or 40 mA, 0.5 Hz, 4 min), the medium containing 15 or 30 mM potassium (2 min), fenfluramine (1 or 2 microM for 2 min), para-chloroamphetamine (1 or 2 microM for 2 min), methiothepin (1 or 2 microM for 2 min), and fluoxetine (1 or 2 microM for 2 min). The results showed that the treatment-induced [3H]5-HT releases were all significantly less pronounced in the pups prenatally exposed to cocaine than in those prenatally exposed to saline regardless of the mechanisms by which the treatment increases extracellular 5-HT. Saturation analysis showed that the Bmax of [3H]citalopram binding sites was also significantly lower in the pups prenatally treated with cocaine than in those prenatally treated with saline. The results are consistent with the concept that less serotonergic innervation may exist in the examined brain areas of cocaine-treated offspring at 1 week postnatal, and support the hypothesis that prenatal cocaine exposure affects the postnatal development of the serotonergic system.
A case of acute renal failure associated with aztreonam therapy is reported. A man, age 70, with infections due to Klebsiella pneumoniae and Enterobacter cloaca was treated for 9 days with aztreonam and presented with a generalized maculopapular rash, fever, eosinophilia, worsening renal function and increased IgE levels and eosinophiluria. Aztreonam was then discontinued and the patient was treated with supportive measures and steroids and his renal failure reversed over the course of 5 days. This appears to be one of the first cases of acute renal failure associated with aztreonam.
Minocycline has been shown to alleviate several neurological disorders. Unexpectedly, we found that minocycline had opposite effects on glioma cells: minocycline induced nonapoptotic cell death in glioma cells. The glioma cell death was associated with the presence of autophagic vacuoles in the cytoplasm. Minocycline induced autophagy was confirmed by acridine orange, monodansylcadaverine (MDC) stainings of vesicle formation and the conversion of microtubule-associated proteins light chain 3 (LC3-I) to LC3-II. Pretreatment with autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA) suppressed the induction of acidic vesicular organelles and the accumulation of LC3-II to the autophagosome membrane in glioma cells treated with minocycline. Despite the pretreatment of 3-MA, minocycline induced cell death which could result from the activation of caspase-3. Minocycline effectively inhibited tumor growth and induced autophagy in the xenograft tumor model of C6 glioma cells. These results suggest that minocycline may kill glioma cells by inducing autophagic cell death. When autophagy was inhibited, minocycline still induced cell death through the activation of caspase-3. Thus, minocycline is a promising agent in the treatment of malignant gliomas.
