Currently, there is no gold standard for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast carcinoma who have experienced failure with anthracyclines and taxanes. A biologic rationale suggests that the mechanism of taxane resistance could be because of an excess of depolymerized tubulin that could enhance sensitivity to vinorelbine. The objective of the study was to assess the tolerance and efficiency of weekly vinorelbine in metastatic breast carcinoma after failure with taxanes.
Patients with measurable disease, a World Health Organization performance status of less than 3 and a life expectancy longer than 3 months were eligible. Persistent taxane-induced neuropathy higher than Grade 1 was an exclusion criterion. The initial planned dose was 30 mg/m(2)/week on an outpatient basis without granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Neutrophil and platelet counts of 1.0 and 80 g/L, respectively, were required before each new injection; otherwise vinorelbine was delayed for 7 days with a dose reduction of 5 mg/m(2) at the second episode. The dose also was reduced if Grade 3 or 4 toxicity occurred. If the adverse event persisted or if the delay exceeded 14 days between 2 injections given at a dose of 20 mg/m(2), vinorelbine was definitively discontinued.
Between November 1997 and March 1999, 40 patients with a median age of 49 (range, 39-69) were enrolled. All of them had previously received anthracyclines and taxanes. Because of the delays in neutrophil recovery, the median dose intensity did not exceed 22.5 mg/m(2)/week (range, 11.25-30), and the initial planned dose of 30 mg/m(2)/week appeared unfeasible without G-CSF. The starting dose therefore was 25 mg/m(2)/week after the first 6 patients. Neutropenia led to fever in only three patients. Other severe toxicities were Grade 2-3 neuropathy (n = 5), Grade 2-3 ileus (n = 7), Grade 3 anemia (n = 4), and Grade 3 sepsis (n = 1). Objective responses were observed in 10 of 40 patients (25%), 7 of whom had visceral metastases and 4 who were refractory to taxanes (including 2 patients with liver involvement > 50%). The median time to failure was 6 months (range, 4-12) for responding patients. Disease stabilization was achieved in 9 patients (23%) for a median duration of 5 months (range, 4-6). The median survival duration for the whole population was 6 months (range, 2-18+).
Weekly vinorelbine is an active salvage therapy for metastatic breast carcinoma after failure with anthracyclines and taxanes, even in patients with taxane-refractory metastatic breast carcinoma. This confirms that vinorelbine and taxanes are not cross-resistant.
A total of 120 general practice patients with osteoarthritis of the knee or hip received either benoxaprofen 600 mg mane or ibuprofen 400 mg tid for 4 months in a double-blind, parallel trial. No patients withdrew because of lack of efficacy. Statistically significant differences in favor of benoxaprofen were found for knee flexion and pain relief. A small number of patients withdrew because of gastrointestinal reactions (7 taking benoxaprofen and 6 taking ibuprofen). Skin reactions were commoner with benoxaprofen, which provoked sun sensitivity in 5 patients, none of whom withdrew. Significantly more patients on benoxaprofen (67%) wished to continue therapy than those on ibuprofen (32%).
We describe a case of acute myocardial infarction in a 19-year-old woman reporting a history of occasional cocaine abuse with last exposure 4 days before symptom onset, otherwise at low cardiovascular risk. Coronary angiography showed thrombotic occlusion of anterior descending coronary artery without atherosclerotic plaques, and complete recanalization of the vessel after anticoagulation with enoxaparine. Hypercoagulability evaluation revealed the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies. We suppose that cocaine abuse may have had a delayed effect as trigger of acute myocardial infarction. This action may be due to cocaine-induced endothelial activation and to a synergic prothrombotic activity of cocaine and antiphospholipid antibodies.
Adverse experiences were monitored in 1,681 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or osteoarthritis to evaluate the safety of benoxaprofen at daily doses up to 1,000 mg during long-term therapy. Gastrointestinal side effects with benoxaprofen compared favorably to those reported during aspirin and ibuprofen therapy, with peptic ulcers reported in 0.4% of the patients or 1 ulcer for 200 patient years. The incidence of photosensitivity or onycholysis was 9%. Laboratory examinations revealed no significant changes in BUN, hematocrit, hemoglobin, SGOT, and SGPT values. The only trend toward abnormal values was seen in the LDH in patients with RA.
The rate of onset of side effects was examined in 392 pediatric outpatients who received long-term monotherapy with phenobarbital (PB), primidone (PRM), phenytoin (PHT), carbamazepine (CBZ), or valproate (VPA) for epilepsy or febrile convulsions. The severity of side effects (based on need to alter treatment), the nature of each drug's most common side effects, and the doses and plasma levels of occurrence were recorded. Our results show that usually accepted therapeutic ranges are well tolerated. Indeed, although some form of side effect occurred in 50% of patients, treatment had to be changed in only 18% and the drug had to be stopped in only 7%. In decreasing order, the rates for side effects were PHT (71%) greater than PB (64%) greater than CBZ (43%) greater than VPA (43%) greater than PRM (29%). Serious side effects requiring withdrawal of treatment occurred at the following rates: PHT (10%) greater than VPA (8%) greater than PRM (8%) greater than PB (4%) greater than CBZ (3%). Among our patients, the best tolerated antiepileptic drug (AED) was CBZ, and the least tolerated was PHT. Behavioral disorders were most common with PB, neurologic disorders with PHT, digestive tract disorders with VPA, and gingival hyperplasia and hirsutism with PHT. Behavioral disorders involving excitement seen with PB and PRM occurred most commonly at low plasma levels. Behavioral disorders involving depression seen with PB and VPA, those involving excitement seen with PHT and VPA, and digestive disorders seen with VPA occurred particularly when plasma levels were high.
Petroleum-derived compounds, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), commonly occur as complex mixtures in the environment. Recent studies using the zebrafish experimental model have shown that PAHs are toxic to the embryonic cardiovascular system, and that the severity and nature of this developmental cardiotoxicity varies by individual PAH. In the present study we characterize the toxicity of the relatively higher molecular weight 5-ring PAHs benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), benzo[e]pyrene (BeP), and benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF). While all three compounds target the cardiovascular system, the underlying role of the ligand-activated aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR2) and the tissue-specific induction of the cytochrome p450 metabolic pathway (CYP1A) were distinct for each. BaP exposure (40μM) produced AHR2-dependent bradycardia, pericardial edema, and myocardial CYP1A immunofluorescence. By contrast, BkF exposure (4-40μM) caused more severe pericardial edema, looping defects, and erythrocyte regurgitation through the atrioventricular valve that were AHR2-independent (i.e., absent myocardial or endocardial CYP1A induction). Lastly, exposure to BeP (40μM) yielded a low level of CYP1A+ signal in the vascular endothelium of the head and trunk, without evident toxic effects on cardiac function or morphogenesis. Combined with earlier work on 3- and 4-ring PAHs, our findings provide a more complete picture of how individual PAHs may drive the cardiotoxicity of mixtures in which they predominate. This will improve toxic injury assessments and risk assessments for wild fish populations that spawn in habitats altered by overlapping petroleum-related human impacts such as oil spills, urban stormwater runoff, or sediments contaminated by legacy industrial activities.
Experiments on rats have shown that intravenous injection of adrenaline in a dose of 0.3-0.4 mg/kg causes cardiac arrhythmia. In this case the primary arrhythmia developing immediately after adrenaline injection is followed by the recovery of sinusal rhythm which was replaced by the secondary arrhythmia. Apart from arrhythmias, there developed pulmonary edema. The animals died 2--3 minutes after adrenaline injections. Lithium chloride and lithium hydroxybutyrate removed the secondary arrhythmia and pulmonary edema. Lithium hydroxybutyrate has proved to be more effective.
Oral administration of a single dose of triphenyltin compounds induces diabetes with decreased insulin secretion in rabbits and hamsters after 2-3 days without any morphological changes in pancreatic islets. In the present study, to test the possibility that the impaired insulin secretion induced by triphenyltin compounds could result from an impaired Ca2+ response in pancreatic beta-cells, we investigated the effect of triphenyltin-chloride (TPTCl) administration on the changes in the cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) induced by secretagogues, such as glucose, high K+, gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), and acetylcholine (ACh) in hamster pancreatic beta-cells. TPTCl administration caused partial suppression in 10 mM K+-induced rise in [Ca2+]i without suppressing the increase in [Ca2+]i evoked by 20-50 mM K+. Administration of TPTCl strongly inhibited the rises in [Ca2+]i induced by 27.8 mM glucose, 100 microM ACh in the presence of 5.5 mM glucose, and by 100 nM GIP in the presence of 5.5 mM glucose. In the ACh-induced response, TPTCl administration strongly suppressed the late sustained phase, while weakly suppressing the initial rise in [Ca2+]i. TPTCl administration significantly suppressed the rise of cAMP content in islet cells induced by 100 nM GIP with 1 mM 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine in the presence of 5.5 mM glucose (P < 0.01, N = 5-11). TPTCl administration also impaired the insulin secretion in islet cells induced by 27.8 mM glucose, 100 nM GIP in the presence of 5.5 mM glucose, and 100 microM ACh in the presence of 5.5 mM glucose (P < 0.05, N = 9-16). We conclude that the pathology of triphenyltin-induced diabetes in hamsters involves a defect in cellular Ca2+ response due to a reduced Ca2+-influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels.
The microtubule-associated protein tau (encoded by MAPT) and several tau kinases have been implicated in neurodegeneration, but only MAPT has a proven role in disease. We identified mutations in the gene encoding tau tubulin kinase 2 (TTBK2) as the cause of spinocerebellar ataxia type 11. Affected brain tissue showed substantial cerebellar degeneration and tau deposition. These data suggest that TTBK2 is important in the tau cascade and in spinocerebellar degeneration.
Hepatotoxic reactions associated with carbamazepine therapy are well recognised, and it is important that clinicians are aware of this adverse effect.
We present the clinical course in three patients with carbamazepine-induced hepatitis.
All three patients had clinical and biochemical signs of hepatitis; improvement occurred immediately after carbamazepine therapy was discontinued. Other causes of hepatitis were excluded.
Previous reports concerning this adverse effect are reviewed. Focusing on the liver as the major organ for drug metabolism, we discuss possible pathophysiological mechanisms of drug-induced hepatic injury. A thorough medication history is mandatory in all patients with hepatitis and other liver diseases. The prognosis of carbamazepine-induced hepatitis is usually excellent, but fatal cases have been reported.
Indomethacin (IMC) has been shown to reduce post-operative inflammation and to decrease intraocular irritation after cataract extraction and in cystoid macular edema; however, the clinical use of its most commonly used eye drops is limited due to topical side-effects that include burning sensation, irritation and epithelial keratitis. It is known that decreasing direct cell stimulation and reducing the amount applied via increasing bioavailability are useful for improving these issues. In this study, we designed ophthalmic formulations containing 0.5% IMC nanoparticles using zirconia beads and Bead Smash 12 (IMCnano eye drops; particle size 76 ± 59 nm, mean ± S.D.), and investigated the corneal toxicity of these IMCnano eye drops. IMCnano eye drops are tolerated better by a human cornea epithelial cell line (HCE-T) than commercially available NDSAIDs preparations (IMC, pranoprofen, diclofenac, bromfenac and nepafenac eye drops), and corneal wound healing in rat eyes with debrided corneal epithelium instilled with IMCnano eye drops is significantly better than that of eyes instilled with commercially available IMC eye drops. In addition, the accumulation of IMC in HCE-T cells treated with the IMCnano eye drops for 30 min was 19.9% that of the accumulation from commercially available IMC eye drops. On the other hand, the corneal penetration of IMC from IMCnano eye drops was significantly greater than in the case of the commercially available IMC eye drops in both in vivo and in vitro studies using rabbit corneas. Taken together, we hypothesize that a nanoparticle formulation reduces the corneal toxicity of IMC eye drops, probably because the accumulation of IMC from IMCnano eye drops in the eye is lower than that from commercially available IMC eye drops. In addition, the nanoparticle formulation may allow a decrease in the amount of IMC used due to the increase in bioavailability, resulting in reduced drug toxicity. These findings provide significant information that can be used to design further studies aimed at developing less toxic eye drops.
Iron overload has been implicated in the pathogenesis of ischemic cardiovascular events. However, the effects of iron excess on vascular function and the thrombotic response to vascular injury are not well understood.
We examined the effects of chronic iron dextran administration (15 mg over 6 weeks) on thrombosis, systemic and vascular oxidative stress, and endothelium-dependent vascular reactivity in mice. Thrombus generation after photochemical carotid artery injury was accelerated in iron-loaded mice (mean time to occlusive thrombosis, 20.4+/-8.5 minutes; n=10) compared with control mice (54.5+/-35.5 minutes, n=10, P=0.009). Iron loading had no effect on plasma clotting, vessel wall tissue factor activity, or ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Acute administration of dl-cysteine, a reactive oxygen species scavenger, completely abrogated the effects of iron loading on thrombus formation, suggesting that iron accelerated thrombosis through a pro-oxidant mechanism. Iron loading enhanced both systemic and vascular reactive oxygen species production. Endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation was impaired in iron-loaded mice, indicating reduced NO bioavailability.
Moderate iron loading markedly accelerates thrombus formation after arterial injury, increases vascular oxidative stress, and impairs vasoreactivity. Iron-induced vascular dysfunction may contribute to the increased incidence of ischemic cardiovascular events that have been associated with chronic iron overload.
Cisplatin (CP) is a widely used cytotoxic agent against cancer, and high doses of CP have been known to cause nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. Some reports claim that antioxidants can reduce CP-induced toxicity. This study investigated the hepatoprotective, nephroprotective, and antioxidant activity of Urtica dioica L methanolic extract (UDME) against CP toxicity in Erhlich ascites tumor (EAT)-bearing mice. Levels of serum hepatic enzymes, renal function markers, and oxidant/antioxidant parameters of liver tissue were measured. Mice were inoculated with EAT on day 0 and treated with nothing else for 24 hours. After a single dose of CP administration on day 1, the extract was given at the doses of 50, 100, 200, and 400 mg/kg body weight daily during 6 days. Almost all doses of UDME performed a significant (P < 0.05) preventive role against CP toxicity by decreasing aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation levels, and myeloperoxidase activity, as well as increasing reduced glutathione content, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione S-transferase, and glutathione peroxidase activities. This suggests that UDME has a protective capacity and antioxidant activity against CP toxicity in EAT-bearing mice, probably by promoting antioxidative defense systems.
In this study, we assessed the oxidative stress parameters in rats submitted to an animal model of mania induced by ouabain (OUA), which included the use of lithium (Li) and valproate (VPA). Li and VPA treatment reversed and prevented the OUA-induced damage in these structures, however, this effect varies depending on the brain region and treatment regimen. Moreover, the activity of the antioxidant enzymes, namely, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) was found to be increased and decreased, respectively, in the brain of OUA-administered rats. Li and VPA modulated SOD and CAT activities in OUA-subjected rats in both experimental models. Our results support the notion that Li and VPA exert antioxidant-like properties in the brain of rats submitted to animal model of mania induced by ouabain.
Prevention of cardiovascular disease through nutritional supplements is growing in popularity throughout the world. Multiple epidemiologic studies found that moderate consumption of alcohol, particularly red wine, lowers mortality rates from coronary heart diseases (CHD). Chronic inflammation and atherosclerosis associated with CHD culminate in aberrant intravascular expression of tissue factor (TF), which triggers blood coagulation leading to thrombosis, a major cause for heart attack. We showed earlier that two red wine phenolics, resveratrol and quercetin, suppressed TF induction in endothelial cells. In the present study, we investigated efficacy of seven resveratrol derivatives, which were shown to be effective in regulating cancer cell growth in vitro at much lower concentrations than the parent compound resveratrol, in inhibiting TF induction in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). We also tested possible synergistic effects of resveratrol and quercetin with the other major red wine phenolics in suppression of lipopolysaccharide-induced TF expression in human PBMCs. We found that several resveratrol derivatives were 2- to 10-fold more efficient than resveratrol in inhibiting TF induction. Our study found no evidence for synergism among red wine polyphenolics. These data suggest that structural alterations of resveratrol can be effective in producing potent antithrombotic agents that will have therapeutic potential in the improvement of cardiovascular health and prevention of CHD. Among major red wine phenolics, quercetin appears to be the predominant suppressor of TF induction.
The overall objective was to assess the role of aluminum dust and fumes in the aluminum foundry (Al-F) in generating local inflammation in the respiratory tract, which may lead to induction and elicitation of occupational asthma and fibrosis. To understand the underlying mechanisms of involving particles from foundry, a long-term study was performed on rats.
Pure alpha-alumina (Al-P) or (Al-F) was intratracheally instillated to rats in doses of 20 mg suspended in 0.5 ml of saline. After 3, 6 and 9 months since instillation, the following biomarkers were assessed in lung tissues: Clara cell protein (CC16), hyaluronic acid (HA), total protein, metaloproteinases (MMP) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), and GSH-S-transferase (GST). Morphological study of lungs and cells in BALF sediment was also performed.
In the long-term study, Al-F dust induced marked changes in both epithelial cells and lung tissues, leading to important remodeling in collagen deposit and elastase fibres after 6 and 9 months. By contrast, the same dose of Al-P caused an increase in the number of polymorphonuclear leukocytes in the lung and fibrosis, but the latter was manifested by only slight signs. The lung BALF showed a decreasing level of Clara cell protein and a markedly increased expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9. These findings suggest that there is an upregulation of MMP and an increase in epithelial cell death and Clara cells proliferation, which may contribute to the respiratory symptoms through remodeling of airways and alveolar structures.
In conclusion, it must be said that CC16 is the most sensitive biomarker. Decreasing levels of this biomarker in BALF was observed in an early phase (3 months PE) of our study with serum aluminum (Al-S) concentration not exceeding 30 microg/L(-1). Foundry dust causes marked irritation and inflammation in the rat lung. In occupational exposure it may therefore be active in the human lung, and thus contribute to the chronic obturative pulmonary disease (COPD).
Warfarin has been used as an anticoagulant for a long time. Recently, the pleiotropic effect of warfarin has been investigated. As low-dose warfarin has been reported to have anti-inflammatory effect through suppression of IL-6 secretion and inhibit the immune-associated signal between Tyro3 and its ligand, Gas6, the effect of low-dose warfarin on autoimmune diabetes in NOD mice was examined. To investigate the anti-inflammatory effect of warfarin, IL-6 secretion by splenocytes was examined in the presence of various concentrations of warfarin. Low concentration of warfarin inhibited IL-6 secretion. mRNA expression of Rse, one of the Tyro3 receptor family members, and Gas6 were analyzed in NOD mice. It was detected in islets, splenocytes and bone-marrow derived dendritic cells. 0.25 mg/l or 0.50 mg/l of warfarin was orally administered to NOD mice as a cyclophosphamide-induced diabetes model. Oral administration of warfarin at much lower doses than those clinically used as an anticoagulant significantly reduced the degree of insulitis and diabetes incidence in this model. We previously demonstrated that anti-FasL Ab-treatment led to complete prevention of autoimmune diabetes in NOD mice. As Fas/FasL signaling is reported to be essential for cyclophosphamide-induced diabetes model, we extracted RNA from lymphocytes of the inguinal lymph nodes of anti-FasL Ab-treated NOD mice and performed real-time PCR to determine expression of Rse gene. Interestingly, the expression of Rse gene related to the blockade of Fas/FasL signaling was reduced to less than half the level of untreated mice. In conclusion, low-dose warfarin is a potential immunomodulator which can prevent autoimmune diabetes.
A 2-year-old girl lost consciousness after the topical application of lidocaine-prilocaine cream (EMLA) in preparation for the removal of multiple mollusca contagiosa. Both the area on which cream was applied (80% of body surface) and the total amount of cream (90 g) exceeded the maximum dosage. Lidocaine-prilocaine cream is a widely used local anaesthetic with few side effects when used properly. Intoxication with a lidocaine-prilocaine preparation may have serious consequences, such as changes in intracardiac conduction, excitation or depression of the central nervous system and methaemoglobinaemia. In our patient both methaemoglobinaemia and depression of the central nervous system occurred, resulting in loss of consciousness. She was treated with 100% oxygen and fully recovered.
Methyldopa is used for treatment of hypertension in pregnancy. Side effects of methyldopa include anemia, which could result from decreased formation or accelerated death of circulating erythrocytes. Several drugs cause anemia by triggering of suicidal erythrocyte death or eryptosis, which is characterized by cell shrinkage and cell membrane scrambling, the latter leading to phosphatidylserine exposure at the erythrocyte surface. Stimulators of erythrocyte membrane scrambling include increased cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) and ceramide. Phosphatidylserine-exposing cells are rapidly cleared from circulating blood. The present study explored whether eryptosis could be triggered by methyldopa. Erythrocytes from healthy volunteers were exposed to methyldopa, and phosphatidylserine exposure (annexin A5 binding), cell volume (forward scatter), [Ca(2+)](i) (Fluo3-dependent fluorescence), and ceramide formation (anti-ceramide-fluorescein isothiocyanate antibody) were determined by flow cytometry. Methyldopa (6 microg/ml) did not increase [Ca(2+)](i) but led to stimulation of ceramide formation resulting in significant phosphatidylserine exposure and, at higher concentrations, to cell shrinkage. Methyldopa further decreased the GSH/GSSG ratio, pointing to oxidative stress. The scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine significantly blunted methyldopa-induced eryptosis. Clearance of erythrocytes from circulating blood was significantly accelerated by treatment with methyldopa. The present observations disclose a novel action of methyldopa, which may well contribute to drug-induced anemia.
The effect of partial cystectomy on the occurrence of pre-neoplastic lesions, papillary or nodular hyperplasia (PN hyperplasia), of the bladder in male F344 rats was studied in an experiment in which bladder carcinogens and promoters were given to the rats after initiation with BBN. The bladder carcinogens tested were N-ethyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (EHBN) and N-4[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) and the bladder promoters were sodium saccharin, sodium cyclamate, and DL-tryptophan. Partial cystectomy significantly decreased the occurrence of PN hyperplasia in rats treated with EHBN and tended to inhibit that in rats given saccharin or tryptophan. Thus partial cystectomy inhibited rather than enhanced the induction of PN hyperplasia.
A severe case of flecainide-induced incessant ventricular arrhythmias is presented. These arrhythmias were resistant to various intravenous antiarrhythmic drugs and to cardiac pacing. Intravenous amiodarone administered over a short period and in a high dose strikingly abolished all ventricular arrhythmias.
Estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor containing two transcriptional activation function (AF) domains. AF-1 is in the N terminus of the receptor protein, and AF-2 activity is dependent on helix 12 of the C-terminal ligand-binding domain. We recently showed that two point mutations converting leucines 543 and 544 to alanines in helix 12 (AF2ER) minimized estrogen-dependent AF-2 transcriptional activation. A characteristic feature of AF2ER is that the estrogen antagonists ICI182780 and tamoxifen (TAM) act as agonists through intact AF-1, but not through mutated AF-2. Here we report the reproductive phenotype of male AF2ER knock-in (AF2ERKI) mice and demonstrate the involvement of ERα in male fertility. The AF2ERKI male homozygotes are infertile because of seminiferous tubular dysmorphogenesis in the testis, similar to ERα KO males. Sperm counts and motility did not differ at age 6 wk in AF2ERKI and WT mice, but a significant testis defect was observed in adult AF2ERKI male mice. The expression of efferent ductal genes involved in fluid reabsorption was significantly lower in AF2ERKI males. TAM treatment for 3 wk beginning at age 21 d activated AF-2-mutated ERα (AF2ER) and restored expression of efferent ductule genes. At the same time, the TAM treatment reversed AF2ERKI male infertility compared with the vehicle-treated group. These results indicate that the ERα AF-2 mutation results in male infertility, suggesting that the AF-1 is regulated in an AF-2-dependent manner in the male reproductive tract. Activation of ERα AF-1 is capable of rescuing AF2ERKI male infertility.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in renal-transplant recipients. The aim of the study was to assess the efficacy and safety of long-term lamivudine monotherapy in renal-transplant recipients with HBV-related cirrhosis.
Seventeen such patients [median age: 45 years; 7 with hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)] received daily oral doses of 75-150 mg lamivudine for a median of 48 (range 11-81) months. All patients had baseline serum levels of HBV DNA of over 6 log10 copies per ml and of alanine transaminase (ALT) of over 1.5 times the upper normal limit (UNL). Clinical lamivudine resistance was defined as a rebound of serum HBV DNA above 5.3 log10 copies per ml and of serum ALT of over 1.5 times the UNL in patients who initially responded with HBV DNA levels of less than 5.3 log10 copies per ml and normal ALT values. Controls were 14 renal-transplant patients (median age 44 years; 3 with HBeAg) with HBV-related cirrhosis, naive to any anti-HBV therapy, followed for 58 months (4-135).
Thirteen (77%) treated patients had a persistent response throughout the study period, including three (18%) who developed genotypic resistance, compared with none of the untreated controls (77% versus 0%, P < 0.0001). Four (23%) developed clinical resistance. Two of three patients with initially decompensated cirrhosis had a durable response and clinical improvement compared with the transient responder, whose liver function worsened following lamivudine resistance. Two responders developed chronic rejection requiring chronic haemodialysis. Overall, one treated patient developed liver-related complications, compared with eight untreated controls (6% versus 57%, P < 0.01).
Most renal-transplant patients treated with lamivudine achieved a rapid and durable suppression of HBV, which substantially lowered the risk of liver decompensation and death.
Exposure to the tobacco-specific N-nitrosamine 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) is considered to be an important etiological risk factor for lung cancer in tobacco users. The metabolism of NNK via carbonyl reduction to 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (NNAL), alpha-hydroxylation to form both DNA methylating and pyridyloxobutylating intermediates, and detoxification by pyridyl N-oxidation and glucuronide formation are well-characterized in laboratory animals but less so in man. The in vitro kinetics of 0.03-250 microM [5-(3)H]NNK metabolism were determined under identical experimental conditions using female A/J mouse, male Fischer 344 rat, female Syrian golden hamster, and human lung tissue explants in tissue culture. The concentration-dependent percentage contribution of the three major pathways of NNK metabolism (carbonyl reduction, alpha-hydroxylation, and N-oxidation) showed large interspecies variation. Quantitatively, in mouse, carbonyl reduction to NNAL increased steadily with an increasing substrate concentration (10-74% total NNK metabolism), while concurrent decreases occurred in end products of alpha-hydroxylation (60 to 18%) and N-oxidation (42 to 5%). In rat lung, there were no apparent concentration-dependent trends (NNAL, 42 +/- 4%; alpha-hydroxylation, 35 +/- 2%; and N-oxidation, 24 +/- 3%). In hamster lung, a clear concentration-dependent increase in the contribution of NNAL to total NNK metabolism (from 47 to 87%) was paralleled by a steady decline in end products of alpha-hydroxylation (31 to 11%) and N-oxidation (22 to 2%). Human lung metabolism showed no concentration-dependent tendencies (NNAL, 89 +/- 1%; alpha-hydroxylation, 8.8 +/- 1.1%; and N-oxidation, 2.1 +/- 0.3%). The major alpha-hydroxylation product in human lung was 4-hydroxy-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (keto alcohol), thus supporting the potential pyridyloxobutylation of lung DNA. Metabolism to 4-(3-pyridyl)-4-oxobutanoic acid (keto acid), which could result in lung DNA methylation, was only sporadically seen in human lung but present to a far greater extent in rodent lung. No evidence for glucuronidation was found in any species. Generally, the rate of formation of all NNK metabolites showed two different enzyme kinetics, resulting in large differences between apparent K(m) and V(max) values in the low (up to 2.8 microM) and high substrate concentration ranges. The metabolism of NNK by alpha-hydroxylation is considerably lower in human lung as compared to that observed in rodent species, suggesting that extrapolation of in vitro rodent data to man may result in invalid conclusions about the capacity of the human lung to activate NNK under realistic conditions of NNK exposure expected to occur in man.
