In a prospective study comprising 2609 consecutive surgical patients, of whom 1166 were anesthetized with halothane, four cases of hepatitis were encountered. The incidence of hepatitis among those who received halothane was 1:292 in our material. The high incidence may be explained by the recognition of milder forms of hepatitis and by the selection of the series (over 40 years). Serum alanine aminotransferase should be investigated in all patients with postoperative pyrexia of unknown origin if mild forms of halothane hepatitis are to be discovered. The patient's history should be carefully examined for previous postoperative pyrexia of unknown origin following halothane anesthesia, in which case other anesthetics should be chosen.
Acute hepatic failure is a rare and potentially lethal complication of propylthiouracil (PTU) use for hyperthyroidism. We present a 20-year-old woman with Basedow-Graves' disease who developed PTU-induced fulminant hepatitis, which progressed to acute hepatic failure with grade III hepatic encephalopathy. Laboratory evaluation ruled out the most common causes of fulminant hepatitis. We treated her hyperthyroidism with amiodarone (average daily dose, 200 mg) for 3 weeks, achieving rapid and persistent euthyroidism, (triiodothyronine [T(3)] levels ranged between 64 and 109 ng/dL) without side effects. Amiodarone treatment did not abolish the thyroid radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU), allowing for subsequent treatment with radioactive iodine. The clinical course was favorable and the patient achieved full hepatic recovery 3 months after the hepatic failure was detected. After an extensive review of the literature, we believe that this is the first communication of the successful use of amiodarone to control hyperthyroidism in a patient with PTU-induced fulminant hepatitis.
Cyclophosphamide induces fetal defects through metabolic activation by cytochrome P-450 monooxygenases (CYP). The effects of piperonyl butoxide (PBO), a CYP inhibitor, on the fetal development and external, visceral, and skeletal abnormalities induced by cyclophosphamide were investigated in rats.
Pregnant rats were daily administered PBO (400 mg/kg) by gavage for 7 days (the 6th to 12th day of gestation), and intraperitoneally administered with cyclophosphamide (12 mg/kg) 4 h after the final treatment. On the 20th day of gestation, maternal and fetal abnormalities were determined by Cesarean section.
Cyclophosphamide reduced fetal body weights by 30-40% without increasing resorption or death. In addition, it induced malformations in live fetuses: 100, 98, and 98.2% of the external (head and limb defects), visceral (cerebroventricular dilatation, cleft palate, and renal pelvic/ureteric dilatation), and skeletal (acrania, vertebral/costal malformations, and delayed ossification) abnormalities, respectively. The pre-treatment of PBO greatly decreased mRNA expression and activity of hepatic CYP2B, which metabolizes cyclophosphamide into teratogenic acrolein and cytotoxic phosphoramide mustard. Moreover, PBO remarkably attenuated cyclophosphamide-induced body weight loss and abnormalities of fetuses; score 3.57 versus 1.87 for exencephaly, 75.5% versus 42.5% for limb defects, 65.3% versus 22% for cerebroventricular dilatation, 59.2% versus 5.1% for cleft palate, score 1.28 versus 0.93 for renal pelvic/ureteric dilatation, 71.9-82.5% versus 23-45.9% for vertebral/costal malformations, and 84.2% versus 57.4% for delayed ossification in cyclophosphamide alone and PBO co-administration groups.
These results suggest that repeated treatment with PBO may improve cyclophosphamide-induced body weight loss and malformations of fetuses by down-regulating CYP2B.
Examination of 150 ulcer patients determined that the exacerbation of the disease proceeds against the background of essential augmentation of calcium in the blood, which is most expressed at the acute phase of relapse, at the localization of ulcer in the duodenum, in men of young age. This is accompanied by the rising production of hydrochloric acid and pepsinogen, decrease of production of gastromucoproteins, hypermotor dyskinesia of stomach, hypocoagulation, infringement of microcirculation in the mucous coat of the gastroduodenal zone displayed as microthromboses, plasmorrhagias, hemorrhages. The inclusion of the calcium antagonist Corinfarum in the complex therapy reliably accelerates the liquidation of signs of relapse, reduces terms, increases the percentage of ulcer cicatrisation, and promotes normalization of stomach functions, calcium balance, hemostasis and microcirculation.
Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a clinical syndrome of recurrent bacterial and fungal infections caused by a rare disorder of phagocytic cells. In CGD, the phagocytes are unable to generate oxygen radicals after stimulation of these cells, due to a defect in the NADPH oxidase system. This NADPH oxidase is a multicomponent enzyme of at least four subunits, of which the beta-subunit of cytochrome b558, gp91-phox, is encoded by an X-linked gene (called CYBB). We report here five patients from two families; in each family we found a different mutation in the promoter region of CYBB. Both mutations prevented the expression of gp91-phox in the patients' neutrophils and thus caused inability of these cells to generate oxygen radicals. However, the mutations left the gp91-phox expression and the function of the NADPH oxidase in the patients' eosinophils intact. The relatively mild course of the CGD in these patients can probably be attributed to the fact that the eosinophils have retained their oxidative capacity. Furthermore, our results indicate that neutrophils and eosinophils differ in their regulation of gp91-phox expression.
Disruption of circadian rhythm is believed to play a critical role in cancer development. To gain further insights into the roles of circadian genes in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), we analyzed peripheral blood from 53 healthy individuals and 35 CML patients for the expression of the nine circadian genes. The expression levels of hPER1, hPER2, hPER3, hCRY1, hCRY2 and hBMAL1 were significantly impaired in both chronic phase and blastic crisis of CML cases compared with those in healthy individuals (P < 0.001). Methylation studies in the promoter areas of these six genes revealed that only the CpG sites of the hPER3 gene were methylated in all of the CML patients, and the methylated CpG frequencies differed significantly in patients at blastic crisis (8.24 +/- 0.73) or at chronic phase (4.48 +/- 0.48). The CpG sites of the hPER2 gene were also methylated in 40% of the CML patients. No mutation was found within the coding region of hPER3 in CML cases. Our results suggest that the downregulated hPER3 expression in CML is correlated with the inactivation of hPER3 by methylation.
Pergolide is an ergot derived dopamine agonist that is widely used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Studies have found an association between pergolide and valvular heart abnormalities although there is still much to be learned about the clinical significance of the valvular changes, who is at risk, and whether there is duration of exposure effect.
To assess the long term risk of hospital admissions for valvular heart disease (VHD) or congestive heart failure (CHF, a clinically overt outcome of VHD) in new users of pergolide compared to new users of levodopa. The secondary objective was to assess whether there are any characteristics that can predict who is at higher risk of developing this outcome.
Retrospective, population-based cohort study.
Ontario, Canada.
Ontario residents aged 66 and older, newly started on treatment with either pergolide or levodopa.
Admission to hospital with the most responsible diagnosis of congestive heart failure or valvular heart disease.
The risk for admission for valvular heart disease or congestive heart failure were higher in those with 1-4 years exposure to pergolide compared with no exposure to pergolide (VHD: hazard ratio 2.4, p = 0.04; CHF: hazard ratio 1.6, p = 0.02). No such pattern was found with exposure to levodopa.
Our study demonstrates that treatment with pergolide is associated with a higher risk of hospital admission for valvular heart disease or congestive heart failure and that this risk is greater in those with 1-4 years exposure than in those with less exposure. We did not find an increased risk beyond four years.
The tumor suppressor gene hypermethylated in cancer 1 (HIC1), which encodes a transcriptional repressor, is epigenetically inactivated in various human cancers. In this study, we show that HIC1 is a direct transcriptional repressor of the gene encoding ephrin-A1, a cell surface ligand implicated in the pathogenesis of epithelial cancers. We also show that mouse embryos lacking both Hic1 alleles manifest developmental defects spatially associated with the misexpression of ephrin-A1, and that overexpression of ephrin-A1 is a feature of tumors arising in Hic1 heterozygous mice in which the remaining wild-type allele is epigenetically silenced. In breast cancer, we find that ephrin-A1 expression is common in vivo, but that in cell culture, expression of the EphA receptors is predominant. Restoration of HIC1 function in breast cancer cells leads to a reduction in tumor growth in vivo, an effect that can be partially rescued by co-overexpression of ephrin-A1. Interestingly, overexpression of ephrin-A1 in vitro triggers downregulation of EphA2 and EphA4 levels, resulting in an expression pattern similar to that seen in vivo. We conclude that Hic1 spatially restricts ephrin-A1 expression in development, and that upregulated expression of ephrin-A1 resulting from epigenetic silencing of HIC1 in cancer cells may be an important mechanism in epithelial malignancy.
Patients with osteoarthritis (OA) of the hip and know received naproxen (750 mg/d) or indomethacin (100 mg/d) in a 16-wk, double-blind, crossover study, in which interspersion of repeated aspirin phases allowed a "detrending" adjustment which compensated for changes in baseline activity with time. Results of the 24 variables studied showed a favorable comparison of naproxen and indomethacin in reducing the symptoms of OA. Although most of the variables favored indomethacin, the differences were small and few were statistically significant. Considerably fewer side effects were seen with naproxen than with either indomethacin or aspirin, and naproxen with tolerated considerably better than indomethacin. Concurring with other studies, this trial showed that naproxen is a useful, well-tolerated drug for the treatment of OA.
Bisphosphonates are the most widely used class of drug for inhibiting osteoclast-mediated bone loss, but their effectiveness at preventing joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis has generally been disappointing. We examined whether the ability of bisphosphonates to induce osteoclast apoptosis and inhibit bone resorption in vitro is influenced by the cytokine receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B ligand (RANKL), an important mediator of inflammation-induced bone loss.
Rabbit osteoclasts were treated with the bisphosphonates clodronate or alendronate for up to 48 hours in the absence or presence of RANKL. Changes in cell morphology and induction of apoptosis were examined by scanning electron microscopy, whilst resorptive activity was determined by measuring the area of resorption cavities. Changes in the level of anti-apoptotic proteins, including Mcl-1, Bcl-2, and Bcl-x>L, were determined in rabbit osteoclasts and in cytokine-starved mouse osteoclasts by Western blotting.
RANKL significantly attenuated the ability of both clodronate and alendronate to induce osteoclast apoptosis and inhibit bone resorption. Treatment of rabbit osteoclasts with RANKL was associated with an increase in the anti-apoptotic protein Mcl-1 but not Bcl-2. A role for Mcl-1 in osteoclast survival was suggested using osteoclasts generated from mouse bone marrow macrophages in the presence of RANKL + macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) since cytokine deprivation of mouse osteoclasts caused a rapid loss of Mcl-1 (but not Bcl-2 or Bcl-xL), which preceded the biochemical and morphological changes associated with apoptosis. Loss of Mcl-1 from mouse osteoclasts could be prevented by factors known to promote osteoclast survival (RANKL, M-CSF, tumour necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha], or lipopolysaccharide [LPS]).
RANKL protects osteoclasts from the apoptosis-inducing and anti-resorptive effects of bisphosphonates in vitro. The ability of RANKL (and other pro-inflammatory factors such as TNF-alpha and LPS) to increase the level of Mcl-1 in osteoclasts may explain the lack of effectiveness of some bisphosphonates in preventing inflammation-induced bone loss.
The effect of a commonly used experimental pain-induction procedure (formalin injection into a hindpaw site) on morphine tolerance, withdrawal, and reward was examined in rats. Results suggest that the effects of morphine are different in the organism that is experiencing pain at the time it receives the drug than in the organism that is pain free. The presence of pain at the time of each morphine administration decreased analgesic tolerance, decreased naloxone-precipitated withdrawal, and enhanced the rewarding effect of the opiate. These findings, together with those of previous studies, suggest that theories of opiate tolerance, withdrawal, and reward should incorporate the effects of pain.
Papaverine hydrochloride is a direct-acting vasodilator used to manage vasospasm during various neurosurgical operations. Transient cranial nerve dysfunction has been described in a few cases with topical papaverine. This study supports previous reports and provides neurophysiological evidence of an adverse effect on the auditory nerve.
We conducted a retrospective review of 70 consecutive microvascular decompression operations and studied those patients who received topical papaverine for vasospasm. Topical papaverine was used as a direct therapeutic action to manage vasospasm in a total of 11 patients. The timing of papaverine application and ongoing operative events was reviewed relative to changes in neurophysiological recordings. Brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) were routinely used to monitor cochlear nerve function during these operations.
A temporal relationship was found between topical papaverine and BAEP changes leading to complete waveform loss. The average temporal delay between papaverine and the onset of an adverse BAEP change was 5 min. In 10 of 11 patients, BAEP waves II/III-V completely disappeared within 2 to 25 min after papaverine. Eight of these 10 patients had complete loss of BAEP waveforms within 10 min. One patient showed no recovery of later waves and a delayed profound sensorineural hearing loss. The average recovery time of BAEP waveforms to pre-papaverine baseline values was 39 min.
Topical papaverine for the treatment of vasospasm was associated with the onset of a transient disturbance in neurophysiological function of the ascending auditory brainstem pathway. The complete disappearance of BAEP waveforms with a consistent temporal delay suggests a possible adverse effect on the proximal eighth nerve. Recommendations to avoid potential cranial nerve deficits from papaverine are provided.
An animal model of rheumatoid arthritis can be elicited in male Lewis rats by a single intradermal injection of liquid paraffin containing dead Mycrobacterium tuberculosis (MT adjuvant) into the planar surface of the right hind-foot. In the present study, we used this animal model to examine the changes in expression of hepatic cytochorme P450 (CYP) enzymes during the development of the arthritis. Swellings of the MT adjuvant-injected hind-foot initially occurred at 1-8 days after the injection. Thereafter, the swelling gradually become more severe up to 13 days later and was maintained for up to 25 days. Swellings of the other hind-foot was also observed after 12 days and gradually become more severe up to 15 days with maintenance of the severe swelling for up to 25 days. The gene expression levels and enzyme activities of hepatic CYP 3A and CYP2B subfamily enzymes at 1, 12, and 25 days after the MT adjuvant injection were significantly decreased, compared with the corresponding time-matched controls. The decreases in the gene expression levels and activities of all the enzymes examined were closely correlated with increases in the expression levels of the inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1α, interleukin-1β and interleukin-6, which were produced in the liver. All of the present findings demonstrate that hepatic CYP3A and CYP2B subfamily enzymes are decreased during the development of MT adjuvant-induced arthritis and further suggest that the decreases are dependent on the production of inflammatory cytokines in the liver.
Spatial learning and memory (LM) is a property of central importance in the nervous system, yet many of the molecular mechanisms for benzo(a)pyrene[B(a)P]-induced LM deficits remain enshrouded in mystery. In this study, influence of exposure to B(a)P on LM deficits in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats was evaluated by Morris water maze. Then morphological changes in the ultramicrostructure of hippocampal neurons were observed by transmission electron microscopy. Furthermore, to better understand the molecular changes that occur in B(a)P induced LM deficits, antibody-based protein microarrays was used to analyze protein expression changes in rats submitted to sub-chronic oral gavage of B(a)P (2 mg/kg for 90 days). Results suggested that rats in the B(a)P-treated groups have significantly impaired Morris water maze performance when compared to controls. Meanwhile, the B(a)P-induced neuronal damage was also found in the hippocampus under transmission electron microscopy. Our results demonstrate that LM deficits associated protein expression signatures could be identified from tissue proteomes, as well as potential biomarkers such as retinoic acid receptor b (RARb), synaptotagmin iosfomrs 1 (Syt1) and Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), previously not found. This study, therefore, identifies, for the first time, multiple novel proteins that are dysregulated by B(a)P, which both enhance our understanding of B(a)P induced LM deficits and represent targets of novel therapeutics.
The anticonvulsant effects of felbamate alone or in combination with diazepam were investigated against maximal electroshock-, pentylenetetrazol-, isoniazid- and bicuculline-induced seizures in mice. A single subprotective dose of felbamate, a dose which offers no protection to animals when combined with diazepam, enhanced the protective effects of diazepam against seizures induced by electroshock, pentylenetetrazol and isoniazid, as measured by significant reduction of ED50 values. However, felbamate failed to significantly affect the protective action of diazepam against bicuculline. Felbamate does not interact directly with the GABA-benzodiazepine-ionophore complex. Thus the enhancement of anticonvulsant activity of diazepam by felbamate against maximal electroshock and pentylenetetrazol may involve an indirect effect at benzodiazepine receptors. The anticonvulsant action of felbamate against isoniazid does not seem to involve benzodiazepine receptors and may be due to reversing the inhibitory effect of isoniazid on glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) activity. The interaction between felbamate and diazepam may also involve other mechanisms.
To investigate the efficacy of in situ lipid-protein-sugar particles (LPSPs) in mitigating the epileptogenic and histologic effects of intrahippocampal pilocarpine in rats.
LPSPs with and without muscimol were produced by spray-drying, sized by Coulter counter, and muscimol content determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HLPC). Particles, free muscimol or saline, were injected into the hippocampi of Sprague-Dawley rats before 40 mM pilocarpine, and seizure activity was scored. The trajectories of behavioral scores between groups were compared with two-way repeated measures analysis of variance. Animals were killed after 2 weeks. Brain sections were stained (Timm and thionin) and scored.
LPSPs were 4 to 5 microm in diameter, and contained 0 or 2% (wt/wt) muscimol. In vitro, muscimol was released over a 5-day period. Intrahippocampal injections of normal saline and blank LPSPs did not deter seizure activity from pilocarpine. The rise of the trajectory in behavior scores in animals given LPSPs containing 5 microg muscimol was significantly slower than in those receiving saline, blank particles, or 5 microg of unencapsulated muscimol. There was less apparent neuronal injury and CA3 and supragranular mossy fiber sprouting in hippocampi of animals receiving muscimol-containing particles than in animals that did not receive muscimol. Hippocampi of animals that received 5 microg of encapsulated muscimol showed less supragranular sprouting than did those receiving 5 microg of unencapsulated muscimol, but showed no difference in cell loss or CA3 sprouting.
Focally delivered biodegradable microparticles loaded with muscimol are effective in reducing seizure activity from pilocarpine in animals and mitigate the histologic effects.
This study documented the association between neurocognitive impairment and methamphetamine dependence in a sample of 27 methamphetamine-dependent individuals who achieved 5 to 14 days of continuously monitored abstinence and in 18 control subjects. Methamphetamine-dependent individuals performed significantly worse than control subjects on neurocognitive measures sensitive to attention/psychomotor speed, on measures of verbal learning and memory, and on executive systems measures sensitive to fluency. These findings are the first to demonstrate that methamphetamine dependence is associated with impairments across a range of neurocognitive domains in a sample of users whose abstinence was continuously monitored with the use of urine screening.
In previous studies, perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), an environmental organic compound, was reported to cause hepatotoxicity and hypolipidemia in rodents. However, the low dose toxicity of PFOS and the toxic mechanisms involved remain to be determined. To clarify the low dose toxicity and action mechanism in the target organ toxicity, Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were orally administered with PFOS at the doses of 0, 1.25, 5, 10 mg/kg/day for 28 days. As a result, no death or abnormal symptoms were observed in all groups. The significant loss of mean body weight was observed in female rats treated with 10 mg/kg PFOS and the relative liver weight of 10 mg/kg PFOS-treated group was significantly greater compared to control. Histopathological examination revealed that fatty change was evident in the liver of male rats treated with PFOS (5 and 10 mg/kg) and hypertrophy and cellular swellings in females at the dose of 10 mg/kg, which showed different pattern of pathological lesions. In addition, we demonstrated the expression induction of hepatic caspase-3 and cytochrome P450 4A1 (CYP4A1) related with apoptosis and lipid metabolism, respectively. This study suggested that no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of PFOS was 1.25 mg/kg in 28-day repeated toxicity study and, however, the toxic response showed gender differences. The possible toxic mechanism of PFOS was the induction of apoptosis and altering lipid metabolism which resulted in hepatotoxicity.
Types of beta-adrenoceptors mediating renin release induced by isoproterenol were investigated in conscious dogs. The nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs propranolol, D-32, and pindolol significantly inhibited increases in heart rate and plasma renin activity and a fall of blood pressure produced by intravenous infusion of isoproterenol (10 microgram . kg-1 . 20 min-1). d-Propranolol and d-D-32 did not inhibit these three responses to isoproterenol. The selective beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking drug atenolol, at the oral dose of 6 mg/kg, which selectively suppressed isoproterenol-induced tachycardia, significantly inhibited the renin release caused by isoproterenol. By contrast, the renin release induced by isoproterenol was not modified by the selective beta 2-adrenoceptor blocking drug IPS-339 at an oral dose of 3 mg/kg, which fully and selectively antagonized the fall of blood pressure in response to isoproterenol. There was good correlation between suppression of isoproterenol-induced renin release and that of isoproterenol-induced tachycardia after various beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs. These results lead to the conclusion that in conscious dogs the beta-adrenoceptors mediating release are mainly of the beta 1 type.
Studies have implicated methamphetamine exposure as a contributor to the development of Parkinson's disease. There is a significant degree of striatal dopamine depletion produced by methamphetamine, which makes the toxin useful in the creation of an animal model of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder associated with selective degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. The immediate need is to understand the substances that increase the risk for this debilitating disorder as well as these substances'neurodegenerative mechanisms. Currently, various approaches are being taken to develop a novel and cost-effective anti-Parkinson's drug with minimal adverse effects and the added benefit of a neuroprotective effect to facilitate and improve the care of patients with Parkinson's disease. Amethamphetamine-treated animal model for Parkinson's disease can help to further the understanding of the neurodegenerative processes that target the nigrostriatal system. Studies on widely used drugs of abuse, which are also dopaminergic toxicants, may aid in understanding the etiology, pathophysiology and progression of the disease process and increase awareness of the risks involved in such drug abuse. In addition, this review evaluates the possible neuroprotective mechanisms of certain drugs against methamphetamine-induced toxicity.
To determine whether there is an increase in use of antiparkinsonian therapy in older persons taking metoclopramide hydrochloride.
Case-control study.
New jersey Medicaid program.
Medicaid enrollees aged 65 years and older. Cases were patients newly prescribed a levodopa-containing medication (n = 1253); a secondary case group were patients newly prescribed an anticholinergic antiparkinsonian drug (n = 2377). The control group consisted of 16435 Medicaid enrollees older than 65 years who were not users of any antiparkinsonian therapy.
We used logistic regression to determine the odds ratio (OR) for the initiation of antiparkinsonian therapy in patients using metoclopramide relative to nonusers, after adjusting for age, sex, race, nursing home residence, exposure to antipsychotic medication, and days hospitalized.
Metoclopramide users were three times more likely to begin use of a levodopa-containing medication compared with nonusers (OR = 3.09; 95% confidence interval [Cl], 2.25 to 4.26). Risk increased with increasing daily metoclopramide dose: the OR was 1.19 (95% Cl, 0.50 to 2.81) for more than 0 to 10 mg per day, 3.33 (95% Cl, 1.98 to 5.58) for more than 10 to 20 mg per day, and 5.25 (95% Cl, 1.16 to 8.50) for more than 20mg per day. The effect persisted after adjustment for demographic, health service utilization, and medication use variables. The OR for initiation of anticholinergic antiparkinsonian drugs was also elevated in metoclopramide users.
Metoclopramide use confers an increased risk for the initiation of treatment generally reserved for the management of idiopathic Parkinson's disease in patients with drug-induced parkinsonian symptoms, which should be ruled out before starting dopaminergic therapy for this condition.
Catechol quinones of estrogens react with DNA by 1,4-Michael addition to form depurinating N3Ade and N7Gua adducts. Loss of these adducts from DNA creates apurinic sites that can generate mutations leading to cancer initiation. We compared the reactions of the catechol quinones of the leukemogenic benzene (CAT-Q) and N-acetyldopamine (NADA-Q) with 2'-deoxyguanosine (dG) or DNA. NADA was used to prevent intramolecular cyclization of dopamine quinone. Reaction of CAT-Q or NADA-Q with dG at pH 4 afforded CAT-4-N7dG or NADA-6-N7dG, which lost deoxyribose with a half-life of 3 h to form CAT-4-N7Gua or 4 h to form NADA-6-N7Gua. When CAT-Q or NADA-Q was reacted with DNA, N3Ade adducts were formed and lost from DNA instantaneously, whereas N7Gua adducts were lost over several hours. The maximum yield of adducts in the reaction of CAT-Q or NADA-Q with DNA at pH 4 to 7 was at pH 4. When tyrosinase-activated CAT or NADA was reacted with DNA at pH 5 to 8, adduct levels were much higher (10- to 15-fold), and the highest yield was at pH 5. Reaction of catechol quinones of natural and synthetic estrogens, benzene, naphthalene, and dopamine with DNA to form depurinating adducts is a common feature that may lead to initiation of cancer or neurodegenerative disease.
To evaluate the efficacy of central nervous system (CNS) stimulants compared with placebo for the treatment of cocaine dependence.
A systematic review and meta-analysis was carried out. Bibliographic databases were searched, reference lists of retrieved studies were hand-searched and the first authors of each study were contacted. All randomized controlled clinical trials (RCCT) comparing the efficacy of any CNS stimulant with placebo in cocaine-dependent patients were included. Quantitative data synthesis was performed for each single CNS stimulant and for all CNS stimulants.
Nine RCCT met the inclusion criteria. These RCCT included 640 patients and compared five CNS stimulants: mazindol, dextroamphetamine, methylphenidate, modafinil and bupropion with placebo. No CNS stimulant improved study retention [RR = 0.94 (0.81-1.09)] or cocaine use [RR = 0.90 (0.79-1.02)]. An exploratory analysis using indirect estimations of cocaine use showed that the proportion of cocaine-positive urine screens was lower with dexamphetamine than with placebo [RR = 0.73 (0.60-0.90)] and that all CNS stimulants pooled together also suggested a significant decrease of cocaine use [RR = 0.87 (0.77-0.99)]. Data on craving could not be meta-analysed due to heterogeneity, but no RCCT found differences in cocaine craving between active drug and placebo except one, whose outcome favoured dexamphetamine. No serious adverse event (AE) was reported. Average of AE-induced dropouts was low and was greater for CNS stimulants than placebo: 4.4% versus 1.3% (P = 0.03).
The main outcomes of this study do not support the use of CNS stimulants for cocaine dependence. Nevertheless, secondary analyses provide some hopeful results that encourage further research with these drugs, mainly with dexamphetamine and modafinil.
Chronic alcoholism leads to the onset and progression of alcoholic cardiomyopathy through toxic mechanisms of ethanol and its metabolite, acetaldehyde. This study examined the impact of altered acetaldehyde metabolism through systemic transgenic overexpression of aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH2) on chronic alcohol ingestion-induced myocardial damage.
ALDH2 transgenic mice were produced with the chicken beta-actin promoter. Wild-type FVB and ALDH2 mice were placed on a 4% alcohol diet or a control diet for 14 weeks. Myocardial and cardiomyocyte contraction, intracellular Ca(2+) handling, histology (hematoxylin and eosin, Masson trichrome), protein damage, and apoptosis were determined. Western blot was used to monitor the expression of NADPH oxidase, calcineurin, apoptosis-stimulated kinase (ASK-1), glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), GATA4, and cAMP-response element binding (CREB) protein. ALDH2 reduced the chronic alcohol ingestion-induced elevation in plasma and tissue acetaldehyde levels. Chronic alcohol consumption led to cardiac hypertrophy, reduced fractional shortening, cell shortening, and impaired intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis, the effect of which was alleviated by ALDH2. In addition, the ALDH2 transgene significantly attenuated chronic alcohol intake-induced myocardial fibrosis, protein carbonyl formation, apoptosis, enhanced NADPH oxidase p47(phox) and calcineurin expression, as well as phosphorylation of ASK-1, GSK-3beta, GATA4, and CREB.
The present results suggest that transgenic overexpression of ALDH2 effectively antagonizes chronic alcohol intake-elicited myocardial hypertrophy and contractile defect through a mechanism that is associated, at least in part, with phosphorylation of ASK-1, GSK-3beta, GATA4, and CREB. These data strongly support the notion that acetaldehyde may be an essential contributor to the chronic development of alcoholic cardiomyopathy.
