Three cases in which myocardial ischaemia was possibly precipitated by the administration of nifedipine are reported. It is suggested that the initial administration of nifedipine should be undertaken with caution in patients with unstable ischaemic heart disease.
This study was undertaken to investigate the effect of cypermethrin on the expression patterns of mRNAs in the striatum of adulthood alone and postnatal pre-exposed followed by adulthood re-exposed rats using discover chips rat microarrays. The expression patterns of V-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1, B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2), BCL-2-associated X protein, caspase 1, caspase 9, death-associated protein 3 and interleukin-1β were validated by the qRT-PCR. The expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) II were assessed immunohistochemically; however, tumour protein p53 and cytochrome c (mitochondrial and cytosolic) expressions were checked at protein level by western blotting. Cypermethrin differentially regulated 65 transcripts at one or the other stage of exposure and 21 transcripts exhibited more pronounced alterations in the postnatal pre-exposed and adulthood re-challenged rats. The results of qRT-PCR were in accordance with the microarray observations and the expressions of iNOS, p53 and cytosolic cytochrome c and MHC II positivity were increased while the level of mitochondrial cytochrome c was reduced in adulthood treated animals. The effects were more pronounced in the postnatal pre-exposed followed by adulthood re-exposed rats. The results obtained thus suggest that multiple pathways are involved in the neurodegeneration as well as in enhancing the vulnerability of neurons in cypermethrin pre-exposed postnatal animals upon re-exposure during adulthood.
Impaired fibrinolysis is associated with thromboembolic complications in hypertensive patients. Cardiovascular morbidity/mortality rates have been reported high even after lowering the elevated blood pressure with antihypertensive drugs. We investigated the effects of clinically used dosages of cilazapril on the fibrinolytic system in hypertensive patients. The present study was performed among 30 hypertensive patients (22 women, eight men), who received 2.5-5.0 mg cilazapril daily for 1 month. Before and after the cilazapril treatment, patients' venous blood was drawn for fibrinolytic tests. The fibrinolytic activity was examined utilizing the euglobulin clot lysis time and fibrin plate methods. Using the fibrin plate method, as compared with the pretreatment group, we observed a 57% increased activity in the hypertensive patients receiving cilazapril (P < 0.001). When assessed by the euglobulin clot lysis time method, the activity due to cilazapril treatment was found to be relatively low, although highly significant (approximately 20%, P < 0.001). Changes in fibrinolytic activity were observed in 23 (77%) hypertensive patients after cilazapril treatment; however, their blood pressure remained normal. The remaining seven patients' (23%) blood pressures and fibrinolytic activity did not change significantly after cilazapril treatment. In conclusion, we suggest that the observed differential fibrinolytic activity between the pre and post cilazapril treatment values is due to the plasminogen activators released from the vascular endothelium, which may have been stimulated by cilazapril. It appears that cilazapril is not only an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor but also a stimulator for fibrinolytic activity, which may be an added component in reducing thromboembolic complications in hypertensive patients.
This study shows that nimodipine significantly reduces levels of blood pressure in patients with mild and moderate essential hypertension. Hypotensive efficacy is less than with nifedipine, but side effects are light, and the drug is shown to reduce serum Na+ and cholesterol and there is regression of LVH (ECG).
Open neural tube defects (NTD) are reported to arise from failure of the embryonic neural folds to close or rupture of a previously closed neural tube. The critical period for dysmorphogenesis of the neural tube by either mechanism is of clinical importance. We had previously reported that single doses of cyclophosphamide (CPA), administered to pregnant rats resulted in reopening of the closed neural tube. The objective of the present study was to determine if other antineoplastic drugs also had similar ability to cause rupture of the closed neural tube. Therefore, single doses of chlorambucil dissolved in bicarbonate buffer were administered to Wistar rats on one of gestation days (GD) 11 through 14 (i.e., well after closure of the neural tube) and fetuses were examined on GD 20. It was observed that the window of susceptibility extended from GD 11 through 14 and that a single dose of 10 mg/kg of the drug was most effective. The affected fetuses had the prosencephalon and mesencephalon parts of the brain protruding through a wide opening of the cranial roof. The exposed brain tissue was hemorrhagic and covered by a thin, transparent and often porous membrane. The cranial vault was missing. Numerous malformations of the axial skeleton and of several nonneural organs were found to accompany the brain defect. Electron microscopic and light microscopic studies revealed extensive cell death, fragmentation, and phagocytosis of dead cells and vacuolization of the neuroepithelium (NE) within 12 h of the drug treatment. Cell death per se was not pronounced in the cranial mesenchyme (ME). The vacuoles in the NE coalesced into small cavities. The ME failed to proliferate adequately and organize itself into the cranial vault primordium. Hemorrhage and disorganization of the NE was progressive. The fluid that escaped into the interstitium seemed to extend into the cysts that developed in the ME externally and into the ventricular system internally. The edema of the ME thus might have contributed to disruption of precursor mesenchymal tissue and consequently to malformation of the cranial bones. Large hematomas and cysts also developed on the basal aspect of the crumbling brain vesicles and appeared to lift the neural tissue out of the shallow cranial cavity. As previously reported for CPA, these data provide evidence for the ability of chlorambucil to cause postclosure exencephaly in rat fetuses for a susceptible period that is considerably long.
Hyperoxia exposure in mice leads to cardiac hypertrophy and voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel remodeling. Because redox balance of pyridine nucleotides affects Kv function and hyperoxia alters cellular redox potential, we hypothesized that hyperoxia exposure leads to cardiac ion channel disturbances and redox changes resulting in arrhythmias. In the present study, we investigated the electrical changes and redox abnormalities caused by 72h hyperoxia treatment in mice. Cardiac repolarization changes were assessed by acquiring electrocardiogram (ECG) and cardiac action potentials (AP). Biochemical assays were employed to identify the pyridine nucleotide changes, Kv1.5 expression and myocardial injury. Hyperoxia treatment caused marked bradycardia, arrhythmia and significantly prolonged (ms) the, RR (186.2 ± 10.7 vs. 146.4 ± 6.2), PR (46.8 ± 3.1 vs. 39.3 ± 1.6), QRS (10.8 ± 0.6 vs. 8.5 ± 0.2), QTc (57.1 ± 3.5 vs. 40 ± 1.4) and JT (13.4 ± 2.1 vs. 7.0 ± 0.5) intervals, when compared with normoxia group. Hyperoxia treatment also induced significant increase in cardiac action potential duration (APD) (ex-APD90; 73.8 ± 9.5 vs. 50.9 ± 3.1 ms) and elevated levels of serum markers of myocardial injury; cardiac troponin I (TnI) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Hyperoxia exposure altered cardiac levels of mRNA/protein expression of; Kv1.5, Kvβ subunits and SiRT1, and increased ratios of reduced pyridine nucleotides (NADH/NAD & NADPH/NADP). Inhibition of SiRT1 in H9C2 cells using Splitomicin resulted in decreased SiRT1 and Kv1.5 expression, suggesting that SiRT1 may mediate Kv1.5 downregulation. In conclusion, the cardiotoxic effects of hyperoxia exposure involve ion channel disturbances and redox changes resulting in arrhythmias.
Many natural environments are contaminated with carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and N-heterocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (NHAs) as complex mixtures of coal tar, petroleum, and shale oil. These potentially hazardous substances are prevalent at many former tar production and coal gasification sites. Three polycyclic [benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), benz(a)anthracene (BAA), and 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)] and two N-heterocyclic [7H-dibenzo(c,g)carbazole (DBC), and dibenz(a,j)acridine (DBA)] aromatic hydrocarbons were analyzed for cytotoxic and genotoxic effects on human lymphocytes. All of these polyaromatic compounds are normally present in the environment, except for DMBA. Lymphocytes from healthy donors were isolated from whole blood. The 5-ring polycyclic aromatic BaP consistently induced micronuclei in a linear dose-dependent manner with doses from 0.1-10.0 micrograms/ml, whereas the 4-ring compounds (BAA and DMBA) had no effect on the induction of micronuclei above controls except at 5 and 10 micrograms/ml. Of the two N-heterocyclic compounds, DBC produced a significant increase in micronuclei in lymphocytes, but the dose response tended to plateau above 0.1 microgram/ml. DBA showed an effect on the frequency of micronuclei above controls only at high doses of 5 and 10 micrograms/ml. The average background frequency of micronuclei for 7 lymphocyte donors averaged 3.1 per 1,000 stimulated cells, whereas the average frequency of micronuclei at 10 micrograms/ml BaP was 36.8 per 1,000 stimulated cells. The lowest effective dose in 2 donors for BaP occurred at 0.1 microgram/ml. At a challenge dose of 1 microgram/ml (4 microM) of BaP, considerable variation in micronuclei induction between 7 individuals was observed, ranging from 2-6-fold increases above spontaneous frequency. Over a dose range of 1-10.0 micrograms/ml (4-40 microM), BaP also induced sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) in lymphocytes, whereas BAA had no effect above controls. Parallel studies of both cytogenetic endpoints showed that the micronucleus assay is a more sensitive indicator of BaP exposure at equivalent doses. Mitotic and replication indices of BaP-exposed lymphocytes showed that cell proliferation is only moderately inhibited even at the highest dose; this shows that bulky DNA-adducts are generally compatible with cell survival. The cytogenetic data are consistent, first-off, with reports that individuals in the population vary widely with respect to the inducibility of the CYP1A1 gene, which is known to be involved in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon metabolism, in particular, in BaP. Secondly, the data support the fact that polyaromatic compounds differ with regard to micronucleus induction within the same sample(s) of human lymphocytes, indicating selective metabolism of polyaromatic compounds that may reflect carcinogen sensitivity of the individual.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To find out the relationship between the opacity in lens and the contents of 2,6-dinitro-4-amino-toluene(DNAT) in the urine of exposed workers.
Testing the exposed worker's lens and measuring the contents of DNAT in the urine after work.
When the opacity of the lens occurred, the contents of DNAT in the urine(2.38 mg/L) of workers exposed to TNT were significantly higher than those without opacity in lens(1.44 mg/L) (P < 0.05).
The severity of opacity of lens increased with the contents of DNAT raised in the urine. The threshold value suggested by ILO is not applicable to Chinese occupational population, which recommends the contents of DNAT(30 mg/L) in the urine for the workers exposed to TNT as biological occupational exposed limits.
Anticonvulsants cause dyskinesias more commonly than has been appreciated. Diphenylhydantoin (DPH), carbamazepine, primidone, and phenobarbitone may cause asterixis. DPH, but not other anticonvulsants, may cause orofacial dyskinesias, limb chorea, and dystonia in intoxicated patients. These dyskinesias are similar to those caused by neuroleptic drugs and may be related to dopamine antagonistic properties possessed by DPH.
To study the relationship between glutathione S transferase M1(GST mu) gene deletion and leukemia in workers exposed to benzene.
A matched population-based case-control survey with multivariate Logistic regression analysis was conducted in this study.
In the population of 34 patients and their matched controls, the absence of the GST mu genotype conferred odds ratio of 3.6. It suggested that GST mu was an important determinant of heterogeneity in individual susceptibility to leukemia associated with exposure to benzene. The single-variance analysis indicated that these markedly significant factors were GST mu gene deletion, GST mu isoenzyme activity, duration of exposure, GST isoenzyme activity, smoking quantity and average concentration of benzene in workshop air. The multivariate analysis indicated that these markedly significant factors were GST mu gene deletion, duration of exposure to benzene and GST mu isoenzyme activity.
GST mu gene deletion may be associated with increased risk of leukemia in workers exposed to benzene and is one of genetically determined factors.
Duodenal fat such as oleate is known to influence gut functions by release of cholecystokinin (CCK), but the contribution of CCK endogenously released by duodenal fat or by diversion of pancreatic juice from the duodenum in the mechanism of mucosal integrity and gastroprotection has been little studied. This study was designed to compare the effect of CCK-8 and intraduodenal (i.d.) instillation of sodium oleate, or diversion of the pancreatic biliary secretions that are known to release CCK, on the gastric mucosal lesions induced by topical application of 100% ethanol or acidified aspirin (ASA) in rats with or without the pretreatment with a CCK-A receptor antagonist, loxiglumide, or with L-365,260 to block CCK-B receptors. In addition, the effect of suppression of prostaglandin (PG) biosynthesis by indomethacin (5 mg/kg i.p.), inhibition of nitric oxide (NO)-synthase by L-NAME (5 mg/kg i.v.), or blockade of sensory nerves by capsaicin (125 mg/kg s.c.) on the protective activity of sodium oleate was determined. Sodium oleate (50-200 mM i.d.), or diversion of pancreatic juice from the duodenum for 3 h that produced significant rise in plasma CCK levels, significantly reduced gastric lesions induced by 100% ethanol to an extent similar to that induced by exogenous CCK-8 (5 nmol/kg s.c.). The protective effect of oleate or diversion of pancreatic juice was accompanied by an increase in gastric blood flow (GBF). Both protection and accompanying hyperemia were completely abolished by blockade of CCK-A receptors with loxiglumide, whereas L-365,260, an antagonist of CCK-B receptors, had no effect. Oleate given i.d. significantly attenuated acidified ASA-induced gastric lesions and gastric secretion while increasing the luminal concentration of somatostatin. These effects were significantly reduced by loxiglumide but not by L-365,260. In contrast, CCK-8, which stimulated gastric acid secretion, failed to affect the lesions induced by acidified ASA and the decrease in the GBF produced by this ulcerogen. Indomethacin, which suppressed PG generation by approximately 90%, failed to influence the protective activity of oleate or CCK-8 against ethanol-induced lesions, whereas L-NAME, vagotomy, or sensory denervation significantly attenuated this protection and accompanying hyperemia. Addition to L-NAME of L-arginine, but not D-arginine, restored the protective and hyperemic effects of CCK-8 and duodenal oleate against gastric lesions induced by ethanol or acidified ASA. We conclude that endogenous CCK released by oleate or diversion of pancreatic secretion exerts a potent gastroprotective action on the stomach involving predominantly CCK-A receptors and depending on vagal activity, and hyperemia mediated by NO and sensory nerves but unrelated to acid secretory effects and endogenous PG.
We tested the hypothesis that glutamate receptor antagonists increase the dose of lidocaine required to induce seizure activity. Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with halothane in 40% O2/balance N2 and mechanically ventilated. After surgical preparation, halothane was discontinued. Normocapnia, normoxia, and normothermia were maintained. The electroencephalogram (EEG) and arterial blood pressure were monitored continuously. Rats were then randomized to one of six groups (control, one of three intravenous [i.v.] bolus doses of the competitive glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate [NMDA] receptor antagonist CGS 19755, or one of two i.v. bolus and continuous infusion regimens of the competitive glutamate alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid [AMPA] receptor antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo-(F)quinoxalline [NBQX]). Thirty minutes after onset of CGS 19755 or NBQX administration (end-tidal halothane < 0.2%), rats received a continuous i.v. infusion of 1.5% lidocaine until EEG seizures occurred. The duration of the infusion (min) and total lidocaine dose (mg/kg) administered were recorded. CGS 19755 increased the lidocaine seizure threshold in a log-linear dose-dependent fashion (P < 10(-6)). The largest dose of CGS 19755 (112.5 mg/kg) increased the time to initial EEG seizure activity more than twofold (e.g., control = 12.6 +/- 2.6 min; CGS 19755 = 28.6 +/- 6.9 min). The effect of AMPA receptor antagonism was less obvious because treatment resulted in an EEG morphology dissimilar to that observed in the CGS 19755 or control groups. Our findings indicate that competitive NMDA receptor antagonists (e.g., CGS 19755) increase the dose of lidocaine required for seizures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Learning and memory processes were tested in adult male rats using a traditional pole-climbing apparatus 30 min after the administration of L-arginine (500 and 1000 mg/kg), the precursor of nitric oxide (NO), and N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (50 and 100 mg/kg), the inhibitor of NO synthesis. The effects of the convulsant (5.0 mg/kg) and a smaller nonconvulsant (2.5 mg/kg) dose of picrotoxin were tested on learning and memory 120 min and 24 h after their administration. The tests were carried out 30 min after L-arginine in animals treated 120 min previously with the convulsant dose of picrotoxin. A dose-dependent enhancement and an inhibition of learning and memory were observed in animals treated with L-arginine and L-NAME, respectively. The convulsant dose of picrotoxin impaired both learning and memory processes. The effect of picrotoxin was reverted following the administration of L-arginine (1000 mg/kg). An interpretation of these results indicates that convulsions induced by picrotoxin produces learning and memory impairment, and that this defect is reversible if NO synthesis is increased in the brain by the systemic administration of L-arginine.
Oesophageal atresia (OA) and tracheooesophageal fistula (TOF) are relatively common human congenital malformations of the foregut where the oesophagus does not connect with the stomach and there is an abnormal connection between the stomach and the respiratory tract. They require immediate corrective surgery and have an impact on the future health of the individual. These abnormalities are mimicked by exposure of rat and mouse embryos in utero to the drug adriamycin. The causes of OA/TOF during human development are not known, however a number of mouse mutants where different signalling pathways are directly affected, show similar abnormalities, implicating multiple and complex signalling mechanisms. The similarities in developmental outcome seen in human infants and in the adriamycin treated mouse model underline the potential of this model to unravel the early embryological events and further our understanding of the processes disturbed, leading to such abnormalities. Here we report a systematic study of the foregut and adjacent tissues in embryos treated with adriamycin at E7 and E8 and analysed between E9 and E12, comparing morphology in 3D in 149 specimens. We describe a spectrum of 8 defects, the most common of which is ventral displacement and branching of the notochord (in 94% of embryos at E10) and a close spatial correspondence between the site of notochord branching and defects of the foregut. In addition gene expression analysis shows altered dorso-ventral foregut patterning in the vicinity of notochord branches. This study shows a number of features of the adriamycin mouse model not previously reported, implicates the notochord as a primary site of disturbance in such abnormalities and underlines the importance of the model to further address the mechanistic basis of foregut congenital abnormalities.
1. We have previously found that intrathecal administration of prostaglandins E2 (PGE2) and D2 (PGD2) into conscious mice induced hyperalgesia by the hot plate test. The present study investigated the involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in the prostaglandin-induced hyperalgesia by use of mice tacking NMDA receptor epsilon 1, epsilon 4, or epsilon 1/epsilon 4 subunits. 2. PGE2 induced hyperalgesia over a wide range of doses from 50 pg to 500 ng kg-1 in wild-type mice. But PGE2 could not induce hyperalgesia in epsilon 1, epsilon 4, or epsilon 1/epsilon 4 subunit knockout mice. 3. The NMDA receptor antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-AP5), the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 7-D-glutamylaminomethyl sulphonic acid (GAMS), and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N epsilon-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) inhibited the PGE2-induced hyperalgesia in wild-type mice. 4. PGD2 induced hyperalgesia at doses of 25 ng to 250 ng kg-1 in both wild-type and epsilon 1/epsilon 4 subunit knockout mice. The substance P receptor antagonist OP 96.345 blocked the PGD2-induced hyperalgesia in wild-type and epsilon 1/epsilon 4 subunit knockout mice. 5. These results demonstrate that the pathways leading to hyperalgesia are different between PGD2 and PGE2, and that both epsilon 1 and epsilon 4 subunits of the NMDA receptor are involved in the PGE2-induced hyperalgesia.
From the analysis of several studies published from 1979 to 1986 comprising 1,172 patients, we estimated that glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was normal in 85% of unselected patients on chronic lithium therapy. The remaining 15% of patients displayed only mild reduction in GFR, clustering at approximately 60 mL/min. Thus, the data available to date do not support earlier concerns that long-term lithium therapy could eventuate into renal insufficiency. The most prevalent renal effect of lithium is impairment of concentrating ability, which we estimated to be present in at least 54% of 1,105 unselected patients on chronic lithium therapy. This defect translated into overt polyuria in only 19% of unselected cases. A renal lesion confined to the collecting tubule has been described in humans who have taken lithium for short periods of time. This lesion may represent the collecting tubule's response to the intracellular accumulation of lithium, which interferes with cAMP formation and results in an early and probably reversible inhibition of antidiuretic hormone (ADH)-mediated water transport. However, long-term lithium therapy may induce a progressive and partly irreversible defect in concentrating ability. The potential risk for dehydration associated with lithium-induced polyuria, as well as the discomfort inherent to this side effect, deserves evaluation and consideration for therapeutic intervention. Amiloride has additional advantages over conventional treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus using thiazide diuretics. The action of amiloride on ADH-mediated water transport seems specific in as much as it is capable of preventing the uptake of lithium in high resistance epithelia and thereby prevents the inhibitory effect of intracellular lithium on water transport. Unlike thiazides, amiloride has a weak natriuretic effect and is less likely to increase plasma lithium levels by causing volume contraction. In addition, amiloride, by conserving potassium, obviates the need for potassium supplementation that is usually required to prevent hypokalemia when thiazides are used to treat lithium-induced polyuria. Since amiloride may prevent chronic intracellular lithium accumulation in the collecting tubule, future studies should elucidate whether amiloride also has a role in preventing lithium-induced chronic tubulo-interstitial damage.
The contributions of alpha- and beta-adrenergic receptor mechanisms to epinephrine-induced hyperglycemia, to prandial hepatic glycogenolysis, and to epinephrine-induced inhibition of feeding were investigated in rats, because epinephrine's hyperglycemic and anorectic effect might be related to each other. Intraperitoneal injection of the selective alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist phentolamine (0.5 mg/kg body weight) but not of the selective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol (0.5 mg/kg body weight) reduced the hyperglycemic effect of a subsequent epinephrine injection (0.05 mg/kg body weight). In addition, injection of phentolamine (0.5 mg/kg b.w.) or injection of phentolamine plus propranolol (0.5 mg/kg b.w. each) similarly inhibited epinephrine-induced hepatic glycogenolysis. In contrast, phentolamine injection did not affect prandial hepatic glycogenolysis. Neither phentolamine nor propranolol injection was sufficient to affect the inhibition of feeding induced by subsequent epinephrine injection, but the combination of both receptor blockers completely abolished epinephrine's effect on food intake. These findings are not consistent with the idea that epinephrine-induced hypophagia is related to epinephrine's effect on hepatic carbohydrate metabolism. In addition, the data suggest that catecholamines are not the main contributors to prandial hepatic glycogenolysis in rats.
The ovarian gap junction proteins alpha 4 (GJA4 or connexin 37; CX37), alpha 1 (GJA1 or connexin 43; CX43) and gamma 1 (GJC1 or connexin 45; CX45) are involved in cell communication and folliculogenesis. 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) alters Cx37 and Cx43 expression in cultured neonatal rat ovaries. Additionally, obesity has an additive effect on DMBA-induced ovarian cell death and follicle depletion, thus, we investigated in vivo impacts of obesity and DMBA on CX protein levels. Ovaries were collected from lean and obese mice aged 6, 12, 18, or 24 wks. A subset of 18 wk old mice (lean and obese) were dosed with sesame oil or DMBA (1mg/kg; ip) for 14days and ovaries collected 3days thereafter. Cx43 and Cx45 mRNA and protein levels decreased (P<0.05) after 18 wks while Cx37 mRNA and protein levels decreased (P<0.05) after 24 wks in obese ovaries. Cx37 mRNA and antral follicle protein staining intensity were reduced (P<0.05) by obesity while total CX37 protein was reduced (P<0.05) in DMBA exposed obese ovaries. Cx43 mRNA and total protein levels were decreased (P<0.05) by DMBA in both lean and obese ovaries while basal protein staining intensity was reduced (P<0.05) in obese controls. Cx45 mRNA, total protein and protein staining intensity level were decreased (P<0.05) by obesity. These data support that obesity temporally alters gap junction protein expression and that DMBA-induced ovotoxicity may involve reduced gap junction protein function.
The aim of this study was to compare the pharmacodynamics of telavancin (TLV) and vancomycin (VAN) with Staphylococcus aureus. Their concentrations were simulated between the MIC and the mutant prevention concentration (MPC), and above the MPC.
Two strains of S. aureus, glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus (GISA) Mu-50 and ATCC 43300, were exposed for 5 days to once-daily TLV (half-life 8 h) and twice-daily VAN (half-life 6 h). The simulated ratios of 24 h area under the curve (AUC(24)) to MIC varied from 30-50 to 3400 h. The cumulative antimicrobial effect was expressed by ABBC (area between the level corresponding to the starting inoculum and the time-kill curve calculated from time 0 to 144 h).
With each antibiotic, the ABBC versus log AUC(24)/MIC relationships were bacterial strain-independent. A sigmoid model fits combined data on both organisms exposed to TLV (r(2)=0.78) or VAN (r(2)=0.85). Comparable effects of the proposed therapeutic dose of TLV (10 mg/kg) and a clinical dose of VAN (2x1 g) were predicted for MRSA ATCC 43300 (AUC(24)/MIC 3400 and 500 h, respectively) and a 1.6-fold greater effect of TLV for GISA Mu-50 compared with VAN (AUC(24)/MIC 1700 and 130 h, respectively). Mutants of S. aureus ATCC 43300 resistant to 2x and 4x MIC of VAN but not TLV were enriched in these simulations. No selection of TLV- and VAN-resistant mutants of GISA Mu-50 was observed.
These in vitro data suggest that the effects of clinically attainable AUC/MIC ratios of TLV are similar to those of VAN on S. aureus 43300 and 2-fold greater on GISA Mu-50.
We have previously reported that the phosphodiesterase inhibitor cilostazol, an antiplatelet agent, is effective and safe for secondary prevention of recurrent cerebral infarction (Cilostazol Stroke Prevention Study; CSPS). We now report the efficacy of this drug in the prevention of pneumonia in the chronic stage of cerebral infarction as a part of our CSPS subgroup analysis. The analysis was conducted in 1,049 subjects; 524 in the cilostazol group and 525 in the placebo group. The incidences of pneumonia during the 3.3-year follow-up were 2.86% (15 in 525 patients) in the placebo group and 0.57% (3 in 524 patients) in the cilostazol group, with a significant reduction in the cilostazol group. The rates of complications and pneumonia risk factors showed no difference between the two groups. We conclude that the administration of cilostazol to patients with cerebral infarction in the chronic stage does not only reduce the recurrence of infarction but also the incidence of pneumonia at least in Japanese patients.
The combination of an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (ARB) and a diuretic is effective clinically in treatment of hypertension. As a non-clinical safety evaluation of a combination of the ARB olmesartan medoxomil (OM) and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), male and female normotensive rats were administered OM/HCTZ (fixed ratio of 8 : 5) orally by gavage for 26 weeks at dose levels of 0, 4.88, 16.25, 48.75, 162.5, 487.5, or 1625 mg/kg/day. Additional groups were given 1000 mg/ kg/day OM or 625 mg/kg/day HCTZ. Statistically significant and marked decreases in urinary protein excretion were observed in males and females given doses of 16.25 mg/kg/day or higher compared to vehicle-control groups. Increases in blood urinary nitrogen (BUN) were observed in males and females given doses of 16.25 and 162.5 mg/kg/day or higher, respectively. Increased incidence of chronic progressive nephropathy (CPN), a rat-specific spontaneous renal lesion, was observed in males and females given doses of 48.75 mg/kg/day or higher. An additional mechanistic study, consisting of male and female rats given 0, or 162.5 mg/kg/day OM/HCTZ, was conducted to clarify the toxicological significance of the increases in BUN and the increased incidence of CPN described above. This additional study clearly demonstrated that saline-supplementation through free access to saline in the drinking water ameliorated the elevation in BUN and also ameliorated the incidence of CPN. Consequently, the effects on BUN and CPN observed in the first study can be explained by the hemodynamic disturbances caused by the large doses and an exaggerated pharmacological action in volume-depleted normotensive animals. Importantly, the marked decreases in urinary protein were not affected by the saline-supplementation, and indicated that OM/HCTZ elicited a renoprotective effect, probably by an effect on the glomeruli. An additional toxicokinetic study revealed no drug interactions between OM and HCTZ. In conclusion, OM/HCTZ induced a renoprotective effect as well as changes probably attributed to the exaggerated pharmacological action of the ARB with diuretic in normotensive rats. These results suggest that OM/HCTZ may have renoprotective effects in clinical treatment of hypertensive patients.
Mitomycin has been associated with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and renal failure. We describe a patient with the adult hemolytic-uremic syndrome due to mitomycin who was successfully treated with intense plasma exchange therapy and corticosteroid therapy. Patients receiving mitomycin should have their conditions monitored closely for acute renal failure, thrombocytopenia, and hemolytic anemia.
The clinical use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is often associated with adverse effects in the kidney. Indomethacin, an NSAID that has been shown to induce oxidative stress in the kidney, was used to study the pathogenesis of renal damage induced by the drug in a rat model. Experimental animals were given indomethacin (20mg/kg) by oral gavage, sacrificed 1, 12 or 24h (h) later and the kidneys studied. Evidence of glomerular and tubular damage in the kidney was found in response to the drug. Renal tissue nitrite levels, a surrogate marker of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, were significantly decreased at 12 and 24h. Indomethacin did not affect protein and mRNA levels of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) or inducible NOS (iNOS). However, it significantly reduced the ratio of dimeric (active) to monomeric (inactive) eNOS in the kidney, 12 and 24h after drug administration. This was associated with reductions in heme content, both in renal tissue and in NOS. Heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) mRNA (at 1 and 12h), protein (at 12 and 24h) and activity (at 1, 12 and 24h) were elevated in response to indomethacin. Nuclear translocation of Nrf2 (at 12h) and p38 MAPK signaling (at 12h and 24h), both of which are known to induce HO-1, also occurred in response to the drug. In summary, our results show that indomethacin reduced levels of activated eNOS in the kidney. This effect is possibly mediated by heme depletion, secondary to HO-1 induction that occurred downstream of Nrf2 and p38 MAPK signaling. We postulate that reduced renal eNOS activity may result in decreased NO levels, and hence reduced renal perfusion, leading to glomerular and tubular injury with subsequent renal damage.
