Glycyrrhizic acid (GA) is a main sweetening component of licorice roots and has been found to be associated with multiple therapeutic properties. In this study, we used GA as a protective agent against the clastogenic and nephrotoxic effects of cisplatin (CP).
Mice were given a prophylactic treatment of GA orally at doses of 75 and 150mg/kg body weight for seven consecutive days before the administration of a single intraperitoneal dose of CP at 7mg/kg body weight. The modulatory effects of GA on CP-induced nephrotoxicity and genotoxicity were investigated by assaying oxidative stress biomarkers, lipid peroxidation, serum kidney toxicity markers, DNA fragmentation, alkaline unwinding, and micronuclei and by histopathological examination of the kidneys.
A single intraperitoneal dose of cisplatin in mice enhanced renal lipid peroxidation, xanthine oxidase, and H(2)O(2) generation; depleted glutathione content, activities of the anti-oxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, catalase, glutathione-S-transferase and quinone reductase; induced DNA strand breaks and micronucleus formation (p<0.001); and majorly disrupted normal kidney architecture. Pretreatment with GA prevented oxidative stress by restoring the levels of antioxidant enzymes at both doses. A significant dose-dependent decrease in DNA fragmentation, micronucleus formation (p<0.05), and the kidney toxicity markers BUN (p<0.001), creatinine (p<0.01), and LDH (p<0.001) and restoration of normal kidney histology was observed.
Our study supports the claim that the phytochemical GA has the potential to attenuate the side effects of anticancer drug overdose.
A 51-year-old woman with renal failure requring hemodialysis received a total of 446 mg of vecuronium over a period of 4 days to help mechanical ventilation and developed generalized muscle weakness after its discontinuation. It took 2 wks to wean her from mechanical ventilation and 3 wks for her to be able to walk. She did not receive drugs which might alter neuromuscular transmission such as corticosteroid and aminoglycoside antibiotics. Electromyogram and nerve conduction studies were normal. We believe that the cause is the accumulation of vecuronium and active metabolites due to renal failure. The case suggests that we should minimize the duration of neuromuscular block in patients with renal failure by aggressive use of sedatives and analgesics and the optimization of ventilator settings.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is an environmental pollutant that biomagnifies throughout the aquatic food chain, thus representing a toxicological concern for humans subsiding on fish for their dietary intake. Although the developing brain is considered the critical target organ of MeHg toxicity, recent evidence indicates that the cardiovascular system may be the most sensitive in adults. However, data on the mechanisms mediating MeHg-induced cardiovascular toxicity are scarce. Based on the close relationship between cardiovascular disease and dyslipidemia, this study was designed to investigate the effects of long-term MeHg exposure on plasma lipid levels in mice, as well as their underlying mechanisms and potential relationships to MeHg-induced neurotoxicity. Our major finding was that long-term MeHg exposure induced dyslipidemia in rodents. Specifically, Swiss and C57BL/6 mice treated for 21 days with a drinking solution of MeHg (40 mg/l, ad libitum) diluted in tap water showed increased total and non-HDL plasma cholesterol levels. MeHg-induced hypercholesterolemia was also observed in low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout (LDLr⁻/⁻) mice, indicating that this effect was not related to decreased LDLr-mediated cholesterol transport from blood to other tissues. Although the hepatic synthesis of cholesterol was unchanged, significant signs of nephrotoxicity (glomerular shrinkage, tubular vacuolization, and changed urea levels) were observed in MeHg-exposed mice, indicating that the involvement of nephropathy in MeHg-induced lipid dyshomeostasis may not be ruled out. Notably, Probucol (a lipid-lowering drug) prevented the development of hypercholesterolemia when coadministered with MeHg. Finally, hypercholesterolemic LDLr⁻/⁻ mice were more susceptible to MeHg-induced cerebellar glial activation, suggesting that hypercholesterolemia in itself may pose a risk factor in MeHg-induced neurotoxicity. Overall, based on the strong and graded positive association between total as well as LDL cholesterol and risk of cardiovascular diseases, our data support the concept of MeHg-induced cardiovascular toxicity.
Most smokers report smoking has an anxiolytic effect, which may contribute to nicotine dependence.
To examine effects in the social interaction test (SI) of anxiety after 4 weeks' self-administered nicotine (15 infusions of 0.03 mg/kg, totalling 0.45 mg/kg per day), and after 24 and 72 h of withdrawal. The effect of exposure to the operant chamber on withdrawal responses was also examined.
Animals were trained to self-administer saline or nicotine and after 4 weeks they were tested in SI after their daily self-administration session. Animals were retested after 24 and 72 h withdrawal, when they were either taken directly from the home cage or were tested 5 min after a 30-min exposure to the operant chamber.
Compared with the saline control group, the animals that had been self-administering nicotine for 4 weeks showed decreased social interaction with no decrease in locomotor activity, indicating a significant anxiogenic effect of the nicotine infusions. There was no change in social interaction after 24 and 72 h withdrawal from chronic nicotine, regardless of whether or not the rats were exposed to the operant chamber just prior to being tested.
Nicotine self-administration is not maintained because of its anxiolytic effect, but despite, or because of, its anxiogenic effect. There was no evidence of an anxiogenic response after either 24 or 72 h of withdrawal and thus increased anxiety on withdrawal from nicotine does not seem to contribute to nicotine self-administration.
Typical neuroleptic medications are still administered to as many as 40% of patients receiving antipsychotic treatment in the US. Intermittent administration or interruption of long-term neuroleptic medication for schizophrenia may increase the incidence of human tardive dyskinesias, and similarly may produce increasingly marked motor side-effects, parkinsonism, and other behavioral pathologies in non-human primates.
Given these similarities, we addressed the issue of prolonged and intermittent typical neuroleptic treatment and dopaminergic function during a 5-year, multi-phase study with social colonies of Cebus apella monkeys. In the previously reported phase 1, we examined the effects of 48 weeks of exposure to, followed by withdrawal from, fluphenazine decanoate (FPZ). Phase 3 reported here examined the effects of 18 weeks of re-exposure to FPZ in these same monkeys, 91 weeks after discontinuation of their phase 1 FPZ treatment.
Analysis of blood plasma FPZ indicated levels of 0.22+/-0.08 ng/ml for the six injections during the re-exposure period (n=54), comparable to the 0.24+/-0.07 ng/ml levels measured during our original treatment with this dose. Acute dyskinesias and dystonias increased by 300% upon re-exposure to FPZ; 15 of 18 FPZ-treated animals exhibited oral-buccal dyskinesias and all exhibited torticollis or retrocollis. Retreatment with FPZ was also associated with highly significant reductions in Self- and Environment-Directed Behavior and Directed Affiliation, effects similar to those seen during the original phase 1 FPZ treatment. Although FPZ re-treatment was associated with a significant reduction in Directed Aggression (an effect that was more robust than that observed during phase 1), in phase 3, we again observed an increase in Directed Aggression during early drug discontinuation when animals were in a stress-inducing situation.
These results both support our phase 1 conclusion that typical neuroleptic medications may contribute to negative symptoms of schizophrenia and provide additional evidence for the possibility of increased aggression in stressful situations when medication is discontinued. Additionally, the results indicate that intermittent treatment with typical neuroleptics may dramatically increase the incidence of dystonias and dyskinesias.
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is one of the most common and dose-limiting side effects of paclitaxel, a chemiotherapeutic drug of proven efficacy in various tumours. We investigated the pathophysiological features of the PN and the temporal relationships between the development of the symptoms and signs associated with paclitaxel administration in two groups of patients with breast cancer: group A received paclitaxel alone (total cumulative dose range: 950-2,475 mg/m2), and group B paclitaxel and adriamycin (total cumulative dose range: 700-2,800 mg/m2). A codified assessment scoring clinical sensory and motor functions according to the Common Toxicity Scale and neurophysiological measurements were made before treatment, after the third and sixth cycles, and at the end of therapy. A total neuropathy score (TNS) included selected clinical and neurophysiological parameters. Both positive and negative sensory and motor symptoms and signs of PN developed during therapy, the most common being painful paresthesias, global areflexia and distal weakness. The neurophysiological study showed an early onset, length-independent and progressive sensory defect, and delayed, distal and length-dependent motor deficits. The neuropathy progressed faster in group A than in group B but, after therapy, most of the patients were TNS grade 2 regardless of their group. The temporal relationships between the PN and paclitaxel were robustly characterised, and thus provide reference data and a model for testing the efficacy of drugs designed to provide neuroprotection.
Tanshinone A is a novel derivative of phenanthrene-quinone extracted from Salvia miltiorrhiza BUNGE, a traditional herbal medicine. Cytotoxic effect of tanshinone A was observed in this study. Additionally its mechanism of promoting apoptosis was also investigated. MTT and SRB assays were applied to measure the effects of tanshinone A on the cell viability, the cell cycle distribution and cell apoptosis were measured by flow cytometry using PI staining and Annexin V/PI double staining method respectively. The changes of mitochondrial membrane potential were also detected by flow cytometry. Spectrophotometric method was used to detect the changes of caspase-3 activity. Western blotting assay was used to evaluate the expression of bcl-2, bax and c-Myc proteins. Results indicated that tanshinone A displayed a significant inhibitory effect on the growth of K562 cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner, and showed obvious minor damage to LO2 cells. Tanshinone A could arrest K562 cells in the G(0)/G(1) phase and induce apoptosis, decrease the mitochondrial transmembrane potential, decrease the expressions of bcl-2 and c-Myc proteins, increase the expression of bax protein and the activity of caspase-3. Accordingly, it was presumed that the apoptosis induction may be through the endogenous pathway. Subsequently, tanshinone A could be a promising candidate in the development of a novel antitumor agent.
Aplastic anemia is the rare hematologic complication of the antithyroid medication. We present here the case of 39-years old female who was treated with Thiamazole due to Graves disease. This and the others cases cited in the literature indicate that antithyroid drugs-induced aplastic anemia is characterised by severe clinical status and profound marrow hypoplasia or aplasia but good prognosis with short term recovering.
Antipsychotic-induced weight gain has emerged as a serious complication in the treatment of patients with atypical antipsychotic drugs. The cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1) is expressed centrally in the hypothalamic region and associated with appetite and satiety, as well as peripherally. An antagonist of CNR1 (rimonabant) has been effective in causing weight loss in obese patients indicating that CNR1 might be important in antipsychotic-induced weight gain. Twenty tag SNPs were analyzed in 183 patients who underwent treatment (with either clozapine, olanzapine, haloperidol, or risperidone) for chronic schizophrenia were evaluated for antipsychotic-induced weight gain for up to 14 weeks. The polymorphism rs806378 was nominally associated with weight gain in patients of European ancestry treated with clozapine or olanzapine. 'T' allele carriers (CT+TT) gained more weight (5.96%), than the CC carriers (2.76%, p=0.008, FDR q-value=0.12). This translated into approximately 2.2 kg more weight gain in patients carrying the T allele than the patients homozygous for the CC genotype (CC vs CT+TT, 2.21+/-4.51 vs 4.33+/-3.89 kg; p=0.022). This was reflected in the allelic analysis (C vs T allele, 3.84 vs 5.83%, p=0.035). We conducted electrophoretic mobility shift assays which showed that the presence of the T allele created a binding site for arylhydrocarbon receptor translocator (ARNT), a member of the basic helix-loop-helix/Per-Arnt-Sim protein family. In this study, we provide evidence that the CNR1 gene may be associated with antipsychotic-induced weight gain in chronic schizophrenia patients. However, these observations were made in a relatively small patient population; therefore these results need to be replicated in larger sample sets.
Carboplatin was administered at 1,000 mg/m2/course in combination with etoposide at 300 mg/m2/course to 23 patients aged 5 months to 16 years. Five patients were affected by neuroblastoma, four by CNS tumors, three by Ewing's sarcoma, two by rhabdomyosarcoma, two by malignant teratoma, two by Wilms' tumor, two by head and neck carcinoma, one by hepatoblastoma, one by synovial sarcoma, and one by Langerhans-cell histiocytosis. Eleven patients were pretreated, seven of them with high-dose cisplatin. The overall response rate was 7/11 (64%) for pretreated and 10/12 (83%) for previously untreated patients. Myelosuppression was the main side effect, with anemia and thrombocytopenia more pronounced than leukopenia. Gastrointestinal toxicity and ototoxicity were very mild; nephrotoxicity and neurotoxicity other than hearing loss were not observed. In children with malignant tumors, the therapeutic activity of carboplatin at high doses, even in combination chemotherapy, deserves further studies.
Enhanced drug efflux mediated by ABCB1 P-glycoprotein and related ATP-binding cassette transporters is one of several mechanisms of multidrug resistance thought to impair chemotherapeutic success in human cancers. In malignant melanoma, its potential contribution to chemoresistance is uncertain. Here, we show that ABCB5, which functions as a determinant of membrane potential and regulator of cell fusion in physiologic skin progenitor cells, is expressed in clinical malignant melanoma tumors and preferentially marks a subset of hyperpolarized, CD133+ stem cell phenotype-expressing tumor cells in malignant melanoma cultures and clinical melanomas. We found that ABCB5 blockade significantly reversed resistance of G3361 melanoma cells to doxorubicin, an agent to which clinical melanomas have been found refractory, resulting in a 43% reduction in the LD50 from 4 to 2.3 micromol/L doxorubicin (P < 0.05). Our results identified ABCB5-mediated doxorubicin efflux transport as the underlying mechanism of resistance, because ABCB5 blockade significantly enhanced intracellular drug accumulation. Consistent with this novel ABCB5 function and mechanism in doxorubicin resistance, gene expression levels of the transporter across a panel of human cancer cell lines used by the National Cancer Institute for drug screening correlated significantly with tumor resistance to doxorubicin (r = 0.44; P = 0.016). Our results identify ABCB5 as a novel drug transporter and chemoresistance mediator in human malignant melanoma. Moreover, our findings show that ABCB5 is a novel molecular marker for a distinct subset of chemoresistant, stem cell phenotype-expressing tumor cells among melanoma bulk populations and indicate that these chemoresistant cells can be specifically targeted via ABCB5 to enhance cytotoxic efficacy.
Because of their low incidence of adverse effects SSRI are prescribed more and more frequently in patients with depressive disorders. SSRI inhibit different subsystems of cytochrome-P 450-oxydase. Especially during co-administration of SSRI with antipsychotic and antiarrhythmic drugs pharmacokinetic interactions have to be observed carefully. In this presentation a case of bradycardia after co-administration of paroxetine and metoprolol is reported. Drug history and a careful drug monitoring are necessary requirements to avoid serious adverse effects.
The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of subchronic exposure to chlorpyrifos on reproductive toxicology of male rats. Forty healthy male rats were divided into four groups: three exposure groups and a control group. Chlorpyrifos was administered orally to male rats at 0, 2.7, 5.4, and 12.8 mg/kg for 90 days to evaluate the toxic alterations in testicular histology, testicular marker enzyme activities and related genes expression levels, sperm dynamics, and testosterone levels. The body weight and the testis weight of animals did not show any significant changes. Chlorpyrifos brought about marked reduction in testicular sperm counts, sperm motility, and significant growth of sperm malformation rate in exposed males. Histopathological examination of testes showed mild to severe degenerative changes in seminiferous tubules at various dose levels. The levels of testosterone (T) showed a decreasing tendency, and there was a statistical difference between the 5.4, 12.8 mg/kg groups, and the control group. The levels of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) were significantly increased in 5.4 and 12.8 mg/kg groups, but there were no obvious effects on the levels of luteinizing hormone (LH) and estradiol (E2 ). A significant increase in the activities of LDH and LDH-x was observed in chlorpyrifos exposed rats in 5.4 and 12.8 mg/kg groups, but the expression levels of related genes had no significant differences between chlorpyrifos exposure groups and the control group. These results suggest that chlorpyrifos has adverse effects on reproductive system of male rats.
We report here a case of acute renal failure with nitrofurantoin-associated acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis (GIN), which was commenced as a long-term prophylactic agent for suspected recurrent urinary tract infections. Renal function improved with withdrawal of this agent and without the requirement of corticosteroids. All new medication changes should be held in suspicion as a cause of acute onset abnormalities in serum biochemistry.
Adverse drug reactions (ADR) to disulfiram treatment have been reported as single cases, but few systematic investigations exist. In this study we analysed the spontaneous ADR reports to the Danish Committee on Adverse Drug Reactions during 1968-1991. In that period 154 ADRs to disulfiram were reported, mainly of hepatic, neurological, skin, and psychiatric reactions, in decreasing order of frequency. The safety of disulfiram, estimated on the amount produced and the number of reactions reported, corresponds to an intermediate rate of adverse reactions (1 per 200-2000 treatment year). Over the 23-year period, 14 deaths were reported in Denmark and this corresponds to a rate of 1 per 25,000 treatment year; the chief cause was liver toxicity. Reports to the WHO collaborating Centre for International Drug Monitoring in Uppsala, Sweden, showed the same ADR profile, although with a higher rate of neurological and psychiatric and a lower rate of hepatic reactions. The latency time from the start of treatment to the manifestation of the ADR differed according to organ. Hepatitis occurred with a distinct peak after 2 months of treatment, skin reactions peaked after 2 weeks, and the rate of neurological ADR increased with duration of therapy. The relation of skin reactions and hepatitis to nickel allergy is discussed, as is the dose-dependency of neuropathy. Concomitant disulfiram treatment affects the metabolism of several drugs and the dynamics of others, leading to a number of clinically important drug interactions. The disulfiram drug interactions are reviewed.
Long-term administration of quinidine was associated with persistent elevation of serum concentrations of SGOT, lactic acid dehydrogenase, and alkaline phosphatase. Liver biopsy showed active hepatitis. Discontinuance of quinidine therapy led to normalization of liver function tests. A challenge dose of quinidine caused clinical symptoms and abrupt elevation of SGOT, alkaline phosphatase, and lactic acid dehydrogenase values. We concluded that this patient had quinidine hepatotoxicity and believe that this is the first case reported with liver biopsy documentation. This report also suggests that, even after long-term administration, the hepatic toxicity is reversible.
An 80-year-old man had to be operated for cutaneous neoplasia. Local anaesthesia with sedation was required. Preoperative examination revealed a pronounced albeit asymptomatic bradycardia. Electrocardiogram showed a complete atrioventricular block. Use of a pacemaker was discussed. Finally, surgery was performed uneventfully after transient reversal of the anticholinesterasic effects of galantamine administered in Alzheimer's disease control over several hours with atropine.
Here, we report on the organic arsenical darinaparsin (ZIO-101, S-dimethylarsino-glutathione) and its anti-myeloma activity compared with inorganic arsenic trioxide. Darinaparsin induced apoptosis in multiple myeloma cell lines in a dose-dependent manner, and the addition of N-acetylcysteine, which increases intracellular glutathione (GSH), blocked cytotoxicity of both darinaparsin and arsenic trioxide. In contrast to arsenic trioxide, intracellular GSH does not appear to be important for darinaparsin metabolism, as an inhibitor of GSH synthesis, buthionine sulfoximine, had little effect on drug activity. This discrepancy was resolved when we determined the effects of thiols on drug uptake. The addition of exogenous GSH, L-cysteine, or D-cysteine prevented darinaparsin cellular uptake and cell death but had no effect on the uptake or activity of arsenic trioxide, suggesting a difference in the transport mechanism of these two drugs. In addition, gene expression profiling revealed differences in the signaling of protective responses between darinaparsin and arsenic trioxide. Although both arsenicals induced a transient heat shock response, only arsenic trioxide treatment induced transcription of metal response genes and anti-oxidant genes related to the Nrf2-Keap1 pathway. In contrast to the protective responses, both arsenicals induced up-regulation of BH3-only proteins. Moreover, silencing of BH3-only proteins Noxa, Bim, and Bmf protected myeloma cells from darinaparsin-induced cell death. Finally, treatment of an arsenic trioxide-resistant myeloma cell line with darinaparsin resulted in dose-dependent apoptosis, indicating that cross-resistance does not necessarily develop between these two forms of arsenic in multiple myeloma cell lines. These results suggest darinaparsin may be useful as an alternative treatment in arsenic trioxide-resistant hematologic cancers.
Twenty-seven patients (15 diabetics and 12 non-diabetics) with normal to moderately reduced renal function underwent femoral angiography with a low-osmolar contrast agent, iohexol (Omnipaque), under perexaminatory hydration. Fourteen patients were randomised to pretreatment with oral felodipine extended release (Plendil) 10 mg and 13 patients to placebo 3-4 h before angiography. GFR measured with [51Cr] EDTA-clearance decreased 24 hours after the angiography in the felodipine group from GFR 52.5 +/- 18.6 (mean +/- SD) to 46.2 +/- 16.5 ml/min (p < 0.01) and in the placebo group from 70.6 +/- 18.6 to 62.6 +/- 26.4 ml/min (p < 0.01). Serum creatinine increased significantly in the felodipine group from 128 +/- 61 to 139 +/- 67 mumol/l (p < 0.05) but not in the placebo group (122 +/- 54 to 125 +/- 51 mumol/l (ns)). The values of serum creatinine returned to baseline levels 7 days after angiography. During hydration there was only a slight reduction of GFR after angiography with iohexol. Thus, felodipine had no major effect on GFR after iohexol but, as baseline GFR tended to be lower in the felodipine pre-treated patients, it might have had some renoprotective effect in patients with more advanced renal failure.
Trimethyltin chloride (TMT) has been known as a classic neurotoxicant which can cause serious neuronal degeneration diseases. Nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) signaling pathways play pivotal role in the central nerves system. In the present study, the intracellular pathways involved in TMT-induced apoptosis on human neuroblastoma cells SY5Y (SH-SY5Y) were investigated. We observed high level of nuclear NF-κB p65 submit, activated JNK, ERK, and p38 by TMT exposure. In contrast, low level of Bcl-2 and XIAP (two known NF-κB-regulated endogenous anti-apoptotic molecules) was present. To further investigate the role of these pathways and the relationship between them, specific inhibitors were used and the alteration of each pathway was evaluated. Pretreatment with MG132, an inhibitor of proteasome activity, and BAY11-7082, an inhibitor of IκBα phosphorylation, both inhibited NF-κB p65 translocation and significantly promoted apoptosis. NF-κB inhibition also induced down-expression of Bcl-2 and XIAP, exaggerated JNK phosphorylation, and ERK inhibition. SP600125 and U0126, by blocking the phosphorylation of c-Jun and MEK1/2, inhibited JNK and ERK phosphorylation, respectively, and attenuated apoptosis significantly. JNK and ERK inhibition also induced IκBα degradation and NF-κB p65 translocation, leading to expression of Bcl-2 and XIAP. The detrimental role of MG132 and BAY11-7082 appears related to the exaggerated JNK phosphorylation. The SP600125 and U0126 neuroprotection appears related to NF-κB-regulated transcriptional control of Bcl-2 and XIAP. These results suggest that the cross-talk and a balance between NF-κB and MAPKs may be involved in TMT-induced apoptosis on SH-SY5Y cells.
Airway smooth muscle (ASM) cell phenotypic switching played an important role in airway remodeling in asthma. In vitro platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) induced ASM cell phenotypic switching from a mature to pro-remodeling phenotype, but the mechanism remained incompletely understood. This study was to explore the effect of DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (Aza-CdR) on PDGF-induced rat ASM cell phenotypic switching and biological behaviors. Rat airway smooth muscle (RASM) cells were obtained by primary explant techniques. Western blot, 3-dimensional gel contraction, transwell and wound healing assay, and MTT were applied to detect cell phenotypic switching, contractility, migration and proliferation, respectively. Cytoskeleton rearrangement was observed by immunofluorescence. Results showed Aza-CdR inhibited PDGF-induced down-regulation of contractile markers in RASM cells and increased cell contractility. Aza-CdR inhibited PDGF-induced RASM cell migration by abrogating cell morphology change and cytoskeletal reorganization and attenuated the effect of PDGF on proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression and cell cycle progression, ultimately cell proliferation. PDGF-induced DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) expression was mediated by activation of PI3K/Akt and ERK signaling in RASM cells. Selective depletion of DNMT1 protein by Aza-CdR inhibited PDGF-induced RASM cell phenotypic switching, revealing DNMT1-mediated DNA methylation was implicated in asthmatic ASM remodeling. We proposed for the first time that DNMT1 played a key role in PDGF-induced RASM cell phenotypic switching and Aza-CdR is promising in intervening ASM remodeling in asthma. Although study of abnormal DNA methylation in PDGF-stimulated ASM cells is in its infancy, this work contributes to providing new insights into the mechanism of ASM remodeling and may be helpful for developing effective treatments for airway remodeling in asthma.
Patients with advanced inoperable or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the stomach received an iv bolus of epirubicin (75 mg/m2) every 3 weeks. Partial responses were observed in four of 24 evaluable patients (17%). Treatment was generally well tolerated; a drop in left ventricular ejection fraction was observed in one patient who had received 450 mg/m2 of epirubicin.
1. The hypothesis that suppression of prostaglandin E (PGE) synthesis by indomethacin exacerbates renal clip hypertension in the rat was investigated. 2. Indomethacin exacerbated hypertension in renal clip rats. 3. In vitro PGE synthesis determined by gas liquid chromatography (GLC) was suppressed in medullary tissue from the hypertensive animals irrespective of indomethacin treatment. 4. The findings support the concept that PGs participate in blood pressure regulation in experimental renal hypertension.
Both trimellitic anhydride (TMA), a small molecular weight chemical, and ovalbumin (OVA), a reference protein allergen, cause asthma with eosinophilia. To test the hypothesis that different allergens elicit symptoms of asthma via different effector pathways, gene expression was compared in lungs of Balb/c mice sensitized with either TMA or OVA, followed by intratracheal challenge with TMA conjugated to mouse serum albumin (TMA-MSA) or OVA, respectively. Sensitized animals challenged with mouse serum albumin (MSA) alone were controls. Seventy-two hours after challenge, lung eosinophil peroxidase indicated that both allergens caused the same significant change in eosinophilia. Total RNA was isolated from lung lobes of 6-8 animals in each of four treatment groups and hybridized to Affymetrix U74Av2 GeneChips. False discovery rates (q-values) were calculated from an overall F test to identify candidate genes with differences in expression for the four groups. Using a q-value cutoff of 0.1, 853 probe sets had significantly different expression across the four treatment groups. Of these 853 probe sets, 376 genes had an Experimental/Control ratio of greater than 1.2 or less than 1/1.2 for either OVA- or TMA-treated animals, and 249 of the 376 genes were uniquely up- or down-regulated for OVA or TMA (i.e., differentially expressed with the allergen). qRT-PCR analysis of selected transcripts confirmed the gene expression analysis. Increases in both arginase transcript and enzyme activity were significantly greater in OVA-induced asthma compared to TMA-induced asthma. These data suggest that pathways of arginine metabolism and the importance of nitric oxide may differ in OVA- and TMA-induced asthma.
NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) deficiency is a common cause of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation disease. It is associated with a wide range of clinical phenotypes in infants, including Leigh syndrome, cardiomyopathy, and encephalomyopathy. In at least half of patients, enzyme deficiency results from a failure to assemble the holoenzyme complex; however, the molecular chaperones required for assembly of the mammalian enzyme remain unknown. Using whole genome subtraction of yeasts with and without a complex I to generate candidate assembly factors, we identified a paralogue (B17.2L) of the B17.2 structural subunit. We found a null mutation in B17.2L in a patient with a progressive encephalopathy and showed that the associated complex I assembly defect could be completely rescued by retroviral expression of B17.2L in patient fibroblasts. An anti-B17.2L antibody did not associate with the holoenzyme complex but specifically recognized an 830-kDa subassembly in several patients with complex I assembly defects and coimmunoprecipitated a subset of complex I structural subunits from normal human heart mitochondria. These results demonstrate that B17.2L is a bona fide molecular chaperone that is essential for the assembly of complex I and for the normal function of the nervous system.
