Although the CDH13 gene has been shown to undergo epigenetic silencing by promoter methylation in many types of tumors, hypermethylation of this gene in Barrett's-associated esophageal adenocarcinogenesis has not been studied. Two hundred fifty-nine human esophageal tissues were therefore examined for CDH13 promoter hypermethylation by real-time methylation-specific PCR. CDH13 hypermethylation showed discriminative receiver-operator characteristic curve profiles, sharply demarcating esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and normal esophagus (NE) (p < 0.0001). CDH13 normalized methylation values (NMV) were significantly higher in Barrett's esophagus (BE), dysplastic BE (D) and EAC than in NE (p < 0.0000001). CDH13 hypermethylation frequency was 0% in NE but increased early during neoplastic progression, rising to 70% in BE, 77.5% in D and 76.1% in EAC. Both CDH13 hypermethylation frequency and its mean NMV were significantly higher in BE with than without accompanying EAC. In contrast, only 5 (19.2%) of 26 ESCCs exhibited CDH13 hypermethylation. Furthermore, both CDH13 hypermethylation frequency and its mean NMV were significantly higher in EAC than in ESCC, as well as in BE or D vs. ESCC. Interestingly, mean CDH13 NMV was significantly lower in short-segment than in long-segment BE, a known clinical risk factor for neoplastic progression. Similarly, BE segment length was significantly lower in specimens with unmethylated than with methylated CDH13 promoters. 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatment of OE33 EAC and KYSE220 ESCC cells reduced CDH13 methylation and increased CDH13 mRNA expression. These findings suggest that hypermethylation of CDH13 is a common, tissue-specific event in human EAC, occurs early during BE-associated neoplastic progression, and correlates with known clinical neoplastic progression risk factors.
We evaluated whether elderly patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and without apparent preexisting liver disease are at an increased risk to develop hepatotoxicity from an isoniazid-rifampin regimen and require regular liver function tests in comparison with younger patients. We analyzed the data of 131 patients treated in the period 1980-1985 of whom 64 (49%) were at least 60 yr of age. Subsequent increases of transaminases (measured weekly for as long as 4 wk after the start of treatment and later on when symptoms suggestive of hepatotoxicity occurred) above baseline values were found more frequently in the elderly (38 versus 18%, p < 0.05) and were also more pronounced in them (p < 0.01). The ratio of the highest transaminase value over the baseline value was called the transaminase index (TI). A TI of at least 5 was found in 22% of elderly and 8% of younger patients (p = NS), but ratios as high as 10 were mostly asymptomatic and always normalized progressively without treatment adjustment. Only symptomatic patients with a TI > or = 10 (five elderly and three younger) required temporary or definitive treatment adjustment. We conclude that repeated liver function test evaluations are generally unnecessary, except for symptomatic elderly and younger patients alike, in order to detect those with a TI > or = 10, thus requiring drug adjustment.
The epidemiological studies that assessed the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) associated with newer oral contraceptives (OC) did not distinguish between patterns of OC use, namely first-time users, repeaters and switchers. Data from a Transnational case-control study were used to assess the risk of VTE for the latter patterns of use, while accounting for duration of use. Over the period 1993-1996, 551 cases of VTE were identified in Germany and the UK along with 2066 controls. Totals of 128 cases and 650 controls were analysed for repeat use and 135 cases and 622 controls for switching patterns. The adjusted rate ratio of VTE for repeat users of third generation OC was 0.6 (95% CI:0.3-1.2) relative to repeat users of second generation pills, whereas it was 1.3 (95% CI:0.7-2.4) for switchers from second to third generation pills relative to switchers from third to second generation pills. We conclude that second and third generation agents are associated with equivalent risks of VTE when the same agent is used repeatedly after interruption periods or when users are switched between the two generations of pills. These analyses suggest that the higher risk observed for the newer OC in other studies may be the result of inadequate comparisons of pill users with different patterns of pill use.
Both enalapril and long-acting diltiazem have been shown to effectively lower blood pressure (BP) in hypertensive patients. Furthermore, in clinical studies, these two agents provided beneficial renal effects in these patients when administered on a long-term basis. A combination of enalapril/diltiazem ER was evaluated in 62 patients with Stage 1-3 hypertension and coexisting renal disease. This trial used a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel group design. The study consisted of a 12-week double-blind phase followed by a 6-month open-label extension phase. The combination of enalapril/diltiazem ER was shown to reduce BP following both short-term and long-term treatment phases. Patients in Renal Group I (creatinine clearance CrCl): 30-59 ml/min/1.73 m2) had decreases of -18/-16 and -25/-20 mm Hg after 12 weeks and 9 months of therapy, respectively. Those in Renal Group II (CrCl: 10-29 ml/min/1.73 m2) had similar decreases of -23/-18 and -23/-19 mm Hg at these time points. The adverse events, in both phases, were those associated with the respective monotherapies. A reduction in CrCl with a coincident decrease in proteinuria was noted for both renal groups. The combination of enalapril/diltiazem ER lowered BP and was generally well tolerated by the patients. The combination of these two agents should improve the management of hypertensive patients.
The early fine structural changes in the arteries of rats induced by excess vitamin D3 perorally or parenterally were essentially similar, except the latter had a more prominent toxic effect to the vascular wall. The ultrastructural features, incidental to calcification, included the appearance of increased ground substance with a separation of collagenous and elastic fibrils, and degenerative changes in smooth muscle cells. Atherosclerosis was greatly accelerated at the sites of vascular injury when cholesterol, cholic acid and thiouracil were added to the basal diet. Calcification was initially observed in relation to elastic fibrils or degenerated cells in the upper and middle layers of the arteries, although there were few such deposits in the thickened intima of the coronary arteries. Calcium deposition could not be a direct effect of hypercalcemia, but the functional activity of smooth muscle cells did seem to promote the mineralization of calcium and phosphate. Furthermore, vitamin D-induced sclerosis did not prevent intimal thickening of the arteries when vitamin D3 was withdrawn.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) have been known as serious persistent organic pollutants (POPs), causing developmental delays and motor dysfunction. We have investigated the effects of two PCB congeners, 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (PCB 77) and 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB 126) on ECG, action potential, and the rapidly activating delayed rectifier K+ current (I(Kr)) of guinea pigs' hearts, and hERG K+ current expressed in Xenopus oocytes. PCB 126 shortened the corrected QT interval (QTc) of ECG and decreased the action potential duration at 90% (APD(90)), and 50% of repolarization (APD₅₀) (P<0.05) without changing the action potential duration at 20% (APD₂₀). PCB 77 decreased APD₂₀ (P<0.05) without affecting QTc, APD₉₀, and APD₅₀. The PCB 126 increased the I(Kr) in guinea-pig ventricular myocytes held at 36°C and hERG K+ current amplitude at the end of the voltage steps in voltage-dependent mode (P<0.05); however, PCB 77 did not change the hERG K+ current amplitude. The PCB 77 increased the diastolic Ca²⁺ and decreased Ca²⁺ transient amplitude (P<0.05), however PCB 126 did not change. The results suggest that PCB 126 shortened the QTc and decreased the APD₉₀ possibly by increasing I(Kr), while PCB 77 decreased the APD₂₀ possibly by other modulation related with intracellular Ca²⁺. The present data indicate that the environmental toxicants, PCBs, can acutely affect cardiac electrophysiology including ECG, action potential, intracellular Ca²⁺, and channel activity, resulting in toxic effects on the cardiac function in view of the possible accumulation of the PCBs in human body.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) can induce clinical remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia via induction of differentiation and programmed cell death (apoptosis). We investigated the effects of As2O3 on a panel of malignant lymphocytes to determine whether growth-inhibitory and apoptotic effects of As2O3 can be observed in these cells at clinically achievable concentrations.
Eight malignant lymphocytic cell lines and primary cultures of lymphocytic leukemia and lymphoma cells were treated with As2O3, with or without dithiothreitol (DTT) or buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) (an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis). Apoptosis was assessed by cell morphology, flow cytometry, annexin V protein level, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase labeling of DNA fragments. Cellular proliferation was determined by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation into DNA and flow cytometry and by use of a mitotic arrest assay. Mitochondrial transmembrane potential (delta psi(m)) was measured by means of rhodamine 123 staining and flow cytometry. Protein expression was assessed by western blot analysis or immunofluorescence.
Therapeutic concentrations of As2O3 (1-2 microM) had dual effects on malignant lymphocytes: 1) inhibition of growth through adenosine triphosphate (ATP) depletion and prolongation of cell cycle time and 2) induction of apoptosis. As2O3-induced apoptosis was preceded by delta psi(m) collapse. DTT antagonized and BSO enhanced As2O3-induced ATP depletion, delta psi(m) collapse, and apoptosis. Caspase-3 activation, usually resulting from delta psi(m) collapse, was not always associated with As2O3-induced apoptosis. As2O3 induced PML (promyelocytic leukemia) protein degradation but did not modulate expression of cell cycle-related proteins, including c-myc, retinoblastoma protein, cyclin-dependent kinase 4, cyclin D1, and p53, or expression of differentiation-related antigens.
Substantial growth inhibition and apoptosis without evidence of differentiation were induced in most malignant lymphocytic cells treated with 1-2 microM As2O3. As2O3 may prove useful in the treatment of malignant lymphoproliferative disorders.
Due to the loss of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions, cell culture models poorly mimic the in vivo situation. Therefore, we tested the applicability of precision-cut liver slices (PCLS) to study the early activation of the two main liver fibrogenic cell subpopulations: hepatic stellate cells (HSC) and portal fibroblasts (PF). PCLS were treated with thioacetamide or acetaminophen to induce HSC activation. In PCLS culture, both were able to trigger centrolobular lesion and HSC activation as observed in vivo. However, thioacetamide also presented a toxic effect on portal tract cells. In this PCLS model of centrolobular lesion, the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine was able to prevent acetaminophen-induced injury. To induce a specific activation of PF, PCLS were treated with epidermal growth factor or beta-oestradiol. As in vivo, epidermal growth factor and beta-oestradiol induced bile duct epithelial cell proliferation accompanied by PF activation; however, beta-oestradiol also triggers sinusoidal cell proliferation. We demonstrated that treatments usually used in vivo to induce liver fibrosis allow, in cultured PCLS, the specific activation of the two main liver fibrogenic cell subpopulations, making this model very useful to study the mechanisms involved in early fibrogenic cell activation.
To establish the effect of dietary omega-3 PUFA on angiotensin II (ANG II)-mediated hypertension, male TGR (mRen-2)27 (Ren-2) rats (animals with high ANG II activity) were maintained on a diet either deficient or sufficient in omega-3 PUFA from conception. Half the animals on each diet were treated with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, perindopril, from birth. Ren-2 rats fed the omega-3 PUFA deficient diet were significantly more hypertensive than those fed the omega-3 PUFA sufficient diet. Perindopril reduced the blood pressure of both omega-3 PUFA-deficient and omega-3 PUFA-sufficient diet-fed Ren-2 rats. Body weight, body fat and plasma leptin were reduced by perindopril treatment but not affected by omega-3 PUFA supply. Given that the elevated blood pressure of the Ren-2 rat is mediated by ANG II, the data suggest that omega-3 PUFA may reduce hypertension via the renin-angiotensin system.
Vincristine is a vinca alkaloid widely utilized in cancer chemotherapy. Its major clinical limitation is due to a drug induced sensory-motor neuropathy, the pathogenesis of which is poorly understood. This communication describes the morphological basis of a vincristine neuropathy in cats. Major pathological lesions were focal axonal swellings (giant axon formations) due to malaligned accumulations of neurofilaments and secondary demyelination of the paranodal type. These were primarily confined to the proximal portions of the peripheral nerves. The distal portions of the peripheral nerves contained only a few giant axon formations. Wallerian degeneration was noted to involve a small number of nerve fibers in the distal regions.
The vinca alkaloids are neurotoxic, usually causing a peripheral neuropathy, but cranial neuropathies are rare as side effects. We describe a case of vincristine-induced multiple cranial and autonomic neuropathy, and sensory-motor axonal peripheral neuropathy (pan-neuropathy), which is an extremely rare fatal complication of this drug. The patient developed fulminant cranial, peripheral and significant autonomic neuropathy.
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a rare and aggressive type of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Patients become progressively refractory to conventional chemotherapy, and their prognosis is poor. However, a 38% remission rate has been recently reported in refractory MCL treated with temsirolimus, a mTOR inhibitor.Here we had the opportunity to study a case of refractory MCL who had tumor regression two months after temsirolimus treatment, and a progression-free survival of 10 months. In this case, lymph node biopsies were performed before and six months after temsirolimus therapy. Comparison of the two biopsies showed that temsirolimus inhibited tumor cell proliferation through cell cycle arrest, but did not induce any change in the number of apoptotic tumor cells. Apart from this cytostatic effect, temsirolimus had an antiangiogenic effect with decrease of tumor microvessel density and of VEGF expression. Moreover, numerous patchy, well-limited fibrotic areas, compatible with post-necrotic tissue repair, were found after 6-month temsirolimus therapy. Thus, temsirolimus reduced tumor burden through associated cytostatic and anti-angiogenic effects.This dual effect of temsirolimus on tumor tissue could contribute to its recently reported efficiency in refractory MCL resistant to conventional chemotherapy.
To determine the value of electrophysiological findings in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and to relate these findings to the amount of concentric contraction of the visual field and the use of vigabatrin.
Electro-retinograms and electro-oculograms were done on 30 patients, operated for temporal lobe epilepsy. The patients were divided into three groups: (A) concentric contraction of the visual field associated with a history of vigabatrin medication (15 patients), (B) normal visual field with vigabatrin use (11 patients) and (C) normal visual field without vigabatrin medication (4 patients).
Electrophysiological abnormalities were found in 50% of the patients in group A. The Arden ratio of the EOG was lowered in 57%. Abnormalities in the ERG were found: b-wave implicit time photopic F was prolonged (50%), b-wave amplitudes scotopic B (53%), C (73%) and G (50%) and photopic H (50%) were diminished. The amount of visual field loss and the total dose of vigabatrin used, showed only slight correlation with the ERG and EOG. The use of vigabatrin during the ERG and EOG recording in group A, gave a higher b-wave amplitude scotopic G in 64% of cases. The a-wave implicit times scotopic G (73%) and photopic G (59%) and H (73%) were shortened in group B.
EOG was abnormal in 57% in group A. ERG abnormalities could only be found in 50% of group A, mainly in the inner retina. Since also the total dose of vigabatrin and the amount of visual field loss did not really show a correlation with the electrophysiological findings and results of literature are not unanimous, electrophysiology does not appear at present to be a good method to detect patients with, or at risk of, vigabatrin associated visual field loss. Regularly performed visual field examination remains the cornerstone in screening.
Reserpine-induced catatonia is a widely accepted animal model of Parkinson's disease. In the present study, reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p.) and alpha-methylpara-tyrosine (AMPT) (200 mg/kg i.p.) induced catatonia in mice 20 h and 1 h before the experiment, respectively, as assessed using the rota-rod and bar tests after reserpine treatment. There was a significant decrease in fall-off time in the rota-rod test and a significant increase in time spent on the bar in the bar test as compared to the untreated control mice. Combination therapy with L-DOPA (100 mg/kg i.p.) and carbidopa (10 mg/kg i.p.) was less effective in reversing catatonia as compared to higher doses of L-DOPA (200 mg/kg i.p.) and carbidopa (20 mg/kg i.p.), which showed intense hyperactivity in reserpinized mice. Pretreatment with nitecapone (30 mg/kg i.p.), a COMT inhibitor, or selegiline (10 mg/kg i.p.), a MAO-B inhibitor potentiated the motor stimulant actions of subthreshold doses of the L-DOPA (100 mg/kg i.p.) and carbidopa (10 mg/kg i.p.) combination. Amantadine (40 mg/kg i.p.), but not bromocriptine, potentiated the effects of L-DOPA treatment. The NMDA antagonistic action of amantadine may have beneficial effects. It is concluded that COMT and MAO-B enzymes play an important role in the metabolism of dopamine and administration of a COMT or MAO-B inhibitor may prove to be a better adjunct to L-DOPA therapy than a dopamine receptor agonist in Parkinson's disease.
Dopaminergic neurons of the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) system exert a tonic inhibitory control on prolactin (PRL) secretion whereas estrogen, known to inhibit TIDA neuron function, has been postulated to be toxic to TIDA neurons when it is chronically high. In order to determine whether estrogen in high doses can cause permanent damage to TIDA function, we submitted young female rats to continue high doses of estrogen administered, either centrally (intrahypothalamic estrogen implants) or peripherally (subcutaneous estrogen implants or weekly intramuscular (i.m.) injections for 7 weeks), subsequently withdrawing the steroid and observing the evolution of lactotrophes, serum PRL and TIDA neurons. Serum PRL was measured by radioimmunoassay whereas tyrosine hydroxylase positive (TH+) neurons and PRL cells were morphometrically assessed in sections of fixed hypothalami and pituitaries, respectively. After 30 days, hypothalamic estrogen implants induced a significant increase in serum PRL, whereas TH+ neurons were not detectable in the arcuate-periventricular hypothalamic (ARC) region of estrogen-implanted rats. Removal of implants on day 30 restored TH expression in the ARC and brought serum PRL back to basal levels 30 days after estrogen withdrawal. Subcutaneous or i.m. administration of estrogen for 7 weeks induced a marked hyperprolactinemia. However, 30 weeks after estrogen withdrawal, TH neuron numbers in the ARC were back to normal and serum PRL returned to basal levels. After peripheral but not central estrogen withdrawal, pituitary weight and lactotrophic cell numbers remained slightly increased. Our data suggest that estrogen even at high doses, does not cause permanent damage to TIDA neurons.
Proconvulsant and convulsant effects of cocaine have been described in various experimental models of epilepsy. We have studied the susceptibility to bicuculline and pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures in developing 10-, 20- and 30-day old rats, gestationally exposed to cocaine. Incidence and latency of appearance of the epileptic manifestations, their evolution toward status epilepticus and successive recovery or death, have been evaluated and compared to the same parameters obtained in control animals of the same ages. Results have demonstrated that 10-day-old rats that had been exposed to cocaine are significantly less sensitive than control animals to the convulsant action of both bicuculline and pentylenetetrazole while no substantial differences between the two groups have been found at the successive ages. It is possible that modifications of various neurotransmitter systems caused by prenatal cocaine exposure modify neuronal excitability at least at early stages of development.
Resveratrol have been known to possess many pharmacological properties including antioxidant, cardioprotective and anticancer effects. Although current studies indicate that resveratrol produces neuroprotection against neurological disorders, the precise mechanisms for its beneficial effects are still not fully understood. We investigate the effect of anti-inflammatory and mechamisms of resveratrol by using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated murine microglial BV-2 cells.
BV-2 cells were treated with resveratrol (25, 50, and 100 µM) and/or LPS (1 µg/ml). Nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) were measured by Griess reagent and ELISA. The mRNA and protein levels of proinflammatory proteins and cytokines were analysed by RT-PCR and double immunofluorescence labeling, respectively. Phosphorylation levels of PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10), Akt, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) cascades, inhibitor κB-α (IκB-α) and cyclic AMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) were measured by western blot. Resveratrol significantly attenuated the LPS-induced expression of NO, PGE2, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) in BV-2 cells. Resveratrol increased PTEN, Akt and mTOR phosphorylation in a dose-dependent manner or a time-dependent manner. Rapamycin (10 nM), a specific mTOR inhibitor, blocked the effects of resveratrol on LPS-induced microglial activation. In addition, mTOR inhibition partially abolished the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on the phosphorylation of IκB-α, CREB, extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK).
This study indicates that resveratrol inhibited LPS-induced proinflammatory enzymes and proinflammatory cytokines via down-regulation phosphorylation of NF-κB, CREB and MAPKs family in a mTOR-dependent manner. These findings reveal, in part, the molecular basis underlying the anti-inflammatory properties of resveratrol.
Protective effect of the total flavonoids (TFs) from Rosa laevigata Michx fruit against carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced hepatotoxicity in mice was investigated. Pretreatment with TFs significantly decreased CCl4-induced elevation of serum aspartate transaminase (AST) and alanine transaminase (ALT) activities as well as the relative liver weight. Histopathological observation also revealed that TFs reduced the incidence of liver lesions and improved hepatocyte abnormality. Moreover, oral administration of TFs significantly enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase), increased the content of glutathione and decreased the content of malondialdehyde. Further research indicated that TFs prevented the DNA fragmentation and mitochondrial ultrastructural alterations caused by CCl4 based on TUNEL and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) assays. Moreover, pretreatment with TFs down-regulated the protein expressions of CYP2E1, iNOS, NF-κB, Bak and Caspase-3. Quantitative Real-time PCR assay suggested that TFs markedly decreased the levels of TNF-α, Fas/FasL and Bax gene expressions, and increased the level of Bcl-2. This is the first time to report the significant hepatoprotective effect of TFs from R. laevigata Michx fruit against CCl4-induced liver injury in mice and the action should be through reducing oxidative stress and suppressing inflammation and apoptosis.
Numerous clinical reports documented that in some patients vincristine (VCR) may cause a risk for life (stridor) and painful symptoms of acute intoxication. The present study was undertaken to examine ultrastructural changes in the sciatic nerve of rabbits following acute vincristine intoxication. Our results show, that in a few hours, some axons of this nerve may undergo degeneration and atrophy. These changes were initially followed by the cleavage of adaxonal myelin sheets, that spontaneously formed concentric scrolls and tangled threads. Finally, myelin sheath collapsed around the atrophied axon. The results provide evidence that acute VCR intoxication primarily affects the axons. Myelin changes are caused by the loss of supportive role of atrophied axon for the myelin sheath. The effect of intoxicated Schwann cells on the myelin in acute VCR intoxication is not clear and requires further study.
All 2,617 children who received midazolam and meperidine for a variety of endoscopic procedures were monitored for the development of adverse behavioral problems. Thirty-six (1.4%) of the children (ages 1-17 years) experienced a paradoxical behavioral reaction, which consisted of inconsolable crying, combativeness, disorientation, dysphoria, tachycardia, agitation, and restlessness. The reaction occurred at a mean of 17 minutes after the administration of midazolam. Following treatment with flumazenil, the reaction dissipated within a mean of 14 minutes. Three of the 36 patients underwent additional endoscopic procedures utilizing only meperidine. No similar reaction was observed in these patients. Awareness of the reaction and prompt administration of flumazenil decreased the duration of the reaction.
Pharmacogenetic studies in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are mainly focused on genes involved in the metabolism of Azathioprine (AZA). Use of AZA is limited by its toxicity, which occurs in 20-30% of patients. Variants in the Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) and Inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPA) genes have been associated with AZA toxicity, but also can contribute to the lack of response. The aims of this study were to determine the contribution of TPMT and ITPA variants in the development of AZA-related toxicity and response.
Variants associated with the decrease of enzyme activity in TPMT and ITPA genes were genotyped with the Snapshot system in 232 IBD patients treated with AZA, and correlated with the clinical response and development of adverse drug reactions in a retrospective case-control study.
Genotypic analysis showed that there is a statistical significance between c.94C > A variant on ITPA gene with non response to AZA treatment (p=0.005) and arthralgia (OR 8.2353; 95%CI 1.752-38.87, p=0.0041), as well as between mutant TPMT alleles and myelosuppression (OR 7.5; 95%CI 1.4456-38.91, p=0.0304).
There is a positive correlation between c.94C > A variant on ITPA with clinical response. Mutant alleles on TPMT and the variant c.94C > A on ITPA gene predict side effects induced by AZA in our population (myelosuppression and arthralgia).
The effect of a potent agonistic LHRH analog D-Trp-6-LHRH on the hyperprolactinemia induced by haloperidol was tested in intact and ovariectomized female rats. The administration of D-Trp-6-LHRH at two dose levels (5 and 50 micrograms/day) for 20 days blocked the increase in serum PRL induced by haloperidol in intact as well as ovariectomized rats. The pituitary PRL concentration was also decreased by the administration of the analog in intact, but not ovariectomized, rats. Serum LH levels were significantly increased and the pituitary LH concentration was reduced by D-Trp-6-LHRH in intact rats. In ovariectomized rats, D-Trp-6-LHRH decreased serum as well as pituitary LH levels compared with levels in control rats. Another in vivo model to induce hyperprolactinemia consisted of grafting anterior pituitary glands under the kidney capsule in intact female rats. The administration of D-Trp-6-LHRH for 20 days (50 micrograms/day, sc) to rats bearing pituitary grafts blocked the hyperprolactinemia observed in similar animals injected with the vehicle only. Serum LH levels were increased after the administration of D-Trp-6-LHRH, whereas pituitary LH concentrations were significantly decreased in the rats treated with the analog. These results demonstrate that the LHRH agonist D-Trp-6-LHRH can counteract the hyperprolactinemic effect of haloperidol, and that this effect is not mediated by suppression of ovarian estrogens. The treatment with the analog blocked the hypersecretion of PRL by pituitary grafts, suggesting a direct effect of the analog on the pituitary gland to modulate PRL secretion.
Diaphragmatic contractility is reduced in preterm lambs after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure in utero. The mechanism of impaired fetal diaphragm contractility after LPS exposure is unknown. We hypothesise that in utero exposure to LPS induces a deficiency of mitochondrial complex activity and oxidative damage in the fetal diaphragm. To test this hypothesis, we used a well-established preterm ovine model of chorioamnionitis: Pregnant ewes received intra-amniotic (IA) saline or 10 mg LPS, at 2 d or 7 d prior to surgical delivery at 121 d GA (term = 150 d). The fetus was killed humanely immediately after delivery for tissue sampling. Mitochondrial fractions were prepared from the isolated diaphragm and mitochondrial electron transfer chain activities were evaluated using enzymatic assays. Oxidative stress was investigated by quantifying mitochondrial oxidative protein levels and determining antioxidant gene and protein (catalase, superoxide dismutase 2 and glutathione peroxidase 1) expression. The activity of the erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-mediated antioxidant signalling pathway was examined by quantifying the Nrf2 protein content of cell lysate and nuclear extract. A 2 d LPS exposure in utero significantly decreased electron transfer chain complex II and IV activity (p<0.05). A 7 d LPS exposure inhibited superoxide dismutase 2 and catalase expression at gene and protein levels, and Nrf2 pathway activity (p<0.05) compared with control and 2 d LPS groups, respectively. Diaphragm mitochondria accumulated oxidised protein after a 7 d LPS exposure. We conclude that intrauterine exposure to LPS induces mitochondrial oxidative stress and electron chain dysfunction in the fetal diaphragm, that is further exacerbated by impairment of the antioxidant signalling pathway and decreased antioxidant activity.
Focal segmental glomerular sclerosis (FSGS) is a major renal complication of mitochondrial (mt) cytopathies. The present study was designed to investigate the possibility of mtDNA lesion accumulation in podocytes, which are a primary pathogenic site of FSGS, during the development of glomerulopathy in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). Two renal pathological phases of PAN, nephrosis phase and FSGS phase were studied. We investigated the expression of mt proteins, the copy number of a 4834 base-pair deletion (del-mtDNA), and total mtDNA content by real-time polymerase chain reaction, as well as the mRNA expression levels of the mt transcription factor A (mtTFA) and the nuclear respiratory factor-1 (NRF-1) in glomeruli. The mtDNA encoded cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COX I) protein level was identical to control in nephrosis phase, however, a 45% reduction was seen in FSGS phase. Intraglomerular del-mtDNA was 16-21 times higher than controls in both phases, but the proportion of this mutation was <1% of total mtDNA. The copy number of total mtDNA at nephrosis phase increased up to 241%, whereas, it decreased to 34% at FSGS phase in glomeruli. The mRNA expression of both mtTFA and NRF-1 was upregulated at nephrosis phase, but mtTFA was downregulated at FSGS phase. A reduction in mtDNA copy number resulted in reduced levels of COX I in glomeruli at FSGS phase, suggesting that mt dysfunction by mtDNA depletion potentially plays a key role in the pathogenesis of FSGS in PAN.
Within the last several years, previously rare liver tumors have been seen in young women using oral contraceptive steroids. The Registry for Liver Tumors Associated with Oral Contraceptives at the University of California, Irvine, has clearly identified 27 cases. The recent literature contains 44 case reports. Common to these 71 cases has been a histopathologic diagnosis of focal nodular hyperplasia, adenoma, hamartoma, and hepatoma. Significant statistical etiologic factors include prolonged uninterrupted usage of oral contraceptive steroids. Eight deaths and liver rupture in 18 patients attest to the seriousness of this new potentially lethal adverse phenomenon.
Pergolide produces clinical benefit in Parkinson disease by stimulating dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. An increased incidence of carcinoid-like heart valve disease (CLHVD) has been noted in pergolide users, reminiscent of that induced by certain anorexigens used for weight reduction. Anorexigens that modulate serotonin release and reuptake, such as dexfenfluramine, were withdrawn from sale because of CLHVD. Interestingly, the anorexigens also caused pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Anorexigens were shown to enhance hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction, in part by inhibiting voltage-gated K+ channels (Kv) in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Although PAH has not been associated with pergolide use, we hypothesized that pergolide might have similar effects on hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and Kv channels.
Pergolide enhanced hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in the isolated perfused rat lung compared with control lungs (mean pulmonary artery pressure 32+/-3 versus 21+/-2 mm Hg; P<0.01). Pergolide also caused vasoconstriction in rat pulmonary artery rings. Pergolide inhibited PASMC potassium current density, resulting in membrane depolarization (from -51+/-2 to -44+/-1 mV) and increased cytosolic calcium in both rat and human PASMCs. Pergolide directly inhibited heterologously expressed Kv1.5 and KCa channels.
Pergolide causes Kv channel inhibition and, despite being from a different class of drugs, has pulmonary vascular effects reminiscent of dexfenfluramine. Coupled with their shared proclivity to induce CLHVD, these findings suggest that clinical monitoring for pergolide-induced PAH should be considered.
Hepatic lipid accumulation and oxidative stress contribute to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Thus, we hypothesized that the hypolipidemic and antioxidant activity of quercetin would attenuate events leading to NAFLD. Addition of 2.0mM oleic acid (OA) into the culture media induced fatty liver condition in HepG2 cells by 24h. It was marked by significant accumulation of lipid droplets as determined by Oil-Red-O (ORO) based colorimetric assay, increased triacylglycerol (TAG) and increased lipid peroxidation. The inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-8 levels were significantly increased with decreased antioxidant molecules. OA induced insulin resistance which was evident by inhibition of glucose uptake and cell proliferation. Quercetin (10 μM) increased cell proliferation by 3.05 folds with decreased TAG content (45%) and was effective in increasing insulin mediated glucose uptake by 2.65 folds. The intracellular glutathione content was increased by 2.0 folds without substantial increase in GSSG content. Quercetin (10 μM) decreased TNF-α and IL-8 by 59.74% and 41.11% respectively and inhibited generation of lipid peroxides by 50.5%. In addition, RT-PCR results confirmed quercetin (10 μM) inhibited TNF-alpha gene expression. Further, superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities were increased by 1.68, 2.19 and 1.71 folds respectively. Albumin and urea content was increased while the alanine aminotransferase (ALAT) activity was significantly decreased by quercetin. Hence, quercetin effectively reversed NAFLD symptoms by decreased triacyl glycerol accumulation, insulin resistance, inflammatory cytokine secretion and increased cellular antioxidants in OA induced hepatic steatosis in HepG2 cells.
Induction of heart disease can be related to exposure to a number of agents, including environmental chemicals. Studies with laboratory rodents are commonly used to identify cardiotoxic agents and to investigate mechanisms of toxicity. This study was conducted to characterize spontaneous and chemically-induced rodent heart lesions. A retrospective light-microscopic evaluation was performed on the hearts of F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice from National Toxicology Program studies of six chemicals in which chemically-induced myocardial toxicity was present: oxymetholone, monochloroacetic acid, 3,3'-4,4'- tetrachoroazoxybenzene, diethanolamine, urethane, and methyl bromide. Two myocardial lesions were observed: cardiomyopathy (multifocal myofiber degeneration that could occur spontaneously or as a treatment effect) and degeneration (diffuse myofiber degeneration that was clearly related to treatment). Oxymetholone produced cardiotoxicity that was apparent as an increase in the incidence and average severity of cardiomyopathy. The remaining five chemicals produced degeneration, which appeared morphologically similar with each of the chemicals. Based on available information concerning possible mechanisms by which each of these chemicals may induce cardiotoxicity, this evaluation indicated it may be possible to place the chemicals into two main categories: (1) those that primarily affected the coronary vasculature with secondary effects on the myocardium (oxymetholone), and (2) those that had a direct toxic effect on the myocardial cells (the remaining five chemicals). Beyond this, however, light-microscopic findings did not indicate any specific mechanisms. Additional morphologic evaluations, such as electron microscopy or special histochemical or immunostains, may help identify specific subcellular sites of toxic damage, which in turn can indicate appropriate types of molecular mechanistic studies.
