The purpose of the present investigation was to determine whether the sensitivity to systemic toxic effects of cocaine is altered in genetically epilepsy-prone rats (GEPRs). Moderate seizure (GEPR-3) and severe seizure (GEPR-9) rats, and the control strain, Sprague-Dawley rats, 10 weeks of age, were lightly anesthetized with halothane and nitrous oxide. Following surgical preparation and stabilization, the animals were given a constant intravenous infusion of cocaine (4 mg/kg per min) until death. Blood pressure, ECG, and EEG were monitored continuously throughout the experiment. Cocaine doses required to produce seizures (i.e., epileptiform activity on the EEG) were not significantly different between GEPRs and control rats (16.8+/-0.6 mg/kg in GEPR-3, 18.7+/-0.7 mg/kg in GEPR-9, and 14.7+/-1.3 mg/kg in Sprague-Dawley). Seizure duration, amplitude and the number of epileptiform bursts were also similar among the three strains. Additionally, there was no significant difference in cocaine doses that produced arrhythmias and cardiac asystole between GEPRs and control. The results indicate that genetically epilepsy-prone rats do not exhibit altered sensitivity to cocaine-induced seizures despite the marked susceptibility to sound-evoked seizures. Local anesthetic-induced seizures and acoustically-evoked seizures apparently have different underlying mechanisms.
This study reports a retrospective analysis of 67 consecutive parkinsonian patients to assess changes in antiparkinsonian medications after Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) of the Subthalamic Nucleus (STN).
All antiparkinsonian drugs, including levodopa, dopamine agonists, associated drugs such as COMT and MAO inhibitors, amantadine and anticholinergics, were evaluated pre- and post-operatively at 1 and 3 years follow-up.
The levodopa mean daily dose was reduced approximately 60% after 1 year and remained stable after 3 years. Apomorphine, bromocriptine, tolcapone, entacapone and selegiline were withdrawn after STN DBS. Three years post-operatively, 9 patients (13.4%) no longer required levodopa and 6 patients (8.9%) completely stopped all dopaminergic medications. More patients were on monotherapy of either levodopa or dopamine agonist and fewer patients required a combined treatment of dopamine agonist and levodopa, compared to the pre-surgical condition.
STN DBS treated PD patients experience a significant long-term reduction and simplification of the pharmacological treatment.
Protocadherin-PC (PCDH-PC) expression is upregulated in apoptosis-resistant sublines of the LNCaP human prostate cancer (CaP) cell line. Here, we assess the role of PCDH-PC in CaP cells and its mRNA expression in human prostate tissues.
LNCaP cells transfected with PCDH-PC were tested for their ability to grow in vitro and in vivo in androgen-deprived conditions. PCDH-PC mRNA expression was evaluated by semi-quantitative RT-PCR and by in situ hybridization.
PCDH-PC expression induced Wnt signaling in CaP cells and permitted androgen-independent growth of hormone-sensitive CaP cells. Expression of PCDH-PC-homologous transcripts was low and restricted to some epithelial cells in normal tissue and to CaP cells in tumors. However, hormone-resistant CaP cells expressed significantly higher levels of PCDH-PC-related mRNA.
Our findings suggest a novel mechanism for the progression of CaP involving expression of PCDH-PC. This novel protocadherin induces Wnt signaling, promotes malignant behavior and hormone-resistance of CaP cells.
A 35-year-old female drug addict developed a painful left supraclavicular swelling and profound left arm weakness associated with left hand paresthesia and swelling after cocaine injection into the left base of her neck. Arteriogram confirmed a 3.7-cm false aneurysm of the left subclavian artery and a filling defect of the proximal left axillary artery. Emergent intraoperative treatment consisted of false aneurysm resection, embolectomy, and placement of a prosthetic graft. Distal circulation was restored, but the neurological deficit persisted in the left arm and a fever developed in the patient, necessitating rehospitalization 3 weeks after discharge. False aneurysm, a vascular complication of parenteral drug abuse, may lead precipitously to death by exsanguination if not efficiently and effectively diagnosed and treated.
Carboplatin is currently being used as an anticancer drug against human cancers. However, high dose of carboplatin chemotherapy resulted in hearing loss in cancer patients. We have shown that carboplatin-induced hearing loss was related to dose-dependent oxidative injury to the cochlea in rat model. However, the time response of ototoxic dose of carboplatin on hearing loss and oxidative injury to cochlea has not been explored. The aim of the study was to evaluate the time response of carboplatin-induced hearing loss and oxidative injury to the cochlea of the rat. Male Wistar rats were divided into two groups of 30 animals each and treated as follows: (1) control (normal saline, i.p.) and (2) carboplatin (256 mg/kg, a single i.p. bolus injection). Auditory brain-evoked responses (ABRs) were recorded before and 1-5 days after treatments. The animals (n = 6) from each group were sacrificed on day 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 and cochleae were isolated and analyzed. Carboplatin significantly elevated the hearing thresholds to clicks and to 2, 4, 8, 16, and 32 kHz tone burst stimuli only 3-5 days post-treatment. Carboplatin significantly increased nitric oxide (NO), malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) activity in the cochlea 4-5 and 3-5 days post-treatment, respectively, indicating enhanced influx of free radicals and oxidative injury to the cochlea. Carboplatin significantly depressed the reduced to oxidized glutathione (GSH/GSSG) ratio, antioxidant enzyme activities such as copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) as well as enzyme protein expressions in the cochlea 3-5 days after treatment. The data suggest that carboplatin-induced hearing loss involves oxidative injury to the cochlea of the rat in a time-dependent manner.
Vascular pain caused by contrast media (CM) cannot be quantified by subjective patient reports or manifest pain reactions in experimental animals. Therefore, conditioned taste aversion (CTA), a psychopharmacological method, was used in double-blind femoral arteriography in rats to compare a new nonionic monomeric CM, ioxilan, with iohexol, iopamidol (all at 350 mgI/mL) and 22% sorbitol. A chronically implanted femoral artery catheter was used to inject 0.2 mL/kg body weight. By measuring the intake of water laced with the flavor that thirsty rats had learned to associate with the injection, the degree of aversion, assumed proportional to pain, was determined. Ioxilan (690 mOsm) produced the least pain, followed by iopamidol (810 mOsm), iohexol (844 mOsm) and sorbitol (1410 mOsm). Since all test substances are highly and similarly hydrophilic and nonionic, the intensity of vascular pain must depend on solution osmolality, rather than on chemotoxicity or ionicity. Compounds of the lowest osmolality, ig, ioxilan, elicit the least vascular pain.
The objective of this study was to undertake a post- marketing safety surveillance study of losartan, the first specific angiotensin-II receptor antagonist to be marketed in England. It is a non-interventional observational cohort study using the technique of prescription-event monitoring. Subjects who took part in the study were from 14 522 patients treated by general practitioners in England. We recorded adverse drug reactions, adverse events, reasons for stopping the drug, pregnancies and deaths. The results were that general practitioners considered the drug to have been effective in 85.9% of the patients evaluated for effectiveness. Dizziness, malaise, lassitude, nausea, cough and headache were among the most frequently reported adverse drug reactions, reasons for stopping the drug and events of highest incidence density. None of the deaths that occurred were attributed to losartan and no serious unexpected adverse reactions or interactions were identified. In conclusion losartan has an acceptable safety profile and the study confirms the safety information given in the current Summary of Product characteristics for losartan.
A prospective observational study in an inner-city teaching hospital was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravenous methohexital (MTX) in the emergency department (ED). Pulse oximetry, vital signs and Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores were recorded serially for 30 minutes after the administration of MTX to 76 adult patients. Likert scales of 1 to 5 were used to record the physician's assessment of the adequacy of sedation and the patient's assessments of recall and pain of the procedure. Patients received an average of 88 +/- 21 mg of MTX for a variety of indications (orthopedic procedures, 78%; sedation for other procedures, 14%; intubation, 5%; and psychiatric interview, 3%). No patient had clinically significant changes in heart rate or blood pressure. Eight (10.5%) had apnea, although only one patient had oxygen saturations of less than 90%. Each episode was brief and easily managed with bag-valve-mask ventilation. Risk factors for apnea included a history of alcoholism (P = .0003) and recent recreational narcotic use (P = .0139). Patients were maximally sedated in an average of 37 +/- 42 seconds. In the subset of initially alert patients, GCS scores decreased from 15 at baseline to 5.9 +/- 4.5. The physician's assessment of the adequacy of sedation was excellent (4.7 +/- 0.7). Patients reported little recall (1.3 +/- 0.9) or pain (1.3 +/- 0.8). It was concluded that MTX caused clinically insignificant changes in hemodynamics or oxygenation, although respiratory depression did occur; significant respiratory depression was brief and easily managed. MTX provided rapid and excellent levels of sedation with little or no patient recall or pain.
Three cases of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which complicated treatment with haloperidol, fluphenazine and, in one case, with several drugs, are described. All three patients recovered and, in two, levodopa appeared to modify the course of the condition. In one patient, myoclonus was present and has persisted. The pharmacological mechanisms involved in this syndrome are discussed.
The adipocyte-specific hormone leptin, the product of the obese (ob) gene, regulates adipose-tissue mass through hypothalamic effects on satiety and energy expenditure. Leptin acts through the leptin receptor, a single-transmembrane-domain receptor of the cytokine-receptor family. In rodents, homozygous mutations in genes encoding leptin or the leptin receptor cause early-onset morbid obesity, hyperphagia and reduced energy expenditure. These rodents also show hypercortisolaemia, alterations in glucose homeostasis, dyslipidaemia, and infertility due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadisms. In humans, leptin deficiency due to a mutation in the leptin gene is associated with early-onset obesity. Here we describe a homozygous mutation in the human leptin receptor gene that results in a truncated leptin receptor lacking both the transmembrane and the intracellular domains. In addition to their early-onset morbid obesity, patients homozygous for this mutation have no pubertal development and their secretion of growth hormone and thyrotropin is reduced. These results indicate that leptin is an important physiological regulator of several endocrine functions in humans.
The identification of genes predisposing to familial cancer is an essential step towards understanding the molecular events underlying tumorigenesis and is critical for the clinical management of affected families. Despite a declining incidence, gastric cancer remains a major cause of cancer death worldwide, and about 10% of cases show familial clustering. The relative contributions of inherited susceptibility and environmental effects to familial gastric cancer are poorly understood because little is known of the genetic events that predispose to gastric cancer. Here we describe the identification of the gene responsible for early-onset, histologically poorly differentiated, high grade, diffuse gastric cancer in a large kindred from New Zealand (Aotearoa). Genetic linkage analysis demonstrated significant linkage to markers flanking the gene for the calcium-dependent cell-adhesion protein E-cadherin. Sequencing of the E-cadherin gene revealed a G --> T nucleotide substitution in the donor splice consensus sequence of exon 7, leading to a truncated gene product. Diminished E-cadherin expression is associated with aggressive, poorly differentiated carcinomas. Underexpression of E-cadherin is a prognostic marker of poor clinical outcome in many tumour types, and restored expression of E-cadherin in tumour models can suppress the invasiveness of epithelial tumour cells. The role of E-cadherin in gastric cancer susceptibility was confirmed by identifying inactivating mutations in other gastric cancer families. In one family, a frameshift mutation was identified in exon 15, and in a second family a premature stop codon interrupted exon 13. These results describe, to our knowledge for the first time, a molecular basis for familial gastric cancer, and confirm the important role of E-cadherin mutations in cancer.
Breast cancer anti-oestrogen resistance 4 (BCAR4) was identified in a search for genes involved in anti-oestrogen resistance in breast cancer. We explored whether BCAR4 is predictive for tamoxifen resistance and prognostic for tumour aggressiveness, and studied its function.
BCAR4 mRNA levels were measured in primary breast tumours, and evaluated for association with progression-free survival (PFS) and clinical benefit in patients with oestrogen receptor (ERα)-positive tumours receiving tamoxifen as first-line monotherapy for advanced disease. In a separate cohort of patients with lymph node-negative, ERα-positive cancer, and not receiving systemic adjuvant therapy, BCAR4 levels were evaluated for association with distant metastasis-free survival (MFS). The function of BCAR4 was studied with immunoblotting and RNA interference in a cell model.
Multivariate analyses established high BCAR4 mRNA levels as an independent predictive factor for poor PFS after start of tamoxifen therapy for recurrent disease. High BCAR4 mRNA levels were associated with poor MFS and overall survival, reflecting tumour aggressiveness. In BCAR4-expressing cells, phosphorylation of v-erb-b2 erythroblastic leukaemia viral oncogene homolog (ERBB)2, ERBB3, and their downstream mediators extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog (AKT) 1/2, was increased. Selective knockdown of ERBB2 or ERBB3 inhibited proliferation, confirming their role in BCAR4-induced tamoxifen resistance.
BCAR4 may have clinical relevance for tumour aggressiveness and tamoxifen resistance. Our cell model suggests that BCAR4-positive breast tumours are driven by ERBB2/ERBB3 signalling. Patients with such tumours may benefit from ERBB-targeted therapy.
In this study, we investigated whether pretreatment cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) neurotransmitter concentrations of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate (GLU) were correlated with response to phenobarbital treatment in dogs with primary epilepsy. Eleven untreated dogs, 6 males and 5 females, with a median age of onset of seizures of 3 years (range: 0.5-5 years) were selected for therapy based on progressive or serious seizure patterns. The median interval between the first observed seizure and start of phenobarbital therapy was 485 days (range: 101-1,765 days). All dogs were purebred, with the exception of I male dog. Oral phenobarbital was started at 2.5 mg/kg every 12 hours. Trough serum phenobarbital concentrations were measured at 15, 45, 90, 180, 360, 540, and 720 days after the start of treatment. There was no difference in the mean trough serum concentration or in the mean number of seizures recorded between each time period of phenobarbital measurement over the 2-year evaluation. No correlation was found between CSF GLU, GABA, or GLU: GABA ratio and the total number of seizures recorded before or after initiation of phenobarbital therapy. Lower CSF GABA concentration, however, was correlated with a lower seizure frequency difference (the total number of seizures before phenobarbital therapy minus the total number of seizures after phenobarbital therapy for an identical time period of evaluation) and lower percentage reduction in seizures: ([total number of seizures before phenobarbital therapy minus the total number of seizures after phenobarbital therapy] divided by the total number of seizures before phenobarbital therapy) x 100. There was no correlation between CSF GLU and the seizure frequency difference and percentage reduction in seizures. A negative correlation between the CSF GLU:GABA ratio and seizure frequency difference was found. Thus, dogs with an initial lower CSF GABA concentration before phenobarbital therapy did not respond as well as did dogs with a higher CSF GABA concentration.
ATBF1 has been recently identified as a candidate prostate tumor suppressor gene. In addition to more unique mutations, two somatic mutations (shortening of a polypyrimidine tract [Poly(T)n] and a deletion beginning at codon 3381 (3381del)) were each observed in multiple prostate cancer samples and both appear to have an impact on ATBF1 gene function and expression.
We assayed two recurrent sequence variants in germline DNA from prostate cancer cases and controls, and examined whether carriers of these variants are at increased risk for prostate cancer.
We found Poly(T)n variants in both normal and matched tumor DNA samples from multiple patients, indicating a germline origin in each case. Genotyping germline DNA samples indicated that 3381del was significantly associated with prostate cancer risk among sporadic cases (P = 0.03), but not among men with hereditary disease.
Our study indicates that the germline 3381del allele may influence prostate cancer susceptibility.
A patient with acute onset of purpuric rash and arthritis is presented. He was taking acetaminophen 10 days before the onset of the symptoms. The cutaneous lesions were caused by leukocytoclastic vasculitis on histologic examination. Rechallenge with the drug was followed by the appearance of new similar lesions.
1. There was no clear correlation between the tracheal aspirate cytokines and the elevation of pulmonary arterial pressure in newborn piglets with MAS. The use of dexamethasone significantly suppressed tracheal aspirate cytokines but did not significantly alter pulmonary arterial pressure. Dexamethasone significantly increased the cardiac stroke volume and blood pressure. 2. Early dexamethasone therapy (< 12 hrs) for one week in infants with MAS significantly improved pulmonary ventilation and facilitated weaning from mechanical ventilation. 3. The mechanisms for the improvement in cardiopulmonary status following early dexamethasone therapy in MAS remain unclear. An overall improvement in cardiac hemodynamics, along with a significant decrease in lung inflammation may be responsible for the improvement.
Zinc is essential for cell proliferation. Several human studies have shown that in breast cancer tissues, zinc concentration expressed on a per tissue weight basis is higher than that in normal breast tissues. However, the mechanisms involved are unknown. N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced rat mammary tumorigenesis is one of the most widely used rodent mammary tumorigenesis models for studying human breast cancer due to their similarities in hormone dependency, pathogenesis, histological classification, and immunocytochemical markers. This study was to establish if there was an accumulation of zinc in MNU-induced rat mammary tumors and, if there was, to explore the possible mechanisms involved. Sprague-Dawley rats were sham-treated or MNU-treated (50 mg/kg; n = 12) for 100 days. In MNU-induced mammary tumors (mammary tumors), zinc concentration expressed on a per dry weight basis was 12 times of that in normal mammary glands. Moreover, the mRNA level of ZnT-1 (a transporter involved in zinc efflux) in mammary tumors was reduced by 55% as compared with that in normal mammary glands. The mRNA level of Nramp2 (a divalent cation importer) and ZnT-4 (another transporter involved in zinc efflux) was unaffected by MNU-induced mammary tumorigenesis. The mRNA and protein levels of metallothionein (a putative zinc storage protein) in mammary tumors were 1.3 and 3.5 times of that in normal mammary glands, respectively. Collectively, our observations showed that zinc is accumulated in MNU-induced rat mammary tumors and this accumulation is accompanied by an altered expression of ZnT-1 and metallothionein, suggesting that zinc homeostasis might be altered in MNU-induced rat mammary tumorigenesis. Because zinc is essential to cell proliferation and cell proliferation is increased in mammary tumors, zinc accumulation is likely a part of an integrated effort to ensure sufficient zinc supply to sustain tumor growth.
