Pharmacological effects of acute treatment with venlafaxine (VEN), a clinically active antidepressant [a noradrenaline (NA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) reuptake inhibitor without any affinity for neurotransmitter receptors] were studied in mice and rats. VEN inhibited the reserpine- or apomorphine-induced hypothermia and enhanced the L-5-HTP-induced head twitches in mice. It reduced the immobility time in Porsolt's test in mice and rats, but either did not change the locomotor activity (mice) or decreased it (rats). VEN reduced the locomotor hyperactivity induced by amphetamine (AMP), apomorphine (APO) and quinpirole (QUI), as well as the APO-induced stereotypy; the stereotypy induced by AMP in rats was prolonged. VEN neither changed the clonidine-induced aggressiveness in mice nor the behavioral syndrome induced by oxotremorine in rats. The obtained results indicate that VEN, given acutely, shows a pharmacological profile similar to that of tricyclic NA and 5-HT reuptake inhibitors. In contrast to the antidepressants mentioned above, VEN does not exhibit an alpha 1-adrenolytic or a cholinolytic activity (in vivo tests).
2-Choloroethyl Ethyl Sulfide (CEES) exposure causes inflammatory lung diseases, including acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and pulmonary fibrosis. This may be associated with oxidative stress, which has been implicated in the desensitization of beta-adrenergic receptors (beta-ARs). The objective of this study was to investigate whether lung injury induced by intratracheal CEES exposure (2 mg/kg body weight) causes desensitization of beta-ARs. The animals were sacrificed after 7 days and lungs were removed. Lung injury was established by measuring the leakage of iodinated-bovine serum albumin ([(125)I]-BSA) into lung tissue. Receptor-binding characteristics were determined by measuring the binding of [(3)H] dihydroalprenolol ([(3)H] DHA) (0.5-24 nM) to membrane fraction in the presence and absence of DLDL-propranolol (10 micro M). Both high- and low-affinity beta-ARs were identified in the lung. Binding capacity was significantly higher in low-affinity site in both control and experimental groups. Although CEES exposure did not change K(D) and B(max) at the high-affinity site, it significantly decreased both K(D) and B(max) at low affinity sites. A 20% decrease in beta(2)-AR mRNA level and a 60% decrease in membrane protein levels were observed in the experimental group. Furthermore, there was significantly less stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity by both cholera toxin and isoproterenol in the experimental group in comparison to the control group. Treatment of lungs with 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX), an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase (PDE) could not abolish the difference between the control group and the experimental group on the stimulation of the adenylate cyclase activity. Thus, our study indicates that CEES-induced lung injury is associated with desensitization of beta(2)-AR.
Ketamine is a commonly used anaesthetic agent, and in subanaesthetic doses is also given as an adjuvant to opioids for the treatment of cancer pain, particularly when opioids alone prove to be ineffective. Ketamine is known to have hallucinogenic side effects. To date no systematic review of the benefits and harms of adjuvant ketamine for cancer pain has been undertaken.
To determine the effectiveness and adverse effects of ketamine as an adjuvant to opioids in the treatment of cancer pain.
Studies were identified from MEDLINE (1966-2001), EMBASE (1980-2001), CancerLit (1966-2001), the Cochrane Library (Issue 1, 2001); by handsearching reference lists from review articles, trials, and chapters from standard textbooks on pain and palliative care. The manufacturer of ketamine (Pfizer Parke-Davis) provided search results from their in-house database, PARDLARS.
RCTs of adult patients with cancer and pain being treated with an opioid, and receiving either ketamine (any dose and any route of administration) or placebo or an active control.
Two independent reviewers identified four RCTs for possible inclusion in the review, and 32 case studies/case series reports. Quality and validity assessment was performed by three independent reviewers, and two RCTs were excluded because of inappropriate study design. Patient reported pain intensity and pain relief was assessed using visual analog scales, verbal rating scales or other validated scales, and adverse effects data were collated.
Two trials were eligible for inclusion in the review and both concluded that ketamine improves the effectiveness of morphine in the treatment of cancer pain. However, pooling of the data was not appropriate because of the small total number of patients (30), and the presence of clinical heterogeneity. Some patients experienced hallucinations on both ketamine plus morphine and morphine alone and were treated successfully with diazepam. No other serious adverse effects were reported.
Current evidence is insufficient to assess the benefits and harms of ketamine as an adjuvant to opioids for the relief of cancer pain. More randomized controlled trials are needed.
We investigated three families with maternally inherited deafness associated with a 1555 A-to-G substitution in the 12S ribosomal RNA gene. Probands in these families developed deafness following streptomycin treatment, whereas several family members who did not receive aminoglycoside showed onset of deafness in middle age. One proband had a non-synonymous A14062G mutation in the ND5 gene and the other had a non-synonymous G15221A mutation in the cytochrome b gene and a T1391C mutation in the 12S ribosomal RNA gene, whose importance in disease expression remains to be clarified. Two muscle biopsies from the patients with and without streptomycin treatment, showed similar findings; a moth-eaten appearance with decreased cytochrome c oxidase activity and abnormal mitochondrial morphology. These findings suggest that even without exposure to aminoglycoside the A1555G mutation may impair mitochondrial function and that the mitochondrial abnormalities associated with the A1555G mutation may be expressed in tissues other than those of the auditory system.
Forty patients scheduled for elective aortocoronary bypass surgery were entered in a double-blind study set up to compare the haemodynamic effects of 20 mg nifedipine (n = 20) and placebo (n = 20), both administered with the premedication. Global left ventricular function was normal in all patients. Anaesthesia was induced and maintained with standardized doses of fentanyl, flunitrazepam, and pancuronium together with 50% N2O. Cardiovascular responses to anaesthesia, intubation, skin incision, sternal retraction, and aortic manipulation were investigated. Throughout the study nifedipine produced a marked decrease in systemic vascular resistance. The reduction of left ventricular afterload was associated with an increase in cardiac index. In contrast to other reports, we observed no severe hypotension after nifedipine administration. Mean arterial pressure in patients from the nifedipine group was lower than in the placebo group only prior to anaesthesia. Since no negative drug interactions between nifedipine and the anaesthetic agents were observed, we conclude that the established cardiovascular benefit of nifedipine should be continued during anaesthesia.
Two cases of cardiac asystole and one case of severe bradycardia were seen following a single injection of suxamethonium in a series of 46 adult patients in whom anaesthesia was induced with fentanyl and etomidate. It is suggested that the vagomimetic effects of fentanyl and, possibly also of etomidate, may contribute to the enhancement of the bradycardic effects of suxamethonium.
A rat model of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) deficiency with similar "clinical," electrophysiological, and neuropathological abnormalities to those seen in man was used to investigate the effects of various amounts and forms of alpha-tocopheryl acetate (alphaTA) on neural and visual function. Electrophysiological techniques provide an objective, non-invasive measure of neural and visual function. These techniques were used in the animal model to determine the minimum dietary requirement of vitamin E necessary to prevent neural and visual abnormalities. They were also used to compare the biological activities of the natural (RRR-) and synthetic (all-rac-) forms of alpha-tocopherol in neural tissues. The results were as follows: (1) Significant differences in neural and visual function were observed between deficient and control rats after approximately 8 months. (2) An intake of 1.0 mg/kg all-rac- or 0.75 mg/kg RRR-alphaTA was observed to marginally protect nerves from vitamin E deficiency. (3) The biological activity of all-rac-alpha-tocopherol in neural tissues was approximately 75% of RRR-alpha-tocopherol. (4) The concentration of free malondialdehyde (an indicator of lipid peroxidation) was significantly increased in tissues from the deficient compared to the control animals. These results are consistent with a deficiency of alpha-tocopherol causing increased lipid peroxidation leading to abnormal neural electrophysiology. They could also be explained by more specific but as yet undefined function(s) of alpha-tocopherol in neural tissues.
Report on the treatment of 310 anovulatory woment in 1173 treatment cycles with Clomiphen, Cyclofenil and Epimestrol. 63% of the patients had a biphasic basal body temperature record after treatment in 718 cycles. Patients with secondary amenorrhea of the first or the second degree had a satisfactory ovulation rate in 71% of the cases only by treatment with Clomiphen. In women with anovulatory cycles an overall ovulation rate of 75% was observed with all three medications. In 73 patients 78 pregnancies occurred. Of these, 38 pregnancies followed Cyclofenil, 25 pregnancies followed Clomiphen and 15 pregnancies followed Epimestrol corresponding to a 15%, 17% and 13% rate in the treated patients. 22 of these pregnancies ended in incomplete abortion. The side effects of Clomiphen especially visual and cystic ovarian and vasomotor side effects are more pronounced than the side effects of Cyclofenil and Epimestrol. The statistical analysis of the clinical results showed that Clomiphen and Cyclofenil had a higher rate of ovulation in secondary amenorrhea of the first or second degree than Epimestrol.
The effect of 6-hydroxydopamine on repeated nicotine-induced tail-tremor was investigated in rats. Tail-tremor induced by nicotine (0.5 mg/kg/day, subcutaneously) became more pronounced in intensity with daily administration for 9 days. Rats pretreated with 6-hydroxydopamine (250 micrograms, intracerebroventricularly) showed almost the maximum degree of tail-tremor during the whole experimental period. However, in rats pretreated with 6-hydroxydopamine plus desipramine, enhancement of tail-tremor was slight in the beginning but increased with the daily nicotine administration. Fourteen-day administration of nicotine did not result in significant changes in noradrenaline and dopamine levels in the cortex, hypothalamus, striatum and nucleus accumbens. These results suggest that nicotine-induced tail-tremor is associated with the supersensitivity of postsynaptic catecholaminergic receptors in the central nervous system, and that the noradrenergic system may be more important than the dopaminergic system in this phenomenon.
Diabetes causes oxidative stress in the liver and other tissues prone to complications. Photobiomodulation by near infrared light (670 nm) has been shown to accelerate diabetic wound healing, improve recovery from oxidative injury in the kidney, and attenuate degeneration in retina and optic nerve. The present study tested the hypothesis that 670 nm photobiomodulation, a low-level light therapy, would attenuate oxidative stress and enhance the antioxidant protection system in the liver of a model of type I diabetes. Male Wistar rats were made diabetic with streptozotocin (50 mg/kg, ip) then exposed to 670 nm light (9 J/cm(2)) once per day for 18 days (acute) or 14 weeks (chronic). Livers were harvested, flash frozen, and then assayed for markers of oxidative stress. Light treatment was ineffective as an antioxidant therapy in chronic diabetes, but light treatment for 18 days in acutely diabetic rats resulted in the normalization of hepatic glutathione reductase and superoxide dismutase activities and a significant increase in glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S transferase activities. The results of this study suggest that 670 nm photobiomodulation may reduce, at least in part, acute hepatic oxidative stress by enhancing the antioxidant defense system in the diabetic rat model.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) which is a chronic disease caused by the protozoon, Leishmania, occurs widely worldwide and it is widespread in most of the countries in the Mediterranean basin. The infection which is transmitted by a sandfly (Phlebotomus) vector, has a prolonged incubation period and insidious onset. VL generally affects children and may be fatal if not treated. In this report, a 31 years old male patient, who was the first adult VL case from Zonguldak (a province located at western Black-Sea region of Turkey) was presented. He was admitted to the hospital with two-months history of fever, chills, sweating and weight loss. There was no history of travel outside the city nor insect bites, however, he indicated that there would be unnoticed sandfly bites since sandflies were very common in the coal mines he worked. His physical examination revealed body temperatue of 39.2°C and hepatosplenomegaly, while laboratory findings yielded anemia, leucopenia, hypoalbuminemia and hypergamaglobulinemia. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 62 mm/h, C-reactive protein was 113 mg/L and liver transaminases were 2 to 5 folds higher than the reference values. The only pathological finding was hepatosplenomegaly in the abdominal ultrasound and computerized tomography. He was further examined to rule out infections with similar signs and symptoms, connective tissue diseases and malignancies and all were found negative. Hypercellular bone marrow were detected in the aspiration material. Bone marrow smears, bone marrow samples inoculated in NNN medium and serum samples of the patient were sent to the reference parasitology laboratory of Refik Saydam National Public Health Agency for evaluation in terms of VL. The diagnosis was confirmed by the detection of Leishmania IgG titer as 1/512 with in-house indirect immunofluorescence antibody test, by positivite rK39 Dipstick (InBios, USA) test and by the observation of Leishmania amastigote forms in the bone marrow smears. Bone marrow culture in NNN medium also revealed positive result by the determination of Leishmania promastigote forms on the 7th day. The treatment was initiated by pentavalent antimony [glucantime 1 x 10 mg/kg/day intramuscular (IM)] however, due to severe adverse effects it has switched to liposomal amphotericin B (3 mg/kg/day). The patient completely recovered without complication. In conclusion VL should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients, even adults, with persistent fever, hepatosplenomegaly and pancytopenia, in endemic countries such as Turkey.
Mu-Opioid receptor blockade during general anesthesia is a new treatment for detoxification of opioid addicted patients. We assessed catecholamine plasma concentrations, oxygen consumption, cardiovascular variables, and withdrawal symptoms after naloxone and tested the hypothesis that variables are influenced by the anesthetic administered during detoxification.
Prospective randomized clinical study.
Intensive care unit of a university hospital and psychiatric ward.
Twenty-five mono-opioid addicted patients with mild to moderate systemic disease (ASA II classification) in a methadone substitution program.
General anesthesia with either propofol (129+/-7 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1), mean +/- SEM) or methohexital (74+/-14 microg x kg(-1). min(-1)), mu-opioid receptor blockade by naloxone in a stepwise fashion (increasing doses of 0.4 mg, 0.8 mg, 1.6 mg, 3.2 mg, and 6.4 mg at 15 min intervals followed by 0.8 mg x hr(-1) for 24 hrs) and naltrexone 50 mg x day(-1) orally for > or =4 wks. Clonidine was started 180 mins after the first naloxone dose and its infusion rate was individually adjusted to mitigate withdrawal symptoms during weaning and after extubation.
During propofol and methohexital anesthesia, naloxone induced a 30-fold increase in epinephrine and a significant three-fold increase in norepinephrine plasma concentrations without a significant difference between groups. This increase in catecholamine plasma concentrations was associated with increased oxygen consumption and marked cardiovascular stimulation with both anesthetics, as shown by increased cardiac index, heart rate, and systolic atrial pressure whereas diastolic pressure remained unchanged. Patients receiving propofol could be extubated significantly earlier after discontinuation of the anesthetics. Although the maximum degree of withdrawal symptoms (Short Opioid Withdrawal Scale) on the day after detoxification was similar with both anesthetics, subsequent withdrawal symptoms decreased significantly more rapidly after propofol anesthesia.
Naloxone treatment, in opioid-addicted patients, induced a marked increase in catecholamine plasma concentrations, metabolism, and cardiovascular stimulation during anesthesia with both propofol and methohexital. Although both anesthetics appear suitable for detoxification treatment, the use of propofol is associated with earlier extubation and, surprisingly, a shortened period of long-term withdrawal symptoms during detoxification.
Although results from basic science suggested a protective role of vitamin E treatment in the prevention of cardiovascular disease, recent evidence indicates increased cardiovascular mortality due to vitamin E treatment. Recently, the HOPE trial showed an increment of the incidence of congestive heart failure (CHF) in patients treated with vitamin E.
We explored the effect of vitamin E on development of CHF in 8415 postinfarction patients without CHF at baseline, with an echocardiographic measure of left ventricular ejection fraction, who have been followed up for 3.5 years in the GISSI-Prevenzione trial. CHF during follow-up was defined as hospitalization or death for CHF. Cox regression models adjusted for relevant prognostic indicators were fitted.
Main clinical characteristics were balanced in the 4202 and 4213 patients allocated vitamin E and control group, respectively. During follow-up, 220 patients (2.6%) developed CHF. Patients allocated vitamin E had a nonsignificant 20% (95% confidence intervals 0.92-1.56, P = 0.18) increased risk of developing CHF. Vitamin E treatment, however, was associated with a significant 50% increase (95% confidence intervals 1.03-2.20, P = 0.034) of CHF in patients with left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction < 50%).
Our results confirm and extend previous evidence on the possible harmful effect of vitamin E on ventricular function in patients with cardiovascular disease. Available evidence should discourage the use of vitamin E in patients with left ventricular dysfunction.
Epidemiological studies have shown that there is a strong correlation between atherosclerosis and ambient air pollution. In this study, we found that motorcycle exhaust particles (MEP) induced adhesion between cells of the human monocytic leukemia cell line (THP-1) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) in a time-and dose-dependent manner. In addition, MEP treatment induced both mRNA and protein expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in HUVECs. The IκB degradation and p65 nuclear translocation was found in MEP-treated HUVECs, suggested the involvement of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). MEP-induced VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 protein expression was inhibited by NF-κB inhibitor BAY 11-7085. Oxidative stress was also involved in the signaling of VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 expression. MEP treatment caused hydrogen peroxide and superoxide formation. Pretreatment with α-tocopherol could inhibit MEP-induced reactive oxygen intermediates generation and suppressed MEP-induced IκB degradation and adhesion molecules expression. Furthermore, the carbon black (CB) nanoparticles with different diameters could induce VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 protein expression; however, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) only increased the expression of ICAM-1 but not that of VCAM-1 in HUVECs. In this study, we found that MEPs could induce ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression through oxidative stress and NF-κB activation in HUVECs.
To determine the risk of persistent renal insufficiency (RI) in premature infants following the use of antenatal indomethacin for suppression of preterm labor.
This population-based, retrospective review consisted of infants admitted during a 5-year period (1994-1999) to a tertiary referral neonatal intensive care nursery. Data were reviewed on 37 infants whose mothers received indomethacin for tocolysis, and on 37 matched controls. Renal insufficiency was defined as infant creatinine (Cr) > or = 1.5 mg/dl (133 micromol/l) for > or = 1 day.
Infants whose mothers had received indomethacin for tocolysis were more likely than matched controls to have RI (9 of 37 vs 2 of 37, p = 0.04). Among infants of indomethacin-treated mothers with elevated Cr, serum Cr remained > or = 1.5 mg/dl (133 micromol/l) for a median of 6 days and > 1.0 mg/dl (88 micromol/l) for a median of 19 days. The peak Cr and length of elevation were closely correlated (r(2) = 0.63, p < 0.0001).
Antenatal indomethacin can result in significant, prolonged RI in the infant. It may pose important risks to renal function and homeostasis in premature infants.
The primary objective of this study was to examine a possible correlation among the three endpoints of toxicity, namely, stress gene expression (hsp16), feeding, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in transgenic C. elegans (hsp16-lacZ) exposed to sublethal concentrations of dichlorvos, an organophosphorus insecticide. Worms exposed to dichlorvos (at 5, 40, and 80 microM) exhibited a concentration-dependent inhibition in feeding with total cessation in feeding occurring beyond 4 h of exposure. Concomitantly, marked and dose-dependent inhibition (69%-90%) of AChE was also evident after 4 h of exposure. Induction of heat shock protein (Hsp) was evident after 4 h of exposure (as seen from quantitative analysis), although maximum expression of Hsp was evident only after 24 h of exposure (as evident from qualitative analysis). Interestingly, the Hsp induction was restricted only to the pharyngeal region. Significant correlation was discernible between the three evaluated end points suggesting their possible interrelated role in the physiological dysfunctions evoked by sublethal concentrations of dichlorvos.
The antidyslipidemic drug nicotinic acid (niacin) has been used for decades. One of the major problems of the therapeutical use of nicotinic acid is a strong cutaneous vasodilation called flushing, which develops in almost every patient taking nicotinic acid. Nicotinic acid-induced flushing has been shown to be mediated by the nicotinic acid receptor GPR109A and to involve the formation of vasodilatory prostanoids. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying this short-term effect are unknown. Here, we show that epidermal Langerhans cells are essential for the cutaneous flushing response induced by nicotinic acid. Langerhans cells respond with an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) to nicotinic acid and express prostanoid synthases required for the formation of the vasodilatory prostanoids prostaglandin E(2) and prostaglandin D(2). Depletion of epidermal Langerhans cells but not of macrophages or dendritic cells abrogates nicotinic acid-induced flushing. These data unexpectedly identify epidermal Langerhans cells as essential mediators of nicotinic acid-induced flushing and may help to generate new strategies to suppress the unwanted effects of nicotinic acid. In addition, our results suggest that Langerhans cells besides their immunological roles are also involved in the local regulation of dermal blood flow.
The disease-free survival of patients with myeloma and severe renal failure after high-dose melphalan and autologous stem cell rescue is similar to those with normal renal function at the time of the autograft. However, recovery of renal function after intensive treatment is uncommon and patients with end-stage renal failure continue to be dialysis-dependent. We report two patients with myeloma who required regular haemodialysis from diagnosis, but became dialysis-independent after a high-dose melphalan autograft. Thus, in some patients, renal function may be partially salvageable despite the requirement for dialysis at the time of autografting.
This study investigated whether endothelin (ET)-1-induced increase in myocardial distensibility is preserved in heart failure (HF) and whether it is modulated by nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandins. New Zealand white rabbits were treated with doxorubicin (1 mg/kg, intravenously twice a week for 8 weeks, DOX-HF group) or saline (control group). Effects of ET-1 (0.1, 1, 10 nM) were tested in papillary muscles from the DOX-HF group and a control group in the presence of: i) intact endocardial endothelium (EE); ii) damaged EE; iii) N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA; NO synthase inhibitor), and iv) indomethacin (INDO; cyclooxygenase inhibitor). In the presence of an intact EE, ET-1 promoted concentration-dependent positive inotropic and lusitropic effects that were maintained after damaging the EE, in the presence of L-NNA or INDO and in the DOX-HF Group. ET-1 reduced resting tension at the end of the isometric twitch (increased diastolic distensibility) by 3.2+/-1.3 %, 6.0+/-1.6 % and 8.8+/-2.7 % (at 0.1, 1 and 10 nM, respectively), in muscles with intact EE, effect that was completely abolished after damaging EE, in the presence of L-NNA or INDO or in the DOX-HF Group. This study demonstrated that the increase in myocardial distensibility induced by ET-1 is absent in HF and is dependent of NO and prostaglandin release.
Tissue factor (TF) is a cell surface receptor for factor VII(a), and the binding of factor VII(a) to TF initiates the coagulation cascade. Inappropriate in vivo expression of TF in vascular cells has been shown to be responsible for thrombotic disorders associated with a variety of pathological conditions, including gram-negative sepsis, cancer and atherosclerosis. A number of epidemiological studies suggest that moderate consumption of red wine provides protective effects against coronary heart disease mortality. Recently, we have shown that resveratrol, a polyphenolic compound found in wine, inhibited the induction of TF expression in endothelial cells and mononuclear cells (Pendurthi UR, Williams JT, Rao LVM. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol 1999: 19: 419-426). In the present study, we examined the mechanism by which resveratrol inhibits the expression of TF in monocytes by using a monocytic cell line, THP-1, as a model cell. Northern blot analysis, gel mobility shift assays and transfection studies with various TF promoter constructs, as well as other transcription regulatory constructs, were used to elucidate the inhibitory mechanism of resveratrol. The data show that resveratrol inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced expression of TF in human monocytes and monocytic cell line, THP-1 in a dose dependent manner. Resveratrol did not significantly alter the binding of various transcription factors involved in TF gene expression to DNA. However, resveratrol suppressed the transcription of cloned human TF promoter. Further experiments revealed that resveratrol reduced kappaB- but not AP-1-driven transcriptional activity. Additional experiments showed that resveratrol suppressed the phosphorylation of p65 and its transactivation. In summary, our results indicate that resveratrol does not inhibit the activation or translocation of NF-kappaB/Rel proteins but inhibits NF-kappaB/Rel-dependent transcription by impairing the transactivation potential of p65.
Mowat-Wilson syndrome is a recently delineated autosomal dominant developmental anomaly, whereby heterozygous mutations in the ZFHX1B gene cause mental retardation, delayed motor development, epilepsy and a wide spectrum of clinically heterogeneous features, suggestive of neurocristopathies at the cephalic, cardiac and vagal levels. However, our understanding of the etiology of this condition at the cellular level remains vague. This study presents the Zfhx1b protein expression domain in mouse embryos and correlates this with a novel mouse model involving a conditional mutation in the Zfhx1b gene in neural crest precursor cells. These mutant mice display craniofacial and gastrointestinal malformations that show resemblance to those found in human patients with Mowat-Wilson syndrome. In addition to these clinically recognized alterations, we document developmental defects in the heart, melanoblasts and sympathetic and parasympathetic anlagen. The latter observations in our mouse model for Mowat-Wilson suggest a hitherto unknown role for Zfhx1b in the development of these particular neural crest derivatives, which is a set of observations that should be acknowledged in the clinical management of this genetic disorder.
Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity was studied in neurones and neuroglia under conditions of convulsions caused by picrotoxin administration. Picrotoxin is a stimulant which causes convulsions by suppression of presynaptic inhibition. Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in neuroglia was increased in convulsion, bat was not altered in neurones. It is possible, that glial Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity plays the role of neuronal ion's flows regulator and neuronal protector from convulsions. In recovery period ATPase activities in neuronal and neuroglial cells run up to control.
Fanconi anemia is a rare recessive disorder characterized by genome instability, congenital malformations, progressive bone marrow failure and predisposition to hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. At the cellular level, hypersensitivity to DNA interstrand crosslinks is the defining feature in Fanconi anemia. Mutations in thirteen distinct Fanconi anemia genes have been shown to interfere with the DNA-replication-dependent repair of lesions involving crosslinked DNA at stalled replication forks. Depletion of SLX4, which interacts with multiple nucleases and has been recently identified as a Holliday junction resolvase, results in increased sensitivity of the cells to DNA crosslinking agents. Here we report the identification of biallelic SLX4 mutations in two individuals with typical clinical features of Fanconi anemia and show that the cellular defects in these individuals' cells are complemented by wildtype SLX4, demonstrating that biallelic mutations in SLX4 (renamed here as FANCP) cause a new subtype of Fanconi anemia, Fanconi anemia-P.
Cannabinoids, including the endogenous ligand arachidonyl ethanolamide (anandamide), elicit not only neurobehavioral but also cardiovascular effects. Two cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2, have been cloned, and studies with the selective CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A have implicated peripherally located CB1 receptors in the hypotensive action of cannabinoids. In rat mesenteric arteries, anandamide-induced vasodilation is inhibited by SR141716A, but other potent CB1 receptor agonists, such as HU-210, do not cause vasodilation, which implicates an as-yet-unidentified receptor in this effect. Here we show that "abnormal cannabidiol" (Abn-cbd) is a neurobehaviorally inactive cannabinoid that does not bind to CB1 receptors, yet causes SR141716A-sensitive hypotension and mesenteric vasodilation in wild-type mice and in mice lacking CB1 receptors or both CB1 and CB2 receptors. Hypotension by Abn-cbd is also inhibited by cannabidiol (20 microgram/g), which does not influence anandamide- or HU-210-induced hypotension. In the rat mesenteric arterial bed, Abn-cbd-induced vasodilation is unaffected by blockade of endothelial NO synthase, cyclooxygenase, or capsaicin receptors, but it is abolished by endothelial denudation. Mesenteric vasodilation by Abn-cbd, but not by acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside, or capsaicine, is blocked by SR141716A (1 microM) or by cannabidiol (10 microM). Abn-cbd-induced vasodilation is also blocked in the presence of charybdotoxin (100 nM) plus apamin (100 nM), a combination of K(+)-channel toxins reported to block the release of an endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF). These findings suggest that Abn-cbd and cannabidiol are a selective agonist and antagonist, respectively, of an as-yet-unidentified endothelial receptor for anandamide, activation of which elicits NO-independent mesenteric vasodilation, possibly by means of the release of EDHF.
Resveratrol, a natural product present in wine, has recently been shown to inhibit the growth of a number of cancer cell lines in vitro. In the current study, we have demonstrated that resveratrol inhibits the growth of THP-1 human monocytic leukaemia cells in a dose-dependent manner with a median effective dose of 12 microM. It did not induce differentiation of THP-1 cells and had no toxic effect on THP-1 cells that had been induced to differentiate into monocytes/macrophages by phorbol myristate acetate. A significant fraction of resveratrol-treated cells underwent apoptosis as judged by flow cytometric analysis of DNA content, DNA fragmentation and caspase-specific cleavage of poly(ADP-ribosyl) polymerase. Resveratrol treatment had no effect on the expression of Fas receptor or Fas ligand (FasL) in THP-1 cells, nor did it induce clustering of Fas receptors. In addition, THP-1 cells were resistant to activating anti-Fas antibody, and neutralizing anti-Fas and/or anti-FasL antibodies had no protective effect against resveratrol-induced inhibition of THP-1 cell growth. The effect of resveratrol on THP-1 cells was reversible after its removal from the culture medium. These results suggest that (1) resveratrol inhibits the growth of THP-1 cells, at least in part, by inducing apoptosis, (2) resveratrol-induced apoptosis of THP-1 cells is independent of the Fas/FasL signalling pathway and (3) resveratrol does not induce differentation of THP-1 cells and has no toxic effect on differentiated THP-1 cells. Thus, resveratrol may be a potential chemotherapeutic agent for the control of acute monocytic leukaemia.
