Since the iron-mediated formation of free radicals is considered to be a critical factor in the pathogenesis of the toxicity of doxorubicin (DXR), comparisons were made of the protective effects of two iron chelators, ICRF-187 and desferrioxamine (DFO), against the chronic cardiac and renal toxicity induced by DXR in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Two preparations of DFO were studied: DFO mesylate (DFO-M) and a polymeric form (DFO-P) in which DFO is conjugated to hydroxyethyl starch. Groups of 5 SHR each were given 12 weekly i.v. injections of 1 mg/kg DXR either alone or 30 min after the i.p. injection of 25 mg/kg ICRF-187, 50 mg/kg DFO-M, 50 mg/kg DFO-P, or 100 mg/kg DFO-P. A semiquantitative assessment was made of the cardiomyopathy (Billingham scale) and nephropathy. Renal protection was minimal with DFO-M and moderate with ICRF-187 and both doses of DFO-P. There was no cardiac protection with DFO-M. Both doses of DFO-P provided similar but modest degrees of cardiac protection. DXR-induced mortality was not prevented by either preparation of DFO. ICRF-187 provided a higher degree of protection against the cardiotoxicity and the mortality induced by DXR. Since both DFO and ICRF-187 are highly efficient chelators of iron in vitro, the differences in their in vivo protective effects are thought to be related to their cellular uptake and intracellular distribution and to the relative availability of different intracellular iron pools to these agents.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal neurodegenerative disorder, caused by expansion of a glutamine repeat in the Huntingtin protein. Pathogenesis in HD includes the cytoplasmic cleavage of Huntingtin and release of an amino-terminal fragment capable of nuclear localization, where expanded-Huntingtin (Exp-Htt) might lead to aberrant transcriptional regulation, neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. Recent evidence, from hippocampal cell lines, also implicates altered interaction of Exp-Htt with components of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) cascade. However, there is yet no proven implication of the JNK/c-Jun module in degeneration of striatal neurons, the more vulnerable cell population, in HD. In the present study, we used primary striatal neurons in culture to analyze c-Jun activation by Exp-Htt. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged exon 1 of human Huntingtin either in its normal (25Q, normal-Htt) or expanded (103Q, Exp-Htt) version was transiently transfected in these cells. We first set out, in our conditions, the time course of striatal degeneration produced by Exp-Htt, and found it occurred rapidly. At 48 h post-transfection, 60% of striatal neurons expressing Exp-Htt had apoptotic characteristics including DNA fragmentation and neuritic retraction. Most of these neurons also showed nuclear aggregates of GFP-Exp Htt. Kinetics of c-Jun activation were tested in transfected cells using immunocytochemical detection of phospho-c-Jun. We found a significant activation and induction of c-Jun in Exp-Htt but not normal-Htt-transfected neurons. Of interest, these events occurred prior to nuclear translocation of Exp-Htt. Finally, overexpression of a dominant negative version of c-Jun, as well as pharmacological inhibition of JNK strongly protected against DNA fragmentation and neuritic retraction induced by Exp-Htt. Thus our data suggest that c-Jun activation and induction, is an early event in the pathogenesis of HD, occurring prior to formation of nuclear aggregates of Exp-Htt.
The role of the nitric oxide/cGMP/cGMP-dependent protein kinase G pathway in myocardial protection and preconditioning has been the object of intensive investigations. The novel soluble guanylate cyclase activator cinaciguat has been reported to elevate intracellular [cGMP] and activate the nitric oxide/cGMP/cGMP-dependent protein kinase G pathway in vivo. We investigated the effects of cinaciguat on myocardial infarction induced by isoproterenol in rats.
Rats were treated orally twice a day for 4 days with vehicle or cinaciguat (10 mg/kg). Isoproterenol (85 mg/kg) was injected subcutaneously 2 days after the first treatment at an interval of 24 hours for 2 days to produce myocardial infarction. After 17 hours, histopathological observations and left ventricular pressure-volume analysis to assess cardiac function with a Millar microtip pressure-volume conductance catheter were performed, and levels of biochemicals of the heart tissues were measured. Gene expression analysis was performed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Isolated canine coronary arterial rings exposed to peroxynitrite were investigated for vasomotor function, and immunohistochemistry was performed for cGMP and nitrotyrosine. The present results show that cinaciguat treatment improves histopathological lesions, improves cardiac performance, improves impaired cardiac relaxation, reduces oxidative stress, ameliorates intracellular enzyme release, and decreases cyclooxygenase 2, transforming growth factor-beta, and beta-actin mRNA expression in experimentally induced myocardial infarction in rats. In vitro exposure of coronary arteries to peroxynitrite resulted in an impairment of endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation, increased nitro-oxidative stress, and reduced intracellular cGMP levels, which were all improved by cinaciguat. A cardioprotective effect of postischemic cinaciguat treatment was shown in a canine model of global ischemia/reperfusion.
Pharmacological soluble guanylate cyclase activation could be a novel approach for the prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease.
Patients with cancer may be hypercoagulable, and smoking can cause both lung cancer and peripheral vascular disease. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy has been reported to cause a variety of vascular side effects.
Five patients with bronchogenic carcinoma and peripheral vascular disease developed acute arterial occlusion soon after receiving a combination of cisplatin or carboplatin plus etoposide. All these patients had risk factors for atherosclerosis and three of them had preexisting known peripheral vascular disease.
The occurrence of acute arterial occlusion soon after initiation of chemotherapy suggests that it might have been a complication of this therapy. Hence, caution should be exercised when using platinum-based (and other?) chemotherapy in patients with known moderate or severe peripheral vascular disease.
The effects of a variety of adenosine A1 and A2 antagonists on N6-((R)-phenylisopropyl)adenosine (R-PIA)- and scopolamine-induced amnesias were investigated in rodents in order to clarify the role of adenosine receptors in learning and memory. Some of the selective adenosine A1 antagonists exhibited antiamnesic activities at several doses where they did not induce an increase of spontaneous locomotion. These results suggest that the blockade of A1 receptors is more important than that of A2 receptors in learning and memory. Detailed studies of structure-activity relationships of adenosine A1 antagonists in two amnesia models demonstrated that there were three types of adenosine A1 antagonists: (A) Compounds 3-5 (8-substituted 1,3-dipropylxanthines) ameliorated the shortened latency in both models. (B) Compounds 7-11 (8-substituted 1,3-dialkylxanthines) and 19-21 (imidazo[2,1-i]purin-5(4H)-one derivatives) ameliorated the shortened latency in the (R)-PIA-induced amnesia model but not in the scopolamine-induced amnesia model. (C) Compounds 14-16 ameliorated the shortened latency in the scopolamine model but not in the (R)-PIA model. Aminophenethyl-substituted compounds C did not exhibit adenosine A1 antagonism in vivo presumably due to rapid metabolism. The dramatic change in the activities of A and B could not be explained by their simple pharmacokinetic differences because both types of compounds showed clear blockade of central adenosine A1 receptors in the (R)-PIA model. 8-(3-Dicyclopropylmethyl)-1,3-dipropylxanthine (5) (KF15372) was chosen for further studies and is currently under preclinical development as a cognition enhancer.
Continuous exposure to naturally-derived chemotherapy agents such as etoposide may theoretically override drug resistance due to overexpression of the multidrug resistance gene product, p-glycoprotein. Dexamethasone in high dose may have a similar overriding effect. Data also suggest that ifosfamide both by continuous infusion and when combined with a platinum compound may be more effective. Forty-four chemotherapy-refractory/relapsed lymphoma patients received the DICE infusional regimen. The programme consisted of dexamethasone 40 mg i.v. daily for 4 days, ifosfamide 1500 mg mixed with equal dosing of mesna continuously infused i.v. daily for 4 days, cisplatin 25 mg i.v. each day for 4 days and etoposide 150 mg continuously infused i.v. daily for 4 days, all administered every 3 weeks. Doses of ifosfamide and etoposide were escalated by 250 mg and 25 mg, respectively, based on patient tolerance, usually lack of myelosuppression. Special hydration was not required. G-CSF support was provided to patients as required. All patients had disease that had relapsed from or was resistant to CHOP or a similar anthracycline-containing combination regimen. A majority had previously received at least two regimens and 27% had received three or more. Of 44 patients, 32 (73%) achieved a significant response consisting of 18 complete remissions (CR) (41%) and 14 (32%) partial remissions (PR). There were 81% objective responses in large cell lymphoma comprised of 50% CR and 31% PR. Previous response to chemotherapy predicted response to DICE: 83% (25/30) of prior responders vs 50% (7/14) of non-responders had a response to the treatment regimen (p = 0.031, Fisher's exact test). Patients not undergoing transplantation had a median time of 8 months on therapy and a mean of 10 months. Toxicity was haematological (36% developing grade III-IV toxicity) and neurological (9%). There were only three episodes of clinical cystitis or gross haematuria. Infusional DICE is an easily administered and well tolerated programme with significant activity in refractory or relapsed NHL and may be useful as a tumour-reductive therapy prior to high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation.
This report presents data on the safety and tolerability of losartan potassium (losartan), a selective antagonist of the angiotensin II AT-1 receptor, in approximately 2,900 hypertensive patients treated in double-blind clinical trials. In these studies, headache (14.1%), upper respiratory infection (6.5%), dizziness (14.1%), asthenia/fatigue (3.8%), and cough (3.1%) were the clinical adverse experiences most often reported in patients treated with losartan. These adverse experiences were also frequently reported in patients receiving placebo: 17.2%, 5.6%, 2.4%, 3.9%, and 2.6%, respectively. Dry cough as an adverse event was reported in 8.8% of patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and in 3.1% and 2.6% of patients treated with losartan or placebo, respectively. Only dizziness was considered "drug-related" more often in losartan-treated (2.4%) than placebo-treated (1.3%) patients. In controlled clinical trials, losartan was better tolerated than other antihypertensive agents as determined by the incidence of patients reporting any drug-related adverse experiences. Rates of discontinuation due to clinical adverse experiences in patients who received losartan monotherapy or losartan+hydrochlorothiazide were 2.3% and 2.8%, respectively, compared with placebo (3.7%). No laboratory adverse experiences were unexpected or of clinical importance. First-dose hypotension rarely occurred with losartan or with losartan plus hydrochlorothiazide, and withdrawal effects such as rebound hypertension were not observed in clinical trials. There were no clinically important differences in the clinical or laboratory safety profiles in the demographic subgroups for age, gender, or race. In controlled clinical trials, losartan demonstrated an excellent tolerability profile.
Clear cell adenocarcinomas (CCAs) of the vagina and cervix are rare tumors that often overexpress wild-type p53. In vitro, expression of protooncogene bcl-2 can block p53-mediated apoptosis. The objective of this study was to determine if bcl-2 is expressed in CCAs and whether this expression is associated with inhibition of apoptosis.
Twenty-one paraffin-embedded clear cell adenocarcinomas were immunohistochemically stained for bcl-2 (antibody M 887, Dako, Carpinteria, CA) and DNA fragmentation (ApopTag, Oncor, Gaithersburg, MD), a marker for apoptosis. Fifteen tumors were associated with in utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES). Prior p53 gene analysis had indicated the presence of wild-type p53 in each tumor. Human lymphoid tissue containing bcl-2-expressing lymphocytes and DNase I-exposed CCA tissue sections were used as positive controls for the bcl-2 and apoptosis assays, respectively. Expression of bcl-2 and DNA fragmentation was classified (0 to 3+) according to percentage of positive cells and intensity of staining.
Expression of bcl-2 was identified in each CCA examined, and was strongly positive (2+ to 3+) in 18 of 21 samples. Despite the presence of wild-type p53, only 4 of 21 tumors showed evidence of apoptosis as assessed through DNA fragmentation.
DNA damage leads to increased intracellular p53 levels. Overexpression of p53 induces apoptosis as a means of protecting organisms from the development of malignancy. CCAs of the vagina and cervix, which contain wild-type p53 genes and often overexpress p53 protein, presumably have evolved mechanisms to avoid p53-induced apoptosis. Our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that overexpression of bcl-2 can inhibit p53-mediated apoptosis and suggest a mechanism by which these rare tumors can arise without mutation of the p53 gene.
The peripheral and central neurotoxic effects of lithium carbonate are illustrated by 4 case histories. Lithium neurotoxicity is likely to be more common than the literature suggests. Neurological sequelae may be irreversible and may be associated with therapeutic serum levels. Prevention may be facilitated by more stringent case selection, EEG and clinical monitoring and the development of improved methods of drug level assessment.
Mivazerol (MIV) is an alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist designed to prevent adverse cardiac outcome in perioperative patients. The present study was undertaken to determine whether the hyperdynamic state observed at emergence from halothane (HAL) anesthesia in rats could be modulated by MIV and to explore the mode of action of MIV under such conditions.
Male Sprague Dawley rats were anesthetized with 1% HAL and assisted for respiration (N2O-O2: 70-30%). MIV 2.2-15.3 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 i.v. was infused 30 min before withdrawal of anesthesia and compared for heart rate (HR) and systolic arterial blood pressure (SAP) to control animals treated with saline. In some experiments, animals were pretreated with intrathecal pertussis toxin (T2 level, 0.5 microgram, 7 d), or i.v. rauwolscine (0.34 mg/kg, 5 min) or were bilaterally stellectomized (30 min) prior to withdrawal of HAL.
Increases in HR (65 bpm, +20%) and in SAP (25 mmHg, +26%) were observed immediately upon discontinuation of HAL and remained constant for at least 30 min. The increase in HR was abolished by removal of the stellate ganglia. MIV dose-dependently inhibited the increase in HR from 4.8 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 (68% reduction, P < 0.05) without affecting HR or SAP during anesthesia. Inhibition of HR increase was of 98% at 15.3 micrograms.kg-1.h-1. This effect was abolished by rauwolscine, and partially (50%) inhibited by pertussis toxin pre-treatment.
These results demonstrate that withdrawal of HAL anesthesia in the rat produces a sustained increase in HR due to activation of the sympathetic system and that MIV inhibits this tachycardia via activation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors located at least in part in the spinal cord.
Hyperprolactinemia and prolactinomas are among the abnormalities reported for women exposed prenatally to diethylstilbestrol (DES). To pursue this issue in an animal model replicating the other abnormalities of prenatal DES exposure, pituitary glands were studied in the offspring of CD-1 mice receiving an i.p. injection of 1 or 2 micrograms DES/g body weight during late pregnancy. Among 132 mice exposed prenatally to DES and then raised to terminal illness, there were 24 pituitary tumors compared to only 1 tumor among 64 controls. The tumors consisted predominantly of cells with an eccentric nucleus and cytoplasm characterized by an acidophilic core and basophilic rim. These cells were identified as lactotrophs on the basis of prolactin immunohistochemistry and by an expected variation in frequency relative to physiological states. Evaluation of ovaries from the same mice revealed a deficiency of corpora lutea and an elevated incidence of ovarian tumors. These findings are consistent with abnormal sex differentiation of the fetal hypothalamus being the cause of most adverse effects from prenatal DES exposure.
The hereditary colon and endometrium cancer predisposition Lynch Syndrome (also called HNPCC) is caused by a germ-line mutation in one of the DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes. A significant fraction of the gene alterations detected in suspected Lynch Syndrome patients is comprised of amino acid substitutions. The relevance for cancer risk of these variants is difficult to assess, as currently no time- and cost-effective, validated, and widely applicable functional assays for the measurement of MMR activity are available. Here we describe a rapid, cell-free, and easily quantifiable MMR activity assay for the diagnostic assessment of variants of the MLH1 MMR protein. This assay allows the parallel generation and functional analysis of a series of variants of the MLH1 protein in vitro using readily available, or preprepared, reagents. Using this assay we have tested 26 MLH1 variants and of these, 15 had lost activity. These results are in concordance with those obtained from first-generation assays and with in silico and pathology data. After its multifocal technical and clinical validation this assay could have great impact for the diagnosis and counseling of carriers of an MLH1 variant and their relatives.
The broad spectrum herbicide glyphosate is widely used in agriculture worldwide. There has been ongoing controversy regarding the possible adverse effects of glyphosate on the environment and on human health. Reports of neural defects and craniofacial malformations from regions where glyphosate-based herbicides (GBH) are used led us to undertake an embryological approach to explore the effects of low doses of glyphosate in development. Xenopus laevis embryos were incubated with 1/5000 dilutions of a commercial GBH. The treated embryos were highly abnormal with marked alterations in cephalic and neural crest development and shortening of the anterior-posterior (A-P) axis. Alterations on neural crest markers were later correlated with deformities in the cranial cartilages at tadpole stages. Embryos injected with pure glyphosate showed very similar phenotypes. Moreover, GBH produced similar effects in chicken embryos, showing a gradual loss of rhombomere domains, reduction of the optic vesicles, and microcephaly. This suggests that glyphosate itself was responsible for the phenotypes observed, rather than a surfactant or other component of the commercial formulation. A reporter gene assay revealed that GBH treatment increased endogenous retinoic acid (RA) activity in Xenopus embryos and cotreatment with a RA antagonist rescued the teratogenic effects of the GBH. Therefore, we conclude that the phenotypes produced by GBH are mainly a consequence of the increase of endogenous retinoid activity. This is consistent with the decrease of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling from the embryonic dorsal midline, with the inhibition of otx2 expression and with the disruption of cephalic neural crest development. The direct effect of glyphosate on early mechanisms of morphogenesis in vertebrate embryos opens concerns about the clinical findings from human offspring in populations exposed to GBH in agricultural fields.
This study determined the effects of castration and hormone replacement therapy on the age-related cardiac and renal pathology of male relaxin gene-knockout (RlnKO) and age-matched wild-type (RlnWT) mice and that of aged male aromatase knockout (ArKO) mice, which lack estrogens and have 5-10 times the androgen levels of male wild-type mice. One-month-old RlnWT and RlnKO mice were bilaterally gonadectomized or sham operated and maintained until 12 months. Subgroups of castrated animals received testosterone or 17β-estradiol treatment from 9 to 12 months. Male ArKO mice and aromatase wild-type mice were aged to 12 months. Collected heart and kidney tissues were assessed for changes in organ size and fibrosis. Castration reduced body, heart, left ventricle, and kidney weights in both RlnKO and RlnWT mice, and the cardiac/renal fibrosis that was seen in sham RlnKO animals (all P < 0.05 vs. respective sham). Testosterone normalized organ weights and organ weight to body weight ratio of castrated animals and increased cardiac/renal collagen concentration to levels measured in or beyond that of sham RlnKO mice (all P < 0.05 vs. respective castrated mice). Furthermore, expression of TGF-β1, mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 2 (Smad2), and myofibroblast differentiation paralleled the above changes (all P < 0.05 vs. respective castrated mice), whereas matrix metalloproteinase-13 was decreased in testosterone-treated RlnKO mice. Conversely, 17β-estradiol only restored changes in organ size. Consistent with these findings, intact ArKO mice demonstrated increased cardiac/renal fibrosis in the absence of changes in organ size. These findings suggest that relaxin and castration protect, whereas androgens exacerbate, cardiac and renal fibrosis during ageing, whereas estrogens, in synergy with relaxin, regulates age-related changes in organ size.
Three patients with documented or suspected amitriptyline poisoning developed a uniform clinical picture with progressive respiratory insufficiency, thrombocytopenia and evidence of embolization. Post-mortem examination revealed equally uniform changes: thrombotic, non-bacterial endocarditis (TNBE) with multiple embolization and marked pulmonary stiffness with extensive invasion of alveoli with connective tissue. The lung pathology and clinical picture of progressive respiratory insufficiency are in agreement with the respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) in the adult. The simultaneous occurrence of RDS and TNBE suggests a similar pathogenesis. Prophylactic measures are described.
We wanted to study the effects of amphetamine on symptoms of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) over a longer period than has been reported in previous studies of central stimulants in this condition.
Sixty-two children, aged 6 to 11 years, meeting DSM-III-R symptom criteria for ADHD participated in a parallel-group design, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of amphetamine treatment. Treatment was not restricted to children with "pure" ADHD, ie, some had comorbid diagnoses. In the amphetamine group, children received active treatment for 15 months.
Amphetamine was clearly superior to placebo in reducing inattention, hyperactivity, and other disruptive behavior problems and tended to lead to improved results on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children--Revised. Treatment failure rate was considerably lower and time to treatment failure was longer in the amphetamine group. Adverse effects were few and relatively mild.
The results of this long-term, placebo-controlled study of the central stimulant amphetamine in the treatment of ADHD indicate that there are remaining positive effects of the drug 15 months after starting treatment.
1 The demonstration of histamine (H2) receptors in the cardiovascular system in man and the widespread use of the specific H2 receptor antagonist cimetidine for the treatment of peptic ulcer has necessitated assessment of the cardiovascular effects of this drug during oral therapy in man. 2 Consequently, nineteen patients with a history of peptic ulcer but in symptomatic remission underwent a double-blind crossover trial of oral cimetidine v placebo, each treatment period lasting 4 weeks. No significant difference in various cardiac parameters at rest (heart rate, blood pressure, ECG) or following a maximal treadmill exercise test (time-into-protocol, maximum heart rate and blood pressure) was found between the groups. Similarly, cimetidine produced no change in the incidence of ventricular ectopics or in heart rate on 24 h ambulatory monitoring and had no effect on left ventricular volume or contractility as measured by echocardiography. 3 Thus oral administration of cimetidine in a dose of 400 mg four times daily was associated with no demonstrable cardiovascular changes. In addition, since this dose is thought compatible with cardiovascular H2 receptor blockade this study favours the lack of a physiological role for these receptors in man.
N-acetylglutamate synthase (NAGS) is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the formation of N-acetylglutamate, an essential allosteric activator of carbamyl phosphate synthetase I, the first enzyme of the urea cycle. Liver NAGS deficiency has previously been found in a small number of patients with hyperammonemia. The mouse and human NAGS genes have recently been cloned and expressed in our laboratory. We searched for mutations in the NAGS gene of two families with presumed NAGS deficiency. The exons and exon/intron boundaries of the NAGS gene were sequenced from genomic DNA obtained from the parents of an infant from the Faroe Islands who died in the neonatal period and from two Hispanic sisters who presented with acute neonatal hyperammonemia. Both parents of the first patient were found to be heterozygous for a null mutation in exon 4 (TGG-->TAG, Trp324Ter). Both sisters from the second family were homozygous for a single base deletion in exon 4 (1025delG) causing a frameshift and premature termination of translation. The finding of deleterious mutations in the NAGS gene confirms the genetic origin of NAGS deficiency. This disorder can now be diagnosed by DNA testing allowing for carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis.
Platelet-inhibiting drugs have been used widely in the treatment of thrombotic thrombocytopenia purpura. Nineteen consecutive patients received various treatments including platelet inhibitors, glucocorticoid drugs, whole blood or plasma exchange transfusions, and splenectomy. During treatment with aspirin and dipyridamole in 14 patients, five died, and only one had neither new neurologic signs nor worsening thrombocytopenia. Prostacyclin in one patient was not beneficial. Serious bleeding complications, including massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage, epistaxes, or subarachnoid hemorrhage confirmed at autopsy, occurred in five of the 19 patients and only during treatment with aspirin and dipyridamole. We conclude that there is no evidence for the effectiveness of aspirin and dipyridamole in the treatment of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and that these drugs may increase the risk of serious bleeding complications.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and schizophrenia (SCZ) are two common neurodevelopmental syndromes that result from the combined effects of environmental and genetic factors. We set out to test the hypothesis that rare variants in many different genes, including de novo variants, could predispose to these conditions in a fraction of cases. In addition, for both disorders, males are either more significantly or more severely affected than females, which may be explained in part by X-linked genetic factors. Therefore, we directly sequenced 111 X-linked synaptic genes in individuals with ASD (n = 142; 122 males and 20 females) or SCZ (n = 143; 95 males and 48 females). We identified >200 non-synonymous variants, with an excess of rare damaging variants, which suggest the presence of disease-causing mutations. Truncating mutations in genes encoding the calcium-related protein IL1RAPL1 (already described in Piton et al. Hum Mol Genet 2008) and the monoamine degradation enzyme monoamine oxidase B were found in ASD and SCZ, respectively. Moreover, several promising non-synonymous rare variants were identified in genes encoding proteins involved in regulation of neurite outgrowth and other various synaptic functions (MECP2, TM4SF2/TSPAN7, PPP1R3F, PSMD10, MCF2, SLITRK2, GPRASP2, and OPHN1).
The involvement of cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1 has been investigated in a mouse model of cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. Male Swiss mice (25-30 g) received CYP in a single i.p. dose of 100, 200 or 400 mg/kg and were sacrificed 6, 12, 24, 48 and 72 h later. Cystitis was evaluated by determining the changes in bladder wet weight (BW) and plasma protein extravasation (PPE, measured by the Evans blue leakage technique). CYP treatment induced a marked increase in BW and in PPE, which was significant within 6 h and reached maximal values within 12 h (BW, 118%, P < 0.05; N = 11; and PPE, 824%, P < 0.05; N = 11), continuing to be significant until 48 h. Pretreatment of animals with whole anti-TNF-alpha serum (25 or 50 microliters diluted in 500 microliters 0.9% saline, i.p., 30 min earlier) caused a significant reduction in the CYP-induced BW increase in 6-h and 12-h cystitis (82% and 91%, respectively, P < 0.05; N = 6) and in the CYP-induced PPE increase (60% and 52%, respectively, P < 0.05; N = 6). In addition, the administration of whole anti-IL- 1 beta serum at the same dose promoted a significant blockage of the CYP-induced increase in BW (47%, P < 0.05; N = 6) and PPE increase (41%, P < 0.05; N = 6) only in 12-h cystitis. The control serum did not modify the effect of CYP. Histopathologic analysis of the bladders from anti-TNF-alpha- and anti-IL-1 beta-pretreated groups revealed a significant reduction of the following parameters compared to the control groups: mucosal erosion, hemorrhage, edema, leukocyte migration, fibrin deposition and ulcerations. These results suggests that TNF-alpha and IL-1 are crucial mediators involved in inflammatory events occurring in CYP-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
A 5-year-old girl presented hypertension [24-h blood pressure (BP) average 135/80 mmHg, above the 99th BP percentile], as confirmed by ambulatory BP monitoring, following the use of a cold preparation (2.5 ml every 8 h for 4 days) containing phenyephrine (1 mg/ml). There was a clear relationship between the administration of the medication and hypertension, and between normalized BP values (24-h BP average 109/66 mmHg, 90th percentile) and the withdrawal of the medication. Alternative causes of hypertension could not be found. This is the first reported case of children's hypertension related with oral administration of phenylephrine. The potential risk of medicines containing sympathomimetic drugs should not be underestimated, and cold preparations should be included in the differential diagnosis of the etiology of hypertension in children.
The in vivo response to recombinant human granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor (rHu GM-CSF) in facilitating the reconstitution of granulomonopoiesis was evaluated in a patient with Graves' disease who developed severe aplastic anemia during methimazole therapy. After 10 days of treatment with rHu GM-CSF, the neutrophil and monocyte counts rose to 1.65 x 10(9)/l and 0.41 x 10(9)/l, respectively. However, the patient was still dependent on erythrocyte and platelet transfusions. Two days after rHu GM-CSF withdrawal, the neutrophil count dropped off to 0.41 x 10(9)/l.rHu GM-CSF was reinitiated for 2 days along with glucocorticosteroids. With this combined therapeutic approach, the neutrophil count returned to normal and remained stable, and both Hb and platelet values began to improve. It is concluded that the combination of rHu GM-CSF and glucocorticosteroids can be used as a therapeutic option that may lead to beneficial results in drug-induced aplastic anemia.
Three acquired immune deficiency syndrome patients given foscarnet to treat cytomegalovirus retinitis developed renal failure with crystal deposits within the renal glomeruli. We identified these crystals as a mixture of sodium salt, calcium salt, and a mixed salt containing both sodium and calcium ions. This composition has not been previously reported. Foscarnet can complex available ionized calcium and secondarily precipitate in glomeruli. The percentage of complexing depends on calcium concentration in serum and the poor calcium salt solubility.
