The content of stem cells was analysed in bone marrow samples from 75 multiple myeloma patients. In unstimulated bone marrow the percentage of CD34+ cells was significantly reduced in 11 patients previously treated with melphalan-prednisolone (MP)(median= 0.15%) compared to median 0.87% in 31 untreated patients (P=0.0001). The bone marrow cellularity in the two groups did not differ. There was no correlation between the number of courses or total dose of melphalan and content of CD34+ cells in the bone marrow. The clonogenicity as well as the ability to expand the marrow stem cell pool during growth factor treatment were also reduced in MP treated patients compared to untreated patients. Analysis of different subsets of CD34+ cells revealed no influence on the pre B cell compartment in the bone marrow by MP treatment, but the committed stem cells (CD34+CD38+) were reduced more than the uncommitted stem cells (CD34+CD38-) in the MP treated group compared to the untreated patients. Mobilisation to and harvest of total number of CD34+ cells from peripheral blood was also reduced in the MP treated group. There was, however, no difference in the distribution between CD34+CD38+ and CD34+CD38- populations in the leukapheresis products in the untreated and the melphalan-treated group, suggesting selective mobilisation of CD34+CD38+ cells and/or differentiation of CD34+CD38-cells during growth factor stimulation. We conclude that melphalan decreased the number of stem cells in the bone marrow, the ability to expand the stem cell pool and mobilise stem cells to the pheripheral blood.
A 75 year old man, treated with ajmaline, was admitted with malaise, fever, acute renal failure and cholestatic jaundice. Haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytopaenia were also found with a positive indirect Coomb's test in the presence of ajmaline. The immunological and haematological data are discussed in the light of previously published cases.
Aneuploidy and translocations are hallmarks of B-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but many individuals with this cancer lack recurring chromosomal alterations. Here we report a recurring interstitial deletion of the pseudoautosomal region 1 of chromosomes X and Y in B-progenitor ALL that juxtaposes the first, noncoding exon of P2RY8 with the coding region of CRLF2. We identified the P2RY8-CRLF2 fusion in 7% of individuals with B-progenitor ALL and 53% of individuals with ALL associated with Down syndrome. CRLF2 alteration was associated with activating JAK mutations, and expression of human P2RY8-CRLF2 together with mutated mouse Jak2 resulted in constitutive Jak-Stat activation and cytokine-independent growth of Ba/F3 cells overexpressing interleukin-7 receptor alpha. Our findings indicate that these two genetic lesions together contribute to leukemogenesis in B-progenitor ALL.
We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in a Chinese Han population by genotyping 1,047 cases and 1,205 controls using Illumina Human610-Quad BeadChips and replicating 78 SNPs in two additional cohorts (3,152 cases and 7,050 controls). We identified nine new susceptibility loci (ETS1, IKZF1, RASGRP3, SLC15A4, TNIP1, 7q11.23, 10q11.22, 11q23.3 and 16p11.2; 1.77 x 10(-25) < or = P(combined) < or = 2.77 x 10(-8)) and confirmed seven previously reported loci (BLK, IRF5, STAT4, TNFAIP3, TNFSF4, 6q21 and 22q11.21; 5.17 x 10(-42) < or = P(combined) < or = 5.18 x 10(-12)). Comparison with previous GWAS findings highlighted the genetic heterogeneity of SLE susceptibility between Chinese Han and European populations. This study not only advances our understanding of the genetic basis of SLE but also highlights the value of performing GWAS in diverse ancestral populations.
The short- and long-term effects of specific angiotensin II (AII) receptor blockade on the evaluation of glomerular injury in moderately hyperglycemic diabetic rats were studied. Three groups of animals were used, a control group, a group of diabetic rats treated with insulin, and a group of insulin-treated diabetic rats receiving the AII receptor antagonist losartan in drinking water. After 4 to 6 wk of observation, diabetic rats showed higher systolic blood pressure and GFR than normal controls. Losartan treatment prevented both systolic blood pressure and GFR rise. Three other groups of rats, similarly treated for a 1-yr period, were used for renal functional and morphologic evaluation. Diabetic animals had higher urinary protein excretion and glomerulosclerosis incidence than did normal controls. Losartan significantly prevented proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis. Evaluation of the sieving properties of the glomerular membrane by Ficoll fractional clearance showed an important increase in the filtration of this marker in diabetic animals, as compared with that in controls, and almost complete prevention of this change in losartan-treated animals. Theoretical analysis of fractional clearance data with a heteroporous model of glomerular size-selectivity showed that in diabetic animals the size of membrane pores was increased uniformly, as compared with that in controls. These changes were completely prevented by the AII receptor antagonist. The results presented here strongly indicate that reduction of AII activity plays a crucial role in the preservation of glomerular structure and function and suggest that the favorable effects previously observed with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in this model depend directly on the reduction of AII activity.
A fast, sensitive and reliable ultra fast liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UFLC-MS/MS) method has been developed and validated for simultaneous quantitation of polygalaxanthone III (POL), ginsenoside Rb1 (GRb1), ginsenoside Rd (GRd), ginsenoside Re (GRe), ginsenoside Rg1 (GRg1) and tumulosic acid (TUM) in rat plasma after oral administration of Kai-Xin-San, which plays an important role for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The plasma samples were extracted by liquid-liquid extraction using ethyl acetate-isopropanol (1:1, v/v) with salidrdoside as internal standard (IS). Good chromatographic separation was achieved using gradient elution with the mobile phase consisting of methanol and 0.01% acetic acid in water. The tandem mass spectrometric detection was performed in multiple reaction monitoring mode on 4000Q UFLC-MS/MS system with turbo ion spray source in a negative and positive switching ionization mode. The lower limits of quantification were 0.2-1.5 ng/ml for all the analytes. Both intra-day and inter-day precision and accuracy of analytes were well within acceptance criteria (±15%). The mean absolute extraction recoveries of analytes and IS from rat plasma were all more than 60.0%. The validated method has been successfully applied to comparing pharmacokinetic profiles of analytes in normal and AD rat plasma. The results indicated that no significant differences in pharmacokinetic parameters of GRe, GRg1 and TUM were observed between the two groups, while the absorption of POL and GRd in AD group were significantly higher than those in normal group; moreover, the GRb1 absorbed more rapidly in model group. The different characters of pharmacokinetics might be caused by pharmacological effects of the analytes.
Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type II (HSAN II) leads to severe mutilations because of impaired nociception and autonomic dysfunction. Here we show that loss-of-function mutations in FAM134B, encoding a newly identified cis-Golgi protein, cause HSAN II. Fam134b knockdown results in structural alterations of the cis-Golgi compartment and induces apoptosis in some primary dorsal root ganglion neurons. This implicates FAM134B as critical in long-term survival of nociceptive and autonomic ganglion neurons.
Genome-wide association studies have recently identified at least 15 susceptibility loci for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). To confirm additional risk loci, we selected SNPs from 2,466 regions that showed nominal evidence of association to SLE (P < 0.05) in a genome-wide study and genotyped them in an independent sample of 1,963 cases and 4,329 controls. This replication effort identified five new SLE susceptibility loci (P < 5 x 10(-8)): TNIP1 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.27), PRDM1 (OR = 1.20), JAZF1 (OR = 1.20), UHRF1BP1 (OR = 1.17) and IL10 (OR = 1.19). We identified 21 additional candidate loci with P< or = 1 x 10(-5). A candidate screen of alleles previously associated with other autoimmune diseases suggested five loci (P < 1 x 10(-3)) that may contribute to SLE: IFIH1, CFB, CLEC16A, IL12B and SH2B3. These results expand the number of confirmed and candidate SLE susceptibility loci and implicate several key immunologic pathways in SLE pathogenesis.
Occupational exposure to nickel (Ni) is associated with an increased risk for lung and nasal cancers. Ni compounds exhibit weak mutagenic activity, cause gene amplification, and disrupt cellular epigenetic homeostasis. However, the Ni-induced changes in global histone modification levels have only been tested in vitro.
This study was conducted in a Chinese population to determine whether occupational exposure to Ni is associated with alterations of global histone modification levels and to evaluate the inter- and intraindividual variance of global histone modification levels.
Forty-five subjects with occupational exposure to Ni and 75 referents were recruited. Urinary Ni and global H3K4 trimethylation, H3K9 acetylation, and H3K9 dimethylation levels were measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of subjects.
H3K4me3 was elevated in Ni-exposed subjects (0.25% ± 0.11%) compared with referents (0.15% ± 0.04%; p = 0.0004), and H3K9me2 was decreased (Ni-exposed subjects, 0.11% ± 0.05%; referents, 0.15% ± 0.04%; p = 0.003). H3K4me3 was positively (r = 0.4, p = 0.0008) and H3K9ac was negatively (r = 0.1, p = 0.01) associated with urinary Ni. Interindividual variances of H3K4me3, H3K9ac, and H3K9me2 were larger compared with intraindividual variance in both exposure test groups, resulting in reliability coefficients (an estimate of consistency of a set of measurements) of 0.60, 0.67, and 0.79 for H3K4me3, H3K9ac, and H3K9me2, respectively, for Ni-exposed subjects and of 0.75, 0.74, and 0.97, respectively, for referent subjects.
The results of this study indicate that occupational exposure to Ni is associated with alterations of global histone modification levels and that measurements of global levels of histone modifications are relatively stable over time in human PBMCs.
The therapeutic equivalence of a fixed combination preparation consisting of peppermint oil and caraway oil (PCC, Enteroplant) and the prokinetic agent cisapride (CIS, CAS 81098-60-4) was investigated in a four-week randomized controlled double-blind study with planned adaptive interim analysis. The study comprised 120 outpatients with functional dyspepsia. The efficacy was evaluated in 118 patients. Of these, 60 patients received the enteric-coated combination preparation (2 x 1 capsule containing 90 mg peppermint oil +50 mg caraway oil per day) and 58 patients received the reference preparation cisapride (3 x 10 mg/day). The mean reduction of the pain score (primary variable) recorded on a visual analog scale (VAS) during the four-week treatment was 4.62 points with the peppermint oil/caraway oil preparation. This score was comparable with the mean reduction under cisapride (4.60 points) (p = 0.021; test for equivalence). Equivalence was also found in the secondary variable "frequency of pain" with a reduction by 4.65 points under PCC and by 4.16 points under cisapride carried out on an exploratory basis (p = 0.0034). Comparable results were attained with both treatments in the Dyspeptic Discomfort Score which included the other dyspeptic symptoms as well as intestinal and extraintestinal autonomic symptoms, in the prognosis as appraised by the physician and in the CGI scales (Clinical Global Impressions). Corresponding results were also found in Helicobacter pylori-positive patients and patients with initially intense epigastric pain in the two treatment groups. The combination preparation consisting of peppermint oil and caraway, oil appears to be comparable with cisapride and provides an effective means for treatment of functional dyspepsia. Both medications were tolerated well (adverse events were reported in 12 patients of the PCC group and in 14 patients of the CIS group).
The exact incidence and importance of side effects associated with methicillin therapy in children is unknown. During the ten-year period from 1964 to 1974 approximately 3,000 Houston children who received methicillin were observed for side effects. The great majority of these patients received the drug for less than ten days; however, side effects were more common in patients receiving long-term therapy. In order to assess these side effects, experiences with 124 children who received methicillin for ten days or longer were reviewed in depth. The average dose of methicillin was 200 mg/kg/day and the average duration was 22 days. In this highly selected group there were no adverse side effects in 54.8% and only eosinophilia in an additional 13%. Leukopenia occurred in 16%, microscopic hematuria in 8%, gross hematuria in 4%, skin rash in 6%, and "drug fever" in 6%. In many instances several of these side effects occurred within a single patient so that the total number of patients with definite side effects was 39 of 124 (31.5%). The true incidence figure of overall side effects is much lower than 31.5%. Corrected incidence rates based on a conservative figure of 3,000 methicillin-treated children are less than 1.5% for all side effects. In some patients the mechanism producing the adverse reactions seemed to be chemical irritation or toxicity and in others hypersensitivity. In nine of the 39 patients follow-up studies were not optimal. In the other 30 patients all side effects were reversible.
Levels of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in human and rodent breast cancers are higher than surrounding normal tissues. PGE(2) exhibits biological activity through binding to membrane receptors, EP(1-4). The present study was designed to investigate the effects of ONO-8711, a newly synthesized selective PGE receptor EP(1) antagonist, on 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)-induced breast cancer development. Starting at 7 weeks of age, female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were given PhIP (85 mg/kg body weight) by gavage four times weekly for two weeks. Dietary administration of ONO-8711 at 400 or 800 p.p.m. delayed occurrence of breast tumors for 2 or 4 weeks, respectively. At 20 weeks after the last dosing of PhIP, all animals were killed and complete autopsy was made. All breast tumors were diagnosed as invasive ductal adenocarcinomas histopathologically. Administration of ONO-8711 at 800 p.p.m. significantly decreased PhIP-induced breast cancer incidence, multiplicity and volume compared with those of rats fed the control diet (56% versus 79%, P < 0.05, 1.2 versus 2.5, P < 0.05, 0.7 versus 1.4 cm(3), P < 0.01, respectively). Apoptosis was significantly increased in breast cancer cells by feeding of ONO-8711 at 800 p.p.m. of 158% (P < 0.05). EP(1) receptor was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in breast cancers, not in normal tissues. These results suggest that EP(1) receptor is associated with breast cancer development and selective PGE receptor EP(1) antagonists may possess chemopreventive effects through the induction of apoptosis without any side effects.
Our aim was to clarify the significance of widely accepted irinotecan (CPT-11)/5-fluorouracil (5-FU) combinations in colon cancer by investigating their sequential effect.
The sequential effect of CPT-11/5-FU in two colon cancer cell lines, LoVo and SW480, was evaluated by WST-8 colorimetric assay. The cell cycle distributions of each drug were analyzed by flow cytometry, and then the chemoresistant mechanisms and expression of a drug transporter (MDR1), the bcl-2 apoptotic pathway, metabolizing enzymes [carboxylesterase (CE), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase], and target enzymes (topoisomerase I, thymidine synthase) associated with sequence-dependent cytotoxicity were examined.
The cytotoxicity of 5-FU (10, 100, 1000 microM) followed by CPT-11 (1 microM) was significantly greater than that of CPT-11 (1 microM) followed by 5-FU (10, 100, 1000 microM) (P < 0.05). Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed that exposure to 5-FU downregulated both MDR1 and bcl-2 mRNA and simultaneously upregulated CE2 mRNA expression, suggesting enhancement of subsequent CPT-11 cytotoxicity.
The cytotoxic effects of the CPT-11/5-FU combinations were shown to be schedule-dependent in human colon cancer cells. The findings suggest that 5-FU followed by CPT-11 administration might be the optimal sequence for CPT-11/5-FU treatment of advanced colon cancer.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and Helicobacter pylori infection are major causes of gastric mucosal lesions. In Japan, histamine-2 receptor antagonists are frequently prescribed, but the literature regarding their efficacy is limited. In this study, we compare the effects of famotidine and rebamipide on NSAID-associated gastric mucosal lesions using upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.
This study examined 112 patients taking NSAIDs for either gastric hemorrhage or erosion. Before treatment, the patients were assessed by endoscopy. Using blind randomization, patients were divided into two groups: group F (famotidine, 20 mg/day) and group R (rebamipide, 300 mg/day). Efficacy was examined 4 weeks later using endoscopy.
After treatment, the Lanza score decreased significantly in group F (P < 0.001) but not in group R (P = 0.478). The change in the Lanza score in group F was significantly greater (P = 0.002) than that in group R.
Famotidine was superior to rebamipide in treating NSAID-associated mucosal lesions.
Bilateral microinjections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nuclei loci coerulei (LC) of male Wistar rats resulted in significant depletion of mesencephalic and striatal norepinephrine, accompanied by a small reduction in dopamine content only in the striatum. Apomorphine (2.5 mg/kg IP) induced marked aggression consisting of prolonged posturing, vocalization and attacks only in 6-OHDA lesioned animals. Biochemical analysis revealed that 6-OHDA antagonized the ability of apomorphine to raise the serotonin concentration in the striatum. It is concluded that the LC neurons play an inhibitory role in apomorphine-induced aggressiveness and the involvement of serotonergic neurons is suggested.
Rectal administration of morphine is one possible route of delivery in children. The aim of this study was to determine the pain experience during rectal administration of two different morphine preparations.
The acceptance of the pain of rectal administration of morphine for premedication was studied in 120 children. Children were randomized to receive either morphine solution in saline (0.2 mg.kg(-1), 1 mg.ml(-1)) or morphine gel (0.2 mg.kg(-1), 1 mg.ml(-1)) with an adjusted pH for rectal use in a double-blind fashion. Children were stratified into three groups according to age (1-2, 3-6, and 7-10 years). Pain was assessed with the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale, the McGrath Facial Affective Scale, or the visual analogue scale, depending on the age group.
The overall pain scores in all age groups were low. Children aged 1-2 years (P < 0.01) and 3-6 years (P < 0.05) had significantly less pain when morphine was administered as a gel than a solution. The difference in pain experience between the two forms was not significant in the age group of 7-10 years.
The results indicate that most of the children tolerated rectal administration of morphine well in terms of pain experience, in both gel and solution form. The morphine gel, intended for rectal use appears to be the preparation of choice in children aged 1-6 years.
It is well established that 85-90% of chemically induced mammary tumors in rats will disappear or diminish significantly in size after the ovaries are removed from the animal. However, it is less well established whether a high percentage of these mammary tumors will grow back with prolonged time after ovariectomy. It is also not known what changes in gene expression take place in the tumors as they develop an independence from hormones for growth. This study was carried out to investigate this. Virgin, 50-day-old female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) at the dose of 50 mg MNU/kg body wt. When at least one mammary tumor had grown to 1.0-1.5 cm in one dimension, the animal was bilaterally ovariectomized and reduction and then re-growth of the tumors monitored. Control animals were treated identically except they were not ovariectomized when tumors appeared. Re-growths and new tumors and tumors that developed in the control rats were removed when they reached 1.0-1.5 cm in diameter and all animals were killed 25 weeks after the MNU injection. All the animals in the study (100%) developed mammary tumors after MNU injection with an average latency of 56.5 days. After ovariectomy, 93% of the tumors showed 50% or more reduction in size and 76% of the tumors could not be detected by palpation. However, in 96% of the animals where tumor reduction or disappearance occurred, a re-growth or new mammary tumor development took place with an average latency period of 52.8 days from the day of ovariectomy. Of these post-ovariectomy tumors, 36% occurred at a location where tumors had developed prior to ovariectomy, but 64% appeared at new locations. The circulating levels of 17beta-estradiol (E2) was undetectable in the ovariectomized (OVX) rats and significant reduction was seen in the serum concentrations of progesterone (P4), prolactin (PRL), growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). The tumors from the OVX rats showed indications of progression as evident from loss of differentiation and invasive characteristics. Comparison between tumors from OVX and intact rats revealed a significantly increased expression of P450 aromatase and elevated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2, but reduced levels of the progesterone receptor and cyclin D1 in OVX rats. However, the estrogen receptor (ER) content remained similar in tumors from both groups, at least at the protein level, and so did the expression of IGF-I, IGF-II, insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS1), IRS-2 and epidermal growth factor receptor. IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR) and ErbB-2 were expressed, respectively, in 50 and 70% of the tumors from the OVX animals, whereas these genes were expressed in 100% of the tumors from the intact rats. It is concluded that chemically induced rat mammary tumors may still depend on the ER and local syntheses of E2 and growth factors for growth initially after ovariectomy. However, as these tumors progress, they develop a more aggressive phenotype and lose their dependency on the ER and possibly growth factors.
The need for mechanistic understanding of nonmonotonic dose responses has been identified as one of the major data gaps in the study of bisphenol A (BPA). Previously we reported that acute exposure to BPA promotes arrhythmogenesis in female hearts through alteration of myocyte Ca(2+) handling, and that the dose response of BPA was inverted U-shaped.
We sought to define the cellular mechanism underlying the nonmonotonic dose response of BPA in the heart.
We examined rapid effects of BPA in female rat ventricular myocytes using video-edge detection, confocal and conventional fluorescence imaging, and patch clamp.
The rapid effects of BPA in cardiac myocytes, as measured by multiple end points, including development of arrhythmic activities, myocyte mechanics, and Ca(2+) transient, were characterized by nonmonotonic dose responses. Interestingly, the effects of BPA on individual processes of myocyte Ca(2+) handling were monotonic. Over the concentration range of 10(-12) to 10(-6) M, BPA progressively increased sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) release and Ca(2+) reuptake and inhibited the L-type Ca(2+) current (I(CaL)). These effects on myocyte Ca(2+) handling were mediated by estrogen receptor (ER) β signaling. The nonmonotonic dose responses of BPA can be accounted for by the combined effects of progressively increased SR Ca(2+) reuptake/release and decreased Ca(2+) influx through I(CaL).
The rapid effects of BPA on female rat cardiac myocytes are characterized by nonmonotonic dose responses as measured by multiple end points. The nonmonotonic dose response was produced by ERβ-mediated monotonic effects on multiple cellular Ca(2+) handling processes. This represents a distinct mechanism underlying the nonmonotonicity of BPA's actions.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the vessel wall. Recent evidence suggests that chronic vascular inflammation ensues as an imbalance between pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. Recently identified lipid mediators (eg, lipoxins and resolvins) play active roles in promoting the resolution of inflammation. Alterations in vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotype, which manifest as a loss of contractile protein expression and increased proliferation and migration, are prominent mechanistic features of both atherosclerosis and restenosis following various interventions (eg, angioplasty and bypass grafting). We sought to determine whether human atherosclerosis is associated with a "resolution deficit" and whether lipoxins and resolvins influence VSMC phenotype. Here we report that plasma levels of aspirin-triggered lipoxin are significantly lower in patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease than in healthy volunteers. Both aspirin-triggered lipoxin and resolvin E1 block platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated migration of human saphenous vein SMCs and decrease phosphorylation of the platelet-derived growth factor receptor-β. Importantly, receptors for aspirin-triggered lipoxin and resolvin E1 (ALX and ChemR23, respectively) were identified in human VSMCs. Overall, these results demonstrate that stimulatory lipid mediators confer a protective phenotypic switch in VSMCs and elucidate new functions for these mediators in the regulation of SMC biology. These results also suggest that peripheral artery disease is associated with an inflammation-resolution deficit and highlight a potential therapeutic opportunity for the regulation of vascular injury responses.
Protective effects of adiponectin (APN; an adipocytokine) were shown against various oxidative challenges; however, its therapeutic implications and the mechanisms underlying hepatic iron overload remain unclear. Herein, we show that the deleterious effects of iron dextran on liver function and iron deposition were significantly reversed by adiponectin gene therapy, which was accompanied by AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and heme oxygenase (HO)-1 induction. Furthermore, AMPK-mediated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α (PPARα) activation by APN was ascribable to HO-1 induction. Additionally, we revealed direct transcriptional regulation of HO-1 by the binding of PPARα to a PPAR-responsive element (PPRE) by various experimental assessments. Interestingly, overexpression of HO-1 in hepatocytes mimicked the protective effect of APN in attenuating iron-mediated injury, whereas it was abolished by SnPP and small interfering HO-1. Furthermore, bilirubin, the end-product of the HO-1 reaction, but not CO, protected hepatocytes from iron dextran-mediated caspase activation. Herein, we demonstrate a novel functional PPRE in the promoter regions of HO-1, and APN-mediated HO-1 induction elicited an antiapoptotic effect and a decrease in iron deposition in hepatocytes subjected to iron challenge.
To describe the clinical spectrum of amiodarone-associated optic neuropathy.
Observational cases series and review.
Of 55 cases, the median interval for onset of optic neuropathy was four months after initiating amiodarone; 88% occurred within 12 months. Seven (13%) patients were asymptomatic. Twenty-two (40%) patients presented with sudden visual loss, while 26 (47%) had insidious loss of vision. Visual acuity ranged from 20/15 to light perception; 10 (18%) patients had legal blindness with visual acuity of 20/200 or worse. Visual field loss was present in 91% of cases. Color vision loss was present in eight (40%) of 20 cases. Optic disc edema was present in 85% of cases, while eight (15%) patients had retrobulbar optic neuropathy, without evidence of disc edema. Optic disc edema resolved over a median time of three months. Five patients had raised intracranial pressure on lumbar puncture.
We were able to classify amiodarone-associated optic neuropathy into five clinical categories with respect to temporal characteristics and optic nerve appearance: insidious-onset (43%), acute-onset (28%), retrobulbar (13%), increased intracranial pressure (8%), and delayed-progressive onset (8%). Most cases of optic neuropathy commenced within 12 months of initiating amiodarone, with the median onset being four months. Over 10% of patients will have no visual symptoms at the onset. Ophthalmologic examinations within the first 12 months--and particularly within four months of initiating amiodarone--should improve early detection of amiodarone-associated optic neuropathy.
There is evidence that clonidine's hypotensive effect is reduced by the concurrent administration of tricyclic antidepressants. It has been proposed that this results from an interaction at alpha 2-receptors in the brain stem where clonidine acts as a relatively selective agonist and the tricyclic antidepressants as antagonists. Mianserin is an antidepressant with a tetracyclic structure and, although it has been reported to cause less cardiovascular disturbance, there is evidence that it also has alpha-adrenoceptor blocking effects. This study in 6 normotensive healthy male volunteers was designed to investigate a possible interaction between clonidine and the antidepressant mianserin. Administration of the first dose of 20 mg mianserin was associated with acute cardiovascular effects, notably transient postural hypotension, but no significant disturbance of heart rate or blood pressure was detected after 3 days continuous treatment with mianserin 20 mg tid. Following pre-treatment with mianserin or placebo the responses to a single oral dose of 300 micrograms clonidine were then assessed. The combination of mianserin and clonidine was not associated with any attenuation of clonidine's hypotensive effect, erect or supine, but there was significant attenuation of clonidine's supine bradycardic effect. There was no evidence that mianserin interfered with the ability of clonidine to diminish salivary flow, cause sedation, and reduce catecholamine output, but it was noted that mianserin itself had a very pronounced sedative effect. Mianserin alone had no significant effect on salivary flow. This short term study demonstrates that mianserin does not significantly interfere with the responses to a single oral dose of clonidine.
The central action of the peptide of intestinal tract, glucagon, was studied in Albino Swiss mice (20-25 g) and Wistar rats (200-220 g). Glucagon was injected intracerebroventricularly (icv) at the dose of 0.25, 0.5 and 1 microgram in 1 microliter of distilled water per mouse or 5 micrograms in 5 microliters per rat. It was found that glucagon administered icv increased glucose content in the peripheral blood serum. Behavioral studies have shown that glucagon diminished spontaneous locomotor activity in rats and mice, impaired exploratory activity and reduced amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. The results were not dependent on hyperglycaemia because the administration of 20% glucose solution po did not cause above effects. In addition, glucagon potentiated cataleptogenic effects of haloperidol. Icv injection of glucagon did not change the pain sensitivity or seizure susceptibility. The substance did not show the anxiolytic properties and did not affect the duration of hexobarbital-induced sleep. In biochemical studies it was found that glucagon injected icv induced the decrease in GABA content while the DA content was increased. The utilization of DA was not changed. The obtained results indicated, that glucagon injected icv exerted the central action, which was manifested by the central regulation of glucose level in the periphery. Moreover, glucagon inhibited the locomotor and exploratory activity as well as the amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and enhanced haloperidol-induced catalepsy. These effect could be connected with the inhibition of the central dopaminergic structures by glucagon.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a rare cause of cerebral abscesses, however it is a relatively more common etiologic agent in post-neurosurgical abscesses and the main antibacterial therapy option is vancomycin. In this report, a case of brain abscess due to MRSA which did not respond neither to moxifloxacin + vancomycin nor vancomycin + rifampin combination therapies, and merely treated by linezolid + rifampin combination, has been presented. Fifty-one years old female patient who was operated 40 days ago for subarachnoid bleeding and aneurysm in middle cerebral artery bifurcation, was hospitalized due to purulent leakage from the operation area. She did not have fever and her physical examination, including the neurologic system, was normal. Computerized tomography revealed an approximately 1 cm lesion compatible with subdural empyema and cerebral abscess in the right frontoparietal area in supratentorial sections. The patient was operated for wound revision and moxifloxacin was initiated. Since the operation materials revealed MRSA growth, vancomycin (4 x 500 mg, IV) was added to the treatment. The isolate was identified by conventional methods, and antibiotic susceptibility test performed by disk diffusion method showed that it was susceptible to levofloxacin, linezolid, rifampin, vancomycin and teicoplanin. Since no clinical response was obtained in two weeks, moxifloxacin was switched to rifampin (300 mg 1 x 2). On the 10th day of vancomycin + rifampin therapy, radiological findings showed development of cerebritis and therefore vancomycin was changed with linezolid (2 x 600 mg, IV). The control CT of the patient revealed regression of the brain lesion and linezolid + rifampin treatment continued for six weeks. The patient did not develop any hematological, liver or renal toxicity during the therapy and the radiological findings regressed. No relapse were detected in the one year follow-up period. This case suggested that linezolid might be a treatment alternative in the therapy of vancomycin-refractory MRSA brain abscess.
