In addition to its well-known expression in the germline and in cells of certain cancers, telomerase activity is induced in lung fibrosis, although its role in this process is unknown. To identify the pathogenetic importance of telomerase in lung fibrosis, we examined the effects of telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) deficiency in a murine model of pulmonary injury. TERT-deficient mice showed significantly reduced lung fibrosis following bleomycin (BLM) insult. This was accompanied by a significant reduction in expression of lung alpha-SMA, a marker of myofibroblast differentiation. Furthermore, lung fibroblasts isolated from BLM-treated TERT-deficient mice showed significantly decreased proliferation and increased apoptosis rates compared with cells isolated from control mice. Transplantation of WT BM into TERT-deficient mice restored BLM-induced lung telomerase activity and fibrosis to WT levels. Conversely, transplantation of BM from TERT-deficient mice into WT recipients resulted in reduced telomerase activity and fibrosis. These findings suggest that induction of telomerase in injured lungs may be caused by BM-derived cells, which appear to play an important role in pulmonary fibrosis. Moreover, TERT induction is associated with increased survival of lung fibroblasts, which favors the development of fibrosis instead of injury resolution.
The presented case report describes lifethreatening complications of pharmacological stress echocardiography with dobutamine. A 66-year old male suffered an acute anterior wall myocardial infarction during dobutamine atropine stress echocardiography. Symptoms and signs of myocardial infarction developed after maximal dobutamine-dose (40 micrograms/kg/min) and the additional application of atropine. Emergency coronary angiography revealed extensive coronary artery disease with proximal occlusion of the left anterior descending artery which was successfully recanalized. In a second patient ventricular fibrillation echocardiography and electrocardiographic signs of acute myocardial ischemia developed after high-dose dobutamine stress and required prolonged resuscitation. The possible mechanisms, incidence and risk of acute myocardial ischemia during dobutamine-atropine stress are discussed and compared to bicycle ergometry. The presented life threatening complications of dobutamine-atropine stressechocardiography emphasize the important of available and adequate emergency facilities.
Neurotoxicity is a serious complication following orthotopic liver transplantation leading to increased morbidity and mortality. Neurotoxicity may be evoked by various perioperative factors, or may be due to drug-specific toxicity of immunosuppression. In the present study we evaluated the incidence of central nervous system (CNS) toxicity occurring within the early postoperative period of 121 patients, 61 randomly assigned to FK 506- and 60 to CsA-based immunosuppression as part of a multicentre study. The incidence of moderate or severe CNS toxicity was higher in patients treated with FK 506 (21.3%) than in patients receiving CsA (11.7%). The duration of symptoms was also greater in patients treated with FK 506 than in patients receiving CsA. The incidence of moderate or severe neurotoxicity after retransplantation was markedly greater in patients treated with FK 506 (100% of the patients).
The goal of this study was to investigate neuronal-glial cell signaling in trigeminal ganglia under basal and inflammatory conditions using an in vivo model of trigeminal nerve activation.
Activation of trigeminal ganglion nerves and release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are implicated in the pathology of migraine. Cell bodies of trigeminal neurons reside in the ganglion in close association with glial cells. Neuron-glia interactions are involved in all stages of inflammation and pain associated with several central nervous system (CNS) diseases. However, the role of neuron-glia interactions within the trigeminal ganglion under normal and inflammatory conditions is not known.
Sprague-Dawley rats were utilized to study neuron-glia signaling in the trigeminal ganglion. Initially, True Blue was used as a retrograde tracer to localize neuronal cell bodies in the ganglion by fluorescent microscopy and multiple image alignment. Dye-coupling studies were conducted under basal conditions and in response to capsaicin injection into the TMJ capsule. S100B and p38 expression in neurons and glia were determined by immunohistochemistry following chemical stimulation. CGRP levels in the ganglion were measured by radioimmunoassay in response to capsaicin. In addition, the effect of CGRP on the release of 19 different cytokines from cultured glial cells was investigated by protein microarray analysis.
In unstimulated control animals, True Blue was detected primarily in neuronal cell bodies localized in clusters within the ganglion corresponding to the V3 region (TMJ capsule), V2 region (whisker pad), or V1 region (eyebrow and eye). However, True Blue was detected in both neuronal cell bodies and adjacent glia in the V3 region of the ganglion obtained from animals injected with capsaicin. Dye movement into the surrounding glia correlated with the time after capsaicin injection. Chemical stimulation of V3 trigeminal nerves was found to increase the expression of the inflammatory proteins S100B and p38 in both neurons and glia within the V3 region. Unexpectedly, increased levels of these proteins were also observed in the V2 and V1 regions of the ganglion. CGRP and the vesicle docking protein SNAP-25 were colocalized in many neuronal cell bodies and processes. Decreased CGRP levels in the ganglion were observed 2 hours following capsaicin stimulation. Using protein microarray analysis, CGRP was shown to differentially regulate cytokine secretion from cultured trigeminal ganglion glia.
We demonstrated that activation of trigeminal neurons leads to changes in adjacent glia that involve communication through gap junctions and paracrine signaling. This is the first evidence, to our knowledge, of neuron-glia signaling via gap junctions within the trigeminal ganglion. Based on our findings, it is likely that neuronal-glial communication via gap junctions and paracrine signaling are involved in the development of peripheral sensitization within the trigeminal ganglion and, thus, are likely to play an important role in the initiation of migraine. Furthermore, we propose that propagation of inflammatory signals within the ganglion may help to explain commonly reported symptoms of comorbid conditions associated with migraine.
We investigated whether a selective angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) would have a regressive effect on left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). In a double-blind study, 24 CAPD patients with LVH [left ventricular mass index (LVMi) > 110 g/m2 for women and LVMi > 137 g/m2 for men] were randomized to 12 months' administration of either the ARB valsartan (n = 14) or a placebo (n = 10). The target blood pressure (BP) was 140/90 mmHg or lower in both groups. The following parameters were measured before and at the end of the study: aortic and large-artery compliance and arterial wave reflections [pulse wave velocity (PWV) and augmentation index (AI) application tonometry] and cardiac echocardiography. Periodically recorded were body weight, BP (mercury sphygmomanometer), serum creatinine, electrolytes, complete blood cell counts, urine volume, drainage volume, and weekly creatinine clearance. Two-way analysis of variance for repeated measurements was used for statistical analysis. Systolic and diastolic BP were both reduced in patients treated with ARB. The LVMi was significantly reduced in patients treated with ARB (to 121 +/- 4 from 145 +/- 5) but not in those receiving placebo (to 137 +/- 3 from 152 +/- 3, p < 0.05). The decrease in LVMi was associated with a reduction in PWV and AI. In CAPD patients with LVH, ARB reduced LVMi in association with alterations in arterial hemodynamics.
A phase I trial of a 24-hour infusion of paclitaxel was conducted to identify the maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in patients with unresectable malignancy previously untreated with chemotherapy. Nineteen patients with metastatic melanoma or non-small cell lung cancer were treated with paclitaxel administered at 250, 300, 400 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. G-CSF, 5 microg/kg was given as a daily subcutaneous injection 24 hours after the completion of the infusion. Dose limiting myelosuppression and peripheral neuropathy was observed at 400 mg/m2 and 350 mg/m2. Paclitaxel can be safely administered as a 24-hour infusion at 300 mg/m2 with G-CSF. Further studies of paclitaxel and G-CSF are recommended to determine a dose-response relationship in sensitive tumors.
Pulse cyclophosphamide is the treatment of choice for severe lupus nephritis. However, not all patients respond to this therapy, and gonadal toxicity is of particular concern. Cyclophosphamide is a prodrug that requires activation by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. We conducted a retrospective cohort study to test whether genetic polymorphisms of these enzymes are associated with the toxicity of, and clinical response to, cyclophosphamide in patients with lupus nephritis.
Sixty-two patients with proliferative lupus nephritis treated with cyclophosphamide were genotyped for common variant alleles of CYP2B6, 2C19, 2C9, and 3A5. We examined the association between these genotypes and the following clinical end points: development of premature ovarian failure, end-stage renal disease (ESRD), doubling of serum creatinine level, and achievement of complete renal response.
The observed frequencies of the variant alleles CYP2B6*5, CYP2C19*2, CYP2C9*2, and CYP3A5*3 were 12.1%, 25.0%, 4.0%, and 75.8%, respectively. Patients who were either heterozygous or homozygous for CYP2C19*2 had a significantly lower risk of developing premature ovarian failure (relative risk 0.10; 95% confidence interval 0.02-0.52), after adjustment for age and total number of cyclophosphamide pulses received. In a survival analysis, patients homozygous for CYP2B6*5 (n = 3) or CYP2C19*2 (n = 4) had a higher probability of reaching ESRD (P = 0.0005) and of doubling the creatinine level (P = 0.0005) as well as a trend toward a lower probability of achieving a complete renal response (P = 0.051).
Determination of selected cytochrome P450 enzyme genotypes may be valuable for predicting the risk of premature ovarian failure in lupus nephritis patients treated with cyclophosphamide. The association of these genotypes with renal response needs further validation.
DRESS syndrome (drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) is a rare drug hypersensitivity reaction with a significant mortality. We describe a 60-year-old man with polyarthritis treated with sulfasalazine who developed DRESS and fulminant liver failure after additional vancomycin treatment. Liver histology revealed infiltration of granzymeB+ CD3+ lymphocytes in close proximity to apoptotic hepatocytes. After a superurgent liver transplantation and initial recovery, the patient developed recurrent generalized exanthema and eosinophilia, but only moderate hepatitis. Histology showed infiltration of FasL+ lymphocytes and eosinophils in the transplanted liver. Treatment with high-dose methylprednisolone was unsuccessful. Postmortem examination revealed extensive necrosis of the liver transplant. This case report illustrates that patients with DRESS may develop fulminant liver failure and that DRESS recurrence can recur in the transplanted liver. Histological and immunological investigations suggest an important role of granzymeB and FasL mediated cell death in DRESS associated hepatitis.
Abnormal splicing of LMNA gene or aberrant processing of prelamin A results in progeroid syndrome. Here we show that lamin A interacts with and activates SIRT1. SIRT1 exhibits reduced association with nuclear matrix (NM) and decreased deacetylase activity in the presence of progerin or prelamin A, leading to rapid depletion of adult stem cells (ASCs) in Zmpste24(-/-) mice. Resveratrol enhances the binding between SIRT1 and A-type lamins to increases its deacetylase activity. Resveratrol treatment rescues ASC decline, slows down body weight loss, improves trabecular bone structure and mineral density, and significantly extends the life span in Zmpste24(-/-) mice. Our data demonstrate lamin A as an activator of SIRT1 and provide a mechanistic explanation for the activation of SIRT1 by resveratrol. The link between conserved SIRT1 longevity pathway and progeria suggests a stem cell-based and SIRT1 pathway-dependent therapeutic strategy for progeria.
Aphanizomenon flos-aquae (A. flos-aquae), a cyanobacterium frequently encountered in water blooms worldwide, is source of neurotoxins known as PSPs or aphantoxins that present a major threat to the environment and to human health. Although the molecular mechanism of PSP action is well known, many unresolved questions remain concerning its mechanisms of toxicity. Aphantoxins purified from a natural isolate of A. flos-aquae DC-1 were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), the major component toxins were the gonyautoxins1 and 5 (GTX1 and GTX5, 34.04% and 21.28%, respectively) and the neosaxitoxin (neoSTX, 12.77%). The LD50 of the aphantoxin preparation was determined to be 11.33 μg/kg (7.75 μg saxitoxin equivalents (STXeq) per kg) following intraperitoneal injection of zebrafish (Danio rerio). To address the neurotoxicology of the aphantoxin preparation, zebrafish were injected with low and high sublethal doses of A. flos-aquae DC-1 toxins 7.73 and 9.28 μg /kg (5.3 and 6.4 μg STXeq/kg, respectively) and brain tissues were analyzed by electron microscopy and RT-PCR at different timepoints postinjection. Low-dose aphantoxin exposure was associated with chromatin condensation, cell-membrane blebbing, and the appearance of apoptotic bodies. High-dose exposure was associated with cytoplasmic vacuolization, mitochondrial swelling, and expansion of the endoplasmic reticulum. At early timepoints (3 h) many cells exhibited characteristic features of both apoptosis and necrosis. At later timepoints apoptosis appeared to predominate in the low-dose group, whereas necrosis predominated in the high-dose group. RT-PCR revealed that mRNA levels of the apoptosis-related genes encoding p53, Bax, caspase-3, and c-Jun were upregulated after aphantoxin exposure, but there was no evidence of DNA laddering; apoptosis could take place by pathways independent of DNA fragmentation. These results demonstrate that aphantoxin exposure can cause cell death in zebrafish brain tissue, with low doses inducing apoptosis and higher doses inducing necrosis.
Edatrexate (10-Edam) is a methotrexate analog with improved intracellular transport, polyglutamation, and antitumor activity compared to the parent compound. Edatrexate shows schedule-dependent synergism with platinum compounds in preclinical studies. We performed a phase I trial to determine toxicities and establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of edatrexate in combination with carboplatin. Based on the short initial plasma half-life of edatrexate, prophylactic ice chip cryotherapy was used to reduce the severity of mucositis.
Forty-six chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced solid tumors were treated. Edatrexate was given weekly for 5 doses (50% on day 8), and then every other week, followed by carboplatin at a fixed dose of 350 mg/m2 on day 1 and then every 4 weeks for 8 cycles. Edatrexate dose was increased at increments of 10 mg/m2/dose level beginning at 60 mg/m2/week (range 60-120 mg/m2).
All patients were assessable for toxicity and response analysis. The median number of cycles administered per patients was 4. This combination chemotherapy regimen was well tolerated. Using ice chip cryotherapy, no grade IV mucositis was observed. Grade III mucositis occurred in only 7/46 pts and was not dose-related. Protocol-defined dose-limiting toxicity occurred at a edatrexate dose level of 120 mg/m2, yielding an MTD of 110 mg/m2. Responding tumor types included non-small cell and small lung cancer, head and neck cancer, and bladder cancer.
1 ) This phase I study demonstrated the safety and tolerability of this edatrexate and carboplatin combination. 2) Dose-limiting mucositis did not occur allowing escalation of edatrexate dose above levels previously achieved with this edatrexate dose schedule. This was most likely a result of prophylactic ice chip cryotherapy. 3) An edatrexate dose of 110 mg/m2 with ice chip cryotherapy is recommended for Phase II trials of this combination.
Fifteen patients with Stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer gave informed consent to receive three or more 96-hour infusions of ATP at a dose of 50 mcg/kg/min or higher to determine whether ATP has antineoplastic activity against this tumor type and to better define the spectrum of toxicity for ATP given as a single agent. There were no objective complete or partial responses observed. The median survival of the overall group was 187 days and the median time to tumor progression was 113 days. The major toxic side effects were chest pain and dyspnea, leading to the cessation of treatment in 5 patients. We conclude that ATP at this dose and schedule of administration is an inactive agent in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Delayed selective nerve cell death as seen in the hippocampal CA1 area of gerbils after transient forebrain ischemia goes along with neuronal hyperactivity and an early demonstrable accumulation of calcium in circumscribed groups of nerve cells. Application of NMDA receptor-blockers such as MK 801 prevents neuronal damage. This suggests the involvement of NMDA receptors which are operated by glutamate and known to mediate a special Ca2+ influx required also for establishing sustained enhancement of synaptic efficacy. Thus, the excessive postischemic accumulation of calcium, thought to be instrumental in the generation of nerve cell death, seems to result from turning on a dangerous, but primarily physiological mechanism which ran out of control. We studied the endogenous control mechanisms by which the firing pattern of nerve cells and the initiation of NMDA receptor-mediated neuronal Ca2+ influx are controlled focusing in particular on the role of adenosine. This nucleoside is released from nerve- and glial cells in larger amounts after ischemia. It counteracts at increased extracellular concentration the generation of burst discharges, an effect which is ascribed to a modulation of the dendritic membrane properties. Removal of a possible action of endogenous adenosine by receptor antagonists such as theophylline was found to enhance postischemic nerve cell death. This together with other reported experimental evidences points to a protective action of this nucleoside in the brain. The presumed mechanisms by which this effect is achieved were studied in a rat hippocampal slice using ion selective electrodes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study was performed to evaluate the risk of gallstone formation during long-term treatment with the long-acting somatostatin analog octreotide (SMS 201-995). Twelve patients (8 men, 4 women--mean age 43 years) treated with continuous subcutaneous octreotide infusion for acromegaly (mean duration 26.5 months, mean dose 541 micrograms/day) were included. Bile collection by duodenal intubation was performed before, during, and 45 days after octreotide treatment in 3, 12, and 8 patients, respectively. Abdominal ultrasonography and/or oral cholecystrography were also performed before (n = 9 patients), during (n = 12), and after treatment (n = 10). Bile examination was normal in the 3 patients controlled before treatment but showed that 58.3 percent of the treated patients had cholesterol monohydrate crystals. After discontinuation of octreotide only 25 percent of patients had cholesterol crystals. In 3 patients (25 percent) treated longer than 6 months, cholesterol crystals occurred prior to the occurrence of small radiolucent gallstones: one patient underwent cholecystectomy because of biliary colic, while in the two others, complete dissolution of stones was obtained after 10 months of treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid given in association with octreotide. None of the 9 other acromegalic patients (including 7 treated more than 20 months) developed stones. Cholesterol gallstone formation seems to be increased in acromegalic patients during long-term octreotide treatment but the exact incidence remains to be determined in larger series of patients.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a chronic, prevalent, and highly debilitating psychiatric illness. Folic acid has been shown to have antidepressant-like effects in preclinical and clinical studies and has also been suggested to play a role in BD. The present work investigates the therapeutic value of folic acid supplementation in a preclinical animal model of mania induced by ouabain.
Male Wistar rats were treated twice daily for seven days with folic acid (10, 50, and 100 mg/kg, p.o.) or the mood stabilizer lithium chloride (LiCl) (45 mg/kg, p.o.). One day after the last dose was given, the animals received an i.c.v. injection of ouabain (10 microM), a Na(+),K(+)-ATPase-inhibiting compound. Locomotor activity was assessed in the open-field test. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) levels, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and glutathione reductase (GR) activities were measured in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus.
Ouabain (10 microM, i.c.v.) significantly increased motor activity in the open-field test, and seven days of pretreatment with folic acid (50 mg/kg, p.o.) or LiCl (45 mg/kg, p.o.) completely prevented this effect. Ouabain treatment elicited lipid peroxidation (increased TBARS levels) and reduced GPx activity in the hippocampus. GR activity was decreased in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. These effects were prevented by pretreatment with folic acid and LiCl.
Our results show that folic acid, similarly to LiCl, produces a clear antimanic action and prevents the neurochemical alterations indicative of oxidative stress in an animal model of mania.
G-protein receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) is 1 of 7 mammalian GRKs that phosphorylate ligand-bound 7-transmembrane receptors, causing receptor uncoupling from G proteins and potentially activating non-G-protein signaling pathways. GRK2 is unique among members of the GRK family in that its genetic ablation causes embryonic lethality. Cardiac abnormalities in GRK2 null embryos implicated GRK2 in cardiac development but prevented studies of the knockout phenotype in adult hearts. Here, we created GRK2-loxP-targeted mice and used Cre recombination to generate germline and cardiac-specific GRK2 knockouts. GRK2 deletion in the preimplantation embryo with EIIa-Cre (germline null) resulted in developmental retardation and embryonic lethality between embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5) and E11.5. At E9.5, cardiac myocyte specification and cardiac looping were normal, but ventricular development was delayed. Cardiomyocyte-specific ablation of GRK2 in the embryo with Nkx2.5-driven Cre (cardiac-specific GRK2 knockout) produced viable mice with normal heart structure, function, and cardiac gene expression. Cardiac-specific GRK2 knockout mice exhibited enhanced inotropic sensitivity to the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol, with impairment of normal inotropic and lusitropic tachyphylaxis, and exhibited accelerated development of catecholamine toxicity with chronic isoproterenol treatment. These findings show that cardiomyocyte autonomous GRK2 is not essential for myocardial development after cardiac specification, suggesting that embryonic developmental abnormalities may be attributable to extracardiac effects of GRK2 ablation. In the adult heart, cardiac GRK2 is a major factor regulating inotropic and lusitropic tachyphylaxis to beta-adrenergic agonist, which likely contributes to its protective effects in catecholamine cardiomyopathy.
Three patients had iatrogenic muscle fibrosis, without weakness or sensory loss. Deltoid muscle fibrosis produced the unique clinical sign of gradual, involuntary, and irreducible arm levitation. The third patient had both levitated arms and levitated legs, a result of injections in the rectus femoris muscles. Repeated intramuscular injections apparently resulted in muscle fibrosis and intramuscular nerve-twig damage. Pentazocine (Talwin) is a particularly offending agent. One patient showed an unusual tissue reaction to foreign material, which may have played a role in her muscle fibrosis. Nevertheless, dramatic recovery of muscle function followed surgical sectioning of the fibrous deltoid bands.
Keeping pre-transplant patients alive while waiting for a suitable donor to be found is still a major challenge. New pharmacological agents which can provide improved hemodynamics are urgently needed in patients with severe heart failure who are on the waiting list for cardiac transplantation. Intravenous enoximone therapy (an initial 0.5 mg/kg bolus, then 1.25-5.0 mcg/kg/min infusion) was administered to 18 transplant candidates with heart failure progression despite optimal drug regimen including digoxin, diuretics, and ACE-inhibitors. Complete hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and neurohumoral studies were performed before and 24 h after intravenous enoximone infusion. Enoximone infusion increased cardiac index (1.78 +/- 0.45 l/min/qm vs. 3.04 +/- 0.83 l/min/qm; p < 0.001) and stroke volume index (22.33 +/- 9.45 ml/qm vs. 32.28 +/- 7.29 ml/qm; p < 0.05) and decreased wedge pressure (24.1 +/- 11.98 mmHg vs. 17.78 +/- 8.76 mmHg; p < 0.05) and systemic vascular resistance (1700.8 +/- 555.8 dyn x s x cm-5 vs. 952.8 +/- 384.0 dyn x s x cm-5; p < 0.001). Heart rate and mean arterial pressure were unchanged. Left ventricular ejection time (225.1 +/- 26.9 ms vs. 242.2 +/- 25.8 ms; p < 0.05) was increased, whereas other echocardiographic parameters were unchanged (left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, left ventricular end-systolic dimension, fractional shortening, early diastolic relaxation parameter Te). Plasma neurohumoral parameters did not change (aldosterone, epinephrine, renin, atrial natriuretic factor) except for a significant drop of norepinephrine (936.7 +/- 443.2 pg/ml vs. 522.4 +/- 287.6 pg/ml; p < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Twelve patients with severe heart failure (NYHA class III-IV) were investigated by intraindividual comparison for the hemodynamic and neurohumoral effects of dopamine (3 and 6 micrograms/kg/min), enoximone (8 micrograms/kg/min), and the combination of both medications (dopamine 3 micrograms/kg/min+enoximone 8 micrograms/kg/min) using right heart catheterization. The duration of active treatment was 8 h for each substance with a subsequent washout time of 16 h. Dopamine led to a dose-dependent increase in cardiac index of 10-13% and 18-37% under 3 and 6 micrograms/kg/min, respectively (p < 0.001). Enoximone monotherapy produced a comparable increase in cardiac index between 27 and 32% (p < 0.001). Enoximone, but not dopamine, resulted in a significant decrease in mean pulmonary artery pressure (21-26%; p < 0.01), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (24-30%; p < 0.01), and right atrial mean pressure (26-28%; p < 0.001). The systemic vascular resistance was without significant changes at low-dose dopamine therapy, decreased by 10-19% insignificantly at a dose of 6 micrograms/kg/min, and reached the level of significance with enoximone therapy (-20 to -25%; p < 0.001). There was a highly significant decrease by 49-55% in systemic vascular resistance with enoximone (p < 0.001), in contrast to dopamine. Heart rate and blood pressure remained without significant changes at low-dose dopamine, with the heart rate increasing significantly by 25% at a dose of 6 micrograms/kg/min within the first 2 h (p < 0.01). Enoximone produced a heart rate increase by 8-13% (being significant after 2 h; p < 0.05) with no changes in blood pressure. The combination therapy with dopamine and enoximone led to an additive increase in cardiac index by 35-43% (p < 0.001), a decrease in right atrial mean pressure by 28-36% (p < 0.01), a decrease in systemic vascular resistance by 27-30% (p < 0.01) and in pulmonary vascular resistance by 46-51%. An additive effect on heart rate was not observed. The respective monotherapies with low-dose dopamine and enoximone had no remarkable effect on plasma catecholamines, while dopamine at a dose of 6 micrograms/kg/min and combination therapy led to a significant increase in noradrenaline levels. There was a highly significant decrease in the plasma concentration of the atrial natriuretic factor under enoximone and combination therapy (p < 0.001) as well as a significant decrease in aldosterone (0 < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To determine the feasibility of T2-weighted BOLD imaging for estimating regional myocardial oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) and approximating perfusion reserve (MPR) simultaneously in a canine model with moderate coronary artery stenosis.
Eight mongrel dogs with moderate coronary artery stenosis underwent BOLD imaging at rest and during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia, using a turbo spin echo (TSE) sequence. Based on a two-compartment model, myocardial OEF(hyperemia) was calculated with the corresponding T2. MPR could be approximated based on Fick's law.
During responsive hyperemia, a regional hypointensity was observed in the abnormally perfused myocardium, reflecting a relatively smaller myocardial T2 increase (3.06% +/- 2.74%, in contrast to 10.19% +/- 4.12% in the normal region). The average OEFs in the normally and abnormally perfused myocardial territories were 0.21 +/- 0.11 and 0.43 +/- 0.12, respectively. For the MPR approximated from the BOLD imaging, a strong correlation (R = 0.9) in the normal myocardium and a good correlation (R = 0.6) distal to the stenosis were obtained compared to microsphere results.
In a canine model with moderate coronary artery stenosis, TSE-based BOLD imaging can quantitatively estimate the regional OEF(hyperemia) and approximate the MPR, and can distinguish segments perfused by defected coronary artery.
The phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone has both vasodilating and positive inotropic pharmacological properties. The balance between vasodilation and positive inotropism may be different between the various types of heart failure as well as the various stages of heart failure. Therefore, we investigated the effect of intravenous application of enoximone (1 mg/kg body weight) in a cohort of patients (n = 10) suffering from acute or subacute heart failure mainly due to ischemia or hypoxia. All patients had high left ventricular filling pressure, low cardiac output and were pretreated with intravenous dobutamine. Enoximone increased cardiac output from 3.2 +/- 1.2 to 5.5 +/- 2.2 l/min, increased heart rate from 94 +/- 20 to 100 +/- 18 beats/min, decreased systemic peripheral resistance from 1770 +/- 861 to 931 +/- 340 dyn.sec.cm-5 and decreased pulmonary wedge pressure from 24 +/- 5 to 20 +/- 6 mmHg, significantly. However, systolic aortic pressure, systolic pulmonary pressure and right atrial pressure were not significantly altered. We conclude that in a selected group of patients enoximone-given intravenously and acutely in the intensive care unity-can induce beneficial effects on central hemodynamics without critical falls in perfusion pressure.
Hoigne's syndrome is a pseudoanaphylactic or pseudoallergic reaction that occurs after intramuscular administration of penicillin G procaine or benzathine. These are usually embolic toxic reactions possibly due to vascular occlusion by large crystals of the penicillin salts. We report a case of Hoigne's syndrome.
A 44-year-old woman received 1,200,000 U.I. of intramuscular procaine penicillin once daily for treatment of acute amygdalitis. Immediately after the second dose the patient developed mental confusion, visual and auditory hallucinations, perceived changes of body shape, swelling of the tongue and a fear of impending death. Penicillin allergy study (serum-specific IgE levels, skin tests and provocation test) was performed. The diagnosis of Hoigne's syndrome was confirmed by negative oral challenge test with penicillin.
Hoigne's syndrome is a pseudoanaphylactic reaction that must be differentiated from authentic anaphylactic shock due to penicillin. This distinction allows treatment to be continued in Hoigne's syndrome, whereas it is contraindicated in anaphylactic shock.
Emesis is one of the most frequent and distressing adverse effects of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Conventional antiemetic regimens are unsatisfactory due to their poor efficacy and their adverse events, particularly in children. Tropisetron (Navoban; Sandoz Pharma Ltd, Basel, Switzerland) belongs to a new class of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor antagonists with antiemetic effectiveness in patients receiving anticancer agents. We evaluated tropisetron (0.2 mg/kg/d) in 24 chemotherapy-treated children who had experienced severe emesis during previous chemotherapy courses in spite of concomitant administration of either alizapride or metoclopramide. Complete control of emesis was achieved in 70% of the courses (37% of those including cisplatin). No severe adverse effect was reported. Headache was observed in two courses and constipation was observed during two other courses. Tropisetron proved clearly superior to conventional antiemetics and safe in use.
To study the influence of corticosteroid and beta 2-agonist on eosinophil and T lymphocyte functioning state in the asthmatics, we measured the serum ECP sIL-2R levels and airway reactivity before and after 6-week treatment with beclometasone and terbutalin. The result revealed that after inhalation of steroid, the serum ECP sIL-2R levels decreased, whereas the lung function improved and MCH-PC20 values increased. It suggested that steroid could inhibit activation of eosinophil and T lymphocyte as well as show the effect of anti-inflammation and reducing AHR.
Breast cancer is a serious illness affecting approximately one in nine women in the United States. Although an actual cause for breast cancer is unknown, genetic and environmental factors have been associated with its onset. Elevated levels of estrogen and heightened expression of the WNT10B proto-oncogene have been implicated in the development of human malignant breast tumors because they enhance the proliferation of mammary tissue. Two pyrethroid insecticides, sumithrin and fenvalerate, have been shown to mimic estrogenic activity in MCF-7 human breast carcinoma cells by inducing pS2 expression whereas two other pyrethroids, permethrin and d-trans allethrin do not have the same capability. To investigate if estrogen and these four pyrethroid insecticides could affect the expression of a gene related to mammary gland development, WNT10B expression in pyrethroid-treated MCF-7 cells was examined. MCF-7 cells under normal growth conditions do not express WNT10B. Reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), nested PCR and Southern hybridization were employed to detect WNT10B expression. As controls, cells were treated with either ethanol, corn oil, or Vista LPA solvent. When compared to the solvent-treated controls, sumithrin, fenvalerate and estrogen treated MCF-7 cells all had increased levels of WNT10B expression. The non-estrogenic pyrethroids, d-trans allethrin and permethrin, demonstrated a similar elevation of WNT10B expression at a lower concentration, but not at the higher concentration. The results suggest that pyrethroid insecticides and estrogen can enhance the expression of the WNT10B proto-oncogene. However, since both the estrogenic and non-estrogenic substances amplified Wnt10B expression, the mechanism likely involves multiple distinct pathways.
A young woman taking tranylcypromine for depression was hospitalized with severe chest pain and hypertension after eating cheese. Electrocardiography initially showed arrhythmias and precordial ST segment depression. Myocardial creatine kinase values were elevated, and echocardiography showed regional ventricular dysfunction, suggestive of focal cardiac myonecrosis. The cardiovascular pathophysiology of tyramine hypertensive crisis and related catecholamine excess states, including pheochromocytoma and clonidine withdrawal, is reviewed. Cardiac myonecrosis is a potential adverse effect of the hypertensive crisis associated with monoamine oxidase inhibitor use. Psychiatric indications for monoamine oxidase inhibitors may be expanding, but clinicians should continue to exercise caution in the use of these agents.
