Microcystin-LR (MC-LR) is a potent heptapeptide hepatotoxin at high doses, but its underlying mechanism of promoting liver cell proliferation at low doses is unclear. The transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is key in mediating the protective antioxidant response against various environmental toxicants, but emerging data suggest that constitutive activation of Nrf2 contributes to a malignant phenotype. The purpose of this study was to characterize the interactions and effects of Nrf2 activation on cell proliferation induced by MC-LR treatment. Treatment of HepG2 and Hep3B cells with MC-LR resulted in significant increases in Nrf2-ARE binding activities in the nuclear fractions and upregulation of its downstream genes HO-1 and NQO1. A possible mechanism may be that MC-LR binds to the cytosolic regulator protein Keap1 to liberate Nrf2. Nrf2 knockdown inhibited MC-LR-induced cell proliferation and cell cycle progression. Together, these results indicate that MC-LR-induced upregulation of Nrf2 in cancer cells promotes liver cancer cell growth and suggest a positive role of Nrf2 in tumorigenesis.
Increased anxiety is one of the symptoms of nicotine withdrawal that may lead to relapse. Previous studies have shown that nicotine withdrawal affects anxiety-like behavior in different tests of anxiety in humans and rats. However, relatively few studies have focused on the anxiogenic effect of nicotine withdrawal in mice. The present study investigated the effect of nicotine withdrawal on anxiety-like behavior in DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mouse strains in the light-dark box, acoustic startle response, and prepulse inhibition tests. An initial experiment showed that nicotine administration of 12 or 24 mg/kg/day (free base) for 14 days did not result in significant effects during withdrawal in startle, prepulse inhibition, or light-dark box, but there was a trend towards an anxiogenic effect in the light-dark box 24 h, but not 1 or 4 h, after cessation of nicotine administration. A subsequent study was therefore performed, with minipumps delivering saline, 24 mg/kg/day nicotine, or 48 mg/kg/day nicotine (free base), for 14 days. The pumps were removed, and the mice were tested 24 h after cessation of nicotine administration. Cessation of administration of 48 mg/kg/day nicotine free base in C57BL/6J mice resulted in increased anxiety-like behavior in the light-dark box, while the behavior of DBA/2J mice was unaffected. The acoustic startle response and prepulse inhibition were also unaffected in both strains. In conclusion, the present data show that nicotine withdrawal is mildly anxiogenic in C57BL/6J mice under the conditions used in the present experiments.
In postmenopausal rheumatoid arthritis (RA), both estrogen deficiency and the inflammatory disease contribute to the development of generalized osteoporosis. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) with estradiol preserves bone mineral density (BMD) and ameliorates arthritis, but long-term therapy is no longer an option due to significant side effects. We therefore used a mouse model of human RA to test the hypothesis that a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM), the raloxifene analog LY117018, could be beneficial in the treatment of both arthritis and osteoporosis.
Female DBA/1 mice were ovariectomized and arthritis was induced with collagen immunization. Mice received an injection of raloxifene, estradiol, or vehicle control, administered prophylactically or therapeutically, and thereafter the clinical arthritis score was evaluated continuously. At termination, BMD was analyzed with peripheral quantitative computed tomography. Paws were collected for histology, and sera were analyzed for cytokines and markers of bone and cartilage turnover. Levels of cytokine messenger RNA (mRNA) were investigated with real-time polymerase chain reaction.
Treatment with raloxifene dramatically decreased the frequency and severity of arthritis. Effective preservation of bone and cartilage was seen in raloxifene-exposed mice, as demonstrated by increased BMD and decreased serum levels of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein in the raloxifene-treated mice compared with controls. Decreased levels of mRNA for both tumor necrosis factor alpha and RANKL in spleen cells from raloxifene-treated arthritic mice indicated an immunosuppressive action of this SERM.
In a well-established model of postmenopausal RA, the raloxifene analog LY117018 potently inhibits the progression of arthritis and the associated development of osteoporosis, both in a prophylactic and in a therapeutic regimen. Since long-term HRT has been associated with significant side effects, raloxifene may be a useful adjuvant treatment for postmenopausal RA.
We treated eight patients who had inclusion body myositis (IBM) with oral prednisone therapy, and we performed muscle biopsies before and after treatment. We documented the patients' clinical response to therapy and changes in serum CK. Although the serum CK level fell, muscle strength worsened after prednisone treatment. In addition, while inflammation decreased in the muscle biopsy specimens, the number of vacuolated and amyloid-positive fibers increased after oral prednisone therapy. These observations indicate that the inflammatory response in IBM may play a secondary role in the pathogenesis of IBM. The unique findings of intracellular amyloid deposits and rimmed vacuoles distinguishing IBM from other inflammatory myopathies, and recognition that suppression of inflammation has no effect on the clinical course, suggest that IBM may represent a degenerative muscle disorder.
Indinavir plasma levels are associated with antiretroviral efficacy; however, little data are available regarding toxicity. We assessed the relationship between indinavir pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics and severe nephrolithiasis as well as other severe or serious adverse reactions. Patients included in the ANRS CO8 APROCO-COPILOTE cohort and receiving 800 mg indinavir three times daily as a first-line protease inhibitor were eligible for this study. To be included in the analysis, their plasma sample at month 1 (M1) had to be available (n = 282) to estimate using population PK modeling, indinavir PK characteristics, ie, maximum (Cmax) and trough plasma (Cres) concentrations, area under the curve (AUC), and observed/predicted concentration ratio (CR). A Cox model was used to estimate the independent effect of Cmax, Cres, AUC, and CR on the hazard of severe nephrolithiasis and serious adverse reactions. At M1, median Cmax was 6205 ng/mL, Cres 631 ng/mL, AUC 24,242 ng . h/mL, and CR 0.6. After a median follow up of 12 months, 11% of patients (30 of 282) had experienced at least one serious adverse reaction among which 12 were nephrolithiasis. In the multivariate analyses, early high indinavir Cres (ie, >/=1000 ng/mL at M1) was associated with a higher rate of severe nephrolithiasis (hazard ratio = 6.7; 95% confidence interval = 1.8-25.2; P < 0.01) and was also associated with a higher rate of all serious adverse reactions but only when nephrolithiasis were included among those cases. Prospective and early indinavir Cres determination should be recommended in the patient's care management and dosage adjustments.
Biliary pseudolithiasis has been reported in patients who received ceftriaxone therapy. In addition to biliary sludge formation occasional reports of ceftriaxone-induced nephrolithiasis have been published. In general, these adverse effects will develop after seven to ten days of treatment. We report on a seven-year-old boy with ceftriaxone-associated biliary pseudolithiasis and nephrolithiasis four days after initiation of treatment. Patients receiving a high dose of ceftriaxone and developing colicky abdominal pain should be considered for ultrasound and a change in antibiotic therapy if appropriate.
A pivotal mediator of actin dynamics is the protein cofilin, which promotes filament severing and depolymerization, facilitating the breakdown of existing filaments, and the enhancement of filament growth from newly created barbed ends. It does so in concert with actin interacting protein 1 (Aip1), which serves to accelerate cofilin's activity. While progress has been made in understanding its biochemical functions, the physiologic processes the cofilin/Aip1 complex regulates, particularly in higher organisms, are yet to be determined. We have generated an allelic series for WD40 repeat protein 1 (Wdr1), the mammalian homolog of Aip1, and report that reductions in Wdr1 function produce a dramatic phenotype gradient. While severe loss of function at the Wdr1 locus causes embryonic lethality, macrothrombocytopenia and autoinflammatory disease develop in mice carrying hypomorphic alleles. Macrothrombocytopenia is the result of megakaryocyte maturation defects, which lead to a failure of normal platelet shedding. Autoinflammatory disease, which is bone marrow-derived yet nonlymphoid in origin, is characterized by a massive infiltration of neutrophils into inflammatory lesions. Cytoskeletal responses are impaired in Wdr1 mutant neutrophils. These studies establish an essential requirement for Wdr1 in megakaryocytes and neutrophils, indicating that cofilin-mediated actin dynamics are critically important to the development and function of both cell types.
Blood pressure is a major cardiovascular disease risk factor. To date, few variants associated with interindividual blood pressure variation have been identified and replicated. Here we report results of a genome-wide association study of systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure and hypertension in the CHARGE Consortium (n = 29,136), identifying 13 SNPs for SBP, 20 for DBP and 10 for hypertension at P < 4 × 10(-7). The top ten loci for SBP and DBP were incorporated into a risk score; mean BP and prevalence of hypertension increased in relation to the number of risk alleles carried. When ten CHARGE SNPs for each trait were included in a joint meta-analysis with the Global BPgen Consortium (n = 34,433), four CHARGE loci attained genome-wide significance (P < 5 × 10(-8)) for SBP (ATP2B1, CYP17A1, PLEKHA7, SH2B3), six for DBP (ATP2B1, CACNB2, CSK-ULK3, SH2B3, TBX3-TBX5, ULK4) and one for hypertension (ATP2B1). Identifying genes associated with blood pressure advances our understanding of blood pressure regulation and highlights potential drug targets for the prevention or treatment of hypertension.
To determine the incidence of early cardiotoxicity induced by the CHOP regimen in patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and to identify associated risk factors.
A retrospective analysis included 135 consecutive patients who had been treated with the CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristin, prednisone) regimen as first-line therapy between 1994 and 2000. The cardiac evaluation was based on a determination of the resting left ventricular ejection function (LVEF) by gated blood-pool imaging. Cardiotoxicity was defined as a significant decrease in LVEF or clinical evidence of congestive heart failure (CHF).
Twenty-seven (20%) patients developed a cardiac event within 1 year of treatment. Among these, 14 patients had clinical signs of CHF. Three patients died suddenly from presumed cardiac causes. In multivariate analysis, a cumulative dose of doxorubicin >200 mg/m(2) [odds ratio (OR) = 4.2, P = 0.005)] and age over 50 years (OR = 2.9, P = 0.03) appeared to be significant risk factors.
Early clinical and subclinical cardiotoxicity was frequent in patients receiving the CHOP regimen. The threshold of the cumulative dose of doxorubicin appeared to be low: at doses >200 mg/m(2), 27% of patients had cardiac events. Elderly patients appeared to be at higher risk. The development of cardioprotective strategies or alternative treatments are mandatory for aggressive NHL patients.
To evaluate the drug interactions between valproic acid (VPA) and carbapenem antibiotics.
The effects of concurrent use of VPA and carbapenem antibiotics were evaluated in a retrospective observational study of hospitalized adults. Patients receiving both VPA and a carbapenem with at least two plasma VPA concentrations serially measured prior to, during, and/or after this combined treatment were included.
Six critically ill VPA-treated patients were identified who concurrently received meropenem (n=4), imipenem (n=1), or ertapenem (n=1). As compared with values obtained while not receiving treatment with the carbapenem, mean plasma VPA trough concentrations decreased by 58% (from 51.7 [95% confidence interval {CI} 28.0-75.4] to 21.8 [95% CI 11.1-32.5] mg/L; p = 0.025). Estimated mean VPA clearance increased by 191% (from 0.0158 [95% CI 0.0041-0.0275] to 0.0302 [95% CI 0.0169-0.0591] L/h/kg; p = 0.007). All VPA concentrations measured during concurrent VPA-carbapenem treatment were below the lower boundary of the usual therapeutic range. Five patients (83%) experienced generalized seizures during concurrent VPA-carbapenem treatment, including two with no prior history of seizures or epilepsy.
All recipients showed evidence of a complex pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic drug interaction between VPA and a carbapenem. Concurrent use of these medications should be avoided.
Increased concentrations and activity of plasma cytokines produced by monocytes, macrophages, and hepatocytes in patients with alcoholic liver diseases, correlate with the clinical course of liver diseases and are of prognostic value. Especially, high levels of circulating tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha have been found to correlate with increased mortality in alcoholic hepatitis. Moreover, hepatic RANTES was increased in patients with alcoholic hepatitis. Thus, TNF-alpha-induced RANTES expression may have a critical role in cell-mediated liver injury associated with alcoholic hepatitis. Fibrates are widely used in the treatment of hyperlipidemia and lower triglyceride levels in patients with hyperlipidemia. Recently, several groups reported that bezafibrate, one of fibrates, is effective in primary biliary cirrhosis treatment. Additionally, it is reported that bezafibrate is effective in the treatment not only of primary biliary cirrhosis but also of chronic hepatitis C and tamoxifen-induced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. We, here, presented that bezafibrate and fenofibrate repressed TNF-alpha-induced protein production and mRNA expression of RANTES in human hepatocyte-derived cells. Luciferase assay showed that bezafibrate and fenofibrate inhibited RANTES gene expression in response to TNF-alpha. Moreover, bezafibrate repressed TNF-alpha-induced DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB. Thus, fibrates reduced TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaB activation and RANTES expression, possibly suggesting that fibrates might be inhibitory agents of migration of inflammatory cells by RANTES to the liver in patients with alcoholic liver diseases. In line of these results, it might be possible that fibrates are therapeutic agents in alcoholic liver diseases.
The most commonly used regimen for the treatment of advanced Hodgkin's disease (HD) is ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine). Two of these components, bleomycin and dacarbazine, have defined toxicities such as pulmonary fibrosis and nausea/vomiting, and also uncertain single-drug activity. The EVA regimen (etoposide, vinblastine, doxorubicin) is an attempt to substitute a known active agent, etoposide, for bleomycin and dacarbazine.
A series of 51 patients with advanced HD without prior systemic therapy were treated. The series included 12 stage II patients with bulky (>10 cm) mediastinal tumors, 10 of whom received complementary radiation therapy. The remaining patients received EVA only. Response, duration of response, survival, toxicity and the efficacy of salvage therapy were evaluated in all patients. The median follow-up time was 111 months and permitted an assessment of the long-term effects of treatment and natural history of a cohort of treated patients.
EVA achieved a complete response (or clinical complete response) in 48/51 patients (94%). Of these 48 responders, 16 relapsed in a median of 11 months (range 3-48 months). In follow-up, 32/51 patients had no evidence of relapsed HD, although three died from other causes (two from vascular events and one from large cell lymphoma), resulting in progression-free survival for the entire group of 57% at 111 months. Eight of the 16 were alive and free from disease at follow-up at 111 months. In the entire series, only seven patients (14%) died of HD. 37 patients (73%) continued free from disease. There was no pulmonary toxicity.
The EVA regimen appears to have an overall survival (OS) outcome comparable to ABVD, but without the lung toxicity. The high salvage rate of second-line therapy, in most instances at conventional dosage, suggests an absence of cross-resistance to alkylating agents in patients treated with EVA.
Heparin induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis, or the "white clot syndrome," is a rare but recognised complication of heparin therapy. The syndrome is idiosyncratic, immune mediated, and not dose dependent and therefore is equally likely to occur with prophylactic and therapeutic heparin dosage regimens. Despite published reports on the subject we were alarmed that many surgeons who regularly use heparin to prevent or treat thrombosis were unaware that heparin can induce thrombotic complications in susceptible patients. We present three typical case histories, a brief discussion of the condition, and some guidelines on its prevention and treatment.
The prophylactic use of 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists (setrons), after the first 24 h (acute phase) of exposure to emetic chemotherapy, to decrease the incidence of 'delayed phase' emesis increases costs. We designed a study to evaluate the efficacy of a setron (granisetron) in the delayed phase, compared with metoclopramide, each combined with a corticosteroid.
Patients on their first course of single-day emetic chemotherapy (cisplatin, carboplatin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide and others) received granisetron 2 mg p.o. and dexamethasone 8 mg p.o. on day 1, followed for 5 days by dexamethasone 4 mg p.o. od combined with either metoclopramide 20 mg p.o. tds or granisetron 1 mg bd in a double-blinded double-dummy protocol. Patients evaluated the results using a diary card. Randomization was stratified by institution, sex, emetic chemotherapy naïve versus previous, alcohol consumption and platinum versus non-platinum regimen.
131 evaluable patients received granisetron in the delayed phase, and 127 received metoclopramide. Control of acute emesis in both arms was similar (86% granisetron; 85% metoclopramide). The 35 patients experiencing acute emesis had poor control in the delayed phase, with only four granisetron and three metoclopramide patients having no or mild nausea and no vomiting.
In daily practice, a combination of oral dexamethasone and oral granisetron achieves an extremely high control of acute emesis (86% protection). Our data suggest that routine prescription of setrons for delayed phase control is not advisable as it increases costs without any benefit for the majority of patients. Delayed emesis in the rare patients with acute phase emesis remains an unsolved problem.
Two contrasting patients are described, one with pseudo-Bartter's syndrome induced by frusemide abuse and the other a case of hyporeninaemic hypoaldosteronism. The clinical and biochemical features of these two conditions are the opposite of each other and, in the first patient, the effects of frusemide were antagonised by treatment with indomethacin while in the second frusemide itself corrected the syndrome. The decreased pressor sensitivity to infused angiotensin II seen in the patient with pseudo-Bartter's syndrome was corrected with indomethacin and the enhanced pressor sensitivity seen in hyporeninaemic hypoaldosteronism was reversed with frusemide. Frusemide, an agent which blocks chloride transport at the ascending limb of Henle's loop, was respectively thus the cause and the cure of these conditions. On the basis of this the suggestion is made that Bartter's syndrome and hyporeninaemic hypoaldosteronism represent respectively an excess and a deficiency of a circulating factor similar to frusemide capable of blocking renal tubular chloride transport.
Symptoms of poisoning were noticed in a eight-year-old boy after prescribed application of cyclopentolate 1 per cent (as declared by manufacturing firm). Acute psychosis disappeared spontaneous 3,5 hours later. Pharmacological analysis of the eye-drops showed that concentration of active agent wasn't 1 per cent but 1.31 per cent.
Hypoglycemia during septic shock is a common and life-threatening sign in the newborn. TNF alpha is an important cytokine in endotoxic shock. The present study was performed to investigate if TNF alpha induces hypoglycemia and if dexamethasone ameliorates the TNF alpha effects in 10 day old rats. TNF alpha induced hypoglycemia and lactacidemia without altering plasma insulin concentration in 10 day old rats. TNF alpha increased GLUT1 mRNA abundance in brain, liver, muscle and fatty tissue, and decreased liver phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) mRNA abundance. Dexamethasone attenuated the hypoglycemia and lactacidemia. Dexamethasone blunted the increase of GLUT1 mRNA abundance and increased the liver PEPCK mRNA abundance. Dexamethasone may be beneficial by promoting gluconeogenesis.
Circulating liver-specific mRNAs such as albumin (Alb) and α-1-microglobulin/bikunin precursor (Ambp) have been reported to be potential biomarkers for drug-induced liver injury (DILI). We identified novel circulating liver-specific mRNAs and quantified them, together with the two previously reported mRNAs, in plasma from rats treated with various hepatotoxicants to validate circulating liver-specific mRNAs as biomarkers for DILI. Among six genes selected from the database, high liver specificity of apolipoprotein h (Apoh) and group-specific component (Gc) mRNAs were confirmed by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and the copy numbers of these mRNAs elevated in plasma from rats treated with thioacetamide. Liver-specific mRNAs (Alb, Ambp, Apoh, and Gc) were quantified by real-time RT-PCR in plasma from rats with single dosing of seven hepatotoxicants. There were noticeable interindividual and intercompound variabilities in the severity of liver injury. The levels of four mRNAs increased almost in parallel and correlated with changes in the alanine aminotransferase (ALT) values and the hepatocellular necrosis scores at 24h after dosing. It was noteworthy that the magnitude of the increases in mRNA levels was greater than that in the ALT value. Time course analysis within 24h after dosing revealed that the timing of the increase was different among mRNA species, and the plasma levels of Alb and Gc mRNAs increased substantially earlier than the ALT values, suggesting that patterns of changes in circulating liver-specific mRNAs indicate the progression of liver injury. These results strongly support the reliability and usefulness of the four circulating liver-specific mRNAs as biomarkers for DILI.
A 33-year-old man with complex partial seizures developed de novo hypertension after the initiation of carbamazepine, which resolved on discontinuation. Although rare, a variety of cardiovascular effects including hypertension have been reported with carbamazepine. Numerous mechanisms may be responsible; however, shared pharmacologic properties with the tricyclic antidepressants are suspect. Hypertension is a rare side effect of carbamazepine.
Berberine, a main protoberberine component of Coptidis Rhizoma, was studied for the mechanism of its inhibitory effects on the tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP)-induced cytotoxicity and lipid peroxidation in rat liver. In the preliminary study, berberine expressed an antioxidant property by its capacity for quenching the free radicals of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH). Further investigations were conducted using t-BHP-induced cytotoxicity in rat primary hepatocytes and hepatotoxicity in rats to evaluate the antioxidative bioactivity of berberine. The results in rat primary hepatocytes demonstrated that berberine, at the concentrations of 0.01-1.0 mM, significantly decreased the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and the formation of malondialdehyde (MDA) induced by 30 min treatment of t-BHP (1.5 mM). Berberine also attenuated the t-BHP-induced depletion of glutathione (GSH) and induced a high level of DNA repair synthesis. The in vivo study showed that the intraperitoneal pretreatment with berberine (0.5 and 5 mg/kg) for 5 days before a single dose of t-BHP (0.1 mmol/kg) significantly lowered the serum levels of hepatic enzyme markers (ALT and aspartate aminotransferase) and reduced oxidative stress in the liver. The histopathological evaluation of the livers revealed that berberine reduced the incidence of liver lesions, including hepatocyte swelling, leukocyte infiltrations, and necrosis induced by t-BHP. These results lead us to speculate that berberine may play a chemopreventive role via reducing oxidative stress in living systems.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) mostly develops in patients with advanced fibrosis; however, the mechanisms of interaction between a genotoxic insult and fibrogenesis are not well understood. This study tested a hypothesis that fibrosis promotes HCC via a mechanism that involves activation of liver stem cells. First, B6C3F1 mice were administered diethylnitrosamine (DEN; single ip injection of 1mg/kg at 14 days of age). Second, carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4); 0.2ml/kg, 2/week ip starting at 8 weeks of age) was administered for 9 or 14 weeks to develop advanced liver fibrosis. In animals treated with DEN as neonates, presence of liver fibrosis led to more than doubling (to 100%) of the liver tumor incidence as early as 5 months of age. This effect was associated with activation of cells with progenitor features in noncancerous liver tissue, including markers of replicative senescence (p16), oncofetal transformation (Afp, H19, and Bex1), and increased "stemness" (Prom1 and Epcam). In contrast, the dose of DEN used did not modify the extent of liver inflammation, fibrogenesis, oxidative stress, proliferation, or apoptosis induced by subchronic CCl(4) administration. This study demonstrates the potential role of liver stem-like cells in the mechanisms of chemical-induced, fibrosis-promoted HCC. We posit that the combination of genotoxic and fibrogenic insults is a sensible approach to model liver carcinogenesis in experimental animals. These results may contribute to identification of cirrhotic patients predisposed to HCC by analyzing the expression of hepatic progenitor cell markers in the noncancerous liver tissue.
After observations concerning the cultivation, the trade and the use of coca by the Peruvian population, several Spanish physicians--among whom MONARDES--had already in the XVIth century, proposed to use this plant as a medicine. Therapeutical experiments however were not effected until the second half of the XIXth century. In 1559 the Italian neurologist MANTEGAZZA was the first to try out the remedy on himself and to advocate the use of coca as an internal medicine. Experiments with cocaine were still made during about twenty years, until more and more therapeutical applications clearly appeared. In psychiatry cocaine was used--also on Freud's recommendation--as an euphoriant excitant in cases of melancholia, both physical and psychic exhaustion and of cachexia. It was further used as a substitution therapy for morphine-addicts. 1884 also meant a break-through for the use of cocaine as a local anesthetic. It was first used in eye-surgery and was applied later on in dentistry and in cases of minor surgery. Local pain-killing injections seems to have been used at the beginning of our century in all sorts of indications. Cocaine was also applied to cure asthma, mountain-sickness, sea-sickness, pregnancy vomiting and all possible sorts of cramping pains. Although in the last years of the XIXth century the medical literature already clearly warned against the danger of therapeutically induced cocaine mania, it is only several years after World War I that the use of cocaine pills for painful diseases of the mouth and of the upper digestion organs still appeared. Between 1880 and 1930, we may assert that cocaine had taken the place of the universal panacea of the Middle Ages, the Theriaca.
The authors describe an 11-year-old girl who presented with congestive heart failure due to arrhythmogenic dilated cardiomyopathy. She had curly, woolly hair since birth and palmoplantar keratoderma. Molecular genetic analysis of the desmoplakin gene revealed that she was homozygous for the c.3901C>T (p.Gln1301X) change in exon 23 of the desmoplakin (DSP) gene, confirming the diagnosis of Carvajal disease. As per the Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia/ Cardiomyopathy Genetic Variants Database, this is a novel mutation. She was managed with diuretics, enalapril, carvedilol and amiodarone, is presently stable, and on regular follow-up. Carvajal disease is a rare cardiocutaneous disorder and few cases have been reported in the literature. The authors review the published cases of the Naxos-Carvajal phenotype from India. Pediatricians need to be aware of this clinical entity whenever arrhythmogenic dilated cardiomyopathy is associated with woolly hair and/or palmoplantar keratoderma.
Mutations of the neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2) tumor suppressor gene cause the inherited disorder NF2 and are also common in malignant mesothelioma, which is not a characteristic feature of NF2. The authors report an asbestos-exposed person with NF2 and malignant mesothelioma. Immunohistochemical analysis of the mesothelioma confirmed loss of expression of the NF2 protein, and comparative genomic hybridization revealed losses of chromosomes 14, 15, and 22, and gain of 7. The authors propose that a person with a constitutional mutation of an NF2 allele is more susceptible to mesothelioma.
D-type cyclins regulate distinct cellular processes such as mitotic cell cycle control, differentiation and transcription. Deregulation of cyclin D1, a component of G1 checkpoint control, can result in enhanced genomic instability, cell transformation, and malignant neoplasia. However, a precise understanding of the molecular and cellular events underlying the regulation of the cyclin D1 gene remains to be elucidated. In this study, we examined the regulation of the cyclin D1 gene during n-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN)-induced sequential liver carcinogenesis. Northern blot studies showed an increase in the level of cyclin D1 mRNA. Southern blot analysis of the DNA restriction fragment showed no alterations and/or amplification in the coding region of the cyclin D1 gene. Bulk chromatin from DEN-treated rat liver is much more sensitive to nuclease digestion than that from normal liver. Increased expression of the cyclin D1 gene is correlated to the upregulation of its transcription, mediated through chromatin decondensation during sequential hepatocarcinogenesis. Thus, the functional inter-relationship between chromatin organization and gene expression appears to be of critical importance for liver tumour development.
