In order to better explore the toxicity and the activity of high dose epirubicin (120 mg/m2, 3 weeks) we analyzed a population of 127 metastatic breast cancer patients, treated in a randomized clinical trial conducted to evaluate the cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane against epirubicin induced cardiotoxicity. All the patients had a diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer, an ECOG performance status < or = 2 and normal hematologic, renal, hepatic and cardiac function. No prior adjuvant chemotherapy including anthracycline was allowed. Epirubicin was given at the dose of 120 mg/m2 i.v. bolus every 3 weeks. One hundred twenty five patients were evaluable for toxicity and response. Seventeen patients (11%) had a complete response and 47 patients (37%) a partial response, for an overall response rate of 48%. The median progression free and overall survivals were 8.3 months and 18.3 months, respectively. Grade 3 and 4 leukopenia were observed in 8% and 7% of the patients, respectively. The most frequent nonhematological grade 3 toxicities were alopecia (87%), nausea and vomiting (16%), and mucositis (8%). Cardiotoxicity, defined as occurrence of congestive heart failure, decrease in resting left ventricular ejection fraction (L-VEF) to < or = 45%, or 20 EF units decrease from baseline L-VEF, was observed in 19% of the patients, after a median cumulative dose of epirubicin of 720 mg/m2 (range 120-1440). This study confirms in a large series of patients the activity of high dose epirubicin; however, the high incidence of cardiotoxicity requires a careful evaluation of cardiac risk factors before treatment.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates toxicity of xenobiotics, such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. Genetic deletion of the AhR leads to cardiac hypertrophy, suggesting a role for the AhR in cardiovascular physiology and disease; however, the pathways involved in the development of cardiac hypertrophy have not been determined. Thus, we investigated the role of (1) pressure overload using indwelling catheters and (2) vasoactive peptides endothelin-1 (ET-1) and angiotensin II (Ang II), assessed by RIA, in the progression of cardiac hypertrophy in AhR-null mice. Histochemical analysis, expression of cardiac hypertrophy marker genes, and echocardiography were used to assess the degree of cardiac hypertrophy. AhR-null mice developed elevated mean arterial pressures (MAP) by 5 months, which was associated with a two- and ninefold increase in plasma ET-1 and Ang II, respectively, compared to wild-type. Captopril-treatment (4 mg/kg) of AhR-null mice from 2 to 5 months of age significantly decreased MAP and plasma Ang II, but did not affect ET-1. Further, captopril improved cardiac function and reduced cardiac hypertrophy as evidenced by reduction in left ventricle mass, left ventricle internal dimension, and molecular cardiac hypertrophy markers. Captopril also decreased fibrosis of the heart and kidney. These findings show that pressure overload is associated with elevated ET-1 and hypertrophic growth of the heart and that cardiac hypertrophy is mediated, in part, by Ang II.
The antihypertensive and metabolic effects of the new long-acting angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, ramipril (Hoe 498), were assessed in 21 patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) over a 12-week treatment period. In an average dose of 5 mg given once daily, ramipril effectively reduced the elevated blood pressure. In 74% of the cases systolic and diastolic blood pressure was normalised during monotherapy. Mean blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbAI) values showed a slight but significant (p less than 0.05) decrease at the end of the ramipril treatment period (glucose: 8.5 +/- 1.4 mmol/l vs 8.0 +/- 0.9 mmol/l; HbAI: 10.0 +/- 1.3% vs 9.7 +/- 1.1%). C-peptide levels did not change. Since there was also a small reduction of body weight during treatment, the observed hypoglycemic response could not be fully ascribed to ramipril. Also, a reduction in total cholesterol and an increase of HDL cholesterol could be documented during treatment with ramipril. The reduction in body weight could also be made partly responsible for this positive effect on lipid metabolism. No serious side effects were reported during the entire study period. Due to these beneficial effects, ramipril can be recommended as first-line drug in the management of hypertensive subjects with NIDDM.
Studies conducted over the last decade demonstrated variable therapeutic efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor on the progression of glomerular diseases, including IgA nephropathy. In this study, among patients with biopsy-proven IgA nephropathy, 53 patients in whom creatinine clearance had been monitored over 5 yr were recruited for study. These patients were classified into two groups according to whether or not renal function had declined as determined by the slope of creatinine clearance against time: group 1 had stable renal function; group 2 had declining renal function (average: -6.7 +/- 1.3 ml/min/yr). 21 of 53 patients were treated with ACE inhibitor and followed for 48 wk. Gene polymorphism consisting of insertion (I) or deletion (D) of a 287-bp DNA fragment (presumed to be a silencer element) of the ACE gene was determined by PCR. 46 age-matched individuals without history of proteinuria were analyzed as controls. The DD genotype was significantly more frequent in group 2 (43%) than in controls (7%) or group 1 patients with stable renal function (16%). 48 wk after ACE inhibitor administration, proteinuria significantly decreased in patients with DD genotype but not in those with ID or II genotypes. The results indicate that deletion polymorphism in the ACE gene, particularly the homozygote DD, is a risk factor for progression to chronic renal failure in IgA nephropathy. Moreover, this deletion polymorphism predicts the therapeutic efficacy of ACE inhibition on proteinuria and, potentially, on progressive deterioration of renal function.
Heavy cannabis abuse increases the risk of developing schizophrenia. Adolescents appear particularly vulnerable to the development of psychosis-like symptoms after cannabis use. To test whether the schizophrenia candidate gene neuregulin 1 (NRG1) modulates the effects of cannabinoids in adolescence, we tested male adolescent heterozygous transmembrane domain Nrg1 mutant (Nrg1 TM HET) mice and wild type-like littermates (WT) for their neurobehavioural response to repeated Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, 10 mg/kg i.p. for 21 d starting on post-natal day 31). During treatment and 48 h after treatment withdrawal, we assessed several behavioural parameters relevant to schizophrenia. After behavioural testing we measured autoradiographic CB(1), 5-HT(2A) and NMDA receptor binding. The hyperlocomotor phenotype typical of Nrg1 mutants emerged after drug withdrawal and was more pronounced in vehicle than THC-treated Nrg1 TM HET mice. All mice were equally sensitive to THC-induced suppression of locomotion. However, mutant mice appeared protected against inhibiting effects of repeated THC on investigative social behaviours. Neither THC nor Nrg1 genotype altered prepulse inhibition. Repeated adolescent THC promoted differential effects on CB(1) and 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in the substantia nigra and insular cortex respectively, decreasing binding in WT while increasing it in Nrg1 TM HET mice. THC also selectively affected 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in several other regions in WT mice, whereas NMDA receptor binding was only affected in mutant mice. Overall, Nrg1 mutation does not appear to increase the induction of psychotomimetic symptoms by repeated adolescent THC exposure but may attenuate some of its actions on social behaviour and schizophrenia-relevant neurotransmitter receptor profiles.
The safety and efficacy of a low-dose monophasic oral contraceptive (OC) containing a new progestogen, gestodene (GTD), combined with ethinyl estradiol (EE) is being investigated in two ongoing multicenter trails. In this interim analysis, the formulation was found to be effective and well tolerated. Subject compliance was excellent; no pills were missed in 91.2% of the cycles. The number of women who withdrew from the study was low (15%), indicating good subject acceptance. GTD + EE provided optimal cycle control. Of the total number of OC cycles analyzed, spotting occurred in 8.1%, breakthrough bleeding in 1.8%, and both spotting and breakthrough bleeding in 3.3%. The incidence of spotting decreased fairly steadily during OC administration. Amenorrhea occurred in 0.5% of the cycles. There were no unexpected or serious side effects. The incidence of side effects was low and declined with increased duration of OC use. There were no clinically significant changes in weight or blood pressure. Virtually all of the systolic and diastolic blood pressure readings were in the normal range. The results of this interim analysis indicate that the GTD + EE formulation is a safe and reliable contraceptive.
Nephronophthisis is an autosomal recessive cystic kidney disease that leads to renal failure in childhood or adolescence. Most NPHP gene products form molecular networks. Here we identify ANKS6 as a new NPHP family member that connects NEK8 (NPHP9) to INVS (NPHP2) and NPHP3. We show that ANKS6 localizes to the proximal cilium and confirm its role in renal development through knockdown experiments in zebrafish and Xenopus laevis. We also identify six families with ANKS6 mutations affected by nephronophthisis, including severe cardiovascular abnormalities, liver fibrosis and situs inversus. The oxygen sensor HIF1AN hydroxylates ANKS6 and INVS and alters the composition of the ANKS6-INVS-NPHP3 module. Knockdown of Hif1an in Xenopus results in a phenotype that resembles loss of other NPHP proteins. Network analyses uncovered additional putative NPHP proteins and placed ANKS6 at the center of this NPHP module, explaining the overlapping disease manifestation caused by mutation in ANKS6, NEK8, INVS or NPHP3.
Gene expression profiles and chromosome 3 copy number divide uveal melanomas into two distinct classes correlating with prognosis. Using exome sequencing, we identified recurrent somatic mutations in EIF1AX and SF3B1, specifically occurring in uveal melanomas with disomy 3, which rarely metastasize. Targeted resequencing showed that 24 of 31 tumors with disomy 3 (77%) had mutations in either EIF1AX (15; 48%) or SF3B1 (9; 29%). Mutations were infrequent (2/35; 5.7%) in uveal melanomas with monosomy 3, which are associated with poor prognosis. Resequencing of 13 uveal melanomas with partial monosomy 3 identified 8 tumors with a mutation in either SF3B1 (7; 54%) or EIF1AX (1; 8%). All EIF1AX mutations caused in-frame changes affecting the N terminus of the protein, whereas 17 of 19 SF3B1 mutations encoded an alteration of Arg625. Resequencing of ten uveal melanomas with disomy 3 that developed metastases identified SF3B1 mutations in three tumors, none of which targeted Arg625.
A 72-year-old female presented with an acute flaure of Crohn's disease and received intravenous methylprednisolone. The following morning ECG showed atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response of 111 bts/min, which spontaneously resolved within 7 hours. The underlying arrhythmogenenic mechanism is unknown.
Pseudotumor cerebri or idiopathic intracranial hypertension is a neurological syndrome characterized by signs and symptoms of intracranial hypertension without clinical or radiological evidence of infective or space occupying lesions. Iatrogenic factors are frequent; in particular, cases of pseudotumor cerebri associated with all-trans-retinoic acid treatment in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) have been frequently described in pediatric patients. We report on a case observed in an older patient (young adult age) and give diagnostic and therapeutic guidelines.
Renal papillary injury is a common side effect observed during nonclinical and clinical investigations in drug development. The present study aimed to identify genomic biomarkers for early and sensitive detection of renal papillary injury in rats. We hypothesized that previously identified genomic biomarkers for tubular injury might be applicable for the sensitive detection of papillary injury in rats. We selected 18 genes as candidate biomarkers for papillary injury based on previously published studies and analyzed their expression profiles by RT-PCR in each kidney region, namely the cortex, cortico-medullary junction, and papilla in various nephrotoxicity models. Comparative analysis of gene expression profiles revealed that some genes were commonly upregulated or downregulated in the renal papilla, reflecting papillary injuries induced by 2-bromoethylamine hydrobromide, phenylbutazone, or n-phenylanthranilic acid. By applying receiver operator characteristics analysis, six candidate biomarkers were identified and their usefulness was confirmed by using an independent data set. The three top-ranked genes, Timp1, Igf1, and Lamc2, exhibited the best prediction performance in an external data set with area under the curve (AUC) values of greater than 0.91. An optimized support vector machine model consisting of three genes achieved the highest AUC value of 0.99. In conclusion, even though definitive validation studies are required for the establishment of their usefulness and reliability, these identified genes may prove to be the most promising candidate genomic biomarkers of renal papillary injury in rats.
To assess the antiemetic effects and safety profile of four different doses of granisetron (Kytril; SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, PA) when administered as a single intravenous (IV) dose for prophylaxis of cisplatin-induced nausea and vomiting.
One hundred eighty-four chemotherapy-naive patients receiving high-dose cisplatin (81 to 120 mg/m2) were randomized to receive one of four granisetron doses (5, 10, 20, or 40 micrograms/kg) administered before chemotherapy. Patients were observed on an inpatient basis for 18 to 24 hours, and vital signs, nausea, vomiting, retching, and appetite were assessed. Safety analyses included incidence of adverse experiences and laboratory parameter changes.
After granisetron doses of 5, 10, 20, and 40 micrograms/kg, a major response (< or = two vomiting or retching episodes, and no antiemetic rescue) was recorded in 23%, 57%, 58%, and 60% of patients, respectively, and a complete response (no vomiting or retching, and no antiemetic rescue) in 18%, 41%, 40%, and 47% of patients, respectively. There was a statistically longer time to first episode of nausea (P = .0015) and vomiting (P = .0001), and fewer patients were administered additional antiemetic medication in the 10-micrograms/kg dosing groups than in the 5-micrograms/kg dosing group. As granisetron dose increased, appetite return increased (P = .040). Headache was the most frequently reported adverse event (20%).
A single 10-, 20-, or 40-micrograms/kg dose of granisetron was effective in controlling vomiting in 57% to 60% of patients who received cisplatin at doses greater than 81 mg/m2 and totally prevented vomiting in 40% to 47% of patients. There were no statistically significant differences in efficacy between the 10-micrograms/kg dose and the 20- and 40-micrograms/kg doses. Granisetron was well tolerated at all doses.
Migraine is the most common brain disorder, affecting approximately 14% of the adult population, but its molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. We report the results of a meta-analysis across 29 genome-wide association studies, including a total of 23,285 individuals with migraine (cases) and 95,425 population-matched controls. We identified 12 loci associated with migraine susceptibility (P<5×10(-8)). Five loci are new: near AJAP1 at 1p36, near TSPAN2 at 1p13, within FHL5 at 6q16, within C7orf10 at 7p14 and near MMP16 at 8q21. Three of these loci were identified in disease subgroup analyses. Brain tissue expression quantitative trait locus analysis suggests potential functional candidate genes at four loci: APOA1BP, TBC1D7, FUT9, STAT6 and ATP5B.
Liver histological appearances were studied in 44 patients treated for psoriasis with methotrexate. Cirrhosis was found in six and hepatic fibrosis in another 11. Of these 17 patients 12 had received methotrexate by a regimen of frequent small dosage, two had been treated by a regimen of intermittent large dosage, while three had been treated at different times by both methods. The prevalence of cirrhosis and fibrosis was significantly greater in patients treated by frequent small dosage than in those treated by intermittent large dosage, though the dose level (mg/month) was similar in both groups. Hepatic fibrosis, sometimes preceding cirrhosis, seems to develop invariably if treatment with small frequent dosage is sufficiently prolonged. In the few circumstances in which this drug is indicated for psoriasis intermittent large dosage is the treatment regimen of choice.
Lesions of the nucleus accumbens (NA) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) attenuated and delayed the onset of the locomotor excitatory effects of morphine following chronic administration. Neither lesion, however, totally prevented the increase in locomotor excitation. These findings suggest that while the NA and VTA seem to play a role in mediating the excitatory effects of morphine, other regions and brain circuits must also be involved.
The frequency and severity of adverse effects resulting from the administration of streptokinase and alteplase were determined in 126 consecutive patients who received standard dosages of these agents for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. Evaluation was based on patient assessment by nursing staff, physicians, and the investigators before, during, and after thrombolytic administration. Overall, adverse effects occurred in 15 (41.7%) of 36 patients receiving streptokinase and 12 (13.3%) of 90 receiving alteplase (p = 0.001). No major bleeding or neurologic events were documented. Minor bleeding occurred in 13.9% and 7.8% of streptokinase and alteplase recipients, respectively (p = 0.47), and hypotension in 8 (22.2%) and 5 (5.6%), respectively (p = 0.01). The frequency of hypotension associated with streptokinase was significantly higher than that with alteplase. Thrombolytic-induced hypotension was easily managed and was not associated with sequelae.
Significant reduction in glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1)- and GluR2/3-immunopositive neurons was demonstrated in the hilus of the dentate gyrus in mice killed on days 1, 7 and 60 after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE). In addition, GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunostaining in the strata oriens, radiatum and lacunosum moleculare of areas CA1-3 decreased drastically on days 7 and 60 after PISE. Neuronal loss observed in the above regions may account, at least in part, for a decrease in GluR immunoreactivity. By contrast, many GluR1-immunopositive neurons were observed in the gliotic area of CA1. Of these, about 42.8% were immunopositive for markers for hippocampal interneurons, namely calretinin (7.6%), calbindin (12.8%) and parvalbumin (22.4%). GluR1 or GluR2/3 and BrdU double-labelling showed that the GluR1- and GluR2/3-immunopositive neurons at 60 days after PISE were neurons that had survived rather than newly generated neurons. Furthermore, anterograde tracer and double-labelling studies performed on animals at 60 days after PISE indicated a projection from the hilus of the dentate gyrus to gliotic areas in both CA3 and CA1, where the projecting fibres apparently established connections with GluR1-immunopositive neurons. The projection to CA1 was unexpected. These novel findings suggest that the intrinsic hippocampal neuronal network is altered after PISE. We speculate that GluR1-immunopositive neurons in gliotic CA1 act as a bridge between dentate gyrus and subiculum contributing towards epileptogenesis.
Nephropathy associated with contrast medium exposure is a well-known complication of IVP. However, it is uncertain whether iso-osmolar non-iodinated contrast medium (iodixanol) is less nephrotoxic than low-osmolar contrast medium (iohexol).
In this single-center, double-blind, prospective study, 50 patients undergoing IVP were randomized into two groups receiving different contrast medium: iodixanol and iohexol. Patients in high risk for contrast nephropathy were included, 28 with renal insufficiency and 19 with diabetes mellitus. We compared the nephrotoxic effect (contrast nephropathy), complement and cytokines profile between the iodixanol and iohexol groups. The mean volume of contrast medium in each IVP procedure was 0.8 mL/kg.
The incidence of contrast nephropathy was 4 percent among all patients (one iodixanol and one iohexol). We found no significant differences in contrast nephropathy and allergic reactions between the two groups. There was no significant difference in cytokine profiles in both groups (p > 0.05).The incidence of allergic reaction was 16 percent among all patients. Twelve percent (3/25) had late reaction after iohexol exposure compared to four percent (2/25) with iodixanol (p = 1.0). One patient had severe skin rash due to late adverse reaction after iodixanol. No mortality was found.
New iodixanol and iohexol contrast medium for routine IVP examination are safe and have low nephrotoxicity profile, especially in elderly or high-risk patients. Iodixanol contrast medium has an increased risk to induce severe late adverse reaction compared to iohexol. Allergic reaction may be the main adverse effect after contrast medium infusion.
An anaesthetic technique suitable for military field anaesthesia was sought which would attenuate the psychic side effects of ketamine. Heavy premedication with 30 mg of papaveretum and induction of anaesthesia with Althesin were evaluated. A combination of the two lowered the incidence of side effects, but they still occurred frequently enough to pose problems. Ketamine sequelae are considered incompatible with the battlefield environment.
The contraceptive efficacy, cycle control, safety, and subject acceptance of the new contraceptive (OC) preparations containing gestodene (GTD) plus ethinyl estradiol (EE) are being compared with the combination containing desogestrel (DSG) plus EE in a randomized, open-label outpatient study. Interim data from six cycles of this ongoing study were obtained for 378 women receiving 75 micrograms GTD + 30 micrograms EE per day and 384 women receiving 150 micrograms DSG + 30 micrograms EE per day. Each group received OCs for 21 days per cycle. There were no pregnancies in subjects receiving either OC during 1,658 cycles of GTD + EE or 1,707 cycles of DSG + EE use. The continuation rates were similar in the two groups, and no major differences in type or incidence of side effects were observed. There were also no clinically significant changes in blood pressure or body weight in either group. Slightly better cycle control was observed for subjects taking GTD + EE, since the incidence of spotting and breakthrough bleeding was slightly greater for women taking DSG + EE. The incidence of amenorrhea (missed periods) tended to be lower for the subjects taking the GTD-containing preparation: 7 (0.5%) cycles compared with 12 (0.9%) DSG + EE cycles. The GTD + EE-treated subjects also had a lighter menstrual flow. Fewer subjects taking GTD + EE withdrew because of side effects typically associated with OCs. The data from this study indicate that the new combination of GTD + EE provides safe and effective oral contraception, with good tolerance and cycle control.
Calcium and other biochemical disturbances are reported from the plasma of a child which presented masseter spasm following the administration of suxamethonium during the induction of halothane anesthesia. After masseter spasm, the ionized calcium concentration decreased whereas the total calcium level remained unchanged despite the occurrence of metabolic and respiratory acidosis. Throughout the rest of anesthesia, the total and ionized calcium concentrations continued to decrease. These variations may indicate that complex metabolic and biochemical events influenced the calcium binding to albumin and the calcium transfer into the muscle cells.
Fluoroquinolones have been associated with peripheral sensory disorders and weakness, especially in patients with underlying myasthenia gravis or myasthenia-like Eaton-Lambert syndrome. Trovafloxacin is a relatively new quinolone for which these side effects have not been described. We report a case of diffuse weakness due to a demyelinating polyneuropathy that began after initiation of trovafloxacin in a patient without an underlying neurologic disorder.
The case histories are presented including the anaesthetic and postoperative management, of two children, a two-year-old with undiagnosed Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and a three-year-old with known DMD. The child with undiagnosed DMD had no symptoms of DMD and had received halothane twice before, without succinylcholine, with no apparent difficulty. Following an uneventful induction of anaesthesia with halothane, nitrous oxide and O2, succinylcholine resulted in bilateral masseter muscle spasm and then, in rapid sequence, ventricular tachycardia and cardiac arrest. Resuscitation was difficult, prolonged and associated with hyperkalaemia (K+ = 12.57 mEq X L-1), severe metabolic and respiratory acidosis, high peripheral venous pressure and massive hepatosplenomegaly, but not hyperthermia. The patient was finally resuscitated but died two days later. Skeletal muscle biopsy results were consistent with malignant hyperthermia. The second patient was known to have DMD but did not receive prophylactic or intraoperative dantrolene nor have his anaesthetic machine flushed with oxygen for an extended period prior to induction of anaesthesia. This child was anaesthetized with fentanyl and N2O and, with the exception of a high intraoperative heart rate (155-160 beats X min-1), had an uncomplicated anaesthetic and operation (intraoperative axillary temperatures ranged between 36.8-37.9 degrees C). Postoperatively his temperature rapidly increased to 38.8 degrees C and then 40.3 degrees C and he became metabolically acidotic. Intravenous administration of dantrolene for 48 hours reduced the temperature and allowed normal recovery and discharge. A postoperative muscle biopsy was consistent with DMD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To evaluate the appearance of lithium nephropathy at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging.
Sixteen patients with renal insufficiency and clinical and laboratory evidence of nephropathy secondary to therapy with lithium salts were examined with a 1.5-T MR imaging unit with T1-weighted, T2-weighted fast imaging with steady-state precession (true FISP), rapid acquisition with relaxation enhancement, half-Fourier turbo spin-echo, and gadolinium-enhanced (FISP three-dimensional MR angiographic) sequences. Renal size and the presence, number, location and size of parenchymal cysts were analyzed. The cysts in each kidney were defined as rare (fewer than 10 cysts), sparse (between 10 and 30 cysts), abundant (30-60 cysts), or very abundant (more than 60 cysts).
The mean length of both kidneys was 104 mm +/- 9 in seven cases, and one or both kidneys were less than 90 mm in length in nine cases. Renal microcysts measuring from 1 to 2 mm were detected in all patients. They were either very abundant (n = 12), abundant (n = 2), or sparse (n = 2). The cysts were located with equal abundance in both the cortex and the medulla in 11 cases and were predominantly located in the renal cortex in five cases. No renal artery stenosis was present.
Microcysts secondary to long-term lithium therapy can be detected with MR imaging.
