Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) related to hepatitis B is an uncommon vasculitis that is sometimes associated with the rapid progression of distal ischemia. A few recent reports have proposed the use of antiviral therapy. However, there is not yet a consensus for the standard treatment of this disease entity and none of these treatments have been focused on fast symptomatic improvement. We describe here a 39-year-old female patient with PAN related to hepatitis B infection who completely recovered from the acutely progressing ischemic manifestations of her distal extremities with the use of alprostadil infusion (prostaglandin E1). The reactivation of her hepatitis B infection after glucocorticoid and cyclophosphamide therapy was successfully managed by the antiviral lamuvudine therapy. Most importantly, the vasodilator together with the conventional therapy may be desirable in the early stages of the disease before irreversible ischemic tissue damage can occur.
A 52-year-old woman and a 56-year-old man who were receiving carbamazepine experienced markedly elevated levels of its active metabolite, carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide (CBZ-E), after starting quetiapine therapy. The CBZ-E:carbamazepine ratio increased 3-4-fold in each patient. Levels of CBZ-E returned to baseline after discontinuing this drug combination. The metabolite can accumulate and cause neurotoxicity. The woman experienced ataxia and agitation while receiving quetiapine, which resolved after carbamazepine was switched to oxcarbazepine. The man was asymptomatic. To our knowledge, these are the first two case reports describing this interaction. Quetiapine may inhibit epoxide hydrolase and/or glucuronidation of carbamazepine-10,11-trans-diol in the same way as valproate and possibly lamotrigine do. If carbamazepine and quetiapine are administered concurrently, clinicians should consider monitoring CBZ-E concentrations.
Cognitive disorders such as amnesia, attention deficit and Alzheimer's disease are emerging nightmares in the field of medicine because no exact cure exists for them, as existing nootropic agents (piractam, tacrine, metrifonate) have several limitations. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of Prunus amygdalus (PA) nuts on cognitive functions, total cholesterol levels and cholinesterase (ChE) activity in scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats.
The paste of PA nuts was administered orally at three doses (150, 300 and 600 mg/kg) for 7 and 14 consecutive days to the respective groups of rats. Piracetam (200 mg/kg) was used as a standard nootropic agent. Learning and memory parameters were evaluated using elevated plus maze (EPM), passive avoidance and motor activity paradigms. Brain ChE activity and serum biochemical parameters like total cholesterol, total triglycerides and glucose were evaluated.
It was observed that PA at the above-mentioned doses after 7 and 14 days of administration in the respective groups significantly reversed scopolamine (1 mg/kg i.p.)-induced amnesia, as evidenced by a decrease in the transfer latency in the EPM task and step-down latency in the passive avoidance task. PA reduced the brain ChE activity in rats. PA also exhibited a remarkable cholesterol and triglyceride lowering property and slight increase in glucose levels in the present study.
Because diminished cholinergic transmission and increase in cholesterol levels appear to be responsible for the development of amyloid plaques and dementia in Alzheimer patients, PA may prove to be a useful memory-restorative agent. It would be worthwhile to explore the potential of this plant in the management of Alzheimer's disease.
The present study was undertaken to explore the potential of stevioside in memory dysfunction of rats. Memory impairment was produced by scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) in animals. Morris water maze (MWM) test was employed to assess learning and memory. Brain acetylcholinestrase enzyme (AChE) activity was measured to assess the central cholinergic activity. The levels of brain thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) and reduced glutathione (GSH) were estimated to assess the degree of oxidative stress. Scopolamine administration induced significant impairment of learning and memory in rats, as indicated by a marked decrease in MWM performance. Scopolamine administration also produced a significant enhancement of brain AChE activity and brain oxidative stress (increase in TBARS and decrease in GSH) levels. Pretreatment of stevioside (250 mg/kg dose orally) significantly reversed scopolamine-induced learning and memory deficits along with attenuation of scopolamine-induced rise in brain AChE activity and brain oxidative stress levels. It may be concluded that stevioside exerts a memory-preservative effect in cognitive deficits of rats possibly through its multiple actions.
Public water fluoridation is a common policy for improving dental health. Fluoride replaces the hydroxyls of hydroxyapatite, thereby improving the strength of tooth enamel, but this process can also occur in other active calcifications. This paper studies the effects of water fluoridation during the course of vascular calcification in renal disease. The effect of fluoride was studied in vitro and in vivo. Rat aortic smooth muscle cells were calcified with 2mM Pi for 5 days. Fluoride concentrations of 5-10 μM--similar to those found in people who drink fluoridated water--partially prevented calcification, death, and osteogene expression in vitro. The anticalcifying mechanism was independent of cell activity, matrix Gla protein, and fetuin A expressions, and it exhibited an IC50 of 8.7 μM fluoride. In vivo, however, fluoridation of drinking water at 1.5mg/L (concentration recommended by the WHO) and 15 mg/L dramatically increased the incipient aortic calcification observed in rats with experimental chronic kidney disease (CKD, 5/6-nephrectomy), fed a Pi-rich fodder (1.2% Pi). Fluoride further declined the remaining renal function of the CKD animals, an effect that most likely overwhelmed the positive effect of fluoride on calcification in vitro. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that fluoride did not modify the Ca/P atomic ratio, but it was incorporated into the lattice of in vivo deposits. Fluoride also converted the crystallization pattern from plate to rode-like structures. In conclusion, while fluoride prevents calcification in vitro, the WHO's recommended concentrations in drinking water become nephrotoxic to CKD rats, thereby aggravating renal disease and making media vascular calcification significant.
Seizure activity is a known complication associated with multiple sclerosis; however, it may also result from side effects of the treatments for the disease. A 21-year-old man with Tourette's syndrome, pedophilia, Asperger's syndrome, and multiple sclerosis experienced seizures after receiving therapy with interferon beta-1a. Adjustments in his drug regimen led to the discovery of pseudoparkinsonism and other extrapyramidal symptoms. This case report illustrates how pharmacodynamic properties of drugs can complicate the treatment of neurologic disorders. Clinicians must be aware of the delicate balance between the signs and symptoms of disease states and the effects of drugs.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) has shown remarkable efficacy for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). Histone deacetylases (HDAC) play an important role in the control of gene expression, and their dysregulation has been linked to myeloma. Especially, HDAC6, a unique cytoplasmic member of class II, which mainly functions as α-tubulin deacetylase and Hsp90 deacetylase, has become a target for drug development to treat cancer due to its major contribution in oncogenic cell transformation. However, the mechanisms of action for As(2)O(3) have not yet been defined. In this study, we investigated the effect of As(2)O(3) on proliferation and apoptosis in human myeloma cell line and primary myeloma cells, and then we studied that As(2)O(3) exerts antimyeloma effects by inhibiting activity in the α-tubulin and Hsp90 through western blot analysis and immunoprecipitation. We found that As(2)O(3) acts directly on MM cells at relatively low concentrations of 0.5~2.5 µM, which effects survival and apoptosis of MM cells. However, As(2)O(3) inhibited HDAC activity at the relatively high concentration and dose-dependent manner (great than 4 µM). Subsequently, we found that As(2)O(3) treatment in a dose- and time-dependent fashion markedly increased the level of acetylated α-tubulin and acetylated Hsp90, and inhibited the chaperone association with IKKα activities and increased degradation of IKKα. Importantly, the loss of IKKα-associated Hsp90 occurred prior to any detectable loss in the levels of IKKα, indicating a novel pathway by which As(2)O(3) down-regulates HDAC6 to destabilize IKKα protein via Hsp90 chaperone function. Furthermore, we observed the effect of As(2)O(3) on TNF-α-induced NF-κB signaling pathway was to significantly reduced phosphorylation of Ser-536 on NF-κB p65. Therefore, our studies provide an important insight into the molecular mechanism of anti-myeloma activity of As(2)O(3) in HDAC6-Hsp90-IKKα-NFκB signaling axis and the rationale for As(2)O(3) can be extended readily using all the HDAC associated diseases.
Hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is associated with cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and an excess in myocardial collagen. Myocardial fibrosis may cause diastolic dysfunction and heart failure. Circulating levels of the carboxy-terminal propeptide of procollagen type I (PICP), an index of collagen type I synthesis, correlate with the extent of myocardial fibrosis. This study examines myocardial fibrosis in relation to blood pressure, left ventricular mass (LVM), and diastolic function.
We examined PICP levels in 115 patients with hypertensive LVH, 38 with hypertension but no hypertrophy, and 38 normotensive subjects. Patients with LVH were subsequently randomly assigned to the angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker irbesartan or the beta1 receptor blocker atenolol for 48 weeks. Diastolic function was evaluated by tissue velocity echocardiography (n=134). We measured basal septal wall velocities of early (Em) and late (Am) diastolic myocardial wall motion, Em velocity deceleration time (E-decm), and isovolumic relaxation time (IVRTm).
Compared with the normotensive group, PICP was elevated and left ventricular diastolic function was impaired in the hypertensive groups, with little difference between patients with and without LVH. PICP related to blood pressure, IVRTm, Em, and E/Em, but not to LVM. Irbesartan and atenolol reduced PICP similarly. Only in the irbesartan group did changes in PICP relate to changes in IVRTm, and LVM.
Myocardial fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction are present in hypertension before LVH develops. The findings with irbesartan suggest a role for angiotensin II in the control of myocardial fibrosis and diastolic function in patients with hypertension with LVH.
Environmental and therapeutic estrogens are known to play an important role in modulating the reproductive life and pubertal maturation in males as well as in females. Animal studies have shown that exogenously administered estrogen induces follicular cysts. However, the probable mechanisms underlying this abnormal ovarian development and its impact on steroidogenesis have been ill defined. The present study was therefore carried out to understand the ontogeny of ovarian pathology owing to adult estrogenisation. Regularly cycling female Holtzman rats were sacrificed at one week, two weeks, three weeks and four weeks after a subcutaneous administration of 2 mg of estradiol valerate (E(2)V). The effect of this supra-physiological estrogen on serum endocrine profiles, development of follicular cysts, follicular apoptosis and expression of markers of folliculogenesis viz., estrogen receptor (ER)-beta, inhibin A and progesterone receptor (PR) were studied. Results indicate a temporal augmentation of steroidogenesis, which was associated with induction of follicular cyst with theca cell hyperplasia and induction of apoptosis in the primary and secondary follicles of the ovaries. Immuno-histochemical localization showed an increase in inhibin A with a reduction in ER-beta and PR indicating early maturation, poor follicle growth and granulosa cell differentiation. Results indicate that exposure to exogenous estrogen in adulthood can have deleterious effects on the ovarian physiology and endocrinology which may ultimately lead to cystogenesis, loss of follicle pool and early senescence.
Stool softening is a physician's first step in the management of chronic constipation.
To compare stool softening (stool water content) and laxative efficacy of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid vs. docusate sodium.
The multi-site, randomized, double-blind, parallel-design study of 170 subjects with chronic idiopathic constipation involved a 2-week baseline (placebo) phase followed by 2 weeks of treatment. The treatment phase compared psyllium (5.1 g b.d.) plus docusate placebo to docusate sodium (100 mg b.d.) plus psyllium placebo. Stools were collected and assessed.
Compared to baseline, psyllium increased stool water content vs. docusate (psyllium 2.33% vs. docusate 0.01%, P = 0.007). Psyllium also increased stool water weight (psyllium 84.0 g/BM; docusate 71.4 g/BM; P = 0.04), total stool output (psyllium 359.9 g/week: docusate 271.9 g/week; P = 0.005), and O'Brien rank-type score combining objective measures of constipation (psyllium 475.1; docusate 403.9; P = 0.002). Bowel movement (BM) frequency was significantly greater for psyllium (3.5 BM/week) vs. docusate (2.9 BM/week) in treatment week 2 (P = 0.02), with no significant difference (P > 0.05) between treatment groups in treatment week 1 (3.3 vs. 3.1 BM/week).
Psyllium is superior to docusate sodium for softening stools by increasing stool water content, and has greater overall laxative efficacy in subjects with chronic idiopathic constipation.
In 37 pregnancy women preterm labour was inhibited with intravenous administration of ASA. 20 patients (Group I) had a combined treatment of ASA and Fenoterol. 7 pregnant women (Group II) without successful labour inhibition under Fenoterol were treated with ASA subsequently. In a third group of 10 women we administered ASA alone. The treatment was considered as successful if signs of preterm labour stopped and pregnancy maintained for 7 days or more. In the first group 16, in the second group all patients had been treated successfully. In group III we succeeded in labour inhibiting for more than 7 days in 6 cases. An initial loading dose of 5.5 to 7.0 mn/min ASA had been infused for 24 hours. If preterm labour was stopped, the dosage had been reduced. In all patients dose related but reversible symptoms of vertigo, tinnitus, headache and hyperventilation were seen. Furthermore we found a non-dose-dependent prolongation ( by 30% or normal) of bleeding time. In the fetus respectively the newborn an affection by this ASA treatment could be excluded. We propose inhibition of preterm labour by i.v. ASA administration in all pregnant women if beta-mimetic drugs are not successful or an intolerance is diagnosed. Contraindications for ASA therapy are mentioned.
We investigated the effects of prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES), an endocrine disrupter on learning behavior and synaptic functions. Specifically, we determined the activity of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and related kinases that play an essential role in long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus in mice that were prenatally exposed to DES. Treatment with DES resulted in increased CaMKII autophosphorylation and Ca(2+)-independent activity in the hippocampus and cortex of male mice. Impaired passive avoidance correlated with this increased CaMKII autophosphorylation, as did the enhanced early phase of LTP (E-LTP) in hippocampus. These data suggest that prenatal exposure to DES induces deficits in passive avoidance responses as a result of increased CaMKII activity and hippocampal LTP.
Regression of hepatic cirrhosis is a controversial issue. Recently, a list of histopathological features, observed in human material, was suggested as a hallmark of cirrhosis in the process of regression. An investigation for the presence of these morphologic features was performed at monthly intervals in rats with proved carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced cirrhosis over a period of 9 months following discontinuation of treatment, using sequential liver biopsies. Within the first 4 months, features of the "hepatic repair complex" were identified, together with the enlargement of the hepatic nodules and thinning of the fibrous septa. Subsequent to the 4 months, the histological picture, composed of large and inconspicuous nodules and delimited by thin and frequently incomplete fibrous septa "incomplete septal cirrhosis", appeared to be stabilized. These fibrous septa, when injected with India ink from the portal trunk, presented blood vessels that were seen to drain directly into the sinusoids. These findings suggested that when the cause of cirrhosis is removed, the liver may adapt itself to a new and permanent structure, probably compatible with normal or near-normal function, which may render hepatic cirrhosis clinically, although not morphologically, reversible.
Mutations of FOXL2, a gene encoding a forkhead transcription factor, have been shown to cause the blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus syndrome. This genetic disorder is characterized by eyelid and craniofacial abnormalities associated or not with premature ovarian failure. We have previously shown that mutant FOXL2 with an expanded polyAlanine (polyAla) tract forms large aggregates both in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm of transfected cells, whereas the wild-type protein localizes in the nucleus in a rather diffuse manner. Premature stop codons in FOXL2 have been considered so far as null alleles. However, we demonstrate here that such nonsense mutations may lead to the production of N-terminally truncated proteins by re-initiation of translation downstream of the stop codon. Surprisingly, the truncated proteins strongly aggregate in the nucleus, partially localize in the cytoplasm and retain a fraction of the wild-type protein. We also show that a complete deletion of the polyAla tract of FOXL2 induces a significant intranuclear aggregation. Our results enlarge the spectrum of mutations inducing FOXL2 aggregation.
An account is presented of a patient who developed ileus, of greater or lesser severity, after each of seven operations (including two extra-abdominal and three Caesarean sections). During her most recent pregnancy, reviewed here, her plasma cholinesterase activity was found to be decreased and it remained low until at least the 6th day post-partum. However, as the normal activity had been gained by 6 weeks after delivery, the phenomenon had evidently been pregnancy-related. Despite receiving suxamethonium by infusion to completion of her Caesarean section, she did not show an abnormally prolonged response, although she did suffer considerable suxamethonium "after-pains". The question is posed of a possible relationship between the postoperative ileus, muscle pains and the decrease in cholinesterase activity.
Brain necrosis or other subacute iatrogenic reactions has been recognized as a potential complication of radiotherapy (RT), although the possible synergistic effects of high-dose chemotherapy and RT might have been underestimated.
We reviewed the clinical and radiologic data of 49 consecutive children with malignant brain tumors treated with high-dose thiotepa and autologous hematopoietic stem cell rescue, preceded or followed by RT. The patients were assessed for neurocognitive tests to identify any correlation with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) anomalies.
Of the 49 children, 18 (6 of 25 with high-grade gliomas and 12 of 24 with primitive neuroectodermal tumors) had abnormal brain MRI findings occurring a median of 8 months (range, 2-39 months) after RT and beginning to regress a median of 13 months (range, 2-26 months) after onset. The most common lesion pattern involved multiple pseudonodular, millimeter-size, T1-weighted unevenly enhancing, and T2-weighted hyperintense foci. Four patients with primitive neuroectodermal tumors also had subdural fluid leaks, with meningeal enhancement over the effusion. One-half of the patients had symptoms relating to the new radiographic findings. The MRI lesion-free survival rate was 74%+/-6% at 1 year and 57%+/-8% at 2 years. The number of marrow ablative courses correlated significantly to the incidence of radiographic anomalies. No significant difference was found in intelligent quotient scores between children with and without radiographic changes.
Multiple enhancing cerebral lesions were frequently seen on MRI scans soon after high-dose chemotherapy and RT. Such findings pose a major diagnostic challenge in terms of their differential diagnosis vis-à-vis recurrent tumor. Their correlation with neurocognitive results deserves further investigation.
1. The response of individually caged mice to the lethal actions of allylglycine and strychnine was evaluated in animals previously conditioned on an LD 12:12 (12 h light-12 h darkness) schedule in a controlled environment. 2. These convulsant agents were most toxic at 18.00 hours (during the light phase), and least toxic in the dark phase of the programmed lighting schedule. The relationship is considered of the circadian fluctuations in levels of inhibitory transmitter substances to the time-linked action of convulsant agents.
The aims of this study were to examine vancomycin (VCM)-induced oxidative stress that promotes production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and to investigate the role of erdosteine, an expectorant agent, which has also antioxidant properties, on kidney tissue against the possible VCM-induced renal impairment in rats. Rats were divided into three groups: sham, VCM and VCM plus erdosteine. VCM was administrated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 200mgkg(-1) twice daily for 7 days. Erdosteine was administered orally. VCM administration to control rats significantly increased renal malondialdehyde (MDA) and urinary N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (NAG, a marker of renal tubular injury) excretion but decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities. Erdosteine administration with VCM injections caused significantly decreased renal MDA and urinary NAG excretion, and increased SOD activity, but not CAT activity in renal tissue when compared with VCM alone. Erdosteine showed histopathological protection against VCM-induced nephrotoxicity. There were a significant dilatation of tubular lumens, extensive epithelial cell vacuolization, atrophy, desquamation, and necrosis in VCM-treated rats more than those of the control and the erdosteine groups. Erdosteine caused a marked reduction in the extent of tubular damage. It is concluded that oxidative tubular damage plays an important role in the VCM-induced nephrotoxicity and the modulation of oxidative stress with erdosteine reduces the VCM-induced kidney damage both at the biochemical and histological levels.
Outcomes specifically in mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)-treated diabetic renal transplant patients have not been previously reported. This study compared acute rejection (AR), late acute rejection (LAR), patient survival [and specifically death from cardiovascular (CV), infectious and malignant causes], incidence of post-transplant malignancies, and graft loss in MMF- or azathioprine (AZA)-treated renal transplant patients with pre-transplant diabetes. Outcomes were compared between MMF- (n = 14 144) and AZA- (n = 3001) treated diabetic patients using the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients data on all U.S. adult renal transplants performed between 1995 and 2002. Statistical analyses included Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, Cox multivariable regression and chi-square tests. MMF patients had less AR compared with AZA-treated patients (23.5% vs. 28.3%, p < 0.001) and less risk for LAR over 4 yr [hazard ratio (HR): 0.64, 95% CI 0.44, 0.92; p = 0.02]. While time to any-cause death did not differ between the groups, MMF treatment was associated with a 20% decreased risk of CV death (HR: 0.80, 95% CI 0.67, 0.97; p = 0.020) compared with AZA treatment. MMF patients also had a lower incidence of malignancies than AZA patients (2.2% vs. 3.7%, p < 0.001). These results suggest treatment with MMF compared with treatment with AZA in diabetic transplant patients is associated with less AR, less risk of LAR, a decreased risk of CV death, and a lower incidence of malignancies.
Dopaminergic mechanisms are thought to play a central role in the reinforcing effects of cocaine. The present study examined the reinforcing effects of 3beta-(4-chlorophenyl)tropane-2beta-carboxylic acid phenyl ester (RTI-113), a long-acting, selective, high-affinity dopamine uptake inhibitor. Additionally, the effects of RTI-113 pretreatment on cocaine self-administration were determined. Monkeys were trained to respond under a second-order schedule for intravenous cocaine administration (0.10 or 0.17 mg/kg/infusion). When responding was stable, cocaine (0.0030-1.0 mg/kg/infusion) and RTI-113 (0.010-0.30 mg/kg/infusion) were substituted for the cocaine training dose. Cocaine and RTI-113 were equipotent for their reinforcing effects. However, cocaine maintained higher response rates in two of the three monkeys tested. When administered as a pretreatment, RTI-113 (0.10-0.30 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced responding maintained by two doses of cocaine. Drug effects on behavior were related to dopamine transporter (DAT) occupancy in monkey striatum during neuroimaging with positron emission tomography. DAT occupancy was determined by displacement of 8-(2-[(18)F]fluroethyl)2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-chlorophenyl)nortropane (FECNT). DAT occupancy was between 65-76% and 94-99% for doses of cocaine and RTI-113 that maintained maximum response rates, respectively. DAT occupancy did not differ markedly across RTI-113 pretreatment doses and ranged between 72-84%. The results suggest that the pharmacokinetic profile of RTI-113 (i.e., long-acting) may influence its ability to maintain self-administration, and therefore its abuse liability. Additionally, high DAT occupancy is required for RTI-113 to reduce cocaine-maintained responding.
Plasma levels of chlorpromazine (CPZ) and prolactin were measured repeatedly in 14 psychiatric patients throughout CPZ treatment. Mean prolactin level was elevated in 11 subjects (all six women and five of eight men). Mean plasma prolactin correlated significantly with mean plasma CPZ but not with the dose of the drug. Only patients with mean plasma prolactin above 35 ng/ml developed Parkinsonian side-effects.
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2 gene polymorphisms are thought to be involved in the metabolism of theophylline (TP). We aimed to investigate the effect of CYP1A2*1C, CYP1A2*1D, CYP1A2*1E, and CYP1A2*1F polymorphisms of the CYP1A2 on TP metabolism by PCR-RFLP in 100 Turkish patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) receiving TP. One hundred and one healthy volunteers were included as control group. The genotype frequencies of the CYP1A2*1D and CYP1A2*1F were found to be significantly different in the patients compared to the controls. The "T" allele at -2467 delT and the "C" allele at -163 C > A in the CYP1A2 displayed association with a significantly increased risk for COPD. "T" allele at - 2467 delT was also associated with a high risk of disease severity in COPD. In conclusion, our data suggest that genetic alterations in CYP1A2 may play a role both in the pharmacogenetics of TP and in the development of COPD.
Tiazofurin is a novel C-nucleoside with significant antitumor activity in murine tumor models. In a phase I clinical trial, patients received tiazofurin by bolus iv infusion daily for 5 days. Six doses ranging from 550 to 4100 mg/m2/day were evaluated. Thirty-one treatment courses were initiated in 21 patients. Tiazofurin induced multiple, transient toxic effects at all but the lowest dose level, and treatment interruption was a common result. Nine of 28 treatment courses initiated at doses greater than or equal to 1100 mg/m2/day were interrupted at less than 5 days; only five of eight courses initiated at 1100 mg/m2/day were completed. Symptoms leading to treatment interruption included headache, nausea and emesis, and lethargy and malaise. Other significant, transient toxic effects included skeletal muscle injury manifest as pain, weakness, or serum biochemical abnormalities; mucocutaneous effects; and mental or mood changes. One case each of transient pericarditis and fatal cardiomyopathy occurred at the highest dose. Myelosuppression was observed but was transient and not dose limiting. In addition to leukopenia and thrombocytopenia, unexpected declines in serum hemoglobin were observed, although these were of uncertain significance. Tiazofurin induced significant increases in uric acid production which could be reversed with coadministration of allopurinol. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed tiazofurin plasma elimination to be at least biphasic, with a beta-half-time of 4.2 hours; most of an injected dose could be recovered from the urine as unaltered compound within 24 hours. From this study we conclude that an appropriate dose for phase II trials with this schedule is less than or equal to 1000 mg/m2/day. The schedule may be a difficult one for clinical evaluation of antitumor activity, however, because of the possibility of frequent treatment interruption due to multiple systemic toxic effects.
A young, non-obese woman aged 24 years with normal blood pressure developed intracranial hypertension after the oral use of tetracycline. Neuro-ophthalmologic examination revealed severely reduced acuity, papilledema, and concentric impaired visual fields. She was treated with acetazolamide and recurrent lumbar punctures and recovered, but without improvement in either acuity or visual fields. Intracranial hypertension is a fairly rare disease characterised by increased intracranial pressure without structural abnormalities in the brain or hydrocephalus, and is termed idiopathic in the absence of an underlying cause. Tetracycline should be considered as a cause of intracranial hypertension if a patient complains of previously unknown headache a few days after its ingestion. Headache and the presence of bilateral papilledema, decreased visual acuity and visual-field defects are indications for urgent referral to a neurologist. Therapy consists of a combination of repetitive lumbar punctures and medication. Surgical interventions include lumboperitoneal shunting and optic nerve fenestration. Intracranial hypertension may lead to irreversible decreased visual acuity and visual-field defects resulting in disability.
