Oxytocin dysfunction might contribute to the development of social deficits in autism, a core symptom domain and potential target for intervention. This study explored the effect of intravenous oxytocin administration on the retention of social information in autism.
Oxytocin and placebo challenges were administered to 15 adult subjects diagnosed with autism or Asperger's disorder, and comprehension of affective speech (happy, indifferent, angry, and sad) in neutral content sentences was tested.
All subjects showed improvements in affective speech comprehension from pre- to post-infusion; however, whereas those who received placebo first tended to revert to baseline after a delay, those who received oxytocin first retained the ability to accurately assign emotional significance to speech intonation on the speech comprehension task.
These results are consistent with studies linking oxytocin to social recognition in rodents as well as studies linking oxytocin to prosocial behavior in humans and suggest that oxytocin might facilitate social information processing in those with autism. These findings also provide preliminary support for the use of oxytocin in the treatment of autism.
4-Nitrophenol (PNP) is generally regarded as an environmental endocrine disruptor capable of estrogenic and anti-androgenic activities. To investigate PNP-induced reproductive effects, immature male rats were injected subcutaneously with PNP (0.1, 1, 10mg/kg body weight or vehicle) daily for 4 weeks. We assessed reproductive tract alterations, sex hormone balance in the serum and estrogen receptor (ER)-α, -β and androgen receptor (AR) expression in testes. Although no significant difference was observed in body weight or testes weights of PNP-treated rats compared with the controls, the serum concentrations of testosterone in the 10mg/kg PNP-treated group were significantly elevated. This effect was accompanied by Leydig cells hyperplasia in the testes. Conversely, there was a significant decrease in estradiol concentration and aromatase expression in the testes of the 10mg/kg PNP-treated group. Furthermore, we observed a significant increase in ERα expression in the testes of the 10mg/kg PNP-treated group compared with the control group. Conversely, ERβ expression displayed a significant reduction. Moreover, AR expression was significantly increased in the 10mg/kg PNP-treated group compared with the control group. The existence of AR, ER-α and -β in the testes suggests that estradiol and testosterone directly affect germ cells and that differential modulation of AR, ER-α and -β in the testis may be involved in the direct effects of PNP or either the indirect effects of PNP-induced disruption of the estradiol-to-testosterone balance or the Leydig cells hyperplasia. Thus, the measurement of many endpoints is necessary for good risk assessment.
Although there have been anecdotal reports of cardiac toxicity associated with fluorouracil (5-FU) therapy, this phenomenon has not been studied in a systematic fashion. We prospectively performed continuous ambulatory ECG monitoring on 25 patients undergoing 5-FU infusion for treatment of solid tumors in order to assess the incidence of ischemic ST changes. Patients were monitored for 23 +/- 4 hours before 5-FU infusion, and 98 +/- 9 hours during 5-FU infusion. Anginal episodes were rare: only one patient had angina (during 5-FU infusion). However, asymptomatic ST changes (greater than or equal to 1 mm ST deviation) were common: six of 25 patients (24%) had ST changes before 5-FU infusion v 17 (68%) during 5-FU infusion (P less than .002). The incidence of ischemic episodes per patient per hour was 0.05 +/- 0.02 prior to 5-FU infusion v 0.13 +/- 0.03 during 5-FU infusion (P less than .001); the duration of ECG changes was 0.6 +/- 0.3 minutes per patient per hour before 5-FU v 1.9 +/- 0.5 minutes per patient per hour during 5-FU (P less than .01). ECG changes were more common among patients with known coronary artery disease. There were two cases of sudden death, both of which occurred at the end of the chemotherapy course. We conclude that 5-FU infusion is associated with a significant increase in silent ST segment deviation suggestive of ischemia, particularly among patients with coronary artery disease. The mechanism and clinical significance of these ECG changes remain to be determined.
Differences in susceptibility to chemical carcinogenesis between rodent strains and species have been linked to variations in genetically-determined mixed function oxidase activities. In order to verify whether such variations also determine the susceptibility of individual animals of the same strain to a chemical carcinogen, outbred male Wistar rats were administered diethylnitrosamine (DEN) (1, 2, or 3 mg/kg) five times a week for 20 weeks. The relationship was examined between the outcome (i.e., presence or absence of liver tumors, and latency period) and the hepatic activities of mixed function oxidases and conjugating enzymes, as well as of O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase, measured before the carcinogen treatment. In addition, the metabolic profiles of two model drugs, antipyrine and disopyramide, in the urine were analyzed and correlated with the carcinogen susceptibility. The length of the latency period of hepatocellular tumors in individual rats was negatively related to the activities of hepatic dimethylnitrosamine N-demethylase, aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase and epoxide hydrolase and positively related to the amount of microsomal protein. Consistent relationships between the other 10 measured parameters and the susceptibility to DEN-induced carcinogenesis were not detected. Long-term treatment with DEN slightly decreased the proportion of metabolism of antipyrine into norantipyrine, and increased the share of 4-hydroxyantipyrine; a decrease in the metabolism of disopyramide to N-deisopropyldisopyramide was also detected. It is concluded that the pattern of cytochrome P-450 isoenzymes is related to differences in individual susceptibility to nitrosamine-induced carcinogenesis. The relationship was most marked at low dose levels, which are the levels at which nitrosamine exposures of humans are known to occur.
The effects of morphine on locomotor activity and cerebral dopamine (DA) and noradrenaline (NA) metabolism were studied in mice treated repeatedly with morphine for 5 days followed by 1, 3, or 5 days of withdrawal. Acute morphine treatment did not increase the locomotor activity of mice withdrawn for 1 day, after withdrawal for 3 days the increase was similar to that in controls, and after 5 days the increase was clearly larger than in controls. In mice withdrawn for 3 or 5 days, but not in control mice, acute morphine significantly elevated striatal 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid concentrations. Acute morphine challenge decreased striatal 3-methoxytyramine in control mice, but did not alter it in mice withdrawn for 3 or 5 days. In mice withdrawn for 3 days acute morphine increased the free 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol in all brain areas studied clearly less than in controls, whereas in mice withdrawn for 5 days the tolerance was found only in the hypothalamus. Our results show that the morphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity is enhanced in mice after sufficiently long withdrawal, when mice are sensitised to the acute morphine-induced increase of DA turnover but the tolerance to morphine's effects on cerebral NA is disappearing, suggesting that in mice the cerebral NAergic systems, in addition to the DAergic ones, are major determinants of the behavioural response to morphine.
This study was designed to clarify mechanisms responsible for cyclophosphamide-induced cardiotoxicity. Rats were divided into 2 groups: the cyclophosphamide group, which received cyclophosphamide (100 mg/kg) intraperitoneally once a day for 4 consecutive days; and the control group, which remained untreated. In each group, myocardial mitochondrial respiratory function, enzymic activities in the respiratory chain, and ventricular acetylcholine and norepinephrine concentrations were measured. In the cyclophosphamide group, decreases in mitochondrial respiratory function and in enzymic activities in the respiratory chain were observed compared with those of the control group. Administration with cyclophosphamide caused increases in acetylcholine and norepinephrine in the myocardium. As an increase in tissue acetylcholine level is reported to be linked with the genesis of myocardial damage, we conclude that cyclophosphamide-induced cardiotoxicity is closely related to mitochondrial dysfunction and that alterations in the autonomic nervous system might be related to this dysfunction.
The Million Women Study (MWS) and the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) Study reveal an increased breast cancer risk and a higher relative risk for cardiovascular diseases in women on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in comparison with control groups. For this reason, the WHI study was terminated prematurely. From the point of view of the internist, it would appear that, on the basis of the results of these studies, prophylactic treatment with estrogens and progesterone is no longer indicated. It must, however, be noted that numerous aspects are still unclear. This therefore means that in patients with severe menopausal symptoms giving rise to a high level of distress, HRT continues to be justified over the short term after a current cardiovascular risk or relevant tumor disease has been excluded.
To report adverse events registered in our population affected by JIA and treated with anti-TNFalpha blockers.
Ninety-five patients were enrolled to be treated with Etanercept, median age 14 years (range 4-34); median duration of therapy 12 months (range 1-40). 19 patients were also treated with MTX (median dose 12.5 mg/week). Fifty-six patients were enrolled to be treated with Infliximab associated with MTX (median dose of MTX 8.8 mg/week), median age 23.2 years (range 7.8-34.9); median duration of therapy 20.1 months (range 1.4-60.4). All adverse events were divided in definitely, probably and possibly related to the biologic agent.
Side effects definitely related to Infliximab were the reactions to infusions and the Anti-dsDNA positivity. Side effects definitely related to Etanercept were severe headache and thrombocytopenia. Side effects probably correlated to both the biological agents were behavioural modifications and pain amplification syndrome. Probably correlated to the treatment with Etanercept was the onset of Crohn's disease in 3 patients. Possibly correlated to the biological agents were the new onset or flare-up of Chronic Iridocyclitis and single cases of thyroideal cancer, hypoglossal nerve paralysis and a severe Cytomegalovirus pulmonary infection. No case of tuberculosis infection was registered during this study.
Treatment with a TNFalpha antagonist seems to be associated with various adverse events. Some of them, like onset of Crohn's disease, behavioural modifications are unusual and others, like pain amplification syndrome were never described before. Children and young adults affected by JIA should be monitored very carefully so as to limit as much as possible the risk of serious side effects on anti-TNFalpha therapy.
The worsening shortage of cadaver donor kidneys has prompted use of expanded or marginal donor kidneys (MDK), i.e. older age or donor history of hypertension or diabetes. MDK may be especially susceptible to calcineurin-inhibitor (CI) mediated vasoconstriction and nephrotoxicity. Similarly, early use of CI in patients with delayed graft function may prolong ischaemic injury. We developed a CI-free protocol of antibody induction, sirolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, and prednisone in recipients with MDK or DGF.
Adult renal transplant recipients who received MDK or had DGF were treated with a CI-free protocol consisting of antibody induction (basiliximab or thymoglobulin), sirolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, and prednisone. Serial biopsies were performed for persistent DGF. Patients were followed prospectively with the primary endpoints being patient and graft survival, biopsy-proven acute rejection, and sirolimus-related toxicity.
Nineteen recipients were treated. Mean follow-up was 294 days. Actuarial 6- and 12-month patient survival was 100% and 100% and graft survival was 93% and 93%, respectively. The only graft loss was due to primary non-function (PNF). The incidence of AR was 16%. Mean serum creatinine at last follow-up was 1.6 mg/dL. Sirolimus-related toxicity included lymphocele (1), wound infection (2), thrombocytopenia (1). and interstitial pneumonitis (1).
A CI-free protocol with antibody induction and sirolimus results in low rates of AR and PNF and excellent early patient and graft survival in patients with MDK and DGF. CI-free protocols may allow expansion of the kidney donor pool by encouraging utilization of MDK at high risk for DGF or CI-mediated nephrotoxicity.
Anti TNF-alpha drugs seem to be the new frontier of Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) therapy. The association infliximab methotrexate has been approved for the treatment of RA not responding to the classic therapy, but the short clinical experience in using antiTNF-alpha molecules brings to segnalation of new risks or adverse events. We describe a case of a patient, treated for many years with classic RA therapy, which developed a refractory anemia after treatment with association infliximab-methotrexate.
To determine the incidence of major hemorrhage and stroke in people aged 76 and older with atrial fibrillation on adjusted-dose warfarin who had been recently been admitted to hospital.
A retrospective observational cohort study.
A major healthcare network involving four tertiary hospitals.
Two hundred thirty-five patients aged 76 and older admitted to a major healthcare network between July 1, 2001, and June 30, 2002, with atrial fibrillation on warfarin were enrolled.
Information regarding major bleeding episodes, strokes, and warfarin use was obtained from patients, relatives, primary physicians, and medical records.
Two hundred twenty-eight patients (42% men) with a mean age of 81.1 (range 76-94) were included in the analysis. Total follow-up on warfarin was 530 years (mean 28 months). There were 53 major hemorrhages, for an annual rate of 10.0%, including 24 (45.3%) life-threatening and five (9.4%) fatal bleeds. The annual stroke rate after initiation of warfarin was 2.6%.
The rate of major hemorrhage was high in this old, frail group, but excluding fatalities, resulted in no long-term sequelae, and the stroke rate on warfarin was low, demonstrating how effective warfarin treatment is.
A retrospective study was carried out to investigate the evolution of patients diagnosed with cinnarizine-induced parkinsonism (CIP) over the past 15 years. A total of 74 cases of CIP were found among 172 patients with drug-induced parkinsonism (DIP). Both CIP and other DIP were significantly more frequent in women. No clinical differences between CIP and other DIP were found. Most of the patients (66 of 74) completely recovered after cinnarizine withdrawal in 1-16 months. Eleven patients later developed Parkinson's disease; four of them had previously recovered. Five patients had tardive dyskinesia. CIP accounts for a high proportion of DIP referred to neurologists in populations in which cinnarizine is widely prescribed. The symptoms typically resolve after drug withdrawal, although complete recovery may take more than 1 year.
We described a prospective application of ligand-based virtual screening program SHAFTS to discover novel inhibitors for p90 ribosomal S6 protein kinase 2 (RSK2). Taking the putative 3D conformations of two weakly binding RSK2 NTKD inhibitors as query templates, SHAFTS was used to perform 3D similarity based virtual screening because of a lack of crystal structure of RSK2 protein, thus leading to the identification of several novel scaffolds that would have been missed by conventional 2D fingerprint methods. The most potent hit compounds show low micromolar inhibitory activities against RSK2. In particular, one of the hit compounds exhibits potent antimigration activity against the MDA-MB-231 tumor cell. The results exemplified SHAFTS' application in active enrichment and scaffold hopping, which is of general interest for lead identification in drug discovery endeavors and also provides novel scaffolds that lay the foundation for uncovering new RSK2 regulatory mechanisms.
A 59 year old man with ischaemic heart disease, developed the clinical and electromyographic changes of the Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome after taking calcium antagonist, diltiazem. The symptoms appeared periodically with a rise and fall in serum level of diltiazem. Extensive search was made for systemic neoplasms and autoimmune diseases without success. Serum antibody to voltage operated calcium channel was not detected.
We report the first case in the world literature of a patient with an atrial septal defect, severe pulmonary hypertension, and equalization of pulmonary and systemic pressures, who underwent successful closure of an ASD following prolonged therapy with the intravenous vasodilator epoprostenol. Judicious use of continuous prostacyclin in apparently inoperable patients with congenital heart disease may be associated with significant reversal of pulmonary hypertension, and conversion to an operable state.
To identify factors associated with variability in anatomical and functional response of diabetic macular oedema (DMO) after 4 mg of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (ivTA), and for recurrence of macular oedema.
Pooled analysis of individual data from two randomized controlled trials.
This was a multicentre study involving 107 eyes with DMO administered 4 mg ivTA. Predictive factors for response to treatment were evaluated with linear regression analysis. Factors associated with time to recurrence of oedema were studied with Cox proportional hazards modelling. Main outcome measures were maximum improvement in optical coherence tomography (OCT)-measured central foveal thickness (CFT) and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), final CFT and BCVA at 12 months and time to oedema recurrence.
Greater reduction of retinal thickening occurred in eyes with worse baseline thickening (P < 0.001). There was also greater improvement of visual acuity in eyes with poorer preoperative BCVA levels (P < 0.001). Age, duration of oedema and previous macular laser treatment had no significant effect on maximal BCVA or CFT improvement. Eyes given 4 mg triamcinolone alone were more likely to develop recurrence of oedema at 12 months than those given a combination of 4 mg triamcinolone plus sequential laser (hazard ratio 2.60 [95% confidence interval: 1.45-4.67]).
Baseline OCT-measured retinal thickening and BCVA are important predictors of maximal anatomical and functional response of DMO to ivTA, respectively. Combination treatment strategy using sequential laser therapy may have a role in delaying recurrence of oedema after triamcinolone.
Results of case-control studies and of a prospective investigation in men suggest that consumption of coffee could protect against the risk of Parkinson's disease, but the active constituent is not clear. To address the hypothesis that caffeine is protective against Parkinson's disease, we examined the relationship of coffee and caffeine consumption to the risk of this disease among participants in two ongoing cohorts, the Health Professionals' Follow-Up Study (HPFS) and the Nurses' Health Study (NHS). The study population comprised 47,351 men and 88,565 women who were free of Parkinson's disease, stroke, or cancer at baseline. A comprehensive life style and dietary questionnaire was completed by the participants at baseline and updated every two to four years. During the follow-up (10 years in men, 16 years in women), we documented a total of 288 incident cases of Parkinson's disease. Among men, after adjustment for age and smoking, the relative risk of Parkinson's disease was 0.42 (95% CI: 0.23-0.78; p for trend < 0.001) for men in the top one-fifth of caffeine intake compared to those in the bottom one-fifth. An inverse association was also observed with consumption of coffee (p for trend = 0.004), caffeine from noncoffee sources (p for trend < 0.001), and tea (p for trend = 0.02) but not decaffeinated coffee. Among women, the relationship between caffeine or coffee intake and risk of Parkinson's disease was U-shaped, with the lowest risk observed at moderate intakes (1-3 cups of coffee/day, or the third quintile of caffeine consumption). These results support a possible protective effect of moderate doses of caffeine on risk of Parkinson's disease.
Atypical neuroleptics present a unique opportunity to examine confounding by neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in the assessment of negative signs of schizophrenia. EPS, such as facial bradykinesia and akinesia, involve some of the same response systems and phenomena as emotional display channels. EPS are attributed to the blockade of dopamine receptors in the striatum by traditional neuroleptics. Newer atypical neuroleptics target primarily mesolimbic and mesocortical areas, and receptors for other transmitters such as serotonin. Olanzapine has been reported as less likely to cause EPS and may improve some negative signs. We investigated the relationship between measures of EPS and negative symptoms in patients with schizophrenia treated with haloperidol or olanzapine. Patients were rated with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Simpson-Angus Scale EPS scale. Results show that the two agents have comparable efficacy but different safety outcomes. A positive correlation between EPS and PANSS negative score was detected in the haloperidol group only. Stepwise multiple regression analysis shows that a big proportion of variability in PANSS negative symptoms is predicted by EPS in the haloperidol group, but not in the olanzapine group, even though EPS increased in patients treated with haloperidol but not in olanzapine patients.
There have been no reports on the effect of FK5 06, a new immunosuppressive agent, on experimental membranous glomerulonephritis (MN) induced by an exogenous antigen. Therefore we investigated the effects of FK506 on MN induced by cationized bovine serum albumin (C-BSA) in rats.
Two weeks after the rats were immunized with 1 mg of C-BSA and Freund's complete adjuvant, they received intravenous injections of 3 mg/kg of C-BSA 3 times weekly for 4 weeks. Rats were divided into four groups: group A (n = 5) received intramuscular injections of 3 mg/kg of FK506 daily for 5 days beginning 2 days before the first immunization; group B (n =4) received 1 mg/kg of FK506 daily for 2 weeks beginning 2 weeks after the first immunization; and group C (n =4) received 1 mg/kg of FK506 daily for 2 weeks beginning 4 weeks after the first immunization. Group D (n = 5) received no FK506 and served as the control group. Rats were sacrificed 8 weeks after the first immunization.
Administration of FK506 in the preimmunization stage almost completely suppressed the development of MN in group A. Histological findings in groups B and C were similar to those in group D, the control group. However, urinary protein excretion was significantly lower in group B (24+/-46 mg/day) and C (220+/-44 mg/day) than in group D (330+/-61 mg/day). Expression of intracellular adhesion molecule-1 in glomeruli and the number of leukocyte functioning-associated molecules-1 were significantly decreased in groups A, B, and C compared with the control group. Administration of FK506 was not associated with any significant side-effects or histological abnormalities. The whole-blood trough levels of FK506 in groups B and C were 9.1 ng/ml and 9.2 ng/ml respectively.
The efficacy of FK506 was significantly increased when the drug was administered in the early phase of immunization in this model. The present study suggests that FK506 may be useful in patients with intractable nephrotic syndrome such as MN.
Morphine withdrawal leads to an increase in corticosterone concentration in plasma, and cognitive deficits are found after withdrawal. Evidence indicates that glucocorticoid hormones affect memory. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the effects of metyrapone and mifepristone on memory deficit following spontaneous morphine withdrawal. Memory was tested by using the object recognition task. The novel object recognition task was carried out in a square wooden open-field apparatus using objects. The test was comprised of three sections: habituation for 15 min., first trial for 12 min. and test trial for 5 min. In this learning paradigm, the difference in exploration between a previously seen object and a novel object is taken as an index of memory performance (recognition index - RI). Male mice were made dependent by increasing doses of morphine (30-90 mg/kg) subcutaneously twice daily for 3 days. RI was assessed 4 hr after the last dose of morphine on the third day. Mifepristone (50 and 100 mg/kg) and metyrapone (12.5 and 25 mg/kg) were used subcutaneously before the first trial and effects were compared to control values. Metyrapone (25 mg/kg) and mifepristone (50 mg/kg) improved RI to 34.8 +/- 10.8% and 25.4 +/- 11.7%, respectively, which are significantly different from control values (RI = -14.8 +/- 10.7%, P < 0.05). These results show that increased glucocorticoid concentration may be involved in memory deficit caused by morphine withdrawal. Metyrapone by inhibiting glucocorticoid formation, and mifepristone by inhibiting glucocorticoid receptors may be useful for preventing memory deficit following morphine withdrawal.
The beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist properties of ASL-8123, the primary metabolite of esmolol, were determined in vitro and in vivo. ASL-8123 demonstrated weak competitive beta-adrenoreceptor blocking activity in isolated guinea pig right atria with a pA2 of 3.73 +/- 0.07; no agonist-like activity was observed in this tissue at concentrations of ASL-8123 from 3 X 10(-5) to 1 X 10(-2) M. In anesthetized dogs, ASL-8123 was infused at increasing dosages from 0.2-25.6 mg/kg/min, each dose rate maintained for 20 min. The compound produced a slight decrease in heart rate of 15-22 beats/min at cumulative doses of 508-1,020 mg/kg and decreased diastolic blood pressure by 14-47 mm Hg at cumulative doses of 252-1,020 mg/kg. ASL-8123 dose-dependently inhibited the heart rate and diastolic blood pressure responses to isoproterenol (0.5 micrograms/kg i.v.). Blood levels of ASL-8123 were linearly correlated with inhibition of the heart rate response to isoproterenol (r = 0.95-0.99 for each dog, n = 6). The blood level of ASL-8123 that produced a 50% inhibition of isoproterenol-induced tachycardia averaged 293 +/- 65 micrograms/ml. Recovery from beta-adrenoreceptor blockade after terminating the infusion of ASL-8123 occurred slowly, decreasing from 81% at the end of the infusion to 55% 60 min later, and was paralleled by a slow decrease in blood levels of ASL-8123. Thus, ASL-8123 is a weak beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist which is approximately 1,600-1,900 times less potent than its parent, esmolol.
The i.v. administration of calcium before or shortly after treatment of supraventricular tachycardia with verapamil has been suggested to counteract a hypotensive response to verapamil. We discuss the case of a patient who presented to the emergency department with an accelerated wide-complex tachycardia and minimal symptoms. Immediately after i.v. administration, of 1 g calcium chloride as pretreatment for verapamil administration, ventricular fibrillation developed. Emergency physicians should be aware of potential dangers after the administration of i.v. calcium preparations when trying to prevent known hypotensive side effects of i.v. verapamil administration.
Anaemia commonly occurs in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy, often necessitating blood transfusion. This multicentre study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of epoetin alpha in preventing the decline in haemoglobin (Hb) level, and to determine whether the transfusion requirement could be reduced, in patients receiving 4-6 cycles of primarily platinum-based combination cyclic chemotherapy for small cell lung cancer (SCLC). A total of 130 non-anaemic SCLC patients were randomized to receive no additional treatment (n = 44), epoetin alpha 150 IU kg(-1) subcutaneously (s.c.) three times a week (n = 42) or 300 IU kg(-1) s.c. three times a week (n = 44). Reductions in epoetin alpha dosage were made during the study if Hb level increased to >15 g dl(-1). The mean weekly dosage was 335 and 612 IU kg(-1), respectively, in the two active treatment groups. Significantly fewer (P < 0.05) epoetin alpha-treated patients experienced anaemia (Hb < 10 g dl(-1)) during the course of chemotherapy (300 IU kg(-1), 39%; 150 IU kg(-1), 48%; untreated, 66%). This was reflected in the significantly lower number of treated patients transfused [300 IU kg(-1), 20% (P< 0.001); 150 IU kg(-1), 45% (P< 0.05); untreated, 59%]. Epoetin alpha was well-tolerated, and there was no evidence of sustained, clinically significant, hypertension. In summary, epoetin alpha is effective and well-tolerated in maintaining Hb level and reducing transfusion requirement in patients undergoing cyclic chemotherapy for SCLC.
This case report describes a very unusual consequence of drug-induced extrapyramidal side effects.
The patient developed bilateral ulnar nerve paralysis.
The treatment consisted of anticholinergic medication and physiotherapy.
The patient made a complete recovery over a period of 8 months.
There is a need to ensure compliance with anticholinergic medication when using depot neuroleptic medication.
The temporal course and pathophysiology of penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis were studied in detail in a typical case. Our results suggest that this disorder and idiopathic autoimmune myasthenia gravis share the same essential pathophysiological features, including the presence of anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody, serum-induced blockade of AChRs, antibody-mediated accelerated degradation of AChRs, and a resultant quantitative reduction in available junctional AChRs. An initial severe reduction in junctional AChRs was reversed and the patient recovered, both within 8 months of stopping penicillamine. Our data suggest that penicillamine probably produced myasthenia gravis by initiating a new autoimmune response rather than by enhancing ongoing autoimmunity.
