Idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (IDILI) continues to be a significant human health problem. IDILI is characterized as occurring in a minority of individuals exposed to a drug, yet it accounts for as much as 17% of all cases of acute liver failure. Despite these concerns, the mechanisms underlying IDILI remain unknown. Trovafloxacin (TVX), which causes IDILI in humans, also causes hepatocellular death in vitro when combined with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) treatment. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in this toxicity are not fully characterized. The purpose of this study was to identify mechanisms by which TVX and TNF interact to cause hepatocellular death, with a focus on a human hepatocyte cell line. TVX and TNF interacted to cause cytotoxicity in HepG2 cells at drug concentrations similar to those in people undergoing TVX therapy. TVX/TNF treatment caused apoptosis and DNA damage in HepG2 cells that depended on caspase activation. Prolonged activation of JNK occurred in TVX/TNF-induced cytotoxicity, and treatment with the JNK selective inhibitor SP600125 attenuated cytotoxicity. TVX/TNF cotreatment also caused cytotoxicity in isolated primary murine hepatocytes that was dependent on caspase activation. These results increase understanding of molecular signaling pathways involved in hepatocellular death caused by a drug with idiosyncratic liability in the presence of TNF.
The effects of minoxidil (a mitochondrial K+(ATP) channel opener) on ischemia-induced necrosis and apoptosis were examined using a cardiomyocyte model of simulated ischemia, since mitochondrial K+(ATP) channel openers have been suggested to be involved in the mechanisms of cardioprotective action against ischemia/reperfusion injury. In the absence of minoxidil, simulated ischemia led to cellular release of creatine phosphokinase (CPK), morphologic degeneration, and beating cessation within 24 to 72 hours. Based on the Hoechst 33258 staining pattern, a significant number of cells placed in sealed flasks underwent apoptosis. Myocytes treated with 5 microM of minoxidil failed to alter the degree of ischemia-induced CPK loss for 48 to 72 hours. However, minoxidil treatment prevented the loss of beating function in many of the ischemic cells, and attenuated the decline in intracellular ATP content after a 48-hour ischemic incubation. The number of nuclear fragmentation was significantly reduced in minoxidil-treated cells after a 72-hour ischemic insult compared with untreated ischemic cells. This effect was blocked by the mitochondrial K+(ATP) channel antagonist 5-HD. The data suggest that minoxidil renders the cell resistant to ischemia-induced necrosis and apoptosis. The beneficial effects of minoxidil appear to be related to the opening of mitochondrial K+(ATP) channels.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) may progress from simple steatosis to severe, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in 7%-14% of the U.S. population through a second "hit" in the form of increased oxidative stress and inflammation. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signaling and the unfolded protein response (UPR) are triggered when high levels of lipids and misfolded proteins alter ER homeostasis creating a lipotoxic environment within NAFLD livers. The objective of this study was to determine the coordinate regulation of ER stress-associated genes in the progressive stages of human NAFLD. Human liver samples categorized as normal, steatosis, NASH (Fatty), and NASH (Not Fatty) were analyzed by individual Affymetrix GeneChip Human 1.0 ST microarrays, immunoblots, and immunohistochemistry. A gene set enrichment analysis was performed on autophagy, apoptosis, lipogenesis, and ER stress/UPR gene categories. An enrichment of downregulated genes in the ER stress-associated lipogenesis and ER stress/UPR gene categories was observed in NASH. Conversely, an enrichment of upregulated ER stress-associated genes for autophagy and apoptosis gene categories was observed in NASH. Protein expression of the adaptive liver response protein STC2 and the transcription factor X-box binding protein 1 spliced (XBP-1s) were significantly elevated among NASH samples, whereas other downstream ER stress proteins including CHOP, ATF4, and phosphorylated JNK and eIF2α were not significantly changed in disease progression. Increased nuclear accumulation of total XBP-1 protein was observed in steatosis and NASH livers. The findings reveal the presence of a coordinated, adaptive transcriptional response to hepatic ER stress in human NAFLD.
Mesothelin is a differentiation antigen that was first described as the antigenic target of the monoclonal antibody K1. Using this antibody, it was demonstrated that mesothelin is strongly expressed in normal mesothelial cells, mesotheliomas, nonmucinous ovarian carcinomas, and some other malignancies. Immunostaining with the K1 antibody was suggested to be useful in the diagnosis of mesothelioma in the early 1990s. This, however, could not be further explored until recently because of the lack of commercially available anti-mesothelin antibodies. In a recent investigation by this author, all epithelioid mesotheliomas and about 40% of the lung adenocarcinomas reacted with the 5B2 anti-mesothelin antibody, which has only recently become commercially available. It was concluded that immunostaining with this antibody has limited value in discriminating between these conditions. The aim of the current study was to further investigate the potential application of the 5B2 antibody in tumor diagnosis. Mesothelin expression was evaluated in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded samples of normal tissues and in 471 tumors of various origins. The carcinomas that most frequently exhibited strong mesothelin reactivity were nonmucinous carcinomas of the ovary (14 of 14 serous, 3 of 3 endometrioid, 6 of 8 clear cell, and 4 of 4 transitional cell carcinoma), and adenocarcinomas of the pancreas (12 of 14), the ampulla of Vater (3 of 3), endometrium (7 of 11), lung (14 of 34), and liver (7 of 19 cholangiocarcinomas). The carcinomas that did not express mesothelin included renal cell carcinomas, hepatomas, carcinomas of the thyroid, adrenal cortical carcinomas, prostatic adenocarcinomas, and carcinoid tumors. All germ cell tumors, with the exception of teratomas, were consistently negative for mesothelin. Because of the strong mesothelin expression in nonmucinous carcinomas of the ovary, but not in a variety of tumors with which these lesions may be confused (eg, clear cell carcinoma of the ovary versus endodermal sinus tumor or renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type; transitional cell carcinoma of the ovary versus TCC of the urinary tract), immunostaining for this marker could be useful in establishing the differential diagnosis. The strong mesothelin expression in the large majority of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (12 of 14), but not in normal pancreas, confirms that this marker may have some diagnostic utility in discriminating between neoplastic and nonneoplastic pancreatic ductal epithelium. The mesothelin expression in about one-third of the cholangiocarcinomas, but not in hepatomas, suggests that this marker may have some utility in distinguishing between these two malignancies when they are poorly differentiated. In the group of small round blue cell tumors, only desmoplastic small round cell tumors exhibited mesothelin positivity (7 of 12). Of the soft tissue tumors, only the epithelial component of biphasic synovial sarcomas (9 of 9) expressed mesothelin. These findings indicate that, in some instances, mesothelin immunostaining can assist in the diagnosis of these tumors. Finally, the strong mesothelin reactivity seen in the adenomatoid tumors (3 of 3) provides further support for a mesothelial derivation for this lesion.
A ketogenic diet has been used successfully to treat patients with intractable epilepsy, although the mechanism is unknown. Acetone has been shown to have an anticonvulsive effect in various animal models. The main purpose of this study was to determine whether other ketones, 2-butanone (methyl ethyl ketone: MEK) and 3-pentanone (diethyl ketone: DEK), also show anticonvulsive effects in lithium-pilocarpine (Li-pilocarpine)-induced status epilepticus (SE) in rats.
Anticonvulsive effects of MEK and DEK in Li-pilocarpine SE rats were measured by behavioural scoring. Anti-seizure effects of MEK were also evaluated using electroencephalography (EEG). Neuroprotective effect of MEK was investigated by haematoxylin and eosin staining 4 weeks after the treatment with pilocarpine.
Acetone, MEK and DEK showed anticonvulsant effects in Li-pilocarpine-induced SE rats. Treatment with MEK twice (8 mmol.kg(-1) and 5 mmol.kg(-1)) almost completely blocked spontaneous recurrent cortical seizure EEG up to 4 weeks after the administration of pilocarpine. MEK also showed strong neuroprotective effects in Li-pilocarpine-treated rats 4 weeks following the administration of pilocarpine. Significant neural cell death occurred in the hippocampus of Li-pilocarpine SE rats, especially in the CA1 and CA3 subfields. In contrast, normal histological characteristics were observed in these regions in the MEK-pretreated rats.
Both MEK and DEK showed strong anticonvulsive effects in Li-pilocarpine-induced SE rats. They also inhibited continuous recurrent seizure and neural damage in hippocampal region for 4 weeks after the treatment with pilocarpine. These findings appear to be of value in the investigation of epilepsy.
The use of over-the-counter supplements is commonplace in today's health conscious society. We present an unusual case of intrahepatic cholestasis caused by vitamin A intoxication. The patient consumed one Herbalife shake with two multivitamin tablets of the same brand for 12 years. When calculated this equated to more than the recommended daily allowance for vitamin A consumption. Deranged liver function tests were consistent with a cholestatic process. Liver biopsy was obtained and revealed features pathognomonic of vitamin A toxicity, without the usual fibrosis. When the supplements were ceased, his jaundice and alkaline phosphatase completely normalized. This case highlights the importance of health care providers documenting non-prescribed dietary supplements and considering them in the etiology of cholestatic liver disease.
Carbamazepine, a drug used for the treatment of epilepsy and neuralgias, may exert hazardous effects on the cardiac conduction system. We report such a case of symptomatic brady-arrhythmia occurring in a 43-years-old male while on therapy with carbamazepine. Additionally, a literature review is made of previous cases of carbamazepine-induced sinus mode, AV node and His-Purkinje conduction disturbances.
Cleft palate frequencies were studied in AJ and SW mice following either 1- or 2-day dosing schedules with the anxiolytic drug diazepam (DAZ). In all cases, mice were food and water deprived for 24 and 48 hours in the 1- and 2-day dosing schedules, respectively. High cleft palate frequencies in control mice of both strains resulting from 48-hour food and water deprivation (on days 13.5 and 14.5 of gestation) were reduced in mice deprived for 24 hours, indicating a stress related effect. Two-day dosing with DAZ (400 mg/kg) produced a net increase in cleft palate frequency in SW (33%) and AJ (18%) mice. Mice treated only on day 13.5 had reduced control and DAZ cleft palate frequencies, neither of which were significant. Clefting was significant but reduced following 1-day dosing on day 13/20 of gestation (13 days 20 hours) in SW mice (18%), whereas no clefting was seen in the AJ strain. This strain difference was shown not to be related to differences in developmental timing. Production of cleft palate seen in AJ mice after 2 days of dosing may be indicative of an interaction of DAZ with the stresses resulting from food and water deprivation. Genes of the major histocompatibility locus, H-2, have been shown to regulate cleft palate formation following glucocorticoid and phenytoin administration to mice. Despite pharmacological similarities between DAZ and phenytoin, comparison of cleft palate frequencies following administration of DAZ to various strains of mice of different H-2 haplotypes indicated that genes associated with the H-2 locus do not regulate DAZ-induced cleft palate in these strains.
Because PGE1 previously has been reported to increase survival of patients with ARDS, we evaluated physiologic effects and side effects of PGE1 in a prospective open-label study of patients with ARDS. Seventeen patients with ARDS who did not have significant renal or hepatic dysfunction received PGE1 by continuous central venous infusion (30 ng/kg/min). Seventeen control patients with ARDS without renal or hepatic dysfunction who had similar APACHE II and ARDS scores and causes of ARDS did not receive PGE1. Prostaglandin E1 significantly decreased the SVRI and oxygen extraction ratio. Concentrations of total and polymorphonuclear leukocytes, but not platelets, increased significantly during PGE1 infusion, but did not change in control patients. There was no change in the Do2I and Vo2I during the course of the PGE1 infusion. There were no differences in Do2I and Vo2I during PGE1 infusion between survivors and nonsurvivors. Prostaglandin E1 was infused for a mean of 5.9 +/- 1.8 days (+/- SD) and was discontinued on ten occasions in seven patients because of supraventricular dysrhythmias (n = 4), hypotension (n = 3), thrombocytopenia (n = 3), and cardiac arrest (n = 2). Nonsurvivors had PGE1 discontinued prematurely more frequently than survivors (56 percent [5/9] vs 25 percent [2/8], respectively). The prevalence of multiple-system organ failure and the in-hospital mortality of both PGE1-treated and control patients were not different. Although PGE1 causes significant systemic vasodilation and possibly decreased intrapulmonary polymorphonuclear leukocyte sequestration, PGE1 does not influence multiple-system organ failure or mortality of patients with ARDS without renal or hepatic dysfunction.
In the central and peripheral noradrenergic neurons, the balance between noradrenaline release and reuptake determines the level of noradrenaline at the synaptic cleft or the nerve ending. In the present study, we examined the effects of propofol, an intravenous general anaesthetic, on catecholamine secretion and noradrenaline uptake in cultured bovine adrenal medullary cells and on the serum noradrenaline and blood pressure in rats. In cultured adrenal medullary cells, propofol (10-50 mumol/l) concentration-dependently inhibited catecholamine secretion stimulated by carbachol. Propofol suppressed carbachol-evoked 22Na+ influx as well as 45Ca2+ influx at concentrations similar to those which suppressed the catecholamine secretion. Propofol (10-50 mumol/l) also inhibited veratridine-evoked 22Na+ influx, 45Ca2+ influx and catecholamine secretion, whereas it had little effect on the 45Ca2+ influx and catecholamine secretion induced by 56 mmol/l K+. Cultured adrenal medullary cells show [3H] noradrenaline uptake which is sensitive to imipramine. Propofol (10-50 mumol/l) significantly inhibited the imipramine-sensitive uptake of [3H] noradrenaline. In rats, intravenous administration of propofol (2.5 mg/kg) lowered serum noradrenaline and arterial blood pressure. From these findings, in spite of inhibiting noradrenaline uptake, propofol at anaesthetic concentrations (10-30 mumol/l) seems to reduce catecholamine secretion by interfering with Na+ influx through voltage-dependent Na+ channels as well as nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-associated ion channels in the adrenal medulla and, probably, in the sympathetic nervous system. This may explain the propofol-induced hypotension during anaesthesia.
The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence of positive plasma drug screening for cocaine or amphetamine in adult emergency department seizure patients.
This prospective study evaluated consecutive eligible seizure patients who had a plasma sample collected as part of their clinical evaluation. Plasma was tested for amphetamine and the cocaine metabolite benzoylecgonine using enzyme-mediated immunoassay methodology. Plasma samples with benzoylecgonine greater than 150 ng/mL or an amphetamine greater than 500 ng/mL were defined as positive. Patient demographics, history of underlying drug or alcohol-related seizure disorder, estimated time from seizure to sample collection, history or suspicion of cocaine or amphetamine abuse, results of clinical urine testing for drugs of abuse, and assay results were recorded without patient identifiers.
Fourteen of 248 (5.6%, 95% CI 2.7%-8.5%) plasma samples were positive by immunoassay testing for benzoylecgonine and no samples (0%, 95% CI 0-1.2%) were positive for amphetamine. Positive test results were more common in patient visits where there was a history or suspicion of cocaine or amphetamine abuse (p < 0.0005).
During this study period, routine plasma screening for cocaine and amphetamines in adult seizure patients had a low yield. As a result, routine plasma screening would yield few cases of stimulant drug in which there was neither a history nor suspicion of drug abuse in this population.
A 15-year-old girl was given two 250-mg doses of ethosuximide because of petit mal seizures. Within hours of taking the first pill she developed an acute reaction involving dyskinetic movements of the face, arms, and legs. These were abruptly and completely relieved by an intravenous injection of diphenhydramine hydrochloride.
To investigate the association of the polymorphisms of rs4961 in alpha-adducin (ADD1) and rs28933400 in Na+/K+ -ATPase a2 (ATP1A2) genes, the products of which are important for sodium transport, with essential hypertension.
Mutagenically separated PCR (MS-PCR) was used to detect the genotypes of the two loci. The subjects were recruited randomly including 196 patients of essential hypertension and 192 healthy controls.
The frequencies of genotypes and alleles of in the ADD1 gene were significantly different between the patients and controls respectively (P=0.03, P=0.04). There was significant relationship between the genotypes of rs4961 and systolic blood pressure and blood sodium concentration. However, there was no significant relationship between the rs4961 genotypes and diastolic blood pressure, body mass index, blood kalium and chlorine concentrations. There was no polymorphism at the rs28933400 locus in the subjects analyzed.
The rs4961 polymorphism of the ADD1 gene is associated with essential hypertension, but the rs28933400 locus in the ATP1A2 gene may have no association with essential hypertension in the studied population.
Human cytochrome P-450 (CYP)2J2 is abundant in heart and active in biosynthesis of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs). Recently, we demonstrated that these eicosanoid products protect myocardium from ischemia-reperfusion injury. The present study utilized transgenic (Tr) mice with cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of human CYP2J2 to investigate protection toward toxicity resulting from acute (0, 5, or 15 mg/kg daily for 3 days, followed by 24-h recovery) or chronic (0, 1.5, or 3.0 mg/kg biweekly for 5 wk, followed by 2-wk recovery) doxorubicin (Dox) administration. Acute treatment resulted in marked elevations of serum lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase levels that were significantly greater in wild-type (WT) than CYP2J2 Tr mice. Acute treatment also resulted in less activation of stress response enzymes in CYP2J2 Tr mice (catalase 750% vs. 300% of baseline, caspase-3 235% vs. 165% of baseline in WT vs. CYP2J2 Tr mice). Moreover, CYP2J2 Tr hearts exhibited less Dox-induced cardiomyocytes apoptosis (measured by TUNEL) compared with WT hearts. After chronic treatment, comparable decreases in body weight were observed in WT and CYP2J2 Tr mice. However, cardiac function, assessed by measurement of fractional shortening with M-mode transthoracic echocardiography, was significantly higher in CYP2J2 Tr than WT hearts after chronic Dox treatment (WT 37 +/- 2%, CYP2J2 Tr 47 +/- 1%). WT mice also had larger increases in beta-myosin heavy chain and cardiac ankryin repeat protein compared with CYP2J2 Tr mice. CYP2J2 Tr hearts had a significantly higher rate of Dox metabolism than WT hearts (2.2 +/- 0.25 vs. 1.6 +/- 0.50 ng.min(-1).100 microg protein(-1)). In vitro data from H9c2 cells demonstrated that EETs attenuated Dox-induced mitochondrial damage. Together, these data suggest that cardiac-specific overexpression of CYP2J2 limited Dox-induced toxicity.
We examined whether chronic treatment with the free radical scavengers butylated hydroxytoluene (1 g kg-1 day-1) and N-acetyl-L-cysteine (250 mg kg-1 day-1), or the inhibitor of advanced glycosylation reactions, aminoguanidine (1 g kg-1 day-1), could prevent the development of relaxation and contraction abnormalities in aorta from 2 month streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Diabetes caused a 24% deficit in maximal endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine for phenylephrine precontracted aortas (P < 0.01). This was unaffected by tissue-bath glucose concentration (5.5 or 40 mM), or by addition of 1 mM L-arginine. Butylated hydroxytoluene, N-acetyl-L-cysteine and aminoguanidine treatments gave substantial protection, maximum relaxation remaining in the non-diabetic range. Neither diabetes nor treatment affected endothelium-independent relaxation to glyceryl trinitrate. To test the suggestion that aminoguanidine could act as an inhibitor of constitutive nitric oxide synthase, acute aminoguanidine effects on endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine were also examined. No inhibition was noted. A modest increase in phenylephrine sensitivity with diabetes (P < 0.05) was unaffected by butylated hydroxytoluene or N-acetyl-L-cysteine, but partially prevented by aminoguanidine (P < 0.05). The data, therefore, provide evidence for the involvement of reactive oxygen species and the advanced glycosylation process particularly for impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation in experimental diabetes.
The steroid D-ring glucuronide conjugate estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide (E217G) but not the A-ring conjugate E23-glucuronide (E23G) has been shown to inhibit bile flow in the rat. To determine if primates are also sensitive to E217G-induced cholestasis, a noninvasive approach with the use of indocyanine green (ICG), a dye eliminated primarily by biliary excretion, was first validated in the rat and then applied to the rhesus monkey. ICG (16 mg/kg rat; 4 mg/kg monkey) was administered i.v. 10 min after an i.v. bolus dose of either E217G (5.5 or 11 mumol/kg), E23G (11 mumol/kg) or vehicle alone. In the rat, the elimination T1/2 of ICG was increased by the 11 mumol/kg dose of E217G (P less than .025), whereas E23G produced no significant change from vehicle control values. In the monkey, the 5.5 and 11 mumol/kg doses of E217G increased the T1/2 of ICG in a dose-related manner (P less than .005), whereas E23G was without effect. Plasma levels of total radioactivity demonstrated dose-dependent kinetics after the administration of a tracer dose and 11 mumol/kg of [3H]E217G. A rebound of plasma radioactivity was seen at 11 mumol/kg of [3H] E217G, the time course of which mimicked the time course of E217G-induced cholestasis. High-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of rat bile and plasma after the administration of [3H]E217G revealed primarily E217G and estradiol-3-sulfate-17 beta-D-glucuronide together with small amounts of three unidentified metabolites. In the monkey, only E217G and estradiol-3-sulfate-17 beta-D-glucuronide were observed in the plasma after the administration of [3H]E217G. In contrast to E217G, estradiol-3-sulfate-17 beta-D-glucuronide was choleretic in the bile duct-cannulated rat model. These data indicate that E217G is hepatotoxic in both rodents and nonhuman primates.
Serotonin 5-HT2A receptor antagonists have been shown to attenuate the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine in rats. The present study used the expression of c-Fos protein as a marker to identify brain areas through which 5-HT2A receptors may modulate cocaine-induced behaviors. Significant correlations were observed between cocaine-induced hyperactivity and c-Fos expression in the nucleus accumbens core (NAcC), caudate-putamen (CPu), and subthalamic nucleus. In a separate experiment, a low, behaviorally relevant dose of cocaine was found to increase c-Fos immunoreactivity in the medial CPu, NAcC, and nucleus accumbens shell (NAcSh). The selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist M100907 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced c-Fos expression in the medial CPu and in the NAcSh. These data suggest that 5-HT2A receptors in the NAcSh and CPu or in afferents to these regions may contribute to genomic responses to cocaine in the brain as well as to cocaine-induced locomotor activity.
The free radical scavenger WR1065 (SH) is the active thiol form of the clinically approved cytoprotector amifostine. At doses of 40 microM and 4 mM it can activate the redox-sensitive nuclear transcription factor kappaB (NFkappaB) and elevate the expression of the antioxidant gene manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) in human microvascular endothelial cells (HMEC). MnSOD contains binding motifs for a number of transcription factors other than NFkappaB and codes for a potent antioxidant enzyme localized in the mitochondria that is known to confer enhanced radiation resistance to cells. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of WR1065 exposure on the various transcription factors known to affect MnSOD expression along with the subsequent kinetics of intracellular elevation of MnSOD protein levels and associated change in sensitivity to ionizing radiation in HMEC. Cells were grown to confluence and exposed to WR1065 for 30 min. Affects on the transcription factors AP1, AP2, CREB, NFkappaB, and Sp1 were monitored as a function of time ranging from 30 min to 4 h after drug exposure using a gel-shift assay. Only NFkappaB exhibited a marked activation and that occurred 30 min following the cessation of drug exposure. MnSOD protein levels, as determined by Western blot analysis, increased up to 16-fold over background control levels by 16 h following drug treatment, and remained at 10-fold or higher levels for an additional 32 h. MnSOD activity was evaluated using a gel-based assay and was found to be active throughout this time period. HMEC were irradiated with X-rays either in the presence of 40 microM or 4 mM WR1065 or 24 h after its removal when MnSOD levels were most elevated. No protection was observed for cells irradiated in the presence of 40 microM WR1065. In contrast, a 4 mM dose of WR1065 afforded an increase in cell survival by a factor of 2. A "delayed radioprotective" effect was, however, observed when cells were irradiated 24 h later, regardless of the concentration of WR1065 used. This effect is characterized as an increase in survival at the 2 Gy dose point, i.e., a 40% increase in survival, and an increase in the initial slope of the survival curve by a factor of 2. The anti-inflammatory sesquiterpene lactone, Helenalin, is an effective inhibitor of NFkappaB activation. HMEC were exposed to Helenalin for 2 h at a nontoxic concentration of 5 microM prior to exposure to WR1065. This treatment not only inhibited activation of NFkappaB by WR1065, but also inhibited the subsequent elevation of MnSOD and the delayed radioprotective effect. A persistent marked elevation of MnSOD in cells following their exposure to a thiol-containing reducing agent such as WR1065 can result in an elevated resistance to the cytotoxic effects of ionizing radiation and represents a novel radioprotection paradigm.
Saphenous vein graft occlusions have been successfully treated with extended urokinase infusions. We report a case of myocardial infarction complicating this treatment. A review of reported cases suggests that this complication may not be uncommon. The optional drug, dose, and infusion technique for intra-graft lytic therapy has not been determined. The costs, risks, and difficulty of this technique may limit its application.
Long-term treatment of hypertensive rats with arterial vasodilators may further increase left ventricular hypertrophy. Since left ventricular hypertrophy may be an important determinant of outcome in hypertension, the long-term effects of arterial vasodilation with hydralazine on left ventricular mass and function were compared with those of an alternative third-line drug, the alpha1 blocker prazosin, in patients still hypertensive despite combined diuretic and beta blocker therapy. A single-blind, randomized, two-group parallel design was employed. Both treatments induced a sustained antihypertensive effect, with hydralazine showing more effect on supine blood pressure, and prazosin having more effect on standing pressure. Heart rate, cardiac output, and volume status showed only minor changes. Plasma norepinephrine showed a sustained increase when measured in both the supine and standing positions, but the increases were similar for the two treatments. Supine and standing plasma renin activity increased only during long-term treatment with hydralazine. Prazosin induced a progressive decrease in left ventricular mass over time (-34 +/- 15 g/m2 at 12 months), but hydralazine did not (-9 +/- 10 g/m2 after 12 months). Stepwise regression indicated that a decrease in systolic blood pressure was associated with a decrease in left ventricular mass with both treatments, but an increase in plasma norepinephrine was associated with an increase in left ventricular mass only with hydralazine, suggesting that increased sympathetic activity may affect left ventricular mass via cardiac alpha1 receptors. Thus, if regression of left ventricular hypertrophy is a worthwhile therapeutic goal, hydralazine and analogous arterial vasodilators are not drugs of choice.
6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) is a neurotoxin used in the induction of experimental Parkinson's disease in both animals and cultured neuronal cells. Biochemical and molecular approaches showed previously that low doses of 6-OHDA induced apoptosis in PC12 cells, while high doses of this neurotoxin induced necrosis. Melatonin has been shown to protect against the neuronal programmed cell death induced by 6-OHDA, although it was not able to prevent the massive necrotic cellular death occurring after the addition of high doses of the neurotoxin. In the present work, we demonstrate by ultrastructural analysis that although low doses of 6-OHDA induced apoptosis in PC12 cells, it also damaged the non-apoptotic cells, morphologically corresponding this damage to incipient and reversible necrotic lesions. When the doses of the neurotoxin increase, there are still apoptotic cells, although most of the cells show necrotic irreversible lesions. We also found that melatonin partially prevents the incipient necrotic lesions caused by low doses of 6-OHDA. The fact that melatonin was shown in previous work to prevent apoptosis caused by low doses of 6-OHDA, but not necrosis induced by high doses of the neurotoxin, seemed to indicate that this agent is only able to protect against apoptosis. However, our present results, melatonin preventing also the incipient necrotic neuronal lesions, suggest that this hormone may provide a general protection against cell death, suggesting that higher doses should be tried in order to prevent the necrotic cell death induced by high doses of the neurotoxin.
Discrete windows of susceptibility to toxicants have been identified for the breast, including in utero, puberty, pregnancy, and postpartum. We tested the hypothesis that polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) measured during the early postpartum predict increased risk of maternal breast cancer diagnosed before age 50. We analyzed archived early postpartum serum samples collected from 1959 to 1967, an average of 17 years before diagnosis (mean diagnosis age 43 years) for 16 PCB congeners in a nested case-control study in the Child Health and Development Studies cohort (N = 112 cases matched to controls on birth year). We used conditional logistic regression to adjust for lipids, race, year, lactation, and body mass. We observed strong breast cancer associations with three congeners. PCB 167 was associated with a lower risk (odds ratio (OR), 75th vs. 25th percentile = 0.2, 95 % confidence interval (95 % CI) 0.1, 0.8) as was PCB 187 (OR, 75th vs. 25th percentile = 0.4, 95 % CI 0.1, 1.1). In contrast, PCB 203 was associated with a sixfold increased risk (OR, 75th vs. 25th percentile = 6.3, 95 % CI 1.9, 21.7). The net association of PCB exposure, estimated by a post-hoc score, was nearly a threefold increase in risk (OR, 75th vs. 25th percentile = 2.8, 95 % CI 1.1, 7.1) among women with a higher proportion of PCB 203 in relation to the sum of PCBs 167 and 187. Postpartum PCB exposure likely also represents pregnancy exposure, and may predict increased risk for early breast cancer depending on the mixture that represents internal dose. It remains unclear whether individual differences in exposure, response to exposure, or both explain risk patterns observed.
Previous research has demonstrated an increase in large vessel stiffness in patients with heart failure (HF). Furthermore, heart rate recovery (HRR) may be negatively impacted by increased arterial stiffness secondary to altered baroreceptor discharge. The purpose of the present study was to determine if chronic phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibition with Sildenafil, previously shown to improve arterial stiffness, favorably impacts HRR in patients with HF. Forty male subjects (age: 65.3+/-7.3 years, baseline ejection fraction: 37.1+/-7.4%, 15 non-ischemic HF/25 ischemic HF) participated in this study. Subjects received Sildenafil (25 mg, 3 times/day) for six months. Symptom-limited exercise testing was performed at baseline and six months with a lower extremity ergometer. Heart rate recovery was defined as HR at maximal exercise minus HR at 1 min recovery. No adverse effects were reported throughout the study period. Paired t-testing revealed that HRR was significantly improved following six months of Sildenafil therapy (baseline: 17.5+/-3.5 bpm vs. Post: 20.6+/-3.2 bpm). The results of the present study indicate that chronic Sildenafil therapy significantly increases HRR, an important prognostic marker, in patients with HF. A plausible mechanism for the improvement of HRR is the previously demonstrated impact Sildenafil has on arterial stiffness and therefore baroreceptor function.
Oxidative stress and DNA damage are the most studied mechanisms by which ochratoxin A (OTA) induces its toxic effects, which include nephrotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, immunotoxicity and genotoxicity. Zinc, which is an essential trace element, is considered a potential antioxidant. The aim of this paper was to investigate whether zinc supplement could inhibit OTA-induced oxidative damage and DNA damage in HepG2 cells and the mechanism of inhibition. The results indicated that that exposure of OTA decreased the intracellular zinc concentration; zinc supplement significantly reduced the OTA-induced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and decrease in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity but did not affect the OTA-induced decrease in the mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm). Meanwhile, the addition of the zinc chelator N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN) strongly aggravated the OTA-induced oxidative damage. This study also demonstrated that zinc helped to maintain the integrity of DNA through the reduction of OTA-induced DNA strand breaks, 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) formation and DNA hypomethylation. OTA increased the mRNA expression of metallothionein1-A (MT1A), metallothionein2-A (MT2A) and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Zinc supplement further enhanced the mRNA expression of MT1A and MT2A, but it had no effect on the mRNA expression of SOD1 and catalase (CAT). Zinc was for the first time proven to reduce the cytotoxicity of OTA through inhibiting the oxidative damage and DNA damage, and regulating the expression of zinc-associated genes. Thus, the addition of zinc can potentially be used to reduce the OTA toxicity of contaminated feeds.
Bile acids (BAs) have many physiological roles and exhibit both toxic and protective influences within the liver. Alterations in the BA profile may be the result of disease induced liver injury. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a prevalent form of chronic liver disease characterized by the pathophysiological progression from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The hypothesis of this study is that the 'classical' (neutral) and 'alternative' (acidic) BA synthesis pathways are altered together with hepatic BA composition during progression of human NAFLD. This study employed the use of transcriptomic and metabolomic assays to study the hepatic toxicologic BA profile in progressive human NAFLD. Individual human liver samples diagnosed as normal, steatosis, and NASH were utilized in the assays. The transcriptomic analysis of 70 BA genes revealed an enrichment of downregulated BA metabolism and transcription factor/receptor genes in livers diagnosed as NASH. Increased mRNA expression of BAAT and CYP7B1 was observed in contrast to decreased CYP8B1 expression in NASH samples. The BA metabolomic profile of NASH livers exhibited an increase in taurine together with elevated levels of conjugated BA species, taurocholic acid (TCA) and taurodeoxycholic acid (TDCA). Conversely, cholic acid (CA) and glycodeoxycholic acid (GDCA) were decreased in NASH liver. These findings reveal a potential shift toward the alternative pathway of BA synthesis during NASH, mediated by increased mRNA and protein expression of CYP7B1. Overall, the transcriptomic changes of BA synthesis pathway enzymes together with altered hepatic BA composition signify an attempt by the liver to reduce hepatotoxicity during disease progression to NASH.
Autism affects more males than females and is associated with disturbances of the serotonin system. The integrin beta3 (ITGB3) and serotonin transporter (SLC6A4) genes were both recently identified as male quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for serotonin levels and alleles of each have been associated with autism. Here, we use publicly available genomic resources to determine whether regulation of expression level could be the mechanism behind association between serotonin level and noncoding variation in ITGB3. We also examine whether ITGB3 might interact with SLC6A4 to contribute to autism susceptibility. Using murine and human expression data, we observe that ITGB3 and SLC6A4 expression levels are correlated (0.38<r<0.78). Moreover, genetic variation in ITGB3 is associated with expression of both ITGB3 (P=0.012) and SLC6A4 (P=0.008) in unrelated CEPH individuals. We also show preliminary evidence that genotypes at the ITGB3 and SLC6A4 loci may interact to affect autism susceptibility (P=0.033).
