c-Src inhibition in cancer cells leads to an abrogation of invasion but a variable effect on apoptosis. The pathways downstream of c-Src promoting survival are not well characterized. Because cancer therapy that both decreases invasion and induces significant apoptosis would be ideal, we sought to characterize the mechanisms of resistance to c-Src inhibition.
c-Src was inhibited in a panel of oral cancer cell lines and subsequent survival and signaling measured. The interactions between c-Src and c-Met were evaluated using immunoprecitation and an in vitro kinase assay. Cytotoxicity was measured and the Chou-Talalay combination index calculated. An orthotopic model of oral cancer was used to assess the effects of c-Met and c-Src inhibitors.
Inhibition of c-Src resulted in c-Met inhibition in sensitive cells lines, but not in resistant cell lines. Isolated c-Met was a c-Src substrate in both sensitive and resistant cells, but there was no interaction of c-Src and c-Met in intact resistant cells. To examine the biological consequences of this mechanism, we demonstrated synergistic cytotoxicity, enhanced apoptosis, and decreased tumor size with the combination of c-Src and c-Met inhibitors.
Sustained c-Met activation can mediate resistance to c-Src inhibition. These data suggest that the differences between c-Met and c-Src signaling in sensitive and resistant cells are due to distinct factors promoting or inhibiting interactions, respectively, rather than to intrinsic structural changes in c-Src or c-Met. The synergistic cytotoxic effects of c-Src and c-Met inhibition may be important for the treatment of head and neck cancers.
Eighteen male Wistar rats were divided into 3 groups of 6 animals each. Two groups received different intraperitoneal doses of TCDD (0.75 and 8 microg) in DMSO solution and the third group (control) received only DMSO on days 0, 7 and 14. On day 21 the animals were sacrificed, and then blood tests, pathological examination and CYP1A1 activity measurement were performed. In rats that received a high dose of dioxin (8 microg) hepatic lobules revealed parenchymal degeneration and vacuolization of hepatocytes was observed, and also an increased CYP reaction was found in central parts of lobules, around the central vein. The reaction in control and low dose groups was weak. The resorufin level was significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the group receiving a low dose of dioxin as compared to the control group. The study confirmed that TCDD damages the rat liver in a dose-dependent manner. Administration of high TCDD doses causing major liver damage also damaged CYP1A1 (based on higher resorufin levels in epiluminescence). TCDD activates CYP1A1, which was confirmed by increased immunohistochemical reactivity of central areas ofhepatic lobules.
To investigate the risk factors, clinical characteristics, and prognosis of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in patients with renal dysfunction.
We retrospectively analyzed 44 patients with renal dysfunction who received coronary angiography in our hospital. CIN was found in 23 patients, after angiography. We compared the clinical characteristics, medication during angiography day, volume of contrast-medium, as well as renal function changes before and after angiography in patients with (23 cases) and without (21 cases) CIN. The CIN patients were further divided into two groups according to their serum creatinine (Scr) levels: renal function recovery group (12 cases) and renal function non-recovery group (11 cases), and difference between these two groups was analyzed.
CIN incidence was 52.3% (23/44) in all 44 patients with renal dysfunction. CIN incidence was 42% (8/19) in patients whose Scr was between 132.6 - 168 micromol/L, was 60% (15/25) in those whose Scr was more than 176.8 micromol/L. In all 23 CIN patients, the average volume of contrast-medium was (144.79 +/- 71.8) ml, while 43.5% of the CIN patients whose dosage was over the maximum threshold of contrast-medium; the average risk factors were 5.14 +/- 1.3. Compared with the group without CIN, the difference was statistically significant (P < 0.05). Multiple stepwise regression analysis showed the volume of radio-contrast-medium was correlated with CIN in patients with renal dysfunction (F=10.4, P=0.003). Patients in the CIN group showed a significant rise of Scr level 24, 48, and 72 hours after angiography. However, the urine volume had no change before and after angiography. Renal function was improved in 12 of 23 patients (52.2%), and deteriorated in 11 patients (47.8%). Four patients (17.4%) received dialysis. Compared with the non-reavery group, Scr levels [(194.5 +/- 70.7) micromol/L, (443.8 +/- 282.9) micromol/L, respectively] of pre-angiography in renal function recovery group and the patients whose dosage was over maximum threshold of contrast-medium (2/12, 8/11) had significant difference (P < 0.05).
Higher volume of contrast-medium is a risk factor of CIN in patients with renal dysfunction. Pre-angiography Scr level and the contrast-medium volume are correlated with the prognosis of CIN in such patients.
To compare the analgesic effect and side effects of morphine for intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) with or without low-dose naloxone after abdominal surgery.
Fifty-nine ASA I - II patients undergoing elective abdominal surgery were randomly divided into two groups: group morphine received postoperative PCA with 0.4 mg/ml morphine (a 1 mg bolus with a 5 min lockout), group naloxone received morphine 0.4 mg/ml with 6 microg/kg naloxone. Blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and pulse oxygen saturation were monitored. Visual analogue scale (VAS), nausea/vomiting, pruritus, sedation and consumption of morphine were recorded for 24 hours.
VAS had no difference between group morphine and group naloxone, but group naloxone had significantly lower VAS for pain at rest or movement (beyond 4-8 h), and the incidence of nausea/vomiting significantly decreased in group naloxone (P < 0.05). No differences existed in pruritus, sedation, respiratory rate, and hemodynamic parameters between these two groups. The 24 hours postoperative morphine consumption was (36.6 +/- 13.5) mg in group naloxone and (43.7 +/- 14.6) mg in group morphine (P < 0.05).
For morphine PCA, morphine with 6 microg/kg naloxone is effective in preventing some PCA morphinerelated side effects. Naloxone not only reduces postoperative morphine requirements but also improves the analgesic effect.
1 The effects of oxprenolol and propranolol on peripheral blood flow were compared in patients with mild and moderate essential hypertension. 2 In an acute double-blind crossover study in which eight patients participated there was a significant reduction in resting forearm blood flow (RFBF) 2 h after 80 mg propranolol (mean +/- s.e. mean) (-0.87 +/- 0.13 microliter min-1 100 g-1) and after 80 mg oxprenolol (-0.30 +/- 0.12) but not after placebo. This reduction was significantly greater after propranolol (P = 0.022). 3 Seven patients continued into a double-blind crossover study comparing the above dose of the two drugs twice a day. On both the beta-adrenoceptor blockers there was a significant reduction in blood pressure after 2 weeks of treatment and also a significant reduction in RFBF. 4 After 6 weeks treatment with propranolol the reduction in RFBF persisted and was significantly less (P = 0.04) than after 6 weeks treatment of oxprenolol, at which time RFBF was back to control. 5 There were no consistent changes in skin temperature. 6 Neither propranolol nor oxprenolol should be used in patients with severe peripheral vascular disease. 7 If beta-adrenoceptor blockade is necessary in patients with mild peripheral vascular disease oxprenolol should be used in preference to propranolol but should be prescribed with caution.
Twenty-nine patients with recent myocardial infarction were randomly allocated to a placebo group (n = 14) and to a group (n = 15) who received sulphinpyrazone, 4 x 200 mg daily for 7 days. Renal function significantly and transiently deteriorated in the sulphinpyrazone group compared to the placebo group. In the sulphinpyrazone group the 24 hour-urinary prostaglandin E2 and kallikrein excretion were suppressed. These data suggest that the decrease in renal function caused by sulphinpyrazone early after myocardial infarction could be mediated by an inhibition of renal prostaglandin and/or kallikrein-kinin synthesis.
A great body of behavioural and neurophysiological evidence suggests that excitatory amino acids are involved in mechanisms of learning and memory. Moreover, degeneration of glutamatergic pathways may underlie the cognitive deficits seen in various disorders such as Alzheimer's dementia. As direct stimulation of glutamatergic receptors with agonists may increase the risk of toxicity and accelerate neuropathological changes, a more valid approach seems to be positive modulation of glutamatergic receptors that may reverse the symptoms with a lower risk of excitotoxic effects. Such a possibility offered by partial agonists of the strychnine-insensitive glycine site of the NMDA receptor (Gly-B site) or positive modulators of AMPA receptors, such as aniracetam. In the present study, the effects of d-cycloserine and aniracetam were tested in two animal models of cognitive deficits (entorhinal cortex lesion-induced deficits evaluated in the radial maze and scopolamine-induced amnesia evaluated in passive avoidance test). D-cycloserine (6 mg/kg, for 10 days) had no effect on spatial working memory deficit induced by entorhinal cortex lesions. It did, however, reverse scopolamine-induced deficits in the passive avoidance test when given acutely at the same dose. In contrast, aniracetam (50 mg/kg, for 10 days) produced beneficial effects in the radial maze test in rats with entorhinal cortex lesions, but given at the same dose acutely did not influence scopolamine-induced amnesia. The positive effect of d-cycloserine against scopolamine-induced amnesia may be probably related to the cholinergic-glutamatergic interaction in the hippocampus. The negative data obtained with d-cycloserine in the model of entorhinal cortex lesions-induced cognitive deficits could be taken as a hint that it is probably not suitable for the symptomatological therapy of Alzheimer's disease. The mechanism of positive action of aniracetam cannot be explained on the basis of AMPA receptor modulation, as the dose used (50 mg/kg) is well below that required for the effect at AMPA receptors. Other actions such as peripheral effects or modulation of metabotropic receptors seem more likely.
Effects of combined 28 days of oral exposure to the insecticide Permethrin (Pe), alone or in combination with arsenic-III (As) or Hg-II (Hg), were investigated on certain toxicological (body weight, organ weights), haematological (white blood cell (WBC) and red blood cell (RBC) counts, haematocrit (Ht), mean cell volume (MCV), cell content of the femoral bone marrow) and immune function (IgM-PFC, delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction) parameters of male Wistar rats. Immunotoxic (H = high) and NOEL (L = low) doses of the three substances were determined in preliminary experiments under identical experimental conditions. In the present study, the immunotoxic dose of Pe (126 mg/kg) was combined with the NOEL dose of As (3.33 mg/kg) or Hg (0.40 mg/kg), and the NOEL dose of Pe (12.6 mg/kg) with the immunotoxic dose of As (13.3 mg/kg) or Hg (3.20 mg/kg). A separate group of animals, treated with the appropriate high dose component only, was used as internal control. Significant interactions were observed in the liver weight of the animals treated with Pe(H)-As(L) or As(H)-Pe(L), in the cell content of the femoral bone marrow in case of Pe(H)-As(L) and Pe(H)-Hg(L) combinations, as well as in the number of PFCs formed from 10(6) spleen cells in the Pe(H)-As(L) and in the maximum of DTH reaction in the Hg(H)-Pe(L) combination. The results show that combined exposures by the investigated substances modify the toxic (including immunotoxic) effects of the single compounds. These findings rise the probability that the interactions observed can also be present in human situations altering the health hazard of this three chemicals.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled exploratory study examined the efficacy and safety of a low-dose oral contraceptive (Mircette), desogestrel/ethinyl estradiol [DSG/EE] and ethinyl estradiol [EE]) in relieving the symptoms of dysmenorrhea. Twenty-three clinics in the United States enrolled 77 women (age < or =32 years) with primary dysmenorrhea documented for at least four consecutive cycles. Forty participants received DSG/EE&EE and 37 received placebo for four consecutive 28-day cycles. The intensity of menstrual-related distress was measured with the Menstrual Distress Questionnaire (MDQ). Patient diaries were used to assess number of school/work days missed as well as the use of rescue medication. Participants receiving DSG/EE&EE recorded reduced menstrual pain severity, lower total MDQ scores, and significantly less menstrual cramping. No significant change in bloating, anxiety, loneliness, weight gain, or acne was reported. The DSG/EE&EE formulation shows promise for the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea and was well tolerated by the participants in this study.
We have recently reported that the nitric oxide (NO) donor, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), induces seizures which are associated with an increase in the basal release of aspartate and glutamate from rat hippocampus (Kaku et al., 1998). In order to determine whether taurine release occurs with SNP-induced seizures, we examined the effects of NO-related compounds, i.e., the NO trapper, diethyldithiocarbamate (DETC), the superoxide radical scavenger, dithiothreitol (DTT), the xanthine oxidase inhibitor, oxypurinol and the guanylyl cyclase inhibitor, 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazole(4,3-a)quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), on SNP-induced seizures and in vivo taurine release from rat hippocampus using microdialysis. Perfusion with 0.5mM SNP provoked seizures and significantly increased taurine release, with the increase in release occurring primarily during reperfusion with artificial cerebrospinal fluid lacking SNP. Perfusion with 5mM DETC significantly abolished the SNP-induced seizures and reduced taurine release during and after perfusion with the drugs. Perfusion with 1mM DTT significantly reduced both the frequency of the SNP-induced seizures and taurine release during and after perfusion with the drugs. Perfusion with 1 mM oxypurinol or 0.5 mM ODQ did not reduce the frequency of the SNP-induced seizures, but tended to decrease taurine release during and after perfusion with the drugs. These results demonstrate that SNP-induced seizures are triggered by an increase in both NO and peroxynitrite and are related to an increase in taurine release from rat hippocampus.
It has not previously been reported that sildenafil citrate causes malignant arrhythmias in humans.
A 41-year-old man developed sustained ventricular tachycardia following sildenafil citrate administration.
It cannot be dismissed that this patient experienced ventricular tachycardia as an adverse effect of sildenafil citrate administration.
Acute renal failure was induced in rats by subcutaneous injection of 200 mg/kg body weight gentamicin on 3 consecutive days. Following the last gentamicin injection, the animals began to produce increased amounts of dilute urine and usually remained polyuric throughout the experimental period which lasted up to 2 weeks. Plasma concentrations of creatinine rose to values between 2 and 10 mg%, of urea to values between 100 and 1,000 mg% 5-7 days after the last gentamicin injection and returned to levels slightly above control after 14 days. Average proximal tubular pressure was slightly elevated to 13.7 +/- 0.5 mm Hg on the 2nd day after the last gentamicin dose, decreased to 6.1 +/- 0.4 mm Hg after 1 week, and returned to 11.8 +/- 0.2 mm Hg after 2 weeks (control proximal tubular pressure 11.6 +/- 0.2 mm Hg). These average values hide the fact that early in this model of gentamicin-induced acute renal failure many tubules had proximal tubular pressures increased to values between 18 and 25 mm Hg, suggesting tubular obstruction. Decreased proximal tubular pressures and the histological finding of wide-spread necrosis of proximal convolutions is suggestive of tubular leakage. Dehydration, similarly to other models of acute renal failure, markedly potentiated gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. Salt diuresis induced either by DOCA-saline or by furosemide failed to afford functional protection and increased the degree of morphological damage. No relation was found between the concentration of gentamicin in renal tissue and the degree of functional or morphological impairment.
The purpose of this study was to compare cycle control, efficacy and side effects of an oral contraceptive containing 20 microg ethinylestradiol and 75 microg gestodene, with a reference preparation containing 30 microg ethinylestradiol combined with 75 microg gestodene. From the study, it was demonstrated that the two regimens had no difference in cycle control, efficacy, and side effects. The occurrence of spotting and breakthrough bleeding was low and was not different between these two preparations. The most common adverse events in both treatment groups were nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and chloasma. There were no statistically significant change in body weight and blood pressure in both groups at the end of study. It is concluded that both preparations are good cycle control, reliable and low side effects oral contraceptives.
The aim of the study was to determine to what extent catalepsy and tonic rigidity of muscles induced by muscimol administration into the ventral thalamic nuclei disturb the motor activity of rats. This study also aimed to test whether the ventromedial thalamic nucleus (Vm) was involved in transmitting effects evoked by the systemic injection of neuroleptics or opioids. For this purpose muscimol and/or picrotoxin was injected into the ventral thalamic nuclei and the behaviour of the animals was assessed in a series of test situations. It was found that muscimol administration to the Vm disturbs not only the initiation and performance of voluntary movements but also the occurrence of avoidance when the animal's life is endangered. Postural reflexes remained, however, undisturbed. Those effects seemed to be GABA- and site-specific to Vm. The haloperidol catalepsy was strongly inhibited by administration of picrotoxin to the Vm while the morphine catalepsy remained unchanged after picrotoxin. The Vm plays a crucial role in the motor behaviour and transmission of cataleptogenic effects of haloperidol, whereas similar effects produced by morphine appear to by-pass the investigated thalamic region.
Ophthalmic examinations and selected tests of visual function were performed on 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis who had received daily doses of 200 mg chloroquine sulphate for periods ranging from 3 to 11 months. Visual fields were determined by Humphrey automated perimetry and Amsler grids and a further battery of four tests of macular function (visual evoked potentials, critical flicker fusion threshold, Cambridge contrast sensitivity and the macular dazzle test) were administered. No case of retinal pigmentary abnormalities plus visual loss was found, but 2 patients were advised to cease chloroquine therapy on the basis of funduscopic findings. A small group of patients with relatively poor scores on one or more tests had normal visual fields and ophthalmic findings. There were no significant partial correlations between test results and the cumulative dose of chloroquine. These results support the opinion that currently recommended doses of chloroquine pose a minimal risk of retinal toxicity.
2,4,6-Trinitrotoluene (TNT) is one of the most prevalent high explosives in the environment. 2,4-Dinitrotoluene (2,4-DNT) and 2,6-dinitrotoluene (2,6-DNT) are the most common isoforms of dinitrotoluene. The goal of this study was to determine the acute toxic effects of TNT, 2,4-DNT, and 2,6-DNT in adult male bullfrogs. The LD(50) for TNT was 1,060 mg/kg BW while the LD(50 )for 2,4-DNT and 2,6-DNT was 1,098 mg/kg BW. All three compounds elicited similar symptoms of toxicity including changes of skin color, body weight, development of seizures, liver and kidney necrosis, and lung cyanosis. Relative organ weights did not show significant change.
Minocycline, a derivative of tetracycline, is a broad spectrum antibiotic used in the treatment of gram-positive and gram-negative infections. Benitz et al. (1) were the first to report black discoloration of the thyroid gland in rats, dogs, and monkeys given minocycline. Since that time, there have been numerous reports in the literature describing minocycline related black pigmentation of the skin, thyroid gland, and other sites. We report an unusual case of minocycline induced pigmentation of the cardiac valves and coronary vessels. The pigment stained with Fontana-Masson and was reduced with bleaching. The exact nature of the pigment is unclear; however, various theories have been advocated. Ochronosis is another cause of black pigmentation of the heart valves; the clinical history should allow distinction between the two.
Our data confirm the induction of specific and nonspecific immune responses of the upper respiratory tract mucosa and the consequent improvement of its physiology, through an oral ribosomal therapy in patients with pharyngolaryngeal reflux disease (PLRD).
The aim of this study was to investigate the efficiency and applicability of oral ribosomal immunotherapy in adult patients with PLRD.
One hundred adult patients with PLRD were enrolled. The patients were equally divided, at random, into two groups (A and B): group A patients underwent ribosomal prophylaxis with Immucytal® (one tablet daily, 8 days a month for 3 months), while group B received a placebo (same dosage for the same period). At the beginning, at the end, and 6 months after the beginning of the therapy, all patients underwent medical history, ENT examination, nasal-pharynx-laryngoscopy with optic fiber, plasma levels of immunoglobulins class E, A, G, M, subjective assessment of symptoms on a 10 cm visual analog scale (VAS), reflux symptoms index, and reflux finding score.
At the end and 6 months after the beginning of the treatment, all the patients in group A presented a significant (p < 0.05) improvement of almost all the different items analyzed.
6,8-Dimethyl-2-piperidinomethyl-2,3-dihydrothiazolo[2,3-f]xanthine, a new inductor of the monooxygenase system, inhibited the development of experimental intrahepatic cholestasis induced by alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate in rats. The drug stimulated the detoxicating function of liver, increased the survivability of rats, restored the level of microsomal protein and cytochrome P-450, decreased the cell-average erythrocyte fragility, and reduced the activity of cholestasis markers and the amount of TBA-active products in hepatocytes.
Cervical laminectomy was performed in a 34-year-old man with multiple spinal neurofibromas because of a slowly progressive medullary compression. Four weeks later a rapid deterioration necessitated iopamidol myelography by left lateral cervical puncture at C2 level. Despite the establishment of adequate spinal fluid contact, resulting in imaging of the subarachnoid space, part of the contrast medium entered the spinal cord, thus delineating a syrinx from the upper cervical extending to the upper thoracic level. After the puncture the patient developed triplegia, involving the left arm and both legs and a paresis of the right arm. He died from aspiration pneumonia. Autopsy revealed haemorrhagic necrosis of the spinal grey matter. This adverse effect of myelography is argued to have been conditioned by the extreme immobility and displacement of the spinal cord due to the presence of multiple neurofibromas. The deterioration four weeks after the operation was probably caused by a further compression of the spinal cord.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of both angiotensin II type I receptor antagonism using losartan (LOS) and beta-receptor blockade by metoprolol (MP) in isoproterenol-induced cardiac injury in the rat. Two weeks after isoproterenol (ISO) application, 90 ISO and 30 control (CTRL) rats were examined. ISO rats were treated for two weeks with either LOS, MP, or vehicle (n = 30 each group). Compared to CTRL, ISO induced left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), fibrosis, and overexpression of extracellular matrix proteins. LOS significantly attenuated these changes. MP only reduced LVH, but exerted no effect on structural alterations. LV end-diastolic and mean right atrial pressures were significantly increased in the ISO group and normalized in the LOS and MP group. Mean aortic blood flow velocity was significantly decreased in the ISO group and unaltered in the LOS and MP group versus CTRL. Blood pressure was decreased in ISO and LOS rats. MP treatment had no effect on blood pressure, but significantly lowered heart rate. Isoproterenol induced mild heart failure. Losartan and metoprolol applications in ISO-treated rats were highly effective in attenuating hemodynamic alterations and LVH. Early application of losartan 24 hours after isoproterenol-induced cardiac injury revealed significant beneficial effects on myocardial structure.
The effects of selective dopaminergic agonists and antagonists on epileptic activity were tested in rats using the lithium/pilocarpine seizure model. Systemic administration of the D1 agonist SKF-38,393 reduced the latency of onset of forelimb clonus with rearing, whereas the D1 antagonist SCH-23,390 and the D2 agonist B-HT 920 prevented the convulsive activity in a dose-dependent manner. Mixed agonists like apomorphine offered partial protection. Haloperidol (D1, D2 blocker, with antimuscarinic property) reduced the threshold for convulsions. The effects of SKF-38,393 and B-HT 920 could be partially blocked by pretreating the rats with SCH-23,390 and sulpiride, respectively. Neither D1 nor D2 antagonists could alter the limbic stereotypies induced by lithium/pilocarpine. These results indicate that dopamine receptor subtypes exert opposite effects on the regulation of convulsive activity. Lipid peroxidation levels (MDA formed) in rat brain homogenates were found to be concomitant with the development of epileptiform activity.
Two groups of 20 patients each were given immediately after hip-operation an epidural injection of 0,15 or 0,3 mg buprenorphine. Effects and side effects are compared with those observed in two groups of patients having the same type of operation, and given either 4 mg of morphine or saline (placebo) by epidural injection. Buprenorphine in both doses produced a shorter duration of analgesia than 4 mg of morphine. In no case did respiratory depression occur. Urinary retention after buprenorphine was barely more frequent than in the placebo group. Nausea and vomiting occurred in 35-45% of patients. We do not see an advantage in replacing morphine by buprenorphine for epidural opiate-analgesia, because the same high rate of nausea/vomiting is associated with a significantly shorter duration of analgesia after buprenorphine. We are convinced that epidural opiate-analgesia is most valuable for postoperative pain relief but should be reserved for selected cases.
Emodin, 1,3,8-trihydroxy-6-methyl-anthraquinone, is an anthraquinone derivative from the roots of Rheum officinale Baill that has been used to treat many diseases in digestive system for thousands of years. This study is to disclose the mechanism of Emodin to treat cholestatic hepatitis via anti-inflammatory pathway. Rats were divided into Emodin, ursodeoxycholic acid, Dexamethasone, model and blank control groups with treatment of respective agent after administration of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate. At 24 h, 48 h and 72 h time points after administration, liver function, pathological changes of hepatic tissue, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6, myeloperoxidase (MPO), malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant (CINC)-1, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-2, intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and early growth response (Egr)-1, nitric oxide (NO) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were detected. As a result, compared to the controls, Emodin had a notable effect on rat's living condition, pathological manifestation of hepatic tissue, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (P<0.05), but had little effect on alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) and total bile acid. With Emodin intervention, levels of TNF-alpha, IL-6, MPO, MDA, CINC-1, MIP-2, ICAM-1 and translocation of NF-kappaB were remarkably decreased, and levels of NO and iNOS were markedly increased (P<0.05). Emodin had no effect on Egr-1. In conclusion, Emodin has a protective effect on hepatocytes and a restoring activity on cholestatic hepatitis by anti-inflammation. The effects are mainly due to antagonizing pro-inflammatory cytokines and mediators, inhibiting oxidative damage, improving hepatic microcirculation, reducing impairment signals, and controlling neutrophil infiltration.
The undesired extrapyramidal movement disorders observed with long term treatment with haloperidol have been associated with striatal neurodegeneration. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of prolonged haloperidol treatment on striatal levels of inflammatory mediators and caspase-3 and to correlate it with orofacial dyskinesia, a movement disorder observed with long term haloperidol treatment. Prolonged administration of haloperidol (1, 2, 5 mg/kg) to rats produced dose-dependent increase in the orofacial dyskinetic movements and induced a marked oxidative stress in the striatum. Lower dose of haloperidol (1 mg/kg) decreased NO levels but did not induce TNF-alpha or NF-kappaB expression. At higher doses (2 and 5 mg/kg), increased levels of total nitric oxide and TNF-alpha in cytoplasmic lysate and active p65 subunit of NF-kappaB in nuclear lysates of rat brain were observed. These doses (2 and 5 mg/kg) also induced an increased expression of caspase-3 protein in striatal cytoplasmic fraction as shown by western blot analysis. Collectively, we conclude that oxidative stress mediated increase in inflammatory mediators may initiate the apoptotic pathway (caspase-3) after chronic haloperidol treatment. All this is well correlated with behavioural development of orofacial dyskinesia.
