Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by extensive loss of neurons in the brain of AD patients. Intracellular accumulation of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) has also shown to occur in AD. Neuro-inflammation has been known to play a role in the pathogenesis of AD.
In this study, we investigated neuro-inflammation and amyloidogenesis and memory impairment following the systemic inflammation generated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) using immunohistochemistry, ELISA, behavioral tests and Western blotting.
Intraperitoneal injection of LPS, (250 microg/kg) induced memory impairment determined by passive avoidance and water maze tests in mice. Repeated injection of LPS (250 microg/kg, 3 or 7 times) resulted in an accumulation of Abeta1-42 in the hippocampus and cerebralcortex of mice brains through increased beta- and gamma-secretase activities accompanied with the increased expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP), 99-residue carboxy-terminal fragment of APP (C99) and generation of Abeta1-42 as well as activation of astrocytes in vivo. 3 weeks of pretreatment of sulindac sulfide (3.75 and 7.5 mg/kg, orally), an anti-inflammatory agent, suppressed the LPS-induced amyloidogenesis, memory dysfunction as well as neuronal cell death in vivo. Sulindac sulfide (12.5-50 microM) also suppressed LPS (1 microg/ml)-induced amyloidogenesis in cultured neurons and astrocytes in vitro.
This study suggests that neuro-inflammatory reaction could contribute to AD pathology, and anti-inflammatory agent could be useful for the prevention of AD.
Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) is a rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome that is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and is caused by haploinsufficiency of the GLI3 gene. The syndrome typically includes preaxial or mixed pre- and postaxial polydactyly and cutaneous syndactyly, ocular hypertelorism, and macrocephaly in its typical forms, but sometimes includes hydrocephalus, seizures, mental retardation, and developmental delay in more severe cases. Patients with milder forms of GCPS can have subtle craniofacial dysmorphic features that are difficult to distinguish from normal variation. This article presents the spectrum of dysmorphic findings in GCPS highlighting some of its key presenting features to familiarize clinicians with the variable expressivity of the condition.
Previous studies have produced conflicting data on the contribution of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) to the inflammatory process. This study investigated the effects of several PPARalpha and PPARgamma subtype-specific agonists on the inflammation and hyperalgesia produced by intraplantar carrageenan injection in unanesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats. Intraperitoneal administration of PPARalpha agonists reduced edema in parallel to their potencies determined in vitro. Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) inhibited carrageenan-induced edema in a dose-dependent manner, and also reduced thermal hypersensitivity. Furthermore, PFOA produced much more robust effects when administered 0.5-24 hrs before carrageenan, as compared to when it was administered 1.5 hrs after carrageenan. Intraperitoneal administration of similar doses of the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone, but not the less potent agonist, troglitazone, reduced edema when administered before but not after carrageenan. We conclude that systemic administration of potent PPARalpha and PPARgamma agonists exert anti-hyperalgesic and/or antiinflammatory actions in vivo, possibly by interfering with the initiation of inflammation.
Changes in neuro(active)steroid levels are involved in depressive states and mood disorders. For instance, dehydroepiandrosterone or pregnenolone sulfate showed anti-stress and antidepressant activity in rodents and regulation of allopregnanolone levels appeared to be one of the consequence of an effective antidepressant therapy in patients. 4alpha,5-Epoxy-17beta-hydroxy-3-oxo-5alpha-androstane-2alpha-carbonitrile (trilostane) inhibits the activity of 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) that, in particular, converts pregnenolone into progesterone. We examined whether systemic administration of trilostane affects the response to stress and depression. An acute treatment with trilostane (6.3-50mg/kg SC injected twice -16 and -2h before the measure) increased 3beta-HSD mRNA levels in the hippocampus and adrenals, but had little effect on protein levels. The trilostane treatment failed to affect open-field, locomotor or exploratory behaviors, but significantly reduced the immobility duration in the forced swimming test, measuring antidepressant-like activity, and increased the time spent in open arm in the elevated plus-maze, measuring anxiety response. The antidepressant-like effect of trilostane was effective after a repeated treatment (2.5-20mg/kgSC twice-a-day during 7 days) or in mice submitted to a restraint stress during 21 days and showing several behavioral and physiological parameters of depression (decreased body weight, increased adrenal glands weight and anhaedonia). Trilostane also reduced stress-induced increase in plasma corticosterone and ACTH levels, showing direct effect on HPA axis activity. These observations suggest that the 3beta-HSD inhibitor trilostane present antidepressant-like activity, putatively by regulating brain and peripheral levels of neuroactive steroids.
We report on a 17-year-old girl who developed steatohepatitis and marked weight gain during risperidone treatment for paranoid psychosis. Viral, metabolic, and other causes of liver disease were excluded. Although the exact mechanism of antipsychotic associated weight gain is unclear, the impact of risperidone on the serotonergic system and on neuropeptide Y, a stimulator of food intake, might be implicated in the development of obesity. Additionally, weight gain-related hyperleptinemia could be a link between overweight and hepatotoxicity via cytokines. Physicians should routinely monitor body weight, liver function, fasting blood glucose, and lipid profiles in children and adolescents at the beginning of risperidone therapy. Additionally, patients complaining about weight gain should be monitored more carefully during the maintenance phase.
Trihexyphenidyl, a synthetic anticholinergic, is frequently used concurrently with neuroleptics to control extrapyramidal side effects. We present two case reports of trihexyphenidyl abuse which concur with the increasing concern expressed regarding the abuse potential of trihexyphenidyl. In one of the cases a double-blind, placebo-controlled withdrawal was conducted and monitored on a number of physiological parameters and the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale. A recognizable withdrawal syndrome followed discontinuation of the drug. In addition to the abuse potential it is suggested that dependence liability be considered in maintenance therapy with trihexyphenidyl and other antiparkinsonians.
The investigation was designed to study plasma drug concentration and prolactin response determined by two different doses of haloperidol, a standard one and four-fold higher the other, and to explore the relationships between clinical effects and pharmacokinetic and physiological variables in psychotic patients. 24 psychotic patients received haloperidol during 40 consecutive days. During the first 10 days they received 0,25 mg/kg b.w. During the next 20 days they were given 1 mg/kg b.w. Finally they received 0,25 mg/kg b.w. during the last ten days. The patients were clinically assessed and plasma haloperidol and prolactin concentrations were determined on days 0, 5, 10, 20, 30 and 40. In the range of dose studied, the use of higher than conventional doses of haloperidol results in an increased concentration in the cellular site of action and in a more complete blockade of central dopamine receptors. Prolactin response was positive correlated with serum haloperidol concentration. Clinical remission was not direct correlated, neither with serum neuroleptic concentration nor with prolactin level. Those patients who reached higher levels of plasmatic neuroleptic and prolactin concentrations were more susceptible to develop severe extrapyramidal side-effects. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic monitoring of neuroleptic treatment could be useful to identify these patients.
Because methamphetamine (METH) is metabolized by CYP2D6 at the first step of hydroxylation and demethylation, it is possible that functional variants of CYP2D6 alter susceptibility to methamphetamine-induced dependence. We genotyped CYP2D6*1, *4, *5, *10, and *14 for 202 patients with METH dependence and 337 controls in a Japanese population and found a significant association of the CYP2D6 gene with METH dependence (p=0.0299). The patients had fewer *10 and *14 alleles, which are hypofunction alleles, than the controls. CYP2D6 genotypes were divided into three phenotypes: extensive metabolizers, intermediate metabolizers, and poor metabolizers. There was no poor metabolizer among our Japanese subjects, and intermediate metabolizers of CYP2D6 were significantly fewer in methamphetamine-dependent subjects than in controls (p=0.0212), with an odds ratio of 0.62 (95% confidence interval: 0.51-0.76). The present study demonstrated that reduced CYP2D6 activity was a negative risk factor for methamphetamine dependence.
We recently found that activation of the type III histone deacetylase sirtuin 1 suppresses T cell immune responses. Here we sought to determine the therapeutic potential of the sirtuin 1 activator resveratrol in the treatment of diabetes in the NOD mouse model of type 1 diabetes and the mechanisms underlying such potential.
NOD mice were fed or subcutaneously injected with resveratrol and evaluated for development of diabetes. Splenocytes from resveratrol-treated and control mice were analysed by gene array. The altered expression of inflammatory genes induced by resveratrol was validated and the role of changed gene expression in prevention of diabetes was determined.
Resveratrol administration potently prevented and treated type 1 diabetes in NOD mice. Gene array analysis indicated a dramatic decrease in expression of Ccr6, which encodes chemokine (C-C motif) receptor (CCR) 6, in the splenocytes from resveratrol-treated mice. CCR6 abundance on IL-17-producing cells and CD11b(+)F4/80(hi) macrophages was inhibited by resveratrol treatment. Interestingly, CCR6(+) IL-17-producing cells and CD11b(+)F4/80(hi) macrophages accumulated in the spleens and pancreatic lymph nodes, but their presence in the pancreas was reduced, suggesting that resveratrol blocks their migration from peripheral lymphoid organs to the pancreas. Indeed, the migration of splenocytes toward media containing chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 20 (CCL20) was impaired by resveratrol treatment. CCL20 peptides, which block CCR6 binding to CCL20, inhibited development of type 1 diabetes.
Inhibition of CCR6-mediated migration of inflammatory cells by resveratrol may provide a powerful approach for treatment of type 1 diabetes and possibly of other inflammatory diseases.
Keratitis-Ichthyosis-Deafness syndrome is a rare congenital disorder of the ectoderm caused by mutations in the connexin-26 gene (GJB2) on chromosome 13q11-q12, giving rise to keratitis, erythrokeratoderma and neurosensory deafness. We report the case of a 31-year-old black male diagnosed as having KID syndrome. Sequencing analysis showed a heterozygous missense mutation D50N (148G > A) in the GJB2 gene. In addition to the classical features of vascularizing keratitis, erythrokeratoderma and congenital deafness, our patient presented a follicular occlusion triad with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS, alias acne inversa), acne conglobata and dissecting cellulitis of the scalp, leading to cicatricial alopecia and disfiguring, inflammatory vegetations of his scalp. Conservative therapy such as a keratolytic, rehydrating and antiseptic external therapy, antibiotic, antimycotic and retinoids were only of moderate benefit, so we finally chose the curative possibility of surgery therapy of the axillar papillomas and of the scalp. The inflammatory papillomatous regions of the axillae and of the scalp were radically debrided. Clean granulation was awaited and covered in a second session with a mesh graft from the thigh, achieving a satisfactory result. To our knowledge, only one case of KID syndrome occurring in association with follicular occlusion triad has been reported before.
Coronary vasospasm is well documented as a side effect of injectable subcutaneous forms of sumatriptan; only one such case has been reported so far with oral ingestion of sumatriptan in a patient with underlying coronary artery disease. This report describes a case of coronary vasospasm induced by oral sumatriptan even in normal coronary arteries. Physicians and patients should be aware of a small and unpredictable risk of the serious cardiac side effects of this drug.
The effects of a single and repetitive administration of m-cholinoblocker scopolamine (Sc) to male rats on retention of step-through passive avoidance (PA) or active avoidance (AA) in a shuttle-box were compared. In case of PA Sc (1 mg/kg) was injected i.p. only 30 min before training, only 30 min before testing, or both before training and before testing. In case of AA Sc (0.5 mg/kg/day) was injected i.p. only 15 min before each training session or both before training and before testing (44 days after achievement of learning criterion). The PA and AA retention were impaired only in the experiments, where the drug was administered before training, but did not differ from control, when Sc was injected twice. The Sc-induced amnesia (like many other cases of memory deficits) is suggested to be a manifestation of state-dependent learning. Similarity between the brain state during memory consolidation and during the retention test is necessary for recollection.
Hyperactivity produced in mice with morphine or fentanyl, and methylamphetamine was antagonized by naloxone. The depression of locomotor activity induced by codeine was practically unchanged by the opiate antagonist. L-DOPA did not restore the stimulatory action of morphine and fentanyl in reserpinized mice. The hyperactivity produced by morphine and fentanyl was abolished in mice treated with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, but this was restored by L-DOPA administration. Agents inhibiting the central noradrenaline receptors, phentolamine, phenoxybenzamine, and aceperone, prevented or even reversed the locomotor stimulatory action of morphine and fentanyl. Pimozide did not affect the increase of locomotor activity produced by morphine, but depressed that induced by fentanyl. Haloperidol, used in a dose which did not affect the locomotor activity of mice, completely blocked or even reversed the stimulatory action of morphine and fentanyl, and potentiated the depression of locomotor activity produced by pentazocine and codeine. Diethyldithiocarbamate significantly depressed, but did not inhibit completely the stimulatory action of morphine and fetanyl. The stimulatory action of methylamphetamine was also significantly depressed. It seems that the stimulatory effect of morphine and fentanyl depends on the release of endogenous noradrenaline.
Although benzo[g,h,i]perylene (BghiP) has been found to promote the carcinogenesis of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) in animal models, not much is known about this cocarcinogenic mechanism. In this study, human hepatoma HepG2 cells cotreated with BaP and BghiP were used as a model to investigate the cocarcinogenic mechanism of BghiP in BaP-induced carcinogenesis. DNA adduct formation is thought to initiate carcinogenesis, so the effect of BghiP on BaP-DNA adduct formation was evaluated using a (32)P-postlabeling assay. The BaP-DNA adduct levels increased following the addition of BghiP, in a dose-dependent manner. However, no adducts were formed with BghiP alone. Our previous report showed that cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) is responsible for the metabolic activation of BaP and the formation of B[a]P adduct in HepG2 cells. Western blot and Northern blot analyses were used to evaluate whether BaP-induced CYP1A1 protein and mRNA levels increased following the addition of BghiP. Our data showed that BghiP enhanced BaP-induced CYP1A1 protein and its mRNA levels. To understand whether BghiP enhances BaP-induced CYP1A1 gene expression through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) signaling pathway, a gel retardation assay was performed to elucidate the synergistic mechanism of BghiP in BaP-induced CYP1A1 gene expression. The results showed that BghiP causes an increase in the nuclear accumulation of AhR in cells and/or activation of AhR to a DNA-binding form. There was a concordant increase in the transcription activation of CYP1A1 gene and the induction of AhR signal pathway. Our findings demonstrated that BghiP enhances BaP-induced CYP1A1 transcription by AhR activation and suggested that the induction mechanism of CYP1A1 contributes to the cocarcinogenic potential of BghiP in BaP-induced carcinogenesis.
Pemetrexed is a clinically available anti-folate therapeutic agent used in combination with cisplatin for the management of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma and advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Pemetrexed inhibits three enzymes in purine and pyrimidine synthesis necessary for precursor DNA nucleotides which in turn disrupts growth and survival of normal and cancer cells. The mechanism by which pemetrexed induces apoptosis remains largely uncharacterised. In the current study, we examined the downstream effect of pemetrexed in inducing apoptosis in lung cancer cells. We showed that pemetrexed induced apoptosis via up-regulation of Death Receptor 5 (DR5), an important death receptor for tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL). In addition, we discovered a synergistic effect of combination pemetrexed and recombinant TRAIL in inducing apoptosis. Modulating DR5 induction by small interfering RNA abrogated the ability of pemetrexed to induce apoptosis. In addition, silencing of C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) expression reduced DR5 expression, demonstrating that the transcriptional factor CHOP has a pivotal role on DR5 up-regulation following pemetrexed treatment. In addition, enforced expression of cellular FLICE-inhibitory protein (c-FLIP), a known inhibitor of caspase 8, protected neoplastic cells from apoptosis despite pemetrexed and/or TRAIL therapy. Thus, our findings demonstrate the efficacy and mechanistic underpinnings of pemetrexed-induced apoptosis, and they suggest pemetrexed may have clinical utility when used in combination with TRAIL for the management of patients with lung cancer.
The tendency of antipsychotics to produce extrapyramidal side-effects varies inversely with their antimuscarinic activity. This paper reviews the antipsychotic and antimuscarinic potency of these drugs and compares the total antimuscarinic activity in standard daily doses of antipsychotics, antiparkinson agents and antidepressants. The authors examine factors associated with tolerance of benztropine withdrawal in 39 inpatients. Patients with serious EPS relapse after benztropine withdrawal had an excess of antipsychotic over antimuscarinic activity in their remaining medications. The results suggest an optimal ratio between total antipsychotic and anticholinergic doses, and a simple model for predicting antiparkinson drug requirements.
The ontogeny of androgen receptor expression in male and female mouse genital tubercles, and the effects of in utero ethinyl estradiol exposure on androgen receptor mRNA expression in the hypospadias model were studied.
Androgen receptor mRNA expression was measured in mouse genital tubercles from fetuses and pups collected on gestational days 12, 14, 16 and 18, and from newborns using immunohistochemistry and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Pregnant dams were exposed to ethinyl estradiol or corn oil as controls from gestational days 12 to 17. Genital tubercles of gestational day 19 fetuses were then examined by further quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis after identification of the seam area using a dissecting microscope to diagnose hypospadias in males.
Androgen receptor protein was detected in genital tubercles by gestational day 14. Androgen receptor mRNA expression increased gradually in each sex during normal development. However, female genital tubercles expressed a higher level of androgen receptor mRNA throughout development compared to male genital tubercles (p <0.0001). In utero ethinyl estradiol exposure led to a 5.4 and 4.5-fold increase in androgen receptor mRNA in the genital tubercles of female and male embryos (p = 0.004 and 0.001, respectively). Hypospadiac male genital tubercles showed increased androgen receptor mRNA expression compared to control males (p = 0.006). Levels in hypospadiac males did not differ from those in control females but they were less than those in ethinyl estradiol treated females (p >0.05 and 0.01, respectively).
Androgen receptor protein is expressed abundantly in male and female genital tubercles. Androgen receptor mRNA levels are higher in female than in male genital tubercles through development and they increase in response to in utero ethinyl estradiol exposure with ethinyl estradiol treated females having the highest levels of expression, followed by ethinyl estradiol treated hypospadiac males. We infer that higher estrogen in genital tubercles results in a physiological response of increased androgen receptor mRNA expression. We found no direct association between changes in androgen receptor mRNA expression and the presence or absence of hypospadias in males, suggesting that alterations in the expression of proteins other than or in addition to androgen receptor result in anomalous urethral development. This finding supports the idea that the etiology of hypospadias is multifactorial in origin.
It has long been proposed that the excitatory and toxic properties of acidic amino acid receptor agonists are linked. To test this hypothesis, the depolarizing effects of quisqualate, kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate in adult and immature rat cerebellar slices have been studied in relation to their neurotoxic effects in the same tissues (reported separately). A "grease-gap" method was used to measure the depolarizing responses of Purkinje cells and granule cells in lobule VI to the agonists. The depolarizing potencies of kainate and quisqualate were apparently similar on both cell types and at both ages studied although maximal responses to kainate were always larger. N-Methyl-D-aspartate was a very weak agonist in the adult slices but was much more effective in the immature tissues, apparently on both Purkinje cells and granule cells. Comparison of the depolarizing effects of the agonists with their neurotoxic effects on Purkinje cells and granule cells suggested that: (a) the ability to depolarize is a required condition for an agonist to be neurotoxic, (b) the magnitude of depolarization, rather than depolarizing potency, is the more pertinent determinant of neurotoxic potency and (c) resistance to the neurotoxicity of an agonist is not necessarily associated with resistance to its depolarizing actions. Histological studies indicated that the neurotoxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate in immature cerebellar slices could largely not be replicated by veratridine (50 microM) or high extracellular K+ (124 mM) indicating that receptor-mediated ionic fluxes may be needed in addition to those caused by depolarization. Exposure of the slices to anoxia in the absence of glucose partially reproduced the toxicity of the receptor agonists. Application of ouabain for 30 min caused necrosis of all the cells which are vulnerable to the agonists but spared the cells which are not vulnerable. Profound ionic imbalance thus appears to be a sufficient explanation for amino acid neurotoxicity.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is one of the main independent predictors of cardiovascular events. Oral post-menopausal estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) increases CRP levels, but the effect of transdermal ERT is not well documented. CRP, interleukine-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels were evaluated in a randomised study of 196 healthy postmenopausal women, who were allocated to receive continuous oral estradiol-1beta, (n=63) or transdermal estradiol-1beta, (n=68) both combined with micronised progesterone, or place-bo (n=65). Oral estrogen increased CRP levels compared with both placebo (p=0.010) and transdermal estrogen (p=0.004) at 6 months. There was no significant effect of transdermal estrogen on CRP levels compared with placebo (p=0.997). No significant difference was found in the median changes for IL-6 and TNF-alpha between the three treatment groups. In conclusion, transdermal estrogen has no significant effect on CRP levels at 6 months, but CRP concentrations increased significantly with oral estrogen although no changes in cytokine levels were detected. The clinical relevance of these effects remains to be determined.
To describe the incidence of, clinical manifestations of, and risk factors for cyclophosphamide-induced urinary bladder toxicity in patients treated for nonmalignant disease.
Retrospective analysis of patients followed at the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases from 1967 to 1993.
The Warren G. Magnuson Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
145 patients who received cyclophosphamide for the treatment of Wegener granulomatosis and were followed for 0.5 to 27 years (median, 8.5 years), for a total of 1333 patient-years.
Clinical characteristics, cystoscopic findings, results of cytologic examination of urine, surgical pathology, and total dose and duration of cyclophosphamide therapy were recorded and analyzed using a computer-based information retrieval system.
Nonglomerular hematuria occurred in 73 of 145 patients treated with cyclophosphamide (50%). Sixty of the 73 patients with nonglomerular hematuria (82%) had cystoscopy at the NIH. Forty-two of the 60 patients (70%) who had cystoscopy had macroscopic changes consistent with cyclophosphamide-induced bladder injury. Seven patients (5%) developed transitional-cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. In 6 of these 7 patients, the total cumulative cyclophosphamide dose exceeded 100 g, and the cumulative duration of cyclophosphamide therapy exceeded 2.7 years. Before they were given a diagnosis of bladder cancer, all 7 patients had had one or more episodes of microscopic or gross nonglomerular hematuria. In contrast, none of the 72 patients who had never had nonglomerular hematuria developed bladder cancer. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis showed that only microscopic nonglomerular hematuria was a significant risk factor for the development of bladder cancer (P < 0.01).
Long-term oral cyclophosphamide therapy is associated with substantial urotoxicity, including the development of transitional-cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. In this cohort of patients, the estimated incidence of bladder cancer after the first exposure to cyclophosphamide was 5% at 10 years and 16% at 15 years. Nonglomerular hematuria was a frequent manifestation of cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis, and it identified a subgroup of patients at high risk for the development of bladder cancer.
The outcome of subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with cocaine abuse is reportedly poor. However, no study in the literature has reported the use of a statistical model to analyze the variables that influence outcome.
A review of admissions during a 6-year period revealed 14 patients with cocaine-related aneurysms. This group was compared with a control group of 135 patients with ruptured aneurysms and no history of cocaine abuse. Age at presentation, time of ictus after intoxication, Hunt and Hess grade of subarachnoid hemorrhage, size of the aneurysm, location of the aneurysm, and the Glasgow Outcome Scale score were assessed and compared.
The patients in the study group were significantly younger than the patients in the control group (P < 0.002). In patients in the study group, all aneurysms were located in the anterior circulation. The majority of these aneurysms were smaller than those of the control group (8 +/- 6.08 mm versus 11 +/- 5.4 mm; P = 0.05). The differences in mortality and morbidity between the two groups were not significant. Hunt and Hess grade (P < 0.005) and age (P < 0.007) were significant predictors of outcome for the patients with cocaine-related aneurysms.
Cocaine use predisposed aneurysmal rupture at a significantly earlier age and in much smaller aneurysms. Contrary to the published literature, this group did reasonably well with aggressive management.
A 28-year-old woman who complained of mild abdominal pain was found to have a large liver tumor. Angiography and needle biopsy established the diagnosis of hepatocellular adenoma. The tumor was felt to be unresectable because of its size, and no treatment was given other than withdrawal of oral contraceptives. Subsequent hepatic scintiscans documented compete resolution of the tumor over a 12-month period.
An obese 28-year old woman presented at the Royal Victoria Hospital on February 23, 1978 because of upper abdominal pain of 2 days duration. The patient had previously given birth 10 years ago and had since been taking an oral contraceptive (OC) containing 0.25 mg d-norgestrel and 0.05 mg ethinyl estradiol (Ovral). She had iron deficiency anemia at age 12, smoked 3 packs of cigarettes/week, rarely consumed alcoholic beverages and was not under any medication. Physical and laboratory examinations revealed a large liver tumor. Angiography and needle biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of hepatocellular adenoma (HCA). Resection was not indicated because of the size of the tumor. OCs were discontinued. Tubal ligation was performed 2 months later as the patient desired no further pregnancies. Complete regression of the tumor over a 12-month period was confirmed by subsequent scintiscans. This case shows that even large HCAs can regress completely with no therapy other than OC withdrawal, confirming the suggestions of others that simple observation after OC withdrawal may be preferable to resection in minimally symptomatic HCAs. A frequent histologic finding both in OC-associated HCA and in normal liver surrounding HCAs is marked sinusoidal dilatation, which suggests a general effect of estrogen therapy. Further studies should be done to determine the mechanisms by which OCs produce these changes and to define their clinical importance. The role of radionuclide imaging techniques, percutaneous liver biopsy, and angiography in the diagnosis of HCAs are very briefly described.
Recent literature indicates that females are more resistant to shock-, trauma-, and sepsis-induced immune dysfunction and organ injury than are males. Consequently, using trauma-hemorrhagic shock (T/HS) and burn models, we tested whether the neutrophil response to trauma occurred in a sexually dimorphic fashion and, if so, the role of sex hormones. Neutrophil activation, as reflected by CD11b expression and respiratory burst activity, was increased to a greater extent in male rats than in female rats after T/HS or burn injury. Testosterone appeared to potentiate neutrophil activation, because castration reduced neutrophil activation, whereas ovariectomy had little effect. Mechanistically, this sexually dimorphic neutrophil response appeared to be due to both cellular and humoral factors. Evidence for a cellular difference between male and female neutrophils is based on the observation that naive female neutrophils were more resistant to activation by burn or T/HS plasma and lymph than naive male neutrophils and that this resistance varied over the estrus cycle. Additionally, the humoral environment was more neutrophil activating in male rats, because burn and T/HS plasma and lymph from male rats activated naive male neutrophils to a greater extent than comparable samples from females. Last, on the basis of in vitro experiments examining the effects of estrogen on calcium signaling, it appears that estrogen limits trauma-induced neutrophil activation, at least in part, by limiting the entry of calcium into the cell via store-operated calcium entry mechanisms. In conclusion, there is a striking sexual dimorphism in neutrophil responses after trauma, and these changes reflect both cellular resistance to activation as well as a less activating humoral environment.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC), the majority of which occur in the oral cavity, remain a significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. A major limitation in HNSCC research has been the paucity of animal models to test the validity of current genetic paradigms of tumorigenesis and to explore the effectiveness of new treatment modalities and chemopreventive strategies. Here, we have developed an inducible oral-specific animal tumor model system, which consists in the expression of a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase (CreER(tam)) under the control of the cytokeratin 14 (K14) promoter (K14-CreER(tam)) and mice in which the endogenous K-ras locus is targeted (LSL-K-ras(G12D)), thereby causing the expression of endogenous levels of oncogenic K-ras(G12D) following removal of a stop element. Surprisingly, whereas K14-CreER(tam) can also target the skin, K14-CreER(tam)/LSL-K-ras(G12D) mice developed papillomas exclusively in the oral mucosa within 1 month after tamoxifen treatment. These lesions were highly proliferative but never progressed to carcinoma. However, when crossed with p53 conditional knockout (p53(flox/flox)) mice, mice developed SCCs exclusively on the tongue as early as 2 weeks after tamoxifen induction, concomitant with a remarkable activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. The availability of this ras and p53 two-hit animal model system recapitulating HNSCC progression may provide a suitable platform for exploring novel molecular targeted approaches for the treatment of this devastating disease. Indeed, we show here that mTOR inhibition by the use of rapamycin is sufficient to halt tumor progression in this genetically defined oral cancer model system, thereby prolonging animal survival.
Aim of the study was to investigate the mRNA expression level of selenoprotein P (SEPP1), 15-kDa selenoprotein (SEP15) and glutathione peroxidase 1 (hGPX1) in paired malignant and non-malignant tissue. To achieve this goal, the quantitative real-time PCR technique was utilized in paired tissue samples from 33 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Simultaneously, the activity of glutathione peroxidases (GPX) and the level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) in paired tissue specimens and the blood plasma selenium level was measured. We found significant down-regulation of SEPP1 expression level in tumorous lung tissue (2.732-fold; p<0.001). The expression of hGPX1 and SEP15 in tumorous tissue remained unchanged compared to healthy tissue. The level of TBARS in malignant tissue was significantly increased (p<0.005) and negatively correlated with SEPP1 expression level (R(S)=-0.3238; p<0.05). The activity of GPX in malignant tissue was significantly increased compared to the non-malignant one (p<0.005) and negatively correlated with the expression level of SEPP1. It seems possible, that the down-regulation of SEPP1 expression may lead to an increased oxidative stress possibly resulting in lung carcinogenesis. Increased activity of GPX in tumorous lung tissue seems to be a feedback mechanism.
This paper evaluates the ability of organoselenium compounds [ebselen, selenocystine N-ethyl-carbamate (SeCis), bis-4-isopropyl-2-oxazolinyl phenyl diselenide (AASe)] to prevent HgCl(2) toxicity. Rats were injected with HgCl(2) (0 or 17 micromol/kg, sc) 6 h after organoselenium compounds had been injected (0 or 50 micromol/kg, sc). In vivo, HgCl(2) inhibited renal ALA-D activity ( approximately 48%), increased TBARS level in kidney ( approximately 52%) and reduced the hepatic content of non-protein thiol groups ( approximately 40%), but organoselenium compounds did not prevent such effects. SeCis, per se, increased renal TBARS level ( approximately 42%), while AASe increased hepatic content of ascorbic acid ( approximately 38%). In vitro, renal and hepatic ALA-D activity was inhibited by HgCl(2) (>or=25 microM), ebselen (>or=12 microM) and SeCis (>or=4 microM). HgCl(2) (400 microM) significantly increased TBARS production in renal and hepatic tissue preparations in vitro, and this effect was completely or partially prevented by organoselenium compounds. Ebselen exhibited thiol peroxidase activity in our assay conditions, while SeCis exhibited thiol-oxidizing properties regardless of the presence of peroxide. AASe had no effect on thiol oxidation. Results suggest that organoselenium compounds could not prevent mercury toxicity in vivo. The protective effect of these compounds against mercury-induced increase of TBARS production in vitro is probably related to an antioxidant action rather than to mercury binding.
Examined the cardiovascular effects of caffeine plus behavioral stress in men low versus high in risk of essential hypertension. Caffeine (3.3 mg/kg, equivalent to 2 to 3 cups of coffee) or placebo was given on alternate days to 19 low-risk men (negative for parental hypertension and low-normal resting blood pressure, BP) and 20 high-risk men (positive history, high-normal BP). Forty minutes later, each worked for 15 min on a demanding psychomotor task during which BP, cardiac output, and vascular resistance were determined. During rest, caffeine raised vascular resistance in both groups. During the task, it supra-additively increased the systolic BP response by enhancing the rise in cardiac output, producing equivalent BP rises in both groups. Due to the higher resting pressures of the high-risk men, caffeine plus the task resulted in 50% of these having transient BP of 140/90 mg Hg or greater. Caffeine in combination with mental stress may produce undesirable BP in those at risk for hypertension.
