Distraction osteogenesis is a powerful stimulus for new bone (and tissue) generation (anabolism). Biomechanical stimulation by distraction of the regenerate region results in a high rate of tissue and bone production. However, catabolism (bone resorption) can also occur, the process potentially accentuated in a stress-shielded environment of an external fixator. Regenerate insufficiency can result in regenerate bending or fracture after frame removal. Experimental evidence has demonstrated that bisphosphonates may mediate improved local limb bone mineral density (BMD) and regenerate strength in animal models. Seven patients who had undergone limb lengthening using an Ilizarov device were found to have regenerate insufficiency. Poor regenerate quality led to consideration for intervention. With informed consent, patients received a therapeutic regime of intravenous pamidronate (n = 3) or zoledronic acid (n = 4).The mean age was 13.8 years (SD, +/-3.6 years), with a minimum follow-up period of 4 months after fixator removal. The sites of regenerate insufficiency were the proximal tibia (n = 6) and the distal femur (n = 1). The mean time interval in the fixator before bisphosphonate treatment was 170 days (range, 124-252 days), with an average length increase of 4.8 cm (SD, +/-1.1 cm). At time of intravenous bisphosphonate treatment, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry measurements demonstrated a reduced BMD (mean, 62.1%; SD, +/-12.6%) in the bone adjacent to the lengthening site of the nonoperated side. Mean healing index was high at 79.6 days/cm (range, 64.4-108.0 days/cm), reflecting the observed regenerate insufficiency. No significant systemic complications were encountered. Six of the patient's fixators were removed without requirement for other intervention, demonstrating a rapid and sustained improvement in local BMD, increasing to a mean of 85.6% (SD, +/-13.3%) of the healthy side. One patient did not respond and subsequently healed after percutaneous osteogenic protein 1 (bone morphogenetic protein 7) and bone marrow injection. Most failed regenerate cases maintain some underlying anabolic activity and can be treated successfully with bisphosphonate therapy, which reduces catabolism. Only 1 case required percutaneous administration of an anabolic therapy to achieve union. These minimally invasive approaches may lessen the need for surgery in a group where significant surgical reintervention could otherwise be required.
Hyperhomocysteinemia is known to predispose to atherosclerosis and occurs more commonly in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) than in the general population. It has been shown that elevated plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) results in protein N-homocysteinylation and production o autoantibodies against N-homocysteinylated (N-Hcy) proteins.
The aim of the study was to investigate whether anti-N-Hcy-albumin antibodies occur in patients with SLE and identify factors that determine these antibodies in such population. Patients and methods. In 50 subjects with SLE and 50 age- and sex-matched healthy controls, we determined serum IgG antibodies to N-Hcy-albumin using an in-house enzyme linked immunosorbent assay.
Patients had higher plasma tHcy and C-reactive protein (CRP) than controls, while serum folate and witamin B12 were lower in patients. Levels of anti-N-Hcy-albumin were higher in patients with SLE than in controls (medians: 0.31; vs. 0.19; p < 0.0001). In SLE patients, levels of anti- N-Hcy-albumin antibodies correlated with tHcy (r = 0.83; p <0.0001), CRP (r = 0.33; p = 0.02) and the duration of the disease (r = 0.3; p = 0.04). Seropositivity to anti-N-Hcy-albumin antibodies was more frequent in SLE patients than in controls (50% vs. 10%; p < 0.001). In SLE patients tHcy and CRP concentrations, along with the duration of the disease were independent predictors of anti-N-Hcy-albumin antibodies level. There were no associations between a type or levels of antinuclear antibodies patent's, or age with anti-N-Hcy-albumin antibodies.
Compared with healthy controls, in SLE patients levels of anti-N-Hcy-albumin antibodies are significantly higher and are largely determined by tHcy, CRP and the disease duration. This novel autoimmune response might contribute to increased risk of vascular events in SLE patients.
Carbamazepine is an anticonvulsant most effective in treating complex partial and generalized tonic-clonic seizures. We have cared for three children in whom four episodes of dystonia proceeding to opisthotonus occurred in association with carbamazepine use. The patients, a 4-year-old with microcephaly and severe retardation, a 1-year-old with cerebral dysgenesis, and a 5-year-old with spastic quadriplegia and mild retardation, all had seizures unresponsive to multiple anticonvulsant combinations. In all three patients carbamazepine was introduced and gradually increased to a maximum dosage of 25 mg/kg of body weight per day. Dystonic symptoms began two to three weeks after introduction of therapy and subsided within three weeks after discontinuation. In one child, a second course of carbamazepine resulted in a return of the dystonia. The currently available clinical and neuropharmacologic data suggest that carbamazepine may be an antagonist of dopamine and that this property is responsible for the production of dystonia.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) plays a central role in 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (dioxin) hepatotoxicity, regulation of xenobiotic metabolism, and hepatovascular development. Each of these processes appears to be dependent on binding of the AHR to dioxin- responsive elements (DREs) within the genome. The Cyp1a1 and Cyp1a2 loci represent linked genes thought to play important roles in AHR biology. In the mouse, 8 DREs are located in the 14-kb intergenic region between the Cyp1a1 and Cyp1a2 genes. Seven of these DREs, collectively known as the DRE cluster (DREC), are located 1.4 kb upstream of the Cyp1a1 transcriptional start site and 12.6 kb upstream of the Cyp1a2 start site. To investigate the role of the DREC in each aspect of AHR biology, we generated a DREC-deficient mouse model through homologous recombination. Using this mouse model, we demonstrate that the DREC controls the adaptive up-regulation of both Cyp1a1 and Cyp1a2 genes in vivo. Using selected aspects of acute hepatic injury as endpoints, we also demonstrate that DREC null mice are more sensitive to dioxin-induced hepatotoxicity than WT mice. The results of parallel toxicologic studies using individual Cyp1a1 and Cyp1a2 null mice support the observation that up-regulation of these P450s is not the cause of many aspects of dioxin hepatotoxicity. Finally, we observed normal closure of the ductus venosus (DV) in DREC null mice. Given the 100% penetrance of patent DV in Ahr null mice, these results indicate that Cyp1a1 and Cyp1a2 do not play a dominant role in AHR-mediated vascular development.
Repeated injections of naloxone by hydrochloride, a pure narcotic antagonist, were administered to a 3,320-gm 4-week-old boy for treatment of an accidental morphine overdose. The infant received frequent naloxone hydrochloride injections (0.2 mg per injection) during the first 12 hours of therapy to reverse morphine-induced apnea, hypothermia, and flaccidity. A cumulative dose of 2.73 mg of naloxone hydrochloride (0.822 mg/kg) was administered over 27 hours without apparent adverse effect or evidence of toxicity.
Currently available primary screens for the selection of candidate antileishmanial compounds are not ideal. These techniques are time-consuming, laborious, and difficult to scale and require macrophages, which limit their use for high-throughput screening. We have developed Leishmania donovani field isolates that constitutively express the firefly luciferase reporter gene (luc) as a part of an episomal vector. An excellent correlation between parasite number and luciferase activity was observed. luc expression was stable, even in the absence of drug selection, for 4 weeks. The transfectants were infective to macrophages, and intracellular amastigotes exhibited luciferase activity. The suitability of these recombinant field isolates for in vitro screening of antileishmanial drugs was established. The luciferase-expressing sodium stibogluconate-resistant cell lines offer a model for the screening of compounds for resistance. The system is in routine use at the Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, India, for high-throughput screening of newly synthesized compounds.
Although veno-occlusive disease of the liver is a well-known complication of high-dose chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation, it has rarely been observed in children who receive conventional chemotherapy. Most cases in the literature consists of children with Wilms tumor. It has been very uncommon in rhabdomyosarcoma patients until recently, although they commonly receive similar anticancer agents. Here the authors report a 2-year-old boy with rhabdomyosarcoma who developed veno-occlusive disease while receiving VAC (vincristine, actinomycin D, cyclophosphamide) chemotherapy regimen according to the IRS-IV protocol. The patient gradually recovered during 2 weeks with supportive treatment only.
Apraclonidine, a selective alpha(2)-agonist, was developed to lower intraocular pressure and minimize the systemic side effects associated with the use of its parent drug, clonidine.(1) An investigation of the site of action of apraclonidine incidentally uncovered a reversal of anisocoria in patients with absent sympathetic innervation of one pupil (Horner syndrome) due to its alpha(1)-effect on a pupil with denervation supersensitivity.(2) It has been used as a diagnostic test for Horner syndrome.(3,4) We report adverse effects of topical apraclonidine when used in the diagnosis of Horner syndrome in infants.
The present studies were conducted to further explore the potential role of metabolic compromise in substituted amphetamine-induced serotonin (5-HT) neurotoxicity. To this end, we examined the glucoprivic effects of 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) on the 5-HT neurotoxic effects of fenfluramine (FEN) and methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). Rats were treated with either FEN or MDMA, alone and in combination, with doses of 2-DG known to produce glucoprivic effects at either 22 +/- 1 or 28 +/- 1 degrees C. At 22 +/- 1 degrees C, FEN produced hypothermia, MDMA induced hyperthermia, and both drugs produced significant long-term reductions in regional brain 5-HT neuronal markers. 2-DG did not enhance 5-HT neurotoxicity induced by either FEN or MDMA; indeed, in some instances, it afforded partial neuroprotection. Although 2-DG afforded partial protection from both FEN and MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxic changes, it also caused significant hypothermia, raising the possibility that protection was due to a lowered temperature. Increasing the ambient temperature to 28 +/- 1 degrees C largely eliminated drug-induced hypothermia and eliminated the neuroprotective effects of 2-DG. Thus, even without the confounding effect of temperature, 2-DG still did not potentiate FEN or MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity. These findings suggest that the role of metabolic compromise in amphetamine-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity merits further study.
Recent studies indicate that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in neuropathic pain, predominantly through spinal mechanisms. Since the data suggest that ROS are involved in central sensitization, the present study examines the levels of activated N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the dorsal horn before and after removal of ROS with a ROS scavenger, phenyl-N-t-butyl nitrone (PBN), in animal models of pain. Tight ligation of the L5 spinal nerve was used for the neuropathic pain model and intradermal injection of capsaicin was used for the inflammatory pain model. Foot withdrawal thresholds to von Frey stimuli to the paw were measured as pain indicators. The number of neurons showing immunoreactivity to phosphorylated NMDA-receptor subunit 1 (pNR1) and the total amount of pNR1 proteins in the spinal cord were determined using immunohistochemical and Western blotting techniques, respectively. Hyperalgesia and increased pNR1 expression were observed in both neuropathic and capsaicin-treated rats. A systemic injection of PBN (100 mg/kg, i.p.) dramatically reduced hyperalgesia and blocked the enhancement of spinal pNR1 in both pain models within 1h after PBN treatment. The data suggest that ROS are involved in NMDA-receptor activation, an essential step in central sensitization, and thus contribute to neuropathic and capsaicin-induced pain.
The use of experimental model systems has expedited the elucidation of pathogenetic mechanisms of renal developmental disease in humans and the identification of genes that orchestrate developmental programming during nephrogenesis.
We conducted studies to evaluate the role of AHR polymorphisms in the disruption of renal developmental programming by benzo(a)pyrene (BaP).
We used metanephric cultures of C57BL/6J (C57) mice expressing the Ahr(b-1) allele and B6.D2N-Ahr(d)/J (D2N) mice expressing a mutant allele deficient in ligand binding (Ahr(d)) to investigate molecular mechanisms of renal development. Deficits in fetal programming were evaluated in the offspring of pregnant mice treated with BaP during nephrogenesis.
Hydrocarbon challenge of metanephri from C57 mice altered Wilms' tumor suppressor gene (Wt1) mRNA splice variant ratios and reduced mRNAs of the Wt1 transcriptional targets syndecan-1 (Sdc1) paired box gene 2 (Pax2), epidermal growth factor receptor (Egfr), and retinoic acid receptor, alpha (Rarα). These changes correlated with down-regulation of effectors of differentiation [secreted frizzled-related sequence protein 1 (Sfrp1), insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (Igf1r), wingless-related MMTV-integration site 4 (Wnt4), Lim homeobox protein 1 (Lhx1), E-cadherin]. In contrast, metanephri from D2N mice were spared hydrocarbon-induced changes in Wt1 splice variant ratios and deficits of differentiation. We observed similar patterns of dysmorphogenesis and progressive loss of renal function at postnatal weeks 7 and 52 in the offspring of pregnant C57 but not D2N mice gavaged with 0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg BaP on gestation days 10-13.
These findings support a functional link between AHR and WT1 in the regulation of renal morphogenesis and raise important questions about the contribution of human AHR polymorphisms to the fetal origins of adult-onset kidney disease.
We used the Stroop task as a measure of the ability to inhibit a prepotent response tendency and examined its association with relative glucose metabolism in selected prefrontal brain regions in cocaine addicts, alcoholics, and controls (17 per group). Results revealed that for the substance abusers, higher orbitofrontal gyrus (OFG) activation was associated with lower conflict (higher score; r = 0.32, p < 0.05). For the controls, higher OFG activation was associated with higher conflict (lower score; r = -0.42, p < 0.05). Thus, at baseline, increased relative activation of the OFG is associated with worse performance in controls and better performance in substance abusers on the Stroop task, suggesting reversal of the role of the OFG as a function of addiction.
We examined the effect of fluoxetine to suppress binge eating in rats with a history of caloric restriction (CR) and the extent to which this effect was altered by stress and hunger.
To detect heightened sensitivity to fluoxetine, young female rats were used to determine a subthreshold anorectic dose (2 mg/kg, intraperitonally). Another group of rats was either fed ad libitum or given multiple CR (to 90% body weight) and refeeding-to-satiety cycles. One half of the rats were then either spared or subjected to foot shock stress before fluoxetine treatment.
A history of CR alone produced bingelike eating on palatable food (p < .001) and, although stress did not affect intake, it rendered CR rats hypersensitive to the satiety effect of fluoxetine. The feeding-suppression was mainly for chow (p < .05) and the effect was abolished if the rats were in negative energy balance.
Results support the utility of this animal model to elucidate serotonergic changes linking dieting to binge eating. The diverse effects of fluoxetine on the type of food, and in hungry versus sated rats, suggest alternate brain mechanisms should be concomitantly targeted for improved treatment of binge eating disorders.
Primaquine (8-aminoquinoline), the only effective drug to prevent relapses of the persistent liver forms of Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium ovale, can induce hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. The severity varies considerably among affected individuals. Three hundred and sixty-four Plasmodium vivax cases (342 G6PD-normal and 22 G6PD-deficient) were given a 3-day course of chloroquine (total dose 1,500 mg) followed by primaquine 15 mg a day for 14 days and completed a 28-day follow-up. All G6PD-deficient patients were male; there were no relapses or serious adverse events during the study. Although a significant decrease in hematocrit levels and an increase in the percent reduction of hematocrit levels were observed on day 7 (34.9+/-5.0 vs 26.7+/-5.4; (-1.2)+/-14.4 vs (-24.5) +/-13.9 respectively) and on day 14 (35.7+/-4.3 vs 30.9+/-3.1; 1.6+/-17.8 vs (-11.0) +/-19.3 respectively) blood transfusion was not required. Daily doses of 15 mg of primaquine for 14 days following a full course of chloroquine when prescribed to Thai G6PD deficient patients where Mahidol variant is predominant, are relatively safe.
Iatrogenic ergotism is the primary source of ergot intoxication. The patient whose case is reviewed had migraine headaches and received methysergide maleate for 13 years. She had, in July 1977, severe claudication of the lower extremities. Measurements of the peripheral arterial circulation were made using the Doppler ultrasonic velocity detector. The extent of disease and subsequent reversal were documented using arteriographic examination. Initial measurements showed the patient was able to walk for one minute and 34 seconds on a treadmill (2 mph, 10% grade) before stopping because of claudication. Symptoms cleared after drug withdrawal and repeated testing produced no claudication. The calculated index (posterior tibial/arm pressure) increased from a mean of 0.22 to 0.74 during the eight-month period following discontinuance of methysergide therapy with no recurrence of migraine headaches. A review of the literature is also presented.
To provide some pharmacological evidence for its clinical use in inflammatory diseases, anti-inflammatory effect of the aqueous extract from Radix Ophiopogon japonicus (ROJ-ext), a traditional Chinese herb, was examined in mouse and rat models. ROJ-ext significantly inhibited xylene-induced ear swelling and carrageenan-induced paw edema in mice when given orally at doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg. Moreover, ROJ-ext also remarkably suppressed carrageenan-induced pleural leukocyte migration in rats and zymosan A-evoked peritoneal total leukocyte and neutrophil migration in mice, while had no obvious effect on pleural prostaglandin E2 level. Furthermore, two active compounds were isolated from ROJ-ext and identified as ruscogenin and ophiopogonin D. As the results, ROJ-ext, ruscogenin and ophiopogonin D dose-dependently reduced phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA)-induced adhesion of HL-60 cells to ECV304 cells, with IC50 of 42.85 microg/ml, 7.76 nmol/l and 1.38 nmol/l, respectively. However, they showed no inhibitory effect on PMA-induced cyclooxygense-2 (COX-2) mRNA expression in ECV304 cells. Ruscogenin and ophiopogonin D also notably decreased zymosan A-induced peritoneal leukocyte migration, in comparison with ROJ-ext. These results demonstrate that ROJ-ext presents remarkable anti-inflammatory activity and ruscogenin and ophiopogonin D are two of its active components, which supported its traditional use in the treatment of various diseases associated with inflammation.
Chronic hyperglycemia results in a large deficit in nerve blood flow. Both autoxidative- and ischemia-induced lipid peroxidation occurs, with resultant peripheral sensory neuropathy in streptozotocin-induced diabetes in the rat. Free radical defenses, especially involving antioxidant enzymes, have been suggested to be reduced, but scant information is available on chronic hyperglycemia. We evaluated the gene expression of glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase (cuprozinc and manganese separately) in L4,5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and superior cervical ganglion, as well as enzyme activity of glutathione peroxidase in DRG and sciatic nerve in experimental diabetic neuropathy of 3 months and 12 months durations. We also evaluated nerve electrophysiology of caudal, sciatic-tibial, and digital nerves. A nerve conduction deficit was seen in all nerves in experimental diabetic neuropathy at both 3 and 12 months. Gene expression of glutathione peroxidase, catalase, cuprozinc superoxide dismutase, and manganese superoxide dismutase were not reduced in experimental diabetic neuropathy at either 3 or 12 months. Catalase mRNA was significantly increased in experimental diabetic neuropathy at 12 months. Glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity was normal in sciatic nerve. We conclude that gene expression is not reduced in peripheral nerve tissues in very chronic experimental diabetic neuropathy. Changes in enzyme activity may be related to duration of diabetes or due to post-translational modifications.
Controlled hypotension is used in scoliosis surgery to reduce the need for transfusion and to improve operating conditions, but there is concern that deliberate hypotension may decrease spinal cord blood flow (SCBF) and predispose the spinal cord to injury, particularly when it is distracted during Harrington instrumentation. To study the effect of deliberate hypotension on SCBF, the mean arterial pressure (MAP) was reduced to 50% of its normotensive value with trimethaphan (Arfonad) in dogs and the SCBF measured using the hydrogen washout technique with and without spine distraction. The SCBF was significantly reduced to half its normotensive value of 23.2 ml/min/100 gm to 11.4 ml/min/100 gm after hypotension was established. The SCBF remained significantly decreased compared with controls when measured at 30, 45, and 60 minutes following the induction of hypotension and also when hypotension was terminated. SCBF was not further reduced when 2 cm of spine distraction was added. These results show that induction of hypotension with trimethaphan is associated with a similar decrease in SCBF, which is maintained as long as the drug is used and that this effect continues after the drug is terminated and the MAP increases. Cautiously extrapolating these findings clinically would suggest that trimethaphan may not be the drug of choice for controlled hypotension during scoliosis surgery, despite its apparently favorable hemodynamic and hormonal responses.
Endothelin (ET) signaling provokes nephrotoxicity induced by the immunosuppressant drug cyclosporine A (CSA). We tested the hypotheses that (i): celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, counterbalances renal derangements caused by CSA in rats and (ii) the COX-2/endothelin ET(B) receptor signaling mediates the CSA-celecoxib interaction. Ten-day treatment with CSA (20 mg/kg/day) significantly increased biochemical indices of renal function (serum urea, creatinine), inflammation (interleukin-2, IL-2) and fibrosis (transforming growth factor-β₁, TGF-β₁). Histologically, CSA caused renal tubular atrophy along with interstitial fibrosis. These detrimental renal effects of CSA were largely reduced in rats treated concurrently with celecoxib (10 mg/kg/day). We also report that cortical glomerular and medullary tubular protein expressions of COX-2 and ET(B) receptors were reduced by CSA and restored to near-control values in rats treated simultaneously with celecoxib. The importance of ET(B) receptors in renal control and in the CSA-celecoxib interaction was further verified by the findings (i) most of the adverse biochemical, inflammatory, and histopathological profiles of CSA were replicated in rats treated with the endothelin ETB receptor antagonist BQ788 (0.1 mg/kg/day, 10 days), and (ii) the BQ788 effects, like those of CSA, were alleviated in rats treated concurrently with celecoxib. Together, the data suggest that the facilitation of the interplay between the TGF-β1/IL-2/COX-2 pathway and the endothelin ET(B) receptors constitutes the cellular mechanism by which celecoxib ameliorates the nephrotoxic manifestations of CSA in rats.
Biochemical evaluations of the effects of the sulfhydryl-containing angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril) on the nephrotoxicity induced by doxorubicin in normal rats were carried out. A single dose of doxorubicin (15 mg kg-1) which caused nephrotoxicity was manifested biochemically by the elevation of serum urea after 24 and 48 h of administration. Also a severe decrease in total proteins and albumin after 4, 24 and 48 h was observed. Moreover, a decrease of non-protein sulfhydryl (-SH) concentrations in the kidney tissues after 24 h and an increase in the lipid peroxidation was observed after 4 h administration of doxorubicin. Captopril (60 mg kg-1 i.p.) injection did not induce any change in the biochemical parameters measured, however, captopril administered 1 h before doxorubicin ameliorated the biochemical toxicity induced by doxorubicin. This was evidenced by a significant reduction in serum urea and the lipid peroxidation after 4 and 24 h and a significant reduction in creatinine after 48 h. Also, the captopril amelioration was evidenced by an increase in total proteins and albumin after 4 and 24 h of doxorubicin administration. Captopril did not change non-protein sulfhydryl (-SH) concentrations or protein content in the kidney tissues. These results suggest that captopril may be beneficial as a protective agent against nephrotoxicity induced by doxorubicin.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of the plasma concentration of irbesartan, a specific angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) antagonist, and the blood pressure response in relation to AT1R gene polymorphisms.
Plasma irbesartan was analyzed in 42 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy from the Swedish Irbesartan Left Ventricular Hypertrophy Investigation vs. Atenolol (SILVHIA) trial, who were treated with irbesartan as monotherapy for 12 weeks. Blood pressure and irbesartan concentration were measured at trough, i.e., 24 +/- 3 h after the last dose. Five AT1R gene polymorphisms were analyzed by minisequencing.
Neither the plasma concentration of irbesartan, nor any of the AT1R polymorphisms were associated with the blood pressure response to irbesartan treatment. However, the interaction term between the plasma concentration of irbesartan and the AT1R C5245T polymorphism was related to the reduction in systolic blood pressure after 12 weeks of treatment (P = 0.025). Furthermore, the plasma concentration of irbesartan was related to the change in systolic blood pressure in individuals homozygous for the AT1R 5245 T allele (r = -0.56, P = 0.030), but not for other genotypes.
There was an association between plasma concentrations of irbesartan and the blood pressure response for hypertensive patients with AT1R 5245 TT. Because of the small sample size, this study needs to be viewed as hypothesis generating. This is the first study, to our knowledge, indicating that the concentration-response relationship of an antihypertensive drug may be genotype dependent.
Aluminum acetylacetonate was administered to New Zealand white rabbits as liposome preparations and was found to distribute approximately 1:1 between water and phosphatidylcholine dipalmitoyl vesicles. Biochemical monitoring proved that after 2 weeks of daily injection of 40 micrograms of Al(III) in the above form, the animals developed significant signs of cardiac suffering, evidenced by variations in lactic dehydrogenase and creatinine phospokinase. Histopathologic investigation revealed that aluminum acetylacetonate caused unambiguous myocardial infarcts, characterized by myocardial contraction bands. In contrast, injection of Al(III) as a simple salt (lactate, 20 mg/day for 3 weeks) gave a less severe myocardiopathy, certainly not infarctual. Aluminum acetylacetonate given to rabbits appears to be, to our knowledge, the only chemical tool able to mimic spontaneous infarction situations in humans.
NADPH oxidase/dual-oxidase (Nox/Duox) family members have been implicated in nuclear factor kappa-B (NFκB)-mediated inflammation and inflammation-associated pathologies. We sought to examine, for the first time, the role of Nox/Duox and NFκB in rats treated with the cooked meat heterocyclic amine carcinogen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP). In the PhIP-induced colon tumors obtained after 1 year, Nox1, Nox4, NFκB-p50 and NFκB-p65 were all highly overexpressed compared with their levels in adjacent normal-looking colonic mucosa. Nox1 and Nox4 mRNA and protein levels also were markedly elevated in a panel of primary human colon cancers, compared with their matched controls. In HT29 human colon cancer cells, Nox1 knockdown induced G1 cell cycle arrest, whereas in Caco-2 cells there was a strong apoptotic response, with increased levels of cleaved caspase-3, -6, -7 and poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase. Nox1 knockdown blocked lipopolysaccharide-induced phosphorylation of IκB kinase, inhibited the nuclear translocation of NFκB (p50 and p65) proteins, and attenuated NFκB DNA binding activity. There was a corresponding reduction in the expression of downstream NFκB targets, such as MYC, CCND1 and IL1β. The results provide the first evidence for a role of Nox1, Nox4 and NFκB in PhIP-induced colon carcinogenesis, including during the early stages before tumor onset. Collectively, the findings from this investigation and others suggest that further work is warranted on the role of Nox/Duox family members and NFκB in colon cancer development.
We examined the analgesic and anti-allodynic effects of morphine and U-50,488H (trans-(+/-)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2-[1-pyrrolidinyl]-cyclohexyl)-benzeneacetamide methanesulfonate salt), a selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist, and the development of tolerance to their effects in neuropathic pain model mice induced by sciatic nerve ligation (SNL). In the tail-pinch method, morphine at 10 mg/kg, s.c. produced a weak analgesic effect in SNL mice; however, U-50,488H at 5 mg/kg, s.c. produced an analgesic effect equipotent to that in normal mice. In contrast, morphine produced an adequate analgesic effect when given either intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) or intrathecally (i.t.), but U-50,488H only produced analgesia when given i.t. Repeated administration of morphine (either i.c.v. or i.t.) or U-50,488H (either s.c. or i.t.), did not induce tolerance to the effect. In the static allodynia test with an application of von Frey filaments, both compounds given s.c. suppressed the allodynic effect, but in the dynamic allodynia test involving lightly stroking the plantar surface with a cotton bud, only U-50,488H produced an anti-allodynic effect. Repeated administrations of both compounds did not develop tolerance to these anti-allodynic effects. Thus, U-50,488H was found to be a highly effective at blocking hyperalgesia and allodynia in nerve injury, and these findings suggest that kappa-opioid receptor agonists are attractive pharmacological targets for the control of patients with neuropathic pain.
Recent evidence indicates that cell death through apoptosis may be an important mechanism to prevent tumor development. Therefore, agents that inhibit apoptosis may function as tumor promoters. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of nicotine on the process of apoptosis. The results demonstrate that nicotine inhibits apoptosis induced by diverse stimuli including tumor necrosis factor (TNF), UV light, chemotherapeutic drugs, and calcium ionophore. This phenomenon was observed in normal and transformed cells derived from a variety of species and tissues, including tumor cell types related to tobacco use. The major nicotine metabolite, cotinine, also inhibited apoptosis, whereas N-nitrosodiethylamine, a carcinogen found in tobacco, was without effect. Therefore, nicotine-mediated inhibition of apoptosis may contribute to the pathogenesis of tobacco-related cancer as well as decrease the efficacy of cancer therapies.
