Haloperidol, an antipsychotic agent, stimulates the release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), and this hormone is known to mimic some of the behavioral effects of haloperidol. Hence, the present study was carried out to find out the contribution of GnRH in the behavioral effects of haloperidol. The studies revealed that haloperidol (0.15, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and leuprolide (GnRH agonist; 50, 100, 200 and 400 microg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently inhibited conditioned avoidance response (CAR) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. In higher doses, haloperidol (0.5, 1 mg/kg, i.p.) and leuprolide (200, 400 microg/kg, s.c.) produced catalepsy in rats. Co-administration of sub-effective dose of leuprolide (50 or 100 microg/kg, s.c.) and haloperidol (0.15 or 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) similarly inhibited CAR and induced catalepsy. Pre-treatment of rats with antide (GnRH antagonist; 10 microg/rat, s.c.), attenuated the inhibitory effect of both the agents on CAR; blocked leuprolide-induced catalepsy; and attenuated the intensity and reduced the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. In conclusion, the studies suggest a possible role of GnRH in the neuroleptic and cataleptic effect of haloperidol.
The authors describe a very rare case of choreoathetotic movements which appeared in an epileptic in strict relationship to a toxic concentration of diphenylhydantoin in the serum. These movements were reversible and disappeared after reduction of drug dose and its serum concentration falling to the therapeutic range.
Ribavirin in combination with interferon alpha-2 or pegylated interferon is the standard treatment for chronic hepatitis C. The current dosage recommendations for ribavirin are based on body weight (bw). Ribavirin is mainly eliminated by the kidneys and we have recently shown that ribavirin plasma concentrations are determined primarily by renal function. It is therefore reasonable to hypothesize that side-effects of ribavirin, i.e. anaemia, should be more closely related to plasma concentrations of ribavirin than to the dose per kg bw. A total of 108 consecutive patients eligible for treatment of chronic hepatitis C were studied. Ribavirin concentrations in plasma were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-UV after solid-phase extraction in trough samples taken 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the treatment commenced. A total of 213 samples were obtained and the change in the haemoglobin level and the creatinine concentration was measured in addition to ribavirin. The dose of ribavirin per kg bw did not correlate with the drop in haemoglobin level induced by ribavirin. The concentration of ribavirin was non-linearly related to the drop in the haemoglobin level as revealed by fitting a standard Hill equation type dose-response curve. The half maximal drop in haemoglobin was obtained at 4.4 microm. The results from this study suggest that the anaemia induced by ribavirin depends primarily on the concentration of ribavirin, and not on the dose per kg bw. This lends further support to the idea that ribavirin should be dosed according to renal function.
Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is commonly prescribed for treatment of inflammatory arthritis. The most frequently observed serious side effect is retinal toxicity; however, case reports have described HCQ induced neuromyotoxicity. We describe a case of HCQ neuromyotoxicity and a literature review from 1965 to September 1998 using Medline and Embase. Including our patient, there are 10 reported cases of HCQ neuromyotoxicity. Muscle biopsy consistently reveals curvilinear bodies and muscle fiber atrophy with vacuolar changes. Most cases manifest as insidious onset proximal myopathy that may be associated with peripheral neuropathy and cardiac myotoxicity. Resolution of symptoms is slow after discontinuation of therapy and may be incomplete. Possible predisposing factors include Caucasian race and concomitant renal failure. Patients treated with HCQ who develop a proximal myopathy, cardiomyopathy, or neuropathy, especially in the setting of worsening renal function, should be evaluated for possible HCQ neuromyotoxicity.
To investigate the efficacy and the rate of adverse events of chronic low-dose levodopa-carbidopa therapy in Japanese patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
A total of 92 Japanese PD patients treated with low doses of levodopa from the outset were studied. Both disease-specific motor disabilities and quality of life (QOL) in the patients were evaluated using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and the Parkinson's Disease 39 Quality of Life Questionnaire (PDQ39), respectively.
In the overall patient group, the mean duration of treatment, the mean daily dose of levodopa, the disability scores and the motor scores of UPDRS were 6.2 years, 186.4 mg, 8.0 and 19.2, respectively. The rates of motor fluctuations, dyskinesias and hallucinations were 8.7%, 6.5% and 14.1%, respectively. The mean summary index of PDQ39 scores was 23.1. Patients with motor fluctuations showed a significantly earlier disease onset. Dose of levodopa, age at onset, and treatment duration were not associated with the occurrence of dyskinesias. Patients with hallucination had higher doses of levodopa and dopamine agonist.
Our results demonstrate that chronic administration of a low-dose levodopa preparation can provide satisfactory benefit with a low incidence of motor complications, and can result in good QOL in Japanese patients with PD. The concomitant use of a small amount of dopamine agonist and amantadine from the outset has partly contributed to a reduced dose of levodopa and the lesser occurrence of motor complications.
Two men with longstanding ulcerative colitis who were treated with sulphasalazine for several years and who developed chronic renal failure are reported. Renal biopsy specimens showed histological changes consistent with drug induced chronic intestinal nephritis. Extensive investigation made other causes of chronic renal failure unlikely. One of these patients underwent renal transplantation, the other has impaired but stable renal function.
Adults over 65 years exhibit a prolonged punctate hyperalgesia induced by topical application of capsaicin. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of peripheral afferent input in the slowed resolution of punctate hyperalgesia in older people. Twenty young (25.7+/-4.8 years) and 19 old (74.9+/-4.4 years) healthy adults were recruited, and subjects in each age group were randomly assigned to receive either EMLA cream (a local anaesthetic) (n=10 in each age group) or Sorbolene treatment (n=9 in the older group, n=10 in the young group) after the development of punctate hyperalgesia. EMLA cream blocked punctate sensation and greatly reduced touch and warmth sensation. In comparison to Sorbolene treatment, EMLA abolished stroking but not punctate hyperalgesia in both age groups. The area of punctate hyperalgesia was maintained in older adults over 4 h, while it declined in the young. Older adults also reported reduced ratings to capsaicin-induced sensation and to stroking stimulation, and had a smaller area of stroking hyperalgesia. Ratings to punctate stimulation did not, however, differ between the age groups. Stoicism and cautiousness measured with Pain Attitude Questionnaire were negatively correlated with highest pain rating in the young, but not in the older groups. We suggest that the prolonged punctate hyperalgesia in older adults is possibly sustained by central mechanisms, indicating age differences in central plasticity following acute injury. The relationship between such age-related changes and the chronicity of pain in older adults should be further explored.
Intrauterine cocaine exposure has been associated with multiple transient and permanent neurologic sequelae. Although dystonic reactions have been reported in cocaine users, infantile dystonia following intrauterine exposure has not. We describe 4 infants testing positive for cocaine metabolite at birth with subsequent transient dystonic reactions, beginning at 3 hours to 3 months of age and persisting for several months.
To investigate the effects of the addition of low dose meperidine to spinal lidocaine on the sensory and motor blockade profile, and the quality and duration of postoperative analgesia.
In a randomized double blind prospective dose finding study 40 patients undergoing transurethral prostatectomy with spinal anesthetic were allocated to receive 75 mg lidocaine 5% intrathecally as the sole agent (group A), or co-administered with 0.15 mg x kg(-1) meperidine (group B) or 0.30 mg x kg(-1) meperidine (group C). Sensory and motor blockade profiles were documented. Postoperatively, the amount of analgesics required, time to first analgesic, visual analogue scores and adverse events were recorded.
Sensory blocks at or above T10 was maintained for 128, 156 and 145 minutes in groups A, B and C respectively. There was no difference in the latency or duration of the motor block among the three groups. Patients in group C had lower visual analogue pain scores (VAPS) over time than did those in groups A and B (P < 0.05). Time to first analgesia was longer (429 +/- 197 minutes) in group C than in group A (254 +/- 157 minutes) (P < 0.05). Fewer patients in group C required parenteral opioid postoperatively than in group A (P < 0.05). The incidence of bradycardia was higher in the groups receiving meperidine. No symptoms of transient radicular irritation (TRI) were reported in the groups receiving meperidine.
The addition of 0.3 mg x kg(-1) of meperidine to spinal lidocaine prolongs postoperative analgesia without delaying discharge from post anesthetic care unit (Table II) and reduces the requirement for parenteral analgesics (Table III).
The prognosis for women with primary breast cancer involving multiple axillary nodes remains poor. High-dose chemotherapy with stem-cell support produced promising results in initial clinical trials conducted at single institutions.
Seven hundred eighty-five women aged 22 to 66 years with stage IIA, IIB, or IIIA breast cancer involving 10 or more axillary lymph nodes were randomized after surgery and standard adjuvant chemotherapy to either high-dose cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and carmustine (HD-CPB) with stem-cell support or intermediate-dose cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and carmustine (ID-CPB) with G-CSF support but without stem cells. Planned treatment for all patients included locoregional radiation therapy. Hormone-receptor-positive patients were to receive 5 years of tamoxifen. Event-free survival (EFS) was the primary end point.
Median follow-up was 7.3 years. Event-free survival was not significantly different between the two treatment groups (P = .24). The probability of being free of an event at 5 years with HD-CPB was 61% (95% CI, 56% to 65%), and was 58% (95% CI, 53% to 63%) for ID-CPB. Thirty-three patients died of causes attributed to HD-CPB, compared with no therapy-related deaths among women treated with ID-CPB. Overall survival for the two arms was identical at 71% at 5 years (P = .75).
HD-CPB with stem-cell support was not superior to ID-CPB for event-free or overall survival among all randomized women with high-risk primary breast cancer.
DNA repair plays an important role in chemoresistance to platinum-based therapy, and therefore polymorphisms in the genes may modulate therapeutic response. We assessed 12 polymorphisms in 7 DNA repair genes and 2 polymorphisms in the MTHFR gene for association with disease response and prognosis.
A total of 258 patients included in the study had adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (n = 114) or gastric cancer (n = 144), at stage cT3/4 and cM0, and had been treated with platinum-based neoadjuvant polychemotherapy. The patients were genotyped for polymorphisms in the XPC, XPD, XPG, APEX, XRCC1, NBS1, XRCC3, and MTHFR genes by the allelic discrimination method and the data correlated with various clinical parameters.
None of the investigated polymorphisms was associated with histopathological response. XRCC3 polymorphisms rs861539 (P = 0.02) and rs861530 (P = 0.05) showed association with clinical response in gastric cancer. The variants in XRCC3 (rs861539, P = 0.05; rs1799794, P = 0.03) and MTHFR (rs1801131, P = 0.02) were associated with survival in esophageal and gastric cancer, respectively. In R0 resected patients, XRCC3 variants (rs861539, P = 0.04; rs861530, P = 0.02) in esophageal cancer, and XRCC3 (rs1799794, P = 0.02) and MTHFR (rs1801131, P = 0.005) in gastric cancer predicted survival. Cox regression revealed ypT category (P = 0.001) and lymphatic vessel invasion (P = 0.03) to be independent prognostic factors for esophageal cancer, and histopathological response (P = 0.01), MTHFR variant (rs1801131, P = 0.002), and ypN category (P = 0.02) to be prognostic factors for gastric cancer.
In gastric cancer patients, MTHFR variant (rs1801131) could serve as a potential prognostic marker. In esophageal cancer patients, none of the polymorphisms studied had conclusive results in multivariate analysis, although XRCC3 variant (rs861539) showed an effect on survival in Kaplan-Meier univariate analysis.
Infections by protozoans of the genus Leishmania are a major worldwide health problem, with high endemicity in developing countries. The drugs of choice for the treatment of leishmaniasis are the pentavalent antimonials, which show renal and cardiac toxicity. As part of a search for new drugs against leishmaniasis, we evaluated the in vitro leishmanicidal activity of the (-) mammea A/BB. The compound (-) mammea A/BB is a coumarin-type mammea purified from a dichloromethane crude extract of leaves of Calophyllum brasiliense Cambess (Clusiaceae). The isolated compound was characterized using spectral analyses by UV, infrared, nuclear magnetic resonance of (1)H, (13)C, distortionless enhancement by polarization transfer, correlation spectroscopy, heteronuclear multiple bond correlation, and heteronuclear multiple quantum coherence. The compound (-) mammea A/BB showed significant activity against promastigote and amastigote forms of L. amazonensis, with IC(50) (50% inhibition concentration of cell growth) at a concentration of 3.0 and 0.88 mug/ml and IC(90) (90% inhibition concentration of cell growth) of 5.0 and 2.3 microg/ml, respectively. The coumarin (-) mammea A/BB showed no cytotoxicity against J774G8 macrophages in culture, when it was tested at high concentrations that inhibited promastigote forms. Electron microscopy studies revealed considerable ultrastructural changes when promastigote forms of L. amazonensis were treated with 3.0 microg/ml of the coumarin (-) mammea A/BB for 72 h. We observed significant changes such as mitochondrial swelling with concentric membranes in the mitochondrial matrix and intense exocytic activity in the region of the flagellar pocket. Other alterations included the appearance of binucleate cells and multiple cytoplasmic vacuolization. These results showed that (-) mammea A/BB is a potent growth inhibitor of L. amazonensis and caused important changes in the parasite's ultrastructure. This study provided new perspectives on the development of novel drugs with leishmanicidal activity obtained from natural products.
E-64d (a calpain and autophagy inhibitor) has previously been shown safe for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease in humans. In the present study, the potential protective mechanism of E-64d on hippocampal aberrant mossy fiber sprouting was examined in a developmental rat model of penicillin-induced recurrent epilepticus. A seizure was induced by penicillin every other day in Sprague-Dawley rats from postnatal day 21 (P21). The rats were randomly assigned into the control group (CONT1), the control plus E-64d (CONT2), the seizure group (EXP1) and the seizure plus E-64d (EXP2). On P51, mossy fiber sprouting and related gene expression in hippocampus were assessed by Timm staining and real-time RT-PCR methods, respectively. To validate the RT-PCR results, western blot analysis was performed on selected genes. E-64d obviously suppressed the aberrant mossy fiber sprouting in the supragranular region of dentate gyrus and CA3 subfield of hippocampus. Among the total twelve genes, six genes were strongly up- (MT-3, ACAT1, clusterin and ApoE) or down- (ZnT-1 and PRG-3) regulated by developmental seizures (EXP1) compared with that in the CONT1. Up-regulation of ApoE and Clusterin was blocked by pretreatment with E-64d both in mRNA and protein levels. Further, E-64d-pretreated seizure rats (EXP2) showed a significant downregulation of mRNA expression of PRG-1, PRG-3 and PRG-5, cathepsin B and ApoE, as well as up-regulated nSMase and ANX7 in hippocampus when compared with EXP1 rats. The results of the present study suggest that E-64d, an elective inhibitor of calpain and autophagy, is potentially useful in the treatment of developmental seizure-induced brain damage both by regulating abnormal zinc signal transduction and through the modulation of altered lipid metabolism via ApoE/clusterin pathway in hippocampus.
The antiviral molecule acyclovir can be responsible of severe renal dysfunction. Intratubular crystal precipitation of the drug may represent a major pathogenetic mechanism.
A 30-year old, immunocompetent woman was admitted in the neurology unit for a viral meningo-encephalitic syndrome. Intravenous acyclovir was delivered at the dose of 45 mg/kg per day. Despite a neurological improvement, she developed an acute renal insufficiency with the serum creatinine increasing from 63 to 385 micromol/L within 12 days. The urine study revealed great amounts of birefringent crystals which were typical of acyclovir derived crystals according to the spectrophotometric examination. Withdrawal of acyclovir treatment in combination with oral and parenteral hydration resulted in a complete recovery of the renal function. The conditions favouring acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity are discussed.
Five male patients with veno-occlusive disease of the liver (VOD) were observed in 200 consecutive renal transplants (RT) treated with azathioprine and prednisone. Mild liver enzymatic increases not justified by other reasons were detected between 2 and 9 months after RT. All 5 patients developed portal hypertension and died between 18 and 79 months following RT. Diagnosis of VOD was histological; in 3 cases diagnosis was made while the patients were still alive. In our patients, 9 previous viral hepatotropic infections (5 during hemodialysis and 4 after TR) were demonstrated. Due to the reported low incidence of VOD in RT patients, when many of them have been treated with azathioprine, the etiological role of this drug must be questioned. However, the possible association of a previous hepatotropic viral infection and the use of an immunosuppressive agent should be considered as a probable cause of VOD in kidney grafts.
A patient with pustular psoriasis developed jaundice, peripheral blood eosinophilia, and biochemical evidence of hepatocanalicular dysfunction four weeks after the initiation of etretinate therapy. A liver biopsy specimen showed bile duct damage, a periportal inflammatory infiltrate composed of neutrophils, eosinophils and lymphocytes, canalicular cholestasis, and focal hepatocyte necrosis. Clinical exclusion of other possible etiologic factors coupled with near resolution of the biochemical abnormalities within six weeks after complete discontinuation of the drug indicates that etretinate may induce an idiosyncratic hypersensitivity reaction. This is the first report to document etretinate associated bile duct injury.
We evaluated the effect of various PGE analogs specific to EP receptor subtypes on indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions in rats and investigated the relationship of EP receptor subtype with the PGE action using EP receptor knockout mice. Animals were administered indomethacin subcutaneously, and they were killed 24 hr later. 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 (dmPGE2) or various EP agonists were administered intravenously 10 min before indomethacin. Indomethacin caused hemorrhagic lesions in the rat small intestine, accompanied with an increase in intestinal motility and the number of enteric bacteria as well as iNOS and MPO activities. Prior administration of dmPGE2 dose-dependently prevented intestinal lesions, together with inhibition of those functional changes. These effects of dmPGE2 were mimicked by prostanoids (ONO-NT-012 and ONO-AE1-329), only specific to EP3 or EP4 receptors, although the intestinal motility was inhibited only by ONO-AE1-329. Intestinal mucus secretion and fluid accumulation were decreased by indomethacin but enhanced by dmPGE2, ONO-NT-012, and ONO-AE1-329 at the doses that prevented intestinal lesions. Indomethacin also caused intestinal lesions in both wild-type and knockout mice lacking EP1 or EP3 receptors, yet the protective action of dmPGE2 was observed in wild-type and EP1 receptor knockout mice but not the mice lacking EP3 receptors. These results suggest that the intestinal cytoprotective action of PGE2 against indomethacin is mediated by EP3/EP4 receptors and that this effect is functionally associated with an increase of mucus secretion and enteropooling as well as inhibition of intestinal hypermotility, the former two processes mediated by both EP3 and EP4 receptors, and the latter by EP4 receptors.
A 1-year-old castrated male cat was evaluated because of alopecia of approximately 4 to 5 months' duration as well as hyperactive behavior. It was later determined that the cat was ingesting valproic acid by eating food to which it had been added for daily administration to a child in the household who had cerebral palsy. The clinical signs slowly resolved after the source of valproic acid was removed. This emphasizes the sensitivity of cats to drugs that are commonly used in humans. It was not determined whether the clinical signs that developed in this cat were caused by an adverse reaction or from toxicosis as a result of prolonged hepatic elimination of valproic acid, which requires glucuronide metabolism for disposition. However, the cat recovered completely following removal of the drug and prevention of further exposure. This report emphasizes the importance of obtaining a careful and complete history from the owner regarding an animal and its environment. In the cat of this report, the owner had not considered the impact of the presence of the drug in the child's food.
Rhabdomyolysis is an acute skeletal muscle disorder characterized by altered integrity of the cell membranes of muscle fiber cells and can be caused by a variety of factors whose nature is not necessarily traumatic. Hypokalemia is one of the most common metabolic causes, accounting for about 14-28% of rhabdomyolytic syndromes. We report and discuss three cases of hypokalemia caused by diuretic treatment with hydrochlorothiazide: the main clinical features were muscle symptoms following massive rhabdomyolysis.
A 44-year-old woman on maintenance hemodialysis was admitted to our hospital because of severe abdominal pain. The patient had been medicated with lisinopril and valsartan for hypertension for one month prior to admission. An abdominal computerized scan (CT) showed a dilated and thickened loop of the small bowel with massive ascites and a small nodule in the jejunum. The patient's abdominal pain was thought to be due to isolated visceral angioneurotic edema induced by lisinopril and/or valsartan, and medication of these two drugs was therefore stopped. Her symptoms resolved and an abdominal CT demonstrated almost complete resolution of ascites and of small bowel edema except for a small nodule in the jejunum. A laparoscopic operation was performed to excise the small nodule of the jejunum, and a histological diagnosis of accessory pancreas of the jejunum was made. This is the first report of isolated visceral angioneurotic edema induced by lisinopril and/or valsartan in a patient on maintenance hemodialysis and, moreover, with the association of accessory pancreas of the jejunum.
We report the preliminary findings in the first 12 patients enrolled in a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study of the antianginal effect of the new angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, cilazapril (2.5 mg once daily) in patients with both hypertension and angina pectoris. After 3 weeks of treatment, placebo had no effect whereas cilazapril significantly prolonged exercise duration. In 2 of the patients on cilazapril, exercise duration was markedly prolonged from 387 to 534 and 352 to 556 s. The maximal ST segment depression was unaltered. It is suggested that in selected patients with both hypertension and angina pectoris cilazapril may have an antianginal effect. A larger study is now underway.
Ryanodine, a specific blocker of the Ca2+ release channel of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, and flunarizine, a [Ca2+]i overload blocker, possess antiarrhythmic effects against delayed afterdepolarizations (DADs) and DAD-dependent arrhythmias. In vitro controversy exists about their effect on early after-depolarizations (EADs): no effect was reported on cesium-induced EADs, while ryanodine did prevent EADs induced by isoproterenol. To study the possible role of intracellular Ca2+ overload in acquired EAD-dependent torsades de pointes (TdP) arrhythmias, we tested the effects of flunarizine and ryanodine in our animal model of TdP.
Anaesthetized dogs with chronic AV block received d-sotalol or almokalant followed by pacing. A subset of dogs with reproducible TdP (> or = 3 times) were selected to receive flunarizine (2 mg/kg per 2 min) or ryanodine (10 micrograms/kg per 10 min). After d-sotalol, TdP was induced at a mean cycle length of the idioventricular rhythm (CL-IVR) of 2070 +/- 635 msec and a QT(U) interval of 535 +/- 65 msec. Induction of TdP was prevented by flunarizine in all experiments (8/8): electrophysiologically this was associated with a decrease in CL-IVR, QT(U), and QTc interval (390 +/- 100 to 320 +/- 45, P < 0.05). Ryanodine prevented TdP induction in 4 of 5 experiments and decreased the CL-IVR, QT(U), and the QTc interval from 385 +/- 75 to 320 +/- 20 msec (P < 0.05). Both drugs also suppressed the almokalant-induced EADs and related ectopic activity. This antiarrhythmic action corresponded with the inability to reinduce TdP by pacing.
Blockade of the Ca2+ release channel of the sarcoplasmic reticulum by ryanodine or the reduction of [Ca2+]i overload by flunarizine prevents induction of EAD-dependent acquired TdP arrhythmias, suggesting a role for [Ca2+]i overload in acquired TdP.
Regulation of dopamine D2 receptor (D2) function plays an important role in alleviating either the motor deficits of Parkinson's disease or psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia. D2 also plays a critical role in sensorimotor gating which can be measured by monitoring the prepulse inhibition of the startle response. Alternative splicing of the D2 gene generates two isoforms, D2S and D2L. Here we investigated the role of D2S and D2L in the mechanisms of action of dopaminergic drugs, using mice lacking D2L (D2L(-/-)) but expressing D2S as a model system. We found that the typical antipsychotic raclopride was much less potent in inhibiting locomotor activity and eliciting catalepsy (or parkinsonism) in D2L(-/-) mice, whereas the atypical antipsychotic clozapine was equally effective in D2L(-/-) and wild-type mice. These suggest that the deletion of D2L diminishes drug-induced parkinsonism. Furthermore, two dopamine agonists, amphetamine and apomorphine, reduced prepulse inhibition to a similar degree in D2L(-/-) and wild-type mice. These results together suggest that D2S alone can mediate the action of clozapine and the dopamine agonist-induced disruption of prepulse inhibition. The differential binding affinities of these agents for D2S vs D2L were not sufficient to explain the divergent effects of typical vs atypical antipsychotics in D2L(-/-) mice. These findings suggest that D2S and D2L may differentially contribute to the therapeutic actions and side effects of antipsychotic agents, and may have implications for developing better antipsychotic agents.
Trazodone hydrochloride is used in the treatment of neuropathic pain. However, the analgesic effects of trazodone on neuropathic pain are controversial. The study was undertaken to determine the analgesic effect of trazodone on a chronic constriction injury model.
We tested the effect of trazodone on thermal hyperalgesia due to a chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve in rats and examined the effects of lesions in the descending and ascending serotonergic system induced by 5,7-dihydroxytriptamine (5,7-DHT).
The analgesic effects of trazodone showed a clear dose dependency. Furthermore, the analgesic effect of trazodone was observed in rats injected with 5,7-DHT into the dorsal raphe nucleus and medial raphe nucleus.
The results suggest that a mainly serotonergic descending pain control pathway mediates the analgesic effects of trazodone.
Pseudoephedrine, a common ingredient in cold relief drugs, dietary supplements and Chinese herbal tea, has potent sympathomimetic effects, impacting the cardiovascular system. The chemical properties and clinical effects of pseudoephedrine are similar to those of ephedrine, and its main effect is caused by the release of endogenous norepinephrine. A 45-year-old man who presented with chest pain following ingestion of pseudoephedrine--containing prescription medication is described. The patient was initially diagnosed with inferior myocardial infarction based on an electrocardiogram, and intravenous metoprolol was started pending coronary artery angiography. Metoprolol reversed the ST segment elevation and relieved the symptoms, and coronary angiography showed normal coronary arteries. The present case highlights beta-blocker therapy as part of an initial intervention of pseudoephedrine-related cardiac symptoms.
The aim of this study was to assess whether patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) develop cognitive and psychiatric complications more frequently during prolonged therapy with continuous apomorphine infusion compared with standard oral treatment. Thirty consecutive PD patients with severe motor fluctuations were included in the study. Twelve patients accepted the treatment with subcutaneous continuous apomorphine infusion, while the remaining 18 preferred to continue with oral dopaminergic therapy. The two groups were evaluated with neuropsychological, psychiatric, and motor tests at baseline and after 1 year. The off daily duration and the levodopa dosage were significantly reduced in infused patients. The neuropsychiatric assessment did not change in both groups compared with baseline, except for a significant improvement of mood in the apomorphine group.
This study examines the efficacy of various doses of intravenous diltiazem to control the ventricular response during atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. Control of the ventricular response of patients with atrial fibrillation and a rapid ventricular response can provide patients with relief of symptoms and improve hemodynamics. Eighty-four consecutive patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, or both, received an intravenous bolus dose of diltiazem followed by a continuous infusion of diltiazem at 5, 10, and 15 mg/hour. The mean ventricular response and blood pressure were monitored. Overall, 94% of patients (79 of 84) responded to the bolus dose with a > 20% reduction in heart rate from baseline, a conversion to sinus rhythm, or a heart rate < 100 beats/min. Seventy-eight patients received the continuous infusion. After 10 hours of infusion, 47% of patients (confidence interval [CI]: 36%, 59%) had maintained response with the 5 mg/hour infusion, 68% (CI: 57%, 79%) maintained response after the infusion was titrated to 10 mg/hour, and 76% (CI: 66%, 85%) after titration from the 5 and 10 mg/hour infusion to the 15 mg/hour dose. For the 3 diltiazem infusions studied, mean (+/- SD) heart rate was reduced from a baseline value of 144 +/- 14 beats/min to 98 +/- 19, 107 +/- 25, 107 +/- 22, 101 +/- 22, 91 +/- 17, and 88 +/- 18 beats/min at infusion times 0, 1, 2, 4, 8, and 10 hours, respectively. By the end of the infusion, 18% of patients (14 of 78) had conversion to sinus rhythm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of prolonged treatment with the beta-blocker trimepranol on left-ventricular function was assessed in patients who survived myocardial infarction. Pulmonary arterial catheterization with a floating catheter was used for hemodynamic investigation. Hemodynamic parameters were compared in the treated (20 patients) and control (20 patients matched for age and infarction site) groups. The treated patients showed a reduction in heart rate and cardiac output at rest, as well as stress-induced elevation of the pulmonary arterial pressure and peripheral resistance. Patients with pulmonary hypertension often demonstrated changes of the pressure curve in the pulmonary artery as a possible manifestation of stress-induced mitral regurgitation. Prolonged treatment with trimepranol is associated with increased incidence of pulmonary hypertension in myocardial infarction survivers. The clinical significance of this observation is yet to be established by further studies. Stress-induced mitral regurgitation associated with a mitral subvalvular dysfunction may occasionally be the cause of elevated pulmonary blood pressure.
Our recent study has demonstrated that B16 melanoma-induced cachexia in mice is inhibited by ponalrestat, an aldose reductase inhibitor, which has the ability to activate lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity both in vitro and in vivo. In this study, the effect of bezafibrate and NO-1886, LPL activators, on B16 melanoma-induced cachectic symptoms was investigated in mice. Treatment with bezafibrate resulted in an attenuation of the decrease in the weight of epididymal fat and whole body lipid observed in mice following intraperitoneal inoculation of B16. The increase in the levels of triglyceride and non-esterified fatty acid, and a decrease in the level of glucose in the blood, which was induced by the presence of tumor, were also restored to that of normal mice after treatment with bezafibrate. The reduction in the weight of epididymal fat and whole body lipid induced by B16 was also ameliorated by NO-1886. Overall, this study demonstrated that cachexia induced by B16 melanoma in mice was alleviated by the LPL activators bezafibrate and NO-1886, suggesting the involvement of the impaired LPL activity in the establishment of cachexia syndrome in mice bearing B16 melanoma.
