To compare the use of generic and proprietary sodium stibogluconate for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar).
A total of 102 patients with confirmed kala-azar were treated in a mission hospital in West Pokot region, Kenya, with sodium stibogluconate (20 mg/kg/day for 30 days)--either as Pentostam (PSM) or generic sodium stibogluconate (SSG); 51 patients were allocated alternately to each treatment group.
There were no significant differences in baseline demographic characteristics or disease severity, or in events during treatment. There were 3 deaths in the PSM group and 1 in the SSG group; 2 patients defaulted in each group. Only 1 out of 80 test-of-cure splenic aspirates was positive for Leishmania spp.; this patient was in the SSG group. Follow-up after > or = 6 months showed that 6 out of 58 patients had relapsed, 5 in the SSG group and 1 in the PSM group. No outcome variable was significantly different between the two groups.
The availability of cheaper generic sodium stibogluconate, subject to rigid quality controls, now makes it possible for the health authorities in kala-azar endemic areas to provide treatment to many more patients in Africa.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether prenatal exposure to morphine has effects on excitatory amino acid-induced seizures. Adult male rats, exposed on embryonic days 11-18 to saline or morphine, were injected with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) (150, 175, 200, 225, and 250 mg/kg) or kainic acid (KA) (15 or 20 mg/kg) in adulthood to assess the occurrence and latency to onset of stereotypy and seizures. The latency to onset of stereotypy was significantly increased after 175 mg/kg, and decreased after 200 mg/kg of NMDA in morphine-exposed animals. The lowest dose of NMDA (150 mg/kg) induced seizures in prenatally saline-treated control male rats but not in the morphine-exposed male rats. In the KA-injected group, prenatally morphine-exposed males had shorter latency to onset of wet-dog shakes, but there were no effects on the latency to onset of clonic seizures. The data suggest that prenatal morphine exposure has long-term effects on seizure susceptibility and the onset of stereotypy in the excitatory amino acid-induced seizure models.
In association with the international validation project to establish an OECD Enhanced Test Guideline 407, we performed a 28-day repeated-dose toxicity study of methoxychlor, a chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticide with pro-estrogenic and anti-androgenic activities. Attention was paid to the sensitivity of certain additional parameters for detecting endocrine related effects of endocrine disrupting chemicals based on the existing TG 407. Seven-week-old Crj:CD(SD)IGS rats were allocated to one of four groups, each consisting often males and ten females, and methoxychlor was administered once daily by gavage at doses of 0 (control), 20, 100 or 500 mg/kg body weight per day. Male rats were killed on the day after the 28th administration. Female rats were killed on the day of the diestrus stage during 4 days after the 28th administration. Male rats receiving methoxychlor showed mainly atrophy of mammary acinus in the 20 mg/ kg and higher groups, together with decreases in prostate and seminal vesicle weights, and atrophy of epididymis, prostate, seminal vesicle and coagulating gland in the 100 and 500 mg/kg groups. In addition, decrease in serum testosterone level, increase in follicle-stimulating hormone level, decrease in testis and epididymis weights, atrophy of semiferous tubules and Leydig cells, decrease in the number of sperm in the caudal epididymis and their motility were observed in the 500 mg/kg group. Female rats receiving methoxychlor showed mainly abnormal estrous cycles, decrease in serum luteinizing hormone level, decrease in ovary weight, proliferation of mammary acinus, atrophy of ovary due to decrease in follicles and corpus luteum in histopathology, hypertrophy of endometrial epithelium of uterus and vagina epithelium in the 100 and 500 mg/kg groups. Among the parameters tested in the present experimental system, effects of methoxychlor on endocrine-related organs were detected with regard to serum hormone, organ weights, histopathological examination in both sexes, estrus cycle in females and sperm examination in males. Based on these results, a no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) in the present study was estimated to be below 20 mg/kg per day. In particular, the adverse effects were effectively detected in organ weights of accessory sex organs and histopathological examination.
Drug-induced tremulous jaw movements (TJMs) in rats have been used as a model of parkinsonian tremor. Previous studies demonstrated that the typical antipsychotic haloperidol induced TJMs after acute or subchronic administration, while atypical antipsychotics did not. Moreover, it has been suggested that the relative potency for suppression of tacrine-induced TJMs relative to the suppression of lever pressing can be used to discriminate between typical and atypical antipsychotics. In order to validate this model with additional drugs, the present studies assessed the effects of the typical antipsychotic pimozide. In the first series of experiments, the effects of acute pimozide on tacrine-induced TJMs and lever pressing were examined. As with haloperidol, pimozide failed to suppress tacrine-induced TJMs, even at doses considerably higher than those that suppressed lever pressing. In the second group of experiments, rats were given single daily injections of pimozide (0.125-1.0 mg/kg) or tartaric acid vehicle for 13 days, and were observed for TJMs on days 1, 7, and 13. Pimozide induced TJMs in a dose-related manner on all days. The jaw movements occurred largely in the 3-7 Hz frequency range characteristic of parkinsonian tremor. These data support the hypothesis that typical antipsychotics can induce TJMs in rats, and demonstrate that chronic administration of typical antipsychotics is not necessary for induction of TJMs. TJMs induced by acute or subchronic pimozide may be related to early-onset motor syndromes such as drug-induced parkinsonism.
Neurotensin (NT) is a tridecapeptide found in the nervous system, as well as elsewhere in the body. It has anatomic and functional relationships to dopaminergic neurons in brain. NT has been implicated in the actions of antipsychotic drugs and psychostimulants, and animal studies suggest that neurotensin directly injected into brain has reinforcing effects. Previously, we showed that one of our brain-penetrating analogs of neurotensin, NT69L (N-methyl-L-Arg, L-Lys, L-Pro, L-neo-Trp, L-tert-Leu, L-Leu), has many pharmacological effects in rats including antinociception, hypothermia, and blockade of the hyperactivity caused by psychostimulants (cocaine, D-amphetamine, and nicotine). Since these studies in rats suggest that this compound may have clinical use in humans, we were interested to know what effects NT69L had in primates. NT69L caused a potent antinociceptive effect against capsaicin (0.1 mg)-induced allodynia in 46 degrees C water in rhesus monkeys, inducing 40% of the maximal possible effect at an intravenous dosage of 0.03 mg/kg; its hypotensive effects precluded evaluation of higher dosages. Core temperature measured by rectal probe was modestly reduced at 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg. In an intravenous self-administration procedure, NT69L was without reinforcing effects at any dose, including those that caused other pharmacological effects, and did not alter cocaine-maintained behavior when administered as a pretreatment.
Epidemiological evidence suggests positive correlations between pesticide usage and the incidence of Parkinson's disease (PD). To further explore this relationship, we used wild type (N2) Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) to test the following hypothesis: Exposure to a glyphosate-containing herbicide (TD) and/or a manganese/zinc ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate-containing fungicide (MZ) may lead to neurotoxicity. We exposed N2 worms to varying concentrations of TD or MZ for 30 min (acute) or 24h (chronic). To replicate agricultural usage, a third population was exposed to TD (acute) followed by MZ (acute). For acute TD exposure, the LC(50)=8.0% (r(2)=0.6890), while the chronic LC(50)=5.7% (r(2)=0.9433). Acute MZ exposure led to an LC(50)=0.22% (r(2)=0.5093), and chronic LC(50)=0.50% (r(2)=0.9733). The combined treatment for TD+MZ yielded an LC(50)=12.5% (r(2)=0.6367). Further studies in NW1229 worms, a pan-neuronally green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagged strain, indicated a statistically significant (p<0.05) and dose-dependent reduction in green pixel number in neurons of treated worms following each paradigm. This reduction of pixel number was accompanied by visual neurodegeneration in photomicrographs. For the dual treatment, Bliss analysis suggested synergistic interactions. Taken together, these data suggest neuronal degeneration occurs in C. elegans following treatment with environmentally relevant concentrations of TD or MZ.
The primary aim of this study was evaluation of the efficacy of telmisartan (angiotensin II receptor blocker- AT(1) blocker) on blood pressure in 10 patients with renal impairment in moderate or advanced stages of renal insufficiency and not dependent on haemodialysis. Its effect on proteinuria, renal function (represented by serum urea, creatinine, glomerular filtration), evaluation of overall therapy compliance in comparison with a previously prescribed angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) were secondary aims. Considering the presence of left ventricle hypertrophy in all patients as a marker of hypertensive cardiopathy, the effect of telmisartan therapy on non-invasive cardiovascular parameters (ECG, echocardiography, and assessment of heart rate variability-HRV) was also evaluated. The study group involved 10 hypertensive patients (6 women, 4 men) with diabetic and non-diabetic renal impairment, proteinuria above 1 g/24 hours, hypertensive cardiopathy and intolerance of ACEI (cough). Telmisartan was added to their long-term antihypertensive combination therapy in a dose of 40 mg for the first 14 days, after which the dose increased to the maximal of 80 mg. The average initial daytime systolic blood pressure (SBP) was 149 +/- 19.7 mm Hg, average night-time SBP 145 +/- 23.0 mm Hg, average initial daytime diastolic BP (DBP) 90.6 +/- 2.5 mm Hg, night-time DBP 88.9 +/- 13.5 mm Hg. Average initial serum creatinine was 207.2 +/- 48.5 micromol/l, urea 15.1 +/- 4.4 mmol/l, GF 0.5 +/- 0.1 ml/s. Echocardiography revealed left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy with well preserved systolic and moderately impaired diastolic LV function. Also the HRV assessment revealed impaired neurovegetative (e.g. sympathovagal) balance. After 1 year of combination therapy with telmisartan, there was a clearly significant reduction in both SBP and DBP in both day and night-time (SBP daytime 149.6 vs.116.6 mm Hg, night-time 145.8 vs. 129.5 mm Hg; DBP daytime 90.6 vs. 83.5 mm Hg, night-time 88.9 vs. 79.3 mm Hg) and proteinuria (2.37 vs. 1.27 g/24 hour, p < 0.05). There were no significant changes in serum creatinine, urea values, and LV functions. On the other hand, further progression of the sympathovagal balance impairment was noted (continuing reduction of HRV in 9 from 10 patients), which can be described as the priority finding. The total compliance of telmisartan therapy was very good and without adverse clinical side effects. In conclusion - telmisartan reduces blood pressure and proteinuria safely and effectively in patients with various types of nephropathy in moderate or advanced stages of renal insufficiency.
Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is a complex disorder that includes mental retardation, craniofacial and skeletal anomalies, and behavioral abnormalities. We report the molecular and genotype-phenotype analyses of 31 patients with SMS who carry 17p11.2 deletions or mutations in the RAI1 gene.
Patients with SMS were evaluated by fluorescence in situ hybridization and/or sequencing of RAI1 to identify 17p11.2 deletions or intragenic mutations, respectively, and were compared for 30 characteristic features of this disorder by the Fisher exact test.
In our cohort, 8 of 31 individuals carried a common 3.5 Mb deletion, whereas 10 of 31 individuals carried smaller deletions, two individuals carried larger deletions, and one individual carried an atypical 17p11.2 deletion. Ten patients with nondeletion harbored a heterozygous mutation in RAI1. Phenotypic comparison between patients with deletions and patients with RAI1 mutations show that 21 of 30 SMS features are the result of haploinsufficiency of RAI1, whereas cardiac anomalies, speech and motor delay, hypotonia, short stature, and hearing loss are associated with 17p11.2 deletions rather than RAI1 mutations (P<.05). Further, patients with smaller deletions show features similar to those with RAI1 mutations.
Although RAI1 is the primary gene responsible for most features of SMS, other genes within 17p11.2 contribute to the variable features and overall severity of the syndrome.
We present a case-control study of seven polymorphisms of six genes involved in homocysteine/folate pathway as risk factors for Down syndrome. Gene-gene/allele-allele interactions, haplotype analysis and the association with age at conception were also evaluated.
We investigated 94 Down syndrome-mothers and 264 control-women from Campania, Italy.
Increased risk of Down syndrome was associated with the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 1298C allele (OR 1.46; 95% CI 1.02-2.10), the MTHFR 1298CC genotype (OR 2.29; 95% CI 1.06-4.96), the reduced-folate-carrier1 (RFC1) 80G allele (1.48; 95% CI 1.05-2.10) and the RFC1 80 GG genotype (OR 2.05; 95% CI 1.03-4.07). Significant associations were found between maternal age at conception > or = 34 years and either the MTHFR 1298C or the RFC 180G alleles. Positive interactions were found for the following genotype-pairs: MTHFR 677TT and 1298CC/CA, 1298CC/CA and RFC1 80 GG/GA, RFC1 80 GG and methylenetetrahydrofolate-dehydrogenase 1958 AA. The 677-1298 T-C haplotype at the MTHFR locus was also a risk factor for Down syndrome (P = 0.0022). The methionine-synthase-reductase A66G, the methionine-synthase A2756G and the cystathionine-beta-synthase 844ins68 polymorphisms were not associated with increased risk of Down syndrome.
These results point to a role of maternal polymorphisms of homocysteine/folate pathway as risk factors for Down syndrome.
Dyskinesia is a frequent and disabling side effect in patients with Parkinson's disease treated with chronic dopa-therapy. Preclinical data in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) monkey suggest that alpha-2 antagonists may reduce dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia. We assessed, in a pilot randomised placebo-controlled study, the effects of single oral doses (10 mg, 20 mg, and 40 mg) of idazoxan, an alpha-2 antagonist, on motor parkinsonian disability and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia following an acute oral challenge of L-DOPA in 18 patients with Parkinson's disease. The severity of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia improved after 20 mg idazoxan pretreatment, while there was no concommittant deterioration in the antiparkinsonian response to L-DOPA. These results suggest that blocking alpha-2 receptors in patients with Parkinson's disease might improve L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia without the cost of a return of parkinsonian symptomatology. Further studies are required to assess whether this property could have potential therapeutic applications in the long-term management of dyskinetic patients with Parkinson's disease.
In search of a dopamine D2 and serotonin 5-HT3 receptors dual antagonist as a potential broad antiemetic agent, a number of benzamides were prepared from 4-amino-5-chloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid derivatives and 6-amino-1,4-dialkylhexahydro-1,4-diazepines and evaluated for their binding affinity for the dopamine D2 and the serotonin 5-HT3 receptors using rat brain synaptic and rat cortical membranes, respectively. From the results of both in vitro receptor binding and in vivo biological assays for the dopamine D2 receptor, 1-ethyl-4-methylhexahydro-1,4-diazepine ring was selected as an optimum amine moiety. Introduction of one methyl group on the nitrogen atom at the 4-position and/or modification of the substituent at the 5-position of the 4-amino-5-chloro-2-methoxybenzoyl moiety caused a marked increase in the dopamine D2 receptor binding affinity along with a potent 5-HT3 receptor binding affinity. Among the compounds, 5-chloro-N-(1-ethyl-4-methylhexahydro-1,4-diazepin-6-yl)-2-methoxy-4-methylaminobenzamide (82), 5-bromo (110), and 5-iodo (112) analogues exhibited a much higher affinity for the dopamine D2 receptor than that of metoclopramide (IC50=17.5-61.0 nM vs. 483 nM). In particular, 82 showed a potent antagonistic activity for both receptors in vivo tests. Optical resolution of the racemate 82 brought about a dramatic change in the pharmacological profile with the (R)-enantiomer exhibiting a strong affinity for both the dopamine D2 and the 5-HT3 receptors, while the corresponding (S)-enantiomer had a potent and selective serotonin 5-HT3 receptor binding affinity.
Three cases of neonatal renal insufficiency in very low birthweight (VLBW) infants following repeated antenatal administration of indomethacin to prevent premature labor are reported. Three pregnant women received indomethacin (total doses of 150-850 mg) for 3-14 days from admission until delivery. The gestational ages and birthweights of the infants ranged from 24 to 28 weeks and 612 to 1432 g, respectively. Oliguria, early onset of hyperkalemia and prolonged renal dysfunction occurred after birth. Renal failure did not improve in one infant. Despite the efficacy of indomethacin for tocolysis in premature labor, VLBW infants born after repeated maternal administration near the time of delivery may have developed impairment of the premature kidney.
Specific mutations in the human gene encoding the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp) that compromise normal auto-inhibition of WASp result in unregulated activation of the actin-related protein 2/3 complex and increased actin polymerizing activity. These activating mutations are associated with an X-linked form of neutropenia with an intrinsic failure of myelopoiesis and an increase in the incidence of cytogenetic abnormalities. To study the underlying mechanisms, active mutant WASp(I294T) was expressed by gene transfer. This caused enhanced and delocalized actin polymerization throughout the cell, decreased proliferation, and increased apoptosis. Cells became binucleated, suggesting a failure of cytokinesis, and micronuclei were formed, indicative of genomic instability. Live cell imaging demonstrated a delay in mitosis from prometaphase to anaphase and confirmed that multinucleation was a result of aborted cytokinesis. During mitosis, filamentous actin was abnormally localized around the spindle and chromosomes throughout their alignment and separation, and it accumulated within the cleavage furrow around the spindle midzone. These findings reveal a novel mechanism for inhibition of myelopoiesis through defective mitosis and cytokinesis due to hyperactivation and mislocalization of actin polymerization.
Two cases of acute myocardial ischaemia precipitated by oral ergotamine therapy for migraine are described from patients with no previous history of ischaemic heart disease. The relevant literature is briefly reviewed.
One case of acute hypercalcaemia and two of recurrent nephrolithiasis are reported in patients who had regularly consumed large amounts of calcium carbon-ate-sodium bicarbonate powders for more than 20 years. The powders had been obtained from pharmacists unknown to the patients' medical practitioners. It is suggested that these preparations were responsible for the patient's problems, and that such powders should no longer be freely obtainable.
Rats pretreated with prostaglandin synthesis stimulators, phenoxymethyl penicillin (2, 4 and 8 mg/kg, ip) and levamisole (2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg, ip) showed a dose related potentiation of catalepsy after subthreshold doses of haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg, ip). Pretreatment with prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors paracetamol and indomethacin exhibited significant inhibition of catalepsy at lower doses (2.5, 6, 10 and 15 mg/kg, ip). However, this antagonism was paradoxically less at higher dose levels (20 and 30 mg/kg, ip). The data suggest neuromodulatory contribution of prostaglandins in neuroleptic-induced catalepsy.
Metronidazol, a commonly used antibiotic drug, has been very rarely associated with hepatotoxicity. In particular, no reports have appeared in the literature about cases of metronidazol-associated severe hepatotoxicity, leading to liver transplantation or death. We report on a case of acute fulminant liver failure in a young woman, who had, two years previously, developed jaundice after intake of metronidazol. During the current hospitalization, metronidazol treatment had been undertaken two weeks previously and also this time the patient developed severe hepatocellular injury and cholestasis. A viral etiology was ruled out as well as vascular, metabolic and malignant etiology. Although, the cause of the liver injury in this case is not proven, the relationship between this drug and two occasions of severe liver damage, suggests a positive challenge as well as rechallenge. An International algorithm was used for the assessment of the causality of a drug in this case of acute liver injury and a "probable" classification was obtained.
Activating Q209L/P mutations in GNAQ or GNA11 (GNAQ/11) are present in approximately 80% of uveal melanomas. Mutant GNAQ/11 are not currently therapeutically targetable. Inhibiting key down-stream effectors of GNAQ/11 represents a rational therapeutic approach for uveal melanomas that harbor these mutations. The mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK/MAPK) and PI3K/AKT pathways are activated in uveal melanoma. In this study, we test the effect of the clinically relevant small molecule inhibitors GSK1120212 (MEK inhibitor) and GSK2126458 (pan class I PI3K inhibitor) on uveal melanoma cells with different GNAQ/11 mutation backgrounds.
We use the largest set of genetically annotated uveal melanoma cell lines to date to carry out in vitro cellular signaling, cell-cycle regulation, growth, and apoptosis analyses. RNA interference and small molecule MEK and/or PI3K inhibitor treatment were used to determine the dependency of uveal melanoma cells with different GNAQ/11 mutation backgrounds on MEK/MAPK and/or PI3K/AKT signaling. Proteomic network analysis was done to unveil signaling alterations in response to MEK and/or PI3K small molecule inhibition.
GNAQ/11 mutation status was not a determinant of whether cells would undergo cell-cycle arrest or growth inhibition to MEK and/or phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibition. A reverse correlation was observed between MAPK and AKT phosphorylation after MEK or PI3K inhibition, respectively. Neither MEK nor PI3K inhibition alone was sufficient to induce apoptosis in the majority of cell lines; however, the combination of MEK + PI3K inhibitor treatment resulted in the marked induction of apoptosis in a GNAQ/11 mutant-dependent manner.
MEK + PI3K inhibition may be an effective combination therapy in uveal melanoma, given the inherent reciprocal activation of these pathways within these cells.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) in patients with Parkinson's disease are considered to result from the severity of dopaminergic denervation in the striatum, which is an irrevocable phenomenon, and sensitization induced by long-term intermittent administration of levodopa. Taking advantage of the 64% reduction of levodopa treatment allowed in 12 Parkinson's disease patients by continuous high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus, we evaluated the severity of parkinsonian motor disability and LIDs during two levodopa challenges performed before the surgical implantation of the stimulation electrodes and after 8.8 months of continuous bilateral subthalamic nucleus stimulation that was interrupted 2 hours before the levodopa test. Motor disability during the "off" and "on" drug periods was unchanged. The severity of LIDs during the "on" period and dystonia during the "off" period decreased by 54% and 62%, respectively. The reduced severity of LIDs in the absence of subthalamic nucleus stimulation demonstrates that the sensitization phenomenon resulting from long-term intermittent levodopa administration is partially reversible.
In a group of ten patients with chronic asthmatic bronchitis, the effect of monotherapy with theophylline and terbutaline and the combination of both drugs, as sustained-release tablets, was compared to placebo, in a double-blind cross-over, triple dummy at random study. Lung function parameters, tremor measurements, c-AMP plasma levels, theophylline- and terbutaline-plasma levels were determinated. Monotherapy with theophylline and terbutaline in a relatively low dosage achieved a good lung function improvement without severe side effects, as compared to placebo. The combination of both drugs in the same dosage achieved a statistically significant enhancement of the lung function improvement, as compared to monotherapy, without an increase of side effects. An additional effect of theophylline and terbutaline on bronchodilation is demonstrated.
The effects of a long acting somatostatin analogue, SMS 201-995, on reticulo-endothelial system (RES) activity were studied in rats. Administration of 2 micrograms SMS 201-995 subcutaneously twice a day for 7 days significantly increased the splenic and hepatic uptake of 99mTc-sulphur colloid and damaged 51mCr-red blood cells. Furthermore, SMS 201-995 administration significantly increased the plasma clearance of colloidal carbon as indicated by a lower area under the curve and an increased elimination constant. SMS 201-995 administration also significantly improved survival after intraperitoneal injection of Escherichia coli endotoxin. These results suggest that SMS 201-995 stimulates RES activity in rats. It is suggested that SMS 201-995 may be of value in stimulating RES activity in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension.
Prenatal treatment with retinoic acid (RA) has been reported to stimulate alveologenesis in hypoplastic lungs (HL) in the nitrofen model of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) promotes alveolar maturation by stimulating surfactant production, regulated by PTHrP receptor (PTHrP-R). PTHrP knockout and PTHrP-R null mice both exhibit pulmonary hypoplasia. We have recently reported that nitrofen inhibits PTHrP signaling in the nitrofen-induced HL. Because both PTHrP and PTHrP-R genes have RA-inducible element, we hypothesized that prenatal administration of RA upregulates pulmonary gene expression of PTHrP and PTHrP-R in the nitrofen-induced HL.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). RA was given on days D18, D19 and D20. Fetal lungs were obtained on D21 and divided into four groups: control, control + RA, nitrofen, nitrofen + RA. RT-PCR and Immunohistochemistry were performed to investigate the pulmonary PTHrP and PTHrP-R gene and protein expression in each group, respectively.
The pulmonary gene expression levels of PTHrP and PTHrP-R were significantly increased in nitrofen + RA group compared to nitrofen group (p < 0.05). Immunoreactivity of PTHrP and PTHrP-R was also remarkably increased in nitrofen + RA group compared to nitrofen group.
Upregulation of PTHrP and PTHrP-R genes after prenatal treatment with RA in the nitrofen-induced HL suggests that RA may have a therapeutic potential in reverting lung hypoplasia in CDH, by stimulating surfactant production and alveolar maturation.
The effects of serial treatment with doxorubicin on dynamic myocardial scintigraphy with [omega-I-131]heptadecanoic acid (I-131 HA), and on global left-ventricular function determined echocardiographically, were studied in a group of nine mongrel dogs. Total extractable myocardial lipid was compared postmortem between a group of control dogs and doxorubicin-treated dogs. A significant and then progressive fall in global LV function was observed at a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 4 mg/kg. A significant increase in the myocardial t1/2 of the I-131 HA was observed only at a higher cumulative dose, 10 mg/kg. No significant alteration in total extractable myocardial lipids was observed between control dogs and those treated with doxorubicin. Our findings suggest that the changes leading to an alteration of myocardial dynamic imaging with I-131 HA are not the initiating factor in doxorubicin cardiotoxicity.
Increased matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) expression is associated with intimal hyperplasia in saphenous vein (SV) bypass grafts. Recent evidence suggests that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) can prevent the progression of vein graft failure. Here we investigated whether statins inhibited MMP-9 secretion from cultured human SV smooth muscle cells (SMC) and examined the underlying mechanisms. SV-SMC from different patients were exposed to phorbol ester (TPA) or PDGF-BB plus interleukin-1alpha (IL-1). MMP-9 secretion and mRNA expression were analyzed using gelatin zymography and RT-PCR, respectively. Specific signal transduction pathways were investigated by immunoblotting and pharmacological inhibition. Simvastatin reduced TPA- and PDGF/IL-1-induced MMP-9 secretion and mRNA levels, effects reversed by geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate and mimicked by inhibiting Rho geranylgeranylation or Rho-kinase (ROCK). MMP-9 secretion induced by PDGF/IL-1 was mediated via the ERK, p38 MAPK, and NFkappaB pathways, whereas that induced by TPA was mediated specifically via the ERK pathway. Simvastatin failed to inhibit activation of these signaling pathways. Moreover, simvastatin did not affect MMP-9 mRNA stability. Together these data suggest that simvastatin reduces MMP-9 secretion from human SV-SMC by inhibiting the RhoA/ROCK pathway and decreasing MMP-9 mRNA levels independently of effects on signaling pathways required for MMP-9 gene expression.
Arsenicals and antimonials are first line drugs for the treatment of trypanosomal and leishmanial diseases. To create the active form of the drug, Sb(V) must be reduced to Sb(III). Because arsenic and antimony are related metalloids, and arsenical resistant Leishmania strains are frequently cross-resistant to antimonials, we considered the possibility that Sb(V) is reduced by a leishmanial As(V) reductase. The sequence for the arsenate reductase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, ScAcr2p, was used to clone the gene for a homologue, LmACR2, from Leishmania major. LmACR2 was able to complement the arsenate-sensitive phenotype of an arsC deletion strain of Escherichia coli or an ScACR2 deletion strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Transfection of Leishmania infantum with LmACR2 augmented Pentostam sensitivity in intracellular amastigotes. LmACR2 was purified and shown to reduce both As(V) and Sb(V). This is the first report of an enzyme that confers Pentostam sensitivity in intracellular amastigotes of Leishmania. We propose that LmACR2 is responsible for reduction of the pentavalent antimony in Pentostam to the active trivalent form of the drug in Leishmania.
In recent work we have documented lasting adverse neurochemical and behavioural effects in rats given short-term 'binge' dosing with methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, Ecstasy), methamphetamine (METH) or their combination. Here we investigated whether similar effects persist in rats given 16 weekly injections followed by a 10 week period of abstinence. Female rats received MDMA (8 mg/kg, i.p.), METH (8 mg/kg), or a MDMA/METH combination (4 mg/kg MDMA + 4 mg/kg METH), once a week for 16 weeks, with locomotor activity and body temperature measured on weeks 1, 8 and 16. The MDMA and MDMA/METH groups showed acute drug-induced hyperthermia on week 1 only. MDMA-treated rats demonstrated an acute hyperactivity while METH and MDMA/METH treated rats showed pronounced stereotypy. Seven weeks after drug-treatment concluded, a decrease in social interaction was observed in all chronically drug-treated rats. No group differences were evident on the emergence, object recognition or forced swim tests. Neurochemical analysis revealed modest noradrenaline and serotonin depletion in chronically treated rats that was not evident following a single equivalent administration. These results indicate that although chronic, intermittent exposure to MDMA, METH or their combination, may not lead to significant long-term monoamine depletion, lasting adverse behavioural effects may persist, especially those related to social behaviour.
Oxaliplatin-induced chronic neuropathy is cumulative and dose-limiting; reliable predictors and determination of the mechanism of this toxic effect are needed.
We retrospectively studied 51 Japanese adults with colorectal cancer who had received oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy to explore the pharmacogenetic association between oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy and polymorphisms of the excision repair cross-complementation Group 1 (ERCC1) and glutathione-S-transferases pi 1 (GSTP1) genes.
For the ERCC1 C118T polymorphism, Grade 1 chronic neuropathy developed earlier in patients with C/T and T/T genotypes (median number of treatment cycles at onset = 6) than in those with the reference C/C genotype (7 cycles; p = 0.0162 by the generalized Wilcoxon test). For the GSTP1 Ile105Val polymorphism, chronic neuropathy developed earlier in patients with the reference Ile/Ile genotype (6 cycles) than in those with Ile/Val and Val/Val genotypes (9 cycles; p = 0.0321). ERCC1 C118T and GSTP1 Ile105Val polymorphisms were not significantly associated with an increased risk of developing Grade 2 or more severe chronic neuropathy.
Our results suggest that ERCC1, C118T and GSTP1 Ile105Val polymorphisms are more strongly related to the time until onset of neuropathy than to the grade of neuropathy. Most likely these polymorphisms influence patients' sensitivity to neuropathy.
Eight patients had cardiac manifestations that were life-threatening in five while taking psychotropic drugs, either phenothiazines or tricyclic antidepressants. Although most patients were receiving several drugs, Mellaril (thioridazine) appeared to be responsible for five cases of ventricular tachycardia, one of which was fatal in a 35 year old woman. Supraventricular tachycardia developed in one patient receiving Thorazine (chlorpromazine). Aventyl (nortriptyline) and Elavil (amitriptyline) each produced left bundle branch block in a 73 year old woman. Electrocardiographic T and U wave abnormalities were present in most patients. The ventricular arrhythmias responded to intravenous administration of lidocaine and to direct current electric shock; ventricular pacing was required in some instances and intravenous administration of propranolol combined with ventricular pacing in one. The tachyarrhythmias generally subsided within 48 hours after administration of the drugs was stopped. Five of the eight patients were 50 years of age or younger; only one clearly had antecedent heart disease. Major cardiac arrhythmias are a potential hazard in patients without heart disease who are receiving customary therapeutic doses of psychotropic drugs. A prospective clinical trial is suggested to quantify the risk of cardiac complications to patients receiving phenothiazines or tricyclic antidepressant drugs.
