Serotonin (5-HT) is involved in vascular inflammation and atherosclerogenesis. Serum 5-HT concentrations are elevated in diabetes, and 5-HT is involved in diabetic vasculopathies. Sarpogrelate hydrochloride, a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, has renoprotective effects, but its effect in diabetic nephropathy is not elucidated. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of sarpogrelate on endothelial dysfunction in rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes.
Rats with STZ-induced diabetes were either untreated or treated with sarpogrelate (30 mg/kg P.O.) for 8 weeks. At the end of the experiment, we measured urinary albumin excretion, serum adiponectin concentration and platelet-derived microparticles. Intraglomerular coagulation was detected by immunostaining for platelets. Production of renal reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) was investigated by confocal laser microscopy and used as an index of glomerular endothelial dysfunction.
Diabetic nephropathy was associated with enhanced production of ROS and diminished bioavailable NO in the glomeruli. Treatment with sarpogrelate improved ROS/NO imbalance in glomeruli, suppressed platelet aggregation in glomeruli, reduced platelet-derived microparticles, increased serum adiponectin level and reduced the level of albuminuria, compared with non-treated diabetic rats.
Our results indicate that sarpogrelate improves endothelial function in rats with STZ-induced diabetes through a reduction of glomerular platelet activation and an increase in serum adiponectin concentrations and suggest that sarpogrelate is potentially useful for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy.
Dystonic extrapyramidal reactions due to neuroleptic medications are a common entity in emergency medicine. However, it is not widely reported that dystonia can be associated with airway compromise and death. We describe a case of upper airway obstruction due to a dystonic reaction to haloperidol, present radiographic evidence of airway compromise, and explain the physiologic mechanisms involved.
Acute exacerbations of pulmonary fibrosis are characterized by rapid decrements in lung function. Environmental factors that may contribute to acute exacerbations remain poorly understood. We have previously demonstrated that exposure to inhaled lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces expression of genes associated with fibrosis. To address whether exposure to LPS could exacerbate fibrosis, we exposed male C57BL/6 mice to crystalline silica, or vehicle, followed 28 days later by LPS or saline inhalation. We observed that mice receiving both silica and LPS had significantly more total inflammatory cells, more whole lung lavage MCP-1, MIP-2, KC and IL-1β, more evidence of oxidative stress and more total lung hydroxyproline than mice receiving either LPS alone, or silica alone. Blocking oxidative stress with N-acetylcysteine attenuated whole lung inflammation but had no effect on total lung hydroxyproline. These observations suggest that exposure to innate immune stimuli, such as LPS in the environment, may exacerbate stable pulmonary fibrosis via mechanisms that are independent of inflammation and oxidative stress.
Proteinuria and hypertension are predictors of poor renal outcome in chronic glomerulonephritis (CGN). At the same level of blood pressure (BP) control, we evaluated which is superior, dual blockade of the rennin-angiotensin system (RAS) with both angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and angiotensin II type 1 (AT-1) receptor blockade (ARB) or single blockade of ARB to reduce proteinuria and to preserve renal function in patients with CGN.
In this prospective, parallel, open study of 86 patients with CGN, we compared the effects on proteinuria and renal functions of 36 months with comparable blood pressure (BP) control achieved by candesartan cilexetil (candesartan, 4-12 mg/day) or benazepril hydrochrolide (benazepril, 2.5-10 mg/day) with candesartan (4 mg/day). Aiming at BP 125/75 mmHg or less, the dose of candesartan (single blockade) or benazepril (dual blockade) was increased.
Dual blockade decreased proteinuria more than single blockade with ARB (-42.3 vs. -60.5%, P < 0.01). Renal plasma flow (RPF) and glomerular filtration fraction (GFR) did not change significantly in either group. The filtration fraction (FF) decreased dual blockade more than single blockade (-1.7 vs. -19.0%, P < 0.05). Decreased FF was associated with the reduction of proteinuria (P < 0.05). Six percent of patients with dual blockade were not able to continue the study because of a dry cough.
Long-term dual blockade decreased proteinuria more than single blockade with ARB. Although ARB and ACEI have a glomerular size-selective function for proteinuria, a greater antiproteinuric effect may depend on renal hemodynamics, especially FF. Increased levels of bradykinin after ACEI can decrease FF and ameliorate proteinuria. Dry cough is a significant adverse effect of ACE inhibitor.
The effects of several drugs on the kinetics of 14C-dopamine were studied in slices of rat striata in vitro. While morphine (35 muM) did not affect the uptake of 14C-dopamine into the slices, d-amphetamine (50muM) and imipramine (100 muM) strongly inhibited it. Morphine significantly slowed the K+ -induced release of the labelled dopamine; imipramine almost completely blocked it, while amphetamine h had no clear effect. The effect of morphine was dose-dependent and could be inhibited by the narcotic antagonist naloxone. The results demonstrate that each of the drug had a characteristic pattern of effects in our system studied. The inhibitory action of morphine on the dopamine release in vitro probably reflects in vivo symptoms of a central dopamine deficiency in rats (catalepsy, akinesia, muscular rigidity) after morphine application. In further series of experiments, it was studied if the sensitivity of brain dopamine receptors increased after repeated applications of morphine, which induced clear signs of physical dependence. Since chronic morphine treatment did not increase the potency of apomorphine (which directly stimulates dopamine receptors) in inducing stereotyped behavior, it is concluded that an increased sensitivity of dopamine receptors is not necessarily involved in morphine tolerance and dependence.
The potential harmful effects of caffeine in pregnant women aroused public interests due to its possibility to jeopardize fetal development. Monoamine neurotransmitters are thought to regulate neural development processes through maternal-fetal interactions, which may have long term impact on mental and behavioral effects. The current study focuses on investigating the effects of caffeine on the monoamine neurotransmitter system using developmental chicken embryos. The ED(50) value of caffeine toxicity was 27.3 μmol/egg in chicken embryo. Administration of caffeine, with lower dosage than ED(50) (2.5, 5.0 and 10.0 μmol/egg), caused failure of neural tube closure. In addition, contents of 5-HT and its metabolite 5-HIAA were increased under dosage of 10.0 μmol/egg caffeine administration. Gene expression of TPH2 was also increased by caffeine treatment. Caffeine could result in defect of neural tube closure and induce disorder of serotonergic system development, which may increase teratogenic rate of embryos. Meanwhile, it is probably an underlying factor for inducing psychological and behavioral disorders in adult. Moreover, caffeine was found to be accumulated in the embryonic brain and not being metabolized, which may incur a magnification of adverse effects. This study may provide valuable data for further investigations on toxicology of caffeine during different stages of pregnancy.
Patients receiving heparin for thromboprophylaxis or treatment may have new or recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) if immune-mediated heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) occurs or for other reasons, eg, if anticoagulation fails. We estimated from the literature how frequently a patient presenting with VTE during or following heparin therapy has HIT-associated VTE.
A comprehensive, systematic literature search was conducted to identify studies using unfractionated or low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) for thromboprophylaxis or treatment in which new or recurrent VTE and serologically confirmed HIT were reported. From extracted study data, the proportion of patients with HIT-associated VTE relative to any VTE was calculated by heparin type and mode of administration.
We identified 10 studies, some with multiple arms, that used unfractionated heparin (IV administration, 5 studies; subcutaneous administration, 3 studies) or subcutaneous LMWH (5 studies) and met analysis criteria. Across these studies, 386 of 6,219 heparin-treated patients had VTE, including 32 patients who also had HIT. The frequency of HIT-associated VTE among heparin-treated patients with VTE was comparable between IV and subcutaneous unfractionated heparin therapy (13.2% [17 of 129 patients] vs 12.4% [14 of 113 patients]; odds ratio, 1.07; 95% confidence interval, 0.50 to 2.3; p > 0.99) yet significantly different between unfractionated heparin and LMWH therapy (12.8% [31 of 242 patients] vs 0.7% [1 of 144 patients]; odds ratio, 21.0; 95% confidence interval, 2.8 to 156; p < 0.001).
VTE is associated with HIT infrequently (< 1%) in LMWH-treated patients, yet often (approximately one in eight cases) in unfractionated heparin-treated patients. Physicians should suspect the possibility of HIT if VTE develops during or soon after unfractionated heparin use; if thrombocytopenia is present, alternative anticoagulation should be used until HIT is excluded.
Previous reports have suggested an association between homozygous alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency, cirrhosis, and primary liver cancer. To assess the risk of these complications we conducted a retrospective study based on 17 autopsied cases of alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency identified during the period 1963 to 1982 in the city of Malmö, Sweden. During the study period, autopsies were performed in 38,250, or 68.2 percent, of all patients in the city who died. From the homozygote frequency in the population, 21 of these were expected to have alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency. The disease had been diagnosed in 20, and autopsies had been performed in 17 (1 child and 16 adults). Each autopsied case was matched with four controls selected from the same autopsy register, and the Mantel-Haenszel odds ratio (ORmh) was calculated. The results indicated a strong relation between alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency and cirrhosis (ORmh = 7.8; 95 percent confidence limits, 2.4 to 24.7) and primary liver cancer (ORmh = 20; 95 percent confidence limits, 3.5 to 114.3). When data were stratified according to sex, these associations were statistically significant only for male patients. We conclude that men with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency may be at higher risk for cirrhosis and primary liver cancer. The apparent male predominance suggests the additive effects of exogenous factors.
Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is a key node of resistance of tumour cells to the anticancer drug cisplatin. Testicular germ cell tumours (TGCT) show exquisite sensitivity towards cisplatin, and this has been connected to low levels of the NER proteins ERCC1 and XPF. Tumours of some patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) regress well under cisplatin chemotherapy but prediction of responsiveness is poor. Little is known about the levels of ERCC1-XPF in HNSCC tissues and cell lines. We investigated mRNA and protein levels of ERCC1 and XPF in 13 HNSCC cell lines and seven testis tumour cell lines and examined the correlation between levels of ERCC1 and XPF and cellular resistance towards cisplatin. No significant difference in mRNA expression of either ERCC1 or XPF in the HNSCC cell lines compared to the testis tumour cell lines was observed. Significantly higher XPF protein levels were found in HNSCC cell lines compared to testis tumour cell lines resulting in cellular cisplatin resistance. The data indicate a contribution of XPF protein for the cisplatin resistance observed in HNSCC cell lines. Subsequently, XPF and ERCC1 protein expression was investigated in cancer tissue of 34 patients. XPF levels were significantly higher in metastases of HNSCC patients than in primary cancer tissue. These findings indicate a contribution of XPF protein for the observed chemoresistance in some HNSCC tissue. XPF protein may be a predictive marker for cisplatin responsiveness of metastases in HNSCC patients.
Recent data have renewed the interest for arsenic-containing compounds as anticancer agents. In particular, arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been demonstrated to be an effective drug in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia by inducing programmed cell death in leukemic cells both in vitro and in vivo. This prompted us to study the in vitro effects of As2O3 and of another arsenical derivative, the organic compound melarsoprol, on human myeloma cells and on the plasma cell differentiation of normal B cells. At pharmacological concentrations (10(-8) to 10(-6) mol/L), As2O3 and melarsoprol caused a dose- and time-dependent inhibition of survival and growth in myeloma cell lines that was, in some, similar to that of acute promyelocytic leukemia cells. Both arsenical compounds induced plasma cell apoptosis, as assessed by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining, detection of phosphatidylserine at the cell surface using annexin V, and by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling assay. As2O3 and melarsoprol also inhibited viability and growth and induced apoptosis in plasma-cell enriched preparations from the bone marrow or blood of myeloma patients. In nonseparated bone marrow samples, both arsenical compounds triggered death in myeloma cells while sparing most myeloid cells, as demonstrated by double staining with annexin V and CD38 or CD15 antibodies. In primary myeloma cells as in cell lines, interleukin 6 did not prevent arsenic-induced cell death or growth inhibition, and no synergistic effect was observed with IFN-alpha. In contrast to As2O3, melarsoprol only slightly reduced the plasma cell differentiation of normal B cells induced by pokeweed mitogen. Both pokeweed mitogen-induced normal plasma cells and malignant plasma cells showed a normal nuclear distribution of PML protein, which was disrupted by As2O3 but not by melarsoprol, suggesting that the two arsenical derivatives acted by different mechanisms. These results point to the use of arsenical derivatives as investigational drugs in the treatment of multiple myeloma.
To study associations between maternal dietary and supplement intake of antioxidants vitamin E, retinol and congenital heart defects (CHDs).
Case-control study.
Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
Participants were 276 case mothers of a child with CHD and 324 control mothers with their children.
Food frequency questionnaires covering the intake of the previous 4 weeks were filled out at 16 months after the index pregnancy. Data were compared between cases and controls using the Mann-Whitney U test. Risk estimates for the association between CHD and dietary intake of vitamin E and retinol were estimated in a multivariable logistic regression model.
Medians (5-95th percentile) and odds ratios with 95% CI.
Dietary vitamin E intake was higher in case mothers than in controls, 13.3 (8.1-20.4) and 12.6 (8.5-19.8) mg/day (P= 0.05). CHD risk increased with rising dietary vitamin E intakes (P-trend = 0.01). Periconception use of vitamin E supplements in addition to a high dietary vitamin E intake above 14.9 mg/day up to nine-fold increased CHD risk. Retinol intakes were not significantly different between the groups and not associated with CHD risk.
High maternal vitamin E by diet and supplements is associated with an increased risk of CHD offspring.
Hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) is a potentially lethal inborn error in metabolism caused by mutations in the aldolase B gene, which is critical for gluconeogenesis and fructose metabolism. The most common mutation, which accounts for 53% of HFI alleles identified worldwide, results in substitution of Pro for Ala at position 149. Structural and functional investigations of human aldolase B with the A149P substitution (AP-aldolase) have shown that the mutation leads to losses in thermal stability, quaternary structure, and activity. X-ray crystallography is used to reveal the structural basis of these perturbations. Crystals of AP-aldolase are grown at two temperatures (4 degrees C and 18 degrees C), and the structure solved to 3.0 angstroms resolution, using the wild-type structure as the phasing model. The structures reveal that the single residue substitution, A149P, causes molecular disorder around the site of mutation (residues 148-159), which is propagated to three adjacent beta-strand and loop regions (residues 110-129, 189-199, 235-242). Disorder in the 110-129-loop region, which comprises one subunit-subunit interface, provides an explanation for the disrupted quaternary structure and thermal instability. Greater structural perturbation, particularly at a Glu189-Arg148 salt bridge in the active-site architecture, is observed in the structure determined at 18 degrees C, which could explain the temperature-dependent loss in activity. The disorder revealed in these structures is far greater than that predicted by homology modeling and underscores the difficulties in predicting perturbations of protein structure and function by homology modeling alone. The AP-aldolase structure reveals the molecular basis of a hereditary disease and represents one of only a few structures known for mutant proteins at the root of the thousands of other inherited disorders.
Liposarcomas (LS) are mesenchymal tumors that can recur after surgical resection and often do not respond to presently available medical therapies. This study demonstrates the dependence of LS on de novo long-chain fatty acid synthesis for growth. Lipogenesis can be impaired by inhibiting the activities of lipogenic enzymes, including acetyl CoA-carboxylase (ACC) and fatty acid synthase (FASN), or by suppressing the expression of key genes involved in the pathway and its regulation. The FASN inhibitors cerulenin and orlistat reduced the growth of two LS cell lines (LiSa2, SW872), as did inhibition of ACC with soraphen A. CDDO-Me, a synthetic triterpenoid, suppressed expression of Spot 14 and FASN genes and likewise inhibited LS cell growth. Importantly, the anti-proliferative effect of each agent was prevented by the co-administration of palmitate, the major product of cellular long-chain fatty acid synthesis. In stark contrast to LS cells, these compounds had no effect on the growth of fibroblasts. Four biochemically distinct agents that target critical points in the fatty acid synthetic pathway exert anti-proliferative effects on LS cells, and rescue of cell growth by palmitic acid suggests that reduced tumor cell lipogenesis mediates the growth inhibition. These findings warrant further studies aimed at the clinical exploitation of the dependence of LS cell growth on fatty acids.
In 5 consecutive patients with rheumatoid arthritis who received intravenous high-dose methylprednisolone (MP) therapy (1 g daily for 2 or 3 consecutive days), a decline in pulse rate was observed, most pronounced on day 4. In one of the 5 patients the bradycardia was associated with complaints of substernal pressure. Reversal to normal heart rate was found on day 7. Electrocardiographic registrations showed sinus bradycardia in all cases. No significant changes in plasma concentrations of electrolytes were found. Careful observation of patients receiving high-dose MP is recommended. High-dose MP may be contraindicated in patients with known heart disease.
Ten of 114 psychiatric patients undergoing combined lithium-neuroleptic treatment exhibited somnambulistic-like episodes. These episodes are differentiated from nocturnal wanderings and epileptic attacks during sleep; they occurred within two to three hours after sleep onset and were characterized by the patients appearing confused and walking about in a quiet, detached and clumsy manner. Generally, there was amnesia for the event. Since sleepwalking occurs out of slow wave sleep, the increase in slow wave sleep induced by lithium and certain neuroleptics may represent a neurophysiological mechanism responsible for these patients' somnambulistic behaviour. The occurrence of grand mal seizures in two patients was probably unrelated to the somnambulistic-like episodes. However, persistence of the latter appears to be associated with drug-induced EEG irregularity.
Superoxide dismutases (SODs) are important antioxidant enzymes responsible for the elimination of superoxide radical (O(2)(-)). The manganese-containing SOD (Mn-SOD) has been suggested to have tumor suppressor function and is located in the mitochondria where the majority of O(2)(-) is generated during respiration. Although increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cancer cells has long been recognized, the expression of Mn-SOD in cancer and its role in cancer development remain elusive. The present study used a human tissue microarray to analyze Mn-SOD expression in primary ovarian cancer tissues, benign ovarian lesions, and normal ovary epithelium. Significantly higher levels of Mn-SOD protein expression were detected in the malignant tissues compared with normal tissues (p < 0.05). In experimental systems, suppression of Mn-SOD expression by small interfering RNA caused a 70% increase of superoxide in ovarian cancer cells, leading to stimulation of cell proliferation in vitro and more aggressive tumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, stimulation of mitochondrial O(2)(-) production induced an increase of Mn-SOD expression. Our findings suggest that the increase in Mn-SOD expression in ovarian cancer is a cellular response to intrinsic ROS stress and that scavenging of superoxide by SOD may alleviate the ROS stress and thus reduce the simulating effect of ROS on cell growth.
The present study aims to investigate the protective effect of quercetin against Aroclor-1254-induced hepatotoxicity in rats. Male Wistar rats were grouped into Group I control received vehicle (corn oil; 1 mL/kg bwt); Group II quercetin alone (50 mg/kg bwt/day orally); Group III Aroclor-1254 (2 mg/kg bwt/day intraperitoneally); Group IV Aroclor-1254 + quercetin treated for 30 days. The Aroclor-1254 treatment caused significant alteration in the biochemical parameters (hydrogen peroxide, lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione levels, and alkaline phosphatase activity). The expressions of apoptotic and antiapoptotic proteins and the liver histology of Aroclor-1254-exposed rats showed cytoplasmic degeneration along with infiltration of polymorphonuclear cells. Whereas simultaneous treatment with quercetin normalized all the biochemical parameters, consequently it inhibited apoptosis mediated by Aroclor-1254 by downregulating aryl hydrocarbon receptor, p53 and apoptotic protein (Bax, caspase-9, caspase-3) and upregulating the antiapoptotic protein (Bcl-2) expression patterns; thereby, quercetin reduces alteration in hepatocellular morphology. Thus quercetin exhibited hepatoprotective effect.
Sleep disruption is a common complaint in levodopa-treated parkinsonian patients. A survey of 100 parkinsonian patients revealed prominent sleep complaints in 74%. Sleep complaints were unrelated to patient age and the duration of disease but increased in prevalence with longer periods of levodopa therapy. Sleep abnormalities tended to increase in severity with continued treatment and insomnia tended to be followed by daytime somnolence, altered dream events, and episodic nocturnal vocalization and myoclonus. While dyskinetic side effects and on-off syndrome were encountered in patients with and without sleep complaints, 98% of patients experiencing psychiatric side effects also reported sleep disruption. It is suggested that sleep-related symptoms constitute an early stage of levodopa-induced dopaminergic psychiatric toxicity in the parkinsonian population. Clinical and experimental observations suggest that serotonergic mechanisms are important in this symptom complex.
To investigate the anti-fibrosis effect of the tissue transglutaminase (tTG) specific inhibitor cystamine on liver fibrosis.
Sixty-eight male Sprague Dawley rats were divided into three groups: normal control, liver fibrosis control and cystamine-treated group. Liver fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)), and Cystamine was administrated by intraperitoneal injection starting 2 d before the first administration of CCl(4). Animals in each group were further divided into 2 subgroups according to two time points of 4 wk and 8 wk after treatment. Hepatic function, pathological evaluation (semi-quantitative scoring system, SSS) and liver hydroxyproline (Hyp) content were examined. Real-time PCR was used to detect the expression of tTG, smooth muscle alpha actin (alpha-SMA), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP-1) and collagen-1 mRNA. The expressions of tTG and alpha-SMA protein were detected by Western Blotting.
Eight weeks after treatment, the SSS score of liver was significantly less in the cystamine group than that in the fibrosis control group (P < 0.01). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and total bile acid (TBA) at the 4 wk and 8 wk time points were decreased in the cystamine group compared with those in fibrosis controls (P < 0.01). Liver hydroxyproline content at the 4 wk and 8 wk time points showed a substantial reduction in the cystamine group compared to fibrosis controls (P < 0.01). The expression of tTG, alpha-SMA, collagen-1, TIMP-1 mRNA and tTG, as well as alpha-SMA protein was downregulated in the cystamine group compared to fibrosis controls.
Cystamine can ameliorate CCl(4) induced liver fibrosis and protect hepatic function. The possible mechanism is related to the reduced synthesis of the extracellular matrix (ECM) caused by the inhibition of hepatic stellate cell activation and decreased expression of TIMP-1.
Up to 90% of the patients with dementia develop behavioral and psychological symptoms during the course of their illness. Since 1999 the atypical neuroleptic risperidone is the only drug approved by the German authorities for the treatment of aggressive behavior or psychotic symptoms of dementia, which was defined in March 2004 with respect to severe chronic aggressive behavior, endangering themselves or others, or impoverishing psychotic symptoms. This prospective investigation was aimed at detecting therapeutic efficacy and the tolerability of risperidone after changing from low-potency neuroleptics in patients, for whom the broader indications before March 2004 were still valid.
Symptoms, activities of daily living and caregivers" burden were documented for 6 weeks in 111 demented patients with chronic aggressive behavior and psychotic symptoms.
Marked improvements of psychotic symptoms, aggressiveness, other behavioral disorders and activities of daily living were observed. Furthermore, a substantial reduction of caregivers' burden was noted. The treatment with risperidone was well tolerated. No patient died and no cerebrovascular events were observed.
Changing the treatment of demented patients from low-potency neuroleptics to risperidone led to marked improvement of symptoms and to a substantial decrease of caregivers' burden.
We conducted a three-stage genome-wide association study (GWAS) of breast cancer in 9,770 cases and 10,799 controls in the Cancer Genetic Markers of Susceptibility (CGEMS) initiative. In stage 1, we genotyped 528,173 SNPs in 1,145 cases of invasive breast cancer and 1,142 controls. In stage 2, we analyzed 24,909 top SNPs in 4,547 cases and 4,434 controls. In stage 3, we investigated 21 loci in 4,078 cases and 5,223 controls. Two new loci achieved genome-wide significance. A pericentromeric SNP on chromosome 1p11.2 (rs11249433; P = 6.74 x 10(-10) adjusted genotype test, 2 degrees of freedom) resides in a large linkage disequilibrium block neighboring NOTCH2 and FCGR1B; this signal was stronger for estrogen-receptor-positive tumors. A second SNP on chromosome 14q24.1 (rs999737; P = 1.74 x 10(-7)) localizes to RAD51L1, a gene in the homologous recombination DNA repair pathway. We also confirmed associations with loci on chromosomes 2q35, 5p12, 5q11.2, 8q24, 10q26 and 16q12.1.
This study was designed to assess the effect of chemotherapy on complex desmoid tumors associated with familial adenomatous polyposis.
Five patients (3 males, 2 females; age range, 29-45 years) had symptomatic, unresectable intra-abdominal desmoid tumors in association with familial adenomatous polyposis that were unresponsive to conventional medical therapy. Each patient was treated with a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic regimen consisting of doxorubicin and dacarbazine followed by carboplatin and dacarbazine. Response to treatment was assessed by measurement of tumor size using computerized tomography. Follow-up has been for a mean of 22 (range, 10-30) months.
One patient has had a complete response, and three patients have had a partial response, with a reduction in tumor volume of at least 50 percent. One patient had a minimum response to treatment and developed a rapid increase in tumor size on cessation of therapy. Complications of treatment included febrile neutropenia, severe epistaxis, and subclavian vein thrombosis.
The cytotoxic chemotherapeutic regimen described is effective in the treatment of selected unresectable desmoid tumors associated with familial adenomatous polyposis and should be considered in symptomatic patients who do not respond to conventional medical therapy.
