Hepcidin is a small defensin-like peptide whose production by hepatocytes is modulated in response to anemia, hypoxia, or inflammation. Hepcidin could also act as an indicator of functional iron deficiency in these patients. Cross-sectional study was performed to assess hepcidin correlations with renal function, iron status, and hsCRP in patients with chronic renal failure on conservative treatment, on hemodialyses, and in kidney transplant recipients. Iron status, complete blood count, creatinine, albumin, lipids were assessed using standard laboratory methods. GFR was estimated using MDRD formula. Hepcidin and high sensitivity CRP were measured using commercially available kits. Ferritin and hepcidin were higher in hemodialyzed patients, kidney transplant recipients, and patients with chronic renal failure over controls. In patients with chronic renal failure, hepcidin correlated significantly with total protein, albumin, creatinine, and eGRF. In kidney transplant recipients, hepcidin correlated significantly in univariate analysis, with total protein, ferritin, time after transplantation, creatinine, eGRF and tended to correlate with cholesterol. In hemodialyzed patients hepcidin, correlated significantly with triglycerides, albumin, creatinine, urea, residual renal function, and hsCRP. In healthy volunteers, hepcidin was related to triglycerides and ferritin. Multiple regression analysis in hemodialyzed patients showed that hepcidin was independently related to creatinine, triglycerides, and residual renal function. Multiple regression analysis in kidney transplant recipients showed that hepcidin was independently related only to GFR and ferritin. Elevated hepcidin in all groups of patients studied may be due to low grade inflammation, frequently encountered in this population and mainly to impaired renal function.
A 43-year-old lady with long standing non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus on glibenclamide presented with cholestatic liver disease. Initially she was thought to have developed primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). When she made a spontaneous recovery following the withdrawal of glibenclamide, it became obvious that the patient had been suffering from drug-induced chronic cholestasis (DICC). The subtle differences between PBC and DICC are highlighted.
Life-threatening ventricular dysrhythmias mainly attributed to QTc prolongation have been reported in adults and children who were using cisapride, a prokinetic agent that facilitates gastrointestinal motility. Recent adult and paediatric case reports have suggested an association of malignant ventricular dysrhythmias with administration of cisapride in conjunction with drugs that inhibit its cytochrome P-450 metabolism. Therefore, to analyse the time- and dose-related effects of cisapride on ventricular repolarization, we prospectively studied infants and children receiving cisapride with no concomitant medications. Standard 12-lead resting ECGs were obtained from 38 patients (mean age: 6.6 +/- 4.4 y) before the first dose of cisapride (0.8-1.2 mg/kg/d) therapy, and 3 d, 7 d and 1 mo after the first dose of continuing cisapride therapy. The corrected QT interval (QTc), dispersion of QT and QTc (QTD, QTcD) were calculated. Patients were divided into two groups according to dose of cisapride: Group 1 (n = 22) (0.8 mg/kg/d), Group 2 (n = 16) (1.2 mg/ kg/d). Data obtained from these patients were compared with a control group consisting of 372 normal children. No clinical adverse effects such as palpitations, presyncope or syncope were noted during the study. Baseline QTc, QTD and QTcD measurements of the study group were not different from those of the control group. Mean QTc values of the study group on days 7 and 30 of cisapride therapy were found to be significantly higher than those of the control group (p < 0.001 and <0.0001, respectively). Mean QTc values of the study group on days 7 and 30 of therapy were also significantly higher than those of baseline value (p < 0.01 and <0.001, respectively). Mean QTD and mean QTcD values that were recorded throughout the cisapride treatment in the study group were not found to be different from the baseline values and the values of the controls. Mean QTD and QTcD were also not found to be different between Groups 1 and 2. However, mean QTc was found to be more significantly increased from baseline at the first month of therapy in Group 2 (p < 0.05). The results of this study suggest that cisapride treatment cause prolongation of ventricular repolarization without causing increased heterogeneity of repolarization (QT dispersion). However, the clinical significance of this effect is unclear, because all the patients in this study group remained asymptomatic, without signs of dysrhythmia.
Nimodipine, produced in China, was applied to lower the blood pressure (BP) in 20 cases in craniocerebral operation. 0.02% solution of Nimodipine was dripped intravenously (by 0.02% of density), at a preliminary speed of 600-800 micrograms/min, and 4-12 mg of total dose. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) decreased and maintained at 7.3-8.0 kPa, and lasted 30-60 minutes. The scopes of decreasing pressure were 33.0%-37.7% of MAP, 31.6%-35.6% of systolic pressure (SP), and 36.1%-41.9% of diastolic pressure (DP). The results of lowering pressure which reduced the intraoperative bleeding were significant. After withdrawal of drug supply for 15-30 minutes, the BP raised up to the normal level. No "rebounding BP rise" occurred.
Treatment with the somatostatin analog octreotide is associated with increased gallstone formation. The mechanism of formation of these stones is unclear. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of a three-month treatment with octreotide on biliary lipid composition and the occurrence of cholesterol crystals in patients with acromegaly. Thirteen patients with active acromegaly, aged 24-76 years, received octreotide (100 micrograms three times daily) for three months. Fasting gallbladder bile was obtained during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy after ceruletide stimulation. Bile was studied before and at the end of the treatment period (N = 7), only before (N = 4), or only at the end of treatment (N = 2). Before treatment, all bile samples but one were supersaturated with cholesterol. However, none contained cholesterol crystals on microscopic examination. At the end of the treatment period, all but two samples were supersaturated with cholesterol. Three of nine samples contained cholesterol crystals, a proportion significantly higher than before treatment. The relative proportions of bile acids, cholesterol, and phospholipids, and the mean cholesterol saturation index were not different before and during treatment. Follow-up ultrasonography showed the occurrence of gallstones in four patients, including the three patients who had cholesterol crystals. We conclude that: (1) fasting gallbladder bile of patients with acromegaly is frequently supersaturated with cholesterol; (2) treatment with octreotide does not increase cholesterol saturation index, but may induce the occurrence of cholesterol crystals. The data are consistent with the view that gallstones induced by octreotide are cholesterol stones and suggest that the drug may impair gallbladder motility and/or decrease cholesterol nucleation time.
Phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE 5) inhibitors are widely used in the treatment of erectile dysfunction. However, the results on the cerebral vasculature are unknown. Several cases of intraparenchymal hemorrhage in the setting of PDE 5 inhibitor use have been reported. The effect of these agents on the risk of arteriovenous malformation (AVM) hemorrhage is speculative. This report illustrates a possible association between tadalafil (Cialis, Lilly ICOS, Indianapolis, IN), a new long-acting PDE 5 inhibitor, and AVM hemorrhage during coitus. A 59-year-old male suffered a coital intraparenchymal hemorrhage after premedication with tadalafil. Angiography and magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated an underlying right temporoparital AVM. The AVM was excised, and the patient made an uneventful recovery. AVMs are felt to be dynamic lesions that evolve in response to changes in blood flow. Repeated use of PDE 5 inhibitors could induce changes in an AVM that would make it more likely to hemorrhage, particularly in the setting of additional stress from coitus and elevated blood pressure. The potential for risk of devastating neurovascular complications related to PDE 5 inhibitors should be monitored.
The present study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of amlodipine for hypertension treatment in comparison with nifedipine retard.
We examined 31 patients with arterial blood pressure approximately 155-165 mmHg/100-105 mm Hg at the beginning of the trial. It was a randomized double-blind, parallel-group trial including two groups of patients. Patients of the first group were given active amlodipine and nifedipine retard placebo during 6 weeks, while the second group was given active nifedipine retard and amlodipine placebo. Statistical analysis was made using the paired Student's t-test, chi-square test and ANOVA test.
At end point we observed significant decrease in arterial blood pressure after treatment of both drugs. The treatment with nifedipine retard increased the mean heart rate of patients. Amlodipine therapy in comparison to nifedipine retard did not change the heart rate in treated patients. Safety parameters: SGOT, SGTP, creatinine and others were in laboratory norms ranges.
Amlodipine proved to be an effective, more safe and better-tolerated therapeutical alternative for hypertension management than nifedipine retard.
Mannitol is an osmotic diuretic widely used in the diagnosis and prevention of acute oliguric renal failure, acute cerebral edema and acute glaucoma. Mannitol, though ordinarily a benign substance, may accumulate in renal failure with potentially deleterious consequences. Mannitol intoxication is ordinarily characterized by confusion, lethargy, stupor, and if severe enough, coma. The use of mannitol in renal failure has rarely been associated with a worsening of the preexistent renal dysfunction. We report a case of acute oliguric renal failure solely attributable to mannitol administered in the course of therapy for acute glaucoma.
To compare adherence and clinical outcome with two modalities of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), in HIV-infected patients.
Randomized, open-label, prospective study.
Tertiary care centre in Spain.
A total of 112 non-naive HIV-infected patients, recruited from March 1998 through August 1998, were studied.
Triple drug therapy with stavudine and lamivudine, plus indinavir or nelfinavir.
Adherence, side-effects, and immunological, virological, and clinical efficacy of treatment were assessed at 3-month intervals.
After a median follow-up of 9 months, 32% of patients in the indinavir group versus 50% of those in the nelfinavir group showed adequate adherence in all clinical appointments (P= 0.0559). Adherence was superior in the nelfinavir group in every visit. After 6 months of treatment 48% of subjects in the indinavir group and 70% of those in the nelfinavir group exhibited adequate adherence (P= 0.0311). After 9 months 35% of patients in the indinavir group and 59% of those in the nelfinavir group showed adequate adherence (P= 0.0291). Side-effects provoked discontinuation of treatment in 34% of patients in the indinavir group and 12% of patients in the nelfinavir group (P= 0.0073). Immunological and virological efficacy were similar in both groups.
Adherence to a HAART regimen with stavudine plus lamivudine plus nelfinavir was superior to a regimen with stavudine plus lamivudine plus indinavir. Side-effects provoked more discontinuation of treatment in the indinavir group than in the nelfinavir group.
Four groups of 6 cows were used to determine the effects of body condition on induction of ketosis. At calving, obese cows were heavier by 108 kg and had a higher body condition score by 0.74 units than did normal cows. Susceptibility to induced ketosis was evaluated by restricting dry matter intake by 20% and feeding 7% 1,3-butanediol from 15 to 49 d in milk (DIM) to one group of obese cows and to one group of normal cows. No normal or obese cows fed the control diet developed ketosis. Two normal and 2 obese cows developed ketonemia because of the induction protocol, and 1 cow in each of the two groups developed clinical ketosis. Obese cows lost 59% more body weight during the first 14 DIM than did normal cows, and cows fed the restricted diet plus 7% 1,3-butanediol lost 15% more body weight than did cows fed the control diet during the induction period. Concentrations of nonesterified fatty acids increased at parturition, peaked at 7 to 14 DIM, and returned to prepartum concentrations by 21 DIM. Plasma beta-hydroxybutyrate concentrations increased after calving and was increased additionally by the induction protocol. At the onset of lactation, plasma insulin decreased, plasma glucagon increased, hepatic triacylglycerols increased, and hepatic glycogen decreased. The incidence of ketonemia and clinical ketosis was the same for obese and normal cows, but, on the basis of changes of blood and liver composition, incidence of ketosis would probably increase if obese cows were overfed throughout the entire dry period.
A series of test compounds were evaluated for an ability to reduce the toxicity of the nitrogen mustard mechlorethamine (HN2) in vitro. The test compounds included resveratrol, pterostilbene, vitamin C, ebselen, ebselen diselenide, and ebselen-sulfur. Among them, ebselen demonstrated the highest degree of protection against HN2 toxicity. To this end, pretreatment of the cells with ebselen offered protection against the toxicant whereas no protection was observed when cells were first incubated with HN2 and then treated with ebselen. Significant increases in caspase 3 and caspase 9 activities were observed in response to HN2, and ebselen was found to reduce these effects. Taken together, the data presented here indicate that ebselen is an effective countermeasure to nitrogen mustard in vitro, which is worthy of future investigation in vivo.
To quantify changes in ictal seizure semiology during rapid withdrawal of carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproate (VPA) from a monoregimen in presurgical evaluation.
Therapeutic intensive seizure analysis (TISA) with video-EEG monitoring was used in 33 patients with pharmacoresistant partial epilepsy undergoing complete withdrawal of CBZ (20 patients) or VPA (13 patients) from a monoregimen. Monitoring phases included a 3-day baseline phase, a 3-day rapid antiepileptic drug (AED) withdrawal phase, and another 3-day AED-free phase with AEDs in subtherapeutic levels. Seizure variables as complete processes and their various elements (ictal signs) were analyzed, including duration (seconds), intensity (on a scale of 0 to 3), frequency (number per 3 days), and total duration of seizures and ictal signs in 3 days (seconds). The localization of seizure patterns on ictal EEG recording (EEG seizure onset) and the first appearing clinical ictal phenomena (initial ictal signs) were recorded.
A total of 188 seizures in the CBZ group and 57 seizures in the VPA group were investigated. Compared with the baseline phase, the CBZ group showed increases in duration, frequency of seizures, various ictal signs, and secondarily generalized tonic and clonic signs during the following two phases. Significantly increased values of the VPA group were observed in seizure duration and frequency of hypermotoric phenomena during the AED-free phase. More patients in the CBZ group had secondarily generalized clonic signs during the AED-free phase. EEG seizure onset and initial ictal signs showed no obvious changes between study phases.
Withdrawal of CBZ is followed more quickly by an increase of seizure frequency and severity than is the case for VPA withdrawal. Both CBZ and VPA withdrawal influences seizure propagation rather than the seizure-onset characteristics, which speaks in favor of its use in presurgical evaluation.
Serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT1AR) agonists reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and enhance motor function in experimental and clinical investigations of Parkinson's disease (PD). While the mechanism(s) by which these effects occur are unclear, recent research suggests that modulation of glutamate neurotransmission contributes.
To further delineate the relationship between 5-HT1A receptors and glutamate, the current study examined the effects of the 5-HT1AR agonist, +/-8-OH-DPAT and the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, MK-801, on L-DOPA-induced motor behavior.
Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned male Sprague-Dawley rats were rendered dyskinetic with 1 week of daily L-DOPA (12 mg/kg, i.p.) + benserazide (15 mg/kg, i.p.). On test days, one group of rats received pretreatments of: +/-8-OH-DPAT (0, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) or MK-801 (0, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3 mg/kg, i.p.). A second group was administered combined +/-8-OH-DPAT (0, 0.03 or 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) + MK-801 (0, 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.). Pretreatments were followed by L-DOPA administration, after which, abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) and rotations were monitored. To investigate effects on motor performance, subthreshold doses of +/-8-OH-DPAT (0.03 mg/kg, i.p.) + MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) were administered to L-DOPA-naïve hemiparkinsonian rats before the forepaw adjusting steps test.
Individually, both +/-8-OH-DPAT and MK-801 dose-dependently decreased L-DOPA-induced AIMs without affecting rotations. Combined subthreshold doses of +/-8-OH-DPAT+MK-801 reduced L-DOPA-induced AIMs and potently enhanced contralateral rotations without altering L-DOPA-induced motor improvements.
The current results indicate a functional interaction between 5-HT1AR and NMDAR that may improve pharmacological treatment of PD patients.
The activation of Ras signaling and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in mesangial cells is a pathogenic consequence of diabetic nephropathy. We examined the role of simvastatin in modulating Ras signaling and the expression of VEGF in mesangial cells stressed with high doses of glucose in vitro and in vivo.
For the in vitro studies, we cultured mesangial cells, with or without simvastatin or manumycin A pretreatment, in 35 mM glucose and assayed VEGF activity. For the in vivo studies, we administered simvastatin or manumycin A to streptozocin-induced diabetic rats for 28 days and dissected renal tissues for an immunohistological assessment of Ras and VEGF expression in glomerular cells.
We showed that high glucose significantly increased VEGF gene expression and Ras activation. The pretreatment with 10 microM simvastatin and inhibition of Ras activity by manumycin A significantly reversed high glucose promotion of VEGF mRNA expression. Pretreatment with simvastatin and manumycin A clearly affected the activation of Ras promoted by high glucose. Tube-like formations were abundant in high glucose-treated mesangial cells co-cultured with HUVEC. However, the simvastatin and manumycin A treatment group's down-regulated tube formation was comparable to the mesangial cells treated only with high glucose. Exogenous simvastatin and manumycin A treatment alleviated urinary albumin secretion and attenuated Ras activation and VEGF protein expression in the kidneys of diabetic rats.
Ras protein activation is a key mediator of VEGF-induced diabetic nephropathy. By inhibiting Ras activation, simvastatin modulates the high glucose-induced VEGF-mediated signaling pathway in vitro and in vivo.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36-amino acid peptide that is widely distributed in the brain, adrenal medulla, and sympathetic nervous system. Several lines of evidence suggest a possible involvement of the NPY system in the physiological effects of several classes of abused substances including alcohol, phencyclidine, cocaine, and marijuana and in endogenous psychosis. Accordingly, it was hypothesized that the NPY system may also be involved in methamphetamine dependence or psychosis.
The single nucleotide polymorphisms rs16147 of the NPY gene (-485C>T) and rs7687423 of the NPY receptor Y1 (NPY1R) gene were analyzed in 222 patients with methamphetamine dependence and psychosis and 288 age- and gender-matched controls.
Genotypic distribution of the NPY1R gene showed a significant association with methamphetamine dependence and psychosis (P = 0.04), whereas the NPY gene had no significant association with them.
It is possible that genetic variants of the NPY1R gene affect the NPY-NPY receptor type Y1 signaling system in the brain, which may result in susceptibility to methamphetamine dependence or the development of methamphetamine psychosis, but the present findings need to be confirmed on replication.
The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (Velcade) was recently approved for the treatment of therapy-refractive multiple myeloma and is under investigation for numerous other types of cancer. A phase I clinical trial in paediatric patients resulted in tolerable toxicity. Since the emergence of chemoresistance represents one of the major drawbacks in cancer therapy, we investigated the influence of bortezomib on multi-drug resistant human neuroblastoma cell lines characterised by P-glycoprotein expression and p53 mutation. Nanomolar concentrations of bortezomib inhibited the cell cycle and induced apoptosis in chemosensitive as well as in chemoresistant cell lines. In vivo growth of chemosensitive and chemoresistant neuroblastoma cell lines was inhibited to a similar extent. In addition, bortezomib inhibited vessel formation in neuroblastoma xenografts. These findings and the favourable toxicity profile of bortezomib in children make it reasonable to further pursue additional development of the drug for the treatment of neuroblastoma and other paediatric solid tumours.
Proton pump inhibitors exert their preventive and healing effects on gastropathy induced by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAIDs) by a dual action: the antisecretory and the antioxidant effect. The latter was investigated by using esomeprazole against indomethacin-induced gastric mucosa lesions in rats and assessed by a histomorphometric analysis. Treatment by intragastric gavage were 1% methocel as vehicle; esomeprazole 10, 30, or 60 micromol/kg; indomethacin 100 micromol/kg; and esomeprazole 10, 30, or 60 micromol/kg plus indomethacin 100 micromol/kg. The evaluation of glutathione (GSH) levels and respiratory chain complex activities [nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, reduced (NADH)-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, succinate dehydrogenase, cytochrome C reductase, cytochrome oxidase] was performed in the isolated gastric mucosa. Esomeprazole (10-60 micromol/kg) dose dependently reversed, up to complete recovery, the inhibitory effect of indomethacin on GSH levels (approximately 60% inhibition) and mitochondrial enzyme activities (inhibition ranging from 60% to 75%). Indomethacin-induced mucosal injuries were reduced by esomeprazole. Thus, in addition to inhibiting acid secretion, the gastroprotective effect of esomeprazole can be ascribed to a reduction in gastric oxidative injury.
This is a case report of a woman of 38 years old, studied and analyzed at the service of allergy and immunology with clinical manifestations of allergic rhinitis; studies of laboratory, cabinet and intradermal test were made to corroborate this diagnosis and the treatment with specific hyposensitization, oral antihistaminines and inhaled steroids was started. Two years later the patient referred urinary retention without important antecedents, so, a peripheral anticholinergic syndrome (PAS) was suspected, a urodynamic test study was carried out consisting in a uroflujometry, static and dynamic urethral profile, cystometry, flow pressure study and electromyography, which diagnosed low urinary obstruction (functional) and vesical sphincter pseudodysfunction, demonstrating the PAS associated with oral antihistamines.
We report a patient with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) who received two doses of gemtuzumab ozogamicin for advanced disease. Previous treatments included front-line all-trans retinoic acid and anthracyclines, polychemotherapy consolidation, salvage chemotherapy for the first relapse followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT), arsenic trioxide for the second relapse followed by a second ASCT and then high-dose methotrexate for more advanced systemic disease with central nervous system involvement. The patient achieved prolonged haematological and molecular remission after monotherapy with gemtuzumab ozogamicin given at the time of the third relapse.
Combined modality treatment using multidrug chemotherapy (CTh) and radiotherapy (RT) is currently considered the standard of care in early stage Hodgkin's disease. Its role in advanced stages, however, continues to be debated. This study was aimed at evaluating the role of consolidation radiation in patients achieving a complete remission after six cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) chemotherapy using event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) as primary end points.
Two hundred and fifty-one patients with Hodgkin's disease attending the lymphoma clinic at the Tata Memorial Hospital (Mumbai, India) from 1993 to 1996 received induction chemotherapy with six cycles of ABVD after initial staging evaluation. A total of 179 of 251 patients (71%) achieved a complete remission after six cycles of ABVD chemotherapy and constituted the randomized population. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either consolidation radiation or no further therapy.
With a median follow-up of 63 months, the 8-year EFS and OS in the CTh-alone arm were 76% and 89%, respectively, as compared with 88% and 100% in the CTh+RT arm (P =.01; P =.002). Addition of RT improved EFS and OS in patients with age < 15 years (P =.02; P =.04), B symptoms (P =.03; P =.006), advanced stage (P =.03; P =.006), and bulky disease (P =.04; P =.19).
Our study suggests that the addition of consolidation radiation helps improve the EFS and OS in patients achieving a complete remission after six cycles of ABVD chemotherapy, particularly in the younger age group and in patients with B symptoms and bulky and advanced disease.
Mapping metabolic "signatures" can provide new insights into addictive mechanisms and potentially identify biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
We examined the differences in metabolites related to the tyrosine, tryptophan, purine, and oxidative stress pathways between cocaine-dependent subjects and healthy controls. Several of these metabolites serve as biological indices underlying the mechanisms of reinforcement, toxicity, and oxidative stress.
Metabolomic analysis was performed in 18 DSM-IV-diagnosed cocaine-dependent individuals with at least 2 weeks of abstinence and ten drug-free controls. Plasma concentrations of 37 known metabolites were analyzed and compared using a liquid chromatography electrochemical array platform. Multivariate analyses were used to study the relationship between severity of drug use [Addiction Severity Index (ASI) scores] and biological measures.
Cocaine subjects showed significantly higher levels of n-methylserotonin (p < 0.0017) and guanine (p < 0.0031) and lower concentrations of hypoxanthine (p < 0.0002), anthranilate (p < 0.0024), and xanthine (p < 0.012), compared to controls. Multivariate analyses showed that a combination of n-methylserotonin and xanthine contributed to 73% of the variance in predicting the ASI scores (p < 0.0001). Logistic regression showed that a model combining n-methylserotonin, xanthine, xanthosine, and guanine differentiated cocaine and control groups with no overlap.
Alterations in the methylation processes in the serotonin pathways and purine metabolism seem to be associated with chronic exposure to cocaine. Given the preliminary nature and cross-sectional design of the study, the findings need to be confirmed in larger samples of cocaine-dependent subjects, preferably in a longitudinal design.
Hereditary ferritinopathies are dominant inherited movement disorders associated with extensive alterations of the l-ferritin C-terminus peptide caused by nucleotide insertions in l-ferritin gene (FTL). We describe the characterization of the most common variant, produced by the 460InsA mutations and here named Ln1. The recombinant Ln1 assembled into 24-mer ferritin shells with low efficiency, however, it was able to form heteropolymers that showed a reduced capacity to incorporate iron in vitro. The Ln1 expressed in HeLa cells formed hybrid ferritins, with the endogenous H and L chains, and caused an iron excess phenotype. Ferritin inactivation and faster degradation in Ln1 transfectants concurred in increasing iron availability, which was probably responsible for the higher sensitivity to H(2)O(2) toxicity and higher level of oxidized proteins. The findings suggest that the pathogenic effects of Ln1 expression are more likely due to deregulation of cellular iron homeostasis rather than to protein conformational problems.
Polyphenols from tea and other beverages such as red wine have been regarded with interest as possible chemopreventive agents against cancer. Here we report that red wine polyphenols (50 mg/kg) administered with the diet to F344 rats for 16 weeks inhibited colon carcinogenesis induced by azoxymethane (AOM, 7.4 mg/kg, total dose 74 mg/kg) or dimethylhydrazine (DMH, 30 mg/kg, total dose, 300 mg/kg). Polyphenol-treated animals had a consistently lower tumour yield compared to controls. In polyphenol-treated rats, the main bacterial strains in the faeces at sacrifice were Bacteroides, Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium spp., whereas microorganisms predominantly identified in control-fed rats were Bacteroides, Clostridium and Propionibacterium spp. Wine polyphenols (57 mg/kg for 10 days, by gavage), administered to rats not treated with carcinogens, produced a significant decrease in the basal level of DNA oxidative damage of the colon mucosa as measured with the comet assay (average pyrimidine oxidation was reduced by 62% and purine oxidation by 57%, p<0.05). To further explore the molecular effects of wine polyphenols we used the microarray technology to study gene expression profiles: rats were treated with 50 mg/kg wine polyphenols for 14 days, mixed in the diet. Global expression analysis of 5707 genes revealed an extensive down-regulation of genes involved in a wide range of physiological functions, such as metabolism, transport, signal transduction and intercellular signalling. By analysing metabolic pathways with the GenMAPP software program we observed that two major regulatory pathways were down-regulated in the colon mucosa of polyphenols-treated rats: inflammatory response and steroid metabolism. We also found a down-regulation of many genes regulating cell surface antigens, metabolic enzymes and cellular response to oxidative stress. In conclusion, reduction of oxidative damage, modulation of colonic flora and variation in gene expression may all concur in the modulation of intestinal function and carcinogenesis by wine polyphenols.
To determine the prevalence of myocardial ischemia in patients with cocaine addiction.
Myocardial ischemia in chronic cocaine users was detected by serial 24-hour electrocardiographic ambulatory (Holter) monitoring and exercise treadmill testing in chronic cocaine users. The Holter tapes were coded, scanned in a blinded manner, and mixed with the tapes of 42 normal volunteers and 119 patients with either stable or unstable angina.
A 28-day inpatient, substance abuse treatment program followed by an outpatient treatment program.
Twenty-one consecutive male chronic cocaine users.
Eight of the 21 patients with cocaine addiction had frequent episodes of ST elevation during Holter monitoring; these episodes occurred almost exclusively during the first 2 weeks of withdrawal. None of the volunteers and patients with stable angina and only 4% of the patients with unstable angina had episodes of ST elevation during Holter monitoring (cocaine users compared with volunteers, P = 0.0004). Of the 20 cocaine patients who had exercise treadmill testing, only 1 had a positive test for ischemia.
Cocaine users frequently develop silent myocardial ischemia manifesting as episodes of ST elevation during the first weeks of withdrawal. The underlying mechanisms for these changes remain unknown, but our observations support the hypothesis that coronary vasospasm plays an important role in cocaine-related ischemic syndromes.
The aim of this study was to determine whether inhibition of the extracellular-regulated kinase signaling pathway decreases acute amphetamine-induced behavioral activity and neuropeptide gene expression in the rat striatum. Western blotting revealed that extracellular-regulated kinase1/2 phosphorylation was highly induced in the rat striatum 15 min after an acute amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) injection without altering the total amount of extracellular-regulated kinase protein. In a separate experiment, the systemic injection of SL327, a selective inhibitor of extracellular regulated kinase kinase that crosses the blood-brain barrier, 1 h prior to amphetamine administration decreased amphetamine-induced vertical and horizontal activity. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry showed that SL327 abolished the high levels of preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin mRNA induced by amphetamine in the striatum with no alteration of their basal levels. In another set of experiments, the hyperlocomotor activity induced by amphetamine was reduced by pretreatment with intra-striatal infusion of U0126. U0126 also blocked the amphetamine-induced increases in phospho-extracellular-regulated kinase and preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin gene expression in the striatum. These data indicate that activation of the extracellular-regulated kinase cascade contributes to the behavioral effects and changes in striatal neuropeptide gene expression induced by acute amphetamine.
Halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons, including 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), are known to cause severe heart defects in avian species. However, the mechanism of TCDD-induced chick cardiovascular toxicity is unclear. In this study, we investigated cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) as a possible mechanism of TCDD-induced cardiotoxicity. Fertile chicken eggs were injected with TCDD and a COX-2 selective inhibitor, NS398, and we investigated chick heart failure on day 10. We found that the chick heart to body weight ratio and atrial natriuretic factor mRNA expression were increased, but this increase was abolished with treatment of NS398. In addition, the morphological abnormality of an enlarged ventricle resulting from TCDD exposure was also abolished with co-treatment of TCDD and NS398. Our results suggested that TCDD-induced chick heart defects are mediated via the nongenomic pathway and that they do not require the genomic pathway.
