Different mechanisms were proposed for opioid-induced analgesia and antihyperalgesia, which might result in different pharmacodynamics. To address this issue, the time course of analgesic and antihyperalgesic effects of intravenous (i.v.) and sublingual (s.l.) buprenorphine was assessed in an experimental human pain model. Fifteen volunteers were enrolled in this randomized, double-blind, and placebo controlled cross-over study. The magnitude of pain and the area of secondary hyperalgesia following transcutaneous stimulation were repetitively assessed before and up to 150 min after administration of (1) 0.15 mg buprenorphine i.v. and placebo pill s.l., (2) 0.2 mg buprenorphine s.l. and saline 0.9% i.v. or (3) saline 0.9% i.v. and placebo pill s.l. as a control. The sessions were separated by 2 week wash-out periods. For both applications of buprenorphine the antihyperalgesic effects were more pronounced as compared to the analgesic effects (66+/-9 vs. 26+/-5% and 43+/-10 vs. 10+/-6%, for i.v. and s.l. application, respectively). This contrasts the pattern for the intravenous administration of pure mu-receptor agonists in the same model in which the antihyperalgesic effects are weaker. The apparent bioavailability of buprenorphine s.l. as compared to buprenorphine i.v. was 58% with a 15.8 min later onset of antinociceptive effects. The half-life of buprenorphine-induced analgesic and antihyperalgesic effects were 171 and 288 min, respectively. In contrast to pure mu-receptor agonists, buprenorphine exerts a lasting antihyperalgesic effect in our model. It will be of major clinical interest whether this difference will translate into improved treatment of pain states dominated by central sensitization.
Transcranial Doppler (TCD) is a non-invasive method for measuring blood flow velocity (BFV), and a marker of vessel diameter. In this study, intracranial BFV was investigated, by means of TCD, in patients suffering from probable medication-overuse headache (PMOH). Twenty-three female patients with probable ergotamine- overuse headache (PEOH), 23 female patients with probable analgesic-overuse headache (PAOH), and 15 healthy female controls participated in the study. The mean BFVs of the bilateral middle and anterior cerebral arteries (MCA and ACA) and basilar artery (BA) were measured by TCD. The mean BFVs of the BA and MCA were found to be significantly increased in the PEOH group when compared with those of the PAOH and control groups (p<0.05). No significant differences in BFV of the ACA were observed between any groups (p>0.05). The mean BFV of all the vessels in the PAOH group was found to be lower than that of the control group but no statistical significance was found (p>0.05). Our results show that ergotamine increases BFV via vasoconstriction, especially of the BA and MCA. We also suggest that 5HT1B/1D receptors are mainly localized in the BA and MCA, and that analgesic overuse results in a functional disorder of neuronal receptor and neurovascular reflexes and may cause a reduction of intracerebral vessel tone, leading to vasodilatation.
Although 4,4'-diaminodiphenylsulfone (DDS, dapsone) has been used to treat several dermatologic conditions, including Hansen disease, for the past several decades, its mode of action has remained a topic of debate. We recently reported that DDS treatment significantly extends the lifespan of the nematode C. elegans by decreasing the generation of reactive oxygen species. Additionally, in in vitro experiments using non-phagocytic human fibroblasts, we found that DDS effectively counteracted the toxicity of paraquat (PQ). In the present study, we extended our work to test the protective effect of DDS against PQ in vivo using a mouse lung injury model. Oral administration of DDS to mice significantly attenuated the lung tissue damage caused by subsequent administration of PQ. Moreover, DDS reduced the local expression of mRNA transcripts encoding inflammation-related molecules, including endothelin-1 (ET-1), macrophage inflammatory protein-1α (MIP-1α), and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). In addition, DDS decreased the PQ-induced expression of NADPH oxidase mRNA and activation of protein kinase Cμ (PKCμ). DDS treatment also decreased the PQ-induced generation of superoxide anions in mouse lung fibroblasts. Taken together, these data suggest the novel efficacy of DDS as an effective protective agent against oxidative stress-induced tissue damages.
There is now controlled evidence that a 6-month course with methylprednisolone and chlorambucil may favour remission of the nephrotic syndrome and may significantly improve the 10-year kidney survival in patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy. We analyzed the outcome of 15 nephrotic patients (proteinuria 7.06 +/- 1.07 g/d), stage II-III membranous nephropathy, aged 37.93 +/- 2.32, 8 males and 7 females, with normal serum creatinine (62.8 +/- 2.34 micromol/l), followed > 10 years after the treatment. It consisted of 1g i.v. methylprednisolone for three consecutive days, followed by oral steroids 0.4 mg/kg/d and chlorambucil 0.2 mg/kg/d monthly, alternatively. 10 patients, age and sex matched, who refused any treatment of any reason, represented the control group. Complete remission was defined as protein loss of 0.2 g/d, partial 0.2-2 g/d with normal creatinine and renal dysfunction as increase in plasma creatinine. The follow-up period was between 10 and 20 years. Complete remission after the treatment was noted in 9/15, partial in 4/15, and 2/15 patients did not respond. 10-year survival rate of the whole group was 100%, 15-year - 86.7%, i.e. two patients with persistent nephrotic syndrome developed end-stage renal failure after 12 years. 13/15 patients (complete, partial remission) were followed > 15 years without development of end-stage renal failure. One patient (female, 32) developed idiopathic thrombocytopenia after 8 years. 3 patients (complete remission) were followed > 20 years, they are still without proteinuria. 10-year survival rate of untreated patients was 40%. It is concluded that in nephrotic patients with stage II-III membranous nephropathy steroids/chlorambucil therapy may be effective in favoring remission and in preserving renal function.
1. In normal rats and rats with bladder hypertrophy secondary to outflow obstruction, undergoing continuous cytometry, we examined the responses to the selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist doxazosin given intrathecally (i.t.) and intra-arterially (i.a.). In addition, we investigated the effects of the drug on L-dopa-induced bladder hyperactivity in normal, unobstructed rats. 2. Doxazosin 50 nmol (approximately 60 micrograms kg-1), given i.t., decreased micturition pressure in normal rats and in animals with post-obstruction bladder hypertrophy. The effect was much more pronounced in the animals with hypertrophied/overactive bladders. Doxazosin did not markedly affect the frequency or amplitude of the unstable contractions observed in obstructed rats. In contrast, however, doxazosin reduced L-dopa-induced bladder overactivity. When tested, the enantiomers of doxazosin produced qualitatively similar effects to doxazosin, but there was no evidence of stereoselectivity. 3. The results suggest that in addition to the well documented action on prostatic and lower urinary tract smooth muscle, and an effect on the sympathetic outflow to the bladder, bladder neck, prostate, and external urethral sphincter, doxazosin may have an action at the level of the spinal cord and ganglia, thereby reducing activity in the parasympathetic nerves to the bladder. This effect is more pronounced in rats with bladder hypertrophy than in normal rats.
Angiosarcomas of the liver are rare, malignant cancers composed of neoplastic blood vessels. Human hapatic angiosarcomas have been associated with liver cirrhosis or exposure to vinyl chloride, Thorotrast or arsenic. A recent analysis of six hepatic angiosarcomas associated with vinal chloride exposure found three mutations and all were A:T --> T:A transversions, which are otherwise uncommon in human cancers. To test the specificity of this mutation spectrum, we analyzed 21 hepatic angiosarcomas not associated with vinyl chloride exposure. Four cases were exposed to Thorotrast, none had a history of arsenic exposure and the rest were sporadic. Exons 5-8 of the p53 gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction, and the products were sequenced directly. Two G:C --> A:T transitions were found in two tumors: TGCstop in codon 136. Neither mutation was associated with Thorotrast exposure. These data indicate that p53 mutations are uncommon in sporadic hepatic angiosarcomas (2/21, 9%), and the mutational profile is consistent with endogenous mechanisms. Both features support the evidence linking vinyl chloride exposure to hepatic angiosarcomas containing an increased frequency of p53 mutations with a mutational spectrum (i.e. A:T --> T:A transversions) characteristic of chloroethylene oxide, a carcinogenic metabolite of vinyl chloride.
Chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic is known to cause non-melanocytic skin and internal cancers in humans. We examined whether genetic susceptibility, as determined by single nucleotide polymorphisms -463G-->A and -262C-->T in the oxidative stress genes myeloperoxidase (MPO) and catalase (CAT), respectively, are associated with the risk of arsenic-induced hyperkeratotic skin lesions-precursors of skin cancer-in a case-control study in Bangladesh. Carriers of the susceptible MPO and CAT genotypes were at elevated risk (OR 2.1 and 95% CI 0.7-6.2 for MPO; OR 1.9 and 95% CI 0.8-4.7 for CAT) of hyperkeratosis after adjustment for arsenic exposure and other covariates. Subjects carrying the high-risk MPO genotype and with high arsenic exposure were at almost six times (OR 5.8; 95% CI 1.1-30.1) elevated risk of developing hyperkeratosis as compared to those carrying the low-risk genotype and with low arsenic exposure. Similarly, highly exposed subjects carrying the high-risk CAT genotype were at more than four times (OR 4.6; 95% CI 1.4-15.6) elevated risk of developing hyperkeratosis as compared to those carrying the low-risk genotype and with low arsenic exposure. Our findings, although based on small numbers, suggest that the oxidative stress genes MPO and CAT may influence the risk of arsenic-induced premalignant hyperkeratotic skin lesions.
Curcumin is a phytophenolic compound, which is highly efficacious for treating several inflammatory diseases. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of curcumin in preventing or reversing liver cirrhosis. A 4-week bile duct ligation (BDL) rat model was used to test the ability of curcumin (100 mg/kg, p.o., daily) to prevent cirrhosis. To reverse cirrhosis, CCl(4) was administered chronically for 3 months, and then it was withdrawn and curcumin administered for 2 months. Alanine aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, liver histopathology, bilirubin, glycogen, reduced and oxidized glutathione, and TGF-beta (mRNA and protein) levels were assessed. Curcumin preserved normal values of markers of liver damage in BDL rats. Fibrosis, assessed by measuring hydroxyproline levels and histopathology, increased nearly fivefold after BDL and this effect was partially but significantly prevented by curcumin. BDL increased transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) levels (mRNA and proteins), while curcumin partially suppressed this mediator of fibrosis. Curcumin also partially reversed the fibrosis induced by CCl(4). Curcumin was effective in preventing and reversing cirrhosis, probably by its ability of reducing TGF-beta expression. These data suggest that curcumin might be an effective antifibrotic and fibrolitic drug in the treatment of chronic hepatic diseases.
Mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) have been identified in the human cardiovascular tissues. We determined MR expression in the failing heart to clarify the mechanism of action of aldosterone antagonist in the treatment of congestive heart failure. MR protein and MR mRNA content were detected by immunohistochemical staining and in situ hybridization in the cardiac tissues. Immunohistochemical staining of the receptor, as well as in situ hybridization of MR mRNA, was dense in cardiomyocytes of the failing left ventricle as compared with the controls. The staining ratio of the cytoplasm to the interstitium showed that MRs were located mainly in the cytoplasm. The cytoplasm to the interstitium in the failing left ventricle was 1.53+/-0.13, which was significantly higher than that of the controls 1.25+/-0.19 (p<0.05). These findings suggest that the efficacy of aldosterone antagonists in treating congestive heart failure may be in part through blocking the MRs, which are upregulated in the failing heart.
Congenital protein S deficiency is associated with an increased risk of venous thrombosis. A14-year-old boy presented with epileptic seizures and thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus and frontal hemorrhagic venous infarction after ingestion of 50 mg of dimenhydrinate, an antiemetic drug. The patient was found to be heterozygous for the factor V Leiden mutation and had a functional protein S deficiency. He recovered completely within a month after conservative treatment. Dimenhydrinate may have disrupted a subclinical pre-existing condition in this case.
It is well known that synthetic food colours especially some azo dyes can provoke hypersensitivity reactions such as urticaria, angioneurotic oedema, and astma (Michaëlsson and Juhlin, 1973, Granholt and Thune, 1975). Natural food colours are scarcely investigated with respect to potential allergic properties. Annatto extract, a commonly used food colour in edible fats e.g. butter, has been tested in patients. Among 61 consecutive patients suffereing from chornic urticaria and/or angioneurotic oedema 56 patients were orally provoked by annatto extract during elimination diet. Challenge was performed with a dose equivalent to the amount used in 25 grammes of butter. Twentysix per cent of the patients reacted to this colour 4 hours (SD: 2,6) after intake. Similar challenges with synthetic dyes showed the following results: Tartrazine 11%, Sunset Yellow FCF 17%, Food Red 17 16%, Amaranth 9%, Ponceau 4 R 15%, Erythrosine 12% and Brillant Blue FCF 14%. The present study indicates that natural food colours may induce hypersensitivity reactions as frequent as synthetic dyes.
Studies were performed in female Sprague-Dawley rats to determine the efficacy of a new RXR specific retinoid (9cUAB30) when combined with tamoxifen in the prevention of mammary cancers and to determine various pharmacokinetic parameters of the retinoid. When administered by gavage, 9cUAB30 was rapidly absorbed and had a serum t(1/2) of 13.5 h. Since the retinoid was administered in the diet for the chemoprevention study, a 28-day study in which 9cUAB30 was given at dose levels of 200, 400, and 600 mg/kg diet revealed fairly constant serum levels regardless of dose or length of treatment; possibly accounting for the observed low toxicity of this compound. When suboptimal doses of 9cUAB30 were given in the methylnitrosourea (MNU)-induced mammary cancer model, the following average number of mammary cancers were observed: 9cUAB30 (150 mg/kg diet), 4.3; tamoxifen (0.4 mg/kg diet), 4.6; 9cUAB30 (150 mg/kg diet)+tamoxifen (0.4 mg/kg diet), 2.6; and controls, 6.0. Thus, the combination of the agents resulted in an increased effect in preventing mammary cancers; suggesting that cancer cell proliferation was inhibited by the compounds blocking different pathways.
Our aim was to investigate whether trans-resveratrol (t-resveratrol), a red wine constituent known for its cardioprotective effects, was able to influence CD40 ligand (CD40L) and its receptor CD40 in platelets of hypercholesterolemic rats. Sixty Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups: control (C), ethanol (E), t-resveratrol (R), hypercholesterolemia (HC), and hypercholesterolemia plus t-resveratrol (HCR). Rats in the C, E, and R groups were fed a normal diet for 80 days. For 20 days before sacrifice, we intraperitoneally (i.p.) administered 0.1 mL ethanol (50% v/v) to the E group, and 0.1 mL t-resveratrol (20 mg·kg(-1)·day(-1)) to the R group. Rats in the HC and HCR groups were fed a 5% cholesterol diet for 80 days. Rats in the HCR group were administered i.p. 0.1 mL t-resveratrol (20 mg·kg(-1)·day(-1)) for 20 days before sacrifice. Serum levels of total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein (HDL-C), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL-C), and total triglycerides (TG) were assayed with a commercial colorimetric kit. Platelet P-selectin, CD40, and CD40L expression was determined by flow cytometry. sCD40L and IL6 levels were measured by ELISA. In the HC group, we observed a significant increase in serum TC, LDL-C, VLDL-C, TG, sCD40, and IL-6 levels and platelet activation markers compared with levels in the control group. However, t-resveratrol administration to the HC group (HCR group) attenuated the increase in lipids, sCD40, and IL-6 and down-regulated platelet P-selectin, CD40, and CD40L expressions. A positive correlation was found for serum lipids and all the platelet activation markers. Our study showed that the CD40-CD40L dyad is up-regulated in the presence of hypercholesterolemia and that t-resveratrol administration down-regulated the increase.
Mutation in ZIC3 (OMIM #306955), a zinc finger transcription factor, causes heterotaxy (situs ambiguus) or isolated congenital heart defects in humans. Mice bearing a null mutation in Zic3 have left-right patterning defects with associated cardiovascular, vertebra/rib, and central nervous system malformations. Although XZic3 is thought to play a critical role in Xenopus neural crest development, no defects in tissues derived from neural crest are apparent in adult Zic3(null) mice. In this study we have characterized the effect of a PGK-neo cassette insertion 5' of the Zic3 locus. The Zic3 transcript in this new allele is up-regulated in ES cells and in E9.0 embryos, but no ectopic expression was detected. Unlike the Zic3(null) mutation in which only 20% of mutant animals survive to adulthood, there was no evidence of excess fetal death caused by the Zic3(neo) allele. Zic3(neo) mutant mice exhibited hemifacial microsomia, asymmetric low set ears, axial skeletal defects, kyphosis and scoliosis; a combination of defects which mimics Goldenhar Syndrome. Some Zic3(neo) mice had evidence of left-right axis patterning defects, but cardiac malformation was much less common than in the Zic3(null) mutants. A six-week old hemizygous mouse was found to have thoraco-cervical ectopia cordis, an extremely rare congenital malformation in humans and for which there is no precedent in a mouse model.
Encouraging response rates have been reported in Stage III non-small cell lung cancer when 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), etoposide (VP-16), and cisplatin (FED) have been combined with radiation therapy (RT) or RT and surgery. The current study evaluated the effectiveness of FED chemotherapy in 32 patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Treatment consisted of 5-FU (800 mg/m2/d) on days 1 to 4 by continuous infusion, intravenous (IV) VP-16 (60 mg/m2) over 1 hour on days 1 to 4, and IV cisplatin (60 mg/m2) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment cycles were repeated every 28 days as toxicity permitted. Partial responses occurred in 7 of 32 patients (22%; 95% confidence limit [CL] 0.09, 0.40), including 6 of 19 patients (32%) with performance status of 0 or 1, and 1 of 13 patients (8%) with performance status of 2 or 3. The median response duration was 5.0 months. Although toxicity was modest and consisted of primarily hematologic and gastrointestinal side effects, this combination does not appear to provide an advantage over other cisplatin combinations in Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
BM 17.0744 (2,2-dichloro-12-(p-chlorophenyl)-dodecanoic acid) is a substance from a group of omega-substituted alkyl carboxylic acids with the general formula, ring-spacer-carboxylic acid. With BM 17.0744-a compound structurally unrelated to thiazolidinediones--antihyperglycemic and antihyperinsulinemic potency has been demonstrated in various animal models of type II diabetes. The antidiabetic effect is independent of the genetic background of the disease, gender, and animal species. The 24-hour blood glucose profile was dose- and time-dependently improved in ob/ob mice after a single and fourth oral administration of 0.3, 1, and 3 mg/kg/d. A dose-dependent reduction of hyperglycemia (10%, 15%, 28%, and 66%) was found in db/db mice after the fifth oral administration of 3, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg/d. Hyperinsulinemia was reduced dose-dependently in yellow KK mice by 1%, 24%, 34%, and 66% after the fifth oral administration of 0.3, 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg/d. Overall glucose metabolism was predominantly higher in euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp studies in obese fa/fa rats pretreated for 14 days with 10 mg/kg/d BM 17.0744. The data in diabetic and insulin-resistant animals suggest an improvement of insulin action that is supported by enhancement of insulin effects in vitro. There is no evidence of a risk for hypoglycemia in diabetic and metabolically healthy animals. Triglyceride (TG) and cholesterol were reduced in the serum of metabolically healthy rats, as well as serum lipids in db/db mice, which suggests this effect is independent of amelioration of the diabetic status. Lipid-lowering effects in diabetic and healthy animals show an additional property of BM 17.0744. Because of its antidiabetic and lipid-lowering potency, the substance is of great interest in treating the metabolic syndrome. Lipid decreases in rats are associated with a dose-dependent increase in carnitine acetyltransferase activity in the liver to about 100-fold (12.5 mg/kg/d). This together with hepatomegaly in small rodents may indicate peroxisomal proliferation, a phenomenon considered species-specific. Its relevance for humans is well documented for other classes of compounds including fibrates. Specific side effects of insulin sensitizers of the thiazolidinedione type, such as an increase in body weight and heart weight, could not be observed after 4-week oral application of BM 17.0744 in rats. In general, BM 17.0744 was well tolerated in the pharmacological dose range in all species tested.
A major impediment to the successful treatment of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha)-positive breast cancer is the development of antiestrogen resistance. Tamoxifen, the most commonly used antiestrogen, exerts its pharmacological action by binding to ERalpha and blocking the growth-promoting action of estrogen-bound ERalpha in breast cancer cells. Tamoxifen treatment primarily induces cytostasis (growth arrest) and the surviving breast cancer cells commonly acquire tamoxifen resistance. Numerous clinically-relevant mechanisms of acquired antiestrogen resistance have been identified by in vitro studies. Our recent studies (Mol Cancer Ther 2008; 7:2977-87) now demonstrate that autophagy (also referred to as macroautophagy) is critical to the development of antiestrogen resistance. Under conditions of compromised autophagy, including treatments with pharmacological inhibitors and RNAi targeting of the beclin 1 gene, the cytotoxicity (death-inducing effects) of the antiestrogen 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT) was significantly increased. 4-OHT is an active metabolite of tamoxifen commonly used for in vitro studies. A step-wise drug selection protocol, using 4-OHT as the selecting drug, established antiestrogen-resistant breast cancer cell lines. Analysis of a representative resistant cell line showed an increased ability of the cells to sustain high levels of antiestrogen-induced autophagy without progression to death. Importantly, blockade of autophagosome function in the 4-OHT-treated, antiestrogen-resistant cells induced a robust death response. These data provide strong evidence that autophagy is a key mechanism of cell survival during antiestrogen challenge and progression to antiestrogen resistance. We discuss the potential benefit of blocking autophagosome function to significantly reduce the emergence of antiestrogen-resistant breast cancer cells.
Individuals with impaired glucose tolerance have increased proinsulin levels, despite normal glucose or C-peptide levels. In the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), increased proinsulin levels predicted type 2 diabetes and proinsulin levels were significantly reduced following treatment with metformin, lifestyle modification or troglitazone compared with placebo. Genetic and physiological studies suggest a role for the zinc transporter gene SLC30A8 in diabetes risk, possibly through effects on insulin-processing in beta cells. We hypothesised that the risk allele at the type 2 diabetes-associated missense polymorphism rs13266634 (R325W) in SLC30A8 would predict proinsulin levels in individuals at risk of type 2 diabetes and may modulate response to preventive interventions.
We genotyped rs13266634 in 3,007 DPP participants and examined its association with fasting proinsulin and fasting insulin at baseline and at 1 year post-intervention.
We found that increasing dosage of the C risk allele at SLC30A8 rs13266634 was significantly associated with higher proinsulin levels at baseline (p = 0.002) after adjustment for baseline insulin. This supports the hypothesis that risk alleles at SLC30A8 mark individuals with insulin-processing defects. At the 1 year analysis, proinsulin levels decreased significantly in all groups receiving active intervention and were no longer associated with SLC30A8 genotype (p = 0.86) after adjustment for insulin at baseline and 1 year. We found no genotype × treatment interactions at 1 year.
In prediabetic individuals, genotype at SLC30A8 predicts baseline proinsulin levels independently of insulin levels, but does not predict proinsulin levels after amelioration of insulin sensitivity at 1 year.
Studies on serial liver biopsies from 25 patients with methotrexate-induced liver cirrhosis, taken from 1 to 13 years after cirrhosis was established, confirm that this type is not of aggressive nature. When evaluated blind no progression was found in most of the later biopsies. Alcohol and previous use of hepatotoxic drugs such as the combination of arsenics and vitamin A seem to have been contributing factors to cirrhosis formation.
We describe a patient in whom procainamide induced the appearance of late potentials during intraoperative sinus rhythm electrogram mapping. Only nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) could be induced while off all antiarrhythmic drugs. After administration of the procainamide, programmed stimulation induced sustained VT coincident with the appearance of late potentials during sinus rhythm. The late potential was recorded from the same site, during normal sinus rhythm, where mid to late diastolic activation during VT was recorded, and where cryotermination occurred during cryomapping. We hypothesize that procainamide slowed conduction, manifested as prolongation or appearance of late potentials in sinus rhythm, and facilitated induction of sustained reentrant ventricular tachycardia.
Three patients complained of proximal weakness and paraesthesia of the legs and difficulties in walking during amiodarone treatment. Examination showed signs of a predominantly distal sensory neuropathy, a proximal myopathy, and a cerebellar gait disorder. All had amiodarone dosages of 600 mg per day, amiodarone serum levels above 2.7 mg/l and a total amount of amiodarone ingestion of 300 to 500 g. The clinical symptoms subsided within six to eleven months after treatment was stopped.
The neurophysiologic investigations showed slowing of sensory and motor nerve conduction velocities with dissociation of the action potentials and delay of SEP latencies. With discontinuation of the drug these abnormalities were progressive in one patient. The biopsy (muscle, nerve and skin) in the most severely affected patient showed numerous intracellular lysosomal inclusions in cells of different tissues. It is supposed that the storage of amiodarone in muscle cells results in a predominantly proximal myopathy whereas storage in Schwann cells results in a secondary neuropathy. A similar storage in Purkinje cells may be responsible for the cerebellar gait disorder.
The clinical picture should be termed a neurotoxic amiodarone syndrome rather than amiodarone neuropathy.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists have beneficial effects on impaired fibrinolytic activity of hypertensive patients. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of antialdosterone treatment on impaired fibrinolysis of hypertensive patients.
Fourteen hypertensive outpatients and 14 normotensive healthy volunteers participated in this study. Blood samples for plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) antigen and tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) antigen were obtained at baseline in all patients and control subjects. Then all hypertensive patients used spironolactone 50 mg/day for a week. Blood samples were again obtained after a week of spironolactone treatment.
The mean basal plasma level of PAI-1 of hypertensive patients was higher than those of the normotensive control group (60.98 +/- 4.2 vs. 24.09 +/- 1.61 ng/ml, p < 0.01) The mean basal t-PA level was similar in the hypertensive and control subjects (7.49 +/- 0.65 vs. 8.78 +/- 0.92 ng/ml, p > 0.05). The mean PAI-1 level decreased after a week of spironolactone treatment (60.98 +/- 4.2 vs. 42.99 +/- 7.98 ng/ml, p < 0.05). The mean plasma t-PA level of hypertensive patients increased after spironolactone treatment (7.49 +/- 0.65 vs. 11.09 +/- 1.33 ng/ml, p < 0.05).
This study shows that spironolactone improves impaired fibrinolysis in systemic hypertension. It provides evidence for a direct link between aldosterone and the fibrinolytic system in humans.
Transitory blindness is described in a diabetic patient with typical ethanol- and phenethylbiguanide induced lactic acidosis. The blindness developed in the course of 8 hours, but the vision returned during treatment with iv bicarbonate, insulin and glucose. The condition is discussed in relation to a presumed inhibition of the oxidative metabolism in the retina.
The teratogenic effects of lead acetate (Trial 1) and the possible teratogenic effect of this compound administered in combination with a fungicide containing 80% mancozeb (Trial 2) were studied in rats. The test substances were administered by gavage on Days 6-15 of gestation. In Trial 1, five groups were treated with lead acetate administered at doses of 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, 10.0 and 1000.0 mg/kg body weight (bwkg), respectively. In Trial 2, lead acetate was applied at doses of 0.1, 10.0 and 1000.0 mg/bwkg, respectively. In the latter case the dose of the pesticide was 750 mg/bwkg in all treated groups. Lead acetate was not teratogenic after a single administration. Combined administration of lead acetate and mancozeb gave rise to the following toxic effects: average maternal weight decreased during pregnancy, the ratio of live fetuses decreased after the two lowest doses, and fetal mortality increased in the lowest and in the highest dose groups. The ratio of fetal resorption was higher in all the treated groups than in the control group. A significant decrease occurred in average fetal and placental weight in each treated group as compared to the control. Maternal toxicity was expressed in paralysis of the hindlimbs in the two lowest dose groups. Maternal mortality was between 16.7 and 23.3% at the three dose levels. Phocomelia and hernia cerebri occurred as characteristic fetal developmental anomalies in all the treated groups. It is concluded that the joint administration of lead acetate and a mancozeb-containing fungicide can cause maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity and characteristic teratogenic effects.
A single administration of a low dose of nicotine produced hyperactivity in mice. A repeated administration of nicotine developed reverse tolerance to the ambulation-accelerating activity of nicotine and also developed postsynaptic dopamine (DA) receptor supersensitivity. The development of reverse tolerance was evidenced by an increased ambulatory response to nicotine, and the development of postsynaptic DA receptor supersensitivity was evidenced by the enhanced response in ambulatory activity to apomorphine, a DA receptor agonist. Administration of ginseng total saponin (GTS) prior to and during the nicotine treatment in mice inhibited not only nicotine-induced hyperactivity and reverse tolerance, but also postsynaptic DA receptor supersensitivity in nicotine-induced reverse tolerant mice. These results suggest that inhibition by GTS of nicotine-induced hyperactivity and reverse tolerance may be closely related with the inhibition of the dopaminergic activation induced by nicotine and that the development of nicotine-induced reverse tolerance may be associated with enhanced DA receptor sensitivity.
In humans, reflex sympathetic nerve activation modulates the direct cardiac action of nifedipine after systemic administration and results in a positive chronotropic and inotropic response. The coronary hemodynamic and metabolic effects of nifedipine were evaluated after propranolol-induced acute beta-receptor blockade in 12 patients with angiographically documented coronary artery disease. The intravenous injection of propranolol led to a decrease in heart rate, coronary blood flow and myocardial oxygen consumption and an increase in coronary vascular resistance and the coronary arteriovenous oxygen difference. Mean aortic pressure did not change. The subsequent intravenous administration of nifedipine resulted in a transient increase in coronary blood flow and a reduction in coronary vascular resistance and the coronary arteriovenous oxygen difference and a sustained decrease in mean aortic pressure and myocardial oxygen consumption without significant changes in heart rate. Thus, in the presence of beta-receptor blockade, the positive chronotropic response to nifedipine is attenuated and nifedipine reduces myocardial oxygen consumption significantly. The vasodilatory effect of nifedipine is maintained and a potential propranolol-related inappropriate vasoconstriction may be reversed. The combination of nifedipine and beta-receptor blocking agents may be useful in the treatment of patients with both effort-induced angina and angina related to changes in coronary vasomotor tone.
