The chemokine receptor CXCR4 regulates cell migration during ontogenesis and disease states including cancer and inflammation. Upon stimulation by the endogenous ligand CXCL12, CXCR4 becomes phosphorylated at multiple sites in its C-terminal domain. Mutations in the CXCR4 gene affecting C-terminal phosphorylation sites are a hallmark of WHIM syndrome, a genetic disorder characterized by a gain-of-CXCR4-function. To better understand how multi-site phosphorylation of CXCR4 is organized and how perturbed phosphorylation might affect CXCR4 function, we developed novel phosphosite-specific CXCR4 antibodies and studied the differential regulation and interaction of three C-terminal phosphorylation sites in human embryonic kidney cells (HEK293). CXCL12 promoted a robust phosphorylation at S346/347 which preceded phosphorylation at S324/325 and S338/339. After CXCL12 washout, the phosphosites S338/339 and S324/325 were rapidly dephosphorylated whereas phosphorylation at S346/347 was long-lasting. CXCL12-induced phosphorylation at S346/347 was staurosporine-insensitive and mediated by GRK2/3. WHIM syndrome-associated CXCR4 truncation mutants lacking the S346/347 phosphosite and the recently identified E343K WHIM mutant displayed strongly impaired phosphorylation at S324/325 and S338/339 as well as reduced CXCL12-induced receptor internalization. Relevance of the S346-S348 site was confirmed by a S346-348A mutant showing strongly impaired CXCL12-promoted phosphorylation at S324/325 and S338/339, defective internalization, gain of calcium mobilization, and reduced desensitization. Thus, the triple serine motif S346-S348 contains a major initial CXCR4 phosphorylation site and is required for efficient subsequent multi-site phosphorylation and receptor regulation. Hierarchical organization of CXCR4 phosphorylation explains why small deletions at the extreme CXCR4 C terminus typically associated with WHIM syndrome severely alter CXCR4 function.
Two hundred and two patients undergoing elective surgery were given either atropine (98 patients) or glycopyrrolate (104 patients) for intravenous premedication and as an adjunct to reversal of neuromuscular block by neostigmine in a double-blind study. The dose ratio of atropine and glycopyrrolate was 2.5:1. After reversal, both drugs induced an initial increase and a subsequent decrease in heart rate. The mean values in % heart rate were statistically significantly higher in the glycopyrrolate group than in the atropine group. Semiquantitative measurement of salivation showed glycopyrrolate to be more potent as an antisialogogue drug. Nausea and vomiting were equally common after both drugs. There were no differences between the drugs in the occurrence of postoperative micturition difficulties, the total rate of this complication being 18%. It is concluded that factors other than the choice of anticholinergic drug may be blamed for postoperative micturition difficulties.
Structural deficiencies within limbic and prefrontal regions may contribute to the characteristic drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors that prevail in persons dependent on cocaine. To date, a focal structural analysis of the brains of cocaine patients has not been undertaken.
We used voxel based morphometry in conjunction with statistical parametric mapping on the structural magnetic resonance images of cocaine-dependent (n = 13) and cocaine-naive individuals (n = 16) to assess differences between the two groups in gray and white matter concentration.
We report a decrease in gray matter concentration in the ventromedial orbitofrontal, anterior cingulate, anteroventral insular, and superior temporal cortices of cocaine patients in comparison to controls (p <.01 corrected for multiple comparisons). The average percentage decrease in gray matter concentration within a region ranged from 5% to 11%. White matter concentration did not differ between groups.
We conclude that the brains of cocaine patients are structurally dissimilar from those of nondrug-using controls. The differences were detected in regions involved in decision-making, behavioral inhibition and assignation of emotional valence to environmental stimuli and, hence, may contribute to some of the behavioral deficits characteristic of chronic cocaine users.
The most important factor determining the speed with which isoniazid is eliminated from the body is the rate of its acetylation in the liver. There are large differences between individuals in the rates at which isoniazid is acetylated. Over 98% of subjects can be clearly characterized as being either rapid of slow acetylators. Among the many satisfactory procedures for determining the acetylator phenotype of subjects, the simple sulphamethazine method is probably the most convenient. The proportions of rapid acetylators among different populations vary from about 40% among those of European and South Indian descent to over 85% among Japanese and Eskimos. The isoniazid acetylator phenotype of tuberculosis patients treated with isoniazid-containing regimens is without prognostic significance when treatment is given daily and only of doubtful importance when weak twice-weekly regimens are employed. However if treatment is given on a once-weekly basis, the response of rapid acetylators is generally much less satisfactory than that of slow acetylators. Since isoniazid is eliminated from the body predominantly by metabolism its clearance is not greatly diminished in the event of renal failure. As a consequence there are no grounds for reducing the dosage of isoniazid given to patients with impaired renal function. The incidence of the commonly encountered asymptomatic increases in serum transaminases associated with isoniazid treatment is similar in rapid and slow acetylators. Clinically important hepatic toxicity manifested by jaundice only occurs in 1-2% of patients treated with isoniazid-containing regimens. Despite earlier suggestions to the contrary, it is no more common in rapid than among slow acetylators. Since all patients can be treated effectively and safely with standard isoniazid dosages, determining patients' isoniazid serum/plasma levels or acetylator phenotype is hardly ever worthwhile. By contrast, since poor patient compliance is a major cause of therapeutic failure, monitoring the regularity with which patients self-administer their prescribed isoniazid treatment using simple urine-test methods can be of considerable value.
A forty-eight year-old male with amoebic liver abscess became encephalopathic 3 days following oral metronidazole. Withdrawal of the drug led to prompt resolution of all encephalopathic symptoms.
Food poisoning caused by other Bacillus species than B. cereus has been described, but the toxins involved have rarely been isolated. Endospores will survive heat treatment and will germinate and multiply in cooked foods producing toxins under appropriate conditions. We describe a small food poisoning outbreak where three people became ill after a dinner in a Chinese restaurant. Acute symptoms including dizziness, headache, chills and back pain developed during the meal, and a few hours later they got stomach cramps and diarrhoea which lasted for several days. Cooked, reheated rice was the prime suspect of the food poisoning, and from the rice large numbers of Bacillus pumilus were isolated. The isolated B. pumilus strain was found to produce a complex of lipopeptides known as pumilacidins with the highest amounts produced at 15 degrees C. This is the first report on isolation of a pumilacidin-producing B. pumilus strain from food implicated in food poisoning and characterization of the organism and the toxin complex involved.
Fulvestrant (ICI 182, 780) is a selective estrogen receptor downregulator (SERD) and potent antiestrogen. In estrogen receptor-alpha-positive ERalpha(+) breast cancer, the drug immobilizes ERalpha in the nuclear matrix, inducing receptor polyubiquitination and subsequent degradation via the 26S proteasome. We previously reported that fulvestrant-induced ERalpha degradation depends on the interaction of ERalpha with cytokeratins 8 and 18 (CK8/CK18). Here we further investigate the role of these two cytokeratins in the antagonistic activity of the SERD. Using ER-responsive reporter assays, we demonstrate greater antiestrogenic activity of fulvestrant in CK8/CK18(+) vs. CK8/CK18(-) cancer cells and loss of CK8/CK18 expression was observed in a breast cancer cell model for acquired fulvestrant resistance. In contrast, the presence of CK8/CK18 had no effect on the antiestrogenic activity of 4-hydroxytamoxifen, which was unable to induce an interaction between these CKs and ERalpha. By utilizing the ligand activity inversion ERalpha mutant L540Q to further examine the mechanism of fulvestrant action, we demonstrate that the ERalpha mutant does not interact with CK8/CK18 in the presence of fulvestrant and L540Q is not immobilized to the nuclear matrix after antiestrogen treatment. In transcription assays, fulvestrant displayed agonist activity, stimulating L540Q-mediated gene expression. In addition, fulvestrant did not induce an ERbeta interaction with CK8/CK18 and subsequent ERbeta degradation. Collectively, these results suggest that CK8/18 play an important role in the antiestrogenic action of fulvestrant in breast cancer cells and that these two cytokeratins could serve as prognostic markers for SERD therapy response in breast cancer patients.
Prostate cancer is a significant public health problem in this country. Substantial data support a plausible role for androgens in the etiology of this disease. The human HSD17B3 gene encodes the testicular (or type III) 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme, which catalyzes testosterone biosynthesis in men.
We have investigated the G289S (glycine at codon 289 replaced by serine) polymorphism at the HSD17B3 locus as a candidate single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) for prostate cancer risk in constitutional DNA from 103 Italian prostate cancer patients and 109 Italian disease-free centenarians to assess the role of this SNP in susceptibility to prostate cancer.
The G289S polymorphism confers a significant increase in risk for prostate cancer (odds ratio = 2.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.03-6.07) in our study population.
Our data are consistent with a plausible role of the G289S SNP in prostate cancer susceptibility. Therefore, the HSD17B3 gene may be a plausible candidate gene for prostate cancer risk.
Perinatal exposure to bisphenol A (BPA), a widely distributed environmental endocrine disruptor, is associated with insulin resistance and diabetes in offspring. The underlying molecular mechanisms could involve epigenetics, as adverse effects induced by environmental exposure in early life are suggested through DNA methylation. In this study we sought to elucidate the relationship between perinatal BPA exposure and alteration of hepatic DNA methylation.
Pregnant Wistar rats were administered BPA (50 μg/kg/day) or corn oil by oral gavage throughout gestation and lactation. Variables associated with insulin resistance and hepatic DNA methylation were examined at postnatal week 3 and week 21 in male offspring.
In BPA-treated offspring, serum insulin and HOMA-insulin resistance were increased, and the insulin sensitivity index and hepatic glycogen storage were decreased compared with controls at week 21. At week 3, none of these variables were significantly changed. However, hepatic global DNA methylation was decreased, accompanied by overexpression of DNA methyltransferase 3B mRNA at week 3. Meanwhile, perinatal exposure to BPA induced promoter hypermethylation and a reduction in gene expression of hepatic glucokinase. Moreover, increased promoter hypermethylation of Gck became more pronounced in BPA-treated offspring at week 21.
Abnormal DNA methylation in hepatic tissue precedes development of insulin resistance induced by perinatal BPA exposure. These findings support the potential role of epigenetics in fetal reprogramming by BPA-induced metabolic disorders.
We tested whether the alpha 1- and alpha 2-blocking agent phentolamine can be used to assess the contribution of alpha-adrenergic constriction in circulatory control. In 15 conscious dogs at rest, phentolamine (2 mg/kg i.v.) caused hypotension (-17 mm Hg mean arterial pressure), vasodilation (-29% total peripheral resistance), tachycardia, and an increase in cardiac output, oxygen consumption, and plasma catecholamines. Following beta-adrenoceptor blockade (2 mg/kg i.v. nadolol), phentolamine still produced hypotension and increased plasma catecholamine levels, but neither vasodilation nor augmented oxygen consumption. During beta-blockade, phentolamine caused a 28-fold decrease in the vasoconstrictor response to norepinephrine infusions. An equihypotensive dosage of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocking agent prazosin (1.2 mg/kg i.v.) did not elevate heart rate, cardiac output, plasma catecholamines, or oxygen consumption. The prazosin-induced vasodilation was not attenuated by prior beta-blockade, in contrast to the phentolamine-induced vasodilation. It is concluded that phentolamine increased catecholamine release by presynaptic alpha 2-blockade, thereby suppressing the autoinhibition of transmitter release. This excess of catecholamines causes a rise of oxygen consumption and vasodilation by beta-adrenergic stimulation. Under beta-blockade, this excess competitively counteracts the postsynaptic vascular alpha-blockade. The combination of pre- and postsynaptic effects invalidates the use of phentolamine in the assessment of alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstrictor tone.
Although a basic understanding of the chemical and biological events leading to idiosyncratic drug toxicity is still lacking, it appears that drug-independent risk factors that increase reactive metabolite formation or alter cellular stress and immune response may be critical determinants in the response to an otherwise non-toxic drug. Thus, we were interested to determine the impact of various drug-independent stress factors - lipopolysaccharide (LPS), poly I:C (PIC) or glutathione depletion via buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) - on the toxicity of diclofenac (Dcl), a model drug associated with rare but significant cases of serious hepatotoxicity, and to understand if enhanced toxicity occurs through alterations of drug metabolism and/or modulation of stress response pathways. Co-treatment of rats repeatedly given therapeutic doses of Dcl for 7 days with a single dose of LPS 2h before the last Dcl dose resulted in severe liver toxicity. Neither LPS nor diclofenac alone or in combination with PIC or BSO had such an effect. While it is thought that bioactivation to reactive Dcl acyl glucuronides (AG) and subsequent protein adduct formation contribute to Dcl induced liver injury, LC-MS/MS analyses did not reveal increased formation of 4'- and 5-hydroxy-Dcl, Dcl-AG or Dcl-AG dependent protein adducts in animals treated with LPS/Dcl. Hepatic gene expression analysis suggested enhanced activation of NFκB and MAPK pathways and up-regulation of co-stimulatory molecules (IL-1β, TNF-α, CINC-1) by LPS/Dcl and PIC/Dcl, while protective factors (HSPs, SOD2) were down-regulated. LPS/Dcl led to extensive release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IFN-γ, TNF-α) and factors thought to constitute danger signals (HMGB1, CINC-1) into plasma. Taken together, our results show that Dcl enhanced the inflammatory response induced by LPS - and to a lesser extent by PIC - through up-regulation of pro-inflammatory molecules and down-regulation of protective factors. This suggests sensitization of cells to cellular stress mediated by non-drug-related risk factors by therapeutic doses of Dcl, rather than potentiation of Dcl toxicity by the stress factors.
Studies have found that ingestion of aristolochic acid (AA) causes nephropathy first by inducing renal tubular cell apoptosis acutely. It is currently unknown whether crosstalk between autophagy and apoptosis orchestrates the fate of tubular cells in acute AA nephropathy. We tested this hypothesis by acute administration of AA in vivo and in vitro. Autophagy was first induced in vivo through enhancing Atg5 and LC3-II expressions in kidneys of AA-I-treated rats. Punctuate LC3-GFP dots and autophagosomes were detected in this acute AA-I nephropathy rat model. We subsequently utilized normal rat renal proximal tubular epithelial cells (NRK52E) to study the autophagy mechanisms involved in acute AA-I nephropathy, with 100μM AA-I (median lethal dose 50) given in vitro. Cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), nuclear condensation, and fragmentation were demonstrated in the AA-I-treated NRK52E cells. Furthermore, AA-I induced Atg5 and LC3-II expressions and punctuated LC3-GFP dots. Autophagy flux by using lysosome inhibitor E64 induced the accumulation of LC3-II, which further promoted apoptosis through enhancing PARP cleavage. Inhibition of autophagy by 3-methyl adenine also led to the attenuation of AA-I-induced apoptosis, manifesting as decreased PARP cleavage, nuclei condensation, and decreased the number of cells negative for acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining. In addition, knockdown of Atg5 by short hairpin RNA attenuated LC3-II expression and PARP cleavage in NRK52E cells. Taken together, these findings suggested that the acute phase of AA-I-induced nephropathy is associated with induction of Atg5-dependent autophagy, which promotes renal tubular cell apoptosis.
A 46-year-old woman with Hodgkin's disease who underwent nonmyeloablative allogeneic stem cell transplantation developed cortical blindness, seizures, and left hemiparesis on day 100 while receiving tacrolimus (FK506) and prednisone for the treatment of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple changes, mainly in the bilateral occipital lobes, suggesting FK506-related leukoencephalopathy. These abnormalities improved after discontinuation of FK506. However, 3 days after the episode, cerebral hemorrhage in the left occipital lobe with perforation to the left subdural space occurred. Although FK506-induced leukoencephalopathy with cerebral hemorrhage is considered the more severe form of such leukoencephalopathy, the patient's neurological symptoms almost completely resolved and radiographic findings improved after discontinuation of FK506, tapering of methylprednisolone, and initiation of mycophenolate mofetil. FK506-related leukoencephalopathy is a rare complication after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Although the symptoms usually subside after discontinuation of FK506, therapeutic intervention in many cases may result in severe complications, including GVHD and vascular disease. We consider it important to use immunosuppressive agents without vascular endothelial toxicity for preventing the development of fatal GVHD after discontinuation of FK506.
We previously showed that the intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of 200mg/kg cyclophosphamide, an antitumoral agent, modified the behaviour of rats with cystitis induced by acrolein, a toxic urinary by-product of cyclophosphamide. This behaviour, (namely decreased breathing rate, closing of the eyes, and specific postures), was scored to indirectly assess the nociception elicited by the cystitis and to use this experimental model as a vesical pain model. Here we investigated the involvement of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and thus of the excitatory amino acid system in this model. We administered dizocilpine (0.01 to 0.1mg/kg intravenously (i.v.) and 1 to 20 microg/rat intrathecally (i.t.)) and ketamine (5 and 10mg/kg i.v. and 50 to 1000 microg/rat i.t.), two non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists that bind to the channel site, and AP-5 (0.01 to 1mg/kg i.v. and 20 to 500 microg/rat i.t), a competitive antagonist that binds to the glutamate site. Whichever the route of administration (i.v. or i.t.), dizocilpine dose-relatedly reduced the behavioural disorders induced by cyclophosphamide. Systemic ketamine also dose-dependently, though transiently, reduced the effects of cyclophosphamide, but ketamine i.t. and AP-5 i.v. and i.t. did not induce any reduction of these effects.These results (i) demonstrate that in the cyclophosphamide-induced vesical pain model NMDA receptors are involved in the nociception, as shown by the effects of dizocilpine and systemic ketamine, (ii) reveal marked differences in the data obtained with various NMDA receptor antagonists, possibly due to their physicochemical properties, to the animal pain model used, to the noxious stimulus applied or to any combination of these factors.
Endogenous catecholamines in excess are known to cause dilated cardiomyopathy. A patient presented with dilated cardiomyopathy after many years of overusing an adrenaline inhaler. Pathological features and a considerable improvement in myocardial function after withdrawal implicated the exogenous catecholamine excess in the pathogenesis of the cardiomyopathy.
Intracardiac electrophysiological effects and antiarrhythmic activity of novel domestic class III antiarrhythmogenic drug niferidil has been studied in a group of 25 patients with paroxismal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) diagnosis. The drug was administered in a dose of 20 mg/kg (i.v.). Niferidil injections increased the refractory periods in both right and left atrium (by 22 and 20%, respectively, p < 0.001), right ventricle (12%, p < 0.01), and the His-Purkinje system (34%, p < 0.001) and improved additional anterograde and retrograde conduction (by 22 and 31%, respectively, p < 0.001), while not influencing the conduction via excitable cardiac tissues. Elongation of the QTc interval (22%, p <0.05) in one case was accompanied by an arrythmogenic effect (induction of short-term polymorphous ventricular tachycardia of the "torsade de pointes" type. Niferidil arrested PSVT in 78% cases and prevented PSVT development in response to endocardial stimulation in 86% of patients.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR), or congenital aganglionic megacolon, is the most common cause of congenital bowel obstruction with an incidence of 1 in 5000 live births. HSCR may be inherited as a single gene disorder with reduced penetrance or as a multigenic trait. HSCR mutations have been identified in the RET receptor tyrosine kinase, endothelin-B receptor (EDNRB) and its physiological ligand, endothelin 3 (EDN3). Although RET's ligand has remained elusive, it is expected to be an extracellular neurotrophic molecule expressed in the developing gut and kidney mesenchyme, based on the phenotypes of intestinal aganglionosis and renal agenesis observed in homozygous RET knockout (Ret -/-) mice. The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is such a molecule. Recently, mice carrying two null alleles for Gdnf were shown to exhibit phenotypes remarkably similar to Ret-/- animals. We screened 106 unrelated HSCR patients for mutations in GDNF by direct sequencing. We identified one familial mutation in a HSCR patient with a known de novo RET mutation and malrotation of the gut. No haplotype sharing was evident in any of 36 HSCR kindreds typed for microsatellite markers surrounding GDNF on human chromosome 5p. Our data suggest that GDNF is a minor contributor to human HSCR susceptibility and that loss of its function in enteric neurogenesis may be compensated for by other neurotrophic factors or via other pathways. However, it may be that in rare instances, RET and GDNF mutations act in concert to produce an enteric phenotype.
This unit describes methods for inducing autoimmune disease in Brown Norway rats through HgCl(2) injections as well for assessing parameters that characterize the disease by serum IgE concentration assays, anti-laminin antibody measurement, and renal immunofluorescence studies to detect autoantibodies. Also covered are disease induction using autoreactive CD4(+) T(H)2 anti-self MHC class II molecules and preparation of T cell lines. IL-4 is produced very early after the first HgCl(2) injection (beginning at day 3, peaking at day 14, and continuing up to day 30). Thus, IL-4 mRNA expression may be detected in spleen and lymph nodes from HgCl(2)-injected BN rats. The fact that HgCl(2) induces in vitro mRNA IL-4 gene expression in normal BN T cells but not in LEW T cells is probably crucial to susceptibility to the development of autoimmunity in the sense that it may condition the development of autoreactive T cells into pathogenic T(H)2 cells; a test for this condition is therefore also included.
A 43-year-old woman with a history of cocaine abuse presented with decreased mental responsiveness and cyanosis of the extremities several hours after repeated use of "crack" cocaine. She developed bilateral hand compartment syndrome requiring emergency fasciotomy and gangrene of both hands and legs despite anticoagulant and antithrombotic therapy. Digital and above-knee amputations were performed. There was no evidence of an autoimmune disorder or vasculitis on laboratory evaluation and tissue histology. Peripheral vasospasm may have been the mechanism of toxicity in this case, and the use of intravenous vasodilators should be considered as potential additional therapy.
To assess efficacy and safety of warfarin therapy and its combination with low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) in antiphospholipid syndrome (APS).
The trial enrolled 60 APS patients. They were divided into two groups: group 1 (n = 39) on antithrombotic therapy with warfarin; group 2 (n = 21) on combined therapy with warfarin and ASA. Efficacy of the treatments was assessed by the number and frequency of thrombosis recurrences and transient ischemic attacks (TIA) while safety was evaluated by frequency and number of hemorrhages during the study. Genetic variants of cytochrome P450 (CYP2C9*1, CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3) were studied in 30 patients (25 females, 5 males) with APS. CYP2C9 gene genetic variants were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restrictase analysis.
The thrombosis rate was 19.6 per 100 man-day, TIA rate was not less than 8 per 100 man-day, total rate of thrombotic complications (thromboses and TIA) before warfarin individual dose adjustment--27.6 per 100 man-day. Doses of anticoagulant were adjusted and the patients on treatment were followed up for 15.7 months, on the average. For this period thrombosis occurred in 6 cases (7.6 per 100 man-day), TIA also in 6 cases (7.6 per 100 man-day). This corresponded to thrombotic complications rate 15.1 per 100 man-year. Hemorrhages (major and minor) occurred in 19 (48.7%) patients of group 1 and in 13 (61.9%) patients of group 2 (p = 0.33). Total rate of CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 carriage was 36.7%. The CYP2C9*2 variant was detected in 7 (23.3%) patients, who were all heterozygous carriers. The CYP2C9*3 variant was seen in 4 (13.3%) patients: 3 heterozygous and 1 homozygous. Females of reproductive age with mutations had more frequent menorrhagies than carriers of a wild-type variant. Patients with CYP2C9*3 had also more frequent nasal hemorrhages and gingival bleeding (p = 0.005) compared to carriers of CYP2C9*1 and CYP2C9*2. Episodes of MHO rise > 5.0 in warfarin therapy were observed in 50% carriers of CYP2C9*3 and in none homozygous carriers of CYP2C9*1 (p = 0.024). CYP2C9*3 patients needed lower maintenance doses of warfarin, in CYP2C9*1 and CYP2C9*2 patients anticoagulant doses were comparable. CONCLUSION; Efficacy of warfarin for secondary prophylaxis of thrombosis was found similar to that of warfarin use in combination with low-dose ASA (MHO 2.0-3.0). Safety of monotherapy was higher. Determination of CYP2C9 genotype in APS patients before treatment with oral anticoagulants may help in planning individual policy and in reducing the risk of warfarin overdosage at the start of therapy.
Liu-Shen-Wan (LSW) is a widely-used traditional Chinese medicine containing realgar (As(4)S(4)).
Realgar has been included in many traditional medicines, and is often taken as arsenite for risk assessment in realgar-containing traditional remedies. Is realgar toxicologically similar to arsenite?
Mice were orally given LSW (60 and 200mg/kg; 200mg LSW contains 27 mg realgar), realgar (30 mg/kg, equivalent to 21 mg As/kg), and the equivalent As dose as sodium arsenite (NaAsO(2)), or as arsenate (Na(2)HAsO(4)). Acute toxicity and tissue As accumulation were determined 8h later.
Arsenite and arsenate increased serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, indicative of liver injury; blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was also increased by arsenite and arsenate, indicative of nephrotoxicity. No elevations of ALT and BUN were observed in LSW and realgar groups. Histopathology showed more damage in arsenite- and arsenate-treated liver and kidneys, while in realgar- and LSW- treated animals, only mild alterations were seen. Hepatic and renal As contents were dramatically increased to 6200 and 3350ng/g, respectively, after arsenite, but only increased to 260 and 180 ng/g after LSW. The expressions of arsenic-sensitive stress genes, namely metallothionein-1 and heme oxygenase-1, were increased after arsenite or arsenate by 3-10-folds, but were unaltered after LWS and realgar.
Realgar and LSW are much less toxic than arsenite and arenate. The use of total As content to evaluate the safety of realgar-containing traditional medicines is not scientifically sound.
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) has been associated to body mass index (BMI), weight, cholesterol and triglyceride levels. -116A (rs1126680) and K (A539T, 1615A, rs1803274) BCHE gene variants had previously been associated to BChE activity, weight and BMI variance in adults. The present study examined -116A and K variants, BChE activity, anthropometric and biochemical variables associated with obesity in adolescents (120 obese and 150 non-obese from Curitiba, Brazil). Both -116A and K variants were found with significantly lower frequencies (p<0.05) in obese adolescents when compared with non-obese adolescents and with the general population. Mean BChE activity (KU/L) was significantly higher in obese adolescents when compared with non-obese adolescents and with the general population. Analyzing only the obese adolescents, it was found that carriers of the -116A variant showed lower BChE activity and higher triglyceride levels than homozygotes for the usual allele. Indeed, obese carriers of the -116A variant had triglyceride levels considered high according to reference values for serum triglycerides in Brazilian adolescents. These results show: (1) a protective effect of -116A and K variants on juvenile obesity risk, suggesting a role for the BCHE gene on juvenile onset obesity different from that observed on adult onset obesity and (2) an association of the -116A variant with hypertriglyceridemia in obese adolescents probably because of its effect on lowering BChE activity and consequently diminishing the enzyme capability of maintaining homeostasis on lipid metabolism during the metabolic stress caused by obesity.
Cocaine addiction affects millions of people with disastrous personal and social consequences. Cocaine is one of the most reinforcing of all drugs of abuse, and even those who undergo rehabilitation and experience long periods of abstinence have more than 80% chance of relapse. Yet there is no FDA-approved treatment to decrease the likelihood of relapse in rehabilitated addicts. Recent studies, however, have demonstrated a promising potential treatment option with the help of the serum enzyme butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), which is capable of breaking down naturally occurring (-)-cocaine before the drug can influence the reward centers of the brain or affect other areas of the body. This activity of wild-type (WT) BChE, however, is relatively low. This prompted the design of variants of BChE which exhibit significantly improved catalytic activity against (-)-cocaine. Plants are a promising means to produce large amounts of these cocaine hydrolase variants of BChE, cheaply, safely with no concerns regarding human pathogens and functionally equivalent to enzymes derived from other sources. Here, in expressing cocaine-hydrolyzing mutants of BChE in Nicotiana benthamiana using the MagnICON virus-assisted transient expression system, and in reporting their initial biochemical analysis, we provide proof-of-principle that plants can express engineered BChE proteins with desired properties.
As end-stage renal disease (ESRD) has a four times higher incidence in African Americans compared to European Americans, we hypothesized that susceptibility alleles for ESRD have a higher frequency in the West African than the European gene pool. We carried out a genome-wide admixture scan in 1,372 ESRD cases and 806 controls and found a highly significant association between excess African ancestry and nondiabetic ESRD (lod score = 5.70) but not diabetic ESRD (lod = 0.47) on chromosome 22q12. Each copy of the European ancestral allele conferred a relative risk of 0.50 (95% CI = 0.39-0.63) compared to African ancestry. Multiple common SNPs (allele frequencies ranging from 0.2 to 0.6) in the gene encoding nonmuscle myosin heavy chain type II isoform A (MYH9) were associated with two to four times greater risk of nondiabetic ESRD and accounted for a large proportion of the excess risk of ESRD observed in African compared to European Americans.
The increased burden of chronic kidney and end-stage kidney diseases (ESKD) in populations of African ancestry has been largely unexplained. To identify genetic variants predisposing to idiopathic and HIV-1-associated focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), we carried out an admixture-mapping linkage-disequilibrium genome scan on 190 African American individuals with FSGS and 222 controls. We identified a chromosome 22 region with a genome-wide logarithm of the odds (lod) score of 9.2 and a peak lod of 12.4 centered on MYH9, a functional candidate gene expressed in kidney podocytes. Multiple MYH9 SNPs and haplotypes were recessively associated with FSGS, most strongly a haplotype spanning exons 14 through 23 (OR = 5.0, 95% CI = 3.5-7.1; P = 4 x 10(-23), n = 852). This association extended to hypertensive ESKD (OR = 2.2, 95% CI = 1.5-3.4; n = 433), but not type 2 diabetic ESKD (n = 476). Genetic variation at the MYH9 locus substantially explains the increased burden of FSGS and hypertensive ESKD among African Americans.
