Physostigmine caused myoclonus in two patients with Alzheimer's disease during a clinical trial. Neither patient had myoclonus before or after physostigmine treatment. We hypothesize that physostigmine reduced the sensitivity of the remaining muscarinic receptors in these two patients, altering the interaction between cholinergic and either serotoninergic or dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems.
We report that an environmental agent, bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane (CEM), caused cardiac toxicity in male and female F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice exposed to the chemical by dermal administration at doses of 0, 50, 100, 200, 400 or 600 mg/kg 5 days a week for up to 14 weeks. Treatment-related deaths occurred in 10/10 male and 10/10 female rats at 600 mg/kg, in 2/10 female rats at 400 mg/kg, and in 3/10 female mice at 600 mg/kg. The heart lesions were more severe in rats than mice, and more severe in females than males. In rats, the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) for the heart lesions was 200 mg/kg for males and 100 mg/kg for females; in mice, it was more than 600 mg/kg for males and 200 mg/kg for females. Multifocal, widespread vacuolization of the myocytes comprised the main morphological feature of the lesions, and only in rats was it accompanied by mononuclear cell infiltration, myocytic necrosis and atrial thrombosis. Hearts from male rats were immunohistochemically stained for troponin T (cTnT) protein. Loss of cytoplasmic cTnT correlated with histopathological damage only in the 600 mg/kg animals. CEM is metabolized to thiodiglycolic acid, a chemical that causes mitochondrial dysfunction. It is hypothesized that mitochondrial damage leads to the heart toxicity from bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane.
We investigated whether the effect of bezafibrate on progression of coronary atherosclerosis in the BEzafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT) was related to insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I and glucose-insulin homeostasis.
BECAIT, the first double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, serial angiographic trial of a fibrate compound, demonstrated that progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis in young patients after infarction could be retarded by bezafibrate treatment.
The treatment effects on serum concentrations of IGF-I and insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP)-1, as well as on basal and postload glucose and insulin levels, were examined, and on-trial determinations were related to the angiographic outcome measurements.
Bezafibrate treatment resulted in a significant reduction of serum IGF-I levels, both at two and five years, and on-trial serum IGF-I levels were directly related to changes in both minimal lumen diameter (r = 0.25, p < 0.05) and mean segment diameter (r = 0.29, p < 0.05). In contrast, none of the available indexes of insulin resistance (homeostasis model assessment estimate, basal and postload plasma insulin concentrations and serum IGFBP-1 levels) were related to the angiographic changes, nor were they significantly affected by bezafibrate treatment. Multiple stepwise regression analysis showed that the relation between on-trial serum IGF-I level and coronary artery disease (CAD) progression was independent of baseline angiographic score, age, body mass index, serum lipoprotein and plasma fibrinogen concentrations and measures of glucose-insulin homeostasis.
IGF-I could be implicated in the progression of premature CAD, and a reduction of serum IGF-I concentration could account partly for the effect of bezafibrate on progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis.
The sublethal effect of naphthalene (2.5, 5, and 10 mg L(-1)) was studied in an estuarine crab Scylla serrata with reference to macromolecular changes. Biotransformation enzymes such as cytochrome P450, cytochrome b(5), NADPH cytochrome P450 reductase, aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase, glutathione-S-transferase, and UDP-glucuronyl transferase were elevated in the hepatopancreas of naphthalene-exposed crabs in comparison with control. Remarkable amount of DNA damage and cell necrosis was observed in hepatopancreas, hemolymph, and ovary of the crabs exposed to naphthalene, when compared with control. For all the parameters studied, a concentration-dependent gradient of the changes was observed. The expression of DNA damage and cell necrosis suggests an increased production of oxidants during naphthalene metabolism.
Cyanobacterial (blue-green algal) blooms are one of the common consequences of the increasing eutrophication of surface waters. The production of cyanobacterial toxins and their presence in drinking and recreational waters represents a growing danger to human and animal health. Due to a lack of toxin standards and to resource limitations on the wide-scale use of analytical methods (e.g., high-performance liquid chromatography, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)) in cyanobacterial toxin monitoring, it is necessary to assess and to develop additional methods for their detection and estimation. Microbiotests using invertebrates offer a possible approach for the inexpensive and straightforward detection and assessment of cyanobacterial bloom toxicity. Three microbiotests with: Thamnocephalus platyurus, Daphnia magna, and Spirostomum ambiguum were examined with bloom samples containing hepatotoxic microcystin-LR and up to five additional microcystin variants. Two kinds of cyanobacterial bloom sample preparations were tested: crude extracts (CE) and purified extracts (PE). The highest toxicity was found when CE was used for microbiotests. The sensitivity of microorganisms decreased from S. ambiguum to T. platyurus and to D. magna. A statistically significant correlation was found between microcystin concentration and T. platyurus biotest, and between mouse bioassay and S. ambiguum results. Addition of Me2SO (1%, v/v) is a possible method to increase the sensitivity of the microorganisms for microcystin-LR.
Cetuximab (Cet), an anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) monoclonal antibody, is a standard of care in advanced head and neck (HN) cancer when combined with irradiation or cisplatin. The TPF association combining docetaxel (T), cisplatin (P) and fluorouracil (F) has become a chemotherapy of reference in the management of HN tumors. The aim of the study was to evaluate the anti-tumor activity of the association of Cet with TPF. In addition, the potential benefit from adding bevacizumab (Bev), an anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody, was examined.
Investigations were performed on CAL33 human head and neck cancer cell line (high content of EGFR) injected as an orthotopic xenograft into the mouth floor of nude mice. The anti-tumor efficacy of Cet (2.5 mg/kg), Bev (20 mg/kg) and of TPF (at the MTD: T 20 mg/kg, P 6 mg/kg, F 17 mg/kg), administered alone or in combination on day 3 and day 10 after tumor cell injection, was assessed on day 12 (animal sacrifice for ethical reasons, 10 animals per treatment group). Tumor volume, tumor histology, tumor cell proliferation (Ki67, immunochemistry) and apoptosis (Bcl2, immunochemistry) were examined.
As compared to controls, TPF-Cet and TPF-Cet-Bev had a significant impact on tumor volume and histological response. The highest efficacy was observed with the TPF-Cet combination. The effects of the TPF-Cet-Bev association were not significantly different from those observed with TPF-Cet. Data were corroborated by a diminution in Ki67 labeling and Bcl2 expression.
The association of Cet with TPF can be considered a beneficial clinical option in advanced HN cancer patients.
Snake venom is a complex mixture containing diverse protein components with different structures and functions that are used for prey immobilization and death. Snake venoms from the family Viperidae cause pronounced local and systemic effects, such as pain, edema, hemorrhage and necrosis. Here, we investigated the enzymatic and biological activities of venoms from two Amazonian snakes, Bothriopsis bilineata and Bothriopsis taeniata. Both venoms presented high enzymatic activities for proteases kallikrein, thrombin and plasmin, low levels of trypsin, cathepsin C and leucine aminopeptidase activities, while lacked acetylcholinesterase activity. B. taeniata and B. bilineata crude venoms caused inflammation inducing neutrophil recruitment into peritoneal cavity of mice 4h after injection. Neutrophil recruitment induced by B. taeniata venom was accompanied by hemorrhage. EDTA treatment profoundly impaired neutrophil recruitment, suggesting the involvement of a metalloproteinase on venoms-induced neutrophil recruitment. Pretreatment with dexamethasone and zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, significantly reduced neutrophil migration, but indomethacin and montelukast, a cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist, had no effect, suggesting the involvement of lipoxygenase-derived metabolites, probably LTB(4). Together, these results show that B. bilineata and B. taeniata venoms induce a marked inflammatory reaction, with leukocyte recruitment, and hemorrhage, which parallels to a high proteolytic activity found in these venoms.
Estradiol benzoate (EB) facilitates the acquisition and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior when administered to ovariectomized (OVX) rats. In contrast, progesterone (P) decreases acquisition of cocaine self-administration, but the effects of P on the reinstatement of drug seeking are not known. The purpose of the present study was to compare the effects of EB and P on the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in female rats. Rats received either OVX or sham surgery (SH) and were trained to lever press for intravenous cocaine infusions (0.4 mg/kg) under a fixed ratio 1, 20-s time-out schedule during daily 2-hr sessions. After 14 days of stable responding, saline replaced cocaine, and a 21-day extinction period began. After extinction, rats were separated into 5 treatment groups (OVX+EB, OVX+EB+P, OVX+vehicle [VEH], SH+P, or SH+VEH), and VEH, EB, or EB+P was administered 30 min prior to each session for 5 days. After 3 days of hormone treatment, rats received a saline or cocaine (10 mg/kg) injection, and reinstatement of lever responding was assessed. Reinstatement responding in the OVX+EB group was greater relative to the OVX+EB+P, SH+P, and OVX+VEH groups, which had low levels of cocaine-primed responding. The SH+VEH and OVX+EB groups displayed similar high levels of cocaine-elicited reinstatement. The suppression of cocaine-induced reinstatement following P treatment suggests a role for P in the prevention of relapse to cocaine self-administration in female cocaine users.
Estrogen increases and progesterone decreases the acquisition and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in female rats. Here estrogen and progesterone were studied for their effects on the escalation of cocaine self-administration in female rats. The rats received ovariectomy (OVX) or sham (SH) surgery and were treated with estradiol benzoate (0.05 mg/kg sc) and/or progesterone (0.5 mg/kg) or vehicle (indicated by E, P, and V), resulting in 5 groups: SH+V, SH+P, OVX+V, OVX+E, OVX+E+P. Rats self-administered intravenous cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) under a fixed ratio 1 (FR 1) schedule during 2-hr sessions and were then given 6-hr sessions (long access; LgA) (FR 1) for 21 days. After LgA, self-administration was reassessed with 2-hr sessions under the FR 1 and a progressive ratio schedule with 4 cocaine doses. There were no differences among the 5 groups in cocaine self-administration during initial 2-hr sessions. During LgA, the SH+V, OVX+E, and OVX+V groups escalated their cocaine self-administration, whereas the OVX+E+P and SH+P groups did not. Estradiol increased escalation in the OVX+E group compared with the OVX+V group, and progesterone (SH+P) reduced escalation compared with the SH+V group. When estrogen and progesterone were both administered in OVX rats (OVX+E+P), escalation was significantly lower than in the OVX+E group. Cocaine infusions during the 2-hr sessions were significantly higher after escalation than before in all groups except the progesterone-treated groups (SH+P and OVX+E+P). Estrogen promoted and progesterone inhibited escalation of cocaine self-administration, illustrating the importance of female gonadal hormones in drug-seeking behavior.
Melphalan is now being investigated as an intravenous (IV) bolus chemotherapeutic agent in children with resistant tumors involving the bone marrow. Two patients received 2 mg/kg melphalan, IV bolus; 10 patients received 1 mg/kg. Seven of the ten patients receiving 1 mg/kg had noticeable downward trends in the serum sodium concentrations, whereas both patients receiving 2 mg/kg developed hyponatremia (serum sodium concentration [SNa], mEq/l = 124-125) and inappropriate urinary sodium losses. Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SiADH) is a previously unreported complication of high dose bolus melphalan therapy.
A 69-year-old woman with Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesias had a deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrode inserted into the right globus pallidus internus (GPi). During the operation, the GPi was mapped with dual microelectrode recordings. Stimulation through one microelectrode in GPi inhibited the firing of GPi neurons recorded with another microelectrode 600--1,000 microm distant. The inhibition could be obtained with pulse widths of 150 micros and intensities as low as 10 microA. Single stimuli inhibited GPi neurons for approximately 50 ms. Trains of 300 Hz stimuli inhibited GPi neuron firing almost completely. Postoperatively, stimulation through macroelectrode contacts located in the posterior ventral pallidum controlled the patient's dyskinesias. The effect could be obtained with pulse widths of 50 micros and frequencies as low as 70--80 Hz. We postulate stimulation of the ventral pallidum controls dyskinesias by activating large axons which inhibit GPi neurons.
The efficacy and safety of ofloxacin in the treatment of upper and lower urinary tract infections were studied with the drug use according to 4 regimens by comparison with nitrofurantoin in the treatment of lower urinary tract infections and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole in the treatment of upper urinary tract infections. Ofloxacin was used in doses of 100 to 200 mg once or twice a day for 3, 5 and 10 days. In a separate group of 30 female patients with frequent recurring noncomplicated lower urinary tract infections ofloxacin was used in a dose of 50 mg once a day for 6 months. Ofloxacin was shown to be highly efficient in the treatment of medium and severe infections of the upper and lower urinary tracts. The following regimens were recommended: 200 mg once a day in the treatment of medium urinary tract infections, 100 mg twice a day for 3 to 7 days in the treatment of severe infections of the lower urinary tract and 200 mg twice a day for 7 to 10 days in the treatment of severe upper urinary tract infections. The use of ofloxacin in a daily dose of 50 mg for 6 months proved to be efficient in the treatment of frequent acute recurring infections of the urinary tracts.
To assess neurotoxic effects of hexachlorophene in the human population previously shown to be most at risk, a blind clinicopathological analysis was made of all premature infants under 1,400 gm birth weight who survived at least four days and were examined by autopsy over a 7.5-year period. Repeated whole-body bathing of premature newborn infants in 3% hexachlorophene-bearing soap (undiluted pHisoHex) shows a significant statistical association with a vacuolar encephalopathy of the brain stem reticular formation. The prevalence of the vacuolar encephalopathy in premature infants on whom we have adequate brain stem histological information appears to be related to the number of exposures to hexachlorophene, the concentration of hexachlorophene, the thoroughness of rinsing, and other factors (including exposure to ultraviolet light).
Recurrent oral and genital ulcers are the most frequent problem in the management of the Behçet syndrome. Uncontrolled experience suggests that thalidomide may help prevent recurrences of these ulcers.
To determine the efficacy of two thalidomide dosages in the treatment of mucocutaneous lesions of the Behçet syndrome.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Specialist outpatient clinic for the Behçet syndrome in Turkey.
96 male patients with the Behçet syndrome who primarily had mucocutaneous lesions without major organ involvement.
Thalidomide, 100 mg/d or 300 mg/d, or placebo for 24 weeks.
Sustained absence of any oral and genital ulceration during treatment (complete response) and changes in the number of mucocutaneous lesions. An additional evaluation was done 4 weeks after treatment ended.
A complete response occurred in 2 of the 32 patients (6% [95% CI, 0.8% to 20.8%]) receiving thalidomide, 100 mg/d; in 5 of the 31 patients (16% [CI, 5.5% to 33.7%]) receiving thalidomide, 300 mg/d; and in none of the 32 patients (0% [CI, 0% to 10.9%]) receiving placebo (P = 0.031). The suppressive effect of thalidomide with either dosage was evident at 4 weeks for oral ulcers (P < 0.001) and at 8 weeks for genital ulcers (P < 0.001) and follicular lesions (P = 0.008). This effect persisted during treatment but diminished rapidly after treatment was discontinued. Both thalidomide dosages led to significant increases in the number of erythema nodosum lesions during the first 8 weeks of treatment (P = 0.03). Polyneuropathy developed in 4 patients (1 in the 100-mg/d group and 3 in the 300-mg/d group); in 3 of these patients, the condition was diagnosed after the trial had ended.
Thalidomide is effective for treating the oral and genital ulcers and follicular lesions of the Behçet syndrome. A dosage of 100 mg/d is as effective as a dosage of 300 mg/day.
Young rats 6 to 22 days of age are extremely susceptible to the neurotoxic effects of hexachlorophene given as a daily bath of undiluted antiseptic detergent containing 3% hexachlorophene (pHiso-Hex). At this age, most rats are clinically and histologically damaged by as few as two daily baths. Younger rats are relatively resistant, probably because they have less myelin to be affected; older rats cannot be poisoned by this route, probably because the more mature liver excretes the drug more effectively. Age-dose-response curves in rats are similar to those in humans. This experimental model is potentially useful in defining other characteristics of this drug.
1. This study examined the effect of various antihypertensive agents on the development of polyarteritis nodosa lesions along the mesenteric artery system over a 10 week period after renal artery clipping in uninephrectomized rats (lKlC). 2. Of the agents, only hydralazine, enalapril and diltiazem significantly inhibited systolic blood pressure (SBP) rise over the 10 week period (P less than 0.001). 3. All agents except hydralazine reduced the severity of arteritic lesions compared with lKlC rats, but only with enalapril (P less than 0.001), nifedipine (P less than 0.001), diltiazem (P less than 0.005), propranolol (P less than 0.001) and reserpine (P less than 0.05) was this reduction statistically significant. 4. There was a positive correlation between the degree of arteritic change and SBP, but the correlation coefficient was neither high (r = 0.68) nor highly significant (P = 0.03, d.f. = 9). On examining the data, this was due on the one hand to nifedipine, propranolol and reserpine reducing the severity of lesions without significantly inhibiting SBP, and on the other to hydralazine reducing SBP without significantly affecting the extent of arteritic change. 5. These findings suggest that factors other than mere SBP alone are involved in the pathogenesis of these arteritic lesions.
The hemodynamic effects of a new transdermal preparation of nitroglycerin were evaluated in 9 patients with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF). A graded infusion of nitroglycerin was administered initially to establish the dose-response relation for nitroglycerin and estimate the dose of topical nitroglycerin to be applied. Significant hemodynamic improvement was observed 0.5 to 1.0 hour after the cutaneous application of the nitroglycerin-impregnated polymer. The peak effect occurred at 6 hours, with the left ventricular filling pressure decreasing from 24 +/- 2 to 18 +/- 1 mm Hg (mean +/- standard error of the mean) (p less than 0.01) and the cardiac index increasing from 2.0 +/- 0.2 to 2.6 +/- 0.2 liters/min/m2 (p less than 0.01). The systemic vascular resistance decreased from 1,860 +/- 198 to 1,531 +/- 162 dynes s cm-5 (p less than 0.01). Heart rate and mean arterial pressure were unchanged. Significant hemodynamic benefit was observed for 24 hours, and no rebound deterioration occurred upon withdrawal of the drug. The average dose of transdermal nitroglycerin applied was 51 +/- 6 cm2 (1.7 +/- 0.2 mg/kg; 6 of the 9 patients received 64 cm2). Thus, topical application of a new nitroglycerin-impregnated polymer induces an improvement in cardiac performance that is sustained for 24 hours in patients with chronic CHF. However, substantial doses of the drug may be required to produce a satisfactory hemodynamic response in most patients with CHF.
2 cases of mesenteric venous thrombosis in women taking oral contraceptives (48-year old gravida 5 taking norethindrone with mestranol for 10 years, a 33-year old gravida 2 taking Enovid and C-Quens since 1962 followed by norethindrone with mestranol 1 month prior to admission) were treated at the Jewish Hospital of St. Louis. Both patients had acute abdominal pain, vomiting, and bloody and diarrheal stools. In order to remove nonviable portions of the bowel which are viable at initail operation, 2 operations are necessary in the treatment of mesenteric venous thrombosis. Both of these patients underwent 2 operations and both had extensive segments of bowel removed. The post-operative courses of both patients were long (85 and 40 days respectively) and difficult. No predisposing or etiologic factor could be determined in either patient. A relationship of mesenteric venous thrombosis to oral contraceptives is suggested, but no definite causal relationship can be established.
The inhalation Toxicology Research Institute (ITRI) is conducting research to improve the understanding of chronic beryllium disease (CBD) and beryllium-induced lung cancer. Initial animal studies examined beagle dogs that inhaled BeO calcined at either 500 or 1000 degrees C. At similar lung burdens, the 500 degrees C BeO induced more severe and extensive granulomatous pneumonia, lymphocytic infiltration into the lung, and positive Be-specific lymphocyte proliferative responses in vitro than the 1000 degrees C BeO. However, the progressive nature of human CBD was not duplicated. More recently, Strains A/J and C3H/Hej mice were exposed to Be metal by inhalation. This produced a marked granulomatous pneumonia, diffuse infiltrates, and multifocal aggregates of interstitial lymphocytes with a pronounced T helper component and pulmonary in situ lymphocyte proliferation. With respect to lung cancer, at a mean lung burden as low as 17 micrograms Be/g lung, inhaled Be metal induced benign and/or malignant lung tumors in over 50% of male and female F344 rats surviving > or = 1 year on study. Substantial tumor multiplicity was found, but K-ras and p53 gene mutations were virtually absent. In mice, however, a lung burden of approximately 60 micrograms (-300 micrograms Be/g lung) caused only a slight increase in crude lung tumor incidence and multiplicity over controls in strain A/J mice and no elevated incidence in strain C3H mice. Taken together, this research program constitutes a coordinated effort to understand beryllium-induced lung disease in experimental animal models.
Minoxidil, a long-acting vasodilating antihypertensive agent, reduces arterial blood pressure by a direct action on arteriolar smooth muscle. The present studies examined the gross anatomic, histologic and ultrastructural myocardial alterations produced by 2 daily doses of minoxidil in beagle dogs (0.5, 1, or 3 mg/kg) and miniature swine (1, 3, or 10 mg/kg). Both myocardial necroses and hemorrhages were observed in dogs and pigs 24 hr after the last dose of minoxidil. In both species, the necroses were most frequent in the left ventricular papillary muscles, particularly the posterior one, but were less severe in swine. An ischemic origin of the necroses was suggested by the location of the lesions and by the pharmacologic effects of minoxidil. Gross epicardial or endocardial hemorrhages involving the atria and, to a lesser extent, the ventricles were observed in both species but were more severe in dogs. The atrial lesions were manifested grossly by diffuse redness and microscopically by interstitial edema, extravasated erythrocytes and infiltration of mononuclear cells. Hemorrhages, occurring on the epicardial surfaces, were often associated with lesions that involved small arteries having 3-6 layers of medial smooth muscle cells and were characterized by endothelial injury, intramural accumulations of erythrocytes and platelets, periadventitial hemorrhage, fibrin deposits and an inflammatory cell reaction. These lesions preferentially involved the right atrium in dogs and the left atrium in pigs. Pretreatment of beagle dogs with pyribenzamine (3 doses of 6 mg/kg every 8 hr), cimetidine (3 doses of 15 mg/kg every 8 hr), or both, had no effect on the incidence or severity of minoxidil-induced hemorrhagic lesions. The hemorrhagic lesions may be caused by overstretching of the vascular walls due to excessive, prolonged vasodilatation.
Our intent was to investigate the effect of the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker amlodipine on restenosis and clinical outcome in patients undergoing percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
Amlodipine has sustained vasodilatory effects and relieves coronary spasm, which may reduce luminal loss and clinical complications after PTCA.
In a prospective, double-blind design, 635 patients were randomized to 10 mg of amlodipine or placebo. Pretreatment with the study drug started two weeks before PTCA and continued until four months after PTCA. The primary angiographic end point was loss in minimal lumen diameter (MLD) from post-PTCA to follow-up, as assessed by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA). Clinical end points were death, myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass graft surgery and repeat PTCA (major adverse clinical events).
Angioplasty was performed in 585 patients (92.1%); 91 patients (15.6%) had coronary stents implanted. Follow-up angiography suitable for QCA analysis was done in 236 patients in the amlodipine group and 215 patients in the placebo group (per-protocol group). The mean loss in MLD was 0.30 +/- 0.45 mm in the amlodipine group versus 0.29 +/- 0.49 mm in the placebo group (p = 0.84). The need for repeat PTCA was significantly lower in the amlodipine versus the placebo group (10 [3.1%] vs. 23 patients [7.3%], p = 0.02, relative risk ratio [RR]: 0.45, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.22 to 0.91), and the composite incidence of clinical events (30 [9.4%] vs. 46 patients (14.5%), p = 0.049, RR: 0.65, CI: 0.43 to 0.99) within the four months follow-up period (intention-to-treat analysis).
Amlodipine therapy starting two weeks before PTCA did not reduce luminal loss, but the incidence of repeat PTCA and the composite major adverse clinical events were significantly reduced during the four-month follow-up period after PTCA with amlodipine as compared with placebo.
Primary adenocarcinoma of the vagina accounts for approximately 1% of all invasive carcinomas of the female genital tract. This paper reports on a study of four cases of primary adenocarcinoma (including one with in utero diethylstilbestrol exposure) of the vagina from the files of the Medical University of South Carolina. Both tissue sections and cytologic preparations from each case were evaluated in order to delineate the morphologic characteristics of the cells that compose the lesions. Histologically, the lesions primarily presented the tubular cystic pattern; solid and papillary growth patterns were also seen in one case. The constituent cells included clear cells, hobnail cells and secretory and nonsecretory tubular cystic cells. All specimens were examined for the following parameters: cell population, nuclear area, cytoplasmic area, nuclear/cytoplasmic (N/C) proportions, nuclear and cytoplasmic characteristics. While a fairly detailed profile of the morphologic criteria for hobnail cells was developed, the cellular profiles of the other malignant glandular cells originating in primary vaginal adenocarcinoma remain less certain.
To report a case of acute myopathy after concomitant use of colchicine and pravastatin.
A 65-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with an acute episode of gout. She had been taking pravastatin 20 mg once daily for 6 years. On admission, blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels were 48 mg/dL and 1.3 mg/dL, respectively. Colchicine 1.5 mg/day was added to the treatment regimen, but 20 days after the initiation of colchicine therapy, symmetrical proximal muscle weakness developed in the woman's legs. Physical examination, laboratory findings, and electromyelogram findings suggested myopathy. The Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between myopathy and combined therapy. Seven days after discontinuation of colchicine and pravastatin, the patient's weakness improved and enzyme levels returned to normal. Colchicine was restarted at 1.0 mg/day 5 days later; no myopathy occurred.
Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) and colchicine are known to cause myopathy. Most of the statins and colchicine are biotransformed in the liver primarily by the CYP3A4 system, which may increase the risk of myopathy when concurrent therapy is used. However, pravastatin is not primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 isoenzymes. The cause of myopathy in our patient may be related to the interaction of colchicine and pravastatin via P-glycoprotein. In addition, the presence of mild renal dysfunction could have contributed to the development of myopathy.
We suggest that clinicians be aware that neuromuscular toxicity can occur in patients with mild renal dysfunction with combined use of colchicine and pravastatin.
Previous work has shown that inhibitors of the predominantly vascular enzyme semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) potentiate the hypotensive response to hydralazine, itself a SSAO inhibitor, in anesthetized rats. The present study was carried out to determine whether the recently described suicide SSAO inhibitor 2-bromoethylamine shares this effect. Hypotensive responses to hydralazine, 0.1 mg/kg IV, were obtained in chloralose-urethane-anesthetized rats, either unpretreated or receiving bromoethylamine at different doses and pretreatment intervals. Parallel experiments were run with semicarbazide, the prototypical hydrazine SSAO inhibitor. Both inhibitors potentiated hydralazine hypotension, bromoethylamine having a longer latency and a shorter duration of action than semicarbazide. High doses of bromoethylamine did not produce potentiation, a phenomenon attributed to SSAO inactivation by excess substrate and decreased formation by the enzyme of the inhibitor product. Experiments with combined administration of both inhibitors were also carried out. When semicarbazide was administered before bromoethylamine, potentiaton was prevented, apparently by a mechanism similar to the above; when it was given after the amine, potentiation was increased. This was attributed to enzyme inhibition by interaction with 2 different active sites. The charactertistics of hydralazine potentiation by bromoethylamine were considered compatible with the mechanism of SSAO inhibition by the amine.
To report a case of acute myocardial infarction (MI) associated with the use of oral sildenafil in a nitrate-free patient.
A 45-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with acute left-sided chest pain, nausea, and vomiting that started approximately 30 minutes after taking sildenafil 100 mg before a sexual contact. The patient was diagnosed with an acute anterior MI, and therapy with aspirin, metoprolol, and unfractionated heparin was initiated. Early coronary reperfusion treatment with primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was performed after initial evaluation. Balloon angioplasty followed by coronary stenting was performed successfully in the 80%-occluded left anterior descending artery. The patient was discharged one week after the coronary intervention without complication.
Sildenafil-associated MI is rarely seen in patients without documented coronary artery disease. By inhibiting phosphodiesterase type 5, sildenafil can cause an increase in cyclic guanosine monophosphate levels, which mediates the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle in the corpus cavernosum. Although sildenafil can cause a major decline in systemic arterial pressure in the existence of organic nitrates, physicians should be aware of its adverse cardiovascular effects even in nitrate-free patients. The Naranjo probability scale indicates that sildenafil was the possible cause of the MI.
Sildenafil may rarely be associated with MI in patients with no known cardiac history. Physicians should be aware of this rare and serious adverse reaction to sildenafil and counsel patients not to take sildenafil before undergoing a complete physical evaluation and further testing if warranted.
Insensitivity to the nephrotoxic effects of gentamicin develops in F344 rats during the course of gentamicin-mediated acute renal failure. Functional and structural recovery occur thereafter in spite of continued gentamicin administration. To determine the degree of insensitivity, we compared structural and functional recovery of rats treated continuously with gentamicin to rats in which gentamicin was stopped after 14 days, at the height of dysfunction. Continued treatment did not reduce the rate or ultimate degree of recovery of structure, CIn, or in vitro renal cortical PAH uptake; however, both the rate and degree of recovery of NMN uptake were reduced in continuously treated animals. Furthermore, doubling the dose of gentamicin during the recovery period overcame insensitivity, causing a second episode of acute renal failure. The permanence of insensitivity was examined by re-treating rats 6 months after recovery from gentamicin-mediated acute renal failure. There was no evidence of residual resistance to gentamicin nephrotoxicity in these animals. These results indicate that although gentamicin insensitivity is substantial, it is not complete, as indicated by low-grade, ongoing tubular toxicity to the organic base transport system and sensitivity to higher doses of gentamicin. Furthermore, insensitivity is a transient phenomenon.
7 of 16 patients with rheumatoid arthritis in whom penicillamine glomerulonephritis had developed had been taking oral iron, usually without the knowledge of their hospital clinician, while the dose of penicillamine was being gradually increased to an effective level. In 4 patients glomerulonephritis had appeared after the patients had stopped iron, with proteinuria developing with 2-5 months of discontinuation. Chelation of penicillamine by iron in the gut reduces its absorption, and in these 4 patients toxicity only became apparent after iron was stopped and there was a sudden increase in penicillamine absorption.
HIV-associated wasting and weight loss remain clinically significant concerns even in the era of potent antiretroviral therapy. Although androgen treatment increases muscle mass, the cell-intrinsic mechanisms engaged remain poorly understood.
This study was an unbiased approach to identify expression profiles associated with testosterone treatment using genome-wide microarray analysis of skeletal muscle biopsies.
Forty-four HIV-positive men with weight loss were randomized to receive either 300 mg testosterone enanthate or placebo injections im weekly for 16 wk. Muscle biopsies were obtained at baseline and on treatment d 14. A subset of specimens was chosen for microarray analysis, with changes in selected genes confirmed by real-time PCR, Western blot analysis, and in vitro culture of muscle precursor cells.
Significantly greater gains in body mass (+2.05 and -1.07 kg, respectively; P = 0.003) and lean body mass by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (2.93 vs. 0.35 kg, respectively; P = 0.003) were observed in subjects treated with testosterone compared with placebo. Microarray analysis revealed up-regulation in genes involved in myogenesis and muscle protein synthesis, immune regulation, metabolic pathways, and chromatin remodeling. Representative genes were confirmed by real-time PCR and protein expression studies. In an independent analysis, gene networks that differentiate healthy young men from older men with sarcopenia had substantial overlap with those activated by testosterone treatment.
These data provide new insights into the mechanisms of androgen action and have implications for both development of muscle biomarkers and anabolic therapies for wasting and sarcopenia.
The results of comparative trials of fluoroquinolones for the treatment of uncomplicated and complicated urinary tract infections (UTI) were reviewed. Several randomized, comparative trials showed that in uncomplicated UTI norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, and ofloxacin were at least as effective as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) and amoxicillin and usually more effective than nalidixic acid, pipemidic acid, and nitrofurantoin. Comparative trials of single-dose regimens have, however, been limited. A few randomized, comparative trials have shown that in complicated UTI norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, and ofloxacin were at least as effective as amoxicillin and TMP-SMZ and usually more effective than pipemidic acid. Moreover, preliminary results indicate that fluoroquinolones might be effective for the oral treatment of complicated UTI that are difficult to treat, especially those due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Comparative trials are needed to establish the value of fluoroquinolones for chronic bacterial prostatitis. There are no conclusive data on fluoroquinolone treatment of UTI in patients with renal failure. Emergence of resistant pathogens during therapy with fluoroquinolones has been infrequent but might be more frequent in complicated UTI caused by P. aeruginosa.
