This report describes ventricular tachycardia, likely to have been torsade de pointes, following ingestion of the non-sedating antihistamine loratadine. Documentation of the arrhythmia was made possible by the automatic electrogram storage facility of an implanted defibrillator in a patient with no prior history of cardiac arrhythmia.
Capsiate and its dihydroderivatives are the major capsaicinoids of sweet pepper. These new capsaicinoids do not activate the vanilloid receptor type 1 (VR1) but they share with capsaicin (CPS)some biological activities mediated in a VR1-independent fashion. In this study we show that CPS and nordihydrocapsiate (CPT) inhibit early and late events in T cell activation, including CD69, CD25 and ICAM-1 cell surface expression, progression to the S phase of the cell cycle and proliferation in response to TCR and CD28 co-engagement. Moreover, both CPS and CPT inhibit NF-kappaB activation in response to different agents including TNF-alpha. CPS itself does not affect the DNA-binding ability of NF-kappaB but it prevents IkappaB kinase activation and IkappaBalpha degradation in a dose-dependent manner, without inhibiting the activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinases, p38, extracellular regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase. Moreover, intraperitoneal pretreatment with CPT prevented mice from lethal septic shock induced by lipopolysaccharide. In a second model of inflammation CPT pretreatment greatly reduced the extensive damage in the glandular epithelium observed in the bowel of DSS-treated mice. Taken together, these results suggest that CPT and related synthetic analogues target specific pathways involved in inflammation, and hold considerable potential for dietary health benefits as well as for pharmaceutical development.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common type of liver cancer. The risk of hepatocellular carcinoma for type 2 diabetic patients is greater than that for non-diabetic individuals although the mechanism is unclear. The cancer suppressor resveratrol inhibits cancer cell proliferation partly through the STAT3 signaling pathway. However, the effects of resveratrol on STAT3 in high glucose-exposed HepG2 cells and the role of SIRT1 are not clear to date. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of resveratrol on STAT3 and SIRT1 regarding the proliferation of high glucose-exposed HepG2 cells. HepG2 cells were cultured in DMEM containing glucose (2.8, 5.5 and 25 mM) and resveratrol (0, 10 and 100 µM). HepG2 cell proliferation and viability were analyzed by MTT assays. The levels of p-STAT3 and SIRT1 were analyzed by western blotting, and RT-PCR methods were used to detect the transcription levels of cyclin B1, cyclin D1, VEGF and MMP-9. SIRT1-specific short-interfering RNA was used to investigate the role of SIRT1 in p-STAT3 signaling. A high glucose concentration (25 mM) induced HepG2 cell proliferation. This effect was suppressed by resveratrol (100 µM), and the effect on the p-STAT3 signaling pathway was found to be SIRT1-dependent. Our findings may provide new insights into the mechanism by which resveratrol suppresses HepG2 cell proliferation under conditions of high glucose. Furthermore, this information may provide the basis for a novel therapeutic strategy for hepatocellular carcinoma patients suffering from either diabetes or hyperglycemia.
To assess the relationship between antihypertensive therapy and malignancy.
A MEDLINE search for English-language articles published between January 1966 and August 1999 identified 29 prospective studies that reported cancer incidence or mortality and 28 case-control studies that reported specific drug use in cancer patients and controls. The association between rauwolfia derivatives and breast cancer was analysed in 5852 cases and 9776 controls, yielding an odds ratio (OR) of 1.25 (95% CI, 1.09-1.44). The association between diuretics and renal cell carcinoma was analysed in 4389 cases and 6566 controls, yielding a pooled OR of 1.54 (95% CI, 1.41-1.68). The association between atenolol and cancer death was analysed pooling three randomized controlled studies, including 1879 treated patients and 3078 non-treated patients, yielding a pooled OR of 1.36 (95% CI, 1.02-1.82); however, data from non-randomized studies did not confirm the latter. The association between calcium antagonists and malignancy was analysed pooling five randomized controlled studies, including 5451 treated patients and 5207 untreated ones, yielding a pooled OR of 0.78 (CI, 0.60-1.00). A meta-analysis of an additional five longitudinal studies, including 9087 treated patients and 15 559 non-treated patients, yielded a pooled OR of 1.04 (CI, 0.91-1.19). The association between ACE inhibitors and malignancy was analysed pooling two randomized controlled trials involving 1585 treated patients and 1567 non-treated patients, yielding a pooled OR of 1.57 (95% CI, 0.97-2.57); however, non-randomized studies showed no association or a decreased risk for malignancy with ACE inhibitors.
With the exception of diuretics and renal cell carcinoma, the association between antihypertensive drugs and malignancy was either low grade (rauwolfia), uncertain (atenolol), absent (ACE inhibitors), or absent with a yet to be investigated inverse association (calcium antagonists). Ongoing long-term prospective studies with cardiovascular drugs should carefully monitor the risk of malignancy.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a common congenital abnormality characterized by absence of the enteric ganglia in the hind gut. In 10-40% of HSCR cases, mutations of the RET receptor tyrosine kinase have been found. The recent identification of a multimeric RET ligand/receptor complex suggested that mutations of genes encoding other components of this complex might also occur in HSCR. To investigate this role, we examined the gene for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), the circulating ligand of the RET receptor complex, for mutations in a panel of sporadic and familial HSCR. We identified GDNF sequence variants in 2/36 HSCR patients. The first of these was a conservative change which did not affect the GDNF protein sequence. The second variant was a de novo missense mutation in a family with no history of HSCR and without mutation of the RET gene. Thus, our data are consistent with a causative role for GDNF mutations in some HSCR cases.
Fifty-seven patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia were started on either fluphenazine decanoate or flupenthixol decanoate injections in a double-blind trial just prior to discharge into the community. During the six month follow-up 30 per cent dropped out of the treatment. Of those observed for six months, 7 per cent relapsed, 54 per cent experienced depressive symptoms and 88 per cent extrapyramidial side-effects. Analysis of both clinical data and the ratings failed to discriminate between the two drugs.
Fluoroquinolone antibiotics have rarely been associated with renal failure (1). However, temafloxacin, a member of this drug class, was voluntarily withdrawn from the U.S. market in 1992 after reports of renal failure and other adverse reactions (2). In this article, we report one of the first published cases of renal failure resulting from the administration of ofloxacin (Floxin, Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation), one of the newest fluoroquinolone antibiotics.
Flucloxacillin is a common cause of drug-induced liver injury in Europe, affecting in the region of 8.5 in every 100,000 first time users of the drug. The mechanism by which the drug causes the liver injury is currently unknown but it is believed to be influenced by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. This review summarises what is currently known about the disposition of flucloxacillin in the liver, considers potential mechanisms by which flucloxacillin may cause the liver injury, and suggests candidate genes which could determine individual susceptibility to flucloxacillin-induced liver injury.
Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by abnormal calcium homeostasis in skeletal muscle in response to triggering agents. Today, genetic investigations on ryanodine receptor type 1 (RYR1) gene and alpha1 subunit of the dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR) (CACNA1S) gene have improved the procedures associated with MH diagnosis. In approximately 50% of MH cases a causative RYR1 mutation was found. Molecular genetic testing based on RYR1 mutations for MH diagnosis is challenging, because the causative mutations, most of which are private, are distributed throughout the RYR1 gene. A more comprehensive genetic testing procedure is needed. Therefore, we aim to expand the genetic information related to MH and to evaluate the effect of mutations on the MH phenotype. Performing an in-depth mutation screening of the RYR1 transcript sequence in 36 unrelated MH susceptible (MHS) patients, we identified 17 novel, five rare, and eight non-disease-causing variants in 23 patients. The 13 remaining MHS patients presented no known variants, neither in RYR1 nor in the CACNA1S binding regions to RYR1. The 17 novel variants were found to affect highly conserved amino acids and were absent in 100 controls. Excellent genotype-phenotype correlations were found by investigating 21 MHS families-a total of 186 individuals. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lymphoblastoid cells carrying four of these novel mutations showed abnormal calcium homeostasis. The results of this study contribute to the establishment of a robust genetic testing procedure for MH diagnosis.
A 72-year-old Caucasian woman developed degeneration of the spinal cord long tracts, polyneuropathy, and optic atrophy after chronic ingestion of clioquinol (200 mg/day) since she was 45. Diseases with a similar clinical picture, notably vitamin B12 deficiency (B12D), and subacute myelo-optic neuropathy (SMON), are discussed with regard to the pathologic findings. In our patient findings were different from those reported in B12D, but similar to those in SMON. If, as we believe, our patient was suffering from the same disease as the SMON described by Japanese authors, this is the first case reported outside Japan in which pathological verification has been obtained.
Cocaine use is now relatively common in the occidental societies and is responsible for a long list of medical complications involving almost every organ system in the body. The digestive complications are less known. We report a case of a young man who presented to the emergency department with violent abdominal pain and several episodes of vomiting after using intranasal cocaine. The abdominal pain was caused by a massive haemoperitoneum with no evidence of any underlying pathology. This case shows that we have to consider the possibility of a lethal abdominal haemorrhage in the differential diagnosis of acute abdominal pain in cocaine abusers.
We studied 40 patients with the clinical diagnostic of chronic urticaria from January to June, 1995 and excluded 4 patients who did not fulfilled the entry criteria. 29 women and 7 men with age from 4 to 62 years old. We performed a basic clinics history and the oral challenge tests (PRO) included Tartrazine (Ta), Sodium Metabisulfite (MS), Potasium Metabisulfite (MP) and Sodium Bisulfite (BS) in consecutive days with increasing doses unless an adverse reactions appear. Other tests included Skin Prick tests for food (PC), complete blood counts, coprology and immunology tests (IgE, IgA, IgM, IgG, C3, C4, Cel LE and ANA) and paranasal sinus X Ray. 63.8% (23/36) had positive PRO. 47.2% (17/36) positives to Ta,, 36.1% (13/36) to MS, 33.3% (12/36) to BS and 30.5% (11/36) to MP. 72.2% (26/36) had positive PC to one or more foods, 65.3% (17/26) besides had positive PRO. 41.1% (7/17) of the patients who had positive PRO and positive PC to foods had sinusitis. One patient (0.23%) had palpebral angioedema with PRO. The prevalence was 3.1%. Ta was the additive that cause more reactivity. It is possible to find reactivity to one or more additives in a patient with chronic urticaria.
Cardiac function was evaluated in 53 elderly patients with hematologic malignancies who were being treated with doxorubicin (DXR). The left ventricular ejection fraction was measured by radionuclide angiocardiography, the washout rate by 123I-MIBG myocardial SPECT, the extent and severity scores by 123I-BMIPP myocardial SPECT, and the frequency of premature ventricular contractions by Holter electrocardiography. 1) In some patients, both the washout rate and the extent and severity scores were abnormally high before treatment. 2) Because the washout rate correlated with the total dose of DXR, it may be an early indicator of cardiac sympathetic nervous dysfunction. 3) The left ventricular ejection fraction correlated with the extent and severity scores, but not with the washout rate or with the frequency of premature ventricular contractions. 4) The washout rate correlated with the frequency of premature ventricular contractions. These data show that elderly patients had abnormal cardiac function even before treatment with DXR; that cardiac sympathetic dysfunction and cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction developed at total DXR doses of 250 to 300 mg/m2 or higher; and that the left ventricular ejection fraction was less than or equal to 50% in many patients. Consequently, when DXR is used to treat elderly patients, multimodal evaluation of cardiac function is necessary to detect cardiotoxicity and to determine the optimal total dose and the optimal dosage.
Forty three patients with relapsed, diffuse aggressive lymphoma (Working Formulation Categories G to J) were treated with a combination chemotherapy regimen consisting of mitoxantrone 10 mg/m2 iv day 1, vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 iv day 1 and 14, prednisolone 50 mg/m2 p.o. days 1-5 and etoposide 100 mg/m2 p.o. days 1-5 of each cycle (NOPE). Fourteen patients (34%) achieved complete remission and another 6/43 (15%) achieved a partial response. Factors which significantly affected response were the presence of early stage, absence of systemic symptoms, non-bulky disease and serum LDH value < 350 IU. Four patients are alive and in complete remission from 25+ to 45+ months after completion of therapy. Duration of response and survival was significantly influenced by the duration of the initial response to first chemotherapy. NOPE is an active and safe treatment regimen with a substantial complete remission rate in patients with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Oxidative stress and low-grade inflammation are hallmarks of diabetes mellitus. We explored protective, blood pressure-independent effects of the angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptor antagonist candesartan and the selective beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist metoprolol. Diabetes mellitus was induced in 8-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats after injection of streptozotocin. Diabetic rats were randomized to treatment with candesartan or metoprolol in sub-antihypertensive doses or to placebo treatment. In the quadriceps, musculature markers of oxidative stress and inflammation were determined. Function of the inherent vascular bed was measured in vivo in the autoperfused hindlimb. Increases in NAD(P)H activity, expression of its cytosolic subunit p22(phox) and of endothelial NO synthase e(NOS) displayed enhanced oxidative stress. Upregulated intercellular (ICAM)-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 and of inducible NOS (iNOS) revealed inflammatory processes. Diabetes was associated with severe impairment of endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilatation. Candesartan, but not metoprolol, reduced NAD(P)H activity, attenuated diabetes-induced over-expression of p22(phox) and eNOS mRNA as well as ICAM-1, VCAM-1, iNOS and eNOS immunoreactivity and led to a substantial improvement of endothelium-dependent vasodilatation (+46.3% vs. placebo treatment; P<0.05). Angiotensin AT(1) receptor antagonism, but not beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonism, ameliorates diabetes-generated oxidative stress, indicating a pivotal role of the renin-angiotensin system in the development of diabetic complications.
At our Institute, during the last decade, the incidence of hepatic veno-occlusive disease (HVOD) appears to be on the increase among pediatric patients treated with BU-thiotepa (BU-TTP)-conditioning regimen. We thus performed a retrospective analysis to identify the risk factors for HVOD, which could explain such a change. In total, 116 patients treated at Institut Gustave Roussy, between May 1998 and December 2005 were eligible for this study having received BU-TTP as their first high-dose chemotherapy regimen, followed by autologous hematopoietic SCT (AHSCT). According to McDonald's clinical criteria, HVOD was diagnosed in 31% of these children. Demographic, clinical, biological and therapeutic parameters were evaluated in uni- and multivariate analyses that showed a significant correlation between previous carboplatin therapy and risk of developing post transplant HVOD (P=0.028). Comparable results were found for etoposide (P=0.048). In addition, a correlation between HVOD and risk of post transplant death was linked to its association with other types of organ failure (P=0.029). This study demonstrates that previous VPCARBO administration in conventional chemotherapy significantly increases the risk of HVOD among brain tumor patients later consolidated with BU-TTP followed by AHSCT.
A short review of the literature shows hypertension as one of the many possible side effects of oral contraceptives. The hypertension apparently develops as a result of stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Studies have demonstrated this action to be attributable to the estrogen component, since progesterone has not shown any laterations of plasma renin levels. The stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system during the luteal phase of menstruation is due to the natriuretic aldosterone-antagonistic effect of progesterone. Various experiments with rats have confirmed these effects. Since almost all women have shown a stimulation of this system after taking ovulation inhibitors, the question is why they all do not develop hypertension. There are some experimental data for the hypothesis that only those women will become hypertensive whose renin secretion due to the effects of raised angiotensin and aldosterone activity has not been damped. From the findings it is clear that a patient on oral contraceptives must have her blood pressure regularly controlled, particularly in cases of preexisting hypertension or familial hypertension. Should high blood pressure or hypertension occur, the drugs must be stopped even if the estrogen-induced hypertension is reversible after cessation of the medication.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HATT) is fatal in 29% and leads to limb amputation in another 21% of patients. Patients with arterial thrombosis do worse than do those with venous thrombosis alone. Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia is mediated through IgG or IgM immunoglobulin fractions and is believed to be an immune phenomenon, with heparin acting as a hapten. In addition, endothelial injury may be responsible for the development of thrombosis. Heparin-induced platelet aggregation persists for weeks to months after its withdrawal in these patients. Acute management of HATT includes surgical thrombectomy, thrombolytic therapy, dextran, ancrod, low-molecular-weight heparin, and antiplatelet agents, but overall results remain unsatisfactory. We report the use of plasmapheresis, along with aspirin and dextran, in a patient with HATT. The patient experienced pain relief in 1 day; the heparin-associated platelet aggregation test became negative in 5 days, and there was functional salvage of the affected limb. We suggest that plasmapheresis may be an effective therapy in the management of HATT.
Considering the recent rediscovery of the use of alpha-blocking agents in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure, we have studied the haemodynamic effects of 10-methyl-1,6-dimethyl-ergoline-8 beta-methanol-(5-bromonicotinate (nicergoline, Sermion), a new alpha-blocking ergot derivative, on the closed-chest anesthetized dog. For comparative reasons, the effects of nitroglycerin and nitroprusside were studied on the same model. The doses were adjusted to give an identical decrease in blood pressure after 30 min infusion (nearly 30%). Nicergoline did not change the heart rate, decreased total and femoral arterial resistance, did not change the cardiac output or the femoral flow, as opposed to nitroglycerin which decreased the cardiac output and systolic volume, causing a reflex tachycardia and femoral constriction, confirming its predominantly venous effect. Nitroprusside did not cause tachycardia, and the femoral resistances were increased, though less so than with nitroglycerin. Both nitroglycerin and nitroprusside apparently had no direct effect on myocardial performance, whilst nicergoline seemed to increase the myocardial compliance (by a decrease of the sympathetic tone). This drug merits further attention in that it is readily soluble and can easily be administered i.v., for treatment of acute heart failure, for example.
Rofecoxib is a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor indicated for the treatment of acute pain, with similar analgesic efficacy to ibuprofen and naproxen sodium. Diclofenac sodium is the most commonly prescribed nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug worldwide; it is effective for the treatment of pain as well as the signs and symptoms associated with the painful conditions of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
The aim of this study was to compare the analgesic efficacy and tolerability of a single dose of rofecoxib 50 mg, 3 doses of enteric-coated diclofenac sodium 50 mg, and placebo over 8-hour and 24-hour periods in patients with moderate to severe pain after oral surgery.
In this double-blind, placebo- and active comparator-controlled, parallel-group study, patients experiencing moderate to severe pain after the surgical extraction of > or = 2 third molars were randomized to receive a single dose of rofecoxib 50 mg, 3 doses of enteric-coated diclofenac sodium 50 mg (50 mg given every 8 hours), or placebo. Patients rated pain intensity, pain relief, and global assessments at prespecified times throughout the 24-hour period after initial dosing. Overall analgesic efficacy was determined by total pain relief over 8 hours (TOPAR8) and 24 hours (TOPAR24) and patient global assessments at 8 and 24 hours. Onset of analgesic effect was determined by using the 2-stopwatch method for confirmed perceptible pain relief. Peak analgesic effect was the maximum pain relief attained during the first 8 hours. The duration of analgesic effect was determined by median time to rescue analgesia use.
A total of 305 patients were randomized to treatment: 121 received rofecoxib, 121 received diclofenac sodium, and 63 received placebo. The baseline demographics were similar among the groups. Overall, 61.3% experienced moderate pain and 38.7% experienced severe pain; 53.1% were female; and the mean age was 23.4 years. The overall analgesic efficacy, as assessed by TOPAR8, of a single dose of rofecoxib 50 mg was significantly greater than a single dose of enteric-coated diclofenac sodium 50 mg (20.5 vs 8.2) and placebo (20.5 vs 5.9). Patient global assessment at 8 hours was also significantly better for rofecoxib compared with enteric-coated diclofenac sodium and placebo. TOPAR24 was significantly greater for a single dose of rofecoxib 50 mg compared with 3 doses of enteric-coated diclofenac sodium 50 mg (64.1 vs 25.1) and placebo (64.1 vs 19.2). At 24 hours, the patient global assessment for rofecoxib was significantly better than that achieved with enteric-coated diclofenac sodium and placebo. The onset of analgesic effect was significantly more rapid for rofecoxib than for enteric-coated diclofenac sodium and placebo (median times: 31 minutes, >4 hours, and >4 hours, respectively). The peak analgesic effect was significantly greater for rofecoxib compared with enteric-coated diclofenac sodium (3.2 vs 1.5) and placebo (3.2 vs 1.1). The duration of analgesia was significantly longer for rofecoxib than enteric-coated diclofenac sodium (median times: >24 hours vs 1 hour and 37 minutes) and placebo (>24 hours vs 1 hour and 37 minutes). Enteric-coated diclofenac sodium was numerically greater than placebo for the key end points measuring overall efficacy (total pain relief and patient global assessment), but diclofenac sodium did not provide as much analgesic effect as expected for a drug effective for pain, osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis and did not differ significantly from placebo. Overall, both rofecoxib and enteric-coated diclofenac sodium were generally well tolerated, although the rofecoxib group had a significantly lower incidence of clinical and drug-related adverse events than the enteric-coated diclofenac sodium group.
A single 50-mg dose of rofecoxib provided greater overall analgesic efficacy over 8 hours, more rapid onset of analgesia, greater maximum analgesic effect, and longer duration of effect than a single 50-mg dose of enteric-coated diclofenac sodium in patients with moderate to severe pain associated with oral surgery. Compared with 3 doses of enteric-coated diclofenac sodium 50 mg (50 mg every 8 hours), a single dose of rofecoxib 50 mg provided greater overall analgesic efficacy over 24 hours.
A potent neurotoxin 3,3'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), which is an occupational exposure hazard in industry, induces persistent behavioral abnormalities in experimental animals; however, its reproductive toxicity has not been determined. Therefore, we assessed the toxicity of IDPN in the reproductive system of female rats. A single intraperitoneal injection of IDPN (1000 mg/kg body weight) into female Wistar-Imamichi rats caused acute estrous cycle arrest at diestrus for up to 15 days. The arrest was accompanied by follicular atresia, and following arrest, the estrous cycle and ovarian morphology recovered. Ovarian mRNA levels of growth differentiation factor 9 and Fas ligand, a cell death marker, transiently increased following IDPN injection, but eventually they returned to basal levels. IDPN added to in vitro cultures of ovarian follicles also induced the expression of these genes, indicating that IDPN directly promoted ovarian cell death.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are the most widely used agents in the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis (OA). No data are presently available on the medium-term management of this disease with an on-demand treatment regimen, which nevertheless reflects medical practice.
The aim of this study was to compare nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin and naproxen in terms of short-term (2 weeks) pain control with scheduled dosing and medium-term (5.5 months) pain control with on-demand dosing in patients with OA.
In this multicenter, randomized, double-blind, controlled study, we compared 2 weeks of scheduled treatment plus 5.5 months of on-demand treatment in patients with OA of the hip and/or knee and moderate to severe pain, with no important concomitant disorders. Treatment consisted of nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin (400 mg BID, orally = 100 mg nimesulide BID) or naproxen (500 mg BID). The primary outcome measures for scheduled dosing were pain on movement (measured by visual analog scale), morning stiffness score, Lequesne index, and adverse events. For on-demand dosing, the measures were the same as for scheduled dosing, plus duration of treatment and global assessment of efficacy and tolerability by patient and physician.
After 2 weeks, there was equivalent reduction from baseline in pain on movement in the 2 treatment groups (nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin, -41.5%; naproxen, -40.5%); the reduction was significant after 1 week (P < 0.001). The findings were also similar for the morning stiffness score and Lequesne index. There were no significant differences in mean duration of on-demand treatment (nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin, 163.03 days; naproxen, 166.3 days) or in mean consumption of study drug (nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin, 0.85 +/- 0.61 sachets/d; naproxen, 0.74 +/- 0.42 sachets/d). Withdrawal due to intolerance occurred in 8 patients given nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin and 13 patients given naproxen, with no significant difference between groups; 3 and 12 patients, respectively, withdrew due to gastrointestinal intolerance, a finding that was significantly different between groups (P < 0.01). Global assessment of efficacy by patient and physician was similar for both drugs. Assessment of tolerability significantly favored nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin on the physician assessments (P < 0.05) but was similar for the 2 drugs on the patient assessments (physicians, 46.9% vs 30.9%; patients, 43.5% vs 33.3%).
The results suggest that nimesulide-beta-cyclodextrin provides similar pain relief to naproxen in the management of OA of the hip and/or knee and is associated with fewer gastrointestinal adverse reactions. On-demand dosing may be an effective and well-tolerated low-dose regimen of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the maintenance of pain control in OA in the medium term.
We report a 53-year-old man with sero-negative rheumatoid arthritis who developed a fever, rash and hepatitis 3 weeks after starting sulphasalazine therapy. This was associated with a T cell lymphocytosis, eosinophilia and evidence of classical complement pathway activation. He responded to high dose corticosteroids. This is a rare but characteristic reaction which is likely to be encountered by rheumatologists more frequently with the increasing use of sulphasalazine. It should be recognized promptly as it may be fatal and can be confused with other systemic diseases.
Clock gene anomalies have been suggested as causative factors in autism. We screened eleven clock/clock-related genes in a predominantly high-functioning Autism Genetic Resource Exchange sample of strictly diagnosed autistic disorder progeny and their parents (110 trios) for association of clock gene variants with autistic disorder. We found significant association (P<0.05) for two single-nucleotide polymorphisms in per1 and two in npas2. Analysis of all possible combinations of two-marker haplotypes for each gene showed that in npas2 40 out of the 136 possible two-marker combinations were significant at the P<0.05 level, with the best result between markers rs1811399 and rs2117714, P=0.001. Haplotype analysis within per1 gave a single significant result: a global P=0.027 for the markers rs2253820-rs885747. No two-marker haplotype was significant in any of the other genes, despite the large number of tests performed. Our findings support the hypothesis that these epistatic clock genes may be involved in the etiology of autistic disorder. Problems in sleep, memory and timing are all characteristics of autistic disorder and aspects of sleep, memory and timing are each clock-gene-regulated in other species. We identify how our findings may be relevant to theories of autism that focus on the amygdala, cerebellum, memory and temporal deficits. We outline possible implications of these findings for developmental models of autism involving temporal synchrony/social timing.
The VAD regimen is effective in the treatment of resistant and relapsing multiple myeloma. In the original VAD regimen, vincristine (V) and doxorubicin (A) are given as continuous infusions together with peroral dexamethasone (D). For practical reasons, we have shortened the infusion times: 8 hours for vincristine and 1 hour for doxorubicin. In this retrospective analysis, we have compared the efficacy and toxicity of the original and modified VAD protocols in the treatment of myeloma patients at our institution. Of the 31 consecutive patients with myeloma, primarily or secondarily resistant to alkylating agents, 16 were treated by the original and 15 by the modified VAD protocol. We found no significant difference in the response rates (good responses 31% and 20% respectively), survival times (17 and 9 months respectively) or toxicity between the two protocols. VAD may well be modified so as to consist of short infusions of V and A. The overall efficacy of the traditional and modified regimens is, however, rather unsatisfactory in patients with advanced myeloma.
Gastro-oesophageal reflux afflicts up to 7% of all infants. Histamine-2 receptor antagonists are the most commonly prescribed medications for this disorder, but few controlled studies support this practice.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of famotidine for infant gastro-oesophageal reflux disease.
Thirty-five infants, 1.3-10.5 months of age, entered an 8-week, multi-centre, randomized, placebo-controlled, two-phase trial: first 4 weeks, observer-blind comparison of famotidine 0.5 mg/kg and famotidine 1.0 mg/kg; second 4 weeks, double-blind withdrawal comparison (safety and efficacy) of each dose with placebo.
No serious adverse events were reported. Eleven patients had 16 non-serious, possibly drug-related adverse experiences: 6 patients with agitation or irritability (manifested as head-rubbing in two), 3 patients with somnolence, 2 patients with anorexia, 2 with headache, 1 patient with vomiting, 1 patient with hiccups, and 1 patient with candidiasis. Of the 35 infants, 27 completed Part I. There were significant score improvements for famotidine 0.5 mg/kg in regurgitation frequency (P = 0.04), and for famotidine 1.0 mg/kg in crying time (P = 0.027) and regurgitation frequency (P = 0.004) and volume (P = 0.01). Eight infants completed Part II on double-blind treatment, which was insufficient for meaningful comparisons.
Histamine-2 receptor antagonists may cause agitation and headache in infants. A possibly efficacious famotidine dose for infants is 0.5 mg/kg (frequency adjusted for age). As 1.0 mg/kg may be more efficacious in some, the dosage may require individualization based on response. Further sizeable placebo-controlled evaluations of histamine-2 receptor antagonists in infants with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease are warranted.
