The dose dependence of the hepatopromoting effects of phenobarbital (PB) was investigated in a rat liver medium-term bioassay (Ito test) to elucidate a practical threshold level. F344 rats were given a single i.p. injection of diethylnitrosamine (200 mg/kg body wt) and subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy at week 3. Commencing 2 weeks from the start, PB at doses of 0, 1, 2, 4, 7.5, 15 or 500 p.p.m. in experiment 1 and 0, 0.01, 0.1 or 0.5 p.p.m. in experiment 2 were fed to the rats for 6 weeks. Experiment 3 was conducted to confirm previous data using the same medium-term bioassay, with PB at doses of 0, 1, 2, 4, 7.5, 15, 30, 60, 125, 250 or 500 p.p.m. fed to the rats. All surviving animals were killed at week 8 in these experiments and their livers were immunohistochemically examined for expression of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P). Quantitative values for GST-P-positive foci in the liver were increased dose dependently in rats given 60-500 p.p.m. PB. However, those for doses in the range 1-7.5 p.p.m. demonstrated a decrease as compared with the control group (0 p.p.m.), with significant differences observed for 1 and 2 p.p.m.. The results for 15-30 and 0.01-0.5 p.p.m. were comparable with the control values. Examination of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha)-positive foci also produced similar results to those for GST-P in experiment 1. Immunohistochemical staining of TGF-alpha and GST-P using serial liver sections demonstrated that the TGF-alpha-positive foci comprised a sub-population of the GST-P-positive lesions, being approximately 1/8-1/10th as common in livers of animals treated with PB. TGF-alpha-positive foci were almost always negative on immunostaining for TGF-beta. Western blotting for proteins CYP2B1, 2C6 and 3A2 revealed a good correlation between changes in GST-P-positive foci and CYP3A2 protein expression. The finding of inhibition effects at low doses of PB confirms the presence of a threshold level for promoting effects by PB on liver carcinogenesis in rats.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the most frequent cause of drug-induced liver failure. C-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is thought to play a central role in APAP-induced liver injury, although its upstream activator has not yet been identified. Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase family and is important for stress-induced JNK activation. We tested the hypothesis that ASK1 was involved in APAP-induced JNK activation and liver injury.
ASK1-deficient (ASK1(-/-)) mice and wild-type (WT) mice were given 300 mg/kg of APAP. Serum alanine aminotransferase levels and liver histology were assessed. To investigate the involvement of ASK1 in direct hepatocellular damage and the subsequent inflammatory response, we used primary hepatocytes and splenocytes from WT and ASK1(-/-) mice.
In ASK1(-/-) mouse liver, APAP toxicity was attenuated significantly and the prolonged activation of JNK was inhibited. In addition, thioredoxin, a direct ASK1 inhibitor, dissociated from ASK1 after APAP overdose with concomitant ASK1 activation. Although the prolonged activation of p38 also was attenuated in ASK1(-/-) mice, the p38 signaling pathway was not likely to be involved in APAP-induced liver injury. Primary hepatocyte culture also revealed that ASK1 and JNK, but not p38, contributed to direct APAP-induced cellular damage.
Our data suggest that ASK1 is activated by APAP overdose, most likely via a mechanism involving thioredoxin-ASK1 dissociation, and that it plays a role in APAP-induced liver injury through JNK activation.
Arsenic compounds can increase production of reactive oxygen species. Reactive oxygen species can induce double-strand breaks in DNA, which is a cause of chromosome aberrations (CAs). This study was conducted to determine the association between arsenic exposure and polymorphisms of genes involved in detoxification (glutathione S-transferase T1 [GSTT1], glutathione S-transferase M1 [GSTM1], glutathione S-transferase O2 [GSTO2], catalase [CAT], and NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase1 [NQO1]) as well as nonhomologous end joining DNA repair genes (XRCC4, XRCC5, and XRCC6) with induction of chromosomal aberrations. The participants consisted of 123 healthy males who were genotyped using polymerase chain reaction-based methods. Primary cultures of whole blood were treated with sodium arsenite (NaAsO(2); iAs(III); at final concentration 1 µmol/L), mitomycin C (at final concentration 60 ηg/mL; as positive control), or untreated. For each culture, mitotic index (MI), chromatid breaks (CBs), CAs, and total percentage of aberrant cells were determined. The levels of CB and percentage of aberrant cells were significantly higher in the TT genotype of CAT (C-262T polymorphism) than the CC genotype. The CB value in samples with GSTM1 active genotype was significantly higher than the null genotype. The MI in samples with TT genotype of NQO1 (C609T polymorphism) was significantly higher than MI in samples having CC and CT genotypes. There was no association between MI, CB, CA, and percentage of aberrant cells and polymorphisms of XRCC4, XRCC5, and XRCC6.
Angioedema is a disorder characterized by well-demarcated nonpitting edema involving the tongue, floor of the mouth, larynx, lips, and face. This condition can progress to upper airway obstruction and death. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), relatively new antihypertensive agents, act by blocking the formation of angiotensin II, a potent vasoconstrictor and stimulator of aldosterone formation. ACEIs also retard the breakdown of bradykinin, a potent vasodilator, which may lead to the edema seen in nonhereditary angioedema. These ACEIs include enalapril, captopril, lisinopril, saralasin acetate, and a combination of ACEI with diuretics (for example, Capozide). From August 1987 to January 1989, we treated six patients with a nonhereditary form of angioedema related to ingestion of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Symptoms developed in all patients within 12 hours after their initial dose of an ACEI. They presented with shortness of breath and dysphagia associated with tongue and floor of the mouth edema. Two of the six required intubation and monitoring in the surgical intensive care unit for 36 to 48 hours. Three required supportive treatment and observation in an intermediate care unit, and one received supportive care in the clinic and was discharged the same day. Specifically, treatment consisted of cessation of inciting agent, steroids, antihistamines, and epinephrine, if not otherwise contraindicated. Assays of C1 esterase inhibitor levels and C4 were normal in all six patients; this was important in order to rule out hereditary forms of angioedema. These cases will be discussed, including a review of the literature, methods of diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment of angioedema.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is an infrequent complication of heparin which causes thrombocytopenia and thrombosis. The vascular radiologist can expect to come across several cases in his/her career. A high index of suspicion is required for early diagnosis. This may befall the radiologist who is asked to provide thrombolytic treatment in a heparinized patient. We present such a case and discuss the clinical presentation, pathogenesis and management of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of vas deferens (VD) motility and semen emission are still poorly understood. We now report evidence on VD expression of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5), which regulates nitric oxide (NO)-induced relaxation and cGMP breakdown in smooth muscle cells. In human VD, the PDE5 abundance was relatively high (>3 x 10(6) molecules/microg total RNA), although 10-fold lower than in corpora cavernosa (CC). Also cGMP metabolising activity was higher in CC than in VD. However, both tissues share the same sensitivity to a broad panel of cGMP-related PDE inhibitors: sildenafil, tadalafil, dipyridamole, zaprinast, vinpocetine, EHNA and cilostamide. Based on the rank order of potency of these PDE inhibitors, we found that the cGMP metabolizing activity in human VD mostly corresponds to PDE5. PDE5 was immunolocalized in all the muscular layers of human and rabbit VD and was found to be negatively involved in regulating NO-induced relaxation. In addition, by using a rabbit model of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, we found that PDE5 gene expression and activity are androgen-dependent in VD, as previously demonstrated in CC. In fact, the sensitivity to a NO-donor (NCX4040), its enhancement by PDE5 inhibitors and the PDE5-related cGMP breakdown were all affected by androgen manipulation. Our results provide a hypothesis explaining the beneficial effects of PDE inhibitors in patients with rapid ejaculation.
Clarithromycin is a commonly used advanced generation macrolide. This case study reviews a case of an 81 year old woman who developed sensorineural deafness in the right ear after the start of low dose oral clarithromycin for an infective exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Despite cessation of this drug after only three days, the sensorineural deafness was found to be irreversible. Reversible sensorineural deafness secondary to macrolides has previously been described and evidence in the literature shows that a dose related phenomenon occurs. Research has indicated that transient dysfunction of the outer hair cells could be the possible mechanism. In this case, however, the patient experienced an irreversible sensorineural deafness associated with the start of low dose oral clarithromycin. This is a side effect profile that has not previously been reported.
Data from recent epidemiological studies provide overwhelming evidence that areca nut is the main aetiological factor for OSF. A clear dose-dependent relationship was observed for both frequency and duration of chewing areca nut (without tobacco) in the development of OSF. Commercially freeze dried products such as pan masala, Guthka and mawa (areca and lime) have high concentrates of areca nut per chew and appear to cause OSF more rapidly than by self prepared conventional betel quid that contain smaller amounts of areca nut. It is logical to hypothesise that the increased collagen synthesis or reduced collagen degradation as possible mechanisms in the development of the disease. There are numerous biological pathways involved in the above processes and, it is likely that the normal regulatory mechanisms are either down regulated or up regulated at different stages of the disease. Among the chemical constituents, alkaloids from areca nut are the most important biologically whilst tannin may have a synergistic role. These chemicals appear to interfere with the molecular processes of deposition and/or degradation of extracellular matrix molecules such as collagen. In vitro studies on human fibroblasts using areca extracts or chemically purified arecoline support the theory of fibroblastic proliferation and increased collagen formation that is also demonstrable histologically in human OSF tissues. The copper content of areca nut is high and the possible role of copper as a mediator of fibrosis is supported by the demonstration of up regulation of lysyl oxidase in OSF biopsies. It has been postulated that areca nut may also induce the development of the disease by increased levels of cytokines in the lamina propria. Increased and continuous deposition of extracellular matrix may take place as a result of disruption of the equilibrium between matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMP). Current evidence implicates collagen-related genes in the susceptibility and pathogenesis of OSF. The individual mechanisms operating at various stages of the disease-initial, intermediate and advanced-need further study in order to propose appropriate therapeutic interventions.
Warfarin is a commonly prescribed anticoagulant drug for the prevention of thromboses. To address the association of genetic factors and warfarin dosage for ethnic Han Chinese, we genotyped six candidate genes involved in the warfarin interactive pathway with focus on SNPs with reported association with warfarin dose.
We recruited a study population consisted of 318 patients receiving warfarin treatment and 995 healthy controls. PCR and direct sequencing were used to identify the sequence polymorphisms.
In our study population, SNP rs1799853 of CYP2C9, rs1687390 of ORM1-2, and rs2069919 of PROC showed no variation. SNPs rs12714145 of GGCX and rs1799809 of PROC showed no significant correlation with warfarin dose. The associations of SNPs rs9934438 and rs9923231 of VKORC1, the 3 (rs1057910) and C(-65) (rs9332127) alleles of CYP2C9, and SNP rs4653436 of EPHXI with the dose of warfarin were significant.
A multiple regression model based on the genetic polymorphisms of VKORC1, CYP2C9, EPHX1 and the non-genetic factors of age and body weight can explain 40.2% of the variance in warfarin dose in Han Chinese patients. Translation of this knowledge into clinical guidelines for warfarin prescription may improve the safety and efficacy of warfarin treatment among Han Chinese.
The association of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and recurrent aseptic meningitis has been only rarely noted in patients without underlying connective tissue disease. I have described a patient who had four episodes of unexplained meningitis for which no auto-inflammatory or infectious cause could be found. Three of the episodes were found to have been immediately preceded by sulindac doses. The patient has tolerated aspirin, indomethacin, naproxyn, fenoprofen, diflunisal, and ibuprofen before and since this association was noted, implying an immunologic hypersensitivity to sulindac and not a pharmacologic effect of the entire class of such drugs.
Microcystins (MCs) are cyclic hepatotoxins produced by various species of cyanobacteria. Their structure includes two variable amino acids (AA) leading to more than 80 MC variants. In this study, we focused on the most common variant, microcystin-LR (MC-LR), and microcystin-RR (MC-RR), a variant differing by only one AA. Despite their structural similarity, MC-LR elicits higher liver toxicity than MC-RR partly due to a discrepancy in their uptake by hepatic organic anion transporters (OATP 1B1 and 1B3). However, even though ingestion is the major pathway of human exposure to MCs, intestinal absorption of MCs has been poorly addressed. Consequently, we investigated the cellular uptake of the two MC variants in the human intestinal cell line Caco-2 by immunolocalization using an anti-MC antibody. Caco-2 cells were treated for 30min to 24h with several concentrations (1-50μM) of both variants. We first confirmed the localization of OATP 3A1 and 4A1 at the cell membrane of Caco-2 cells. Our study also revealed a rapid uptake of both variants in less than 1h. The uptake profiles of the two variants did not differ in our immunostaining study neither with respect to concentration nor the time of exposure. Furthermore, we have demonstrated for the first time the nuclear localization of MC-RR and confirmed that of MC-LR. Finally, our results suggest a facilitated uptake and an active excretion of MC-LR and MC-RR in Caco-2 cells. Further investigation on the role of OATP 3A1 and 4A1 in MC uptake should be useful to clarify the mechanism of intestinal absorption of MCs and contribute in risk assessment of cyanotoxin exposure.
The relative efficacy of potassium chloride, amiloride and triamterene in maintaining potassium and magnesium balance was evaluated in 23 hypokalemic (S-K less than or equal to 3.5 mmol/l) patients with chronic heart failure receiving diuretic therapy. Amiloride and triamterene were administered in a randomized, crossover manner, followed by potassium chloride in an open manner. During a 5-month treatment with hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg twice/day, potassium chloride 1 g twice/day was not as effective as amiloride 5 mg or triamterene 75 mg twice/day in maintaining serum potassium and magnesium and total-body potassium, while amiloride and triamterene seemed to be equally effective. During all three supplementations, a decrease in serum potassium to a hypokalemic level was observed in some patients. The need for higher doses of potassium chloride, amiloride and triamterene was clearly concentrated to the same patients, and correction was easily reached by increasing the respective doses.
The central nervous system (CNS) depressant and anticonvulsant activities of the aqueous root extract of Sanseviera liberica (ASL) were investigated on various animal models including pentobarbitone sleeping time and hole-board exploratory behaviour for sedation tests, and strychnine, picrotoxin, bicuculline and pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsions in mice. ASL (100-400mg/kg, p.o.), like chlorpromazine HCl (1mg/kg, i.m.), produced a dose-dependent prolongation of pentobarbitone sleeping time and suppression of exploratory behaviour. ASL (100 and 200mg/kg) produced dose-dependent and significant (P<0.05) increases in onset to clonic and tonic convulsions, and at 400mg/kg, showed complete protection against seizures induced by strychnine, picrotoxin and bicuculline, but not with pentylenetetrazole. ASL up to 10 g/kg, p.o. did not produce death, but i.p. treatment produced mortalities with LD(50) of 668.3+/-47.6 mg/kg. Preliminary phytochemical investigations of ASL revealed the presence of carbohydrates, alkaloids, saponins, reducing sugars and oils. The results indicate that ASL has sedative and anticonvulsant activities, therefore, justifying its use in traditional African medicine.
Acrylamide (AA) is a suspected human carcinogen generated in carbohydrate-rich foodstuffs upon heating. Glycidamide (GA), formed via epoxidation, presumably mediated by cytochrome P450 2E1, is thought to be the active metabolite playing a central role in AA genotoxicity. In this work we investigated DNA damage induced by AA and GA in mammalian cells, using V79 Chinese hamster cells. For this purpose, we evaluated two cytogenetic end points, chromosomal aberrations (CAs) and sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs), as well as the levels of specific GA-DNA adducts, namely, N7-(2-carbamoyl-2-hydroxyethyl)guanine (N7-GA-Gua) and N3-(2-carbamoyl-2-hydroxyethyl)adenine (N3-GA-Ade) using high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry. GA was more cytotoxic and clastogenic than AA. Both AA and GA induced CAs (breaks and gaps) and decreased the mitotic index. GA induced SCEs in a dose-responsive manner; with AA, SCEs were increased at only the highest dose tested (2mM). A linear dose-response relationship was observed between the GA concentration and the levels of N7-GA-Gua. This adduct was detected for concentrations as low as 1 microM GA. N3-GA-Ade was also detected, but only at very high GA concentrations (>or= 250 microM). There was a very strong correlation between the levels of N7-GA-Gua in the GA- and AA-treated cells and the extent of SCE induction. Such correlation was not apparent for CAs. These data suggest that the induction of SCEs by AA is associated with the metabolism of AA to GA and subsequent formation of depurinating DNA adducts; however, other mechanisms must be involved in the induction of CAs.
Thrombopoietin (TPO) is the primary regulator of platelet production. TPO is produced in the liver and levels are low in patients with cirrhosis. Because thrombocytopenia is common in patients with acute liver failure (ALF), we measured TPO concentrations (normal TPO range, 31 to 136 pg/mL) in 51 patients with ALF to determine if low levels were associated with thrombocytopenia. TPO levels from hospital day 2 were elevated in 43% of patients, normal in 47%, and decreased in 10% of patients. Levels were higher in acetaminophen-induced than in non-acetaminophen-induced ALF, 160 (12 to 549) pg/mL versus 73 (18 to 563) pg/mL, respectively, P =.031. TPO levels did not correlate with platelet count and were not related with survival or infection. We analyzed daily TPO levels for the first week of hospitalization in 12 patients with acetaminophen-induced ALF and observed a gradual increase from a median admission level of 50 (5 to 339) pg/mL to a median peak level of 406 (125 to 1,081) pg/mL occurring on day 5 (3 to 6). Platelets were reduced in 11 of the 12 patients with a nadir platelet count of 52 (19 to 156) x 10(9) cells/L occurring on day 5.5 (1 to 6). The peak TPO level did not correlate with the nadir platelet count (P =.43). In conclusion, the normal inverse relationship between platelet count and TPO levels was not observed in ALF. Despite severe hepatic dysfunction, serum TPO levels were initially normal and increased during hospitalization in acetaminophen-induced ALF, but did not prevent the development of thrombocytopenia.
In a total group of 56 patients with an acute myocardial infarction who were maximally exercised at predischarge, 20 patients (36%) showed greater than or equal to 1 mm asymptomatic ST-T segment depression during exercise. The site of the infarction was anterior in 12 patients and inferior in eight patients. All 20 patients underwent repeated exercise radionuclide angiography 2 days later, 2 hours following oral intake of 120 mg of diltiazem. Double product was not significantly different before and after diltiazem, both at rest and during exercise. Maximal ST-T depression after diltiazem was reduced from 2.3 +/- 0.8 to 0.7 +/- 0.6 mm (p less than 0.01). Left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction at rest before diltiazem was 54.4 +/- 8.7% and after diltiazem was 56.2 +/- 11.3% (p = NS). During exercise, LV ejection fraction improved after diltiazem from 43.2 +/- 12.2% to 49.8 +/- 10.5% (p less than 0.05). Regional wall motion score (1 = normal, 2 = hypokinetic, 3 = akinetic, 4 = dyskinetic) at rest before diltiazem was 9.6 +/- 2.0 and after diltiazem was 9.1 +/- 1.8 (p = NS). During exercise, regional wall motion score improved after diltiazem from 5.8 +/- 1.3 to 4.3 +/- 1.1 (p less than 0.02). We conclude that silent ischemia occurs in a substantial number of patients after myocardial infarction and that diltiazem has acute beneficial effects on asymptomatic ST-T depression and on global and regional LV function in post-infarction patients with silent ischemia.
The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of morning-dosed modafinil on sleep and daytime sleepiness in chronic cocaine users.
Twenty cocaine-dependent participants were randomly assigned to receive modafinil, 400 mg (N=10), or placebo (N=10) every morning at 7:30 a.m. for 16 days in an inpatient, double-blind randomized trial. Participants underwent polysomnographic sleep recordings on days 1 to 3, 7 to 9, and 14 to 16 (first, second, and third weeks of abstinence). The Multiple Sleep Latency Test was performed at 11:30 a.m., 2:00 p.m., and 4:30 p.m. on days 2, 8, and 15. For comparison of sleep architecture variables, 12 healthy comparison participants underwent a single night of experimental polysomnography that followed 1 night of accommodation polysomnography.
Progressive abstinence from cocaine was associated with worsening of all measured polysomnographic sleep outcomes. Compared with placebo, modafinil decreased nighttime sleep latency and increased slow-wave sleep time in cocaine-dependent participants. The effect of modafinil interacted with the abstinence week and was associated with longer total sleep time and shorter REM sleep latency in the third week of abstinence. Comparison of slow-wave sleep time, total sleep time, and sleep latency in cocaine-dependent and healthy participants revealed a normalizing effect of modafinil in cocaine-dependent participants. Modafinil was associated with increased daytime sleep latency, as measured by the Multiple Sleep Latency Test, and a nearly significant decrease in subjective daytime sleepiness.
Morning-dosed modafinil promotes nocturnal sleep, normalizes sleep architecture, and decreases daytime sleepiness in abstinent cocaine users. These effects may be relevant in the treatment of cocaine dependence.
Mutations in the cardiac ryanodine receptor Ca(2+) release channel, RyR2, underlie catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT), an inherited life-threatening arrhythmia. CPVT is triggered by spontaneous RyR2-mediated sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) release in response to SR Ca(2+) overload during beta-adrenergic stimulation. However, whether elevated SR Ca(2+) content--in the absence of protein kinase A activation--affects RyR2 function and arrhythmogenesis in CPVT remains elusive.
Isolated murine ventricular myocytes harbouring a human RyR2 mutation (RyR2(R4496C+/-)) associated with CPVT were investigated in the absence and presence of 1 micromol/L JTV-519 (RyR2 stabilizer) followed by 100 micromol/L ouabain intervention to increase cytosolic [Na(+)] and SR Ca(2+) load. Changes in membrane potential and intracellular [Ca(2+)] were monitored with whole-cell patch-clamping and confocal Ca(2+) imaging, respectively. At baseline, action potentials (APs), Ca(2+) transients, fractional SR Ca(2+) release, and SR Ca(2+) load were comparable in wild-type (WT) and RyR2(R4496C+/-) myocytes. Ouabain evoked significant increases in diastolic [Ca(2+)], peak systolic [Ca(2+)], fractional SR Ca(2+) release, and SR Ca(2+) content that were quantitatively similar in WT and RyR2(R4496C+/-) myocytes. Ouabain also induced arrhythmogenic events, i.e. spontaneous Ca(2+) waves, delayed afterdepolarizations and spontaneous APs, in both groups. However, the ouabain-induced increase in the frequency of arrhythmogenic events was dramatically larger in RyR2(R4496C+/-) when compared with WT myocytes. JTV-519 greatly reduced the frequency of ouabain-induced arrhythmogenic events.
The elevation of SR Ca(2+) load--in the absence of beta-adrenergic stimulation--is sufficient to increase the propensity for triggered arrhythmias in RyR2(R4496C+/-) cardiomyocytes. Stabilization of RyR2 by JTV-519 effectively reduces these triggered arrhythmias.
The purpose of this study was to determine if non-pharmacological stimuli influence behavioural tolerance to haloperidol via striatal postsynaptic dopamine receptors. Rats received daily haloperidol and saline in two different environments for a period of 28 days. After this conditioning period half of the rats received haloperidol in the haloperidol-associated environment, whereas the other half received haloperidol in the saline-associated environment. All rats were tested for catalepsy and at the end of the last catalepsy test, striatal DOPAC, HVA and ACh were determined. Only the rats tested in the haloperidol-associated environment were behaviourally tolerant to haloperidol. In contrast, both groups were biochemically tolerant to haloperidol. These results indicate that environmental cue factors govern the development of behavioural tolerance to haloperidol, rather than biochemical factors (striatal DA super-sensitivity). In addition, these factors do not exert their influence on behavioural tolerance via striatal DA receptors.
Mice injected with pilocarpine (100-400 mg/kg plus 1 mg/kg methylscopolamine), picrotoxin (0.75-6 mg/kg) or strychnine (0.75-6 mg/kg) exhibited clonic or clonic/tonic convulsions. Pretreatment with the D-1 agonist CY 208-243 (0.375-1.5 mg/kg) dose-dependently potentiated the convulsions elicited by 100 mg/kg pilocarpine, but had neither a convulsant nor anticonvulsant effect in mice receiving picrotoxin (3 or 6 mg/kg) or strychnine (0.75 or 1.5 mg/kg). This facilitatory effect of CY 208-243 was abolished by the D-1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.2 mg/kg). SCH 23390 by itself (0.05-0.8 mg/kg) dose-dependently protected mice against pilocarpine (400 mg/kg) seizures. Stimulating D-2 receptors with LY 171555 (0.167-4.5 mg/kg) dose-dependently protected mice against seizure activity induced by pilocarpine, but neither protected nor sensitised mice given picrotoxin or strychnine. The neuroleptics haloperidol (1-4 mg/kg), sulpiride (10-50 mg/kg), metoclopramide (1.25-6.25 mg/kg), thioridazine (0.5-2 mg/kg) and clozapine (0.5-2 mg/kg) had no effect on the seizure threshold to 100 mg/kg pilocarpine by themselves, although 10 mg/kg thioridazine and clozapine caused 100% convulsions, possibly through a toxic action. When administered in conjunction with a minimally effective quantity of CY 208-243 (0.375 mg/kg), however, all five neuroleptics interacted synergistically with the D-1 agonist to promote convulsions to pilocarpine (100 mg/kg). No such interaction occurred between submaximally protective doses of the D-1 blocker SCH 23390 (0.05 and 0.2 mg/kg) and a wide range of doses of the D-2 stimulant LY 171555 (0.167-4.5 mg/kg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thiotepa is a bifunctional alkylating anticancer drug that is a rodent carcinogen and a suspected human carcinogen. In order to determine the sensitivity of mutant induction in the Hprt lymphocyte assay for detecting tumorigenic doses of thiotepa, Fischer 344 rats were treated for 4 weeks with thiotepa using a procedure adapted from a carcinogenesis protocol. At various times after beginning the treatment regimen, rats were killed and the lymphocyte Hprt assay was performed on splenic lymphocytes isolated from the animals. The 6-thioguanine-resistant T lymphocyte mutant frequency increased with time during the period of thiotepa exposure and declined slightly thereafter. Significant dose-dependent increases in mutant frequency were found using concentrations of thiotepa that eventually result in lymphoproliferative tumors. Hprt mRNA from mutant lymphocytes was reverse transcribed to cDNA, amplified by PCR and examined for mutations by DNA sequencing. This analysis indicated that the major type of point mutation was G:C-->T:A transversion and that 33% of the mutants contained simple or complex frameshifts. Also, a multiplex PCR performed on DNA from mutant clones that were expanded in vitro indicated that 34% of the clones had deletions in the Hprt gene. These results indicate that the induction of lymphocyte Hprt mutants is a sensitive biomarker for the carcinogenicity of thiotepa and that the types of mutations found in the lymphocyte Hprt gene reflect the kinds of DNA damage produced by thiotepa.
Nephrotoxicity is one of the important dose-limiting factors during cisplatin treatment. There is a growing body of evidence that activation of p53 has a critical role in cisplatin-induced renal apoptotic injury. The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent protein deacetylase SIRT1 decreases apoptosis through deacetylating of p53, and resveratrol is known as an activator of SIRT1. To study the role of SIRT1 in cisplatin-induced renal injury through interaction with p53, mouse proximal tubular cells (MPT) were treated with cisplatin and examined the expression level of SIRT1, acetylation of p53, PUMA-α, Bax, the cytosolic/mitochondrial cytochrome c ratio, and active caspase-3. The expression of SIRT1 was decreased by cisplatin. Resveratrol, a SIRT1 activator, ameliorated cisplatin-induced acetylation of p53, apoptosis, and cytotoxicity in MPT cells. In addition, resveratrol remarkably blocked cisplatin-induced decrease of Bcl-xL in MPT cells. Further specific SIRT1 inhibition with EX 527 or small interference RNA specific to SIRT1 reversed the effect of resveratrol on cisplatin-induced toxicity. Inhibition of p53 by pifithrin-α reversed the effect of EX527 in protein expression of PUMA-α, Bcl-xL, and caspase-3 and cytotoxicity in MPT cells. SIRT1 protein expression after cisplatin treatment was significantly decreased in the kidney. SIRT1 activation by resveratrol decreased cisplatin-induced apoptosis while improving the glomerular filtration rate. Taken together, our findings suggest that the modulation of p53 by SIRT1 could be a possible target to attenuate cisplatin-induced kidney injury.
Here, we synthesized two phospha sugar derivatives, 2,3,4-tribromo-3-methyl-1-phenylphospholane 1-oxide (TMPP) and 2,3-dibromo-3-methyl-1-phenylphospholane 1-oxide (DMPP) by reacting 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-phospholene 1-oxide with bromine, and investigated their potential as antileukemic agents in cell lines. Both agents showed inhibitory effects on leukemia cell proliferation, with mean IC(50) values of 6.25 micromol/L for TMPP and 23.7 micromol/L for DMPP, indicating that inhibition appeared to be dependent on the number of bromine atoms in the structure. Further, TMPP at 10 micromol/L and DMPP at 20 micromol/L induced G2/M cell cycle block in leukemia cells, and TMPP at 20 micromol/L induced apoptosis in these cells. TMPP treatment effected a reduction in both cell cycle progression signals (FoxM1, KIS, Cdc25B, Cyclin D1, Cyclin A, and Aurora-B) and tumor cell survival (p27(Kip1) and p21(Cip1)), as well as induced the activation of caspase-3 and -9. Further, treatment with TMPP significantly reduced the viability of AML specimens derived from AML patients, but only slightly reduced the viability of normal ALDH(hi) progenitor cells. We also observed that FoxM1 mRNA was overexpressed in AML cells, and treatment with TMPP reduced FoxM1 mRNA expression in AML cells. Here, we report on the synthesis of TMPP and DMPP and demonstrate that these agents hinder proliferation of leukemia cells by FoxM1 suppression, which leads to G2/M cell cycle block and subsequent caspase-3-dependent apoptosis in acute leukemia cells. These agents may facilitate the development of new strategies in targeted antileukemic therapy.
Angiotensin IV (AngIV: VYIHPF)-related peptides have long been recognized as procognitive agents with potential as antidementia therapeutics. Their development as useful therapeutics, however, has been limited by physiochemical properties that make them susceptible to metabolic degradation and impermeable to gut and blood-brain barriers. A previous study demonstrated that the core structural information required to impart the procognitive activity of the AngIV analog, norleucine(1)-angiotensin IV, resides in its three N-terminal amino acids, Nle-Tyr-Ile. The goal of this project was to chemically modify this tripeptide in such a way to enhance its metabolic stability and barrier permeability to produce a drug candidate with potential clinical utility. Initial results demonstrated that several N- and C-terminal modifications lead to dramatically improved stability while maintaining the capability to reverse scopolamine-induced deficits in Morris water maze performance and augment hippocampal synaptogenesis. Subsequent chemical modifications, which were designed to increase hydrophobicity and decrease hydrogen bonding, yielded an orally active, blood-barrier permeant, metabolically stabilized analog, N-hexanoic-Tyr-Ile-(6) aminohexanoic amide (dihexa), that exhibits excellent antidementia activity in the scopolamine and aged rat models and marked synaptogenic activity. These data suggest that dihexa may have therapeutic potential as a treatment of disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, where augmented synaptic connectivity may be beneficial.
