Mercury induces structural and functional damage in several organs, however the effects of subtoxic doses of the metal on the male reproductive system are not well defined. In order to analyze testicular and epididymal morphological alterations and changes in IL-4 or IFN-gamma serum levels, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received 0.01, 0.05 or 0.1 microg/ml of mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)) in deionized water for 1 to 7 months by oral route. Controls received deionized water alone. Twenty rats, separated in four groups of five animals each, were used per time of exposure. Progressive degenerative lesions consisting of lack of germ cell cohesion and desquamation, arrest at spermatocyte stage and hypospermatogenesis were observed in seminiferous epithelium by light and electron microscopy. Leydig cells showed cytoplasmic vacuolation and nuclear signs of cell death. Loss of peritubular cell aggregation was evidenced in the epididymis. Mercury accumulation was detected in both organs by mass spectroscopy. Rats showed enhanced IFN-gamma serum levels as compared to controls but only reached significance after 7 months of mercury administration. Subtoxic doses of inorganic mercury could lead to reproductive and immunological alterations. The results demonstrate that sublethal concentrations of mercuric chloride are enough to induce morphological and ultrastructural modifications in male reproductive organs. These contribute to functional alterations of spermatogenesis with arrest at spermatocyte stage, hypospermatogenesis and possibly impaired steroidogenesis which together could affect male fertility.
The aims of this study were to develop strains of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) having both immunomodulatory and antioxidant properties and to evaluate their anti-inflammatory effects both in vitro, in different cellular models, and in vivo, in a mouse model of colitis. Different Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophilus strains were cocultured with primary cultures of mononuclear cells. Analysis of the pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines secreted by these cells after coincubation with candidate bacteria revealed that L. delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus CRL 864 and S. thermophilus CRL 807 display the highest anti-inflammatory profiles in vitro. Moreover, these results were confirmed in vivo by the determination of the cytokine profiles in large intestine samples of mice fed with these strains. S. thermophilus CRL 807 was then transformed with two different plasmids harboring the genes encoding catalase (CAT) or superoxide dismutase (SOD) antioxidant enzymes, and the anti-inflammatory effects of recombinant streptococci were evaluated in a mouse model of colitis induced by trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). Our results showed a decrease in weight loss, lower liver microbial translocation, lower macroscopic and microscopic damage scores, and modulation of the cytokine production in the large intestines of mice treated with either CAT- or SOD-producing streptococci compared to those in mice treated with the wild-type strain or control mice without any treatment. Furthermore, the greatest anti-inflammatory activity was observed in mice receiving a mixture of both CAT- and SOD-producing streptococci. The addition of L. delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus CRL 864 to this mixture did not improve their beneficial effects. These findings show that genetically engineering a candidate bacterium (e.g., S. thermophilus CRL 807) with intrinsic immunomodulatory properties by introducing a gene expressing an antioxidant enzyme enhances its anti-inflammatory activities.
Cocaine is an extremely powerful reinforcing psychostimulant with highly addictive properties. Over the last few decades, cocaine addiction has attained epidemic proportions in North America, imposing a tremendous burden on society and the health care system. The cardiovascular complications of cocaine abuse are adrenergic mediated and range from cocaine-associated acute coronary syndromes to aortic dissection and sudden cardiac death. Concomitant alcohol and cigarette smoking exacerbate the cardiotoxicity of cocaine. This contemporary review discusses the spectrum of cardiac complications arising from cocaine use, operant pathophysiologic mechanisms and controversies surrounding the pharmacotherapy of cocaine-associated acute coronary syndromes.
Previously, we reported that vitamin K(3), which consists of a quinone component, inhibits the activity of human DNA polymerase γ (pol γ). In this study, we investigated the inhibitory effects of 4 quinone derivatives (1,4-benzoquinone (BQ), 1,4-naphthoquinone (NQ), 9,10-anthraquinone (AQ) and 5,12-naphthacenequinone (NCQ)) on the activity of mammalian pols. BQ and NQ potently inhibited the activity of all the pol species: pols α, β, γ, δ, ε and λ, and NQ was a stronger pol inhibitor than BQ. Because we previously found a positive relationship between pol l inhibition and anti-inflammatory action, we examined whether these quinone derivatives could inhibit inflammatory responses. BQ and NQ caused a marked reduction in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced acute inflammation in mouse ear, although AQ and NCQ did not. In a cell culture system using mouse macrophages, NQ displayed the strongest suppression in the production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) among the quinone derivatives tested. Moreover, NQ was found to inhibit the action of nuclear factor (NF)-κ. In an in vivo mouse model of LPS-evoked acute inflammation, intraperitoneal injection of BQ and NQ to mice led to suppression of TNF-α production in serum. These anti-inflammatory responses of NQ were more potent than those of BQ. In conclusion, this study has identified several quinone derivatives, such as NQ, that are promising anti-inflammatory candidates.
Tumor lysis syndrome (TLS) is a well recognized complication of chemotherapy and radiotherapy for leukemia, lymphoma as well as rapidly growing malignancies. Less described is the occurrence of TLS following steroid therapy alone. Herein, we report on a 32-year-old male with myelodysplastic syndrome, characterized by refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation, who developed acute oliguric renal failure 12 hours after methylprednisolone 1.0 g for presumed autoimmune thrombocytopenia. Laboratory investigations revealed typical findings of TLS, including hyperkalemia, marked hyperuricemia, hyperphosphotemia, hypocalcemia and urine uric acid to creatinine ratio 1.8 (> 1.0). Long hemodialysis (8 hours) was initiated for 3 consecutive sessions. Renal function recovered 1 week later. This case high-lights that single-dose steroid administration in a patient with hematological malignancy may cause the potential life-threatening complications of TLS. Prophylactic management prior to the use of steroid therapy for a variety of purposes is absolutely required in high-risk patients.
To undertake an event monitoring study of cilazapril in general practice during the early marketing period, to provide some comparisons with other angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and to assess the monitoring method.
The monitoring was undertaken in the Intensive Medicines Monitoring Programme. Cilazapril was prescribed for mild to moderate hypertension in 996 patients at a recommended dose of 2.5-5.0 mg daily. The monitoring period was six months and practitioners were asked to report all adverse events. A reaction profile was prepared and compared with profiles for lisinopril, enalapril and captopril. The chi-square test was applied to differences in proportions.
There were 84 (8.4%) reports describing 133 adverse events; 124 (93%) were assessed as reactions. Withdrawals totalled 53 (5.3%). The most common reactions were cough (2.9%), nausea and vomiting (1.3%) and lethargy (1.1%). Cilazapril had a higher proportion of neurological reactions (p < 0.001) (mainly headache) but a lower proportion of skin reactions (p = 0.001) than the other ACE inhibitors. It also had relatively less diarrhoea and there were differences in the patterns of psychiatric reactions.
Cilazapril has a similar reaction profile to other ACE inhibitors but this paper shows differences, some not previously reported, that may assist selection when prescribing. Although there was a high rate of reporting of known adverse reactions, other events were reported at a very low rate and spontaneous reporting is thus confirmed as an unreliable method of monitoring for unexpected adverse reactions.
Cumulative evidence has established that hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) and its downstream target, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), play a critical role in hepatocellular carcinoma angiogenesis, invasiveness and metastasis. 3-(4-bromophenyl)-2-(ethylsulfonyl)-6-methylquinoxaline 1,4-dioxide (Q39) has recently shown great antiproliferative activity in extensive cell lines in normoxia and hypoxia. In this study, Q39 exhibited high antiproliferative activity against hepatoma both in vitro and in vivo, mainly by inducing apoptosis. In addition, suppression of HIF-1α by Q39 resulted in a drastic decrease in VEGF expression. These results indicate that Q39 is an effective inhibitor of HIF-1α and provide new perspectives into the mechanism of its anticancer activity. Interestingly, neither the HIF-1α degradation rate nor the HIF-1α steady-state mRNA level was affected by Q39. Instead, suppression of HIF-1α accumulation by Q39 correlated with prominent dephosphorylation of mTOR and 4E-BP1, a pathway known to regulate protein expression at the translational level.
Oxidative stress, a hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD), has been shown to induce lipid peroxidation and apoptosis disrupting cellular homeostasis. Normally, the aminophospholipid phosphatidylserine (PtdSer) is asymmetrically distributed on the cytosolic leaflet of the lipid bilayer. Under oxidative stress conditions, asymmetry is altered, characterized by the appearance of PtdSer on the outer leaflet, to initiate the first stages of an apoptotic process. PtdSer asymmetry is actively maintained by the ATP-dependent translocase flippase, whose function is inhibited if covalently bound by lipid peroxidation products, 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) and acrolein, within the membrane bilayer in which they are produced. Additionally, pro-apoptotic proteins Bax and caspase-3 have been implemented in the oxidative modification of PtdSer resulting in subsequent asymmetric collapse, while anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 has been found to prevent this process. The current investigation focused on detection of PtdSer on the outer leaflet of the bilayer in synaptosomes from brain of subjects with AD and amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), as well as expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins Bcl-2, Bax, and caspase-3. Fluorescence and Western blot analysis suggest PtdSer exposure on the outer leaflet is significantly increased in brain from subjects with MCI and AD contributing to early apoptotic elevation of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins and finally neuronal loss. MCI is considered a possible transition point between normal cognitive aging and probable AD. Brain from subjects with MCI is reported to have increased levels of tissue oxidation; therefore, the results of this study could mark the progression of patients with MCI into AD. This study contributes to a model of apoptosis-specific oxidation of phospholipids consistent with the notion that PtdSer exposure is required for apoptotic-cell death.
Various lines of evidence suggest a role in cognition for the endogenous neuropeptide, neurotensin, involving an interaction with the central nervous system cholinergic pathways. A preliminary study has shown that central administration of neurotensin enhances spatial and nonspatial working memory in the presence of scopolamine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist which induces memory deficits. Utilizing similar methods, the present study employed a two-trial novel object discrimination task to determine the acute effect of a neurotensin peptide analogue with improved metabolic stability, PD149163, on recognition memory in Lister hooded rats. Consistent with previous findings with neurotensin, animals receiving an intracerebroventricular injection of PD149163 (3 microg) significantly discriminated the novel from familiar object during the choice trial. In addition, a similar dose of PD149163 restored the scopolamine-induced deficit in novelty recognition. The restoration effect on scopolamine-induced amnesia produced by PD149163 was blocked by SR142948A, a nonselective neurotensin receptor antagonist, at a dose of 1 mg/kg (intraperitonial) but not at 0.1 mg/kg. In conclusion, the present results confirm a role for neurotensin in mediating memory processes, possibly via central cholinergic mechanisms.
Acamprosate (calcium acetylhomotaurinate) is a glutamatergic neuromodulator efficacious at reducing relapse in alcoholic patients. The effect of acamprosate on relapse to other drugs of abuse has received little attention, however, and given increasing evidence that glutamatergic transmission mediates relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior, the purpose of this study was to assess the effects of acamprosate on the reinstatement of a conditioned place preference for cocaine. Mice were conditioned daily with cocaine (15 mg/kg), tested for the establishment of cocaine conditioned place preference, and then retested once weekly to monitor the extinction of the place preference. Following extinction of cocaine conditioned place preference, animals were treated daily with saline or acamprosate (30 or 100 mg/kg) for 3 days, followed by a single injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg) to reinstate conditioned place preference. In mice treated with saline or the low (30 mg/kg) dose of acamprosate, cocaine induced a significant reinstatement of the previously extinguished conditioned place preference; however, this reinstatement was not observed in mice treated with the high (100 mg/kg) dose of acamprosate. These results indicate that acamprosate can attenuate relapse-like behavior in mice and suggest that this compound may be potentially useful in the treatment for cocaine addiction.
Pathogenic mechanisms invoved in glomerulopathies were investigated on the passive form of accelerate model of nephrotoxic nephritis and puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. The aim of the present study was to examine the interaction of some cytokines produced by mononuclear leukocytes and mesangial cells in a regulation of synthesis and degradation of the extracellular matrix components and adhesion molecules expression. In acute stage of nephrotoxic nephritis and puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis the mononuclear leukocyte infiltration into glomeruli was noted. Mononuclear leukocytes produce cytokines that control mesangial cells proliferation and extracellular matrix accumulation. In summary the current study showed a key role of mononuclear leukocytes in inflammation and extracellular matrix turnover. The absence of mononuclear leukocytes or their abundance induce the disturbance of extracellular matrix synthesis and progression factors in glomerulosclerosis.
delta9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9-THC) 1 mg/kg, i.v. produced a slight but significant reduction in the heart rate of conscious mongrel dogs, and these effects were greatly potentiated by pentobarbital and/or urethane anesthesia. However, significant increase in the heart rate was noted following delta9-THC administration in the dogs anesthetized with a combination of morphine plus chloralose; further, neither morphine nor chloralose alone could reverse the bradycardic effects of delt9-THC. Tachycardia induced by delta9-THC in these dogs could be reversed by bilateral vagotomy or by pretreatment of the animals with methylatropine, or propranolol and/or practolol. The data indicated a complex interaction between delta9-THC and morphine-chloralose combination and the tachycardia induced by delta9-THC under this anesthesia may be due to release of epinephrine by a reflexogenic mechanism involving afferent vagi. Further, while the bradycardic effects of delta9-THC were essentially identical under pentobarbital or urethane anesthesia, the hypotensive effects were similar in urethane or chloralose anesthetized dogs. The study emphasizes that anesthetic interaction should be taken into consideration while investigating mechanisms of actions of pharmacological agents.
Cadmium (Cd) induces necrotic death in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) K1 cells and we have established the responsible signaling pathway. Reportedly, necrostatin-1 (Nec-1) rescues cells from necrotic death by mediating through the death domain receptor (DR) signaling pathway. We show here that Nec-1 also effectively attenuates necrotic death triggered by Cd. Two other treatments that cause necrotic cell death, one can (z-VAD-fmk/TNF-alpha on U937 cells) and the other cannot (etherynic acid (EA) on DLD-1 cells) be rescued by Nec-1, were also studied in parallel for comparison. Results show that Nec-1 is ineffectual in modulating intracellular calcium contents, calpain activity (a downstream protease), or reactive oxygen species production. It can counteract the reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) caused by treating CHO K1 or U937 cells with necrosis-inducing agent. However, this effect was not found in EA-treated DLD-1 cells. Notably, Nec-1 elevates NF-kappaB activity in the presence or absence of necrosis-inducing agents. Our study shows that, in addition to DR-mediated necrosis, Nec-1 is effective in attenuating Cd-induced necrosis. It rescues cells with reduced MMP implying that mitochondrion is its major acting site.
Many psychiatric illnesses, including chronic schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and dementia, are characterized by episodes of acute agitation, making administration of oral agents difficult or impossible. Ziprasidone, the first atypical antipsychotic available in both intramuscular (IM) and oral formulations, has demonstrated significant control of acute agitation within 15 minutes, as seen in two 24-hour studies in patients with schizophrenia. Improvement was maintained for > or = 4 hours, and a low incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms, akathisia, and dystonia as well as no excessive sedation were observed Also, two 7-day studies (n = 132 and n = 306) and one 6-week study (n = 567) of sequential IM/oral ziprasidone versus IM/oral haloperidol in patients with psychotic disorders found IM ziprasidone more effective than IM haloperidol within 3 days of IM treatment; both drugs produced further comparable improvements in efficacy parameters after transition to oral therapy. IM ziprasidone was associated with a lower incidence of movement disorders than was haloperidol in all of these studies. Overall, discontinuations were similar for IM ziprasidone and haloperidol in the comparative trials, including the sequential IM/oral studies. However, in the 6-week sequential IM/oral trial, the rate of discontinuation due to adverse events was twice as high among haloperidol vs ziprasidone patients. This report focuses on the pharmacology, clinical efficacy, and tolerability of IM ziprasidone, and provides an overview of the utility of other commonly used antipsychotics in the management of acute psychotic agitation.
Long-term exposure to inorganic arsenic from artesian drinking well water is associated with carotid atherosclerosis in the Blackfoot Disease (BFD)-hyperendemic area in Taiwan. The current study examined the arsenic methylation capacity and its risk on carotid atherosclerosis. A total of 304 adults (158 men and 146 women) residing in the BFD-hyperendemic area were included. The extent of carotid atherosclerosis was assessed by duplex ultrasonography. Chronic arsenic exposure was estimated by an index of cumulative arsenic exposure (CAE) and the duration of artesian well water consumption. Urinary levels of inorganic arsenite [As(III)], arsenate [As(V)], monomethylarsonic acid [MMA(V)] and dimethylarsinic acid [DMA(V)] were determined by high performance liquid chromatography linked on-line to a hydride generator and atomic absorption spectrometry (HPLC-HG-AAS). The percentage of arsenic species, primary methylation index [PMI=MMA(V)/(As(III)+As(V)] and secondary methylation index [SMI=DMA(V)/MMA(V)] were calculated and employed as indicators of arsenic methylation capacity. Results showed that women and younger subjects had a more efficient arsenic methylation capacity than did men and the elderly. Carotid atherosclerosis cases had a significantly greater percentage of MMA(V) [%MMA(V)] and a lower percentage of DMA [%DMA (V)] compared to controls. Subjects in the highest two tertiles of PMI with a median of CAE >0 mg/L-year had an odds ratio (OR) and a 95% confidence interval (CI) of carotid atherosclerosis of 2.61 and 0.98-6.90 compared to those in the highest two tertiles of PMI with a CAE=0 mg/L-year. We conclude that individuals with greater exposure to arsenic and lower capacity to methylate inorganic arsenic may be at a higher risk to carotid atherosclerosis.
The involvement of central and peripheral cholinergic structures in the mediation of a centrally induced hyperactive urinary bladder response to L-2,3-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), after peripheral decarboxylase inhibition, registered by a cystometric procedure, has been analysed pharmacologically in anaesthetised rats. The urinary bladder response to L-DOPA was unchanged after blockade of cholinergic receptors with methylscopolamine, diminished after atropine and totally inhibited after hexamethonium. In addition, activation of muscarinic receptors in the pontine-mesencephalic brain region with oxotremorine after methylscopolamine pretreatment generates a hyperactive urinary bladder response, mediation of which seems to be independent of endogenous catecholamine stores. It is suggested that cholinergic receptors in the pontine-mesencephalic brain region are of importance for regulation of urinary bladder function in the rat. Furthermore, the bladder hyperactivity induced by L-DOPA might be propagated via muscarinic receptors in this brain area, and mediated peripherally via cholinergic receptors in the autonomic ganglia, but in the bladder detrusor via non-cholinergic receptors.
Ephedra extract is used in a number of dietary supplements taken for a variety of purposes including weight loss. Although recent events have led to calls for Ephedra to be removed from the market and the FDA has had over 18,000 adverse event reports, newspaper reports cite only a few instances of clearly associated adverse events associated with Ephedra use. In this communication, we review the literature and present a case report of Ephedra use associated with the onset of psychosis and autonomic hyperactivity after administration of risperidone. We conclude that the behavioral effects of Ephedra are a public health concern.
Neurotoxicity manifesting as convulsions is a recognised complication of the administration of local anaesthetic drugs as part of a regional anaesthetic technique. We describe a case of self-limiting convulsions following the institution of an axillary brachial plexus block with levobupivacaine. Although the occurrence of convulsions following the administration of racemic bupivacaine is a well-recognised complication, there have been no clinical case reports published describing convulsions following the use of levobupivacaine in regional anaesthesia.
Repeated exposure to psychostimulant drugs such as cocaine has been shown in numerous studies to produce significant neuroadaptations in both structure and function throughout the brain. Nonhuman primate models provide a way to systematically evaluate these adaptations engendered by cocaine self-administration and simulate the progressive nature of cocaine addiction in humans. Functional activity, measured using the 2-[14C]deoxyglucose method, was evaluated at selected critical time points over the course of chronic cocaine self-administration in rhesus monkeys. The effects of cocaine exposure in the initial stages of self-administration resulted in changes in functional activity in a highly restricted network of interconnected brain regions when compared to activity in food-reinforced controls. This pattern of changes was confined mainly to ventromedial prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum. Following chronic exposure to cocaine self-administration, however, the spatial extent and intensity of significant alterations in functional activity expanded considerably. The shift in topography of these changes was orderly, originating ventromedially in the prefrontal cortical-ventral striatal network and expanding dorsally to encompass the dorsal striatum. A strikingly similar progression occurred within the cortical areas that project to each of these striatal regions. Preliminary studies suggest that this pattern is maintained despite periods of abstinence from cocaine. The shifting patterns of cerebral metabolic function that accompany longer durations of cocaine self-administration may underlie many of the characteristics of chronic drug exposure, and may provide transitional mechanisms to more compulsive cocaine use.
Acute agitation is a common presentation in emergency departments and is often secondary to an underlying psychotic condition. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of three second generation antipsychotics (risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine) versus haloperidol in the treatment of psychotic agitation for up to 72 h.
We recruited 101 patients with acute psychosis who were admitted at the Mental Health Department 1 South of Turin, Psychiatric Emergency Service of San Giovanni Battista Hospital, from June 2004 to June 2005.
Aggressive behavior, as measured by Modified Overt Aggression Scale and Hostility-suspiciousness factor derived from the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, significantly improved in all groups, with no significant between-group differences. Extrapyramidal symptoms were more common in haloperidol treated patients compared with patients receiving risperidone, olanzapine or quetiapine.
Our results show that in the clinical practice setting of emergency psychiatry olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine are as effective as haloperidol and better tolerated.
The purpose of this paper is to report findings in post-MTX liver biopsies from 160 psoriatics treated with Methotrexate (MTX) in single biopsy and B. 68 patients with serial biopsies. At the time of liver biopsy the 92 patients had received a mehosis and six patients had fibrosis. Comparing these 7 patients with patients having normal liver histology (13 patients) revealed no statistically significant difference in cumulative doses of MTX, but a statistically significant higher admitted alcohol intake during MTX therapy (p less than 0.002) and an older age (p less than 0.01) in the patients with cirrhosis or fibrosis. in the 68 patients MTX had accumulated to a mean dose of 3940 mg (range 32k-8355 mg) at the time the latest liver biopsies were taken. Among the latest liver biopsies were 14 cirrhosis (21 per cent, 95 per cent confidence limits: 12-32 per cent) and 16 fibrosis (24 per cent, 95 per cent confidence limits: 14-35 per cent). The 14 patients with cirrhosis when compared to patients with normal histology (9 patients), had taken an equal total dose of MTX at the latest liver biopsy, but had consumed a statistically significant higher amount of alcohol (p less than 0.05) during MTX therapy and also tended to be older (p less than 0.006). Comparison of a material A and B indicates that the prevalence of cirrhosis and fibrosis among MTX treated psoriatics increases rapidly beyond a cumultative dose of two to four grams of MTX. No MTX treated psoriatics should thus be allowed to pass this dosage range without having a liver biopsy performed.
This study was undertaken to assess the clinical usefulness of a single nighttime dose of ranitidine in the short-term healing of duodenal ulcer. One hundred and nine patients with endoscopically diagnosed duodenal ulcer were randomly allocated to treatment with ranitidine, either 150 mg twice daily or 300 mg as a single nighttime dose for four weeks, in a prospective double-blind, double-placebo trial. Of the 102 patients who completed the study, 48 of 57 (84 percent) healed endoscopically on ranitidine 150 mg twice daily, and 43 of 45 (96 percent) healed on 300 mg at nighttime (Mantel-Haenszel test without continuity correction: X2 = 2.9, p = 0.09). One patient treated with ranitidine 150 mg twice daily had a transient episode of cholestatic hepatitis that did not necessitate stopping the drug; in this patient the ulcer healed after 28 days of treatment. There were no other unwanted effects in either group and no significant abnormal biochemical or hematologic changes. This study shows that ranitidine 300 mg given as one nighttime dose is as safe as 150 mg twice daily, and equally as effective. Three hundred milligrams at night appear to confer protection against the adverse effect of smoking in ulcer healing.
The behavioural and convulsant effects of imipenem and meropenem were studied after intraperitoneal administration in DBA/2 mice, a strain genetically susceptible to sound-induced seizure, and in C57 mice, a strain not prone to seizure. DBA/2 mice were more susceptible than C57 mice to seizures induced by imipenem-cilastatin or meropenem. Imipenem was also 1.9 times more potent than meropenem in inducing clonus in DBA/2 mice. To investigate the possibility that the seizure-inducing activity of imipenem might be due to a probenecid-like effect of cilastatin, animals were treated with imipenem alone. No significant differences were observed between imipenem-cilastatin and imipenem-treated animals. Thus, it is reasonable to exclude a probenecid-like effect of cilastatin. Although the main mechanism for seizure-like activity of imipenem cannot be easily determined, we believe that several mechanisms may be involved. An increased excitation of the central nervous system (CNS) by inhibition of GABA binding to receptors and a slow clearance of imipenem from the CNS may be postulated. Cilastatin did not induce seizures. In addition, meropenem, a compound structurally related to imipenem, showed weak or no convulsant effects.
Pregnant albino mice (ICR random-bred strain) received daily injections of 50 or 100 mg/kg body weight of D-amphetamine sulphate between days 9 and 11 of gestation. Parallel control animals were injected with saline solution. Treated mice were sacrificed on day 15 or 19 of gestation. The embryos were examined for gross malformations and direct embryonic ECG recordings were made; they were weighed, and their hearts were carefully dissected. Microscopic sections of the heart were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. It was found that high doses of D-amphetamine raised the incidence of mortality in the treated pregnant mice up to 40%. The resorption rate in the survivors was high (up to 58%) following the high dose of the drug. Up to 15% of the embryos from the treated groups showed gross malformations, including skeletal and eye malformations and exencephaly. The electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings in most 19-day-old embryos from both treated groups showed a pattern with prolonged Q-T interval (PQT), similar to that of control embryos in the intermediate developmental stages (days 14-16 of gestation). The ECG of control embryos (from day 17 on) resembled that of prenatal fetuses. Microscopically, the hearts of treated embryos showed a large number of undifferentiated cardiac myoblasts. It can be inferred that high doses of D-amphetamine affect embryonic development generally and delay the histodifferentiation of the myocardium, resulting in incomplete maturation of the cardiac muscles, thus leading to the immature ECG pattern, with PQT intervals.
To identify candidate genes that are responsible for motoneurone degeneration, we combined laser capture microdissection with microarray technology. We analysed gene expression in pure motoneurones from two mouse mutants that develop motoneurone degeneration, progressive motor neuronopathy and wobbler. At a presymptomatic age, there was a significant differential expression of a restricted number of genes (25 and 72 in progressive motor neuronopathy and wobbler respectively, of 22 600 transcripts screened). We compared these results to our previous analyses in the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase mutant mouse (SOD1(G93A)) in which we observed a de-regulation of 27 genes. Some of these genes were de-regulated uniquely in one mouse mutant and some have already been identified in cell death pathways implicated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and animal models of motoneurone degeneration (i.e. de-regulation of intermediate filaments, axonal transport, the ubiquitin-proteasome system and excitotoxicity). One gene, vimentin, was differentially up-regulated in all mouse mutants; this main candidate gene has been confirmed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to be expressed in motoneurones in all mouse mutants. Furthermore, vimentin expression correlated with the state of motoneurone degeneration. These results identify early molecular changes that may be involved in the pathogenesis of motoneurones leading to cell death and favour a complex multipathway induction of the disease; surprisingly, there was no important modification in cell death-associated genes. This is the first study to show a clear difference in the genes that are de-regulated at an early stage in three different mouse models of motoneurone disease.
