In a pilot study (5 patients) we investigated the effects of subcutaneous sumatriptan, a 5-HT1-like receptor agonist, on headache experienced during the withdrawal period of drug-induced headache. The pilot study indicated that the substance was effective mostly in patients who originally suffered from migraine. In a patient with tension headache the substance was less effective. In a second double-blind study on six migraine patients with severe drug-induced headache, the drug was highly effective in ameliorating headache and autonomic disturbances. Blood flow velocities measured in extracranial parts of internal and external carotid arteries by duplex-sonography and in middle cerebral and basilar arteries by transcranial Doppler showed no changes after administration of sumatriptan or placebo. This result suggests sumatriptan does not act primarily via constriction of the large cerebral arteries.
The main objective of the present study was to investigate possible links between biomarkers and swimming performance in the estuarine fish Pomatoschistus microps acutely exposed to metals (copper and mercury). In independent bioassays, P. microps juveniles were individually exposed for 96 h to sub-lethal concentrations of copper or mercury. At the end of the assays, swimming performance of fish was measured using a device specially developed for epibenthic fish (SPEDE). Furthermore, the following biomarkers were measured: lipid peroxidation (LPO) and the activity of the enzymes acetylcholinesterase (AChE), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), glutathione S-transferases (GST), 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). LC(50)s of copper and mercury (dissolved throughout metal concentrations) at 96h were 568 microg L(-1), and 62 microg L(-1), respectively. Significant and concentration-dependent effects of both metals on swimming resistance and covered distance against water flow were found at concentrations equal or higher than 50 microg L(-1) for copper and 3 microg L(-1) for mercury (dissolved throughout metal concentrations). These results indicate that SPEDE was efficacious to quantify behavioural alterations in the epibenthic fish P. microps at ecologically relevant concentrations. Significant alterations by both metals on biomarkers were found including: inhibition of AChE and EROD activities, induction of LDH, GST and anti-oxidant enzymes, and increased LPO levels, with LOEC values ranging from 25 to 200 microg L(-1), for copper and from 3 to 25 microg L(-1) for mercury (dissolved throughout metal concentrations). Furthermore, significant and positive correlations were found between some biomarkers (AChE and EROD) and behavioural parameters, while negative correlations were found for others (LPO, anti-oxidant enzymes and LDH) suggesting that disruption of cholinergic function through AChE inhibition, decreased detoxification capability due to EROD inhibition, additional energetic demands to face chemical stress, and oxidative stress and damage may contribute to decrease the swimming performance of fish. Since a reduced swimming capability of fish may reduce their ability to capture preys, avoid predators, and interfere with social and reproductive behaviour, the exposure of P. microps to copper and/or mercury concentrations similar to those tested here may decrease the fitness of wild populations of this species.
Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activation contributes to the development of various pathophysiological conditions, including dilated cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, and reperfusion injury. Increased oxidative and nitrosative stress have been implicated in the activation of MMPs and also in the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin (DOX), a commonly used antitumor agent. Thus, we hypothesized that MMP activation occurs in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Male Balb/c mice received a single injection of DOX (25 mg/kg i.p.) and were sacrificed 12 h, 1, 2, 3 and 4 days later. Hearts and aortae were harvested for MMP zymography. DOX induced time-dependent activation of MMPs both in the heart and in the aortic tissue with an earlier onset in the latter. These results demonstrate that MMP activation is an early event in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity and raises the possibility that MMP inhibitors may influence the outcome of this severe complication.
We report the case of a 19 month old girl with myoclonic encephalopathy of infants (MEI) (Kinsbourne syndrome), on long-term therapy with ACTH for the occurrence of frequent relapses (steroid-dependent form). The administration of trazodone per os at low doses as an alternative to the previous treatment ensured complete remission, also on the occasion of a subsequent relapse. No rebound effects were observed after trazodone withdrawal (10 months). At present, 3 years after withdrawal of the therapy, the child is well and free from symptoms. The hypothesis that trazodone may be effective in treating MEI, at least in cases that are steroid-dependent or resistant to ACTH, appears highly interesting. Trazodone is proposed as a possible alternative to treatment with ACTH.
Olvanil ((N-vanillyl)-9-oleamide), a non-pungent transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 agonist, desensitizes nociceptors and alleviates pain. But its molecular targets and signaling mechanisms are little known. Calcium influx through voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels plays an important role in neurotransmitter release and synaptic transmission. Here we determined the effect of olvanil on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel currents and the signaling pathways in primary sensory neurons. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were performed in acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Olvanil (1 microM) elicited a delayed but sustained inward current, and caused a profound inhibition (approximately 60%) of N-, P/Q-, L-, and R-type voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Pretreatment with a specific transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 antagonist or intracellular application of 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid abolished the inhibitory effect of olvanil on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Calmodulin antagonists (ophiobolin-A and calmodulin inhibitory peptide) largely blocked the effect of olvanil and capsaicin on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Furthermore, calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) inhibitors (deltamethrin and FK-506) eliminated the effect of olvanil on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. Notably, 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, calmodulin antagonists, and calcineurin inhibitors each alone significantly increased the amplitude of voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel current. In addition, double immunofluorescence labeling revealed that olvanil induced a rapid internalization of Ca(V)2.2 immunoreactivity from the membrane surface of dorsal root ganglion neurons. Collectively, this study suggests that stimulation of non-pungent transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 inhibits voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels through a biochemical pathway involving intracellular Ca(2+)-calmodulin and calcineurin in nociceptive neurons. This new information is important for our understanding of the signaling mechanisms of desensitization of nociceptors by transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 analogues and the feedback regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) and voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels in nociceptive sensory neurons.
We previously reported that women polymorphic for the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene were less likely to have cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2 or 3 (odds ratio [OR] 0.40, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.21-0.78, P = 0.007). In the present study, we tested whether this protective association is modified by circulating riboflavin status in the same study population.
Riboflavin status was assessed by the erythrocyte glutathione reductase assay and expressed in terms of an erythrocyte glutathione reductase activity coefficient. The status of MTHFR polymorphism, riboflavin, and circulating concentrations of folate, vitamins B12, A, E, and C, and total carotene were ascertained in 170 White and 265 African-American women positive for the cervical presence of high-risk human papilloma virus. Presence/absence of CIN 2 or 3 was determined histologically, and associations with risk factors were examined using multiple logistic regression. Eighty women with CIN 2 or 3 lesions were compared with 355 women without cervical lesions. Based on the median erythrocyte glutathione reductase activity coefficient of 1.4, women were grouped into low (>1.4) and high (< or =1.4) riboflavin status.
Women with MTHFR polymorphism and low riboflavin status were significantly less likely to have CIN 2 or 3 than was the referent group of women without the polymorphism and high riboflavin status (OR 0.35, 95% CI 0.13-0.92, P = 0.034). MTHFR polymorphism was not associated with CIN 2 or 3 in women with high riboflavin status (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.22-1.19, P = 0.119), nor were any of the associations influenced by folate levels.
A further inactivation of polymorphic MTHFR by low riboflavin status and a resulting shift in the folate metabolic pathway toward DNA synthesis may explain these observations. The practical implications of this complex gene-nutrient-disease interaction will require further investigation.
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors used in the treatment of glaucoma, seizure disorders, and hypertension are rarely associated with blood dyscrasias. Several case reports of aplastic anemia with use of acetazolamide, and two cases with use of methazolamide, have appeared in the literature. This article describes two cases of aplastic anemia, at least one of which was almost certainly induced by the use of methazolamide, and one case of agranulocytosis related to the use of methazolamide.
The synthetic delta-opioid receptor agonist BW373U86 (0.18-0.56 mg/kg s.c.) was studied in rhesus monkeys with a warm-water, tail-withdrawal assay, designed to detect bradykinin (0.1 microgram) and prostaglandin E2 (5-15.8 micrograms)-induced thermal allodynia. BW373U86 dose-dependently reversed bradykinin allodynia, but was ineffective against prostaglandin E2 allodynia. The BW373U86 dose-effect curve was shifted to the right by the delta-opioid receptor-selective antagonist naltrindole (1.0 mg/kg) but not by the mu-opioid receptor-selective antagonist quadazocine (0.1 mg/kg). The present findings add to the conditions in which delta-opioid receptor-mediated behavioral effects have been detected in primates, and suggest that delta-opioid agonists may be of therapeutic interest in the treatment of some types of hyperalgesic conditions.
Cardiovascular stimulation and increased catecholamine plasma concentrations during ketamine anesthesia have been attributed to increased central sympathetic activity as well as catecholamine reuptake inhibition in various experimental models. However, direct recordings of efferent sympathetic nerve activity have not been performed in humans. The authors tested the hypothesis that racemic ketamine increases efferent muscle sympathetic activity (MSA) and maintains the muscle sympathetic response to hypotensive challenges.
Muscle sympathetic activity was recorded by microneurography in the peroneal nerve of six healthy subjects before and during anesthesia with racemic ketamine (2 mg/kg intravenously plus 30 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)). Catecholamine plasma concentrations, heart rate, and blood pressure were also determined. Muscle sympathetic neural responses to a hypotensive challenge were assessed by injection of sodium nitroprusside (2-10 microg/kg) before and during ketamine anesthesia. In the final step, increased arterial pressure observed during ketamine anesthesia was adjusted to preanesthetic baseline by sodium nitroprusside infusion (1-6 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)).
Ketamine significantly decreased MSA burst frequency (mean +/- SD, 18 +/- 9 bursts/min to 9 +/- 8 bursts/min) and burst incidence (26 +/- 11 bursts/100 heart beats to 9 +/- 6 bursts/100 heart beats). However, when increased mean arterial pressure (85 +/- 8 mmHg to 121 +/- 20 mmHg) was normalized to the awake baseline by sodium nitroprusside, MSA recovered (25 +/- 18 bursts/min; 23 +/- 14 bursts/100 heart beats). During ketamine anesthesia, both epinephrine (15 +/- 10 pg/ml to 256 +/- 193 pg/ml) and norepinephrine (250 +/- 105 pg/ml to 570 +/- 270 pg/ml) plasma concentrations significantly increased, as did heart rate (67 +/- 13 beats/min to 113 +/- 15 beats/min). Hypotensive challenges similarly increased MSA both in the awake state and during ketamine anesthesia.
During increased arterial blood pressure associated with ketamine, sympathetic discharge to muscle blood vessels decreases at the same time that plasma concentrations of norepinephrine increase. When this increase in arterial blood pressure is reversed, MSA during ketamine is not changed from preketamine baseline recordings. Finally, hypotensive challenges still evoke an unchanged sympathetic reflex response. Thus, our results do not support the assumption that ketamine anesthesia increases sympathetic nerve activity in a generalized fashion.
Zomepirac appears to be an unexpectedly effective oral, non-opioid analgesic. The relative potency of oral zomepirac is roughly 1/5 to 1/8 that of intramuscular morphine. Visual analogues of pain relief offer a reliable alternative to verbal categorical scales, and may provide some advantages in assays of peak drug effect, and in relatively small patient populations.
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women in the United States. The addition of anthracyclines to adjuvant therapy regimens has resulted in improvement in overall survival of patients. The 2 most commonly used anthracyclines are doxorubicin and epirubicin. Comparison studies in the metastatic setting have shown that, at similar doses, these 2 anthracyclines provide similar response rates. However, their toxicity profiles differ somewhat. The major side effects of anthracyclines are cardiotoxicity and myelosuppression. The equimolar dose ratios of doxorubicin to epirubicin for myelosuppression and cardiotoxicity are 1:1.2 and 1:1.7-2.0, respectively. There have been many studies comparing different schedules and doses of anthracyclines in the adjuvant setting. However, direct comparisons between doxorubicin and epirubicin in early-stage breast cancer have not been performed to date. In this article, we are attempting to provide an overview of current use of doxorubicin and epirubicin in breast cancer
The effect of drug-induced convulsions on kindling was studied in male Long-Evans rats. In Experiment 1 rats experienced a single convulsion induced by the intravenous infusion of cocaine, lidocaine, or pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), or received a control infusion of saline. Beginning eight days later all animals were kindled by daily stimulation of the olfactory bulb. Animals which had been convulsed by cocaine or lidocaine kindled significantly faster than either saline controls or PTZ-convulsed animals, which did not differ significantly. Experiment 2 was conducted to determine if an effect of PTZ on kindling could be obtained with repeated convulsions. Rats experienced three convulsions induced by cocaine or PTZ at 72 hr intervals, or control infusions of saline. Kindling began on the eighth day after the last infusion. Cocaine-convulsed animals again kindled significantly faster than saline or PTZ-convulsed animals, which did not differ significantly. The cocaine animals also had significantly longer afterdischarges than the saline group at the end of kindling and when stimulated again 21 days after kindling was completed. These results suggest that the facilitating effect of cocaine-induced convulsions is not a general property of all convulsants but is a more specific effect which is apparently shared by other local anesthetics.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) plays an important role in regulating cellular redox conditions. Expression of MnSOD has been shown to protect against damage by oxidative stress and to suppress the malignant phenotype of human cancer cells. We have previously cloned the human MnSOD (SOD2) gene and analysed its 5' proximal promoter, which has been characterized by a lack of a TATA or CAAT box and the presence of multiple GC boxes. To define further the molecular mechanisms for the regulation of MnSOD expression, multiple transcription factor-binding motifs containing overlapping specificity protein 1 (Sp1)- and activator protein (AP)-2-binding sites were identified by DNase I footprinting analysis. Functional studies in three cell lines with different levels of Sp1 and AP-2 proteins suggested that the cellular levels of these proteins may differentially regulate transcription via GC-binding motifs in the human SOD2 promoter. Co-transfection of an Sp1 expression vector resulted in an increase in the transcription of the promoter-driven reporter gene. In contrast, co-transfection of the AP-2 expression vector caused a decrease in transcription. Direct mutagenesis analysis of Sp1- and AP-2-binding sites showed that Sp1 is essential for transcription of the human SOD2 gene, whereas AP-2 plays a negative role in the transcription. Immunoprecipitation of Sp1 and AP-2 proteins demonstrated that Sp1 interacts with AP-2 in vivo. Two-hybrid analysis revealed that interaction between Sp1 and AP-2 plays both a positive and negative role in the transcription of the reporter gene in vivo. Taken together, our data indicate that AP-2 down-regulates transcription of the human SOD2 gene via its interaction with Sp1 within the promoter region. These findings, coupled with our previous observation that several cancer cell lines have mutations in the promoter region of the human MnSOD gene, which lead to an increase in an AP-2-binding site and a decrease in the promoter activity, signal the importance of understanding the promoter structure and the regulation of the human SOD2 gene by Sp1 and AP-2.
Three cases of cerebral hemorrhage that occurred in the puerperium in normotensive women who used bromocriptine for milk suppression postpartum are described. Unlike in some other instances reported in the past, the extent of the bleeding was limited in these patients and the long range outcome was relatively benign. All episodes were associated with the development of hypertension. These incidents occurred between the 10th and 17th days postpartum; somewhat later than the usually observed peak time period (6th to 8th day) for the development of severe bromocriptine related side effects.
It has become widely recognized that glycine (Gly) depletion predisposes isolated proximal tubules (PT) to necrotic cell damage induced by diverse insults and that Gly replacement in vitro is highly cytoprotective. However, the effectiveness of supplementation with Gly in vivo, where blood and tissue Gly normally are maintained at high levels, is incompletely defined. Our aim was to assess whether: (a) supplementation of Gly in drinking water of rats would attenuate the proximal tubule damage and the Fanconi syndrome (FS) induced by maleate (Mal), a classical proximal tubule toxin, or ifosfamide (IFO), an antineoplastic drug; and (b) to explore the mechanisms responsible for such effects, since Gly supplementation might be especially beneficial in treating the FS, where the kidney tends to waste amino acids. Rats received daily injection of Mal (2 mmol/kg) for two days without or with oral supplementation of 2% Gly. IFO, 50 mg/kg, was injected daily for five days without or with oral Gly. Control rats were injected with saline, without or with oral Gly. The results demonstrated that both Mal and IFO induced a FS characterized by wasting of amino and organic acids, glucose, and electrolytes, along with elevated plasma creatinine (Crn) and BUN, and decreased Crn clearance rate. Light microscopy revealed a necrotic lesion in the proximal tubules of the Mal group, but no necrosis after IFO. Gly strongly ameliorated the severity of renal necrosis and/or dysfunction induced by Mal or IFO, with significant decreases in total and fractional excretion of Na+, K+, PO4(3-) and glucose, decreased plasma BUN and Crn, and increased Crn clearance. Analysis of freeze-clamped cortical tissue showed substantial depletion of [Gly], [ATP] and [GSH] along with increased GSSG in Mal or IFO groups and correction of [Gly] and [ATP] with Gly supplementation, but no improvement with Gly of reduced gluthatione [GSH] or the ratio of reduced to oxidized gluthatione (GSH/GSSG). 31P-NMR analysis of the renal cortex indicated a decrease in Pi and various membrane phospholipids in Mal and IFO rats and prevention of this damage with Gly. These observations demonstrate that oral supplementation of Gly can provide protection against Mal or IFO-induced renal tubular cell dysfunction and structural damage. The lack of effect on glutathione oxidation and depletion suggests an action distal to toxin uptake and intracellular interactions, which is similar to the characteristics of Gly cytoprotection against diverse insults in vitro. The results also suggest modification by Gly of the primary toxicity of the agents and effects on phospholipid synthesis that could contribute to repair.
To assess the efficacy of zaleplon 10 mg and zolpidem 10 mg administered during experimental middle-of-the-night awakenings in patients with sleep-maintenance insomnia using objective polysomnographic measures and to assess daytime residual sedation 4 to 7 hours after dosing using sleep-latency testing.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-period, crossover design was used to study 37 adults with insomnia who received treatment during an experimental awakening 4 hours after bedtime. Latency to persistent sleep and total sleep time before and after awakening were recorded. The primary residual sedation measure was a sleep latency test conducted hourly from 4 to 7 hours after treatment. Self-report measure of alertness and concentration and digit symbol substitution tests were examined concurrently.
Sleep disorders centers.
Thirty-seven adults with sleep-maintenance insomnia.
Zaleplon 10 mg, zolpidem 10 mg, or placebo.
Thirty-one patients had efficacy-evaluable data; 37 patients received at least 1 dose of study medication and were included in the safety analysis. Compared with placebo, latency to persistent sleep after both zaleplon and zolpidem was shorter and total sleep time after administration of the drugs was longer (overall p < .001, Dunnett p < .001 for all posthoc comparisons). Significant differences from placebo were not found with zaleplon in daytime-sedation measures. At 4, 5, and 7 hours after zolpidem, sleep onset on sleep latency testing was shorter than after placebo (overall p < .001 for all, Dunnett tests for posthoc comparisons p < .001, p < .001, p < .05, respectively). Self-report measures of concentration (4, 5, and 6 hours, overall p < .05, Dunnett p < .05 for each time point) and alertness (4 hours, overall p < .05, Dunnett p < .05), and Digit Symbol Substitution Test scores (4 and 5 hours, overall p < .001, Dunnett p < .01 for both time points) after zolpidem were also lower than with placebo.
Zaleplon 10 mg and zolpidem 10 mg effectively shorten sleep latency and lengthen sleep duration after dosing, when administered during experimental nocturnal awakening. Residual sedation was not detected as little as 4 hours after zaleplon 10 mg, whereas residual sedation was detected with zolpidem 10 mg up to 7 hours after treatment. These findings suggest that zaleplon may be an appropriate treatment for use when patients awaken during the night and have difficulty reinitiating sleep.
Phenobarbital sodium considerably increases the liver toxicity of CCl4. The onset and course of cirrhosis induced by simultaneous oral phenobarbital sodium and inhaled CCl4 were studied in a large number of rats. The apparatus and method used are described. The results observed are expressed in terms of survival, variations in liver and spleen weight, and the gross and microscopic liver picture. The method is considered for optimal for the rapid induction of marked and typical cirrhosis in the rat.
The interaction between clonidine, propranolol and sotalol was investigated using conscious normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rabbits as well as conscious normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats. Clonidine (20 micrograms/kg) administration into the marginal ear vein of rabbits produced persistent hypotension and bradycardia. In propranolol (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.)-pretreated animals, clonidine-induced hypotension was prevented. In rats, daily oral or subcutaneous clonidine as well as propranolol produced hypotension and bradycardia. Significant antagonism of the observed hypotensive effects resulted when clonidine was given to propranolol-pretreated animals or when propranolol was added to the treatment regimen of animals being maintained on clonidine. No antagonism between sotalol and clonidine was demonstrable. In view of the known central site of action of clonidine, and the failure of sotalol to antagonize clonidine-induced hypotension it would appear that the central nervous system is a possible site of the observed drug interaction.
We aimed to determine whether isosorbide mononitrate (IMN) given simultaneously with dinoprostone in term pregnancies is superior to dinoprostone alone to promote delivery.
One hundred and twenty nulliparous women at term were randomly assigned to receive per vaginam IMN 40 mg or placebo in addition to 3 mg dinoprostone 2 times daily for up to 2 days. Analysis was by intention to treat.
Baseline characteristics of both groups were comparable. The induction to delivery intervals did not differ between the IMN and the placebo group (26.4 +/- 14.4 vs 23.4 +/- 14.8 hours, P = .408). IMN resulted in more headache compared to placebo (32/55 [58.2%] vs 2/55 [3.6%], P < .001).
Vaginally administered IMN does not play a role in promoting delivery in term pregnancy if given at the same time as dinoprostone. This might reflect its relaxant effect on the uterine fundus, which may overcome its cervical softening effect.
We have investigated whether the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the ACE inhibitor benazepril hydrochloride are altered with proteinuria by studying 8 patients with major proteinuria of different causes who were given a single dose of 10 mg p.o. The maximum plasma concentration of benazepril was found between 0.5 and 2 h after dosing (median 1 h). Its elimination was almost complete within 6 h. Peak plasma levels of benazeprilat, the active metabolite of benazepril, were observed between 1 and 6 h (median 2.5 h). The elimination of benazeprilat from plasma was biphasic, with mean initial and terminal half-lives of 3.0 and 17.3 h, respectively. On average, the pharmacokinetic parameters of benazepril and benazeprilat in the patients did not differ from those in a historical control group of healthy volunteers, but intersubject variability in the AUC and half-lives of benazeprilat was greater in the patients. Plasma ACE was completely inhibited from 1.5 to 6 h after dosing, and at 48 h the mean inhibition was still 42%. Plasma renin showed substantial intersubject variation. Mean supine blood pressure (systolic/diastolic) was reduced from baseline by a maximum of 18/13 mm Hg at 6 h. Proteinuria was diminished after benazepril in 7 patients. In conclusion, the results of this study suggest that proteinuria in the nephrotic range does not require a change in benazepril dosage.
The effects of sodium saccharin and caffeine on urinary bladder carcinogenesis in Wistar strain rats treated with N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) were studied. Animals were given 0.01% BBN as an initiator for 4 weeks and then sodium saccharin and/or caffeine as promoters for 32 weeks (Experiment I), or were treated simultaneously with 0.001% BBN, sodium saccharin and/or caffeine for 40 weeks (Experiment II). The urinary bladders were then removed and examined by light and electron microscopy. Sequential administration of sodium saccharin after BBN significantly enhanced the induction of hyperplasias compared with administration of BBN alone (Experiment I), and simultaneous administration of sodium saccharin with BBN significantly enhanced the induction of hyperplasia and papillomas compared with BBN alone (Experiment II). Two types of hyperplasias developed in the urinary bladder of rats treated with sodium saccharin alone in both experiments. Caffeine alone had no effect on the rat urinary bladder epithelium, and either sequential or simultaneous administration of caffeine with BBN caused no marked enhancement of carcinogenesis in these experiments.
Fluoride is usually found in groundwater at a very wide range of concentration between 0.5 and 25 ppm. At present, few studies have assessed the renal effects of fluoride at environmentally relevant concentrations. Furthermore, most of these studies have used insensitive and nonspecific biomarkers of kidney injury. The aim of this study was to use early and sensitive biomarkers to evaluate kidney injury after fluoride exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations. Recently weaned male Wistar rats were exposed to low (15 ppm) and high (50 ppm) fluoride concentrations in drinking water for a period of 40 days. At the end of the exposure period, kidney injury biomarkers were measured in urine and renal mRNA expression levels were assessed by real time RT-PCR. Our results showed that the urinary kidney injury molecule (Kim-1), clusterin (Clu), osteopontin (OPN) and heat shock protein 72 excretion rate significantly increased in the group exposed to the high fluoride concentration. Accordingly, fluoride exposure increased renal Kim-1, Clu and OPN mRNA expression levels. Moreover, there was a significant dose-dependent increase in urinary β-2-microglobulin and cystatin-C excretion rate. Additionally, a tendency towards a dose dependent increase of tubular damage in the histopathological light microscopy findings confirmed the preferential impact of fluoride on the tubular structure. All of these changes occurred at early stages in which, the renal function was not altered. In conclusion using early and sensitive biomarkers of kidney injury, we were able to found proximal tubular alterations in rats sub-chronically exposed to fluoride.
The combined use of acetaminophen with ibuprofen has long been in clinical use because the target of action of each drug is different and they do not interfere with each other. Appropriate dosing and managing of these drugs do not likely lead to organ toxicity. However, both acetaminophen and ibuprofen can induce liver problems and acute kidney failure, respectively, if administered at high doses. We report the case of a female child, in treatment with both acetaminophen and ibuprofen, administered at therapeutic antipyretic doses in condition of volume depletion, who suffered acute kidney and liver failure.
The combined ibuprofen and acetaminophen treatment, even if administered at therapeutic dosages and in a reduced number of doses, may be dangerous in conditions of volume depletion.
Combinations of beta-adrenoceptor blockers and vasodilators have proved highly useful in antihypertensive therapy. Studies of the mechanisms of action of several agents that combine these effects within a single molecule are described in this report. Labetalol, SCH 19927, sulfinalol, MK-761, pindolol, and prizidilol, in contrast to propranolol, decreased blood pressure of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). All except labetalol and SCH 19927 increased heart rate. In anesthetized dogs, all of these agents (except propranolol) produced vasodilatation on intra-arterial administration into the femoral vascular bed and, given i.v., lowered blood pressure after ganglionic blockade. In contrast to the other agents, labetalol and SCH 19927 caused only minimal increases in heart rate in ganglionically blocked dogs. The vasodilator and hypotensive actions as well as the antihypertensive effect in SHR of labetalol, SCH 19927, sulfinalol, and pindolol were inhibited by propranolol pretreatment but those of prizidilol were not, suggesting that the hypotensive and vascular effects of labetalol, SCH 19927, sulfinalol, pindolol, and MK-761 are mediated by activation of vascular beta-receptors. However, labetalol and SCH 19927 in particular differ from agents of this class as well as other beta blockers with strong intrinsic sympathomimetic actions in that their agonist activity is primarily directed at blood vessels and not the heart.
Activation of glycogen synthase kinase3β (GSK3β), an enzyme that regulates a multitude of cellular signaling pathways, is implicated in neurodegenerative processes observed in an array of CNS diseases. We examined the hypothesis that the pathological changes in an acute kainic acid (KA) induced excitotoxicity model, relevant to human temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), could be sensitive to inhibition of GSK3β by 4-benzyl-2-methyl-1,2,4-thiadiazolidine-3,5-dione (TDZD-8) treatment in Swiss albino mice. Immediate seizure responses due to KA were recorded. Neurodegenerative and morphogenic changes were examined by western blot analysis and light microscopy, respectively, 48 h after KA administration. Although tonic-clonic seizure episodes evoked by KA were unaffected, TDZD-8 pretreatment decreased KA mediated elevation in caspase-3 cleavage as well as increased Bcl2 and phospho-GSK3β (Ser9; pGSK3β(Ser9)) expression. Likewise, microscopic examination also revealed that pretreatment with TDZD-8 attenuated cell damage elicited by KA in the CA1, CA3 and DG regions. In all the above parameters, the combined effect of a sub-effective dose of sodium valproate (SVP) with TDZD-8 was higher than that of solitary TDZD-8 treatment. The findings suggest that activated GSK3β orchestrated neurodegenerative alterations following KA treatment and its inhibition by TDZD-8 affords a distinct neuroprotective profile by activating Akt/GSK3β pathway which might act upstream of Bax/Bcl2 and caspase-3 pathways. Compounds targeting GSK3β activity might represent a novel therapeutic option for exploration as an adjunct to conventional anti-epileptic drugs in preventing neurodegenerative processes in TLE.
