Acute renal failure developed in a patient with a normal serum creatinine level, after treatment with rifampin was begun for tuberculosis. Renal biopsy revealed an obstructive nephropathy due to tubular casts. Immunoperoxidase and immunofluorescence studies demonstrated the presence of heterogeneous light chains within these casts. This unique drug-induced renal disease is discussed with reference to the literature and to possible analogies with myeloma kidney.
Proton pump inhibitors have been widely used in recent years. However, there are studies suggesting that proton pump inhibitors may not control the gastric acidity effectively during the night, especially in gastroesophageal reflux disease. It has therefore been suggested that H2 receptor blockers should be added to the therapy. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effects of proton pump inhibitors alone or in combination with H2 receptor blockers on gastric acidity with 24-hour gastric pH monitoring.
Esophagogastroscopy and 24-hour gastric pH monitoring were performed on 10 patients with dyspeptic symptoms. No patient had antacidity. All patients had erosive antral gastritis. Patients were randomized to two groups as either proton pump inhibitor therapy group (rabeprazole 20 mg/day, p.o.) or proton pump inhibitor + H2 receptor blocker therapy group (rabeprazole 20 mg/day, p.o. + famotidine 40 mg/day, p.o). After one month of treatment, 24-hour gastric pH monitoring was re-performed.
Seven female and three male patients were enrolled into the study. The mean age was 51.1+/-11.56 years. All patients had antral erosive gastritis. Gastric pH was measured as less than 4 in 81.4% of the 24-hour period prior to rabeprazole treatment. With rabeprazole treatment this ratio decreased to 27.6% (p<0.05). These ratios were 86.3% and 4.55%, respectively, in the group that received combination therapy (p<0.05).
Combination therapy with H2 receptor blockers and proton pump inhibitors seemed to control intra-gastric pH better than proton pump inhibitors alone. Use of H2 receptor blockers and proton pump inhibitors in combination to control intra-gastric pH is more beneficial.
The mechanism of action of hypersensitivity reactions from paclitaxel has not been fully understood. It has not even been defined if they are secondary to paclitaxel, its vehicle or the premedication. Postmarketing pharmacovigilance is predominantly based on spontaneous reporting. These reports albeit biased and incomplete serve to detect previously unrecognised adverse events. We report a life threatening adverse event related to paclitaxel without any evidence of histamine release. It consisted of a cardiac arrest probably secondary to bradiarrhythmia or branch block.
Metformin is a guanidine derivative used for the treatment of NIDDM. As it is used for a long-term therapy, it may be coadministered with other drugs. Present paper deals with the in vitro availability studies of metformin in presence of commonly used H(2) receptor antagonists. The later drugs compete with histamine for H(2) receptors and block gastric acid secretion and some cardiovascular effects of histamine. These studies were carried out in simulated gastric juices, simulating empty and full stomach, simulated intestinal juice and buffers of pH 7.4 simulating blood pH at 37 degrees C on a B.P. 2003 dissolution test apparatus. Commonly prescribed H(2) receptor antagonists like cimetidine, ranitidine and famotidine were used in these studies. The present study clearly indicated that availability of metformin can be altered in presence of most of the H(2) receptor antagonists studied except in presence of famotidine at pH 4 where the drug concentration remains unaltered. The availability of metformin was increased in simulated gastric juice, pH 7.4 and pH 9 (except ranitidine at pH 9) whereas the decrease in availability was observed in presence of cimetidine and ranitidine at pH 4 and ranitidine at pH 9. On the basis of these results, it is can be suggested that metformin should be coadministered with care along with H(2) receptor antagonists especially in case of ranitidine; although chances of adverse reactions are rare but decrease availability of metformin may result in delayed effect. On the other hand, increase in metformin concentration may result in hypoglycemic effects.
There is increasing evidence that there are gender-related differences in the pharmacodynamics of neuromuscular blocking drugs. However, it is not known whether gender influences the pharmacodynamics of a pre-curarizing dose.
In the first part, we measured the neuromuscular blockade after administration of rocuronium 0.03 mg/kg (10% of ED(95)) after induction of anaesthesia in 20 patients (10 female and 10 male patients) by electromyography. In the second part, 40 female and 40 male patients were observed for signs and symptoms of muscle weakness 2.5 min after injection of rocuronium 0.03 mg/kg before loss of consciousness. Succinylcholine-associated post-operative myalgia (POM) was also assessed.
Median twitch heights were comparable between the two groups: 95.5 (range: 85-97; female) vs. 96.0 (range: 85-99; male), (NS). Train-of-four ratios were 97.5 (range: 64-100; female) vs. 99.0 (range: 52-100; male) (NS). Signs and symptoms of muscle weakness were observed in 64 (80%) patients, but there were no gender-related differences. The incidence and severity of POM did not differ significantly between the study groups.
Pre-curarization with rocuronium 0.03 mg/kg affected men and women equally. Nor was the incidence and the severity of muscle weakness affected by gender.
Certain particulate hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] compounds are human respiratory carcinogens that release genotoxic soluble chromate, and are associated with fibrosis, fibrosarcomas, adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the lung. We postulate that inflammatory processes and mediators may contribute to the etiology of Cr(VI) carcinogenesis, however the immediate (0-24 h) pathologic injury and immune responses after exposure to particulate chromates have not been adequately investigated. Our aim was to determine the nature of the lung injury, inflammatory response, and survival signaling responses following intranasal exposure of BALB/c mice to particulate basic zinc chromate. Factors associated with lung injury, inflammation and survival signaling were measured in airway lavage fluid and in lung tissue. A single chromate exposure induced an acute immune response in the lung, characterized by a rapid and significant increase in IL-6 and GRO-alpha levels, an influx of neutrophils, and a decline in macrophages in lung airways. Histological examination of lung tissue in animals challenged with a single chromate exposure revealed an increase in bronchiolar cell apoptosis and mucosal injury. Furthermore, chromate exposure induced injury and inflammation that progressed to alveolar and interstitial pneumonitis. Finally, a single Cr(VI) challenge resulted in a rapid and persistent increase in the number of airways immunoreactive for phosphorylation of the survival signaling protein Akt, on serine 473. These data illustrate that chromate induces both survival signaling and an inflammatory response in the lung, which we postulate may contribute to early oncogenesis.
Methylprednisolone (MP) is the only neuroprotective medication currently in widespread use for the treatment of spinal cord injury. Increasingly, published studies challenge its clinical effects in view of its serious side-effects including wound infection, pneumonia, sepsis and steroid myopathy. Most cases with spontaneous spinal epidural haematoma (SSEH) need emergency evacuation, and typically show good neurologic recovery. Some patients with SSEH given preoperative or postoperative MP within hours of the onset of symptoms, and have had good motor recovery, although no mention was made of sensory function. Severe, intractable neuropathic pain has not been reported in patients with SSEH. We present a case of SSEH treated with a high-dose MP 16 h after onset of symptoms. Surgical decompression was performed 1 h after MP treatment. Motor recovery was good; however, intractable neuropathic pain developed 5 weeks postoperatively. We discuss the factors contributing to intractable pain. We speculate that the severe, intractable pain might be due to misuse of large-dose steroids in this case of non-traumatic spinal myelopathy, and not because of the injury per se.
The influence of the 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (DPAT) on locomotor hyperactivity induced by the acute and chronic administration of cocaine was assessed. Horizontal activity was measured in the periphery and center of an open field test enclosure equipped with photobeams; vertical activity was also recorded. Peripheral hyperactivity induced by an acute administration of cocaine (10 or 20 mg/kg) was significantly enhanced by 0.2 mg/kg DPAT. In contrast, central and vertical activities were reduced in a dose-related manner by DPAT (0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg); DPAT also suppressed central (0.2 mg/kg) and vertical (0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg) activities when administered alone. Similar observations were made on day 1 of chronic treatment with DPAT (0, 0.1, or 0.2 mg/kg) injected 15 min before an injection of cocaine (0, 10, or 15 mg/kg) administered twice daily for 7 days. By day 7 of repeated DPAT treatment, sensitization of DPAT-evoked peripheral activity developed, which contrasted with tolerance to the central and vertical hypoactivity evoked by DPAT. Sensitization developed to the repeated treatment with 15 mg/kg cocaine but not 10 mg/kg cocaine. Interestingly, enhancements of all activity measures were observed between days 1 and 7 in rats cotreated with DPAT plus either dose of cocaine. This sensitization to DPAT plus cocaine was expressed on challenge with DPAT and cocaine but not with cocaine alone. The present study implies that the stimulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) receptors is capable of modulating the hyperactivity evoked by cocaine, possibly via modulation of the mesoaccumbens dopamine circuit thought to mediate the behavioral effects of cocaine.
The anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor crizotinib has been used in patients with lung cancer or inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT), both types harboring ALK fusions. However, detection of some ALK fusions is problematic with conventional anti-ALK immunohistochemistry because of their low expression. By using sensitive immunohistochemistry, therefore, we reassessed "ALK-negative" IMT cases defined with conventional immunohistochemistry (approximately 50% of all examined cases).
Two cases of ALK-negative IMT defined with conventional anti-ALK immunohistochemistry were further analyzed with sensitive immunohistochemistry [the intercalated antibody-enhanced polymer (iAEP) method].
The two "ALK-negative" IMTs were found positive for anti-ALK immunohistochemistry with the iAEP method. 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends identified a novel partner of ALK fusion, protein-tyrosine phosphatase, receptor-type, F polypeptide-interacting protein-binding protein 1 (PPFIBP1) in one case. The presence of PPFIBP1-ALK fusion was confirmed with reverse transcriptase PCR, genomic PCR, and FISH. We confirmed the transforming activities of PPFIBP1-ALK with a focus formation assay and an in vivo tumorigenicity assay by using 3T3 fibroblasts infected with a recombinant retrovirus encoding PPFIBP1-ALK. Surprisingly, the fusion was also detected by FISH in the other case.
Sensitive immunohistochemical methods such as iAEP will broaden the potential value of immunohistochemistry. The current ALK positivity rate in IMT should be reassessed with a more highly sensitive method such as iAEP to accurately identify those patients who might benefit from ALK-inhibitor therapies. Novel ALK fusions are being identified in various tumors in addition to IMT, and thus a reassessment of other "ALK-negative" cancers may be required in the forthcoming era of ALK-inhibitor therapy.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD) may be classified into three main categories: "On" dyskinesias, diphasic dyskinesias (DD), and "off" periods. The study of 168 parkinsonian patients showed that about half (n = 84) showed one pattern of LID only. A combination of two was present in 68, and 16 had the three presentation patterns. A fairly good correlation between type of dyskinesia and presentation pattern was established. Chorea, myoclonus, and dystonic movements occurred during the "on" period. Dystonic postures, particularly affecting the feet, were mainly present in the "off" period, but a few patients had a diphasic presentation. Repetitive stereotyped movements of the lower limbs always corresponded to DD. Acute pharmacological tests using dopamine agonists (subcutaneous apomorphine 3-8 mg; intravenous lisuride 0.1-0.15 mg) and dopamine antagonists (intravenous sulpiride 200-400 mg and intravenous chlorpromazine 25 mg) were performed in 40 patients. Dopamine agonists enhanced "on" dyskinesias and markedly reduced or abolished "off" period dystonia and DD. Dopamine antagonists reduced all types of LID but usually aggravated parkinsonism. These clinical and pharmacological results indicate that LID in PD are a heterogeneous phenomenon difficult to explain on the basis of a single pathophysiological mechanism.
Cocaine remains the most common cause of illicit drug-related visits to emergency departments, 40% of which result from chest pain. It is estimated that over half of the 64,000 patients evaluated annually for cocaine-associated chest pain will be admitted to hospitals for the evaluation of myocardial ischemia or infarction, at a health care cost of over eighty million dollars. Although the link between cocaine use and myocardial ischemia is well established, only about 6% of patients with cocaine-associated chest pain will demonstrate biochemical evidence of myocardial infarction. This article focuses on the evaluation of patients with chest pain following cocaine use, and concentrates on ways to improve diagnosis, management, and utilization of health care services.
Crohn's disease results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors that trigger an inappropriate immune response to commensal gut bacteria. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is well known for its involvement in the toxicity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), an environmental contaminant that affects people primarily through the diet. Recently, TCDD was shown to suppress immune responses by generating regulatory T cells (Tregs). We hypothesized that AhR activation dampens inflammation associated with Crohn's disease. To test this hypothesis, we utilized the 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) murine model of colitis. Mice were gavaged with TCDD prior to colitis induction with TNBS. Several parameters were examined including colonic inflammation via histological and flow cytometric analyses. TCDD-treated mice recovered body weight faster and experienced significantly less colonic damage. Reduced levels of interleukin (IL) 6, IL-12, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-α demonstrated suppression of inflammation in the gut following TCDD exposure. Forkhead box P3 (Foxp3)(egfp) mice revealed that TCDD increased the Foxp3+ Treg population in gut immune tissue following TNBS exposure. Collectively, these results suggest that activation of the AhR by TCDD decreases colonic inflammation in a murine model of colitis in part by generating regulatory immune cells. Ultimately, this work may lead to the development of more effective therapeutics for the treatment of Crohn's disease.
Side effects of hysterosalpingography with Dimer-X, Hexabrix, Vasurix polyvidone and Endografine in 142 consecutive patients, receiving one of the four tested media were evaluated from replies to postal questionnaires. The Dimer-X group had a higher incidence of nausea and dizziness. The Endografine group had a higher incidence of abdominal pain. These differences occur especially in the age groups under 30 years. Hexabrix and Vasurix polyvidone are considered the best contrast media for hysterosalpingography and perhaps because of its low toxicity Hexabrix should be preferred.
Circulating angiogenic cells play an essential role in angiogenesis but are dysfunctional in diabetes mellitus characterized by excessive oxidative stress. We hypothesize that oxidative stress-mediated upregulation of thrombospondin-2 (TSP-2), a potent antiangiogenic protein, contributes to diabetic bone marrow-derived angiogenic cell (BMAC) dysfunction.
BMACs were isolated from adult male type 2 diabetic db/db mice and control db/+ (C57BLKS/J) mice. In Matrigel tube formation assay, angiogenic function was impaired in diabetic BMACs, accompanied by increased oxidative stress and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase activity. BMAC angiogenic function was restored by overexpression of dominant negative Rac1 or by overexpression of manganese superoxide dismutase. TSP-2 mRNA and protein were both significantly upregulated in diabetic BMACs, mediated by increased oxidative stress as shown by a decrease in TSP-2 level after overexpression of dominant negative Rac1 or manganese superoxide dismutase. Silencing TSP-2 by its small interfering RNA in diabetic BMACs improved BMAC function in tube formation, adhesion, and migration assays. Notably, the upregulation of TSP-2 was also found in BMACs from streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic mice, and normal BMACs with high glucose treatment. let-7f, a microRNA which has been related to endothelial angiogenic function, is found to play key role in TSP-2 increase, but let-7f did not directly interact with TSP-2 mRNA.
The upregulation of TSP-2 mediated by increased oxidative stress contributes to angiogenesis dysfunction in diabetic BMACs.
Three patients who presented initially with dystonia and subsequently developed typical idiopathic parkinsonism were evaluated. One patient presented with a writer's cramp, one with axial dystonia, and one with Meige syndrome. All three displayed amelioration of their dystonia with progression of their parkinsonism over a period of 2 to 15 years. Treatment with levodopa gave some relief of the parkinsonism symptoms in two patients but exacerbated or reactivated the dystonia. It is suggested that both the dystonia and the parkinsonism represent the changing clinical expression of the same disorder at different times in its evolution.
The activity of telavancin and comparators was assessed against a contemporary (2007 and 2008) global collection of 10,000 isolates of Staphylococcus aureus. Telavancin was very active against methicillin-susceptible and -resistant S. aureus (MSSA and MRSA, respectively; MIC(50/90) for both, 0.12/0.25 microg/ml; 100.0% susceptible). This agent was 2-, 4-, and 8-fold more potent than daptomycin (MIC(90), 0.5 microg/ml), vancomycin or quinupristin-dalfopristin (MIC(90), 1 microg/ml), and linezolid (MIC(90), 2 microg/ml) against MRSA, respectively. These data show a potent activity of telavancin tested against a current global collection of S. aureus.
The hepatoprotective efficacy of irradiated hyaluronic acid (HA) on acetaminophen (APAP) induced acute hepatotoxicity was investigated. BALB/c mice (4-6 weeks of age) were pretreated with unirradiated HA (UIHA), 5 and 50 kGy gamma irradiated HA (GIHA) for 14 days and were dosed APAP (500 mg/kg b.wt). After 9h of APAP dosing animals were euthanized. The degree of acute hepatotoxicity was measured by aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). The expression of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in serum and alpha-and mu-class of gluthathione-S-transferase (GSTs), CYP 2E1 class of cytochrome monooxygenase and glutathione (GSH) in liver were quantified. Histological evaluation was done by Hematoxiylin and Eiosin staining, Periodic acid schiffs staining, Manson trichrome staining and histological scorings were done. The degree of acute hepatotoxicity was markedly lower in UIHA and 5 kGy than in 50 kGy GIHA pretreated group and there was negligible difference between 5 and 50 kGy GIHA pretreated group. The expression of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was significantly (P<0.05) suppressed in 5 and 50 kGy GIHA pretreated group. Histological scorings showed a significant protection of liver in UIHA and 5 kGy GIHA pretreated mice. Expression of alpha class GSTs was significantly increased in 5 and 50 kGy GIHA pretreated group. To conclude suppression of IFN-gamma and increase in alpha-class GSTs expression may exert a protective role in acute hepatotoxicity of APAP and 5 kGy GIHA showed comparable protective effect to that of UIHA.
To compare efficacy and safety of two regimens of intracervical dinoprostone (Prepidil) in cervical ripening before labor induction at term.
This was a prospective randomized clinical study including 148 patients with single pregnancy, viable fetus at gestational age greater than 36 weeks gestation and a Bishop score less than five, who required induction of labor. Patients were randomised to receive either repeated doses of dinoprostone gel 0.5mg (Prepidil) every 6 hours (group I) or every 12 hours (group II) for maximum three times before inducing labor with Oxytocin. The main outcome was the rate of caesarean sections.
The two groups were similar in patient characteristics, indication for labor induction and preinduction Bishop scores. The caesarean rate was lower in group I (20.3%) than in group II (23%); though the difference did not reach statistical difference: p=0.69. Delivery rate in the first 24 hours was significantly higher in group I (62.2%) than in group II (40.5%); p=0.009. Prepidil secondary effects were experienced in 8.1% of patients in group I versus 1.4% in group II; p=0.11. Median umbilical artery pH at birth was 7.232+/-0.47 in group I and 7.294+/-0.58 in group II; p=0.30. Maternofetal infections rate was lower in group I (1.4%) than in group II (2.7%) without significant difference (p=0.56).
Repeated intracervical doses of Prepidil every 6 hours, in cervical ripening before labor induction at term, enables higher delivery rate in the first 24 hours without inducing excess of caesarean sections or maternofetal morbidity when compared to its administration every 12 hours.
In this study, the effect of daidzin or daidzein isolated from Pueraria lobata on the memory impairments induced by scopolamine was assessed in male mice using the passive avoidance and the Morris water maze tasks. Administration of daidzin (5 mg/kg) or daidzein (5 mg/kg) significantly reversed the scopolamine (1 mg/kg)-induced cognitive impairments in male mice as evidenced by the passive avoidance test (p < 0.05) and on the Morris water maze test (p < 0.05). Moreover, the ameliorating effects of daidzin or daidzein were antagonized by tamoxifen (1 mg/kg), the nonspecific estrogen receptor antagonist. These results indicate that daidzin or daidzein may be useful in cognitive impairment induced by cholinergic dysfunction, and this beneficial effect is mediated, in part, via estrogen receptor.
alpha 2 Adrenoceptors in the central nervous system mediate various physiologic processes, including cardiovascular control. Recently, some of these actions have been reported to be mediated by a nonadrenergic receptor, namely an imidazoline receptor. The authors previously reported that dexmedetomidine, a selective alpha 2 agonist, prevents the genesis of halothane-epinephrine dysrhythmias through a central mechanism. Because dexmedetomidine also binds to imidazoline receptors, we performed the current study to examine the precise receptor mechanism involved in the antidysrhythmic property of dexmedetomidine.
Adult mongrel dogs were anesthetized with halothane (1.3%) and monitored continuously for systemic arterial pressure and premature ventricular contractions. The dysrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine was defined as the smallest dose producing four or more premature ventricular contractions within 15-s period. We examined the antidysrhythmic action of dexmedetomidine in the presence of two kinds of alpha 2 antagonists, that is, agents that label imidazoline receptors and exert a pharmacologic action through imidazoline receptors (idazoxan and atipamezole) and agents that are nonimidazoline compounds and are lacking in pharmacologic action through imidazoline receptors (rauwolscine and L-659,066). They were given cerebroventricularly.
Idazoxan and atipamezole significantly inhibited the antidysrhythmic action of dexmedetomidine, whereas rauwolscine and L-659,066 did not.
Because alpha 2 antagonists having imidazoline or imidazole structures inhibited the antidysrhythmic action of dexmedetomidine, and the inhibition produced by the non-imidazoline alpha 2 antagonists was not significant, imidazoline receptors in the central nervous system are more responsible for the antidysrhythmic action of dexmedetomidine than are alpha 2 adrenoceptors.
A 13-year-old epileptic girl took an overdose of acetaminophen (Tylenol) and phenobarbital. Hepatic encephalopathy developed and the patient died eight days later. Necropsy revealed extensive centrilobular necrosis of the liver, degeneration of the renal distal tubules, and infarcted and demyelinated foci throughout the white matter of the cerebral cortex. Electron microscopy of intact hepatocytes showed a proliferation of both smooth and rough endoplasmic reticulum consistent with enzyme induction from phenobarbital. To our knowledge, this is the first reported death in a child in the United States as a result of acetaminophen and should alert physicians to an expected increase in acetaminophen toxicity as the drug becomes more widely available.
The purpose of this study was to produce mucoadhesive nanocarriers made from chitosan (CS) and hyaluronic acid (HA), and containing the macromolecular drug heparin, suitable for pulmonary delivery. For the first time, this drug was tested in ex vivo experiments performed in mast cells, in order to investigate the potential of the heparin-loaded nanocarriers in antiasthmatic therapy. CS and mixtures of HA with unfractionated or low-molecular-weight heparin (UFH and LMWH, respectively) were combined to form nanoparticles by the ionotropic gelation technique. The resulting nanoparticles loaded with UFH were between 162 and 217 nm in size, and those prepared with LMWH were 152 nm. The zeta potential of the nanoparticle formulations ranged from +28.1 to +34.6 mV, and in selected nanosystems both types of heparin were associated with a high degree of efficiency, which was approximately 70%. The nanosystems were stable in phosphate buffered saline (PBS), pH 7.4, for at least 24h, and released 10.8% of UFH and 79.7% of LMWH within 12h of incubation. Confocal microscopy experiments showed that fluorescent heparin-loaded CS-HA nanoparticles were effectively internalized by rat mast cells. Ex vivo experiments aimed at evaluating the capacity of heparin to prevent histamine release in rat mast cells indicated that the free or encapsulated drug exhibited the same dose-response behaviour.
Sumatriptan is effective in the acute treatment of migraine. However, about 15% of patients with migraine do not experience headache relief after sumatriptan, and up to 40% may experience recurrence of headache within 24 hours. We studied whether pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic differences may explain these different clinical effects.
We compared the pharmacokinetic profiles of subcutaneous sumatriptan in 14 patients who consistently had headache relief without headache recurrence, in 12 patients who had headache recurrence in every attack, and in six patients who did not have headache relief after sumatriptan. Because the antimigraine action of sumatriptan may be mediated through vasoconstriction of cranial blood vessels, we also compared in these patients changes in blood vessel diameter and blood velocity in the common, internal, and external carotid arteries.
Despite sufficient power of the study, no important differences in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles between the three patient groups were detected.
Headache recurrence and lack of headache relief after sumatriptan do not appear to be explained by pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic differences between patients, which may be an important finding for the development of novel antimigraine drugs.
Spinal anaesthesia has been in use since the turn of the late nineteenth century. During the last decade there has been an increase in the number of reports implicating lidocaine as a possible cause of temporary and permanent neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia. Follow-up of patients who received uncomplicated spinal anaesthesia revealed that some of them developed pain in the lower extremities after an initial full recovery. This painful condition that occurs in the immediate postoperative period was named "transient neurologic symptoms" (TNS).
To study the frequency of TNS and neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine, compared to other local anaesthetics.
We searched the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (CENTRAL), (The Cochrane Library, Issue 1, 2005); MEDLINE (1966 to January 2005); EMBASE (1980 to week 6, 2005); LILACS (March 2005); and handsearched the reference lists of trials and review articles.
We included all randomized and pseudo-randomized studies comparing the frequency of TNS and of neurologic complications after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine as compared to other local anaesthetics.
Two authors independently evaluated the quality of the relevant studies and extracted the data from the included studies.
Fifteen trials, reporting 1437 patients, 120 of whom developed transient neurologic symptoms, were included in the analysis. The use of lidocaine for spinal anaesthesia increased the risk of developing TNS. There was no evidence that this painful condition was associated with any neurologic pathology; the symptoms disappeared spontaneously by the fifth postoperative day. The relative risk (RR) for developing TNS after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine as compared to other local anaesthetics (bupivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, levobupivacaine and ropivacaine) was 7.16 (95% confidence interval (CI) 4.02, 12.75).
The risk of developing TNS after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine was significantly higher than when bupivacaine, prilocaine and procaine were used. The term "TNS", which implies a positive neurologic finding, should not be used for this painful condition. One study about the impact of TNS on patient satisfaction and functional impairment demonstrated that non-TNS patients were more satisfied and had less functional impairment after surgery than TNS patients, but this did not influence their willingness to recommend spinal anaesthesia.
