1. The influence of some GABAergic agents on tonic seizures elicited by chloroquine was investigated in mice. 2. Chloroquine (45-100 mg/kg) elicited seizures in mice in a dose related manner. 3. Muscimol (1-2 mg/kg), DABA (8-16 mg/kg) and baclofen (4-16 mg/kg) profoundly delayed the onset of chloroquine (65 mg/kg)-induced seizures. The incidence of the seizures was also significantly reduced by muscimol (1-2 mg/kg), DABA (8 mg/kg) and baclofen (4-8 mg/kg). 4. AOAA (10 mg/kg) profoundly reduced the proportion of mice that convulsed while AOAA (20 mg/kg) completely protected mice against chloroquine (65 mg/kg)-induced seizures. 5. Bicuculline (5 mg/kg) and picrotoxin (0.5-1 mg/kg) significantly potentiated chloroquine (50 mg/kg)-induced seizures. The onset of seizures and the number of mice that convulsed were shortened and increased respectively. The onset of chloroquine (65 mg/kg)-elicited seizures was also profoundly shortened. Bicuculline (5 mg/kg) and picrotoxin (0.5 mg/kg) effectively antagonised the protective effects of muscimol (2 mg/kg), AOAA (10 mg/kg) and DABA (8 mg/kg) against chloroquine (65 mg/kg)-elicited seizures. 6. Diazepam (1 mg/kg) and phenobarbitone (20 mg/kg) significantly antagonised chloroquine (65 mg/kg) seizures. The onset of seizures was significantly delayed by both diazepam (0.25-1 mg/kg) and phenobarbitone (10-20 mg/kg). 7. These data suggest that enhancement and inhibition of GABAergic neurotransmission respectively attenuate and potentiate chloroquine seizures in mice.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α (PPARα) has been implicated in a potent anti-inflammatory activity. However, no information is available on whether PPARα can affect signal transducers and activator of transcription proteins (STATs) in acute liver damage. Thus, this study was aimed to investigate the in vivo role of PPARα in elevating STATs as well as oxidative/nitrosative stress in a model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute hepatic inflammatory injury. Using age-matched Ppara-null and wild-type (WT) mice, we demonstrate that the deletion of PPARα aggravates LPS-mediated liver injury through activating STAT1 and NF-κB-p65 accompanied by increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, the activities of key anti-oxidant enzymes and mitochondrial complexes were significantly decreased while lipid peroxidation and protein nitration were elevated in LPS-exposed Ppara-null mice compared to WT. These results indicate that PPARα is important in preventing LPS-induced acute liver damage by regulating STAT1 inflammatory signaling pathways and oxidative/nitrosative stress.
I report the case of an infant girl who was exposed to lithium during gestation and her follow-up at the age of 1 year. She presented with transient neurodevelopmental deficits including lethargy, hypotonia, and poor oral feeding ability in the neonatal period. She required supportive treatment and made gradual improvement in neurologic functioning. On examination at the age of 1 year, physical findings and psychomotor development were normal. The English literature from 1978 to 2004 is reviewed. A total of 30 patients who were exposed to lithium during gestation with adequate clinical description were identified. A significant number of these babies presented with neurodevelopmental deficits and depressed neurological status including hypotonia, respiratory distress syndrome, cyanosis, lethargy, and weak suck and Moro reflexes in the neonatal period. The majority of these abnormalities resolved and most babies made full recovery. Other abnormalities were structural as well as functional involvement of the cardiovascular system, macrosomia, prematurity, jaundice, diabetes insipidus, and involvement of the thyroid gland. While the use of lithium during pregnancy does not appear to significantly increase the risk of congenital anomalies, it is frequently associated with perinatal complications and reversible neonatal toxicity. Suggested guidelines for appropriate monitoring of infants and breast-feeding of exposed babies are presented. In addition, prenatal surveillance of women with bipolar disorders who are being treated with lithium is briefly discussed.
Torsade de pointes may occur as a complication of amiodarone therapy. We report a patient receiving amiodarone who was resuscitated from cardiovascular collapse and documented ventricular fibrillation. At subsequent electrophysiology study, while the patient was taking amiodarone therapy, monophasic action potentials with early after depolarisations were recorded which were not present when the patient was restudied 6 weeks after discontinuation of amiodarone. Early after-depolarisations may be important in the genesis of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia complicating amiodarone therapy.
The effects of beta-blockade on certain physiological and haemodynamic responses to sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension have been studied in 5 patients, aged 18--54 years, undergoing inner ear surgery. Samples of blood were collected under premedication, following induction of anaesthesia, during neuroleptanalgesia, during a sodium nitroprusside infusion adjusted to produce a 40% fall in blood pressure, during superimposed beta-blockage with bunitrolol and under stable haemodynamic conditions after discontinuation of sodium nitroprusside. The sodium nitroprusside-induced reduction in blood pressure led to a massive increase in plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline and in plasma renin activity. beta-blockade with bunitrolol did not affect the increased catecholamine concentrations, the increase in plasma renin activity was significantly reduced, the increase in heart rate was reversed, and total peripheral resistance and diastolic blood pressure were further reduced. These changes can be attributed to the intrinsic beta-synmpathomimetic activity of bunitrolol in addition to its beta-blocking effect. Since no adverse effect was observed in this study, combined therapy with sodium nitroprusside and beta-receptor blockade should be employed if the effects of increased sympathetic tone are considered to be undesirable.
Drugs are considered a rare cause of acute pancreatitis. We conducted a descriptive study to assess which drugs have been associated with acute pancreatitis in spontaneous adverse drug reaction reports in The Netherlands.
Our study is based on reports of drug-associated acute pancreatitis reported to the Netherlands Center for Monitoring of Adverse Reactions to Drugs and The Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Foundation LAREB between 1 January 1977 and 1 January 1998. We used an algorithm to validate the diagnosis and to assess the causal relationship between acute pancreatitis and use of the suspected drug.
A total of 55 cases were available for review. We excluded 11 (20.0%) reports, as we could not confirm the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. Another 10 (18%) cases were excluded, as the causal relationship with the suspected drug was unlikely. In the remaining 34 reports, acute pancreatitis was labeled as definite in 11 (32%) and as probable in 23 (68%). The age of the patients ranged from 17 to 84 yr with a median of 41; 24 (71%) patients were female. Of the 34 cases, 27 (79%) recovered, five (15%) died, and in two (6%) the outcome is unknown. Azathioprine, cimetidine, interferon-alpha, methyldopa, metronidazole, olsalazine, and oxyphenbutazon all had a definite causal relationship with acute pancreatitis. Doxycycline, enalapril, famotidine, ibuprofen, maprotiline, mesalazine, and sulindac had a probable causal relationship with acute pancreatitis.
A variety of drugs was associated with acute pancreatitis in Dutch adverse drug reaction reports. Quantitative information about drug-induced pancreatitis is scanty. Epidemiological studies to assess the risk of drug-induced acute pancreas, therefore, are needed.
Guanfacine, an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, was compared with methyldopa as step-2 therapy for patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension in a 12-week, double-blind, randomized, parallel evaluation of efficacy and safety. The study consisted of a 2-week screening/weaning period (phase I), a 3-week treatment period with a diuretic (phase II), and a 12-week treatment period with a diuretic plus methyldopa or guanfacine (phase III). Patients were weaned from prior anti-hypertensive medication during the screening/weaning period and began receiving chlorthalidone 25 mg every morning. Patients received only 25 mg of chlorthalidone each morning during the phase II period. Those who had an average seated diastolic blood pressure (BP) of 95-114 mm Hg at the end of the phase II period were eligible to enter the phase III period and were randomly assigned to chlorthalidone plus guanfacine, 1 mg every night, or methyldopa, 250 mg tid. Seated and standing systolic and diastolic BP and pulses were measured biweekly for 12 weeks after randomization. Of the 112 patients who were randomly assigned to guanfacine or methyldopa, 87% completed the entire study. The mean seated systolic and diastolic BP were reduced 13/13 mm Hg by guanfacine administration and 15/13 mm Hg by methyldopa administration. No significant changes in seated pulse were seen in either group. Similar changes occurred in the standing position. Very few adverse effects were reported during the study, the most prevalent side effect was xerostomia (13% guanfacine, 9% methyldopa). No significant differences were observed between treatment groups for the incidence of cardiac arrhythmias after methyldopa or guanfacine administration was stopped.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sixteen patients who had essential hypertension were stabilized on either captopril or enalapril monotherapy and had 24-hour blood pressure profiles monitored by using one of two automatic, non-invasive ambulatory systems: Spacelabs 5300 (Squibb, Princeton, NJ) or PAR Physioport II (Kardiotec, Mannheim). In four subjects (group 1), ambulatory pressures were repeated 4 to 6 weeks later using the same equipment and the same drug. In four subjects (group 2), the drug was changed (dose ratio: captopril:enalapril, 5:1) after the first measurement, but the monitoring equipment was not changed. In four subjects (group 3), the drug was constant, but the equipment was changed for the second measurement of ambulatory pressure. In four subjects (group 4), both drug and equipment were reversed after the first measurement. The results showed that both drugs (given once daily) controlled blood pressure during the 24-hour period, with no clinically significant difference between them.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are lipophilic flame retardants that bioaccumulate in humans. Child serum PBDE concentrations in California are among the highest worldwide. PBDEs may be associated with obesity by disrupting endocrine systems.
In this study, we examined whether pre- and postnatal exposure to the components of pentaBDE mixture was associated with childhood obesity in a population of Latino children participating in a longitudinal birth cohort study in the Salinas Valley, California.
We measured PBDEs in serum collected from 224 mothers during pregnancy and their children at 7 years of age, and examined associations with body mass index (BMI) at age 7 years.
Maternal PBDE serum levels during pregnancy were associated with higher BMI z-scores in boys (BMI z-score βadjusted = 0.26; 95% CI: -0.19, 0.72) but lower scores in girls (BMI z-score βadjusted = -0.41; 95% CI: -0.87, -0.05) at 7 years of age (pinteraction = 0.04). In addition, child's serum BDE-153 concentration (log10), but not other pentaBDE congeners, demonstrated inverse associations with BMI at age 7 years (BMI z-score βadjusted = -1.15; 95% CI: -1.53, -0.77), but there was no interaction by sex.
We estimated sex-specific associations with maternal PBDE levels during pregnancy and BMI at 7 years of age, finding positive associations in boys and negative associations in girls. Children's serum BDE-153 concentrations were inversely associated with BMI at 7 years with no difference by sex. Future studies should examine the longitudinal trends in obesity with PBDE exposure and changes in hormonal environment as children transition through puberty, as well as evaluate the potential for reverse causality.
Erkin-Cakmak A, Harley KG, Chevrier J, Bradman A, Kogut K, Huen K, Eskenazi B. 2015. In utero and childhood polybrominated diphenyl ether exposures and body mass at age 7 years: the CHAMACOS Study. Environ Health Perspect 123:636-642; http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1408417.
Metronidazole is widely used for chronic or refractory infection and has recently also been used for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori. The authors report the case of a Japanese patient presenting with reversible cerebellar lesions induced by prolonged administration of metronidazole for treatment of H pylori with magnetic resonance imaging findings. Although rare, prolonged and high-dose administration of metronidazole may induce cerebellar lesions. Increased awareness of this phenomenon is important, as these lesions are reversible with discontinuation of this drug.
A 71-year-old woman was admitted to the Wakayama Medical University Hospital with dizziness and loss of body balance. She had started hemodialysis at the age of 70. During the 33 days before admission, she received oral tizanidine hydrochloride at 3 mg/day for leg cramps. An admission electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrated sinus bradycardia of 47 bpm. A 24-h ECG showed a total number of heartbeats of 68,779 and an average heart rate of 48 bpm. The maximum RR interval was 3720 msec. The electrophysiology test demonstrated slight sinus node dysfunction. There was no major organic heart disease. We suspected that tizanidine was the cause of bradycardia and stopped administration of this drug. After discontinuation symptoms gradually disappeared. The serum concentration of the tizanidine showed a higher trough of 1.78 ng/mL. In conclusion, because there was a disappearance of symptoms and a lightening of bradycardia due to the discontinuation of this medication, tizanidine was strongly suspected as the cause of severe bradycardia.
Chemically induced carcinogenesis models in the rat are widely used for studying the biology of cancer and for developing and evaluating cancer prevention strategies. The azoxymethane(AOM)-induced rat colon tumor is a valuable tool for studying the interaction between tumor development and exogenous factors. Malignant conditions are characterized by enhanced levels of lipid peroxidative products, protein bound carbohydrates indicative of membrane damage and an ineffective antioxidant scavenging system. In the present study, AOM-induced rat showed lipid peroxidative damage, alterations in the membrane glycoprotein component and antioxidant defense system, along with ultrastructural changes like disruption in goblet cell and its membrane, swollen mitochondria with cristae dispersed, elongated endoplasmic reticulum and other features of neoplastic invasion. Berberine significantly attenuated the increases in lipid peroxidation, protein bound carbohydrates and enhanced the antioxidative status. The present study suggests that berberine prevents the appearance of malignant morphology and ultrastructural changes of AOM induced cancer by producing apoptosis like changes. Thus berberine inhibits neoplastic transformation by the induction of antioxidant defence system and ability to induce apoptotic like changes--thus elucidating its anti cancer role.
Peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) of 37 formaldehyde-exposed women from four pathology departments in Hungary were investigated to collect data on the effects of occupational exposures to formaldehyde and to find a possible relationship between in vivo formaldehyde-induced apoptosis and genotoxic effects. The subjects were divided into two groups: 16 donors exposed to formaldehyde together with various organic solvents, and 21 subjects exposed mainly to formaldehyde. The results were compared with 37 controls (all women) without known occupational exposure. Ambient air concentrations of formaldehyde were measured in three work places, and ranged from 0.23 to 1.21mg/m(3) (mean 0.9mg/m(3)). Measures of genotoxicity included the determination of the frequencies of chromosomal aberrations (CA), sister-chromatid exchange (SCE), HPRT mutations (variant frequency, VF) and the measurement of UV-induced unscheduled DNA-repair synthesis (UDS). The percentages of premature centromere division (PCD) and of cells with a high frequency of SCE (HF/SCE) were also scored. Apoptosis and cell proliferation were determined by flow cytometry. In both formaldehyde-exposed groups, the apoptotic activity and the CA levels in PBLs were significantly higher than in controls. The CA were mostly breaks of the chromatid type. In the second group, which was mainly exposed to formaldehyde, CA were slightly lower in comparison with the group exposed to formaldehyde and solvents, which may be attributed to a different rate of elimination of damaged lymphocytes as a consequence of formaldehyde-induced apoptotic activity. In the second group, a significant decrease of VF and a non-significant increase in HF/SCE were found compared with the control and the other group. In conclusion, the results demonstrate that exposure to formaldehyde induces apoptosis and CA, indicating an excess cancer risk among subjects occupationally exposed to formaldehyde. The results also emphasize the importance of the measurement of occupational air pollutants, such as formaldehyde, in order to avoid genotoxic effects in the workers.
Propranolol causes splanchnic arterial vasoconstriction owing to the unopposed alpha vasoconstriction resulting from the blockade of beta-2 adrenoceptors. It is therefore hypothesized that this drug may cause vasoconstriction in the splenic arterial circulation and, thus, modify the manifestations of hypersplenism, such as thrombocytopenia. The aim of the present study was to test this hypothesis.
Nineteen patients with cirrhosis and thrombocytopenia (fewer than thrombocytes 7 x 10(4)/mm3) were include. The subjects of the study. All of them were studied in the morning after an overnight fast. To evaluate splenic arterial hemodynamics, the pulsatility index was measured by Doppler ultrasonography. Platelet counts and platelet-associated immunoglobulin G levels were also recorded. The subjects were then randomized to receive propranolol (n = 10) or placebo (n = 9). The measurements were repeated after 1 week of propranolol or placebo administration. The dose of propranolol was determined so that a 20% to 25% reduction in heart rate was achieved.
Placebo administration caused no significant changes in splenic artery hemodynamics. In contrast, propranolol administration significantly increased the intra splenic artery pulsatility index (from 1.10+/-0.06 to 1.24+/-0.08; P < 0.01). Placebo administration caused no significant changes in the platelet count. In contrast, propranolol administration significantly increased the platelet count (from 4.5+/-0.3 to 6.1+/-0.73 x 10(4)/mm3; P < 0.05). Furthermore, the change in platelet count was significantly correlated with either the change in extrasplenic artery pulsatility index (r = 0.78, P < 0.05) or the change in intrasplenic artery pulsatility index (r = 0.78, P < 0.01). Platelet-associated immunoglobulin G levels were not modified in either of the two groups.
Propranolol ameliorates thrombocytopenia in patients with cirrhosis. This effect may be caused mainly by hemodynamic changes in the spleen, rather than being caused by immunological mechanisms.
This study was conducted to assess the influence of dopamine on thyrotropin secretion in patients with primary hypothyroidism before and after optimized L-thyroxin replacement therapy. Thyrotropin responses to dopamine infusion (4 microg/kg/min over 3 hours) and IV metoclopramide (10 mg bolus), a dopamine receptor blocker were studied in 25 consecutive patients with primary hypothyroidism before and after achieving stable euthyroid state and compared with 15 normal age-matched controls. Thyrotropin response to both dopamine infusion (decremental) and IV metoclopramide bolus (incremental) was greater in patients with primary hypothyroidism than that in the control subjects. Thyrotropin response was greater in women than in men. The magnitude of decremental thyrotropin response to dopamine infusion and the incremental response to IV metoclopramide bolus significantly correlated with the basal T3 and T4 levels. Thyrotropin response was blunted to dopamine infusion but not to metoclopramide at follow-up after six-month replacement with L-thyroxin, and both the responses were comparable in women and men in patient group. We conclude that modulation of dopaminergic system by dopamine or by dopamine receptor blocker has a greater influence on thyrotropin secretion in patients with primary hypothyroidism than euthyroid normal subjects.
A prospective study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and patient acceptance of low-dose ketamine when used to diminish the pain of local anesthetic injections. The role of diazepam in preventing the untoward psychological effects of ketamine was also investigated. Our findings, derived from a postoperative questionnaire, reinforce the assertions of others, that ketamine is safe and effectively prevents pain in 85 percent of patients. While 13 percent of our patients hallucinated, most found the experience pleasant, and there were no "bad trips" or emergence reactions. Adequate premedication appears to be important in the successful use of ketamine. Whether sedation is augmented with diazepam or achieved with other medications does not appear to matter. A close supportive relationship with the surgeon and operating room personnel is probably as important as any pharmacologic manipulation in avoiding psychological mishap with low-dose ketamine.
A patient in good general condition and a negative clinical history was anaesthetised for right lower extremity varices. Preanaesthesia with 10 mg diazepam and 0.3 mg atropine 45 min prior to surgery was followed by uneventful induction with thiopental sodium and succinylcholine orotracheally, and maintenance with N2O, O2 and Ethrane in standard percentages. Muscle relaxation was obtained with pancuronium bromide. Automatic ventilation was used to maintain a VT of 12 ml per kg body weight and a respiration rate of 10 breaths per minute. At the end of the operation, 2.5 mg neostigmine and 1.5 mg atropine were given. Since the patient failed to breather spontaneously, automatic ventilation was resumed and 0.4 mg naloxone were administered i.v. After about 2 min, the patient exhibited the classic signs of left ventricular insufficiency, with BP 260/150 mmHg, clinical evidence of acute pulmonary oedema, and an ECG showing atrial tachycardia and variable A-V block. Treatment with PEEP and i.v. furosemide led to spontaneous resolution of the clinical picture, and early normalisation of the ECG. The part played by naxolone in this picture is discusses with reference to similar cases in the literature. It is felt that massive release of catecholamines in response to pain after administration of naloxone is capable of triggering the typical clinical picture of left ventricular insufficiency. The possible role of naloxone vis-à-vis opium and endorphin receptors is also discussed.
Interleukin 10 (IL-10), a suppressive Th2 cell-type cytokine, promotes disease progression in experimental visceral leishmaniasis. To extend testing the therapeutic effects of applying IL-10 receptor (IL-10R) blockade with antileishmanial chemotherapy, BALB/c mice with established intracellular Leishmania donovani infection were injected once with anti-IL-10R mAb at the time low-dose, daily pentavalent antimony (Sb) therapy was initiated. In this treatment model, simultaneous administration of anti-IL-10R enhanced overall antileishmanial activity in the liver in an interferon-gamma-dependent fashion, and accelerated the kinetics of Sb-associated killing, induced a >10-fold Sb dose-sparing effect and shortened the required duration of Sb treatment. These results suggest the possibility of using mAb-induced IL-10R blockade to develop low-dose and/or short-course immunochemotherapeutic regimens in visceral leishmaniasis.
Transient left ventricular apical ballooning syndrome was first described in Japan as "Takotsubo cardiomyopathy." This syndrome has been identified in many other countries. Many variations of this syndrome have been recently described in the literature. One of the rarest is the reverse type of this syndrome, with hyperdynamic apex and complete akinesia of the base (as opposed to the classic apical ballooning). In this article, we report an interesting case of a young woman who presented with this rare type of reverse apical ballooning syndrome occurring after amphetamine use. This report is followed by review of the literature.
Lapatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2, also referred to as HER2/neu) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), is active in combination with capecitabine in women with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer that has progressed after trastuzumab-based therapy. In this trial, we compared lapatinib plus capecitabine with capecitabine alone in such patients.
Women with HER2-positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer that had progressed after treatment with regimens that included an anthracycline, a taxane, and trastuzumab were randomly assigned to receive either combination therapy (lapatinib at a dose of 1250 mg per day continuously plus capecitabine at a dose of 2000 mg per square meter of body-surface area on days 1 through 14 of a 21-day cycle) or monotherapy (capecitabine alone at a dose of 2500 mg per square meter on days 1 through 14 of a 21-day cycle). The primary end point was time to progression, based on an evaluation by independent reviewers under blinded conditions.
The interim analysis of time to progression met specified criteria for early reporting on the basis of superiority in the combination-therapy group. The hazard ratio for the independently assessed time to progression was 0.49 (95% confidence interval, 0.34 to 0.71; P<0.001), with 49 events in the combination-therapy group and 72 events in the monotherapy group. The median time to progression was 8.4 months in the combination-therapy group as compared with 4.4 months in the monotherapy group. This improvement was achieved without an increase in serious toxic effects or symptomatic cardiac events.
Lapatinib plus capecitabine is superior to capecitabine alone in women with HER2-positive advanced breast cancer that has progressed after treatment with regimens that included an anthracycline, a taxane, and trastuzumab. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00078572 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).
Adenosine was intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected to Wistar rats every 3 days with a total of 5 administrations. After a 7-day withdrawal, the animals were challenged with methamphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). The effect of methamphetamine on locomotor activity was significantly potentiated by repeated adenosine pretreatment. Moreover, methamphetamine-induced dopamine release was also increased in the striatum. Methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity and dopamine release were significantly potentiated by repeated pretreatment of an adenosine A1 agonist, N6-cyclohexyladenosine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). These results suggest that the acute effect of methamphetamine is potentiated by repeated pre-treatment of adenosine via adenosine A1 receptors.
Two cases of bilateral moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss due to oral administration of metronidazole are reported. There has been only one case report of deafness following metronidazole therapy in the world literature. The hearing loss recovered gradually in a period of four to six weeks following withdrawal of drug and oral steroid therapy. The possible mechanism of ototoxicity is discussed. Awareness by the treating physician of ototoxicity due to any drug is stressed.
Clonidine withdrawal syndrome is described in a patient with heart failure and suspected cardiogenic shock. Hemodynamic monitoring disclosed hypertension and a very high systemic vascular resistance. Treatment consisted of nitroprusside followed by captopril.
Polaprezinc [N-(3-aminopropionyl)-L-histidinato zinc] (PZ), an anti-ulcer drug, is a chelate compound consisting of zinc and L-carnosine. PZ has been shown to prevent gastric mucosal injury. In the present study, we investigated the inhibitory effect of PZ on indomethacin (IND)-induced apoptosis in a rat gastric mucosal cell line, RGM1. Pretreatment with PZ suppressed caspase-3 activation and subsequent apoptosis in the cells exposed to 500 microM IND in a dose-dependent manner, and 50 microM PZ exhibited the maximum inhibitory effect. Among PZ subcomponents, zinc but not L-carnosine played a pivotal role in this antiapoptotic function. PZ did not affect mitochondrial cytochrome c release upstream of caspase-3 activation in the IND-induced apoptotic signal pathway. Treatment with 500 microM IND evidently produced reactive oxygen species (ROS) in RGM1 cells. However, PZ did not scavenge ROS in IND-treated cells. Moreover, N-acetylL-cysteine, a potent antioxidant, inhibited ROS generation but did not suppress apoptosis in RGM1 cells exposed to IND. These observations demonstrate a novel pharmacological action of PZ; i.e., that PZ, and in particular its zinc subcomponent, inhibits apoptosis via inhibition of caspase-3 activation but not antioxidant activity.
This study examined the relationship between folate/homocysteine-related genetic polymorphisms: MTHFD1 1958G --> A (R653Q), MTHFR 677C --> T (A222V), MTHFR 1298A --> C (E429A), and risk of severe abruptio placentae. We genotyped 62 women with a pregnancy history complicated by severe abruptio placentae and 184 control pregnancies. Analysis of the MTHFD1 1958G --> A (R653Q) polymorphism showed increased frequency of the 'QQ' homozygote genotype in pregnancies affected by severe abruptio placentae compared to control pregnancies (odds ratio 2.85 (1.47-5.53), P = 0.002). In contrast to previous reports, the MTHFR polymorphisms 677C --> T (A222V) and 1298A --> C (E429A) were not associated with abruptio placentae risk in our cohort, when analyzed either independently or in combination. We conclude that women who are 'QQ' homozygote for the MTHFD1 1258G --> A (R653Q) polymorphism are almost three times more likely to develop severe abruptio placentae during their pregnancy than women who are 'RQ' or 'RR.'
A previously healthy 16-year-old boy with a closed, severe traumatic brain injury was admitted to a surgical and trauma intensive care unit. He was given a continuous infusion of propofol for sedation and to control intracranial pressure. About 3 days after the propofol infusion was started, metabolic acidosis and rhabdomyolysis developed. Acute renal failure ensued as a result of the rhabdomyolysis. Tachycardia with wide QRS complexes developed without hyperkalemia. The patient died of refractory cardiac dysrhythmia and circulatory collapse approximately 36 hours after the first signs of propofol infusion syndrome appeared. Propofol infusion syndrome is a rare but frequently fatal complication in critically ill children who are given prolonged high-dose infusions of the drug. The syndrome is characterized by severe metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure, refractory myocardial failure, and hyperlipidemia. Despite several publications on the subject in the past decade, most cases still seem to remain undetectable.
Rifampicin is a widely used anti-tuberculous drug. Administered daily, only minimal side-effects occur. With intermittent therapy and, as happened in the present case, when the drug is administered after an interruption of treatment, severe adverse reactions [5] (thrombocytopenia, renal failure, and haemolysis) may occur.
Four groups of 20 patients each received either vecuronium or atracurium together with either glycopyrronium or saline, and underwent anaesthesia free of vagolytic drugs, and surgery devoid of vagal activity. Determinations of plasma histamine concentrations were made to examine the possible correlation between these levels and changes in heart rate and blood pressure as well as a possible relationship with skin reactions after the administration of the relaxants. Patients who received vecuronium without the anticholinergic drug, glycopyrronium, showed a greater tendency towards bradycardia (though not statistically significant) than those given atracurium. More cutaneous reactions were observed with patients who received atracurium than in those with vecuronium, but there was no correlation with plasma histamine concentrations of either relaxant group. There was no correlation either between histamine concentrations and heart rate or blood pressure associated with atracurium. The incidence of bradycardia with either relaxant is low if the anaesthetic technique and the surgery are devoid of vagal activity.
