Arsenic is a pathologic factor of cardiovascular diseases and cancers; nevertheless, it also acts as an anticancer agent effective on acute promyelocytic leukemia and multiple myeloma. Securin, a proposed proto-oncogene, regulates cell proliferation and tumorigenesis. However, roles of securin on the arsenic-induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis remain unknown. In this study, the effects of sodium arsenite on the expression of securin in two tissue types of cell lines, the vascular endothelial and colorectal epithelial cells, were investigated. Arsenite (8-16 microM, 24 h) increased the cytotoxicity, apoptosis, and growth inhibition in both endothelial and epithelial cells. The levels of phospho-CDC2 (threonine-161), CDC2, and cyclin B1 proteins were decreased, and the G2/M fractions were increased by arsenite. Concomitantly, arsenite markedly diminished the securin protein expression and induced the abnormal sister chromatid separation. The depletion of securin proteins increased the induction of mitotic arrest, aberrant chromosome segregation, and apoptosis after arsenite treatment. p53, a tumor suppressor protein, balances the cell survival and apoptosis. Arsenite raised the levels of phospho-p53 (serine-15) and p53 (DO-1) proteins in both the securin-wild-type and -null cells. The p53-functional cells were more susceptible than the p53-mutational cells to arsenite on the cytotoxicity and apoptosis. Besides, arsenite decreased the levels of securin proteins to a similar degree in both the p53-functional and -mutational cells. Together, it is the first time to demonstrate that the inhibition of securin expression induced by arsenite increases the chromosomal instability and apoptosis via a p53-independent pathway.
Syringomyelia is rare in children aged less than 10 years, and bladder dysfunction is an unlikely first manifestation. This report describes a case of repeated episodes of acute urinary retention in a young girl revealing syringomyelia and Arnold-Chiari malformation.
A 2.5 year-old girl was admitted because she was suffering from acute urinary retention. Her poor appetite had been treated with cyproheptadine, a histamine type I blocking drug. Clinical investigation revealed no local cause for this bladder dysfunction except moderate spasticity of the legs. Cystography showed no vesicoureteral reflux. Because the episodes of urinary retention recurred each day, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed; this showed the typical features of syringomyelia extending from C5 to T11 plus Arnold-Chiari malformation. The cyproheptadine was discontinued and the urinary retention disappeared.
Cyproheptadine may have revealed latent neurogenic bladder in this case, although urodynamic studies, performed 3 months later, detected no bladder dysfunction.
The addition of minoxidil therapy reduced blood pressure effectively for 6--52 months (average, 24) in 25 of 28 patients with refractory hypertension. One patient was nonresponsive; 2 were noncompliant. Patients who had a serum creatinine up to 4 mg% and greater than 750 mg of albuminuria per day had further deterioration of renal function of 5.3 +/- 1.4% per month compared to that of 0.2 +/- 0.4% per month in patients without albuminuria (p less th5% was not as helpful predicting preservation of renal function in patients with refractory hypertension after adding minoxidil as was the absence of albuminuria.
Myelosuppression is a toxicity-related limitation for aranoza dosage. The drug proved effective in the treatment of uterine sarcoma, cancer of the head and neck, breast, Hodgkin's disease and lymphosarcoma during stage II of clinical studies. Complete regression was reported in the treatment of melanoma (ca. 12%). Good results of chemoimmunotherapy should be expected in untreated patients as well as intraarterial infusions for local lesions of the extremities. Clinical trials of aranoza used in combined modalities of therapy in various sites continue.
The possible interactions between acetaminophen and cadmium (Cd) on the kidney were investigated in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Acetaminophen was administered in the food at an average dose of 900 mg/kg and Cd in drinking water at the concentration of 200 ppm. The treatment with acetaminophen and Cd lasted 2 and 10 months, respectively. No interaction between Cd and acetaminophen was observed during the period of their concomitant administration: the increase in albuminuria caused by Cd and acetaminophen was additive, while the tubular impairment caused by acetaminophen (increased beta 2-microglobulinuria and decreased kidney concentrating ability) was not exacerbated by Cd. None of these treatments affected the glomerular filtration rate. Four months after the end of acetaminophen treatment, the renal changes had almost completely disappeared in the rats which had received the analgesic alone. Those continuously exposed to Cd had developed slight tubular damage, as evidenced by an increased urinary excretion of beta 2-microglobulin and beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase. By contrast, rats pretreated with acetaminophen for 2 months and exposed to Cd showed a marked increase in urinary excretion of albumin and beta 2-microglobulin, suggesting an interaction between both treatments. At the end of the study, only the interaction with beta 2-microglobulin excretion was still evident; that with the urinary excretion of beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase and albumin having been masked by the chronic progressive nephrosis affecting most animals at that stage. As acetaminophen had no effect on the renal accumulation of Cd, it may be concluded that pretreatment with this analgesic at a dose causing slight tubular dysfunction renders rat kidney more sensitive to the nephrotoxic action of Cd. This observation may be of clinical relevance for population groups occupationally or environmentally exposed to Cd.
We clarified the modulating action of the endocannabinoid system, and its possible mediation by the arachidonic acid cascade, on the reinstatement of methamphetamine (METH)-seeking behavior, using the intravenous self-administration paradigm in rats. Following 12 days of self-administration of METH, the replacement of METH with saline resulted in a gradual decrease in lever press responses (extinction). Under extinction conditions, METH-priming or re-exposure to cues previously paired with METH infusion markedly increased the responses (reinstatement of drug-seeking). The cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716A, blocked this behavior. Although the cannabinoid agonist, Delta8-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), had no effects by itself, coadministration of the agonist and METH at small doses reinstated the drug-seeking behavior. THC attenuated the effects of the reinstatement-inducing dose of METH, but enhanced the effect of cues. Either given repeatedly during the extinction or singly, 24 h before the first METH-priming or cues challenge, THC suppressed the reinstatement. In another set of experiments, we found that diclofenac, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, also attenuated the reinstatement induced by exposure to cues or drug-priming. These results suggest that the endocannabinoid system, through possible mediation by the arachidonic acid cascade, serves as a modulator of the reinstating effects of METH-priming and cues. Extending the current view on the treatment of drug dependence, these results indicate that endocannabinoid-activating substances as well as cyclooxygenase inhibitors may be promising as antirelapse agents.
Renal function was monitored in 20 previously refractory hypertensive patients treated for 2--7 years with minoxidil, sympathetic suppressants, and diuretics. Serum creatinine concentration increased by more than 1 mg/dl in 9 of the 20 patients. In 4 of the 9 patients, renal disease progressed to require hemodialysis. Eleven patients had no progression of renal disease (creatinine increased less than or equal to 1 mg/dl). Three of the 11 had had malignant hypertension with renal failure which was reversed during this triple therapy. Neither the quality of blood pressure control nor the duration of minoxidil therapy correlated with increases in serum creatinine concentration. Plasma norepinephrine levels were higher (p less than 0.01) and plasma renin activity lower (p less than 0.02) in the group with progression of renal disease. Serum creatinine at the time when neuroendocrine studies were done correlated with PNE (r = 0.51, p less than 0.05). Addition of clonidine to this triple regimen in 2 patients with advanced renal disease lowered plasma norepinephrine by 63 and 81%. These findings suggest that the high norepinephrine levels are due to excess release of norepinephrine rather than defective renal elimination of this catecholamine. Whether the elevated plasma norepinephrine contributes to or is a result of the underlying disease is not known.
A new synthetic retinoid analogue, adapalene (6-[3-(1-adamantyl)-4-methoxyphenyl]-2-naphthoic acid, CD271), which is relatively selective for retinoic acid receptor beta, was noted to be an effective comedolytic agent in the rhino mouse model and to have clinical efficacy against acne. In pursuit of this observation, we studied the effects of CD271 on the development of erythema, spongiosis, and epidermal hyperplasia as well as other well-characterized markers of in vivo retinoid action after 4 d of occluded topical treatment. The objective of the study was to elucidate further those parameters associated with potential clinical efficacy. Twenty-five subjects were treated with 0.1% all-trans retinoic acid cream, all-trans retinoic acid vehicle, 0.1% CD271 gel, or CD271 vehicle under occlusion for 4 d. Only all-trans retinoic acid induced erythema (p < 0.01 versus all other treatments). Similarly, histologic analysis revealed that epidermal hyperplasia and spongiosis were induced only by all-trans retinoic acid (p < 0.01 versus all other treatments). By immunohistochemical analysis: all-trans retinoic acid increased expression of epidermal transglutaminase, involucrin, and calgranulin (p < 0.05 versus all other treatments). In contrast to these data, both CD271 and all-trans retinoic acid caused marked and significant (p < 0.05) elevation of cellular retinoic acid-binding protein-II (CRABP-II) messenger ribonucleic acid steady-state levels as judged by quantitative RNA blot analysis. Although CD271 treatment did not lead to erythema or affect epidermal morphology, its ability to induce a marker of retinoid action (i.e., CRABP-II) was 70% the potency of all-trans retinoic acid. This study suggests that CRABP-II gene expression may be a more sensitive indicator of retinoid biologic activity in skin than are erythema or changes in epidermal morphology and differentiation.
The antiallergic effects of traditional medicines have long been studied. Traditional Korean medicine, Citrus sunki and bamboo salt, has been used for the treatment of allergic diseases in Korea. K-ALL, composed of Citrus sunki and bamboo salt, is a newly prepared prescription for allergic patients. To develop the new antiallergic agent, we examined the effects of K-ALL through in vivo and in vitro models. K-ALL and naringin (an active compound of K-ALL) significantly inhibited histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells. This inhibitory effect of K-ALL on histamine release was higher than effects from other known histamine inhibitors such as bamboo salt, Citrus sunki or disodium cromoglycate. K-ALL significantly inhibited systemic anaphylactic shock induced by the compound 48/80 and passive cutaneous anaphylaxis induced by the IgE. K-ALL also inhibited production and mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and the calcium ionophore A23187 on HMC-1 cells (a human mast cell line). In the ovalbumin-induced allergic rhinitis animal model, rub scores, histamine, IgE, inflammatory cytokines and inflammatory cell counts were all reduced by the oral or nasal administration of K-ALL (pre and posttreatment). These results indicate the great potential of K-ALL as an active immune modulator for the treatment of mast cell-mediated allergic diseases.
To investigate the effects of simvastatin on left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and its possible mechanism.
Sixteen male SHRs were randomly divided into 2 equal groups: treatment group and SHR control to be given simvastatin or glucose-normal saline by oral gavage for 10 weeks. Eight Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were given normal saline as normal controls. Blood pressure was measured before the experiment and then once every week after the beginning of experiment. By the end of the experiment the rats were killed and their hearts were taken out to measure the left ventricle weight/body weight. RT-PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and of protein kinase B (PKB) in myocardium. Western blotting was used to examine the protein expression of PKB.
(1) The systolic blood pressure of the SHR normal control and treatment groups were 221 mm Hg +/- 10 mm Hg and 217 mm Hg +/- 8 mm Hg respectively (P > 0.05) and the systolic pressure of the normal control group was 126 +/- 6 mm Hg, significantly lower than those of the 2 SHR groups (both P < 0.01). (2) The LVW/BW values of the SHR control group were 3.04 mg/g +/- 0.12 mg/g, 3.73 mg/g +/- 0.08 mg/g, and 4.10 mg/g +/- 0.13 mg/g in the normal control group, SHR treatment group and SHR control group respectively with significant difference between any 2 groups (all P < 0.01). (3) The mRNA expression levels of ANP were 0.44 +/- 0.33, 0.27 +/- 0.03, and 0.17 +/- 0.33 in the SHR control group, SHR treatment group, and normal control group respectively (P < 0.01 or P < 0.05). (4) The mRNA expression levels of PKB were 0.45 +/- 0.05, 0.32 +/- 0.03, and 0.19 +/- 0.02 in the SHR control group, SHR treatment group, and normal control group respectively (P < 0.01 or P < 0.05).
Simvastatin reverses LVH and myocyte phenocyte transformation in the SHRs with the possible mechanism of decreasing the expression level of PKB.
We report probably the first case of bilateral irreversible sensorineural hearing loss caused by Imatinib.
A review of the world literature, concerning Imatinib toxicity is presented.
We report a case of bilateral irreversible sensorineural hearing loss, in a 19-year-old male patient of chronic myeloid leukemia after 3 months of Imatinib therapy. Audiometric evaluation documented the findings.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of Imatinib induced sensorineural hearing loss. This case indicates that treating oncologists should keep in mind that this drug too can produce ototoxicity.
Recent experiments have shown that mice lacking the alpha1b-adrenergic receptor (alpha1b-AR KO) are less responsive to the locomotor hyperactivity induced by psychostimulants, such as D-amphetamine or cocaine, than their wild-type littermates (WT). These findings suggested that psychostimulants induce locomotor hyperactivity not only because they increase dopamine (DA) transmission, but also because they release norepinephrine (NE). To test whether NE release could increase DA-mediated locomotor hyperactivity, rats were treated with GBR 12783 (10 mg/kg), a specific inhibitor of the DA transporter, and NE release was enhanced with dexefaroxan (0.63-10 mg/kg), a potent and specific antagonist at alpha2-adrenergic receptors. Dexefaroxan increased the GBR 12783-mediated locomotor response by almost 8-fold. The role of alpha1b-ARs in this effect was then verified in alpha1b-AR KO mice: whereas dexefaroxan (1 mg/kg) doubled locomotor hyperactivity induced by GBR 12783 (14 mg/kg) in WT mice, it decreased it by 43% in alpha1b-AR KO mice. Finally, to test whether this latter inhibition was related to the occupation of alpha2-adrenergic autoreceptors or of alpha2-ARs not located on noradrenergic neurons, effects of dexefaroxan on locomotor hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine (0.75 mg/kg) were monitored in rats depleted in ascending noradrenergic neurons. In these animals dexefaroxan inhibited by 25-70% D-amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. These data indicate not only that the stimulation of alpha1b-ARs increases DA-mediated locomotor response, but also suggest a significant implication of postsynaptic alpha2-ARs. Involvement of these adrenergic receptor mechanisms may be exploited in the therapy of Parkinson's disease.
Clusterin mRNA levels were shown to increase dramatically in rat ventral prostate following castration, and clusterin was therefore originally thought to be repressed by androgens. It was later discovered that the increased clusterin levels are most likely due to castration-induced apoptosis of the prostatic epithelium rather than direct action of the androgen receptor (AR). In the studies presented here, LNCaP cells in culture and rat prostate organ culture were treated with androgens. Clusterin mRNA and protein are shown to increase with androgen treatment in a time- and dose-dependent manner. This induction of clusterin requires AR and can be inhibited by casodex, an AR antagonist. We have found that the first intron of the clusterin gene contains putative androgen response elements. The intronic region is shown to be bound by AR in chromatin immunoprecipitation assays and is transactivated by AR in reporter assays. Two isoforms of clusterin result from alternate transcriptional start sites. Both isoforms are cytoprotective; however, Isoform 1 has the capacity to produce a splice variant that is apoptotic. Real time PCR was used to determine the response of the two isoforms to androgens. Intriguingly, these results illustrated that Isoform 2 was up-regulated, whereas Isoform 1 was down-regulated by androgens. Isoform 2 was also increased as the LNCaP xenograft tumor progressed to androgen-independence, whereas Isoform 1 was unaltered. This androgen regulation of clusterin may underline the cytoprotective role of androgens in normal prostate physiology as well as play an antiapoptotic role in prostate cancer progression.
Testosterone, acting as a systemic and local factor, is one of the major regulatory molecules that initiate and maintain testicular function. In the present study, different experimental approaches were used to evaluate the role of testosterone in regulation of the nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway in Leydig cells derived from normal and hypogonadotropic male rats treated with testosterone for 24 h and 2 wk. Real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot analysis revealed increased inducible NO synthase (NOS2) expression followed by increased NO secretion from Leydig cells ex vivo after continuous treatment with testosterone for 2 wk in vivo. The cGMP-specific phosphodiesterases Pde5, Pde6, and Pde9 were up-regulated, whereas PRKG1 protein was decreased after a 2-wk testosterone treatment. Induction of Nos2 and Pde5 in Leydig cells was blocked by androgen receptor antagonist. In experimental hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, expression of NOS2 was significantly reduced, and treatment with testosterone increased NOS2 expression above control levels. PDE5 protein level was unchanged in hypogonadal rats, whereas treatment of hypogonadal rats with testosterone significantly increased it. In contrast, hypogonadism and testosterone replacement reduced PRKG1 protein in Leydig cells. In vitro treatment with testosterone caused gradually increased Nos2 gene expression followed by increased nitrite and cGMP production by purified Leydig cells. In summary, testosterone up-regulated NO signaling via increased NOS2 expression and contributed to down-regulation of cGMP signaling in Leydig cells. Thus, testosterone-induced modulation of NO-cGMP signaling may serve as a potent autocrine regulator of testicular steroidogenesis.
Patients with chest pain syndromes and normal coronary angiograms were studied with a new set of methods that included thermodilution coronary sinus blood flow and coronary dye dilution curves with special computer analysis, oxygen and lactate determinations, thallium scannings, atrial pacing and dipyridamole tests. The following observations and conclusions were made: Patients with cardiac hypertrophy have a reduced circulating coronary blood volume in relation to the left ventricular mass; this may play a role in patients' vulnerability to ischaemia. During pacing-induced angina a significant imbalance between oxygen supply and demand can be demonstrated in patients with "syndrome X". Dipyridamole-induced chest pain as a result of myocardial ischaemia seems to occur in patients with normal coronary arteries. Marked ischaemia evidenced by a regional intensity reduction of 25% or more in thallium scans results in a significant increase in coronary volume. This is obviously due to mobilization of reserve vasculature as a response to ischaemia. A reduction in the ratio of myocardial oxygen supply to demand was demonstrated even in connection with milder defects, the regional intensity reduction being as low as 12.5%.
The relative effectiveness of newly started antipsychotic drugs for individuals with schizophrenia may depend on multiple factors, including each patient's previous treatment response and the reason for a new medication trial. This randomized, double-blind study compared olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone in patients who had just discontinued the older antipsychotic perphenazine.
Subjects with schizophrenia (N=114) who had been randomly assigned to and then discontinued perphenazine in phase 1 of the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) schizophrenia study were reassigned randomly to double-blinded treatment with olanzapine, 7.5-30.0 mg/day (N=38); quetiapine, 200-800 mg/day (N=38); or risperidone, 1.5-6.0 mg/day (N=38). The primary aim was to determine whether there were differences among these three treatments in effectiveness, as measured by time to treatment discontinuation for any reason. Secondary outcomes included reasons for treatment discontinuation and measures of drug tolerability.
The time to treatment discontinuation was longer for patients treated with quetiapine (median, 9.9 months) and olanzapine (7.1 months) than with risperidone (3.6 months). There were no significant differences between treatments on discontinuation due to inefficacy, intolerability, or patient decision.
Among this group of patients with chronic schizophrenia who had just discontinued the older antipsychotic perphenazine, quetiapine and olanzapine were more effective than risperidone, as reflected by longer time to discontinuation for any reason. In the context of other results from the CATIE study, the effectiveness and acceptability of antipsychotic drugs appears to vary considerably according to clinical circumstances.
We have previously found that mice homozygous for the deletion of the dopamine D(2) receptor gene (D(2)(-/-) mice) do not present spontaneous catalepsy when tested in a "bar test". In the present study, we sought to analyse the reactivity of D(2) receptor mutant mice to the cataleptogenic effects of dopamine D(2)-like or D(1)-like receptor antagonists. In parallel, we assessed the cataleptogenic effects of these antagonists in dopamine D(3) receptor mutant mice. D(2)(-/-) mice were totally unresponsive to the cataleptogenic effects of the dopamine D(2)-like receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.125-2 mg/kg i.p.), while D(2)(+/-) mice, at the highest haloperidol doses tested, showed a level of catalepsy about half that of wild-type controls. The degree of haloperidol-induced catalepsy was thus proportional to the level of striatal dopamine D(2) receptor expression (0.50, 0.30 and 0.08 pmol/mg protein as measured at 0.25 nM [3H]spiperone for D(2)(+/+), D(2)(+/-) and D(2)(-/-) mice, respectively). However, D(2)(-/-) and D(2)(+/-) mice were as sensitive as their wild-type counterparts to the cataleptogenic effects of the dopamine D(1)-like receptor antagonist R-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH 23390: 0.03-0.6 mg/kg s.c.). Striatal dopamine D(1) receptor expression (as measured using [3H]SCH 23390 binding) was not significantly affected by the genotype. The ability of SCH 23390 to induce catalepsy in D(2)(-/-) mice suggests that their resistance to haloperidol-induced catalepsy is due to the absence of dopamine D(2) receptors, and not to the abnormal striatal synaptic plasticity that has been shown by others to occur in these mice. In agreement with the observation that dopamine D(2) and dopamine D(1) receptor expression was essentially identical in D(3)(+/+), D(3)(+/-) and D(3)(-/-) mice, dopamine D(3) receptor homozygous and heterozygous mutant mice, on the whole, did not differ from their controls in the time spent in a cataleptic position following administration of either haloperidol (0.5-2 mg/kg i.p.) or SCH 23390 (0.03-0.6 mg/kg s.c.). Also, dopamine D(3) receptor mutant mice were no more responsive than wild-type controls when co-administered subthreshold doses of haloperidol (0.125 mg/kg) and SCH 23390 (0.03 mg/kg), suggesting that dopamine D(3) receptor knock-out mice are not more sensitive than wild-types to the synergistic effects of concurrent blockade of dopamine D(2) and dopamine D(1) receptors in this model. These results suggest that the dopamine D(2) receptor subtype is necessary for haloperidol to produce catalepsy, and that the dopamine D(3) receptor subtype appears to exert no observable control over the catalepsy produced by dopamine D(2)-like, D(1)-like and the combination of D(1)-like and D(2)-like receptor antagonists.
Eighteen patients (7 men, 11 women) from one of the centres taking part in a multicentre comparative study of remoxipride and haloperidol in the treatment of acute schizophrenia were investigated separately to study the effect of the two neuroleptic drugs on cognitive abilities. The tests of cognitive ability that were used are standard in West Germany. The results of this study indicate that there could be differences between remoxipride and haloperidol regarding their effects on cognitive abilities--the patients who had been treated for four weeks with remoxipride showed a greater "mental fitness".
Recent studies have demonstrated that inhibition of renal medullary heme oxygenase (HO) activity and carbon monoxide (CO) significantly decreases renal medullary blood flow and sodium excretion. Given the crucial role of renal medullary blood flow in the control of pressure natriuresis, the present study was designed to determine whether renal medullary HO activity and resulting CO production participate in the regulation of pressure natriuresis and thereby the long-term control of arterial blood pressure. In anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats, increases in renal perfusion pressure induced significant elevations of CO concentrations in the renal medulla. Renal medullary infusion of chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP), an inhibitor of HO activity, remarkably inhibited HO activity and the renal perfusion pressure-dependent increases in CO levels in the renal medulla and significantly blunted pressure natriuresis. In conscious Sprague-Dawley rats, continuous infusion of CrMP into the renal medulla significantly increased mean arterial pressure (129+/-2.5 mm Hg in CrMP group versus 118+/-1.6 mm Hg in vehicle group) when animals were fed a normal salt diet (1% NaCl). After rats were switched to a high-salt diet (8% NaCl) for 10 days, CrMP-treated animals exhibited further increases in mean arterial pressure compared with CrMP-treated animals that were kept on normal salt diet (152+/-4.1 versus 130+/-4.2 mm Hg). These results suggest that renal medullary HO activity plays a crucial role in the control of pressure natriuresis and arterial blood pressure and that impairment of this HO/CO-mediated antihypertensive mechanism in the renal medulla may result in the development of hypertension.
The acute effects of flumazenil, a benzodiazepine (BZD) receptor antagonist in long-term BZD users were used as a possible test to detect physiological dependence. Thirty-four subjects (20 females, 14 males) aged 26-48 years (mean + SD, 42.4+/-8.5 years), all chronic users of low doses of diazepam (5-20 mg/day, 14.2+/-4.8 mg/day) for 5 to 28 years (10.5+/-6 years), received a single 1-mg i.v. flumazenil dose or saline, infused slowly under double-blind conditions. Physiological dependence was suggested as all patients receiving flumazenil developed an anxiety reaction while the placebo group did not. Flumazenil triggered a qualitatively different reaction amounting to a panic attack during infusion in nine out of 15 patients. These patients had a diagnosis of panic disorder or a history of panic attacks. Caution should be exercised when giving flumazenil to panic patients who are taking BZDs as maintenance treatment.
A 19-year-old man with a generalized seizure disorder was treated with phenytoin. A hypersensitivity reaction was marked by hepatitis, severe myalgia, proximal arm weakness, and high serum creatine kinase. Biopsy was diagnostic of myopathy. Patients demonstrating abnormalities of immune responsiveness may best be managed by use of an alternative anticonvulsant.
Prior to intravenous pyelography, a patient known to have iodine hypersensitivity was injected intravenously with a bolus of 2 gm epsilon-amino caproic acid (EACA). Immediately following the injection the patient developed an acute episode manifested by a delirious state, with auditory, visual, and kinesthetic hallucinations. The entire episode lasted 8 min, and no residual psychiatric or neurologic symptoms were observed. To the best of our knowledge no such side effect of EACA has been reported so far.
Clozapine is used in the treatment of resistant schizophrenia. It is used as a reserve drug mainly because of its adverse effect profile affecting gastrointestinal, haematological and cardiorespiratory systems. Cardiac side effects are uncommon but could be potentially life threatening, hence early recognition and active monitoring are essential to prevent serious cardiac side effects. A case of pericarditis with pericardial effusion is described in a patient who was recently started on clozapine which disappeared within 1 week after discontinuation of clozapine.
Sixteen patients with diuretic-induced hypokalemia underwent 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring during and after correction of hypokalemia. Plasma potassium averaged 2.83 +/- 0.08 mEq/liter before and 3.73 +/- 0.06 mEq/liter after correction with potassium chloride, triamterene or both. Premature atrial contractions decreased in 6 patients, increased in 6 and remained unchanged in 4. There was no improvement in ventricular ectopic activity after plasma potassium correction. Ventricular ectopic activity improved in 5 patients, worsened in 10 and remained unchanged in 1. Ventricular tachycardia was not observed in either phase. Plasma magnesium remained normal throughout. The investigators conclude that in patients with uncomplicated hypertension, correction of diuretic-induced hypokalemia does not significantly reduce the occurrence of spontaneous atrial or ventricular ectopic activity.
This study compared the efficacies of two N-methylglucomine antimoniate (MA) dose regimens for treating macaques with Leishmania braziliensis-induced chronic skin disease. Whereas all animals treated with the full dose (20 mg MA/kg/day) were cured, 50% of the monkeys receiving a low-dose regimen (5 mg MA/kg/day) relapsed. The antimony concentrations in macaque plasma and tissue samples were greater in the full-dose group than in that receiving a subtherapeutic MA regimen. Our data also suggest the presence of drug-induced hepatic pathology.
Atrial fibrillation prophylaxis with warfarin and strong antiplatelet agent use in cardiovascular diseases has increased the incidence of anticoagulation in the elderly. We studied traumatic intracranial hemorrhage (TICH) in patients ≥55 years of age on anticoagulation and antiplatelet agents in a stable population.
We used a Level 1 Trauma Center registry study comparing TICH in patients on anticoagulation drugs during the index periods 1999 to 2000 (T1) and 2007 to 2008 (T2).
A total of 526 TICH patients were seen in T1 and T2 (age, 77.6 vs 77.5 years; not significant [NS]), with the rate doubling from 6.2% to 12.3% of all trauma activations (P < .01). There was no increase in atrial fibrillation, warfarin use, or CHADS(2) scores in atrial fibrillation patients on anticoagulation therapy. TICH in patients taking antiplatelet agents increased 5-fold (2.2 % vs 10.3%; P < .01). Overall TICH mortality rate was the same (12.4% vs 12.2%, NS). TICH mortality among patients on therapeutic warfarin was greater in T1 (26%; P < .05), but mortality was similar to TICH in patients not on anticoagulants in T2 (19% vs 12.2%, NS), suggesting treatment improved. Prevalence and mortality of TICH in patients on antiplatelet agents were similar to TICH in patients on warfarin.
TICH in patients on anticoagulants is epidemic in patients ≥55 years of age. Despite national trends, our well-served population has not seen an increase in warfarin use for atrial fibrillation. Instead, use of antiplatelet agents has increased and is associated with an increased incidence of TICH.
