During experimental hypertensive cardiac hypertrophy, the heart energy metabolism reverts from the normal adult type that obtains the majority of its requirement for adenosine triphosphate (ATP) from metabolism of fatty acids and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), to the fetal form, which metabolizes glucose and lactate. Mitochondrial synthesis and function require an estimated 1000 polypeptides, 37 of which are encoded by mitochondrial (mt) DNA, the rest by nuclear (n) DNA. Inherited or acquired aberrations of either mtDNA or nDNA mitochondrial genes cause mitochondrial dysfunction. Tissue expression of OXPHOS enzyme defects is often heterogeneous. As a result, cardiomyopathy and cardiac failure are frequent but unpredictable complications of mitochondrial encephalopathy, neuropathy, and myopathy. Several nuclear genes that encode mitochondrial proteins have been sequenced and specific defects associated with nuclear genes that affect mitochondrial structure and function have been linked to hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathies and to cardiac conduction defects. Thyroid hormone and exercise stimulate expression of a nuclear respiratory factor (NRF) that induces the nuclear gene TFAM, which encodes the mitochondrial transcription factor A that controls mitochondrial replication and transcription. TFAM-null mouse embryos lack mitochondria and fail to develop a heart. Mitochondrial dysfunction enhances the generation of radical oxygen species (ROS), which damage mtDNA, nDNA, proteins, and lipid membranes. Mice lacking the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme manganese-superoxide dismutase (SOD) develop dilated cardiomyopathy. Palliative mitochondrial therapy with L-acetyl-carnitine and coenzyme Q10 improves cardiac function in patients with cardiomyopathy. Cure is only achievable by mitochondrial gene therapy. Experimental direct gene therapy uses vectors or targeting signal sequences to insert genes into mtDNA; indirect gene therapy employs viral or non-viral vectors to introduce genes into nDNA. Clinical repair of damaged somatic and germline genes that encode mitochondrial proteins may soon be within reach.
We report results from a multicenter, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind comparison of the efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine and fluoxetine in outpatients with major depression. Across five U.S. sites, 128 outpatients (mean age: 41.3 +/- 12.6; 63 men and 65 women) with moderate to moderately severe major depression without a history of mania or hypomania were recruited between 1993 and 1994. All 128 patients completed a 1-week placebo washout period, and were then randomized to 12 weeks of double-blind treatment with paroxetine up to 50 mg/day (n = 55), fluoxetine up to 80 mg/day (n = 54), or placebo (n = 19). Subjects were evaluated weekly for the first 4 weeks, then at weeks 6, 9, and 12 with the 21-item HAMD and the Covi Anxiety Scale. There were no significant differences among the three treatment groups in baseline and endpoint depression and anxiety severity, as well as in the degree of depression and anxiety improvement. There were no statistically significant differences in rates or mean numbers of adverse events between paroxetine-treated patients and fluoxetine-treated patients. In summary, our results, although limited by the lack of a significant difference from placebo in treatment outcome, suggest that the SSRIs paroxetine and fluoxetine have comparable antidepressant and antianxiety efficacies among depressed outpatients, as well as similar safety and tolerability profiles.
To determine the effects of nifedipine-GITS (GITS = gastrointestinal transport system) on angina and cardiovascular responses to stress-dobutamine infusion, we used ultrafast cine-computed tomography (CT) to assess regional wall motion, myocardial perfusion, and indices of ventricular filling and emptying.
Randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled efficacy study after an open-label dose titration phase.
University of California, San Francisco.
Elderly patients (> 60 years; n = 9:8 male, 1 female) with coronary artery disease by history and diagnostic treadmill or coronary angiography.
After a 3-week open-label dose-titration phase, eight subjects were randomized to receive either placebo or nifedipine-GITS at the highest tolerated dose for 2 weeks, followed by a crossover to the alternate therapy for 2 weeks. One declined because of singulus in the open-label period.
Symptomatic angina relief (frequency and nitroglycerin consumption), dobutamine stress responses (time to ischemia during dobutamine infusions, cardiac output, cardiac ejection fraction, ventricular segmental wall motion, and perfusion as measured by ultrafast cine-CT), and reported adverse effects.
When compared with placebo, nifedipine-GITS administration was associated with less frequent angina and nitroglycerin consumption (NS) and significantly decreased systolic blood pressure. Nifedipine-GITS administration also increased resting supine heart rates. Dobutamine infusions increased heart rate, cardiac output, cardiac ejection fraction, and stroke volume and induced angina symptoms. Neither double product at angina nor systolic indices of cardiac function in response to dobutamine differed between nifedipine-GITS and placebo, although heart rate responses were greater during nifedipine. A trend toward increased peak filling rates was seen during dobutamine stress in the nifedipine-administration period. In most subjects (6/8), perfusion and regional wall motion abnormalities were not visualized on regional wall motion abnormalities were not visualized on either rest or stress cine-CT studies. Edema without congestive heart failure occurred frequently during nifedipine-GITS administration.
These data suggest that (1) dobutamine stress can be used to induce cardiac ischemia in elderly patients with coronary artery disease, (2) nifedipine-GITS provides symptomatic angina relief in elderly patients, (3) peripheral edema is frequent in elderly patients on nifedipine-GITS, and (4) ultrafast computed cine-tomography testing can be used to assess ventricular performance, but current methodology may not detect perfusion or wall motion abnormalities during angina.
Human breast tumors comprise a minor sub-population of tumor-initiating cells (TICs), commonly termed cancer stem cells. TICs are thought to sustain tumor growth and to confer resistance to current anticancer therapies. Hence, targeting TIC may be essential to achieving durable cancer cures. To identify molecular targets in breast TIC, we employed a transgenic mouse model of ERBB2 breast cancer; tumors arising in this model comprise a very high frequency of TIC, which is maintained in tumor cell populations propagated in vitro as non-adherent tumorspheres. The Notch pathway is dysregulated in human breast tumors and overexpression of constitutively active Notch proteins induces mammary tumors in mice. The Notch pathway has also been implicated in stem cell processes including those of mammary epithelial stem cells. Hence, we investigated the potential that the Notch pathway is required for TIC activity. We found that an antagonist of Notch signaling, a gamma (γ)-secretase inhibitor termed MRK-003, inhibited the survival of tumorsphere-derived cells in vitro and eliminated TIC as assessed by cell transplantation into syngeneic mice. Whereas MRK-003 also inhibited the self-renewal and/or proliferation of mammosphere-resident cells, this effect of the inhibitor was reversible thus suggesting that it did not compromise the survival of these cells. MRK-003 administration to tumor-bearing mice eliminated tumor-resident TIC and resulted in rapid and durable tumor regression. MRK-003 inhibited the proliferation of tumor cells, and induced their apoptosis and differentiation. These findings suggest that MRK-003 targets breast TIC and illustrate that eradicating these cells in breast tumors ensures long-term, recurrence-free survival.
Although dobutamine stress is used with both 99mTc sestamibi (sestamibi) myocardial perfusion imaging and echocardiography for detecting coronary artery stenoses, the impact of stenosis severity on test end points (myocardial sestamibi uptake and systolic thickening, respectively) has not been clearly defined.
In 15 open-chest dogs, dobutamine (2.5 to 30 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)) was infused after placement of an LAD stenosis that reduced (n=8) or abolished (n=7) flow reserve. In dogs with reduced flow reserve, the stenotic-to-normal sestamibi activity ratio (0.86+/-0.03) significantly underestimated the approximately 2-to-1 dobutamine-induced flow disparity at the time of sestamibi injection (flow ratio, 0.53+/-0.04; P<.001). Stenotic-zone thickening increased at low but not at higher doses of dobutamine (2.9+/-0.4 versus 4.2+/-0.4 mm in normal zone at peak dobutamine; P=.055) but did not fall below baseline (2.7+/-0.3 mm). Similarly, in dogs with absent flow reserve, the sestamibi activity ratio (0.78+/-0.02) underestimated the approximately 2.5-to-1 dobutamine-induced flow disparity (flow ratio, 0.41+/-0.05; P<.001), and failure to increase systolic thickening was observed in the stenotic zone (2.7+/-0.4 versus 4.6+/-0.3 mm in the normal zone at peak stress, P<.01). In both groups of dogs, myocardial sestamibi uptake and image defect magnitudes were less than expected for the dobutamine-induced hyperemia, suggesting that dobutamine adversely affects myocardial sestamibi binding. Finally, a significant reduction in stenotic-zone thickening was seen during postdobutamine recovery, consistent with myocardial stunning.
In the presence of stenoses that reduced or abolished regional flow reserve, (1) myocardial sestamibi uptake significantly underestimated the dobutamine-induced flow heterogeneity, (2) a "failure to increase systolic thickening" rather than a reduction in thickening was observed during dobutamine stress, and (3) myocardial stunning was observed during postdobutamine recovery.
This is a randomized, placebo-controlled study of the weight-loss efficacy and safety of a controlled-release (CR) formulation of topiramate in overweight and obese patients with type 2 diabetes treated with diet and exercise alone or in combination with metformin.
Patients with type 2 diabetes, BMI > or =27 kg/m2, A1C >6.5 and <11.0%, treated with diet and exercise alone or in combination with metformin monotherapy were enrolled. Patients were randomized to placebo or topiramate CR titrated up to 175 mg/day. Treatment consisted of a 7-week titration phase followed by a 9-week maintenance phase.
A total of 111 subjects were randomized and analyzed. By the end of week 16, patients in the placebo and topiramate groups lost 2.5 and 6.0 kg, which represented 2.3 and 5.8%, respectively, of their baseline body weight (P < 0.001 vs. placebo). A1C improved from a baseline of 7.4% in the placebo and 7.6% in the topiramate groups to 7.1 and 6.7%, respectively, representing a 0.4 and 0.9% reduction from baseline, respectively (P < 0.001 vs. placebo). Topiramate also significantly reduced blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion. Adverse events were predominantly neuropsychiatric or central and peripheral nervous system related.
Topiramate CR treatment produced significant weight loss and meaningful improvements in A1C and blood pressure in obese patients with type 2 diabetes treated with diet and exercise or in combination with metformin. However, the central nervous system and psychiatric adverse event profile of topiramate CR makes it unsuitable for the treatment of obesity and diabetes.
Because polyphenols may have beneficial effects on dyslipidemia, which accelerates atherosclerosis in diabetes, we examined the effect of polyphenols on hepatocellular AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activity and lipid levels, as well as hyperlipidemia and atherogenesis in type 1 diabetic LDL receptor-deficient mice (DMLDLR(-/-)). In HepG2 hepatocytes, polyphenols, including resveratrol (a major polyphenol in red wine), apigenin, and S17834 (a synthetic polyphenol), increased phosphorylation of AMPK and its downstream target, acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), and they increased activity of AMPK with 200 times the potency of metformin. The polyphenols also prevented the lipid accumulation that occurred in HepG2 cells exposed to high glucose, and their ability to do so was mimicked and abrogated, respectively, by overexpression of constitutively active and dominant-negative AMPK mutants. Furthermore, treatment of DMLDLR(-/-) mice with S17834 prevented the decrease in AMPK and ACC phosphorylation and the lipid accumulation in the liver, and it also inhibited hyperlipidemia and the acceleration of aortic lesion development. These studies 1) reveal that inactivation of hepatic AMPK is a key event in the pathogenesis of hyperlipidemia in diabetes, 2) point to a novel mechanism of action of polyphenols to lower lipids by activating AMPK, and 3) emphasize a new therapeutic avenue to benefit hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis specifically in diabetes via activating AMPK.
A case of giant cell arteritis (temporal arteritis) is presented in a 73-year-old male patient in whom lasting reduction of vision developed during high-level prednisone treatment (60 mg daily) at a time when clinical improvement in other respects had appeared.
Abuse of cocaine is associated with serious medical complications involving the heart, central nervous system, and gastrointestinal tract. Renal complications appear to be uncommon. We describe herein four patients with rhabdomyolysis and acute myoglobinuric renal failure temporally related to cocaine use.
Acute cocaine intoxication was the most common presentation and rhabdomyolysis was an unexpected finding. Renal failure progressed rapidly in all patients, necessitating dialysis in two. The prognosis was good, and all patients survived. The mechanism of cocaine injury is unclear; possibilities include increased muscle activity, muscle compression, hyperthermia, and vasospasm with muscle ischemia.
Rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure should be recognized as a possible complication of cocaine abuse.
Neurotropin was developed by Nippon Zoki Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. It is produced by inoculating vaccine virus into rabbits and the effective substances are extracted from neuro-immuno inflamed cutaneous tissue. In the present study it was found that intraperitoneally administered neurotropin potently inhibits naloxone-precipitated withdrawal syndrome in morphine-dependent rats. Also we get the experimental evidence that neurotropin increases morphine action but has no positive-reinforcing properties. These data indicate the possibility of testing neurotropin as a medicine for treating opiate-abused patients.
1. Torsades de pointes (TDP) is a severe adverse effect during the clinical use of dofetilide, a selective blocker of the rapid component of the delayed rectifier potassium channel (I(Kr)). The present study was designed to test whether CPU228, a derivative of dofetilide with calcium (Ca(2+)) antagonist properties, could reduce TDP without reducing the blockade of I(Kr). 2. The incidence of TDP in a rabbit model and the effective refractory period (ERP) were measured and compared for dofetilide and CPU228. Suppression of I(Kr) and the L-type Ca(2+) current (I(Ca,L)) and the Ca(2+) transients of isolated cardiomyocytes were investigated by whole-cell patch-clamp and Fluo-3 dye spectrophotometry. 3. The incidence of TDP was greatly reduced by CPU228 relative to dofetilide, occurring in only one of six rabbits compared with five of six rabbits following dofetilide (P < 0.05). In isolated atria, prolongation of ERP by CPU228 was less than that of dofetilide and no reverse frequency dependence was observed. Negative inotropism by CPU228 was significant against positive inotropism by dofetilide. CPU228 inhibited both I(Kr) and I(Ca,L) currents and the IC(50) for I(Ca,L) inhibition was 0.909 micromol/L. At 3 micromol/L, CPU228 significantly suppressed the Ca(2+) transients. 4. CPU228 is able to block I(Ca,L), contributing to decreased TDP, while also blocking I(Kr) activity. By combined blockade of I(Kr) and I(Ca,L), CPU228 shares the property of complex Class III anti-arrhythmic agents.
1. Hypertensive men treated with beta-blockers frequently complain of erectile dysfunction. The present study investigated the effects of two beta(1)-adrenoceptor-selective antagonists, namely nebivolol and metoprolol, on erectile function in hypertensive men. 2. Male out-patients (age range 40-55 years) with newly diagnosed or existing stage 1 essential hypertension (mean seated systolic blood pressure 140-159 mmHg; diastolic blood pressure 90-99 mmHg) were enrolled in the study. All patients lived in a stable, heterosexual partnership and had no history of sexual dysfunction. After a 2-week placebo run-in period, patients were randomized double-blind to either Treatment group A (comprising nebivolol 5 mg once daily for 12 weeks, followed by placebo for 2 weeks and then metoprolol succinate 95 mg once daily for 12 weeks) or Treatment group B (comprising metoprolol succinate 95 mg for 12 weeks, placebo for 2 weeks and then nebivolol 5 mg for 12 weeks). An international index of erectile function (IIEF) questionnaire and a diary documented patients' sexual function and activity. 3. Nebivolol and metoprolol lowered blood pressure to a similar extent. Metoprolol, but not nebivolol, significantly decreased the IIEF erectile function subscore by 0.92 in the first 8 weeks after onset of beta-blocker treatment. In contrast with metoprolol, nebivolol improved secondary sexual activity scores and other IIEF subscores. 4. Despite similar antihypertensive efficacy of the cardioselective beta(1)-adrenoceptor antagonists nebivolol and metoprolol, nebivolol may offer additional benefits by avoiding erectile dysfunction in male hypertensive patients on long-term beta-adrenoceptor antagonist therapy.
The cases of three dogs are reported, in which administration of oestradiol resulted in bone marrow hypoplasia. These case reports gave rise to a discussion leading to the advice to seek other methods of treatment.
This case report describes the history and hospital course of an otherwise healthy 20-year-old male with bipolar I disorder who developed symptoms of severe lithium toxicity, culminating in a seizure, despite a level of lithium of only 0.8 mEq/L, within the usual therapeutic range. The discussion emphasizes that lithium toxicity is diagnosed by clinical symptoms and can occur even at usual therapeutic blood levels.
The role of the opioid peptides in the regulation of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) secretion remains unclear. In rats, morphine and the enkephalins exert a stimulatory effect on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, while beta-endorphin (beta-E) and dynorphin (DYN) are reported to have stimulatory or inhibitory activity. Alternatively, data from human studies indicate a clear inhibitory role of opiates. In the present studies, secretion of immunoreactive corticotropin releasing factor (irCRF) into the hypophysial-portal circulation was directly measured before and after intracerebroventricular administration of beta-E, DYN and naltrexone (NTX). Both beta-E and DYN were equipotent in their dose-related inhibition of irCRF secretion. The inhibitory action of beta-E was reversed by NTX, while the action of DYN was only partially blocked. Administration of NTX alone resulted in a significant elevation of spontaneous and stimulated irCRF secretion. Finally, injection (icv) of 1.0 nmol beta-E or DYN blocked the nitroprusside-hypotension induced elevation of irCRF. These observations suggest, that under the conditions of these experiments, exogenous beta-E acting primarily via mu opioid receptors and DYN acting via kappa and mu receptors exert tonic inhibitory effects on the activity of CRF secreting cells. Furthermore, it appears that beta-E and DYN are capable of modulating (inhibiting) stimulated secretion of irCRF and thus activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Although mu-opioids such as morphine are undoubtedly effective in the treatment of acute and postoperative pain, kappa-opioids are of interest for the modulation of visceral pain. In the present study, we compared a kappa-opioid agonist (U50488-H; 0.63-40 mg/kg) with a mu-opioid agonist (morphine; 0.63-40 mg/kg) in different pain models (tail withdrawal, writhing, formalin and plantar test) to represent acute, peritoneovisceral and inflammatory pain states in rats. The effects of the respective receptor agonists on gastrointestinal motility, muscle rigidity and abuse liability were also studied in appropriate animal models (charcoal, castor oil, rotarod and drug discrimination learning). Morphine was highly efficacious in all the nociceptive models employed, but also elicited a potent inhibition of gastric motility, caused severe muscle rigidity and locomotor disturbances and displayed a potential for abuse liability at the higher doses tested (> or =10 mg/kg morphine). In contrast, U50488-H was inactive in the tail withdrawal test, but was more effective in visceral and inflammatory pain settings. Although U50488-H did not elicit any gastrointestinal inhibition, a loss of muscle tone following administration of the compound led to detrimental effects on rotarod performance. The findings presented here indicate that kappa-opioids possess antinociceptive efficacy in visceral and inflammatory pain settings, but their administration can lead to a loss of muscle tone. In contrast, mu-opioids are highly active as analgesics against a range of nociceptive stimuli, but also concomitantly elicit strongly adverse effects.
Isotretinoin (Iso) is currently indicated for the treatment of cystic acne (CA) and is related to marked teratogenicity.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the relationship between total antioxidant status (TAS) and a serum marker of DNA oxidative damage, 8-hydroxy-2-desoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), in patients on Iso treatment.
Patients with CA (n=18) were evaluated before and 45 days after Iso (0.5 mg/kg per day) treatment and non-diseased controls (n=22) were tested only once. Plasma TAS levels and 8-OHdG were measured spectrophotometrically and with an immunoassay, respectively. Liver biochemical parameters and muscle enzymes were measured on a blood chemistry analyzer.
TAS levels were significantly (p<0.0001) lower in patients before treatment (921+/-124 micromol/L) compared with those after treatment (1335+/-93 micromol/L) and in controls (1536+/-126 micromol/L). In contrast, 8-OHdG serum levels were two-fold higher in patients after treatment (0.21+/-0.03 ng/mL) than before treatment (0.11+/-0.02 ng/mL) and three-fold higher than in controls (0.07+/-0.01 ng/mL; p<0.0001). Negative correlations were found between TAS and 8-OHdG (r=-0.754, p<0.0001) in patients before therapy and positive correlations were found between creatine kinase (CK) and 8-OHdG (r=0.488, p<0.001) and liver enzymes after Iso treatment.
High serum levels of 8-OHdG in patients on Iso therapy may be due to a direct effect of Iso on liver, muscle and skin epidermal cells. Regular evaluation of 8-OHdG in sera of patients, especially of women of reproductive age, on Iso treatment could be a sensitive follow-up biomarker of DNA oxidation.
Several cases of eosinophilic conditions including Churg-Strauss syndrome have been reported in association with the use of cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonists, including zafirlukast, montelukast, and pranlukast, in asthmatic patients. The case of a 26 year old woman with a three year history of asthma, rhinitis, and nasal polyps is reported in whom eosinophilia, pulmonary infiltrates, and fulminant eosinophilic endomyocarditis accompanied by cardiogenic shock developed during pranlukast treatment after corticosteroid withdrawal. Acute necrotising eosinophilic endomyocarditis was confirmed by endomyocardial biopsy. The patient recovered after intensive treatment, including mechanical assistance involving intra-aortic balloon pumping and steroid pulse therapy, along with the discontinuation of pranlukast. It is recommended that careful attention must be paid to signs of a systemic eosinophilic condition or even fulminant eosinophilic myocarditis in asthmatic patients who have begun treatment with antileukotriene drugs following withdrawal of steroids.
The local administration of the opiate receptor antagonist, naltrexone, into the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) inhibited the hypotension induced by systemically injected alpha-methyldopa in conscious rats. In addition, the local injection into the NTS of a beta-endorphin antiserum but not of antisera against [Met5]enkephalin and dynorphin A(1-13) prevented the alpha-methyldopa-induced hypotension. These results suggest a role of opiate receptors in the NTS, or in a closely located medullary site, in the centrally mediated hypotension induced by alpha-methyldopa.
Methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity is characterized by a long-lasting depletion of striatal dopamine (DA) and serotonin as well as damage to striatal dopaminergic and serotonergic nerve terminals. Several hypotheses regarding the mechanism underlying METH-induced neurotoxicity have been proposed. In particular, it is thought that endogenous DA in the striatum may play an important role in mediating METH-induced neuronal damage. This hypothesis is based on the observation of free radical formation and oxidative stress produced by auto-oxidation of DA consequent to its displacement from synaptic vesicles to cytoplasm. In addition, METH-induced neurotoxicity may be linked to the glutamate and nitric oxide systems within the striatum. Moreover, using knockout mice lacking the DA transporter, the vesicular monoamine transporter 2, c-fos, or nitric oxide synthetase, it was determined that these factors may be connected in some way to METH-induced neurotoxicity. Finally a role for apoptosis in METH-induced neurotoxicity has also been established including evidence of protection of bcl-2, expression of p53 protein, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL), activity of caspase-3. The neuronal damage induced by METH may reflect neurological disorders such as autism and Parkinson's disease.
Transsynaptic alteration of spinal cord dorsal horn neurons characterized by hyperchromatosis of cytoplasm and nucleoplasm (so-called 'dark' neurons) occurs in a rat model of neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the common sciatic nerve. The incidence of dark neurons in CCI rats has been proposed to be mediated by glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. In the present study, we examined whether the inhibition of the nitric oxide (NO)-activated poly(ADP-ribose) synthetase (PARS), a nuclear enzyme critical to glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, would both reduce the incidence of dark neurons and attenuate behavioral manifestations of neuropathic pain in CCI rats. Dark neurons were observed bilaterally (with ipsilateral predominance) within the spinal cord dorsal horn, particularly in laminae I-II, of rats 8 days after unilateral sciatic nerve ligation as compared to sham operated rats. The number of dark neurons in the dorsal horn was dose-dependently reduced in CCI rats receiving once daily intrathecal (i.t.) treatment with the PARS inhibitor benzamide (200 or 400 nmol, but not 100 nmol benzamide or saline) for 7 days. Consistent with the histological improvement, thermal hyperalgesia, mechanical hyperalgesia, and low threshold mechano-allodynia also were reliably reduced in CCI rats treated with either 200 or 400 nmol benzamide. Neither dark neurons nor neuropathic pain behaviors were reliably affected by i.t. administration of either 800 nmol novobiocin (a mono(ADP-ribose) synthetase) or 800 nmol benzoic acid (the backbone structure of benzamide), indicating a selective effect of benzamide. Intrathecal treatment with an NO synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (40 nmol, but not its inactive D-isomer) utilizing the same benzamide treatment regimen resulted in similar reductions of both dark neurons and neuropathic pain behaviors in CCI rats. These results provide, for the first time, in vivo evidence indicating that benzamide is neuroprotective and that the PARS-mediated transsynaptic alteration of spinal cord dorsal horn neurons contributes to behavioral manifestations of neuropathic pain in CCI rats. These observations may have general implications beyond treatment of neuropathic pain in that PARS-mediated neuronal alterations may play a significant role in glutamate-mediated neurotoxicity under many other circumstances.
Common inbred mouse strains, such as the C57BL/6 (C57) and the SWV, display differences in sensitivity to environmental teratogens during gestation. For example, the C57 is more sensitive than the SWV to cadmium (Cd) exposure during neurulation, inducing a higher incidence of neural tube defects (NTDs). Here, we report, using Cd as a model teratogen, the first large scale toxicogenomic study to compare teratogen-induced gene expression alterations in C57 and SWV embryos undergoing neurulation, identifying toxicogenomic responses that associate with developmental toxicity and differential sensitivity. Using a systems-based toxicogenomic approach, comparing Cd-exposed and control C57 and SWV embryos (12- and 24-h postinjection [p.i.] [gestational day 8.0, ip]), we examined differentially expressed genes at multiple levels (biological process, pathway, gene) using Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, pathway mapping and cross-scatter plots. In both C57 and SWV embryos, we observed several gene expression alterations linked with cell cycle-related classifications, however, only in the C57 we observed upregulation of p53-dependent mediators Ccng1 and Pmaip1, previously associated with cell cycle arrest, apoptosis and NTD formation. In addition, we also identified a greater reduction in expression of nervous system development-related genes (e.g., Zic1, En2, Neurog1, Elavl4, Metrn, Nr2f1, Nr2f2) in the C57 compared to the SWV (12-h p.i.). In summary, our results indicate that differences in Cd-induced gene expression profiles between NTD resistant and sensitive strains within enriched biological processes (including developmental and cell cycle-related categories) associate with increased sensitivity to developmental toxicity as determined by observations of increased NTD formation, mortality (resorptions) and reduced fetal growth. Such observations may provide more detailed and useful mechanistic clues for identification of differences in life-stage specific teratogenic response.
Hydroxyurea, an antineoplastic drug, is a model teratogen. The administration of hydroxyurea to CD1 mice on gestation day 9 induces oxidative stress, increasing the formation of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal adducts to redox-sensitive proteins such as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) in the caudal region of the embryo. GAPDH catalytic activity is reduced, and its translocation into the nucleus is increased. Because the nuclear translocation of GAPDH is associated with oxidative stress-induced cell death, we hypothesized that this translocation plays a role in mediating the teratogenicity of hydroxyurea. Deprenyl (also known as selegiline), a drug used as a neuroprotectant in Parkinson's disease, inhibits the nuclear translocation of GAPDH. Hence, timed pregnant CD1 mice were treated with deprenyl (10mg/kg) on gestation day 9 followed by the administration of hydroxyurea (400 or 600mg/kg). Deprenyl treatment significantly decreased the hydroxyurea-induced nuclear translocation of GAPDH in the caudal lumbosacral somites. Deprenyl enhanced hydroxyurea-mediated caudal malformations, inducing specifically limb reduction, digit anomalies, tail defects, and lumbosacral vertebral abnormalities. Deprenyl did not augment the hydroxyurea-induced inhibition of glycolysis or alter the ratio of oxidized to reduced glutathione. However, it did dramatically increase cleaved caspase-3 in embryos. These data suggest that nuclear GAPDH plays an important, region-specific, role in teratogen-exposed embryos. Deprenyl exacerbated the developmental outcome of hydroxyurea exposure by a mechanism that is independent of oxidative stress. Although the administration of deprenyl alone did not affect pregnancy outcome, this drug may have adverse consequences when combined with exposures that increase the risk of malformations.
Many children with urological disease require long-term treatment with antibiotics. In many cases the choice of medical instead of surgical management hinges on the implied safety of certain drugs. Recently some groups have advocated subureteral injection procedures to avoid long-term antibiotics for low grade reflux. We present a concise and relevant review on the use and adverse reactions of nitrofurantoin, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole in children.
We reviewed the literature regarding the safety and toxicity of these drugs. Information regarding absorption, excretion and dosing was also gathered to explain better the mechanisms of toxicity.
Adverse reactions in children reported in the literature related to nitrofurantoin are gastrointestinal disturbance (4.4/100 person-years at risk), cutaneous reactions (2% to 3%), pulmonary toxicity (9 patients), hepatoxicity (12 patients and 3 deaths), hematological toxicity (12 patients), neurotoxicity and an increased rate of sister chromatid exchanges. Adverse reactions in children related to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole are almost exclusively due to the sulfamethoxazole component, including cutaneous reactions (1.4 to 7.4 events per 100 person-years at risk), hematological toxicity (0% to 72% of patients) and hepatotoxicity (5 patients). The majority of adverse reactions were found in children on full dose therapy and not prophylaxis.
The use of nitrofurantoin, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole is safe in children for long-term prophylactic therapy. The antibiotic safety issue should not be misconstrued as an argument for surgical therapy, whether minimally invasive or not. Adverse reactions exist to these medicines but they are less common than seen in adults, presumably because of the lower dose used for therapy, and the lack of significant comorbidities and drug interactions in children. Serious side effects are extremely rare and most are reversible by discontinuing therapy. The extremely low potential for significant adverse reactions should be discussed with parents.
Systemic administration of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine (350-400 mg/kg, i.p.) to rats induces acute behavioral and EEG status epilepticus followed by apparent complete neurological recovery. In rats receiving higher doses of pilocarpine (i.e., 380-400 mg/kg), recurrent seizures reappear 2-2.5 weeks later and continue to occur as long as the rats are kept alive. Stereological estimates of neurons in regions CA1, CA3 and the dentate granule cell layer in the dorsal hippocampus show a dose-dependent neuronal loss in the CA3 and CA1 subregions. The granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus is not affected. No progressive neuronal loss was observed in the regions studied after 3, 6 and 12 weeks during which the animals displayed spontaneous recurrent seizures. The temporal profile of the epileptic condition induced by pilocarpine and the resulting pattern of neuronal loss in the rat hippocampus are similar to those seen in many cases of human temporal lobe epilepsy. The neuronal loss is dose-dependent and primarily results from the acute pilocarpine-induced seizures as chronic seizures do not produce any measurable additional cell loss in the regions examined in the experimental model used in this study.
Ten patients with Hodgkin's disease were examined before and after each administration of vincristine sulfate (2 intravenous injections of 1.4 mg/m2 of body surface during the first week of each month for 3 months). The motor conduction velocity of the peroneal nerve, the conduction velocity in palmar sensory fibres of the median nerve, and the conduction velocity in the H reflex pathway remained unchanged. The amplitude of distal muscle (extensor digitorum brevis) and sensory nerve (median) potentials decreased, while the maximal response of more proximal muscles (soleus) was not significantly modified. The soleus T response quickly decreased, although at the same time the H response was increased in the days following administration of vincristine. Thus the T/H ratio seems to be the only convenient electrophysiological method of evaluating the functional impairment of primary afferent distal segments. These results show that vincristine induces a transitory excitability enhancement of the monosynaptic reflex. It is suggested that the drug may cause an increase in the firing rate in proximal segments of injured Ia fibres. Apart from this phenomenon the electrophysiological results lead to the conclusion that vincristine induces distal axonal degeneration, similar to that in other toxic neuropathies (e.g. acrylamide or n-hexane) where a dying-back process has been clearly demonstrated.
The midbrain tectum structures, dorsal periaqueductal gray (dPAG) and inferior colliculus (IC), are involved in the organization of fear and anxiety states during the exposure to dangerous stimuli. Since opiate withdrawal is associated with increased anxiety in both humans and animals, this study aimed to investigate the possible sensitization of the neural substrates of fear in the midbrain tectum and its influence on the morphine withdrawal-induced anxiety. For the production of drug withdrawal, rats received morphine injections (10 mg/kg; s.c.) twice daily during 10 days. Forty-eight hours after the interruption of the chronic treatment, independent groups were probed in the elevated plus-maze and open-field tests. Additional groups of animals were implanted with a bipolar electrode into the dPAG or the IC and submitted to the electrical stimulation of these structures for the determination of the freezing and escape thresholds after 48 h of withdrawal. Our results showed that the morphine withdrawal promoted clear-cut levels of anxiety without the somatic signs of opiate withdrawal. Moreover, morphine-withdrawn rats had an increase in the reactivity to the electrical stimulation of the dPAG and the IC. These findings suggest that the increased anxiety induced by morphine withdrawal is associated with the sensitization of the neural substrates of fear in the dPAG and the IC. So, the present results give support to the hypothesis that withdrawal from chronic treatment with morphine leads to fear states possibly engendered by activation of the dPAG and IC, regardless of the production of somatic symptoms.
1. The effect of dexamethasone on hepatic and renal P-glycoprotein (P-gp) expression, localization and activity was investigated in rats after 4 days oral administration of two dose regimens (1 or 25 mg/kg per day). Simultaneous increases in liver weight were evaluated by quantitative histological examination. 2. In the liver, dexamethasone pretreatment produced hepatomegaly as a consequence of extensive periportal fat accumulation, which was quantified by densitometry of oil red O-stained liver sections. Quantitative immunohistochemical analysis revealed preferential periportal zonation of P-gp in control animals. Dexamethasone pretreatment resulted in spatially disproportional induction of P-gp protein expression within the liver acinus characterized by preferential increase in pericentral areas, with consequent uniform panlobular distribution. Western blot analysis confirmed these results, showing increases in P-gp protein. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed no statistically significant change in liver mdr1b mRNA expression after either dexamethasone treatment regimen. The expression of mdr1a mRNA was significantly decreased by 85-87%. 3. In the kidney, dexamethasone reduced mdr1a mRNA expression by 69-89%, whereas mdr1b mRNA expression was increased in a dose-dependent manner. However, despite tendencies, no significant increases in P-gp expression were observed at the protein level. 4. The in vivo function of P-gp was evaluated by measuring renal and biliary secretion of rhodamine-123 (Rho123) under a steady state plasma concentration. The biliary, renal and tubular secretory clearance of Rho123 was significantly increased only after high-dose dexamethasone. 5. In conclusion, the present study suggests that drug interactions observed during corticosteroid therapy may be mediated, at least in part, through increased biliary, and also renal, excretion of P-gp substrates. Expression of P-gp in the liver showed primary periportal zonation with differential changes during induction. Accompanying hepatomegaly may be explained by severe microvesicular steatosis selectively localized to the periportal areas.
