To test the validity of the hypothesis that hypomethylation of DNA plays an important role in the initiation of carcinogenic process, 5-azacytidine (5-AzC) (10 mg/kg), an inhibitor of DNA methylation, was given to rats during the phase of repair synthesis induced by the three carcinogens, benzo[a]-pyrene (200 mg/kg), N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (60 mg/kg) and 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (1,2-DMH) (100 mg/kg). The initiated hepatocytes in the liver were assayed as the gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) positive foci formed following a 2-week selection regimen consisting of dietary 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene coupled with a necrogenic dose of CCl4. The results obtained indicate that with all three carcinogens, administration of 5-AzC during repair synthesis increased the incidence of initiated hepatocytes, for example 10-20 foci/cm2 in 5-AzC and carcinogen-treated rats compared with 3-5 foci/cm2 in rats treated with carcinogen only. Administration of [3H]-5-azadeoxycytidine during the repair synthesis induced by 1,2-DMH further showed that 0.019 mol % of cytosine residues in DNA were substituted by the analogue, indicating that incorporation of 5-AzC occurs during repair synthesis. In the absence of the carcinogen, 5-AzC given after a two thirds partial hepatectomy, when its incorporation should be maximum, failed to induce any gamma-GT positive foci. The results suggest that hypomethylation of DNA per se may not be sufficient for initiation. Perhaps two events might be necessary for initiation, the first caused by the carcinogen and a second involving hypomethylation of DNA.
Clinical signs of hypokalemia are not directly related to the extent of the electrolyte imbalance, and therefore monosymptomatic cases may be observed.
Following an acute gastroenteritis with considerable diarrhea, a 47-year-old male patient was admitted to hospital for progressive painful paraparesis. Upon admission, the patient complained of painful paresthesias in both legs, and a moderate flaccid paraparesis with widespread fasciculations and loss of leg tendon reflexes was found. Serum potassium level on admission was 1.7 mmol/l. Other signs of hypokalemia were absent, and the ECGs showed a slow sinus rhythm without disturbances of de- or repolarisation or cardiac arrhythmias. Hypokalemic paralysis was diagnosed and was considered to be primarily drug-induced, as the patient had a history of laxative abuse and was on a continuous medication with furosemide (80 mg/d) without regular assessment of serum electrolytes. The additional electrolyte loss following the gastroenteritis precipitated the development of clinical signs of hypokalemia. In parallel to the rise in serum potassium levels, both painful paresthesias and muscle weakness disappeared, and electromyography documented the amelioration of the myopathic syndrome.
The prominent clinical symptom of hypokalemia was a dyskalemic paralysis in the absence of other sequelae of electrolyte imbalance, such as cardiac arrhythmias or vegetative disturbances.
Much toxicological research continues to be done using genetically undefined "outbred" stocks of mice and rats, although the case for using isogenic strains has been made repeatedly in the literature over a period of more than two decades. Also, very few studies are conducted using more than one strain, with the result that genetic variation in response is seldom apparent to the investigator. Here we report qualitative and quantitative strain differences in the haematological response to chloramphenicol succinate (CAPS) when administered by gavage at 500-2500 mg/kg for 7 days, to four inbred strains of mouse (C3H/He, CBA/Ca, BALB/c and C57BL/6) and one outbred stock (CD-1). CAPS caused anaemia and reticulocytopenia in all mouse strains, and leucopenia in the inbred strains but not in the outbred CD-1 stock. All four inbred strains showed significant (P<0.01) responses to CAPS at lower dose levels than in CD-1 mice, which were phenotypically more variable than the inbred animals. A simulated experiment, using a sample of records from the present study, showed that the use of two mice at each dose level using CD-1, CBA, BALB/c and C57BL/6 (48 total mice), would have given a more sensitive experiment than the use of 47 CD-1 mice alone, and would also have shown that the response is partly strain dependent. These studies provide additional evidence that inbred strains, because of their greater sensitivity and other valuable properties, should be more widely used in toxicology.
Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) is an important cAMP-metabolising enzyme in immune and inflammatory cells, airway smooth muscle and pulmonary nerves. The phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) enzyme plays a significant role in modulating the activity of cAMP, an important second messenger that mediates the relaxation of airway smooth muscle and suppresses inflammatory cell function, thereby attenuating the inflammatory response. Selective inhibitors of this enzyme show a broad spectrum of activity in animal models of COPD and asthma. These drugs block the hydrolysis of cAMP via inhibition of PDE4 and are attractive candidates for novel anti-inflammatory drugs. At present, two second-generation PDE4 inhibitors for the treatment of COPD and asthma patients are being tested in clinical Phase III trials. The most advanced compound is the orally active, selective PDE4 inhibitor cilomilast (Ariflo, SB-207499, cis-4-cyano-4-[3-cyclopentyloxy-4-methoxyphenyl]-cyclohexanecarboxylic acid; GlaxoSmithKline). Cilomilast shows high selectivity for cAMP-specific PDE4, an isoenzyme that predominates in pro-inflammatory and immune cells and that is 10-fold more selective for PDE4D than for PDE4A, -B or -C. In vitro, cilomilast suppresses the activity of several pro-inflammatory and immune cells that have been implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma and COPD. Moreover, it is highly active in animal models of these diseases. Cilomilast has been shown to exert potent anti-inflammatory effects both in vitro and in vivo. It is orally active and may be effective in the treatment of asthma and COPD; however, complete assessment of the therapeutic value of this novel compound class must await the outcome of longer-term clinical trials. This review presents a summary of the preclinical and clinical profile of cilomilast in patients with COPD.
There is mounting evidence that the transition metal copper may play an important role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Triethylene tetramine dihydrochloride (trientine), a CuII-selective chelator, is a commonly used treatment for Wilson's disease to decrease accumulated copper, and thereby decreases oxidative stress. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of a 3-month treatment course of trientine (Trien) on amyloidosis in 7-month-old β-amyloid (Aβ) precursor protein and presenilin-1 (APP/PS1) double transgenic (Tg) AD model mice.
We observed that Trien reduced the level of advanced glycation end products (AGEs), and decreased Aβ deposition and synapse loss in brain of APP/PS1 mice. Importantly, we found that Trien blocked the receptor for AGEs (RAGE), downregulated β-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), inhibited amyloidogenic APP cleavage, and subsequently reduced Aβ levels. In vitro, in SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing Swedish mutant APP, Trien-mediated downregulation of BACE1 occurred via inhibition of the NF-κB signaling pathway.
In this study, we demonstrated for the first time that Trien inhibited amyloidogenic pathway including targeting the downregulation of RAGE and NF-κB.
Trien might mitigate amyloidosis in AD by inhibiting the RAGE/NF-κB/BACE1 pathway. Our study demonstrates that Trien may be a viable therapeutic strategy for the intervention and treatment of AD and other AD-like pathologies.
We sought to investigate the anticonvulsive and neuroprotective effect of a selective metabotropic glutamate receptor 8 (mGluR8) agonist (S)-3,4-dicarboxyphenylglycines (S-3,4-DCPG) on pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE) and subsequent loss of hilar neurons in the dentate gyrus after systemic (intravenous) or local (intracerebroventricular) administration. We compared the difference in granular cell responses after paired-pulse stimulation of the perforant pathway and the sensitivity to local injection of S-3,4-DCPG into the stratum granulosum in the control and mice at 2 months after PISE.
We used intravenous, intracerebroventricular, or intrahippocampal administration of S-3,4-DCPG to mice with status epilepticus or temporal lobe epilepsy and neurophysiologic recording of somatic field excitatory postsynaptic potential (sfEPSP) and population spike (PS) of granular cells in response to perforant-pathway stimulation or S-3,4-DCPG treatment.
Intracerebroventricular (1.91 micromol) but not systemic administration of S-3,4-DCPG (at doses of 12.5, 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, and 1,200 mg/kg) could control PISE with no neuroprotective effect. In epileptic mice, mGluR8-mediated inhibition of fEPSPs was reduced significantly in granular cell bodies.
At doses ranging from 12.5 to 1,200 mg/kg, intravenous administration of S-3,4-DCPG may not be effective in controlling status epilepticus. Down-regulation of mGluR8 may be related to reduced S-3,4-DCPG-mediated inhibition and the subsequent occurrence of spontaneously recurrent seizures.
Amphetamine abuse may be complicated by intracerebral, subdural or subarachnoid haemorrhage. The causative mechanism is probably a combination of vasculitis and induced hypertension. Most cases of intracerebral haemorrhage are subcortical. Only one case of amphetamine-induced intracerebral haematoma where there was also an underlying arteriovenous malformation has been previously reported. We report two cases of intracerebral haematoma due to amphetamine abuse whether an underlying AVM was found at the time of surgery. This possibility should be considered in cases of amphetamine-induced intracerebral haemorrhage.
Exposure to aniline results in selective toxicity to the spleen, leading to a variety of sarcomas on chronic exposure in rats, and fibrosis appears to be an important initiating preneoplastic lesion of the spleen. However, the molecular mechanism(s) by which aniline leads to fibrogenic response is not well understood. Previously, we have shown that aniline exposure leads to iron overload and induction of oxidative stress in the spleen. We hypothesized that aniline-induced oxidative stress in the spleen causes transcriptional up-regulation of fibrogenic cytokines via activation of redox-sensitive transcription factor, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B). To test this hypothesis, male SD rats were treated with 0.5 mmol/kg/day aniline hydrochloride via drinking water for 30 days. Cytokine mRNAs were measured by real-time quantitative PCR, while cytokine release was determined in the supernatants of the cultured splenocytes using specific ELISAs. IL-1alpha, IL-6, and TNF-alpha mRNA levels showed 6.9-, 2.9-, and 2.6-fold increases, respectively, in the spleens of aniline-treated rats in comparison to the controls. The increases in mRNA levels were associated with enhanced secretion of these cytokines in the splenocyte culture supernatants. NF-kappa B p65 level in the nuclear extracts of cultured splenocytes of aniline-treated rats showed a 2-fold increase in comparison to the controls as quantitated by NF-kappa B p65-specific ELISA. The binding activity of NF-kappa B, determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), also showed an increase in NF-kappa B binding in the nuclear extracts of the splenocytes from aniline-treated rats. The specificity of NF-kappa B binding was further confirmed by supershift assays. The results indicate that aniline exposure causes enhanced expression of IL-1alpha, IL-6, and TNF-alpha, both at mRNA and protein levels, suggesting their role in splenic fibrosis. Also, the increased NF-kappa B binding activity suggests that up-regulation of these cytokines in the spleen is a redox-dependent mechanism.
To determine the effect of pamidronate disodium on the in vitro viability of osteosarcoma cells and non-neoplastic cells from dogs.
3 osteosarcoma and 1 fibroblast cell lines derived from dogs.
Cell counts and cell viability assays were performed in cultures of osteosarcoma cells (POS, HMPOS, and COS31 cell lines) and fibroblasts after 24, 48, and 72 hours of incubation with pamidronate at concentrations of 0.001 to 1000 microM or with no drug (control treatment). Percentage viability was determined in cell samples for each concentration of pamidronate and each incubation time. A DNA fragmentation analysis was performed to assess bisphosphonate-induced apoptosis.
Osteosarcoma cell viability decreased significantly in a concentration- and time-dependent manner at pamidronate concentrations ranging from 100 to 1000 microM, most consistently after 48 and 72 hours' exposure. In treated osteosarcoma cells, the lowest percentage cell viability was 34% (detected after 72 hours' exposure to 1000 microM pamidronate). Conversely, 72 hours' exposure to 1000 microM pamidronate did not significantly reduce fibroblast viability (the lowest percentage viability was 76%). After 72 hours of exposure, pamidronate did not cause DNA fragmentation in POS or HMPOS cells.
Results indicate that pamidronate may have the potential to inhibit osteosarcoma growth in dogs, possibly through a nonapoptotic mechanism. The clinical relevance of these in vitro findings remains to be determined, but administration of pamidronate may potentially be indicated as an adjuvant treatment in chemotherapeutic protocols used in dogs.
Thromboembolic events are a common and important cause of morbidity and mortality in cancer patients that require early diagnosis and treatment. Reports have suggested that chemotherapeutic agents may contribute to this risk. In this case report, a 60-year-old male patient on chemotherapy (dacarbazine and doxorubicin) for leiomyosarcoma with no previous history of thromboembolism developed left carotid artery thrombosis 3 days after the first cycle of chemotherapy. A low molecular weight heparin was started for a possible cerebrovascular accident-related thrombosis. In the second cycle, he developed right femoral vein thrombosis only 2 days after initiating the chemotherapy. The chemotherapy protocol was changed and the patient did not develop any thrombosis during the 1-year follow-up. In the literature, no thrombotic complications have previously been reported due to either dacarbazine or doxorubicin. In conclusion, elderly patients on chemotherapy should be carefully monitored for thromboembolic complications and, in case of thrombosis, the chemotherapy protocol should be changed.
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) is a rare and life threatening complication of treatment with Neuroleptic medication. Phenothiazine and butyrophenones are most frequently implicated in this syndrome even though there are case reports with other drugs. In this paper we describe the classical presentation of this syndrome in eight cases who had been on either a butyrophenone, a phenothiazine or a combination of these drugs. In addition some of our patients were also on either Lithium and/or Amitrytiline for control of depressive symptoms. Fever, muscule rigidity and elevated CPK are the important criteria for diagnosis and they were noted in all our patients. In addition four of our patients fulfilled five of the six minor criteria laid down by Levenson. Both Sinemet and Bromocriptine were found to be effective in the treatment of seven of the eight cases. However treatment with Dantroline sodium was associated with severe muscle wasting in one of our cases and the drug had to be discontinued. Two of our patients developed suspected myoglobinuria with dark coloured urine and progressive renal failure. One patient died after development of renal failure, pulmonary edema and hyperkalemia as a consequence of this disorders.
We report on a patient who presented an invalidating progressive pelvic dyskinesia while receiving different kinds of neuroleptic drugs for a psychiatric disorder. The clinical features and different drug-induced movement scales showed an outstanding improvement after tetrabenazine was started. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of pelvic dyskinesia with good evolution and control of dyskinesias after treatment with tetrabenazine.
The effects of adriamycin and daunomycin on cardiac function were studied in 33 patients with acute leukemia (16 cases), neuroblastoma (5 cases), osteosarcoma (4 cases), malignant lymphoma (3 cases), rhabdomyosarcoma (3 cases) and malignant histiocytosis (2 cases). The left ventricular function was evaluated by serial echocardiographic assessment. Ejection fraction (E.F.) and shortening fraction (S.F.) of left ventricule were calculated from echocardiographic measurements. Seven of 33 cases (21.2%) revealed the decrease of E.F. and S.F. There was the significant correlation between total doses of daunomycin and E.F. Three patients died of severe congestive heart failure probably due to daunomycin administration. Usually, cardiac dysfunction caused by these drugs has improved within 3 months after the discontinuation.
Partial-treatment interruption in patients with drug-resistant viremia has been associated with stable HIV RNA levels suggesting that interruption of protease inhibitors may be an effective strategy for patients without other therapeutic options while waiting for the development of new drugs.
Our goal was to maintain virological and immunological stability in patients experiencing virologic failure with multiresistant HIV to allow access to newly developed antiretroviral drugs, and to characterize the impact of partial-treatment interruption on replication capacity and resistance profile.
From 2003 to 2004, a group of 12 heavily treated patients was studied. Protease inhibitor treatment was interrupted and patients were treated with nucleoside analog retrotranscriptase inhibitors (Trizivir) and the fusion inhibitor Enfurvirtide to establish the therapeutic benefit and the virologic response.
Both, CD4 T-cell counts and viral load remained stable for a period of time that enabled all the patients to access rescue treatments (median=13.5 months; IQR: 9-19). The replication capacity of the patient-derived viruses significantly decreased or remained stable during the partial-treatment interruption. The decrease in replication capacity was mainly attributable to the selection of viruses carrying at least two fewer minor mutations in the protease. As of December 2008 10 of 12 patients maintained undetectable HIV RNA levels.
Study results indicate that a partial-treatment interruption regimen based on Trizivir with Enfurvirtide augmentation allows for a loss of protease inhibitor resistance mutations as well as for a decrease in the replication capacity of patient-derive HIV protease gene recombinants.
A total of 4939 apparently healthy Fijian and Indian subjects living in Fiji were tested for anaemia by determination of the microhaematocrit of a sample of capillary blood. The prevalence of anaemia during childhood varied with age but was similar for Fijians and Indians of either sex. The overall prevalences were: 0-4 years, 20.3%; 5-9 years, 3.7%; 10-14 years, 23.5%. The prevalence of anaemia among Indian women (33.3%) was substantially higher than that for Indian men (6.9%), Fijian women (8.1%) or Fijian men (6.8%). Iron deficiency was the most common cause of anaemia and was established by laboratory studies in 203 (68%) of 298 anaemic subjects who were followed up. Iron deficiency was an important aetiological factor in 91 (93%) of 98 subjects with moderate or severe anaemia. Folate deficiency was found, usually in combination with iron deficiency, in 44 or 141 anaemic indian adults were followed up. Folate deficiency was uncommon in Fijian adults and among children of either race. Two cases of nutritional vitamin B12 deficiency, one case of pernicious anaemia, 6 cases of heterozygous thalassaemia and one case of heterozygous haemoglobin E were found among the anaemic Indian subjects. No cases of vitamin B12 deficiency anaemia, thalassaemia or haemoglobinopathy were detected among the Fijians. In 5 Indians and 7 Fijians the anaemia was associated with an underlying chronic disorder. This study emphasizes that in Fiji, as in other developing countries, nutritional anaemia is prevalent among asymptomatic subjects. Iron deficiency is by far the most common cause.
Microdeletions Glu767(1-bp del), Thr967(1-bp del), and Leu1446(2-bp del) in the human USH2A gene have been reported to cause Usher syndrome type II, a disorder characterized by retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and mild-to-severe hearing loss. Each of these three frameshift mutations is predicted to lead to an unstable mRNA transcript that, if translated, would result in a truncated protein lacking the carboxy terminus. Here, we report Cys759Phe, a novel missense mutation in this gene that changes an amino-acid residue within the fifth laminin-epidermal growth factor-like domain of the USH2A gene and that is associated with recessive RP without hearing loss. This single mutation was found in 4.5% of 224 patients with recessive RP, suggesting that USH2A could cause more cases of nonsyndromic recessive RP than does any other gene identified to date.
Aplastic anemia developed in a black woman who was receiving dapsone therapy for bullous systemic lupus erythematosus. Aplastic anemia is an uncommon adverse hematologic effect in patients treated with dapsone, the pathogenesis of which remains unknown. To our knowledge, dapsone-induced aplastic anemia has been previously reported in only four patients; the characteristics of their cases are described herein. Conservative monitoring of hematologic variables may alert clinicians to the early stages of this rare drug reaction.
We explored the role of angiotensin II and vasopressin in the maintenance of blood pressure during the nephrotic syndrome of adriamycin-induced nephropathy in rats. All 91 rats treated with adriamycin developed chronic renal failure with nephrotic syndrome, which was more pronounced in the normotensive rats than the 35% who became hypertensive. Angiotensin II blockade with DuP 753 produced a significantly greater hypotensive response in both the adriamycin-hypertensive (-16 +/- 3 mm Hg) and adriamycin-normotensive (-14 +/- 5 mm Hg) groups than the saline-treated controls (-5 +/- 1 mm Hg, P < .05). Vasopressin blockade with either a V1V2 inhibitor or a selective V1 inhibitor produced a hypotensive response in adriamycin-hypertensive rats only (by -16 +/- 4 and -17 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively, P < .01), although the nonselective vasopressin inhibitor produced similar fluid loss and body weight reduction in all three groups. The data suggest that in adriamycin-induced nephropathy with nephrotic syndrome, angiotensin II contributes to blood pressure maintenance in both hypertensive and normotensive animals, whereas the pressor action of vasopressin contributes to elevated blood pressure in hypertensive animals only.
Canfosfamide HCl (CAN) is a glutathione analogue prodrug that is activated by glutathione S-transferase P1-1 and induces apoptosis. CAN is synergistic in vitro with carboplatin, paclitaxel and anthracyclines.
Patients with platinum-refractory or -resistant ovarian cancer (OC) who had progressed on second-line therapy with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) or topotecan (TOPO), were randomised between CAN 1000 mg/m(2) IV q 3 weeks or to either PLD 50mg/m(2) IV q 4 weeks or TOPO 1.5mg/m(2) IV d1-5 q 3 weeks.
About 461 patients were randomised after stratification for ECOG performance status, prior therapy, and bulky (>5 cm) disease. Groups were well balanced. In the control arm 58% and 42% were treated with PLD and TOPO, respectively. CAN was well tolerated with the most common grade 3-4 toxicities of 5% anaemia, 4% neutropaenia (no febrile neutropaenia), 4% thrombocytopaenia, and 7% vomiting. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were significantly higher in the control arm (p<0.001 and p<0.01, respectively). In a subgroup analysis PFS and OS tended to be higher with PLD than with TOPO.
CAN was well tolerated. This is the first randomised study showing an increased OS with third-line therapy. This might have important consequences for other recurrent OC trials.
Advanced non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) remains almost uniformly lethal with marginal long-term survival despite efforts to target specific oncogenic addiction pathways that may drive these tumors with small molecularly targeted agents and biologics. The EML4-ALK fusion gene encodes a chimeric tyrosine kinase that activates the Ras signaling pathway, and this fusion protein is found in approximately 5% of NSCLC. Targeting EML4-ALK with Crizotinib in this subset of NSCLC has documented therapeutic efficacy, but the vast majority of patients eventually develop recurrent disease that is often refractory to further treatments. We present the clinicopathologic features of three patients with metastatic NSCLC harboring the EML4-ALK translocation that developed isolated central nervous system (CNS) metastases in the presence of good disease control elsewhere in the body. These cases suggest a differential response of NSCLC to Crizotinib in the brain in comparison to other sites of disease, and are consistent with a previous report of poor CNS penetration of Crizotinib. Results of ongoing clinical trials will clarify whether the CNS is a major sanctuary site for EML4-ALK positive NSCLC being treated with Crizotinib. While understanding molecular mechanisms of resistance is critical to overcome therapeutic resistance, understanding physiologic mechanisms of resistance through analyzing anatomic patterns of failure may be equally crucial to improve long-term survival for patients with EML4-ALK translocation positive NSCLC.
Artesunate (ART) is a derivative of artemisinin, the active principle of the Chinese herb Artemisia annua L. Artesunate is approved for the treatment of multidrug-resistant malaria and has an excellent safety profile. It has been shown that Artesunate, apart from its anti-malarial activity, has cytotoxic effects on a number of human cancer cell lines, including leukemia, colon cancer and melanoma. We report on the first long-term treatment of two cancer patients with ART in combination with standard chemotherapy. These patients with metastatic uveal melanoma were treated on a compassionate-use basis, after standard chemotherapy alone was ineffective in stopping tumor growth. The therapy-regimen was well tolerated with no additional side effects other than those caused by standard chemotherapy alone. One patient experienced a temporary response after the addition of ART to Fotemustine while the disease was progressing under therapy with Fotemustine alone. The second patient first experienced a stabilization of the disease after the addition of ART to Dacarbazine, followed by objective regressions of splenic and lung metastases. This patient is still alive 47 months after first diagnosis of stage IV uveal melanoma, a situation with a median survival of 2-5 months. Despite the small number of treated patients, ART might be a promising adjuvant drug for the treatment of melanoma and possibly other tumors in combination with standard chemotherapy. Its good tolerability and lack of serious side effects will facilitate prospective randomized trials in the near future.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the association of methylation in the promoter regions of adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) and O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) and the survival of Taiwanese colorectal cancer (CRC) subjects who received 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) adjuvant chemotherapy.
DNA isolated from tumor tissue of 117 CRC subjects was analyzed for the existence of methylation in the promoter regions of APC and MGMT by methylation-specific PCR. Various characteristics of the 117 subjects were recorded and used in the Cox proportional-hazard model analyses. Methylation in the promoter region is 62.4% (73/117) for APC and 60.7% (71/117) for MGMT in our CRC patients. Subjects presenting methylation in the APC promoter demonstrate significantly lower hazards for all causes of death (hazard ratios=0.378, p=0.011) or CRC deaths (hazard ratios=0.426, p=0.039). However, no significant correlation is found between the methylation of MGMT promoter and the prognosis of CRC subjects. In addition, no interaction between 5-FU adjuvant chemotherapy and methylation of the two genes are observed.
Methylation in the APC promoter may serve as a predictor for the prognosis of Taiwanese CRC patients.
Cocaine HCl (10 micrograms/ml) delivered perivascularly to the surface of the rat brain resulted in rapid contraction of pial arterioles, which reduced the diameters by 26% compared to controls. This was followed by venular vasospasm and rupture of postcapillary venules and micro-hemorrhages at postcapillary sites. Administration of Mg aspartate HCl, by intraarterial or intravenous infusion (1, 10 and 20 mumol/min), before or after the cocaine, produced dose-dependent inhibition (20-85%) of the cocaine-induced arteriolar spasms and prevention and attenuation of the venular vasculotoxicity and hemorrhaging. These data suggest that magnesium salts might be useful agents in the treatment of cocaine-induced intoxication and prevention of brain damage.
Cortical structures such as the hippocampus and cerebral cortex are considered to be particularly susceptible to seizure and epileptiform electrical activity and, as such, are the focus of intense investigation relative to hyperexcitability. To determine whether parallel glutamate-mediated hyperexcitability and seizure-like activity in the rat can be generated by neurons irrespective of their origin within the CNS, we maintained cells from the spinal cord,hippocampus, olfactory bulb, striatum, hypothalamus, and cortex in the long-term presence of glutamate receptor antagonists 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2-3-dione. After removal of chronic (three to 11 weeks) glutamate receptor block, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from current-clamped neurons (n = 94) revealed an immediate increase in large excitatory postsynaptic potentials and a depolarization of 20-35 mV that was often sustained for recording periods lasting 5 min (54% of 66 neurons from all six areas). The intense activity was not seen in age-matched control neurons not subjected to chronic glutamate receptor block. Selective blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors showed that the hyperexcitability was due to an enhanced response through both AMPA/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Relief from chronic glutamate receptor block also increased inhibitory activity, as revealed by an increase in inhibitory postsynaptic currents while neurons were voltage-clamped at -25 mV. These inhibitory postsynaptic currents could be blocked with bicuculline, indicating that they were mediated by an enhanced GABA release. This enhanced GABA activity reduced, but did not eliminate, the glutamate-mediated hyperactivity, shown by an increase in both intracellular Ca2+ and excitatory electrical activity when bicuculline was added. When the glutamate receptor block was removed, cells (n > 1000) from all six regions showed exaggerated Ca2+ activity, characterized by abnormally high increases in intracellular Ca2+, rising from basal levels of 50-100 nM up to 150-1600 nM. Cd2+ eliminated the hyperexcitability by blocking Ca2+ channels, and reducing excitatory transmitter release and response. Fura-2 digital imaging revealed Ca2+ oscillations with periods ranging from 4 to 60 s. Ca2+ peaks in oscillations in oscillations were synchronized among most neurons recorded simultaneously. That synchronization was dependent on a mechanism involving voltage-dependent Na+ channels was demonstrated with experiments with tetrodotoxin that blocked Ca2+ rises and synchronous cellular behavior. Removal of the glutamate receptor antagonists resulted in the glutamate-mediated death of 44% of the cells after 23 days of chronic block and 82% cell death after 40 days of chronic block. Nimodipine substantially reduced cell death, indicating that one mechanism responsible for the enhanced cell death after relief from chronic glutamate receptor block was increased intracellular Ca2+ entry through L-type voltage-gated calcium channels. These data indicate that glutamate is released by neurons from all areas studied, including the spinal cord. Sufficient amounts of glutamate can be released from axon terminals from all areas to cause cell hippocampal and cortical neurons, but also by neurons from any of the brain regions tested after chronic deprivation of glutamate receptor stimulation during development. This hyperexcitability is mediated by glutamatergic mechanisms independent of the specific excitatory connections existing in vivo. The epileptiform activity of neurons from one region is indistinguishable from that of another in culture, underlining the importance of synaptic connections in vivo that define the responses characteristic of neurons from different brain regions.
Hepatobiliary disorders associated with orally administered terbinafine have rarely been reported. We describe a case of prolonged terbinafine-induced cholestatic liver disease. Extrahepatic cholestasis, viral hepatitis and autoimmune liver disorders were excluded. The histological findings of marked cholestasis without evidence of extrahepatic biliary obstruction or acute hepatitis were compatible with the diagnosis of drug-induced liver disease. Biochemical parameters of liver cell damage returned to normal levels 6 months later.
We investigated the cause of mild mucocutaneous bleeding in a 14-year-old male patient (P1). Platelet aggregation and ATP secretion induced by arachidonic acid and the thromboxane A(2) receptor (TxA(2)R) agonist U46619 were reduced in P1 compared with controls, whereas the responses to other platelet agonists were retained. P1 was heterozygous for a transversion within the TBXA2R gene predictive of a D304N substitution in the TxA(2)R. In Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cells expressing the variant D304N TxA(2)R, U46619 did not increase cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration, indicating loss of receptor function. The TxA(2)R antagonist [(3)H]-SQ29548 showed an approximate 50% decrease in binding to platelets from P1 but absent binding to Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cells expressing variant D304N TxA(2)R. This is the second naturally occurring TxA(2)R variant to be associated with platelet dysfunction and the first in which loss of receptor function is associated with reduced ligand binding. D304 lies within a conserved NPXXY motif in transmembrane domain 7 of the TxA(2)R that is a key structural element in family A G protein-coupled receptors. Our demonstration that the D304N substitution causes clinically significant platelet dysfunction by reducing ligand binding establishes the importance of the NPXXY motif for TxA(2)R function in vivo.
There have been several reports that prolonged exposure of pregnant women to indomethacin for tocolysis may have significant pharmacological effects on the fetus or newborn.
Eighteen pregnant women were given indomethacin during the year 1989 for treatment of premature labor (n = 16) or polyhydramnios (n = 2). Treatment was started at gestational week 28.1 +/- 2.5 and was discontinued at gestational week 30.7 +/- 1.8. The mean age of the women at the onset of pregnancy was 30.6 +/- 5.3 years. The daily dose of indomethacin was initially 200 mg (2-3 mg/kg), then 107 +/- 59 mg. The cumulative dose was 1,820 +/- 2,370 mg. The duration of treatment was 18.1 +/- 16.4 days (less than 7 days in 8 women).
The term at delivery was 33.4 +/- 3.3 weeks (11 after 32 weeks). The mean interval between discontinuation of treatment and delivery was 19.0 +/- 18.7 days. Indomethacin was effective in 10 cases of premature labor, and gestation was prolonged by 52.6 +/- 19.2 days. Among the 23 live-born neonates, 5 developed renal insufficiency attributed to indomethacin (4 premature labor, 1 hydramnios). The kidney failure with early hyperkalemia was cured within about 7 days in 4 cases. The remaining neonate also suffered from severe prolonged hypoxia and died on day 4.
Administration of indomethacin for premature labor places the fetus at risk because of the short drug-free interval before birth. High daily or cumulative doses of indomethacin dit not result in adverse effects.
