Manganese (II), a transition metal, causes pulmonary inflammation upon environmental or occupational inhalation in excess. We investigated a potential molecular mechanism underlying manganese-induced pulmonary inflammation. Manganese (II) delayed HIF-1alpha protein disappearance, which occurred by inhibiting HIF-prolyl hydroxylase (HPH), the key enzyme for HIF-1alpha hydroxylation and subsequent von Hippel-Lindau(VHL)-dependent HIF-1alpha degradation. HPH inhibition by manganese (II) was neutralized significantly by elevated dose of iron. Consistent with this, the induction of cellular HIF-1alpha protein by manganese (II) was abolished by pretreatment with iron. Manganese (II) induced the HIF-1 target gene involved in pulmonary inflammation, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), in lung carcinoma cell lines.The induction of VEGF was dependent on HIF-1. Manganese-induced VEGF promoted tube formation of HUVEC. Taken together, these data suggest that HIF-1 may be a potential mediator of manganese-induced pulmonary inflammation.
We performed double high-dose chemotherapy followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) in 3 children with medulloblastoma and primary leptomeningial dissemination, including spinal metastasis. After resection of the main tumor mass, 30.6 Gy whole craniospinal radiation therapy and 4 or 5 courses of conventional chemotherapy with vincristine (1.5 mg/m), carboplatin (560 mg/m), ifosfamide (9000 mg/m), and etoposide (500 mg/m), and 2 courses of high-dose thiotepa (680 mg/m) and melphalan (240 mg/m) therapy with PBSCT were administered. Two patients with low erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 2 (ERBB2) gene expression achieved long-term survival (41 mo and 40 mo) but the patient with high ERBB2 expression relapsed 9 months after the second PBSCT.
We report on a patient who had a urothelial tumor with tri-differentiation into transitional squamous and adenocarcinoma after ingestion of 285 gm. cyclophosphamide during a 15-year-period. The possibility is again raised that the use of high doses of this drug over long periods may be associated with an increased incidence of carcinoma of the bladder. Frequent cystoscopic examinations may be warranted in patients who have received large cumulative amounts of the drug
Abnormal interactions between the serotonin and dopamine systems may underlie the high prevalence of non-motor complications in Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we demonstrate that the genes encoding serotonin 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors are differently regulated by dopamine in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model of PD. Nigrostriatal cell loss causes an up-regulation of 5-HT2AR mRNA, but a down-regulation of 5-HT2CR mRNA, in striatum. Repeated injections with L-DOPA/benserazide reverse the effect of 6-OHDA lesioning on 5-HT2AR, but not on 5-HT2CR, gene expression. Neither 6-OHDA-lesioning nor L-DOPA/benserazide treatment had any effect on 5-HT2AR mRNA in cortex or on 5-HT2CR mRNA in nucleus subthalamicus. These data suggest that the regulation of 5-HT2AR in striatum, in the 6-OHDA rat model of PD, is mainly dependent upon alterations in dopamine levels. 5-HT2CR, on the other hand, are regulated by nigrostriatal cell loss and by the accompanied reduction of factor(s), other than dopamine, that are normally co-expressed with dopamine. The apparent imbalance between 5-HT2AR and 5-HT2CR levels in this PD model indicates a potential role for these receptors in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric symptoms, such as depression and L-DOPA-induced hallucinations, which are co-morbid with PD. The fact that 5-HT2CR are differentially regulated as compared to 5-HT2AR to alterations in the dopamine tone predicts that pharmacological manipulations at 5-HT2CR, but not at 5-HT2AR, will result in similar effects in PD patients whether they are treated or not with dopamine replacement.
Nine healthy male subjects underwent measurement of reflex sympathetic function, pressor responsiveness and baroreflex sensitivity to phenylephrine (PE) and glyceryltrinitrate (GTN) before (C1) and following six days of treatment (E6) with cortisol (F), 200 mg/day. Seven subjects had washout studies (W) performed at least two weeks following the end of treatment. The BP responses to head tilt, isometric exercise and mental arithmetic were unaltered by F, however, there was a significant diminution of the diastolic BP response to cold pressor stimulus (delta DBP: 19 +/- 3 vs 25 +/- 5 vs 27 +/- 5 mmHg; E6 vs C1 vs W, p < 0.05 C1 vs E6 and W). Baroreflex sensitivity to PE was increased (28 +/- 3 vs 19 +/- 2 ms/mmHg, E6 vs C1, p = 0.03). These data demonstrate that increased BP during F treatment is not attributable to increased SNS activity, and suggest that SNS activity may be decreased by F.
A novel potassium channel gene has been cloned, characterized, and associated with cardiac arrhythmia. The gene encodes MinK-related peptide 1 (MiRP1), a small integral membrane subunit that assembles with HERG, a pore-forming protein, to alter its function. Unlike channels formed only with HERG, mixed complexes resemble native cardiac IKr channels in their gating, unitary conductance, regulation by potassium, and distinctive biphasic inhibition by the class III antiarrhythmic E-4031. Three missense mutations associated with long QT syndrome and ventricular fibrillation are identified in the gene for MiRP1. Mutants form channels that open slowly and close rapidly, thereby diminishing potassium currents. One variant, associated with clarithromycin-induced arrhythmia, increases channel blockade by the antibiotic. A mechanism for acquired arrhythmia is revealed: genetically based reduction in potassium currents that remains clinically silent until combined with additional stressors.
This was a double-blind randomized study comparing the efficacy of two alpha 1-antagonists, bunazosin retard and prazosin retard, in 185 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. Additionally, specific orthostatic tolerance was evaluated by a standardized test (Schellong test). Both 1 to 4 mg prazosin daily and 6 or 12 mg bunazosin daily achieved satisfactory blood pressure reduction (diastolic pressure reduced by at least 10 mm Hg) in 48% and 41% of patients, respectively. The average diastolic blood pressure reduction measured 24 h after drug administration was 9.8 mm Hg in the bunazosin group and 7 mm Hg in the prazosin group. A comparison of blood pressure profiles during specific orthostatic tolerance tests did not show any significant difference between the two groups. However, the symptoms of orthostatic hypotension were significantly less frequent and less severe with bunazosin compared with prazosin. Nineteen patients with essential hypertention were randomized for treatment with either prazosin retard (4 mg) or bunazosin retard (12 mg). The blood flow and the venous capacity were recorded by means of a plethysmograph while the patient was in a supine position and after tilting into the upright position. The peripheral resistance of the calf while the patient was in a supine position during placebo is 38.8 +/- 25.9 U, during bunazosin 28.5 +/- 17 U, and during prazosin 29.7 +/- 27.1 U. The difference between the two alpha-blockers and placebo is statistically significant. There was no effect on venous tone and venous capacity when tilting into the upright position.
We report the case of a severely malformed and retarded girl whose previously alcoholic mother had taken disulfiram early during the pregnancy, but denied having taken alcohol. The child quite closely resembled the clinical picture of the fetal alcohol syndrome.
A phase I trial of ABT-888 (veliparib), a PARP inhibitor, in combination with topotecan, a topoisomerase I-targeted agent, was carried out to determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD), safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of the combination in patients with refractory solid tumors and lymphomas. Varying schedules and doses of intravenous topotecan in combination with ABT-888 (10 mg) administered orally twice a day (BID) were evaluated. Plasma and urine pharmacokinetics were assessed and levels of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) and the DNA damage marker γH2AX were measured in tumor and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Twenty-four patients were enrolled. Significant myelosuppression limited the ability to coadminister ABT-888 with standard doses of topotecan, necessitating dose reductions. Preclinical studies using athymic mice carrying human tumor xenografts also informed schedule changes. The MTD was established as topotecan 0.6 mg/m²/d and ABT-888 10 mg BID on days one to five of 21-day cycles. Topotecan did not alter the pharmacokinetics of ABT-888. A more than 75% reduction in PAR levels was observed in 3 paired tumor biopsy samples; a greater than 50% reduction was observed in PBMCs from 19 of 23 patients with measurable levels. Increases in γH2AX response in circulating tumor cells (CTC) and PBMCs were observed in patients receiving ABT-888 with topotecan. We show a mechanistic interaction of a PARP inhibitor, ABT-888, with a topoisomerase I inhibitor, topotecan, in PBMCs, tumor, and CTCs. Results of this trial reveal that PARP inhibition can modulate the capacity to repair topoisomerase I-mediated DNA damage in the clinic.
Transcription factors with helix-loop-helix (HLH) motif play critical roles in controlling the expression of genes involved in lineage commitment, cell fate determination, proliferation, and tumorigenesis. To examine whether the newly identified HLH protein GCIP/CCNDBP1 modulates cell fate determination and plays a role in hepatocyte growth, proliferation, and hepatocarcinogenesis, we generated transgenic mice with human GCIP gene driven by a liver-specific albumin promoter. We demonstrated that in GCIP transgenic mice, the overall liver growth and regeneration occurred normally after liver injury induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). In the diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced mouse hepatocarcinogenesis, we demonstrated that overexpression of GCIP in mouse liver suppressed DEN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis at an early stage of tumor development. The number of hepatic adenomas at 24 weeks was significantly lower or not detected in GCIP transgenic male mice compared to the control mice under the same treatment. Although GCIP has little inhibition on the number of hepatic tumors at later stages (40 weeks), hepatocellular tumors in GCIP transgenic mice are smaller and well-differentiated compared to the poorly differentiated tumors in wild-type mice. Furthermore, we demonstrate that GCIP functions as a transcriptional suppressor, regulates the expression of cyclin D1, and inhibits anchorage-independent cell growth and colony formation in HepG2 cells, suggesting a significant role of GCIP in tumor initiation and development.
To review the published literature on serious adverse cardiac events associated with the atypical antipsychotic agent, clozapine, and to make recommendations for cardiac assessment of candidates for clozapine treatment and for monitoring of cardiac status after treatment is initiated.
We searched the PubMed and MEDLINE databases for articles published from 1970 to 2004 that contain the keywords "clozapine and myocarditis," "clozapine and cardiomyopathy," "clozapine and cardiotoxicity," "clozapine and sudden death" or "clozapine and mortality." We also manually searched the bibliographies of these articles for related sources.
We reviewed the 30 case reports, case series, laboratory and clinical trials, data mining studies, and previous reviews identified by this search.
Recent evidence suggests that clozapine is associated with a low (0.015% to 0.188%) risk of potentially fatal myocarditis or cardiomyopathy. The drug is not known to be independently associated with pathologic prolongation of the QTc interval, but it may contribute to pathologic QTc prolongation in patients with other risk factors for this condition.
The low risk of a serious adverse cardiac event should be outweighed by a reduction in suicide risk for most patients taking clozapine. We provide recommendations for assessing and monitoring cardiac status in patients prior to and after initiation of treatment with clozapine.
A case is described of a 44-years-old woman who developed cutaneous vasculitis, nephritis and paralytic ileus after three years' treatment with naproxen. All these features were thought to be attributable to a naproxen induced vasculitis and all resolved spontaneously after the drug was stopped.
Prospective, placebo-controlled clinical trials suggest that estrogen may have adverse effects on the vascular system in women. The goal of this study was to determine if 17beta-estradiol (E2) would have adverse effects on the renovasculature in a rat model of renal injury characterized by low nitric oxide (NO) and high angiotensin II (AngII). We studied female Wistar rats that were sham-operated (sham), ovariectomized (OVX), or ovariectomized and replaced with E2 (OVX/E2). All rats were maintained on a high salt diet and renovascular injury was caused by treating rats with an inhibitor of NO synthase, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine-methyl-ester (L-NAME), for 14 days, plus AngII on days 11 through 14. L-NAME/AngII treatment, as compared to placebo, caused proteinuria, glomerular injury, and fibrinoid necrosis of renal arterioles in sham-operated rats. Ovariectomy reduced L-NAME/AngII-induced renal damage, whereas E2 treatment increased L-NAME/AngII-induced damage in OVX rats. In rats treated with L-NAME/AngII, levels of AngII type 1 receptor (AT(1)R) protein were higher in the renal cortex of sham and OVX/E2 rats than in OVX rats. AT(1)R protein correlated with renal injury. E2 treatment also increased expression of AT(1)R mRNA. Thus, under conditions of low NO and high AngII, E2 exacerbated renal injury. E2-mediated increases in renal cortical AT(1)R expression may represent a novel mechanism for the adverse renovascular effects of estrogen.
Acyclovir [9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine] interfered with embryonic development in vitro when assessed with the "whole-embryo" culture technique. The "no-observed-effect level" was at 10 microM acyclovir; Minor impairment of embryonic development (retarded development of ear anlagen) was observed in vitro at 25 microM acyclovir in the culture medium. At high concentrations (100 or 200 microM) development of the ear anlagen was largely inhibited. At concentrations of 50 microM acyclovir or higher, additional disturbances of embryonic differentiation in vitro became obvious, resulting in gross structural abnormalities, especially of the brain (telencephalon); Histological examinations confirmed and extended these observations: at 100 microM acyclovir alterations of the neuroepithelium of the ventricles were pronounced, the telencephalon had developed poorly or was almost completely absent, and necroses were seen in the ear anlagen, the maxillary branch and within the somites; In a limb bud culture (mouse embryos, starting with day 11 of gestation) acyclovir interfered with the differentiation of cartilaginous bone anlagen at concentrations of 200 microM and more in the culture medium. A concentration of 100 microM induced no significant effect. Thus, this organ culture system is less sensitive to the action of acyclovir when compared with whole-embryo culture; Contrary to the results achieved with acyclovir, physiological nucleosides (2'-deoxyguanosine and 2'-deoxyadenosine) did not interfere with embryonic development in vitro even at the highest concentration tested (500 microM).
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of allopurinol 300-600 mg/day versus benzbromarone 100-200 mg/day used to attain a target serum urate concentration (sUr) < or =0.30 mmol/l (5 mg/dl).
A randomised, controlled, open-label, multicentre trial in gout patients with renal function defined as a calculated creatinine clearance > or =50 ml/min. Patients were treated with 300 mg allopurinol or 100 mg benzbromarone once a day (stage 1). If sUr < or =0.30 mmol/l was not attained after 2 months, the dose was doubled to allopurinol 300 mg twice a day or benzbromarone 200 mg once a day (stage 2). The primary end point was treatment success in either of the two stages, defined as clinical tolerability and attainment of biochemical target sUr.
Sixty-five patients were enrolled in stage 1; 36 received allopurinol and 29 received benzbromarone. Fifty-five patients (85%) were analysed at stage 1: the success rates were 8/31 (26%) and 13/25 (52%), respectively, and the difference was -0.26 (95% CI from -0.486 to -0.005), p = 0.049. At stage 2, the success rates were 21/27 (78%) and 18/23 (78%), respectively, and the difference was -0.005 (95% CI from -0.223 to 0.220), p = 1.00. Two patients stopped receiving allopurinol and three stopped receiving benzbromarone because of adverse drug reactions.
Increasing the allopurinol dose from 300 to 600 mg/day and the benzbromarone dose from 100 to 200 mg/day according to the target sUr produced significantly higher success rates (both 78% successful in attaining sUr < or =0.30 mmol/l). No significant differences in treatment success between benzbromarone and allopurinol were found after dose escalation.
ISRCTN49563848).
Opioid receptor agonists and antagonists have profound effects on cocaine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned reward. Recently, the role specifically of the mu opioid receptor has been demonstrated based on the finding that i.c.v. administration of the selective mu opioid receptor antagonist, D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP), can attenuate cocaine-induced behaviors. The purpose of the present study was to determine the location of mu opioid receptors that are critical for cocaine-induced reward and hyperactivity. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received injections of CTAP into the caudate putamen, the rostral or caudal ventral tegmental area (VTA) or the medial shell or core of the nucleus accumbens prior to cocaine to determine the role of mu opioid receptors in cocaine-induced reward and hyperactivity. Cocaine-induced reward was assessed using an unbiased conditioned place preference procedure. Results demonstrate that animals pre-treated with CTAP into the nucleus accumbens core or rostral VTA, but not the caudal VTA, caudate putamen or medial nucleus accumbens shell, during conditioning with cocaine showed an attenuation of the development of cocaine-induced place preference. In contrast, CTAP injected into the nucleus accumbens shell but not the core attenuated the expression of cocaine place preference. Intra-nucleus accumbens core, caudate putamen or caudal VTA CTAP significantly attenuated cocaine-induced hyperactivity. In addition, the number of cFos positive cells was increased in the motor cortex, medial and ventromedial aspects of the nucleus accumbens shell, basolateral amygdala and caudal VTA during the expression of cocaine place preference, and this increase was attenuated in the animals that received intra-accumbens core CTAP during daily cocaine conditioning. These results demonstrate the importance of mu opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens and VTA in cocaine-induced reward and hyperactivity and suggest that some aspects of the behavioral effects of cocaine are mediated by endogenous activation of mu opioid receptors in these brain regions.
Tourniquets commonly are used during total knee arthroplasties to reduce intraoperative blood loss, despite their various side effects. The goal of this study was to determine whether tourniquet use could be avoided using epinephrine-augmented hypotensive epidural anesthesia during a total knee arthroplasty without negative effects on perioperative hemoglobin values. One hundred patients having total knee arthroplasties were included in a prospective, observer-blinded, controlled, and randomized study. Forty-nine patients received epinephrine-augmented hypotensive epidural anesthesia without use of a tourniquet (Group A), and 51 patients received normotensive epidural anesthesia with use of a tourniquet (Group B). Hemoglobin was evaluated and is reported preoperatively, immediately and 6 hours postoperatively, and on Days 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6 in absolute and relative values. Data were not collected for Day 4. Greater absolute and relative postoperative hemoglobin values were observed in Group A immediately postoperative, on Day 5, and on Day 6. In patients who did not have transfusions, the mean relative hemoglobin values were greater in Group A at all times evaluated (except on Day 1). Epinephrine-augmented hypotensive epidural anesthesia is an effective method to avoid the use of a tourniquet during total knee arthroplasty without the negative effects on perioperative hemoglobin values.
Therapeutic study, Level I-1a (randomized controlled trial, significant difference). See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
The relationship between pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics was studied in dogs using sotalol as a model. The t 1/2 of this drug (4.30 +/- 0.40 hr) in dogs was longer than that of other beta adrenergic blockers. The renal clearance of the drug (4.21 +/- 0.31 ml/min/kg) was approximately 90% of total plasma clearance together with an extensive fraction excreted unchanged (72 +/- 12% of dose) in urine. Significant beta blockade, assessed by the response to isoproterenol tachycardia, was observed without change in blood pressure during the experiments. The log plasma sotalol concentration correlated significantly with the beta blockade (P less than .001). In an attempt to obtain insight into drug concentration-effect-time data, we applied a theory for correlating the observed kinetic data with the pharmacological effects using the elimination rate constant (beta) and the slope of log concentration-effect relationship (m). The rate of decline of drug effects (Rd) derived from this application agreed well with that actually observed in the effect-time interrelations.
Symptomatic sinus bradycardia developed in two patients while they were taking methyldopa and digoxin. In one patient, bradycardia did not occur with either digoxin or methyldopa alone. The other patient, who had never taken methyldopa alone, did not demonstrate bradycardia with digoxin alone. In each patient, normal sinus node function was demonstrated after methyldopa and digoxin therapy was discontinued. Both patients continued to receive digoxin without recurrence of bradycardia.
Two cases of clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina detected at follow-up in young women exposed in utero to diethylstilbestrol are reported. One patient, aged 23, had been followed for 2 years before carcinoma was diagnosed; the second patient, aged 22, had been seen on a regular basis for 5 years, 8 months. In both instances, suspicion of the presence of carcinoma was aroused by the palpation of a small nodule in the vaginal fornix. Hysterosalpingography was performed on both patients and, in 1 instance, an abnormal x-ray film was reflected by the gross appearance of the uterine cavity found in the surgical specimen.
Chronic arsenic toxicity is a global health problem that affects more than 100 million people worldwide. Long-term health effects of inorganic sodium arsenite in drinking water may result in skin, lung and liver cancers and in severe neurological abnormalities. We investigated in the present study whether sodium arsenite affects signaling pathways that control cell survival, proliferation and neuronal differentiation of human neural stem cells (NSC). We demonstrated that the critical signaling pathway, which was suppressed by sodium arsenite in NSC, was the protective PI3K-AKT pathway. Sodium arsenite (2-4μM) also caused down-regulation of Nanog, one of the key transcription factors that control pluripotency and self-renewal of stem cells. Mitochondrial damage and cytochrome-c release induced by sodium arsenite exposure was followed by initiation of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway in NSC. Beside caspase-9 and caspase-3 inhibitors, suppression of JNK activity decreased levels of arsenite-induced apoptosis in NSC. Neuronal differentiation of NSC was substantially inhibited by sodium arsenite exposure. Overactivation of JNK1 and ERK1/2 and down-regulation of PI3K-AKT activity induced by sodium arsenite were critical factors that strongly affected neuronal differentiation. In conclusion, sodium arsenite exposure of human NSC induces the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, which is substantially accelerated due to the simultaneous suppression of PI3K-AKT. Sodium arsenite also negatively affects neuronal differentiation of NSC through overactivation of MEK-ERK and suppression of PI3K-AKT.
Currently, the etiology of the serious developmental anomaly congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is unknown. We have used an animal model of CDH to address this issue. We characterized four separate teratogens that produced diaphragmatic defects in embryonic rats that are similar to those in infants with CDH. We then tested the hypothesis that all these agents share the common mechanism of perturbing the retinoid-signaling pathway. Specifically, inhibition of retinal dehydrogenase-2 (RALDH2), a key enzyme necessary for the production of retinoic acid and that is expressed in the developing diaphragm, was assayed by measuring retinoic acid production in cytosolic extracts from an oligodendrocyte cell line. The following compounds all induce posterolateral defects in the rat diaphragm; nitrofen, 4-biphenyl carboxylic acid, bisdiamine, and SB-210661. Importantly, we demonstrate that they all share the common mechanism of inhibiting RALDH2. These data provide an important component of mounting evidence suggesting that the retinoid system warrants consideration in future studies of the etiology of CDH.
Chronic administration of haloperidol to male Sprague Dawley rats for 6 months at a dosage of 1.5 mg/kg/day produces oral dyskinesias in a significant percent of the treated group. This has been used as an animal model of tardive dyskinesia in several laboratories, because the rat movements display characteristics reminiscent of the human dyskinetic condition. Previously, we have reported a reduction in these haloperidol-induced oral dyskinesias with the coadministration of a direct acting GABA agonist progabide. Here, we have tested an indirect acting GABA agonist, tiagabine, coadministered with haloperidol, for its effect on the oral dyskinesias. At a dosage of 75 mg/kg/day tiagabine significantly inhibited the onset of vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), decreasing the average movement severity from 11.2 +/- 2.0 to 4.4 +/- 1.4, compared with a placebo rate of 1.3 +/- 0.5 (VCMs/5 min). These data support the proposition that an effective, potent GABAmimetic coadministered with haloperidol, will block the onset of rat oral dyskinesias. This conclusion has important implications for the treatment and prevention of tardive dyskinesia in humans.
We have previously observed increased expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) in podocytes in both rat and human sclerotic conditions. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether activation of PPARgamma can attenuate podocyte injury-associated glomerulosclerosis in vivo. Puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats. The animals then either received no further treatment (control group (CONT)); or the PPARgamma agonist, pioglitazone (Pio) starting at week 0 (P0); or Pio starting at week 6 (P6), with sacrifice at week 12. At week 12, urinary protein excretion and systolic blood pressure were similar in the three groups. Glomerular filtration rate and glomerulosclerosis were decreased in CONT and P0 at week 12, but preserved in P6 rats. PPARgamma expression in CONT at 12 weeks was increased in podocytes and in mesangial WT-1 cells in segmentally sclerotic glomeruli, with less Wilms' tumor 1 (WT-1) staining. In P6 rats, mesangial WT-1 staining was lessened, but podocyte staining was strongly accentuated. Delayed treatment with Pio partially restored podocyte staining and tended to decrease the ratio of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive to apoptotic cells in glomeruli. Both treatment groups showed significantly reduced infiltrating glomerular macrophages and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 mRNA expression in cortex, with no change in transforming growth factor-beta1 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 mRNA. Pio also decreased renal cortical angiopoietin-like protein 4 expression to almost 20% of CONT group, associated with increased vascular endothelial-derived growth factor expression in glomeruli. We conclude that treatment with PPARgamma agonist has protective effects on progression of glomerulosclerosis.
Acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is the most common cause of acute liver failure (ALF) in the UK. Patients often consume the drug with suicidal intent or with a background of substance dependence.
We compared the severity of pretransplant illness, psychiatric co-morbidity, medical and psychosocial outcomes of all patients who had undergone liver transplantation (LT) emergently between 1999-2004 for acetaminophen-induced ALF (n=36) with age- and sex-matched patients undergoing emergent LT for non-acetaminophen-induced ALF (n=35) and elective LT for chronic liver disease (CLD, n=34).
Acetaminophen-induced ALF patients undergoing LT had a greater severity of pre-LT illness reflected by higher Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II scores and requirement for organ support compared with the other two groups. Twenty (56%) acetaminophen-induced ALF patients had a formal psychiatric diagnosis before LT (non-acetaminophen-induced ALF=0/35, CLD=2/34; P<0.01 for all) and nine (25%) had a previous suicide attempt. During follow-up (median 5 years), there were no significant differences in rejection (acute and chronic), graft failure or survival between the groups (acetaminophen-induced ALF 1 year 87%, 5 years 75%; non-acetaminophen-induced ALF 88%, 78%; CLD 93%, 82%: P>0.6 log rank). Two acetaminophen-induced ALF patients reattempted suicide post-LT (one died 8 years post-LT).
Despite a high prevalence of psychiatric disturbance, outcomes for patients transplanted emergently for acetaminophen-induced ALF were comparable to those transplanted for non-acetaminophen-induced ALF and electively for CLD. Multidisciplinary approaches with long-term psychiatric follow-up may contribute to low post-transplant suicide rates seen and low rates of graft loss because of non-compliance.
Some familial platelet disorders are associated with predisposition to leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or dyserythropoietic anemia. We identified a family with autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia, high erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and two occurrences of B cell-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Whole-exome sequencing identified a heterozygous single-nucleotide change in ETV6 (ets variant 6), c.641C>T, encoding a p.Pro214Leu substitution in the central domain, segregating with thrombocytopenia and elevated MCV. A screen of 23 families with similar phenotypes identified 2 with ETV6 mutations. One family also had a mutation encoding p.Pro214Leu and one individual with ALL. The other family had a c.1252A>G transition producing a p.Arg418Gly substitution in the DNA-binding domain, with alternative splicing and exon skipping. Functional characterization of these mutations showed aberrant cellular localization of mutant and endogenous ETV6, decreased transcriptional repression and altered megakaryocyte maturation. Our findings underscore a key role for ETV6 in platelet formation and leukemia predisposition.
