The incidence of lateral gaze nystagmus and its correlation with free and total plasma concentrations of carbamazepine (CBZ) and carbamazepine-10, 11-epoxide (CBZ-E) were examined in 97 epileptic patients receiving chronic treatment with CBZ alone (n = 54) or in combination with phenobarbital (PB) (n = 43). All patients had plasma CBZ concentrations within the clinically optimal range (less than 50 mumol/L). Nystagmus was seen in 26% of patients receiving monotherapy and in 33% receiving combination therapy. Within each group, however, nystagmus was much more frequent among patients with higher CBZ concentrations. For patients receiving PB in combination the CBZ levels above which nystagmus was particularly frequent appeared to be lower than in the monotherapy patients--a finding that could not be attributed to differences in plasma PB concentrations. The correlation of CBZ-E levels (or the sum of CBZ + CBZ-E) with the occurrence of nystagmus was no better than that observed with CBZ levels alone. Free drug levels did not appear to be superior to total levels in discriminating between patients with or without nystagmus. These results indicate that the occurrence of nystagmus is concentration-dependent within the therapeutic plasma CBZ concentration range and suggest that the threshold at which this neurological sign appears is reduced in the presence of PB, possibly as a result of a pharmacodynamic interaction.
In advanced virus-induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) associated with cirrhosis, the average survival is four months. We report a 56-year-old man with a large-volume advanced HCC, in whom gemcitabine and cisplatin-based chemotherapy resulted in near-complete regression, and quality survival of 24 months.
ALO-01 (EMBEDA [morphine sulfate and naltrexone hydrochloride] extended-release capsules [King Pharmaceuticals, Inc, Bridgewater, NJ]), indicated for chronic moderate-to-severe pain, is designed to release naltrexone upon tampering (eg, by crushing), reducing morphine-induced subjective effects. This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, crossover study assessed pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of ALO-01 and compared them with extended-release morphine sulfate (ERMS, KADIAN [morphine sulfate extended-release] capsules [Actavis US, Morristown, NJ]) in adults (N = 113) with osteoarthritis pain. Study periods included washout until pain flare (intensity > or =5, 0 to 10; 0 = no pain, 10 = worst pain); dose titration with ERMS (20 to 160mg BID); and randomization to 2 (crossover) 14-day treatment periods with ERMS or ALO-01, separated by 7 days of open-label ERMS. Assessments included pharmacokinetics (morphine, naltrexone), pain scores (0 to 10), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities (WOMAC) Osteoarthritis Index; Patient Global Assessment of Medication (1 to 5; poor to excellent). Mean score at pain flare was 7.1. Morphine exposure from both formulations at steady state was similar. Plasma naltrexone concentrations were below limit-of-quantification for most patients and, when present, did not impact pain scores. During treatment, mean pain intensity (day 14: ERMS, 2.4; ALO-01, 2.3, P = .31), WOMAC change-from-baseline (mean pain, physical function, composite scores), and adverse event frequency were similar. ALO-01 and ERMS provided similar relief of osteoarthritis pain.
We present data demonstrating that ALO-01 has steady-state morphine exposure, efficacy, and safety similar to marketed ERMS capsules. Results highlight the potential for morphine in ALO-01 to manage moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis pain, while the sequestered naltrexone does not interfere with efficacy.
The effects of in vivo gene transfer of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS) genes on severe atherosclerosis were investigated in rabbits. The recombinant adenoviruses, Ad.eNOS and Ad.iNOS, which respectively express eNOS and iNOS, were constructed. Atherosclerosis was induced by a balloon injury followed by a high cholesterol diet for 12 weeks. The rabbits were divided into six groups: Gp cont (no treatment); Gp null (adenovirus sham-infected); Gp eNOS (Ad.eNOS); Gp iNOS (Ad.iNOS); Gp e+i (Ad.eNOS plus Ad.iNOS); and Gp heNOS (a high dose of Ad.eNOS). Examinations were carried out 7 days after gene transfer. Plasma lipid levels were not significantly changed, but transfection with Ad.eNOS (Gp eNOS and Gp heNOS) decreased the tissue cholesterol concentration and regressed atherosclerotic lesions. Vessels treated with Ad.iNOS (Gp iNOS and Gp e+i) showed iNOS staining in the atheroma, and slight staining at other parts of the vessels; those treated with Ad.eNOS showed eNOS staining in the endothelium and subintima, and slight staining at other parts. Ad.eNOS transfection, but not Ad.iNOS or Ad.eNOS+Ad.iNOS transfection, improved the impaired aortic endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR) and basal NO-dependent response, increased tissue cyclic GMP (cGMP), and decreased the release of O2- from vessels. eNOS treatment showed a decreasing tendency in regions with peroxynitrite staining, MMP1 staining, and suspected apoptosis. In conclusion, in vivo gene transfer of eNOS, but not iNOS or eNOS plus iNOS, regressed atherosclerosis. The relations among NO, O2-, and peroxynitrite may be critical, and lipid resorption from the lesions may be responsible for the regression.
A 34-year-old woman collapsed secondary to ventricular fibrillation 3 hours following the ingestion of ergotamine tartrate for migraine. She underwent defibrillation and recovered rapidly without any subsequent consequences. The mechanism of action and the side effects of ergotamine and other antimigraine drugs are discussed. We hypothesize that a coronary spasm induced by ergotamine could be the aetiologic factor leading to ischaemic ventricular fibrillation.
Rates of relapse among cocaine-dependent patients are high, and new treatment approaches are needed. Clinical data demonstrate that a cocaine vaccine (TA-CD) produces selective anticocaine antibodies, yet the impact of these antibodies on cocaine's direct effects is unknown. The objective of this human laboratory study was to measure the relationship between antibody titers and the effects of smoked cocaine on ratings of intoxication, craving, and cardiovascular effects.
Ten cocaine-dependent men not seeking drug treatment spent 2 nights per week for 13 weeks inpatient where the effects of cocaine (0 mg, 25 mg, 50 mg) were determined before vaccination and at weekly intervals thereafter. Two doses of TA-CD (82 microg, n = 4; 360 microg, n = 6) were administered at weeks 1, 3, 5, and 9.
Peak plasma antibody levels, which were highly variable, significantly predicted cocaine's effects. Those individuals in the upper half of antibody production had an immediate (within 4 minutes of cocaine smoking) and robust (55%-81%) reduction in ratings of good drug effect and cocaine quality, while those in the lower half showed only a nonsignificant attenuation (6%-26%). Self-reported cocaine use while participants were outpatient tended to decrease as a function of antibody titer (p < .12). By contrast, higher antibody levels predicted significantly greater cocaine-induced tachycardia.
The TA-CD vaccine substantially decreased smoked cocaine's intoxicating effects in those generating sufficient antibody. These data support further testing of cocaine immunotherapy as a treatment for cocaine dependence.
Because of conflicting evidence about the relation of coffee use to coronary artery disease, the authors conducted a new cohort study of hospitalizations among 101,774 white persons and black persons admitted to Kaiser Permanente hospitals in northern California in 1978-1986. In analyses controlled for eight covariates, use of coffee was associated with higher risk of myocardial infarction (p = 0.0002). Compared with nondrinkers of coffee, the following relative risks (RRs) were found: at 1-3 cups/day, RR = 1.14 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.91-1.42); at 4-6 cups/day, RR = 1.42 (CI 1.10-1.84), p = 0.007; and at greater than 6 cups/day, RR = 1.41 (CI 1.00-1.99), p = 0.05. The relation remained significant when also controlled for blood cholesterol, blood glucose, blood pressure, and adiposity, singly or combined. Tea use was unrelated to myocardial infarction; neither coffee nor tea was related to other coronary diagnoses. Although causality remains unestablished and uncertainty remains, the authors conclude that 1) these data suggest a weak independent relation of coffee use to acute myocardial infarction, not mediated by an effect on blood cholesterol; and 2) persons at risk of myocardial infarction should consider limitation of coffee intake to less than 4 cups/day.
Zolpidem is a new hypnotic that is supposed to have fewer side effects than traditional benzodiazepines. Some psychotic reactions, such as visual or hypnagogic hallucinations, have been reported to be associated with zolpidem use.
A young female experienced three episodes of hallucination associated with the use of zolpidem. The visual or hypnagogic hallucination happened after she had stopped zolpidem and then restarted it 2 days later.
We postulate that hypnagogic or visual hallucinations associated with zolpidem use may be related to rapid withdrawal and restarting of zolpidem. The possible mechanism may be associated with the changes in the GABAA receptor. Avoiding "as needed" use of zolpidem and using the lowest effective dose may prevent these adverse effects.
To determine whether nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) affect the establishment and progression of endometriotic lesions in a murine model.
Pharmacologic intervention in a surgically induced murine model of abdominal/peritoneal endometriosis.
Animal research facility.
Eight-week-old, female C57BL/6 mice.
After implantation of autologous endometrium, mice were randomized into groups and treated with one of several NSAIDs or the vehicle-matched control for 4 weeks.
Establishment, growth, and total burden of endometriotic lesions.
The NSAIDs differentially inhibited lesion establishment and growth, resulting in significantly reduced disease burden. Compared with controls (5.7 +/- 2.3 mm(2)), lesion burden was reduced by celecoxib (1.3 +/- 1.2 mm(2)), indomethacin (1.4 +/- 1.4 mm(2)), naproxen (2.7 +/- 1.2 mm(2)), sulindac (3.1 +/- 1.5 mm(2)), rofecoxib (3.4 +/- 3.0 mm(2)), and ibuprofen (4.1 +/- 1.4 mm(2)). In contrast, aspirin (5.9 +/- 1.2 mm(2)) had no statistically significant effect. Uninterrupted estrus cycling was confirmed by vaginal exams and smears in celecoxib-treated mice.
Chronic administration of certain NSAIDs limits the progression of endometriosis in this murine model. The data suggest that NSAID selection in the treatment of endometriosis should be extended beyond pain management to maximize the inhibitory effect on disease burden.
This investigation examines the role of heat shock protein (Hsp) 27 and its modulation by curcumin in isoproterenol-induced myocardial ischemic injury in rats. Evidence from hemodynamic functions and oxidative stress parameters were also included in the study. The animals were divided into control, isoproterenol, and curcumin 100, 200, and 400 mg/kg treatment groups. Curcumin was administered orally for 15 days to all the treated groups. On 13th and 14th day, isoproterenol (85 mg/kg, s.c.) was injected to curcumin-treated and isoproterenol group. On day 15, hemodynamic parameters were recorded. Thereafter, animals were sacrificed and hearts were kept for biochemical and Western blot analysis. We found dose-dependent increase in the expression of Hsp27 with drastic fall at highest dose. Hemodynamically, the lower 2 doses also restored the cardiac function as evident by improved contractile functions, decreased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, restored arterial pressures, and heart rate. In addition, there was an increase in then level of superoxide dismutase, catalase, reduced glutathione, and decreased production of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and leakage of cardiac necroenzyme creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme and lactate dehydrogenase in curcumin 100 and 200 mg/kg group as compared with isoproterenol. However, at a dose of 400 mg/kg, there was ineffectual protection against isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage. Our results suggested 200 mg/mg as the most optimum therapeutic dose showing improved cardiac function due to stabilization of cytoskeleton structure which in turn is attributed to Hsp27 expression along with fortified antioxidant defense system.
Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) occurred in a drug abuser soon after self-administration of amphetamine. Other reported cases indicate a consistent clinical picture, sometimes fatal or causing permanent neurologic disability.
Nine outpatients with mild to moderate arterial hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus and persistent macroalbuminuria were studied. After 1 month of placebo, the patients were treated with 50 mg captopril twice a day for the following 6 months. Blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion were significantly reduced but no relationship was found between these two variables. No changes were detected in the renal plasma flow, glomerular filtration rate, filtration fraction, renal vascular resistance or metabolic pattern. Captopril significantly reduced blood pressure and albuminuria without any change in the renal function. The decrease in albuminuria may be related to the reduction in blood pressure as well as to a direct effect of captopril on glomerular haemodynamics.
Although pain and subsequent thrombophlebitis are complications in patients receiving intravenous (IV) diazepam, the mechanism and accompanying histology are unknown. To further elucidate the pathogenesis for this and determine whether it can be minimized, adult female rats received IV diazepam, diazepam vehicle, lidocaine, a combination of lidocaine and diazepam, or N saline solution, and underwent subsequent tissue light microscopy. Vascular tissue from animals receiving IV diazepam alone revealed marked inflammation with inflammatory edema and intramural polymorphonuclear-cell infiltration. Intravascular thrombosis and complete vein-wall destruction were also present in some animals as early as 48 hours after IV diazepam. Diazepam vehicle and diluted diazepam produced similar morphologic alterations. Lidocaine or saline IV resulted in no histologic alterations, while lidocaine added to diazepam did not reduce the inflammatory response. These results represent the first systematic morphologic evaluation of vein response to intravascular diazepam and suggest that it produces rapid and detrimental morphologic alterations. The dilution of diazepam or combination with lidocaine does not appear to alter these findings, and diazepam vehicle appears to assume a role in the production of the vascular injury.
This study reports all complications and side effects occurring in 38 patients with severe traumatic brain lesions treated with barbiturate coma because of a dangerous increase in intracranial pressure. The treatment was induced by intravenous infusion of thiopentone (5-11 mg.kg-1) followed by a continuous infusion of 4-8 mg.kg-1.h-1. The subsequent rate of thiopentone infusion was governed by the level of the intracranial pressure with the intention of keeping ICP below 20 mmHg (2.7 kPa). The duration of treatment was 1-15 days. Arterial hypotension occurred in 58%, hypokalemia in 82%, respiratory complications in 76%, infections in 55%, hepatic dysfunction in 87% and renal dysfunction in 47% of the patients. Twenty patients survived. Mortality in 17 patients was caused by an untreatable increase in intracranial pressure. In one patient complications due to barbiturate treatment may have contributed to the fatal outcome. In none of the other cases were the noted complications and side effects associated with any permanent symptoms or dysfunctions.
Simvastatin is a potent inhibitor of hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase intended for use as a hypocholesterolemic agent. The long-term clinical experience with simvastatin indicates that it is a safe, effective, and well-tolerated hypolipidemic agent. Laboratory adverse events involving elevations of serum transaminase levels and serum creatine kinase (CK) levels to more than three times the upper limit of normal range have been seen in 1.5% and 3.4% of cases, respectively. We describe a case of severe myopathy and rhabdomyolysis associated with concomitant use of simvastatin and gemfibrozil. Seven days after discontinuing administration of gemfibrozil and simvastatin, the patient's condition improved and she was discharged home. Although this is the first report to indicate an association between myopathy and concomitant use of simvastatin and gemfibrozil, we strongly recommend caution and careful monitoring if simvastatin is given to patients receiving gemfibrozil.
The effects of oral sotalol were compared with 1000 and 1500 mg of procainamide in 23 patients with sustained ventricular tachycardia. The predictive value of an induction study after procainamide was assessed. The mean age of the study group was 62 +/- 12 years, and the mean ejection fraction was 32 +/- 16%. The cycle length (CL) of the induced tachycardia, the coupling interval (CI) of the first extrastimulus (in ms), and the number of noninducible (NI) patients are given in the table below. (table; see text) One patient developed torsades during the loading period of sotalol and is included in the number requiring cardioversion (DC). Important proarrhythmic effects (spontaneous occurrence of tachycardia) were seen twice after procainamide. Induction suppression by procainamide predicted success with sotalol (p = 0.0013).
Ventricular tachycardia seems to be less often inducible after oral sotalol than after procainamide. The success of procainamide during programmed electrical stimulation predicts the same for sotalol. If ventricular tachycardia remains inducible after oral sotalol, it is faster than after procainamide but slower than the baseline tachycardia. Both drugs slightly prolong refractoriness.
We tested the hypothesis that accelerated lipid peroxidation, possibly at the level of the lysosome, is linked causally to the pathogenesis of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity by investigating whether administration of vitamin E would inhibit lipid peroxidation and prevent or ameliorate gentamicin-induced proximal tubular cell injury. Five groups of rats were injected with either saline, vitamin E (600 mg/kg per day) for 6 days, gentamicin (100 mg/kg per day) for 6 days, vitamin E for 6 days plus gentamicin for 6 days or vitamin E for 12 days and gentamicin for the last 6 days. Gentamicin alone induced a 16% increase in renal cortical phospholipids; vitamin E had no significant effect on this change. Gentamicin alone caused accelerated lipid peroxidation evident by a doubling of renal cortical malondialdehyde to 1.23 nmol/mg protein, and a sharp decline of esterified polyunsaturated fatty acids, especially arachidonic acid which fell 43%. These changes were accompanied by depressions of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and total glutathione and a shift from reduced to oxidized glutathione. Concurrent treatment of rats with vitamin E plus gentamicin for 6 days had no significant effect on the gentamicin-induced alterations of malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, catalase or the glutathione cascade; however, the shift from polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids was largely reversed. In rats pretreated with vitamin E for 6 days, gentamicin failed to raise renal cortical malondialdehyde above that of saline-treated rats. The changes in esterified fatty acids were prevented almost entirely, and there were no significant alterations from control of the glutathione cascade. The depressions of superoxide dismutase and of catalase, however, were not reversed. Vitamin E did not affect the amount of gentamicin accumulated in renal cortex nor did it prevent the gentamicin-induced rise of serum creatinine. Examination of renal cortex by light and electron microscopy revealed that vitamin E did not prevent or even reduce the severity of gentamicin-induced proximal tubular cell lesions and necrosis. These results confirm those we obtained in a previous study with the antioxidant diphenyl-phenylenediamine. The observation that inhibition of lipid peroxidation by two distinct antioxidants failed to prevent proximal tubular cell injury and renal dysfunction associated with gentamicin administration leads us to conclude that lipid peroxidation is a consequence and not a cause of gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity.
In this report, we assess the safety of terazosin in the treatment of patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia. We analyzed seven prospectively designed placebo-controlled trials involving 3,080 patients, 1,689 of whom received the study drug in doses ranging from 1 mg to 20 mg daily for a total of 1,282 patient-years of exposure. The most common side effects seen in treated patients were dizziness (10.7%), asthenia (7.5%), and peripheral edema (4.0%). These side effects were generally reported as mild and improved after cessation of therapy. The incidence of withdrawal from the study due to side effects was 14.5% in the treatment arm versus 11.4% in the placebo control arm. Also noted was a statistically significant decreased risk of urinary tract infection and myocardial infarction in the terazosin-treated group. This updated report confirms that terazosin can be administered safely to a population of men with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia with minimal clinically significant side effects.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a growing health problem worldwide. The limited treatment and poor prognosis of this disease emphasizes the importance of developing effective prevention, including chemoprevention. Improvement in early diagnosis of HCC and regular screen of individuals with increased risk for HCC provide the possibility of effective chemoprevention for HCC in the future. Hepatocarcinogenesis is best described as a continuity of regeneration, proliferation, unregulated hyperplasia, dysplasia, and malignant transformation. Uncontrolled proliferation of hepatocytes clearly plays a key role in hepatocarcinogenesis. Overexpression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) has been associated with tumorigenesis of colon cancer. Selective COX-2 inhibitors possess potent suppression on the growth of colon cancer. Overexpression of COX-2 has also recently been demonstrated in patients with HCC, especially in nontumorous tissue with cirrhosis and well-differentiated tumorous tissue. In vitro studies have revealed that both NS-398, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, and sulindac, an analog of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, effectively inhibit growth of human hepatoma cell lines, which is mediated by a decreased rate of cell proliferation. Although further in vivo studies are required in animal models to confirm these findings and define optimal doses for future clinical trials in human subjects, these findings provide a rationale for the use of COX-2 inhibitors as HCC chemoprevention.
Factors that affect the response of multiple myeloma patients to thalidomide were evaluated in 40 patients who were not eligible for chemotherapy (untreated: 14, relapse/refractory: 26). The complete response (CR) rate was 2.5%; partial response (PR) 50.0%; minimal response (MR) 25.0%; no change (NC) 12.5%; and progressive disease 10.0%. The response to thalidomide could be evaluated after four weeks of treatment. Significantly higher responses were associated with untreated patients, patients with combined use of thalidomide plus dexamethasone, and patients with kappa light chain. Patients who responded well to thalidomide showed a significantly higher progression-free survival (PFS) rate. In patients with kappa light chain, PFS and overall survival rates were significantly higher than those with lambda light chain. Frequent adverse reactions were numbness (47.5%), constipation (32.5%), and eruption (30.0%). In patients previously treated with vincristine, numbness occurred in a significantly higher percentage of patients.
A rare case of purulent meningitis caused by vancomycin-resistant Leuconostoc sp. is reported. The patient was treated successfully with penicillin G, and there were no neurological sequelae. We recommend that all gram-positive cocci isolated from cerebrospinal fluid and blood be fully identified so as not to confuse Leuconostoc spp. with more commonly isolated pathogens such as pneumococci and other alpha-hemolytic streptococci.
The aim of this study was to explore the effectiveness and safety of topical application of 50 mg penicillin G potassium troches in the treatment of minor recurrent aphthous ulcerations (MiRAU) in a Chinese cohort.
A randomized, double-blinded, placebo and no-treatment-controlled, multicenter clinical trial was performed. Troches were consecutively applied 4 times per day for 4 days. The size and pain level of ulcers were measured and recorded on days 0, 3, 4, 5, and 6.
A total of 258 subjects with minor recurrent aphthous ulcerations (86 subjects in penicillin G potassium group, 88 subjects in placebo control group, and 84 subjects in no-treatment control group) fulfilled the study. Penicillin G potassium significantly reduced ulcer size (P < .00001 for days 3, 4, 5, and 6) and alleviated ulcer pain (P < .00001 for days 3, 4, 5, and 6). No severe adverse reactions were observed. Only 4 subjects experienced mild adverse reaction.
Penicillin G potassium troches are effective in reducing ulcer size and alleviating ulcer pain of the patients in the treatment of a single episode of MiRAU in this Chinese cohort. Few adverse effects were observed with this therapeutic approach.
Measurements before, during and after prolonged hypotension (148 +/- 40 min, mean +/- SE) produced by sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 2.4 +/- 1.1 microng/kg/min) were obtained from 5 anesthetized adult patients in the head-up position. Reduction of mean arterial pressure (MAP) from 81 to 54 torr (at the level of the circle of Willis) while maintaining similar concentrations of N2O and halothane was associated with an unchanged arterial oxygenation and pH, decreased systemic vascular resistance (p less than 0.05), increased heart rate (HR p less than 0.05) and an unchanged (2 patients) or increased (3 patients) cardiac output as compared with measurements during normotension. After SNP was discontinues, the MAP recovered within 3 to 5 minutes and the cardiac output and HR decreased. Two of these patients also received trimethaphan (TMP). In 1, TMP decreased MAP, but this was associated with a reduction in cardiac output. In the same patient, SNP produced a similar fall in MAP, but cardiac output was unchanged. In the 2nd patient, TMP did not reduce MAP, while SNP resulted in a prompt decrease. The authors conclude that circulatory changes during SNP administration for prolonged controlled hypotension in the semi-sitting position are similar to hemodynamic changes observed during short-term SNP administration to supine patients.
Male Fischer 344 rats classified as young (2-4 months), middle-aged (12-14 months) and aged (22-25 months) received 300, 600 or 800 mg/kg acetaminophen (APAP) intraperitoneally and were sacrificed 24 hr later. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration and urinary glucose and osmolality were determined. In addition, kidneys were evaluated for histopathological changes. APAP did not affect osmolality or BUN concentrations and failed to produce lesions after any dose in young rats. Osmolality was decreased 40% and 50% in middle-aged and aged rats, respectively, after 800 mg/kg APAP. Glucosuria was prominent in aged rats after the 600 and 800 mg/kg doses were administered, while middle-aged rats showed little glucosuria after these doses. BUN concentrations were elevated 89% and 183% in middle-aged and aged rats, respectively, given 600 mg/kg APAP; after 800 mg/kg, BUN concentrations were elevated approximately four-fold in both age groups. Pathological evaluations showed a greater incidence of acute tubular necrosis (ATN) in aged kidneys compared to kidneys of middle-aged rats after 600 mg/kg, while the two older groups exhibited similar, more severe ATN after 800 mg/kg APAP. These data suggest an age-related increased susceptibility of male Fisher 344 rats to APAP nephrotoxicity.
The effect of L-histidinol (LHL), a structural analogue of the essential amino acid L-histidine, on ifosfamide (IFO) induced nephrotoxicity was investigated in the rat. The aim of this study was to assess whether oral supplementation of LHL could attenuate Fanconi syndrome (FS) induced by IFO. Male Wistar albino rats received daily injections of IFO (50 mg/kg) for 5 days with or without oral supplementation of 0.5% LHL in the drinking water. LHL was supplemented for 3 days before IFO administration and daily thereafter. Control rats were injected with saline with or without oral LHL. The results demonstrated that IFO induces a FS characterized by wasting of glucose, electrolytes, and organic acids, along with elevated serum creatinine and urea levels and decreased creatinine clearance. IFO-induced FS was associated with significant renal nonprotein sulfhydryl depletion and lipid peroxide (malondialdehyde) accumulation. LHL strongly ameliorated the severity of renal dysfunction induced by IFO, with significant decreases in total and fractional excretions of Na(+), K(+), PO(4)(3-), and glucose. Also, LHL significantly decreased the elevated serum creatinine and urea levels and significantly increased the creatinine clearance. Moreover, the beneficial effects of LHL were associated with a significant improvement of IFO-induced nonprotein sufhydry depletion and lipid peroxide accumulation. These results demonstrate that oral supplementation of LHL can partially protect against IFO-induced FS in rats.
Recent studies have demonstrated that measurement of peripheral type benzodiazepine binding sites (PTBBS) levels may be useful as an index for quantification of neuronal damage. In the present study, we investigated the accuracy of this index as a marker of neuronal damage induced by transient forebrain ischemia in the rat (4-vessel occlusion model). Seven days after ischemia, a good correlation was found between the increase of PTBBS levels (measured using [3H]PK 11195 as a specific radioligand) in hippocampal, striatal and cortical homogenates and the duration of ischemia. The progression of PTBBS increase was examined from 3 h to 14 days of recirculation. Increase in the maximal number of binding sites (Bmax) rather than an effect on the affinity (KD) for the radioligand was found in the 3 brain regions. Treatment of the animals with 1,3 butanediol (BD) prior to ischemia resulted in a neuroprotective effect as assessed by an improved neurological score and histological studies. The protective effect of BD was also correlated with a reduced expression of PTBBS as compared to ischemic animals not treated with the drug. No protective effects, on neurological score or PTBBS level were afforded by MK-801, a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, R-phenylisopropyladenosine (RPIA), an adenosine A1 receptor agonist, or BN 52021, an antagonist of platelet-activating factor (PAF). These results suggest that PTBBS provide a useful marker of neuronal damage in a transient forebrain ischemia model and confirm the beneficial effect on ischemic damage exerted by BD.
We tested the hypothesis that nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, could ameliorate the toxic effects of cocaine on the myocardium.
In an initial protocol, anesthetized dogs were pretreated with nifedipine or saline and then administered cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.v. bolus). Coronary blood flow, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and the first derivation of left ventricular pressure (dP/dt) were measured at baseline, 2 minutes, and 15 minutes after cocaine administration. Nifedipine pretreatment prevented the early cocaine-induced decrease in coronary blood flow and improved left ventricular dP/dt compared with untreated control animals. After cocaine, ejection fraction fell in the saline group to 37 +/- 3% but increased in the nifedipine group to 59 +/- 4% (p less than 0.05). In a second protocol, vehicle or intravenous nifedipine was administered after an infusion of cocaine (10 mg/kg). In contrast to pretreatment, there was no significant improvement in left ventricular function or coronary blood flow in nifedipine-treated versus control animals. Data from the study also suggested that cocaine acts directly on the myocardium. Within seconds of cocaine bolus administration, coronary blood flow in control animals increased to a peak level 59 +/- 14% higher than before cocaine and left ventricular dP/dt decreased by 23 +/- 5%, providing evidence that cocaine causes direct depression of myocardial function independent of a decrease in myocardial blood flow.
We conclude that nifedipine administered as a pretreatment protects against the depression of myocardial function and decrease in coronary blood flow caused by acute cocaine administration. However, when nifedipine is given after cocaine, no improvement is seen. Cocaine has a direct negative inotropic effect on the heart that is independent of a decrease in coronary blood flow.
