Antimicrobial treatment of acute infection caused by verocytotoxin toxin-producing Escherichia coli (VTEC) is controversial due to risk of inducing haemolytic uraemic syndrome. We review the treatment of 9 persons who experienced serious social problems due to prolonged, asymptomatic carriage of non-O157 VTEC. Eradication of VTEC was successful and without complications.
We have demonstrated that Zn supplementation mediated up-regulation of cardiac metallothionein (MT) as a potent antioxidant prevented the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. The present study was undertaken to test whether induction of renal MT synthesis by Zn supplementation protects the kidney from diabetes-induced damage. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were treated with and without Zn supplementation at 5 mg/kg in drinking water for 3 months. Diabetic renal damage was detected by examining renal pathological alterations and 24-h urinary protein levels. Three-month Zn supplementation immediately after the onset of diabetes, partially but significantly, prevented the kidney from diabetes-induced increases in 24-h urinary proteins and pathological alterations. Diabetes-induced renal oxidative damage, inflammation and up-regulated expression of profibrosis mediator connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) were also markedly attenuated by Zn supplementation, along with significant increases in Zn levels concomitant with MT expression in renal tubular cells. Direct exposure of renal tubular (HK11) cells to high levels of glucose (HG) induced CTGF up-regulation predominantly through ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase)1/2-dependent, and partially through p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-dependent pathways. Pretreatment of HK11 cells with Zn or cadmium induced MT expression and also significantly suppressed HG-induced CTGF expression. These results provide the first evidence for Zn supplementation to attenuate diabetes-induced renal pathological changes, likely through prevention of hyperglycemia-induced CTGF expression by Zn-induced MT in renal tubular cells.
Experiments were conducted on puppies to compare the cardiovascular toxicity of imipramine, amitriptyline, and doxepin. The drugs were infused at weekly intervals to produce arrhythmias and/or hypotension. Imipramine was less arrhythmogenic and caused less fall in blood pressure for a given dose than amitriptyline or doxepin.
Substance P (SP) and the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1R) are involved in the development of colitis and mucosal healing after colonic inflammation. We studied whether SP modulates colonic fibrosis by using a chronic model of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in wild-type (WT) and NK-1R-deficient (NK-1R KD) mice. We found increased mRNA expression levels of collagen, vimentin, and the fibrogenic factors transforming growth factor β1 and insulin-like growth factor 1 in the chronically inflamed colons of WT mice treated with repeated intracolonic TNBS administrations. Fibrosis in TNBS-treated mice was also evident immunohistochemically by collagen deposition in the colon. Treatment of TNBS-exposed WT mice with the NK-1R antagonist CJ-12255 reduced colonic inflammation, colonic fibrosis, fibroblast accumulation, and expression levels of the fibrogenic factors. NK-1R knockout mice chronically exposed to TNBS had similar colonic inflammation compared with WT, but reduced colonic fibrosis, fibroblast accumulation, and expression levels of fibrogenic factors. Immunohistochemical staining also showed co-localization of NK-1R with fibroblasts in inflamed colons of mice and in colonic mucosa of patients with Crohn's disease. Exposure of human colonic CCD-18Co fibroblasts to SP (10 nmol/L) increased cell migration. SP stimulated collagen synthesis in CCD-18Co fibroblasts in the presence of transforming growth factor β1 and insulin-like growth factor 1, and this effect was reduced by Akt inhibition. Thus, SP, via NK-1R, promotes intestinal fibrogenesis after chronic colitis by stimulating fibrotic responses in fibroblasts.
A total of 60 children (mean age +/- SD 7.6 +/- 3.5 years, range 2 - 14.2 years) with recurrent respiratory infections were treated with bacterial wall extract plus bacterial ribosomes (Immucytal) or placebo sprayed into the nostrils and oropharynx three times a day for 1 or 2-week periods over 3.5 months. The treatment was completed by 58 subjects; two patients in the placebo-treated group were withdrawn, one for poor compliance and the other because of headaches. Respiratory symptoms improved from the first month in the Immucytal treated children, but not in the placebo group, with a reduction in the incidence of infections in the upper and lower airways. No changes were noted in respiratory function parameters. Treatment with Immucytal significantly increased serum immunoglobulin A (P less than 0.02) and immunoglobulin M (P less than 0.01) and enhanced skin response to the in vivo lymphocyte blastization test, but there was no significant change in the circulating lymphocyte subpopulations. Both physicians and the patients' parents judged the bacterial extract to be clinically better than the placebo. Immucytal, therefore, may provide a useful alternative therapy for recurrent respiratory infections in infancy.
Ciprofloxacin is a fluorinated quinolone antibiotic with relatively low occurrence of adverse side effects. However, increasing evidence suggests that ciprofloxacin may cause severe liver damage. Until now, 14 cases of ciprofloxacin-associated liver injuries have been reported. We describe a case of a 22-year-old male who developed hepatic failure after intake of ciprofloxacin. The patient had been treated with 2 x 250 mg ciprofloxacin per day. He presented with symptoms of acute liver failure 14 days later. Liver biopsy revealed extensive hepatocellular necrosis involving zones 3 and 2 of hepatic acini and a mixed inflammatory infiltration containing abundant eosinophils. Symptoms resolved after corticoidsteroid therapy. In the present paper, we report the clinico-pathological characteristics of a case of ciprofloxacin-associated acute hepatic failure and discuss the current literature.
Ballistic and dystonic involuntary movements occurring at the beginning and end of the period of levodopa efficacy are described in nine patients exhibiting dyskinesis during long-term levodopa therapy. In contrast to classical abnormal interdose movements, these biphasic dyskinesias were reduced by increasing and fractionating the daily doses of levodopa.
Myeloperoxidase antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (MPO-ANCA)-positive vasculitis has been reported in patients with Graves' disease who were treated with propylthiouracil (PTU). The appearance of MPO-ANCA in these cases was suspected of being related to PTU because the titres of MPO-ANCA decreased when PTU was stopped. Nevertheless, there have been no studies on the temporal relationship between the appearance of MPO-ANCA and vasculitis during PTU therapy, or on the incidence of MPO-ANCA in untreated Graves' disease patients. Therefore, we sought to address these parameters in patients with Graves' disease.
We investigated 102 untreated patients with hyperthyroidism due to Graves' disease for the presence of MPO-ANCA, and for the development vasculitis after starting PTU therapy. Twenty-nine of them were later excluded because of adverse effects of PTU or because the observation period was less than 3 months. The remaining 73 patients (55 women and 18 men), all of whom were examined for more than 3 months, were adopted as the subjects of the investigation. The median observation period was 23.6 months (range: 3-37 months).
MPO-ANCA was measured at intervals of 2-6 months.
Before treatment, the MPO-ANCA titres of all 102 untreated Graves' disease patients were within the reference range (below 10 U/ml). Three (4.1%) of the 73 patients were positive for MPO-ANCA at 13, 16 and 17 months, respectively, after the start of PTU therapy. In two of them, the MPO-ANCA titres transiently increased to 12.8 and 15.0 U/ml, respectively, despite continued PTU therapy, but no vasculitic disorders developed. In the third patient, the MPO-ANCA titre increased to 204 U/ml and she developed a higher fever, oral ulcers and polyarthralgia, but the symptoms resolved 2 weeks after stopping PTU therapy, and the MPO-ANCA titre decreased to 20.7 U/ml by 4 months after discontinuing PTU.
PTU therapy may be related to the appearance of MPO-ANCA, but MPO-ANCA does not appear to be closely related to vasculitis.
The drug anisyldithiolthione (ADT) acted as a good inhibitor of lipid peroxidation induced in rat liver microsomes either chemically by FeSO4 and reducing agents (cysteine or ascorbate) or enzymatically by NADPH and CC14. ADT was found as potent as propylgallate with IC50 around 2 microM and much more potent than vitamin E and levamisole. ADT was also found as a good inhibitor of ethane exhalation by rats treated by CCI4 (ID50 approximately 5mg per kg) and by mice intoxicated by acetaminophen (ID50 approximately 0.7 mg per kg). At doses as low as 5 mg per kg it completely suppressed ethane exhalation by acetaminophen-intoxicated mice and also protected them very efficiently against mortality caused by acetaminophen overdose. The inhibitory effect of ADT toward lipid peroxidation seems to be linked to the presence of its dithiolthione function.
The present case-control study was carried out to investigate the association of functionally important polymorphisms of cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) involved in the metabolic activation of tobacco derived procarcinogens with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of lung in North Indian men. The study consisted of 200 male cases with SCC of lung and an equal number of age and sex matched healthy controls. Our data showed that variant genotype of CYP1A2*1D and CYP1A2*1F were significantly associated with increased susceptibility to SCC of lung. Likewise, GSTM1 null genotype was found to be over represented in patients when compared to controls. Haplotype analysis revealed that haplotype, G-Tdel-T-C was significantly associated with risk to SCC of lung. Moreover, a significant increase in the risk to SCC of lung in the cases carrying combination of variant genotype of CYP1A2 with either CYP1A1 or GSTM1 have shown that gene-gene interactions may play an important role in squamous cell lung cancer risk. Our data also revealed that smokers or tobacco chewers carrying variant alleles of either CYP1A2*1D or CYP1A2*1F were at increased risk to SCC of lung, further demonstrating that CYP1A2 genotypes interact with environmental risk factors in enhancing the risk to squamous cell lung carcinoma.
To outline a safe, standardized protocol for outpatient initiation of propranolol therapy for infantile hemangiomas.
Retrospective review.
Academic tertiary care pediatric hospital.
Forty-nine infantile hemangioma patients were offered propranolol therapy and included in the study. Any patients requiring hospital admission were excluded. Screening consisted of cardiology evaluation, including electrocardiography and, when indicated, echocardiography. Target initiation dose was 2 to 3 mg/kg/d divided into 3 doses. Blood pressure and heart rate were initially monitored at baseline and 1 and 2 hours in clinic following initial dosing. A 3-hour time point was later added. Families received standardized instructions regarding home heart rate monitoring, side effects, and fasting.
Outpatient propranolol therapy was safely initiated in 39 of 44 patients (89%). Five patients required brief admission: 1 with clinical signs/symptoms of heart failure, 3 having airway involvement, and 1 for social reasons. Propranolol administration transiently reduced blood pressure; the maximal decrease occurred at 2 hours, prompting addition of a 3-hour time point to ensure recovery. No patients exhibited symptomatic hypotension, bradycardia, or heart failure.
In most children with infantile hemangiomas, propranolol therapy can be safely initiated as an outpatient. Careful cardiovascular evaluation by an experienced clinician is essential for pretreatment evaluation, inpatient admission (when necessary), blood pressure and heart rate monitoring following initial dosing, and parent education. This standardized multidisciplinary outpatient initiation plan reduces the cost of initiating therapy compared with inpatient strategies while still providing appropriate monitoring for potential treatment complications. Further evaluation of propranolol therapy efficacy at the current dosing and duration of treatment continues.
Hepatic grafts from hepatitis B surface antigen-negative and anti-core antibody (HBcAb)-positive donors have been shown to transmit hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Recently, it has been reported that combined hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and lamivudine therapy is effective in the prevention of hepatitis B recurrence after living donor liver transplantation (LDLT). In this report, we assessed the efficacy of combined HBIG and lamivudine therapy in preventing HBV transmission by graft with HBcAb-positive donors.
We studied 22 patients who had undergone LDLT with allografts from HBcAb-positive living donors at Gunma University Hospital and Kyushu University Hospital. Long-term combined HBIG and lamivudine therapy were administrated to all recipients. Serum samples from the donor and recipient were tested for HBcAb, HBV DNA, and hepatitis B surface antibody. Liver biopsies from grafts were tested for HBV DNA.
All recipients were HBcAb negative before LDLT. All of the donor livers were HBV DNA positive at the time of LDLT. All of the recipients had HBsAb titers greater than 300 mIU/ml 4 weeks after LDLT, and remained 100 mIU/ml thereafter. None of the recipients have become infected with HBV with a follow-up of 25-86 months.
Perioperative combined HBIG and lamivudine therapy can prevent HBV infection in recipients who receive liver grafts from HBcAb-positive donors.
An 11-year-old boy was given halothane, nitrous oxide and oxygen, pancuronium 0.4 mg and suxamethonium 100 mg for induction of anaesthesia. In response to this a marked jaw stiffness occurred which lasted for two minutes and the anaesthesia were terminated. Four hours of apnoea ensued and he suffered generalized severe myalgia lasting for one week. He was found to have atypical plasma cholinesterase with a dibucaine number of 12, indicating homozygocity. This was verified by study of the family. The case shows that prolonged jaw rigidity and myalgia may occur after suxamethonium in patients with atypical cholinesterase despite pretreatment with pancuronium.
Transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 1, whose gene is located on mouse chromosome 7, has been proposed to be involved in skin carcinogenesis. In the study presented here, we demonstrated that single topical treatments with different types of tumor promoters, i.e., the protein kinase C activator 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA, 2 micrograms); the non-protein kinase C activators anthralin (22.6 micrograms), benzoyl peroxide (20 mg), and cumene hydroperoxide (1.2 mg); the first-stage tumor promoters 4-O-methyl-TPA (500 micrograms) and A23187 (166 micrograms); and the second-stage tumor promoter mezerein (2 micrograms) produced transient induction of TGF-beta 1 mRNA in SSIN (inbred SENCAR) mouse skin. The time of maximum induction varied from 3 to 12 h; the relative extent of induction was ranked as cumene hydroperoxide > benzoyl peroxide > anthralin > TPA > 4-O-methyl-TPA > mezerein > A23187. These findings suggested that TGF-beta 1 mRNA induction is a common response of skin to several types of complete and stage-specific promoters; however, the extent of induction did not correlate with the reported hyperplastic activity of single applications of these promoters. We also demonstrated that TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression in papillomas of SENCAR mice generally correlated with expression levels of cyclin D1, another gene on chromosome 7, and with stage of tumor progression. TGF-beta 1 mRNA expression was constitutively elevated in most squamous cell carcinomas from either initiation-promotion or complete carcinogenesis protocols. Cell lines established from carcinomas also overexpressed TGF-beta 1 mRNA. Immunohistochemical staining of tissue sections of normal and TPA-treated skin revealed the presence of extracellular TGF-beta 1 protein in the dermis and intracellular TGF-beta 1 protein in the epidermis, especially in the suprabasal layers. The staining patterns of papillomas varied, with 62 +/- 13% of the tissue showing strong intracellular staining but only 25 +/- 8% of the connective tissue staining for extracellular TGF-beta 1. Variable staining patterns were also found in carcinomas; some areas stained heavily for both the intracellular and extracellular forms of TGF-beta 1. Overall, 28 +/- 6% of the tissue of the 12 analyzed carcinomas stained for the intracellular form and 18 +/- 5% for the extracellular form of TGF-beta 1.
The aim of this study was to assess the cardiac functions using conventional echocardiography and tissue Doppler imaging in childhood cancers treated with anthracyclines.
The study group was selected from the patients admitted to the pediatric oncology department for a treatment protocol that included doxorubicin. Body surface area was calculated and complete 2-dimensional, M-mode, pulse wave Doppler and pulse wave tissue Doppler echocardiographic examinations were performed just before the first treatment and at least 6 months after the last treatment.
This study included 20 patients (12 males and 8 females). Mean cumulative antracycline dose was 189 +/- 102.90 mg/m(2). There were no significant differences between the pre- and post-treatment groups regarding systolic and diastolic blood pressures, heart rates, left ventricular ejection fraction and fractional shortening, right and left ventricular conventional and tissue Doppler diastolic parameters (E and A waves, E/A ratio, E' and A' waves, E'/A' ratio), but there were significant differences between the pre- and post-treatment groups regarding body surface area, right and left ventricular myocardial performance index observed by conventional pulse wave and pulse wave tissue Doppler methods.
Tissue Doppler imaging provided additional information on cardiac functions. While systolic and diastolic functions were in normal range, myocardial performance index observed by tissue Doppler method was impaired in children who were treated with anthracyclines.
The wild-type (WT) Cpr(lox/lox) (cytochrome P(450) oxidoreductase, Cpr) mouse is an ideal model to assess the contribution of P(450) enzymes to the metabolic activation and disposition of environmental xenobiotics. In the present study, we examined the effect of in utero exposure to benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P] aerosol on Sp4 and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent systems as well as a resulting behavioral phenotype (object discrimination) in Cpr offspring. Results from in utero exposure of WT Cpr(lox/lox) mice were compared with in utero exposed brain-Cpr-null offspring mice. Null mice were used as they do not express brain cytochrome P(450)1B1-associated NADPH oxidoreductase (CYP1B1-associated NADPH oxidoreductase), thus reducing their capacity to produce neural B(a)P metabolites. Subsequent to in utero (E14-E17) exposure to B(a)P (100 μg/m(3)), Cpr(lox/lox) offspring exhibited: (1) elevated B(a)P metabolite and F(2)-isoprostane neocortical tissue burdens, (2) elevated concentrations of cortical glutamate, (3) premature developmental expression of Sp4, (4) decreased subunit ratios of NR2B:NR2A, and (5) deficits in a novelty discrimination phenotype monitored to in utero exposed brain-Cpr-null offspring. Collectively, these findings suggest that in situ generation of metabolites by CYP1B1-associated NADPH oxidoreductase promotes negative effects on NMDA-mediated signaling processes during the period when synapses are first forming as well as effects on a subsequent behavioral phenotype.
Ricin, isolated from the castor bean plant Ricinus communis, is included on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Category B list of bioterrorism agents, indicating that the toxin is moderately easy to disseminate and could result in moderate morbidity rates. This study evaluated two promising recombinant ricin subunit vaccines, one made using an Escherichia coli codon-optimized gene and the other using a yeast codon-optimized gene in E. coli-based fermentations. Rabbits were vaccinated four times over a period of 6 months and challenged with ∼10 to 30 times the median lethal dose of aerosolized ricin. All unvaccinated control rabbits were either found dead or humanely euthanized within 30 h postchallenge, while the rabbits vaccinated with either vaccine survived the exposure without adverse clinical signs. When the protective antibody responses were analyzed, no significant difference was seen between the two vaccines. However, there was a significant difference in the immune response over time for both vaccines tested. Although clinical pathology was unremarkable, significant histological lesions in the control animals included fibrinonecrotic pneumonia, acute necrotizing lesions in the upper respiratory tract, and necrotizing lymphadenitis in the lymph nodes draining the upper and lower respiratory tract. Vaccine-treated rabbits exhibited resolving lesions associated with ricin exposure, namely chronic inflammation in the upper respiratory tract and lungs, fibrosis, type II pneumocyte hyperplasia, and bronchiolitis obliterans. This study confirmed the safety and efficacy of two recombinant ricin subunit vaccines in rabbits, offering potential protection to warfighters and select populations.
Reactivation of hepatitis B after organ transplantation in hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) carriers may be fatal. In this study, we reported our experience of lamivudine treatment in HBsAg carriers who had post-transplant reactivation of hepatitis B.
The patients were 15 men and one woman. Nine received kidney transplants, six received heart transplants, and one received a lung transplant. They developed a reactivation of hepatitis B 1-101 months (median, 14 months) after transplantation. They received lamivudine 100 mg daily on a compassionate-use basis, and had regular follow ups. The median pretreatment total serum bilirubin level was 3.0 mg/dL, and the alanine aminotransferase level was 357 U/L. Four of the 16 patients were positive for HBeAg. The serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA levels were > 3000 pg/mL in 13 (81%) patients. Three were coinfected with hepatitis C virus.
The overall survival rate was 75%. All four fatal cases had a pretreatment total serum bilirubin level of > or = 3 mg/dL. Serum HBV-DNA soon became undetectable in 12 survivors. Of the 12 survivors, after a median treatment period of 101 weeks, a lamivudine-resistant strain with variation in the YMDD motif of the HBV polymerase gene developed in three (25%). None had significant adverse reactions to lamivudine treatment.
These results indicated that lamivudine is effective in the treatment of post-transplant hepatitis B reactivation, including patients with dual chronic hepatitis B and C. Early recognition of HBV reactivation and prompt lamivudine treatment are important to prevent mortality.
Exposure of rats to one injection of cocaine (35 mg/kg, i.p.) or a single four-hour period of immobilization protected them from the virtually instantaneous death but not from the later, seizure-related death seen in untreated controls following administration of the local anesthetic, tetracaine, 1-4 weeks later. These data suggest that when appropriately timed, strong sympathomimetic stimulation--whether generated by an environmental stressor or a drug--can provide long-lasting protection against the sudden cardiac death potential of local anesthetics. As such, they provide a means for understanding why the incidence of sudden cardiac arrest from one such agent--cocaine itself--is not higher and suggest that an individual's stress history may play a key role in determining vulnerability to the cardiotoxic effect of this compound.
A three-months toxicity study of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, rentiapril (CAS 80830-42-8), was performed in Sprague-Dawley rats by oral administration. The dose levels of 0, 30, 125, 500 and 1000 mg/kg were tested in both sexes, in which each experimental group comprised 10 rats. Another ACE inhibitor, captopril, was used as a reference compound. Rentiapril at the highest dose of 1000 mg/kg caused low food consumption and death of some animals with signs of bloody feces and anemia. In males and females receiving 500 and 1000 mg/kg, there were low body weight gain, increases in water intake, urine volume and serum BUN level, and decreases in levels of various erythrocytic parameters. Kidney weight was increased dose-dependently in both sexes. Histopathologically, renal changes in the 500 and 1000 mg/kg groups consisted of proximal tubular degeneration, juxtaglomerular cell hyperplasia and interstitial cell infiltration. Similar, but mild, changes in proximal tubules were present in the female 125 mg/kg group. Dead animals from the highest dose groups further showed gastrointestinal hemorrhagic erosion and/or ulcer, decreased bone marrow erythropoiesis and hepatocytic vacuolar degeneration. There was no pathological alteration in rats from other rentiapril-treated groups, as well as in controls. These results indicate that the no-effect dose of rentiapril in rats by three months oral administration is 30 mg/kg in female and 125 mg/kg in male, and suggest that, like other ACE-inhibitors, this compound also has a toxic potential to affect renal tissues.
A case of acute inflammatory myopathy associated with the use of pravastatin, a new hydrophilic 3-hydroxy-3 methylglutaril coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, is reported. The patient, a 69-year-old man was affected by non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hypertension. He assumed pravastatin (20 mg/day) because of hypercholesterolemia. He was admitted with acute myopathy of the lower limbs which resolved in a few days after pravastatin discontinuation. A previously unknown hypothyroidism, probably due to chronic autoimmune thyroiditis, was evidenced. Muscle biopsy (left gastrocnemius) revealed a perimysial and endomysial inflammatory infiltrate with a prevalence of CD4+ lymphocytes. While lovastatin and simvastatin have been associated with toxic myopathy, pravastatin-associated myopathy could represent a distinct, inflammatory entity.
Multiple factors lead to the development and maintenance of chronic heart failure. Blockade of ErbB-2 or ErbB-4 tyrosine kinase receptor signaling leads to dilated cardiomyopathy. ErbB-1 may protect the heart against stress-induced injury and its ligand; epidermal growth factor (EGF) increases myocardial contractility, whereas heparin-binding EGF is essential for normal cardiac function. However, the role of ErbB-1 in control of cardiac function is not clear. We hypothesized that ErbB-1 is essential for maintaining adult cardiac function. Using the ecdysone-inducible gene expression system, we expressed humanized cardiomyocyte-specific dominant-negative ErbB-1 mutant receptors (hErbB-1-mut) in young adult mice that block endogenous cardiac ErbB-1 signaling. Molecular, morphological, and physiological tests (under anesthesia) were performed. As a result, hErbB-1-mut was expressed selectively in cardiomyocytes leading to the blockade of endogenous ErbB-1 phosphorylation and ErbB-2 transphosphorylation. An increase in left ventricular mass, atrial natriuretic factor expression, and histological changes were indicative of cardiac hypertrophy. Cardiac dilation, numerous cardiac lesions, and the loss of the clear boundary between cardiac fibrils were noted histologically. Early and long-term hErbB-1-mut induction led to a significant decrease in fractional shortening and to significant increases in left ventricular end-systolic diameter and volume. The treatment of adenylyl cyclase activator (forskolin analog) normalized the depressed cardiac function. Resting cardiac function returned to normal after reversing mutant expression. A 4-day survival rate of transverse-aortic constricted hErbB-1-mut mice was only 20% compared with 100% in controls. In conclusion, these observations indicate that the blockade of cardiac ErbB-1 signaling leads to the blockade of ErbB-2 signaling and that together they result in cardiac dysfunction.
In case study, we presented patient with glioblastoma multiforme-brain tumor-grade IV-WHO. Patient after surgery, followed by radiotherapy and chemotherapy, after cycles of chemotherapy with temozolomid. During therapy with temozolomid, it is recommended to check morphology on the 22nd day of cycle. Patient did not come for follow-up appointment, also she did not do any of follow-up tests. She came to the hospital 2 weeks later, in poor general condition with peripheral pancytopenia, neurological disorders and shortness of breath.
Fourteen patients with purulent skin diseases were treated orally with fosfomycin (FOM) 1.5-3 g in the tablet form for 1 week to determine its efficacy and safety. The results obtained are summarized as follows. 1. The clinical efficacy rate was 71.4%. A bacteriological eradication rate of 71.4% was obtained. 2. As adverse reactions 3 patients experienced diarrhea and abdominal pain. But in all of these patients, symptoms were relieved with a reduction in dosage. 3. Taking the efficacy and the safety into account, utility rate was assessed to be 71.4%. From these results it is considered that FOM tablets are useful equally to conventional FOM capsules.
Acetaminophen (APAP, paracetamol)-induced hepatotoxicity, although treatable by timely application of N-acetylcysteine, can be fatal. Because it is among the common causes of acute liver failure in intensive care units and in light of its gradually increasing incidence, the need for novel therapeutic strategies aimed at severe intoxication is apparent. Recently, it has been shown that IL-22, a STAT3-activating cytokine, has the capability to mediate liver protection. Herein, the protective potential of IL-22 in murine APAP-induced hepatotoxicity was assessed. Intravenous administration of prophylactic IL-22 significantly reduced serum alanine aminotransferase levels and histopathologic damage in APAP-induced liver injury, a process that coincided with increased hepatocyte proliferation in vivo. Concomitant gene expression analysis revealed hepatic induction of genes prototypically up-regulated by the IL-22/STAT3 axis, among others suppressor of cytokine signaling-3, lipocalin-2, and α1-antichymotrypsin. Notably, in a translational setting of therapeutic treatment 2 hours after APAP, IL-22 supported protection in the context of suboptimal N-acetylcysteine dosing. IL-22 likewise connected to augmented hepatocyte proliferation in this experimental setting. As detected by analysis of inflammatory cytokine production, systemically applied IL-22 did not display acute immunomodulation/stimulation in otherwise untreated or endotoxemic mice. Those latter observations clearly confirm acute tolerability of systemically applied IL-22. Observations presented altogether suggest that therapeutic IL-22 administration is a conceivable tissue-protective regimen aimed at hard-to-treat patients with severe APAP-induced hepatotoxicity.
New therapeutic concepts developed in rodent models should ideally be evaluated in large animal models prior to human clinical application. COMMD1-deficiency in dogs leads to hepatic copper accumulation and chronic hepatitis representing a Wilson's disease like phenotype. Detailed understanding of the pathogenesis and time course of this animal model is required to test its feasibility as a large animal model for chronic hepatitis. In addition to mouse models, true longitudinal studies are possible due to the size of these dogs permitting detailed analysis of the sequence of events from initial insult to final cirrhosis. Therefore, liver biopsies were taken each half year from five new born COMMD1-deficient dogs over a period of 42 months. Biopsies were used for H&E, reticulin, and rubeanic acid (copper) staining. Immunohistochemistry was performed on hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation marker (alpha-smooth muscle actin, α-SMA), proliferation (Ki67), apoptosis (caspase-3), and bile duct and liver progenitor cell (LPC) markers keratin (K) 19 and 7. Quantitative RT-PCR and Western Blots were performed on gene products involved in the regenerative and fibrotic pathways. Maximum copper accumulation was reached at 12 months of age, which coincided with the first signs of hepatitis. HSCs were activated (α-SMA) from 18 months onwards, with increasing reticulin deposition and hepatocytic proliferation in later stages. Hepatitis and caspase-3 activity (first noticed at 18 months) increased over time. Both HGF and TGF-β1 gene expression peaked at 24 months, and thereafter decreased gradually. Both STAT3 and c-MET showed an increased time-dependent activation. Smad2/3 phosphorylation, indicative for fibrogenesis, was present at all time-points. COMMD1-deficient dogs develop chronic liver disease and cirrhosis comparable to human chronic hepatitis, although at much higher pace. Therefore they represent a genetically-defined large animal model to test clinical applicability of new therapeutics developed in rodent models.
Bilateral visual field constriction has been reported following the use of the antiepileptic drug (AED) vigabatrin. The incidence of retinal toxicity is variable and there are limited data in Asian populations. The authors report the results of ophthalmologic examination in Chinese patients taking this drug.
The authors identified two groups of patients with refractory epilepsy: one group on vigabatrin and another cohort of patients taking other AEDs. The authors recorded the medical history and performed visual acuity testing, intraocular pressure measurement, slit lamp biomicroscopy, and conventional automated perimetry with Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer II in all patients.
Eighteen patients--8 men and 10 women--with a mean age of 23.8 years who were taking vigabatrin were reviewed. Length of treatment with this drug ranged from 13 months to 5 years and the mean daily dosage was 1581 mg. None of the patients in either group had a history of coexisting optic nerve diseases or other neurotoxic drug use. Twenty of 36 (55.6%) eyes of the vigabatrin users showed significant bilateral visual field defects with 80% showing a concentric pattern, compared with none in the control group.
The authors confirmed a high prevalence of visual field constriction associated with vigabatrin in Chinese patients. The use of alternative novel techniques such as measurement of the retinal nerve fibre layer thickness and perimetry may detect early retinal damage and result in even higher incidences. Visual field monitoring is recommended in patients who continue to take this drug.
Androgenic anabolic steroids (AAS) are often used by athletes to enhance athletic performance but are strongly associated with detrimental cardiovascular effects including sudden cardiac death.
AAS use increases myocardial susceptibility to ischaemia/reperfusion injury.
Rats were trained (swimming) with or without intramuscular injection of nandrolone laurate (0.375 mg/kg). Untrained rats with or without nandrolone served as controls. Hearts were mounted on the Langendorff perfusion apparatus and mechanical function was measured before and after 20-min normothermic global ischaemia. Myocardial tissue samples were collected for determination of tissue cyclic nucleotide and TNFalpha concentrations.
Anabolic steroids decreased the rate pressure product (RPP) of the exercise-trained rat heart [34 582 +/- 1 778 mmHg/min vs 28 868 +/- 2 446 mmHg/min for exercise-trained steroid-treated hearts (p < 0.05)]. Reperfusion RPP was lower in both the sedentary, and the exercise-trained, steroid-treated hearts than in their concurrent vehicle-treated controls (18 276 +/- 2 026 mmHg/min vs 12 018 +/- 1 725 mmHg/min for sedentary steroid-treated hearts and, 21 892 +/- 2 912 mmHg vs 12 838 +/- 1 536 mmHg/min for exercise-trained steroid-treated hearts). Myocardial TNFalpha [267.75 +/- 44.25 pg/g vs 190.00 +/- 15.75 pg/g (p < 0.05)] and cAMP concentrations [406.04 +/- 18.41 pmol/g vs 235.6 +/- 43.26 pmol/g (p < 0.05)] were elevated in the steroid-treated hearts when compared with their untreated counterparts.
Supraphysiological doses of anabolic steroids, whether taken during exercise training or under sedentary conditions increase myocardial susceptibility to ischaemia/reperfusion injury in our model. This increased susceptibility may be related to steroid-induced increases in the pre-ischaemic myocardial cAMP concentrations and/or increases in both pre-ischaemic and reperfusion TNFalpha concentrations.
