A prospective randomised study was carried out to compare the effect of mesna (2-mercaptoethane sulphonate sodium) with that of forced diuresis in preventing cyclophosphamide induced haemorrhagic cystitis in marrow transplant recipients. Sixty-one consecutive BMT recipients were randomised for treatment with forced diuresis or mesna. The incidence of macroscopic haematuria was significantly lower in the mesna treated group (chi 2 = 4.03, P less than 0.05). No specific side effects of mesna were detected. The lymphopenia induced by cyclophosphamide in the aplastic recipients was similar in the mesna and forced diuresis groups suggesting that mesna has no effect on the lymphocytotoxic activity of cyclophosphamide, although 6 out of 7 episodes of graft failure documented in the study occurred in mesna treated patients. As a result of this study our present policy is to use mesna in all BMT recipients but to continue careful documentation of the incidence of graft failure.
To investigate the clinical manifestations, complications and treatment of medicament-like dermatitis due to trichloroethylene (TCE), so as to provide basis for studying its etiology and mechanism.
Fifty patients with dermatitis due to TCE from 1997 to 2000 were analysed retrospectively.
The occurrence of the dermatitis was not parallel to TCE exposure levels, without significant dose-effect relationship. This disease could be caused by both inhalation and skin exposure. The latency period of TCE dermatitis ranged from 5 to 66 days, and the average was 31.5 d (Medium). The major clinical manifestations included skin lesions, fever, superficial lymph node swelling and liver dysfunction. Infection was the major complication. Glucocorticoid was effective for treatment of this disease.
The clinical manifestations due to TCE exposure were similar to dermatitis medicamentosa. The major clinical types of TCE dermatitis included exfoliative dermatitis and erythema multiforme. The dermatitis is considered to be mediated by delayed-type (IV) hypersensitivity. The key factors to treat this disease successfully included the use of glucocorticoid in time with sufficient dose and full course, professional skin care, active treatment to protect the liver and to avoid infection.
Cyclovirobuxine-D (CVB-D) was shown to produce significant and dose-dependent protective effects against atrial fibrillation induced by CaCl2-Ach in mice. On atrial fibrillation induced by aconitine, ouabain or adrenaline in isolated guinea pig atria, the effects of CVB-D were similar to those of amiodarone. CVB-D 0.3-100 mumol.L-1 was shown to depress the automaticity of the isolated guinea pig right atria. In isolated left atria, CVB-D 0.3 mumol.L-1 was found to inhibit the abnormal automaticity elicited by adrenaline, to prolong the duration of action potential and effective refractory period and to reduce excitability. At high concentration (30 mumol.L-1), CVB-D was also found to decrease the maximal velocity of depolarization (Vmax) and to elongate the conduction time of initiation. Amiodarone 0.3-30 mumol.L-1 was shown to closely resemble CVB-D in electrophysiology without effect on Vmax.
In this report, we demonstrate the transcription, expression, and DNA-binding properties of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma subtype of the peroxisome proliferator-activated nuclear receptor family to the spinal cord with real-time PCR, Western blot, and electrophoretic mobility shift assay. To test the hypothesis that activation of spinal PPAR-gamma decreases nerve injury-induced allodynia, we intrathecally administered PPAR-gamma agonists and/or antagonists in rats after transection of the tibial and common peroneal branches of the sciatic nerve. Single injection of either a natural (15-deoxy-prostaglandin J2, 15d-PGJ2) or synthetic (rosiglitazone) PPAR-gamma agonist dose-dependently decreased mechanical and cold hypersensitivity. These effects were maximal at a dose of 100 microg and peaked at approximately 60 minutes after injection, a rapid time course suggestive of transcription-independent mechanisms of action. Concurrent administration of a PPAR-gamma antagonist (bisphenol A diglycidyl ether, BADGE) reversed the effects of 15d-PGJ2 and rosiglitazone, further indicating a receptor-mediated effect. In animals without nerve injury, rosiglitazone did not alter motor coordination, von Frey threshold, or withdrawal response to a cool stimulus. Intraperitoneal and intracerebroventricular administration of PPAR-gamma agonists (100 microg) did not decrease mechanical and cold hypersensitivity, arguing against effects subsequent to diffusion from the intrathecal space. We conclude that ligand-induced activation of spinal PPAR-gamma rapidly reverses nerve injury-induced mechanical allodynia. New or currently available drugs targeted at spinal PPAR-gamma may yield important therapeutic effects for the management of neuropathic pain.
PPAR-gamma receptor agonists such as rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are approved as insulin sensitizers by the United States Food and Drug Administration. We demonstrate PPAR-gamma expression in the spinal cord and report that activation of these receptors inhibits allodynia. BBB-permeant PPAR-gamma agonists may yield important therapeutic effects for the management of neuropathic pain.
Coronary artery disease is an important complication of hypertension. Therefore, the effects of antihypertensive therapy on the endothelial nitric oxide (NO)/L-arginine pathway and vascular smooth muscle were studied in left anterior descending coronary arteries of Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Angiotensin II (AT1) receptor antagonists CGP 48369 and valsartan, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor benazepril HCl, and calcium antagonist nifedipine were used as antihypertensive agents.
Rings were examined in myograph systems for isometric tension recording. In untreated WKY and SHR rings, acetylcholine (10(-9) to 10(-5) mol/L) but not bradykinin, substance P (both 10(-6) mol/L), or thrombin (1 U/mL) induced comparable endothelium-dependent relaxations. These relaxations were markedly decreased by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (10(-4) mol/L) and fully prevented by N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10(-4) mol/L) or methylene blue (10(-5) mol/L). In vitro treatment of WKY and SHR rings with benazeprilat, CGP 48369, or valsartan (3 x 10(-7) mol/L) did not affect responses to acetylcholine. In SHR, chronic therapy for 8 weeks with benazepril HCl, CGP 48369, valsartan, or nifedipine (each 10 mg.kg-1.d-1 PO) similarly reduced blood pressure and increased endothelium-dependent relaxations to acetylcholine (log shift at IC50, ie, half-maximal inhibition of a preceding contraction, 10-, 8-, 13-, and 13-fold, P < .05 versus control), whereas relaxations to the NO donor 3-morpholino sydnonimine (SIN-1, 10(-9) to 10(-5) mol/L) remained unaffected. In WKY, chronic therapy with nifedipine (10 mg.kg-1.d-1 PO) affected neither blood pressure nor relaxations to acetylcholine or SIN-1.
In rat coronary arteries, NO is synthesized via the endothelial L-arginine pathway and released after stimulation with acetylcholine. In SHR, chronic antihypertensive therapy with either angiotensin receptor antagonists, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, or a calcium antagonist specifically increased the normal endothelium-dependent relaxations to acetylcholine, probably because of their blood pressure-lowering effects, whereas the responsiveness of vascular smooth muscle to NO remained unaffected.
Dopamine receptor-G protein coupling and dopamine D(2) receptor density were assessed in rats treated for 3 weeks with either haloperidol (2 mg/kg; i.p.) or vehicle. After 3 days of withdrawal, agonist-induced guanosine 5'-O-(gamma-[35S]thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) and [3H]spiperone binding were determined in striatal homogenates. Maximal [3H]spiperone binding was increased (24.8%, P<0.01) following haloperidol treatment. The efficacy of dopamine and the dopamine D(2) receptor agonist R(-)-10, 11-dihydroxy-N-n-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) to induce [35S]GTPgammaS binding were found to be increased by 24.1% (P<0.01) and 44.6% (P<0. 001), respectively. When measured in the presence of a saturating concentration of a dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist, the response to dopamine was not significantly affected by haloperidol treatment. In addition, the measurement of haloperidol-induced catalepsy confirmed that the efficient dopamine receptor blockade was followed by a progressive development of dopaminergic supersensitivity. Taken together, these results indicate that a functional pool of dopamine D(2) receptors is increased after prolonged haloperidol administration.
The authors report the case of a 63 year-old woman who developed high-grade fever with chills, nausea, diarrhea, severe pain in the right hypochondrium, and jaundice after one month's treatment with 300 mg of hydroquinidine hydrochloride daily. Serum bilirubin and aminotransferases were slightly increased, while alkaline phosphatases and gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase serum activities were markedly raised. Histological examination of a liver specimen obtained by the transvenous route showed numerous epithelioid granulomas with giant cell formation and eosinophils in hepatic lobules and portal tracts. Symptoms disappeared three days after withdrawal of the drug, but hepatomegaly and a mild increase in serum gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase persisted more than eighteen months. Quinidine-induced hepatitis is almost always associated with fever, and, in one-third of the cases, with a pseudo-cholangitis picture. Extrahepatic hypersensitivity manifestations are often present. Histological examination of the liver shows granulomatous or cytolytic hepatitis. Withdrawal of the drug is rapidly followed by a favorable outcome; readministration causes immediate relapse; progression to chronic liver disease has never been reported previously.
The ability of serotonin (5-HT)-selective compounds to reverse catalepsy due to blockade of dopamine (DA) receptors was examined in rats treated with the antipsychotic haloperidol (HAL). The 5-HT-releasing drug fenfluramine significantly reversed HAL-induced catalepsy. The 5-HT1A receptor agonists 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin and buspirone potently and dose-dependently reversed HAL-induced catalepsy. The effect of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin was blocked by pretreatment with the 5-HT1A/1B receptor antagonist pindolol, but not the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin. The 5-HT1C/2 receptor agonist 2,5-dimethoxy-4-bromoamphetamine also completely reversed HAL-induced catalepsy, an effect blocked by ketanserin, but not pindolol. Neither antagonist alone had any effect. The 5-HT1B/1C receptor agonist trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine only partially reversed HAL-induced catalepsy, and the effect was not dose dependent. The 5-HT1C/2 receptor antagonist mianserin reversed HAL-induced catalepsy on its own; therefore, its ability to block the effect of trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine could not be tested. The nature of the disruption of HAL-induced catalepsy was examined by measuring the ability of increasing doses of HAL to surmount the effects of the serotonergic agonists. The mixed DA-D1/D2 receptor agonist apomorphine shifted the dose-effect curve for HAL to the right in a parallel manner, indicative of a competitive interaction between HAL and apomorphine at the D2 receptor. In contrast, the 5-HT receptor agonists flattened the dose-effect curve for HAL, suggestive of noncompetitive interactions. These data suggest that the 5-HT receptor agonists are not reversing HAL-induced catalepsy by indirectly increasing DA release. Rather, the agonists reverse HAL-induced catalepsy through interactions at their specific 5-HT receptor subtypes. Thus, the 5-HT receptor agonists may provide novel approaches for the development of drugs which can reverse or prevent the extrapyramidal side effects associated with antipsychotic treatment.
Ten cardiology chest pain patients without clinical evidence of coronary artery disease and with panic disorder were enrolled in an open label trial of alprazolam. Two dropped out at week 3 because of excessive side effects. The eight study completers showed significant decreases in both Hamilton Anxiety and Hamilton Depression scales by week 2 that remained significant by week 8. On the physician's global impression of change since baseline, all completers were rated at least "much improved." Seven experienced a 50% or greater reduction in panic frequency at week 8 compared to baseline. These results suggest that alprazolam is likely to be of benefit to this patient population.
A 47-year-old man was registered for treatment of his alcohol abuse problem. Disulfiram was administered as part of the treatment, the intake of which was supervised by his wife. During the treatment with disulfiram and two weeks after the withdrawal of this treatment he developed a psychosis. He stated that he had not taken alcohol. During the second psychotic period he was successfully treated with antipsychotic drugs. Afterwards it was discovered that his family history was positive for schizophrenia; it is therefore possible that the patient was more vulnerable for a psychosis due to disulfiram use. Although a psychotic reaction during and after disulfiram therapy is not common, it should nonetheless be taken into consideration when prescribing the drug.
A 79-year-old woman suffering from Parkinson's disease, for which she was taking a levodopa-carbidopa preparation, was prescribed the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine 20 mg once daily. After taking the first tablet she started to suffer from visual hallucinations. Once she stopped taking the paroxetine, the hallucinations ceased immediately. A link between the paroxetine and the hallucinations seemed likely, with a possible interaction between the paroxetine and the levodopa-carbidopa combination.
Prolyl-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) at a low dose (10 ng/mouse) administered by an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection did not affect levorphanol analgesia, but PLG at higher doses (10 and 100 micrograms/mouse) and alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) (10 ng/mouse) antagonized levorphanol analgesia. Development of levorphanol tolerance was facilitated by 10 ng/mouse of PLG, unaffected by 10 micrograms/mouse of PLG, but antagonized by 100 micrograms/mouse of PLG and 10 ng/mouse of alpha-MSH. The effect of PLG on levorphanol dependence was assessed by changes in body weight and temperature during naloxone-induced withdrawal. PLG (10 ng/mouse) facilitated the development of levorphanol dependence, but 10 micrograms/mouse of PLG had no effect. PLG (100 micrograms/mouse) antagonized development of levorphanol dependence. PLG at doses of 10 and 100 micrograms/mouse precipitated withdrawal in levorphanol-dependent mice. alpha-MSH (10 ng/mouse) antagonized development of levorphanol dependence as evidenced by an increase in the ED50 of naloxone required to induce withdrawal jumping. These results indicate that PLG and alpha-MSH affected levorphanol-induced analgesia, tolerance and dependence in a qualitatively similar manner to their effect on morphine-induced analgesia, tolerance and dependence.
Troglitazone is a thiazolidinedione insulin sensitizer drug for the treatment of type 2 non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). Based on an increasing number of reports on troglitazone-associated liver toxicity, the cholestatic potential of troglitazone has been investigated. Rapid and dose-dependent increases in the plasma bile acid concentrations were observed in rats after a single intravenous administration of troglitazone. A radiolabeled taurocholic acid tracer accumulated in liver tissue, indicating an interference with the hepatobiliary export of bile acids. In isolated canalicular rat liver plasma membrane preparations, troglitazone competitively inhibited the ATP-dependent taurocholate transport (apparent K(i) value, 1.3 microM), mediated by the canalicular bile salt export pump (Bsep). Troglitazone sulfate, the main troglitazone metabolite eliminated into bile, also showed competitive Bsep inhibition with an apparent K(i) value of 0.23 microM. A comparable inhibition was observed for both compounds in canalicular plasma membrane vesicles prepared from Mrp2-deficient (TR(-)) rats, suggesting a direct (cis-) inhibition of Bsep by troglitazone and troglitazone sulfate. A high accumulation potential was observed for troglitazone sulfate in rat liver tissue, indicating that the hepatobiliary export of this conjugated metabolite might represent a rate-limiting step in the overall elimination process of troglitazone. This accumulation in combination with the high Bsep inhibition potential suggested that mainly troglitazone sulfate was responsible for the interaction with the hepatobiliary export of bile acids at the level of the canalicular Bsep in rats. Such an interaction might lead to a troglitazone-induced intrahepatic cholestasis in humans as well, contributing to the formation of a troglitazone-induced liver toxicity.
Although the clinical use of vincristine is limited by its adverse effect, neuropathic pain, the mechanism of this effect is poorly understood. Recently, reports demonstrated that inflammatory and immune responses play an important role in the neuropathic pain that follows peripheral nerve injury. In this study, we examined the role of macrophage-derived interleukin (IL)-6 in vincristine-induced mechanical allodynia. Vincristine sulfate (0.01-0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered to male ICR mice and BALB/c mice once per day for 7 or 14 days. Mechanical allodynia was evaluated by withdrawal responses, using von Frey filaments from day 0 to day 28. In both ICR mice and BALB/c mice, significant dose-dependent increases in the percentage of withdrawal responses were observed from day 3 to day 28 following repeated administration of vincristine (0.1 mg/kg). As determined by immunohistochemistry, the number of macrophages in the region of the sciatic nerve and lumbar dorsal root ganglion was significantly increased on day 7 of vincristine administration. The expression of IL-6 was increased by vincristine administration and was co-localized in the invading macrophage. Moreover, a neutralizing antibody of IL-6, which was injected into areas surrounding the sciatic nerve on day 0, 3, and 6, significantly attenuated vincristine-induced mechanical allodynia from day 7 to day 28. In addition, the incidence of vincristine-induced mechanical allodynia in IL-6 knockout mice was lower than that in wild type mice from day 3 to day 28. These results suggest that the invading peripheral macrophage-derived IL-6 plays a critical role in vincristine-induced mechanical allodynia.
The potential in vivo anticonvulsant effect of calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) inhibitor ascomycin against seizures induced by intrahippocampal microdialysis of picrotoxin was examined in the present study. After establishing individual picrotoxin seizure thresholds, ascomycin was continually microperfused into the rat hippocampus through microdialysis probes at concentrations 10, 50 and 100 microM. No behavioral or electroencephalographic effects were observed during microperfusion of ascomycin alone. Low concentrations (10 microM) of ascomycin did not prevent picrotoxin seizures, however, 50 and 100 microM ascomycin showed antiepileptic effect, completely suppressing seizures in 41.7% and 75% of the animals studied respectively. Mean seizure duration and mean number of seizures were significantly reduced (P < 0.01) by microperfusion of 100 microM ascomycin. Calcineurin activity might be involved in the biochemical changes leading to picrotoxin-induced epileptic seizures. The present findings provide additional in vivo evidence of the involvement of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation mechanisms in the development of epileptic seizures, suggesting that calcineurin modulation may be a possible strategy in the search for new anticonvulsant drugs.
The subchronic (14-18 wk) toxicity of 3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX), a mutagenic by-product in chlorinated drinking water, was evaluated in Wistar rats. In a range-finding study, MX was administered daily for 14 days by gavage in deionized water to male rats (five animals per group) at doses of 12.5, 25, 50, 100 or 200 mg/kg body weight. The doses above 50 mg/kg were lethal and three out of five animals also died during treatment at 50 mg/kg. The range-finding study was repeated with doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg MX/kg, given on 5 days a week, to both males and females (10 animals per group). These doses were not overtly toxic but caused several changes in plasma clinical chemistry at 10 and 20 mg MX/kg in comparison with the controls. These included increased urea, creatinine and bilirubin and decreased inorganic phosphate and potassium in females and increased cholesterol in males. In the subchronic toxicity study, rats (15 per group, were given MX by gavage, on 5 days a week, at doses of 0 (controls) or 30 md/kg (low dose) for 18 wk, or, in the high-dose group, at doses increasing from 45 to 75 mg/kg over 14 wk. The high dose was finally lethal (two males and one female died) and caused hypersalivation, wheezing respiration, emaciation and tangled fur in animals. The body weights of the high-dose males decreased by 15%, and food consumption was decreased by 15 to 20%, but the water consumption increased by 15% to 60%. Plasma cholesterol and triglycerides were elevated and urine excretion was increased. Urine specific gravity was decreased and the relative weights of the liver and kidneys were increased in both sexes at both doses in comparison with the controls. At both doses, duodenal hyperplasia occurred in males and females, and slight focal epithelial hyperplasia in the forestomach was observed in males. Splenic atrophy and haemosiderosis were seen in two high-dose females, and epithelial cell atypia in the urinary bladder of one high-dose male and female. The frequency of bone marrow polychromatic erythrocytes with micronuclei was slightly increased in low-dose males. The results indicate that repeated administration of MX disturbs the fluid-electrolyte balance and induces diuresis, causes mucosal hyperplasia in the gastro-intestinal tract as a local effect, and affects lipid metabolism.
To compare the efficacy of oral propranolol and sclerotherapy in the prevention of first hemorrhage from esophageal varices, 65 cirrhotic patients with moderate to large esophageal varices and no history of bleeding were included in the prospective controlled trial. After randomization, 33 patients received propranolol at a does reducing the heart rate by 25%; 32 patients were treated with intra-variceal and extra-variceal injection of ethanolamine oleate. On entry to the trial, the two groups were comparable in terms of clinical and biological parameters. The patients were observed for up to 60 months, with an average of 31 months. Nine patients bled (5 in propranolol and 4 in sclerotherapy) during follow-up. No significant difference were observed between propranolol and sclerotherapy in the cumulative bleeding rate and survival. The multivariate Cox model indicated that drug compliance in the propranolol group and high portal pressure in the sclerotherapy group were factors predictive of the first hemorrhage. These data support that propranolol and sclerotherapy are of comparable value in preventing the first hemorrhage in cirrhotic patients with esophageal varices.
Various therapeutic methods have been attempted for cerebral infarction, but the development of more effective methods is still awaited. We have investigations of the effect of mannitol in preventing the development of cerebral infarction and have reported it effects in clinical cases of operated cerebral aneurysms. In recent years, our attention has been drawn to the so-called red cell substitute, perfluorochemicals (FC), which has a high oxygen-carrying capacity and a small particle less than 0.1 mu. In the present studies, using infarction models in dogs which have previously developed and reported, observations are made on the recovery of brain electrical activity in sever ischemia, suppressing brain swelling following recirculation of cerebral blood flow and protection upon the hemorrhagic brain infarction, due to administration of mannitol or FC. These experimental results indicate that the combined administration of mannitol and FC is effective in protecting the brain from cerebral ischemia.
The administration of pilocarpine (PILO) is widely recognized as resulting in an experimental model of temporal lobe epilepsy; it is characterized by induction of status epilepticus (SE) and spontaneous recurrent seizures after a latent period. We provide in this work a neuroethological description of the SE induced by PILO. Behavioral evaluations were made in Wistar Audiogenic Rats (WARs) and Wistar resistant (R) animals. The experimental group (R) and WARs were pretreated with methyl scopolamine (1mg/kg ip) and injected with PILO (R animals, 340-380 mg/kg ip; WARs, 240-280 mg/kg ip). Among R animals, 36% developed SE, and among WARs, 53%. The control group (R animals and WARs) was injected only with methyl scopolamine plus saline. The ETHOMATIC method was used for evaluation of seizures. Sequences included in the analysis were chosen using (1) fixed observation windows and (2) behavioral triggers. The R group showed that the threshold for seizure is variable, so seizure onset and behavioral evolution were better described using behavioral triggers than fixed observation windows. The observation windows selected in similar duration intervals do not characterize the seizures. Sequential analysis in the WAR group showed high mortality after SE and greater susceptibility to PILO, compared with R animals. We conclude that with neuroethological tools it is possible to better map the sequence and evolution of SE induced by PILO compared to only using behavioral and arbitrary seizure severity scales. This sequence is faster and stronger in severity when WARs are compared with R animals. Although the WARs underwent an evolution of SE in some way equivalent to that of R animals, some rats presented tonic-clonic convulsions after PILO injection, very similar to acute audiogenic seizures, a brainstem-dependent model. The current data also point to the PILO-plus-WAR combination as a suitable protocol to study the genetic-epilepsy connection in experimental temporal lobe epilepsy.
The effect of detoxification on Strychnos nux-vomica seeds by traditional processing with aloe and ginger juices (B), by frying in cow ghee (C), and by boiling in cow milk (D) was investigated. The ethanolic extracts of these samples were subjected to spontaneous motor activity (SMA), pentobarbitone-induced hypnosis, PTZ induced convulsions, diazepam-assisted protection, and morphine-induced catalepsy. All samples reduced SMA and inhibited catalepsy. The seeds processed in milk (D) showed the lowest strychnine content in the cotyledons, exhibited marked inhibition of PTZ induced convulsions and maximal potentiation of hypnosis, and were the safest (LD(50)).
Esophageal cancer is one of the most common malignancies in the world. In order to identify the proteins associated with esophageal squamous cell carcinomas (ESCC), we analyzed the protein profiles of ESCC cases with tumor and matched adjacent normal tissues.
Two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) was carried out to analyze the protein profiles. Dysregulated protein spots were identified by Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization Time-of-Flight (MALDI-TOF) and verified by liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization ion trap-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-IT MS). RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry on tissue microarray were performed to confirm the gene dysregulation in esophageal cancerous tissues. RNA interference (RNAi) was used to knock down the gene expression in ESCC cell lines. Apoptosis assay with annexin V-FITC/PI staining was conducted and cells were analyzed by flow cytometry.
2-DE showed that two protein spots with approximate molecular weights and different pI were elevated in 12 out of 18 ESCCs as compared to the corresponding normal tissues. Both the two spots were identified as MnSOD by MALDI-TOF and were verified by LC-ESI-IT MS. MnSOD overexpression was detected in 14 tumors out of 24 cases by RT-PCR and 52 tumors out of 116 cases by immunohistochemistry comparing to normal epithelia. siRNA-mediated silencing of MnSOD in KYSE450 and KYSE150 cell lines revealed that MnSOD protected ESCC cells from apoptosis induced by ultraviolet (UV) and doxorubicin (DOX).
These findings suggest that there existed two isoforms of MnSOD protein in normal and tumor esophageal tissues. MnSOD was overexpressed in ESCC and its up-regulation in esophageal cancer cells was associated with apoptosis resistance.
Pericardial effusion, diagnosed clinically or by echocardiography, was found in 13 of 16 regularly dialyzed patients (81%) receiving minoxidil for refractory hypertension. In a comparable group of 125 patients not receiving minoxidil, 28 patients (23%) had evidence of pericardial effusion, the difference between the groups being highly significant (p less than 0.0005). In minoxidil treated patients, the effusions resolved spontaneously in 4 (3 remaining on treatment), required pericardiocentesis (3), or pericardiectomy (1), and persisted in 4 (3 remaining on treatment). It is suggested that minoxidil treated dialysis patients be regulary examined for the development of potentially threatening pericardial effusions.
We report a case of fatal internal haemorrhage in an elderly man who consumed only cranberry juice for two weeks while maintaining his usual dosage of warfarin. We propose that naturally occurring compounds such as flavonoids, which are present in fruit juices, may increase the potency of warfarin by competing for the enzymes that normally inactivate warfarin. While traditionally regarded as foodstuffs, consumption of fruit juices should be considered when patients develop adverse drug reactions.
Analysis of the replication and drug resistance of patient serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) populations can contribute to the therapeutic management of chronic hepatitis B. We developed a procedure for cloning serum HBV quasispecies populations and for phenotypic analysis of the cloned populations for in vitro drug susceptibility. Equivalent sequences were compared to the respective serum HBV DNAs of the cloned quasispecies by population sequencing. Analysis of individual clones revealed that each population contained a diversity of HBV quasispecies. Furthermore, secreted HBV in the supernatant following transfection of the quasispecies populations remained mostly unchanged from the respective input populations. HBV obtained from patients who had developed resistance to adefovir or lamivudine, as demonstrated by development of the rtA181V or rtL180M/M204V mutations in HBV polymerase, respectively, were tested. Phenotypic analysis demonstrated that a population containing the HBV rtA181V mutation showed a 2.9-fold increase in the 50% effective concentration (EC(50)) for adefovir compared to the wild-type baseline isolate, while the lamivudine-resistant HBV quasispecies population showed a >1,000-fold increase in the lamivudine EC(50). In summary, a strategy of cloning full genome HBV quasispecies populations from patient sera was developed, which could provide a useful tool in clinical HBV drug resistance phenotyping and studies of the evolution of clinical viral species.
Antifolates are structural analogs of folates, essential one-carbon donors in the synthesis of DNA in mammalian cells. Antifolates are inhibitors of key enzymes in folate metabolism, namely dihydrofolate reductase, β-glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase, 5'-amino-4'-imidazolecarboxamide ribonucleotide transformylase, and thymidylate synthetase. Methotrexate is one of the earliest anticancer drugs and is extensively used in lymphoma, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and osteosarcoma, among others. Pemetrexed has been approved in combination with cisplatin as first-line treatment for advanced non-squamous-cell lung cancer, as a single agent for relapsed non-small-cell lung cancer after platinum-containing chemotherapy, and in combination with cisplatin for the treatment of pleural mesothelioma. Raltitrexed is approved in many countries (except in the United States) for advanced colorectal cancer, but its utilization is mainly limited to patients intolerant to 5-fluorouracil. Pralatrexate has recently been approved in the United States for relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma. This article gives an overview of the cellular mechanism, pharmacology, and clinical use of classical and newer antifolates and discusses some of the main resistance mechanisms to antifolate drugs.
The objective of this study was to determine if prior exposure of rat hearts to S-nitrosocysteine (CysNO) was able to provide protection against reperfusion injury. We probed NO release using the extracellular NO scavenger oxyhemoglobin (oxyHb), and we examined the involvement of the amino acid transport system L (L-AT), a known transporter of CysNO, using the L-AT competitor, L-leucine (L-Leu). Isolated (9- to 12-week-old Wistar male) rat hearts (six to eight per group) were perfused with CysNO (10 microM) for 30 min with or without the L-AT competitor L-Leu (1 mM) before 30 min of ischemia. Cardiac function was assessed before, during, and after treatment and during 120 min of reperfusion after ischemia. Functional recovery (rate-pressure product) was significantly improved in the CysNO group compared to hearts in the CysNO+L-Leu group and the control group (p<0.05). Necrosis, measured by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining, was significantly reduced in CysNO hearts (p<0.05) and this improvement was reversed by L-Leu. The NO scavenger oxyHb (20 microM) was perfused either concomitant with CysNO or just before ischemia. In neither case did oxyHb affect the cardioprotection afforded by CysNO. OxyHb alone, given in either time window, did not alter the course of ischemia-reperfusion injury. When nitrite was used in place of CysNO, no protective effects were observed. Perfusion with CysNO increased tissue S-nitrosothiol (RSNO) levels from an unmeasurable background to a value of about 15.7+/-4.1 pmol RSNO/mg protein, as measured by triiodide-based chemiluminescence in the presence and absence of mercury(II) chloride. In the presence of L-Leu, this value dropped to 0.4+/-0.3 pmol RSNO/mg protein. This study demonstrates that exposure to CysNO before ischemia increases tissue S-nitrosothiol levels, improves postischemic contractile dysfunction, and attenuates necrosis. The mechanism of cardioprotection requires the uptake of CysNO via the L-AT and does not seem to involve NO release either during CysNO exposure or during ischemia. This suggests that the protective effects of CysNO are mediated through the posttranslational modification of cellular proteins through an NO-independent transnitrosation mechanism.
To investigate the influence and significance of peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonist rosiglitazone on the expression of I kappa B kinase-beta(IKK-beta) mRNA and protein induced by LPS in Kupffer cells (KCs) cultured in vitro and to investigate the activity of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) together with the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in livers of rats with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
(1) KCs from healthy Wistar rats were isolated and purified with IV collagenase digestion and gradient centrifugalization, and then were incubated in the presence or absence of LPS (1 microg/ml) together with two different concentrations of rosiglitazone (10 nmol/L and 50 nmol/L). (2) Thirty-eight healthy Wistar rats were randomly divided into a normal blank control group (10 rats) fed with a normal diet and a NASH model group (28 rats) fed with a fat-rich diet (10% lard + 2% cholesterol + 5% corn oil). After the NASH model was established successfully and confirmed by pathological examination of the livers of 4 rats, 24 rats that continued with the high fat-rich diet, were divided into three groups (8 rats in each group): a control group fed normal saline (NS), a lower dose rosiglitazone group (1 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)) and a higher dose rosiglitazone group (4 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)) for 12 weeks. The mRNA expression of IKK-beta in KCs and COX-2 in livers were measured using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The IKK-beta protein in KCs and the NF-kappa B activity of hepatic tissues were determined respectively by Western blot and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). The concentration of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) in the supernatant of KCs cultures and serum of the rats was quantified by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
LPS significantly increased the expression of IKK-beta mRNA and protein in the KCs and the concentration of TNF alpha in the supernatant of the KCs cultures. The expressions of COX-2 mRNA and protein were more obvious in rats with NASH than those in the normal control group, and the binding activity of NF-kB correlated positively with the expression of COX-2 in the livers and the level of serum TNF alpha of model rats as well. Rosiglitazone blocked the expression of IKK-beta mRNA and protein induced by LPS in KCs, and also inhibited NF-kappa B activation and reduced COX-2 expression in the rats.
PPAR-gamma specific agonist rosiglitazone can play an anti-inflammatory role by IKK-beta/I kappa B/NF-kappa B/TNF alpha signal ways, and minimize inflammatory reaction at cellular and molecular levels. This may help to provide a new idea for treating NASH effectively.
Hemorrhagic diathesis was observed in patients with renal insufficiency after carbenicillin at serum levels greater than 300 mug/ml. Normal coagulation factors (F. I, II, V, VII, VIII, X), normal PTT, normal platelet counts, negative ethanol gelation test (fibrin monomers) were found as well as a prolongation of thromboplastin time (Quick), thrombin time, reptilase time and thrombin coagulase time. Platelet function was disturbed. In addition, the plasmatic system was involved: inhibition of fibrinogen-fibrin conversion (Belitser assay) and enhanced antithrombin III activity; in vivo the latter was ascribed to a heparin-like activity. In vitro, abnormal III was seen: however an enhanced antithrombin III activity in vitro was not found with carbenicillin and various penicillin derivatives. This study demonstrates that carbenicillin, in addition to its known effect on platelet function, also disturbs the plasmatic coagulation system. This additional effect of carbenicillin is clinically important since protamin chloride effectively blocks bleeding without interfering with antibacterial activity. Both penicillin and penicillin derivatives have been shown to interfere with hemostasis and to cause clinically manifest hemorrhagic diathesis (Fleming and Fish 1947, Lurie et al. 1970a, b, McClure et al. 1970, Yudis et al. 1972, Demos 1971, Waisbren et al. 1971). Carbenicillin interferes with ADP-, collagen- or thrombin-induced platelet aggregation and with the release reaction both in vivo (McClure et al. 1970, Cazenae et al. 1973) and in vitro (McClure et al. 1970, Cazenave et al. 1973). In addition Lurie and colleagues (1970b) concluded that an inhibition of the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin is involved although no experimental details were given. Later Brown and colleagues (1974) concluded that carbenicillin at usual dose levels "only affects the platelet component of hemostasis and has little effect on fibrin formation or other phases of coagulation in patients with normal renal function".
