Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been successfully used to treat the patients with acute promyelocyutic leukemia in clinic, and for the experimental studies of liver cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, etc. The objective of this study was to explore the inhibitory effect of As2O3 on the abdomino-metastasis of human ovarian carcinoma in nude mice and its mechanisms.
Compared with cisplatin(cDDP), the growth inhibiting rates to human ovarian cancer cell line 3AO by treatment with various concentrations of As2O3 for 48 h were determined by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium(MTT) method. After implanted with 3AO cells 4 x 10(6) into abdominal cavity for 96 h, the nude mice were randomly divided into 5 groups and treated by intraperitoneal injection of normal saline, cisplatin, or different concentrations of As2O3. The rate of tumor formation, death rate, and survival period of tumor-bearing nude mice were evaluated. After treatment with As2O3, the changes of Fas, FasL, and nm23 gene expressions were estimated by flow cytometry (FCM).
Compared with cisplatin, 3AO cell growth inhibiting rates by As2O3 were different significantly in concentration-dependent manner (P < 0.05); Compared with cisplatin, As2O3 could reduce the 3AO cell tumor formation rate in nude mice and the death rate of tumor-bearing nude mice, and prolong the survival period of tumor-bearing nude mice significantly (P < 0.05). As2O3 up-regulated Fas and nm23 gene expressions of abdominal cavity implanted tumors (P < 0.05), but did not affect FasL gene expression (P > 0.05).
As2O3 could inhibit the abdomino-plantation of human ovarian carcinoma in nude mice and its mechanism may be associated with Fas gene and nm23 gene over-expressions.
In a double-blind study with each patient as his own control cephapirin and cephalothin were administered to 20 patients in opposite arms for a period of 48 hr each. Neither the incidence of phlebitis nor the degree of phlebitis was significantly different with the two drugs, and there was no difference in the time of onset of pain or phlebitis.
Steroid receptors in the stromal cells of endometrium and its disease counterpart tissue endometriosis play critical physiologic roles. We found that mRNA and protein levels of estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2) were strikingly higher, whereas levels of estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1), total progesterone receptor (PGR), and progesterone receptor B (PGR B) were significantly lower in endometriotic versus endometrial stromal cells. Because ESR2 displayed the most striking levels of differential expression between endometriotic and endometrial cells, and the mechanisms for this difference are unknown, we tested the hypothesis that alteration in DNA methylation is a mechanism responsible for severely increased ESR2 mRNA levels in endometriotic cells. We identified a CpG island occupying the promoter region (-197/+359) of the ESR2 gene. Bisulfite sequencing of this region showed significantly higher methylation in primary endometrial cells (n = 8 subjects) versus endometriotic cells (n = 8 subjects). The demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine significantly increased ESR2 mRNA levels in endometrial cells. Mechanistically, we employed serial deletion mutants of the ESR2 promoter fused to the luciferase reporter gene and transiently transfected into both endometriotic and endometrial cells. We demonstrated that the critical region (-197/+372) that confers promoter activity also bears the CpG island, and the activity of the ESR2 promoter was strongly inactivated by in vitro methylation. Taken together, methylation of a CpG island at the ESR2 promoter region is a primary mechanism responsible for differential expression of ESR2 in endometriosis and endometrium. These findings may be applied to a number of areas ranging from diagnosis to the treatment of endometriosis.
Early pregnancy loss is the most common complication of human reproduction. Given the complexities of early development, it is likely that many mechanisms are involved. Knowledge of differences in protein expression in parallel profiling is essential to understand the comprehensive pathophysiological mechanism underlying early pregnancy loss. To identify proteins with different expression profiles related to early pregnancy loss, we applied a proteomic approach and performed two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) on six placental villous tissues from patients with early pregnancy loss and six from normal pregnant women, followed by comparison of the silver-stained 2-DE profiles. It was found that 13 proteins were downregulated and 5 proteins were upregulated significantly (P < 0.05) in early pregnancy loss as determined by spot volume. Among them, 10 downregulated and 2 upregulated spots were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Anomalies of these proteins, including three principal antioxidant enzymes (copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase, peroxiredoxin 3, and thioredoxin-like 1 protein), S100 calcium binding protein, galectin-1, chorionic somatomammotropin hormone 1, transthyretin, fas inhibitory molecule, eukaryotic translation elongation factor, RNA-binding protein, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2N, and proteasome beta-subunit, indicate widespread failure in cell regulations and processes such as antioxidative defense, differentiation, cell proliferation, metabolism, apoptosis, transcription, and proteolysis in early pregnancy loss. This study has identified several proteins that are associated with placentation and early development, shedding a new insight into the proteins that may be potentially involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying early pregnancy loss.
The septal region of the basal forebrain plays a critical role modulating hippocampal excitability and functional states. Septal circuits may also play a role in controlling abnormal hippocampal hyperexcitability in epilepsy. Both lateral and medial septal neurons are targets of hippocampal axons. Since the hippocampus is an important epileptogenic area in temporal lobe epilepsy, we hypothesize that excessive excitatory output will promote sustained neurodegeneration of septal region neurons. Pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) was chosen as a model to generate chronic epileptic animals. To determine whether septal neuronal populations are affected by hippocampal seizures, immunohistochemical assays were performed in brain sections obtained from age-matched control, latent period (7 days post-SE) and chronically epileptic (more than one month post-SE survival) rats. An anti-NeuN (neuronal nuclei) antibody was used to study total neuronal numbers. Anti-ChAT (choline acetyltransferase), anti-GAD (glutamic acid decarboxylase) isoenzymes (65 and 67), and anti-glutamate antibodies were used to reveal cholinergic, GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons, respectively. Our results revealed a significant atrophy of medial and lateral septal areas in all chronically epileptic rats. Overall neuronal density in the septum (medial and lateral septum), assessed by NeuN immunoreactivity, was significantly reduced by approximately 40% in chronically epileptic rats. The lessening of neuronal numbers in both regions was mainly due to the loss of GABAergic neurons (80-97% reduction in medial and lateral septum). In contrast, populations of cholinergic and glutamatergic neurons were spared. Overall, these data indicate that septal GABAergic neurons are selectively vulnerable to hippocampal hyperexcitability, and suggest that the processing of information in septohippocampal networks may be altered in chronic epilepsy.
Diethylstilbestrol, 5 mug per day for the first 5 days after birth, was injected into neonatal female NMRI mice. The animals were killed 13 months after birth. The upper vaginal part and the uterine cervix were serially sectioned. The histologic study showed extensive adenosis comprising most of the cervical wall. In some regions the glandular epithelium had undergone epidermatization. There were suggestive evidences of cancerous development from both the glandular epithelium and the epithelium in the epidermized regions. In the vaginal part, the squamous epithelium showed hyperplasia, but there were also glandular ducts penetrating far into the subepithelial tissue.
I have reported a case of myoclonus induced by nortriptyline. Serum nortriptyline levels were measured in an attempt to find whether there was any correlation between serum level and onset of myoclonus. There is clearly a need for scientific research in the neuropharmacologic features of myoclonus caused by tricyclic antidepressants, as well as possible methods of treatment.
We studied contrast sensitivity function in 10 parkinsonian patients before and after levodopa treatment. Pretreatment contrast sensitivity function was abnormal in 16 of the 20 eyes. After treatment, only high-frequency loss was observed in 6 eyes. All other types of deficit disappeared under treatment. These changes of contrast sensitivity function following treatment suggest that dopamine is a functional transmitter in the visual pathways.
The nitrofen model of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) reproduces a typical diaphragmatic defect. However, the exact pathomechanism of CDH is still unknown. The Wilm's tumor 1 gene (WT1) is crucial for diaphragmatic development. Mutations in WT1 associated with CDH have been described in humans. Additionally, WT1(-/-) mice display CDH. Furthermore, WT1 is involved in the retinoid signaling pathway, a candidate pathway for CDH. We hypothesized that diaphragmatic WT1 gene expression is downregulated during diaphragmatic development in the nitrofen CDH model.
Pregnant rats received vehicle or nitrofen on gestational day 9 (D9). Embryos were delivered on D13, D18 and D21. The pleuroperitoneal folds (PPFs) were dissected using laser capture microdissection (D13). Diaphragms of D18 and D21 were manually dissected. RNA was extracted and relative mRNA expression of WT1 was determined using real-time PCR. Immunofluorescence was performed to evaluate protein expression of WT1. Statistical significance was considered p < 0.05.
Diaphragmatic mRNA expression of WT1 was significantly decreased in the nitrofen group on D13, D18 and D21. Intensity of immunofluorescencence of WT1 was markedly decreased in the CDH diaphragms on D13, D18 and D21.
Downregulation of diaphragmatic WT1 gene expression may impair diaphragmatic development in the nitrofen CDH model.
A 29 year old woman is described with severe hyperemesis gravidarum, atypical migraine, numerous admissions to hospital for psychiatric illness, non-epileptic seizures, and valproate-induced coma. Metabolic studies and measurement of [9,10(n)-3H]palmitate oxidation by cultured fibroblasts suggested a multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenation disorder. Treatment with riboflavin abolished headaches and abnormal behaviour and normalised the plasma free carnitine level. Subtle defects in mitochondrial beta oxidation may be a treatable cause of disordered behaviour in adults.
The clinical and pathological experience with sirolimus is limited at this time. In this study, we report severe isometric vacuolization of the proximal tubules after sirolimus therapy in two kidney transplant patients. Patient 1 is a hepatitis C virus-positive, 30-year-old African American man who had end-stage renal disease (ESRD) of unknown etiology. Patient 2 is a 62-year-old white woman with ESRD due to unknown etiology. Both patients were initially placed on tacrolimus, mycophenolic acid, and prednisone immunosuppressive therapy. These patients were switched to sirolimus at 1 and 5 month posttransplant, respectively, due to the development of new-onset hyperglycemia and an elevated serum creatinine. Both patients presented with acute renal failure and high sirolimus levels at 5 years (patient 1) and 10 months posttransplant (patient 2). Biopsies of their kidney transplants showed widespread isometric tubular cytoplasmic vacuolization and severe arterial hyalinosis. Acute renal insufficiency improved after sirolimus dose reduction. In this case report, we introduce a new morphological appearance after sirolimus therapy of isometric cytoplasmic vacuolization of the renal tubules and severe arterial hyalinosis, similar to that seen in calcineurin inhibitor induced tubular toxicity.
Inflammation plays a crucial role in the development of lung cancer. Accumulated studies have proved that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) which block inflammation by their actions on arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism have a potential role in cancer chemotherapy and chemoprevention. The aim of our study was to investigate whether darbufelone, a novel anti-inflammatory drug, has anticancer effects in lung cancer.
Human non-small cell lung cancer cell lines were treated with darbufelone at various doses and time points for analysis of cell viability, cell cycle, and apoptosis in vitro. The in vivo effect of darbufelone was assessed in Lewis lung carcinoma mice model.
Darbufelone inhibited the proliferation of non-small cell lung cancer cell lines in a dose-dependent manner, and induced cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase through up-regulation of p27 expression. Treatment with darbufelone also induced apoptosis by activating caspase-3 and caspase-8. Lewis lung carcinoma growth was also significantly inhibited by darbufelone treatment at daily dose of 80 mg/kg.
Taken together, these studies suggested that darbufelone, an anti-inflammation drug, might represent a novel therapeutic approach for lung cancer treatment.
Hemodynamic effects of nicardipine (60 mg) were evaluated in 20 patients whose left ventricular ejection fraction was less than 55%. Nicardipine significantly reduced the mean arterial blood pressure by 28 mmHg (p less than 0.0005). Left ventricular ejection fraction and maximal rate of ventricular diastolic filling were increased in 12% and 84.0 VDF/s (p less than 0.0005) respectively. The end diastolic volume was reduced by 26 ml (p less than 0.001). The decrease in mean arterial blood pressure correlates with the increase in the left ventricular ejection fraction (r = 0.76, p less than 0.001) as well as with the reduced end diastolic volume (R = 0.43, p less than 0.05). The results obtained corroborate the beneficial effects of nicardipine on ventricular function of ischemic patients, whose cardiac reserve is reduced.
Levodopa (L-DOPA) is the 'gold standard' to treat Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, dyskinesias detract from its efficacy. Current dyskinesia treatments, including amantadine and dextromethorphan, are thought to work via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonism, but this hypothesis has not been tested. The NMDA antagonists MK-801 and HA-966 failed to suppress expression of dyskinesias in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat. Dyskinesias, however, were suppressed by the NMDA and sigma (sigma)-1 receptor ligand dextromethorphan and by the sigma-1 antagonist BMY-14802. Antidyskinetic effects of dextromethorphan may be mediated via mechanisms other than NMDA, including the sigma-1 receptor and other binding sites common to dextromethorphan and BMY-14802.
Musca domestica larvae extracts (MDLE) is a potential drug used to treat lipopolysaccharide-induced atherosclerosis pro-inflammatory responses. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the safety of MDLE via a 13-week repeated dose subchronic toxicity test in rats. Both male and female Sprague Dawley rats were divided into four groups, eight animals each from the control and high-dose group (33.0 g/kg) were allocated into recovery groups. The four groups of rats were administrated with MDLE (0, 13.2, 22.0, 33.0 g/kg) in the diet for 13weeks respectively. During the experimental period, the rats were observed for symptoms and signs of gross toxicity daily, food consumption and body weight were measured weekly. Urinalysis, thrombotest, blood biochemical and hematological analyses were performed regularly; Expression of peroxide dismutase gene in liver was quantified and a histopathological examination was also performed. There were no MDLE-induced abnormalities in any of the groups during or after the 13 weeks except the relative weight of liver of high-dose group and middle-dose group was significantly higher than that of control group in male rats (P<0.05). The results indicate a no observed adverse effect level for MDLE is 13.2 and 33.0 g/kg bw/day in male and female rats, respectively.
Air pollution is known to cause respiratory disease. Unlike motor vehicle sources, fuel-fired power plants are stationary.
Using hospitalization data, we examined whether living near a fuel-fired power plant increases the likelihood of hospitalization for respiratory disease.
Rates of hospitalization for asthma, acute respiratory infection (ARI), and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) were estimated using hospitalization data for 1993-2008 from New York State in relation to data for residences near fuel-fired power plants. We also explored data for residential proximity to hazardous waste sites.
After adjusting for age, sex, race, median household income, and rural/urban residence, there were significant 11%, 15%, and 17% increases in estimated rates of hospitalization for asthma, ARI, and COPD, respectively, among individuals > 10 years of age living in a ZIP code containing a fuel-fired power plant compared with one that had no power plant. Living in a ZIP code with a fuel-fired power plant was not significantly associated with hospitalization for asthma or ARI among children < 10 years of age. Living in a ZIP code with a hazardous waste site was associated with hospitalization for all outcomes in both age groups, and joint effect estimates were approximately additive for living in a ZIP code that contained a fuel-fired power plant and a hazardous waste site.
Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that exposure to air pollution from fuel-fired power plants and volatile compounds coming from hazardous waste sites increases the risk of hospitalization for respiratory diseases.
In a comparison of digitalis tolerance in dogs anesthetized with ketamine, Innovar Vet, or pentobarbital, the dosage of ouabain needed to cause ventricular tachycardia was significantly higher, as was the LD50 of ouabain, with ketamine or Innovar than with pentobarbital. Ventricular tachycardia induced by ouabain was generally converted to sinus rhythm following administration of Innovar, ketamine, or droperidol but not after administration of fentayl alone or after pentobarbital.
After observing a case of lincomycin (LCN)-induced respiratory insufficiency in a patient recovering from d-tubocurarine (DTC) administration, this interaction was studied in cats anesthetized with halothane-nitrous-oxide-oxide-oxygen. The sciatic nerve was stimulated with a 1.6-second tetanci train of 62.5 Hz every 10 seconds. The area under the contraction curve was electronically integrated and recorded. Five control cats received 0.01 mg/kg DTC every 2 minutes until time-tension integral response (TTIR) was zero. Five experimental cats received 10 mg/kg of LCN followed in 10 minutes by 0.01 mg/kg of DTC every 2 minutes until TTIR was zero. Both groups recovered to 50 per cent of control and were given 10 mg/kg of LCN. There was no difference between the slope of the y-intercept of the regression lines for the log-dose response curves for DTC in the two groups. LCN during recovery from DTC had a statist "Intermittent mandatory ventilation in the treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease".
A 1.5-year-old girl developed high frequency tremors and chorea after receiving a dose of 120 mg/kg/d trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) for the treatment of Pneumocystis pneumonia. The child was human immunodeficiency virus-negative but immunocompromised because of prolonged immunosuppressive therapy. These symptoms disappeared 3 days after TMP-SMX was discontinued. Pediatricians should be aware of tremors and chorea among the potential adverse effects of high doses of TMP-SMX.
Piracetam, 2-oxo-1-pyrrolidine acetamide (Nootropil), is a cyclic GABA analogue. As GABA-mimetic compounds have been reported to potentiate haloperidol-induced catalepsy it was decided to study the effect of piracetam on haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. Piracetam, in high doses, was found to induce catalepsy while sub-cataleptic doses of piracetam were found to potentiate haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Piracetam, however, failed to antagonise apomorphine stereotypy in rats thereby ruling out the possibility of its possessing dopamine receptor blocking activity. The possible mechanism involved in the induction of catalepsy by piracetam and in the potentiation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy by sub-cataleptic doses of piracetam is discussed on the basis of its chemical relationship to GABA.
Acute renal dysfunction has been described as a feature of acute overdoses of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs benoxaprofen, fenoprofen, ibuprofen, mefenamic acid, piroxicam, suprofen, and zomepirac. The cases reported here include renal impairment after acute overdoses of another three nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: diclofenac (one case), naproxen (two cases), and sulindac (five cases). The eight patients presented with lumbar pain and oliguria and had protein and erythrocytes in the urine. Serum creatinine was increased to a maximum of 190-932 mumol/L. Renal impairment was generally transient but in one case was treated by hemodialysis and one by continuous arterio-venous hemofiltration dialysis. In all cases of significant acute overdose of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the risk of acute renal dysfunction must be considered.
The host cellular transcription factor, BRN3A, has been observed to play a vital role in cancer of the uterine cervix. BRN3A possesses multipartite functions, which include transcription of the genes of the high-risk HPVs and mediation of cellular changes in the host. In this study, we made an effort to decipher the regulation of BRN3A in cervical cancer cells by studying its interaction with different components of the cell.
In cervical cancer cells, the endogenous HIPK2 was induced through cisplatin treatment, and then, its subsequent effect on BRN3A was primarily investigated through co-immunostaining and western blotting as HIPK2 has been observed to act as a co-repressor of Brn3a. The physical interaction of the two proteins was analyzed through co-immunoprecipitation. We resorted to chromatin immunoprecipitation in order to testify the autoregulatory pathway of BRN3A in cervical cancer cells. Interaction of BRN3A with cellular components, p73 and active form of JNK, was also studied through co-immunostaining.
We observed that BRN3A is independent of the regulative activity of HIPK2 and undergoes positive autoregulation in cervical cancer cells. Interestingly, during the study, it was revealed that BRN3A is unaffected by the treatment of cisplatin. Interaction of BRN3A with p73 and phosphorylated JNK in cervical cancer cells, observed in the present study, would help in understanding the molecular mechanism directed by BRN3A.
BRN3A possesses anti-apoptotic property, and considering the above results, it may be regarded as the key component in promoting tumorigenic growth in the uterine cervical cells.
Several studies suggest that airborne particulate matter (PM) is associated with infant mortality; however, most focused on short-term exposure to larger particles.
We evaluated associations between long-term exposure to different sizes of particles [total suspended particles (TSP), PM ≤ 10 μm in aerodynamic diameter (PM₁₀), ≤ 10-2.5 μm (PM(10-2.5)), and ≤ 2.5 μm (PM(2.5))] and infant mortality in a cohort in Seoul, Korea, 2004-2007.
The study includes 359,459 births with 225 deaths. We applied extended Cox proportional hazards modeling with time-dependent covariates to three mortality categories: all causes, respiratory, and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). We calculated exposures from birth to death (or end of eligibility for outcome at 1 year of age) and pregnancy (gestation and each trimester) and treated exposures as time-dependent variables for subjects' exposure for each pollutant. We adjusted by sex, gestational length, season of birth, maternal age and educational level, and heat index. Each cause of death and exposure time frame was analyzed separately.
We found a relationship between gestational exposures to PM and infant mortality from all causes or respiratory causes for normal-birth-weight infants. For total mortality (all causes), risks were 1.44 (95% confidence interval, 1.06-1.97), 1.65 (1.18-2.31), 1.53 (1.22-1.90), and 1.19 (0.83-1.70) per interquartile range increase in TSP, PM₁₀, PM(2.5), and PM(10-2.5), respectively; for respiratory mortality, risks were 3.78 (1.18-12.13), 6.20 (1.50-25.66), 3.15 (1.26-7.85), and 2.86 (0.76-10.85). For SIDS, risks were 0.92 (0.33-2.58), 1.15 (0.38-3.48), 1.42 (0.71-2.87), and 0.57 (0.16-1.96), respectively.
Our findings provide supportive evidence of an association of long-term exposure to PM air pollution with infant mortality.
