Immunohistochemical analysis of the inflammatory cells and complement C3 in the rat skeletal muscle was performed chronologically in bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis. At 30 minutes after injection, polymorphonuclear leukocytes appeared and increased in number, with a peak value at 12 hours, while macrophages reached the highest level at 2 days. In contrast, T cells comprised only a small population. Two weeks after the injection, all types of the inflammatory cells returned to the normal level. Deposition of complement C3 was recognized at 60 minutes at the surface membrane of degenerating muscle fiber. Our observation suggests the importance of both polymorphonuclear leukocytes and complement C3 in the early stage, and macrophages in the later stage of bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis. In addition, our findings cast doubt on the pathological significance of T cells in this model.
The purpose of this paper was to determine the cardiac status in children 15 years or more after adriamycin therapy for a solid tumour. Of the 447 pts, 229 pts were fully studied and 218 were not. The following cardiac evaluations were proposed to all the 447 consecutive patients (pts): (1) cardiac Doppler US by one of two expert cardiologists; (2) cardiac rhythm and conduction abnormalities including 24-hour holter ECG; (3) (131)l-mlBG myocardial scintigraphy; (4) serum brain natriuretic peptide levels at rest; (5) an exercise test with VO(2) max measurement. The radiation doses delivered to 6 points in the heart were estimated for all patients who had received radiotherapy. Congestive heart failure was diagnosed in 24 of 229 (10%) evaluated pts, with a median interval of 15 years (0.3-24 years) from the first symptom after adriamycin treatment. Among the 205 remaining pts, 13 asymptomatic pts (6%) had severe (n=4) (FS<20%) or marked (n=9) (20< or =FS<25%) systolic dysfunction. In the 192 others, the median meridional end-systolic wall stress was 91 (53-135) and it exceeded 100 g cm(-2) in 52 pts. Using a Cox model, only the cumulative dose of adriamycin and the average radiation dose to the heart, were identified as risk factors for a pathological cardiac status. In conclusion, the risk of cardiac failure or severe abnormalities increases with adriamycin treatment, radiotherapy and time since treatment, even after a follow-up of 15 years or more. In our series, after an average follow-up of 18 years, 39% of the children had a severe cardiac dysfunction or major ventricular overload conditions. The risk increases with the dose of adriamycin and radiation received to the heart, without evidence for threshold.
Low circulating testosterone concentrations have been associated with insulin resistance (IR). Androgen action is mediated by the androgen receptor (AR) whose activity is modulated by a polymorphic CAG repeat sequence within exon 1. An interaction between testosterone and CAG repeat length (CAG length) with respect to IR has been described in women.
We investigated such a putative interaction between testosterone and the CAG length with respect to IR in men with normal glucose tolerance.
Cross-sectional study.
In 113 non-diabetic men calculated free testosterone, the CAG length, and a multiplicative interaction term were investigated by multiple linear regression analysis for an association with IR, as indicated by homeostasis model assessment (HOMA %S).
In a multivariate regression analysis adjusted for age and body mass index, free testosterone, CAG length, and a multiplicative interaction term were significantly associated with IR (P=0.001, P=0.001, P=0.01 respectively). The model explained 36.6% of the variation of IR and predicted that in carriers with a CAG length of 23, changes in testosterone would only minimally affect IR. For CAG lengths longer than 23, however, an increase in testosterone would improve IR, namely the longer the CAG length, the greater the effect. In contrast, in the case of CAG lengths shorter than 23, the effect of increasing testosterone would be the opposite.
In men, testosterone and the AR CAG repeat length polymorphism interacted with respect to IR. The interpretation of the association between testosterone and IR seems to require consideration of the AR CAG repeat polymorphism.
In rats, 2-amino-2-methylpropanol (AMP) caused an increase in postimplantation loss in an oral reproductive/developmental toxicity screening assay but not in a dermal developmental toxicity assay. Studies were performed to characterize the mode of action and determine whether the postimplantation loss was a result of direct embryotoxicity or a maternally mediated effect. The studies identified that the postimplantation loss occurs shortly after implantation, has a steep dose response with a clear threshold, requires exposure to AMP for a period of approximately 2-3 weeks prior to gestation and does not involve direct embryo toxicity. The uterine histopathology and gene array analysis of decidual swellings suggested AMP acts via a maternally mediated mechanism affecting the ability of the uterus to support an implanted embryo. Since the postimplantation loss occurs only at maternally toxic doses, the implications for human risk assessment are discussed.
The aim of this study was to establish an effective mouse model of oral cancer and to use this model to identify potential markers of oral tumor progression. C57BL/6JNarl mice were treated with arecoline, 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4-NQO), or both arecoline and 4-NQO in high and low doses for 8 weeks to induce oral tumor. The induced oral lesions were observed for 20 weeks to assess the efficiency of cancer induction and survival rate of the mice. In addition, two target proteins that are frequently overexpressed during tongue cancer tumorigenesis, alphaB-crystallin and Hsp27, were examined by immunohistochemical analysis. In mice exposed to 4-NQO (200 microg/mL) and arecoline (500 microg/mL), the tongue lesions showed evidence of hyperplasia, papilloma, dysplasia, and carcinoma, and the lesions were pathologically similar to those lesions in human oral cancer. The tongue tumor incidence rate was 100% in mice exposed to concomitant 4-NQO (200 microg/mL) and arecoline (500 microg/mL) treatment, 57% in mice exposed to 4-NQO only, and 0% in mice exposed to arecoline only. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that, consistent with human studies, alphaB-crystallin and Hsp27 were upregulated in murine oral tumors. In conclusion, we have established a powerful animal model that enables the study of the promoting effects of arecoline on tongue tumorigenesis. Data subsequently attained from this mouse model support a role for alphaB-crystallin and Hsp27 as clinical markers for tumor progression.
The occurrence of chorea, induced by trihexyphenidyl (benzhexol hydrochloride) during the treatment of five adult patients who had focal or segmental dystonia, is described. The dose at which chorea appeared ranged from 15 to 60 mg/day (mean 31.7 mg/day). All but one patient had developed common adverse effects of this drug (dry mouth, blurred vision, and confusion) at lower doses (mean 21.8 mg per day). There was an inverse relationship between the age of the patient and the dose of trihexyphenidyl at which chorea developed.
Preneoplastic and neoplastic hepatocytes undergo c-Myc up-regulation and overgrowth in rats genetically susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis, but not in resistant rats. Because c-Myc regulates the pRb-E2F pathway, we evaluated cell cycle gene expression in neoplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs), induced by initiation/selection (IS) protocols 40 and 70 weeks after diethylnitrosamine treatment, in susceptible Fisher 344 (F344) rats, and resistant Wistar and Brown Norway (BN) rats. No interstrain differences in gene expression occurred in normal liver. Overexpression of c-myc, Cyclins D1, E, and A, and E2F1 genes, at messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels, rise in Cyclin D1-CDK4, Cyclin E-CDK2, and E2F1-DP1 complexes, and pRb hyperphosphorylation occurred in nodules and HCCs of F344 rats. Expression of Cdk4, Cdk2, p16(INK4A), and p27(KIP1) did not change. In nodules and/or HCCs of Wistar and BN rats, low or no increases in c-myc, Cyclins D1, E, and A, and E2F1 expression, and Cyclin-CDKs complex formation were associated with p16(INK4A) overexpression and pRb hypophosphorylation. In conclusion, these results suggest deregulation of G1 and S phases in liver lesions of susceptible rats and block of G1-S transition in lesions of resistant strains, which explains their low progression capacity.
Fluvoxamine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor which modulates serotoninergic activities, is a useful drug for patients with an autistic disorder. Genetic variation of the serotonin receptor may influence the efficacy of fluvoxamine treatment. We studied the correlation between clinical responses to fluvoxamine and serotonin receptor gene polymorphism (5-HT2AR) in children with an autistic disorder. Eighteen patients completed a 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized crossover study. Clinical global impression (CGI) by child neurologists and interviews for parents were assessed after 12 weeks of fluvoxamine treatment. Behavioral assessments consisting of 20 items by newly created Behavioral Assessment Scale (BAS) were obtained before as well as 6 and 12 weeks after treatment. For genotyping of 5-HT2AR, 102 T/C polymorphism was analyzed by the PCR method. Seven cases of T/T, 6 of T/C and 5 of C/C were identified. The patients with the genotype T/C responded more favorably when estimated by CGI and parents' report at 12 weeks of treatment. Although not significant statistically (p = 0.0578), the number of improved BAS items in these patients were larger after fluvoxamine than placebo treatment. On analyses of individual BAS items, the patients with the genotype C/C showed improvement of unnatural facial expression, which was significant at 6 weeks, but not at 12 weeks, of fluvoxamine treatment. In the patients with the genotype T/C, eye movements and emotional changes were significantly improved at 12 weeks of treatment. Our results suggested that genetic polymorphism of 102 T/C in the 5-HT2AR gene may have influence on the response to fluvoxamine treatment for patients with an autistic disorder. Because of the small numbers of subject studied here, further studies are needed. The methods of fluvoxamine treatment, such as appropriate dosage and treatment duration, should also be clarified.
A case of severe life-threatening tardive dyskinesia resulting in esophageal and respiratory difficulties due to metoclopramide therapy is presented. A 66-year-old man with a primary diagnosis of clear cell carcinoma of the biliary duct was treated with metoclopramide for gastrointestinal symptoms related to his chemotherapy regimen. The patient initially presented with tremor and rigidity in the upper extremities. On antiparkinsonian therapy, symptoms progressed to hemiballism and involuntary movements of the face, mouth, and tongue, with respiratory and esophageal dyskinesia. Despite discontinuance of metoclopramide, severe tardive dyskinetic symptoms resulted in placement of a gastrostomy tube to maintain nutritional support. This case along with others in the literature should emphasize the need for continuous reevaluation of metoclopramide during long-term therapy, since serious side effects have been reported to occur.
We evaluated the efficacy of the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast (Accolate), 20 mg twice daily, as monotherapy in patients with severe persistent asthma (defined by an FEV1 < 60% of predicted before treatment and frequent night-time symptoms).
Data were analyzed from a subgroup of 261 steroid-naive patients (zafirlukast, n = 149; placebo, n = 112) from four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 13-week trials with similar experimental designs, entry criteria, and clinical assessments.
These patients were mostly men (57%) older than 30 years (56%) with pulmonary obstruction, ie, FEV1/FVC ratio < 0.7 (79%), and reversible airway disease demonstrated by a 15% increase in FEV1 after inhaled bronchodilator use.
At end point, patients who received zafirlukast monotherapy had significant (p < 0.05) improvements from baseline, and compared with placebo, in FEV1, morning and evening peak expiratory flow (PEF), daytime asthma symptoms, nighttime awakenings, and beta2-agonist use. A stratified analysis based on the FEV1/FVC ratio showed an interaction between treatment and the amount of airflow obstruction for nighttime awakenings and mornings with asthma. Moreover, 37% of patients in both treatment groups had PEF variability > or = 20% (an indirect measure of airway inflammation). Zafirlukast patients with PEF variability > or = 20% had increases from baseline in the morning and evening PEF of approximately 40 and 11 L/min, respectively. For patients who take zafirlukast and who have a PEF variability of < 20%, the morning and evening PEF increased by 25 and 30 L/min, respectively. Regardless of the degree of PEF variability, zafirlukast significantly (p < 0.05) increased morning and evening PEF compared with placebo.
Patients with severe persistent asthma who received zafirlukast as monotherapy had clinically significant improvements across all efficacy measures compared with placebo and significant reductions in PEF variability.
Treatment of mice with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) or (+)-methamphetamine (METH) results in regionally heterogeneous patterns of dopaminergic depletion. The magnitude of the MPTP-induced dopamine (DA) depletion corresponds directly to the density of [3H]mazindol binding to DA transport sites, but not the DA concentration, in intact mouse striatal regions. In contrast, the extent of METH-induced DA depletion corresponds to the intact dopamine concentration, not the [3H]mazindol binding, in the same striatal regions. The findings provide a rationale for testing different hypotheses regarding the neurobiological substrates of mesostriatal injury in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD).
Recent genetic and pharmacological studies have suggested that the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) may represent a druggable target in identifying new therapeutics for the treatment of various central nervous system disorders including drug abuse. In particular, considerable attention in the mGluR5 field has been devoted to identifying ligands that bind to the allosteric modulatory site, distinct from the site for the primary agonist glutamate. Both 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) and its analogue 3-[(2-methyl-4-thiazolyl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP) have been shown to be selective and potent noncompetitive antagonists of mGluR5. Because of results presented in this study showing that MTEP prevents the reinstatement of cocaine self-administration caused by the presentation of environmental cues previously associated with cocaine availability, we have prepared a series of analogues of MTEP with the aim of gaining a better understanding of the structural features relevant to its antagonist potency and with the ultimate aim of investigating the effects of such compounds in blunting the self-administration of cocaine. These efforts have led to the identification of compounds showing higher potency as mGluR5 antagonists than either MPEP or MTEP. Two compounds 19 and 59 exhibited functional activity as mGluR5 antagonists that are 490 and 230 times, respectively, better than that of MTEP.
In the United States and Canada, folic acid fortification of enriched grain products was fully implemented by 1998. The resulting population-wide reduction in blood homocysteine concentrations might be expected to reduce stroke mortality if high homocysteine levels are an independent risk factor for stroke.
In this population-based cohort study with quasi-experimental intervention, we used segmented log-linear regression to evaluate trends in stroke-related mortality before and after folic acid fortification in the United States and Canada and, as a comparison, during the same period in England and Wales, where fortification is not required. Average blood folate concentrations increased and homocysteine concentrations decreased in the United States after fortification. The ongoing decline in stroke mortality observed in the United States between 1990 and 1997 accelerated in 1998 to 2002 in nearly all population strata, with an overall change from -0.3% (95% CI, -0.7 to 0.08) to -2.9 (95% CI, -3.5 to -2.3) per year (P=0.0005). Sensitivity analyses indicate that changes in other major recognized risk factors are unlikely to account for the reduced number of stroke-related deaths in the United States. The fall in stroke mortality in Canada averaged -1.0% (95% CI, -1.4 to -0.6) per year from 1990 to 1997 and accelerated to -5.4% (95% CI, -6.0 to -4.7) per year in 1998 to 2002 (P< or =0.0001). In contrast, the decline in stroke mortality in England and Wales did not change significantly between 1990 and 2002.
The improvement in stroke mortality observed after folic acid fortification in the United States and Canada but not in England and Wales is consistent with the hypothesis that folic acid fortification helps to reduce deaths from stroke.
Many botanical compounds have been proposed to prevent cancer. We investigated the cancer treatment and prevention abilities of apigenin, baicalein, curcumin, epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG), genistein, quercetin, and resveratrol both in vivo in transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice as well as in vitro in prostate cancer cell lines. In our experiments, these seven compounds act similarly to the Hedgehog antagonist cyclopamine, a teratogenic plant alkaloid, which had been previously shown to "cure" prostate cancer in a mouse xenograft model. With IC(50) values ranging from <1 to 25 mumol/L, these compounds can inhibit Gli1 mRNA concentration by up to 95% and downregulate Gli reporter activity by 80%. We show that four compounds, genistein, curcumin, EGCG, and resveratrol, inhibit Hedgehog signaling as monitored by real-time reverse transcription-PCR analysis of Gli1 mRNA concentration or by Gli reporter activity. Three compounds, apigenin, baicalein, and quercetin, decreased Gli1 mRNA concentration but not Gli reporter activity. Our results show that these compounds are also able to reduce or delay prostate cancer in vivo in TRAMP mice. All seven compounds, when fed in combination as pure compounds or as crude plant extracts, inhibit well-differentiated carcinoma of the prostate by 58% and 81%, respectively. In vitro, we show that all seven compounds also inhibit growth in human and mouse prostate cancer cell lines. Mechanistically, we propose the Hedgehog signaling pathway to be a direct or indirect target of these compounds. These botanicals at pharmacologic concentrations are potentially safer and less expensive alternatives to cyclopamine and its pharmaceutical analogues for cancer therapy.
The tremorogenic effect of nicotine was studied in control rats and in rats withdrawn for 16-48 h from chronic ethanol administration. The intensity of tremor was measured electronically. Rats withdrawn from ethanol showed a marked hypersensitivity to the tremorogenic action of nicotine. Propranolol abolished the nicotine-induced tremor in the control rats. Propranolol did not, however, reduce the intensity of nicotine-induced tremor in rats withdrawn from ethanol. Thus, the observed hypersensitivity does not seem to be mediated by a sympathetic beta-adrenergic mechanism.
Development of vitiligo-like hypopigmentary lesions associated with topical imiquimod has been reported. We hypothesized that mode of action of imiquimod in melanocytes may include triggering of apoptosis resulted in loss of cells, which may be a possible mechanism of imiquimod-induced hypopigmentary lesions. Therefore, we investigated whether imiquimod induces apoptosis of human melanocytes and also whether it modulates expression of apoptosis-related molecules in human melanocytes. Imiquimod treatment induced apoptosis of melanocytes, which was observed by TUNEL assay and Hoechst 33258 staining. Imiquimod-induced apoptosis was further shown by measuring mitochondrial membrane potential in melanocytes. The apoptotic activity of imiquimod was associated with caspase-3, Bcl-2 and mitogen-activated protein kinase expression in melanocytes. These results indicated that imiquimod induces apoptosis of melanocytes. These findings may provide a clue to understand pathogenesis of imiquimod-induced vitiligo-like hypopigmentary lesions.
A prompt recognition of neuroleptic malignant-like syndrome is essential because of its high morbidity and mortality. A similar condition i described associated with metoclopramide, an agent with dopamine receptor-blocking properties. An increased index of suspicion for early diagnosis of this condition and adjustment of metoclopramide dosing in patients with renal failure are emphasized.
The purpose of this study was to assess the possible antinociceptive effect of the acid sensing ion channels (ASICs) inhibitors amiloride and benzamil after local peripheral administration in three models of inflammatory pain in rats. Reduction of pH, from 7.4 to 5.8 units, significantly increased the flinching/licking behavior induced by either 0.1% serotonin, 0.1% capsaicin or 0.5% formalin. Local peripheral ipsilateral, but not contralateral, injection of amiloride or benzamil significantly reduced nociceptive behaviors (flinching and licking/lifting) induced by serotonin, capsaicin or formalin in acidic conditions (pH 6.2). Interestingly, benzamil produced antinociception at low doses (0.001-0.1 microM/paw) while higher doses (1 microM/paw) did not affect capsaicin- or formalin-induced licking/lifting. Our data suggest that local peripheral inhibition of ASICs play an important role in inflammatory pain.
Recent studies showed that aminoglycosides destroyed the cochlear cells and induced ototoxicity by producing reactive oxygen species, including free radicals in the mitochondria, damaging the membrane of mitochondria and resulting in apoptotic cell death. Bcl-x(L) is a well characterized anti-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family. The aim of this study was to determine the potential cochlear protective effect of Bcl-x(L) as a therapeutic agent in the murine model of aminoglycoside ototoxicity.
Serotype 2 of adeno-associated virus (AAV2) as a vector encoding the mouse Bcl-x(L) gene was injected into mice cochleae prior to injection of kanamycin. Bcl-x(L) expression in vitro and in vivo was examined with Western blotting and immunohistochemistry separately. Cochlear dissection and auditory steady state responses were checked to evaluate the cochlear structure and function.
The animals in the AAV2-Bcl-x(L)/kanamycin group displayed better auditory steady state responses hearing thresholds and cochlear structure than those in the artificial perilymph/kanamycin or AAV2-enhanced humanized green fluorescent protein/kanamycin control group at all tested frequencies. The auditory steady state responses hearing thresholds and cochlear structure in the inoculated side were better than that in the contralateral side.
AAV2-Bcl-x(L) afforded significant preservation of the cochlear hair cells against ototoxic insults and protected the cochlear function. AAV2-mediated Bcl-x(L) might be an approach with respect to potential therapeutic application in the cochlear degeneration.
Sensorineural hearing loss is genetically heterogeneous. Here, we report that mutations in CIB2, which encodes a calcium- and integrin-binding protein, are associated with nonsyndromic deafness (DFNB48) and Usher syndrome type 1J (USH1J). One mutation in CIB2 is a prevalent cause of deafness DFNB48 in Pakistan; other CIB2 mutations contribute to deafness elsewhere in the world. In mice, CIB2 is localized to the mechanosensory stereocilia of inner ear hair cells and to retinal photoreceptor and pigmented epithelium cells. Consistent with molecular modeling predictions of calcium binding, CIB2 significantly decreased the ATP-induced calcium responses in heterologous cells, whereas mutations in deafness DFNB48 altered CIB2 effects on calcium responses. Furthermore, in zebrafish and Drosophila melanogaster, CIB2 is essential for the function and proper development of hair cells and retinal photoreceptor cells. We also show that CIB2 is a new member of the vertebrate Usher interactome.
Three patients developed episodes of ventricular tachycardia and/or flutter-fibrillation while receiving disopyramide (Norpace). Syncope was the presenting complaint in all of them. The arrhythmias did not recur after disopyramide was discontinued. The Q-T interval was markedly prolonged in all three patients. One patient developed syncope associated with both quinidine and Norpace therapy. It is postulated that disopyramide, like quinidine, may provoke ventricular flutter-fibrillation in sensitive patients by similar mechanisms.
Despite a history of widespread use, the utility of lidocaine as an antiarrhythmic and antifibrillatory agent is questionable. The objective of this article is to examine the theoretical basis for the use of lidocaine in light of recent experimental and clinical data. This article reviews the effects of lidocaine on: a) ventricular arrhythmias under ischemic and nonischemic conditions; b) the energy and current requirements for defibrillation; and c) the propensity for asystole during cardiac arrest.
A contemporary review of the literature.
There appears to be a theoretical basis for the use of lidocaine in treating ventricular arrhythmias secondary to acute ischemia largely based on voltage- and pH-dependent binding and inactivation of sodium channels by lidocaine under ischemic conditions. However, clinical and experimental data failed to establish enhanced survival following prophylactic treatment for acute ischemic events or when treatment is administered during cardiac arrest. Moreover, there are no data supporting the use of lidocaine in treating sustained and life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias in the absence of acute ischemia. Experimental data demonstrate that lidocaine can reduce countershock efficacy, i.e., increase the current and energy requirements for defibrillation. Experimental and clinical data suggest that the administration of lidocaine increases the propensity for asystole during cardiac arrest.
While lidocaine may possess an antifibrillatory effect under experimental conditions, the clinical relevance of such an effect is questionable. If cardiac arrest occurs, lidocaine has limited utility and may be deleterious secondary to diminished countershock efficacy or lidocaine-induced asystole. Reconsideration of the use of lidocaine should be included in future guidelines for management of cardiac arrest.
We report the case of a 67-year-old man with vertebral-basilar arterial insufficiency who had been receiving warfarin therapy for approximately 2 years. The patient presented with a 3-week history of weight gain, abdominal distension, and mild exertional dyspnea. Transthoracic echocardiography confirmed the presence of a large circumferential pericardial effusion with diastolic collapse of the right atrium, and a pulsed-wave Doppler echocardiographic study of mitral and tricuspid diastolic flow showed respiratory variation consistent with cardiac tamponade. The patient's prothrombin time was 30 seconds, which decreased to 17 seconds after treatment with intravenous fresh-frozen plasma and vitamin K. He underwent drainage of 2 L of bloody pericardial fluid over 12 hours by pericardiocentesis. Extensive further studies failed to demonstrate known causes or correlates of pericardial effusion. The patient was discharged and continued to do well without warfarin therapy.
