Treatment of daunorubicin with methanolic ammonia affords 5-iminodaunorubicin, the first quinone-modified analogue of either daunorubicin or adriamycin. This product retains antileukemic activity in mice, is less cardiotoxic by electrocardiographic measurements in rats, and is nonmutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium (Ames test).
Synthetic approaches to anthracyclines bearing novel 9-acyl substituents were investigated. Reaction of the lithium enolate of N-(trifluoroacetyl)daunorubicin (9) with methyl iodide in tetrahydrofuran afforded only the 9-propionyl derivative 10 in high yield. Reaction of 10 under identical conditions cleanly afforded the 9-isobutyryl derivative 11. Extension of this procedure to other alkylating agents (ethyl iodide, benzyl bromide, and heptyl iodide) required hexamethylphosphoramide as cosolvent and afforded mixtures of mono- and dialkylated products as well as recovered 9. The amino group was deblocked with NaOH in aqueous tetrahydrofuran, except in the case of the dibenzyl derivative 13 which was inert under these conditions. The 9-formyl analogue 23 was prepared via NaIO4 cleavage of 13-dihydroadriamycin (21). Antitumor evaluation against P388 leukemia in mice showed 23 to have activity comparable to the parent compounds, while the C-alkylated analogues were less active.
To determine the effect of duration of infusion time on venous irritation in patients receiving vinorelbine tartrate (Navelbine, Burroughs Wellcome Co., Research Triangle Park, NC) in combination with cisplatin or mitomycin.
Prospective and descriptive.
Five outpatient hematology/oncology units in southern Louisiana and Mississippi.
96 patients receiving vinorelbine in combination with cisplatin or mitomycin through a peripheral vein.
Nurses completed the Venous Irritation Record (VIR), on which they documented the incidence of irritation reactions on the day of infusion as well as 24 hours and one to two weeks later.
Incidence and severity of venous irritation as well as the duration of administration.
Significantly lower incidence of venous irritation at 6-10 minute infusion rate was observed (p < 0.05). No difference in incidence was observed when vinorelbine was given with a vesicant (mitomycin) or a nonvesicant (cisplatin) drug.
Although venous irritation is a problem associated with peripherally administered vinorelbine, it does not necessitate central line placement. Incidence of this problem can be reduced with a shorter duration of administration. The VIR was feasible, easy to use, and could be adapted for other drugs and other toxicities. The National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria are not adequate for grading venous irritation reactions.
Vinorelbine should be administered in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations as a 6-10 minute infusion. Determination of this rate came as a result of clinical nursing research. Nurses involved in clinical trials can and should play a role in describing emergent toxicities and investigating methods to prevent or minimize those toxicities.
The aim of the present work was to study the nephrotoxicity of aluminum lactate administered for 3 months (0.57 mg/100 g bodyweight aluminum, i.p., three times per week) to male Wistar rats. Renal function was studied after 6 weeks of treatment (urine was obtained from rats in metabolic cages) and at the end of the treatment using clearance techniques. Another group of rats was used as kidneys donors at the end of treatment. The renal cortex was separated and homogenized to determine glutathione (GSH) level, glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity and lipid peroxidation (LPO) level. Renal cortex slices were also used to study the p-aminohippuric acid (PAH) accumulation during steady-state conditions and the kinetics of uptake process. Clearance results, at the end of the treatment, indicated that renal functions in treated-rats were not different from those measured in control rats, although the renal concentration parameters differ when they were measured in treated rats after 24 h of food and water deprivation. Balances of water and sodium were also modified at both 1.5 and 3 months of treatment. The activity of alkaline phosphatase (AP) relative to inulin excreted in urine was significantly impaired: controls 2.2+/-0.6 IUI/mg, Al-treated 5.1+/-0.5 IU/mg, P<0.05. These data indicated that proximal tubular cells were loosing apical brush border membranes. Data obtained in cortex homogenates indicated that both GSH and GST activity were significantly decreased, and a significant increase of LPO was noted simultaneously in Al-treated rats. Renal accumulation of PAH, estimated as slice-to-medium ratio, decreased significantly in the Al-treated rats: control rats 3.06+/-0.02 ( n=12), Al-treated rats 2.26+/-0.04 ( n=12), P<0.0001. The maximal rate of uptake was also diminished in treated rats, while the apparent affinity remained unchanged. All these results indicate that aluminum accumulation in renal tissue affects cellular metabolism, promotes oxidative stress and induces alterations in renal tubular PAH transport, together with an impairment in sodium and water balance only detected under conditions of water deprivation, without other evident changes in glomerular filtration rate or other global functions measured by clearance techniques at least at this time of chronic toxicity.
Halothane, an effective and usually safe anaesthetic agent, is rarely associated with the development of fulminant hepatic failure. Guidelines have been developed to reduce the probability of a patient developing halothane hepatitis. However, cases continue to occur and, in some cases, the guidelines have been ignored. Stricter adherence to the guidelines will reduce, but not totally prevent, further cases from occurring. Once halothane hepatitis has developed, there are no specific treatments and liver replacement may be required. Halothane hepatitis is a paradigm for immune mediated adverse drug reactions. The mechanism appears to be related to development of sensitization to both autoantigens (including CYP2D6) and halothane-altered liver cell determinants.
Mercury is a well-recognized health hazard and an environmental contaminant. Mercury modulates immune responses ranging from immune suppression to autoimmunity but the mechanisms responsible for these effects are still unclear. Male BALB/c mice were exposed continuously to 0, 0.3, 1.5, 7.5, or 37.5 ppm mercury in drinking water for 14 days. Body weight was reduced at the highest dose of mercury whereas the relative kidney and spleen weights were significantly increased. The dose range of mercury used did not cause hepatotoxicity as indicated by circulating alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels. Circulating blood leukocytes were elevated in mice treated with the highest dose of mercury. Mercury ranging from 1.5 to 37.5 ppm dose-dependently decreased CD3(+) T lymphocytes in spleen; both CD4(+) and CD8(+) single-positive lymphocyte populations were decreased. Exposure to 7.5 and 37.5 ppm mercury decreased the CD8(+) T lymphocyte population in the thymus, whereas double-positive CD4(+)/CD8(+) and CD4(+) thymocytes were not altered. Mercury altered the expression of inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor alpha, interferon gamma, and interleukin-12), c-myc, and major histocompatibility complex II, in various organs. Results indicated that a decrease in T lymphocyte populations in immune organs and altered cytokine gene expression may contribute to the immunotoxic effects of inorganic mercury.
Catecholamines and thyroid hormones have a similar influence on heart function and metabolism, but this may occur in a differential manner and to a different extent. In this study, the effects of norepinephrine (NE) and of triiodothyronine (T3) were studied in regard to the function of the left (LV) and right ventricle (RV) and to the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). NE was applied in rats as continuous i.v. infusion (0.2 mg/kg/h) for three days. T3 was given as daily s.c. injections (0.2 mg/kg) for the same period of time. LV and RV function was measured in the closed-chest trapanal-anesthetized animals using special Millar ultraminature catheter pressure transducers. NE induced an increase in heart rate, in mean arterial pressure, and in total peripheral resistance (TPR). The cardiac RNA/DNA and the left ventricular weight/body weight ratios were increased by about 40%. These effects were prevented by simultaneous alpha- and beta-receptor blockade with prazosin and metoprolol, respectively, but not by verapamil which abolished the hemodynamic effects. RVSP was significantly elevated by NE in a dose-dependent manner. The functional effects of T3 on the LV were not as pronounced as those induced by NE. Heart rate and LV dp/dtmax were increased by T3, and this increase was prevented by concomitant beta-receptor blockade with metoprolol. In contrast to NE, T3 induced an increase in cardiac output and a concomitant decrease in TPR. The RNA/DNA ratio was elevated and cardiac hypertrophy had developed after treatment for three days with T3. These changes were not affected by beta-receptor blockade with metoprolol. RVSP was increased by T3 to a lesser extent than with NE. In metabolic terms it turned out that only NE, but not T3 had a stimulating effect on the cardiac PPP. NE increased the mRNA and activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD), the first and regulating enzyme of this pathway. However, there was no effect of T3 on G-6-PD activity nor on 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase activity, one of the following enzymes in the pathway within the first 5 days of T3 treatment. These results demonstrate that the functional effects of T3 were not as pronounced as or even different from those of NE, and that T3 lacked a stimulating effect on the cardiac PPP.
Cyclizine was observed to induce generalized chorea in a patient with mild lingual-facial-buccal dyskinesias. The mechanism for this action was shown to be cyclizine's central anticholinergic activity. This was consistent with previous findings that acetycholine antagonists can lower the threshold for appearance of abnormal choreatic movements related to dopaminergic mechanisms by alteration of the dopamine/acetylcholine balance in the corpus striatum. Furthermore, our study was supportive of the hypothesis that spontaneous lingual-facial-buccal dyskinesias in the elderly may be the mildest manifestations of senile chorea.
A case of succinylcholine and enflurane induced rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuric acute renal failure in a mentally retarded patient is presented. The report illustrates some principles of management and the correlation of laboratory findings with the syndrome. When using general anesthesia in mentally retarded patients it is recommended that: 1) a careful personal and family past anesthetic history be taken; 2) drugs and apparatus for treatment of the crisis be available before anesthesia is induced; 3) the use of succinylcholine and potent inhalation anesthetic agents be avoided; 4) there is early diagnosis by prompt recognition of the clinical signs; and 5) that body temperature monitoring and frequent observation of vital signs during and after an operation be carried out.
To update and assess mortality from neoplasms to 31 December 1995 among 10 109 men employed in a job exposed to vinyl chloride for at least 1 year between 1942 and 1972 at any of 37 North American factories. Previous analyses indicated associations between employment in vinyl production and increased mortality risk from cancers of the liver and biliary tract, due to increased mortality from angiosarcoma of the liver, and brain cancer.
Standardised mortality ratio (SMR) analyses, overall and stratified by several work related variables, were conducted with United States and state reference rates. Cox's proportional hazards models and stratified log rank tests were used to further assess occupational factors.
895 of 3191 deaths (28%) were from malignant neoplasms, 505 since the previous update to the end of 1982. Mortality from all causes showed a deficit (SMR 83, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 80 to 86), whereas mortality from all cancers combined was similar to state referent rates. Mortality from cancers of the liver and biliary tract was clearly increased (SMR 359, 95% CI 284 to 446). Modest excesses of brain cancer (SMR 142, 95% CI 100 to 197) and cancer of connective and soft tissue (SMR 270, 95% CI 139 to 472) were found. Stratified SMR and Cox's proportional hazard analyses supported associations with age at first exposure, duration of exposure, and year of first exposure for cancers of the liver and soft tissues, but not the brain.
Excess mortality risk from cancer of the liver and biliary tract, largely due to angiosarcoma, continues. Risk of mortality from brain cancer has attenuated, but its relation with exposure to vinyl chloride remains unclear. A potentially work related excess of deaths from cancer of connective and soft tissue was found for the first time, but was based on few cancers of assorted histology.
Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) is characterized by striatal dopamine depletion with preserved nigrostriatal terminals. Patients with DRD typically obtain a marked long-term benefit from low doses of levodopa, with no motor complications. By contrast, motor fluctuations and dyskinesias often occur in idiopathic parkinsonism (Parkinson's disease; PD). This suggests that nigrostriatal denervation may be necessary for the development of these levodopa-related motor complications. Six genetically confirmed DRD cases were studied. Three of the five patients who were on chronic levodopa therapy developed choreic dyskinesias, which disappeared on reduction of medication. Apomorphine also induced dyskinesias. In addition, two patients experienced acute dystonic reactions after exposure to dopamine receptor-blocking drugs. No patient showed dose-response motor flutuations during levodopa treatment. It is proposed that striatal dopamine deficiency might play a major role in the pathogenesis of drug-induced dyskinesias. Conversely, the loss of nigrostriatal dopamine terminals seems to be a prerequisite for the development of levodopa-related motor fluctuations.
Carisoprodol is a centrally acting muscle relaxant commonly used for lower back pain. It is a drug of abuse and has been detected among impaired drivers. Carisoprodol's active metabolite meprobamate is thought to act through the GABA(A) receptor complex and produces a well-known impairing effect. It is unclear whether therapeutic intake of carisoprodol leads to impairment, and the effect of supratherapeutic doses has not been investigated. Possible impairment could further be a product of the parent drug and/or the metabolite meprobamate. The present study aimed to investigate if carisoprodol had an impairing effect by it self.
From the database at the Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Division for Forensic Toxicology and Drug Abuse 62 cases containing carisoprodol and meprobamate as only drugs were identified. These cases constituted our material.
Impaired drivers (73%) had higher blood carisoprodol concentration than not impaired drivers (27%), but no difference in blood meprobamate concentration was found for all the drivers viewed together. Amongst occasional users of carisoprodol, however, there was difference in blood meprobamate concentration between not impaired and impaired drivers. The risk of being judged impaired rose with increasing blood carisoprodol concentration, but not with increasing blood meprobamate concentration. The clinical effects of carisoprodol as measured by the clinical test for impairment (CTI) resembled those of benzodiazepines with some important differences such as tachycardia, involuntary movements, hand tremor and horizontal gaze nystagmus, which may be specific carisoprodol effects.
Carisoprodol probably has an impairing effect by itself, at least at blood concentration levels above which can be seen after therapeutic intake of the drug.
The antioxidant enzyme manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2) serves as the primary defense against mitochondrial superoxide. Impaired SOD2 activity in murine hematopoietic cells affects erythroid development, resulting in anemia characterized by intra-mitochondrial iron deposition, reticulocytosis and shortened red cell life span. Gene expression profiling of normal and SOD2 deficient erythroblasts identified the Parkinson's disease locus DJ-1 (Park7) as a differentially expressed transcript. To investigate the role of DJ-1 in hematopoietic cell development and protection against oxidative stress caused by Sod2 loss, we evaluated red cell parameters, reticulocyte count, red cell turnover and reactive oxygen species production in DJ-1 knockout animals and chimeric animals lacking both SOD2 and DJ-1 in hematopoietic cells generated by fetal liver transplantation. We also investigated DJ-1 protein expression in primary murine erythroid and erythroleukemia cells (MEL). Loss of DJ-1 exacerbates the phenotype of SOD2 deficiency, increasing reticulocyte count and decreasing red cell survival. Using MEL cells, we show that DJ-1 is up-regulated at the protein level during erythroid differentiation. These results indicate that DJ-1 plays a physiologic role in protection of erythroid cells from oxidant damage, a function unmasked in the context of oxidative stress.
The cocaine-addicted phenotype can be modeled in rats based on individual differences in preferred levels of cocaine intake and a propensity for relapse in withdrawal. These cocaine-taking and -seeking behaviors are strongly but differentially regulated by postsynaptic D1 and D2 receptors in the mesolimbic dopamine system. Thus, we determined whether addiction-related differences in cocaine self-administration would be related to differential sensitivity in functional D1 and D2 receptor responses. Using a population of 40 outbred Sprague-Dawley rats trained to self-administer cocaine for 3 weeks, we found that animals with higher preferred levels of cocaine intake exhibited a vertical and rightward shift in the self-administration dose-response function, and were more resistant to extinction from cocaine self-administration, similar to phenotypic changes reported in other models of cocaine addiction. After 3 weeks of withdrawal from cocaine self-administration, high intake rats were subsensitive to the ability of the D1 agonist SKF 81297 to inhibit cocaine-seeking behavior elicited by cocaine priming, but supersensitive to cocaine seeking triggered by the D2 agonist quinpirole, when compared to low intake rats. Additionally, high intake rats developed profound increases in locomotor responses to D2 receptor challenge from early to late withdrawal times, whereas low intake rats developed increased responsiveness to D1 receptor challenge. In a second experiment, responses to the mixed D1/D2 agonist apomorphine and the NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist MK-801 failed to differ between low and high intake rats. These findings suggest that cocaine addiction is related specifically to differential alterations in functional D1 and D2 receptors and their ability to modulate cocaine-seeking behavior.
Ten patients with low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (seven follicular small cleaved and three small lymphocytic) were treated with 1 microgram oral alfacalcidol (1 alpha-hydroxycholecalciferol) daily. Of the seven patients with lymphomas of follicular small cleaved subtype, one achieved complete and three partial remission, whereas none of three patients with small lymphocytic lymphomas responded. In seven of the 10 patients, 1,25(OH)2D3 receptors were measured in tissue from lymph nodes, and a positive correlation between the presence and amount of receptor and response to alfacalcidol was found. These preliminary data suggest that alfacalcidol has appreciable antitumour activity in low grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.
Chronic exposure to crystalline silica can lead to the development of silicosis, an irreversible, inflammatory and fibrotic pulmonary disease. Although, previous studies established the macrophage receptor with collagenous structure (MARCO) as an important receptor for binding and uptake of crystalline silica particles in vitro, the role of MARCO in regulating the inflammatory response following silica exposure in vivo remains unknown. Therefore, we determined the role of MARCO in crystalline silica-induced pulmonary pathology using C57Bl/6 wild-type (WT) and MARCO(-/-) mice. Increased numbers of MARCO(+) pulmonary macrophages were observed following crystalline silica, but not phosphate-buffered saline and titanium dioxide (TiO(2)), instillation in WT mice, highlighting a specific role of MARCO in silica-induced pathology. We hypothesized that MARCO(-/-) mice will exhibit diminished clearance of silica leading to enhanced pulmonary inflammation and exacerbation of silicosis. Alveolar macrophages isolated from crystalline silica-exposed mice showed diminished particle uptake in vivo as compared with WT mice, indicating abnormalities in clearance mechanisms. Furthermore, MARCO(-/-) mice exposed to crystalline silica showed enhanced acute inflammation and lung injury marked by increases in early response cytokines and inflammatory cells compared with WT mice. Similarly, histological examination of MARCO(-/-) lungs at 3 months post-crystalline silica exposure showed increased chronic inflammation compared with WT; however, only a small difference was observed with respect to development of fibrosis as measured by hydroxyproline content. Altogether, these results demonstrate that MARCO is important for clearance of crystalline silica in vivo and that the absence of MARCO results in exacerbations in innate pulmonary immune responses.
Drug-induced headache, particularly ergotamine-induced headache, is a common problem in migraine treatment. Some case reports suggest that even the new serotonergic antimigraine drugs such as sumatriptan can lead to overuse and subsequent drug-induced headache. We performed a controlled study to identify the rate of sumatriptan overuse and sumatriptan-induced headache and compared it to the rate of ergotamine overuse and ergotamine-induced headache. Two thousand sixty-five consecutive heachache patients, all experienced in intake of sumatriptan (n = 631) or ergotamine (n = 620), were enrolled over a three-year study period. The rates of overuse and drug-induced headache and the clinical features of the subgroups were compared. Risk factors for sumatriptan overuse were identified. The rates of ergotamine and sumatriptan overuse were 14.2% and 3.5%, respectively (p < 0.001). Drug-induced headache could be found more frequently in cases of ergotamine overuse than in cases of sumatriptan overuse (68% versus 32%; p < 0.01). Development of sumatriptan overuse was most common in patients with previous drug-induced headache (68%), combined headache as the primary headache type (45%), and subcutaneous application of sumatriptan (45%). We conclude that sumatriptan intake can lead to overuse and subsequent drug-induced headache. The risk for overuse and drug-induced headache is significantly lower than in patients with ergotamine intake. This might be caused in part by the relatively short period of sumatriptan availability on the market. The new generation of serotonin-1B/D-receptor agonists in the treatment of headache should have a potential for overuse similar to that of traditional headache drugs.
Cisplatin is an anticancer agent that induces renal proximal tubule lesions in many species. Studies were conducted in Sprague-Dawley and Han-Wistar rats to evaluate the utility of novel preclinical biomarkers of nephrotoxicity for renal lesions caused by this compound. Groups of 10 males of each strain were given a single intraperitoneal injection of 0.3, 1, or 3 mg/kg cisplatin and were sacrificed on days 2, 3, and 5. The novel biomarkers α-glutathione-S-transferase (α-GST) (for proximal tubular injury), μ-glutathione-S-transferase (μ-GST) (for distal tubular injury), clusterin (for general kidney injury), and renal papillary antigen-1 (RPA-1) (for collecting duct injury) were measured in urine by enzyme immunoassay. Histologically, degeneration and necrosis of the S3 segment of the renal proximal tubule were observed on day 2 (Han-Wistar) and days 3 and 5 (both strains) at 1 and 3 mg/kg. Results showed that in both strains of rats, urinary α-GST and clusterin can be detected in urine soon after injury, are more sensitive than BUN and serum creatinine, and therefore are usable as noninvasive biomarkers of proximal tubule injury. Changes in both μ-GST or RPA-1 were considered to represent secondary minor effects of proximal tubular injury on distal segments of the nephron.
Increased bone marrow angiogenesis and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels are adverse prognostic features in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDSs). VEGF is a soluble circulating angiogenic molecule that stimulates signaling via receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), including VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR-2). AML blasts may express VEGFR-2, c-kit, and FLT3. SU5416 is a small molecule RTK inhibitor (RTKI) of VEGFR-2, c-kit, and both wild-type and mutant FLT3. A multicenter phase 2 study of SU5416 was conducted in patients with refractory AML or MDS. For a median of 9 weeks (range, 1-55 weeks), 55 patients (33 AML: 10 [30%] primary refractory, 23 [70%] relapsed; 22 MDS: 15 [68%] relapsed) received 145 mg/m2 SU5416 twice weekly intravenously. Grade 3 or 4 drug-related toxicities included headaches (14%), infusion-related reactions (11%), dyspnea (14%), fatigue (7%), thrombotic episodes (7%), bone pain (5%), and gastrointestinal disturbance (4%). There were 11 patients (20%) who did not complete 4 weeks of therapy (10 progressive disease, 1 adverse event); 3 patients (5%) who achieved partial responses; and 1 (2%) who achieved hematologic improvement. Single agent SU5416 had biologic and modest clinical activity in refractory AML/MDS. Overall median survival was 12 weeks in AML patients (range, 4-41 weeks) and not reached in MDS patients. Most observed toxicities were attributable to drug formulation (polyoxyl 35 castor oil or hyperosmolarity of the SU5416 preparation). Studies of other RTKI and/or other antiangiogenic approaches, with correlative studies to examine biologic effects, may be warranted in patients with AML/MDS.
When cells are injured they release their contents, resulting in a local accumulation of free heme proteins and heme. Here, we investigated the involvement of heme and its degrading enzyme heme oxygenase (HO) in the inflammatory process during wound healing. We observed that heme directly accumulates at the edges of the wound after inflicting a wound in the palate of Wistar rats. This coincided with an increased adhesion molecule expression and the recruitment of leukocytes. To prove that heme is responsible for the recruitment of leukocytes, heme was administered intradermally 24 hours prior to injury. A clear heme-induced influx of both macrophages and granulocytes was observed. When examining the HO isoforms, HO-1 and HO-2, we found that HO-2 was present in the entire submucosa. Surprisingly, we observed also that HO-1 is significantly expressed in the epithelium of both the mucosa and the skin of animals without wounds. On inflammation, HO-1 expression increased, particularly in infiltrating cells during the resolution phase of inflammation. Interestingly, we observed that heme-induced influx of leukocytes was highly elevated after pharmacologic inhibition of HO activity. These observations suggest that the heme-HO system is closely involved in the control of wound healing. Our results demonstrate that the local release of heme may be a physiologic trigger to start inflammatory processes, whereas HO-1 antagonizes inflammation by attenuating adhesive interactions and cellular infiltration. Moreover, the basal level of HO expression in the skin may serve as a first protective environment against acute oxidative and inflammatory insults.
Although best known as a blistering agent, sulfur mustard (HD) can also induce neutropenia in exposed individuals, increasing their susceptibility to infection. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and pegylated G-CSF (peg-G-CSF) have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as hematopoietic growth factors to treat chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. The goal of this study was to determine the effectiveness of G-CSF and peg-G-CSF in ameliorating HD-induced neutropenia. African green monkeys (Chlorocebus aethiops) were challenged with HD and, at 1, 3, 5, or 7 days after exposure, G-CSF therapy (10 microg/kg per day for 21 days) was initiated. Peg-G-CSF (300 microg/kg, single treatment) was similarly tested, with treatment given at 3 days after exposure. Untreated HD-exposed animals recovered from neutropenia 28 days after exposure, whereas G-CSF- or peg-G-CSF-treated animals recovered 8 to 19 days after exposure (p < 0.05). These results indicate that G-CSF or peg-G-CSF may provide Food and Drug Administration-approved treatments that will reduce the duration of HD-induced neutropenia.
The efficacy and safety of sustained-release tramadol compared to placebo in the treatment of post-herpetic neuralgia were evaluated in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study in 127 outpatients. Treatment was administrated for 6 weeks. The dose of tramadol could be increased from 100 mg/day to 400 mg/day (300 mg/day in patients more than 75 years old). Groups were compared on changes in pain intensity on a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) between inclusion and the 6th week of treatment (covariance analysis as main analysis and repeated measures analysis as complementary analysis) in the per protocol (PP) population. The randomized population comprised 127 patients aged 35-85 years, mostly females (72.4%). Groups were comparable at inclusion both in the intent to treat (ITT) population (63 patients in the tramadol group and 62 patients in the placebo group) and in the PP population (53 patients in the tramadol group and 55 patients in the placebo group). Mean pain intensity on day 43 adjusted on day 1 (covariance analysis) was significantly lower in the tramadol group than in the placebo group in both the PP (P=0.0499), and the ITT (P=0.031) populations. The two groups significantly differed on change in pain intensity over time (repeated measures analysis) in the ITT population (P=0.012). The percentage of pain relief over the 6th week was significantly higher in the tramadol group than in the placebo group (P=0.017). During the 6th week, patients in the tramadol group required less rescue medication than patients in the placebo group (P=0.022). No significant difference was found between groups either in pain intensity on a 5-point Verbal Scale (VRS) or in quality of life measurements. Tramadol was administered at an average dosage of 275.5 (89.7) mg/day after a 1-week dose-adaptation period. Tramadol was well tolerated. No notable difference appeared between groups either in the percentage of patients with treatment-associated adverse events (TAAE) (29.7% in the tramadol group and 31.8% in the placebo group) or in the total number of TAAE (31 in the tramadol group and 28 in the placebo group).
Human experimental visceral pain models using chemical stimulation are needed for the study of visceral hyperexcitability. Our aim was to stimulate the human gut with chemical activators (capsaicin, glycerol) and measure quantitatively the induced hyperexcitability to painful mechanical gut distension. Ten otherwise healthy subjects with an ileostoma participated. Increasing volumes of capsaicin 50 microg/ml (0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, and 3 ml), glycerol (2.5, 5, and 10 ml) or saline (2.5, 5, and 10 ml) intermingled with sham stimuli were randomly applied to the ileum via the stomal opening at three occasions separated by a week. After each application, pain intensity, qualities, and referred pain area were assessed together with the pain threshold to distension of the proximal gut. 'Boring' and 'hot' pain were evoked in all subjects by low doses (median 0.5 ml) of capsaicin. The median pain onset, peak pain, and pain duration were 55, 85, and 420 s, respectively. Referred somatic pain developed around the stomal opening with a correlation between the pain area and pain intensity. After application of capsaicin, significant hyperalgesia was found to distension of the gut (a 28% reduction pressure in pain threshold). No significant manifestations were found after application of glycerol and saline. Application of capsaicin to the human ileum induces pain and mechanical hyperalgesia. Specific activation of nociceptors in the gut mucosa provides new possibilities to study clinical relevant visceral pain mechanisms.
(--)-Nuciferine and its Hofmann degradation product atherosperminine showed divergent psychopharmacological effects. Because nuciferine has been reported to be a neuroleptic and atherosperminine has some chemical resemblance to dopamine, they were investigated for their dopamine-receptor activities. Nuciferine had a pharmacologic profile of action associated with dopamine-receptor blockade; i.e., it induced catalepsy, inhibited spontaneous motor activity, conditioned avoidance response, amphetamine toxicity and stereotypy. On the other hand, atherosperminine produced effects associated with dopamine receptor stimulation, i.e., stereotypy, increase in spontaneous motor activity and amphetamine toxicity, reversal of haloperidol-induced catalepsy and inhibition of conditioned avoidance response, inhibition of morphine analgesia, and potentiation of the anticonvulsant action of diphenylhydantoin. The results are discussed on the basis of the chemical configuration of the two compounds.
