Low-dose naloxone-precipitated withdrawal hyperalgesia is a reliable indicator of physical dependence after chronic morphine treatment. A remarkably similar long-lasting (>3-4 h) hyperalgesia is evoked by injection of a low dose of naloxone (10 microg/kg, s.c.) in naïve mice after acute pretreatment with the glycolipid, GM1 ganglioside (1 mg/kg) (measured by warm-water-immersion tail-flick assays). GM1 treatment markedly increases the efficacy of excitatory Gs-coupled opioid receptor signaling in nociceptive neurons. Co-treatment with an ultra-low-dose (0.1 ng/kg, s.c.) of the broad-spectrum opioid receptor antagonist, naltrexone or the selective kappa opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine, blocks naloxone-evoked hyperalgesia in GM1-pretreated naïve mice and unmasks prominent, long-lasting (>4 h) inhibitory opioid receptor-mediated analgesia. This unmasked analgesia can be rapidly blocked by injection after 1-2 h of a high dose of naltrexone (10 mg/kg) or nor-binaltorphimine (0.1 mg/kg). Because no exogenous opioid is administered to GM1-treated mice, we suggest that naloxone may evoke hyperalgesia by inducing release of endogenous bimodally acting opioid agonists from neurons in nociceptive networks by antagonizing putative presynaptic inhibitory opioid autoreceptors that "gate" the release of endogenous opioids. In the absence of exogenous opioids, the specific pharmacological manipulations utilized in our tail-flick assays on GM1-treated mice provide a novel bioassay to detect the release of endogenous bimodally acting (excitatory/inhibitory) opioid agonists. Because mu excitatory opioid receptor signaling is blocked by ultra-low doses of naloxone, the higher doses of naloxone that evoke hyperalgesia in GM1-treated mice cannot be mediated by activation of mu opioid receptors. Co-treatment with ultra-low-dose naltrexone or nor-binaltorphimine may selectively block signaling by endogenous GM1-sensitized excitatory kappa opioid receptors, unmasking inhibitory kappa opioid receptor signaling, and converting endogenous opioid receptor-mediated hyperalgesia to analgesia. Co-treatment with kelatorphan stabilizes putative endogenous opioid peptide agonists released by naloxone in GM1-treated mice, so that analgesia is evoked rather than hyperalgesia. Acute treatment of chronic morphine-dependent mice with ultra-low-dose naltrexone (0.1 ng/kg) results in remarkably similar rapid blocking of naloxone (10 microg/kg)-precipitated withdrawal hyperalgesia and unmasking of prominent opioid analgesia. These studies may clarify complex mechanisms underlying opioid physical dependence and opioid addiction.
Doses of xenobiotics at or near LD50 may result in substantial hypothermia in mice. Hypothermia has previously been associated with an increase in micronuclei (MN) formation. The present series of investigations examined the potential for phenol to induce hypothermia in mice and its correlation to previously reported MN induction. In order to examine the potential etiology of phenol-induced MN, evaluation of kinetochore status of MN was also carried out. Phenol-induced hypothermia was assessed in CD1 mice following a single ip dose of phenol ranging from 0-500 mg/kg. Phenol at 300 mg/kg or above caused significant and prolonged hypothermia in male and female mice (up to 7 degrees C decrease). In the micronucleus test, single ip doses of phenol to CD1 mice at 0, 30, 100, or 300 mg/kg produced a significant and prolonged hypothermia and a significant increase in MN only at 300 mg/kg; no marked effect on either body temperature or MN was observed at lower doses. A statistically significant increase in kinetochore-positive MN was observed at the 300-mg/kg dose; however, the response was considerably less than that observed for a known spindle poison. Hence, the induction of MN by phenol occurred only at a dose that produced substantial and prolonged physiologic hypothermia, but interruption of the cell spindle apparatus appeared to play only a minor role in MN formation. These data are suggestive of a threshold mechanism for the induction of MN by phenol treatment in mice.
The role of nutritional factors in arsenic metabolism and toxicity is yet to be fully elucidated. A low protein diet results in decreased excretion of DMA and increased tissue retention of arsenic in experimental studies. Malnourished women carry a higher risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. Chronic exposure to high arsenic (>50 microg/L) through drinking water also increases the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. The synergistic effects (if any) of malnutrition and chronic arsenic exposure may worsen the adverse pregnancy outcomes. This population based case control study reports the association between chronic arsenic exposure and nutritional status among the rural women in Bangladesh. 348 cases (BMI < 18.5) and 360 controls (BMI 18.5-24.99) were recruited from a baseline survey conducted among 2,341 women. An excess risk for malnutrition was observed among the participants chronically exposed to higher concentrations of arsenic in drinking water after adjusting for potential confounders such as participant's age, religion, education, monthly household income and history of oral contraceptive pills. Women exposed to arsenic >50 microg/L were at 1.9 times (Odds Ratio = 1.9, 95% CI = 1.1-3.6) increased risk of malnutrition compared to unexposed. The findings of this study suggest that chronic arsenic exposure is likely to contribute to poor nutritional status among women of 20-45 years.
The toxicity of exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) or phytoestrogen is relatively well characterized. However, the toxicity of combined exposure to PAHs and phytoestrogen is not well investigated. In the present study, benzo(a)pyrene (B(a)P) and benzo(k)fluorathene (B(k)F), genistein, along with 17β-estradiol (E2), were investigated for their single and combined developmental toxicity using zebrafish embryos as model system. We demonstrated that two representative PAHs, both B(a)P (≥1 μM) and B(k)F (≥10 μM), can cause significant malformation and mortality in developing zebrafish embryos. The toxicity effect of B(a)P was in general higher than that of B(k)F. Developmental exposure to high level of genistein (>20 μM) or E2 (>10 μM), also caused significant malformation and mortality in zebrafish larvae at 120 hours post fertilization (hpf). However, different toxic effects were observed for the combined exposure to PAHs and phytoestrogen in zebrafish. Lower doses of genistein (1 and 10 μM) and E2 (0.1 and 1 μM), when used in combination with high concentration of B(a)P (1 μM) or B(k)F (20 μM), can significantly suppress the toxicity effect of B(a)P and B(k)F in developing zebrafish embryos. The beneficial effect of genistein may be due to the inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes via directly interacting with aryl-hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) pathway, or disturbing the AhR pathway through interacting with estrogen receptor pathway.
Proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis are critical biologic processes altered during carcinogenesis. Surrogate biomarkers of these processes represent potential intermediate endpoints for short-term intervention studies with preventive and therapeutic agents. We examined the interrelationships among these processes during prostate carcinogenesis induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) in male Wistar-Unilever rats. Immunohistochemical and digital image analysis techniques were used to evaluate the proliferation index, the apoptotic index and microvessel density (MVD) in tissue representing stages of prostate carcinogenesis. The proliferation index in the normal glandular epithelium of the prostate is lower than that observed in hyperplastic foci and atypical hyperplasia (P < 0.01) and is further increased in carcinoma (P < 0.01). Apoptosis in the normal prostate epithelium or hyperplastic lesions is lower than in adenocarcinoma (P < 0.01). In parallel to proliferation index, MVD increases as prostate cancer progresses. As tumors enlarge, we observed a predictable change in biomarker expression within the tumor microenvironment. We examined prostate tumors vertical line 1 cm in diameter and biomarker expression was quantified within the peripheral (outer 1-2 mm), central (perinecrotic) and intermediate (remaining) areas of each tumor. The proliferation index is higher (P < 0.01) in the intermediate area than either in the peripheral area or central area. Similarly, the vascular density in the intermediate area is higher (P < 0.01) than either in the peripheral or central area. The apoptotic index is higher (P < 0.05) in the central perinecrotic core than that in either the intermediate or the peripheral area. In conclusion, we observe that angiogenesis, proliferation and apoptosis are linked biological processes predictably altered temporally and spatially during prostate carcinogenesis in the MNU model. These biomarker changes are similar to those reported in human prostate carcinogenesis and represent potential biomarkers for the assessment of dietary, chemopreventive and therapeutic agents.
Archival tissues from laboratory studies represent a unique opportunity to explore the relationship between genomic changes and agent-induced disease. In this study, we evaluated the applicability of qPCR for detecting genomic changes in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues by determining if a subset of 14 genes from a 90-gene signature derived from microarray data and associated with eventual tumor development could be detected in archival liver, kidney, and lung of rats exposed to aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) for 90 days in feed at 1 ppm. These tissues originated from the same rats used in the microarray study. The 14 genes evaluated were Adam8, Cdh13, Ddit4l, Mybl2, Akr7a3, Akr7a2, Fhit, Wwox, Abcb1b, Abcc3, Cxcl1, Gsta5, Grin2c, and the C8orf46 homologue. The qPCR FFPE liver results were compared to the original liver microarray data and to qPCR results using RNA from fresh frozen liver. Archival liver paraffin blocks yielded 30 to 50 μg of degraded RNA that ranged in size from 0.1 to 4 kB. qPCR results from FFPE and fresh frozen liver samples were positively correlated (p ≤ 0.05) by regression analysis and showed good agreement in direction and proportion of change with microarray data for 11 of 14 genes. All 14 transcripts could be amplified from FFPE kidney RNA except the glutamate receptor gene Grin2c; however, only Abcb1b was significantly upregulated from control. Abundant constitutive transcripts, S18 and β-actin, could be amplified from lung FFPE samples, but the narrow RNA size range (25-500 bp length) prevented consistent detection of target transcripts. Overall, a discrete gene signature derived from prior transcript profiling and representing cell cycle progression, DNA damage response, and xenosensor and detoxication pathways was successfully applied to archival liver and kidney by qPCR and indicated that gene expression changes in response to subchronic AFB1 exposure occurred predominantly in the liver, the primary target for AFB1-induced tumors. We conclude that an evaluation of gene signatures in archival tissues can be an important toxicological tool for evaluating critical molecular events associated with chemical exposures.
When used for oral treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, Asacol (a coated form of mesalazine = 5-aminosalicylic acid) can cause interstitial nephritis. The spectrum of severity, frequency of occurrence and the best renal function test to detect this complication are not known. The value of immunosuppression in addition to drug withdrawal is similarly undetermined.
Four cases of interstitial nephritis which occurred in association with oral Asacol treatment are presented and a further 12 cases who received similar treatment are reviewed. Clinical trials published previously were scrutinized to assess the frequency of impaired renal function.
The available evidence suggests that renal impairment of any severity may occur in up to 1 in 100 patients, but that clinically significant interstitial nephritis occurs in less than 1 in 500 patients. This is most reliably detected by an elevated serum creatinine concentration. If the diagnosis of nephrotoxicity is delayed until 18 months after commencement of medication, restoration of renal function, which is seen on withdrawal of medication alone up to 10 months, does not occur and there is no evidence to date to indicate that addition of immunosuppression confers any significant advantage at this later stage.
It is suggested that serum creatinine concentration should be measured each month for the first 3 months of treatment, 3-monthly for the remainder of the first year and annually thereafter. The use of concurrent immunosuppressive therapy may necessitate extension to the period of intensive monitoring. Any elevation of serum creatinine which cannot be related to a relapse of inflammatory bowel disease should prompt immediate withdrawal of Asacol and related medications and substitution of alternative therapy. Neither the lack of urinary abnormalities on routine testing nor the absence of clinical or laboratory features of drug allergy can be relied upon to rule out interstitial nephritis during oral therapy with these drugs.
4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) is a major etiological agent of human bladder cancer, and its metabolites are able to form DNA adducts that may induce mutation and initiate bladder carcinogenesis. Thirty to sixty percent of human bladder cancer has a mutation in the p53 gene, and the mutational spectrum bears two characteristics: compared with other cancers, the pattern of mutations is more evenly distributed along the p53 gene, and the mutational hotspots occur at both CpG sites, such as codons 175, 248 and 273, and non-CpG sites, such as codons 280 and 285, the latter two being unique mutational hotspots for bladder and other urinary tract cancers. These findings raise the possibility that the special p53 mutational features in human bladder cancer are due to the unique binding spectrum of metabolically activated 4-ABP in bladder cells. To address this question, here we have mapped the 4-ABP-DNA adduct distribution in the p53 gene at the nucleotide sequence level in human bladder cells. We found that, unlike benzo[a]pyrene trans-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide-DNA adduction, which preferentially occurs at CpG sites, 4-ABP-DNA adduction is not biased for CpG sites, and the adducts are more evenly distributed along the p53 gene; nonetheless, the p53 mutational hotspots in bladder cancer at codons 175, 248, 280 and 285 are also the preferential sites for 4-ABP adduct formation. These results strongly suggest that the unique binding spectrum of 4-ABP contributes greatly to the unique mutational spectrum in the p53 gene of human bladder cancer, and provide further molecular evidence to directly link 4-ABP to bladder cancer.
Lithium, a drug frequently used for treatment of affective disorders, is known to cause a vasopressin-resistant state, leading to polyuria and polydipsia. It has been suggested that lithium interacts with the renal V2-vasopressin receptor. Detailed studies on the influence of lithium on the AVP receptor, however, have so far been difficult due to the lack of a suitable radioligand with high specific activity and high affinity.
Using 125I-[8-(p-(OH)-phenylpropionyl)]- LVP, we studied the effects of lithium on V2-vasopressin receptors in male Sprague-Dawley rats and LLC-PK1 cells. Rats, having free access to water, were orally treated with 10 mg lithium/100 mg b.w./day or placebo for 10 days. Scatchard analysis was performed using membranes prepared from homogenized renal papillae.
Lithium caused significant polyuria and an impaired renal concentration capacity after water deprivation. Binding studies showed no effect of lithium on binding affinity KD (0.98 +/- 0.21 nmol/l vs. 0.86 +/- 0.15 nmol/l (Li) (n.s.). Receptor density, however, significantly decreased from 130 +/- 12.3 nmol/kg protein in controls (n = 8) to 101.7 +/- 13.4 nmol/kg protein (n = 8), (P < 0.05). Plasma osmotically and AVP were not significantly altered by lithium treatment. Vasopressin receptor density on LLC-PK1-cells, a pig renal cell line, was not changed by preincubation with lithium (312 +/- 22 nmol/kg vs. 329 +/- 25 nmol/kg (Li) (n = 6, n.s.).
The decrease of AVP-receptor density in vivo might be related to vasopressin resistance, either primary, or secondary to other factors, e.g. actual water transport.
Previous work showed a correlation between K-ras mutation and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on chromosome 6 in the region of K-ras in lung carcinomas from B6C3F1 mice. We hypothesized that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) would be activated only in those lung neoplasms with both K-ras mutation and LOH. As MAPK activity can be correlated directly with signal detection using antibodies to phosphorylated MAPK, we were able to analyze lung carcinomas from B6C3F1 mice for the presence or absence of MAPK activity by western analysis. Vanadium pentoxide-induced mouse lung carcinomas, which had been shown to have a high frequency of K-ras mutations and LOH on chromosome 6 and for which frozen tumor tissue was available, were used for this study. Total MAPK expression levels were similar between normal lung and lung carcinomas. Phospho-MAPK was elevated in five of six lung carcinoma samples examined in which K-ras mutations and chromosome 6 LOH were identified and in four of five carcinomas with K-ras mutations that lacked LOH. Phospho-MAPK was undetectable or weakly expressed in seven carcinomas examined without K-ras mutations and in normal lung. By immunohistochemistry three K-ras positive/LOH negative samples exhibited multifocal areas of nuclear and cytoplasmic staining for phospho-MAPK. Large amounts of non-staining fibroblasts, lymphocytes and macrophages were also observed in these tumors. Two of these lung carcinomas were microdissected and chromosome 6 LOH was detected in regions of phospho-MAPK positive cells. These results suggest that MAPK is activated during vanadium pentoxide-induced B6C3F1 mouse lung tumorigenesis following K-ras mutation and loss of the wild-type K-ras allele.
Previous studies using neonatal rat cardiomyocytes have reported antiarrhythmic effects of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). In this study, we examined the effects of the n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) on the spontaneous contractile activity and membrane fluidity of adult rat ventricular myocytes. Cardiomyocytes were induced to contract spontaneously by continuous superfusion of a solution containing the arrhythmogenic agents isoproterenol (a beta-adrenergic receptor agonist) or lysophosphatidylcholine. The percentage of cardiomyocytes displaying spontaneous contractions induced by isoproterenol when pretreated with the saturated fatty acid docosanoic acid was 48.1 +/- 7.7%; the percentage for cardiomyocytes pretreated with DHA was 7.1 +/- 2.4% (P < 0.01). DHA significantly prevented lysophosphatidylcholine-induced spontaneous contractions (17.7 +/- 6.5%) compared with treatment with the saturated fatty acid stearic acid (78.0 +/- 7.3%, P < 0.01). The membrane fluidizing agent benzyl alcohol also significantly prevented spontaneous contractions in cardiomyocytes. Membrane fluidity was determined by steady-state fluorescence anisotropy (r(ss)) using the fluorescent probe N-((4-(6-phenyl-1,3,5-hexatrienyl)phenyl)propyl) trimethyl-ammonium p-toluene-sulfonate (TMAP-DPH). DHA and benzyl alcohol dose-dependently decreased the r(ss); however, saturated fatty acids were without effect. These results suggest that the antiarrhythmic mechanisms of the n-3 PUFAs such as DHA may involve changes in membrane fluidity.
Dermal nitrate preparations are claimed to be useful in the treatment of angina, as their slow absorption by-passing the liver leads to a sustained action. Ten patients with angina were exercised on a treadmill after dermal application of 16.64 mg glyceryl trinitrate or 100 mg isosorbide dinitrate or placebo. Exercise duration was significantly increased at one and three hours for both nitrate preparations but not at six hours after application. The calculated workload achieved was significantly increased (p less than 0.01) at one and three hours for both preparations and at six hours (p less than 0.05) for isosorbide dinitrate. Headaches were common with glyceryl trinitrate cream. The dermal nitrate preparations studied had a duration of antianginal action similar to that of oral nitrate tablets. Aside from their value when the oral route cannot be used or absorption may be delayed, dermal nitrate preparations have no advantage over oral preparations for angina pectoris.
The treatment of cocaine-related acute coronary syndromes presents unique challenges. Although percutaneous coronary intervention in cocaine abusers appears to be safe in the short term, longer-term outcomes have not been reported. We postulated that cocaine use would be associated with increased risk for stent thrombosis.
We report 30-day and 9-month clinical outcomes including stent thrombosis, myocardial infarction, repeat revascularization, and death in 71 cocaine abusers who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention at our institution (66 of whom received a stent) compared with 3216 control patients. Propensity score-matched analysis was performed to control for statistical bias present in nonrandomized study populations.
Stent thrombosis occurred in 5 (7.6%) of the 66 stented cocaine abusers during the 9-month follow-up period compared to a 0.6% rate of stent thrombosis in the control database, a highly statistically significant difference (P < .001). In the propensity analysis, stent thrombosis occurred in 4 stented cocaine abusers and 0 of 70 matched controls (6.2% vs 0%; P = .04) throughout the 9-month follow-up period. There was no significant difference in overall rates of myocardial infarction, death, or repeat revascularization at 9 months.
Because of the increased risk of stent thrombosis, consideration should be given to a more conservative approach in cocaine abusers who present with acute coronary syndromes.
We examined the effect of two endogenous antioxidant agents, taurine and vitamin E, on renal function in experimental diabetes. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, rendered diabetic with streptozocin (STZ), were assigned to one of the following groups: 1) untreated; 2) insulin treatment with 6 U Ultralente insulin/day in two doses; 3) taurine supplementation by 1% taurine in drinking water; and 4) vitamin E supplementation at 100 IU vitamin E/kg chow. Animals were kept for 52 wk. The survival rate was similar (70-90%) in all groups except vitamin E-treated animals, of which 84% died by 6 mo. At 52 wk, glomerular filtration rate was elevated in untreated and taurine-treated STZ rats compared with normal or insulin-treated diabetic rats. Taurine supplementation reduced total proteinuria and albuminuria by nearly 50%. This treatment also prevented glomerular hypertrophy, preserved immunohistochemical staining for type IV collagen in glomeruli, and diminished glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis in diabetic animals. The changes in renal function and structure in taurine-treated diabetic rats were associated with normalization of renal cortical malondialdehyde content, lowering of serum free Fe2+ concentration, and decreased formation of the advanced glycooxidation products, pentosidine, and fluorescence in skin collagen. Administration of the vitamin E-enriched diet exacerbated the nephropathy in STZ-diabetic rats. In addition, vitamin E supplementation increased serum free Fe2+ concentration, enhanced renal lipid peroxidation, and accelerated the accumulation of advanced glycosylation end products (AGEs) in skin collagen. We conclude that administration of taurine, but not vitamin E, to rats with STZ-diabetes ameliorates diabetic nephropathy. The beneficial effect of taurine is related to reduced renal oxidant injury with decreased lipid peroxidation and less accumulation of AGEs within the kidney.
Attempts to eliminate or reduce the rigidity induced with high-dose narcotic anesthesia in the operating room have been only partially successful. Previous investigations of opioid receptor sites mediating this rigidity have implicated two central regions: the nucleus raphe pontis (NRP) within the reticular formation and the caudate nucleus (CN) within the basal ganglia. The present study used systemically administered alfentanil (ALF), a potent, short-acting fentanyl analog, and intracerebrally infused methylnaloxonium (MN), a quaternary derivative of naloxone, to elucidate further the functional role of the NRP and CN in rigidity. ALF (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) produced a reliable model of rigidity, as documented by gastrocnemius electromyography. The onset of this rigidity was within 60 s of ALF administration, with a total duration of approximately 40-50 min. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of 2.0 or 4.0 micrograms of MN 15 min prior to ALF treatment prevented rigidity, while 0.125 or 0.5 microgram had no significant effect on rigidity. MN injected directly into the NRP at doses as low as 0.125 microgram significantly antagonized ALF-induced rigidity, while injections of MN into the caudate nucleus at doses as high as 4.0 micrograms failed to antagonize ALF-induced rigidity. These observations demonstrate that injection of MN into the NRP is at least 16-fold more effective in blocking ALF-induced rigidity than MN injected into the ventricle and, more importantly, at least 32-fold more effective than MN injected into the CN. The results suggest that the NRP may be an important site for the neural control of muscular rigidity associated with high-dose narcotic administration.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) plays an important role in immunosuppression and tumor growth. PGE2 inhibitors such as aspirin and indomethacin suppress experimental tumor growth. Little is known of the relationship between PGE2 synthesis in brain tumors and the dose of aspirin or indomethacin. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of different doses of aspirin and indomethacin on PGE2 synthesis in C6 glioma cells. C6 glioma cells were incubated with different concentrations (2, 4, and 8 microM) of aspirin and indomethacin for 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, and 24 hours. Intracellular PGE2 concentration was measured by enzyme immunoassay. Each concentration of aspirin and indomethacin effectively inhibited PGE2 synthesis. Concentrations of 2, 4, and 8 microM of aspirin significantly inhibited PGE2 production at 6, 4, and 1 hour, respectively, and the inhibition persisted for more than 24 hours (p < 0.05). Concentrations of 2 and 4 microM of indomethacin were effective at 4 and 2 hours (p < 0.05), respectively. However, inhibition was not observed beyond 12 hours (p > 0.05). Indomethacin 8 microM was effective at 1 hour and the inhibition persisted beyond 24 hours (p < 0.05). Our study demonstrates that aspirin and indomethacin inhibit PGE2 synthesis in C6 glioma cells and that low-dose aspirin is as effective as high-dose aspirin. This study may encourage future clinical use of low-dose aspirin in the prevention or treatment of brain tumors.
Male F344 rats, 9 weeks of age, were given multiple intrarectal administrations of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (NMU) at 0.5 mg/dose twice a week for a total of 8, 12, or 16 doses. Five days after the final NMU instillation, rats were placed on one of four diets; chow with retinoid vehicle, chow with 654 mg N-ethylretinamide per kg diet, chow with 686 mg N-(2-hydroxethyl)retinamide per kg diet, or 406 mg retinylidene dimedone per kg diet. Groups of 40--50 rats receiving 16, 12, or 8 total doses were sacrificed 32, 44, or 52 weeks after the initial NMU dose, respectively. The number of rats with colon tumors and the number of tumors per tumor bearing rat in each dosage regimen was compared to appropriate controls. Organ weights for testis, liver, and kidneys were similar for controls and retinoid treated animals and no histopathologic lesions indicative of retinoid toxicity were found. Unusual proliferative lesions of the colon in rats of all dosed groups included hyperplastic and inflammatory polyps and sarcomas. The feeding of diets containing these three retinoids did not significantly modify the incidence or multiplicity of colon tumors observed under these conditions.
Nocturnal urinary melatonin excretion was evaluated in six patients with nightmares and hallucinations during treatment with beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents, and compared to six control patients with similar diagnoses and treatment but without such symptoms from the central nervous system (CNS). Nightly melatonin excretion was lower in all cases with nightly CNS-symptoms than in the control patients. The results also suggest drug differences and dose dependency. It is concluded that in predisposed patients CNS side-effects induced by beta-adrenoceptor antagonists are related to depressed nightly melatonin secretion.
