The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its ligands are involved in tumor growth, metastasis, angiogenesis, and resistance to chemotherapy. The findings reported here demonstrate that SN38 (the active metabolite of CPT-11) induces the tyrosine phosphorylation of EGFR within 5 min, followed by the induction of transcripts and/or proteins of the heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor, amphiregulin, transforming growth factor-alpha, and interlukin-8 (IL-8) in AGS gastric cancer cells. SN38 also activates nuclear factor-kappa B and activator protein-1, both of which are critical for the transcription of the IL-8 gene. However, the blocking of EGFR activation by gefitinib ("Iressa", ZD1839), an EGFR-TKI (tyrosine kinase inhibitor), abrogates all the above reactions. The SN38-triggered mechanisms include the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the activation of protein kinase C (PKC), followed by metalloproteinase activation and the sequential ectodomain shedding of EGFR ligands. These findings suggest that EGF signaling is enhanced by CPT-11 and point to the potential benefit of the use of a combination of CPT-11 with gefitinib in the treatment of certain gastric cancers.
Three different regimens of drug treatment for hypertension were compared with regard to the development of undesirable side-effects in a group of 53 patients attending a hypertension clinic. The combination of alpha-methyldopa and chlorthalidone produced the highest incidence of side-effects. Weakness and impotence were most frequently encountered. In contrast, the combination of chlorthalidone, hydralazine and propranolol, and chlorthalidone alone, produced fewer side-effects. It is recommended that alpha-methyldopa should not be a first choice in the treatment of hypertension.
Normal brain development requires coordinated regulation of several processes including proliferation, differentiation, and cell death. Multiple factors from endogenous and exogenous sources interact to elicit positive as well as negative regulation of these processes. In particular, the perinatal rat brain is highly vulnerable to specific developmental insults that produce later cognitive abnormalities. We used this model to examine the developmental effects of an exogenous factor of great concern, methylmercury (MeHg). Seven-day-old rats received a single injection of MeHg (5 microg/gbw). MeHg inhibited DNA synthesis by 44% and reduced levels of cyclins D1, D3, and E at 24 h in the hippocampus, but not the cerebellum. Toxicity was associated acutely with caspase-dependent programmed cell death. MeHg exposure led to reductions in hippocampal size (21%) and cell numbers 2 weeks later, especially in the granule cell layer (16%) and hilus (50%) of the dentate gyrus defined stereologically, suggesting that neurons might be particularly vulnerable. Consistent with this, perinatal exposure led to profound deficits in juvenile hippocampal-dependent learning during training on a spatial navigation task. In aggregate, these studies indicate that exposure to one dose of MeHg during the perinatal period acutely induces apoptotic cell death, which results in later deficits in hippocampal structure and function.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a potent mitogen implicated in gastroprotection and ulcer healing, but its possible interaction with nitric oxide (NO) and sensory nerves on healing after acute gastric damage has not been assessed. We examined the effects of topical application of a small dose (0.5 mg/kg) of capsaicin to stimulate sensory nerves and a larger parenteral dose of capsaicin (125 mg/kg s.c.) to deactivate these neurons or the effect of systemic administration of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (20 mg/kg i.v.) to suppress NO synthase on healing of gastric lesions induced by 3.5 h of water immersion and restraint stress (WRS) in rats without or with EGF administration. Rats were sacrificed at 0, 6, 12, or 24 h after WRS and the gastric blood flow (GBF) was measured by the H2 gas clearance technique. Exposure to WRS produced many gastric lesions, with a marked decrease in GBF, but at 12 h these lesions started to heal and the lesion number was reduced by 75% after 24 h. This was accompanied by progressive increase in the GBF and an increase in expression of EGF mRNA in gastric mucosa, as detected by RT-PCR. Pretreatment with L-NAME or functional ablation of sensory nerves by capsaicin significantly delayed the healing of WRS lesions and accompanying hyperemia. In contrast, pretreatment with EGF (100 micrograms/kg s.c.) or glyceryl trinitrate (10 mg/kg i.g.), a donor of NO, or stimulation of sensory nerves by topical capsaicin significantly enhanced the healing of these lesions and increased the GBF. The acceleration of the healing and accompanying hyperemia induced by EGF at 12 h after WRS were completely reversed in rats pretreated with L-NAME or in those with capsaicin denervation. Addition of L-arginine but not D-arginine to L-NAME restored the healing of stress lesions and gastric hyperemia induced by this peptide. Removal of salivary glands, which reduced luminal content of EGF and DNA synthesis by about fourfold compared to rats with intact glands, produced a significant delay in healing, and this was further aggravated by capsaicin denervation. We conclude that EGF, sensory nerves, and NO play an important role in the healing of gastric mucosa from lesions induced by stress and that sensory nerves and NO appear to interact with EGF in the mechanism of mucosal recovery from stress lesions.
A healthy woman developed pancreatitis after starting a popular herbal supplement designed to boost female libido. Following cessation of the herbal supplement, her enzymes quickly normalized. The patient had no risk factors for pancreatitis and anatomic obstruction was later ruled out. The contents of the supplement and their history of side effects are reviewed. As several of the ingredients are estrogenic in nature, this may have contributed to the patient's reaction. Physicians should remember to take a careful history regarding the usage of supplements and alternative medicines.
To determine whether apoptosis occurs in the lung tissues from rats with acute lung injury (ALI), and observe protective effects of dexamethasone by regulating apoptosis of lung tissues in rats with ALI.
By using TUNEL, in situ hybridization, SqRT-PCR and immunocytochemistry techniques, apoptosis and Fas, FasL expression were studied during early phase of ALI in rats.
LPS leads to the rapid appearance of apoptosis in alveolar epithelial cells and pulmonary vascular endothelial cells at early stage of ALI in rats. The expression of Fas, FasL mRNA and protein was up-regulated in lung tissues of rats with ALI. The administration of dexamethasone suppressed apoptosis as well as expression of Fas, FasL mRNA and protein, inhibited TNF-alpha production and abated lung injury.
The excessive apoptosis and Fas/FasL system may play a role in the pathogenesis of LPS-induced ALI in rats. The protective effects of dexamethasone include inhibiting inflammatory mediators production, suppressing the activation of Fas/FasL system and apoptosis in lung tissues of ALI rats.
To determine whether magnesium lithospermate B ameliorates renal injury induced by cephaloridine, the effect of cephaloridine was investigated in rats given magnesium lithospermate B for 20 days preceding cephaloridine administration and in control rats given no magnesium lithospermate B. In the control rats, blood and urinary parameters and the activity of radical-eliminating enzymes in the renal tissue deviated from the normal range, indicating damage to the kidneys. In contrast, rats given magnesium lithospermate B showed decreased urine volume, increased urinary osmotic pressure, and decreased urinary levels of glucose, protein, sodium and potassium, denoting less damage to the kidney. In this group, the urinary nitrite/nitrate ratio, and the activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase in the renal tissue were increased, while the malondialdehyde levels were decreased, suggesting the involvement of radicals in the normalizing of kidney function. The increased levels of urea nitrogen in the blood of rats with induced renal failure were also lowered by administering magnesium lithospermate B.
Many non-cardiovascular drugs have a potential for QT interval prolongation. This phenomenon can be related to occurence of ventricular tachycardia torsades de pointes, syncopi and even sudden death.
A female patient treated with antracycline cytostatics developed a depression of left ventricle ejection fraction. At the same time she was administered 2 common drugs with proarrhythmic potential--terfenadine and itraconazole. In this patient hypokalemia also occured. Combination of the above mentioned risk factors led to QT interval prolongation and frequent ventricular tachycardias torsades de pointes degenerating in ventricular fibrillations with need of repeated defibrillations. Both drugs were withdrawn and dysiontaemia corrected. Then arrhythmias disappeared and QT interval completely normalized. In this patient the congenital long QT syndrome was not proved.
In proarrhythmic effect of non-cardiovascular drugs the following factors play role: predisposition of a particular individual, "repolarization reserve", interindividual differences in drug metabolism. The risk factors are age, sex, dysiontaemia, heart disease and drug interactions. By different choice of medication and attention to risk factors teh life threat to the described patient could have been avoided.
Zidovudine (AZT) as used in the treatment of AIDS, causes a mitochondrial myopathy characterized by depletion of mitochondrial DNA, enzymatic defects in the respiratory chain system, and accumulation of lipid droplets. Most of these changes are also seen in normal human myotubes treated with AZT. Because L-carnitine plays a major role in the transport of long chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane and facilitates the beta-oxidation of fatty acids, we examined the effect of L-carnitine in preventing the destructive effect of AZT on the mitochondria and the myotubes of human muscle in tissue culture.
Myotubes, prepared from human muscle biopsies, were exposed to various concentrations of AZT for up to 3 weeks. One-third of the flasks were treated with AZT alone, another third with AZT plus L-carnitine and another third were untreated. The cultures were evaluated with: (a) immunocytochemistry counting the number of myotubes stained with antibodies to Leu-19; (b) enzyme histochemistry for NADH reaction and oil-red-O stain to assess mitochondrial enzymatic activity and lipid droplet accumulation; and (c) electron microscopy counting all the organelles within representative sections of the myotubes, at x24,000, and calculating the volumetric density of each organelle/unit volume of tissue.
AZT, at concentrations 250 microM and above, caused depopulation of the Leu-19-positive myotubes, destructive changes in the mitochondria consisting of swelling, lamellar inclusions and multiple concentric cristae, accumulation of lipid droplets, and increase lysosomes. L-Carnitine increased the number of Leu-19-positive myotubes from 3.4 +/- 0.6 to 9.4 +/- 1.2, preserved the morphology of the mitochondria, increased their volumetric density from 2.5 +/- 0.4 to 6.0 +/- 0.7, and reduced the volumetric density of the lipid droplets from 12.2 +/- 4.9 to 1.4 +/- 0.7 and of the lysosomes from 15.6 +/- 3.6 to 3.9 +/- 1.4 (p < 0.001).
L-Carnitine, used concurrently with AZT, prevents the human myotubes from the AZT-associated destruction, preserves the structure and volume of mitochondria and prevents the accumulation of lipids. The findings may have potential clinical implications in preventing the myotoxicity of AZT in patients with AIDS.
Previous results from our laboratory have suggested that morphine can attenuate neutrophil activation in patients with acute myocardial infarction. To elucidate if morphine preconditioning (PC) has the same effects via activation of neutrophil endopeptidase 24.11 (NEP), we measured serum levels of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), gp100MEL14 and NEP in adult Wistar rats subjected to ten different protocols (n = 10 for each) at baseline, immediately after and 2 h after morphine PC. All groups were subjected to 30 min of occlusion and 2 h of reperfusion. Similarly, morphine-induced PC was elicited by 3-min drug infusions (100 micrograms/kg) interspersed with 5-min drug-free periods before the prolonged 30-min occlusion. Infarct size (IS), as a percentage of the area at risk (AAR), was determined by triphenyltetrazolium staining. Pretreatment with morphine increased NEP activities (9.86 +/- 1.98 vs. 5.12 +/- 1.10 nmol/mg protein in control group; p < 0.001). Naloxone (mu-opioid receptor antagonist) (4.82 +/- 1.02 nmol/mg protein) and phosphoramidon (NEP inhibitor) (4.66 +/- 1.00 nmol/mg protein) inhibited morphine-activated NEP, whereas glibenclamide (ATP-sensitive potassium channel antagonist) and chelerythrine (protein kinase C inhibitor) had no effects. The ICAM-1 and gp100MEL14 of the third sampling were lowest for those with morphine PC (280 +/- 30 ng/ml and 2.2 +/- 0.7 micrograms/ml; p < 0.001), but naloxone (372 +/- 38 ng/ml and 3.8 +/- 0.9 micrograms/ml) and phosphoramidon (382 +/- 40 ng/ml and 4.2 +/- 1.1 micrograms/ml) abolished the above phenomenon. IS/AAR were definitely lowest for those with morphine PC (24 +/- 7%; p < 0.05). Morphine preconditioning increases NEP activities to attenuate shedding of gp100MEL14 and to ICAM-1 and, thus, provides myocardial protection.
Initially thought to be virtually free of negative effects, benzodiazepines are now known to carry risks of dependence, withdrawal, and negative side effects. Among the most controversial of these side effects are cognitive effects. Long-term treatment with benzodiazepines has been described as causing impairment in several cognitive domains, such as visuospatial ability, speed of processing, and verbal learning. Conversely, long-term benzodiazepine use has also been described as causing no chronic cognitive impairment, with any cognitive dysfunction in patients ascribed to sedation or inattention or considered temporary and associated with peak plasma levels. Complicating the issue are whether anxiety disorders themselves are associated with cognitive deficits and the extent to which patients are aware of their own cognitive problems. In an attempt to settle this debate, meta-analyses of peer-reviewed studies were conducted and found that cognitive dysfunction did in fact occur in patients treated long term with benzodiazepines, and although cognitive dysfunction improved after benzodiazepines were withdrawn, patients did not return to levels of functioning that matched benzodiazepine-free controls. Neuroimaging studies have found transient changes in the brain after benzodiazepine administration but no brain abnormalities in patients treated long term with benzodiazepines. Such findings suggest that patients should be advised of potential cognitive effects when treated long term with benzodiazepines, although they should also be informed that the impact of such effects may be insignificant in the daily functioning of most patients.
Previous studies suggested that betaine intake might antagonize the induction of oxidative stress-mediated acute liver injury through regulation of the sulfur-amino acid metabolism. In this study we examined the protective effects of betaine on chronic liver injury and fibrosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN). Male rats were supplemented with betaine (1%, w/v) in drinking water from 2 weeks prior to the initiation of DMN treatment (10mg/(kg day), i.p., 3 days/week, for 1, 2, or 4 weeks) until sacrifice. Induction of liver injury was determined by quantifying serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase activities, bilirubin levels, hepatic xenobiotic-metabolizing capacity, histopathological changes and 4-hydroxyproline levels. Development of oxidative injury was estimated by malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and total oxyradical scavenging capacity (TOSC) of liver and serum toward hydroxyl, peroxyl radicals, and peroxynitrite. Progressive changes in the parameters of liver injury and fibrosis were evident in the rats challenged with DMN. Elevation of MDA levels in liver was significant before the onset of a change in any parameters determined in this study. Betaine supplementation markedly attenuated the induction of hepatotoxicity and fibrosis by DMN. Elevation of MDA and the reduction of TOSC were also depressed significantly. Development of liver injury corresponded well with the induction of oxidative stress in rats treated with DMN, both of which are inhibited effectively by betaine supplementation. It is suggested that betaine may protect liver from fibrogenesis by maintaining the cellular antioxidant capacity.
Status epilepticus is associated with sustained and elevated levels of cytosolic Ca(2+). To elucidate the mechanisms associated with changes of cytosolic Ca(2+) after status epilepticus, this study was initiated to evaluate the effect of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus on Mg(2+)/Ca(2+) ATPase-mediated Ca(2+) uptake in microsomes isolated from rat cortex, because the Ca(2+) uptake mechanism plays a major role in regulating intracellular Ca(2+) levels. The data demonstrated that the initial rate and overall Ca(2+) uptake in microsomes from pilocarpine treated animals were significantly inhibited compared with those in microsomes from saline-treated control animals. It was also shown that the inhibition of Ca(2+) uptake caused by status epilepticus was not an artifact of increased Ca(2+) release from microsomes, selective isolation of damaged microsomes from the homogenate, or decreased Mg(2+)/Ca(2+) ATPase protein in the microsomes. Pretreatment with the NMDA antagonist dizocilpine maleate blocked status epilepticus-induced inhibition of the initial rate and overall Ca(2+) uptake. The data suggest that inhibition of microsomal Mg(2+)/Ca(2+) ATPase Ca(2+) uptake is involved in NMDA-dependent deregulation of cytosolic Ca(2+) homeostasis associated with status epilepticus.
Although beta-adrenergic blocking agents reduce myocardial oxygen consumption and symptoms of myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), propranolol has been reported to exacerbate coronary artery spasm in some patients with variant angina. To determine whether increased coronary vasomotor tone can be induced by beta-adrenergic blockade, we measured the changes in coronary vascular resistance (CVR) during cold pressor testing (CPT) in 15 patients, nine with severe CAD and six with normal left coronary anatomy, before and after i.v. propranolol (0.1 mg/kg). Coronary blood flow was measured by coronary sinus thermodilution. CVR was calculated as mean arterial pressure divided by coronary sinus blood flow. Heart rate was maintained constant at a paced subanginal rate of 95 +/- 5 beats/min. Before propranolol, CPT induced significant increases in coronary vascular resistance in patients with CAD (15.0 +/- 2.2%, p less than 0.02), but no increase in CVR in the normal patients. After propranolol, the CVR change during CPT was augmented for patients with CAD (29 +/- 6%, p less than 0.01) and for the normal population (9 +/- 5%, NS). The potentiated increase in CVR occurred without significant changes in resting CVR or in the magnitude of the hypertensive response to CPT. We conclude that beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol can potentiate coronary artery vasoconstriction in some patients with CAD, possibly mediated by unopposed alpha-adrenergic vasomotor tone. These changes may be important in patients in whom intense adrenergic stimulation may increase coronary artery tone and adversely influence the balance between myocardial oxygen supply and demand.
Pesticide exposure may be positively associated with depression. Few previous studies have considered the episodic nature of depression or examined individual pesticides.
We evaluated associations between pesticide exposure and depression among male private pesticide applicators in the Agricultural Health Study.
We analyzed data for 10 pesticide classes and 50 specific pesticides used by 21,208 applicators enrolled in 1993-1997 who completed a follow-up telephone interview in 2005-2010. We divided applicators who reported a physician diagnosis of depression (n = 1,702; 8%) into those who reported a previous diagnosis of depression at enrollment but not follow-up (n = 474; 28%), at both enrollment and follow-up (n = 540; 32%), and at follow-up but not enrollment (n = 688; 40%) and used polytomous logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% CIs. We used inverse probability weighting to adjust for potential confounders and to account for the exclusion of 3,315 applicators with missing covariate data and 24,619 who did not complete the follow-up interview.
After weighting for potential confounders, missing covariate data, and dropout, ever-use of two pesticide classes, fumigants and organochlorine insecticides, and seven individual pesticides-the fumigants aluminum phosphide and ethylene dibromide; the phenoxy herbicide (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy)acetic acid (2,4,5-T); the organochlorine insecticide dieldrin; and the organophosphate insecticides diazinon, malathion, and parathion-were all positively associated with depression in each case group, with ORs between 1.1 and 1.9.
Our study supports a positive association between pesticide exposure and depression, including associations with several specific pesticides.
To determine the mechanism through which topical mitomycin C prevents and treats corneal haze after photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) and to examine the effects of dosage and duration of exposure.
In 224 New Zealand rabbits, -9.0 diopter PRK with mitomycin C or balanced salt solution was performed. Haze level was graded at the slit-lamp. Rabbits were sacrificed at 4 hours, 24 hours, 4 weeks, or 6 months after surgery and immunohistochemistry was performed with TUNEL assay, Ki67, and alpha-SMA.
TUNEL-positive apoptotic cells marginally increased in all mitomycin C groups whereas Ki67-positive mitotic cells decreased significantly following mitomycin C application. A greater decrease in myofibroblasts was noted with prophylactic mitomycin C treatment than therapeutic mitomycin C treatment. There was, however, an anterior stromal acellular zone (approximately 20% of the total stroma) in eyes treated with mitomycin C, which persisted to the maximum follow-up of 6 months.
Mitomycin C treatment induces apoptosis of keratocytes and myofibroblasts, but the predominate effect in inhibiting or treating haze appears to be at the level of blocked replication of keratocytes or other progenitor cells of myofibroblasts. Treatment with 0.002% mitomycin C for 12 seconds to 1 minute appears to be just as effective as higher concentrations for longer duration in the rabbit model. However, a persistent decrease in keratocyte density in the anterior stroma could be a warning sign for future complications and treatment should be reserved for patients with significant risk of developing haze after PRK.
Neomycin is known for its ototoxicity after many different methods of administration of the drug. Neomycin sometimes is used for bladder irrigation in patients with urinary tract infections when other treatments fail. To our knowledge toxicity after bladder instillation of neomycin has not been reported previously. We report a case of perception deafness in a boy with end stage renal disease who underwent neomycin bladder instillations following augmentation of the bladder with a megaureter.
A series of long-term inhalation studies of diesel exhaust and intratracheal instillation of diesel particles was conducted on female SPF F344 rats. A particulate but not gaseous component in the inhalation studies provoked inflammatory changes and tumors in the lung, and the intratracheally instilled particles showed similar findings. Adenoma and adenocarcinoma were the main histologic types of the tumors which developed and they showed the phenotype of surfactant apoprotein-producing cells, suggesting that the tumor cell origin was a Type II alveolar cell. The tumor incidence rate correlated with the cumulative concentration of inhaled particles per week and with the amount of particles deposited in the lung. In the instillation studies, the carbon core of diesel particles obtained after exhaustive extraction of tarry matter showed a slightly lower positive rate of lung tumor formation than the rate in untreated diesel particles, indicating an important role of carbon core in the diesel particle-induced tumor. In the intratracheal instillation studies, point mutation of K-ras oncogene was detected in a significant percentage in the tumor cells.
With the approval of rt-PA therapy for ischemic stroke, stroke care has acutely transitioned from focusing on rehabilitative services to emergency services. This treatment, which must be initiated within the first three hours after the onset of stroke symptoms, requires reorganization of current management approaches. Developing a Code Stroke Team facilitates this process and helps to identify potential thrombolysis candidates. A pathway to deliver rapid care begins with 911 notification and transport, emergency department triage and procedures, and moves through the initiation of thrombolytic therapy. We call this pathway "Code Stroke".
A 20-year old foreigner suffering from progressive renal insufficiency had a massive renal oxalosis. According to case history and clinical analysis oxalosis proved to occur in relation to methoxyflurane general anaesthesia.
In the National Institutes of Neurologic Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) stroke trial, the primary adverse events monitored were intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), systemic bleeding, death and new stroke. Nurses caring for the study patients noted these adverse events and other complications. In addition to what is known about acute ischemic stroke (AIS), the NINDS trial provides further information for optimal care of this specific group of patients. The complications found in this trial require expert nursing care to monitor, prevent and intervene, making clinical decisions relevant to the patients needs. The critical decision-making process must be grounded in knowledge of acute stroke physiology and thrombolysis.
The influence of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on PaO2 at doses that produced slight hypotension was evaluated in 176 patients scheduled for surgery. When systolic blood pressure was stabilized after induction of anesthesia, PGE1 infusion was started until 20% reduction of systolic blood pressure was achieved. Arterial blood gases were analyzed before infusion of PGE1 and 30 min after the completion of this hypotensive level respectively. The reductions in both PaO2 [from 177 +/- 64 mmHg to 164 +/- 65 mmHg (mean +/- SD) (P < 0.01)] and PaO2/FIO2 [from 486.5 +/- 144.4 to 437.6 +/- 121.6 (P < 0.01)] were observed with PGE1 infusion of 0.079 +/- 0.068 micrograms.kg-1.min-1. The results of this study show that PaO2 decreases during induced hypotension with PGE1 infusion, but this decrease is not clinically significant.
Earlier studies from our laboratory have indicated insulin sensitizing action of chromium picolinate as the mechanism of its anti-diabetic activity in experimental models of type I and type II diabetes. In the present investigation, we have evaluated the effects of chronic administration of chromium picolinate on the functional and histological alterations of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes in rats. Type I diabetes was induced by intravenous injection of STZ (40 mg/kg) in adult rats, whereas, type II diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal injection of STZ (90 mg/kg) in 2-day old rat pups which in adulthood develop abnormalities resembling type II diabetes. Chromium picolinate was administered at 8 microg/ml in drinking water for 6 weeks and was found to improve glucose tolerance and increase insulin sensitivity of STZ-diabetic rats. This treatment decrease elevated serum creatinine and urea levels as well as elevated serum levels of hepatic enzymes of both groups of diabetic rats. Histopathological studies of kidney and liver show decrease in the intensity and incidence of vacuolations, cellular infiltration and hypertrophy of STZ and nSTZ (neonatal STZ) diabetic rats. Chronic treatment with chromium picolinate however, did not alter the normal function or morphology of control rats. Chronic chromium picolinate at the therapeutic doses that improved glucose tolerance, was observed to have no hepatotoxic or nephrotoxic potential. It was rather found to improve renal and hepatic function and to reduce abnormalities associated with STZ-diabetes. Chromium picolinate could play an important role in the long term management of diabetes mellitus.
Twenty patients with chronic solar damage of the skin were entered in a double-blind, within-patient trial to compare the effect of 0.05% tretinoin cream with a placebo applied once daily for 12 weeks. Sixteen completed the study. Clinical assessment of the individual signs of solar damage were recorded on separate visual analogue scales. After 12 weeks, there were significant improvements in fine wrinkling around the eyes, crease lines around the mouth and cheeks, wrinkling on the dorsum of the hands and yellow discoloration. Overall, 14 of the tretinoin-treated sides were judged to have improved compared to only two of the placebo-treated sides (P = 0.011). Measurement of skin thickness by pulsed A-scan ultrasound revealed that the sides treated with tretinoin were significantly thicker than the placebo-treated sides (P = 0.019). Skin biopsies taken before and after treatment showed an increase in mean epidermal thickness with tretinoin treatment (P = 0.019). The clinical signs of improvement persisted at the follow-up assessment performed 4 weeks after cessation of therapy.
As an inhibitor of Ca(2+) release through ryanodine receptor (RYR) channels, the skeletal muscle relaxant dantrolene has proven to be both a valuable experimental probe of intracellular Ca(2+) signaling and a lifesaving treatment for the pharmacogenetic disorder malignant hyperthermia. However, the molecular basis and specificity of the actions of dantrolene on RYR channels have remained in question. Here we utilize [(3)H]ryanodine binding to further investigate the actions of dantrolene on the three mammalian RYR isoforms. The inhibition of the pig skeletal muscle RYR1 by dantrolene (10 microm) was associated with a 3-fold increase in the K(d) of [(3)H]ryanodine binding to sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) vesicles such that dantrolene effectively reversed the 3-fold decrease in the K(d) for [(3)H]ryanodine binding resulting from the malignant hyperthermia RYR1 Arg(615) --> Cys mutation. Dantrolene inhibition of the RYR1 was dependent on the presence of the adenine nucleotide and calmodulin and reflected a selective decrease in the apparent affinity of RYR1 activation sites for Ca(2+) relative to Mg(2+). In contrast to the RYR1 isoform, the cardiac RYR2 isoform was unaffected by dantrolene, both in native cardiac SR vesicles and when heterologously expressed in HEK-293 cells. By comparison, the RYR3 isoform expressed in HEK-293 cells was significantly inhibited by dantrolene, and the extent of RYR3 inhibition was similar to that displayed by the RYR1 in native SR vesicles. Our results thus indicate that both the RYR1 and the RYR3, but not the RYR2, may be targets for dantrolene inhibition in vivo.
The 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride is used for the treatment of androgenic alopecia, benign prostate hyperplasia and prostate cancer. Besides inhibiting the conversion of testosterone to the biologically more active 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone, it also inhibits the production of neurosteroids. Decreased neurosteroid levels are postulated to be involved in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders such as depression. As neurosteroids metabolized by 5-alpha-reductase influence neural plasticity, we investigated whether finasteride treatment alters adult hippocampal neurogenesis, implicated in the pathophysiology of depression.
Male C57BL/6N mice were treated subchronically (7 days) with finasteride or vehicle. Adult neurogenesis was assessed at two different time points after treatment (day 1; day 35) using immunohistochemistry.
Finasteride treatment led to a significant decrease in brain 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone levels and induced a reversible reduction in the number of newborn cells and young neurons in the hippocampus. 35 days after the last finasteride injection, neurogenesis had returned to normal.
These data indicate that inhibition of 5-alpha-reductase activity by finasteride treatment influences neuronal plasticity on a structural level. These changes might contribute to the pathophysiology of depressive episodes observed after finasteride treatment.
