We have previously shown that methadone maintenance patients are hyperalgesic. Very little is known about the antinociceptive effects of additional opioids in these patients. This study (1) compared the intensity and duration of antinociceptive responses, at two pseudo-steady-state plasma morphine concentrations (C(SS1) and C(SS2)), between four patients on stable, once daily, doses of methadone and four matched control subjects; and (2) determined, in methadone patients, whether the antinociceptive effects of morphine are affected by changes in plasma R(-)-methadone concentration that occur during an inter-dosing interval. Two types of nociceptive stimuli were used: (1) a cold pressor test (CP), (2) electrical stimulation (ES). Morphine was administered intravenously to achieve the two consecutive plasma concentrations. Blood samples were collected, concurrently with nociceptive responses, to determine plasma morphine concentrations. Methadone patients achieved mean C(SS1) and C(SS2) of 16 and 55 ng/ml respectively; those of controls were 11 and 33 ng/ml. Methadone patients were hyperalgesic to pain induced by CP but not ES. Despite significantly greater plasma morphine concentrations, methadone patients experienced minimal antinociception in comparison with controls. Furthermore in methadone patients, the antinociception ceased when the infusion ended. In comparison, the duration of effect in control subjects was 3 h. The fluctuations that occurred in plasma R(-)-methadone concentration during an inter-dosing interval had little effect on patients' responses to morphine. Our findings suggest that methadone patients are cross-tolerant to the antinociceptive effects of morphine, and conventional doses of morphine are likely to be ineffective in managing episodes of acute pain amongst this patient group. Further research is needed to determine whether other drugs are more effective than morphine in managing acute pain in this patient population.
Rhabdomyosarcomas (RMS) are highly aggressive tumors that are thought to arise as a consequence of the regulatory disruption of the growth and differentiation of skeletal muscle progenitor cells. Normal myogenesis is characterized by the expression of the myogenic regulatory factor gene family but, despite their expression in RMS, these tumor cells fail to complete the latter stages of myogenesis. The RMS cell line RD-A was treated with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate to induce differentiation and cultured for 10 days. RNA was extracted on days 1, 3, 6, 8 and 10. A human skeletal muscle cDNA microarray was developed and used to analyze the global gene expression of RMS tumors over the time-course of differentiation. As a comparison, the genes identified were subsequently examined during the differentiated primary human skeletal muscle cultures. Prothymosin alpha (PTMA), and translocase of inner mitochondrial membrane 10 (Tim10), two genes not previously implicated in RMS, showed reduced expression during differentiation. Marked differences in the expression of PTMA and Tim10 were observed during the differentiation of human primary skeletal muscle cells. These results identify several new genes with potential roles in the myogenic arrest present in rhabdomyosarcoma. PTMA expression in RMS biopsy samples might prove to be an effective diagnostic marker for this disease.
One of the underlying mechanisms of tumor promotion both in the skin and liver involves free radical mediated injury to informational macromolecules of target cells. A choline-deficient (CD) diet, which is an efficient liver tumor promoter, induces peroxidative damage of liver cell membrane lipids. By modifying components of a CD diet, we have shown that the efficacy of the promotion is correlated with the extent of lipid peroxidation. The substitution of fats in a CD diet with predominantly polyunsaturated fat and the addition of methapyrilene to a CD diet enhances membrane lipid peroxidation and the promoting effects. An antioxidant (BHT) and hypolipidemic peroxisome proliferators (BR931 and DEHP) suppress both of these effects. Contrary to these findings, phenobarbital did not induce membrane lipid peroxidation, and its addition to a CD diet inhibited the diet-induced lipid peroxidation, though such a combination exerted a stronger promoting action. Thus, a CD diet and phenobarbital exert their promoting actions through different mechanisms. The consequence of membrane lipid peroxidation in the liver cells induced by a CD diet may be multiple. Our recent study of surface membrane insulin receptors of liver cells of rats fed a CD diet showed a decrease in number and an enhanced binding affinity leading to altered responsiveness of liver cells to insulin mediated glycogen synthesis. It is suggested that CD diet-induced lipid peroxidation leads to functional alterations of membrane receptors involved in cell growth control and may thereby exert its promoting action.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) increased the blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature, when administered at the doses of 0.001-10 micrograms into the lateral cerebral ventricle (i.c.v.) of the urethane-anesthetised rat. The highest dose of 10 micrograms/rat induced a strong initial hypotensive effect. Intravenously (i.v.), PGE2 at the doses of 0.01-10 micrograms/rat caused a biphasic blood pressure response with dose-related initial decreases followed by slight increases in blood pressure. The heart rate and body temperature were slightly increased by i.v. administrations of PGE2. The highest i.v. dose of 10 micrograms/rat initially decreased also the heart rate. Central pretreatment with indomethacin (1 mg/rat i.c.v.) partly antagonised all of the recorded central effects of PGE2, while sodium meclofenamate (1 mg/rat i.c.v.) abolished the hypertensive response to i.c.v. administered PGE2 but failed to significantly affect the PGE2-induced rises of heart rate and body temperature. The results support the previous suggestions that PGE2 may participate in the central cardiovascular and thermoregulatory control. The results also suggest that indomethacin and sodium meclofenamate antagonize the effects of exogenous prostaglandins. Since sodium meclofenamate, unlike indomethacin, affected preferentially the hypertensive response to centrally administered PGE2, there may be differences in the sites and/or modes of action between these drugs.
Considerable controversy exists regarding the cardiovascular safety of COX-2 inhibitors, both in patients with and without established cardiovascular disease. Currently, the major focus is on thrombotic complications presenting as myocardial infarction. I n this report, we present a case of takotsubo cardiomyopathy, also known as the apical ballooning syndrome, precipitated by the use of lumiracoxib. We are concerned that this might be the first case of COX-2 inhibitor-induced apical ballooning syndrome and that more may follow.
Verrucae are small, benign, highly vascular epithelial neoplasms that occur singly or in a multiple presentation. Plantar verrucae are usually caused by infection with human papillomavirus types 1, 2, and 4. A clinical trial was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of monochloroacetic acid and 10% formaldehyde versus 10% formaldehyde alone in the treatment of simple plantar verrucae. Of 57 patients enrolled in the study, 26 were in the monochloroacetic acid and 10% formaldehyde group and 31 were in the 10% formaldehyde alone group. The overall cure rate for this population was 61.4%. There was no statistically significant difference in the cure rate between treatment groups.
Clinical responses of solid tumors after allogeneic human leukocyte antigen-matched stem cell transplantation (SCT) often coincide with severe graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Targeting minor histocompatibility antigens (mHags) with hematopoiesis- and cancer-restricted expression, for example, HA-1, may allow boosting the antitumor effect of allogeneic SCT without risking severe GVHD. The mHag HA-1 is aberrantly expressed in cancers of most entities. However, an estimated 30% to 40% of solid tumors do not express HA-1 (ie, are HA-1(neg)) and cannot be targeted by HA-1-specific immunotherapy. Here, we investigated the transcriptional regulation of HA-1 gene expression in cancer. We found that DNA hypermethylation in the HA-1 promoter region is closely associated with the absence of HA-1 gene expression in solid tumor cell lines. Moreover, we detected HA-1 promoter hypermethylation in primary cancers. The hypomethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine induced HA-1 expression only in HA-1(neg) tumor cells and sensitized them for recognition by HA-1-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Contrarily, the histone deacetylation inhibitor trichostatin A induced HA-1 expression both in some HA-1(neg) tumor cell lines and in normal nonhematopoietic cells. Our data suggest that promoter hypermethylation contributes to the HA-1 gene regulation in tumors. Hypomethylating drugs might extend the safe applicability of HA-1 as an immunotherapeutic target on solid tumors after allogeneic SCT.
Vindesine 1.75 mg/m2, twice weekly for 2 weeks followed by 2 weeks rest, was given to 26 lung cancer patients. In 6 patients a partial response was seen (23%). Neurotoxicity was present in 15 patients after 1 course; in 6 patients this was the reason for stopping therapy. This regimen has no advantage over weekly vindesine.
Ammonia-induced swelling of astrocytes is a primary cause of brain edema associated with acute hepatic encephalopathy. Previous studies have shown that ammonia transiently increases cGMP in brain in vivo and in cultured astrocytes in vitro. We hypothesized that protein kinase G (PKG), an enzyme activated by cGMP and implicated in regulation of cell shape, size, and/or volume in peripheral and CNS cells, may play a role in the ammonia-induced astrocytic volume increase. Treatment of cultured rat cortical astrocytes with 1 or 5 mM NH4Cl (ammonia) for 24 h increased their cell volume by 50% and 80% above control, respectively, as measured by confocal imaging followed by 3D computational analysis. A cGMP analog, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cGMP, increased the cell volume in control cells and potentiated the increase in 1 mM ammonia-treated cells. A soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor (1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one) abrogated, and a PKG inhibitor [8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cGMP-thioate, Rp-isomer] dose-dependently reduced the cell volume-increasing effect of 5 mM ammonia. The results suggest that (i) PKG may play a permissive role in ammonia-induced astrocytic swelling and (ii) elevation of brain cGMP associated with acute exposure to ammonia in vivo may aggravate the ensuing brain edema.
Twenty-three patients were studied, 21 of whom developed intoxication during maintenance therapy with a lithium dosage which had been unchanged for months to years. Toxic effects on brain, heart and kidneys were found and the severity of lithium intoxication seemed to depend on at least three factors: the height of the serum lithium concentration (SLi), the duration of lithium intoxication and individual tolerance. Disorders of water and electrolyte metabolism preceded lithium intoxication in the majority of the patients. Water loss due to impaired renal concentrating ability seemed to be a major predisposing factor. Renal insufficiency was apparent in 17 of the patients on admission and five of these did not regain normal renal function. In seven patients, renal biopsy showed abnormalities which suggest that a chronic nephropathy, possibly caused by lithium, might be another predisposing factor. Treatment with sodium chloride infusion had no specific effect on lithium excretion and led to hypernatraemia in some patients and is therefore not recommended. Hemodialysis is the most effective method available for removing the lithium ion from intoxicated patients. Hemodialysis should be carried out long enough to secure a SLi of less than 1 mmol/l after redistribution of lithium in the body. Treatment by peritoneal dialysis is appropriate only if hemodialysis facilities are unavailable. Lithium intoxication is a serious condition. Of the 23 patients reported, two died and two developed persisting neurological sequelae. The best way to prevent lithium intoxication is to control the serum concentration and to assess renal function and renal concentrating ability regularly during therapy.
Administration of the antioxidants 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (BHA) or 5-(P-methoxyphenyl)-3H-1,2-dithiol-3-thione (ADT) to female CD-1 mice starting 4 weeks after infection with 70 cercariae of Schistosoma mansoni resulted in a decrease in the size of the inner fibrotic region of the hepatic granuloma. The cellular composition of the granuloma was not altered by treatment with these two compounds. The administration of the specific superoxide scavenger copper diisopropylsalicylate (CuDIPS) resulted in a similar decrease in granuloma size, suggesting a role of superoxide radicals in the granulomatous response.
Flavopiridol has been reported to induce apoptosis in lymphoid cell lines via downregulation of bcl-2. The in vitro activity of flavopiridol against human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells and potential mechanisms of action for inducing cytotoxicity were studied. The in vitro viability of mononuclear cells from CLL patients (n = 11) was reduced by 50% at 4 hours, 24 hours, and 4 days at a flavopiridol concentration of 1.15 micromol/L (95% confidence interval [CI] +/-0.31), 0.18 micromol/L (95% CI +/-0.04), and 0.16 micromol/L (95% CI +/-0.04), respectively. Loss of viability in human CLL cells correlated with early induction of apoptosis. Exposure of CLL cells to 0.18 micromol/L of flavopiridol resulted in both decreased expression of p53 protein and cleavage of the caspase-3 zymogen 32-kD protein with the appearance of its 20-kD subunit. Contrasting observations of others in tumor cell lines, flavopiridol cytotoxicity in CLL cells did not correlate with changes in bcl-2 protein expression alterations. We evaluated flavopiridol's dependence on intact p53 by exposing splenocytes from wild-type (p53(+/+)) and p53 null (p53(-/-)) mice that demonstrated no preferential cytotoxicity as compared with a marked differential with F-ara-a and radiation. Incubation of CLL cells with antiapoptotic cytokine interleukin-4 (IL-4) did not alter the LC50 of flavopiridol, as compared with a marked elevation noted with F-ara-a in the majority of patients tested. These data demonstrate that flavopiridol has significant in vitro activity against human CLL cells through activation of caspase-3, which appears to occur independently of bcl-2 modulation, the presence of IL-4, or p53 status. Such findings strongly support the early introduction of flavopiridol into clinical trials for patients with B-CLL.
Chronic exposure of humans to benzene (BZ), a Class I carcinogen, causes acute myelogenous leukemia, possibly via its bone marrow metabolite, hydroquinone (HQ). The ability to alter cytokine-dependent growth and differentiation in hematopoietic stem or progenitor cells appears to be a property of agents with leukemogenic potential. We have previously reported that BZ and HQ specifically stimulate granulopoiesis in mice and cause granulocytic differentiation in normal murine interleukin (IL)-3-dependent, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-inducible 32D myeloblasts. BZ induces granulocytic differentiation by upregulating the production of leukotriene D4 (LTD4), an essential intracellular mediator of G-CSF signaling. We report here that HQ (0.5-4.0 microM), as well as LTD4 (1 nM-10 microM), causes a concentration-dependent induction of granulocytic differentiation in 32D myeloblasts. Unlike LTD4, which induces terminal granulocytic differentiation, HQ undergoes a myeloperoxidase-dependent oxidation to bioreactive p-benzoquinone (BQ), which induces differentiation predominantly to the myelocyte stage. Studies with the highly specific LTD4 receptor antagonist, MK-571, suggest that BQ induces granulocytic differentiation in myeloblasts by activating the LTD4 receptor, thus obviating the requirement for LTD4. This was confirmed by the demonstration that HQ, in the presence of LTD4, shifts the stage-specific pattern of terminal differentiation induced by LTD4 to the incomplete (myelocyte) profile induced by HQ. The inability of HQ to induce a complete program of terminal granulocytic differentiation in myeloblasts, as well as its ability to compete with induction by LTD4, may have a bearing on the leukemogenic potential of BZ.
Reported is a case of a premature infant who developed a well documented hemolytic anemia which responded to vitamin E therapy. The infant developed the syndrome while receiving an artificial formula containing iron and vitamin E, plus iron supplementation. The infant had a feeding problem which may have complicated absorption of vitamin E. It is suggested that premature infants who are formula fed should not receive iron supplement until they have doubled their birth weight or have a hemoglobin concentration of less than 10 mg%. Premature infants should receive supplemental vitamin E if they are not breast fed.
The occurrence of cholestatic jaundice in a patient receiving griseofulvin is described. The clinical manifestations, laboratory features, and pathological lesion of drug-induced hepatotoxicity are discussed. Complete recovery followed the discontinuation of drug administration. The potential hepatotoxicity of griseofulvin and the importance of close monitoring of liver function studies in patients receiving this drug are emphasized.
Tissue damage caused by ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) of the intestine may lead to organ dysfunction in several clinical conditions, and is associated with increased incidence of chronic rejection after transplantation. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is a stress-inducible protein capable of modulating inflammation, oxidative stress, and cell death. The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of HO-1 upregulation on intestinal IRI.
Lewis rats (seven groups, n=6 each) underwent intestinal warm ischemia induced by clamping the superior mesenteric artery and by ligating the inferior mesenteric artery for 60 min. After 120 or 240 min of reperfusion, tissue samples were collected for analysis. Cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) was administered IP at 10 or 20mg/kg 24h before IRI, to induce HO-1 upregulation. Control animals received vehicle alone. Tissue injury measurements included the following: histological changes, tissue myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, nitrate/nitrite levels, and IL-6 levels.
A significant HO-1 upregulation was demonstrated in pre-treated animals (p<0.05, 95% CI: -0.84 to -0.05). Intestinal IL-6 mRNA expression levels were significantly reduced in animals treated with CoPP 20mg/kg after 240 min of IRI (p<0.05, 95% CI: 0.09-2.25). Significant reduction in MPO activity and NO products was observed in treated animals when compared to controls (p<0.01, 95% CI: 0.07-0.24 and p<0.01, 95% CI: 5.58-12.75, respectively).
Induction of HO-1 by CoPP administration before IRI was resulted in a significant reduction of intestinal tissue injury. Developing strategies to induce HO-1 upregulation before surgery will be important to reduce IRI in the clinical setting.
With the increased effectiveness of anticancer therapy, much more attention is being paid to the monitoring of the side-effects of chemotherapy, which often constitute a limiting factor in anticancer therapy. In this pilot study, the results of our monitoring of changes in cardio-specific markers and thyroid gland parameters in patients with colorectal carcinoma in the course of adjuvant and palliative chemotherapy are presented.
A total of 42 patients with colorectal carcinoma were monitored (median age 52 years, range 34-82 years); in these patients a post-operative adjuvant or palliative chemotherapy was applied (de Gramont's or FOLFIRI regimen). In all of these patients, the cardio-specific markers brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and troponin I were assessed, as well as markers of thyroid gland function, TSH and FT4.
In the course of chemotherapy, more than half of the patients showed laboratory signs of coronary ischemia; in 6 of these (14%) coronary ischemia was manifested with troponin I levels above 0.3 microg/L. Twenty patients (48%) had laboratory signs of heart failure in the course of adjuvant or palliative chemotherapy. A more frequent incidence of elevated cardio-specific enzymes was observed in continual regimens than in bolus application of fluorouracil. Reduced TSH values were observed in the course of chemotherapy in 9 patients (21%), without changes in FT4 values. An increase in TSH values was observed in 4 patients (10%), again without changes in FT4 values.
The pilot study demonstrated that in patients undergoing treatment for colorectal carcinoma by adjuvant or palliative chemotherapy on the basis of 5-fluorouracil, it is advisable to check for possible cardiotoxicity and simultaneously to monitor thyroid gland functions. This systematic monitoring may improve the quality of life in cancer patients.
Chronic respiratory inflammation has been associated with lung cancer. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play a critical role in the formation of inflammation microenvironment. We sought to characterize the role of TAMs in coal tar pitch extract (CTPE)-induced tumorigenic transformation of human bronchial epithelial cells and the underlying mechanisms.
The expression of TAMs-specific CD68 in lung cancer tissues and paired adjacent tissues from cancer patients was determined using immunostaining. Co-culture of human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B) and macrophage-like THP-1 cells were conducted to evaluate the promotive effect of macrophages on CTPE-induced tumorigenic transformation of BEAS-2B cells. BEAS-2B cells were first treated with 2.4 µg/mL CTPE for 72 hours. After removal of CTPE, the cells were continuously cultured either with or without THP-1 cells and passaged using trypsin-EDTA. Alterations of cell cycle, karyotype, colony formation in soft agar and tumor xenograft growth in nude mice of BEAS-2B cells at passages 10, 20 and 30, indicative of tumorigenecity, were determined, respectively. In addition, mRNA and protein levels of NF-κB in BEAS-2B cells were measured with RT-PCR and western blot, respectively. B(a)P was used as the positive control.
The over-expression of TAMs-specific CD68 around lung tumor tissues was detected and associated with lung cancer progression. The tumorigenic alterations of BEAS-2B cells including increase in cell growth rate, number of cells with aneuploidy, clonogenicity in soft agar, and tumor size in nude mice in vivo occurred at passage 10, becoming significant at passages 20 and 30 of the co-culture following CTPE removal in compared to BEAS-2B cells alone. In addition, the expression levels of NF-κB in BEAS-2B cells were positively correlated to the malignancy of BEAS-2B cells under different conditions of treatment.
The presence of macrophages facilitated CTPE-induced tumorigenic transformation of BEAS-2B cells, which may be mediated by NF-κB.
Metoclopramide (Paspertin) was infused intravenously in the high doses of 1.75, 3.5, 7.0, and 14 mg/kg body wt. per treatment cycle as antiemetic therapy for cisplatin-induced emesis (363 cycles, 25-120 mg/m2). The antiemetic potency of metoclopramide increased in a log linear manner, giving from 40% to 95% protection against emesis. Gastrointestinal motility showed a similar increase, i.e. diarrhoea. In contrast, the extrapyramidal reactions, namely akathisia, rigidity and acute dystonia, did not show a dose-dependent increase in frequency and remained constant over the dose range of 3.5-14 mg/kg per cycle. The results suggest increasing benefit of metoclopramide treatment with increasing doses of the drug.
Cytogenetic studies have previously identified abnormalities of chromosome band 11q23 in many cases of infant acute leukemia. Recent studies by ourselves and others have demonstrated breakpoint clustering in acute leukemias bearing translocations involving 11q23, and a Drosophila trithorax gene homologue (called MLL, HRX, or ALL-1) has been shown to span the 11q23 breakpoints of these translocations. To determine if this gene is affected in infant acute myeloid leukemia (AML), we have analyzed 26 infant AML cases for molecular alterations of this 11q23 gene. 15 out of 26 cases studied (58%) showed rearrangement of the MLL gene at the molecular level, and these rearrangements were clustered within an approximately 11-kb region containing nine exons of this gene. Moreover, 14 of the 15 cases with 11q23 rearrangements (93%) had myelomonocytic or monocytic phenotypes (M4 or M5 FAB subtypes, respectively), both of which are associated with a poor prognosis in childhood AML. In contrast, only 1 of 11 nonrearranged cases had an M4 or M5 phenotype (P = 0.00002). Rearrangement also correlated significantly with hyperleukocytosis (P = 0.02), another clinical parameter associated with poor outcome in this disease. Our results demonstrate that molecular rearrangements of MLL are common in M4 or M5 infant AML, and suggest that alteration of this gene may result in abnormal control of proliferation and differentiation in monocytic progenitor cells.
We report a case of infective endocarditis due to vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus that developed after repeated courses of vancomycin. The patient had underlying end stage renal disease and dissecting aortic aneurysm with aortic graft and prosthetic aortic valve replacement. He responded to prolonged combination therapy with linezolid and amikacin without undergoing surgical intervention.
We previously reported that cocaine-dependent patients with a reduced blue cone b wave electroretinogram (ERG) responses had significantly more cue-elicited craving.
A new series of 21 recently withdrawn cocaine-dependent patients completed a craving questionnaire at baseline and following cue exposure; an ERG was also performed.
Cocaine-dependent patients with a blunted ERG blue cone response (<0.5 microV) showed greater increases in craving following cue exposure. When subjects were included from our preliminary study (N = 14), these differences became highly significant.
Patients with a reduced ERG response may represent a subgroup more vulnerable to cocaine craving and future relapse.
Twenty-five patients (aged 18 to 72 years), who recovered after the first bleed from a cerebral aneurysm, were operated on under neuroleptanaesthesia. Isoflurane was added to induce hypotension. It was found that the required hypotension (51 (SEM 1) mmHg) could be obtained and maintained at much lower isoflurane concentrations (less than 1%) after blockade of the angiotensin converting enzyme activity by enalaprilat (2.5 mg i.v.) than without such inhibition. During the hypotension which lasted 78 (SEM 10) min, only minor adjustments of the isoflurane concentration (0.70 (0.04%) were needed. The desired level of hypotension was obtained with preservation of the cardiac output and without tachycardia. No resistance to the blood pressure lowering effect of isoflurane was observed. On recovery from anaesthesia, a small increase of blood pressure above control values was seen in 16 patients and was easily reversed by small doses of clonidine (mean total dose: 220 (61) micrograms). The operative conditions were excellent and the postoperative recovery was uneventful and complete in 23 patients.
Two new anthracenediones with antineoplastic activities resembling those of the anthracycline antibiotics were studied in a rat cardiotoxicity model system. NCS-196473 was approx. 10-fold less toxic than doxorubicin and caused only minor electrocardiogram (ECG) changes. Its dihydroxyanalog NSC-279836 was somewhat more toxic than doxorubicin, caused marked leukopenia and induced ECG changes and moderate elevation of serum GOT, LDH and creatine phosphokinase (CK). Both anthracenediones induced marked alterations of mitochondrial structure in the heart but no dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and distortion of the contractile elements. It is concluded that the cardiotoxic effects of the anthracenediones are of a less specific nature than those caused by doxorubicin.
The purpose of this study was to describe acute encephalopathy as a new toxicity associated with paclitaxel, when it is delivered at high doses (> or =600 mg/m2) with stem cell support. A total of 129 patients, included in clinical trials of paclitaxel-containing high-dose chemotherapy, were analyzed. A total of 114 patients received paclitaxel at a dose of > or =600 mg/m2. Six patients presented acute encephalopathy starting between 7 and 23 days after paclitaxel treatment; two of them had received prior whole-brain irradiation. Paclitaxel was given alone (one patient), with cyclophosphamide and cisplatin (two patients), and with cyclophosphamide and cisplatin plus 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (three patients). Central nervous system toxicity consisted of rapid obtundation and coma (five patients) and severe confusional picture with paranoid ideations (one patient). Brain magnetic resonance imaging showed diffuse white matter atrophy (one patient) or multiple small infarcts (one patient), or it was normal (four patients). Other complementary tests, including cerebrospinal fluid analysis and electroencephalography, were nondiagnostic. An effect from concomitant psychotropic medications or from other organ toxicities was excluded in all patients. Three patients recovered after 8-15 days, either spontaneously (two patients) or after high-dose steroids (one patient). Three patients died of irreversible coma. Necropsy, performed in two patients, showed generalized white matter atrophy and multiple brain parenchymal infarcts, respectively. No pharmacodynamic correlation between the occurrence of encephalopathy and a pharmacokinetic parameter of paclitaxel could be identified. Paclitaxel-containing high-dose chemotherapy can cause severe acute encephalopathy. An aggravating effect from prior brain irradiation or concurrent 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea seems possible.
In four patients, two men and two women aged 73, 68, 84 and 72 years respectively, reversible cholestatic liver injury was seen 28-35 days after the start of treatment with amoxycillin-clavulanic acid (Augmentin). This rare complication of amoxycillin-clavulanic acid treatment is characterized by a relatively long latent period before the onset of symptoms or biochemical abnormalities, which makes early recognition difficult. The mechanism responsible for this idiosyncratic cholestasis is unknown.
Side-effects, including autoimmune disorders, are frequent with D-penicillamine therapy. Proteinuria is observed in 10% of the patients, often secondary to extramembranous glomerulopathy. Necrotizing extracapillary glomerulonephritis is however exceptional.
Two patients with systemic sclerodermia were treated with D-penicillamine for 7 and 14 years. Both developed necrotizing extracapillary glomerulonephritis with anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies (anti-MPO), associated with hemorrhagic alveolitis in one case. Partial regression of the renal failure was obtained after withdrawal of D-penicillamine and combination treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide.
Extracapillary glomerulonephritis or a lung-kidney syndrome are frequently associated with anti-MPO antineutrophil cytoplasm antibodies (ANCA). In systemic sclerodermia, the presence of anti-MPO appears to define a group of patients at risk of pauci-immune extracapillary glomerulonephritis or a lung-kidney syndrome. In addition, the presence of ANCA in patients with renal failure would suggest extracapillary glomerulonephritis rather than sclerodermic microangiopathy. Development of extracapillary glomerulonephritis with anti-MPO in patients who are taking D-penicillamine suggests that inductor mechanisms other than D-penicillamine are involved in the pathogenesis of these glomerulopathies.
To investigate the clinical manifestations, treatment and prevention of optic nerve damage by ethambutol toxicity.
Retrospective analysis was done on 17 patients of tuberculosis who had been treated with ethambutol and shown ocular symptoms.
Changes in visual acuity, fundal appearance, visual field and color sensation were major abnormal findings. According to the neural damage, the patients were diagnosed as axial neuritis 7 cases, periaxial neuritis 2 cases, mixed type 3 cases and there were no significant changes on fundus, color sensation or visual field in 5 cases. In 17 cases, none of the patient showed the appearance of retinitis. The impairment of visual acuity and the duration of damage were related to the daily dosage significantly. After stop of ethambutol and vasodilators or neurotrophic drugs were given, the function of optic nerves were recovered.
To prevent the damage of optic nerves by the toxicity of ethambutol, the appropriate small dosage of ethambutol is recommended, regular examination and monitoring of visual function is necessary. The physicians should be fully aware of the diagnosis and clinical manifestations of ocular toxicity of ethambutol, as soon as the diagnosis is made, ethambutol should be stopped immediately and appropriate therapy should be given.
