Monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A), a mitochondrial enzyme that degrades monoamines including neurotransmitters, is highly expressed in basal cells of the normal human prostatic epithelium and in poorly differentiated (Gleason grades 4 and 5), aggressive prostate cancer (PCa). Clorgyline, an MAO-A inhibitor, induces secretory differentiation of normal prostate cells. We examined the effects of clorgyline on the transcriptional program of epithelial cells cultured from high grade PCa (E-CA).
We systematically assessed gene expression changes induced by clorgyline in E-CA cells using high-density oligonucleotide microarrays. Genes differentially expressed in treated and control cells were identified by Significance Analysis of Microarrays. Expression of genes of interest was validated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.
The expression of 156 genes was significantly increased by clorgyline at all time points over the time course of 6 - 96 hr identified by Significance Analysis of Microarrays (SAM). The list is enriched with genes repressed in 7 of 12 oncogenic pathway signatures compiled from the literature. In addition, genes downregulated >or= 2-fold by clorgyline were significantly enriched with those upregulated by key oncogenes including beta-catenin and ERBB2, indicating an anti-oncogenic effect of clorgyline. Another striking effect of clorgyline was the induction of androgen receptor (AR) and classic AR target genes such as prostate-specific antigen together with other secretory epithelial cell-specific genes, suggesting that clorgyline promotes differentiation of cancer cells. Moreover, clorgyline downregulated EZH2, a critical component of the Polycomb Group (PcG) complex that represses the expression of differentiation-related genes. Indeed, many genes in the PcG repression signature that predicts PCa outcome were upregulated by clorgyline, suggesting that the differentiation-promoting effect of clorgyline may be mediated by its downregulation of EZH2.
Our results suggest that inhibitors of MAO-A, already in clinical use to treat depression, may have potential application as therapeutic PCa drugs by inhibiting oncogenic pathway activity and promoting differentiation.
In the present study, the effects of acute and sub-chronic pretreatment of nicotine on impairment of memory formation and the state-dependent learning by morphine have been investigated in mice. Pre-training administration of morphine (5mg/kg) decreased the learning of a one-trial passive avoidance task, which was reversed by pre-test administration of the same dose of morphine. Amnesia induced by pre-training morphine was also significantly reversed in nicotine (0.001, 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg)-treated animals on the test day. Morphine induced amnesia was also reversed in animals which had previously received sub-chronic injections of nicotine, once daily for 3 days followed by 14 days of no drug treatment. The restoration of memory by pre-test morphine was also reduced in animals which had previously received once daily injections of atropine (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) for 3 days after 14 of being days drug free. In the animals, restoration of memory by sub-chronic nicotine administration, was also decreased by once daily administration of atropine (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) 10 min prior to injection of nicotine (0.1 microg/kg/day, for 3 days) but not with SCH 23390; R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine HCl (0.01, 0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg) or sulpiride (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg) during 3-days of treatment with nicotine. The results suggest that nicotine may induce sensitization which affects the impairment of memory formation via cholinergic but not dopaminergic systems.
The dopamine-releasing and depleting substance amphetamine (AMPH) can make cortical neurons susceptible to damage, and the prevention of hyperthermia, seizures and stroke is thought to block these effects. Here we report a 2-day AMPH treatment paradigm which affected only interneurons in three cortical regions with average or below-average dopamine input. AMPH (six escalating doses/day ranging from 5 to 30 mg/kg for 2 days) was given at 17-18 degrees C ambient temperature (T) to adult male rats. During the 2-day AMPH treatment, peak body T stayed below 38.9 degrees C in 40% of the AMPH treated rats. In 60% of the rats, deliberate cooling suppressed (<39.5 degrees C) or minimized (<40.0 degrees C) hyperthermia. Escalation of stereotypes to seizure-like behaviors was rare and post-mortem morphological signs of stroke were absent. Neurons labeled with the anionic, neurodegeneration-marker dye Fluoro-Jade (F-J) were seen 1 day after dosing, peaked 3 days later, but were barely detectable 14 days after dosing. Only nonpyramidal neurons in layer IV of the somatosensory barrel cortex and in layer II of the piriform cortex and posterolateral cortical amygdaloid nucleus were labeled with Fluoro-Jade. Isolectin B-labeled activated microglia were only detected in their neighborhood. F-J labeled neurons were extremely rare in cortical regions rich in dopamine (e.g. cingulate cortex), and were absent in cortical regions with no dopamine (e.g. visual cortex). Parvalbumin was seen in some Fluoro-Jade-labeled neurons and parvalbumin immunostaining in local axon plexuses intensified. This AMPH paradigm affected fewer cortical regions, and caused smaller reduction in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity than previous 1-day AMPH regimens generating seizures or severe (above 40 degrees C) hyperthermia. Correlation between peak or mean body T and the extent of neurodegeneration or microgliosis was below statistical significance. Astrogliosis (elevated levels of the astroglia-marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)) was detected in many brain regions. In the striatum and midbrain, F-J labeled neurons and activated microglia were absent, but astrogliosis, decreased TH immunolabel, and swollen TH fibers were detected. In sum, after this AMPH treatment, cortical pyramidal neurons were spared, but astrogliosis was brain-wide and some interneurons and microglia in three cortical regions with average or below-average dopamine input remained sensitive to AMPH exposure.
H(2)-receptor antagonists, such as cimetidine, ranitidine and famotidine, are some of the most commonly prescribed medications for gastric acid-related disorders. These compounds are generally well-tolerated and anaphylactic reactions to them are rare. Here, we report two cases of H(2)-receptor antagonist-induced anaphylactic reactions: the first presented with sudden dyspnea, sneezing, urticaria, and swelling of the eyelids after ranitidine intake. The second presented with sudden severe urticaria, facial swelling, chest discomfort, dizziness, and hypotension. Possible cross-reactivity with other H(2)-receptor antagonists was assessed by oral challenge and skin tests. To date, only a few reports addressing cross-reactivity among H(2)-receptor antagonists have been published. We review the literature and summarize the data available on drug cross-reactivity in H(2)-receptor antagonist hypersensitivity.
We investigated the clinical response of chronic heart failure patients with beta(2)-adrenergic receptor Gln(27)-->Glu polymorphism treated for 6 months with carvedilol, a alpha/beta-antagonist with antioxidant properties. The 6-min. walk test, the left ventricular ejection fraction, heart rate, plasma norepinephrine and malondialdehyde, a stress oxidative marker, concentrations were evaluated at baseline and after treatment for 6 months with carvedilol in 33 stable chronic heart failure patients with the Gln(27)-->Glubeta(2)-adrenergic receptor polymorphism. Carvedilol significantly increased the left ventricular ejection fraction, while decreasing the heart rate and malondialdehyde plasma concentrations in chronic heart failure patients with the Glu(27)beta(2)-adrenergic receptor allele. There were however, no significant changes in patients with the Gln(27)beta(2)-adrenergic receptor variant.
To identify temporal changes in protein expression in the irradiated rat lung and generate putative mechanisms underlying the radioprotective effect of the manganese superoxide dismutase mimetic MnTE-2-PyP(5+).
Female Fischer 344 rats were irradiated to the right hemithorax with a single dose of 28 Gy and killed from day 1 to 20 weeks after irradiation. Proteomic profiling was performed to identify proteins that underwent significant changes in abundance. Some irradiated rats were administered MnTE-2-PyP(5+) and changes in protein expression and phosphorylation determined at 6 weeks after irradiation.
Radiation induced a biphasic stress response in the lung, as shown by the induction of heme oxygenase 1 at 1-3 days and at 6-8 weeks after irradiation. At 6-8 weeks after irradiation, the down-regulation of proteins involved in cytoskeletal architecture (filamin A and talin), antioxidant defense (biliverdin reductase and peroxiredoxin II), and cell signaling (β-catenin, annexin II, and Rho-guanosine diphosphate dissociation inhibitor) was observed. Treatment with MnTE-2-PyP(5+) partially prevented the apparent degradation of filamin and talin, reduced the level of cleaved caspases 3 and 9, and promoted Akt phosphorylation as well as β-catenin expression.
A significant down-regulation of proteins and an increase in protein markers of apoptosis were observed at the onset of lung injury in the irradiated rat lung. Treatment with MnTE-2-PyP(5+), which has been demonstrated to reduce lung injury from radiation, reduced apparent protein degradation and apoptosis indicators, suggesting that preservation of lung structural integrity and prevention of cell loss may underlie the radioprotective effect of this compound.
Osmolytes are rapidly lost from the ischemic heart, an effect thought to benefit the heart by reducing the osmotic load. However, the observation that chronic lowering of one of the prominent osmolytes, taurine, is more beneficial to the ischemic heart than acute taurine loss suggests that osmotic stress may benefit the ischemic heart through multiple mechanisms. The present study examines the possibility that chronic osmotic stress preconditions the heart in part by stimulating a cardioprotective, osmotic-linked signaling pathway. Hyperosmotic stress was produced by treating rat neonatal cardiomyocytes during the pre-hypoxic period with either the taurine depleting agent, beta-alanine (5 mM), or with medium containing 25 mM mannitol. The cells were then subjected to chemical hypoxia in medium containing 3 mM Amytal and 10 mM deoxyglucose but lacking beta-alanine and mannitol. Cells that had been pretreated with either 5 mM beta-alanine or 25 mM mannitol exhibited resistance against hypoxia-induced apoptosis and necrosis. Associated with the osmotically preconditioned state was the activation of Akt and the inactivation of the pro-apoptotic factor, Bad, both events blocked by the inhibition of PI 3-kinase. However, preconditioning the cardiomyocyte with mannitol had no effect on the generation of free radicals during the hypoxic period. Osmotic stress also promoted the upregulation of the anti-apoptotic factor, Bcl-2. Since inhibition of PI 3-kinase with Wortmannin also prevents osmotic-mediated cardioprotection, we conclude that hyperosmotic-mediated activation of the PI 3-kinase/Akt pathway contributes to osmotic preconditioning.
Tumor cell motility and invasion have been linked to upregulated signaling from both the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and that for urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPAR). However, we do not know whether these events are interdependent or unrelated, despite the obvious diagnostic and therapeutic implications. Gene microarray analyses have suggested that EGFR signaling via phospholipase C-gamma (PLCgamma) induces uPAR transcription. We utilized two sublines of the DU145 human prostate carcinoma cell line that are genetically engineered to differentially activate the EGFR/PLCgamma cascade and are variously invasive in vitro and in vivo. uPAR protein levels in these cells were found to be dependent on PLC signaling, pharmacologic inhibition of PLC signaling reduced uPAR expression. To determine whether uPAR was a required element in EGFR-mediated invasion, we stably expressed uPAR cDNA in either sense or antisense orientation in the two DU145 sublines. Interestingly, uPA production was modulated in parallel, although to a lesser degree, with uPAR in these sublines. Antisense to uPAR significantly restricted invasion of the highly invasive DU145 WT cells through Matrigel and reduced aggressiveness of tumors in nude mice. Up-regulation of uPAR significantly increased the invasiveness of the moderately invasive DU145 parental (DU145 P) cells through Matrigel, but this increased invasiveness was not seen in mice. uPA activity appears to contribute to invasiveness at least through Matrigel, as antibody to uPA or amiloride limited the transmigration. These results support a model of tumor invasion promoted by autocrine EGFR signaling involving reinforcing altered gene expression, of uPAR at least, that further induces cell motility. Herein, a number of key molecules whose expression levels are interrelated, including both EGFR and uPAR, are required but none are sufficient in the absence of other keys molecules in promoting tumor progression.
Abdominal aortic surgery is associated with marked changes in renal haemodynamics. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of infrarenal cross-clamping on glomerular filtration rate and endogenous renal nitric oxide metabolism.
Groups of male Wistar rats were subjected to infrarenal aortic cross-clamping followed by reperfusion. Animals were allowed to recover after a left nephrectomy. The glomerular filtration rate of the remaining kidney was measured on the second and seventh day after the procedure before the animal was killed and the remaining kidney harvested. Total nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and expression of inducible NOS (iNOS) was determined in renal tissue following 1 h and 7 days of reperfusion.
Glomerular filtration rate was impaired on the second and seventh day after operation in all animals subjected to lower torso ischaemia compared with controls (P < 0.05). Renal NOS activity was increased at 1 h and 7 days in animals subjected to infrarenal cross-clamping compared to controls (P < 0.01). iNOS was detected in renal tissue of animals subjected to infrarenal aortic cross-clamping on the seventh day after operation.
Infrarenal aortic cross-clamping is associated with impairment of renal function in the early postoperative period. There is an increase in endogenous renal nitric oxide metabolism with iNOS expression. Presented in part to the Surgical Research Society, Dublin, Ireland, July 1998
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infects 3% of the world's population. Treatment of chronic HCV consists of a combination of PEGylated interferon-alpha (PEG-IFN-alpha) and ribavirin (RBV). To identify genetic variants associated with HCV treatment response, we conducted a genome-wide association study of sustained virological response (SVR) to PEG-IFN-alpha/RBV combination therapy in 293 Australian individuals with genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C, with validation in an independent replication cohort consisting of 555 individuals. We report an association to SVR within the gene region encoding interleukin 28B (IL28B, also called IFNlambda3; rs8099917 combined P = 9.25 x 10(-9), OR = 1.98, 95% CI = 1.57-2.52). IL28B contributes to viral resistance and is known to be upregulated by interferons and by RNA virus infection. These data suggest that host genetics may be useful for the prediction of drug response, and they also support the investigation of the role of IL28B in the treatment of HCV and in other diseases treated with IFN-alpha.
The pluripotent cytokine transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is the central regulator of inducible Nitric Oxide Synthase (iNOS) that is responsible for nitric oxide (NO) production in inflammatory settings. Previous studies have implicated a role for NO, presumably derived from iNOS, in cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis in the bladder. TGF-beta1 is produced in latent form and requires dissociation from the latency-associated peptide (LAP) to act as primary anti-inflammatory and pro-healing modulator following tissue injury in the upper urinary tract. Since the role of TGF-beta1 in lower urinary tract inflammation is currently unknown, and since gender-based differences exist in the setting of interstitial cystitis (IC), the present study examined the relationship between TGF-beta1 and iNOS/NO in the pathogenesis of CYP-induced cystitis in both male and female rats.
Sprague-Dawley rats, 4 months of age, of either gender were given 150 mg/kg CYP intraperitoneally. Urinary and bladder tissue TGF-beta1 and NO reaction products (NO2-/NO3-) were quantified as a function of time following CYP. Expression of active and latent TGF-beta1 as well as iNOS in harvested bladder tissue was assessed by immunohistochemistry.
Female rats had significantly higher levels of NO2-/NO3- in urine even at baseline as compared to male rats (p < 0.001), whereas there was no gender based significant difference in urine levels of active or latent TGF-beta1 prior to CYP injection. Inflammatory and cytotoxic changes were induced by CYP in the bladder of both sexes that were accompanied by differences in the urine levels of NO2-/NO3- and TGF-beta1. Male rats responded to CYP with significantly lower levels of NO2-/NO3- and significantly higher levels of TGF-beta1 in urine (p < 0.05) as compared to females at all time points after CYP. The urine levels of NO2-/NO3- after CYP were inversely correlated to latent and active TGF-beta1 (Pearson coefficient of -0.72 and -0.69 in females and -0.89 and -0.76 in males, respectively; p < 0.01). Bladder tissue of male rats exhibited significantly higher levels of both latent and active TGF-beta1 (p < 0.01) compared to female rats after CYP. TGF-beta1 and iNOS protein was mostly localized in the urothelium.
The results of this study suggest that there exists an inverse relationship between the expression of TGF-beta1 and iNOS/NO2-/NO3- in CYP-inflamed bladder. The gender of the animal appears to magnify the differences in urine levels of TGF-beta1 and NO2-/NO3- in this inflammatory setting. These results support the hypothesis that TGF-beta1 can suppress iNOS expression associated with bladder inflammation and reduce systemic levels of NO2-/NO3-, and further suggest that this feature of TGF-beta1 can be harnessed for therapy and diagnosis of interstitial cystitis.
The recommended treatment for patients with chronic hepatitis C, pegylated interferon-alpha (PEG-IFN-alpha) plus ribavirin (RBV), does not provide sustained virologic response (SVR) in all patients. We report a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to null virological response (NVR) in the treatment of patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1 within a Japanese population. We found two SNPs near the gene IL28B on chromosome 19 to be strongly associated with NVR (rs12980275, P = 1.93 x 10(-13), and rs8099917, 3.11 x 10(-15)). We replicated these associations in an independent cohort (combined P values, 2.84 x 10(-27) (OR = 17.7; 95% CI = 10.0-31.3) and 2.68 x 10(-32) (OR = 27.1; 95% CI = 14.6-50.3), respectively). Compared to NVR, these SNPs were also associated with SVR (rs12980275, P = 3.99 x 10(-24), and rs8099917, P = 1.11 x 10(-27)). In further fine mapping of the region, seven SNPs (rs8105790, rs11881222, rs8103142, rs28416813, rs4803219, rs8099917 and rs7248668) located in the IL28B region showed the most significant associations (P = 5.52 x 10(-28)-2.68 x 10(-32); OR = 22.3-27.1). Real-time quantitative PCR assays in peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed lower IL28B expression levels in individuals carrying the minor alleles (P = 0.015).
Cocaine is a potent cardiac stimulant that can provoke lethal cardiac events, including ventricular fibrillation (VF). The cocaine-induced accumulation of intracellular calcium could contribute significantly to the development of these lethal arrhythmias. To test this hypothesis, VF was induced in 12 mongrel dogs by the combination of cocaine (1.0 mg/kg) and a 2-min coronary occlusion during exercise. This test without cocaine failed to induce arrhythmias. Pretreatment with the intracellular calcium-specific chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid-acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM; 1.0 mg/kg iv) prevented VF in 8 of 12 animals (P < 0.001) and delayed the onset of lethal arrhythmias in 3 of the remaining animals. Cocaine induced significant increases in left ventricular (LV) systolic pressure (control 154.7 +/- 8.7, cocaine 167.4 +/- 8.4 mmHg), heart rate (control 195.9 +/- 6.1, cocaine 222.3 +/- 10.6 beats/min), and LV maximum rate of pressure development (dP/dtmax; control 5,251 +/- 317.6, cocaine 6,016 +/- 435.1 mmHg/s). BAPTA-AM attenuated the increase in LV dP/dtmax (BAPTA-AM 4,591 +/- 479.3 mmHg/s) and LV systolic pressure (BAPTA-AM 154.5 +/- 6.8 mmHg). Because vascular muscle relaxation could contribute to the cardioprotection, the cocaine and exercise plus ischemia test was repeated after nitroprusside. The nitroprusside prevented cocaine-induced increases in LV systolic pressure but failed to prevent VF. These data suggest that BAPTA-AM may prevent cocaine-induced VF independently of its vascular actions.
We evaluated the effects of dexmedetomidine pretreatment on bupivacaine cardiotoxicity in anesthetized rats.
Sixteen Wistar-Albino male rats (300-400 g) were anesthetized with ketamine. Electrocardiographic and invasive blood pressure monitoring were performed, and the results were continuously recorded. The rats were randomized into 2 groups. In group D, rats were pretreated with intravenous dexmedetomidine at a dose of 10 Kg/kg (n = 8), whereas in group S, rats were pretreated with intravenous saline (n = 8). Fifteen minutes later, bupivacaine was infused at a rate of 3 mg/kg per minute until cardiac asystole occurred. The timing of specific cardiotoxic events (a 25%, 50%, and 75% reductions of mean arterial pressure and heart rate as well as occurrence of the first arrhythmia and asystole) was recorded.
Dexmedetomidine pretreatment reduced the heart rates and mean arterial pressures of the rats who received it (P G 0.05). Dexmedetomidine pretreatment before bupivacaine administration also significantly increased the time to the 25%, 50%, and 75% reductions in mean arterial pressure and the time to the 25% and 50% reductions in heart rate (P G 0.05). In addition, dexmedetomidine significantly increased the time to first arrhythmia and time to asystole (P G 0.05) in the rats who received it before receiving bupivacaine.
Dexmedetomidine pretreatment delays the effects of bupivacaine cardiotoxicity.
Besides cardiac volume overload, cardiac sympathetic activity and the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) are activated by arterial vasodilators such as minoxidil. To evaluate the possible involvement of the RAS in the development of minoxidil-induced cardiac hypertrophy, we assessed in normotensive rats minoxidil-induced changes in cardiac and plasma renin activity (PRA) and the potential of chronic treatment with the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril and the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor blocker losartan to prevent minoxidil-induced cardiac hypertrophy. PRA increased in parallel with the increase in cardiac filling pressures and development of cardiac hypertrophy, whereas the increase in cardiac renin activity was delayed as compared with these changes. Losartan did not decrease left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) but prevented the remodeling of the heart by minoxidil. In contrast, enalapril nearly normalized LVEDP but did not affect the hypertrophic response of the heart. The losartan data indicate that the RAS is involved in the minoxidil-induced cardiac hypertrophy either directly (e.g., by mediating the hypertrophic response of the heart to cardiac volume overload) or indirectly (e.g., by potentiating cardiac sympathetic activity). The ineffectiveness of enalapril has no obvious explanation but may possibly indicate ineffective blockade of angiotensin II formation in the heart in this model.
5-fluorouracil cardiotoxicity is increasingly recognized with variable presentation. We report a patient who developed cardiogenic shock due to high-dose 5-fluorouracil infusion (1,000 mg/m2 every 24 hr for 96 hr). There was no evidence of myocardial necrosis. The patient recovered completely without any residual cardiac dysfunction. The exact cause of 5-fluorouracil toxicity remains to be determined. The case highlights the need for careful monitoring of patients who receive high-dose 5-fluorouracil for the development of cardiotoxicity.
To clarify the risk-benefit ratio involved in association of antiarrhythmic drugs, a combined therapy of amiodarone and propafenone was tested by means of continuous electrocardiographic monitoring, analysis of levels of the drug in the plasma and programmed electrical stimulation in a selected group of 10 patients who had left ventricular dysfunction and spontaneous relapses of sustained ventricular tachycardia despite treatment with amiodarone. Induction of sustained ventricular tachycardia, possible in each case during treatment with amiodarone, was suppressed after addition of propafenone in 2 patients (responders), who had the best ejection fractions of the entire group (greater than 45%). Worsening of spontaneous tachycardias developed in 4 cases during the combined therapy. These ventricular arrhythmias, although generally at a low rate, sometimes had the potential to degenerate into ventricular fibrillation and disappeared after both discontinuation of propafenone or increase of its dosage (1 patient). Of the six cases undergoing chronic combined treatment, only the responders to premature electrical stimulation were completely protected from recurrences of arrhythmia. Three cases, on the other hand, needed permanent endocardial pacing for symptomatic bradyarrhythmias. The combination of treatment with amiodarone and propafenone, although potentially useful in limiting dosages of and toxicity from amiodarone, is frequently associated with undesirable, and occasionally has severe, side-effects. The best candidates for this pharmacological association seem to be patients without severely depressed left ventricular function who have a greater probability of not presenting the inducibility of ventricular tachycardia after the addition of propafenone to the regimen for treatment.
To determine whether acute hypertension (HT) is a risk factor for damage to the blood-brain barrier in carotid angiography with nonionic contrast media.
Anesthetized rats received intravenous injections of technetium-99m-pertechnetate and horseradish peroxidase. Two groups of rats received metaraminol to raise their blood pressure to between 165 and 190 mmHg peak systolic and then received intracarotid injections of saline or iopamidol. Two other groups remained normotensive and received intracarotid injections of saline or iopamidol. Animals were perfused with a fixative solution and their brains removed. Activity of extravasated Tc-99m-pertechnetate was determined to assess blood-brain barrier breakdown. Brains were then sectioned, treated histochemically to visualize extravasated horseradish peroxidase, and ranked visually according to horseradish peroxidase staining.
Extravasation of both tracers was significantly greater in the hypertensive group that received contrast media than in the other three groups.
Acute hypertension potentiates the blood-brain barrier-damaging effects of nonionic contrast media during carotid angiography in rats.
Some antidepressant drugs, especially tricyclic ones--(TCA), have cardiovascular side effects. To compare the effects of antidepressant drugs, the electrocardiogram (ECG), vectorcardiogram (VCG), and body surface maps (BSM) were recorded in psychiatric patients without cardiovascular diseases treated by a) TCA amitriptyline or dosulepin (daily dose 50-200 mg, 22 patients), b) lithium (serum level 0.66 +/- 0.08 meq/l, 21 patients), c) selective serotonine reuptake inhibitor citalopram (daily doses 20-60 mg, 30 patients), and in 23 control patients. In the TCA-treated patients, the heart rate was increased, QT and RR intervals shortened (p < 0.01, antimuscarinic effect). This was not observed in lithium- and citalopram-treated patients. All antidepressants decreased the absolute maximum values of depolarization isointegral maps, lithium and TCA reduced the initial and citalopram the later phase of depolarization. Citalopram slightly diminished the amplitude of the R wave. The results confirm the antimuscarinic effects of TCA in therapeutic doses and specify the intraventricular effects of antidepressants.
Exisulind is a sulfone derivative of sulindac that induces apoptosis and demonstrates synergy with docetaxel in lung cancer models. This study evaluated the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetic interactions of exisulind and docetaxel/carboplatin in patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Fifty-seven patients received 218 cycles of docetaxel (75 mg/m2) and carboplatin (area under the curve, 5.0) in combination with exisulind (125-250 mg orally twice daily). Two complete responses and 9 partial responses were observed among the 47 patients assessable for response (overall response rate, 23%). The median duration of response was 5.9 months and median survival was 9.4 months. The 1- and 2-year survival rates are 35% and 14%, respectively. The hematologic toxicities were consistent with those previously reported with docetaxel/carboplatin. The most common nonhematologic toxicities were mild to moderate fatigue, anorexia, nausea, and vomiting. The addition of exisulind to the chemotherapy regimen did not interfere with the metabolism or elimination of docetaxel and vice versa, and docetaxel did not interfere with the pharmacokinetic parameters of exisulind. This trial did not allow direct comparison of patients receiving docetaxel/carboplatin with and without exisulind, but when compared with historical data of docetaxel/carboplatin alone, the addition of exisulind does not appear to enhance antitumor activity, duration of response, or survival. Although preclinical data demonstrate increased apoptosis and prolonged survival for the combination of exisulind and docetaxel, multiple clinical trials do not support further clinical development of this combination regimen in patients with advanced NSCLC.
We examined the interactions among three classes of peripherally-acting antinociceptive agents (mu-opioid, alpha 2-adrenergic, and A1-adenosine) in the development of tolerance and dependence to their antinociceptive effects. Antinociception was determined by assessing the degree of inhibition of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced mechanical hyperalgesia, using the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal test. Tolerance developed within 4 hr to the antinociceptive effect of the alpha 2-adrenergic agonist clonidine; dependence also occurred at that time, demonstrated as a withdrawal hyperalgesia that was precipitated by the alpha 2-receptor antagonist yohimbine. These findings are similar to those reported previously for tolerance and dependence to mu and A1 peripheral antinociception (Aley et al., 1995). Furthermore, cross-tolerance and cross-withdrawal between mu, A1, and alpha 2 agonists occurred. The observations of cross-tolerance and cross-withdrawal suggest that all three receptors are located on the same primary afferent nociceptors. In addition, the observations suggest that the mechanisms of tolerance and dependence to the antinociceptive effects of mu, A1, and alpha 2 are mediated by a common mechanism. Although any of the agonists administered alone produce antinociception, we found that mu, A1, and alpha 2 receptors may not act independently to produce antinociception, but rather may require the physical presence of the other receptors to produce antinociception by any one agonist. This was suggested by the finding that clonidine (alpha 2-agonist) antinociception was blocked not only by yohimbine (alpha 2-antagonist) but also by PACPX (A1-antagonist) and by naloxone (mu-antagonist), and that DAMGO (mu-agonist) antinociception and CPA (A1-agonist) antinociception were blocked not only by naloxone (mu-antagonist) and PACPX (A1-antagonist), respectively, but also by yohimbine (alpha 2-antagonist). This cross-antagonism of antinociception occurred at the ID50 dose for each antagonist at its homologous receptor. To test the hypothesis that the physical presence of mu-opioid receptor is required not only for mu antinociception but also for alpha 2 antinociception, antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) for the mu-opioid and alpha 2C-adrenergic receptors were administered intrathecally to reduce the expression of these receptors on primary afferent neurons. These studies demonstrated that mu-opioid ODN administration decreased not only mu-opioid but also alpha 2-adrenergic antinociception; A1 antinociception was unaffected. In contrast, alpha 2C-adrenergic ODN decreased antinociception induced by all three classes of antinociceptive agents. In conclusion, these data suggest that peripheral antinociception induced by mu, alpha 2, and A1 agonists requires the physical presence of multiple receptors. We propose that there is a mu, A1, alpha 2 receptor complex mediating antinociception in the periphery. In addition, there is cross-tolerance and cross-dependence between mu, A1, and alpha 2 antinociception, suggesting that their underlying mechanisms are related.
Chronic (+)-methamphetamine (METH) use during pregnancy increases the health risk for both mother and fetus. To provide insights into these risks, the relationship between changes in METH disposition and METH-induced pharmacological effects were studied in Sprague-Dawley rat dams and litters. Timed-pregnant rats (n = 5-6) were given saline or METH (5.6-17.8 mg/kg/day) by continuous sc infusion from gestational day (GD) 7 (before organogenesis) until GD21 (0-2 days before delivery). By GD11, all rats in the 17.8-mg/kg/day group died or were sacrificed for humane reasons. There were significant (p < 0.05) dose- and gestational time-dependent decreases in maternal body weight in the 10- to 13.2-mg/kg/day groups, which slowly recovered to near normal by GD21. Continued METH dosing in the surviving groups did not affect the mean pups/litter weight at the end of the experiment on GD21. While maternal and fetal METH and (+)-amphetamine serum concentrations were similar on GD21, brain concentrations were significantly greater in the dams (p < 0.05). Importantly, brain-to-serum ratios in the dams were 9:1 and 3:1 in the pups. METH systemic clearance (Cl(S)) in dams significantly (p < 0.05) decreased from 52 +/- 14 ml/min/kg on GD10 to 28 +/- 6 ml/min/kg on GD21 in all dose groups, indicating late-gestational stage reductions in METH Cl(S). Overall, these findings suggest that there were two periods of increased susceptibility for dams and fetuses during chronic METH treatment. First was the period after the start of METH dosing in which neuroadaptation and tolerance to METH occurs in the adult. The second was at the end of pregnancy when METH clearance was significantly reduced.
Drug-induced tremulous jaw movements in rats have been used as a model of parkinsonian tremor. Because adenosine A2A antagonists have antiparkinsonian effects, the present experiments were conducted to study the ability of adenosine A2A antagonism to reverse the tremulous jaw movements produced by the antipsychotic drugs pimozide, haloperidol and reserpine. In one group of studies, rats received daily injections of the dopamine antagonist pimozide, and on day 8 they received injections of pimozide plus various doses of the A2A antagonists KW 6002 or MSX-3. KW 6002 and MSX-3 suppressed pimozide-induced tremulous jaw movements, reduced catalepsy, and increased locomotion. MSX-3 also suppressed the jaw movements induced by haloperidol and reserpine. In addition, local injections of MSX-3 into the ventrolateral neostriatum suppressed pimozide-induced tremulous jaw movements. Thus, adenosine A2A antagonism can reverse the tremulous movements induced by antipsychotic drugs, which is consistent with the hypothesis that antagonism of adenosine A2A receptors can result in antiparkinsonian effects. Adenosine A2A antagonists may be useful for their tremorolytic effects, and may help in treating both idiopathic and antipsychotic-induced parkinsonian symptoms.
