Deliberate hypotension may induce secretion of stress hormones. In the present study, the effects of hypotension induced by labetalol with isoflurane or plasma renin activity, plasma concentrations of adrenaline, noradrenaline, vasopressin, and aldosterone were investigated in eight adult patients undergoing middle-ear surgery. The mean arterial pressure was 50 mmHg (6.7 kPa) during hypotension. Plasma renin activity rose significantly during anaesthesia before hypotension, being similar during hypotension and before hypotension, and in returned postoperatively to the initial level. Plasma adrenaline fell significantly during hypotension and rose after anaesthesia to the preanaesthetic level. Plasma noradrenaline rose slightly during hypotension and after anaesthesia, but not significantly. Plasma vasopressin rose significantly after anaesthesia. Plasma aldosterone increased slightly throughout the study, but not significantly during any phase. In conclusion, labetalol with isoflurane-induced hypotension seems to attenuate the stress response in these operations. During hypotension, plasma renin activity is not an essential compensatory mechanism, which antagonises the decrease of blood pressure. Plasma vasopressin has no role in regulating blood pressure during labetalol-induced hypotension.
To determine the role of p53 protein on the cellular effects of amifostine, we used molecularly engineered HCT116 colon cancer cells in which the p53 gene was inactivated by targeted homologous recombination or p53 protein was degraded by high-level expression of papillomavirus E6 protein. Amifostine induced a G1 arrest and protected against paclitaxel toxicity in p53-proficient but not in p53-deficient cells. In the absence of p53 protein, amifostine enhanced the cytotoxicity of paclitaxel. In addition, treatment of HCT116 cells with amifostine alone resulted in apoptotic cell death. Compared with p53-deficient cells, p53-proficient cells exhibited low-level resistance to amifostine-induced apoptosis. Amifostine induced the expression of p53 protein in p53-proficient cells and the expression of p21 protein in both p53-proficient and -deficient cells. These findings indicate that amifostine-induced G1 arrest and cytoprotection are mediated via a pathway that is dependent on p53 protein and that amifostine-induced expression of p21 protein is not sufficient to sustain a G1 arrest or to mediate cytoprotection. In addition, these findings identify p53 protein as a mechanism of resistance to amifostine-induced apoptosis.British
The possibly limited adverse effects of risperidone encourage interest in its use in geriatric patients.
Medical records of 122 hospitalized psychogeriatric patients (> or = 65 years old) newly treated with risperidone were reviewed and scored for indications, doses, and effects of this novel neuroleptic.
Subjects (83 women, 39 men), mean +/- SD age = 76.5 +/- 6.8 years (range, 65-95), were given risperidone for agitation or psychosis associated with dementia (53%), a major mood disorder (29%), or other disorders (18%). Most (77%) were also medically ill and received other psychotropic (76%) or cardiovascular agents (70%). Daily doses of risperidone averaged 1.6 +/- 1.1 mg (range, 0.25-8.0) (0.025 mg/kg body wt.); 78% received 2.0 mg. Risperidone appeared to be effective in 85% of cases, but 18% were discontinued due to intolerability (11%) or inefficacy (7%). Adverse events occurred in 32% of the patients (36% of those discontinued). These adverse events included hypotension (29%) or symptomatic orthostasis (10%), cardiac arrest (1.6%) with fatality (0.8%), and extrapyramidal effects (11%) or delirium (1.6%). Benefits were associated with younger age and male gender, but not risperidone dose. Adverse effects were associated with cardiovascular disease and its treatment, cotreatment with an SRI antidepressant or valproate, and relatively rapid dose increases.
Risperidone appeared to be effective and may be safe for many elderly psychiatric patients with comorbid medical conditions provided that doses are low and increased slowly. Particular caution is advised in the presence of cardiovascular disease or cotreatment with other psychotropic agents.
In mice, intratracheal challenges with antigen (ovalbumin) or recombinant murine interleukin-13 (IL-13) induce lung inflammation, bronchial hyperreactivity (BHR), and mucus accumulation as independent events (Singer M, Lefort J, and Vargaftig BB. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 26: 74-84, 2002), largely mediated by leukotrienes (LT). We previously showed that LTC(4) was released 15 min after ovalbumin, and we show that it induces the expression of monocyte chemoattractant proteins 1 and 5 and KC in the lungs, as well as IL-13 mRNA. Instilled intratracheally, these chemokines induced BHR and mucus accumulation, which were inhibited by the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton and by the cysteinyl-LT receptor antagonist MK-571, suggesting mediation by cysteinyl-LT. Because these chemokines also induced release of LT into the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and IL-13 into the lungs, we hypothesize that LT- and chemokine-based loops for positive-feedback regulations cooperate to maintain and amplify BHR and lung mucus accumulation after allergic challenge and in situations where IL-13, LT, or chemokines are generated.
Chronic ergotism is a rare cause of limb ischemia. In this case report, the authors present a 62-year-old woman with history of long-term use of ergotamine alkaloids for the treatment of menstrual pain, who developed a severe painful disease initially misdiagnosed as systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) for 3 decades. She presented with a combination of acral gangrene, foot ulcer, renal obstruction, mild pulmonary fibrosis, and reduced esophageal motility. Right-sided renal obstruction was evident. The condition was extremely painful and had led to muscular contractions and immobility, drug abuse, and anemia. After establishing the diagnosis of chronic gangrenous ergotism, changing drug therapy, mobilization, and treatment of chronic wounds, she showed a remarkable recovery. Eventually the foot ulcer was closed successfully using a mesh graft transplantation, and the patient was able to walk alone. Chronic ergotism is rare but has to be taken into account when presented with painful chronic digital and foot ulcers.
Sulfadiazine-nephropathy and -nephrolithiasis were well known complications of high dose sulfadiazine therapy 50 years ago. In the last few years high dose sulfadiazine therapy has been widely used for treatment of toxoplasmic encephalitis in AIDS patients. As a consequence sulfadiazine-nephropathy and -nephrolithiasis have become increasingly common. We describe 2 patients with the typical picture of these complications. Therapy is based on the fact that the solubility of sulfadiazine and its acetylated metabolite are markedly improved at higher urine-pH levels. Urine alkalinization is also effective for prophylaxis during sulfadiazine treatment. We present our guidelines for prophylaxis and treatment of these complications.
Leukotrienes (LT) are a group of proinflammatory lipid mediators that are implicated in the pathogenesis and progression of atherosclerosis. Here we report that mRNA levels for the three key proteins in LTB4 biosynthesis, namely 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO), 5-LO-activating protein (FLAP), and LTA4 hydrolase (LTA4H), are significantly increased in human atherosclerotic plaque (n = 72) as compared with healthy controls (n = 6). Neither LTC4 synthase nor any of the LT receptors exhibits significantly increased mRNA levels. Immunohistochemical staining revealed abundant expression of 5-LO, FLAP, and LTA4H protein, colocalizing in macrophages of intimal lesions. Human lesion tissue converts arachidonic acid into significant amounts of LTB4, and a selective, tight-binding LTA4H inhibitor can block this activity. Furthermore, expression of 5-LO and LTA4H, but not FLAP, is increased in patients with recent or ongoing symptoms of plaque instability, and medication with warfarin correlates with increased levels of FLAP mRNA. In contrast to human plaques, levels of 5-LO mRNA are not significantly increased in plaque tissues from two atherosclerosis-prone mouse strains, and mouse plaques exhibit segregated cellular expression of LTA4H and 5-LO as well as strong increases of CysLT1 and CysLT2 mRNA. These discrepancies indicate that phenotypic changes in the synthesis and action of LT in specific mouse models of atherosclerosis should be cautiously translated into human pathology. The abundant expression of LTA4H and correlation with plaque instability identify LTA4H as a potential target for pharmacological intervention in treatment of human atherosclerosis.
The present study was designed to examine the protective potential of hydroalcoholic extract of Vitis vinifera in ameliorating the alterations induced by aluminium (Al) on behavioural and neurochemical indices. Al was given orally (100mg/kg b.wt./day) whereas V. vinifera extract was administered through diet (400mg/kg, p.o.) to rats for a total duration of 45 days. Passive avoidance and open field tests revealed significant alterations in the short-term memory and cognitive behaviour in rats treated with Al. Further, locomotor as well as muscular activities were also found to be significantly affected. Co-administration of V. vinifera extract with Al caused significant improvement in the short-term memory, cognition, anxiety, locomotion and muscular activity. Al exposure led to a significant decrease in the acetylcholinesterase activity in the brain, increase in serum glucose, TG, TC, ALP and ALT. Anti-oxidant parameters-reduced glutathione, catalase and glutathione reductase levels were also found to be significantly decreased but the levels of lipid peroxidation was significantly increased in brain following Al treatment. V. vinifera extract supplementation to Al treated animals caused a significant improvement in the activity of enzyme acetylcholinesterase which was altered by Al. Serum glucose, TG, TC, ALP and ALT were brought back to normal levels. Further, V. vinifera extract when given along with Al was also able to regulate the levels of Anti-oxidant parameters in brain and the values were found close to the normal controls. Histopathological studies revealed neurodegeneration and vacuolated cytoplasm after Al treatment. Therefore, the study strengthens the hypothesis that V. vinifera extract can be used as a neuroprotectant during Al induced neurotoxicity.
The discontinuation of many pharmacologic agents is associated with characteristic withdrawal symptoms. Antidepressants, particularly the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), are known to be associated with a group of common symptoms upon discontinuation. Serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) are also taking their respective place in the literature with reports of discontinuation symptoms. This review summarizes case reports and reports that allow systematic assessment of discontinuation symptoms following SRI discontinuation.
A computerized literature search was conducted using a MEDLINE search to identify reports of withdrawal effects following discontinuation of SRIs. Additional reports were found in the bibliographies of various published reports.
SRI discontinuation symptoms in adults are summarized in 24 case reports and 9 reports from controlled clinical trials. Additionally, 3 case reports addressing SRI discontinuation in the neonate are described. The reports describe clusters of symptoms commonly associated with the discontinuation of an SRI.
We propose to define an antidepressant discontinuation syndrome as the onset of a cluster of somatic and psychic symptoms following the discontinuation of an SRI and not attributable to other causes (e.g., concomitant medication, illness). These symptoms include dizziness, light-headedness, insomnia, fatigue, anxiety/agitation, nausea, headache, and sensory disturbance. The syndrome may last up to 3 weeks and may be improved by restarting the antidepressant or starting an antidepressant with a similar pharmacologic profile.
Adriamycin (ADM) is a very effective antimitotic agent but its use is limited by its cardiotoxicity. New anthracycline drugs such as aclacinomycin A (ACMA) have been developed and have to be compared with ADM after chronic experimental intoxication. Three groups of randomised rats were compared: the ADM group receiving 2 mg/kg/week X 13 by intraperitoneal injection; the ACMA group receiving 4 mg/kg/week X 13 and a control group: 7 rats. The rats were autopsied at the 20th week. The heart was stopped in diastole and fixed by aortic retroinfusion of glutaraldehide for electronic microscopy (EM). In the ADM group, mean weight fell from the 4th week and mortality was 11/16 at 20 weeks. Voluminous haemorrhagic ascites was associated with peritoneal fibrosis in 12/16. Cardiac failure was observed in 4 cases but on light microscopy (LM) myofibril degeneration was constant and focal without sarcoplasmic reticulum or mitochondrial changes on EM. In the ACMA group the loss of weight occurred at 10 weeks and mortality due to toxicity was nil. There was no cardiac failure; myocytolysis was absent on LM and slight in 4/13 cases on EM with a moderate dilatation of the sarcoplasmic recticulum and presence of numerous residual bodies in the striated skeletal fibres in 5/15 cases. In this study, the ACMA had very little cardio and general toxicity in comparison with ADM. The technique of fixing the heart by retrograde infusion prevents, as far as possible, artefacts on EM affecting mainly the mitochondria.
Intensive farming of potatoes in Prince Edward Island (PEI) relies on the repeated and widespread application of fertilizers and pesticides. In PEI the main potato farming areas are in close proximity and drain directly to estuaries. Runoff from high agricultural activity watersheds could impact benthic organism health in the depositional zone of downstream estuaries. The estuarine filter feeder Mya arenaria (soft-shell clam) could be particularly vulnerable to both particle-adsorbed and water soluble contaminants. M. arenaria is susceptible to haemocytic leukemia. In May 2009, we established that heavily proliferated leukemia (HPL) prevalence was generally higher in PEI estuaries located downstream of high intensity potato farming (Dunk and Wilmot estuaries) watersheds than in estuaries downstream of lower intensity areas. Using Mab-1E10 based immunocytochemistry we observed that leukemic haemocytes from the Dunk and Wilmot estuaries were 1E10 negative whereas those from the Ox/Sheep estuary (low potato farming intensity) were 1E10 positive. The expression of genes in the p53 tumour suppressor pathway enabled us to differentiate groups of leukemic and normal M. arenaria, validating our diagnoses. In October 2009, we confirmed that HPL prevalence was elevated in the Dunk and Wilmot estuaries compared to reference (Souris River). Moreover, leukemia prevalence declined with distance from the river mouths along transects through the Dunk and Wilmot estuaries. The pesticides ß-endosulfan and α-endosulfan were detected in surface sediments from the Dunk and Wilmot estuaries, but not in sediments from either the Souris River or several other lower intensity potato farming watersheds. Our study provides evidence of an association between intensity of potato farming and prevalence of clam leukemia at downstream estuaries in PEI.
The authors present the hospital course of a 13-year-old girl with a closed head injury who received a prolonged infusion of propofol for sedation and, subsequently, died as a result of severe metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, and cardiovascular collapse. The patient had been treated for 4 days at a referring hospital for a severe closed head injury sustained in a fall from a bicycle. During treatment for elevations of intracranial pressure, she received a continuous propofol infusion (100 microg/kg/min). The patient began to exhibit severe high anion gap/low lactate metabolic acidosis, and was transferred to the pediatric intensive care unit at the authors' institution. On arrival there, the patient's Glasgow Coma Scale score was 3 and this remained unchanged during her brief stay. The severe metabolic acidosis was unresponsive to maximum therapy. Acute renal failure ensued as a result of rhabdomyolysis, and myocardial dysfunction with bizarre, wide QRS complexes developed without hyperkalemia. The patient died of myocardial collapse with severe metabolic acidosis and multisystem organ failure (involving renal, hepatic, and cardiac systems) approximately 15 hours after admission to the authors' institution. This patient represents another case of severe metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, and cardiovascular collapse observed after a prolonged propofol infusion in a pediatric patient. The authors suggest selection of other pharmacological agents for long-term sedation in pediatric patients.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of endomyocardial biopsy in the surveillance of toxic, latent cardiomyopathy secondary to adriamycin (ADM) therapy, and to assess its value by comparison with non-invasive investigations such as echocardiography. Twenty six patients underwent endomyocardial biopsy and echocardiographic measurement of the fractional shortening of the left ventricular internal diameter after a total dose of 150 to 520 mg/m2 of ADM. Interstitial fibrosis was observed in 8 of the 20 interpretable cases on light microscopy (6 moderate, 2 severe). There were no cellular changes. Slight focal myofibril degeneration was observed in 8 cases, and vacuolisation corresponding to mild dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum was observed in 9 cases out of the 22 technically interpretable cases on electron microscopy. In contrast to the findings of interstitial fibrosis, cellular degeneration correlated significantly with the total dose of ADM (p less than 0,01). We conclude that this histological study confirms the fact that myocardial changes are rare and slight with doses of less than 520 mg/m2 of ADM and that non-invasive techniques are adequate for follow-up until this dose is reached.
Delusional parasitosis (DP) is a rare delusional disorder in which patients believe that they are infected with parasites, worms, insects, or bacteria. Antipsychotics are the preferred treatment in these patients.
Case series in which we summarize six patients with DP treated with atypical antipsychotic medications including amisulpride, olanzapine, and risperidone.
One patient had a myocardial infarction after being given amisulpride, and several patients did not adjust well. Parenterally administered antipsychotics, particularly risperidone, were the most effective treatment in this series of patients with DP.
Patients with DP can be difficult to treat; however, parenterally administered antipsychotics appear to produce better results in these patients.
Recent studies have revealed that trichloroethylene (TCE) can induce occupational medicamentosa-like dermatitis (OMLD) with multi-system injuries, including liver, kidney and skin injuries, which can subsequently cause multiple organ failure later. But the mechanism of immune dysfunction leading to organ injury was rarely clarified. The present study was initiated to analyze the influence of trichloroethylene on renal injury and study the relevant mechanism in guinea pigs. Guinea pig maximization test (GPMT) was carried out. Inflammation on the guinea pigs' skin was scored. Kidney function, urine protein and ultra-structural change of kidney were determined by biochemical detection and electron microscope. Deposition of complement 3 and membrane attack complex (MAC, C5b-9) were determined by immunohistochemistry. Erythema and edema of skin impairment were observed in TCE sensitized groups, and sensitization rate was 63.16%. Through electron microscope, tubular epithelial cell mitochondrial swelling, vacuolar degeneration and atrophy of microvillus were observed in TCE sensitized groups. The parameters of urease and urinary protein elevated markedly, and a high degree of C3 and MAC deposition was found in the renal tubular epithelial cells in TCE sensitized groups. By demonstrating that TCE and its metabolites can cause the deposition of C3 and MAC in renal epithelial cells, we found that activated complement system may be the mechanism of the acceleration and the development of TCE-induced kidney disease.
Acute ototoxicity is a rare but important complication of antithyroid drugs. Although previous cases have been reported in the medical literature, these cases occurred in younger patients with serological evidence of lupus-like syndrome with positive antidouble-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies. We describe the case of a 68-year-old Caucasian male who developed deafness and tinnitus one week after being prescribed carbimazole. The management options include stopping the culprit drug, treatment with immunosuppressive drugs and referring the patient for urgent thyroidectomy. Healthcare professionals who prescribe antithyroid drugs should be aware of this rare but potentially serious complication, so that early drug withdrawal and referral for surgery can be considered.
A 10-year-old boy treated concurrently with thioridazine and methylphenidate developed persistent tics of the head and shoulders. Dopaminergic involvement and possible implications for such combined treatment are discussed.
We report a case of unilateral eosinophilic pneumonia secondary to balsalazide monotherapy for ulcerative colitis. After commencing balsalazide, the patient presented with a history of cough, progressive dyspnoea and lethargy. Blood counts revealed peripheral eosinophilia. Her chest radiograph showed left-sided infiltration, and high-resolution computerised tomography demonstrated widespread nodular shadowing and ground glass opacifiction in the left lung. The right lung was normal. Transbronchial lung biopsy confirmed eosinophilic pneumonia. There was rapid clinical and radiological improvement after with-drawing balsalazide. Drug-induced eosinophilic pneumonia has been described with mesalazine and sulfasalazine, but no case reports of balsalazide-induced eosinophilic pneumonitis have been found.
19-Nor-1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2) (paricalcitol) is an analogue of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) with reduced calcemic effects that is approved for the suppression of parathyroid hormone in chronic renal failure. Paricalcitol has recently been reported to have anticancer activity in prostate cancer. In order to explore paricalcitol as a potential agent against leukemia, we tested its effects on HL-60 and U937 leukemia cell lines.
We studied cellular differentiation via expression of CD11b and CD14 surface antigens using flow cytometry, and via the nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) assay. Cell cycle was analyzed using propidium iodide staining. Apoptosis was assessed with the annexin V assay. Cellular proliferation was determined via colony inhibition on semisolid medium.
Paricalcitol induced the maturation of HL-60 and U937 cells, as shown by increased expression of CD11b differentiation surface antigen. CD14 showed increased expression in HL-60 but not in U937 cells. After exposure to paricalcitol at 10(-8) M for 72 h, the ability of HL-60 cells to reduce NBT was markedly increased. Conversely, U937 cells were unchanged. Paricalcitol inhibited colony formation of both HL-60 and U937 cell lines in semisolid medium after a 10-day incubation (estimated IC(50) of 3x10(-8) M in HL-60 cells and 4x10(-8) M in U937 cells). Paricalcitol at 10(-8) M and 10(-7) M caused a significant dose- and time-dependent increase of apoptosis in HL-60 cells ( P<0.05). In both HL-60 and U937 cells, exposure to 10(-7) M paricalcitol for 72 h increased the number of cells in G(0)/G(1) phase, and decreased the number of cells in S phase.
Paricalcitol inhibits colony formation, induces maturation and causes cell cycle arrest in HL-60 and U937 cells. Additionally, paricalcitol induces apoptosis in HL-60 cells. These findings support the further evaluation of paricalcitol as an antileukemia agent.
In three patients with thioridazine toxicity, the electroretinogram (ERG) to red light was found to be below the average normal range. A significant increase in its amplitude appeared with cessation of therapy in two cases. A further deterioration of the ERG amplitude to all stimulus conditions (white, blue, and red lights) occurred when the dose of the medication was increased in the third patient.
There are no reports in the literature of massive deep venous thrombosis (DVT) associated with cisplatin, bleomycin and etoposide (BEP) cancer treatment.
The patient was a 18-year-old adolescent with a nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the right testicle, with the presence of pulmonary, liver, and massive retroperitoneal metastases. Following radical orchiectomy, the patient started chemotherapy according to the BEP protocol (without routine prophylaxis for DVT). On day 4 of the first cycle, massive DVT was diagnosed, extending from both popliteal veins up to the thoracic segment of the inferior vena cava. Thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase was immediately started. On day 2 of thrombolytic therapy, the patient developed acute renal failure, due to extension of the thrombosis to the renal veins. Streptokinase was continued for six days and the outcome was remarkably favorable.
The impact of developmental ablation of Pax6 function on morphology and functional connectivity of the adult cerebrum was studied in cortex-specific Pax6 knockout mice (Pax6cKO) using structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), manganese-enhanced MRI, and diffusion tensor MRI in conjunction with fiber tractography. Mutants presented with decreased volumes of total brain and olfactory bulb, reduced cortical thickness, and altered layering of the piriform cortex. Tracking of major neuronal fiber bundles revealed a disorganization of callosal fibers with an almost complete lack of interhemispheric connectivity. In Pax6cKO mice intrahemispheric callosal fibers as well as intracortical fibers were predominantly directed along a rostrocaudal orientation instead of a left-right and dorsoventral orientation found in controls. Fiber disorganization also involved the septohippocampal connection targeting mostly the lateral septal nucleus. The hippocampus was rostrally extended and its volume was increased relative to that of the forebrain and midbrain. Manganese-induced MRI signal enhancement in the CA3 region suggested a normal function of hippocampal pyramidal cells. Noteworthy, several morphologic disturbances in gray and white matter of Pax6cKO mice were similar to observations in human aniridia patients. The present findings indicate an important role of Pax6 in the development of both the cortex and cerebral fiber connectivity.
Direct thrombin inhibitors in cardiovascular patients are discussed. Patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) of ST- and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI and NSTEMI, respectively) or unstable angina develop mural thrombi within minutes of plaque disruption or erosion. Initial acute therapy includes heparin and aspirin. Up to 60% of patients have coronary revascularization to reduce the high risk of death, new myocardial infarction (MI), or recurrent angina. In addition, heparin may initiate a serious allergic, prothrombotic drug reaction, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), in 1-5% of patients. Acute cessation of heparin and initiation of direct thrombin inhibitor (DTI) therapy for suspected HIT are vital and well established. Several clinical trials comparing DTIs with heparin have been done in ACS and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), and have shown excellent potency in inhibiting thrombus formation and reducing coronary events. An overview of results from published studies evaluating the use of bivalent and univalent DTIs in the cardiovascular patient is presented. Four DTIs are discussed: two r-hirudins (lepirudin and desirudin), both bivalent with stable chain and renal excretion; bivalirudin, bivalent with rapid-chain metabolism; and argatroban, univalent with hepatic metabolism. The extensive clinical experience with r-hirudin in cardiovascular patients suggests that it is an excellent choice for managing patients with HIT and is easy to use in converting to warfarin, since it does not significantly change the prothrombin time.
Male CD-1 mice (age 6 weeks, 6 months, 1 and 2 years) received single 2-mg/kg i.p. doses of clonazepam. Plasma and cortex clonazepam concentrations, rotarod ataxia and in vivo benzodiazepine receptor occupancy were measured at multiple times up to 14 hr after dosage. Elimination of clonazepam from plasma and cortex became slower with age, but cortex concentrations always exceeded those in plasma. The mean ratio was 1.82, and was not influenced by age. Rotarod ataxia was quantitatively greater and of longer duration in aging animals. This was not explained entirely by kinetic changes, as ataxia at any given cortex clonazepam concentration or degree of receptor occupancy was greater in 1-year-old animals than in those age 6 weeks or 6 months. In a second study, 6-week and 1-year-old animals were tested at a fixed time (1 hr) after variable doses of clonazepam (0.01-2.0 mg/kg); findings were consistent with results from the fixed-dose study. In vitro studies evaluated benzodiazepine receptor binding, chloride channel binding and muscimol-stimulated chloride uptake in cortical membrane preparations from animals of the four age groups. Binding affinity and number of binding sites were not influenced by age, or was gamma-aminobutyric acid-dependent muscimol-stimulated chloride uptake (either with or without addition of lorazepam) significantly related to age. Thus, increased overall sensitivity of aging animals to the central depressant effects of clonazepam is evident in the described model.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
