This study explored differences in frontal white-matter (WM) integrity between methamphetamine (MA) abusers and healthy comparison subjects using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Fractional anisotropy (FA) values, which indicate WM integrity, were calculated for regions-of-interest in frontal WM on diffusion tensor images of 32 MA abusers and 30 healthy comparison subjects. Frontal executive functions were also assessed by the Wisconsin Card Sorting test (WCST). MA abusers had significantly lower FA values in bilateral frontal WM at the anterior commissure-posterior commissure (AC-PC) plane and the right frontal WM 5 mm above the AC-PC plane relative to healthy comparison subjects. MA abusers had more total, perseveration and non-perseveration errors in the WCST relative to healthy comparison subjects. FA values of the right frontal WM 5 mm above the AC-PC plane negatively correlated with the number of total and non-perseveration errors in the WCST in MA abusers. In the sub-analysis for gender differences, lower FA values in frontal WM and more errors in the WCST were found only in male MA abusers, not in female MA abusers, relative to comparison subjects of the respective gender. We report that frontal WM integrity of MA abusers is compromised. This finding may also be related to impairment in frontal executive function. In addition, the neurotoxic effect of MA on frontal WM may be less prominent in women than in men, possibly due to oestrogen's neuroprotective effect.
Sister-chromatid exchange and chromosomal aberrations were measured in vivo in mouse bone marrow following intraperitoneal injection of the cooked food mutagens, Trp-P-2 and IQ. Trp-P-2 produced a significant positive dose response for both endpoints while IQ produced only a weak but significant sister-chromatid exchange response. The relative potency of these two chemicals is similar to that seen in mammalian cells in vitro but opposite to their potency in Salmonella.
To test the tolerance to nitrendipine in arterial hypertension secondary to chronic renal parenchymatous disease, a group of 10 patients so diagnosed and adequately controlled with a diuretic alone or with a beta-blocker were switched to nitrendipine at a dose to insure similarly adequate control of blood pressure. Patients were followed for 1 year at monthly intervals during which blood pressure measurement and the determination of a biochemical profile were performed. During the follow-up, nitrendipine adequately controlled blood pressure and a significant fall was observed in hematocrit (p less than 0.05) and serum uric acid (p less than 0.01) values. Meanwhile, the glomerular filtration rate, determined by the creatinine clearance, did not exhibit significant changes nor did the 24-h urinary excretion of proteins. The tolerance of the drug was adequate, with two patients presenting minimal ankle edema. These results seem to indicate that nitrendipine can be safely used in patients with arterial hypertension secondary to chronic renal parenchymatous disease.
Twenty-nine inpatients with major psychotic disorders were treated for 14 days with a clinician-determined dose of haloperidol and with either benztropine or placebo given by double-blind random assignment on days 1 through 7. No differences were noted in haloperidol mean dose, haloperidol blood levels, or BPRS scores during the first seven days between benztropine (N = 14) and placebo (N = 15) groups. Benztropine-treated patients demonstrated increased dry mouth and diminished sweat and a non-significantly lower rate of dystonia compared to placebo (14% vs. 33%). Dystonic patients were significantly younger than nondystonic patients, but did not differ in haloperidol mean dose or plasma concentration. The effect of benztropine on the incidence of dystonia was consistent with other studies, which, when analyzed together, demonstrate the efficacy of anticholinergic prophylaxis. The relatively low incidence of anticholinergic side effects, coupled with the lack of effect on haloperidol blood levels or antipsychotic efficacy, suggest that moderate doses of benztropine in conjunction with haloperidol are a rational approach for the treatment of acute psychosis in young patients.
Cardiomyocyte apoptosis reportedly participates in the occurrence and progression of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Recent studies have shown that granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) enhances bone marrow cells migration to the damaged heart in the DCM model and improves the ultrastructure of the cardiomyocyte in adriamycin (ADR) induced DCM. However, its influence on cardiac pump function and cardiomyocyte apoptosis has not been studied.
Wistar Rats were randomly grouped into control, ADR, ADR+PBS, ADR+G-CSF group (n = 10). ADR (2.5 mg/kg, 6 times for 2 weeks) was administered intraperitoneally in all rats except the control group. After 2 weeks, the rats in ADR+G-CSF group were injected with G-CSF (50 microg/kg/day for 8 days) subcutaneously. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiogram and cardiac catheterization after 4 weeks. Cardiomyocytes apoptosis and apoptosis-related protein Fas were detected by in situ terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase assay (TUNEL method) and Western blot, respectively.
The ADR and ADR+PBS groups showed significant deteriorations of left ventricular functions and high cardiomyocyte apoptosis index, as well as high Fas expressions. Meanwhile, the ADR+G-CSF group showed significant improvement in LV function, inhibition of cardiomyocyte apoptosis compared with the ADR and ADR+Phosphate-Buffered Saline PBS group. The Fas protein expression was remarkably attenuated as well.
Our results suggest that administration of G-CSF inhibited cardiomyocyte apoptosis and Fas protein expression and contributes to improving cardiac pump function in vivo in ADR induced DCM rat model.
The characteristics of patients with anticoagulant-associated intracerebral hemorrhage (AAICH) have not been well characterized in a population-based setting.
We attempted to ascertain all patients with ICH in Greater Cincinnati from May 1998 to July 2001 and August 2002 to April 2003 via retrospective review of ICD-9 codes 430-438.9 at all area hospitals and prospective surveillance at tertiary centers. Cases of ICH without coagulopathy and AAICH were compared with multivariate logistic modeling and survival analysis.
AAICH occurred in 190 of 1041 ICH cases (18%). In multivariate analysis, predictors of AAICH were cerebellar location of hemorrhage (p = 0.01) and a history of coronary artery disease (p < 0.001), ischemic stroke (p < 0.001), atrial fibrillation (p < 0.001) and DVT or PE (p < 0.001). Relative to other ICH locations, only cerebellar ICH showed an excess risk of anticoagulant-associated hemorrhage (OR 2.2, 95% CI 1.2 to 4.0). In multivariate modeling the only predictor of cerebellar location of ICH was anticoagulation (p < 0.001). Patients with AAICH were more likely to die than other ICH patients. The difference in morality occurred by day one (mortality 33.2% vs 16.3%, p < 0.001) and remained stable through one year (mortality 66.3% vs 50.3%, p < 0.001).
AAICH preferentially affects the cerebellum. Despite its association with amyloid angiopathy, lobar ICH was no more likely to be anticoagulant-associated than deep cerebral ICH. The excess mortality among AAICH patients accrues within one day of hemorrhage. Patients with AAICH have a high burden of vascular risk factors. New treatments for AAICH with prothrombotic potential should be evaluated in randomized controlled trials before routine use.
The interaction between oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and prednisolone administered concurrently for 30 days was studied in 18 healthy dogs divided into 3 groups of 6 dogs each: a drug-free negative control group (NC group) given 2 gelatin capsules; a group given meloxicam (0.1 mg/kg) and prednisolone (0.5 mg/kg) (MP group); and a group given a reduced dosage of ketoprofen (0.25 mg/kg, p.o.) and prednisolone (0.5 mg/kg, p.o.) (KP group). The dogs were periodically monitored by physical examinations, blood analyses, endoscopic examinations, fecal occult blood tests, renal function tests [effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR)], urinalyses [urinary sediments, and urinary micro-albumin to creatinine ratio (UAlb/Cre)], urinary enzyme indices, and haemostatic function tests [buccal mucosa bleeding time (BMBT), cuticle bleeding time (CBT)]. Significant changes were observed in the KP group, including a decrease of ERPF and GFR, an increased UAlb/Cre ratio, prolonged BMBT and CBT, as well as the presence of more severe grades of endoscopic lesions and fecal occult blood. In both the MP and KP groups, abnormal enzymuria with exfoliation of renal tubular epithelial cells in the urine was found. However, no significant changes in any of the other tests were observed in the MP group compared with the NC group. These findings suggest that the combination of NSAIDs, even selective COX-2 inhibitors, with prednisolone may be contraindicated due to the potential for serious adverse effects on the kidneys, the platelets, and the gastrointestinal tract.
The role of hormonal status in the development of aluminum (Al)-dependent renal osteodystrophy, which is characterized by reduced bone matrix deposition, still remains largely unknown. To address this question, we used the osteoblast-like osteosarcoma cell line ROS 17/2.8 to evaluate the role of Al on parathyroid hormone (PTH)- and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3)-dependent activities in these cells. Al (1 microM) caused an inhibition of basal and 1,25(OH)2D3-induced alkaline phosphatase, but only at low doses (< 1 nM) of the steroid. Al partly inhibited basal osteocalcin (OC) secretion in ROS cells (p < 0.001), and the dose-dependent increase in 1,25(OH)2D3-induced OC release by these cells was also reduced by 1 microM Al at low concentrations of the steroid (< or = 1 nM), whereas high doses of 1,25(OH)2D3 (> or = 5 nM) totally prevented the inhibiting effects of Al. Al also had strong inhibitory actions on PTH-dependent cAMP production by ROS cells over the concentration range tested (0.5-50 nM). This inhibitory action of Al was also observed for PTH-related peptide- (PTHrp, 50 nM) but not for Isoproterenol-dependent (100 nM) cAMP formation. To evaluate more fully the mechanism of this inhibition of cAMP formation, we investigated the effect of Al on toxin-modulated, G protein-dependent regulation of cAMP formation and on the activation of adenylate cyclase by Forskolin. Cholera toxin (CT, 10 micrograms/ml), applied to cells for 4 h prior to PTH challenge, enhanced cAMP production about 2-fold above PTH alone (p < 0.001), a process that was further stimulated by Al. Pertussis toxin (PT, 1 microgram/ml, 4 h) did not modify basal PTH-dependent cAMP formation by ROS cells. However, PT treatment prevented the inhibitory effect of Al on cAMP formation by these cells (p < 0.025). The stimulation of adenylate cyclase by Forskolin (0.1 and 1 microM), which bypasses G protein regulation, was not modified by Al, indicating that Al does not affect adenylate cyclase directly. Northern blot analysis of PTH receptor mRNA levels showed that Al did not modify PTH receptor message in ROS cells. Likewise, Western blot analyses of G protein subunits showed that Al did not significantly alter Gs alpha subunit levels, in accordance with the results obtained for cAMP-dependent formation in response to CT. In contrast, Gi alpha-1 and Gi alpha-2 subunits were decreased by Al treatment, consistent with PT-restricted increases in cAMP formation in Al-treated ROS cells. Taken together, these results suggest that Al has multiple actions in osteoblast-like ROS cells. The effects of Al are modulated by hormonal control of the pathways investigated. Al affects 1,25(OH)2D3-regulated functions only when this steroid is low. Al has large inhibitory effects on PTH- and PTHrp-dependent cAMP formation. This last feature is related to the ability of Al to alter the G protein transducing pathway for PTH/PTHrp-dependent formation of cAMP since it does not affect adenylate cyclase activity directly and does not affect the PTH receptor message level. Thus, Al has stronger deleterious effects in osteoblast-like cells with an already compromised 1,25(OH)2D3 status and can modulate specifically PTH/PTHrp-mediated cAMP formation at the postreceptor level.
Infiltration of lignocaine with epinephrine is used with cocaine in septoplasty, in attempt to improve haemostasis and thereby improve the surgical field. This practice is widespread despite the lack of evidence to support its efficacy in the literature. Thirty patients undergoing septoplasty were randomised into two groups -- one in whom infiltration was performed with lignocaine (2%) with adrenaline (1:80,000) and a control group who received lignocaine (2%). Both groups of patients received intranasal application of cocaine paste prior to surgery. The surgeon and anaesthetist were blinded to the contents of the infiltration. The operative field was rated by the surgeon, and the blood loss calculated. No significant difference was demonstrated in blood loss or surgical field between the groups. However there was significant rise in systolic blood pressure in patients who received epinephrine. The use of epinephrine with cocaine paste does not improve haemostasis or surgical field. As the use of epinephrine is associated with cardiac arrhythmias, the authors suggest that combined use of cocaine paste and epinephrine infiltration should be avoided in septal surgery.
Eosinophilic pustular folliculitis (EPF) is characterized by erythematous patches of large follicular papules and pustules involving mainly the face. Although various treatments have been attempted for EPF, including systemic and topical steroid, diaphenylsulphone, colchicine, minocycline as well as UVB phototherapy, there is no consensus on the first choice of treatment. We report a typical case and summarize 25 patients with EPF treated in our hospital between 1978 and 1998. Indomethacin was most frequently used (12/25) and showed clinical improvement in the majority of the cases (11/12). The effect of indomethacin was usually observed within 1--2 weeks after initiation of treatment. Decrease of peripheral blood eosinophils accompanied the clinical improvement. Thus, indomethacin should be considered as a first choice of treatment for EPF.
Clinical and serological profiles of idiopathic and drug-induced autoimmune diseases can be very similar. We compared data from idiopathic and antithyroid drug (ATD)-induced antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive patients. From 1993 to 2003, 2474 patients were tested for ANCA in the Laboratory for Allergy and Clinical Immunology in Belgrade. Out of 2474 patients, 72 (2.9%) were anti-proteinase 3 (PR3)- or anti-myeloperoxidase (MPO)-positive and their clinical and serological data were analyzed. The first group consisted of ANCA-associated idiopathic systemic vasculitis (ISV) diagnosed in 56/72 patients: 29 Wegener's granulomatosis (WG), 23 microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) and four Churg-Strauss syndrome. The second group consisted of 16/72 patients who became ANCA-positive during ATD therapy (12 receiving propylthiouracil and four receiving methimazole). We determined ANCA and antinuclear (ANA) antibodies by indirect immunofluorescence; PR3-ANCA, MPO-ANCA, anticardiolipin (aCL) and antihistone antibodies (AHA) by ELISA; and cryoglobulins by precipitation. Complement components C3 and C4, alpha-1 antitrypsin (alpha1 AT) and C reactive protein (CR-P) were measured by nephelometry. Renal lesions were present in 3/16 (18.8%) ATD-treated patients and in 42/56 (75%) ISV patients (p <0.001). Skin lesions occurred in 10/16 (62.5%) ATD-treated patients and 14/56 (25%) ISV patients (p <0.01). ATD-treated patients more frequently had MPO-ANCA, ANA, AHA, aCL, cryoglobulins and low C4 (p <0.01). ISV patients more frequently had low alpha1 AT (p = 0.059) and high CR-P (p <0.001). Of 16 ATD-treated patients, four had drug-induced ANCA vasculitis (three MPA and one WG), while 12 had lupus-like disease (LLD). Of 56 ISV patients, 13 died and eight developed terminal renal failure (TRF). There was no lethality in the ATD-treated group, but 1/16 with methimazole-induced MPA developed pulmonary-renal syndrome with progression to TRF. ANCA-positive ISV had a more severe course in comparison with ATD-induced ANCA-positive diseases. Clinically and serologically ANCA-positive ATD-treated patients can be divided into two groups: the first consisting of patients with drug-induced WG or MPA which resemble ISV and the second consisting of patients with LLD. Different serological profiles could help in the differential diagnosis and adequate therapeutic approach to ANCA-positive ATD-treated patients with symptoms of systemic disease.
Adverse drug reactions to azathioprine, the prodrug of 6-mercaptopurine, occur in 15%-38% of patients and the majority are not explained by thiopurine-S-methyltransferase (TPMT) deficiency. Azathioprine is known to induce glutathione depletion and consumption of glutathione is greater in cells with high glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity compared with those with low activity; moreover, some reports indicate that GST might play a direct role in the reaction of glutathione with azathioprine. The association between polymorphisms of GST-M1, GST-P1, GST-T1, and TPMT genes and the adverse effects of azathioprine was therefore investigated.
Seventy patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), treated with azathioprine, were enrolled and clinical data were retrospectively determined. TPMT and GST genotyping were performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays on DNA extracted from blood samples.
Fifteen patients developed adverse effects (21.4%); there was a significant underrepresentation of the GST-M1 null genotype among patients developing adverse drug reactions to azathioprine (odds ratio [OR] = 0.18, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.037-0.72, P = 0.0072) compared with patients who did not develop adverse effects. Patients heterozygous for TPMT mutations presented a marginally significant increased probability of developing adverse effects (OR = 6.38, 95% CI = 0.66-84.1, P = 0.062). Moreover, among the 55 patients who did not develop adverse effects, there was a significant underrepresentation of the GST-M1 null genotype among patients who displayed lymphopenia as compared with those that did not display this effect of azathioprine (OR = 0.15, 95% CI = 0.013-1.08, P = 0.032).
Patients with IBD with a wildtype GST-M1 genotype present increased probability of developing adverse effects and increased incidence of lymphopenia during azathioprine treatment.
Albuminuria and hypertension are predictors of poor renal and cardiovascular outcome in diabetic patients. This study tested whether dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) with both an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (ACE-I) and an Angiotensin-II receptor blocker (ARB) is superior to either drug alone in type I diabetic patients with diabetic nephropathy (DN). A randomized double-blind crossover trial was performed with 8-wk treatment with placebo, 20 mg of benazepril once daily, 80 mg of valsartan once daily, and the combination of 20 mg of benazepril and 80 mg of valsartan. Twenty type I diabetic patients with DN were included. At the end of each treatment period, albuminuria, 24-h BP, and GFR were measured. Eighteen patients completed the study. Placebo values were: albuminuria [mean (95% CI)], 701 (490 to 1002) mg/24 h; BP [mean (SEM)], 144 (4)/79 (2) mmHg, and GFR [mean (SEM)], 82 (7) ml/min per 1.73 m(2). Treatment with benazepril, valsartan, or dual blockade significantly reduced albuminuria and BP compared with placebo. Benazepril and valsartan were equally effective. Dual blockade induced an additional reduction in albuminuria of 43 % (29 to 54 %) compared with any type of monotherapy, and a reduction in systolic BP of 6 (0 to 13) mmHg and 7 (1 to 14) mmHg (versus benazepril and valsartan, respectively) and a reduction of 7 (4 to 10) mmHg diastolic compared with both monotherapies. GFR was reversibly reduced on dual blockade compared with monotherapy and placebo. All treatments were safe and well tolerated. In conclusion, dual blockade of the RAS may offer additional renal and cardiovascular protection in type I diabetic patients with DN.
SPARC (Secreted Protein, Acidic and Rich in Cysteine) is a matricellular protein that inhibits mesangial cell proliferation and also affects production of extracellular matrix (ECM) by regulating transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and type I collagen in mesangial cells. This study is an investigation of the role of SPARC in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nephropathy (DN) of 6-mo duration in wild type (WT) and SPARC-null mice. SPARC expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and by in situ hybridization (ISH). Deposition of type I and IV collagen and laminin was evaluated by IHC, and TGF-beta 1 mRNA was assessed by ISH. Renal function studies revealed no significant difference in BUN between diabetic SPARC-null mice and diabetic WT mice, whereas a significant increase in albumin excretion was detected in diabetic WT relative to diabetic SPARC-null mice. Diabetic WT animals exhibited increased levels of SPARC mRNA and protein in glomerular epithelial cells and in interstitial cells, in comparison with nondiabetic WT mice. Neither SPARC mRNA nor protein was detected in SPARC-null mice. Morphometry revealed a significant increase in the percentage of the glomerular tufts occupied by ECM in diabetic WT compared with nondiabetic WT mice, although there was no difference in the mean glomerular tuft area among groups. In contrast, diabetic SPARC-null mice did not show a significant difference in the percentage of the glomerular tufts occupied by ECM relative to nondiabetic null mice. Tubulointerstitial fibrosis was ameliorated in diabetic SPARC-null mice compared with diabetic WT animals. Further characterization of diabetic SPARC-null mice revealed diminished glomerular deposition of type IV collagen and laminin, and diminished interstitial deposition of type I and type IV collagen correlated with decreases in TGF-beta 1 mRNA compared with WT diabetic mice. These observations suggest that SPARC contributes to glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial damage in response to hyperglycemia through increasing TGF-beta 1 expression in this model of chronic DN.
The foot processes forming the slit diaphragm are disrupted in diseases associated with proteinuria. Although they are often repairable, regulators for the repairing process remain unknown. By extrapolating from the fact that vitamin A is essential for the nephrogenesis, this study examined whether or not injured podocytes in the middle of the repairing process require retinaldehyde dehydrogenase type 2 (RALDH2), one of the key enzymes to produce all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). RALDH2 was dramatically upregulated in podocytes of puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis (PAN nephrosis) rats. On day 5 of PAN nephrosis, RALDH2 showed the remarkable induction, whereas glomerular expression levels of nephrin and midkine, one of the ATRA target genes, were downregulated. Daily administration of ATRA ameliorated proteinuria, which was accompanied by the improvement in the effacement of the foot processes and by the induction of nephrin and midkine. In contrast, recovery from PAN nephrosis was delayed in rats fed with a vitamin A-deficient diet. Consistently, the promoter region of human nephrin gene (NPHS1) contained three putative retinoic acid response elements (RARE) and showed the enhancer activity in response to ATRA in a dose-dependent manner. This transcriptional activation was regulated through the receptors for retinoids because BMS-189453, an antagonist to the retinoid receptors, counteracted it in a dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, active metabolites of vitamin A, especially ATRA produced by RALDH2 play relevant roles during the repairing process of injured podocytes. The results obtained from PAN nephrosis rats might be applicable to human renal diseases.
By their intervention upon the mechanisms regulating the vascular tone, renal plasma flow and direct actions of chemical structures, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may determine undesirable effects. These effects formed the object of a 5-year retrospective study (1995-1999) carried out at the IIIrd Medical Clinic of Iasi. During this interval ACE inhibitors were administrated to 2178 patients with hypertensive and coronary disorders or heart failure of various causes. Different generations of ACE inhibitors were used, but captopril, enalapril and lysinopril were the most commonly administered. Undesirable effects were recorded in 161 patients (7.3%). The following side-effects, single or associated, were recorded: 38 patients (23.6%) had increasing blood pressure proportional with ACEI dose, 80 patients (49.7%) had decreasing blood pressure at low doses ACEI, 23 patients (14.4%) had kidney failure, 2 patients (1.2%) had both increasing blood pressure and kidney failure, 3 patients (1.9%) had both decreasing blood pressure and kidney failure, 6 patients (3.8%) had dry cough, one patient (0.6%) had kidney failure with decrease blood pressure and allergic dermatitis, 4 patients (2.4%) had allergic dermatitis, and 4 patients (2.4%) had headache, vertigo, paresthesia.
The treatment with ACE inhibitors has to be carefully initiated under strict clinical and biological monitoring, preferably in hospital setting. No drug associations that favor the undesirable effects of ACE inhibitors were reported.
The synergistic effect of combination treatment with COX-2 inhibitors and chemotherapy may be another promising therapy regimen in the future treatment of colorectal cancer. Curcumin, a major yellow pigment in turmeric which is used widely all over the world, inhibits the growth of human colon cancer cell line HT-29 significantly and specifically inhibits the expression of COX-2 protein. However, the worldwide exposure of populations to curcumin raised the question of whether this agent would enhance or inhibit the effects of chemotherapy. In this report, we evaluated the growth-inhibitory effect of curcumin and a traditional chemotherapy agent, 5-FU, against the proliferation of a human colon cancer cell line (HT-29). The combination effect was quantitatively determined using the method of median-effect principle and the combination index. The inhibition of COX-2 expression after treatment with the curcumin-5-FU combination was also evaluated by Western blot analysis. The IC(50) value in the HT-29 cells for curcumin was 15.9 +/- 1.96 microM and for 5-FU it was 17.3 +/- 1.85 microM. When curcumin and 5-FU were used concurrently, synergistic inhibition of growth was quantitatively demonstrated. The level of COX-2 protein expression was reduced almost 6-fold after the combination treatment. Our results demonstrate synergism between curcumin and 5-FU at higher doses against the human colon cancer cell line HT-29. This synergism was associated with the decreased expression of COX-2 protein.
Cocaine covalently modifies proteins through a reaction in which the methyl ester of cocaine acylates the epsilon-amino group of lysine residues. This reaction is highly specific in vitro, because no other amino acid reacts with cocaine, and only cocaine's methyl ester reacts with the lysine side chain. Covalently modified proteins were present in the plasma of rats and human subjects chronically exposed to cocaine. Modified endogenous proteins are immunogenic, and specific antibodies were elicited in mouse and detected in the plasma of human subjects. Covalent modification of proteins could explain cocaine's autoimmune effects and provide a new biochemical approach to cocaine's long-term actions.
Delayed graft function (DGF) occurs in 15 to 25% (range, 10 to 62%) of cadaveric kidney transplant recipients and up to 9% of living donor recipients. In addition to donor, recipient, and procedural factors, the choice of immunosuppression may influence the development of DGF. The impact of immunosuppression on DGF was studied. The frequency of DGF was evaluated in first cadaveric or living donor kidney allograft recipients (n = 144) transplanted at the University of Washington from November 1999 through September 1, 2001. Donor, recipient, and procedural factors, as well as biopsy results, were compared between patients who developed DGF and those who did not. DGF was more common in patients treated with rapamycin than without (25% versus 8.9%, P = 0.02) and positively correlated with rapamycin dose (P = 0.008). In those developing DGF, the duration of posttransplant dialysis increased with donor age (P = 0.003) but decreased with mycophenolate mofetil use (P = 0.01). All biopsies during episodes of DGF demonstrated changes of acute tubular injury. Of the patients with tubular injury, 12 treated with rapamycin and tacrolimus developed intratubular cast formation indistinguishable from myeloma cast nephropathy. Histologic, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural studies indicated that these casts were composed at least in part of degenerating renal tubular epithelial cells. These findings suggest that rapamycin therapy exerts increased toxicity on tubular epithelial cells and/or retards healing, leading to an increased incidence of DGF. Additionally, rapamycin treatment combined with a calcineurin inhibitor may lead to extensive tubular cell injury and death and a unique form of cast nephropathy.
Cohen syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder with variability in the clinical manifestations, characterized by developmental delay, visual disability, facial dysmorphisms and intermittent neutropenia. We described a cohort of 10 patients affected by Cohen syndrome from nine Italian families ranging from 5 to 52 years at assessment. Characteristic age related facial changes were well documented. Visual anomalies, namely retinopathy and myopia, were present in 9/10 patients (retinopathy in 9/10 and myopia in 8/10). Truncal obesity has been described in all patients older than 6 years (8/8). DNA samples from all patients were analyzed for mutations in COH1 by DHPLC. We detected 15 COH1 alterations most of them were truncating mutations, only one being a missense change. Partial gene deletions have been found in two families. Most mutations were private. Two were already reported in the literature just once. A single base deletion leading to p.T3708fs3769, never reported before, was found in three apparently unrelated families deriving from a restricted area of the Veneto's lowland, between Padova town and Tagliamento river, in heterozygous state. Given the geographical conformation of this region, which is neither geographically or culturally isolated, a recent origin of the mutation could be hypothesized.
Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) is known to exert both positive and negative effects on different stages of tumor formation. Of the TGFbetaisoforms, TGFbeta1 is highly expressed in prostate cancer and leads to tumor promotion and metastasis. Increased expression of TGFbeta1 is associated with more aggressive tumors and poor prognosis. Several polymorphisms in TGFB1 have been identified, and two variants in strong linkage disequilibrium, C-509T and T+29C, show increased serum levels. Because of the potential role of TGFB1 variants in prostate cancer and progression, we hypothesized that these two TGFB1 variants would be associated with prostate cancer risk, particularly later, more aggressive stage tumors. To test this, we conducted a nested case-control study of 492 men diagnosed with prostate cancer from the Physicians Health Study and 492 age-matched controls. In this study, cases who were homozygous for the T allele at position -509 had a 2.4-fold increased risk of more advanced stage of prostate cancer [95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.03-5.43; P = 0.04]. The T allele frequencies in cases and controls were 32.7% and 31.4%, respectively. The same polymorphism showed a 1.23 nonsignificant odds ratio (OR) for overall prostate cancer risk (95% CI 0.80-1.87). Cases who were homozygous for the C allele at position +29 did not show any significant increase in risk for either total prostate cancer (OR 1.19, 95% CI 0.82-1.74) or advanced stage prostate cancer (OR 1.33, 95% CI 0.66-2.68). The C allele frequency in cases and controls were 39.9% and 38.5%, respectively. Our data suggest that the TGFB1 C-509T variant that affects expression of TGFbeta1 may play a role in advanced stage prostate cancer.
To determine the prevalence of occult brain abnormalities in magnetic resonance imaging of active amphetamine users.
Prospective convenience study in a tertiary hospital emergency department (ED). Patients presenting to the ED for an amphetamine-related reason were eligible for inclusion. We collected demographic data, drug use data, and performed a mini-mental state examination (MMSE).
The proportion of patients with an abnormality on their MRI scan.
Of 38 patients enrolled, 30 had MRI scans. Nineteen were male and their mean age was 26.7 +/- 5.4 years (range 19-41 years). The mean age of first amphetamine use was 18 years (range 13-26 years). Sixteen patients used crystal methamphetamine (mean amount 2.5 g/week), nine used amphetamine ("speed") (mean amount 2.9 g/week), and 23 used ecstasy (mean amount 2.3 tablets/week). Marijuana was smoked by 26 (mean amount 5.9 g/week), and 28 drank alcohol (mean amount 207 g/week). The median MMSE score was 27/30 (interquartile range, 26-29). Abnormalities on brain MRI scans were identified in six patients, most commonly an unidentified bright object (n = 4).
In this pilot study of brain MRI of young people attending the ED with an amphetamine-related presentation, one in five had an occult brain lesion. While the significance of this is uncertain, it is congruent with evidence that amphetamines cause brain injury.
1. The aim of this study was to investigate the capacity of chiglitazar to improve insulin resistance and dyslipidemia in monosodium L-glutamate (MSG) obese rats and to determine whether its lipid-lowering effect is mediated through its activation of PPARalpha. 2. Chiglitazar is a PPARalpha/gamma dual agonist. 3. The compound improved impaired insulin and glucose tolerance; decreased plasma insulin level and increased the insulin sensitivity index and decreased HOMA index. Euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp studies showed chiglitazar increased the glucose infusion rate in MSG obese rats. 4. Chiglitazar inhibited alanine gluconeogenesis, lowered the hepatic glycogen level in MSG obese rats. Like rosiglitazone, chiglitazar promoted the differentiation of adipocytes and decreased the maximal diameter of adipocytes. In addition, chiglitazar decreased the fibrosis and lipid accumulation in the islets and increased the size of islets. 5. Chiglitazar reduced plasma triglyceride, total cholesterol (TCHO), nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA) and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels; lowered hepatic triglyceride and TCHO contents; decreased muscular NEFA level. Unlike rosiglitazone, chiglitazar showed significant increase of mRNA expression of PPARalpha, CPT1, BIFEZ, ACO and CYP4A10 in the liver of MSG obese rats. 6. These data suggest that PPARalpha/gamma coagonist, such as chiglitazar, affect lipid homeostasis with different mechanisms from rosiglitazone, chiglitazar may have better effects on lipid homeostasis in diabetic patients than selective PPARgamma agonists.
Nicotine has wellknown, unpleasant side effects, e.g., transient dizziness, nausea, and nicotine-induced nystagmus (NIN). To investigate factors influencing these effects, we addressed three questions: (1) Is the intensity of dizziness, nausea, NIN, and unsteadiness dependent on nicotine dosage? (2) Does the intensity of perceptual, ocular motor, vegetative effects, and postural imbalance correlate? (3) Do visual or vestibular motion stimuli produce and/or aggravate distressing dizziness and nausea? Sixty healthy non-smokers or occasional smokers participated; 40 were tested once before and six times after application of a nicotine nasal spray in doses of 1 mg or 2 mg with or without motion stimulation; 20 received a placebo nasal spray. Plasma nicotine concentrations were significantly related to nicotine dosage. Dizziness, nausea, NIN, and unsteadiness also depended on the nicotine dosage (p < 0.01).Nicotine blood concentration was a better predictor for the temporal dependence of nystagmus than nicotine dosage. Dizziness correlated highly with nausea (R = 0.63, p < 0.001). The degree of nicotine-induced nausea significantly correlated with postural imbalance. The time course of postural sway differed according to nicotine dosage and gender: for women, there was no clear relationship between sway magnitude and nicotine dosage, while men showed increased sway with higher dosage. Motion stimulation increased nicotine-induced dizziness and nausea, but did not significantly influence NIN or postural imbalance. Our data support the view that all measured adverse effects reflect dose-dependent nicotine-induced vestibular dysfunction. Additional motion stimulation aggravates dizziness and nausea, i.e., nicotine increases sensitivity to motion sickness.
Glabridin was isolated from the roots of Glycyrrhiza glabra and its effects on cognitive functions and cholinesterase activity were investigated in mice. Glabridin (1, 2 and 4 mg kg (-1), P. O.) and piracetam (400 mg kg (-1), i. p.), a clinically used nootropic agent, were administered daily for 3 successive days to different groups of mice. The higher doses (2 and 4 mg kg (-1), P. O.) of glabridin and piracetam significantly antagonized the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.5 mg kg (-1), I. P.) in both the elevated plus maze test and passive avoidance test. Furthermore, glabridin (2 and 4 mg kg (-1), P. O.) and metrifonate (50 mg kg (-1), I. P.), used as a standard drug, both remarkably reduced the brain cholinesterase activity in mice compared to the control group. Therefore, glabridin appears to be a promising candidate for memory improvement and it will be worthwhile to explore the potential of glabridin in the management of Alzheimer patients.
