Diphenylhydantoin (DPH) diminished the therapeutic effects of levodopa both in patients with parkinsonism and in patients with chronic manganese poisoning, as well as the levodopa-dependent dyskinesia for which the former were selected. In patients with Huntington chorea, it enhanced chorea and mental agitation and, thus, failed to conform with the postulated pharmacological reciprocity between Parkinson disease and Huntington chorea. These findings are in agreement with experiments done in animals in which DPH blocked a neuronal response to dopamine.
Neuroanatomical methods were used to determine if cocaine irreversibly injures neurons. Despite acute and chronic high-dose treatments for months that produced stereotyped behavior and seizures, and the use of a sensitive silver impregnation method, we were unable to find any evidence of neuronal damage anywhere in the brain. Since expression of the inducible 72 kDa heat shock protein (HSP72) is a sensitive indicator of potentially toxic neuronal stress, we next determined if cocaine evoked HSP72 expression. Even high doses of cocaine that evoked seizures did not induce HSP72 immunoreactivity anywhere within the brain, whereas kainic acid produced widespread HSP72 immunoreactivity and irreversible injury. Having failed to find indications of frank neurotoxicity, we examined peptide and protein cell marker immunoreactivities in search of cocaine-induced changes. Although cocaine treatment had no obvious effects on the patterns of hippocampal calbindin-D28K, somatostatin-, tyrosine hydroxylase- and parvalbumin immunoreactivities, cocaine reliably altered neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI). Most notably, NPY-LI was expressed in hippocampal dentate granule cells and pyriform cortical neurons, which do not normally express it. Conversely, we noted decreased NPY-LI in dentate hilar neurons that normally do express it. Since both changes in NPY-LI were seen only in cocaine-treated rats that exhibited seizures, the role of seizure activity per se in producing the NPY changes was addressed in normal rats by electrical stimulation of the perforant path. Like cocaine, perforant path stimulation for as little as 15min evoked NPY-LI in granule cells but did not replicate the cocaine-induced decrease in hilar cell NPY-LI. These results suggest that cocaine does not irreversibly injure neurons in the rat, even at doses that induce seizures. However, cocaine produces long-lasting changes in NPY expression that are of unknown functional significance. Our inability to demonstrate cocaine-induced neuronal damage in rats should in no way be taken as evidence of its safety in humans.
A 38-year-old man, exposed to notroglycerin in his work as an explosives expert, developed non-occlusive ischemic heart disease after withdrawal of exposure to organic nitrates. Despite the severity of his symptoms and the documented spasm of his right coronary artery, his electrocardiogram was at all times normal, as were results of a wide panel of laboratory tests. Sublingual nitroglycerin amerliorated the symptoms which have decreased with time.
The effect of irsogladine maleate, a widely used antiulcer drug in Japan, on indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions was examined in rats. Animals without fasting were given indomethacin (10 mg/kg, s.c.) and sacrificed 24 h later. Irsogladine (1-10 mg/kg) or 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 (dmPGE2 0.03 mg/kg) was given p.o. twice, 0.5 before and 6 h after indomethacin, while ampicillin (800 mg/kg) was given twice, 18 and 0.5 h before. Indomethacin caused severe lesions in the small intestine, mainly the jejunum and ileum, accompanied by intestinal hypermotility, the up-regulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression, and an increase of myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity as well as enterobacterial invasion in the mucosa. These events were all prevented by both dmPGE2 and ampicillin, except the intestinal hypermotility which was only prevented by dmPGE2. Likewise, irsogladine also significantly and dose-dependently prevented these lesions at > 1 mg/kg. This agent alone increased mucus secretion and significantly suppressed the decreased mucus response to indomethacin, resulting in a suppression of the bacterial invasion as well as the increase in MPO activity and iNOS expression. The protective effect of irsogladine was mimicked by isobutylmethylxanthine, a nonselective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase (PDE), as well as rolipram, a selective PDE4 inhibitor. These results suggest that irsogladine protects the small intestine against indomethacin-induced lesions, and this effect may be associated with the increased mucus secretion, probably due to the inhibitory actions of PDE, resulting in suppression of enterobacterial invasion and iNOS expression.
Recent studies have demonstrated a role for thiazolidinediones in attenuating atherosclerosis. However, these studies were performed in insulin-resistant animal models in association with reductions in insulin and glucose levels. To assess the vascular effects of thiazolidinediones, independent of their metabolic effects, we observed the effect of rosiglitazone on diabetes-associated atherosclerosis in a model of insulin insufficiency.
Control and diabetic apolipoprotein E-deficient mice received rosiglitazone or placebo. Diabetic mice demonstrated a 3-fold increase in plaque area, which was attenuated by rosiglitazone. There was no significant difference in glucose, insulin, or cholesterol levels between treated and untreated diabetic animals. Rosiglitazone attenuated the increase in superoxide production observed in diabetic mice. A 4-fold increase in the reverse cholesterol transport marker ABCA1 was observed in treated diabetic mice. Rosiglitazone reduced angiotensin II receptor gene expression in control and diabetic mice, and macrophage accumulation was increased in diabetic mice compared with controls and was attenuated by rosiglitazone.
These findings suggest peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligands such as rosiglitazone confer vascular protection independent of their effects on metabolic control. These antiatherosclerotic effects may have important clinical ramifications not only in insulin resistance/type 2 diabetes and also in type 1 diabetes.
Atypical antipsychotics have been reported to induce or exacerbate obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) in patients with schizophrenia. We report the development of de novo obsession induced by sequential treatment with risperidone, aripiprazole, and ziprasidone, which have an antagonist effect on serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptors in a patient with schizophrenia. The obsession was repeatedly improved after switching the atypical antipsychotics to amisulpride, a selective D(2) and D(3) receptor antagonist. To our knowledge, this is the first report about ziprasidone-induced OCS in a patient with schizophrenia. In conclusion, this case supports the hypothesis that the antagonist effect on 5-HT(2) receptors may be related to atypical antipsychotic-induced OCS.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent available antitumor drug; however, its clinical use is limited by the cardiotoxicity. Salidroside (SLD), with strong antioxidative and cytoprotective actions, is of particular interest in the development of antioxidative therapies for oxidative injury in cardiac diseases. Now, the protection and underlying mechanisms of SLD against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity are still unknown. In the present study, we revealed both antioxidative mechanism and Bcl2-dependent survival signaling involved in SLD's protection. We observed that DOX exposure induced mortality elevation, body weight loss, and cardiac dysfunction in mice, increased lactate dehydrogenase leakage and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, but decreased cell viability and size in cardiac tissues and cultured H9c2 cells, respectively, which were effectively antagonized by SLD supplement. We further observed that SLD significantly reduced the intercellular oxidative stress level, partly by inhibiting NOX1 expression and augmenting the expression and activities of the endogenous antioxidative enzymes, catalase, and manganese superoxide dismutase. In addition, SLD treatment upregulated the antiapoptotic Bcl2 and downregulated the proapoptotic Bax and inhibited a downstream pathway of Bcl2/Bax and caspase-3 activity. Our results indicated that SLD effectively protected the cardiomyocytes against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity by suppressing the excessive oxidative stress and activating a Bcl2-mediated survival signaling pathway.
The impact of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the DNA repair gene XPC on DNA repair capacity (DRC) and genotoxicity has not been comprehensively determined. We constructed a comprehensive haplotype map encompassing all common XPC SNPs and evaluated the effect of Bayesian-inferred haplotypes on DNA damage associated with tobacco smoking, using chromosome aberrations (CA) as a biomarker. We also used the mutagen-sensitivity assay, in which mutagen-induced CA in cultured lymphocytes are determined, to evaluate the haplotype effects on DRC. We hypothesized that if certain XPC haplotypes have functional effects, a correlation between these haplotypes and baseline and/or mutagen-induced CA would exist. Using HapMap and single nucleotide polymorphism (dbSNP) databases, we identified 92 SNPs, of which 35 had minor allele frequencies >or= 0.05. Bayesian inference and subsequent phylogenetic analysis identified 21 unique haplotypes, which segregated into six distinct phylogenetically grouped haplotypes (PGHs A-F). A SNP tagging approach used identified 11 tagSNPs representing these 35 SNPs (r(2) = 0.80). We utilized these tagSNPs to genotype a population of smokers matched to nonsmokers (n = 123). Haplotypes for each individual were reconstituted and PGH designations were assigned. Relationships between XPC haplotypes and baseline and/or mutagen-induced CA were then evaluated. We observed significant interaction among smoking and PGH-C (p = 0.046) for baseline CA where baseline CA was 3.5 times higher in smokers compared to nonsmokers. Significant interactions among smoking and PGH-D (p = 0.023) and PGH-F (p = 0.007) for mutagen-induced CA frequencies were also observed. These data indicate that certain XPC haplotypes significantly alter CA and DRC in smokers and, thus, can contribute to cancer risk.
Severe bradyarrythmias remain as an important cause for hospital urgent admission and these patients can suffer potentially lethal complications (such as ventricular fibrillation [VF] and torsades de pointes [TdP]) between hospital admission and final therapy. Incidence and predictors of these tachyarrhythmias have not been well established. We retrospectively studied all consecutive patients (N = 243, age 75 +/- 10 years; 47% men) admitted to the emergency department of a general hospital between January 1998 and July 2000 for symptomatic bradyarrhythmia. Concomitant therapy included diuretics (25%), digitalis (10%), beta-blockers (10%), amiodarone (2%), and verapamil or diltiazem (8%). Syncope was the most frequent symptom at admission (54%). The most prevalent inclusion bradyarrhythmia was > or =second-degree AV block (82%). Eleven patients (4.5%) presented VF or TdP. Univariate predictors for these complications were previous amiodarone or diuretic intake, presentation as syncope, low serum potassium level, and longer QTc at admission. Multivariate analysis with logistic regression showed only therapy with diuretics and/or amiodarone and QTc at admission as significant predictors for TdP or VF development. Incidence of VF or TdP in patients admitted for symptomatic bradyarrhythmia is relatively important. A prolonged QTc interval and/or therapy with amiodarone or diuretics can predict their presentation.
Recurrent hallucinations appeared in an 11-year-old boy during 5 days following ketamine anaesthesia. Previous anaesthesia with ketamine and adequate diazepam supplementation did not produce any such effect. The phenomenon of delayed recurring hallucinations is a rare but dangerous side-effect of ketamine, not unlike LSD flashbacks. The described case lends support to previous reports on the value of diazepam in the prevention of post-ketamine perceptual abnormalities.
A short-lasting hypoglycemic effect was observed when S(-)-hydroxyhexamide (S-HH), a major metabolite of acetohexamide, and its enantiomer R(+)-hydroxyhexamide (R-HH), were administered orally to rats. Since the reductive metabolism of acetohexamide is known to be reversible in rats, oral administration of R-HH may exhibit the hypoglycemic effect through the generation of acetohexamide. However, oral administration of R-HH to rabbits, in spite of their inability to oxidize R-HH to acetohexamide, caused a significant decrease and increase, respectively, of plasma glucose and insulin levels. Furthermore, both S-HH and R-HH were found to stimulate the secretion of insulin from hamster HIT T15 cells (pancreatic beta-cells). These results provide further evidence that both R-HH and S-HH exhibit a significant hypoglycemic effect.
Mesalazine is a first-line drug in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease, and is effective as primary treatment and maintenance therapy. It's usually well tolerated, but various side effects have been described. A 15-year-old female with ulcerative colitis developed polyuria, polydipsia, vomiting, and fatigue. She was receiving mesalazine (500 mg, thrice daily, p.o.) and prednisolone for 4 months. She was detected as acute tubular injury as she had dehydration, acidosis, hypostenuria, hematuria, proteinuria, low levels of potassium, uric acid and bicarbonate. These findings were attributed to interstitial nephritis as a side effect of mesalazine, however as renal biopsy was disapproved by the parents, it was not confirmed. After discontinuation of mesalazine her renal tubular functions improved. Potassium and phosphorus supplements were stopped after 7 months, although she had to continue bicarbonate supplementation. We conclude that regular renal screening is important in patients receiving 5-ASA therapy to prevent rare but serious complications, such as interstitial nephritis sometimes leading to chronic renal failure.
Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a cholestatic disease associated with autoimmune phenomena and alterations in both biliary bicarbonate excretion and expression of the bicarbonate carrier AE2. The bile acid ursodeoxycholic acid (UCDA) is currently used in treatment of cholestatic liver diseases and is the treatment of choice in PBC; however, a subset of PBC patients respond poorly to UDCA monotherapy. In these patients, a combination of UDCA and glucocorticoid therapy appears to be beneficial. To address the mechanism of this benefit, we analyzed the effects of UDCA and dexamethasone on AE2 gene expression in human liver cells from hepatocyte and cholangiocyte lineages. The combination of UDCA and dexamethasone, but not UDCA or dexamethasone alone, increased the expression of liver-enriched alternative mRNA isoforms AE2b1 and AE2b2 and enhanced AE2 activity. Similar effects were obtained after replacing UDCA with UDCA conjugates. In in vitro and in vivo reporter assays, we found that a UDCA/dexamethasone combination upregulated human AE2 alternate overlapping promoter sequences from which AE2b1 and AE2b2 are expressed. In chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, we demonstrated that combination UCDA/dexamethasone treatment induced p300-related interactions between HNF1 and glucocorticoid receptor on the AE2 alternate promoter. Our data provide a potential molecular explanation for the beneficial effects of the combination of UDCA and glucocorticoids in PBC patients with inadequate response to UDCA monotherapy.
To characterize the exposures and practices of U.S. travelers who acquired cutaneous leishmaniasis in the Americas and to highlight problems they encountered in seeking medical care from U.S. physicians.
A retrospective review of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Drug Service records and a telephone survey of patients.
Fifty-nine civilian U.S. travelers with American cutaneous leishmaniasis for whom the Drug Service released sodium stibogluconate between 1 January 1985 and 30 April 1990; 58 travelers (98%) were interviewed.
Travel destination, exposure duration, knowledge about leishmaniasis, and time from noticing skin lesions to release of drug.
Overall, travelers acquired leishmaniasis in as many as 14 countries; 33 of 59 travelers (56%) were infected in Mexico or Central America. Twenty-seven travelers (46%) were conducting field studies and 23 (39%) were tourists, visitors, or tour guides. At least 15 persons (26% of the 58 interviewed travelers) were in forested areas for 1 week or less; at least 6 of these persons had a maximum exposure of 2 days. Ten persons (17%) were home at least 1 month before they noticed skin lesions. Patients consulted from one to seven physicians (mean, 2.1 physicians) before leishmaniasis was diagnosed. Overall, the median time from noticing lesions to the release of drug was 112 days (range, 13 to 1022 days); however, the median was only 55 days for 13 patients (22%) unusually knowledgeable about leishmaniasis and was a maximum of 60 days for 16 patients (28%) (including 7 of the 13 unusually knowledgeable patients) who generally consulted physicians exceptionally knowledgeable about infectious and tropical diseases.
Travelers to forested areas in Mexico and Central and South America and their physicians need to be educated about the risk for acquiring leishmaniasis even during short stays, as well as about effective preventive measures; and appropriate medical management [corrected].
Interleukin-12 (IL-12) is an immunomodulatory cytokine that promotes cellular immunity. Pre-clinical data suggest that IL-12 inhibits hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication by stimulating interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production. We investigated whether a combination treatment with lamivudine plus recombinant human interleukin-12 (rhIL-12) will result in a greater and prolonged suppression of HBV replication in comparison with lamivudine monotherapy. Fifteen patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B were randomized to receive either lamivudine alone for 24 weeks (group 1); combination of lamivudine for 16 weeks and rhIL-12 (200 ng/kg twice weekly), starting 4 weeks after initiation of lamivudine, for 20 weeks (group 2), or the same schedule as for group 2, with lamivudine and a higher dose of rhIL-12 (500 ng/kg, group 3). Serum HBV DNA levels, T-cell proliferation, frequency of virus-specific T-cells, and IFN-gamma production were evaluated serially during and 24 weeks posttreatment. Lamivudine plus rhIL-12/500 showed greater antiviral activity than lamivudine monotherapy. However, after stopping lamivudine in groups 2 and 3, serum HBV DNA increased significantly despite continuing rhIL-12 administration. Lamivudine plus rhIL-12 treatment was associated with a greater increase in virus-specific T-cell reactivity, IFN-gamma production, and an inverse correlation between the frequency of IFN-gamma-producing CD4+ T-cells and viremia. The T-cell proliferative response to HBcAg did not differ between the three groups. In conclusion, the addition of IL-12 to lamivudine enhances T-cell reactivity to HBV and IFN-gamma production. However, IL-12 does not abolish HBV replication in HBeAg-positive patients and does not maintain inhibition of HBV replication after lamivudine withdrawal.
The macrophage plays a major role in the induction and resolution phases of inflammation; however, how lipid mediator-derived signals may modulate macrophage function in the resolution of inflammation driven by microbes (e.g., in inflammatory bowel disease) is not well understood. We examined the effects of aspirin-triggered lipoxin (ATL), a stable analog of lipoxin A(4), on the antimicrobial responses of human peripheral blood mononuclear cell-derived macrophages and the monocytic THP-1 cell line. Additionally, we assessed the expression and localization of the lipoxin receptor, formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2), in colonic mucosal biopsies from patients with Crohn's disease to determine whether the capacity for lipoxin signaling is altered in inflammatory bowel disease. We found that THP-1 cells treated with ATL (100 nM) displayed increased phagocytosis of inert fluorescent beads and Escherichia coli in a scavenger receptor- and PI3K-dependent, opsonization-independent manner. This ATL-induced increase in phagocytosis was also observed in primary human macrophages, where it was associated with an inhibition of E. coli-induced IL-1β and IL-8 production. Finally, we found that FPR2 gene expression was increased approximately sixfold in the colon of patients with Crohn's disease, a finding reproduced in vitro by the treatment of THP-1 cells with interferon-γ or lipopolysaccharide. These results suggest that lipoxin signaling is upregulated in inflammatory environments, and, in addition to their known role in tissue resolution following injury, lipoxins can enhance macrophage clearance of invading microbes.
Manganese (Mn) has been associated with embryo toxicity as it impairs differentiation of neural and skeletogenic cells in vertebrates. Nevertheless, information on the mechanisms operating at the cellular level remains scant. We took advantage of an amenable embryonic model to investigate the effects of Mn in biomineral formation. Sea urchin (Paracentrotus lividus) embryos were exposed to Mn from fertilization, harvested at different developmental stages, and analyzed for their content in calcium (Ca), expression of skeletogenic genes, localization of germ layer markers, and activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). By optical and immunofluorescence microscopy, we found that Mn exposure produced embryos with no skeleton, by preventing the deposition of the triradiate calcitic spicules usually produced only by specialized mesoderm cells. On the contrary, ectoderm and endoderm differentiation was not impaired. Endogenous Ca content in whole embryos and its localization in Golgi regions of skeletogenic cells was strongly reduced, as measured by atomic absorption spectrometry and in vivo calcein labeling. Spicule-lacking embryos showed persistent ERK activation by immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting, contrary to the physiological oscillations observed in normal embryos. The expression of the skeletogenic genes, Pl-msp130 and Pl-sm30, was also differentially affected if compared with controls. Here, we showed for the first time the ability of Mn to interfere with Ca uptake and internalization into skeletogenic cells and demonstrate that Ca content regulates ERK activation/inactivation during sea urchin embryo morphogenesis. The use of Mn-exposed sea urchin embryos as a new model to study signaling pathways occurring during skeletogenesis will provide new insights into the mechanisms involved in Mn embryo toxicity and underlie the role of calcium in the biomineralization process in vertebrates.
We have previously verified that niga-ichigoside F(1) (NI), a triterpene isolated from Rubus imperialis, exhibits significant and potent antinociceptive action when evaluated in some pharmacological models of pain in mice. This effect was confirmed in other experimental models and also the mechanism of action has been evaluated. The antinociception caused by NI (60 mg kg(-1)) in both phases of the formalin test was significantly attenuated by intraperitoneal injection of mice with haloperidol (a dopaminergic antagonist, 0.20 mg kg(-1)) and L-arginine (precursor of nitric oxide, 600 mg kg(-1)). Regarding the cholinergic system, atropine (a cholinergic antagonist 60 mg kg(-1)) reverted only the second phase. The effect of NI was not affected by treatment of mice with yohimbine (an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, 0.15 mg kg(-1)). The same pharmacological profile was observed for the administration of naloxone (an opioid receptor antagonist, 1 mg kg(-1)). On the other hand, intraperitoneal injection caused dose-related and significant effects against glutamate- and capsaicin-induced pain, respectively. In conclusion, the marked antinociception of NI appears to be related to the dopaminergic, cholinergic, glutamatergic, tachykininergic and oxinitrergic systems, supporting the ethnomedical use of Rubus imperialis (Rosaceae).
In the present study, the effects of vitamin E and curcumin on hepatic dysfunction, mitochondrial oxygen consumption as well as hyperlipidemia in hypothyroid rats are reported.
Adult male rats were rendered hypothyroid by administration of 0.05% 6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil (PTU) in their drinking water, while vitamin E (200 mg/kg body weight) and curcumin (30 mg/kg body weight) were supplemented orally for 30 days.
Hypothyroidism-induced elevation in serum aspartate aminotransferase activity was found to decline in vitamin E and curcumin treated rats. Nevertheless, distorted histoarchitecture revealed in hypothyroid rat liver was alleviated to normal by vitamin E and curcumin treatment. Regulation of hypothyroidism induced decrease in complexes I and II mediated mitochondrial respiration by vitamin E and curcumin was found to be different. Administration of curcumin to hypothyroid rats alleviates the decreased state 4 respiration and increased respiratory control ratio (RCR) level in complex I mediated mitochondrial oxygen consumption, whereas complex II mediated respiration was not influenced by exogenous antioxidants. Although, increase in serum concentration of total cholesterol was not modified by exogenous antioxidants, increased level of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) in serum of hypothyroid rats was further enhanced by vitamin E and curcumin. Moreover, a significant elevation in mitochondrial lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation was noticed in hypothyroid groups treated with vitamin E and curcumin.
The present study suggests that supplementation of curcumin and vitamin E enhances oxidative stress parameters and hyperlipidemia; nevertheless, it protects hypothyroid-induced altered rectal temperature, serum transaminase activity and hepatic histoarchitecture.
Apoptosis induced by chemotherapeutic drugs is blocked by activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in some cancer cell lines. Therefore, inhibition of NF-kappaB by adenoviral delivery of an IkappaBalpha super-repressor (Ad.IkappaBalpha-SR) should make esophageal cancer cells more sensitive to 5- fluorouracil (5-FU) and taxotere chemotherapy.
SEG1 and BIC1 human esophageal cancer cells were studied. Chemotherapy-induced NF-kappaB activation was assessed by luciferase reporter assay and by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Cell growth inhibition was assessed by cell proliferation assay. Apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry and caspase 3/7 assay.
5-FU and taxotere significantly induced NF-kappaB activation as measured by luciferase reporter assay (P < 0.005) and EMSA. In both cell lines, Ad.IkappaBalpha-SR enhanced apoptosis by caspase 3/7 assay as compared to chemotherapy alone. In SEG1 cells, pre-treatment with Ad.IkappaBalpha-SR followed by 5-FU (0.25 mm) or taxotere (0.01 ug/ml), led to an increased apoptosis of 183% and 55%, respectively (P < 0.005). Similarly, apoptosis in BIC1 cells was significantly increased by pre-treatment with Ad.IkappaBalpha followed by 5-FU (0.1 mm) or taxotere (0.01 ug/ml) (P < 0.005). Growth inhibition in both cell lines was also significantly increased by pre-treatment with Ad.IkappaBalpha followed by 5-FU (0.01 mm) or taxotere (0.001 ug/ml) (P < 0.0005).
Treatment with 5-FU or taxotere induced NF-kappaB activation in human esophageal cancer cells. Inhibition of NF-kappaB by Ad.IkappaBalpha-SR increased their sensitivity to 5-FU and taxotere chemotherapy. Therefore, these results may provide the basis for novel clinical approaches using cytoxic therapy with NF-kappaB inhibition to improve outcome in patients with esophageal cancer.
The clinico-pathological entity of flucloxacillin-associated cholestatic hepatitis is described and the recognition and documentation of cholestasis associated with flucloxacillin and with related isoxazolyl-penicillins (cloxacillin, dicloxacillin) is examined on an international basis, with particular reference to Australia. Data were obtained from the literature, from the Australian adverse drug reaction monitoring agency and from the Collaborative Centre for International Drug Monitoring (World Health Organisation) in Sweden. Approximately 600 cases of flucloxacillin-associated cholestatic hepatitis were collected, as well as 164 cases associated with other isoxazolyl penicillins. Jaundice and pruritus may first appear several weeks after administration of the drug has ceased and typically are severe and protracted. Liver tests may be abnormal for months after symptomatic recovery. Death is uncommon. Liver pathology shows centrizonal bile stasis with portal tract inflammation and variable loss of bile ducts. Approximately 1 in 15,000 users of flucloxacillin will develop the reaction. Increasing age (> 55 years) and prolonged intake (> 14 days) are particular risk factors. Cholestasis associated with cloxacillin/dicloxacillin appears to be similar in nature but is less well defined. Recognition and reporting of the reaction have been uncommon in the United Kingdom inter alia and high in Sweden and Australia, although estimates of risk have been similar. In Australia, the remarkably high rate of reports appears to be the result of sustained publicity for the reaction. There is only a trickle of reports of cholestatic hepatitis in association with the use of cloxacillin and dicloxacillin from the USA and Canada. The high level of awareness of the reaction and consequential regulatory action so far have not resulted in a diminution of its occurrence in Australia.
Flavonoids exert extensive in vitro anti-invasive and in vivo anti-metastatic activities. Anoikis resistance occurs at multiple key stages of the metastatic cascade. Here, we demonstrate that isoliquiritigenin (ISL), a flavonoid from Glycyrrhiza glabra, inhibits human breast cancer metastasis by preventing anoikis resistance, migration and invasion through downregulating cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and cytochrome P450 (CYP) 4A signaling. ISL induced anoikis in MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 human breast cancer cells as evidenced by flow cytometry and the detection of caspase cleavage. Moreover, ISL inhibited the mRNA expression of phospholipase A2, COX-2 and CYP 4A and decreased the secretion of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) in detached MDA-MB-231 cells. In addition, it decreased the levels of phospho-PI3K (Tyr(458)), phospho-PDK (Ser(241)) and phospho-Akt (Thr(308)). Conversely, the exogenous addition of PGE2, WIT003 (a 20-HETE analog) and an EP4 agonist (CAY10580) or overexpression of constitutively active Akt reversed ISL-induced anoikis. ISL exerted the in vitro anti-migratory and anti-invasive activities, whereas the addition of PGE2, WIT003 and CAY10580 or overexpression of constitutively active Akt reversed the in vitro anti-migratory and anti-invasive activities of ISL in MDA-MB-231 cells. Notably, ISL inhibited the in vivo lung metastasis of MDA-MB-231 cells, together with decreased intratumoral levels of PGE2, 20-HETE and phospho-Akt (Thr(308)). In conclusion, ISL inhibits breast cancer metastasis by preventing anoikis resistance, migration and invasion via downregulating COX-2 and CYP 4A signaling. It suggests that ISL could be a promising multi-target agent for preventing breast cancer metastasis, and anoikis could represent a novel mechanism through which flavonoids may exert the anti-metastatic activities.
Rats were implanted stereotaxically with permanent guide tubes aimed at the pontine reticular formation. Carbachol was microinjected in the awake, freely moving rats. Catalepsy was evaluated with the horizontal bar test. Intense and long-lasting, dose-dependent catalepsy was observed following microinjections of 2-8 micrograms of carbachol. Pretreatment with intraperitoneally administered scopolamine significantly reduced the cataleptogenic effect of carbachol. These results show that the pontine reticular formation is part of the neuroanatomical substrate of catalepsy induced by cholinergic drugs.
The authors report the case of a 70-year-old man with metastatic colon cancer and no known history of coronary disease or major risk factors who developed coronary vasospasm after the initiation of capecitabine (Xeloda). Although coronary vasospasm has been associated with another older fluoropyrimidine compound, 5-fluorouracil, this is the first reported occurrence with this relatively newer cancer drug.
