In rat colon tumors induced by the cooked food mutagens 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), ras and p53 alterations are rarely detected. To investigate the roles of the APC gene and microsatellite instability (MI) in PhIP-induced colon carcinogenesis, mutations of the APC gene and alterations of microsatellites were examined.
Complimentary DNA sequence of the rat APC gene were determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers based on the human APC sequence. PCR-single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis was performed using primers based on sequences of flanking introns and exon 15. Microsatellite alterations were also analyzed using 85 microsatellite sequences dispersed through most of the rat chromosomes.
Five mutations in the APC gene were detected in four of eight PhIP-induced rat colon tumors. All five mutations involved deletion of a guanine base in a 5'-GGGA-3' sequence. Only 2 of 13 IQ-induced colon tumors had mutations of the APC gene and these were base substitution mutations. Seven of eight PhIP-induced colon tumors had microsatellite alterations in at least one locus, whereas no alterations were observed in the IQ-induced colon tumors.
The specific 5'-GGGA-3' to 5'-GGA-3' mutation and MI demonstrated in this study are strong evidence of a mutational fingerprint of PhIP.
Intradermal injection of an active compound of European honeybee toxin, melittin, into the forearm in humans produces temporary pain and evokes sustained increase of local skin temperature. This increase of skin temperature is suppressed by the pretreatment of a voltage gated sodium channel blocker, lidocaine, suggesting that neurogenic inflammation is involved in the skin temperature increase after the melittin treatment. In this study, we tested a hypothesis that the melittin-induced skin temperature increase is augmented by an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor that is present on the peripheral terminals of cutaneous primary afferents. Skin temperature was examined after the local application of incremental doses of melittin by a computer-assisted-thermography in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. Local subcutaneous glutamate was collected through a microdialysis probe and glutamate levels were measured by a high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection method. Intraplantar injection of melittin resulted in the increase of subcutaneous glutamate levels and the increase of local skin temperature, which was partially attenuated by co-injection of an NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801. In addition, intraplantar injection of NMDA itself increased the local skin temperature. Our data suggest that melittin-induced increase of skin temperature is enhanced through the activation of peripheral NMDA receptors by locally released glutamate. We suggest that topical administration of NMDA receptor antagonists could be an effective treatment of neuro-inflammatory pain.
The hippocampal commissural system has recently been found to participate in the generation of mirror foci after kainate-induced epileptiform discharges. In the present study we have evaluated the electrophysiological alterations in the ventral commissural hippocampal system that originates in the pyramidal CA3 cells and connects to the contralateral CA3 pyramidal cells. The recordings were performed in epileptic rats 24 h after an early behavioural spontaneous seizure between 5 and 21 days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Epileptic animals presented a marked increase in neuronal excitability after contralateral CA3 stimulation, characterized by a shift to the left in the input-output curve and the clear appearance of a population spike. Input-output curves showed that maximum population excitatory postsynaptic potential (pEPSP) amplitude was decreased by 30%, which could be related to cell death in these regions. Using paired-pulse protocols to evaluate a fast form of synaptic plasticity (i.e. paired-pulse facilitation) we observed that, despite the similar pEPSP amplitude between control and experimental groups, only epileptic animals showed strong paired-pulse population spike facilitation up to 500 ms interstimulus intervals. Despite increased excitability and pyramidal cell death, epileptic animals presented a more robust potentiation after high-frequency stimulation than controls, a protocol used to evaluate a slow form of synaptic plasticity (i.e. long-term potentiation). The increased excitability in CA3 pyramidal neurons enhanced the probability of burst activity in these neurons; this could lead to greater CA1 synchronization. The present results might have relevance for the understanding of epileptogenesis and of learning and memory deficits seen in temporal lobe epilepsy.
Scopolamine (2 mg/kg IP) and propranolol (55 mg/kg IP), given before a single learning trial, reduce retention of a passive avoidance response in rats. Phosphatidylserine, 30-60 mg/kg IP, antagonizes the amnesic effect of scopolamine but not that of propranolol. The retention of the passive avoidance response is not affected by phosphatidylserine given alone. The results indicate that this phospholipid selectively counteracts the action of scopolamine on passive avoidance acquisition, probably via a cholinergic mechanism.
To provide a tool to investigate the mechanisms inducing and maintaining cancer-related pain and hyperalgesia, a soft tissue tumor/metastasis model was developed that is applicable in C57BL/6J wild-type and transgenic mice. We show that the experimental tumor-induced heat hyperalgesia and nociceptor sensitization were prevented by systemic treatment with the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) antagonist etanercept. In naive mice, exogenous TNFalpha evoked heat hyperalgesia in vivo and sensitized nociceptive nerve fibers to heat in vitro. TNFalpha enhanced the expression of the nociceptor-specific heat transducer ion channel transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) and increased the amplitudes of capsaicin and heat-activated ionic currents via p38/MAP (mitogen-activated protein) kinase and PKC (protein kinase C). Deletion of the tumor necrosis factor receptor type 2 (TNFR2) gene attenuated heat hyperalgesia and prevented TRPV1 upregulation in tumor-bearing mice, whereas TNFR1 gene deletion played a minor role. We propose endogenous TNFalpha as a key player in cancer-related heat hyperalgesia and nociceptor sensitization that generates TRPV1 upregulation and sensitization via TNFR2.
Alterations in the expression of growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) were examined in lower urinary tract micturition reflex pathways in a chronic model of cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. In control animals, expression of GAP-43 was present in specific regions of the gray matter in the rostral lumbar and caudal lumbosacral spinal cord, including: (1) the dorsal commissure; (2) the dorsal horn and (3) the regions of the intermediolateral cell column (L1-L2) and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus (L6-S1) and (4) in the lateral collateral pathway of Lissauer in L6-S1 spinal segments. Densitometry analysis has demonstrated significant increases (p</=0.001; 1.5-4.0-fold increase) in GAP-43-immunoreactivity (IR) in these regions of the rostral lumbar (L1-L2) and caudal lumbosacral (L6-S1) spinal cord following CYP-induced urinary bladder inflammation. Changes in GAP-43-IR were restricted to those segmental levels examined (L1-L2 and L6-S1) that are involved in lower urinary tract reflexes. Changes in GAP-43-IR were not observed at the L5 segmental level. In contrast to significant increases in GAP-43-IR in specific regions of the rostral lumbar and caudal lumbosacral spinal cord, no changes in GAP-43-IR were observed in the L1, L2 or L6, S1 dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In control animals, virtually all retrogradely labeled (Fast Blue) bladder afferent cells in the L1, L2 and L6, S1 DRG expressed GAP-43-IR. This percentage (approximately 100%) of bladder afferent cells expressing GAP-43-IR was unchanged following CYP-induced urinary bladder inflammation. Alterations in GAP-43-IR following chronic cystitis may suggest a reorganization of bladder afferent projections and spinal elements involved in bladder reflexes consistent with alterations in bladder function observed in animal models of cystitis.
Insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) is a multisite docking protein occupying a central position in signaling cascades stimulated by a number of growth factors including insulin. Using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry, we investigated the expression of IRS-1 in more than 400 preneoplastic foci of altered hepatocytes and in 12 hepatocellular carcinomas induced in rats by oral administration of N-nitrosomorpholine. In both N-nitrosomorpholine-treated and untreated rat livers, IRS-1 was demonstrable by Western blotting, but with the exception of a few single hepatocytes it was not detectable in the normal parenchyma by immunohistochemistry. In contrast, immunohistochemistry revealed that IRS-1 was strongly expressed in the majority of foci of altered hepatocytes particularly in approximately 97% of the clear/acidophilic and mixed cell foci showing excessive storage of glycogen (glycogenosis). In glycogen-poor basophilic foci of altered hepatocytes and hepatocellular carcinomas, IRS-1 was not detected by immunohistochemistry, but a weak expression was observed in small subpopulations of three hepatocellular carcinomas containing remnants of glycogen. These results indicate that the focal overexpression of IRS-1 is an early event in hepatocarcinogenesis, which is closely correlated with preneoplastic hepatic glycogenosis. During progression from glycogenotic foci to hepatocellular carcinomas, IRS-1-overexpression is gradually down-regulated, and this late event is associated with a fundamental metabolic shift leading to the malignant neoplastic phenotype.
Oral administration of green tea or a caffeine solution, but not decaffeinated green tea, inhibits UVB-induced complete carcinogenesis in SKH-1 mice. Oral administration of green tea, coffee or a caffeine solution for 2 weeks enhanced UVB-induced increases in apoptosis in the epidermis, but these treatments had no effect in non-UVB treated normal epidermis. Our results suggest that administration of green tea, coffee and caffeine may inhibit UVB-induced carcinogenesis--at least in part--by enhancing UVB-induced apoptosis. Plasma levels of caffeine observed after its oral administration at cancer-preventive dose levels were within the range observed in moderate coffee drinkers. Topical applications of caffeine to mice previously treated with UVB for 20 weeks (high risk mice without tumors) inhibited the formation of tumors and stimulated apoptosis in the tumors but not in areas of the epidermis away from tumors. The selective effects of caffeine administration to stimulate UVB-induced apoptosis or apoptosis in tumors but not in normal epidermis or in areas of the epidermis away from tumors is of considerable interest, but the reasons for the selective effects of caffeine on apoptosis in DNA damaged tissues are unknown. Further studies are needed to determine mechanisms of these effects of caffeine and to determine the effects of caffeine administration on sunlight-induced actinic keratoses and squamous cell carcinomas in humans.
We have recently shown free radical generation is associated with cognitive impairment in intracerebroventricular (ICV) streptozotocin (STZ) model of sporadic dementia of Alzheimer's type in rats. Trans resveratrol is a polyphenolic compound and is known to have antioxidant activity. In the present study, the effect of trans resveratrol was investigated on ICV STZ induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats. Adult male Wistar rats were injected with ICV STZ bilaterally, on day 1 and day 3. The learning and memory behavior was assessed using passive avoidance paradigms, elevated plus maze and the closed field activity test while the parameters of oxidative stress assessed were malondialdehyde [MDA] and glutathione. The rats were treated with trans resveratrol chronically at doses of 10 and 20 mg/kg,i.p. for 21 days starting from day 1 of STZ injection. Trans resveratrol treatment significantly prevented ICV STZ induced cognitive impairment. There was a rise in brain glutathione and an insignificant increase in brain MDA in trans resveratrol treated ICV STZ rats as compared to significantly elevated brain MDA levels in the vehicle treated ICV STZ animals. The study demonstrates the effectiveness of trans resveratrol in preventing the cognitive deficits as well as the oxidative stress caused by ICV STZ in rats and it's potential in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) regulate cell proliferation and coordinate the cell cycle checkpoint response to DNA damage. Although inhibitors with varying selectivity to specific CDK family members have been developed, selective CDK4/6 inhibitors have emerged as the most attractive antineoplastic agents because of the importance of CDK4/6 activity in regulating cell proliferation and the toxic effects associated with inhibition of other CDKs (eg, CDK1 and CDK2).
FVB/N wild-type mice (n = 13) were used to evaluate carboplatin-induced myelosuppression in bone marrow by complete blood cell counts after treatment with the CDK4/6 inhibitor PD0332991. Genetically engineered murine models of retinoblastoma (Rb)-competent (MMTV-c-neu) and Rb-incompetent (C3-TAg) breast cancer (n = 16 MMTV-c-neu mice in the carboplatin plus vehicle control group, n = 17 MMTV-c-neu mice in the carboplatin plus PD0332991 group, n = 17 C3-TAg mice in the carboplatin plus vehicle control group, and n = 14 C3-TAg mice in the carboplatin plus PD0332991 group) were used to investigate the antitumor activity of PD0332991 alone or in combination with chemotherapy. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Coadministration of PD0332991 with carboplatin compared with carboplatin alone in FVB/N wild-type mice increased hematocrit (51.2% vs 33.5%, difference = 17.7%, 95% confidence interval [CI] = -26.7% to -8.6%, P < .001), platelet counts (1321 vs 758.5 thousand cells per μL, difference = 562.5 thousand cells per μL, 95% CI = -902.8 to -222.6, P = .002), myeloid cells (granulocytes and monocytes; 3.1 vs 1.6 thousand cells per μL, difference = 1.5 thousand cells per μL, 95% CI = -2.23 to -0.67, P < .001), and lymphocytes (7.9 vs 5.4 thousand cells per μL, difference = 2.5 thousand cells per μL, 95% CI = -4.75 to -0.18, P = .02). Daily administration of PD0332991 exhibited antitumor activity in MMTV-c-neu mice as a single agent. However, the combination of carboplatin plus PD0332991 decreased antitumor activity compared with carboplatin alone in Rb-competent mice (mean percent change in tumor volume at day 21 = -52.6% vs 3.7% for carboplatin and carboplatin plus PD0332991, respectively, difference = 56.3%, 95% CI = -109.0% to -3.6%, P = .04). In contrast, Rb-deficient tumors in C3-Tag mice were resistant to PD0332991, and coadministration of PD0332991 plus carboplatin had no effect on in vivo tumor growth (mean percent change in tumor volume at day 21 = 118.8% and 109.1% for carboplatin and carboplatin plus PD0332991, respectively, difference = 9.7%, 95% CI = -183.5% to 202.9%, P = .92). Finally, in tumor-bearing mice, coadministration of PD0332991 with carboplatin provided statistically significant protection of platelets (P = .04).
We believe that the present data support a possible role for CDK4/6 inhibitors in a majority of patients with advanced cancer: to either inhibit tumor growth in CDK4/6-dependent tumors or ameliorate the dose-limiting toxicities of chemotherapy in CDK4/6-indepdendent tumors. Our data also suggest CDK4/6 inhibitors should not be combined with DNA-damaging therapies, such as carboplatin, to treat tumors that require CDK4/6 activity for proliferation.
Large amounts of dolomite and bonemeal are being consumed, especially by nutrition-conscious persons. The mineral content of commercial samples has been analyzed by different laboratories, and significant amounts of lead, arsenic, mercury, and other potentially toxic metals, which also exist in conventional vitamin-mineral and calcium supplements, were detected. Physicians must consider the possibility of unrecognized self-poisoning from the consumption of such substances, especially in the context of unexplained neurologic, gastrointestinal, cutaneous, and hematologic disorders. The use of dolomite and bonemeal by pregnant women, children with suspected milk allergy, and elderly persons requires careful evaluation.
The inhibition of the rennin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) and sympathetic autonomous nervous system has increased the perspective of survival in these patients, as well as allowing the improvement of the quality of life. The aim of this study was to evaluate the reality of the treatment employed and its impact on the disease in patients followed at a specialized heart failure (HF) outpatient clinic.
A sample of 96 patients followed at the HF and Transplant Outpatient Clinic of Heart Institute of the University of São Paulo School of Medicine (InCor -HCFMUSP) were evaluated. The data were collected during the ambulatory consultation from the medical files and through physical examination. Patients were randomly selected for the study.
Most of the patients were Functional Class II (42.3%) and evolution stage C (94.9%). The medical prescription given to the patients was quite similar to the one recommended by the directives. Approximately 95% of them received RAAS inhibitors (ACE inhibitor--enalapril and captopril--or angiotensin receptor antagonist--losartan), whereas 85% of the patients additionally received beta blockers (carvedilol). The mean dose prescribed was also similar to the one used in large studies and reached more than 60% of the maximum dose for each medication. The hemodynamic data show that patients were stable, despite the intensity of the dysfunction and ventricular remodeling observed in these patients.
Patients with HF followed by a specialized medical team receive a medical prescription that is closer to the recommended one. These patients, despite the marked characteristics of disease severity, achieve hemodynamic and clinical stability with an adequate therapeutic optimization.
Oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction contribute to vascular complication in diabetes. Extracellular superoxide dismutase (SOD3) is one of the key antioxidant enzymes that obtains copper via copper transporter ATP7A. SOD3 is secreted from vascular smooth muscles cells (VSMCs) and anchors at the endothelial surface. The role of SOD3 and ATP7A in endothelial dysfunction in type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is entirely unknown. Here we show that the specific activity of SOD3, but not SOD1, is decreased, which is associated with increased O2(•-) production in aortas of streptozotocin-induced and genetically induced Ins2(Akita) T1DM mice. Exogenous copper partially rescued SOD3 activity in isolated T1DM vessels. Functionally, acetylcholine-induced, endothelium-dependent relaxation is impaired in T1DM mesenteric arteries, which is rescued by SOD mimetic tempol or gene transfer of SOD3. Mechanistically, ATP7A expression in T1DM vessels is dramatically decreased whereas other copper transport proteins are not altered. T1DM-induced endothelial dysfunction and decrease of SOD3 activity are rescued in transgenic mice overexpressing ATP7A. Furthermore, SOD3-deficient T1DM mice or ATP7A mutant T1DM mice augment endothelial dysfunction and vascular O2(•-) production versus T1DM mice. These effects are in part due to hypoinsulinemia in T1DM mice, since insulin treatment, but not high glucose, increases ATP7A expression in VSMCs and restores SOD3 activity in the organoid culture of T1DM vessels. In summary, a decrease in ATP7A protein expression contributes to impaired SOD3 activity, resulting in O2(•-) overproduction and endothelial dysfunction in blood vessels of T1DM. Thus, restoring copper transporter function is an essential therapeutic approach for oxidant stress-dependent vascular and metabolic diseases.
Our understanding of leukemia development and progression has been hampered by the lack of in vivo models in which disease is initiated from primary human hematopoietic cells. We showed that upon transplantation into immunodeficient mice, primitive human hematopoietic cells expressing a mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL) fusion gene generated myeloid or lymphoid acute leukemias, with features that recapitulated human diseases. Analysis of serially transplanted mice revealed that the disease is sustained by leukemia-initiating cells (L-ICs) that have evolved over time from a primitive cell type with a germline immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene configuration to a cell type containing rearranged IgH genes. The L-ICs retained both myeloid and lymphoid lineage potential and remained responsive to microenvironmental cues. The properties of these cells provide a biological basis for several clinical hallmarks of MLL leukemias.
This study analyzed whether hypertension induced by N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) is associated with dysregulation of the main antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase [SOD], catalase, glutathione peroxidase [GPX], and glutathione reductase [GR]) and whether chronic administration of tempol ameliorates this hypertension.
Four groups of male Wistar rats were used: 1) control rats; 2) rats treated with L-NAME (35 mg/100 mL in drinking fluid); 3) rats treated with tempol (18 mg/100 mL in drinking fluid); and 4) rats treated with L-NAME plus tempol. All treatments were maintained for 6 weeks. Body weight, systolic blood pressure (BP) determined by the tail-cuff method, and heart rate were measured once per week. At the end of the experimental period, direct BP and morphologic, metabolic, plasma, and renal variables were measured. Enzymatic activities were measured in the kidney (cortex and medulla) and heart (right and left ventricles).
Rats with L-NAME-induced hypertension showed increased copper-zinc (Cu-Zn) SOD activity in the renal cortex and medulla and the left and right ventricles, which was reduced by tempol administration. The manganese (Mn) SOD activity was increased by L-NAME and reduced by tempol in the renal cortex but was unchanged in other tissues. Catalase activity was not affected by L-NAME or tempol treatments in any tissue. Both GPX and GR activities were increased by L-NAME and reduced by tempol in the renal cortex and medulla but were not affected in the ventricles. Tempol reduced BP and total urinary excretion of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine in L-NAME-treated animals but did not affect either variable in controls.
We conclude that L-NAME-induced hypertension is associated with an upregulation of antioxidant SOD, GPX, and GR activities. Moreover, the results indicate that tempol attenuates hypertension on nitric oxide-deficient rats and that oxidative stress participates in the established phase of this type of hypertension.
To study the demethylation effect of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) on ERα-negative human breast cancer MDA-MB-435s cells and its possible mechanisms, and to observe its treatment efficacy in combination with tamoxifen (TAM) after ERα re-expression.
MTT assay was used to examine the inhibitory effect of As2O3 treatment alone or in combination with TAM on cell proliferation. A nude mouse xenograft model was used to further examine the treatment efficacy in vivo. MSP was used to detect the methylation status of ERα gene after treated with As2O3 in MDA-MB-435s cells and the transplanted tumor tissues. RT-PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression of DNMT1 and Erα. Western bolt was used to detect the DNMT1 and ERα protein expression. The diameter of xenograft tumors was measured weekly, and the tumor growth curve was drawn.
The level of proliferation of the MDA-MB-435s cells was significantly suppressed after treatment with different concentration of As2O3 alone or As2O3 combined with TAM, and the 4 µmol/L As2O3 + TAM treatment for 72 h showed the highest inhibition rate (62.6%). 1, 2, 4 µmol/L As2O3 had demethylation effect on MDA-MB-435s cells, and the DNMT1 mRNA and protein expression was inhibited and accompanied by ERα mRNA and protein re-expression. The unmethylation specific bands of ERα gene were enhanced after treated by As2O3 alone or As2O3 combined with TAM in the xenograft tumors. The expression of DNMT1 mRNA and protein was inhibited, and accompanied by ERα mRNA and protein re-expression. An significant decrease of volume and weight of the xenograft tumors in the As2O3 treated alone or combined with TAM groups was observed compared with those of the normal saline group or TAM alone group (P < 0.05), and the 4 mg/kg As2O3 + TAM group had the highest inhibition rate of tumor weight (79.5%) and volume (76.4%).
ERα can be re-expressed in ERα-negative breast cancer MDA-MB-435s cells after treated with As2O3 by inhibiting the DNMT1 activity. MDA-MB-435s cells are re-sensitized to endocrine therapy after ERα re-expression. As2O3 combined with TAM may provide a new therapeutic approach for patients with ERα-negative breast cancer in the clinic.
We tested the hypothesis that resolution versus persistence of symptomatic ischaemia and/or development of nausea/dizziness on the third day of loading with perhexiline maleate (PM), is correlated with perhexiline plasma concentrations after the standard loading phase in patients with acute coronary syndromes. Forty consecutive patients with either unstable angina pectoris or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction with persistent angina pectoris, despite maximal pharmacological therapy (other than PM), were studied. All patients received PM 400 mg/day for 3 days and 200 mg/day thereafter. On days 2 and 3 observers blinded to the 72-96 h plasma perhexiline concentration assessed the patient regarding episodes of angina and/or nausea/dizziness. On the third day of loading with PM, 12 patients experienced angina and 11 patients had nausea and/or dizziness. Plasma perhexiline concentrations at 72-96 h varied widely: mean 0.46 +/- 0.26 (range 0.11-1.77) microgram/ml. There was a relationship of borderline statistical significance between resolution of anginal symptoms and plasma perhexiline concentration > 0.15 microgram/ml (p = 0.055). There was a close relationship between emergence of nausea/dizziness with plasma perhexiline concentration > 0.06 microgram/ml (p < 0.01). We conclude that this study (a) suggests that PM exerts incremental antianginal effects over those of other antiischaemic agents in patients with acute coronary syndromes and (b) establishes that the development of nausea and/or dizziness in such patients is strongly predictive of accumulation of perhexiline beyond the therapeutic range of the drug.
Thymidylate synthase (TS) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) are critical enzymes in nucleic acid metabolism. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a specific protein that is correlated with proliferative activity of cells. The TS gene has a variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) in its 5'-untranslated region and a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the VNTR area. We examined the association of in vitro sensitivity to anticancer drugs with TS polymorphism, TS, DPD, and PCNA mRNA expression using human lung cancer tissues. Seventy-eight surgically resected lung cancer tissues were tested for in vitro sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin (CDDP), carboplatin (CBDCA), irinotecan, docetaxel, and gemcitabine by histoculture and MTT assay. The TS polymorphisms were analyzed by PCR and PCR-RFLP. TS, DPD, and PCNA mRNA expression levels were quantified by real-time RT-PCR and normalized relative to beta-actin mRNA expression. The inhibition rates (IRs) of CDDP and CBDCA were significantly correlated with TS/PCNA, the ratio of TS/actin and PCNA/actin, and DPD/PCNA, the ratio of DPD/actin and PCNA/actin. This correlation was further explored by subgroup analyses according to TS VNTR or TS functional type, in which 2R/3G, 3C/3G, or 3G/3G were classified into H-type group and 2R/2R, 2R/3C, or 3C/3C into L-type group. The associations of TS/PCNA and DPD/PCNA with the IRs of CDDP, CBDCA remained significant in the 3R/3R group and H-type group. These results suggest that in vitro sensitivity to platinum-derived drugs, CDDP and CBDCA, is associated with PCNA-normalized mRNA expression of TS and DPD in human lung cancer tissues, as affected by the TS polymorphism. The clinical significance of these pharmacogenomic markers for chemotherapy regimens with platinum-derived drugs should be investigated further for personalized treatment of lung cancer.
Because acute lung injury is a sporadic disease produced by heterogeneous precipitating factors, previous genetic analyses are mainly limited to candidate gene case-control studies.
To develop a genome-wide strategy in which single nucleotide polymorphism associations are assessed for functional consequences to survival during acute lung injury in mice.
To identify genes associated with acute lung injury, 40 inbred strains were exposed to acrolein and haplotype association mapping, microarray, and DNA-protein binding were assessed.
The mean survival time varied among mouse strains with polar strains differing approximately 2.5-fold. Associations were identified on chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 11, and 12. Seven genes (Acvr1, Cacnb4, Ccdc148, Galnt13, Rfwd2, Rpap2, and Tgfbr3) had single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associations within the gene. Because SNP associations may encompass "blocks" of associated variants, functional assessment was performed in 91 genes within ± 1 Mbp of each SNP association. Using 10% or greater allelic frequency and 10% or greater phenotype explained as threshold criteria, 16 genes were assessed by microarray and reverse real-time polymerase chain reaction. Microarray revealed several enriched pathways including transforming growth factor-β signaling. Transcripts for Acvr1, Arhgap15, Cacybp, Rfwd2, and Tgfbr3 differed between the strains with exposure and contained SNPs that could eliminate putative transcriptional factor recognition sites. Ccdc148, Fancl, and Tnn had sequence differences that could produce an amino acid substitution. Mycn and Mgat4a had a promoter SNP or 3'untranslated region SNPs, respectively. Several genes were related and encoded receptors (ACVR1, TGFBR3), transcription factors (MYCN, possibly CCDC148), and ubiquitin-proteasome (RFWD2, FANCL, CACYBP) proteins that can modulate cell signaling. An Acvr1 SNP eliminated a putative ELK1 binding site and diminished DNA-protein binding.
Assessment of genetic associations can be strengthened using a genetic/genomic approach. This approach identified several candidate genes, including Acvr1, associated with increased susceptibility to acute lung injury in mice.
We identified a deletion of a gene encoding a subunit of RNA polymerases I and III, POLR1D, in an individual with Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS). Subsequently, we detected 20 additional heterozygous mutations of POLR1D in 252 individuals with TCS. Furthermore, we discovered mutations in both alleles of POLR1C in three individuals with TCS. These findings identify two additional genes involved in TCS, confirm the genetic heterogeneity of TCS and support the hypothesis that TCS is a ribosomopathy.
Amodiaquine is an amino-4-quinoline with the basic spectrum of activity of chloroquine. It has been used widely to treat and prevent malaria. From the mid-1980s, there were reports of fatal adverse drug reactions described in travelers using amodiaquine as antimalarial prophylaxis. In 1990, the World Health Organization (WHO) stopped using this drug in malaria control programs. The WHO Expert Committee on Malaria modified this in 1993 and reported that amodiaquine could be used for treatment if the risk of infection outweighs the potential for adverse drug reactions. Currently, amodiaquine is a potential useful drug, especially if used with artemisinin-based combination therapy and with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine to improve treatment efficacy for chloroquine-resistant strains of Plasmodium falciparum and P. vivax. We report a case of fulminant hepatitis induced by antimalarial prophylactic use of amodiaquine that necessitated emergency orthotopic liver transplantation.
Androgen antagonists or androgen deprivation are the primary therapeutic modalities for the treatment of prostate cancer. Invariably, however, the disease becomes progressive and unresponsive to androgen ablation therapy (hormone refractory). The molecular mechanisms by which androgen antagonists inhibit prostate cancer proliferation are not fully defined. In this study, we identify two molecules which are required for effective prostate cancer cell responsiveness to androgen antagonists. We establish that androgen receptor (AR)-dependent transcriptional suppression by androgen antagonists requires the tumor suppressor prohibitin. This requirement for prohibitin was demonstrated using structurally-distinct androgen antagonists, stable and transient knockdown of prohibitin and transfected and endogenous AR-responsive genes. The SWI-SNF complex core ATPase BRG1, but not its closely-related counterpart ATPase BRM, is required for this repressive action of prohibitin on AR-responsive promoters. Androgen antagonists induce recruitment of prohibitin and BRG1 to endogenous AR-responsive promoters and induce a physical association between AR and prohibitin and BRG1. The recruitment of prohibitin to endogenous AR-responsive promoters is dependent upon antagonist-bound AR. Prohibitin binding in the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) promoter results in the recruitment of BRG1 and the dissociation of p300 from the PSA promoter. These findings suggest that prohibitin may function through BRG1-mediated local chromatin remodeling activity and the removal of p300-mediated acetylation to produce androgen antagonist-mediated transcriptional repression. Furthermore, in addition to its necessary role in AR-mediated transcriptional repression, we demonstrate that prohibitin is required for full and efficient androgen antagonist-mediated growth suppression of prostate cancer cells.
We conducted a two-stage genome-wide association study of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in 3,772 affected individuals (cases) and 8,505 controls of European background from 11 studies and followed up 6 SNPs in 3 replication studies of 2,198 cases and 4,918 controls. Two loci on the regions of 2p21 and 11q13.3 were associated with RCC susceptibility below genome-wide significance. Two correlated variants (r² = 0.99 in controls), rs11894252 (P = 1.8 × 10⁻⁸) and rs7579899 (P = 2.3 × 10⁻⁹), map to EPAS1 on 2p21, which encodes hypoxia-inducible-factor-2 alpha, a transcription factor previously implicated in RCC. The second locus, rs7105934, at 11q13.3, contains no characterized genes (P = 7.8 × 10⁻¹⁴). In addition, we observed a promising association on 12q24.31 for rs4765623, which maps to SCARB1, the scavenger receptor class B, member 1 gene (P = 2.6 × 10⁻⁸). Our study reports previously unidentified genomic regions associated with RCC risk that may lead to new etiological insights.
