A case of life-threatening angioedema occurring after 13 months of enalapril therapy is reported. Clinicians should be aware that such severe reactions can occur, even after long-term therapy. Patients who take angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be carefully questioned during each follow-up examination concerning angioedema symptoms.
A half dose recombinant hepatitis B vaccine (HBVax II, MSD, 5 micrograms) was investigated for efficacy in the prevention of perinatal hepatitis B virus (HBV) transmission in high risk neonates born from e-antigen positive HBsAg carrier mothers as compared to the half-standard dose regimen of plasma derived hepatitis B vaccine (HBVax, MSD, 10 micrograms). Forty infants born to carrier mothers were given hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) 100 IU intramuscularly immediately after birth, combined with either the recombinant or plasma derived hepatitis B vaccine. The infants were randomly divided into two groups of 20 infants each. The plasma derived vaccine (10 micrograms) was given to group I, while infants in group II received the recombinant vaccine (5 micrograms) at birth, 1 and 6 months of age. There were no statistically significant differences in the efficacy and the seroconversion rate of these two combined prophylaxis regimens. The protective efficacy rate of both kinds of HBV vaccine was found to be 94.6 and 89.2 percent in group I and group II respectively. At twelve months of age, the anti-HBs seroconversion rates were 95.0 percent in group I and 84.2 percent in group II. However, the geometric mean titres in group I (179.55 mIU/ml) was significantly higher than those in group II (42.2 mIU/ml) but the anti-HBs titre was still above protective level (10 mIU/ml) in most of the infants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nisoldipine is an orally administered calcium entry blocking drug structurally related to nifedipine. In limited clinical trials it has been shown to be effective and relatively well tolerated in the treatment of patients with chronic stable angina pectoris and mild to moderate essential hypertension. As for all dihydropyridine-calcium antagonists, its major properties include potent peripheral and coronary vasodilation and improvement in myocardial oxygen supply relative to demand. These actions occur without depression of cardiac conduction or left ventricular function. Short term clinical trials have shown nisoldipine to produce both symptomatic and objective improvements in patients with chronic angina of effort and have suggested a benefit in vasospastic angina. A small number of comparative trials indicate that nisoldipine is equally as effective as nifedipine. In addition, in combination with beta-adrenoceptor blockade nisoldipine appears to offer additional benefit compared with beta-blockade alone and is well tolerated. In patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension nisoldipine monotherapy, in 1 or 2 daily doses, has maintained blood pressure control and has also been a useful addition to diuretics and beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs in patients with poorly controlled disease. Side effects appear to be dose related, generally mild and transient, and are primarily those resulting from potent peripheral vasodilation - headache, flushing and pretibial or ankle oedema. Although studies to date are promising, there are no published long term studies (greater than 1 year) of nisoldipine in comparison with other calcium entry blockers and other drugs currently in clinical use for the treatment of angina pectoris or hypertension. Until such studies are completed the exact place of nisoldipine in the treatment of these diseases remains to be established.
The beneficial effects of therapy combining an antibiotic and dexamethasone have been reported in human studies on meningitis and in experimental studies on septic arthritis, nephritis, and endophthalmitis. Since most patients with staphylococcal endocarditis need a combination of medical and surgical treatment, the purpose of this study was to determine whether the addition of dexamethasone to vancomycin has any beneficial effect regarding the degree of valve tissue damage or the course of experimental aortic valve endocarditis caused by a methicillin-resistant strain of Staphylococcus aureus. Rabbits with catheter-induced aortic valve vegetations were randomly assigned to a control group and to groups receiving dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg of body weight, intravenously [i.v.], twice a day [b.i.d]), vancomycin (30 mg/kg, i.v., b.i.d), or dexamethasone plus vancomycin, for a total of 10 doses (two doses per day for 5 days). The severity of valve tissue damage was significantly less in groups receiving vancomycin plus dexamethasone compared with that of the group receiving vancomycin alone (P < 0.001). The severity of tissue damage was inversely correlated with the mean polymorphonuclear leukocyte number in valve tissue. No statistically significant differences were observed between the vancomycin-treated group and the vancomycin-plus-dexamethasone-treated group in survival, blood culture sterilization rate, or reduction of the microbial burden (in CFU per gram) in valvular tissue. In conclusion, treatment with a combination of vancomycin and dexamethasone for 5 days reduces the severity of valve tissue damage in experimental staphylococcal aortic valve endocarditis. These findings could have significant implications in the treatment of staphylococcal endocarditis and deserve further confirmation in clinical trials.
We present a case of paramedic misjudgment in the execution of a protocol for the treatment of allergic reaction in a case of pulmonary edema with wheezing. The sudden onset of respiratory distress, rash, and a history of a new medicine led the two paramedics on the scene to administer subcutaneous epinephrine. Subsequently, acute cardiac arrest and fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage occurred. Epinephrine has a proven role in cardiac arrest in prehospital care; however, use by paramedics in patients with suspected allergic reaction and severe hypertension should be viewed with caution.
Copper, like iron, is an essential transition metal ion in which its redox reactivity, whilst essential for the activity of mitochondrial enzymes, can also be a source of harmful reactive oxygen species if not chelated to biomolecules. Therefore, both metals are sequestered by protein chaperones and moved across membranes by protein transporters with the excess held in storage proteins for future use. In the case of copper, the storage proteins in the mitochondria are a distinct ceruloplasmin and metallothionein (MT). If the cell accumulates too much copper or copper is needed by other cells, then copper can be chaperoned to the trans-Golgi secretory compartment where it is transported into the Golgi by ATP-dependent pumps ATP7A/B. In liver, the copper is then incorporated into ceruloplasmin in vesicles that travel to the plasma membrane and release ceruloplasmin into the plasma. This paper reviews the genetic basis for diseases associated with copper deficit or excess, particularly those attributed to defective ATP7A/B transporters, with special emphasis on pathologies related to a loss of mitochondrial function.
Maternal treatment with diethylstilbestrol (DES) during pregnancy can produce vaginal adenocarcinoma and other abnormalities of the vagina in her daughters when they reach adolescence or adulthood, miscarriages and absence of full term infants. Concerning malformations in newborns whose mothers were treated with DES, clitoromegaly and malformations of the uterus were reported in females and genital lesions in males. However, the frequencies of major congenital anomalies were not greater than expected. We report three cases of limb reduction defects (LRD) in the first generation of children whose mothers were treated with DES during pregnancy, and two children (one male, one female) with deafness in the second generation after intrauterine exposure to DES. The LRD were not associated with other congenital anomalies. The malformed children with LRD were born between 1965 and 1973. The deafness was also isolated. The two mothers who have no hearing problems and who are healthy were exposed in utero to DES in 1963 and 1965, respectively. Their children were born in 1989 and 1994, respectively. In conclusion, the association of LRD and hearing loss with intrauterine exposure to DES could be coincidental. However, some hypothesis may explain these associations. Congenital hearing loss in the second generation may suggest a transgenerational effect.
The high incidence of peptic ulcer disease despite decreased acid secretion in the elderly suggests an impairment of mucosal defense mechanism with aging. Stimulation of the intestinal mucosal afferent nerves by intraduodenal application of capsaicin or hydrochloric acid (HCl) increases superior mesenteric artery (SMA) blood flow and protects the duodenal mucosa against deep damage. We tested the hypothesis that the intestinal hyperemia induced by intraduodenal capsaicin or HCL is significantly reduced in older (12 months) rats compared with younger (2 months) rats. Mesenteric blood flow was measured by pulsed Doppler flowmetry in anesthetized rats with the flow probe around the SMA. Two milliliters per kilogram of 160 microM capsaicin or 0.1 N HCl administered intraduodenally increased SMA blood flow significantly in both age groups. The peak response in SMA blood flow, however, was significantly smaller in the older rats than in the younger rats. These observations support the hypothesis that impairment of afferent nerve function occurs with aging in the rat intestine.
Three cases of allergic contact dermatitis localized to the sites of electrocardiograph-monitoring electrodes are reported. All patients had positive patch tests to both the gel and the adhesive part of the Red Dot 2239 3M monitoring electrode used and to the p-tert-butylphenol-formaldehyde resin (PTBP-F-R) of the standard series. Two patients had a history of possible exposition to the resin previously but there was no explanation for the third. No information about the presence of PTBP-F-R in the electrodes could be obtained from the manufacturers. Chemical analysis of samples of the electrode, using a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) analytical system, demonstrated the presence of several PTBP-F-R derivatives in both the gel and the adhesive part.
Activation of CD40, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R) family, results in growth inhibition or apoptosis in some tumor cells, making CD40 a potential antitumor therapeutic target. Although it is known that CD40 is able to induce tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) secretion and potentiate cisplatin's anticancer activity, whether TNF-α induction is involved in sensitizing cisplatin by CD40 has not been addressed. In this report, we provide evidence substantiating an important role of autocrine TNF-α in potentiation of cisplatin-induced apoptosis by recombinant soluble CD40 ligand (rsCD40L) in different human cancer cell lines. Activation of CD40 by rsCD40L induces two phases of autocrine TNF-α: the rapid early phase involving p38 MAP kinase and the robust and persistent late phase through enhanced tnf-α gene transcription. Blocking TNF-α with either a specific TNFR1 siRNA or a neutralizing anti-TNF-α antibody dramatically attenuated the potentiation effect of rsCD40L on cisplatin-induced cancer cell death. These results reveal an important role of TNF-α induction in CD40's chemosensitization activity and suggest that modulating TNF-α autocrine from cancer cells is an effective option for increasing the anticancer value of chemotherapeutics such as cisplatin.
Mixtures of local anesthetics can combine the best features of both components. The authors assayed the systemic toxicity of local anesthetic mixtures given subcutaneously to mice. Convulsions regularly preceded death. The median convulsant dose (CD50) of bupivacaine was one-fourth that of lidocaine, and one-seventh that of chloroprocaine. The median lethal dose (LD50) of chloroprocaine was twice the CD50, whereas the LD50 of bupivacaine was but little greater than the CD50. Hence, the more potent the agent, the greater is the chance of death from a convulsant dose of local anesthetic. Conversion to lidocaine-equivalent doses permitted comparisons between mixtures. None of the mixtures were more convulsant or more lethal than their parent components; lidocaine-containing mixtures were significantly less lethal than the lidocaine norm. Mixing increased the distance between convulsant and lethal doses, with survival from convulsions induced by bupivacaine-containing mixtures enhanced in particular. It is concluded that local anesthetic toxicity is essentially additive.
A 34-year-old woman presented with an unusual and unfortunate combination of complications to a phenothiazine drug. Rhythmic protrusion of her tongue was not a problem until it became trapped outside of her oral cavity by spasm of the muscles of mastication. Massive edema with questionable viability of her tongue ensued. She presented as an airway as well as therapeutic management problem.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is an important cause of acute renal failure in children. Mutations in one or more genes encoding complement-regulatory proteins have been reported in approximately one-third of nondiarrheal, atypical HUS (aHUS) patients, suggesting a defect in the protection of cell surfaces against complement activation in susceptible individuals. Here, we identified a subgroup of aHUS patients showing persistent activation of the complement alternative pathway and found within this subgroup two families with mutations in the gene encoding factor B (BF), a zymogen that carries the catalytic site of the complement alternative pathway convertase (C3bBb). Functional analyses demonstrated that F286L and K323E aHUS-associated BF mutations are gain-of-function mutations that result in enhanced formation of the C3bBb convertase or increased resistance to inactivation by complement regulators. These data expand our understanding of the genetic factors conferring predisposition to aHUS, demonstrate the critical role of the alternative complement pathway in the pathogenesis of aHUS, and provide support for the use of complement-inhibition therapies to prevent or reduce tissue damage caused by dysregulated complement activation.
The aim of the current study was to adapt the orofacial formalin pain model previously developed in rats for use in mice and to characterize as fully as possible the behavioral changes in this species. The effects of subcutaneous injection of different formalin concentrations (.5%, 1%, 2%, 4%, and 8%) were examined on the face-rubbing response. In mice, formalin injection into the upper lip induced sustained face-rubbing episodes with vigorous face-wash strokes directed to the perinasal area. A positive linear relationship between formalin concentration and amplitude of the rubbing activity was observed during the first and second phase of the test with concentration up to 4%. With the highest concentration used (8%), the amplitude of both phases had plateaued. Systemic administration of morphine and paracetamol induced a dose-dependent inhibition of the rubbing behavior during the second phase. Although both paracetamol and morphine inhibited the first phase, a dose-dependent inhibition was found only for morphine. The ED50 value (95% confidence interval) for suppressing the rubbing response during the first phase was 2.45 mg/kg (1.90-3.08 mg/kg) for morphine. The ED50 values for suppressing the rubbing response during the second phase were 3.52 mg/kg (2.85-4.63 mg/kg) for morphine and 100.66 mg/kg (77.98-139.05 mg/kg) for paracetamol. Heterosegmental nociceptive stimulation evoked by subcutaneous injection of capsaicin into the back of the animal 10 min before the formalin test produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the second phase of the rubbing response. The ED50 values for suppressing the rubbing response during the first and second phases were 9.04 microg (1.36-65.13 microg) and 0.92 microg (0.28-2.99 microg), respectively. In conclusion, the mouse orofacial formalin test appears to be a reliable model for studying the behavioral encoding of the intensity of nociceptive orofacial stimulation and the counter-irritation phenomenon and for testing analgesic drugs.
To further exploit the new opportunities of investigating nociceptive processing at the molecular level with the transgenic "knockout" approach, we require suitable behavioral models in mice. The presented mouse orofacial formalin test appears to be a reliable model for studying the behavioral encoding of the intensity of nociceptive stimulation and the counter-irritation phenomenon and for testing analgesic drugs.
The antiarrhythmic activity of IST was studied on some experimental models of cardiac arrhythmia--caused by adrenaline in rats, caused by barium in non-narcotized rabbits, caused by strophanthin in guinea pigs, caused by aconitine and calcium in rats. Rhythmic disturbances were recorded by a 12-channel polyphysiograph "Galileo" or a single-channel electrocardiograph "Cardiomat". The obtained results showed that IST manifested antiarrhythmic activity in respect to adrenaline, barium and strophanthin arrhythmias without affecting substantially aconitine and calcium arrhythmias. It is thought that antiarrhythmic activity of IST, found in the indicated experimental models of cardiac arrhythmias, is most probably connected with a lowering of the peripheral sympathetic activity, realized by a central way.
We sought to determine the changes in brain interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) following the coadministration of norfloxacin (25 mg/kg, i.p.) with biphenylacetic acid (100 mg/kg, p.o.) in rats. Norfloxacin provoked clonic convulsions in rats treated concomitantly with biphenylacetic acid, a major metabolite of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug fenbufen. Seizure activity was analyzed by EEG monitoring. Behavioral changes were also monitored. IL-1beta expressions in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus at different time intervals were studied by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The epileptiform discharges appeared in all the rats, accompanied with limb twitching and clonic-tonic seizures after administration of norfloxacin coadministered with biphenylacetic acid. Norfloxacin plus biphenylacetic acid-induced convulsions rapidly and transiently enhanced IL-1beta mRNA in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. IL-1beta mRNA expression in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus was detected as soon as 30 min after norfloxacin injection, and decayed to control levels by 6 h. ELISA analysis revealed significant increase of the IL-1beta protein in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus at 2 h and 6 h. Administration of either norfloxacin or biphenylacetic acid alone did not elicit convulsions and increase in IL-1beta mRNA and protein expressions. The results suggest that the increased IL-1beta expressions in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus induced by norfloxacin with biphenylacetic acid relate to seizure activities, and that these brain regions play pivotal roles in norfloxacin-induced convulsions.
Clotting activation may occur in liver cirrhosis, but the pathophysiological mechanism has not been fully elucidated. Because a previous study demonstrated that lipid peroxidation is increased in cirrhosis, we analyzed whether there is a relationship between lipid peroxidation and clotting activation. Thirty cirrhotic patients (19 men and 11 women; age, 34 to 79 years) and 30 controls matched for sex and age were investigated. In all subjects, monocyte expression of tissue factor (TF) antigen and activity; plasma levels of prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2), a marker of thrombin generation; and urinary excretion of Isoprostane-F2alpha-III, a marker of lipid peroxidation, were measured. Furthermore, the above-reported variables were re-evaluated after 30 days of treatment with standard therapy (n = 5) or standard therapy plus 300 mg vitamin E twice daily (n = 9). In addition, we analyzed in vitro if vitamin E (50 micromol/L) influenced monocyte TF expression and F1+2 generation. Cirrhotic patients had higher values of Isoprostane-F2alpha-III (P <. 0001), F1+2 (P <.0001), and monocyte TF antigen (P <.0001) and activity (P <.03) than controls. Isoprostane-F2alpha-III was significantly correlated with F1+2 (Rho = 0.85; P <.0001) and TF antigen (Rho = 0.95; P <.0001) and activity (Rho = 0.94; P <.0001). After vitamin E treatment, Isoprostane-F2alpha-III (P =.008), F1+2 (P <.008), and monocyte TF antigen (P =.012) and activity (P =.008) significantly decreased; no changes of these variables were detected in patients not receiving vitamin E. In vitro, vitamin E significantly reduced the expression of monocyte TF antigen (-52%; P =.001) and activity (-55%; P =.003), as well as F1+2 generation (-51%; P =.025). This study shows that vitamin E reduces both lipid peroxidation and clotting activation and suggests that lipid peroxidation may be an important mediator of clotting activation in liver cirrhosis.
Mirtazapine is an antidepressant blocking presynaptic alpha2-adrenergic receptors and an antagonist of 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A/2C, 5-hydroxytryptamine 3, and histaminergic (H) postsynaptic receptor. Acute dystonia restless legs syndrome (RLS) and manic syndromes are adverse effects of mirtazapine, whereas only few cases of acute akathisia, after the first doses of mirtazapine, are referred. Instead, mirtazapine is used to treat akathisia probably because of its antagonistic property at H1 postsynaptic receptors and dopaminergic action in the frontal cortex.
A 72-year-old woman with depression, on mirtazapine treatment for almost 20 years, was admitted to an outpatient neurology clinic, with 1-week history of 3-kg weight loss and progressive intense "inner restlessness," constant movements of the legs and feet, remarkable distress, insomnia, and pacing up and down. Neurological examination had normal results, no deterioration of the depression was present, a magnetic resonance scan of the brain was unremarkable, and biochemical tests were within reference ranges. The disorder eventually resolved after the permanent withdrawal of the offending medication.
After excluding other possible disorders, the diagnosis of severe akathisia, possibly induced by mirtazapine, was made. The reappearance of the symptoms after the patient had been rechallenged with mirtazapine ascertained the diagnosis of akathisia induced by mirtazapine. This report relates akathisia with mirtazapine intake after such a long period of treatment. It illustrates the importance of being alert to any movement disorder emerging in patients treated with mirtazapine, even after many years of treatment.
1. Pilocarpine administration has been used as an animal model for temporal lobe epilepsy since it produces several morphological and synaptic features in common with human complex partial seizures. Little is known about changes in extracellular neurotransmitter concentrations during the seizures provoked by pilocarpine, a non-selective muscarinic agonist. 2. Focally evoked pilocarpine-induced seizures in freely moving rats were provoked by intrahippocampal pilocarpine (10 mM for 40 min at a flow rate of 2 microl min(-1)) administration via a microdialysis probe. Concomitant changes in extracellular hippocampal glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and dopamine levels were monitored and simultaneous electrocorticography was performed. The animal model was characterized by intrahippocampal perfusion with the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (20 mM), the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin (1 microM) and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine maleate, 100 microM). The effectiveness of locally (600 microM) or systemically (10 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) applied lamotrigine against the pilocarpine-induced convulsions was evaluated. 3. Pilocarpine initially decreased extracellular hippocampal glutamate and GABA levels. During the subsequent pilocarpine-induced limbic convulsions extracellular glutamate, GABA and dopamine concentrations in hippocampus were significantly increased. Atropine blocked all changes in extracellular transmitter levels during and after co-administration of pilocarpine. All pilocarpine-induced increases were completely prevented by simultaneous tetrodotoxin perfusion. Intrahippocampal administration of MK-801 and lamotrigine resulted in an elevation of hippocampal dopamine levels and protected the rats from the pilocarpine-induced seizures. Pilocarpine-induced convulsions developed in the rats which received lamotrigine perorally. 4. Pilocarpine-induced seizures are initiated via muscarinic receptors and further mediated via NMDA receptors. Sustained increases in extracellular glutamate levels after pilocarpine perfusion are related to the limbic seizures. These are arguments in favour of earlier described NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. Hippocampal dopamine release may be functionally important in epileptogenesis and may participate in the anticonvulsant effects of MK-801 and lamotrigine. The pilocarpine-stimulated hippocampal GABA, glutamate and dopamine levels reflect neuronal vesicular release.
The information concerning the relationship of hypouricemia with urinary tract stones is limited. We investigated the incidence and types of hypouricemia, and also studied its relationship to urinary tract stones. Hypouricemia was detected in 3 out of 1520 outpatients (0.20%). The loading tests using pyrazinamide, probenecid and benzbromarone showed that uric acid absorption was impaired before tubular secretion in two cases and incomplete postsecretory reabsorption in one case. Complication of urinary tract stone was found in two cases. The composition of the stones was mixed calcium oxalate and uric acid. Hypouricemia should be recognized as one of the causes of kidney stone formation.
Based on data from three studies with complete recording of adverse events in about 12,000 patients each, we determined that angioedema in association with the angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitor enalapril maleate occurred during the first week of therapy at the rate of one case per 3000 patients per week. Thereafter, the incidence was 14-fold lower, without evidence of a temporal trend in incidence beyond the first week of therapy. The cumulative incidence was one case per 1000 patients treated (0.1%). An additional 138 case reports consistent with the diagnosis of angioedema were obtained from our overall controlled and marketed experience using enalapril in more than 1.2 million patients. These reports were examined to further characterize the reaction. The cases generally were mild, and they resolved on discontinuation of drug therapy. Seven patients experienced angioedema or urticaria in association with both enalapril and captopril, a structurally different angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitor. This further suggested that the side effect is mechanism based. If angioedema is suspected, therapy with any angiotensin converting-enzyme inhibitor should be interrupted promptly, respiratory distress should be treated appropriately, and subsequent therapy should be initiated with an agent from an alternative class of medication.
Increased heme oxygenase (HO)-1 activity attenuates endothelial cell apoptosis and decreases superoxide anion (O2-) formation in experimental diabetes by unknown mechanisms. We examined the effect of HO-1 protein and HO activity on extracellular SOD (EC-SOD), catalase, O2-, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) levels and vascular responses to ACh in control and diabetic rats. Vascular EC-SOD and plasma catalase activities were significantly reduced in diabetic compared with nondiabetic rats (P < 0.05). Upregulation of HO-1 expression by intermittent administration of cobalt protoporphyrin, an inducer of HO-1 protein and activity, resulted in a robust increase in EC-SOD but no significant change in Cu-Zn-SOD. Administration of tin mesoporphyrin, an inhibitor of HO-1 activity, decreased EC-SOD protein. Increased HO-1 activity in diabetic rats was associated with a decrease in iNOS but increases in eNOS and plasma catalase activity. On the other hand, aortic ring segments from diabetic rats exhibited a significant reduction in vascular relaxation to ACh, which was reversed with cobalt protoporphyrin treatment. These data demonstrate that an increase in HO-1 protein and activity, i.e., CO and bilirubin production, in diabetic rats brings about a robust increase in EC-SOD, catalase, and eNOS with a concomitant increase in endothelial relaxation and a decrease in O2-. These observations in experimental diabetes suggest that the vascular cytoprotective mechanism of HO-1 against oxidative stress requires an increase in EC-SOD and catalase.
A mother, treated with indomethacin because of premature labour, delivered a pair of monozygous twins at a gestational age of 33 weeks. Because of foetal transfusion syndrome, the first twin was polycythaemic and the second anaemic. The latter was also hydropic, suffered from anuria requiring peritoneal dialysis, and showed signs of severe pulmonary hypertension, probably as a consequence of intra-uterine constriction of the ductus arteriosus. The possible interaction between foetal transfusion syndrome, anuria, premature constriction of the ductus arteriosus and the prenatal administration of indomethacin is discussed. In general, indomethacin should cautiously be used as a tocolytic agent.
We investigated whether naloxone could reduce macrophage activation and influence atherosclerotic lesion formation in mice.
Macrophages play an important role in the inflammatory process in atherosclerosis. Naloxone could inhibit activation of microglia, the resident macrophage in the nervous system.
The anti-inflammatory effect of naloxone was evaluated by stimulating the macrophage cell culture and FVB mice with lipopolysaccharide or oxidized low-density lipoprotein with and without naloxone pretreatment. Apolipoprotein-E (apoE)-deficient mice received naloxone injection for 10 weeks, and the severity of aortic atherosclerosis was measured. The left common carotid arteries of C57BL/6 mice were ligated near the carotid bifurcation. The mice then received naloxone injection for 4 weeks after ligation, and the severity of neointima formation was evaluated.
Naloxone pretreatment significantly suppressed the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and superoxide in macrophages after stimulation. In FVB mice, naloxone reduced the TNF-alpha level in circulation, inflammatory cell infiltration in lungs, and superoxide production in aorta. Naloxone injection significantly decreased the severity of aortic atherosclerosis in the apoE-deficient mice and carotid neointima formation in the C57BL/6 mice after ligation.
Naloxone, with its novel anti-inflammatory effect, significantly reduces atherosclerosis and neointima formation in mice.
The effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor lisinopril on blood pressure, proteinuria and renal hemodynamics were evaluated in 13 patients with renal disease of different origin. A comparison was made with the effects of conventional antihypertensive therapy. Both drug regimens significantly lowered blood pressure, while only after 12 weeks of treatment with lisinopril, blood pressure was significantly lower than during conventional therapy. Lisinopril reduced proteinuria (by 61 +/- 40%), whereas conventional therapy had no significant effect on protein excretion. During the first eight weeks of treatment with lisinopril, there was a comparable degree of blood pressure reduction with both treatment regimens, whereas urinary protein loss was significantly less during ACE inhibition. There was only a nearly-significant positive correlation between the fall in proteinuria during lisinopril and the concomitant decrease in mean arterial pressure. Glomerular filtration rate decreased from 26.3 +/- 11.6 to 20.6 +/- 9.4 ml/min during treatment with lisinopril. This decrease was not correlated with the fall in proteinuria. A significant positive correlation existed between the fall in urinary protein excretion and both the decrease in overall renal vascular resistance, and the fall in filtration fraction. Although blood pressure lowering by itself could contribute to the antiproteinuric effect of lisinopril, our results suggest that this effect of ACE inhibition is also due to efferent (postglomerular) vasodilation. We conclude that the ACE inhibitor lisinopril effectively reduces blood pressure and proteinuria in renal disease. The latter effect is not only the result of a lower blood pressure, but is probably also due to a fall in intraglomerular capillary pressure.
