Recent studies suggest an association between caffeine consumption and tremor. However, the available literature is scanty and inconclusive. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of acute caffeine treatment on harmaline induced tremors in the rat. Four groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats (six animals in each group) weighing 88+/-2 g were administered harmaline (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) for inducing experimental tremors. The rats in group 1 served as controls and received normal saline, whereas the animals in groups 2, 3 and 4 were given caffeine (i.p.) at doses of 50, 100 and 150 mg/kg, respectively 60 min after harmaline administration. The latency of onset, intensity and duration of tremor and electromyographic (EMG) responses were recorded. Treatment of rats with caffeine resulted in a significant increase in the intensity and duration of harmaline induced tremors. Caffeine also enhanced the EMG amplitude in harmaline treated animals. In conclusion, the results of this study suggest that acute treatment with caffeine significantly potentiates the severity of harmaline induced tremors in rats.
Gemfibrozil, a ligand of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα), is one of the most widely prescribed anti-dyslipidemia fibrate drugs. Among the adverse reactions observed with gemfibrozil are alterations in liver function, cholestatic jaundice, and cholelithiasis. However, the mechanisms underlying these toxicities are poorly understood. In this study, wild-type and Ppara-null mice were dosed with a gemfibrozil-containing diet for 14 days. Ultra-performance chromatography electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry-based metabolomics and traditional approaches were used to assess the mechanism of gemfibrozil-induced hepatotoxicity. Unsupervised multivariate data analysis revealed four lysophosphatidylcholine components in wild-type mice that varied more dramatically than those in Ppara-null mice. Targeted metabolomics revealed taurocholic acid and tauro-α-muricholic acid/tauro-β-muricholic acid were significantly increased in wild-type mice, but not in Ppara-null mice. In addition to the above perturbations in metabolite homeostasis, phenotypic alterations in the liver were identified. Hepatic genes involved in metabolism and transportation of lysophosphatidylcholine and bile acid compounds were differentially regulated between wild-type and Ppara-null mice, in agreement with the observed downstream metabolic alterations. These data suggest that PPARα mediates gemfibrozil-induced hepatotoxicity in part by disrupting phospholipid and bile acid homeostasis.
Various formulations have been developed in an effort to reduce the toxicity of amphotericin B. We report a case of cryptococcal meningitis in a 31-year-old HIV-positive man which was successfully treated with amphotericin B lipid emulsion.
Two groups of patients with uncomplicated systemic hypertension were studied. Group 1 included 11 patients who had overt hypokalemia with diuretic drug treatment, and group 2 included 11 patients who remained normokalemic. After baseline studies without treatment were performed, both groups received hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg twice daily. Plasma potassium (PK) was significantly reduced within the first day of treatment and stabilized by day 7 in both groups. The average decrease in PK was 1.0 +/- 0.1 mEq/liter (p less than 0.01) in the first group and 0.6 +/- 0.2 mEq/liter (p less than 0.01) in the second group. Cumulative losses of K were approximately 200 mEq in the hypokalemic group and were minimal in the normokalemic group as assessed by 24-hour urinary collections. Patients in the hypokalemic group also had a greater reduction in body weight and blood pressure. Supplementation with KCl, 96 mEq/day, or triamterene, 200 mg/day, in 9 hypokalemic patients resulted in an increase of PK to approximately 3.5 mEq/liter leveling off by day 7, and a cumulative K retention of approximately 200 mEq. Thus, overt thiazide-induced hypokalemia was associated with small and biologically unimportant losses of K from body stores. With replacement therapy the estimated amount of retained K was also small.
Thirteen-cis retinoic acid (RA) has been shown to have growth-inhibitory and differentiative activity on non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells in vitro. This promoted the rationale for combining RA with three active drugs, cisplatin (CDDP) vindesine (VDS) and mitomycin-c (MMC) in the treatment of advanced NSCLC.
Patients with a histologically confirmed non-resectable NSCLC, measurable lesion, performance status < or = 3, and informed consent were enrolled. The chemotherapy schedule included cisplatin 60 mg/m2 and mitomycin-c 10 mg/m2 day 1 and vindesine 3 mg/m2 on days 1 and 5, every 4 weeks. RA was administered orally, at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg, 5 days per week, during chemotherapeutic intervals and to responding patients until disease progression was observed.
Thirty patients, receiving a total of 163 chemotherapy courses, were evaluated for response and toxicity. Objective responses included complete response in 2 patients (7%), partial response in 10 patients (33%), stable disease in 9 patients (30%) and progressive disease in 9 patients (30%), (response rate 40%: Confidence interval 95% 22.7% to 59.4%). Median time to progression was 8.6 months (range 3.9-45+). Median overall survival was 11.3 months (range 1-45+). The 1-year survival rate was 47%. Toxicity (WHO) included nausea and vomiting grade 2 in 6 patients, transient ileus in 3 patients and grade 3-4 leukopenia in 5 patients. Two patients underwent surgical resection of residual disease and remain in CR.
The addition of RA to cisplatin, vindesine and mitomycin-c is feasible and shows some activity in the treatment of NSCLC, with manageable toxicity.
Overexpression of the HER2 receptor protein and amplification of the HER2 gene has been implicated in tumor development and progression, and has been associated with a poor prognosis in several types of cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether pretreatment serum HER2 levels can be used to predict biochemical recurrence-free survival in prostate cancer patients about to undergo endocrine therapy.
The study population consisted of 379 untreated patients with histologically diagnosed prostate cancer: 197 with T2N0M0, 93 with T3N0M0, 19 with TxN1Mx, and 70 with TxNxM1. Serum HER2 levels were assessed in the prostate cancer patients prior to treatment as well as in a control group of 100 patients with histologically confirmed non-cancer. Biochemical recurrence-free curves for the patients were investigated separately using the Kaplan-Meier method.
The mean level of HER2 in serum was significantly higher in prostate cancer patients than non-prostate cancer patients (P = 0.006). Also, the serum HER2 level was significantly higher in bone metastatic cancer patients (14.3 +/- 6.3 ng/mL) than in non-metastatic patients (T2: 11.9 +/- 2.3 ng/mL, P = 0.003; T3: 12.2 +/- 2.8 ng/mL, P = 0.011). The metastatic patients were divided into those with low and high HER2 levels using a cutoff value of 12.6 ng/mL based on receiver-operating characteristic curves. The biochemical recurrence-free rate was significantly poorer in patients with a high HER2 level (P = 0.0078, log-rank test). Multivariate Cox logistic regression analysis demonstrated that the pretreatment serum HER2 value (P = 0.022), serum prostate-specific antigen value (P = 0.018), and extent of disease score (P = 0.027) were independent predictors of recurrence.
The pretreatment serum HER2 level may be a useful independent prognostic factor that is associated with a high risk of biochemical recurrence in metastatic prostate cancer patients about to undergo endocrine therapy.
The prognosis of Hodgkin's lymphoma has been improved over last 10 yr due to identification of prognostic parameters. These factors may predict the clinical outcome and therefore may have influence on the selection of appropriate treatment. In a cohort of 40 patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma of nodular sclerosis subtype, treated with ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) regimen, we analyzed prognostic relevance of the expression of Ki-67 and Bcl-2 at diagnosis as well as other clinical parameters: International Prognostic Score, bulky disease, tissue eosinophilia, and high erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Significance was tested according to response rate and overall survival. Patients with a high proliferative fraction (Ki-67 > 50%) had worse overall survival compared with those with low proliferation, 56% vs 91%. There was a correlation between Ki-67 positivity and the achievement of complete remission. Cox's multivariate model revealed that Ki-67 positivity at threshold of 50% was a significant independent prognostic factor. The Bcl-2 expression in less than 50% of tumor cells was detected in 65.5% of patients, and in a majority of cases it was associated with complete remission. Patients with high IPS had more progressive disease and shorter survival. Bulky disease, tissue eosinophilia, and high erythrocyte sedimentation rate had no significant influence on complete remission and survival. However, there was a marked divergence in survival curves after 4 yr follow-up for each of these parameters. Patients with high Ki-67, IPS > 3, bulky disease, tissue eosinophilia, and high sedimentation rate are at a higher risk of treatment failure and relapse and therefore might be eligible for other aggressive therapeutic approach.
Theophylline has been associated with a variety of behavioral side effects in asthmatic children. This study was a 6-month investigation of the relationship between theophylline treatment and psychological changes in 8 to 16 year old asthmatic children. Included were a group receiving theophylline (n = 19), a control group not receiving theophylline (n = 44), and a nonasthmatic control group (n = 24). The three groups had similar age, socioeconomic status, and IQ. The two groups of children with asthma demonstrated greater emotional dysfunction, characterized by tendency toward withdrawal and depression, than the nonasthmatic control group. Each of five assessment appointments (baseline and 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months after beginning theophylline treatment) included measures of pulmonary function, attention, impulsivity, memory, fine motor control, activity level, self-reported mood, and parental observation of difficult behavior. Pulmonary functions were lower in the theophylline group at baseline but improved significantly after commencement of theophylline therapy. Over the 6-month interval, children in the theophylline group demonstrated improved scores on a laboratory measure of attention, while their parents reported increased conduct problems and hyperactivity. On the whole, psychological score changes were subtle, and no other between-group differences emerged in the remaining laboratory measures.
Fifteen patients with bacterial endocarditis were treated with vancomycin between 1967 and 1976. The indications for vancomycin therapy were penicillin-cephalosporin allergy in six patients, antibiotic resistant bacteria in six, initial therapy in one and culture-negative endocarditis in two. The causative microorganisms were Staph. epidermidis (four patients), Staph. aureus (two patients), diphtheroids (four patients), viridans streptococci (two patients) and enterococci (one patient). Minimum inhibitory concentrations of vancomycin for these organisms ranged from 0.8 to 3.1 micrograms/ml. The patients received vancomycin for two to 10 weeks (mean five weeks). Cure was achieved in 13 patients, including six with prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE). Two patients had a relapse of PVE and cultures of blood or heart valve were positive within two months of vancomycin therapy. Vancomycin serum levels did not exceed 50 micrograms/ml, and no serious drug toxicity was encountered in any patient. Three patients had minimal audiogram changes beyond the social hearing range. One patient had mild phlebitis and a rash, and one patient had a transient leukopenia. Vancomycin is an effective nontoxic antibiotic in patients with endocarditis when penicillin or cephalosporin therapy is not appropriate.
The primary objective of the study was to clarify whether the use of the oral contraceptive 2 mg dienogest/30 microg ethinylestradiol (DNG/EE) is associated with a higher risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) than the use of other combined oral low-dose contraceptives (i.e. containing < or =30 microg EE), particularly oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel (LNG). The secondary objective was to investigate the VTE risk associated with drospirenone/ethinylestradiol (DRSP/EE) in comparison to low-dose LNG/EE.
This German community-based, case-control study recruited VTE cases from the primary care sector. Eligible cases were women aged 15-49 years with a VTE between January 2002 and February 2008. Four controls (women without a confirmed or potential VTE before the index date) were matched by age and region to each case. Medical information relevant for the assessment of VTE was abstracted from patient charts. Data on personal characteristics of the patients were collected via self-administered questionnaires. At the end of the study a blinded adjudication of the reported VTE was conducted. Conditional logistic regression techniques were used, adjusting for nine potential confounders, including personal history of VTE, family history of VTE, body mass index, duration of current combined oral contraceptive (COC) use and smoking.
A total of 680 VTE cases and 2720 corresponding controls were analysed. The mean age of cases and controls was - as a result of matching - almost identical (36.1 years). A total of 35, 25, and 60 of the cases had used DNG-, DRSP- and LNG-containing low-dose COCs, respectively, at the time of the VTE diagnosis. The crude odds ratio (OR) for VTE associated with current COC use in comparison to women who had never used a COC before the index date was 1.9 (95% CI 1.5-2.5), the adjusted OR was 2.3 (95% CI 1.7-3.0). The point estimate of the crude OR of DNG/EE vs any other low-dose COCs was 0.9 (95% CI 0.6-1.3), the adjusted OR was 0.9 (95% CI 0.6-1.4). The crude ORs for DNG/EE and DRSP/EE vs low-dose LNG/EE were 1.1 (95% CI 0.7-1.8) and 1.0 (95% CI 0.6-1.6), respectively; the adjusted ORs were 1.1 (95% CI 0.7-1.9) and 1.0 (95% CI 0.6-1.8).
The study confirms that COC use is associated with an increased risk of VTE. The VTE ORs (adjusted and crude) that compared DNG/EE and DRSP/EE with other low-dose COCs (including LNG/EE) were close to unity and do not indicate a higher risk for users of DNG/EE or DRSP/EE.
Exposure to household wood smoke from cooking is a risk factor for chronic obstructive lung disease among women in developing countries. The Randomized Exposure Study of Pollution Indoors and Respiratory Effects (RESPIRE) is a randomized intervention trial evaluating the respiratory health effects of reducing indoor air pollution from open cooking fires. A total of 504 rural Mayan women in highland Guatemala aged 15-50 years, all using traditional indoor open fires, were randomized to either receive a chimney woodstove (plancha) or continue using the open fire. Assessments of chronic respiratory symptoms and lung function and individual measurements of carbon monoxide exposure were performed at baseline and every 6 months up to 18 months. Use of a plancha significantly reduced carbon monoxide exposure by 61.6%. For all respiratory symptoms, reductions in risk were observed in the plancha group during follow-up; the reduction was statistically significant for wheeze (relative risk = 0.42, 95% confidence interval: 0.25, 0.70). The number of respiratory symptoms reported by the women at each follow-up point was also significantly reduced by the plancha (odds ratio = 0.7, 95% confidence interval: 0.50, 0.97). However, no significant effects on lung function were found after 12-18 months. Reducing indoor air pollution from household biomass burning may relieve symptoms consistent with chronic respiratory tract irritation.
This study aimed to assess the possible systemic antinociceptive activity of mangiferin and to clarify the underlying mechanism, using the acute models of chemical (acetic acid, formalin, and capsaicin) and thermal (hot-plate and tail-flick) nociception in mice. Mangiferin at oral doses of 10 to 100 mg/kg evidenced significant antinociception against chemogenic pain in the test models of acetic acid-induced visceral pain and in formalin- and capsaicin-induced neuro-inflammatory pain, in a naloxone-sensitive manner, suggesting the participation of endogenous opiates in its mechanism. In capsaicin test, the antinociceptive effect of mangiferin (30 mg/kg) was not modified by respective competitive and non-competitive transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) antagonists, capsazepine and ruthenium red, or by pretreatment with L-NAME, a non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, or by ODQ, an inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase. However, mangiferin effect was significantly reversed by glibenclamide, a blocker of K(ATP) channels and in animals pretreated with 8-phenyltheophylline, an adenosine receptor antagonist. Mangiferin failed to modify the thermal nociception in hot-plate and tail-flick test models, suggesting that its analgesic effect is only peripheral but not central. The orally administered mangiferin (10-100 mg/kg) was well tolerated and did not impair the ambulation or the motor coordination of mice in respective open-field and rota-rod tests, indicating that the observed antinociception was unrelated to sedation or motor abnormality. The findings of this study suggest that mangiferin has a peripheral antinociceptive action through mechanisms that involve endogenous opioids, K(ATP)-channels and adenosine receptors.
Gentamicin nephrotoxicity is one of the most common causes of acute kidney injury (AKI). Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) is effective in protecting the kidney from ischemic and toxic injury. Increased expression of HIF-1α mRNA has been reported in rats with gentamicin-induced renal injury. We hypothesizd that we could study the role of HIF in gentamicin-induced AKI by modulating HIF activity. In this study, we investigated whether HIF activation had protective effects on gentamicin-induced renal tubule cell injury. Gentamicin-induced AKI was established in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Cobalt was continuously infused into the rats to activate HIF. HK-2 cells were pre-treated with cobalt or dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG) to activate HIF and were then exposed to gentamicin. Cobalt or DMOG significantly increased HIF-1α expression in rat kidneys and HK-2 cells. In HK-2 cells, HIF inhibited gentamicin-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation. HIF also protected these cells from apoptosis by reducing caspase-3 activity and the amount of cleaved caspase-3, and -9 proteins. Increased expression of HIF-1α reduced the number of gentamicin-induced apoptotic cells in rat kidneys and HK-2 cells. HIF activation improved the creatinine clearance and proteinuria in gentamicin-induced AKI. HIF activation also ameliorated the extent of histologic injury and reduced macrophage infiltration into the tubulointerstitium. In gentamicin-induced AKI, the activation of HIF by cobalt or DMOG attenuated renal dysfunction, proteinuria, and structural damage through a reduction of oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis in renal tubular epithelial cells.
To find the safe and effective treatment and drugs for congestive heart failure (CHF).
Ninety CHF patients whose heart function belong to III-IV grade were randomly divided into 3 groups: Group A was treated with Qiangxinling liquid extract (QXLLE); Group B with QXLLE plus small dose of digoxin and Group C with digoxin alone.
The total effective rate on heart function of Group A was 86.7%, Group B 93.3% and Group C 83.3%, the effect of Group B was better than that of the other two groups (P < 0.05, P < 0.01). The digoxin withdrawing and reducing rate in Group B was higher than that in Group C (86.7% vs 50.0%, P < 0.05). The left ventricular systolic function, including stroke volume, cardiac output, ejection fraction of the 3 groups were improved after treatment, among them the effect of Group B was the best (P < 0.01). Moreover, improvement in ventricular diastolic function was shown in Group A and B, including the maximum blood flow of the late and the early diastolic stage as well as the ratio of them (P < 0.05, P < 0.01). The plasma renin activity, angiotensin II and atrial natriuretic peptide of Group A and B were also lowered after treatment and were significantly different to those of the Group C (P < 0.01).
QXLLE could improve the heart function, clinical symptoms and neuro-endocrinal indexes of CHF patients and reduce the side effects of digoxin.
The Intravenous Nimodipine West European Stroke Trial (INWEST) found a correlation between nimodipine-induced reduction in blood pressure (BP) and an unfavorable outcome in acute stroke. We sought to confirm this correlation with and without adjustment for prognostic variables and to investigate outcome in subgroups with increasing levels of BP reduction.
Patients with a clinical diagnosis of ischemic stroke (within 24 hours) were consecutively allocated to receive placebo (n=100), 1 mg/h (low-dose) nimodipine (n=101), or 2 mg/h (high-dose) nimodipine (n=94). The correlation between average BP change during the first 2 days and the outcome at day 21 was analyzed.
Two hundred sixty-five patients were included in this analysis (n=92, 93, and 80 for placebo, low dose, and high dose, respectively). Nimodipine treatment resulted in a statistically significant reduction in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) from baseline compared with placebo during the first few days. In multivariate analysis, a significant correlation between DBP reduction and worsening of the neurological score was found for the high-dose group (beta=0.49, P=0. 048). Patients with a DBP reduction of > or =20% in the high-dose group had a significantly increased adjusted OR for the compound outcome variable death or dependency (Barthel Index <60) (n/N=25/26, OR 10. 16, 95% CI 1.02 to 101.74) and death alone (n/N=9/26, OR 4.336, 95% CI 1.131 16.619) compared with all placebo patients (n/N=62/92 and 14/92, respectively). There was no correlation between SBP change and outcome.
DBP, but not SBP, reduction was associated with neurological worsening after the intravenous administration of high-dose nimodipine after acute stroke. For low-dose nimodipine, the results were not conclusive. These results do not confirm or exclude a neuroprotective property of nimodipine.
Diets high in fat are associated with increased susceptibility to obesity and metabolic syndrome. Increased adipose tissue that is caused by high-fat diets (HFD) results in altered storage of lipophilic toxicants like 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), which may further increase susceptibility to metabolic syndrome. Because both TCDD and HFD are associated with increased breast cancer risk, we examined their effects on metabolic syndrome-associated phenotypes in three mouse models of breast cancer: 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA), Tg(MMTV-Neu)202Mul/J (HER2), and TgN(MMTV-PyMT)634Mul/J (PyMT), all on an FVB/N genetic background. Pregnant mice dosed with 1 microg/kg of TCDD or vehicle on gestational day 12.5 were placed on a HFD or low-fat diet (LFD) at parturition. Body weights, percent body fat, and fasting blood glucose were measured longitudinally, and triglycerides were measured at study termination. On HFD, all cancer models reached the pubertal growth spurt ahead of FVB controls. Among mice fed HFD, the HER2 model had a greater increase in body weight and adipose tissue from puberty through adulthood compared with the PyMT and DMBA models. However, the DMBA model consistently had higher fasting blood glucose levels than the PyMT and HER2 models. TCDD only impacted serum triglycerides in the PyMT model maintained on HFD. Because the estrogenic activity of the HFD was three times lower than that of the LFD, differential dietary estrogenic activities did not drive the observed phenotypic differences. Rather, the HFD-dependent changes were cancer model dependent. These results show that cancer models can have differential effects on metabolic syndrome-associated phenotypes even before cancers arise.
Disrupted signaling through lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTbetaR) results in severe defects of the spleen and even loss of all other secondary lymphoid tissues, making mice susceptible to diverse infectious agents. Surprisingly, however, we find that female LTbetaR-deficient mice are even more resistant to blood stages of Plasmodium chabaudi malaria than wild-type C57BL/6 mice. Higher resistance of LTbetaR-deficient mice correlates with an earlier onset of reticulocytosis, and the period of anemia is shorter. After surviving fulminant parasitemias of about 35%, mice develop long-lasting protective immunity against homologous rechallenge, with both spleen and liver acting as anti-malaria effectors. Testosterone suppresses resistance, i.e. all mice succumb to infections during or shortly after peak parasitemia. At peak parasitemia, testosterone does not essentially affect cellularity and apoptosis in the spleen, but aggravates liver pathology in terms of increased cell swelling, numbers of apoptotic and binucleated cells and reduced serum alkaline phosphatase levels, and conversely, reduces inflammatory lymphocytic infiltrates in the liver. In the spleen, hybridization of cDNA arrays identified only a few testosterone-induced changes in gene expression, in particular upregulation of INFgamma and IFN-regulated genes. By contrast, a much larger number of testosterone-affectable genes was observed in the liver, including genes involved in regulation of the extracellular matrix, in chemokine and cytokine signaling, and in cell cycle control. Collectively, our data suggest that testosterone dysregulates the inflammatory response in spleen and liver during their differentiation to anti-malaria effectors in malaria-resistant female LTbetaR-deficient mice, thus contributing to the testosterone-induced lethal outcome of malaria.
A patient with rheumatoid arthritis who developed multiple mononeuropathies multiplex was shown to have vasculitis in nerve biopsy, but no evidence of inflammatory muscle disease in muscle biopsy. Treatment with penicillamine caused the rare complication of polymyositis, documented clinically, electrophysiologically, and by light and electron microscopy in a second muscle biopsy. The evidence presented supports the concept that penicillamine may induce polymyositis or aggravate a pre-existing low-grade myositis.
recent studies have demonstrated that rheumatoid arthritis (RA) fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) proliferate as fiercely as tumor cells. Induction of apoptosis in RA FLS therefore provides a new approach for the inhibition of joint destruction. Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) was reported to be an effective apoptosis inducer in a variety of cell types. We investigated the possible effect of As(2)O(3) on apoptosis induction of RA FLS and the mechanisms involved in this process.
apoptosis was determined by flow cytometric analysis, terminal deoxynucleotide transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling, and transmission electron microscopy. The activity and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) was then detected by ELISA and real-time polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Activities of caspase-3 and caspase-8 were evaluated using luminogenic substrates. The effect of As(2)O(3) on the morphology of rats with collagen-induced arthritis was evaluated under a light microscope after H&E staining.
as(2)O(3) significantly enhanced the apoptosis of RA FLS. It suppressed the DNA-binding activity and mRNA expression level of NF-κB, probably by inhibiting tumor necrosis factor-α-induced activation of NF-κB. As(2)O(3) treatment significantly increased the activity of both caspase-3 and caspase-8. Morphological analysis revealed histological recovery in the synovial membrane. Synovial hyperplasia and inflammation in the joints were effectively inhibited.
as(2)O(3) represents an apoptotic effect on RA FLS through NF-κB signaling pathway, and this process is mediated by the activation of caspase cascade. Treatment with As(2)O(3) significantly improved the pathologic changes of collagen-induced arthritis and may have potential for treatment of RA.
The endothelin A receptor (ET(A)R) autocrine pathway is overexpressed in many malignancies, including nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). In this tumor, ET(A)R expression is an independent determinant of survival and a robust independent predictor of distant metastasis. To evaluate whether ET(A)R represents a new target in NPC treatment, we tested the therapeutic role of ET(A)R in NPC. Cell proliferation was inhibited by the ET(A)R-selective antagonist ABT-627 in two ET(A)R-positive NPC cells in a dose-dependent manner. Proliferation of ET(A)R-negative NPC cells was not decreased. ET(A)R blockade also resulted in sensitization to cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil-induced apoptosis. In nude mice, ABT-627 inhibited the growth of NPC cell xenografts. Combined treatment of ABT-627 with the cytotoxic drug cisplatin or 5-fluorouracil produced additive antitumor effects. The antitumor activity of ABT-627 was demonstrated finally on an experimental lung metastasis by a reduction in the number of tumors. These results support the rationale of combining ABT-627 with current standard chemotherapy to further improve the therapeutic ratio in the treatment of NPC.
15 cases of cimetidine-associated mental confusion have been reported. In order that this syndrome might be investigated changes in mental status (M.S.) were correlated with serum concentrations and renal and hepatic function in 36 patients, 30 patients had no M.S. change on cimetidine and 6 had moderate to severe changes. These 6 patients had both renal and liver dysfunction (P less than 0.05), as well as cimetidine trough-concentrations of more than 1.25 microgram/ml (P less than 0.05). The severity of M.S. changes increased as trough-concentrations rose, 5 patients had lumbar puncture. The cerebrospinal fluid: serum ratio of cimetidine concentrations was 0.24:1 and indicates that cimetidine passes the blood-brain barrier; it also raises the possibility that M.S. changes are due to blockade of histamine H2-receptors in the central nervous system. Patients likely to have both raised trough-concentrations and mental confusion are those with both severe renal and hepatic dysfunction. They should be closely observed and should be given reduced doses of cimetidine.
The influence of cardioselective beta blockade on systemic hemodynamics and cardiac performance was assessed in 17 essential hypertensive patients treated with metoprolol (50 to 100 mg twice daily) for 1 month. Eleven patients had a significant reduction of mean arterial pressure (less than 10 mm Hg); the other six patients did not show significant blood pressure change. There was no difference in response of heart rate or cardiac output between the two groups [-14 +/- 1.6 (SE) vs. -9.5 +/- 2.08 bpm, NS, and -0.55 +/- 0.39 vs. 0.80 +/- 0.35 L/min, NS, respectively]. Mean transit time was significantly prolonged in both groups (1.9 +/- 0.56 vs. 1 +/- 0.53 seconds, NS), and changes in ejection fraction in the two groups were not significant. The only significant difference between the two groups was in the response of total peripheral resistance (-1.4 +/- 3.04 vs. +10.2 +/- 3.77 U . m2, p less than 0.05). The reduction in heart rate correlated significantly with control heart rate (r = -0.71, p less than 0.001) and the decreased in cardiac output correlated significantly (r = -0.77, p less than 0.001) and the decrease in cardiac output correlated significantly (r = -0.77, p less than 0.001) with the initial cardiac output. The changes in mean arterial pressure did not correlate with changes in cardiac output (r = 0.116). On the other hand, there was a significant correlation of 0.68 (p less than 0.01) between the changes in mean arterial pressure and the changes in total peripheral resistance. Changes in plasma renin activity (PRA) were not significant in the nonresponders (1.8 +/- 0.9 to 0.6 +/- 0.2 ng/ml, NS), and the reduction of plasma renin activity was significant in the group of responders (5.5 +/- 2.4 to 1.7 +/- 0.8 ng/ml, p less than 0.05). However, there was no correlation between the changes of mean arterial pressure and either initial PRA or the change in PRA. As regards plasma catecholamines (measured in nine patients), there was a tendency to reduction in both responders and nonresponders (411 +/- 84 to 319 +/- 67 ng/L and 562 +/- 141 to 388 +/- 166, respectively); but changes did not reach statistical significance in both groups. It was concluded that metoprolol reduces cardiac output by slowing heart rate; this reduction of cardiac output was not related to decreased cardiac performance. The mechanism of blood pressure reduction seems to be related to the response of systemic resistance to the diminution in cardiac output and not to the decrease in cardiac output per se, inasmuch as the latter occurred in both responders and nonresponders.
Angioedema of the face and neck is a rare but potentially fatal complication of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) use. We retrospectively reviewed five cases of ACEI angioedema seen at our institution over the past 2 1/2 years. Four of the cases occurred with enalapril and one with lisinopril. Onset of symptoms varied from two days to ten months. Importantly, three of the five patients had been receiving medication three months or longer, suggesting clinicians must consider this complication during long-term administration of these agents. Three of the five patients were markedly obese, had a history of previous face and neck surgery, or had been intubated in the past. Thus, we propose that previous manipulation or trauma of the upper airway, perhaps resulting in airway narrowing, may represent a risk factor for upper airway obstruction secondary to ACEI-induced angioedema.
Myelosuppression is the main hematotoxic effect of 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), which is an antimetabolite chemotherapy drug. Immune hemolytic anemia associated with this drug has not been previously reported.
A 67-year-old man with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia presented with anemia 2 weeks after 6-MP therapy had been initiated. Additional tests provided laboratory evidence of hemolysis. When treatment was stopped, the patient's condition and laboratory results showed a progressive improvement.
The direct antiglobulin test was positive for IgG. The eluate and the serum were not reactive with panel red cells but reacted with 6-MP-treated red cells, while the normal serum pool was unreactive. The direct antiglobulin test was no longer positive by 20 days after the cessation of 6-MP therapy.
This drug, 6-MP, should be added to the list of drugs that have been reported to cause immune hemolytic anemia by means of the so-called hapten mechanism.
