This study was designed to demonstrate that efficacy [progression-free survival (PFS)] of CAELYX [pegylated liposomal doxorubicin HCl (PLD)] is non-inferior to doxorubicin with significantly less cardiotoxicity in first-line treatment of women with metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
Women (n=509) with MBC and normal cardiac function were randomized to receive either PLD 50 mg/m2 (every 4 weeks) or doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 (every 3 weeks). Cardiac event rates were based on reductions in left ventricular ejection fraction as a function of cumulative anthracycline dose.
PLD and doxorubicin were comparable with respect to PFS [6.9 versus 7.8 months, respectively; hazard ratio (HR)=1.00; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.82-1.22]. Subgroup results were consistent. Overall risk of cardiotoxicity was significantly higher with doxorubicin than PLD (HR=3.16; 95%CI 1.58-6.31; P<0.001). Overall survival was similar (21 and 22 months for PLD and doxorubicin, respectively; HR=0.94; 95%CI 0.74-1.19). Alopecia (overall, 66% versus 20%; pronounced, 54% versus 7%), nausea (53% versus 37%), vomiting (31% versus 19%) and neutropenia (10% versus 4%) were more often associated with doxorubicin than PLD. Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (48% versus 2%), stomatitis (22% versus 15%) and mucositis (23% versus 13%) were more often associated with PLD than doxorubicin.
In first-line therapy for MBC, PLD provides comparable efficacy to doxorubicin, with significantly reduced cardiotoxicity, myelosuppression, vomiting and alopecia.
Taxol is a new anticancer drug that acts as a tubulin polymeration enhancer. Its major toxicities are myelosuppression, hypersensitivity, and mucositis, but it also induces peripheral nerve damage. The use of taxol has recently been proposed for platinum-resistant cancers, but in these cases there is a possibility of cumulative toxicity in the peripheral nervous system.
Twenty-two patients affected by a relapse of cisplatin-treated ovarian cancer were examined clinically and neurophysiologically to determine the evolution of taxol-induced peripheral somatic and autonomic neurotoxicity and the possible cumulative effect of a combination of taxol and cisplatin. Each patient was examined before, during, and after taxol treatment (using a dose of 135 or 175 mg/m2 in 3 hours every 3 weeks).
No patients were excluded from the study because of unacceptable toxicities of any kind. The serial examinations demonstrated that taxol induced onset of (or worsening of preexisting) neuropathic symptoms and signs in almost all the patients. The features were those of a distal, symmetrical, sensory polyneuropathy due to an axonopathy. Motor nerves and the autonomic nervous system were unaffected. Taxol neurotoxicity appeared early in the course of the treatment (i.e., after three courses) and was not severely disabling. In most cases after the early onset of peripheral neuropathy, stabilization of this side effect occurred.
Considering the low doses of taxol used in this study, the sensory nerve damage was unexpectedly severe. It appears that a cumulative, but not dose-limiting, neurotoxic effect occurs using taxol in patients previously treated with cisplatin.
Cisplatin is used widely for treatment of a variety of cancer diseases. Recently, however, the use of cisplatin is restricted because of its adverse effects such as hepatotoxicity. There is no study with current proteomics technology to evaluate cisplatin-induced hepatotoxicity, even if some studies have reported on the hepatotoxicity. In this study, proteomic as well as genomic analyses have been used for identification of proteins and genes that respond to cisplatin treatment in rat primary hepatocytes. To investigate the hepatotoxic effects of cisplatin, rat primary hepatocytes were treated with an IC(20) concentration for 24 h. From proteomic analysis based on label-free quantitation strategy, cisplatin induced 76 up-regulated and 19 down-regulated proteins among 325 distinct proteins. In the mRNA level, genomic analysis revealed 72 up-regulated and 385 down-regulated genes in the cisplatin-treated group. Based on these two analyses, 19 pathways were commonly altered, whereas seven pathways were identified only by proteomic analysis, and 19 pathways were identified only by genomic analysis. Overall, this study explained the mechanism of cisplatin-induced hepatotoxicity with two points of view: well known pathways including drug metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, and glycolysis/TCA cycle and little known pathways including urea cycle and inflammation metabolism, for hepatotoxicity of other toxic agents. Up-regulated proteins detected by proteomic analysis in the cisplatin-treated group: FBP1 (fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase 1), FASN (fatty acid synthase), CAT (catalase), PRDX1 (peroxiredoxin-1), HSPD1 (60-kDa heat shock protein), MDH2 (malate dehydrogenase 2), and ARG1 (arginase 1), and also down-regulated proteins in the cisplatin-treated group: TPM1 (tropomyosin 1), TPM3 (tropomyosin 3), and CTSB (cathepsin B), were confirmed by Western blot analysis. In addition, up-regulated mRNAs detected by microarray analysis in the cisplatin-treated group: GSTA2, GSTT2, YC2, TXNRD1, CYP2E1, CYP2C13, CYP2D1, ALDH17, ARG1, ARG2, and IL-6, and also down-regulated mRNAs: CYP2C12, CYP26B1, TPM1, and TPM3, were confirmed by RT-PCR analysis. In case of PRDX1, FASN, and ARG1, they were further confirmed by immunofluorescence analysis. Through the integrated proteomic and genomic approaches, the present study provides the first pathway map related to cisplatin-induced hepatotoxicity, which may provide new insight into the mechanism of hepatotoxicity.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesia of the limbs in thirteen cases of Parkinsonism, which was choreic, ballistic or dystonic in type, was alleviated almost completely by stereotaxic surgery using a microelectrode technique for the ventralis oralis anterior and posterior nuclei of the thalamus, but much less by the ventralis intermedius nucleus. Control of levodopa-induced dyskinesias by thalamic lesions in the course of routine treatment of Parkinsonism is discussed.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are serious cutaneous adverse reactions. We mined the approved labels in Drugs@FDA, identified the SJS/TEN list of 259 small molecular drugs and biologics, and conducted systems pharmacological network analyses. Pharmacological network analysis revealed that drugs with treatment-related SJS and/or TEN are pharmacologically diverse and that the largest subnetwork is associated with antiepileptic drugs and their pharmacological targets. Our pharmacological network analysis identified CTNNB1 [catenin (cadherin-associated protein), beta 1, 88 kDa] as a significant intermediator. This protein is involved in maintaining the functional integrity of the epithelium through regulating cell growth and adhesion between cells in various organs, including the skin. Leveraging a publicly accessible genome-wide transcriptional expression database, we found that human leukocyte antigen-related (HLA) genes were significantly perturbed by various SJS/TEN-inducing drugs. Notably, carbamazepine (CBZ) perturbed several HLA genes, among which HLA-DQB1*0201 was reportedly shown to be associated with CBZ-induced SJS/TEN in caucasians. In short, systems analysis by leveraging a publicly accessible knowledge base and databases could produce meaningful results for further mechanistic investigation. Our study sheds light on the utility of systems pharmacology analysis for gaining insight into clinical drug toxicity.
Ingestion of a corrosive substance only rarely presents with life-threatening symptoms because of acute necrosis of the esophagus and/or stomach and necessitates emergency surgery. Once the patient is stabilized, a staged reconstruction of the alimentary tract is planned. The surgeon should be familiar with the various types of gastric reconstruction in conjunction with or without esophageal replacement. The authors report 2 illustrative cases, which presented severe symptoms after corrosive substance ingestion, to emphasize the important aspects of management of this condition. The reconstruction of the gastrointestinal tract in children is managed with a staged approach using various methods, including Hunt-Lawrence J pouch gastric substitution.
The analgesic drug tramadol is bioactivated by CYP2D6 to the opioid receptor agonist O-desmethyltramadol. Case reports indicated that carriers of the CYP2D6 gene duplication may be at high risk for opioid adverse events. However, the effects of the CYP2D6 duplication on kinetics and dynamics of tramadol have not been systematically studied. Pharmacokinetics and effects were monitored after a single dose of 100 mg racemic tramadol in 11 carriers of a CYP2D6 gene duplication allele (ultrarapid metabolizer [UM]) and compared with 11 carriers of 2 active CYP2D6 genes (extensive metabolizer [EM]). Pharmacodynamics was measured by cold pressure test, pupillometry, and standardized adverse event recording. The maximum plasma concentrations of the active metabolite (+)R,R-O-desmethyltramadol were significantly higher in the UM group compared with the EM group (P = 0.005; t test) with a mean difference of 14 ng/mL (95% confidence limit of difference, 2-26 ng/mL). Median (+)R,R-tramadol area under the curve was 786 and 587 mug.h.L in EMs and UMs, and the corresponding median (+)R,R-O-desmethyltramadol area under the curve was 416 and 448 mug.h.L (P = 0.005, t test). There was an increased pain threshold and pain tolerance and a stronger miosis after tramadol in UMs compared with EMs. Almost 50% of the UM group experienced nausea compared with only 9% of the EM group. In conclusion, pharmacokinetic differences between EMs and UMs were smaller than expected; nevertheless, UMs were more sensitive to tramadol than EMs. Therefore, tramadol may frequently cause adverse effects in southern European and Northern African populations with a high proportion of UMs.
The aim of this study is to investigate the profile of ovine PrP gene by amino acid polymorphism at codons 136, 141, 154, and 171 for determining the genetic predisposition to the Scrapie disease for the tribal sheep and rams, with different numbers and distribution in Bulgaria. Three hundred twenty four animals originating from 41 tribal herds comprising eight breeds were included in the study. DNA was isolated from blood samples specifically amplified by PCR and sequenced. The alignments of codons 136, 141, 154, and 171 were determined. Based on the sequencing, it was established that Bulgarian breeds belong to the second and third risk groups, those with low and moderate risk of Scrapie disease. Establishment of 11 genotypes in Synthetic Population Bulgarian Milk breed reveals it to have the highest risk of the Scrapie disease; moreover, the conducting of the program will be more difficult in comparison with other investigated breeds. Evidence for the internal cross breeding is the presence of the five or six genotypes in the Copper-Red Shoumen, Replian, Karakachan, and Duben Bulgarian native breeds.
This multicentre, double-blind study compared (100 mg) sumatriptan administered orally with placebo in treating an acute attack of migraine; 238 patients were studied over a 48-h period. Four hours after treatment, 92 of the 142 evaluable sumatriptan patients (65%) showed significant reductions (P < 0.001) in headache severity, clinical disability and accompanying symptoms compared with 32 of the 80 evaluable placebo-treated patients (40%). The duration of attack prior to taking medication and the history of persistent migraine do not influence the observed difference between the two treatment regimens (sumatriptan and placebo), which remained statistically significant (P < 0.001) in both cases. The incidence of headache recurrence in patients who experienced relief 4 h after initial treatment was low, occurring in 16 (17%) and 4 (13%) of the sumatriptan- and placebo-treated patients, respectively. Only patients with a history of migraine attacks lasting longer than 24 h suffered headache recurrences, and these recurrences were not consistent with the International Headache Society definition of migraine. Treatment with sumatriptan was well tolerated.
Although the molecular determinants of Familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (FALS) are still largely unknown, previous studies have demonstrated that aggregation of Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutants may play a causative role in FALS. It has been proposed that this pathogenic process occurs via a multi-step pathway involving metal loss, dimer dissociation and assembly of misfolded apo-monomers. The G37R, one of the many SOD1 mutations known to be associated to FALS, is difficult to be reconciled with this model because it is located far from the metal sites and the monomer-monomer interface. Consequently, an inspection of all the steps involved in G37R SOD1 misfolding is expected to provide hints in the understanding of the molecular basis of the disease. To this aim, an array of different computational strategies--i.e. Thermodynamic Integration (TI), implicit solvent Constant Temperature Molecular Dynamics (CTMD) and Steered Molecular Dynamics (SMD)--have been applied on the G37R SOD1 mutant. A comparison with parallel studies carried out for the Wild Type (WT) SOD1 pointed out that the mutation decreases the affinity of the protein for the Cu(ii) ion. Implicit solvents MD simulations performed on the two apo proteins revealed that in the mutant SOD1 a novel, stable H-bond network involving Arg37, Lys91, Lys36 and Leu38 is created thus confirming a pivotal role of this region in driving the biophysical properties of the entire protein. Finally, the presence of energetic "traps" in the force vs. elongation curves of G37R SOD1 is an indicator of the existence of intermediate states along the unfolding pathway which may lead to abnormal conformers. Our results support a general theory suggesting that the two major hypotheses regarding mutant SOD1 toxicity, i.e. aberrant copper redox chemistry and SOD1 misfolding are causally linked. In fact it is shown that the G37R mutation, although located far away the active site, may induce subtle modification in SOD1 leading to the loosening of metal binding and to the formation of metastable intermediate states along the unfolding pathway.
Airway epithelial cells are exposed to environmental toxicants that result in airway injury. Naphthalene (NA) causes site-selective damage to Clara cells in mouse distal airways. N-terminally truncated recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor (DeltaN23-KGF) protects against acute lung injury. The present study investigated whether or not DeltaN23-KGF protects against NA-induced acute Clara cell damage by measuring airway responses specifically and in order to identify underlying molecular mechanisms. Mice were treated with DeltaN23-KGF or PBS 33 h prior to injection of 200 mg.kg body weight(-1) NA. Lung function was analysed by head-out body plethysmography. Distal airways isolated by microdissection were assessed for cell permeability using ethidium homodimer-1. Immunohistochemistry of Clara cell-specific protein in conjunction with a physical dissector was used to quantify Clara cell numbers. RNA was isolated from frozen airways in order to analyse gene expression using quantitative RT-PCR. DeltaN23-KGF prevented NA-induced airflow limitation and Clara cell permeability, and resulted in twice as many Clara cells compared with PBS pre-treatment. DeltaN23-KGF-pre-treated mice exhibited increased expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen mRNA. Cytochrome P(450) isoform 2F2, which converts NA into its toxic metabolite, was reduced by approximately 50%. The present results demonstrate that pre-treatment with N-terminally truncated recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor protects against naphthalene-induced injury. This suggests that N-terminally truncated recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor exerts its beneficial effect through a decrease in the expression of cytochrome P(450) isoform 2F2.
The purpose of this study was to examine the cytotoxicity and cardiotoxicity of the new doxorubicin derivative, 3'-deamino-3'-(2-methoxy-4-morpholinyl)-doxorubicin (FEC 23762). The concentration of FCE 23762 that resulted in a 50% reduction in colony formation of DU 145, COLO 320DM, A549 and A2780 human cancer cell lines ranged from 1.1 and 3.2 nmol/l and was 3-9 times as low as doxorubicin. In the isolated perfused rat hearts, doxorubicin 10(-5) mol/l induced a significant prolongation of S alpha T segment and Q-Fmax interval, and reduction in dF/dtmax and coronary flow while only FCE 23762 10(-5) mol/l induced a widening of QRS complex. Anaesthetised rats given a single intravenous (i.v.) dose of doxorubicin 10 mg/kg showed significant changes in both ECG (S alpha T segment and QRS complex enlargement) and haemodynamic parameters (increase in mean arterial blood pressure and reduction in systemic arterial dP/dtmax), while animals given FCE 23762 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) had a significant increase in QRS complex duration after the highest dose. In the chronic cardiotoxicity study animals receiving FCE 23762 (0.03 mg/kg i.v. once a week for 3 weeks) did not show any significant alteration of ECG and minor changes of cardiac histological picture; by contrast doxorubicin (3 mg/kg i.v. once a week for 3 weeks) induced a severe cardiomyopathy, characterised by progressive widening of S alpha T segment, increase in T wave and histological damage consisting of vacuolations and loss of myofibrils. These results indicate that FCE 23762 is more active in vitro than doxorubicin and markedly less cardiotoxic in vivo at the doses used in the present study.
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (PLS) is characterized by headache, clouding of sensorium, visual disturbances and seizures. It is associated to hypertension, renal disease or immunosuppressive therapy. We report three males, aged 9, 12 and 16 years and one female, aged 5 years wih PLS associated to immunosuppressive therapy. All had seizures and three had headache and clouding of sensorium. One case was associated to an hypertensive emergency, one to liver failure and one to high tacrolimus levels. Magnetic resonance imaging showed lesions in the white matter in two patients and in the gray matter in the other two. The lapse between the start of immunosuppressive treatment and neurological symptoms ranged from 4 days to 6 months. All received antiepileptic drugs and immunosuppressive therapy was changed or decreased, with complete clinical recovery.
We studied the effects of clomiphene therapy on seizure frequency in 12 women who had clinical and EEG features of complex partial seizures as well as menstrual disorders with reproductive endocrine abnormalities. Ten of the 12 women improved (p less than 0.05); all ten developed normal cycles. The two women who did not improve continued to have irregular prolonged cycles. Average monthly seizure frequency for the entire group declined by 87% (p less than 0.01). Both complex partial and secondary generalized seizures decreased. During the investigation, one unwanted pregnancy occurred, two women developed severe abdominal pain with ultrasound-documented ovarian cysts, and three experienced breast tenderness and pelvic cramps.
Studies have shown that intermittent sugar availability (12 h/day) produces signs of dependence in rats, including escalation of intake, mu-opioid and dopamine receptor changes, behavioral and neurochemical indices of withdrawal, and cross-sensitization with amphetamine. "Deprivation-effect" paradigms, whereby abstinence from a substance results in enhanced intake, are often used to measure "craving" for drugs of abuse, such as alcohol. The present study used operant conditioning to investigate consumption of sugar after abstinence in rats selected for glucose avidity. The experimental group was trained on a fixed ratio (FR-1) schedule for 25% glucose for 30 min/day for 28 days and also had glucose access in the home cages for an additional 11.5 h daily. The control group had only the 30-min/day access to glucose in the operant chambers. Then, both groups were deprived of glucose for 2 weeks. After this period of abstinence, animals were put back in the operant chambers. The experimental group responded significantly more than ever before, and significantly more than the control group. In conclusion, daily 12-h access to sugar, in the paradigm used, can result in an altered neural state that lasts throughout 2 weeks of abstinence, leading to enhanced intake. Together with previous results, this deprivation effect supports the theory that animals may become dependent on sugar under selected dietary circumstances.
The effects of piracetam on the amnesias induced by scopolamine, diazepam and electroconvulsive shock (ECS) were studied in a passive avoidance procedure in the mouse and compared with the interactions of piracetam with the major behavioral effects of these treatments, namely scopolamine-induced hyperactivity, diazepam-induced release of punished behavior (Four Plates Test) and ECS-induced convulsions. Amnesia was induced by injecting scopolamine or diazepam (1 mg/kg, IP) 30 minutes before or applying ECS immediately after the first session (S1) of the passive avoidance task. Piracetam was studied at 3 doses (512, 1024 and 2048 mg/kg) administered PO 60 minutes before S1. Retention was measured 24 hours later (S2) in the absence of any treatment. Piracetam dose-dependently attenuated the memory deficits induced by the three amnesic treatments but did not affect either scopolamine-induced hyperactivity, diazepam-induced release of punished behavior or ECS-induced convulsions. These results point to the specificity of piracetam's anti-amnesic activity and, in particular, suggest that piracetam can suppress the memory disturbances induced by diazepam without affecting diazepam's anxiolytic activity. The test battery employed would therefore seem highly suitable for evaluating the potential nootropic activity of novel compounds.
Hypotension after induction of general anesthesia is a common event. In the current investigation, we sought to identify the predictors of clinically significant hypotension after the induction of general anesthesia. Computerized anesthesia records of 4096 patients undergoing general anesthesia were queried for arterial blood pressure (BP), demographic information, preoperative drug history, and anesthetic induction regimen. The median BP was determined preinduction and for 0-5 and 5-10 min postinduction of anesthesia. Hypotension was defined as either: mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) decrease of >40% and MAP <70 mm Hg or MAP <60 mm Hg. Overall, 9% of patients experienced severe hypotension 0-10 min postinduction of general anesthesia. Hypotension was more prevalent in the second half of the 0-10 min interval after anesthetic induction (P < 0.001). In 2406 patients with retrievable outcome data, prolonged postoperative stay and/or death was more common in patients with versus those without postinduction hypotension (13.3% and 8.6%, respectively, multivariate P < 0.02). Statistically significant multivariate predictors of hypotension 0-10 min after anesthetic induction included: ASA III-V, baseline MAP <70 mm Hg, age > or =50 yr, the use of propofol for induction of anesthesia, and increasing induction dosage of fentanyl. Smaller doses of propofol, etomidate, and thiopental were not associated with less hypotension. To avoid severe hypotension, alternatives to propofol anesthetic induction (e.g., etomidate) should be considered in patients older than 50 yr of age with ASA physical status > or =3. We conclude that it is advisable to avoid propofol induction in patients who present with baseline MAP <70 mm Hg.
To report the discovery of a previously unknown form of optic atrophy associated with use of the anti-epileptic drug vigabatrin.
We conducted a retrospective analysis of digitally enhanced ocular fundus photographs, kinetic visual field maps and treatment parameters for 25 patients, who were selected to represent a large spectrum of visual field defects.
In all, 21 patients (84%) evidenced subtle, diffuse atrophy of the retinal nerve fibre layer, in a pattern accessible to scoring. Atrophy scores correlated with visual field remains and cumulative vigabatrin doses. A pathophysiological model is proposed that involves the lengths of intraocular (unmyelinated) retinal ganglion cell axons.
Optic atrophy attests to the irreversible nature of vigabatrin's visual toxicity. Ocular fundus imaging should prove useful for objectively monitoring vigabatrin-treated subjects for visual toxicity.
NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1) catalyzes the two- or four-electron reduction of numerous endogenous and environmental quinones (e.g., the vitamin E alpha-tocopherol quinone, menadione, benzene quinones). In laboratory animals treated with various environmental chemicals, inhibition of NQO1 metabolism has long been known to increase the risk of toxicity or cancer. Currently, there are 22 reported single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the NQO1 gene. Compared with the human consensus (reference, "wild-type") NQO1*1 allele coding for normal NQO1 enzyme and activity, the NQO1*2 allele encodes a nonsynonymous mutation (P187S) that has negligible NQO1 activity. The NQO1*2 allelic frequency ranges between 0.22 (Caucasian) and 0.45 (Asian) in various ethnic populations. A large epidemiologic investigation of a benzene-exposed population has shown that NQO1*2 homozygotes exhibit as much as a 7-fold greater risk of bone marrow toxicity, leading to diseases such as aplastic anemia and leukemia. The extent of the contribution of polymorphisms in other genes involved in the metabolism of benzene and related compounds-such as the P450 2E1 (CYP2E1), myeloperoxidase (MPO), glutathione-S-transferase (GSTM1, GSTT1), microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EPHX1), and other genes-should also be considered. However, it now seems clear that a lowered or absent NQO1 activity can increase one's risk of bone marrow toxicity, after environmental exposure to benzene and benzene-like compounds. In cancer patients, the NQO1*2 allele appears to be associated with increased risk of chemotherapy-related myeloid leukemia. Many other epidemiological studies, attempting to find an association between the NQO1 polymorphism and one or another human disease, have now begun to appear in the medical literature.
Nonionic radiographic contrast media (CM) is reported to be thrombogenic while performing diagnostic or interventional procedures. To avoid thrombosis, heparin is often added to the CM. Bivalirudin, used to replace heparin during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), is reported to be associated with reduced bleeding complications. We aimed to evaluate the impact of adding heparin to the CM during PCI in patients (pts) who underwent sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) implantation when bivalirudin was utilized as the sole antithrombotic agent.
A total of 664 pts with 756 lesions underwent standard PCI with SES for various coronary artery lesions. Pts were treated with either bivalirudin only (the bivalirudin group; 0.75 mg/kg bolus and 1.75 mg/kg/h infusion, n = 323 pts) or bivalirudin (same dose) plus low-dose heparin added to the CM (the heparin mix group; mean dose = 2101.8+/-882.5 U, n = 341 pts) during PCI. The periprocedural, in-hospital, and 30-day clinical outcomes were compared.
Baseline clinical and angiographic parameters were similar between both groups. Periprocedural, in-hospital, and 1-month clinical outcomes, including thrombotic complications, were similar between the two groups. There was no difference in the periprocedural thrombosis rate between the groups. In the heparin mix group, the overall incidence of hematoma was significantly higher (3.8% vs. 8.5%, P = .01), there was a trend toward higher rates of blood transfusion (2.6% vs. 6.6%, P = .06) and overall vascular complications (0.01% vs. 5.3%, P <.001), including pseudoaneurysm (PSA; 0.0% vs. 2.6%, P = .004), and pts who required surgical repair (0.3% vs. 1.8%, P = .07).
The routine addition of low-dose heparin to CM during contemporary PCI does not add any protection value and is associated with higher rates of bleeding and vascular complications.
Fundulus heteroclitus (Atlantic killifish) found at the Atlantic Wood Industries Superfund site on the Elizabeth River (ER) in Portsmouth, VA (USA), have been shown to be resistant to the teratogenic effects of creosote-contaminated sediments found at this highly contaminated site. Many of the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) found at the ER are known to activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and are thought to mediate their toxic effects through this pathway. Activation of the AHR results in the induction of several Phase I and II metabolic enzymes. It has been previously shown that the AHR of killifish from the ER are refractory to induction by AHR agonists. To more fully characterize this altered AHR response, we exposed embryos from the ER and from a reference site on King's Creek, VA (KC) to two PAHs, benzo[alpha]pyrene (BaP) and benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF), and to the dioxin-like compound (DLC), 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126). We compared their developmental and molecular responses by screening the embryos for CYP1A enzyme activity, cardiac deformities, and mRNA expression of CYP1A, CYP1B1, CYP1C1, and AHR2. Basal gene expression of both CYP1A and CYP1B1 was 40% higher in the KC control embryos compared to those from the ER, while AHR2 and CYP1C1 were not significantly different between the populations. Exposure of KC embryos to BaP, BkF, and PCB126 induced CYP1A activity and cardiac deformities. In contrast, CYP1A activity was induced in ER embryos only in response to BkF exposure, although this induction in ER embryos was significantly lower than that observed in KC fish at comparable concentrations. ER embryos did not develop cardiac deformities in response to any of the chemicals tested. CYP1A, CYP1B1 and CYP1C1 mRNA were all significantly induced in the KC embryos after exposure to BaP, BkF and PCB126. Exposure to BaP and BkF in ER embryos resulted in a significant induction of CYP1A mRNA, albeit significantly lower than observed in KC fish. Interestingly, BaP exposure resulted in induction of CYP1B1 at comparable levels in embryos from both populations. CYP1s were not induced in ER embryos in response to PCB126, nor was CYP1C1 for any treatment examined. Additionally, AHR2 was not significantly induced for any of the treatment groups. This study further characterizes the AHR response in killifish, and provides greater insight into the adapted ER phenotype. The ER adaptation involves the suppression of normal AHR-inducible gene expression for all three CYP1 genes, and therefore is likely an alteration in AHR signaling or control.
Tamoxifen has been found to be neuroprotective in both transient and permanent experimental ischemic stroke. However, it remains unknown whether this agent shows a similar beneficial effect after spinal cord injury (SCI), and what are its underlying mechanisms. In this study, we investigated the efficacy of tamoxifen treatment in attenuating SCI-induced pathology. Blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) permeability, tissue edema formation, microglial activation, neuronal cell death and myelin loss were determined in rats subjected to spinal cord contusion. The results showed that tamoxifen, administered at 30 min post-injury, significantly decreased interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) production induced by microglial activation, alleviated the amount of Evans blue leakage and edema formation. In addition, tamoxifen treatment clearly reduced the number of apoptotic neurons post-SCI. The myelin loss and the increase in production of myelin-associated axonal growth inhibitors were also found to be significantly attenuated at day 3 post-injury. Furthermore, rats treated with tamoxifen scored much higher on the locomotor rating scale after SCI than did vehicle-treated rats, suggesting improved functional outcome after SCI. Together, these results demonstrate that tamoxifen provides neuroprotective effects for treatment of SCI-related pathology and disability, and is therefore a potential neuroprotectant for human spinal cord injury therapy.
Women with epilepsy giving birth during 1973 to 1991 were identified by record linkage of Swedish health registries. Among 3,625 identified infants, 9 had spina bifida. A nested case-control study was performed, comparing drugs used in early pregnancy in the 9 cases and in 18 controls, matched for year of delivery, maternal age, and parity. Six of the spina bifida mothers had used carbamazepine and two had used valproic acid. Among the controls, 5 women used carbamazepine and one valproic acid. There is an apparent excess risk for spina bifida after use of either of these two drugs, but it is not statistically significant when the analysis is restricted to drug-using women. The findings support earlier reports in the literature of an association between carbamazepine and spina bifida.
We report here four patients with acute leukemia, who developed seizure or tremor following treatment with imipenem, a new broad-spectrum antibiotic. All four patients had no renal dysfunction and recovered after discontinuation of the drug. Two patients who developed seizure had a past history of cerebral hemorrhage with symptoms of meningitis in one and the other had received frequent intrathecal injections of methotrexate. Seizure also occurred in another patient who was given multiple intrathecal injections of methotrexate. The remaining old patient developed tremor after the first administration of imipenem which did not progress to convulsion. Cerebral hemorrhage or meningitis is known to predispose patients for convulsion following imipenem treatment. In addition, the present study suggests that central nervous system damage related with intrathecal injections of methotrexate may be a predisposing factor. Thus, imipenem should be given with caution to acute leukemia patients who often have risk factors for developing imipenem-related complications.
In inbred CDF (Fischer 344) male rats autopsied at the age of 18-24 months, testicular tumors were present in 24 of 36 control animals but in none of 28 males rendered hyperprolactinemic by transplantation of anterior pituitaries from adult females under the renal capsules. In another experiment, microscopically detectable Leydig cell adenomas were present in each of 11 control animals at the age of 14.5 months but in none of 11 males in which hyperprolactinemia was induced by treatment with diethylstilbestrol. Development of testicular tumors had initially little effect on basal and hCG-stimulated plasma testosterone and androstenedione levels but eventually led to atrophy of the seminal vesicles. Incubated tumor tissue produced large quantities of progesterone and responded to hCG in vitro by an increase in progesterone but not testosterone secretion. Daily sperm production and epididymal sperm reserves were significantly reduced already during early stages of Leydig cell tumor development. We propose that hyperprolactin prevents development of Leydig cell tumors by suppression of plasma LH levels and suggest that age-related reductions in gametogenic and steroidogenic functions of the testes in Fischer rats are due to development of Leydig cell tumors rather than to aging per se.
