The hemodynamic and antiadrenergic effects of dronedarone, a noniodinated compound structurally related to amiodarone, were compared with those of amiodarone after prolonged oral administration, both at rest and during sympathetic stimulation in conscious dogs with a healed myocardial infarction. All dogs (n = 6) randomly received orally dronedarone (10 and 30 mg/kg), amiodarone (10 and 30 mg/kg), and placebo twice daily for 7 days, with a 3-week washout between consecutive treatments. Heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MBP), positive rate of increase of left ventricular pressure (+LVdP/dt), echocardiographically assessed left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and fractional shortening (FS), as well as chronotropic response to isoproterenol and exercise-induced sympathetic stimulation were evaluated under baseline and posttreatment conditions. Resting values of LVEF, FS, +LVdP/dt, and MBP remained unchanged whatever the drug and the dosing regimen, whereas resting HR was significantly and dose-dependently lowered after dronedarone and to a lesser extent after amiodarone. Both dronedarone and amiodarone significantly reduced the exercise-induced tachycardia and, at the highest dose, decreased the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia. Thus, dronedarone and amiodarone displayed a similar level of antiadrenergic effect and did not impair the resting left ventricular function. Consequently, dronedarone might be particularly suitable for the treatment and prevention of various clinical arrhythmias, without compromising the left ventricular function.
Conazoles are fungicides used to control fungal growth in environmental settings and to treat humans with fungal infections. Mouse hepatotumorigenic conazoles display many of the same hepatic toxicologic responses as the mouse liver carcinogen phenobarbital (PB): constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) activation, hypertrophy, Cyp2b induction, and increased cell proliferation. The goal of this study was to apply transcriptional analyses to hepatic tissues from mice exposed to PB, propiconazole (Pro) or triadimefon (Tri) at tumorigenic exposure levels to reveal similarities and differences in response among these treatments. Mice were administered diets containing PB (850 ppm), Pro (2500 ppm), or Tri (1800 ppm) for 4 and 30 days. Targeted transcriptomic analyses were conducted at the gene level examining differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and subsets of DEGs: cell cycle genes, and transcription factors. Analyses were also conducted on function, pathway and network levels examining Ingenuity Pathway Analysis Tox Lists and Canonical Pathways, and Gene-Go MetaCore dynamic networks and their central hubs. Genes expressed by PB or the two conazoles were also compared with those genes associated with human hepatocellular cancer. The results from these analyses indicated greater differences between PB and the two conazoles than similarities. Significant commonalities between the two conazole treatments were also noted. We posit that the transcriptional profiles of tissues exposed to toxic chemicals inherently contain their mechanisms of toxicity. We conclude that although PB and these 2 conazoles induce mouse liver tumors and exhibit similar toxicological responses, their transcriptional profiles are significantly different and thus their mechanisms of tumorigenic action are likely to differ.
The neuroplasticity hypothesis of bipolar disorder indicates that the BDNF/Trk signaling pathway is associated with the pathogenesis of this illness and treatment with mood stabilizers, such as lithium. This paper describes a relationship between response to lithium prophylaxis and polymorphisms of two functionally connected genes: BDNF and NTRK2, in bipolar illness. Analyses of four SNPs of the BDNF gene (rs2030324, rs988748, rs6265 [Val66Met]and rs2203877) and three of the NTRK2 gene (rs1187326, rs2289656, rs1187327) were performed in the 108 bipolar patients, classified as excellent responders (23%), partial responders (51%) and nonresponders (26%) to lithium. An association of C/G (rs988748) and G/A (rs6265) polymorphisms of the BDNF gene with a degree of prophylactic lithium response were found. No association with lithium response was revealed with the polymorphism of NTRK2 gene, neither with interaction of BDNF and NTRK2 genes.
Little is known regarding the involvement of the ventral pallidum (VP) in cocaine-seeking behavior, in contrast with considerable documentation of the involvement of its major afferent, the nucleus accumbens, over the past thirty years utilizing electrophysiology, lesion, inactivation, molecular, imaging, and other approaches. The VP is neuroanatomically positioned to integrate signals projected from the nucleus accumbens, basolateral amygdala, and ventral tegmental area. In turn, VP projects to thalamoprefrontal, subthalamic, and mesencephalic dopamine regions having widespread influence across mesolimbic, mesocortical, and nigrostriatal systems. Prior lesion studies have implicated VP in cocaine-seeking behavior, but the electrophysiological mechanisms underlying this behavior in the VP have not been investigated. In the present investigation, following 2 weeks of training over which animals increased drug intake, VP phasic activity comprised rapid-phasic increases or decreases in firing rate during the seconds prior to and/or following cocaine-reinforced responses, similar to those found in accumbens. As a population, the direction (increasing or decreasing) and magnitude of firing rate changes were normally distributed suggesting that ventral striatopallidal processing is heterogeneous. Since changes in firing rate around the cocaine-reinforced lever press occurred in animals that escalated drug intake prior to neuronal recordings, a marker of "addiction-like behavior" in the rat, the present experiment provides novel support for a role of VP in drug-seeking behavior. This is especially important given that pallidothalamic and pallidomesencephalic VP projections are positioned to alter dopaminoceptive targets such as the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and dorsal striatum, all of which have roles in cocaine self-administration.
L-DOPA remains the gold-standard treatment for Parkinson's disease but causes motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. Metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) has been proposed as a target for antidyskinetic therapies. Here, we evaluate the effects of fenobam, a noncompetitive mGluR5 antagonist already tested in humans, using rodent and nonhuman primate models of Parkinson's disease. In both animal models, acute administration of fenobam attenuated the L-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements (50-70% reduction at the doses of 30mg/kg in rats and 10mg/kg in monkeys). The effect consisted in a reduction of peak-dose dyskinesia, whereas the end-dose phase was not affected. Chronic administration of fenobam to previously drug-naïve animals (de novo treatment) attenuated the development of peak-dose dyskinesia without compromising the anti-parkinsonian effect of L-DOPA. In addition, fenobam prolonged the motor stimulant effect of L-DOPA. We conclude that fenobam acts similarly in rat and primate models of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and represents a good candidate for antidyskinetic treatment in Parkinson's disease.
Abnormal dopamine (DA) transmission in the striatum plays a pivotal role in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). As striatal DA signalling modulates the endocannabinoid system (ECS), the present study was aimed at investigating cannabinoid CB1 receptor (CB1R) function in a model of ADHD obtained by triple point-mutation in the dopamine transporter (DAT) gene in mice, making them insensitive to cocaine [DAT cocaine-insensitive (DAT-CI) mice]. DAT-CI mice had a marked hyperactive phenotype, and neurophysiological recordings revealed that the sensitivity of CB1Rs controlling GABA-mediated synaptic currents [CB1Rs((GABA)) ] in the striatum was completely lost. In contrast, CB1Rs modulating glutamate transmission [CB1Rs((Glu)) ], and GABA(B) receptors were not affected in this model of ADHD. In DAT-CI mice, the blockade of CB1R((GABA)) function was complete even after cocaine or environmental manipulations activating the endogenous DA-dependent reward system, which are known to sensitize these receptors in control animals. Conversely, the hedonic property of sucrose was intact in DAT-CI mice, indicating normal sweet perception in these animals. Our results point to CB1Rs as novel molecular players in ADHD, and suggest that therapeutic strategies aimed at interfering with the ECS might prove effective in this disorder.
The current basal ganglia model considers the internal division of the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata as the sole sources of basal ganglia output to the thalamus. However, following the delivery of retrograde tracers into the ventral anterior/ventral lateral thalamic nuclei, a moderate number of labeled neurons were found within the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in control cases, MPTP-treated monkeys and animals with levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Furthermore, dual tracing experiments showed that subthalamo-thalamic and subthalamo-pallidal projections arise from different subpopulations of STN efferent neurons. Moreover, upregulated expression of the mRNA coding the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (vGlut2) was found in retrogradely-labeled STN neurons in MPTP-treated monkeys. By contrast, there is a reduction in vGlut2 mRNA expression in subthalamo-thalamic neurons in dyskinetic monkeys. In conclusion, our findings support the presence of a direct projection from the STN to the ventral thalamus that appears to be functionally modulated by dopaminergic activity.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is the third leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide; current chemotherapeutic interventions for this disease are largely ineffective. The retinoblastoma tumor suppressor (RB) is functionally inactivated at relatively high frequency in hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatoma cell lines. Here, we analyzed the ability of CDK4/6 inhibition to inhibit hepatocyte proliferation and the effect of RB status on this process.
Hepatoma cell lines and xenograft models harboring RB knockdown and mice harboring liver-specific Rb deletion were used to define the role of RB function in response to CDK4/6 inhibition.
Our study shows that CDK4/6-dependent cell cycle progression in hepatoma cells was readily arrested by inhibition of CDK4/6 by PD-0332991 or p16ink4a irrespective of RB status. Interestingly, upon CDK4/6 inhibition, p107 protein stability was dramatically increased as a function of RB loss. This engagement of compensatory mechanisms was critical for cell cycle inhibition in the absence of RB, because both the E1A oncoprotein and overexpression of E2F proteins were capable of overcoming the effect of CDK4/6 inhibition. These findings were recapitulated in xenograft models. Furthermore, to determine how these findings relate to hepatocyte proliferation in vivo, mice were exposed to carbon tetrachloride to induce liver regeneration followed by treatment with PD-0332991. This treatment significantly inhibited hepatocyte proliferation. Strikingly, this facet of PD-0332991 function was retained even in RB-deficient livers.
These data show that CDK4/6 inhibition is a potent mediator of cytostasis and that RB loss can be readily compensated for in the context of both hepatoma cell lines and liver tissue.
The homeobox gene HEX is expressed in several cell types during different phases of animal development. It encodes for a protein localized in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. During early mouse development, HEX is expressed in the primitive endoderm of blastocyst. Later, HEX is expressed in developing thyroid, liver, lung, as well as in haematopoietic progenitors and endothelial cells. Absence of nuclear expression has been observed during neoplastic transformation of the thyroid follicular cells. Aim of the present study was to evaluate the localization and the function of the protein HEX in normal and tumoral breast tissues and in breast cancer cell lines.
HEX expression and nuclear localization were investigated by immunohistochemistry in normal and cancerous breast tissue, as well as in breast cancer cell lines. HEX mRNA levels were evaluated by real-time PCR. Effects of HEX expression on Sodium Iodide Symporter (NIS) gene promoter activity was investigated by HeLa cell transfection.
In normal breast HEX was detected both in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm. In both ductal and lobular breast carcinomas, a great reduction of nuclear HEX was observed. In several cells from normal breast tissue as well as in MCF-7 and T47D cell line, HEX was observed in the nucleolus. MCF-7 treatment with all-trans retinoic acid enhanced HEX expression and induced a diffuse nuclear localization. Enhanced HEX expression and diffuse nuclear localization were also obtained when MCF-7 cells were treated with inhibitors of histone deacetylases such as sodium butyrate and trichostatin A. With respect to normal non-lactating breast, the amount of nuclear HEX was greatly increased in lactating tissue. Transfection experiments demonstrated that HEX is able to up-regulate the activity of NIS promoter.
Our data indicate that localization of HEX is regulated in epithelial breast cells. Since modification of localization occurs during lactation and tumorigenesis, we suggest that HEX may play a role in differentiation of the epithelial breast cell.
Chronic, Infantile, Neurological, Cutaneous and Articular Syndrome (CINCA) or Neonatal/Infantile Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID/IOMID) is a rare, multisystem inflammatory disease characterised by neonatal onset of urticarial symptoms, persistent rash, ocular inflammatory lesions, progressive articular and neurological involvement and associated with characteristic overgrowth of the ossification nucleus of the patella. The tissues involved are extensively infiltrated by inflammatory cells, mostly neutrophils. This paper describes the clinical features of three new cases as well as a study of activation markers in neutrophils and search for mutations of the CIAS1gene in these patients. Clinical records of three cases of CINCA are reported. For genetic analysis, exon 3 of the CIAS1gene was amplified and sequenced. Immunophenotype, oxidative burst and phagocytosis were analysed in neutrophils obtained from all the three CINCA patients as well as from eight juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) patients and eight healthy controls. Functional assays in neutrophils were normal in all three patients with CINCA syndrome and did not differ from those of JIA patients and healthy controls. The surface density of CD10 was significantly higher on neutrophils from CINCA patients as compared to those of JIA and controls (P<0.0005). In one subject a new missense mutation in the CIAS1gene was identified.
the hyper expression of the activation antigen CD10/NEP in neutrophils from these three cases of CINCA, as compared to JIA patients and healthy controls, irrespective of the presence of mutations in CIAS1, could be a marker of the inflammatory disorder typical of some patients with CINCA syndrome.
Two experiments were conducted to determine the effect of tamoxifen (TAM) in mouse endometrium in comparison with that of 17beta-estradiol (E2). In a medium-term assay, TAM as well as E2 treatment semi-dose-dependently increased the levels of fos/jun mRNA and their oncoproteins (Fos/Jun). The long-term effect of TAM on mouse endometrial carcinogenesis was also examined in the following model. A total of 150 female ICR mice, 12-13 weeks of age, were used. Of these, 125 mice received an injection of N-methyl-N-nitosourea (MNU) solution (1 mg/100 g body weight) into their left uterine tube and saline into the right. One week later, they were divided into four groups: groups 1 (35 mice) and 2 (30 mice) were given 25 ppm and ppm E2-containing diet, respectively, while group 3 (30 mice) was fed 5 ppm TAM-containing diet. Group 5 (30 mice) was fed basal diet alone. The remaining 25 mice (group 4) received 5 ppm TAM-containing diet alone. At the termination of the experiment (30 weeks), endometrial carcinomas were confirmed to be present in the groups exposed to MNU. TAM increased the incidence of preneoplastic lesions of the endometrium, while E2 enhanced the occurrence of the carcinoma. No carcinomas were found in the group given TAM alone. In the ovaries, corpora lutea were lacking in most of the mice exposed to TAM, suggesting that the animals were not cycling. Such findings indicated that TAM has an enhancing effect on endometrial carcinogenesis in mice, probably via a mechanism involving overexpression of Fos/Jun proteins.
Paroxetine is a phenylpiperidine compound which is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). Ninety-one hospitalised patients with a major depression (DSM-III) aged 65 and over from six Austrian and one German center were entered into the study, which compared the efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine versus amitriptyline. After 6 weeks both groups showed similarly good therapeutic results. In the paroxetine group, 64.3% of the patients had a 50% or more reduction of the HAMD total score compared to 58.1% in the amitriptyline group. Side effects were distributed similarly in both groups. Patients in the paroxetine group showed a higher incidence of anxiety and agitation; anticholinergic side effects were registered more often in the amitriptyline group.
In a patient with recurrent episodes of severe mania, classical manifestations of myasthenia gravis developed for the first time during treatment with lithium carbonate. Four episodes were recorded in which the appearance of progressive weakness coincided with subacute or long-term lithium carbonate administration during periods of psychiatric remission. In each instance, neurologic symptoms were ameliorated or disappeared shortly after the drug was discontinued or its dosage was reduced. There was no evidence of lithium carbonate toxicity or electrolyte disturbances at any time during treatment. Based on a literature review of animal studies and related clinical reports, a mechanism of peripherally mediated neuromuscular cholinergic insufficiency is proposed. In addition, the differential diagnosis of muscle weakness during lithium carbonate administration is discussed.
A 32-year-old female with early stage of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) developed anorexia, pruritus, dark urine, pale stool and jaundice 3 weeks after initiation of chrysotherapy. She was administered a total of 35mg of gold sodium thiomalate (GST) intramuscularly and auranofin 6mg per day orally. Liver function tests and biopsy specimens showed severe cholestatic jaundice. Prednisolone 30mg per day and plasma exchange were started. No response however was obtained and the total bilirubin level gradually increased. Steroid pulse therapy, 1000mg methylprednisolone for successive 3 days as one therapy unit, was repeated 4 times. Liver functions were then gradually improved. Gold induced hepatotoxicity is a rare complication. We concluded that the hepatotoxicity in this case was caused by allergic reaction against GST and repeated steroid pulse therapy was very effective to these conditions.
Maternal intake of flavonoids, known for their antioxidant properties, may affect the offspring's susceptibility to developing chronic diseases at adult age, especially those related to oxidative stress, via developmental programming. Therefore, we supplemented female mice with the flavonoids genistein and quercetin during gestation, to study their effect on the antioxidant capacity of lung and liver of adult offspring. Maternal intake of quercetin increased the expression of Nrf2 and Sod2 in fetal liver at gestational day 14.5. At adult age, in utero exposure to both flavonoids resulted in the increased expression of several enzymatic antioxidant genes, which was more pronounced in the liver than in the adult lung. Moreover, prenatal genistein exposure induced the nonenzymatic antioxidant capacity in the adult lung, partly by increasing glutathione levels. Prenatal exposure to both flavonoids resulted in significantly lower levels of oxidative stress-induced DNA damage in liver only. Our observations lead to the hypothesis that a preemptive trigger of the antioxidant defense system in utero had a persistent effect on antioxidant capacity and as a result decreased oxidative stress-induced DNA damage in the liver.
The efficiency and side effects of a single dose of intracorporeally applied prostaglandin E1 (20 mcg.) in inducing penile erection were examined. In addition, the effect of this dose of prostaglandin E1 was compared to the effect of 7.5 mg. papaverine plus 0.25 mg. phentolamine in a double-blind, crossover designed study. We tested twice 12 men 52.9 +/- 7.6 years old (mean +/- standard deviation) with erectile dysfunction. On 1 occasion the subjects received 20 mcg. prostaglandin E1 and on the other they received 7.5 mg. papaverine and 0.25 mg. phentolamine. At this dosage prostaglandin E1 was most effective in inducing artificial penile erection (11 of 12 patients). However, 75 per cent of the subjects reported burning sensations during the entire period of erection and in 1 prostaglandin E1 treatment resulted in a sustained erection. At the doses used, prostaglandin E1 was more effective in inducing penile erection than papaverine plus phentolamine (11 versus 6 patients). Intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 is a potent tool for artificial penile erection and warrants precise examination for its potential clinical use.
In a patient with ischaemic heart disease chronic atrial flutter reverted to sinus rhythm during treatment with oral Verapamil, given at dosage of 240 mg once a day in order to prevent spontaneous angina. Such an unexpected event was accompanied by a remarkable sinus node depression and by a transient complete a-v block, that gradually subsides leaving a slight permanent a-v conduction delay. Either a higher bioavailability of the drug or an extremely increased sensitivity of the receptors can explain such a marked electrophysiological effect at a moderate drug dosage.
S-Adenosyl-L-methionine has been shown to cause Parkinson's disease-like effects that include hypokinesia, tremor, rigidity, and abnormal posture. S-Adenosyl-L-methionine is the rate-limiting endogenous methyl donor. Its biochemical role, which includes the metabolism of dopamine and the synthesis of acetylcholine, also resembles the changes that occur in Parkinson's disease. Therefore, S-adenosyl-L-methionine may play a role in Parkinson's disease-like motor impairments. In this study we manipulated the levels of S-adenosyl-L-methionine in the brain of rats and quantified the changes in hypokinetic type motor activity that seems to occur also in Parkinsonism. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with chloral hydrate (400 mg/kg/rat), cannulated, injected into the lateral ventricle with S-adenosyl-L-methionine or saline, and their motor activity was measured in a Digiscan Animal Activity Monitor. Other behaviors were also observed. S-Adenosyl-L-methionine caused hypokinesia, tremor, rigidity, and abnormal posture in rats. Motor activity was significantly decreased within 2 min postinjection. The hypokinesia was maximal at 60 min, at which time a 65, 75, and 90% decrease for total distance, number of movements, and the ratio of total distance to the number of movements occurred, respectively. The hypokinetic effect of S-adenosyl-L-methionine was dose dependent. A 65.0 and 51.3% decrease in total distance and number of movements, respectively, were observed following 9.38 x 10(-9) mol. The 5.0 x 10(-8) mol caused a reduction of 73.42 and 57.66% and 4.0 x 10(-7) mol/rat caused a 94.9 and 78.43% decrease, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To observe the dynamic expression of GDNF and their receptors in the brain of rats after status epilepticus(SE).
The lithium-pilocarpine-induced rat SE model was used. The expression patterns of GNDF, GDNFR alpha and Ret were observed dynamically with immunohisto-chemical technique, and the extent of neuron damage was assessed by HE stain.
(1) GDNF positive cells began to appear 2 hours after SE and reached the peak in 1 and 3 days, then decreased to the normal level; (2) GDNFR alpha positive cells in the cortex increased rapidly to the peak 2 hours after SE, and only few such cells were found in hippocampus; (3) Ret positive cells were found both in the cortex and hippocampus, with the maximum of expressions 6-8 hours after SE; (4) There were some connection between GDNF expression levels and extent of neurons damage.
There exist time-dependent upregulations of GDNF, GDNFR alpha and Ret protein in the cortex and hippocampus of rats after SE. GDNF and their receptors involve in the response to neuron damage after SE, which might have the protective effect of neurons.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the influence of amiodarone on neurochemical parameters of sympathetic nervous activity in patients with congestive heart failure.
Unlike most antiarrhythmic agents, amiodarone has been shown to exert a beneficial effect on survival in some studies of patients with congestive heart failure. The pharmacology of this agent is complex, and as such, the mode of its action is unclear in humans. Some experimental studies suggest that amiodarone exerts a sympatholytic effect.
To evaluate the effect of amiodarone on sympathetic nervous activity, we measured the total systemic and cardiac norepinephrine (NE) spillover rate by isotope dilution in 58 patients with severe heart failure (left ventricular ejection fraction 20 +/- 1%), 22 of whom were receiving chronic amiodarone treatment. Release rates for dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA, a precursor of NE), and endogenous and radiolabeled dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG and 3H-DHPG, intraneuronal metabolites of NE and 3H-NE, respectively) were also determined to assess sympathetic neuronal integrity.
Amiodarone-treated patients had significantly lower cardiac spillover rates for NE (42%, p = 0.001), DOPA (74%, p < 0.001), DHPG (44%, p < 0.01) and 3H-DHPG (51%, p < 0.01) than those patients not treated with amiodarone. Hemodynamic assessment of amiodarone-treated patients revealed higher cardiac output (4.4 +/- 0.2 vs. 3.7 +/- 0.2 liters/min, p < 0.01), and slightly lower pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (18 +/- 2 vs. 22 +/- 1, p = NS) than in untreated patients. After correction for the potential confounding effect of hemodynamic differences, amiodarone-treated patients continued to demonstrate significantly lower spillover rates of NE, DOPA and DHPG from the heart.
These data indicate that amiodarone may exert beneficial effects on the failing human heart through a sympatholytic process, and this action appears to be relatively cardioselective.
We previously reported that ranitidine, an H(2) receptor antagonist, inhibited neutrophil activation in vitro and in vivo, contributing to reduce stress-induced gastric mucosal injury in rats. In this study, we examined whether ranitidine would reduce ischemia/reperfusion-induced liver injury, in which activated neutrophils are critically involved, in rats. We also examined the effect of famotidine, another H(2) receptor antagonist, on leukocyte activation in vitro and after ischemia/reperfusion-induced liver injury in rats to know whether inhibition of neutrophil activation by ranitidine might be dependent on its blockade of H(2) receptors. Ranitidine inhibited the activation of neutrophils in vitro as reported previously, whereas famotidine significantly enhanced it. Ranitidine inhibited the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in monocytes stimulated with lipopolysaccharide in vitro, whereas famotidine did not. Although hepatic ischemia/reperfusion-induced increases in hepatic tissue levels of TNF-alpha, cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant, and hepatic accumulation of neutrophils were inhibited by intravenously administered 30 mg/kg ranitidine, these increases were significantly enhanced by 5 mg/kg i.v. famotidine. The decreases in both hepatic tissue blood flow and bile secretion and the increases in serum levels of transaminases seen after reperfusion were significantly inhibited by ranitidine, whereas these changes were more marked in animals given famotidine than in controls. These observations strongly suggested that ranitidine could reduce ischemia/reperfusion-induced liver injury by inhibiting neutrophil activation directly, or indirectly by inhibiting the production of TNF-alpha, which is a potent activator of neutrophils. Furthermore, the therapeutic efficacy of ranitidine might not be explained solely by its blockade of H(2) receptor.
In 20 patients with open-angle glaucoma in aphakia or pseudophakia whose intraocular pressure had remained uncontrolled on their current medical therapy, the medication was changed from pilocarpine or carbachol to echothiophate iodide. In all, 12 patients (60%) showed a statistically significant improvement in pressure control, 7 (35%) showed no change, and 1 had higher pressure. One-third of the patients with improved intraocular-pressure control eventually required laser or incisional surgery after a mean of 23 months, whereas the remaining subjects were controlled for the duration of the follow-up, which averaged 26 months. Side effects encountered during echothiophate iodide treatment included ocular irritation, decreased vision, and one retinal detachment.
Scopolamine is highly effective for the treatment of seasickness. Nevertheless, transdermal therapeutic system (TTS) scopolamine, despite high compliance on the part of persons treated by the drug, fails to provide protection against seasickness in 26-38% of patients. To the best of our knowledge, the correlation between scopolamine levels in plasma and its therapeutic effect under sailing conditions in the open sea is investigated for the first time in the present study.
Subjects were 61 crewmembers of naval vessels treated by TTS scopolamine. The therapeutic response at sea was documented by questionnaire. During a period ashore, a TTS scopolamine patch was applied in the same subjects. Blood samples were taken and an adverse effects questionnaire completed 8 h after scopolamine patch application. Scopolamine levels were determined using an established radio-receptor assay procedure. To verify the reproducibility of these measurements, blood samples were taken twice from most subjects, on separate days after different patch applications. Subjects were divided into "responders," who reported at least a moderate decrease in seasickness severity compared with their previous experience at sea without TTS scopolamine therapy, and "non-responders," who had only slight symptomatic relief or no relief at all.
The mean scopolamine concentration in the plasma of the 37 responders (156.77 +/- 77.03 pg x ml(-1)) was significantly higher than the mean level in the 24 non-responders (97.03 +/- 73.34 pg x ml(-1); p = 0.005, simple t-test).
Attempts to increase scopolamine levels in plasma by increasing the drug dosage or improving transdermal absorption should be considered for the treatment of "non-responders".
We sought to investigate the possible pathogenetic role of myocardial trace elements (TE) in patients with various forms of cardiac failure.
Both myocardial TE accumulation and deficiency have been associated with the development of heart failure indistinguishable from an idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
Myocardial and muscular content of 32 TE has been assessed in biopsy samples of 13 patients (pts) with clinical, hemodynamic and histologic diagnosis of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDCM), all without past or current exposure to TE. One muscular and one left ventricular (LV) endomyocardial specimen from each patient, drawn with metal contamination-free technique, were analyzed by neutron activation analysis and compared with 1) similar surgical samples from patients with valvular (12 pts) and ischemic (13 pts) heart disease comparable for age and degree of LV dysfunction; 2) papillary and skeletal muscle surgical biopsies from 10 pts with mitral stenosis and normal LV function, and 3) LV endomyocardial biopsies from four normal subjects.
A large increase (>10,000 times for mercury and antimony) of TE concentration has been observed in myocardial but not in muscular samples in all pts with IDCM. Patients with secondary cardiac dysfunction had mild increase (< or = 5 times) of myocardial TE and normal muscular TE. In particular, in pts with IDCM mean mercury concentration was 22,000 times (178,400 ng/g vs. 8 ng/g), antimony 12,000 times (19,260 ng/g vs. 1.5 ng/g), gold 11 times (26 ng/g vs. 2.3 ng/g), chromium 13 times (2,300 ng/g vs. 177 ng/g) and cobalt 4 times (86,5 ng/g vs. 20 ng/g) higher than in control subjects.
A large, significant increase of myocardial TE is present in IDCM but not in secondary cardiac dysfunction. The increased concentration of TE in pts with IDCM may adversely affect mitochondrial activity and myocardial metabolism and worsen cellular function.
Intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) is a critical and triggering event in the development of distal organ dysfunction, frequently involving the lungs. Respiratory failure is a common cause of death and complications after intestinal I/R. In this study we investigated the effects of edaravone (3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazoline-5-one) on the prevention of lung injury induced by intestinal I/R in rats. Edaravone has been used for protection against I/R injury in patients with cerebral infarction. When rats were subjected to 180 min of intestinal ischemia, a high incidence of mortality was observed within 24 h. In this situation, intravenous administration of edaravone just before the start of reperfusion reduced the mortality in a dose-dependent manner. To examine the efficacy of edaravone on the lung injury induced by intestinal I/R in more detail, we performed 120 min of intestinal ischemia followed by 120 min of reperfusion. Edaravone treatment decreased the neutrophil infiltration, the lipid membrane peroxidation, and the expression of proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 mRNA in the lungs after intestinal I/R compared to the I/R-treated rat lungs without edaravone treatment. Histopathological analysis also indicated the effectiveness of edaravone. In conclusion, edaravone ameliorated the lung injury induced by intestinal I/R, resulting in a reduction in mortality.
The effect of rosiglitazone as the ligand of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) inhibiting the TLR4 expression in ischemic lobes in partial hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) in BALB/C mice and the action of rosiglitazone inhibiting the TLR4 receptor-mediated inherent immune response were investigated. The model of the mouse partial hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury was established. All the animals were randomly divided into 3 groups: rosiglitazone group, vehicle (dimethylsulphoxide, DMSO) group and sham operation group. The hepatic samples were collected when mice were sacrificed 0, 2, 4 and 6 h after reperfusion following 1 h ischemia to analyze the acute phase of hepatic IRI. The dynamic expression of TIR4 mRNA was detected quantitatively by real-time-PCR, and the levels of TNF-alpha, IL-10 and ALT in portal vein were determined in all groups. After restoration of blood supply, the expression of TLR4 mRNA in ischemic lobes was detected in 0, 2, 4 and 6 h after reperfusion following 1 h ischemia in rosiglitazone group and vehicle group. The most intensive expression of TLR4 mRNA was present at 4 h after reperfusion in ischemic lobes in vehicle group. As compared with vehicle group, the expression of TLR4 mRNA in ischemic lobes in rosiglitazone group was significantly decreased at 4 h after reperfusion. The level of IL-10 in portal vein was markedly up-regulated in rosiglitazone group as compared with vehicle group. Contrarily, the levels of TNF-alpha and ALT in portal vein were markedly down-regulated in rosiglitazone group as compared with vehicle group at every time point in mouse partial hepatic IRI model. Rosiglitazone could alleviate the hepatic IRI by inhibiting TLR4 receptor-mediated inherent immune response.
