Uterine leiomyomas are the most common tumors in the human female pelvis and the leading indication for pelvic surgery. The molecular causes of the disease remain unknown.
Using an oligonucleotide microarray-based hybridization analysis, we observed that a Wnt family member transcript, Wnt5b, was overexpressed in smooth muscle cells (SMC) derived from leiomyomas when compared with matched myometrial cells. Based on this finding and on previous observations, we have hypothesized that altered expression of specific Wnt family members might be involved in leiomyoma formation and/or growth.
The expression patterns of two members of the Wnt pathway, Wnt5b and secreted frizzled related protein (sFRP)1, were evaluated in myometrial SMC (n = 22) and in leiomyoma cells (n = 27) by real-time quantitative PCR. In addition, regulation of expression of the two molecules was examined.
Compared with myometrial SMC, cells derived from leiomyomas had significantly higher levels of both Wnt5b and sFRP1 transcripts. When the data were analyzed as a function of the phase of the menstrual cycle, no significant difference in sFRP1 mRNA levels could be detected, whereas levels of Wnt5b transcript were significantly higher in the secretory phase in myometrial cells. Treatment with 9-cis retinoic acid significantly inhibited Wnt5b expression in myometrial SMC but not in their leiomyoma counterparts.
Specific Wnt signaling genes are overexpressed in leiomyoma cells. Moreover, in these cells, the regulation of Wnt5b expression by retinoids appears to be attenuated.
In contrast to cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1), the basal expression of renal cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) varies among species. High basal levels of COX-2 in the renal cortex and papilla in dogs compared with monkeys suggest that COX-2 inhibition may lead to distinct nephrotoxic responses. In this study, we compared the renal effects of COX inhibition between dogs and cynomolgus monkeys (n = 6/group) following the administration of naproxen sodium, a non-selective COX-1/COX-2 inhibitor. Dogs and monkeys were treated with 50 or 150 mg/kg/day naproxen sodium, respectively, for 2 to 6 weeks. Naproxen doses used in this study resulted in equivalent inhibition of COX activity in both species as measured by reductions in urinary prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and 6-keto-PGF1-alpha levels. There was prominent reduction in renal blood flow (43%) and urinary sodium excretion (62%) in dogs but no alterations in renal blood flow and only minimal change (19%) in urinary sodium excretion in monkeys. The canine but not monkey kidney showed prominent COX-2 expression in the macula densa, thick ascending limb of Henle and papillary interstitial cells by immunohistochemistry. After treatment, the canine but not monkey kidneys had mild to moderate renal tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis and renal papillary necrosis. Obstructive nephropathy secondary to intra-tubular drug accumulation was seen in monkeys but not in dogs. Collectively, these data demonstrate species differences in the renal response to COX inhibition. The nature of functional and morphologic changes suggests a more prominent role of COX-2 in renal hemodynamics and natriuresis in dogs than in monkeys.
Epilepsy during the pregnancy is an important problem in clinical practice for newborn individuals. Recently, it has been demonstrated that mothers' epileptic seizures have some harmful effects on newborns, but present data concerning the effects of epileptic phenomena in pregnant mothers on newborn pups are still limited. The current study was undertaken to investigate the morphological changes in the hippocampus of newborn pups of pinealectomized rats subjected to experimental epilepsy during pregnancy.
In this study, rats were randomly divided into four groups (ten animals each): intact control group, epilepsy control group, surgical pinealectomy + epilepsy group, and group with melatonin treatment following pinealectomy procedure. The animals in surgical pinealectomy + epilepsy and melatonin treatment groups underwent a surgical intervention consisting of pineal gland removal. At 1 month after surgical pinealectomy, an acute grand mal epileptic seizure was induced by 400 IU penicillin G administration into their hippocampal CA3 region on the 13th day of their pregnancy in all animals except the intact control animals. On the first neonatal day, the hippocampi were removed and processed for microscopic examination. Nestin expression was analysed in the developing hippocampal tissue.
Normal migration and hippocampal maturation were determined in the postnatal rat hippocampus in intact control group, but the morphological structure of the hippocampus in the epilepsy control group corresponded to the early embryonal period. It was found that experimental epilepsy and pinealectomy enhanced nestin immunoreactivity, whereas exogenous melatonin treatment (30 mug/100 g body weight, intraperitoneal) inhibited pinealectomy-stimulated nestin expression in CA1 region of the hippocampus.
These findings suggest that epileptic seizures during pregnancy may cause an impaired hippocampal neurogenesis and neuronal maturation in the newborn, and the negative effects in the postnatal rat hippocampus are more dramatic after pinealectomy of the mother; conversely, melatonin administration suppresses these negative changes. This is the first report investigating the effects of maternal epilepsy during pregnancy in pinealectomized rats on nestin immunoexpression in the newborn rat hippocampus.
We studied whether five sessions of 10 Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS treatment) applied over the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) or the primary motor cortex (MC) in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) patients would have any effect on L-dopa-induced dyskinesias and cortical excitability. We aimed at a randomised, controlled study. Single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation, and the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS parts III and IV) were performed prior to, immediately after, and one week after an appropriate rTMS treatment. Stimulation of the left DLPFC induced a significant motor cortex depression and a trend towards the improvement of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias.
Intrinsic reactive oxygen species (ROS) in a rat model of human minimal change nephropathy were detected directly using an in vivo electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) method with 1-acetoxy-3-carbamoyl-2,2,5,5-tetramethylpyrrolidine (ACP) in real time. The nephrosis was induced by the intravenous administration of 75 mg/kg of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN). It was found that ROS in the kidney were increased 1 h after the administration of PAN. This increased oxidative stress declined at 24 h and returned to a normal level 3 days after PAN administration. This is the first non-invasive in vivo detection and quantification of specific ROS in an experimental nephrosis model.
A woman with a 7-year history of intermittent migraine had 3 months of gradually worsening headaches. Initial neurologic examination including fundus examination was normal, and initial head computerized tomographic (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were thought to be normal. The patient was given dihydroergotamine (DHE-45), 1.0 mg, intravenously for relief of headache. Five hours later, she complained of severe diffuse headache and nausea. Neurologic examination showed left arm weakness and sensory loss, blurring of the left optic disc, and bilateral Babinski signs. Cerebral arteriography demonstrated thrombosis of the sagittal sinus, which in retrospect was present on the initial contrast CT scan and MRI scan. The patient's deficits worsened, and she eventually died 20 days later as a result of cerebral infarctions and increased intracranial pressure, despite attempts at selective thrombolysis of the sagittal sinus. DHE has potent venoconstrictive effects. We suspect that DHE helped precipitate neurologic deterioration in this patient with sagittal sinus thrombosis.
A M-BACOD regimen using an increased dose of Adriyamycin has been administered to 18 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Sixty-three percent of the patients who had been previously untreated obtained a complete remission and the 2-year survival rate of those who evidenced a complete response reached 71%. The stage of the lymphoma was found to be a prognostic factor for a complete remission, while LDH and tumor response had an influence upon survival.
Nightmares and insomnia in combat-related post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) might be resistant to treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and benzodiazepines.
We describe five case reports of patients suffering from long-lasting and intractable nightmares and insomnia. They were given different psychotropic agents in past few years, with no improvement in their sleep disturbance. Olanzapine was added to the current treatment regimen.
Both nightmares and insomnia improved rapidly after olanzapine institution in all of five patients. No adverse events of olanzapine were reported.
Olanzapine augmentation might be useful in alleviating treatment-resistant nightmares and insomnia in patients with combat-related PTSD.
Benzene is one of the world's major commodity chemicals. It is derived from petroleum and coal and is used both as a solvent and as a starting material in chemical syntheses. The numerous industrial uses of benzene over the last century need not be recounted here, but the most recent addition to the list of uses of benzene is as a component in a mixture of aromatic compounds added to gasoline for the purpose of replacing lead compounds as anti-knock ingredients. The best known and longest recognized toxic effect of benzene is the depression of bone marrow function seen in occupationally exposed individuals. These people have been found to display anemia, leucopenia, and/or thrombocytopenia. When pancytopenia, i.e., the simultaneous depression of all three cell types, occurs and is accompanied by bone marrow necrosis, the syndrome is called aplastic anemia. In addition to observing this decrease in humans and relating it to benzene exposure, it has been possible to establish animal models which mimic the human disease. The result has been considerable scientific investigation into the mechanism of benzene toxicity. Although the association between benzene exposure and aplastic anemia has been recognized and accepted throughout most of this century, it is only recently that leukemia, particularly of the acute myelogenous type, has been related to benzene. The acceptance of benzene as an etiological agent in aplastic anemia in large measure derives from our ability to reproduce the disease in most animals treated with sufficiently high doses of benzene over the necessary time period. Unfortunately, despite extensive efforts in several laboratories, it has not been possible to establish a reproducible, reliable model for the study of benzene-induced leukemia. The recent demonstration that several animals exposed to benzene either by inhalation or in the drinking water during studies by Drs. B. Goldstein and C. Maltoni suggests that such a model may be forthcoming. Nevertheless, at this time it is not clear whether bone marrow damage of the type that leads to aplastic anemia is required for the development of leukemia. Most studies of benzene toxicity have involved dosing animals with benzene either by inhalation or by injection, using high doses to ensure a toxic response. Very few studies have concentrated on the oral route of administration and none have concentrated on administering benzene by mouth at the low doses occasionally detected in drinking water.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The authors investigated the acute cardiopulmonary effects of hydralazine in canine low-pressure pulmonary edema. Ninety minutes after oleic acid, right to left shunt (Qs/Qt) had increased from 16-46.7%, and arterial O2 tension decreased from 444-194 mmHg. In the presence of oleic acid pulmonary edema, hydralazine infusion increased cardiac output (CO) and stroke volume (SV) from 3.65-4.9 mmHg . 1 (-1) . min (P less than 0.001) and from 26-31 ml (P less than 0.005), respectively. These changes occurred despite reduced preload as mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) decreased from 6.6-4.1 mmHg (P less than 0.005). These changes are most likely explained by a reduction in resistive afterload because hydralazine reduced systemic vascular resistance (SVR) from 29.1-20.8 mmHg . 1(-1) . min. Despite improved CO, Qs/Qt remained constant and arterial O2 tension increased (P less than 0.005) with hydralazine. Because Qs/Qt remained constant with hydralazine, the improvement in arterial O2 tension is explained most likely by the increased mixed venous oxygen tension secondary to the increase in CO. To the extent that canine oleic acid edema resembles low-pressure pulmonary edema in patients, hydralazine is a potential agent to reduce PCWP, increase CO and arterial O2 tension.
The aim of the study was to monitor the effect of butaphosphane (1-(n-butylamino)-1-methylophosphorous acid) and cyanocobalamin (Catosal preparation, Bayer AG) on regeneration of the longissimus lumborum muscle (musculus longissimus lumborum) in pigs. Experiments were conducted on 34 piglets of Polish Large White breed with a mean body weight of 20 kg that were divided into two groups. Piglets of group I (control) received an intramuscular injection of 10 cm3 of 0.5% bupivacaine hydrochloride at both side of the spine. Piglets of group II were injected with bupivacaine, as in group I, and additionally received intramuscular injections of 5 ml of Catosal for 5 subsequent days. The animals were euthanized 6, 12, and 24 hours as well as 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10 and 14 days after muscle injury. Preparations obtained from muscle specimens were stained with HE, PAS method acc. to McManus, HBFP, Feulgen, and Unna methods. Ultrastructural preparations (TEM) were prepared following a standard procedure. The presence of vimentin, desmin and PCNA was detected immunohistochemically in sections prepared with a paraffin method. Necrosis of muscle fibres was observed in all animals after bupivacaine injection. The administration of Catosal accelerated the regeneration of damaged skeletal muscles in pigs through the facilitation of phagocytosis and enhancement of myogenic cells proliferation. No effect of Catosal was found on differentiation of myoblasts or maturation of newly-formed muscle fibres.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) remains under-recognized despite its potentially devastating outcomes. It begins when heparin exposure stimulates the formation of heparin-platelet factor 4 antibodies, which in turn triggers the release of procoagulant platelet particles. Thrombosis and thrombocytopenia that follow comprise the 2 hallmark traits of HIT, with the former largely responsible for significant vascular complications. The prevalence of HIT varies among several subgroups, with greater incidence in surgical as compared with medical populations. HIT must be acknowledged for its intense predilection for thrombosis and suspected whenever thrombosis occurs after heparin exposure. Early recognition that incorporates the clinical and serologic clues is paramount to timely institution of treatment, as its delay may result in catastrophic outcomes. The treatment of HIT mandates an immediate cessation of all heparin exposure and the institution of an antithrombotic therapy, most commonly using a direct thrombin inhibitor. Current "diagnostic" tests, which primarily include functional and antigenic assays, have more of a confirmatory than diagnostic role in the management of HIT. Special attention must be paid to cardiac patients who are often exposed to heparin multiple times during their course of treatment. Direct thrombin inhibitors are appropriate, evidence-based alternatives to heparin in patients with a history of HIT, who need to undergo percutaneous coronary intervention. As heparin remains one of the most frequently used medications today with potential for HIT with every heparin exposure, a close vigilance of platelet counts must be practiced whenever heparin is initiated.
There has been a necessary change in attitude to transplantation; there is much less concern with short-term outcome and more concern with long-term kidney function, overall health and quality of life. Nephrotoxicity is an invariable consequence of long-term treatment with calcineurin antagonists and it is one of the most underestimated causes of late graft loss; it has been reported as a serious threat to both patient and graft survival following heart, liver and bone marrow transplantation. Sirolimus has been shown in many recent studies to be of great value in allowing patients to be weaned from cyclosporine with excellent patient and graft survival at 24 months a significant improvement in renal function with resolution of hirsutism and gum hyperplasia. Patients maintained on the combined regime of cyclosporine and sirolimus had significantly higher blood pressure, much more cyclosporine nephrotoxicity and hyperuricaemia at 12 months. The experimental studies have found cyclosporine and sirolimus potentiate with each other's good and adverse effects. Cyclosporine therefore augments hyperlipidaemia caused by sirolimus, and sirolimus augments nephrotoxicity caused by cyclosporine. The results of these studies indicate that sirolimus is a suitable replacement for cyclosporine or tacrolimus for long-term maintenance therapy. By contrast the use of sirolimus in combination with cyclosporine results in potentiation of side effects. The principal disadvantages being increased cyclosporine associated nephrotoxicity and sirolimus associated hyperlipidaemia
ED-71 has been shown to increase lumbar bone mineral density (BMD) in osteoporotic subjects. However, vitamin D insufficiency might have influenced the effect of ED-71 on BMD.
Our objective was to examine whether ED-71 can increase BMD in osteoporotic patients under vitamin D supplementation.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 219 osteoporotic patients (49-87 yr of age).
Subjects were randomly assigned to receive placebo or 0.5, 0.75, or 1.0 microg/d ED-71 for 12 months. All the subjects received 200 or 400 IU/d vitamin D(3).
We assessed changes in lumbar and hip BMD and bone turnover markers from baseline.
Lumbar BMD increased with ED-71 treatment for 12 months (2.2, 2.6, and 3.1% from baseline and 2.9, 3.4, and 3.8% vs. placebo group in subjects receiving 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 microg ED-71, respectively). Total hip BMD also increased with 0.75 and 1.0 microg ED-71 (-0.8, 0.6, and 0.9% from baseline and 0.1, 1.5, and 1.8% vs. placebo group in the 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 microg ED-71 groups, respectively). Bone formation and resorption markers were suppressed by approximately 20% after 12 months of 0.75 and 1.0 microg ED-71 treatment. Transient hypercalcemia over 2.6 mmol/liter occurred in 7, 5, and 23% of subjects in the 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 microg ED-71 groups, respectively, but none of them developed sustained hypercalcemia.
These results demonstrate that ED-71 treatment at around 0.75 microg/d can effectively and safely increase lumbar and hip BMD in osteoporotic patients with vitamin D supplementation.
Toxicity associated with immunosuppression and conditioning regimens represents a common cause of neurological complications after allogeneic stem cell transplantation.
We present a 56-year-old female patient with refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia undergoing reduced-intensity conditioning with fludarabine, BCNU and melphalan followed by matched-sibling allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Under immunosuppressive treatment with cyclosporine A (CSA) the patient developed early-onset (day +33) and ultimately fatal leukoencephalopathy.
As fludarabine and CSA represent two key substances of today's reduced-intensity conditioning regimens we raise the question of whether CSA, fludarabine or a combination of both led to this outcome and discuss differential diagnoses.
Neurophysiological functioning was studied prospectively in children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with a low dose vincristine regime (8 x 1.5 mg/m2/dose), to obtain more insight into vincristine neuropathy. A WHO neurotoxicity score was estimated and vibration sense and electrophysiological measurements were taken at standardized times during vincristine treatment. The WHO neurotoxicity score showed decreased or disappearance of Achilles tendon reflexes, and mild sensory disturbances, but a grade 3-4 neurotoxicity was not demonstrated by any of the children. Vibration perception thresholds increased progressively during treatment and amplitudes of action potentials of peroneal and sensory ulnar and median nerves decreased, whereas nerve conduction velocities stayed unchanged. Both vibration perception thresholds and the electrophysiological findings hardly exceeded the limits of normality. We conclude that children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia with a low dose vincristine regimen have mild axonal neuropathy which may be responsible for the motor problems in these children.
Calcium channel blockers relax the arterial smooth vasculature and lower blood pressure when it is elevated because of excessive vasoconstriction. They may be regarded as ventricular unloading agents. Nifedipine (11 cases, Group 1) and verapamil (12 cases, Group 2) were tested in hypertensive patients with cardiac enlargement (LV diastolic diameter greater than or equal to 60 mm), ECG signs of LV strain, lung congestion and dyspnea at rest, in an acute (nifedipine 20 mg; verapamil 160 mg) and 1-month (nifedipine 20 mg q.i.d.; verapamil 160 mg t.i.d.) therapeutic evaluation. In the acute study nifedipine reduced systemic vascular resistance (SVR), mean arterial pressure (MAP), mean pulmonary wedge pressure (PWP) and LV diastolic diameter (DD) and improved cardiac index (CI) and Vcf. In Group 2 verapamil reduced SVR and MAP, improved CI and was not effective on PWP, LV DD and Vcf. Verapamil was discontinued in 2 patients who developed severe dyspnea at rest after 3-4 days of continued oral treatment. At the end of the trial Vcf, PWP and LV DD were unchanged in the remaining subjects in Group 2 despite persistent pressure reduction. In Group 1 all of the patients had relief of dyspnea and lung congestion, reduction of heart size, persistent decrease of MAP and PWP, and improvement in Vcf. The only side effect was ankle edema in 4 cases. A less potent vasodilating action of verapamil and a predominant depression in cardiac contractility may account for the different results with the two drugs, in spite of a shared antihypertensive effect. These findings prove that functional changes in the failing hypertensive heart may differ after nifedipine compared to verapamil as a result of interaction and relative preponderance of influences on afterload and contractility.
There is evidence that sarcomere length is maximal and changes little during chronic cardiac enlargement, and that the failing heart does not operate on a true descending limb of the Frank-Starling curve. However, increases of ventricular end-diastolic volume over time clearly are important at the geometrical level in maintaining stroke volume. When the preload reserve is fully utilized, afterload mismatch can exist in the steady state to produce operation of the heart on an apparent descending limb of cardiac function, and further afterload mismatch can be produced by pressure loading under these conditions. The treatment of acute experimental heart failure with a mixed vasodilator (nitroprusside) can lead to an increased cardiac output by afterload reduction only when the venous return curve does not shift downward; thus, the threefold larger shift of central blood volume to the periphery in heart failure (compared to normal) counter balances the venodilator action of nitroprusside. Whether or not the inotropic ceiling of failing myocardium can be reached by positive inotropic agents is unclear, but major hemodynamic benefits in heart failure with many potent inotropic drugs are associated with the direct vasodilating properties of these agents. Thus, there appears to be little role for the Frank-Starling mechanism at the sarcomere level, whereas afterload mismatch and its correction are of major importance provided the venous return can be increased. A degree of inotropic reserve also is available, even in the severely failing myocardium, but more research is needed on the potential costs and benefits of marked sustained inotropic stimulation.
To clarify the contribution of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors in brain to benzodiazepine withdrawal signs, we now examine the effects in mice of selective ligands for three subgroups of mGlu receptor on the hypersusceptibility to pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure during diazepam withdrawal. The seizure threshold for pentylenetetrazole was significantly decreased by the discontinuation of chronic diazepam treatment. The decrease in the seizure threshold for pentylenetetrazole during diazepam withdrawal was significantly suppressed by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) pretreatment with the group 1 mGlu receptor antagonist, (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine ((S)-4CPG: 56 and 100 nmol). These doses of (S)-4CPG did not alter the seizure threshold in chronically vehicle-treated (control) mice. Pretreatment i.c.v. with a presynaptic mGlu receptor agonist (the group 2 mGlu receptor agonist (2S,1'S,2'S)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)-glycine (L-CCG-I: 3.0 and 5.6 nmol) and the group 3 mGlu receptor agonist, L-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4: 3.0 and 5.6 nmol)) failed to suppress the decrease in seizure threshold in diazepam-withdrawn mice, but increased the seizure threshold in control mice. Pretreatment i.c.v. with the group 1 mGlu receptor antagonist/group 2 mGlu receptor agonist, (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenylglycine ((S)-4C3HPG: 56 and 100 nmol), significantly increased the seizure threshold in control mice and suppressed the decrease in seizure threshold in diazepam-withdrawn mice. These findings suggest that enhancement of group 1 mGlu receptor function and a decline in both group 2 and group 3 mGlu receptor functions may play an important role in the hypersusceptibility to pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure during diazepam withdrawal.
The history of a 46 years old female patient is reported who suffered from rheumatoid arthritis. During therapy with chlormezanon and paracetamol symptoms of cholestatic liver disease developed. We believe that this was a side-effect of chlormezanon.
Dose-response curves were constructed for duration of significant catalepsy in male Sprague-Dawley rats following i.p. administration of four established and two novel narcotic analgesics. The relative potency of the six drugs was levorphanol greater than monacetylmorphine greater than diacetylmorphine greater than dibutanoylmorphine greater than morphine greater than meperidine. Cataleptic potency correlated with analgesic potency for morphine, diacetylmorphine, and dibutanoylmorphine but not for monoacetylmorphine.
The Renoprotection of Optimal Antiproteinuric Doses (ROAD) study was performed to determine whether titration of benazepril or losartan to optimal antiproteinuric doses would safely improve the renal outcome in chronic renal insufficiency. A total of 360 patients who did not have diabetes and had proteinuria and chronic renal insufficiency were randomly assigned to four groups. Patients received open-label treatment with a conventional dosage of benazepril (10 mg/d), individual uptitration of benazepril (median 20 mg/d; range 10 to 40), a conventional dosage of losartan (50 mg/d), or individual uptitration of losartan (median 100 mg/d; range 50 to 200). Uptitration was performed to optimal antiproteinuric and tolerated dosages, and then these dosages were maintained. Median follow-up was 3.7 yr. The primary end point was time to the composite of a doubling of the serum creatinine, ESRD, or death. Secondary end points included changes in the level of proteinuria and the rate of progression of renal disease. Compared with the conventional dosages, optimal antiproteinuric dosages of benazepril and losartan that were achieved through uptitration were associated with a 51 and 53% reduction in the risk for the primary end point (P = 0.028 and 0.022, respectively). Optimal antiproteinuric dosages of benazepril and losartan, at comparable BP control, achieved a greater reduction in both proteinuria and the rate of decline in renal function compared with their conventional dosages. There was no significant difference for the overall incidence of major adverse events between groups that were given conventional and optimal dosages in both arms. It is concluded that uptitration of benazepril or losartan against proteinuria conferred further benefit on renal outcome in patients who did not have diabetes and had proteinuria and renal insufficiency.
Animals treated with high doses of amphetamines have been used as a model of schizophrenia due to the similarities between the psychosis associated with this mental disorder and that induced by chronic amphetamine abuse. When administered to naive rats in high doses, the amphetamine-like CNS stimulant methamphetamine produces drastic alterations in the neurochemical parameters of the neostriatal monoaminergic systems. These alterations are characterized by a decrease in the activities of the rate-limiting enzymes for dopamine and serotonin synthesis, as well as a decrease in the concentrations of both neurotransmitters and their metabolites. However, tolerance develops to these neurochemical effects when drug administration occurs in a pattern similar to that encountered during chronic amphetamine abuse. The results indicate that the neurochemical alterations produced by amphetamines in naive and tolerant animals differ widely. This suggests that the administration of high doses of amphetamine-like central stimulants to naive rats may not be an appropriate model for studying the neurochemical changes associated with psychosis and amphetamine abuse.
Localized drug-induced injection site reactions are rare. Injection site sclerodermoid reactions have been reported as a result of multiple drugs, most commonly vitamin K. Sclerodermoid injection site reactions have also been reported with pentazocine, progestin, and vitamin B12. Little has been written on the efficacious treatment of this complication.
The objective was to raise awareness of the potential complication of localized sclerodermoid change secondary to vitamin B12 injections and to present a novel approach to its treatment.
We report a case and review the English literature for injection site reactions from vitamin B12 as well as treatment options for this complication.
We report the first non-European case of localized sclerodermoid reaction secondary to vitamin B12 injections. Our patient presented with disfiguring depression of the left upper arm following vitamin B12 injections for macrocytic anemia secondary to Crohn's disease. Histopathology showed findings similar to those seen in localized scleroderma. The patient was successfully treated with excision of diseased skin, local fat transfer, and complex repair with dramatic improvement at 5 months in contour and overall appearance.
The marked vasodilator and negative inotropic effects of propofol are disadvantages in frail elderly patients. We investigated the safety and efficacy of adding different doses of ephedrine to propofol in order to obtund the hypotensive response. The haemodynamic effects of adding 15, 20 or 25 mg of ephedrine to 200 mg of propofol were compared to control in 40 ASA 3/4 patients over 60 years presenting for genito-urinary surgery. The addition of ephedrine to propofol appears to be an effective method of obtunding the hypotensive response to propofol at all doses used in this study. However, marked tachycardia associated with the use of ephedrine in combination with propofol occurred in the majority of patients, occasionally reaching high levels in individual patients. Due to the risk of this tachycardia inducing myocardial ischemia, we would not recommend the use in elderly patients of any of the ephedrine/propofol/mixtures studied.
Intravenous injection of T-2 toxin or roridin-A (2 mg/kg) into pentobarbital-anesthetized (30 mg/kg) dogs produced, respectively, decreased systolic pressure within 30 min and atrio-ventricular block within 60 min. Within 45 +/- 15 min after injection of each toxin heart rate increased and remained elevated for at least 4 hr. The increase in sinus rate was reduced by 50% when dogs were pretreated with i.v. propranolol--HCl (5 mg/kg); pretreatment with atropine sulphate (5 mg/kg) did not alter the effect of the trichothecenes. Upon administration of T-2 toxin or roridin-A (30 mg/l) to isolated arterially perfused canine right atria, sinus rate decreased by 12% and 28%, respectively, and sinus node cell diastolic potentials became more negative by 7% and 10%, respectively. Sino-atrial block observed in 50% of the isolated atrial preparations perfused with roridin-A disappeared when toxin perfusion was discontinued. Perfusion with T-2 toxin or roridin-A produced no significant effects on atrial muscle cell action potentials. The cardiovascular response to systemic trichothecenes was hypotension followed by propranolol-sensitive tachycardia. The direct effects on conduction system cells may contribute to the overall deleterious action on the cardiovascular system.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have a wide range of use in clinical practice because of their analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties. However, their potential nephrotoxicity has been noted. The case histories were studied, retrospectively, in 13 patients who were taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs as follows: four on fenoprofen (Nalfon), three on naproxen (Naprosyn), two on ibuprofen (Motrin), two on sulindac (Clinoril), one on tolmetin (Tolectin), and one on indomethacin (Indocin) and who exhibited abnormal urinalysis or a deterioration in renal function. Nine of the patients underwent renal biopsies, and eight of these biopsies were positive for interstitial nephritis. In addition to the presentation of additional cases of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug nephrotoxicity, a brief review of the current theories of the nephrotoxic mechanism is presented.
