We present a case study of a 52-year-old female patient with hyperthyroidism which had been diagnosed at the age of 35. However, the malfunction of thyroid had been poorly controlled. Thyroid function was returning to normal after the administration of propylthiouracil (PTU) 300 mg/day, however purpura appeared in both lower extremities. Renal function deteriorated rapidly, and the patient was admitted to our hospital. According to the biopsies, leukocytoclastic vasculitis in the skin was apparent, and crescent formation was observed in the glomerulus. Serological examination revealed positive antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ANCA) against proteinase 3 (Pr3) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). Antinuclear autoantibody was positive. After cessation of PTU and administration of prednisolone, the purpura disappeared and ANCA were becoming negative. Renal function recovered gradually. Thyroid function was kept within normal range using iodine solution. Thus, it is strongly suggested that PTU-induced rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis associated with ANCA.
It is established that the haloperidol catalepsy is much less pronounced in Wistar females than in males. Estradiol (10 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased intensity of the haloperidol catalepsy, reduced the haloperidol-induced increase in the dopamine turnover, and decreased the level of dopamine metabolites in nucleus accumbens of both female and male test animals. However, these effects are also more pronounced in females.
The effect of haloperidol on the passive avoidance habit retrieval upon amnesia was studied in C57BL/6J mice with aggressive and submissive behavioral stereotypes formed under agonist confrontation conditions. In the control (untreated) group, the efficacy of the amnesic action of detention in the dangerous compartment on the learning day was reduced for the aggressive stereotype as compared to the submissive one. In the aggressive mice, the administration of haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) one hour before learning deteriorated the conditional reaction retrieval between 2nd and 13th days of test. In the submissive mice, the administration of haloperidol produced a prolonged antiamnesic effect. Thus, the effect of haloperidol on the violated memory trace reproduction depends on the individual behavioral state.
We report two cases of intrathecal methotrexate overdose. A 3-y-old girl with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and a 4-y-old boy with Burkitt's lymphoma were to receive an intrathecal injection of methotrexate after completion of intravenous methotrexate infusion. Instead of 12.5 mg, they both received a dose of 125 mg. Both children developed generalized convulsion 3 h after the overdose, but afterwards recovered completely. Intravenous folinic acid and dexamethasone rescue were employed, but no attempt was made to exchange the cerebrospinal fluid. In addition to the staff's failure to check the drug label carefully, the marked resemblance of the two dose preparations of methotrexate (50 mg/5 ml and 500 mg/5 ml) may have been contributory.
Chromium picolinate is advocated as an anti-diabetic agent for impaired glycemic control. It is a transition metal that exists in various oxidation states and may thereby act as a pro-oxidant. The present study has been designed to examine the effect of chromium picolinate supplementation on hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress. Diabetes was induced in male Wistar rats by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (50mg/kg body weight) and chromium was administered orally as chromium picolinate (1mg/kg body weight) daily for a period of four weeks after the induction of diabetes. As is characteristic of diabetic condition, hyperglycemia was associated with an increase in oxidative stress in liver in terms of increased lipid peroxidation and decreased glutathione levels. The activity of antioxidant enzymes like superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione reductase were significantly reduced in liver of diabetic animals. Levels of α-tocopherol and ascorbic acid were found to be considerably lower in plasma of diabetic rats. Chromium picolinate administration on the other hand was found to have beneficial effect in normalizing glucose levels, lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status. The results from the present study demonstrate potential of chromium picolinate to attenuate hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress in experimental diabetes.
Although status epilepticus in children is associated with neuronal pathologies, there are few developmental models of status epilepticus which produce damage in the immature brain. We have developed a new model of status epilepticus using systemically injected pilocarpine in immature rabbits pretreated with lithium. Injected animals demonstrated behavioral and electrographic seizures. Behavioral seizures were characterized by sustained or recurrent bouts of clonus in all limbs. The pilocarpine-induced seizures had a 40% mortality. All animals surviving the status epilepticus had hippocampal lesions when evaluated 48 h after the SE. Within the hippocampus, CA1 pyramidal cells were the most vulnerable cell population. Extrahippocampal damage was seen in the majority of animals. Our results show that severe seizures cause hippocampal lesions in the absence of hypoxemia and suggest that the presumed resistance of the immature brain to seizure-induced damage is not a general rule which can be applied to all models or species.
Currently, arsenic has been clinically investigated as a therapeutic agent for a variety of solid malignancies, including breast cancer. However, the exact underlying molecular mechanisms through which arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) induces cell growth arrest and apoptosis in solid tumors have not been clearly understood. The aim of our study was to gain an insight into the effect of As(2)O(3) on the human breast cancer MCF-7 cell line and investigate cell growth inhibition, apoptosis, and the molecular mechanism after As(2)O(3) treatment in MCF-7 cells. Expression of FOXO3a, nuclear-FOXO3a, caspase-3, and IκB kinase β (IKKβ) mRNA levels in MCF-7 cells was determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The protein expression was examined by the Western blot analysis and immunocytochemical staining. The distribution of apoptotic cells was assessed by flow cytometry, and the morphology of the apoptotic cells was investigated by Hoechest33258 staining. Our results showed that As(2)O(3) significantly induced the apoptosis of MCF-7 cells tested in this study in a dose-dependent manner. As(2)O(3) induced the decrease of IKKβ expression and the increase of total as well as nuclear FOXO3a expression, which triggered the phosphorylation of cytoplasmic FOXO3a at the Thr32 residue decrease. RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and immunocytochemistry revealed that the expression of IKKβ in MCF-7 cells was upregulated when As(2)O(3) was combined with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), whereas the expression of FOXO3a was downregulated in comparison with the As(2)O(3)-alone group. These findings indicated a specific molecular mechanism by which MCF-7 cell lines were susceptible to the As(2)O(3) therapy through FOXO3a expression and localization. This FOXO3a accumulation may be well correlated with the As(2)O(3)-induced reduction of active IKKβ, which may provide new insights into As(2)O(3)-related signaling activities.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia encountered in clinical practice. We first reported an S140G mutation of KCNQ1, an alpha subunit of potassium channels, in one Chinese kindred with AF. However, the molecular defects and cellular mechanisms in most patients with AF remain to be identified. We evaluated 28 unrelated Chinese kindreds with AF and sequenced eight genes of potassium channels (KCNQ1, HERG, KCNE1, KCNE2, KCNE3, KCNE4, KCNE5, and KCNJ2). An arginine-to-cysteine mutation at position 27 (R27C) of KCNE2, the beta subunit of the KCNQ1-KCNE2 channel responsible for a background potassium current, was found in 2 of the 28 probands. The mutation was present in all affected members in the two kindreds and was absent in 462 healthy unrelated Chinese subjects. Similar to KCNQ1 S140G, the mutation had a gain-of-function effect on the KCNQ1-KCNE2 channel; unlike long QT syndrome-associated KCNE2 mutations, it did not alter HERG-KCNE2 current. The mutation did not alter the functions of the HCN channel family either. Thus, KCNE2 R27C is a gain-of-function mutation associated with the initiation and/or maintenance of AF.
Benomyl, a benzimidazole fungicide, produced ocular and craniocerebral malformations in fetal rats when administered to the dams by gavage in a dose of 62.4 mg/kg of maternal body weight/day on days 7-21 of gestation. Ocular anomalies included retinal dysplasia, cataracts, microphthalmia, and anophthalmia. These anomalies occurred in 43.3% of fetuses exposed to benomyl and a normal protein diet but increased to 62.5% when benomyl administration was combined with a protein deficient (8% casein) diet. Microscopic examination of the malformed eyes revealed that the most common abnormality, retinal dysplasia, consisted of rosettes of retinal cells and retinal infolding. The majority of rosettes had a single layer and a limiting membrane. Rosettes with two or three layers were also observed, particularly in fetuses exposed both to protein deficiency and benomyl. Although anophthalmia was identified macroscopically in five fetuses, only a single instance of true anophthalmia was found microscopically. These data support the results of previous investigators that benomyl induces ocular malformation and that protein deficiency enhances the teratogenic effects of benomyl. The disorderly proliferation of retinal cells and rosette formation resembled the periventricular cell masses that accumulate in brains exposed to benomyl and certain other teratogenic agents. The anti-tubulin action of benomyl is known to impair microtubule formation and it may produce brain and ocular malformations by disruption of neuronal proliferation and migration.
A possible case of montelukast-induced angioedema is reported.
A 46-year-old woman with a history of severe allergies, including food allergies, and angioedema was evaluated at the emergency department (ED) for an acute episode of angioedema. Upon arrival at the ED, the patient had severe jaw tightness, facial numbness, uncontrollable cheek lifting, swollen eyes, and a swollen protruding tongue and was unable to catch her breath. Her dyspnea was apparent, and she was unable to talk and instead used hand and face gestures for affirmative and negative responses. The patient was treated with 0.3 mg epinephrine intramuscularly into the right thigh. After treatment, she had a temperature of 37 degrees C, a pulse of 90 beats/ min, a blood pressure value of 100/59 mm Hg, a respiratory rate of 16 breaths/min, and 100% oxygen saturation on room air. After stabilization, she reported that her allergies had been adequately controlled with ebastine 10 mg daily, montelukast 10 mg daily, and vitamins (unspecified). The patient reported that since she started montelukast one month prior, she experienced three similar episodes, the first occurring five days after starting the drug. She mentioned being diagnosed and adequately treated these three times in the ED for angioedema. The patient denied any changes in eating habits or in her medications except for starting montelukast. She was observed at the ED for an hour and then discharged after stabilization on hydroxyzine hydrochloride 25 mg orally daily and fexofenadine hydrochloride 180 mg orally daily. Montelukast was discontinued.
A patient developed angioedema four times during one month of treatment with montelukast.
To test the hypothesis that time of day influences the locomotor effects of cocaine in rats, we measured short- and long-term sensitization to cocaine at five different Zeitgeber times (ZT). Short-term sensitization was expressed equally at all ZTs tested. Long-term sensitization was expressed only at dark onset, suggesting a possible influence of melatonin. Exogenous melatonin given immediately before cocaine challenge slightly enhanced long-term sensitization. Taken together, the present results support a time-of-day influence on locomotor sensitization to cocaine.
Wilson disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive disorder due to the defect in ATP7B gene characterized by excessive accumulation of copper in the liver with progressive hepatic damage and subsequent redistribution to various extrahepatic tissues including the brain, kidneys, and cornea. Strikingly, the total serum copper concentration is always low in WD, even though the non-ceruloplasmin copper level is still expected to be high. To assess the role of free radical reactions catalyzed by non-ceruloplasmin copper, we investigated erythrocyte metabolism and oxidative stress as a mechanism for hemolysis in eight WD patients during episodes of acute hemolysis and compared them with eight follow-up cases of WD on d-penicillamine therapy and eight healthy, age-matched children. Elevated levels of non-ceruloplasmin copper were found in all the WD patients during an episode of hemolytic anemia. There was marked inhibition in erythrocyte enzymes, namely, hexokinase, total adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase), and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) from WD patients compared with patients on penicillamine and healthy children, indicating altered erythrocyte metabolism during a hemolytic crisis. Antioxidant status was also found to be compromised as is evident from decreased glutathione (GSH) levels, decreased antioxidant enzymes (namely, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase), increased lipid peroxidation, and deranged plasma antioxidants. Uric acid showed maximum decrease followed by ascorbic acid. These findings suggest that the free radical production by elevated non-ceruloplasmin copper through transition metal catalyzed reactions leads to oxidative injury resulting in altered erythrocyte metabolism and severely compromised antioxidant status of WD patients during hemolytic anemia.
Angioedema due to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) therapy occurs not infrequently and is sometimes associated with life-threatening conditions.
A 59-year-old woman presented with recurrent angioedema of the tongue complicated by upper airway obstruction which required endotracheal intubation. Laboratory tests including complement levels were normal. ACEI-associated angioedema precipitated by NSAIDs was suspected. Her condition improved after discontinuation of imidapril and diclofenac without other specific treatment.
ACEIs, and in particular concomitant use with NSAIDs, should be avoided in patients with a history of angioedema because continuing administration tends to lead to more severe attacks.
Rizatriptan is a selective 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist with rapid oral absorption and early onset of action in the acute treatment of migraine. This randomized double- blind crossover outpatient study assessed the preference for 1 rizatriptan 10 mg tablet to 2 ergotamine 1 mg/caffeine 100 mg tablets in 439 patients treating a single migraine attack with each therapy. Of patients expressing a preference (89.1%), more than twice as many preferred rizatriptan to ergotamine/caffeine (69.9 vs. 30.1%, p < or = 0.001). Faster relief of headache was the most important reason for preference, cited by 67.3% of patients preferring rizatriptan and 54.2% of patients who preferred ergotamine/caffeine. The co-primary endpoint of being pain free at 2 h was also in favor of rizatriptan. Forty-nine percent of patients were pain free 2 h after rizatriptan, compared with 24.3% treated with ergotamine/caffeine (p < or = 0.001), rizatriptan being superior within 1 h of treatment. Headache relief at 2 h was 75.9% for rizatriptan and 47.3% for ergotamine/caffeine (p < or = 0.001), with rizatriptan being superior to ergotamine/caffeine within 30 min of dosing. Almost 36% of patients taking rizatriptan were pain free at 2 h and had no recurrence or need for additional medication within 24 h, compared to 20% of patients on ergotamine/caffeine (p < or = 0.001). Rizatriptan was also superior to ergotamine/caffeine in the proportions of patients with no nausea, vomiting, phonophobia or photophobia and for patients with normal function 2 h after drug intake (p < or = 0.001). More patients were (completely, very or somewhat) satisfied 2 h after treatment with rizatriptan (69.8%) than at 2 h after treatment with ergotamine/caffeine (38.6%, p < or = 0.001). Recurrence rates were 31.4% with rizatriptan and 15.3% with ergotamine/caffeine. Both active treatments were well tolerated. The most common adverse events (incidence > or = 5% in one group) after rizatriptan and ergotamine/caffeine, respectively, were dizziness (6.7 and 5.3%), nausea (4.2 and 8.5%) and somnolence (5.5 and 2.3%).
Preterm birth (PTB), defined as any delivery occurring prior to the completion of 37 weeks' gestation, currently accounts for 11-12% of all births in the United States. Maternal genito-urinary infections account for up to 40% of all PTBS and induce a pro-inflammatory state in the host. The potent vasoconstrictor Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is known to be upregulated in the setting of infection, and elicits its effect by binding to the ETA receptor. We have previously shown that antagonism of the ETA receptor with BQ-123 is capable of preventing LPS-induced PTB in mice. We hypothesize that the administration of BQ-123 post LPS exposure will dismantle a positive feedback loop observed with pro-inflammatory cytokines upstream of ET-1. On GD 15.5, pregnant C57BL/6 mice were injected with PBS, LPS, BQ-123, or LPS+BQ-123. Changes at both the level of transcription and translation were observed in uterus and placenta in the ET-1 axis and in pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines over the course of 12h. We discovered that BQ-123, when administered 10h post LPS, is capable of increasing production of uterine and placental Interleukin-10, causing a shift away from the pro-inflammatory state. We also observed that antagonism of the ETA receptor decreased IL-1β and TNFα in the placenta while also decreasing transcription of ET-1 in the uterus. Our results reinforce the role of ET-1 at the maternal fetal interface and highlight the potential benefit of ETA receptor blockade via the suppression of ET-1, and induction of a Th2 cytokine dominant state.
This paper reports five movement disorders cases to serve as a basis for discussion of the problems encountered in the clinical management of these cases, and the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in these disorders as presented. Case 1 is a description of the subjective experience of a patient with acute orofacial dystonia from promethazine. Case 2 is the use of clonazepam is post-head injury tics. Case 3 is the complication from discontinuation of haloperidol and benztropine mesylate treatment. Case 4 is myoclonus in subacute sclerosing Panencephalitis, and Case 5 is rebound tremor from withdrawal of a beta-adrenergic blocker.
Reopening of the ductus arteriosus after successful indomethacin-induced closure has become a major problem with indomethacin treatment. In full-term human newborns and lambs, the ductus behaves like ischemic tissue after its initial constriction. Its ability to continue to relax or contract depends on the amount of left-to-right shunt through the ductus lumen. To see if ductus constriction in preterm lambs would produce the same loss of ductus responsiveness, we delivered 42 lambs by cesarean section and ventilated them for 6.6 +/- 0.5 (+/- SE) hr. We measured ductus arteriosus resistance and left-to-right shunt with the use of radionuclide-labeled microspheres. After the hemodynamic measurements were obtained, the ductus was studied in vitro. Immature lambs were more likely to have reactive ductus (after their initial ductus constriction) than were more mature lambs. This was due to a diminished degree of ductus constriction as well as persistence of ductus responsiveness in immature lambs when compared with more mature lambs. This persistence of ductus responsiveness in immature lambs after ductus constriction may account for the high reopening rate in preterm infants after successful indomethacin-induced closure.
Cutaneous diseases such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis are worsened by psychic stress. We attempted to clarify the involvement of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor (CRFR) in stress-induced exacerbation of chronic contact dermatitis in rats. Male Wistar rats, in which chronic contact dermatitis had been induced by 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB), were exposed to a 1-h period of electric foot-shock following intraperitoneal administration of CRA1000, a selective CRFR type 1 (CRFR1) antagonist, or vehicle everyday for 9 days. Histological examination of the skin showed that the epidermis significantly thickened and the number of mast cells in the dermis significantly increased by repeated exposure to stress, and that these changes were blocked by CRA1000. These results suggest that CRFR1 is involved in the stress-induced exacerbation of chronic contact dermatitis.
To compare the efficacy and safety of captopril twice a day with quinapril once a day for the treatment of mild to moderate congestive heart failure in a multicentre, double-blind, randomly allocated, parallel-group, 12-week study.
Exercise capacity, M-mode echocardiographic left ventricular measurements and clinical signs and symptoms were evaluated. After a 2-week, single-blind, placebo washout period, the patients were randomly allocated to double-blind treatment with either captopril twice a day or quinapril once a day; the initial doses of 12.5 and 5 mg, respectively, were increased to 25 and 10 mg, respectively, in the first month, and 50 and 20 mg in the second and third months, as required to achieve adequate blood pressure control. Baseline diuretic and/or digitalis therapy was allowed during the study, so that the patients were maintained in a stable condition.
Data from 70 captopril- and 76 quinapril-treated patients were analysed. Both angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors displayed comparable efficacy. Both drugs were well tolerated, with a low drop-out rate (11.4% for captopril and 10.5% for quinapril).
Treatment with 20 mg quinapril once a day was as effective and safe for the treatment of congestive heart failure as 100 mg captopril administered twice a day.
9,10-Dihydro-2,5-dimethoxyphenanthrene-1,7-diol (RSCL-0520) is a phenanthrene isolated from Eulophia ochreata, one of the Orchidaceae family, known by local tradition to exhibit medicinal properties. However, no anti-inflammatory activity or any molecular mechanisms involved have been reported or elucidated. Here, for the first time, we evaluate the anti-inflammatory properties of RSCL-0520 on responses induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and mediated via Toll-like receptors (TLRs).
The in vitro anti-inflammatory activities of RSCL-0520 were investigated in LPS-stimulated monocytic cells, measuring activation of cytokine and inflammatory genes regulated by nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha levels in serum following LPS stimulation in mice and carrageenan-induced paw oedema in rats were used as in vivo models.
Pretreatment with RSCL-0520 effectively inhibited LPS-induced, TLR4-mediated, NF-kappaB-activated inflammatory genes in vitro, and reduced both LPS-induced TNF-alpha release and carrageenan-induced paw oedema in rats. Treatment with RSCL-0520 reduced LPS-stimulated mRNA expression of TNF-alpha, COX-2, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, interleukin (IL)-8 and IL-1beta, all regulated through NF-kappaB activation. RSCL-0520, however, did not interfere with any cellular processes in the absence of LPS.
RSCL-0520 blocked signals generated by TLR4 activation, as shown by down-regulation of NF-kappaB-regulated inflammatory cytokines. The inhibitory effect involved both MyD88-dependent and -independent signalling cascades. Our data elucidated the molecular mechanisms involved, and support the search for plant-derived TLR antagonists, as potential anti inflammatory agents.
Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) is well known to induce hepatotoxicity after being metabolized to trichloromethyl free radical ((.)CCl3) by CYP2E1. In the present study, the hepatotoxicity induced by a single oral dose (2,000 mg/kg) of CCl4 was compared between pregnant (gestation days (GD) 13 and 19) or postpartum (postpartum days (PPD) 1, 13 and 27) and non-pregnant rats. Hepatotoxicity in CCl4-treated pregnant rats evaluated by blood chemistry (alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities) and histopathological finding (area of damaged hepatocytes) was minimal on GD19, being weaker than that in non-pregnant rats. CYP2E1 expression in non-treated pregnant rats decreased as pregnancy progressed and reached minimum level on GD19. Thus, the degree of CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity roughly corresponded to CYP2E1 levels during pregnancy. After delivery, hepatotoxicity in CCl4-treated lactating rats was maximal on PPD13, being stronger than that in non-pregnant rats, and then it decreased slightly on PPD27. The CYP2E1 level in the non-treated lactating rats tended to increase but remained at lower levels until PPD13 compared with that in non-pregnant rats. Thus, the degree of CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity did not correspond to CYP2E1 levels during lactation. This suggests that during lactation, there may be certain factors other than CYP2E1 expression responsible for the degree of CCl4-induced hepatotoxicity.
In more than 7 000 cases of neonatal malformations processed up to 1982 in a regional computer register 71 infants had been born from epileptic mothers. A significantly higher than expected number of spina bifida aperta were observed in this group, related to the administration to the mother of the anti-epileptic agent valproic acid. A pathogenic hypothesis and a possible preventive procedure for this type of malformation are discussed.
A case where common and complicated migraine attacks appeared during the course of oral contraception is reported. The attacks of complicated migraine also continued to appear after the contraceptives were stopped. Increased platelet aggregability was found at the time when the complicated migraine attacks were frequent and, therefore, treatment with dipyridamole and aspirin was given. At the time when a gradual reduction of the platelet aggregability was observed, a decrease in the frequency, and eventual disappearance of the complicated migraine attacks was simultaneously seen. Causal relationship between increased platelet aggregability and complicated migraine attacks is suggested.
Clinical observations suggest that a casual relationship exists between the increased platelet aggregability and complicated migraine attacks which appear during the course of oral contraception. In the case reported the attacks continued to appear after contraception was stopped. When reduction of the platelet aggregability was noted, a decrease in the frequency of the migraine attacks, and their eventual disappearance, was seen. Studies on the subject suggest that OCs have the property of conversion of an ordinary migraine into a particularly malignant form of cerebral infarction. Additional clinical and experimental data are required to fully evaluate the problem.
The antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) was administered via four different routes in the mouse during gestational stages sensitive for interference with neural tube defect formation: a single oral intubation or injection, sc or ip, on Day 8, or infusion via subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipumps from Day 7 1/2 to 8 1/2 of gestation. Embryotoxicity was evaluated on Day 18 (incidence of exencephaly, embryolethality and fetal weight retardation). Oral intubation of VPA resulted in significantly lower peak concentrations of VPA as well as lower embryotoxicity as compared to sc and ip administration. The metabolites of the beta-, omega- and omega-1 oxidation pathways were present in both maternal serum and gestational tissues in very low concentrations (usually less than 2% of corresponding VPA levels). Infusion of VPA via osmotic minipumps (lower steady-state VPA levels as compared to peak levels following injection of VPA) resulted in embryolethality and fetal weight retardation, but little exencephaly. The metabolic pattern was similar in all four administration experiments. Phenobarbital pretreatment of the dams (previously shown to reduce VPA serum concentrations and induce the omega- and omega-1 oxidation pathways) reduced the embryotoxicity of VPA. These results suggest that VPA embryotoxicity is mediated by the parent drug, and not one of the metabolites considered in this study.
A number of metabolites of the anticonvulsant drug valproic acid (VPA) as well as related substances were tested in regard to their teratogenicity in the mouse following single sc injections of 600 mg/kg on Day 8 of gestation. VPA was highly teratogenic at this dose level and over 60% of live fetuses had neural tube defects (exencephaly). Homologous compounds with shorter or longer alkyl chains were less teratogenic. Substitution of the alpha-H atoms in related branched carboxylic acids by methyl or ethyl groups abolished the teratogenic response. Introduction of a double bond in the omega-position of VPA (4-en-VPA) did not change the teratogenicity of VPA, while omega-2 double bond (2-en-VPA) abolished teratogenicity. The other VPA metabolites tested as well as two straight-chain acids (n-octanoic acid and 4-pentenoic acid) and the two clinically used substances valpromide (valproic acid amide) and ethosuximide did not induce neural tube defects, although some of them induced slightly increased resorption rates and fetal weight retardation. The serum protein binding capacities of the various compounds did not correlate with the teratogenic response. Also the concentrations reached in the gestational material did not predict the teratogenicity of the substances tested. Our results indicate that the teratogenicity of the class of compounds studied represents a more specific effect than the anticonvulsant activity which could lead to the development of alternative antiepileptic drugs with low embryotoxic potential.
The ventricular tachycardia (VT) caused by high-dose tricyclic antidepressants has been hypothesized to be due to a quinidinelike effect with generation of repolarization abnormalities and afterdepolarizations. To test this hypothesis further, we infused amitriptyline in a graded fashion (0.5-1 mg/kg/min) in 23 chloralose-anesthetized dogs during endocardial monophasic action potential (AP) recording and continuous hemodynamic monitoring. Three groups of dogs were studied: group A (n = 5), crushed sinus node and fixed atrial pacing at 100 beats/min; group B (n = 12), crushed sinus node and fixed atrial pace plus intermittent accelerated pacing to mimic group C; and group C (n = 6) intact sinus node and unimpeded sinus tachycardia. Amitriptyline infusion induced VT in no (0 of 5) group A dogs, all (12 of 12) group B dogs during accelerated pacing, and 83% (5 of 6) of group C dogs. Dogs with VT had significantly higher heart rates (HR 184.8 +/- 39.3 beats/min) as compared with dogs without VT (115.2 +/- 12.5 beats/min, p = 0.0015). There was a strong positive correlation between the last RR coupling interval to the first VT interval (r = 0.85; p = 0.0033). Amitriptyline infusion caused rate-dependent QRS prolongation in each group, especially group C (p < 0.001). Action potential duration at 50% and 90% of repolarization (APD50, APD90) showed a biphasic response with progressive shortening followed by prolongation as amitriptyline serum concentrations increased. Afterdepolarizations were not detected from any monophasic AP recording, even in dogs with VT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study was conducted to assess involvement of oxidative stress in lung adeno-carcinogenesis, using mice deficient in the 8-hydroxyguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (Ogg1) gene encoding an enzyme that repairs an oxidative DNA injury 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG). Furthermore, for comparison with the human case, mutations of mouse epidermal growth factor receptor (Egfr) and K-ras genes were examined. The homo- and heterozygously Ogg1 gene-deficient and wild-type mice (C57BL6/J origin), 6 weeks old, were administered 4-(N-hydroxymethylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) by continuous subcutaneous infusion using an osmotic pump at a total dose of 6 mg/mouse for 1 week, then treated with one of 4 antioxidants (phenyl N-tert-butyl nitrone 0.13% in drinking water, resveratrol 20 ppm in diet, lactoferrin 2% in diet and bilberry powder 2% in diet) or no supplement for 33 weeks. Development of lung adenomas and preneoplastic atypical hypreplasias was significantly enhanced by the homo- and heterozygous Ogg1 gene deficiency only in female mice with intralesion accumulation of 8-oxoG. All antioxidants tended to inhibit enhanced adeno-carcinogenesis. The Egfr and K-ras gene mutations were detected at sites also found in human lung cancers with low incidences, while the Egfr gene mutation was detected for the first time in chemical lung carcinogenesis of animals. It is indicated that the Ogg1 gene deficiency enhances lung adeno-carcinogenesis in mice by virtue of accelerated oxidative stress. The presently utilized Ogg1 gene-deficient mice model may be useful to draw mechanism-based strategies to control human lung adenocarcinomas, especially in women.
