There have been periodic case reports of sudden death due to aspiration or asphyxiation in patients receiving phenothiazines. The mechanism of death is unknown. The author reports a case of a drug-induced bulbar palsy-like syndrome in a man receiving fluphenazine enanthate and reviews the literature on sudden respiratory death and phenothiazines. He postulates that phenothiazine-induced bulbar palsy may cause laryngeal and/or pharyngeal dysfunctions that are responsible for aspiration.
To examine the influence of amikacin-induced acute renal damage on the urinary excretion of furosemide and the time-dependent variation in the urinary amount of the agent, amikacin (1.2 g/kg) was given intraperitoneally to Wistar rats. Study I: Three percent b.w. of 1% NaCl solution was given orally before and after amikacin treatment, and an 8-hour urine for N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) was collected. Study II: Furosemide (30 mg/kg) in 3% b.w. of 1% NaCl solution was given orally at 12 a.m. or 12 p.m. before and after amikacin treatment, and an 8-hour urine for sodium and furosemide was collected. Following amikacin treatment, urinary excretion of NAG increased, while urine volume and urinary excretion of sodium and furosemide decreased. Urinary excretion of furosemide and its diuretic effects were significantly greater at 12 a.m. than at 12 p.m. before and after treatment. However the time-dependent differences in these parameters were diminished by amikacin treatment. These results suggest that the urinary excretion of furosemide is reduced and the extents of the time-dependent variation in the urinary furosemide and its diuretic effects are altered in rats with amikacin-induced renal damage.
Sex hormones, for example, estrogen and progesterone, are thought to affect and delay progression of multiple sclerosis (MS) in pregnant women. Although both steroid hormones are neuroprotective in the brain and elevated during pregnancy, only estrogen was tested in clinical trials. To evaluate the role of 17beta-estradiol (E) and progesterone (P) in prevention demyelination, young adult male mice were fed with cuprizone for a defined time interval and simultaneously treated with steroids by repeated injections into the neck region. The status of myelination was analyzed by magnetic resonance imaging and conventional histological staining. The individual application of E and P resulted only in a moderate prevention of demyelination in the corpus callosum (CC). The combined treatment with both steroid hormones counteracted the process of demyelination. Expression of the mature (PLP and MBP) and premature (PDGF-alpha-R) oligodendrocyte markers were significantly increased after hormone application in the affected CC. In addition, both hormones stimulated astrogliosis and the expression of IGF-1. Microglial invasion in demyelinated CC was pronounced and additionally localized in the midline of CC after hormone treatment. These data show that sex steroids can protect the brain from demyelination and stimulate remyelination. It appears that only the administration of both hormones is fully effective. The beneficial steroid effect requires interactions with oligodendrocytes possibly by preventing their degeneration or recruitment from precursor cells which are stimulated to remyelinated fibers. The positive hormonal influence on myelination in the CNS may be a future therapeutically strategy for the treatment of MS.
Fetal cardiac changes due to ductal constriction by maternal ingestion of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were studied morphologically in near-term rats as an animal model, and results were compared with values of control 1 (C1, twenty-first day) and control 2 (C2, twenty-second day). The fetal ductus was constricted (-70%) (p less than 0.05) by maternal administration of 10 mg/kg indomethacin. Dilatation of the right ventricle and evidence of congestive heart failure including increased pericardial effusion (+200%) (p less than 0.05) and an increase in water content in the abdominal wall were present at 1, 4, and 8 hours after drug administration. At 24 hours after drug administration, concentric right ventricular hypertrophy was shown by a diminished right ventricular cavity (-36% vs. C2) (p less than 0.05), increased right ventricular wall thickness (+70% vs. C2) (p less than 0.05), and increased right ventricular mass (+31% vs. C1) (p less than 0.05). Left ventricular dilatation was indicated by an increased cavity volume (+87% vs. C2) (p less than 0.05) and increased muscle mass (+29% vs. C1 [p less than 0.05] or +9% vs. C2 [p greater than 0.05]). Both the wet and dry weights of the ventricles were increased. In conclusion, fetal ductal constriction caused right ventricular hypertrophy, diminished right ventricular cavity, and left ventricular dilatation and hypertrophy at 24 hours after drug administration in rats after initial congestive failure.
Three patients developed a Fanconi syndrome with impairment of glomerular function (endogenous creatinine clearance 30-60 ml/min per 1.73 m2) during and/or after treatment with ifosfamide according to the SIOP-MMT 84 protocol in which ifosfamide was given in a dose of 3000 mg/m2 every 4 weeks over a 10-month period. The need for early substitution therapy in patients with the Fanconi syndrome is stressed. The renal lesions in our patients were irreversible.
Genome-wide association studies followed by replication provide a powerful approach to map genetic risk factors for asthma. We sought to search for new variants associated with asthma and attempt to replicate the association with four loci reported previously (ORMDL3, PDE4D, DENND1B and IL1RL1). Genome-wide association analyses of individual single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rare copy number variants (CNVs) and overall CNV burden were carried out in 986 asthma cases and 1846 asthma-free controls from Australia. The most-associated locus in the SNP analysis was ORMDL3 (rs6503525, P = 4.8 × 10⁻⁷). Five other loci were associated with P < 10⁻⁵, most notably the chemokine CXC motif ligand 14 (CXCL14) gene (rs31263, P = 7.8 × 10⁻⁶). We found no evidence for association with the specific risk variants reported recently for PDE4D, DENND1B and ILR1L1. However, a variant in IL1RL1 that is in low linkage disequilibrium with that reported previously was associated with asthma risk after accounting for all variants tested (rs10197862, gene wide P = 0.01). This association replicated convincingly in an independent cohort (P = 2.4 × 10⁻⁴). A 300-kb deletion on chromosome 17q21 was associated with asthma risk, but this did not reach experiment-wide significance. Asthma cases and controls had comparable CNV rates, length and number of genes affected by deletions or duplications. In conclusion, we confirm the association between asthma risk and variants in ORMDL3 and identify a novel risk variant in IL1RL1. Follow-up of the 17q21 deletion in larger cohorts is warranted.
The objective was to investigate the effects of vitamin E on collagen deposition induced by Cyclosporin A (CsA) administration in rats with caerulein (Cr) pancreatitis. CsA transforms the fully regenerative, self-limited form of Cr pancreatitis into a chroniclike disease in conjunction with increased transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and myofibroblast proliferation. Vitamin E inhibits TGF-beta release in mesangial cells and reduces CsA cytotoxicity. Wistar rats received CsA daily (20 mg/kg), and CR pancreatitis was induced on days 1 and 8 (Cr + CsA group). In a separate group, vitamin E (600 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) was administered starting 4 days before CsA. Three other groups received either vehicle, CsA, or Cr alone. Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS), 8-isoprostanes, and hyaluronic acid were measured in plasma obtained on the day the animals were killed (day 15). Pancreases were weighed and processed for light microscopy to assess connective tissue and myofibroblast number. Pancreatic homogenates were also assayed for collagen (hydroxyproline) and TBARS content. TBARS, 8-isoprostane, and TGF-beta were elevated in CsA and Cr + CsA rats. Vitamin E treatment greatly decreased these parameters. Vitamin E also decreased the fall in pancreatic weight observed in Cr + CsA pancreas. Pancreatic hydroxyproline and plasma hyaluronic acid were increased in Cr + CsA rats but were effectively reduced by vitamin E. Morphology showed improvement in fibrosis score and a decreased number of myofibroblasts in vitamin E-treated rats. Vitamin E reduces oxidative stress and collagen deposition during the development of experimental chronic pancreatitis. Adjuvant antioxidants may be of value in the treatment of chronic pancreatitis.
To report a case of acute renal failure associated with the administration of imatinib mesylate.
A 64-year-old man diagnosed with prostate cancer was enrolled in a Phase I trial of imatinib mesylate plus taxotere on a protocol that required a run-in period of imatinib mesylate alone. During therapy with imatinib mesylate, the patient developed acute renal failure, requiring hemodialysis. A renal biopsy revealed tubular vacuolization. Renal failure resolved with cessation of imatinib mesylate.
Imatinib mesylate is a protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase, the receptor tyrosine kinases for platelet-derived growth factor, and stem cell factor c-kit. Prostate cancer has been identified as a target for therapy with imatinib mesylate. This patient had no other confounding factors for the cause of the renal failure. An objective causality assessment determined that imatinib mesylate was the probable cause of the acute renal failure. The presence of a primary glomerular disease was excluded by biopsy.
Imatinib mesylate-induced acute renal failure has now been linked to toxic effects on renal tubular cells in 3 cases. Renal function should be closely monitored during imatinib mesylate therapy.
To report a case of dose-related hyperammonemic coma without liver failure in a patient receiving chronic valproate therapy.
A 56-year-old woman with poorly controlled epilepsy, receiving valproate at subtherapeutic levels for 6 years, developed a life-threatening hyperammonemic coma following a moderate dosage increase.
Hyperammonemic coma without associated liver failure is an extremely rare complication of valproate therapy, described primarily in patients with inborn errors of metabolism and occurring idiosyncratically during initial stages of therapy. In our case, family history was suggestive of an X-linked disorder, raising the possibility that our patient may have been an asymptomatic carrier of a urea cycle enzyme deficiency unmasked by valproate therapy. To our knowledge, as of October 24, 2005, only one prior case of hyperammonemic coma in the context of chronic valproate monotherapy has been described. Application of the Naranjo probability scale score suggests that a causal relationship between valproic acid and hyperammonemic coma was probable.
The widespread use of valproic acid emphasizes the need to maintain a high degree of suspicion with respect to this rare but potentially fatal adverse effect at all times, regardless of therapy duration.
Vigabatrin (Sabril), a drug that blocks GABA transaminase, has been used in the treatment of epilepsy since 1989. There have been reports of irreversible constriction of the visual field in adult patients related to vigabatrin (VGB) therapy, resulting in reduced VGB usage in adults. Although used as a second or third line agent in adults, in children it is often considered as a first line treatment for several subgroups of seizures in spite of there being no way, in the majority of cases, to monitor visual fields. Some of these children have a pre-existing visual field defect as part of their primary disorder. We aimed to identify whether visual field loss due to VGB was occurring in our hospital.
We have studied the results of ophthalmic examination in 14 children on VGB at Great Ormond Street Hospital who were able to perform Goldmann visual fields.
Ten of the 14 patients had constriction of their visual fields attributed to VGB. In addition there were 2 patients with suspicious visual field defects thought to be due to VGB. There was pre-existing visual pathway damage in 4 cases and in 2 of these optic disc pallor increased in association with constricted visual fields. However, the optic discs were normal in 7 patients in spite of visual field constriction. Visual acuity was generally normal in spite of gross visual field constriction.
We believe that VGB should be used with great caution where there is pre-existing visual pathway damage. In other cases the benefits should be considered in relation to the risks, which include irreversible visual field damage. At present visual fields can only be monitored by perimetry, which is often not possible in children with epilepsy.
A 70-year-old woman with dilated cardiomyopathy and ventricular tachyarrhythmia was initially treated in 1990 with intravenous amiodarone (240 mg). She developed a junctional escape rhythm (48 beats/min) with QT prolongation (QT: 0.68 s) and 8 h later developed torsade de pointes (TdP). Because other antiarrhythmic drugs did not suppress the arrhythmia, oral amiodarone (100 mg/day) was started in 1995, 7 weeks before she presented with congestive heart failure. The QT prolongation (QTc: 0.64) increased after administration of dopamine, and TdP again developed. This case suggests that amiodarone induces proarrhythmias by different mechanisms when administered intravenously or orally.
With regard to cardiac findings in cocaine abuse, at autopsy the vast majority of patients dying with cocaine toxicity have either no pathologic change in the heart or only minimal changes that could not account for the patient's death. The second most frequent finding is underlying, mild-to-moderate coronary atherosclerosis, with or without coronary thrombosis. There may be acute or healed myocardial infarction or a sudden cardiac death without myocardial changes of ischemia. A high incidence of contraction band necrosis has been reported in the absence of coronary artery disease and may cause a sudden arrhythmic death. Myocarditis also has been described in a few cases as either lymphocytic or lymphocytic and eosinophilic infiltrate in the presence of myocyte necrosis. Usually, the foci are sparse and not always associated with contraction band necrosis. The underlying mechanisms are thought to be either direct effects of norepinephrine on myocytes or through vasospasm of resistance vessels and secondary myocardial ischemia. Cocaine rarely has been associated with aortic dissection, which is probably a result of cocaine's hypertensive effects.
The vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) controls the loading of dopamine (DA) into vesicles and therefore determines synaptic properties such as quantal size, receptor sensitivity, and vesicular and cytosolic DA concentration. Impairment of proper DA compartmentalization is postulated to underlie the sensitivity of DA neurons to oxidative damage and degeneration. It is known that DA can auto-oxidize in the cytosol to form quinones and other oxidative species and that this production of oxidative stress is thought to be a critical factor in DA terminal loss after methamphetamine (METH) exposure. Using a mutant strain of mice (VMAT2 LO), which have only 5-10% of the VMAT2 expressed by wild-type animals, we show that VMAT2 is a major determinant of METH toxicity in the striatum. Subsequent to METH exposure, the VMAT2 LO mice show an exacerbated loss of dopamine transporter and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), as well as enhanced astrogliosis and protein carbonyl formation. More importantly, VMAT2 LO mice show massive argyrophilic deposits in the striatum after METH, indicating that VMAT2 is a regulator of METH-induced neurodegeneration. The increased METH neurotoxicity in VMAT2 LO occurs in the absence of any significant difference in basal temperature or METH-induced hyperthermia. Furthermore, primary midbrain cultures from VMAT2 LO mice show more oxidative stress generation and a greater loss of TH positive processes than wild-type cultures after METH exposure. Elevated markers of neurotoxicity in VMAT2 LO mice and cultures suggest that the capacity to store DA determines the amount of oxidative stress and neurodegeneration after METH administration.
Many phytochemicals function as noxious agents that protect plants against insects and other damaging organisms. However, at subtoxic doses, the same phytochemicals may activate adaptive cellular stress response pathways that can protect cells against a variety of adverse conditions. We screened a panel of botanical pesticides using cultured human and rodent neuronal cell models, and identified plumbagin as a novel potent activator of the nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) pathway. In vitro, plumbagin increases nuclear localization and transcriptional activity of Nrf2, and induces the expression of the Nrf2/ARE-dependent genes, such as heme oxygenase 1 in human neuroblastoma cells. Plumbagin specifically activates the Nrf2/ARE pathway in primary mixed cultures from ARE-human placental alkaline phosphatase reporter mice. Exposure of neuroblastoma cells and primary cortical neurons to plumbagin provides protection against subsequent oxidative and metabolic insults. The neuroprotective effects of plumbagin are abolished by RNA interference-mediated knockdown of Nrf2 expression. In vivo, administration of plumbagin significantly reduces the amount of brain damage and ameliorates-associated neurological deficits in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke. Our findings establish precedence for the identification and characterization of neuroprotective phytochemicals based upon their ability to activate adaptive cellular stress response pathways.
Dofetilide, a class III antiarrhythmic agent, is prescribed for conversion to and maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. Most antiarrhythmics have significant toxicities such as torsade de pointes, and patients should be closely monitored while receiving antiarrhythmic therapy. However, we know of no reports concerning management of intentional overdose of dofetilide that have been published. We report the case of a 33-year-old man who was treated for ingestion of approximately 5 mg of dofetilide as a suicide attempt. In addition, he had a known history of cocaine abuse. He came to the emergency department approximately 45 minutes after the ingestion; examination revealed a QTc interval of approximately 570 msec. He was treated with activated charcoal and sorbitol by nasogastric tube and received aggressive supplementation with potassium and magnesium. The patient was monitored by telemetry for several days and responded well. Cardiac toxicity is the utmost concern when treating dofetilide overdose. The mainstay of treatment focuses on supportive care and prevention of drug absorption. Ventricular dysrhythmias or torsade de pointes should be treated according to advanced cardiac life support guidelines.
These studies were conducted to evaluate effects of high dose norepinephrine infusion on left ventricular function in anesthetized and conscious dogs. Separate groups of pentobarbital anesthetized closed-chest dogs received norepinephrine infusion for 90 min followed by 1 h of recovery. Arterial pressure, electrocardiogram, two-dimensional echocardiogram and an equilibrium radionuclide angiogram were monitored. One hour following infusion of norepinephrine, left ventricular ejection fraction was reduced in a dose-dependent fashion. Fractional shortening was similarly reduced, with increased left ventricular systolic and diastolic dimensions also observed. Left ventricular end-systolic wall stress was increased at 60 min following infusion of norepinephrine but not saline: saline, 68 +/- 8, norepinephrine, 4 micrograms/kg/min, 113 +/- 8 g/cm2. The left ventricular end-systolic wall stress/fractional shortening relationship showed reduction of contractility. In 10 conscious dogs pretreated with morphine, norepinephrine at 5 micrograms/kg/min x 90 min produced similar changes to those seen in anesthetized animals. Ejection fraction was reduced from 0.69 +/- 0.3 to 0.36 +/- 0.04 at 60 min post infusion. Fractional shortening was also reduced. Left ventricular end-diastolic dimension was increased. However, when animals were followed for 1 week, complete recovery occurred within 48 h. Histology showed mild contraction band necrosis in acute experiments and mild perivascular fibrosis in chronic experiments. Therefore, norepinephrine cardiotoxicity produced significant left ventricular dilation and reduction of ejection phase indices of left ventricular function associated with reduced contractility. In chronic dogs, histologic changes were mild, and left ventricular dysfunction was reversible.
The long-term use of methamphetamine (MAMP) can result in psychosis but it is not clear why some individuals develop psychotic symptoms, while others use MAMP regularly over long periods and remain unscathed. We set out to characterize MAMP users and to examine the relationship of pre-morbid personality, pre-morbid social function and other psychiatric disorders to MAMP psychosis.
Four hundred and forty-five amphetamine users were recruited from a psychiatric hospital and a detention centre in Taipei, and were assessed with the Diagnostic Interview for Genetic Studies (DIGS). Their parents were interviewed with the Premorbid Schizoid and Schizotypal Traits (PSST) and the Premorbid Social Adjustment (PSA) schedules. Pre-morbid characteristics and psychiatric co-morbidity were compared between the MAMP users with a lifetime diagnosis of MAMP psychosis and those without.
The MAMP users with psychosis presented a clinical picture which mimicked the positive symptoms of schizophrenia: 85% had auditory hallucinations; 71% persecutory delusions; 63% delusions of reference. Compared with their non-psychotic counterparts, these MAMP users were younger at first MAMP use, used larger amounts of MAMP, had a significantly higher mean PSST score, and higher rates of major depressive disorder, alcohol dependence and antisocial personality disorder.
Earlier and larger use of MAMP was associated with increased risk of psychosis. Our data are also compatible with the view that pre-morbid schizoid/schizotypal personality predisposes MAMP users to develop psychosis, and that the greater the personality vulnerability, the longer the psychosis will persist.
HLA typing was carried out in 20 psoriatics with methotrexate-induced liver cirrhosis and 44 methotrexate-treated psoriatics who at the time of investigation had not developed cirrhosis. The data were compared with results from tissue typing of 1291 healthy individuals. The antigen combination A1, B8 was found to be increased among patients with cirrhosis vis-à-vis methotrexate-treated psoriatics who did not develop liver cirrhosis. This finding is similar to data on chronic active hepatitis type A and drug-associated chronic active hepatitis. Findings of the antigen combination A1, B8 should--just as with other predisposing factors--lead to caution in liver control in psoriatics on methotrexate therapy.
To assess the effect of pupil dilation on vision and driving ability.
A series of tests on various parameters of visual function and driving simulator performance were performed on 12 healthy drivers, before and after pupil dilation using guttae tropicamide 1%. A driving simulator (Transport Research Laboratory) was used to measure reaction time (RT), speed maintenance and steering accuracy. Tests of basic visual function included high- and low-contrast visual acuity (HCVA and LCVA), Pelli-Robson contrast threshold (CT) and Goldmann perimetry (FIELDS). Useful Field of View (UFOV--a test of visual attention) was also undertaken. The mean differences in the pre- and post-dilatation measurements were tested for statistical significance at the 95% level using one-tail paired t-tests.
Pupillary dilation resulted in a statistically significant deterioration in CT and HCVA only. Five of 12 drivers also exhibited deterioration in LCVA, CT and RT. Little evidence emerged for deterioration in FIELDS and UFOV. Also, 7 of 12 drivers appeared to adjust their driving behaviour by reducing their speed on the driving simulator, leading to improved steering accuracy.
Pupillary dilation may lead to a decrease in vision and daylight driving performance in young people. A larger study, including a broader spectrum of subjects, is warranted before guidelines can be recommended.
The finding that most young cocaine addict patients had a negative exercise treadmill test suggests that they did not have preexisting obstructive coronary artery disease. Noninvasive testing did show, however, that these patients frequently had a high incidence of ST elevation episodes during the first 2 weeks of withdrawal. The pathophysiological mechanism of cocaine-induced cardiovascular disease is not yet clearly understood, but it is probably more complex than the drug's acute direct effects on the cardiovascular system. It may be complicated by fluctuations in catecholamine homeostasis and further temporally complicated by cycles of cocaine use and withdrawal. Research on how cocaine use alters catecholamine homeostasis will increase the understanding of the pathophysiology of cocaine and assist in developing effective pharmacologic and prophylactic treatment for its abuse.
There are no data available on the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms when using long-term flupenthixol in low dosage in patients suffering from anxiety and depressive disorders. In a case control study 106 patients essentially treated with the neuroleptic flupenthixol in a so-called low, non-antipsychotic dosage were compared to n=37 otherwise comparable patients who never had been treated with neuroleptics. The investigator was blind to the previous treatment conditions. Extrapyramidal symptoms were found although with a low prevalence and mild degree: 6.7% tardive dyskinesia, none in controls; pseudoparkinsonism 26%, 16% in controls. Extrapyramidal side-effects, especially tardive dyskinesia, have to be considered in the individual weighing of therapeutic benefits and risks even when prescribing flupenthixol in low dosages.
Microglial activation plays an important role in neurodegenerative diseases by producing several pro-inflammatory enzymes and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation leads to the activation of microglial cells in the central nervous system (CNS) and is associated with the pathological mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases, including PD, AD, and ALS. Ginseng is a natural antioxidant used in herbal medicine and contains ginsenosides (Rb1, Rg1, Rg3, Re, and Rd), which have anti-neoplastic and anti-stress properties.This study demonstrates the involvement of the anti-inflammatory signaling pathway, ginsenoside-Re (G-Re), which is one of the ginsenosides mediated by LPS-induced neuroinflammation in BV2 microglial cells.
BV2 microglial cells were pretreated with 2 μg/ml G-Re and stimulated with 1 μg/ml LPS to induce neuroinflammation. To investigate the effect of G-Re on LPS-induced cell signaling, we performed western blotting and immunofluorescence using specific antibodies, such as phospho-p38, COX2, and iNOS.
Pretreatment with 2 μg/ml G-Re was neuroprotective against 1 μg/ml LPS-treated microglial cells. The neuroprotective events induced by G-Re treatment in neuroinflammation occurred via the phospho-p38, iNOS, and COX2 signaling pathways in BV2 cells.
Taken together, we suggest that G-Re exerts a beneficial effect on neuroinflammatory events in neurodegenerative diseases.
Clinical and experimental data published to date suggest several possible mechanisms by which cocaine may result in acute myocardial infarction. In individuals with preexisting, high-grade coronary arterial narrowing, acute myocardial infarction may result from an increase in myocardial oxygen demand associated with cocaine-induced increase in rate-pressure product. In other individuals with no underlying atherosclerotic obstruction, coronary occlusion may be due to spasm, thrombus, or both. With regard to spasm, the clinical findings are largely circumstantial, and the locus of cocaine-induced vasoconstriction remains speculative. Although certain clinical and experimental findings support the hypothesis that spasm involves the epicardial, medium-size vessels, other data suggest intramural vasoconstriction. Diffuse intramural vasoconstriction is not consistent with reports of segmental, discrete infarction. Whereas certain in vivo data suggest that these effects are alpha-mediated, other in vitro data suggest the opposite. The finding of cocaine-induced vasoconstriction in segments of (noninnervated) human umbilical artery suggests that the presence or absence of intact innervation is not sufficient to explain the discrepant data involving the possibility of alpha-mediated effects. Finally, the contribution of a primary, thrombotic effect of cocaine has not been excluded.
